" Oh, don''t say that, Mrs. Fielding. Love for 
our children should be strong enough to make us 
correct any thing in ourselves that stands in the 
way of their good. A mother's duties ought to 
take precedence over every thing else." 

"I don't think a mother ought to be a slave to 
her children." 

" Willing servitude is not slavery. How can 
you use such a word in connexion with a mother .'  
Her devotion should be from a love that never 
wearies — never grows cold." 

" I don't know how that may be ; mine wearies 
often enough." 

''I feel discouraged sometimes," replied Mrs. 
Hartley. " But my love never abates. It grows 
stronger with every new difficulty that is pre- 
sented." 

'' You are one in a thousand, then ; that is all I 
can say. I know a good many mothers, and I 
know tliat they all complain bitterly about the 
trouble they have with their children." 

"They woukl have less trouble, if they loved 
them more." 

" How can you make that appear ?" 

" Love ever strives to benefit its object. A true 



 

love for children prompts the mother to seek with 
the most self-sacrificing assiduity, for the means of 
doing her offspring good." 

" Oh dear ! I'm sadly afraid I am not a true 
mother then. It's no use to disguise it — I cannot 
give up every comfort for my children ; and I don't 
think we are required to do it." 

" True love, Mrs. Fielding, sacrifices nothing, 
when it is in pursuit of its objects, for it desires 
nothing so ardently as the attainment of that ob- 
ject. I am not aware that I give up every comfort; 
I sometimes, it is true, deny myself a gratification, 
because, in seeking it, I must neglect my children, 
or interfere with their pleasures ; but I have never 
done this that I have not been more than repaid 
for all I thought I had lost." 

" Well, that is a comfort. I only wish I could 
say as much." 

' You would soon be able to say so, if you were 
to make sacrifices for your children from love to 
them." 

" I think I do love them." 

" I am sure of that, IMrs. Fielding. But, to speak 
plainly as one friend may venture to speak to an- 
other, perhaps you love yourself more." 

" Perhaps I do. But how is that to be deter- 
mined ." 



 

" Very easily. We love those most who occupy 
most of our thoughts, and for whose comfort and 
happiness we are most careful, whether it be our- 
