gave her her father's letter, with which the lady left the 
room. 

In a minute or two she returned and said her mother would 
see Ellen up stairs, and asked her to come with her. This 
then must be lady Keith ! — but no sign of recognition ? Ellen 
wondered, as her trembling feet carried her up stairs, and to 
the door of a room where the lady motioned her to enter ; 
she did not follow herself. 

A large pleasant dressing-room ; but Ellen saw nothing 
but the dignified figure and searching glance of a lady in 
black, standing in the middle of the floor. At the look which 
instantly followed her entering, however, Ellen sprang forward, and was received in arms that folded her as fondly and 
as closely as ever those of her own mother had done. Without releasing her from their clasp, Mrs. Lindsay presently sat 
down ; and placing Ellen on her lap, and for a long time 
without speaking a word, she overwhelmed her with caresses, 
— caresses often interrupted with passionate bursts of tears. 
Ellen herself cried heartily for company, though Mrs. Lindsay little guessed why. Along with the joy and tenderness 
arising from the finding a relation that so much loved and 
valued her, and along with the sympathy that entered into 
Mrs. Lindsay's thoughts, there mixed other feelings. She 
began to know, as if by instinct, what kind of a person her 
grandmother was. The clasp of the arms that were about 
her said as plainly as possible, " I will never let you go !" 
Ellen felt it ; she did not know in her confusion whether she 
was most glad or most sorry ; and this uncertainty mightily 
helped the flow of her tears. 

When this scene had lasted some time Mrs. Lindsay began 
with the utmost tenderness to take off Ellen's gloves, her 
cape, (her bonnet had been hastily thrown off long before,) 
and smoothing back her hair, and taking the fair little face in


both her hands, she looked at it and pressed it to her own, 
as indeed something most dearly prized and valued. Then 
saying, " I must lie down ; come in here, love," — she led her 
into the next room, locked the door, made Ellen stretch herself on the bed ; and placing herself beside her drew her 
close to her bosom again, murmuring, " My own child — 
my precious child — my KUen — my own darling — why did you 
stay away so long from me ? — tell me ?" 

It was necessary to tell ; and this could not be done without revealing Miss Fortune's disgraceful conduct. Ellen -was 
sorry for that ; she knew her mother's American match had 
been unpopular with her friends ; and now what notions this 
must irive them of one at least of the near connections to whom 
it had introduced her. She winced under what might be her 
grandmother's thoughts. Mrs. Lindsay heard her in absolute silence, and made no comment ; and at the end again 
kissed her lips and cheeks, embracing her, Ellen felt, as a 
recovered treasure that would not be parted with. She was 
not satisfied till she had di'awn Ellen's head fairly to rest on 
her breast, and then her caressing hand often touched her 
cheek, or smoothed back her hair, softly now and then asking 
slight questions about her voyage and journey ; till exhausted 
from excitement more than fatigue Ellen Tell asleep. 

Her grandmother was beside her when she awoke, and 
busied herself with evident delight in helping her to get off 
her traveling clothes and put on others ; and then she took 
her down stairs and presented her to her aunt. 

Lady Keith had not been at home, nor in Scotland, at the 
time the letters passed between Mrs. Montgomery and her 
mother ; and the result of that correspondence, respecting 
Ellen, had been known to no one except Mi's. Lindsay and 
her son. They had long given her up ; the rather as they 
had seen in the papers the name of Captain Montgomery 
among those lost in the ill-fated Tuc d'Orlcans. Lady Keith 
therefore had no suspicion who Ellen might be. She received 
her affectionately, but Ellen did not get rid of her first impression. 

Her uncle she did not see until late in the day, when he 
came home. The evening was extremely fair, and having 
obtained permission, Ellen wandered out into the shrubbery ; 
glad to be alone, and glad for a moment to exchange new 




