seen him so many times I am still perfectly ignorant of his 
name. 
" We set sail Monday in the England. Your father has secured a nice state-room for me, and I have a store of comforts 
laid up for the voyage. So next week you may imagine me 
out on the broad ocean, with nothing but sky and clouds and 
water be seen around me, and probably much too sick to look 
at those. Never mind that ; the sickness is good for me. 
" I will write you as soon as I can again, and send by the 
first conveyance. 
" And now my dear baby — my precious child — farewell. 
May the blessing of God be with you ! 
' Your affectionate mother, 
E. Montgomery." 
" You ought to be a good child Ellen," said Alice, as she 
dashed away some tears. " Thank you for letting me see 
this; it has been a great pleasure to me." 
" And now," said Ellen, " you feel as if you knew mamma 
a little." 
"Enough to honor and respect her very much. Now 
good-bye, my love ; I must be at home before !; is late. I 
will see you again before Christmas comes." 
CHAPTER XXII. 
 
To Ellen's sorrow she was pronounced next morning well 
enough to come down stairs ; her aunt averring that " it was 
no use to keep a fire burning up there for nothing." She 
must get up and dress in the cold again ; and winter had 
fairly set in now ; the 19th of December rose clear and keen. 
Ellen looked sighingly at the heap of ashes and the dead 
brands in the fireplace where the bright little fire had blazed 
so cheerfully the evening before. But regrets did not help 
the matter ; and shivering she began to dress as fast as she 
could. Since her illness a basin and pitcher had been brought 
into her room, so the washing at the spout was ended for the 
present ; and though the basin had no place but a chair and 
the pitcher must stand on the floor, Ellen thought herself too 
happy. But how cold it was ! The wind swept past her 
windows giving wintry shakes to the panes of glass, and 
through many an opening in the wooden frame-work of the 
house it came in and saluted Ellen's bare arms and neck. 
She hurried to finish her dressing, and wrapping her double- 
gown over all, went down to the kitchen. It was another 
climate there. A great fire was burning that it quite cheered 
Ellen's heart to look at ; and the air seemed to be full of 
coffee and buckweat cakes ; Ellen almost thought she should 
get enough breakfast by the sense of smell. 
" Ah ! here you are," said Miss Fortune. " What have 
you got that thing on for ?" 
" It was so cold up stairs," said Ellen, drawing up her 
shoulders. The warmth had not got inside of her wrapper 
yet. 
" Well 'taint cold here ; you'd better pull it off right away. 
I've no notion of people's making themselves tender. You'll 
be warm enough directly. Breakfast'll warm you." 
Ellen felt almost inclined to quarrel with the breakfast that 
was offered in exchange for her comfortable wrapper ; she 
pulled it off however and sat down without saying anything. 
Mr. Van Brunt put some cakes on her plate. 
"If breakfast's a going to warm you," said he, "make 
haste and get something down ; or drink a cup of coffee ; 
you're as blue as skim milk." 
" Am I ?" said Ellen lauo-hinor ; " I feel blue ; but I can't 
eat such a pile of cakes as that, Mr. Van Brunt." 
As a general thing the meals at Miss Fortune's were silent 
solemnities ; an occasional consultation, or a few questions and 
remarks about farm affairs, being all that ever passed. The 
breakfast this morning was a singular exception to the common rule. 
" I am in a regular quandary," said the mistress of the 
house when the meal was about half over. 
Mr. Van Brunt looked up for an instant, and asked " what 
about ?" 
" Why how I am ever going to do to get those apples and 
sausage-meat done. If I go to doing 'em myself I shall 
about get through by spring." 
" Why don't you make a bee ?" said Mr. Van Brunt. 
" Aint enough of either on 'em to make it worth while. I 
aint a going to have all the bother of a bee without something to show for't." 
" Turn 'em both into one," suQ-jrested her counsellor, vomv 
on with his breakfast. 
" Both ?" 
