"I am astonished," said Mrs. Minturn, but poorly concealing her
mortification. "I had no idea that the Allenders kept such company. How
did you happen to be invited?"
"Mr. Allender is one of my father's oldest and most valued friends. I
called at his desire, and found both him and his family far above the
'common run' of people. I do not in the least wonder at the class of
persons I met at their house. I am sorry that you have been led so far
astray in your estimation of their characters. You never could have
known them well."
"Perhaps not," said Mrs. Minturn, in a subdued voice. "Did you hear us
asked for?" she ventured to add. "We were invited, as I mentioned, and
would have gone, but didn't expect to find any there with whom it would
be agreeable to associate."
This remark did not in the least improve the matter in the eyes of Mr.
Erskine, who now understood the Minturns rather better than before. A
feeling of repugnance took the place of his former friendly sentiments;
and in a briefer time than he had intended, he brought his visit to a
close, and bade them good morning.
What was now to be done? The Minturns had fallen into an error, which
must, if possible, be repaired. The Allenders were of far more
consequence than they had believed, and their estimation of them rose
correspondingly. A note of regret at not being able to attend the
party, in consequence of a previous engagement, was written, and this
enclosed in another note, stating that in consequence of the neglect of
a servant, it had not been delivered on the day before. Both were
despatched within half an hour after Mr. Erskine left the house.
On the day after, Mrs. Minturn and her daughter called at Mrs.
Allender's, and offered verbal regrets at not having been able to
attend the party.
"We wanted to come very much, but both Emeline and I were so much
indisposed, that the doctor said we mustn't think of going
out,"--forgetting at the moment the tenor of the note she had written
only the day before. But scarcely were the words out of her mouth, when
a glance of uneasy surprise from Emeline brought a recollection of this
fact, and caused the blood to mount to her face.
A sudden change in the manner of Mrs. Allender was conclusive evidence
that she, too, was laying side by side the two conflicting statements.
"But even," added Mrs. Minturn, in a voice that betrayed some
disturbance of mind, "if we had not been indisposed, a previously made
engagement would have been in the way of a pleasure that we shall
always regret having lost. You had a highly select party, I understood."
"Only a few old and much esteemed friends, that we invited to meet a
gentleman who was passing through the city, whose father and Mr.
Allender are old acquaintances."
"The Hon. Mr. Erskine, you mean," said Mrs. Minturn, whose vanity led
her to betray herself still more.
"Yes. Have you met him?"
"Oh, yes," was replied with animation. "We were very intimate at
Washington. He showed Emeline very particular attentions."
"Ah! I was not aware that you knew him."
"Intimately. He called to see us yesterday, on the eve of his departure
for New York."
"Oh, mother!" exclaimed Emeline, as soon as they had stepped beyond the
street-door, on leaving the house of Mrs. Allender, "why did you say
any thing at all about Mr. Erskine, and especially after blundering so
in the matter of apology? She'll see through it all, as clear as
daylight. And won't we look beautiful in her eyes? I'm mortified to
death!"
"I don't know what came over me," returned the mother, with evident
chagrin. "To think that I should have been so beside myself!"
So much mortified were both the mother and daughter, on reflection,
that they could not venture to call again upon Mrs. Allender and Clara,
who did not return the last visit. And the intimacy from that time was
broken off.
The next winter came round, and the Minturns repaired again to
Washington. Emeline had hoped to receive a letter from Mr. Erskine,
whom she half believed to be in love with her; but no such desired
communication came. But she would meet him at the Capitol; and to that
time of meeting she looked forward with feelings of the liveliest
interest. On arriving in Washington, at the opening of the session, she
repaired, on the first day, to the Capitol. But much to her
disappointment, a certain member from New York was not in his place.
"Where is Mr. Erskine," she asked of his colleague, whom she met in the
evening.
"Has not arrived yet," was replied. "Will probably be along to-morrow
or next day. He stopped in your city as he came along; and I shrewdly
suspect that he had in contemplation a very desperate act."
"Indeed! What was that?" returned Emeline, endeavouring to appear
unconcerned.
"Taking to himself a wife."
