"I must do something, Hiram," said Mrs. Darlington, evincing impatience
at the opposition of her brother.
"I perfectly agree with you in that, Margaret," replied Mr. Ellis. "The
only doubt is as to your choice of occupation. You think that your best
plan will be to take boarders; while I think you could not fall upon a
worse expedient."
"Why do you think so?"
"Have I not just said?"
"What?"
"Why, that, in the first place, it takes a woman of great shrewdness,
caution, and knowledge of the world, and one thoroughly versed in
household economy, to succeed in the business."
"I'm not a fool, Hiram!" exclaimed Mrs. Darlington, losing her
self-command.
"Perhaps you may alter your opinion on that head some time within the
next twelve months," coolly returned Mr. Ellis, rising and beginning to
button up his coat.
"Such language to me, at this time, is cruel!" said Mrs. Darlington,
putting her handkerchief to her eyes.
"No," calmly replied her brother, "not cruel, but kind. I wish to save
you from trouble."
"What else can I do?" asked the widow, removing the handkerchief from
her face.
"Many things, I was going to say," returned Mr. Ellis. "But, in truth,
the choice of employment is not very great. Still, something with a
fairer promise than taking boarders may be found."
"If you can point me to some better way, brother," said Mrs.
Darlington, "I shall feel greatly indebted to you."
"Almost any thing is better. Suppose you and Edith were to open a
school. Both of you are well--"
"Open a school!" exclaimed Mrs. Darlington, interrupting her brother,
and exhibiting most profound astonishment. "I open a school! I didn't
think you would take advantage of my grief and misfortune to offer me
an insult."
Mr. Ellis buttoned the top button of his coat nervously, as his sister
said this, and, partly turning himself towards the door, said--
"Teaching school is a far more useful, and, if you will, more
respectable employment, than keeping a boarding-house. This you ought
to see at a glance. As a teacher, you would be a minister of truth to
the mind, and have it in your power to bend from evil and lead to good
the young immortals committed to your care; while, as a boarding-house
keeper, you would merely furnish food for the natural body--a use below
what you are capable of rendering to society."
But Mrs. Darlington was in no state of mind to feel the force of such
an argument. From the thought of a school she shrunk as from something
degrading, and turned from it with displeasure.
"Don't mention such a thing to me," said she fretfully, "I will not
listen to the proposition."
"Oh, well, Margaret, as you please," replied her brother, now moving
towards the door. "When you ask my advice, I will give it according to
my best judgment, and with a sincere desire for your good. If, however,
it conflicts with your views, reject it; but, in simple justice to me,
do so in a better spirit than you manifest on the present occasion.
Good evening!"
Mrs. Darlington was too much disturbed in mind to make a reply, and Mr.
Hiram Ellis left the room without any attempt on the part of his sister
to detain him. On both sides there had been the indulgence of rather
more impatience and intolerance than was commendable.
CHAPTER III.
IN due time, Mrs. Darlington removed to a house in Arch Street, the
annual rent of which was six hundred dollars, and there began her
experiment. The expense of a removal, and the cost of the additional
chamber furniture required, exhausted about two hundred dollars of the
widow's slender stock of money, and caused her, to feel a little
troubled when she noticed the diminution.
She began her new business with two boarders, a gentleman and his wife
by the name of Grimes, who had entered her house on the recommendation
of a friend. They were to pay her the sum of eight dollars a week. A
young man named Barling, clerk in a wholesale Market Street house, came
next; and he introduced, soon after, a friend of his, a clerk in the
same store, named Mason. They were room-mates, and paid three dollars
and a half each. Three or four weeks elapsed before any further
additions were made; then an advertisement brought several
applications. One was from a gentleman who wanted two rooms for himself
and wife, a nurse and four children. He wanted the second story front
and back chambers, furnished, and was not willing to pay over sixteen
dollars, although his oldest child was twelve and his youngest four
years of age--seven good eaters and two of the best rooms in the house
for sixteen dollars!
Mrs. Darlington demurred. The man said--
