face that should have lighted the whole table cast a shadow
there.
Without at all comprehending the whole of her husband's
character, the sure magnetism of affection had enabled Mrs.
Rossitur to divine his thoughts. Pride was his ruling passion;
not such pride as Mr. Carleton's, which was rather like
exaggerated self-respect, but wider and more indiscriminate in
its choice of objects. It was pride in his family name; pride
in his own talents, which were considerable; pride in his
family, wife, and children, and all of which he thought did
him honour  if they had not, his love for them assuredly
would have known some diminishing; pride in his wealth, and in
the attractions with which it surrounded him; and, lastly,
pride in the skill, taste, and connoisseurship which enabled
him to bring those attractions together. Furthermore, his love
for both literature and art was true and strong; and for many
years he had accustomed himself to lead a life of great
luxuriousness, catering for body and mind in every taste that
could be elegantly enjoyed; and again proud of the elegance of
every enjoyment. The change of circumstances which touched his
pride, wounded him at every point where he was vulnerable at
all.
Fleda had never felt so afraid of him. She was glad to see Dr.
Gregory come in to tea. Mr. Rossitur was not there. The Doctor
did not touch upon affairs, if he had heard of their
misfortune; he went on as usual in a rambling cheerful way all
tea-time, talking mostly to Fleda and Hugh. But after tea he
talked no more, but sat still and waited till the master of
the house came in.
Fleda thought Mr. Rossitur did not look glad to see him. But
how could he look glad about anything? He did not sit down,
and for a few minutes there was a kind of meaning silence.
Fleda sat in the corner with the heartache, to see her uncle's
gloomy tramp up and down the rich apartment, and her aunt
Lucy's gaze at him.
"Humph!  well!  So!" said the Doctor, at last, "You've all
gone overboard with a smash, I understand?"
The walker gave him no regard.
"True, is it?" said the doctor.
Mr. Rossitur made no answer, unless a smothered grunt might be
taken for one.
"How came it about?"
"Folly and devilry."
"Humph!  bad capital to work upon. I hope the principal is
gone with the interest. What's the amount of your loss?"
"Ruin."
"Humph! French ruin, or American ruin? because there's a
difference. What do you mean?"
"I am not so happy as to understand you, Sir; but we shall not
pay seventy cents, on the dollar."
The old gentleman got up, and stood before the fire, with his
back to Mr. Rossitur, saying, "That was rather bad."
"What are you going to do?"
Mr. Rossitur hesitated a few moments for an answer, and then
said 
"Pay the seventy cents, and begin the world anew with
nothing."
"Of course," said the doctor. "I understand that; but where
and how? What end of the world will you take up first?."
Mr. Rossitur writhed in impatience or disgust, and after again
hesitating, answered drily, that he had not determined.
"Have you thought of anything in particular?"
"Zounds! no, Sir, nothing except my misfortune. That's enough
for one day."
"And too much," said the old doctor, "unless you can mix some
other thought with it. That's what I came for. Will you go
into business?"
Fleda was startled by the vehemence with which her uncle said,
"No, never!" and he presently added, "I'll do nothing here."
"Well, well," said the doctor to himself; "will you go into
the country?"
"Yes!  anywhere! the further the better."
Mrs. Rossitur startled, but her husband's face did not
encourage her to open her lips.
"Ay; but on a farm, I mean?"
"On anything, that will give me a standing."
"I thought that, too," said Dr. Gregory, now whirling about.
"I have a fine piece of land that wants a tenant. You may take
it at an easy rate, and pay me when the crops come in. I
shouldn't expect so young a farmer, you know, to keep any
