"We must play a desperate game, as things now are, or not play at
all," said Jasper.
"True; but the more desperate the game, the more need of coolness,
forethought, and circumspection. Don't forget this. How do you mean to
proceed?"
"That is yet to be determined."
"Will you make another effort to influence Claire?"
"No."
"Do you regard him as altogether impracticable?"
"No influence that I can bring would move him."
"You will, then, resort to stratagem or force?"
"One or the other--perhaps both. The child we must have."
"Let me beg of you, Jasper, to be prudent. There is a great deal at
stake."
"I know there is; and the risk increases with every moment of delay."
Grind showed a marked degree of anxiety.
"If the child were in our possession now," said Jasper, "or, which is
the same, could be produced when wanted, how soon might an order for
the sale be procured?"
"In two or three weeks, I think," replied the lawyer.
"Certain preliminary steps are necessary?"
"Yes."
"If these were entered upon forthwith, how soon would the child be
wanted?"
"In about ten days."
"Very well. Begin the work at once. When the child is needed, I will
see that she is forthcoming. Trust me for that. I never was foiled
yet in any thing that I set about accomplishing, and I will not suffer
myself to be foiled here."
With this understanding, Jasper and the lawyer parted.
A week or more passed, during which time Claire heard nothing from
the guardian of Fanny; and both he and his wife began to hope that no
further attempt to get her into his possession would be made, until
the child had reached her twelfth year.
It was in the summer-time, and Mrs. Claire sat, late in the afternoon
of a pleasant day, at one of the front-windows of her dwelling,
holding her youngest child in her arms.
"The children are late in coming home from school," said she, speaking
aloud her thought. "I wonder what keeps them!"
And she leaned out of the window, and looked for some time earnestly
down the street.
But the children were not in sight. For some five or ten minutes Mrs.
Claire played with and talked to the child in her arms; then she bent
from the window again, gazing first up and then down the street.
"That's Edie, as I live!" she exclaimed. "But where is Fanny?"
As she uttered this inquiry, a sudden fear fell like a heavy weight on
her heart. Retiring from the window, she hastened to the door, where,
by this time, a lady stood holding little Edie by the hand. The
child's eyes were red with weeping.
"Is this your little girl?" asked the lady.
"Oh, mamma! mamma!" cried Edie, bursting into tears, as she sprang to
her mother's side and hid her face in her garments.
"Where did you find her, ma'am? Was she lost?" asked Mrs. Claire,
looking surprised as well as alarmed. "Won't you walk in, ma'am?" she
added, before there was time for a reply.
The lady entered, on this invitation, and when seated in Mrs. Claire's
little parlour, related that while walking through Washington Square,
she noticed the child she had brought home, crying bitterly. On asking
her as to the cause of her distress, she said that she wanted Fanny:
and then ran away to some distance along the walks, searching for her
lost companion. The lady's interest being excited, she followed and
persuaded the child to tell her where she lived. After remaining some
time longer in the square, vainly searching for Fanny, she was induced
to let the lady take her home. After hearing this relation, Mrs.
Claire said to Edith, in as calm a voice as she could assume, in order
that the child might think without the confusion of mind consequent
upon excitement--
"Where is Fanny, dear?"
"She went with the lady to buy some candies," replied the child.
"What lady?" asked the mother.
"The lady who took us to the square."
"The lady who took you to the square?" said the mother, repeating the
child's words from the very surprise they occasioned.
"Yes, mamma," was the simple response.
"What lady was it?"
"I don't know. She met us as we were coming home from school, and
asked us to go down and walk in the square. She knew Fanny."
"How do you know, dear?" disked Mrs. Claire.
"Oh, she called her Fanny; and said what a nice big girl she was
growing to be."
