  cost. A Christian should be as conscientious in pledging solemnly
  not to do what he has an undoubted right to do, as he is in
  laboring for the emancipation of the slave.”

The following is from the National Era, July 10, 1851.

Mr. McBride wished to form a church of non-slaveholders.

                      CASE OF REV. JESSE M’BRIDE.

  This missionary, it will be remembered, was expelled lately from the
  State of North Carolina.

  We give below his letter detailing the conduct of the mob. His
  letter is dated Guilford, May 6. After writing that he is suffering
  from temporary illness, he proceeds:

  “I would have kept within doors this day, but for the fact that I
  mistrusted a mob would be out to disturb my congregation, though
  such a hint had not been given me by a human being. About six
  o’clock this morning I crawled into my carriage and drove eighteen
  miles, which brought me to my meeting place, eight miles east of
  Greensboro’,—the place I gave an account of a few weeks since,—where
  some seven or eight persons gave their names to go into the
  organization of a Wesleyan Methodist church. Well, sure enough, just
  before meeting time (twelve o’clock) I was informed that a pack of
  rioters were on hand, and that they had sworn I should not fulfil my
  appointment this day. As they had heard nothing of this before, the
  news came upon some of my friends like a clap of thunder from a
  clear sky; they scarcely knew what to do. I told them I should go to
  meeting or die in the attempt, and, like ‘good soldiers,’ they
  followed. Just before I got to the arbor, I saw a man leave the
  crowd and approach me at the left of my path. As I was about to
  pass, he said:

  “‘Mr. McBride, here’s a letter for you.’

  “I took the letter, put it into my pocket, and said, ‘I have not
  time to read it until after meeting.’

  “‘No, you must read it now.’

  “Seeing that I did not stop, he said, ‘I want to speak to you,’
  beckoning with his hand, and turning, expecting me to follow.

  “‘I will talk to you after meeting,’ said I, pulling out my watch;
  ‘you see I have no time to spare—it is just twelve.’

  “As I went to go in at the door of the stand, a man who had taken
  his seat on the step rose up, placed his hand on me, and said, in a
  very excited tone,

  “‘Mr. McBride, you can’t go in here!’

  “Without offering any resistance, or saying a word, I knelt down
  outside the stand, on the ground, and prayed to my ‘Father;’ plead
  His promises, such as, ‘When the enemy comes in like a flood, I
  will rear up a standard against him’; ‘I am a present help in
  trouble;’ ‘I will fight all your battles for you;’ prayed for grace,
  victory, my enemies, &c. Rose perfectly calm. Meantime my enemies
  cursed and swore some, but most of the time they were rather quiet.
  Mr. Hiatt, a slave-holder and merchant from Greensboro’, said,

  “‘You can’t preach here to-day; we have come to prevent you. We
  think you are doing harm—violating our laws,’ &c.

  “‘From what authority do you thus command and prevent me from
  preaching? Are you authorized by the civil authority to prevent me?’

  “‘No, sir.’

  “’ Has God sent you, and does he enjoin it on you as a duty to stop
  me?’

  “‘I am unacquainted with Him.’

  “‘Well,’acquaint now thyself with Him, and be at peace,’ and he will
  give you a more honorable business than stopping men from preaching
  his gospel. The judgment-day is coming on, and I summon you there,
  to give an account of this day’s conduct. And now, gentlemen, if I
