began to ornament their little dwellings; some have cages 
with singing birds, and some pots of flowering plants ; some, 
pictures and engravings." 

a And are these buildings successful in a pecuniary point of 
view ? " I said. " Do they pay their own way ? " 

" Yes," he replied, " they do. I consider that these buildings, if they have done nothing more, have established two 
points : first, that the poor do not prefer dirt and disorder, 
where it is possible for them to secure neatness and order ; 
and second, that buildings with every proper accommodation 
can be afforded at a price which will support an establishment." 

Said I, "Are people imitating these lodging houses very 
rapidly ? " 

"To a greal extent they are," he replied, "but not so much 
as I desire Buildings on these principles have been erected 
in the principal towns of England and Scotland. The state 
of the miserable dwellings, courts, alleys, &c, is the consequence of the neglect of former days, when speculators and 
builders were allowed to do as they liked, and run up hovels, 



 

where the working man, whose house must be regulated, not 
by his choice, but by his work, was compelled then, as he is 
now, to live, however narrow, unhealthy, or repulsive the 
place might be. This was called ' the liberty of the subject " 
It has been one of Lord Shaftesbury's most arduous parliamentary labors to bring the lodging houses under governmental 
regulation. He told me that he introduced a bill to this effect 
in the House of Commons, while a member, as Lord Ashley, 
and that just as it had passed through the House of Commons, 
he entered the House of Lords, as Lord Shaftesbury, and so 
had the satisfaction of carrying the bill to its completion in 
that house, where it passed in the year 1851. The provisions 
of this bill require every keeper of a lodging house to register 
his name at the Metropolitan Police Office, under a penalty of 
a fine of five pounds for every lodger received before this is done. 
After having given notice to the police, they are not allowed 
to receive lodgers until the officers have inspected the house, to 
see whether it accords with the required conditions. These 
conditions are, that the walls and ceilings be whitewashed ; 
that the floors, stairs, beds, and bed clothes are clean; 
that there be some mode of ventilating every room ; that 
each house be provided with every accommodation for pro- 
moting decency and neatness ; that the drains and cesspools 
are perfect ; the yards properly paved, so as to run dry ; and 
that each house has a supply of water, with conveniences for 
cooking and washing ; and finally, that no person with an infectious disease is inhabiting the house. It is enacted, moreover, that only so many shall be placed in a room as shall be 
permitted by the commissioners of the police ; and it is made 
an indispensable condition to the fitness of a house, that the 
proprietor should hang up in every room a card, properly 



 

signed by the police inspector, stating the precise number who 
are allowed to be lodged there. The law also strictly forbids 
persons of different sexes occupying the same room, except in 
case of married people with children under ten years of age : 
more than one married couple may not inhabit the same apartment, without the provision of a screen to secure privacy. It 
is also forbidden to use the kitchens, sculleries, or cellars for 
sleeping rooms, unless specially permitted by the police. The 
keeper of the house is required thoroughly to whitewash the 
walls and ceilings twice a year, and to cleanse the drains and 
cesspools whenever required by the police. In case of sickness, notice must be immediately given to the police, and such 
measures pursued, for preventing infection, as may be deemed 
judicious by the inspector. 

The commissioner of police reports to the secretary of 
state systematically as to the results of this system. 

After looking at these things, we proceeded to view one of 
the model washing houses, which had been erected for the convenience of poor women. We entered a large hall, which 
was divided by low wood partitions into small apartments, in 
each of which a woman was washing. The whole process of 
washing clothes in two or three waters, and boiling them, can 
