charitable world claps its hands, and shouts 'bravo! for a clever
woman!'"

"No woman will acknowledge the truthfulness of this sketch," rejoined
Ida. "I have seen unthinking girls act thus; but we are cognizant of
the crime--not its punishment, which is inevitable and severe."

"They settle down generally, like their neighbors, to a home and a
husband," said Mr. Copeland.

"This is their outward lot; who knows their inner life?"

"The inner life of a woman! who, indeed! what a tissue of
contradictions it must be! Follow my eye, Miss Ross. Do you see that
Peri with cerulean eyes, who is bowing to that gentleman's petition
for 'the pleasure of her hand?'" Again, that blanching cheek, as she
murmured 'yes.'

"It is Lelia Arnold--my sister's bridesmaid. She is the loveliest and
gayest girl in the room; you would say that she could not exist, but
in this hot-house of flattery and pleasure. Last spring she went on a
visit to a sick friend, and for four months we lost sight of her. She
resides about six miles from, us; and we were notified of her return
by her driving over, one day, attended by a handsome fellow, brother
to the 'dear Annie' with whom she had been staying. The truth was out!
The parade the family made of her disinterestedness and attachment
to the invalid deceived my sister, but not me. She aims at universal
fascination; this Lacy has prepossessing manners and appearance,
talent,--and it may be, money. Her four months' nursing was a judicious
outlay. Helen--Mrs. Read, declares there is no engagement; but I retain
my opinion. She is, to-night, la reine du bal; on Sunday, she will
kneel, in Church, the most angelic vision that ever was vouchsafed to a
Catholic's prayers; relate a tale of woe, and the eyes now dancing in
mirth, will be dewy with tears; if you are worth winning, she is the
tender, love-beseeching girl. I am the only one who quarrels with her.
The first time, I was ready to blow my brains out, for my brutality. I
think now I shall wait for a more convenient season. She is

  'A perfect woman, nobly planned.
  To warn, to comfort, to command,'

--minus a heart!"

"Are you well advised of this?" Her voice was very low.

"I wish I were as sure of a diadem! and if I had it, I will not be my
own security, that she could not coax it from me, in five minutes after
it came into my possession. Do not imagine this a digression from the
subject. I could tell you of an exile from his native land, driven
thence by her falsehood; of one, with high intellect and gigantic
energies, paralyzed by his fall from the dizzy height, to which her
promises had raised him;--and the snow, this winter night, enwraps
another pierced heart, as cold as that which moves her fleecy drapery.
What do you say now, Miss Ross? Does the world heap no honors, lavish
no applause upon her?"

"I do not know how to believe you!" said Ida, putting her hand
confusedly to her forehead.

"It is no private scandal;--I do not retail such,--the facts are
notorious. Yet ask Helen--ask any woman who 'knows society,' and she
will certify to the frequency of these occurrences--'crimes' you called
them--and the impunity with which they are committed."

"It is a crime!" said Ida, wildly;--"an atrocious crime!"

"My dear Miss Ross! one would think you were reprobating a highway
murderer! Recover yourself--the perpetrators are your acquaintances and
friends. Another set, Helen! does Mr. Read take the floor, too!" he
said to his sister, with the mocking smile Ida had noticed once before.

"I do not know;" she replied, carelessly. "He can take care of
himself--"

"Having nearly arrived at years of discretion;" he concluded the
sentence.

Ida did not like the unnecessary taunt, nor the smile with which he
turned to her.

