


CHAPTER XVI.

THE CAMP ON THE ISLAND.


As the crew of the Zephyr tugged at their oars, their imperfect
discipline imposing double labor upon them, Charles had an opportunity
to consider his position. The bright color of romance which his fancy
had given to the enterprise was gone. The night air was cold and damp,
and his companions in error were repulsive to him. There was no pleasure
in commanding such a motley crew of ill-natured and quarrelsome bullies,
and if it had been possible, he would have fled from them. Who plunges
into vice may find himself in a snare from which he cannot escape though
he would.

At last they reached the island, and the Sylph was anchored near the
shore. There was a great deal of hard work to be done; but each of the
Rovers seemed to expect the others would do it.

"Now, Charley, everything is right so far," said Tim Bunker, whose party
had just drawn Joe Braman's boat upon the beach.

"Everything is wrong," Charles wanted to say; but Tim was too powerful
to be lightly offended.

"I can do nothing with such a crew as that," whined he. "They won't
mind, and every fellow wants his own way."

"Hit 'em if they don't mind," replied Tim.

"I think we had better spend an hour in drilling them. We can't handle
the boat as it is."

"We must get the tents up before we do anything else. You go after the
stakes and poles and I will get the provisions."

Before the crews returned to the boats, Tim made a little speech to them
upon the necessity of order; promising, if any boy did not obey, he
would thrash him "within an inch of his life."

"Now tumble into the boats, and, Charley, if any feller don't do what
you tell him, let me know it, and I will lick him for you."

"All aboard!" said Charles.

"Where are we going now?" asked one of his crew.

"No matter; all you have got to do is to obey orders," replied Charles,
sharply.

"Say that again!" said the fellow, with an oath, as he doubled up his
fist, and menaced the unfortunate coxswain with a thrashing.

"Hallo, Tim!" shouted Charles, who dared not venture to carry out the
Bunker's summary policy.

"What's the row?" said Tim, as he hastened to the spot.

"I can't do anything with this crew; here is a fellow shaking his fist
in my face."

"Let him be civil then," added the refractory Rover.

"It was you, was it, Barney?" said Tim, as he stepped into the boat.

"I'll bet it was," replied the fellow, standing upon the defensive.

"Take that, then," continued the "chief," as he brought his fist down
upon the rebel with such force that he tumbled over the side of the boat
into the water. "You want to get up a mutiny--don't you?"

The fellow scrambled ashore, wet through and shivering with cold.

"You'll catch it for that, Tim Bunker!" growled Barney.

"I'll teach you to mind. Now, Charley, put off, and don't be so stiff
with them yet. They are not such chicken-hearted pups as the Zephyrs, I
