has come between us, and there must be a peace-offering. Besides, I
would not have you think that you had reached the limits of my will,
and of my means to gratify you."

"To think that I could have doubted--that I could have feared you!"
sobbed Lady Lucy, as tears of joy coursed down her cheeks. "But,
Walter, it is not every husband who would have shown such
generosity."

"I think there are few husbands, Lucy, who do not estimate truth and
candour as among the chief of conjugal virtues:--ah, had you
confided in me when first you felt the bondage of debt, how much
anguish would have been spared you!"




A WORD FOR WIVES.


WHAT is it? A little pencil note, crumpled and worn, as if carried
for a long time in one's pocket. I found it in a box of precious
things that Fanny's mother had hoarded so choicely, because Fanny
had been choice of them. I must read it, for everything of Fanny's
is dear to us now. Ah! 'tis a note from a gentleman who was at
school with us at F--, whom Fanny esteemed so much, whom we both
esteemed for his sterling integrity and his gentleness. It is
precious, too, as a reminder of him. I love the remembrance of old
schoolfellows,--of frolicsome, foolish, frivolous, loving
schooldays. But let me read. 'Tis mostly rubbed out, but here is a
place.

"You know full well that long since, 'that dear cousin' permitted
me to call her by the endearing name of sister; and may I not, when
far away, thinking of bygones, add your name to hers in the sisterly
list? You asked me when I had heard from the dear one: she was
down here a short hour last week, but what was that among so many
who wished to see her?"

Ah! that means me! If I had only known it then! And just now I was
wondering if he really loved me, and perhaps felt almost in my
secret heart to grieve a bit--to murmur at him. I fear I spoke as he
little dreamed then the "dear one" would ever do. What shall I do?
I remember him now, in all his young loveliness, in all the
excitability of a first love, and my heart kindles too warmly to
write what I wished.

What if one had told me then that my home would be in his
heart--that my beautiful Alma would be his child! My Alma, my
beautiful babe! how sweetly she nestles her little face in his neck.
She has stolen her mother's place; little thief! I wonder she does
not steal his whole heart to the clear shutting out of her mother!

Little wives! if ever a half suppressed sigh finds place with you,
or a half unloving word escapes you to the husband whom you love,
let your heart go back to some tender word in those first
love--days; remember how you loved him then, how tenderly he wooed
you, how timidly you responded, and if you can feel that you have
not grown unworthy, trust him for the same fond love now. If you
do feel that through many cares and trials of life, you have
become less lovable and attractive than then, turn--by all that you
love on earth, or hope for in Heaven, turn back, and be the
pattern of loveliness that won him; be the "dear one" your
attractions made you then. Be the gentle, loving, winning maiden
still, and doubt not, the lover you admired will live for ever in
your husband. Nestle by his side, cling to his love, and let his
confidence in you never fail, and, my word for it, the husband will
be dearer than the lover ever was. Above all things, do not forget
the love he gave you first. Do not seek to "emancipate" yourself--do
not strive to unsex yourself and become a Lucy Stone, or a Rev. Miss
Brown, but love the higher honour ordained by our Saviour, of
old--that of a loving wife. A happy wife, a blessed mother, can have
no higher station, needs no greater honour.

Little wives, remember your first love. As for me, I see again the
little crumpled note about the "dear one," and I must go to find
love and forgiveness in his arms.



