PROBABLY my young readers have by this time 
come to the conclusion that Bobby Bright was a very 
clever fellow one whose acquaintance they would be 
happy to cultivate. Perhaps by this time they have 
become so far interested in him as to desire to know 
who his parents were, what they did, and in what 
kind of a house he lived. 

I hope none of my young friends will think any less 
of him when I inform them that Bobby lived in an old 
black house which had never been painted, which had 
no flower garden in front of it, and which, in a word, 
was quite far from being a palace. A great many very 
nice city folks would not have considered it fit to live 
in, would have turned up their noses at it, and wondered 
that any human beings could be so degraded as to live 




in such a miserable house. But the widow Bright, Bob- 
by's mother, thought it was a very comfortable house, 
and considered herself very fortunate in being able to 
get so good a dwelling. She had never lived in a fine 
house, knew nothing about velvet carpets, mirrors 
seven feet high, damask chairs and lounges, or any of 
the smart things which very rich and very proud city 
people consider absolutely necessary for their comfort. Her father had been a poor man, her husband 
had died a poor man, and her own life had been a 
struggle to keep the demons of poverty and want from 
invading her humble abode. 

Mr. Bright, her deceased husband, had been a day 
laborer in Riverdale. He never got more than a dol- 
lar a day, which was then considered very good wages 
in the country. He was a very honest, industrious 
man, and while he lived, his family did very well. 
Mrs. Bright was a careful, prudent woman, and helped 
him support the family. They never knew what it 
was to want for any thing. 


Poor people, as well as rich, have an ambition to be 
something which they are not, or to have something 
which they have not. Every person, who has anv 



 

energy of character, desires to get ahead in the world. 
Some merchants, who own big ships and big ware- 
houses by the dozen, desire to be what they consider 
rich. But their idea of wealth is very grand. They 
wish to count it in millions of dollars, in whole blocks 
of warehouses ; and they are even more discontented 
than the day laborer who has to earn his dinner before he can eat it. 

Bobby's father and mother had just such an ambition, only it was so modest that the merchant would 



have laughed at it. They wanted to own the little 
black house in which they resided, so that they could 
not only be sure of a home while they lived, but 
have the satisfaction of living in their own house. 
This was a very reasonable ideal, compared with that 
of the rich merchants I have mentioned ; but it was 
even more difficult for them to reach it, for the wages 
were small, and they had many mouths to feed. 

Mr. Bright had saved up fifty dollars ; and he 
thought a great deal more of this sum than many peo- 
ple do of a thousand dollars. He had had to work 
very hard and be very prudent in order to accumulate 
this sum, which made him value it all the more highly. 



 
