"I have seen something of the disease," he said smiling
slightly, "and I am not afraid of it. -- Are you?"

"Oh yes! -- oh yes!!"

How much was confessed in the tone of those words! -- and she
hid her face again. But her companion made no remark.

"Is there no friend you would like to have sent for?"

"No," said Elizabeth, -- "not one! not one here -- and not
anywhere, that I should care to have with me."

"May I go up and see Mr. Haye now?" he said presently. "Which
is the room?"

Elizabeth rose up to shew him.

"No," he said, gently motioning her back, -- "I am going alone.
You must stay here."

"But I must go too, Mr. Landholm! --"

"Not if I go," he said.

"But I am his daughter, -- I must."

"I am not his daughter -- so as far as that goes we are even.
And by your own confession you know nothing of the matter; and
I do. No -- you must not go above this floor."

"Until when, Mr. Landholm?" said Elizabeth looking terrified.

"Until new rules are made," he said quietly. "While you can do
nothing in your father's room, both for him and for you it is
much better that you should not be there."

"And can't I do anything?" said Elizabeth.

"If I think you are wanted, I will let you know. Meanwhile
there is one thing that can be done everywhere."

He spoke, looking at her with a face of steady kind gravity.
Elizabeth could not meet it; she trembled with the effort she
made to control herself.

"It is the thing of all others that I cannot do, Mr.
Landholm."

"Learn it now, then. Which is the room?"

Elizabeth told him, without raising her eyes; and stood
motionless on the floor where he left her, without stirring a
finger, as long as she could hear the sound of his footsteps.
They went first to the front door, and she heard him turn the
key; then they went up the stairs.

The locking of that door went to her heart, with a sense of
comfort, of dependence, of unbounded trust in the hand, the
heart, the head, that had done it. It roused, or the taking
off of restraint roused again, all the tumult of passions that
had raged after her first coming in. She dropped on her knees
by the sofa and wrapping her arms round the cushion as she had
done before, she laid her head down on it, and to all feeling
laid her heart down too; such bitter and deep and long sobs
shook and racked her breast.

She was alive to nothing but feeling and the indulgence of it,
and careless how much time the indulgence of it might take. It
was passion's time. She was startled when two hands took hold
of her and a grave voice said,

"If you do in this way, I shall have two patients instead of
one, Miss Elizabeth."

Elizabeth suffered herself to be lifted up and placed on the
sofa, and sat down like a child. Even at the instant came a
flash of recollection bringing back the time, long past, when
Winthrop had lifted her out of the rattlesnake's way. She felt
ashamed and rebuked.
