
A Custom-House gentleman was next sought, but his time had been so much
taken up with his official duties, that he had not yet been able to
examine the bill. He had no doubt but it was all correct; still, as he
was not accustomed to doing business in a loose way, he must claim Mr.
Allison’s indulgence a few days longer.

Almost disheartened, Mr. Allison entered the store of the last
individual who was indebted to him for any considerable amount, not
daring to hope that he would be any more successful with him than with
the others he had called on. But he was successful; the bill, which
amounted to near one hundred and fifty dollars, was promptly paid, Mr.
Allison’s pocket, in consequence, that much heavier, and his heart that
much lighter. Fifty dollars was yet lacking of the sum requisite for
that day. After calling on two or three individuals, this amount was
obtained, with the promise of being returned by the middle of the next
week.

“I shall have hard work to get through to-day, I know,” said he to
himself, as he sat at his desk on the following morning.

“Two hundred and fifty dollars to be raised by borrowing. I don’t know
where I can get it.”

To many this would be a small sum, but Mr. Allison was peculiarly
situated. He was an honest, upright mechanic, but he was poor. It was
with difficulty he had raised the fifty dollars on the day previous.
Although he had never once failed in returning money at the time
promised, still, for some reason or other, everybody appeared unwilling
to lend him. It was nearly two O’clock and he was still a hundred
dollars short.

“Well,” said he to himself, “I have done all I could, and if Hall won’t
renew the note for the balance, it will have to be protested. I’ll go
and ask him, though I have not much hope that he will do it.”

As he was about leaving his shop for that purpose, a gentleman entered
who wished to buy a second-hand carriage. Mr. Allison had but one, and
that almost new, for which he asked a hundred and forty dollars.

“It is higher than I wished to go,” remarked the gentleman. “I ought to
get a new one for that price.”

“So you can, but not like this. I can sell you a new one for a hundred
and twenty-five dollars. But what did you expect to pay for one?”

“I was offered one at Holton’s for seventy-five; but I did not like it.
I will give you a hundred for yours.”

“It is too little, indeed, sir: that carriage cost three hundred dollars
when it was new. It was in use a very short time. I allowed a hundred
and forty dollars for it myself.”

“Well, sir, I would not wish you to sell at a disadvantage, but if you
like to, accept of my offer I’ll take it. I’m prepared to pay the cash
down.”

Mr. Allison did not reply for some minutes. He was undecided as to what
was best.

“Forty dollars,” said he to himself, “is a pretty heavy discount. I
am almost tempted to refuse his offer and trust to Hall’s renewing the
note. But suppose he won’t--then I’m done for. I think, upon the whole,
I had better accept it. I’ll put it at one hundred and twenty-five, my
good friend,” said he, addressing the customer.

“No, sir; one hundred is all I shall give.”

“Well, I suppose you must have it, then; but indeed you have got a
bargain.”

“It is too bad,” muttered Allison to himself, as he left the bank after
having paid his note. “There is just forty dollars thrown away. And why?
Simply because those who are blessed with the means of discharging their
debts promptly, neglect to do so.”

“How did you make out to-day, George?” asked his wife, as they sat at
the tea-table that same evening.

“I met my note, and that was all.”
