
" Somebody may steal it." 

" I guess not. I can hide it, though, before I go." 

" Better do so." 

Harry took his money and went to a bookstore in 
Washington Street, where he purchased an appropriate present for Julia, for which he gave half a dollar. 
On his return, he wrote her name in it, with his own 
as the giver. Then t'^e safety of his money came up 
for consideration; and this matter was settled by 
raising a loose board in the floor, and depositing Kha 



pill box in a secure place. He had scarcely done so 
icfore Edward joined him. 

Our hero did not sleep much that night. He was 
not altogether satisfied with the step he was about to 
taka. It was not doing right by his employers ; but 
he compromised the matter in part by engaging Ed- 
ward, " for a consideration," to make the fires and 
sweep out the next morning. 

At noon, on the following day, he reached Rock- 
ville, and hastened to the house of Mr. Biyant. 

" How is she ? " he asked, breathless with interest, 
of the girl who answered his knock. 

" She is better to-day. Are you the boy from 
Boston ? " 

" Yes. Do they think she will get well ? " 

" The doctor has more hope of her." 

" I am very glad to hear it." 

Harry was conducted into the house, and Mr. Bry- 
ant was informed of his presence. 

" I am glad you have come, Harry. Julia is much 
better to-day," said her father, taking him by the 
hand " She has frequently spoken of you, during 
her illness, and feels a very strong interest in youi 
welfare." 





" She was very good to me. I don't know what 
would have tecorae of me if she had not been a friend 
to me." 

" That is the secret of her interest in you. We 
love those best whom we serve most. She is asleep 
now ; but you shall see her as soon as she wakes. 
In the mean time you had better have your dinner. 

Mr. Bryant looked very pale, and his eyes were 
reddened with weeping. Harry saw how much he 
nad suffered during the last fortnight ; but it seemed 
natural to him that he should suffer terribly at the 
thought of losing one so beautiful and precious as 
the little angel. 

He dined alone with Mr. Bryant, for Mrs. Bryant 
could not leave the couch of the little sufferer. The 
fond father could speak of nothing but Julia, and 
more than once the tears flooded his eyes, as he told 
Harry how meek and patient she had been through 
the fever, how loving she was, and how resigned 
even to leave her parents, and go to the heavenlv 
Parent, to dwell with him forever. 

Harry wept, too ; and after dinner, he most
