" Captain Littleton ! " exclaimed Tom, who was 
the first to recognize him. 
'' Ease off the jib sheet ! " shouted Frank, as 
he cast off the main sheet himself, and put the helm 
up, so as to carry the yacht away from the schooner. 
"What are you doing?" demanded Paul. 
" Do you think I am going to throw myself 
into the hands of Captain Littleton and old Gor- 
don ? I'll bet I ain't," replied Frank. 
'' What are you going to do ? " asked Tom. 
'' Get out of his way, of course ; the Flyaway 
can outsail that craft, and we may as well have 
our cruise out as be snubbed by any of 'em. 
Ease off that jib sheet, I say. Come, Tom, show 
your spunk." 
" I will, but in a little different way from what 
you want," said Tom, seizing the helm, and at- 
tempting to restore the yacht to her former course. 
"No you don't," growled Frank, dealing him a 
heavy blow, which Tom promptly returned ; and 
then commenced a struggle between them for the 
possession of the tiller. 
Frank was the largest and strongest boy on 
board, and for a moment the victory leaned to his 
side. Paul, who had seconded Tom's movement 
by hauling in the main sheet, now rushed to the 
conflict, assisted by several of the larger boys. After 
 
a severe engagement, Frank was knocked down, 
and held till his hands and feet were tied. 
This turbulent spirit thus secured, Paul took 
the helm, and the yacht was brought to hei 
course again. By this time the schooner had 
lowered her boat from the stern davits, and Cap- 
tain Littleton and his companions were pulling 
towards the Flyaway. 
" What does this mean ? " demanded the cap- 
tain, sternly, as he leaped over the rail. " Paul," 
he continued, as he discovered his young friend at 
the helm, " I am astonished to see you here." 
The boys hung their heads with shame, and 
Paul preferred to let some other person vindicate 
him from the implied charge. 
'' Will you explain this, Paul ? " said Captain 
Littleton. " If it had been my own son, I could 
not have been more surprised." 
" Paul is innocent, sir," interposed Tom, step- 
ping forward. Frank Thompson and myself are 
the guilty ones. He and I got up the scrape ; 
we fastened Paul and Dick in the cabin, and 
 
deceived the rest of the fellows. We kept Paul 
a prisoner till we had nearly wrecked the Flya- 
way, and then we called him up, and he saved 
the yacht and all our lives." 
" That sounds like a true story, Tom, and I 
am glad to find you have the manliness to ac- 
knowledge your guilt. Paul, your hand ; I have 
been grieving over you all day, and now I am 
rejoiced to find you are still true to yourself and 
the good character you have hitherto borne." 
Paul gave the captain his hand, and thanked 
him for the kind words he had spoken. 
"What was the quarrel I witnessed just before 
I came on board ? " asked Captain Littleton. 
'' Frank Thompson wanted to run away from 
you, and have the cruise out," replied Paul. 
" Tom and all the rest of the party opposed him, 
and finally took the helm away from him by 
force." . 
Paul proceeded to give a more detailed account 
of the events which had transpired on board of 
the Flyaway since her departure from Portsmouth 
 
harbor. Tom and the other mutineers expressed 
feheir sorrow for what they had done, and were 
ready to submit to such punishment as the cap- 
tain thought it necessary to inflict upon them. 
But Paul told him how penitent they had been, 
that Tom had promised to reform his life, and he 
