Mr. Linden left the table, and standing before her as she had risen
too, took her face softly in both hands and raised it up for his
inspection.
"Do you know what a naughty child you are?"
A most quaint little "yes."
"Then why don't you behave better?" he said, enforcing his question but
not releasing her.
"I suppose you will teach me, in time"--she said, blushing and
sparkling under his hands. He seemed to like to study her face--or was
thinking that he should not see it again for some time,--the expression
on his own belonged to more than one thing.
"You must not make me wait for that letter, Faith," he said--"and I
must not let you keep me any longer here! But if you want anything, of
any sort, you must send to me."
"Yes!--to you or to mother."
"To me--if it is anything I can do," he said as he bade her good-bye.
"And take care of yourself, dear child, for me." And releasing her at
last, none too willingly, Mr. Linden went out alone into the starlight.
He did not see--nor guess--how Faith stood before the fire where he had
left her, looking down into it,--motionless and grave until Madame
Danforth came back. Then all that part of her life was shut up within
her, and Faith was again to other eyes what she had been before at
Pequot. Yet not so entirely the same, nor was all that part of her life
so entirely shut up to herself, that both her aunt and Madame Danforth
did not have a thought and exchange a word on the subject.
"The sun has found the blossom!" said the little Frenchwoman knowingly
one day; "they do not open so without that!"
"Nonsense!" said Miss Danforth. "I will ask her." But she never did.
And for a little while again Faith filled her old office. Miss Dilly
had no troubles or darkness to clear away now; the Bible was plain
sailing to her; but she could never spread her sails too soon or too
full for that navigation. Early and late, as before, Faith read to her,
with a joy and gladness all brightened from the contrast of that Sunday
night's reading, and coming with a fuller spring since that one little
word of her mother the same night. Indeed the last few days had seemed
to make the Bible even greatly more precious to Faith than ever before.
She clung more fast, she searched more eagerly, among its treasures of
riches, to its pillars of strength; valuing them all, as it seemed to
her, with a new value, with a fresh knowledge of what might be found
and won there for others and herself. So with the very eagerness of
love Faith read the Bible to Miss Dilly; and so as she had done before,
many a time, early and late, in childlike simpleness prayed at her
bedside and by her chair. And as before when she was at Pequot she won
Madame Danforth's heart, she intrenched herself there now. She was all
over the house, carrying a sunbeam with her; but Faith never thought it
was her own. She was a most efficient maid of all work, for nursing and
too much care had worn poor Madame Danforth not a little. Faith was
upper servant and cook by turns; and sometimes went to market; made
every meal pleasant with her gentle happy ways; and comforted the two
old ladies to the very top of comfort.
Whether she wanted to be at home or not, Faith did not stop to ask
herself. But those letters--those letters--they were written, and they
were carried to the postoffice--and others were found at the postoffice
in reply to them. And what had been such trial in the proposition,
became, even in the first instance, the joy of Faith's life. She wrote
hers how she could; generally at night, when she could be quite
uninterrupted and alone. It was often very late at night, but it was
always a time of rare pleasure and liberty of heart; for if the body
were tired, the spirit was free. And Faith's was particularly free, for
the manacles and fetters of pride which weigh so bitter heavy on many a
mind and life, her gentle and true spirit had let fall. She
knew--nobody better--that her letters were not like those letters of
Mr. Linden's sister, Pet:--those exquisite letters, where every grace
and every talent of a finely gifted and fully cultivated mind seemed
playing together with all the rich stores of the past and realities of
the present. She knew, that in very style and formalities of execution,
her own letters were imperfect and unformed. But she was equally sure
that in time what was wrong in this kind would be made right; and she
was not afraid to be found wrong, at all, for her own sake. It was
because of somebody else, that she had flinched from this writing
proposal; because she felt that what was wrong in her touched him
now. But there again, Faith wrote, trusting with an absolute trust in
the heart and hand to which she sent her letters; willing to be found
wrong if need be; sure to be set right truly and gently. And so, Faith
wrote her own heart and life out, from day to day, giving Mr. Linden
precisely what he wanted, and with a child's fearlessness. It was a
great thing to go to the postoffice those days! Faith left it to nobody
else to do for her. And how strange--how weird, almost, the signature
of those letters and her own name on the outside looked to her, in the
same free, graceful handwriting which she had read on that little card
