hair of one and the smooth cap of the other. They had not spoken to
each other all that while, unless an unfinished word or two of Mrs.
Derrick's reached ears that did not heed them. It was Faith herself who
first moved, perhaps reminded by the increasing dullness that her
mother was feeling it too. She took her hand from the gate, and passing
the other round Mrs. Derrick, led her into the house, and into the
sitting-room and to a chair; and then went for wood and kindling and
built up a fire. She went to the kitchen next. That fire was out too,
and that fire also Faith rebuilt, and coaxed till a blaze was going up
round the cold tea kettle. Cindy sat with her head on her arms on the
kitchen table, fast asleep. Faith did not wake her. In half an hour she
brought into the sitting-room a tray with tea made, and clams warmed,
and all things that should accompany the one teacup and saucer, and
mutely set it before her mother. She did not then ask her to eat,
except by this pantomime; and she herself immediately went again to
stand in the porch. But again her mother followed.

"Child," she said, "you mustn't stand here. You'll be sick next. You
must come right in and drink some hot tea."

Faith's quick answer was to put her hand upon her mother's lips. Her
mother went on, softly and steadily, in spite of that slight
obstruction. Yet not in spite of it, for her voice was very low.

"I know who'd say you ought to--" and she paused a little, as if to let
her words have their full effect. Then with a carious sort of instinct
she herself hardly perceived, Mrs. Derrick added,

"Dr. Harrison'll be sure to come--and you mustn't be standing here
then."

For the first time Faith's head drooped, and she turned, but it was to
pass her mother and go upstairs; laying her hand for an instant as she
went, with a kind of caressing touch, on her mother's arm; then she was
gone.

Mrs. Derrick stood where Faith left her, the still mist before her out
of doors, the still house behind her. And there she stood until her ear
caught the distant smooth roll of wheels. Softly it came, nearing her
every minute, till Mrs. Somers' little wagon stopped at the gate, and
Dr. Harrison jumped down and came towards her. Another had seen him,
for Mrs. Derrick knew that a light step had come swiftly down stairs,
but whither it went she knew not. The doctor spoke cheerily.

"Nasty thick evening! My dear Mrs. Derrick, do you stand at the door to
shew your hospitality in welcoming your friends, all night?"

"It is late," said Mrs. Derrick. The doctor's words were too slippery
for her to get hold of; she waited for him to speak again.

"If it is late, my dear madam, why are you here? I don't want you to
see me ever for anything but pleasure. Is it so late I mustn't come in?"

Mrs. Derrick stepped back into the hall--then stopped and turned.

"I was there to watch, Dr. Harrison. What have you got to tell me? One
story has come already."

"Has it! Then I can tell you but half a one. I was thinking to make my
fortune. Mr. Linden is spending the night at a friend's house, my dear
Mrs. Derrick--that is all. He is as well as you are--though perhaps
just at this minute not quite so strong as I am. But I am afraid he can
boast more than that in another few days."

That Mrs. Derrick felt at once relieved, doubtful, unsatisfied, was
clear. But the relief--slight as it was--brought back her hospitality;
she led the way into the parlour.

"What has been the matter?" she said. "What is the matter?"

"I don't know," said the doctor. "He fell in with somebody carrying a
gun--which was very likely to happen, seeing I have met a great many
myself; but I never fell out with any of them yet--perhaps my time
will come.--This fellow however, let off his gun in the wrong place and
some of the shot hit Mr. Linden in the arm, and before he could get to
Mr. Simlins, where I found him, he was a little faint. So I commanded
him to stay where he was till morning. That's all. He's perfectly well,
I give you my word. I came now on purpose to relieve you from anxiety.
He wanted to come down with me, but I wouldn't let him."

