just where the brook runs out of the Hollow, and then walk together to the Hill. 
So, when it drew near four o’clock, Debby 
set out to walk to the place of meeting, 
red shoes and all. I really think that 
black ones would have looked better, for 
such a walk ; but Debby wished very 
much to wear the red; and her mother 
consented. They made quite a show in 
the green grass as she went along, Debby 
thought; and she was so busy watching 
for them, as one after the other stepped 
forward, that she actually forgot all about 
the strawberry feast till she came in sight 
of the rest of the children. There was 
Sarah Dasher, and the Singletons, and Tom 
Lane, and many others, — some of the poor 
village children, too, and all the teachers. 
When all had arrived, the teachers began to arrange them two-and-two, that 
they might walk in nice order. First 
went Ellen Singleton and Sarah Dasher, 
and then the two next oldest ; and so on. 
Now, Debby hoped very much that she 
might have one of her particular friends 
to walk with; but, instead of that, Mrs. 
Singleton brought up one of the village 
children for her companion. 
“This is Jane King, Debby,” she said. 
“I want you to walk. with her.” 
So Debby and Jane King walked off 
after the other children, and Debby held 
her head down and peeped at Jane round 
the* edge of her sunbonnet. She wife a 
nice-looking child, with good, plump 
cheeks and brown hair, and quiet, pleasant 
little face. But she was a poor child : that 
was plain. Her dress was clean, but very 
old and faded and patched up, and she had 
no shoes at all ! To be sure, her bare feet 
were as clean as if they had just come out 
of the brook. Debby looked at them. 
They went sturdily plodding on through 
the grass, with Debby’ s red shoes twinkling about alongside of them. 
“How queer it is!” thought Debby. 
“What could make her come to a festival 
with no shoes?” Then, as they walked 
on, suddenly Debby began to think of 
something else: — 
“Who are they whose little feet, 
Pacing life’s dark journey through, 
Now have reach’d that heavenly seat 
They had ever kept in view ?” 
“ Red shoes or no shoes, it doesn’t make 
much difference,” Debby repeated to herself, thinking of her mother’s words. And 
yet it seemed to make a good deal, too. 
“ I wonder which way she’s walking?” 
thought Debby again. “I guess I’ll ask 
her. Jane, do you know how to walk 
well?” 
“I don’t know — I think I don’t know — 
what you mean,” Jane answered, colouring. 
For she had been watching Debby ’s red 
shoes, too, and thought that may -be Debby 
was laughing at her bare feet. 
“Well, which way are you going, then?” 
said Debby. 
“I’m going up to the festival,” said 
Jane, quietly. “ Mrs. Singleton told me to 
come.” 
“Is that all?” said Debby. 
“ Yes,” said Jane, “that’s all. I knew 
I might come if she told me to. I guess 
they've all got shoes but me ; — but I 
couldn’t help that. We’re too poor to wear 
shoes in summer.” 
“Oh, but, ’ ’ said Debby, ‘ ‘ my mother says 
it don’t make much difference.” 
“I think it does make some,” said Jane, 
looking down again at the little red shoes. 
“I think it makes a good deal.” 
“No, it don’t,” said Debby, “if you 
