The maid was unusually sensible and discreet for one in her 
station, and not superstitious or cowardly. Her mistress 
did not question that she really believed all that she had 
said ; but the more she thought of it, the more unlikely it 
appeared that Robert and herself had been dogged by so 
bold an eavesdropper, or that any chance vagrant of the 
forest could have remained for any length of time in the 
position Sally had described, without being discovered. 

" Could you see who he was ? or whether he was white 
or colored ?" she inquired. 

" He kept well in the shade, ma 'am, and I wasn't very 
near, you know. Maybe he was a runaway. There's a 
good many out, I hear, more than common for this season 
of the year," returned the girl, still averting her face, and 
putting away the slippers in a drawer. 

" Perhaps it was Lem !" exclaimed Helen. " Poor fellow! 
he need not have been afraid of us ! We would never have 
betrayed him." 

This was a field-hand of Colonel Floyd's, who had run 
away six weeks before, goaded to desperation by the brutal 
oppression of the driver, Booker, "whose authority was in- 



variably supported by the master. Lem had married Sally's 
sister, as Helen now considered, and the probabilities were 
manifestly in favor of the supposition that he was lurking 
about the plantation, in the hope of seeing his wife. Sally 
was not certain that she recognized him, yet that she had 
some misgivings on the subject was clear. She might feel 
it to be her duty to put her mistress upon her guard against 
a repetition of the nocturnal stroll, while she was cautious 
not to commit her brother-in-law. Acting upon this hypo 
thesis, which she imagined was fully sustained by Sally's 
silence after Lem was named, Helen forbore to prosecute 
her inquiries, and her thoughts strayed of themselves back 
to the more pressing cares and disquietudes that weighed 
heavily upon her young spirit. 

In ten minutes after the servant's story was concluded, her 
auditor had forgotten the runaway and his woes. 



 



CHAPTER V. 

" A WHOLESOME lesson for the future !" Aleck Lay had 
said, and he conned it to such profit, that, during the month 
immediately succeeding his arrival at home, he paid but two 
visits at Colonel Floyd's, and they were made in decorous 
compliance with special invitations. He spent most of each 
day, and often stayed over night, at his plantation of Maple 
Hill, a fine old place, which had come into the family 
through the female line ; having been bequeathed, at his 
grandfather's death, to his mother. Active and judicious 
preparations were being made there now, for the reception 
of his aunt and himself. " He went to as much pains and 
expense in fitting it up, as if he were expecting to take 
thither a beautiful wife, and not an old maid sobersides like 
herself," Miss Ruth affected to complain, while, inwardly, 
she was happy and proud that he did so. The paternal 
mansion, Greenfield, was meanwhile in a state of disorder 
unparalleled in the previous annals of Miss Massie's reign. 
Cleaning, repairing, painting, and refurnishing were ah 
going forward at once, under the superintendence of that 
painstaking housewife. Mrs. Robert Lay should find every 
apartment in every story, every closet and stair, even the 
" cuddy-holes" in the garret, irreproachable, if she, the in 
defatigable present incumbent, perished in the laudable at 
tempt to attain this end. She naturally believed that 
Robert's love-making was prosecuted as diligently, and that 
its results were likely to prove as satisfactory to all concerned, as she hoped those of her labors would be ; justly 
