
"Poor Daisy! And that was all because you would not sing."

"Because I would not sing, Preston!"

"Yes, that is the cause of all the trouble that has been in the house.
Now, Daisy, you'll give it up?"

"Give what up?"

"Give up your nonsense, and sing."

"That?" said Daisy, and a slight flush came into the pale cheeks.

"Aunt Felicia wants you to sing it, and she will make you do it, when
you get well."

Daisy made no answer.

"Don't you see, my dear Daisy, it is foolish not to do as other people
do?"

"I don't see what my broken ankle has to do with what you are saying,
Preston."

"Daisy, what will become of you all these six weeks? We cannot go a
fishing, nor have any fun."

"You can."

"What will you do?"

"I guess I can have books and read, by and by. I will ask Dr. Sandford."

"Suppose I bring some books, and read to you?"

"O Preston! how nice."

"Well, I'll do it then. What shall I bring?"

"I wish you could bring something that would tell about these things."

"These things? What is that?"

"It is a trilobite. Capt. Drummond got it the other day. It was a fish
once, and now it is a stone; and I would like very much to know about
it."

"Daisy, are you serious?"

"Why, yes, Preston."

"My dear little Daisy, do not you go and be a philosopher!"

"Why, I can't; but why shouldn't I?"

"Philosophers are not 'nice,' Daisy, when they are ladies," said
Preston, shaking his head.

"Why not?"

"Because ladies are not meant to be philosophers."

"But I want to know about trilobites," said Daisy.

"I don't think you do. You would not find the study of fossils
interesting."

"I think I should--if you would help me, Preston."

"Well, we will see, Daisy. I will do anything for you, if you will do
one thing for me. O Daisy, do! Aunt Felicia has not given it up at
all."

"Good bye, Preston," said Daisy. "Now you must go, and not talk to me
any more this time."

Preston ran off. He was not allowed to come again for a day or two; and
Daisy was not allowed to talk. She was kept very quiet, until it was
found that the broken bone was actually healing and in a fair way to get
