
If August Bopp had been an Englishman, he would have felt much, but
said less on that account; if he had been an American, he would have
tried to conceal his poverty, and impress the family with his past
grandeur, present importance, or future prospects; being a German,
he showed exactly what he was, with the childlike frankness of his
race. Having had no dinner, he ate heartily of what was offered him;
being cold, he basked in the generous warmth; being homesick and
solitary, he enjoyed the genial influences that surrounded him, and
told his story, sure of sympathy; for even in prosaic Yankeedom he
had found it, as travellers find Alpine flowers among the snow.

It was a simple story of a laborious boyhood, being early left an
orphan, with a little sister dependent on him, till an opening in
America tempted him to leave her and come to try and earn a home for
her and for himself. Sickness, misfortune, and disappointment had
been his companions for a year; but he still worked, still hoped,
and waited for the happy hour when little Ulla should come to him
across the sea. This was all; yet as he told it, with the magical
accompaniments of gesture, look, and tone, it seemed full of pathos
and romance to his listeners, whose faces proved their interest more
flatteringly than their words.

Mrs. Ward mended the torn coat with motherly zeal, and gave it many
of those timely stitches which thrifty women love to sew. The twins
devoted themselves to their guest, each in a characteristic manner.
Dick, as host, offered every article of refreshment the house
afforded, goaded the fire to a perpetual roar, and discussed
gymnastics, with bursts of boyish admiration for the grace and skill
of his new leader, whom he christened King of Clubs on the spot.
Dolly made the stranger one of them at once by talking bad German,
as an offset to his bad English, called him Professor in spite of
all denials, and unconsciously symbolized his future bondage by
giving him a tangled skein to hold for the furtherance of her
mother’s somewhat lengthened job.

The Cupid of the present day was undoubtedly “raised” in
Connecticut; for the ingenuity and shrewdness of that small
personage could have sprung from no other soil. In former times his
stratagems were of the romantic order. Colin bleated forth his
passion in rhyme, and cast sheep’s eyes from among his flock, while
Phyllis coquetted with her crook and stuck posies in his hat; royal
Ferdinand and Miranda played at chess; Ivanhoe upset his fellow-men
like ninepins for love of lackadaisical Rowena; and “sweet Moll”
 turned the pages while her lover, Milton, sang. But in our day the
jolly little god, though still a heathen in the severe simplicity of
his attire, has become modernized in his arts, and invented
huskings, apple-bees, sleigh-rides, “drop-ins,” gymnastics, and,
among his finer snares, the putting on of skates, drawing of
patterns, and holding skeins,--the last-named having superior
advantages over the others, as all will testify who have enjoyed one
of those hand-to-hand skirmishes.

August Bopp was three and twenty, imaginative, grateful, and
heart-whole; therefore, when he found himself sitting opposite a
blooming little damsel, with a head, bound by a pretty red snood,
bent down before him, and very close to his own a pair of
distracting hands, every finger of which had a hit to make, and made
it, it is not to be denied that he felt himself entering upon a new
and very agreeable experience. Where could he look but in the face
opposite, sometimes so girlishly merry and sometimes so beautifully
shy? It was a winning face, full of smooth curves, fresh colors, and
sunshiny twinkles,--a face every one liked, for it was as changeful
as an April day, and always pleasant, whether mischievous, mournful,
or demure.

Like one watching a new picture, Mr. Bopp inspected every feature of
the countenance so near his own; and, as his admiration “grew by
what it fed on,” he fell into a chronic state of stammer and blush;
for the frank eyes were very kind, the smooth cheeks reflected a
pretty shade of his own crimson, and the smiling lips seemed
constantly suggesting, with mute eloquence, that they were made for
kissing, while the expressive hands picked at the knots till the
Professor felt like a very resigned fly in the web of a most
enticing young spider.

If the King of Clubs saw a comely face, the Queen of Hearts saw what
observing girls call a “good face;” and with a womanly respect for
strength, the manliest attribute of man, she admired the broad
shoulders and six feet one of her new master. This face was not
