turned to the house, and met the assembled family. 
Mr. Larobe was in attendance, sitting at a table in one 
of the parlors, with the will lying before him. Formal 
ly he broke the seal, in presence .of all, and in the death 
like stillness that followed, read the document in a calm, 
distinct voice. -.-... , 
After the usual brief preliminary matter, the children 
 
of the testator were named in order, with the sum each 
was to receive from the estate. Adam's share was twen 
ty thousand dollars. John's ten thousand ; but this 
was in trust; he to receive only the annually accruing 
interest . At his death, the principal would pass to 
the residuary legatee. Lydia was next mentioned. 
Her portion was only one thousand dollars ! Edwin 
and Francis were to receive ten thousand each, and a 
like sum was willed to each of Mr. Guy's three children 
by his second wife. All the residue of the estate, real 
and personal, was bequeathed to his " loving wife, Jane," 
who, jointly with Justin Larobe, were constituted guar 
dians to the children not yet of legal age. Larobe was 
named as executor to the estate. 
No sentence of approval or blame appeared any where 
in the carefully worded, and strictly legal document, 
nor were any reasons for a bequest given. The only 
apparent sign of human feeling, was in the words " my 
loving wife, Jane." 
Several minutes passed, after the lawyer had finished, 
before the succeeding silence was broken. The first 
movement was on the part of Lydia and her husband, 
who arose, and retired from the house, without the 
utterance of a word. Adam next withdrew, and in si 
lence, also departing from the house. Edwin sat for a 
little while stunned to bewilderment by the announce 
ment of his small share in an estate which he had com 
placently estimated at the value of several hundreds 
of thousands of dollars, and then retired also, going up 
to his room, for he yet claimed some right to a place in 
his father's house. 
Adam's steps were directed to the office of his counsel 
and he went thither with hurrying feet. 
" There is a will ! " he said, with strong excitement 
in his manner on entering. 
" Has it been read ? " 
"Yes." 
'' What are the provisions ? " 
" Oh, horrible ! Scandalous ! That woman gets 
nearly the whole of my father's large property. I shall 
contest the will." 
" What is the date ? " 
" I didn't observe," said Adam. 
" That is important. If executed since the aberration 
of mind which preceded his death, it can be set aside. 
As soon as we have the prooate, I will look to tlie date. 
But, what is your share under this will ? " 
" Twenty thousand dollars." Adam tossed his head 
in contempt of the paltry sum. 
" And what of the other children ? " 
" Only ten thousand each, except in the case of my 
sister Lydia, who threw herself away in a beggarly 
marriage. She is cut off with a single thousand." 
" How much do these sums amount to in the aggre 
gate ? " inquired the lawyer. 
" Six, at ten thousand each, make sixty thousand dol 
lars. My portion of twenty thousand, and Lydia's por 
tion of one thousand, added, would make the sum of 
eighty-one thousand dollars." 
" How large is the estate ? " 
" Roughly estimated, say two hundred and fifty thous 
and dollars." 
 
" Of which your mother comes in for nearly one 
hundred and twenty thousand." 
" Yes she a mere interloper a woman who only 
married my father for his money she to get the lion's 
share ! My blood boils in my veins ! " 
" Let us see how the case stands, should this will te 
defective," said the lawyer. " Your mother's one-third 
of the whole estate, valued, we will assume, at two 
hundred and fifty thousand dollars, would be something 
