Somers did not wish it to be investigated. He was utterly opposed to an
investigation, for he was fearful, if the matter should be "ventilated,"
that more would be shown than he was willing to have exhibited at the
present time; in other words, Coles would find out that his enterprising
scheme had been exposed to a third person.

"I don't care to be mixed up in any revelations of low life, Mr.
Pillgrim; and, as I have lost nothing, and the hard knocks I received
were given under a mistake, I think I would rather let the matter rest
just where it is."

"Very natural for a young man of your style," laughed the lieutenant.
"You are afraid the people of Pinchbrook will read in the papers that
Mr. Somers has been in bad places."

"They might put a wrong construction on the case," replied Somers,
willing to have his reasons for avoiding an investigation as strong as
possible.

"I can hand these letters over to the police, and let the officers
inquire into the matter," added Pillgrim. "They need not call any
names."

"I would rather not stir up the dirty pool. Besides, Tom Barron and his
mother may be in the house, after all. There is no evidence to the
contrary."

"I shall satisfy myself on that point by another visit to the house. If
I find there is such a person there, I shall be satisfied."

"That will be the better way."

Just then it occurred to Somers that Coles might have seen him while he
was insensible, and was already aware that his scheme had miscarried. He
questioned Pillgrim, therefore, in regard to the persons in the bar-room
when he entered. From the answers received he satisfied himself that
the conspirators had departed before the "row" in the front room
occurred.

"Now, Somers, I am going down to that house again before I sleep," said
the lieutenant. "This time, I shall take my revolver. Will you go with
me?"

"I don't feel exactly able to go out again to-night. My head doesn't
feel just right," replied Somers, who, however, had other reasons for
keeping his room, the principal of which was the fear that he might meet
Coles there, and that, by some accident, his presence in the front room
during the conference might be disclosed.

"I think you are right, Somers. You had better keep still to-night,"
said Pillgrim. "Shall I send you up anything?"

"Thank you; I don't need anything."

"A glass of Bourbon whiskey would do you good. It would quiet your
nerves, and put you to sleep."

"Perhaps it would, but I shall lie awake on those terms."

"Don't be bigoted, my dear fellow. Of course I prescribe the whiskey as
a medicine."

"You are no surgeon."

"It would quiet your nerves."

"Let them kick, if nothing but whiskey will quiet them," laughed Somers.
"Seriously, Mr. Pillgrim, I am very much obliged to you for your
kindness, and for your interest in me; but I think I shall be better
without the whiskey than with it."

"As you please, Somers. If you are up when I return, I will tell you
what I find at the house."

"Thank you; I will leave my door unfastened."

Mr. Pillgrim left the room to make his perilous examination of the
locality of his friend's misfortunes. Somers walked the apartment,
nervous and excited, considering the events of the evening. He then
seated himself, and carefully wrote out the statement of Coles in regard
