laws appoints that for certain crimes— and murdering a priest 
is one of them — the criminals should be branded in the forehead with a hot iron ; and then it goes on — 





With none to eat with them. 
With none to sacrifice with them. 
With none to be allied by maniage with them ; 
Abject, and excluded from all social duties. 
Let them wander over the earth; 
Branded with indelible marks. 
They shall be deserted by their relations. 
Treated by none with affection, 
Beceived by none with respect.' 

Do you think that would be an easy life to live, eh? " 

" Why, that is exactly like Cain's curse," said L .

"Cain had somebody to eat with him," said Eliphalet. 
"He had his wife," 

' Ah, you do not touch the hardest part of the curse," said 
uncle Sam, — "which Cain felt. Do you notice how this bold, 
bad man had become a coward % He was trembling with the 
fear that somebody would kill him. That terrible scene had 
unsettled his nerves. And now he knew that he had lost the 
favour of God. Thou hast driven me out this day from the 
face of the earth ; and from thy face shall I he hid, Cain 
never thought about that before ; now, conscience and danger 
faced him, and his spirit was shaken." 

" How was he driven from the face of the earth ? " 

"From all pleasant look of it, Tiny. As it was vmtten of 
others — They shall look unto the earth; and behold trouble 
and darkness, dimness of anguish.' " 

"Where did he go ?"

" Somewhere off to the eastward of Eden, away from his 
family and away from the presence of the Lord ; that is, from 
the place where God's altar was and where He was wor- 
shipped ; for you know, wherever people seek God in His 
appointed way, there God draws near to them." 

" But can't people do that anywhere ? " 

" Now they can, Tiny ; and then they could ; but in the 
old time there were specially-appointed places, where the Lord 
set His name, and where He often gave a visible sign of His 
presence." 

"And then Adam and Eve were left alone again?" 



 

" Why, no, they were not," said Daniel. " Cain had his wife, 
you know." 

" But Cain's wife went with him." 

" Of course. But there were a good many other people in 
the world by that time. You know Cain was afraid they 
would kill him," 

"What people?" 

"Why, Tiny," said Dan, " Adam and Eve had other children 
besides Cain and Abel ; and daughters too ; and the brothers 
and sisters married each other ; and then they had children." 

" But they were little children," said L.

"They had plenty of time to grow up," said uncle Sam. 
"All this about Cain and Abel happened when they were 
