poor Martha. She doesn’t earn more than four dollars a week, and has to
sit at her sewing from morning till night. I wish I could do something
to help her. She looks so tired and pale all the time.”

“God has favored you, my child, in bestowing upon you so choice a gift.
I hope you do not fail to thank him for this goodness.”

“Never, papa. I thank him every night.”

“How much money have you left, papa?” she inquired, after a pause.

“I don’t know exactly how much. I had better give it to you to help pay
our daily expenses.”

“There are one hundred and twenty dollars,” said Helen, counting it.
“Then we shall need one hundred and eighty to make up the balance of the
sum mentioned in the note.”

“Surely, I cannot have expended that sum,” said Mr. Ford, with a
perplexed look. “If I could see Mr. Sharp?”

“I will go and see him, papa.”

“Perhaps it will be best.”

In five minutes Helen was on her way to the lawyer’s office.




                              CHAPTER XXV.
                      MR. SHARP CHANGES HIS BASE.


When Lewis Rand made choice of Richard Sharp, a briefless barrister, as
his agent, in preference to a lawyer of greater reputation, he was
influenced by what he considered satisfactory reasons. In the first
place, Mr. Sharp’s easy morality and lack of principle were no
unimportant qualifications for the business in which he was to be
employed; that he had good qualities of a particular kind Lewis knew;
and he judged that his lack of other clients would insure his devotion
to his interests.

Thus far, Mr. Sharp’s management of the business intrusted to him had
quite equalled Lewis Rand’s expectations. He acknowledged that it could
not have been better done. Feeling that the lawyer’s fidelity was
insured by his own interest, he was far from anticipating any risk to
his plans from this quarter.

Lewis Rand reasoned as a man of the world, showing, it must be admitted,
no inconsiderable insight into human character and motives. But there
was one thing which he neglected to take into the account. The lawyer
might, in the course of his investigations, discover counter interests,
which he might think it better worth his while to further than his
client’s.

This was actually the case.

Lewis Rand had so far taken Mr. Sharp into his confidence, that the
lawyer found little difficulty in surmising how affairs stood. Of the
forged will he was ignorant. It appeared that the only thing which stood
in the way of a reconciliation between Robert Ford and his father, was
the careful manner in which they had hitherto been kept apart by Lewis.
As the latter had confessed, his uncle had been so far desirous of a
meeting and reconciliation, that he had ordered an advertisement to be
inserted in the leading papers, notwithstanding the probability that his
son was no longer living.

“Now,” thought Mr. Sharp, “what would be the probable consequence, if
some person—I, myself, for example—should bring together the
long-separated father and son. Naturally that person would have the
satisfaction of knowing that he had made two fellow-beings happy,”—here
Mr. Sharp looked fairly radiant with benevolence,—“and also,”—here came
in a consideration,—“and also he would stand a chance of being very
handsomely rewarded.”

Mr. Sharp lit a fresh cigar, after which he resumed the current of his
reflections.

“Suppose I should be that person. I should, of course, lose my present
