
“ How glad you ought to be,” said Peace. 

“ Well, I suppose I am. I don’t believe he 
will drink any more. Tom never breaks his 
word, — never. Besides, he has been back now 
two weeks, and he wrote me yesterday that he 
hadn’t touched a drop. I don’t trouble about 
that any more ; but. Peace, I never feel quite 
safe.” 

“ I see.” 

“ Tom means to do right and is so good, and 
then forgets, — just like me, you know, only 
I ’m not good, and then he is so handsome. 
College is a dreadful place, and I wish he were 
through and home again. Then I wish he and 
father got along better, and I ’m always afraid 
something will go wrong between them. Then, 
lately, there ’s mother.” 

“ What about her? ” 

“ She has so many headaches, I can’t go to 


her about Tom nor anything, as I used to, for 
fear of making her feel worse. Iff didn’t have 
you, I don’t know what would become of me, 
I always must have somebody to talk to. There 
aren’t any girls here that I ever say anything 
sober to. There ’s Joy, to be sure, but she 
is off in Boston, and I can’t write things out 
in letters ; besides, I shouldn’t want to tell 
her about Tom. I love Joy dearly, but she 
wouldn’t do for that. Peace, I ’m sort of 
troubled about mother.” 

“ I ’m real sorry,” said Peace, in her gentle 
way, and the three simple words seemed to 
mean a great deal more than they would if any- 
body else said them ; “ perhaps she will be 
better when the spring comes.” 

Gypsy said that she hoped so, rather absently, 
and then there was a silence. 

“ Do you know,” said Peace, at last, 
“ that you are growing different, Gypsy, — 
older? ” 

“ Am I ? How funny ! Well, I have a 
great many more thoughts to think than I used 




to. I wonder if you remember the sunbeam 
that came through the hole in the curtain one 
day before Tom came home?” 

“ Oh, yes, very well.” 

“ So do I. I suppose I ’m beginning to find 
out how they feel rainy days.” 

Peace smiled, and Gypsy thrummed on the 
window-sill a moment. 

“ And you have never had anything but 
rainy days ! ” 

“ The sun is there, you know, all the same, 
whether it rains or not,” said Peace, half to 
Gypsy, half to herself. 

“ It ’s there because you make it. If I were 
in your place, I shouldn’t make any. My ! how 
horrid and wicked I should be.” 
