

 

Such is a specimen of the yams — sometimes true, 
sotnetimes spun out of whole cloth — with which the 
sailors amused themselves and beguiled the tedium of 
the night-watch. 

The companionship of honest and stout-hearted Bill 
Sturdy proved a great source of happiness to Charlie, 
and enabled him to bear up, as otherwise he might have 
found it diflScult to do, under the hardships of his condition, the persecution of the captain and the mate, who 
had not forgotten their animosity, and the uncertainty 
he could not but feel as to the situation in which his 
mother was left, with the painful doubt as to whether 
she would be able to support herself till he could return 
and relieve her necessities. 

" When we get back, my lad," said Bill Sturdy, " Til 
put half that money in the Savings Bank in your name, 
so that if you and your mother want it at any time, you 
can use it." 

"No, Bill," said Charlie, earnestly, "you are very 
kind, but I couldn't consent to that." 

"And why not, my lad? What do I want of it? 



I've got neither chick nor child, and am not likely to 
have. I've taken a fancy to you, and the money'll do 
yon more good than me.'' \ 

"You are ver  kind," said Charlie, gratefhlly ; "but 
I mustn't take advantage of your generosity." 

" Nonsense, my lad. I know what it is to be a poor 
boy, without money or friends, and nowadays money 
will bring friends. Mayhap it'll start you in some 
business, and when you get rich you can pay me ; or 
if, by and by, I take a notion to come to anchor on 
shore, you'll give me a comer in your house, where I 
can smoke my pipe and spin my yams." 

"That I will, Bill," said Charlie, seizing the old 
sailor's rough hand. "If I have a roof. to cover me, 
it shall cover you too." 

"Thank you, my lad," said Bill. "I know you 
would." 

Under Bill Sturdy's rough exterior there was a kind 
heart which warmed to our young hero, partly because 
of his solitary position on board, partly on account of 
his manliness and attractive qualities. So they became 
fast friends. 

Charlie did not find his duties altogether distasteful. 
He was a bright, active boy, not without ambition, and 
resolved to do himself credit in his new position, how- 
ever it may have been forced upon him. For this rea- 
son it was that the captain and the mate, although they 
watched him with lynx eyes, hoping that he would afford 
them some pretext for showing their rancorous feelings 
towards him, watched ineffectually. By his activity, 
and his frank and manly disposition, he was fast ingratiating himself with the crew, who were the more 

 


 

disposed to espouse his cause, because they could not 
fail to notice the injustice with which the officers treated 
him. 

But trouble was brewing for Charlie, and soon the 
storm broke forth. -' 
