more about it. Let us hope your brother will grow 
better." 
 
" I hope he will, sir." 
The Woodville was now going at full speed up 
the lake. The party on board consisted of twenty- 
four ladies and gentlemen, most of whom were sum- 
mer visitors at Port Rock. They were delighted 
with the beautiful little craft, and glad to know 
that she could be obtained for pleasure parties during 
the summer. They wandered about the deck, sa- 
loon, and cabin till they had examined every part 
of her, and then they gave themselves up to the 
enjoyment of the sail, and of the magnificent scenery 
on the borders of the lake. 
They seated themselves under the awning on the 
forward deck, and Lawry pointed out the objects 
of interest as the steamer proceeded ; and in this 
occupation he forgot the conduct of Ben, and was 
as happy as the happiest of the party before him. 
The ladies and gentlemen sang songs and psctlm 
tunes, in which the sweet voice of Fanny Jane 
Grant was so prominent that Ethan was once en- 
ticed from the fascinating engine which occupied all 
his thoughts. 
In the mean time Mrs. Light was busy with the 
dinner. Captain Lawry was a little uneasy on this 
subject, for it was out of his line of business. In 
the middle of the forenoon he gave the wheel to 
one of the deck hands, and went down into the 
kitchen to satisfy himself that this important matter 
was receiving due attention. The cook was so con- 
fident and enthusiastic that he was quite sure she 
would realize the expectations of the passengers. 
In the cabin he found the girls busy at the tables. 
Both of them had seen service in hotels, and there 
was no danger of a failure in their department. At 
one o'clock dinner was on the table, and the young 
captain went down again to assure himself that it 
was all right. 
" Come, Lawry, can't you dine with us ? " said 
Mr. Sherwood, when the bell had been rung. 
" I can't leave the wheel, sir." 
" But don't you want some dinner ? " 
" I'll have ray dinner when we get to Whitehall. 
Haste makes waste, you know; and if I should be 
in a hurry to eat my dinner we might get aground, 
or be smashed up on the rocks." 
" I suppose you are right, Lawry, and I will do 
 
the honors of the table for you," laughed Mr. 
Sherwood. 
The dinner was not only satisfactory, but it was 
warmly praised ; and Mrs. Light was made as happy 
as the captain by the enthusiastic encomiums bestowed upon her taste and skill in the culinary art. 
The Woodville reached Whitehall at two o'clock, 
where the party went on shore to spend an hour. 
While they were absent Lawry and all hands had 
their dinner, the cabins and the deck were swept, 
and everything put in order. Quite a number of 
people visited the little steamer while she lay at 
the pier ; and a gentleman engaged her to take out 
a party the next Saturday, with dinner for twenty- 
four persons. When Mr. Sherwood returned, he had 
let her for another day. 
At three o'clock the Woodville started for Port 
Rock. The party were still in high spirits, and the 
singing was resumed when the wheels began to 
turn. On the way down, she stopped at Ticonde- 
roga, while her appearance so delighted a party of 
pleasure-seekers that she was engaged for another 
day, and a dinner for twenty spoken for. 
 
" Lawry, you must have an engagement book, or 
you will forget some of your parties," said Mr. 
Sherwood, who stood by the pilot, in the wheel- 
house, when the steamer started. 
" I have put them all down on a piece of paper, 
sir. I will get a book when I go to Burlington." 
" Which will be to-morrow. I had engaged her 
