You'll be a friend to them. Some time it will come back 
a Benjamin's portion for you. Read something, Richard 
the prayer. I think I am dying." 

Richard opened the little prayer book that was his constant 
companion, and in a choking voice read the commendatory 
prayer. A look of peace overspread his father's face, com- 
forting him in this bitter hour. The white lips murmured 
part of the prayer ; then followed a long silence. Afterwards 
he bent over to patch the last words "the children 
Richard, I love you my first-born." The breath came 
fainter, then gaspingly. Richard hid his face on the broad 
shoulder, until the last agony was over. 

Mabel had gone back to the sitting-room, and was trying 
to comfort the younger ones, though she could give them 
little besides tears. She listened with painfully acute senses, 
and when the hall door shut, and two persons walked away, 
a thrill of terror sped through every vein. Then she heard 
voices in earnest consultation, and Mrs. Hall came up to her 
father's room. Afterwards Richard entered, and clasped his 
arms around the little group clinging so closely together, 
mingling his tears with theirs. 

" You had better all retire," he said, when he could trust 
his voice. " We shall need some strength for to-morrow. 
Henceforth I must try to fill his place to you ; only, it can 
never be he ; but I will do my best." 

" O, Richard ! Richard ! " What a bitter cry it was ! 
He kissed them tenderly, little wet faces and quivering 
lips, and carried Tessy back to her crib. Lily crept in with 
her, and Archie, wrapping himself in a blanket, lay down on 
the lounge. There was no sleep for Mabel ; she went quiet- 
ly about, taking care of books and playthings that had been 
neglected a few hours before, when all were so happy. Only 
four years had elapsed since her mother's death ; but she waa 


younger then, and had not felt the sorrow so keenly : per- 
haps, too, she had clung more closely to her father since that 
time, and now understood the full force of the blow. Never 
again to hear him speak, never to look in his genial, loving 
eyes, or be kissed by the fond lips ! Never to waylay him in 
the hall, and ask little favors, or spring for the first embrace 
as he entered the house. Never again ! ah, there was the 
sting. 




Through the long, weary day, 

I walk o'ershadowed by vain dreams of him. 


Even by means of our sorrows we belong to the Eternal Plan. 

 

DATMGHT came at last. Mabel had not slept at all, and 
as soon as she heard Mrs. Hall astir, stole down to the 
library, where she found Richard. The children had cried 
themselves into heavy slumbers ; so it was late when they 
made their appearance at breakfast. The meal had scarcely 
ended before the undertaker came, and they all went to take 
a view of the dear face. How sweet and calm that last ex- 
pression was ! They gazed wonderingly, and without tears, 
it was so like a peaceful sleep. 

" I must telegraph for Robert immediately," Richard said, 
when they were again in the hall ; " and, Mabel, you had 
better get all that you and the children will need. Let 
nothing be put off until the last day." 

"And that will be " 

" Saturday afternoon, I think. I will order the carriage 
for you. Perhaps you had better take Mrs. Hall." 

