


" Gypsy, ma belle ! " called Maude, " 
didn't mean to be cross." 
But Gypsy went downstairs. 

GOLDEN CRESCENT, SKY PARLOUR, 
January 31. 

MOTHER DEAR, Sky Parlour is my room, 
you know, I believe I never told you. All 
our rooms have names. Maude Clare 's is 
" Robin 's Nest," and the Colchetts is " Sleepy 
Hollow," - that is because they re always late 
to breakfast. The room Phoebe Hand and 
Miss Ayre have is " Parsonage." Poor Made 
moiselle has a funny little room all to herself, 
and that is " Spinster." 

But I didn't mean to stop to talk about 
this, for I 'm in a hurry, and "i want to tell you 
about those Compos. 

You see I hate to write them, and Maude 
hates to, and we all hate to, and nobody has 
decent ones but Jane and Lou Armstrong. 
Lou writes poetry, and Jane wrote the most 
splendid one on the " Destruction of Pom* 



peii," and the teachers think everything of 
her. 

Now, I did the best I could, mother, really. 
You know what a little goose I am, don't you? 
and how I don't know anything; besides, I 
never was known to string five words together 
straight yet; they all tumble over each other, 
into a jumble. So I wrote about " Sorrowing 
Nature," and it blew down the register, and then 
I wrote on " Sylvan Scenes." 

Here 's a copy if you want to read it 

"Sylvan Scenes. 

" How beautiful is the face of Nature in all 
her varying moods ! Especially in the country. 

" Go forth at early morn, and see the sun ris 
ing in all his majesty. See the blushing clouds 
that he kisses on his way. See the gold on the 
mountains, and the great shadows in the forest, 
and the sparkling glittering diamond dew-drops 
that are nodding about on the clover-leaves. 
Hear the feathered songsters in their nests, and 
the brooks warbling over the stones, &c. 




" Go forth at noon, and how pleasant to rest 
under the shade, protected from the rays of the 
hot sun. 

" Go forth at night, when the silver moon is 



beaming, or the stars shine coldly down upon 
the earth. Does not everything whisper of the 
wisdom of its Creator, and " 

There was some more, but I didn't finish 
this copy, and I 've forgotten it. I wish they 
wouldn't give us subjects. One time I chose 
my own, and I wrote on " My Cat," and de 
scribed Winnie 's, and Miss Ayre said it was 
