intimates that she is kindly treated."

"I hope she is."

"Have you any more papers, Ernest?" asked Bob, apparently as much with
the intention of turning my thoughts away from the sad subject which
agitated me, as of gratifying his own curiosity.

"That's all, Bob," I replied, taking from my pocket the piece of
newspaper in which I had rolled up the money I had taken from the safe.
"Was it stealing for me to take this money?" I asked, as I unrolled the
bills.

"I don't think it was," replied Bob. "You took it to pay your expenses
in finding your mother; and, even if it were a technical theft, I don't
think any one can blame you for what you have done. The money is really
your own. How much is there?"

"I don't know. I haven't looked at it before."

"Count it, Ernest."

I did so, and was appalled to find I had taken between fourteen and
fifteen hundred dollars.

"All right, Ernest. You are a smart fellow, and I'll tell you what I
should do if I were in your place," replied Bob, who did not appear to
be alarmed at the magnitude of the sum.

"What?"

"I would go to England in the very next steamer, and find my mother."

"Go to England!"

"It is clear enough to me that your mother is there. If you expect to
find her, you must go there."

"I will do it, Bob," I replied, excited at the idea of crossing the
ocean in search of my mother.

"Certainly; do it. You have a letter directed to--what's his name?"

"Robert G. Bunyard."

"Go to London, find this man, deliver the letter, and tell him you want
to see the poor lady."

"I'll do it. Don't you suppose Tom Thornton will try to stop me?"

"No matter if he does. Keep a stiff upper lip."

"I shall do that. I have fought my way through so far, and I shall do it
to the end," I replied, confidently. "It would have been better if I had
avoided that scene with my uncle; but I could not help it."

"What odds will that make?"

"A great deal of odds. My uncle knows now that I have the address of his
London correspondent. He will tell Tom about it. My uncle may be full of
regret and sorrow; but his son will follow me like a bloodhound. But, no
matter what happens, Bob, I shall fight my way through. My poor mother
shall be released from her bondage, and be happy again."

"Right, Ernest!" exclaimed Bob, as he urged forward the horse.

We rode in silence for several miles; but I was intensely excited as I
thought of what my mother had endured for a dozen years. I recalled the
indistinct visions of the past, which still lingered in my mind; and
more vividly than ever before it came to my remembrance that, far back
in the past, I had known a motherly lady, who loved and cherished me as
a little child. The dreary waste of waters which had lingered in my
fancy became a reality to me. I had crossed the ocean, after the death
of my father; but I did not yet know whether I was born in England or
the United States.

I prayed for my mother; and she seemed more dear to me than if I had
seen her every day of my life. I prayed that God would spare her, and
restore her to me; that he would crown with success my exertions to find
her. I am sure that, in all my intense emotion, I did not cherish a
