sorry for you others who must be still more slightly 
sacrificed." 

At Venice, a week or two later, I meet our came- 
riere. He is not so gay, quite, as he was, and I fan- 
cy that he has not found so many bei bocconi on the 
Riva degli Schiavoni, as the proverb and a sanguine 
temperament led him to expect. Do I happen to 
know, he asks, any American family going to Rome 
and desiring a cameriere ? 

As I write, the Spring is coming in Cambridge, and 
I cannot help thinking, with a little heartache, of how 
the Spring came to meet us once as we rode south- 
ward from Venice toward Florence on that road from 
Padua to Ferrara. It had been May for some time 
in Tuscany, and all through the wide plains of 
Venetia this was the railroad landscape : fields tilled 
and tended as jealously as gardens, and waving in 
wheat, oats, and grass, with here and there the hay 
cut already, and here and there acres of Indian 
corn. The green of the fields was all dashed with 
the bloody red of poppies ; the fig-trees hung full 
of half-grown fruit ; the orchards were garlanded 
with vines, which they do not bind to stakes in Italy, 
but train from tree to tree, leaving them to droop in 
festoons and sway in the wind, with the slender na- 



 

tive grace of vines. Huge stone farm-houses shelter 
under the same roof the family and all the live stock 
of the farm ; thatched cottages thickly dotting the 
fields, send forth to their cultivation the most pictur- 
esque peasants, men and women, pretty young 
girls in broad hats, and wonderful old brown and 
crooked crones, who seem never to have been 
younger nor fairer. Country roads, level, straight, 
and white, stretch away on either hand, and the con- 
stant files of poplars escort them wherever they go. 
All about, the birds sing, and the butterflies dance. 
The milk-white oxen dragging the heavy carts turn 
up their patient heads, with wide-spreading horns and 
mellow eyes, at the passing train ; the sunburnt lout 
behind them suspends the application of the goad ; 
unwonted acquiescence stirs in the bosom of the firm- 
minded donkey, and even the matter-of-fact locomo- 
tive seems to linger as lovingly as a locomotive may 
along these plains of Spring. 

At Padua we take a carriage for Ponte Lagoscuro, 
and having fought the customary battle with the vet- 
turino before arriving at the terms of contract ; having 
submitted to the successive pillage of the man who 
had held our horses a moment, of the man who tied 
on the trunk, and of the man who hovered obligingly 
about the carriage, and desired to drink our health 
with prodigious smacking of whip, and banging of 
wheels, we rattle out of the Stella d'Oro, and set 
forth from the gate of the old city. 

I confess that I like posting. There is a freedom 
and a fine sense of proprietorship in that mode of 


 

travel, combined with sufficient speed, which you do 
not feel on the railroad. For twenty francs and buona 
mano, I had bought my carriage and horses and dri- 
ver for the journey of forty miles, and I began to 
look round on the landscape with a cumulative feel- 
ing of ownership in every thing I saw. For me, old 
women spinning in old-world fashion, with distaff and 
spindle, flax as white as their own hair, came to road- 
side doors, or moved back and forth under orchard 
trees. For me, the peasants toiled in the fields to- 
gether, wearing for my sake wide straw hats, or 
