took the place of old ones. It became to both an ob- 
ject of more than interest strange, wonderful love. 
Disappointment endeared it only the more. And as it 
approached completion, as it worked more and more 
satisfactorily, their enthusiasm grew into reverence. 
Yet all of Stephen Dane's life did not go into this. 
As soon as circumstances warranted, he had changed to 
a more comfortable abode, something he could beautify 
with flowers and sunshine. They had a " best room," 
with a bright carpet on the floor, and a few cheap pic- 
tures that he had found at an old second-hand stall, of 
much more value than their price indicated. One, a 
warm, changeful thing, with tints of sunset glow, bits 
of silvery water, and a shallow, pebbly lake-shore, the 
tiny stones washed to whiteness by the slow motion of 
the current. Some books on a shelf though these 
were mostly of a scientific nature ; an easy chair, cush- 
ioned with crimson worsted damask, where his father 
 
could sit and doze. The old man had changed some- 
what. He would always be thin, angular, and shaky, 
but his clothes were clean and whole, his hair and beard 
neatly trimmed. They were snow-white now. 
Joe had improved, too. She no longer went about 
slip-shod, with torn dresses and disordered hair. Ste- 
phen had insisted upon a dress-maker taking her in 
hand ; and it was astonishing to see how her whole 
figure had changed. Her hair, the only beauty she 
possessed, for it was long, soft, and fine, and of a 
shadowy, purple-black tint, was trained into a luxuri- 
ant coil at the back of her head, with no stray, untidy 
ends. Her collar was always fresh and white, fastened 
with a knot of ribbon. Stephen kept her well supplied. 
It seemed as if he had inherited all these delicate, wo- 
manly attributes, a quick eye and refined taste, a cer- 
tain sense of harmony and propriety. Joe lacked them 
entirely. She had so little perception or tact. She did 
these things, not from any love of being pretty, but 
simply because they pleased Stephen. If living in some 
wretched hut without them would have won his love, 
she would have been satisfied all the same. Apart 
from him, beauty or order was of but little consequence 
to her. 
She studied somewhat, too. Hard work it was. She 
had an innate dislike to books. She puzzled her brains 
over them until her whole body revolted. She left off 
her provincialisms, she no longer clipped her words in 
 
ignorant economy, and yet she was far from any re- 
ceived standard of intellectuality. A shadow of the 
old life would always hang about her. Was it some 
inherent birth-mark? It was true she had come of 
generations of sloth, thriftlessness, and dissipation. 
Who shall answer for it? Who has deprived these 
weak, uncertain souls of the sure stay and support 
the birthright God meant them to have ? 
There was but one strong passion in the nature of 
Josephine Dane her love for Stephen. A more 
vigorous minded girl might have found a mate beyond 
the precincts of her home, but with Joe, association was 
a great deal. Her soul seemed to be purely mechani- 
cal. Put it in any common groove, and it would soon 
become accustomed to the routine, and ask no other. 
It would never torment you by sending out troublesome 
shoots, by forcing a passage up into the light and air, 
or demanding finer nourishment than it found in its 
narrow sphere. She had loved him, not for any strong 
or striking characteristic, but simply because he came 
in her way. Her highest ideal of life had been Sally 
Fawcett. A jolly, not over neat matron, laughing and 
scolding in a breath ; taking life easy if the house did 
remain unswept, and the children tumbling about in 
rags. She had fancied herself falling into something 
like this. What if Stephen did go to the tavern and 
come home a little merry? His kisses even then would 
be sweeter than clean, orderly silence and abstinence. 
 
And if children hung about her knees or tangled their 
sticky hands in her unkempt hair, what matter, so 
long as they were his ! 
