becomes fairly the property of the public, in virtue of his having been
connected with events in which every one has a share of interest; but
the other belongs exclusively to himself, his family, and his intimate
friends, and the public have no more right to discuss or pry into its
details than they have into those of any other private individual.

The editor has aimed to avoid all privacies and personalities which
might be indelicate in relation to family circles. She has indeed, in
regard to all the characters, so far as possible, dwelt upon the early
family and community influences by which they were formed, particularly
upon the character and influence of mothers; but such inquiries relate
for the most part to those long dead, and whose mortal history has
become a thing of the past.

Whenever the means have been at hand, the family stock from which
each man has been derived, has been minutely traced. The question
of inherited traits is becoming yearly one of increasing interest,
and most striking results come from a comparison of facts upon this
subject. The fusion of different races is said to produce marked
results on the characteristics of the human being. America has been a
great smelting furnace in which tribes and nations have been melted
together, and the result ought to be some new developments of human
nature. It will always be both interesting and useful to know both
the quality of the family stock, and the circumstances of the early
training of men who have acted any remarkable part in life.

Our country has recently passed through a great crisis which has
concentrated upon it for a time the attention of the civilized world.
It has sustained a shock which the whole world, judging by past
experience, said must inevitably shatter the republic to fragments, and
yet, like a gallant ship in full sail, it has run down the terrible
obstacle, and gone on triumphant, and is this day stronger for the
collision.

This wonderful success is owing to the character of the people which
a Christian Democracy breeds. Of this people we propose to give
a specimen; to show how they were formed in early life, from the
influences which are inherent in such a state.

We are proud and happy to know that these names on our list are after
all but specimens. Probably every reader of this book will recall as
many more whom he will deem equally worthy of public notice. There is
scarcely one of them who would not say in reference to his position
before the public, what Lincoln said: "I stand where I do because some
man must stand there, but there are twenty others that might as well
have been leaders as myself." On the whole, we are not ashamed to
present to the world this list of men as a specimen of the graduates
from the American school of Christian Democracy.

So far as we know, the American government is the only permanent
republic which ever based itself upon the principles laid down by
Jesus Christ, of the absolute equal brotherhood of man, and the rights
of man on the simple ground of manhood. Notwithstanding the contrary
practices of a section of the States united in the Union, and the
concessions which they introduced into the constitution, nobody doubts
that this was the leading idea of the men who founded our government.
The declaration of American Independence crystalized a religious
teaching within a political act. The constitution of the United States
still further elaborates these principles, and so strong was the logic
of ideas that the conflict of opinions implied in the incidental
concessions to opposite ideas, produced in the government of the
country a continual and irrepressible discord. For a while it seemed
doubtful which idea would triumph, and whether the accidental parasite
would not strangle and wither the great original tree. The late war
was the outcome of the whole. The fierce fire into which our national
character has been cast in the hour of trial, has burned out of it the
last lingering stain of compromise with anything inconsistent with its
primary object, "to ordain justice and perpetuate liberty."

These men have all been formed by the principles of that great
Christian document, and that state of society and those social
influences which grew out of it, and it is instructive to watch, in
their early life, how a Christian republic trains her sons.

In looking through the list it will be seen that almost every one
of these men sprang from a condition of hard-working poverty. The
majority of them were self-educated men, who in early life were inured
to industrious toil. The farm life of America has been the nursery of
great men, and there is scarce a man mentioned in the book who has not
hardened his muscles and strengthened his brain power by a hand to hand
