
After his interview with Mr. Murdock and Henry Fosdick, Dick felt
considerably relieved. He not only saw that his friends were convinced
of his innocence, but, through Tim Ryan's testimony, he saw that there
was a reasonable chance of getting clear. He had begun to set a high
value on respectability, and he felt that now he had a character to
sustain.

The night wore away at last. The pallet on which he lay was rather hard;
but Dick had so often slept in places less comfortable that he cared
little for that. When he woke up, he did not at first remember where he
was, but he very soon recalled the circumstances, and that his trial was
close at hand.

"I hope Mr. Murdock won't oversleep himself," thought our hero. "If he
does, it'll be a gone case with me."

At an early hour the attendant of the police station went the rounds,
and Dick was informed that he was wanted. Brief space was given for the
arrangement of the toilet. In fact, those who avail themselves of the
free lodgings provided at the station-house rarely pay very great
attention to their dress or personal appearance. Dick, however, had a
comb in his pocket, and carefully combed his hair. He also brushed off
his coat as well as he could; he also critically inspected his shoes,
not forgetting his old professional habits.

"I wish I had a brush and some blackin'," he said to himself. "My shoes
would look all the better for a good shine."

But time was up, and, under the escort of a policeman, Dick was conveyed
to the Tombs. Probably all my readers have heard of this building. It is
a large stone building, with massive columns, broad on the ground, but
low. It is not only used for a prison, but there are two rooms on the
first floor used for the holding of courts. Into the larger one of these
Dick was carried. He looked around him anxiously, and to his great joy
perceived that not only Mr. Murdock was on hand, but honest Tim Ryan,
whose testimony was so important to his defence. Dick was taken forward
to the place provided for those awaiting trial, and was obliged to await
his turn. One or two cases, about which there was no doubt, including
the colored woman arrested for drunkenness, were summarily disposed of,
and the next case was called. The policeman who had arrested Dick
presented himself with our hero.

Dick was so neatly dressed, and looked so modest and self-possessed,
that the judge surveyed him with some surprise.

"What is this lad charged with?" he demanded.

"With taking a wallet from a gentleman's pocket," said the policeman.

"Did you arrest him?"

"I did."

"Did you take him in the act?"

"No; I did not see him take it."

"What have you to say, prisoner? Are you guilty or not guilty?" said the
judge, turning to Dick.

"Not guilty," said Dick, quietly.

"State why you made the arrest," said the judge.

"I saw him with the wallet in his hand."

"Is the gentleman who had his pocket picked, present?"

"He is."

"Summon him."

The red-faced man came forward, and gave his testimony. He stated that
he was standing on the sidewalk, when he felt a hand thrust into his
pocket, and forcibly withdrawn. He immediately felt for his wallet, and
found it gone. Turning, he saw a boy running, and immediately gave
chase.

"Was the boy you saw running the prisoner?"
