been more carefully brushed than had been the case with the
other; the spotless pantaloons, which seemed to be just out of
the laundress's basket, as I suppose they were, sat with a
trimmer perfection in one case than in the other. Preston's
pocket gaped, and was, I noticed, a little bit ripped; and
when my eye got down to the shoes, his had not the black gloss
of his companion's. With that one there was not, I think, a
thread awry. And then, there was a certain relaxation in the
lines of Preston's figure impossible to describe, stiff and
motionless though he was; something which prepared one for a
lax and careless movement when he moved. Perhaps this was
fancy and only arose from my knowledge of the fact; but with
the other no such fancy was possible. Still, but alert;
motionless, but full of vigour; I expected what came; firm,
quick, and easy action, as soon as he should cease to be a
statue.
So much for a back view of character; which engrossed me till
my two statues went away.
A little while after Preston came to me. "Are you here yet?"
he said.
"Don't you like to have me here?"
"It's hot. And it is very stupid for you, I should think.
Where is Mrs. Sandford?"
"She thinks as you do, that it is stupid."
"You ought not to be here without some one."
"Why not? What cadet was that who called you, Preston?"
"Called me? Nobody called me."
"Yes he did. When you were sitting with me. Who was it?"
"I don't know!" said Preston. "Goodbye. I shall be busy for a
day or two."
"Then you cannot go to Fort Putnam this afternoon?"
"Fort Putnam! I should think not. It is going to be broiling
to-day."
And he left me. Things had gone wrong with Preston lately, I
thought. But before I had made up my mind to move, two other
cadets came before me. One of them Mrs. Sandford knew, and I
slightly.
"Miss Randolph, my friend Mr. Thorold has begged me to
introduce him to you."
It was my friend of the omnibus. I think we liked each other
at this very first moment. I looked up at a manly, well-
featured face, just then lighted with a little smile of
deference and recognition; but permanently lighted with the
brightest and quickest hazel eyes that I ever saw. Something
about the face pleased me on the instant. I believe it was the
frankness.
"I have to apologise for my rudeness, in calling a gentleman
away from you, Miss Randolph, in a very unceremonious manner,
a little while ago."
"Oh, I know," I said. "I saw what you did with him."
"Did I do anything with him?"
"Only called him to his duty, I suppose."
"Precisely. He was very excusable for forgetting it; but it
might have been inconvenient."
"Do you think it is ever excusable to forget duty?" I asked;
and I was rewarded with a swift flash of fun in the hazel
eyes, that came and went like forked lightning.
"It is not easily pardoned here," he answered.
"People don't make allowances?"
"Not officers," he said, with a smile. "Soldiers lose the
character of men, when they are on duty; they are only
reckoned machines."
"You do not mean that exactly, I suppose."
"Indeed I do!" he said, with another slighter corruscation.
"Intelligent machines, of course, but with no more latitude of
action.  You would not like that life?"
"I should think you would not."
"Ah, but we hope to rise to the management of the machines,
some day."
I thought I saw in his face that he did. I remarked that I
should not think the management of mere machines could be very
pleasant.
"Why not?"
"It is degrading to the machines,  and so, I should think, it
would not be very elevating to those who make them machines."
"That is exactly the use they propose them to serve, though,"
he said, looking amused; "the elevation of themselves."
"I know"  I said, thinking that the end was ignoble too.
"You do not approve it?" he said.
I felt those brilliant eyes dancing all over me, and, I
