that. He was kind, too; never harsh, though very firm in his
authority and thorough in his business. I could not help an
unconscious admiration for him growing as we went on. That
steady, strong blue eye; what a thing it was for doubt and
fear to rest on. I saw how doubt and fear rested. I thought I
did; though the bearing of all the sufferers there was calm
and self-contained to an admirable degree. It was so, I heard,
with all our soldiers everywhere.

We came round, last of all, to Preston's couch again; and the
doctor paused. He glanced at me again for the first time in a
long while. I do not know how I trembled inwardly; outwardly,
I am sure, I did not flinch. His eye went to Preston.

"Do you see, you are to have a better nurse than you deserve?"
he said.

"It is disgusting!" Preston muttered.

"Some things are," answered the doctor; "not a brave woman, or
a gentle man."

"Send Daisy away from this place. You know she ought not to be
here; and you can forbid it."

"You overstate my power, my friend," said the doctor. "Shall
we see how you are getting along to-day."

Preston's eye came to me again, silently, with reluctance and
regret in it. I was touched more than I chose to show, and
more than it was safe to think about."

"Does she know?" he asked.

"She does not know. Your cousin, Miss Randolph, has given one
of his arms for his cherished cause."

"And one of my legs too," said Preston. "If it would do the
cause any good, I would not care; but what good does it do?
That's what I don't like about powder."

I had much ado to stand this communication. The work of
examining and dressing Preston's wounds, however, immediately
began; and in the effort to do my part, as usual, I found the
best relief for overstrained nerves. I think some tears fell
upon the bandages; but no word of remark was made by either
physician or patient, till the whole business was concluded.
Dr. Sandford then carried me off to a nice, warm, comfortable
apartment, which he told me I might always hold as my own
whenever I had time to be there; he seated me in a chair, and
a second time poured me out a glass of wine, which he took
from a cupboard.

"I do not drink it," I said, shaking my head.

"Yes, you do, - to-day."

"I never drink it," I said. "I cannot touch it, Dr. Sandford."

"You must take something. What is the matter with the wine? Is
it disagreeable to you?"

"I will not help anybody else drink it," I said, looking at
him and forcing a smile; for I was tired and very sick at
heart.

"Nobody will know you take it."

"Not if I do not take it. They will if I do."

"Are you going upon that old childish plan of yours?" said the
doctor, sitting down beside me and looking with a wistful kind
of tenderness into my face. "Are you bent still upon living
for other people, Daisy?"

"You know, the Master I follow did so; and His servants must
be like him," I said, and I felt my smile was stronger and
brighter this time. Dr. Sandford arose, summoned an attendant
and sent him off for a cup of tea for me; then saw me take it.

