implicate any person in the robbery. Levi was not willing to believe
yet that the gold had been stolen. He went down cellar, and surveyed
the timbers under the hole, hoping that the bags had dropped through;
but he could not find them. He could not determine whether or not there
was any connection between the fire and the robbery; but Mr. Fairfield
insisted that some one--he did not say Levi now--intended to burn the
house, so as to cover up the crime, or at least afford an opportunity
to commit the theft.

"How could any one set the fire in the roof?" asked Levi.

"They might have gone up there, as you did," replied the old man,
rather malignantly.

"Let us go up and see how the fire took," added Levi. "Aunt Susan had a
big fire in the oven."

"It couldn't ketch afire up there if she did," replied uncle Nathan, as
he followed his nephew up the ladder.

Some of the boards and shingles had been burned through, but the
rafters were only charred. Levi went up to the chimney and examined the
woodwork near it. The house was a very old one, and had been built upon
until its present proportions had been reached. The chimney, where the
fire had taken, was in the most ancient part, and the bricks were laid
in clay. Levi found that three or four of them, on one of the inside
corners, had dropped out. This was the defect which the owner had
repaired.

"There is a great hole in the chimney," said Levi.

"I know there is; but I stopped that up a month ago. I hadn't no mortar
nor nothin', and I just nailed a board over the hole."

"That's the way the fire took," added Levi, wondering at the
carelessness of his uncle.

"I didn't suppose there was any heat up here, twenty foot from the
fire," replied the old man, sheepishly.

"Aunt Susan had a rousing fire in the oven. The wind was pretty fresh,
and I suppose the sparks caught on the dry board. It is clear enough to
me that no one set the house on fire."

"I suppose they didn't, then; but somebody stole my money. Mebbe you'll
prove that nobody didn't steal it."

"I am willing to take your word for that;" and the miser's visible
sufferings were all-sufficient to convince any person that the money
was gone, whether any one had stolen it or not.

Levi tried in vain to obtain a clew to the lost treasure. He knew of no
one that had visited the house during the fire who was bad enough to
steal, unless it was Dock Vincent; but it was not right to suspect even
him of the crime without some evidence. Neither Levi nor his uncle saw
how Dock could have taken off the board, removed the bags, and then
restored the covering, while there were so many people in the house.

Dock Vincent, after his discharge from the state prison, had gone to
New York, where he had been employed as the mate of a steamer. Six
months before the story opens, his brother, residing in Boston, had
died, and as the deceased had no family, his property, amounting to
twenty-one thousand dollars, had been equally divided among his two
brothers and one sister. Dock fully believed that seven thousand
dollars on Cape Ann would entirely wipe out the disgrace of having
served a term in the state prison, and he returned to Rockport, dressed
in a nice suit of black.

Dock was mistaken; seven thousand dollars would not varnish his
character so that good men would associate with him. He blustered and
swelled, and declared that he had been taken up for nothing; that this
was not a free country; and that he was a better man than thousands in
town who had never been to the state prison. He never forgave Levi for
thwarting his plans, and swore roundly that he would be the ruin of him
and of Mr. Watson.

The best friend Dock had was Nathan Fairfield, and the miser was not
willing to believe that Dock had robbed him of his gold. After Levi
went home that day, his uncle persisted that he had stolen the money.

