at me, no far-reaching eyes to hold me with subtle glances, 
no foolish quarrels and quick repentance. I was a sober, 
staid, business woman, with a most matter-of-fact air. 
Youth was nothing to me ; girlishness I was glad to lay 
aside. 

I went directly to New York. Of the five letters I had 
written, three had declined reading anything new on ac- 
count of the press of matter on hand. The remaining two 
held out a slender hope. I weighed their respective merits, 
and finally decided by chance, though it was with some 
trepidation that I presented myself. One feels so different 
when one has nothing to ask of the world. It really ap- 
peared as if my earlier daring had all failed. 

I met with a polite reception, that quite restored my 
courage. The book should be read, and my answer given 
in a week. Had I ever written any before ? 

" No ; this was my first attempt." 

"Not even stones or sketches?" 

" Nothing at all." 

" It was quite difficult to introduce a new writer of whom 



 

the world had never heard. If the book had some par- 
ticular merit " and a very charming smile finished the 
sentence. 

I could hardly claim that it was better than the majority 
of stories. Indeed, now I was seized with a fear that it 
was not so good ; but we bowed hopefully to each other. 

I realized the loneliness of a great city fully during that 
week of waiting. I had chosen the most retired hotel, 
and that was not overcrowded. Every one who could get 
away was at some pleasant summer resort, or country 
house. I was not at all sure that even Mrs. Westervelt 
was in the city. But I wanted no one to know my errand. 
If I failed entirely, the secret should be locked in the 
depths of my own soul. I desired no pity or sympathy. 
I watched the dawn of morning and the close of day in 
the most utter solitude, yet in a state of feverish expecta- 
tion. At last the eventful time arrived, and assuming an 
air of indifference that I was far from feeling, I presented 
myself for this important verdict. 

It is something, perhaps, for a man to be handsome and 
affable. My book was declined with the utmost suavity, I 
had almost said sweetness. While it betrayed unmistaka- 
ble marks of genius, it was not at all in the popular style. 
If I had a reputation, it would do very well to make such 
a venture; indeed, in that case, it might be a perfect suc- 
cess. But he did not feel safe to undertake it. If I chose 
to try again I might be more fortunate. This story was 
very peculiar. 

How brilliantly the sun shone as I stepped into the 
street ! I shivered at the brightness, and longed to hide 
myself where it was never so dark and deep. Not even 
the loss of my fortune had affected me thus keenly. I 
began to understand how much of my future life had been 
staked upon this issue. 




" Courage, lienrt," I said. " Some strong souls win 
heaven by force, how much more the things of earth." 

So I ventured agi.in. A grave, middle-aged man, with 
no smiles, but a kindly voice, received me. The same 
cautious story, the difficulty of taking the first step. And 
although he took the manuscript, he prepared me for a 
