Hall, it was very creditable to a young man, like yourself, to have
saved up so considerable an amount of money. Two thousand dollars is
quite a little sum."

"I did not save it up,--that is, not all of it," said Hall, perceiving
that this would lead to suspicion. In fact, he was beginning to feel
rather uneasy under the lawyer's questioning.

"You did not save it up?"

"Not all of it. I received a legacy a little more than two years since
from a relative."

"You were fortunate. What was the amount of the legacy?"

"Fifteen hundred dollars."

"And you loaned all this to Mr. Berry?"

"Yes, sir."

"And five hundred dollars more."

"Yes."

"You never mentioned this legacy at the time."

"Only to Mr. Berry."

"Where did your relative live, Mr. Hall?"

"In Worcester," said Hall, hesitating.

"What relative was it?"

"My aunt," answered Hall, beginning to feel uncomfortable.

"What was her name?"

"I don't see why you ask so many questions, Mr. Bradley," said Hall,
beginning to find this catechising embarrassing, especially as he had
to make up the answers on the spot.

"Surely you have no objection to answer my question, Mr. Hall?" said
the lawyer, looking fixedly at the young man, who changed color.

"It isn't that," said Hall; "but it seems unnecessary."

"You must consider, Mr. Hall, that this claim is a very unexpected one.
Mr. Berry never mentioned to any one, so far as I know, that he had
borrowed this money of you. Remember, also, that it will reduce Mrs.
Berry to poverty, and you will not be surprised that we want to know
all the particulars respecting the transaction."

"I should think the note ought to be sufficient," said Hall.

"True, the note. Let me examine it once more." The lawyer scrutinized
the note, and, raising his eyes, said:--

"This note is in Mr. Berry's handwriting, is it?"

"Yes."

"By the way, Mr. Hall, the interest has been paid on this note at
regular intervals."

"Ye--es," said Hall.

"How often?"

"Every six months," he answered, more boldly.

"Ah, then I suppose we shall find corresponding entries on Mr. Berry's
books."

"I suppose so," said Hall; but he began to feel very uncomfortable.

"So that no interest is due now."

"About a month's interest; but never mind about that, I won't say
