Charlie Darrell had once called her queer when she 
had just made a sacrifice of her own pleasure. And 
it seemed now that she wanted mamma more than 
ever, for she felt utterly friendless and forlorn. 

So it was a great relief to confess on the next day, 
and receive a little comfort. Kathie was not at all 
given to exaggeration, but told a story in a simple, 
straightforward manner. 

"I am afraid Mrs. Meredith thought me imper- 
tinent and obtrusive, but I did not mean to be," 
Kathie said, deprecatingly. " I am very sorry that I 
went, for we looked over the ball-dresses and pretty 
things, and talked about them until it seemed quite 
like a week-day." 

" And this is why I disapprove of Sunday visiting 
in most cases, though it would have appeared rather 
discourteous to refuse. I do not see how you could 
well have done differently, and I am thankful that 
you had the courage to confess the truth. It is hard 
to suffer ill consequences when one has taken the 
only right course, but you must bear it patiently." 

" I don't suppose they will ever ask me again. I 
believe I don't love Ada very much, Aunt Ruth, for 
she so often makes me uncomfortable ; but they have 
all been very kind to me." 





" So they have, my dear, and I regret a rupture. 
There are a good many trials in this life, Kathie, and 
so far your stay here has scarcely been shadowed from 
any outside cause. You must try to be just as happy 
as usual, let the result be what it may." 

She might have been a trifle more grave, perhaps, 
but no one save Aunt Ruth knew of her secret trouble. 
The matter was not to end there, however. Some 
days afterward Mrs. Havens called, and hough she 
was always fond of Kathie, her greeting now was 
quite extravagant. 

" My dear little girl," she exclaimed, " I heard an 
incident about you that filled my heart with joy,-- the 
occurrence at Mrs. Meredith's last Sunday evening. 
I am glad to know that you are not ashamed to bear 
witness for the truth." 

Kathie colored painfully. 

" We had talked the subject over and dismissed it," 
explained Aunt Euth. " It was rather an unfortu- 
nate affair." 

" Nay, I do not think so. Of course the Cuban 
party were accustomed to such entertainments, but 
Mrs. Meredith said that although she was vexed at 
the moment, and much disappointed at having her 



 

guests miss the song, she honored Kathie for not be- 
ing persuaded to do what she did not consider right. 

" Did she say that ? "' exclaimed Kathie, in amaze, 
her sweet face flushing with delight. 

" Yes, my dear, and much more. Don't allow it to 
make you vain, for there is no charm like perfect 
simplicity." 

" I am so glad that she is not angry. But I wonder 
if Mr. Edward Meredith " 
