
like it, for it gives me my ley ; and I don't 
have no trouble with it ; the minister, he saws 
it and splits it and chops it, and then when all's 
done he brings it in, and he puts it on. All I 
have to do is to get my ashes. I did think, 
when I first come, and the minister he told 
me he calculated to burn wood in his room, I 
did think I should give up. ' Why sir,' says 
I, ' it'll take a load o' wood a day, to fill that 
ere chimney; and I hate to see a chimney 
standin' empty with two or three sticks a 
makin' believe have a fire in the bottom of it. 
Besides,' says I, ' stoves is a sight cleaner and 
nicer, Mr. Richmond, and they don't smoke 
nor nothin', and they're always ready.' ' I'll 
take care of the fire,' says he, ' if you'll take 
care of the ashes.' Well, it had to be ; but I 
declare I thought I should have enough to do 
to take care of the ashes ; a-flyin' over everything in the world as they would, and nobody 
but my two hands to dust with ; but I do believe the minister's wood burns quieter than 
other folks', and somehow it don't fly nor 



 smoke nor nothin', and the room keeps decent." 

" Your whole house is as neat as a pin. 
But you have no children there to put it out 
of order, Miss Redwood." 

" Guess we do," said the minister's house- 
keeper quietly ; " there ain't any sort o' thing 
in the village but the minister has it in there 
by turns. There ain't any sort o' shoes as 
walks, not to speak of boots, that don't go 
over my carpets and floors ; little and big, and 
brushed and unbrushed. I tell you, Mis' 
Englefield, they're goin' in between them two 
doors all the week long." 

" I don't know how you manage then, I'm 
sure." 

" Well I don't," said the housekeeper. The 
back is fitted to the burden, they say ; and I 
always did pray that if I had work to do, I 
might be able to do it; and I always was, 
somehow. And it's a first-rate place to go 
and warm your feet, when the minister is out," 
she added after a pause. 



 

< What ? " said Mrs. Englefield laughing. 

" The minister's fire, to be sure, that I was 
talkin' about. Of course, I have to go in to 
see it's safe, when he ain't there ; and sometimes I think it's cheaper to sit down and 
watch it than to be always runnin'." 

" Mr. Richmond was a lucky man when he 
got you for a housekeeper," said Mrs. Englefield. 

Well I don't know " said Miss Red- 
wood contemplatively, with rather a sweet 
look on her old face. " I 'spose I might as 
well say I was a lucky woman when I got his 
house to keep. It come all by chance, too, 
you may say " 

" Mamma, tea is ready," Maria here interrupted. 

" Miss Redwood, will you come down and 
have tea with us ? " 

" No ; but what I come to ask was some- 
thin' different. I was so taken up with my 
