For a gale of melody quivered through the trees something 
that was not summer wind blown about, nor voices of dryads 
disporting themselves. A tremble of exquisite sound, at which 
the wind paused to find itself mocked, the leaves stood still 
and questioned each other mutely, and the distant brook 
ceased to babble for very shame. 
Had Victor Hurst been better read in mythological lore he 
might have dreamed himself into an Arcadian trance ; as it 
was, he sprang up and listened, placing his hand behind his 
ear and bending his head, which had the pose an artist would 
have loved, a kingly Titan head, with its cloud of tawny hair. 
  
"A wanderer like myself, mayhap, but oh, the voice of 
music ! Was ever sound so sweet?" 
As he listened it seemed to grow nearer and more distinct. 
*~~-r* Nothing save a violin could so translate the fine harmonies of 
ft" nature, thrilling the spaces with a half human voice. Now it 
was a lark " singing at heaven's gate," anon a rustle of sum 
mer wind through the pines, and then the careless trill of 
happy song. 
"I must find him !" Victor exclaimed ; his face aglow with 
interest. 
With that he thrust the unfinished bread back into its recep 
tacle, and the bunch of unripe grapes. Hunger, thirst, and 
the morbid distaste of his, kind vanished at once. 
Guided by the sound, he began to climb, having first cut a 
stout walking-stick. His ear was wonderfully acute, and he 
could tell in a few moments whether he swerved to the right 
or to the left. 
Presently the melody ceased, but he still kept on. Through 
tangled wilds, luxuriant growth of rankest vines, and a few 
stray blossoming creepers with clusters of gorgeous flowers. 
Great rugged tree-trunks covered with festoons of bearded 
moss, or graceful hangings of some glossy parasite. Now and 
then a swaying branch lurched in his face, or a too familiar 
thorn caught him in its untender embrace. Nearer the top, 
vegetation grew less dense. 
He gave a long, clear whistle that went trilling into the 
hollows, breaking into a hundred lingering echoes. 
The sound of the violin reassured him. Farther down on 
the brow of the mountain he had gone a little astray without 
a guide. But he trudged on with the vigor that so charac 
terized the man. Nearer, nearer. 
" Hillo, comrade !" 
A laughing voice, hardly less musical than the sound 
evoked by skilful fingers. Through an opening he espied a 
figure reclining against a moss-covered oak. 
 
Victor stopped short, and colored, partly with pleasure, 
partly with embarrassment. 
"Advance, comrade," and the other half rose. There was 
a curious beguiling strand in his voice. Victor flushed boy 
ishly and still hesitated. 
' ' No Orpheus, you see, unless I have won my Eurydice of 
the other sex. Not even the Pied Piper ; for only a few squir 
rels and one stray bird have responded." 
"I heard the sound and followed," Victor said, half in 
apology. 
"Thank you,'' laughingly. "Sit down. My sofas are 
luxuriant and covered with richest velvet. What can a king 
have that is lovelier?" 
Victor glanced around, his eyes drooping bashfully at the 
speaker, who seemed less, and yet more than a man ; a kind 
of unreal or fabulous personage. 
A peculiar face and figure, its chief attribute being a won 
derful, indolent grace. At the utmost he would be barely 
medium size, though his limbs were in perfect, harmonious 
proportion. The head was rather aristocratic, and the delicate 
face was one whose beauty grew upon you, though your first 
verdict would be against its apparent effeminacy. The features 
were finely cut, mobile, changing with every mood of their 
owner, when he chose, and none could be more reticent when 
the whim took him. The brow was that of a poet, the eyes 
large, soft, dreamy, wells of shady darkness, but infinitely 
tender, and with a glimpse of rare humor that might make 
him a satirist, but too generous ever to be bitter. There was 
a delicate mockery in every feature ; in the smile, and you 
could detect it in the voice if you listened warily, yet it was 
not that of scorn or contempt ; rather a genial sparkle, like 
that of the bead to wine. 
