
"Twenty-five cents."

Humpy paid the money, and hurried to the house, anxious to make his
experiment.

The locksmith's assurance was verified. The key did answer. The drawer
opened, and the errand-boy's eyes sparkled with pleasure as they rested
on the box. He snatched it, hastily relocked the drawer, and went up the
stairs two at a time. He had the key of his attic room in his pocket.
With this he opened the door of the chamber, and, entering triumphantly,
displayed to Rufus the tin box.

"I've got it!" he ejaculated.

Rufus sprang to his feet, and hurried up to him.

"You're a trump!" he said. "How did you get hold of it?"

"I haven't time to tell you now. We must be goin', or Mr. Smith may come
back and stop us."

"All right!" said Rufus; "I'm ready."

The two boys ran downstairs, and, opening the front door, made their
egress into the street, Rufus with the tin box under his arm.

"Where will we go?" asked Humpy.

"Are you going with me?"

"Yes, I want that money."

"You shall have it. You have fairly earned it, and I'll see that you get
it, if I have to pay it out of my own pocket."

"I shan't go back," said Humpy.

"Why not?"

"He'll know I let you out. He'll murder me if I go back."

"I'll be your friend. I'll get you something to do," said Rufus.

"Will you?" said the hunchback, brightening up.

"Yes. I won't forget the service you have done me."

Rufus had hardly got out these words when Humpy clutched him violently
by the arm, and pulled him into a passageway, the door of which was open
to the street.

"What's that for?" demanded Rufus, inclined to be angry.

Humpy put his finger to his lip, and pointed to the street. On the
opposite sidewalk Rufus saw Smith sauntering easily along with a cigar
in his mouth.




CHAPTER XXIV.

HOW RUFUS GOT BACK.


It happened that Smith espied the man whom he wished to meet, from the
car-window, just as it turned into Canal Street. He got out, therefore,
and, adjourning to a whiskey saloon, the two discussed a matter of
business in which they were jointly interested, and then separated. Thus
Smith was enabled to return home sooner than he had anticipated. He
little suspected that his prisoner had escaped, as he walked
complacently by on the opposite sidewalk.

"It's lucky I saw him," said Humpy. "He might have nabbed us."

"He wouldn't have nabbed me," said Rufus, resolutely. "He'd have found
it hard work to get me back."

"He's stronger than you," said Humpy, doubtfully.
