He shortly after wrote and sent to Murray a pamphlet for publication,
which was printed, but not generally circulated till some time
afterwards. Though more than three years had elapsed since the
separation, the current against him at this time was so strong in
England that his friends thought it best, at first, to use this article
of Lord Byron's discreetly with influential persons rather than to give
it to the public.

The writer in 'Blackwood' and the indignation of the English public,
of which that writer was the voice, were now particularly stirred up
by the appearance of the first two cantos of 'Don Juan,' in which the
indecent caricature of Lady Byron was placed in vicinity with other
indecencies, the publication of which was justly considered an insult
to a Christian community.

It must here be mentioned, for the honour of Old England, that at
first she did her duty quite respectably in regard to 'Don Juan.' One
can still read, in Murray's standard edition of the poems, how every
respectable press thundered reprobations, which it would be well enough
to print and circulate as tracts for our days.

Byron, it seems, had thought of returning to England, but he says, in
the letter we have quoted, that he has changed his mind, and shall not
go back, adding: 'I have finished the Third Canto of "Don Juan," but
the things I have heard and read discourage all future publication.
You may try the copy question, but you'll lose it; the cry is up, and
the cant is up. I should have no objection to return the price of the
copyright, and have written to Mr. Kinnaird on this subject.'

One sentence quoted by Lord Byron from the 'Blackwood' article will
show the modern readers what the respectable world of that day were
thinking and saying of him:--

 'It appears, in short, as if this miserable man, having exhausted
 every species of sensual gratification--having drained the cup of
 sin even to its bitterest dregs--were resolved to show us that he is
 no longer a human being even in his frailties, but a cool, unconcerned
 fiend, laughing with detestable glee over the whole of the better and
 worse elements of which human life is composed.'

The defence which Lord Byron makes, in his reply to that paper, is of a
man cornered and fighting for his life. He speaks thus of the state of
feeling at the time of his separation from his wife:--

 'I was accused of every monstrous vice by public rumour and private
 rancour; my name, which had been a knightly or a noble one since my
 fathers helped to conquer the kingdom for William the Norman, was
 tainted. I felt that, if what was whispered and muttered and murmured
 was true, I was unfit for England; if false, England was unfit for
 me. I withdrew; but this was not enough. In other countries--in
 Switzerland, in the shadow of the Alps, and by the blue depth of the
 lakes--I was pursued and breathed upon by the same blight. I crossed
 the mountains, but it was the same; so I went a little farther, and
 settled myself by the waves of the Adriatic, like the stag at bay, who
 betakes him to the waters.

 'If I may judge by the statements of the few friends who gathered
 round me, the outcry of the period to which I allude was beyond all
 precedent, all parallel, even in those cases where political motives
 have sharpened slander and doubled enmity. I was advised not to go to
 the theatres lest I should be hissed, nor to my duty in parliament
 lest I should be insulted by the way; even on the day of my departure
 my most intimate friend told me afterwards that he was under the
 apprehension of violence from the people who might be assembled at the
 door of the carriage.'

Now Lord Byron's charge against his wife was that SHE was
directly responsible for getting up and keeping up this persecution,
which drove him from England,--that she did it in a deceitful,
treacherous manner, which left him no chance of defending himself.

He charged against her that, taking advantage of a time when his
affairs were in confusion, and an execution in the house, she left him
suddenly, with treacherous professions of kindness, which were repeated
by letters on the road, and that soon after her arrival at her home
her parents sent him word that she would never return to him, and she
confirmed the message; that when he asked the reason why, she refused
to state any; and that when this step gave rise to a host of slanders
against him she silently encouraged and confirmed the slanders. His
claim was that he was denied from that time forth even the justice of
