
“ He ’s a beauty, now, I tell you ! and real stir- 
rups ! ” Fred opened his mouth and drew in a long 
breath of amazement. 

“ Now this is your play-room, Freddy, and you 
must k^ep all your traps up here. I believe I shall 
confiscate all the articles I find going astray, — have 
a sort of a pound.” 

Rob laughed heartily. “ I don’t believe you ’ll get 
many of mine,” he said. “ I ’ve never had a real good 
place for odds and ends, but now you shall see how 
I ’ll keep them in order.” 

Uncle Robert gave a mirthful smile out of the 
corners of his eyes. 

“ He ’s Firefly,” announced Freddy, patting his 
horse’s real mane. “ And you mustn’t ’pound him, 
Uncle Robert.” 

“Then you must not let him run away, and go 


 


galloping over the house” ; and Uncle Robert made a 
threatening gesture. 

“ It ’s all royal,” declared Rob. “ I don’t see how 
you could think ol‘ so many things that boys need. 
And here ’s the sky-parlor ! Hurrah ! ” and Rob 
made a rush up the steps to the observatory. 

“ Won’t we have fun ! ” shouted Freddy, trudging 
after him, red in the face and out of breath with his 
efforts to mount Firefly. 

“ Children,” said their mother, “ Uncle Robert will 
think he ’s in Bedlam.” 

“ We must have some place to make a» noise,” 
returned Rob, who felt very much like breaking out 
into an Indian dance with full accompaniment of war- 
whoops. “ And when a fellow gets brimful — ” 

“We shall have to be indulgent,” said Uncle 
Robert, good-naturedly. 

“ It’s just magnificent ! If you’d had Aladdin’s 
lamp you couldn’t have done any better, Uncle Rob- 
ert ! And now when are we coming to live here ? ” 

“ To-morrow, I think.” 

Rob threw up his cap. Freddy followed suit, but 
his hat being straw, a whiff of wind took it, and away 
it floated over the observatory railing. 


 


“Bad for your enthusiasm,” said Uncle Robert, 
laughingly ; “ but I guess we shall find it on the roof 
as we go down.” 

“I ’ll take a little ride on Firefly,” was Freddy’s 
philosophical announcement; and he mounted his 
steed while the rest returned to the lower floor, Rob 
enjoying the fun of climbing out of the window for 
the missing hat. 

Presently they all went back. “What a forlorn 
little place ! ” ejaculated Rob, cutting off the top of a 
hollyhock with a little switch he had picked up else- 
where. “ To think that we have lived in it so many 
years ! ” and he gave a disdainful glance around. 
