that he was near them, they would not have come down the river.

Lieutenant Jackson permitted the savages to come within fifty yards of
the works before he gave the order to fire. The cannon was pointed so
as to cover the path on the bank of the river, where a dense mass of
Indians was moving.

"Fire!" shouted the officer, when the decisive moment came.

Almost at the same instant every musket was discharged, and the
twelve-pounder awoke the echoes of the forest at the same time. I fired
with the rest. It was a yell of terror and despair which followed the
volley; and, as soon as the smoke rolled away, I saw that the ground
was covered with the dead and wounded. So dense was the column in front
of the fort, that it was not possible for any man in it to fire without
hitting an Indian, while the scattered missiles from the canister shot
probably did as much execution as a dozen muskets.

The men were prepared to repel an assault with the bayonets; but no
attack was made, for the Indians fled with the utmost precipitation
from the deadly spot. The soldiers promptly reloaded their muskets, and
the cannon was ready for another discharge.

"You can go now, Phil," said Lieutenant Jackson. "The battle is fought
for the present. They will not renew it."

"Where do you suppose the rest of the soldiers are--those who went up
the river yesterday?"

"Probably they have been holding back, so as not to alarm the enemy.
The noise of that twelve-pounder will inform them that the work has
commenced. Now, Phil, is it possible for these Indians to escape by any
other route than this by this river?"

"Not with their horses. They can cross over to the brook, and follow
that, which will lead them to their village, eight miles from here."

"Very well; I think we shall be able to capture a good portion of them
as soon as the other force closes upon them."

"I will go over to the island now, though I should like to stay and see
how the thing is coming out."

"Of course there can be no doubt of the result. I think we have already
convinced them that it is not safe to shoot down white men."

I glanced at the ground in front of the works, where many of the
savages were still writhing in the agony of their wounds. It was a
sickening sight, and I turned away from it. The soldiers were standing
up, and gazing at the bloody field. I walked down the road towards the
place where I had left the horses.

"Hyer, boy!" shouted a voice on the other side of the river, which I at
once recognized as that of Kit Cruncher, though I could not understand
how he happened to be here.

"Hallo, Kit! Is that you?" I responded.

"'Tain't nobody else. Hev you nary a boat over thar?"

"I have not."

"Who's that, Phil?" asked Mr. Jackson, calling to me from the fort.

"Kit Cruncher; the man who guided the other force."

"Tell the leftenant I want to speak to him, boy. I hev a message from
t'other officer."

I went back to the fort, and delivered the message of Kit. The soldiers
had some rubber army boats, which they carried with them to use in
crossing streams. A couple of men were sent to prepare one of them,
which was launched, and I paddled it across the river.

"I heerd the firin', boy, and the battle has begun," said Kit, as he
seated himself in the bottom of the boat.

"We fired only one volley at them, and that was all they would stop to
receive."

