I have returned to Mr. Chilton’s application for my sanction to your
engagement--I should say, perhaps, to your reciprocal attachment. The
betrothal of a minor without the consent, positive or implied, of her
parent or guardian is, as I have just explained to Mr. Chilton, but
an empty name in this State. I have promised, then, not to oppose
your marriage, provided the inquiries I shall institute concerning Mr.
Chilton’s previous life, his character, and his ability to maintain you
in comfort, are answered satisfactorily. He will understand and excuse
my pertinacity upon this point when he reflects upon the value of the
stake involved in this transaction.”

In all their intercourse, Frederic had no more gracious notice
from Mabel’s brother than this semi-apology, delivered with stately
condescension, and a courtly bow in his direction.

It sounded very grand to Mabel, whose fears of opposition or severity
from her Mentor had shaken courage and nerves into pitiable distress.
Frederic could desire nothing more affable than Winston’s smile; no more
abundant encouragement than was afforded by his voluntary pledge. Had
not the thought savored of disloyalty to her lover, she would have
confessed herself disappointed that his reply did not effervesce with
gratitude, that his deportment was distant, his tone constrained.

“I appreciate the last-named consideration, Mr. Aylett, I believe,
thoroughly, as you do. I have already told you that I invite, not
shirk, the investigation you propose. I now repeat my offer of whatever
facility is at my command for carrying this on. No honorable man could
do less. Unless I mistake, you wish now to see your sister alone.”

He bent his head slightly, and without other and especial salutation to
his betrothed, withdrew.

Odd, white dints came and went in Winston’s nostrils--the one and
unerring facial sign of displeasure he ever exhibited, if we except a
certain hardening of eye and contour that chiselled his lineaments into
a yet closer resemblance to marble.

“He is very sensitive and proud, I know,” faltered Mabel, hastily
marking these, and understanding what they portended.

“You need not like him the less on that account, always provided that
the supports of his pride are legitimate and substantial,” answered her
brother, carelessly transferring to his tablets several names from a
sheet of paper upon the table--the addresses of persons to whom Frederic
had referred him for confirmation of his statements regarding his social
and professional standing.

“I hope, for your sake, Mabel,” he pursueds pocketing the memoranda,
“that this affair may be speedily and agreeably adjusted; while I cannot
deny that I deprecate the unseemly haste with which Mrs. Sutton and
her ally have urged it on, in my absence. Had they intended to court
suspicion, they could not have done it more effectually. You could not
have had a more injudicious chaperone to the Springs.”

“Indeed, brother, she was not to blame,” began the generous girl,
forgetting her embarrassment in zealous defence of the aunt she loved.
“It was not she who presented me to Mr. Chilton, and she has never
attempted to bias my decision in any manner.”

“I have heard the history in detail.” Had his breeding been less fine,
he would have yawned in her face. “I know that you are indebted for Mr.
Chilton’s acquaintanceship to Miss Tazewell’s generosity. But in strict
justice, Mrs. Sutton should be held responsible for whatever unhappiness
may arise from the intimacy. You were left by myself in her charge.”

“I do not believe it will end unhappily,” Mabel was moved to reply,
with spirit that became her better than the shyness she had heretofore
displayed, or the submissive demeanor usual with her in tête-à-têtes
with her guardian.

He smiled in calm superiority.

“I have expressed my hope to that effect. Of expectations it will be
time enough to speak when I am better informed upon divers points. I
am not one to take much for granted, am less sanguine than my romantic
aunt, or even than my more practical sister. Assuming, however, that
all is as you would have it, your wish would be, I suppose, for an early
marriage?”

“There has been little said about that,” responded Mabel,
