when he sees it," answered the housekeeper. 

Mr. Richmond laughed. " But don't you 



 

think Sally Eldridge, for instance, would 
know a good bed ? " 

" There ain't no possibilities o' makin' 
some o' them folks keerful and thrivin'," said 
the housekeeper firmly. " 'Tain't in 'em ; and 
what's the use o' havin' things if folks ain't 
keerful? Sally Eldridge had her house respect 
able once; I mind her very well, when she 
kept the gate at Judge Brockenhurst's big 
place; and she had wages, and her man he 
had good wages ; and now the peas is all out 
o' the basket. And is there any use, buyin' 
more to put in ? The basket'll never be 
mended. It'll let out as fast as it takes in." 

" The basket, as you put it, is out of Sally's 
hands now," Miss Redwood. " She is one of 
the helpless ones. Don't you think it would 
be a good thing to make her life more com 
fortable? I think we had better take her 
some of this shortcake, Matilda. Miss Redwood, as for you, I shall expect to hear that 
you have lamed your arm doing something 
for her comfort, or half broken your back 



 

carrying a heavy basket to Lilac lane; or 
something of that sort; judging by what I 
know of you already." 

" I'm willin'," said the housekeeper. " But 
it ain't this child's business. She hain't no 
call to give all she's got to Sally Eldridge." 

" I suppose," said the minister, with a look 
at Matilda which both she and the house 
keeper read with their hearts, "I suppose 
she is thinking of the word that will be 
spoken one day ; ' Inasmuch as ye did it unto 
one of the least of these,' ' He that hath 
pity upon the poor, lendeth to the Lord ; 
and that which he hath given will he pay 
him again ' ! " 

" Then Mr. Richmond thinks it would be a 
good use of her money?" 

" There might possibly be better. But if 
it is the best she knows, that is all she can do. 
I have a great opinion of doing what our 
hands find to do, Miss Redwood ; if the 
Lord gives other work, he will send the 
means too." 



 

" There's a frame bedstead lyin' up in the 
loft," said the housekeeper. " 'Tain't no good 
to any one, and it only wants a new rope to 
cord it up; perhaps the minister would let 
Sally have that ; and it would save so much." 

" By all means, let her have that ; and any 
thing else we can spare. Now, Matilda, you 
and I will go and attend to our other business." 

They went back to the study, where the 
