the committee shall represent to the principal that this meeting is
unanimously in favor of the proposed change?"
"Certainly not."
"I have nominated a committee the majority of whom are in favor of the
measure. In my view this is all that parliamentary rule requires of me.
The question is upon confirming the nomination."
The question was taken, and the vote doubted again; but the nomination
was confirmed by a majority of two.
"Is there any further business to come before this meeting?" asked the
chairman.
"I move that the meeting be dissolved," said Scott.
The motion was put and carried. The students separated into little
squads, and of course nothing else was talked about the rest of the day
but the meeting. Scott, from a humble joker, found himself suddenly
transformed into a hero, and a person of no little influence among the
students. The ring were astonished and disconcerted at the result of
the meeting; and the victory they had gained was so nearly a defeat
that there were no rejoicings over it. De Forrest could hardly tell
whether his party was triumphant or not.
"What do you mean, Scott?" demanded Beckwith, when the commodore had
ordered all hands to be piped into the boats, and the students were
walking down to the shore.
"I told you I would do the right thing, and I've done it. Wasn't it a
fair thing--square and aboveboard?"
"It wasn't a fair thing to nominate Cantwell for chairman."
"If you didn't like him, why didn't you vote him down?" asked Scott. "I
think everything has been fairly done."
"Perhaps it was. Allow that it was. Why did you get up an opposition to
the plan?" demanded Beckwith, rather warmly.
"What do I care for the plan? You nobs in the cabin got up a ring, and
all you wanted of the steerage fellows was to give up their rights. I
have just as good a right to be a lieutenant next month as you have, if
my marks give me the place. It is only a game of the ring to keep the
best places among yourselves; that's all."
"Do you want Cantwell for your captain?" demanded Beckwith.
"I had just as lief have him captain as fourth master. He is over me
just the same. But I am not sure he is half so bad a fellow as you make
him out to be."
"I don't say he is bad, only that he is a conceited and disagreeable
fellow, and no seaman. We don't want a fellow of that sort over us."
"We in the steerage have him over us now, and shall have him, any way
you can fix it. He thinks pretty well of No. 1, I know, and so do some
of the rest of the cabin nobs. I'm not clear yet that he is no seaman.
I go for giving him the same chance that the rest of the fellows have.
Then, if he don't do his duty, and behave like a gentleman, it will be
time enough to do something."
"Then I'm to understand, Scott, that you have sold out to Cantwell."
"Did any of you cabin swells think you owned me?" laughed Scott.
"I saw you talking with Cantwell."
"Very likely Cantwell saw me talking with you. What does that prove?"
retorted Scott.
"But he's a very unpopular fellow. There isn't a fellow in the ship
that likes him."
"I don't, for one," added Scott, with refreshing candor.
"And yet you have got up this opposition, and nearly, if not quite,
defeated our plan. He ought to be very grateful to you."
"I don't think he ought to be thrown overboard, or deprived of his
rights, because he is not popular. When I saw that his brother officers
were down upon him, I was rather inclined to stand by him, for, as I
told you, I generally go in for the bottom dog. I believe in fair play
for every fellow, whether he is popular or not. I wouldn't kick a dog
because he didn't belong to anybody."
"You are on the committee, Scott."
"I have the honor; and I shall see that Cantwell has fair play before
the principal."
"You have done enough, Scott; why can't you keep still now, and let the
thing take its course?" added Beckwith, in an insinuating tone.
"And let Cantwell slip up, you mean?"
"What do you care for Cantwell? You don't like him any better than
any other fellow. If you will only keep still, the chairman of the
committee will simply represent to the principal that a majority of the
students desire the change," persisted Beckwith.
"And the next question he will ask will be, how the vote stood. If
he don't ask it, he isn't the fair man I have always taken him to
be. Besides, the chairman put me on that committee to represent the
opinions of the minority; and I'm going to do it."
"The opinions of the minority!" sneered Beckwith. "That is all bosh.
They haven't any opinions about it. You made your ridiculous speech as
a joke, and the minority took it up as a joke. They don't want Cantwell
to be captain any more than we do."
