
She went to her room, saying that she had a headache, and would go
to bed. But she did not. She took her French novel, and read till
she heard him coming; and then she threw down her book, and began to
cry. He came into the room, and saw her leaning like a little white
snow-wreath over the table, sobbing as if her heart would break. To
do her justice, Lillie’s sobs were not affected. She was lonesome and
thoroughly frightened; and, when she heard him coming, her nerves gave
out. John’s heart yearned towards her. His short-lived anger had burned
out; and he was perfectly longing for a reconciliation. He felt as if
he must have her to love, no matter what she was. He came up to her,
and stroked her hair. “O Lillie!” he said, “why couldn’t you have told
me the truth? What made you deceive me?”

“I was afraid you wouldn’t like me if I did,” said Lillie, in her sobs.

“O Lillie! I should have liked you, no matter how old you were,—only
you should have told me the truth.”

“I know it—I know it—oh, it was wrong of me!” and Lillie sobbed, and
seemed in danger of falling into convulsions; and John’s heart gave
out. He gathered her in his arms. “I can’t help loving you; and I can’t
live without you,” he said, “be you what you may!”

Lillie’s little heart beat with triumph under all her sobs: she had got
him, and should hold him yet.

“There can be no confidence between husband and wife, Lillie,” said
John, gravely, “unless we are perfectly true with each other. Promise
me, dear, that you will never deceive me again.”

Lillie promised with ready fervor. “O John!” she said, “I never should
have done so wrong if I had only come under your influence earlier. The
fact is, I have been under the worst influences all my life. I never
had anybody like you to guide me.”

John may of course be excused for feeling that his flattering little
penitent was more to him than ever; and as to Lillie, she gave a sigh
of relief. That was over, “anyway;” and she had him not only safe,
but more completely hers than before.

A generous man is entirely unnerved by a frank confession. If Lillie
had said one word in defence, if she had raised the slightest shadow
of an argument, John would have roused up all his moral principle to
oppose her; but this poor little white water-sprite, dissolving in a
rain of penitent tears, quite washed away all his anger and all his
heroism.

The next morning, Lillie, all fresh in a ravishing toilet, with
field-daisies in her hair, was in a condition to laugh gently at John
for his emotion of yesterday. She triumphed softly, not too obviously,
in her power. He couldn’t do without her,—do what she might,—that was
plain.

“Now, John,” she said, “don’t you think we poor women are judged
rather hardly? Men, you know, tell all sorts of lies to carry on their
great politics and their ambition, and nobody thinks it so dreadful of
them.”

“I do—I should,” interposed John.

“Oh, well! you—you are an exception. It is not one man in a hundred
that is so good as you are. Now, we women have only one poor little
ambition,—to be pretty, to please you men; and, as soon as you know
we are getting old, you don’t like us. And can you think it’s so very
shocking if we don’t come square up to the dreadful truth about our
age? Youth and beauty is all there is to us, you know.”

“O Lillie! don’t say so,” said John, who felt the necessity of being
instructive, and of improving the occasion to elevate the moral tone of
his little elf. “Goodness lasts, my dear, when beauty fades.”

“Oh, nonsense! Now, John, don’t talk humbug. I’d like to see you
following goodness when beauty is gone. I’ve known lots of plain old
maids that were perfect saints and angels; and yet men crowded and
jostled by them to get the pretty sinners. I dare say now,” she added,
with a bewitching look over her shoulder at him, “you’d rather have me
than Miss Almira Carraway,—hadn’t you, now?”

And Lillie put her white arm round his neck, and her downy cheek to
