"Well," said I, "about this reception?"

"Oh! go, by all means," said Jim. "It will be fun. I'll go with you. You
see it's Lent now, thank the stars! and so there's no dancing,--only
quiet evenings and lobster salad; because, you see, we're all repenting
of our sins and getting ready to go at it again after Easter. A fellow
now can go to receptions, and get away in time to have a night's rest,
and the girls now and then talk a little sense between whiles. They
can talk sense when they like, though one wouldn't believe it of 'em.
Well, take care of yourself, my son, and I'll take you round there on
Wednesday evening." And Jim went whistling down the stairs, leaving me
to finish my article on the Domestic Manners of the Greeks.

I remember that very frequently that evening, while stopping to consider
how I should begin the next sentence, I unconsciously embellished the
margin of my manuscript by writing "Eva, Eva, Eva Van Arsdel" in an
absent-minded, mechanical way. In fact, from that time, that name began
often to obtrude itself on every bit of paper when I tried my pen.

The question of going to the Wednesday evening reception was settled in
the affirmative. What was to hinder my taking a look at fairy land in a
purely philosophical spirit? Nothing, certainly. If she were engaged she
was nothing to me,--never would be. So, clearly there was no danger.




CHAPTER XVI.

THE GIRL OF OUR PERIOD.


[Letter from Eva Van Arsdel to Mrs. Courtney.]

My Dear Friend and Teacher:--I scarcely dare trust myself to look at
the date of your kind letter. Can it really be that I have let it lie
almost a year, hoping, meaning, sincerely intending to answer it, and
yet doing nothing about it? Oh! my dear friend, I was a better girl
while I was under your care than I am now; in those times I really did
my duties; I never put off things, and I came somewhere near
satisfying myself. Now, I live in a constant whirl--a whirl that never
ceases. I am carried on from day to day, from week to week, from month
to month, with nothing to show for it except a succession of what girls
call "good times." I don't read any thing but stories; I don't study; I
don't write; I don't sew; I don't draw, or play, or sing, to any real
purpose. I just "go into society," as they call it. I am an idler, and
the only thing I am good for is that I help to adorn a house for the
entertainment of idlers; that is about all.

Now Lent has come, and I am thankful for the rest from parties and
dancing; but yet Lent makes me blue, because it gives me some time to
think; and besides that, when all this whirligig stops awhile, I feel
how dizzy and tired it has made me. And then I think of all that you
used to tell me about the real object of life, and all that I so
sincerely resolved in my school-days that I would do and be, and I am
quite in despair about myself.

It is three years since I really "came out," as the phrase goes. Up to
that time I was far happier than I have been since, because I satisfied
myself better. You always said, dear friend, that I was a good scholar,
and faithful to every duty; and those days, when I had a definite duty
for each hour, and did it well, were days when I liked myself better
than now. I did enjoy study. I enjoyed our three years in Europe, too,
for then, with much variety and many pleasures, I had regular studies; I
was learning something, and did not feel that I was a mere do-nothing.

But since I have been going into company I am perfectly sick of myself.
For the first year it was new to me, and I was light-headed and thought
it glorious fun. It was excitement all the time--dressing, and going,
and seeing, and being admired, and, well--flirting. I confess I liked
it, and went into it with all my might,--parties, balls, opera, concerts
all the winter in New York, and parties, balls, etc. at Newport and
Saratoga in Summer. It was a sort of prolonged delirium. I didn't stop
to think about anything, and lived like a butterfly, by the hour. Oh!
the silly things I have said and done! I find myself blushing hot when I
think of them, because, you see, I am so excitable, and sometimes am so
carried away, that afterward I don't know what I may have said or done!

And now all this is coming to some end or other. This going into company
can't last forever. We must be married--that's what we are for, they
