began Maverick. 

But Perley sternly stopped him. 





" Never mind about the poor little factory-girls, 
Maverick. It is you that I do not love." 

This was a thrust which even Maverick Hayle 
could not lightly parry ; he was fond of Perley 
and fond of himself, and he writhed in his chair 
as if it actually hurt him. 

" I do not know how it is nor why it is," said 
Perley, sadly, " but I feel as if there had been a 
growing away between us for a great while. It 
may be that I went away and you stood still ; or 
that we both went away and both in different 
ways ; or that we had never, Maverick, been in 
the same way at all, and did not know it. You 
kissed me, and I did not know it ! " 

" And if I kiss you again, you will not know 
it," said Maverick, with an argument of smoth- 
ered passion in his voice. 

" I would rather," said the lady, evenly, " that 
you did not kiss me again." 

Her face in the teapot shone as if a silver veil 
fell over it. His face in the teapot clouded and 
dropped. 

" We have loved each other for a long time, 
Perley," said the young man in a husky voice. 

" A long time," said Perley, sorrowfully. 


"And were very happy." 

" Very happy." 

" And should have had — I had thought we 
should have had such a pleasant life ! " 

" A miserable life, Maverick ; a most miserable 
life." 

" What in Heaven's name has come over you, 
Perley ! " expostulated the young man. " There 
is no other man — " 

" No other man," said Perley, thoughtfully, 
"could come between you and me. I do not see, 
Maverick, how I could ever speak of love to any 
other man." This she said with her head bent, 
and with grave, far-reaching eyes. " A woman 
cannot do that thing. I mean there 's nothing in 
me that understands how she can do it. I was 
very fond of you, Maverick." 

" That is a comfort to me now," said Maverick, 
bitterly. 

" I was fond of you, Maverick. I promised to 
be your wife. I do not think I could ever say that 
to another man. The power to say it has gone 
with the growing away. There was the love 
and the losing, and now there's only the sorrow. 
I gave you all I had to give. You used it up, I 





think. But the growing-away came just the 
