person belonging to the ship was on deck, watching the distant light,
which assured them they were on the coast of Norway. The waif stepped
upon deck as lightly as a mountain sylph. The influence of his new
clothes pervaded his mind, and he was inclined to be a little
"swellish" in his manner.

"How are you, Norway!" shouted Sanford, one of the crew.

"How are you, America," replied Ole, imitating the slang of the
speaker.

"What have you done with your dirt?" added Rodman.

"Here is some of it," answered Muggs, the steward, as he came up the
ladder, with Ole's rags on a dust-pan, and threw them overboard.

"If you throw all his dirt overboard here, we shall get aground,
sure," added Stockwell, as Ole danced up to the group of students.

"No wonder you feel light after getting rid of such a load of dirt,"
said Sanford.

"O, I'm all right," laughed Ole, good-naturedly; for he did not seem
to think that dirt was any disgrace or dishonor to him.

"How came you in that leaky boat, Norway?" demanded Rodman; and the
entire party gathered around the waif, anxious to hear the story of
his adventure.

"I went into it."

"Is that so?" added Wilde.

"Yes, sir."

"I say, Norway, you are smart," replied Rodman.

"Smart? Where?"

"All over."

"I don't feel it."

"But, Norway, how came you in that old tub, out of sight of land?"
persisted Rodman, returning to the charge again.

"I went into it just the same as one of you Americans would have got
into it," laughed Ole, who did not think it necessary to resort to the
tactics he had used with the principal and the captain. "You could
have done it if you had tried as hard as I did."

"After you got in, then, how came the boat out here, so far from
land?"

"The wind, the tide, and the broken oar brought it out here."

"Indeed! But won't you tell us your story, Ole?"

"A story? O, yes. Once there was a king of Norway whose name was Olaf,
and half the men of his country were named after him, because--"

"Never mind that story, Ole. We want to hear the story about
yourself."

"About myself? Well, last year things didn't go very well with me; the
crop of potatoes was rather short on my farm, and my vessels caught
but few fish; so I decided to make a voyage up the Mediterranean, to
spend the winter."

"What did you go in, Norway?" asked Wilde.

"In my boat. We don't make voyages on foot here in Norway."

"What boat?"

"You won't let me tell my story; so I had better finish it at once. I
got back as far as the North Sea, and almost into the Sleeve, when a
gale came down upon me, and strained my boat so that she leaked badly.
I was worn out with fatigue, and dropped asleep one afternoon. I was
dreaming that the King of Sweden and Norway came off in a big
