Basil; and they had a passing glimpse of gray stone towers at one side
of the square, and a low, massive yellow building at the other, and,
between the two, long ranks of carts, and fruit and vegetable stands,
protected by canvas awnings and broad umbrellas. Then they dashed round
the corner of a street, and drew up before the hotel door. The
low ceilings, the thick walls, the clumsy wood-work, the wandering
corridors, gave the hotel all the desired character of age, and its
slovenly state bestowed an additional charm. In another place they might
have demanded neatness, but in Quebec they would almost have resented
it. By a chance they had the best room in the house, but they held it
only till certain people who had engaged it by telegraph should arrive
in the hourly expected steamer from Liverpool; and, moreover, the best
room at Hotel Musty was consolingly bad. The house was very full, and
the Ellisons (who had come on with them from Montreal) were bestowed in
less state only on like conditions.

The travellers all met at breakfast, which was admirably cooked, and
well served, with the attendance of those swarms of flies which infest
Quebec, and especially infested the old Musty House, in summer. It had,
of course, the attraction of broiled salmon, upon which the traveller
breakfasts every day as long as he remains in Lower Canada; and it
represented the abundance of wild berries in the Quebec market; and it
was otherwise a breakfast worthy of the appetites that honored it.

There were not many other Americans besides themselves at this hotel,
which seemed, indeed, to be kept open to oblige such travellers as had
been there before, and could not persuade themselves to try the new
Hotel St. Louis, whither the vastly greater number resorted. Most of the
faces our tourists saw were English or English-Canadian, and the young
people from Omaha; who had got here by some chance, were scarcely in
harmony with the place. They appeared to be a bridal party, but which of
the two sisters, in buff linen ‘clad from head to foot’ was the bride,
never became known. Both were equally free with the husband, and he was
impartially fond of both: it was quite a family affair.

For a moment Isabel harbored the desire to see the city in company
with Miss Ellison; but it was only a passing weakness. She remembered
directly the coolness between friends which she had seen caused by
objects of interest in Europe, and she wisely deferred a more intimate
acquaintance till it could have a purely social basis. After all,
nothing is so tiresome as continual exchange of sympathy or so apt to
end in mutual dislike,--except gratitude. So the ladies parted friends
till dinner, and drove off in separate carriages.

As in other show cities, there is a routine at Quebec for travellers who
come on Saturday and go on Monday, and few depart from it. Our friends
necessarily, therefore, drove first to the citadel. It was raining one
of those cold rains by which the scarce-banished winter reminds the
Canadian fields of his nearness even in midsummer, though between the
bitter showers the air was sultry and close; and it was just the light
in which to see the grim strength of the fortress next strongest to
Gibraltar in the world. They passed a heavy iron gateway, and up through
a winding lane of masonry to the gate of the citadel, where they were
delivered into the care of Private Joseph Drakes, who was to show them
such parts of the place as are open to curiosity. But, a citadel which
has never stood a siege, or been threatened by any danger more serious
than Fenianism, soon becomes, however strong, but a dull piece of
masonry to the civilian; and our tourists more rejoiced in the crumbling
fragment of the old French wall which the English destroyed than in all
they had built; and they valued the latter work chiefly for the glorious
prospects of the St. Lawrence and its mighty valleys which it commanded.
Advanced into the centre of an amphitheatre inconceivably vast, that
enormous beak of rock overlooks the narrow angle of the river, and then,
in every direction, immeasurable stretches of gardened vale, and wooded
upland, till all melts into the purple of the encircling mountains. Far
and near are lovely white villages nestling under elms, in the heart of
fields and meadows; and everywhere the long, narrow, accurately divided
farms stretch downward to the river-shores. The best roads on the
continent make this beauty and richness accessible; each little village
boasts some natural wonder in stream, or lake, or cataract: and this
landscape, magnificent beyond any in eastern America, is historical and
interesting beyond all others. Hither came Jacques Cartier three hundred
and fifty years ago, and wintered on the low point there by the St.
Charles; here, nearly a century after, but still fourteen years before
the landing at Plymouth, Champlain founded the missionary city of
Quebec; round this rocky beak came sailing the half-piratical armament
of the Calvinist Kirks in 1629, and seized Quebec in the interest of the
English, holding it three years; in the Lower Town, yonder, first landed
the coldly welcomed Jesuits, who came with the returning French and made
Quebec forever eloquent of their zeal, their guile, their heroism; at
