rather drunker than a man with both arms ought to 
be ; but he was very affectionate, and, putting his 
face close to the other's, at once entered into talk 
with the blind man, forming with him a picture curi- 




ously pathetic and grotesque. He was the only 
tipsy person I saw during the Jubilee days, — if he 
was tipsy, for after all they may have been real sea- 
legs he had on. 

If the throng upon the streets was thinner, it was 
greater in the Cohseum than on the second day ; and 
matters he'd settled there into regular working order. 
The limits of individual liberty had been better 
ascertained ; there was no longer any movement in 
the aisles, but a constant passing to and fro, between 
the pieces, in the promenades. The house presented, 
as before, that appearance in which reality forsook 
it, and it became merely an amazing picture. The 
audience supported the notion of its unreality by 
having exactly the character of the former audiences, 
and impressed you, despite its restlessness and inces- 
sant agitation, with the feeling that it had remained 
there from the first day, and woidd always continue 
there ; and it was only in wandering upon its bor- 
ders through the promenades, that you regained 
possession of facts concerning it. In no other way 
was its vastness more observable than in the perfect 
indifference of persons one to another. Each found 
himself, as it were, in a solitude ; and, sequestered 
in that wilderness of strangers, each was freed of his 
bashfiilness and trepidation. Young people lounged 
at ease upon the floors, about the windows, on the 
upper promenades ; and in this seclusion I saw such 
betrayals of tenderness as melt the heart of the 
traveller on our desolate railway trains, — Fellows 
moving to and fro or standing, careless of other eyes. 




with their arms around the waists of their Grirls. 
These were, of course, people who had only attained 
a certain grade of civilization, and were not charac- 
teristic of the crowd, or, indeed, worthy of notice 
except as expressions of its unconsciousness. I 
fancied that I saw a number of their class outside 
listening to the address of the agent of a patent hni- 
ment, proclaimed to be an unfailing specific for neu- 
ralgia and headache, — if used in the right spirit. 
" For," said the orator, " we like to cure people who 
treat us and our medicine with respect. Folks say, 
' What is there about that man ? — some magnetism 
or electricity.' And the other day at New Britain, 
Connecticut, a yoimg man he come up to the car- 
riage, sneering like, and he tried the cure, and it 
didn't have the least effect upon him." There 
seemed reason in this, and it produced a visible sen- 
sation in the Fellows and Girls, who grinned sheep- 
ishly at each other. 

Why will the yoimg man with long hair force 
himself at this point into a history, which is striving 
to devote itself to graver interests ? There he stood 
with the other people, gazing up at the gay line of 
streamers on the summit of the Cohseura, and taking 
in the Anvil Chorus with the rest, — a young man 
well-enough dressed, and of a pretty sensible face, 
with his long black locks falling from under his cyl- 
inder hat, and covering his shoulders. What awful 
spell was on him, obliging him to make that figure 
before his fellow-creatures ? He had nothing to 
sell ; he was not, apparently, an advertisement of 



 
