twilight mysterious. I like as well, however, to look into 
its entrance from the little marina, where the old fish- 
wives are weaving nets. 

These little settlements under the cliflf, called marinas, 
are worlds in themselves, picturesque at a distance, but 
squalid seen close at hand. They are not very different 
from the little fishing-stations on the Isle of Wight ; 
but they are more sheltered, and their inhabitants sing 
at their work, wear bright colors, and bask in the sun a 
good deal, feeling no sense of responsibility for the 
world they did not create. To weave nets, to fish in the 
bay, to sell their fish at the wharves, to eat unexciting 
vegetables and fish, to drink moderately, to go to the 
chapel of St. Antonino on Sunday, not to work on fast 
and feast days, nor more than compelled to any day, — 
this is life at the marinas. Their world is what they 
can see, and Naples is distant and almost foreign. Gen- 
eration after generation is content with the same simple 
life. They have no more idea of the bad way the world 
is in than bees in their cells. 



 

THE Villa Nardi hangs over the sea. It is built on 
a rock, and I know not what Roman and Greek 
foundations, and the remains of yet earlier peoples, 
traders, and traffickers, whose galleys used to rock there 
at the base of the cliff, where the gentle waves beat even 
in this winter-time with a summer swing and sound of 
peace. 

It was at the close of a day in January that I first 
knew the Villa Nardi, — a warm, lovely day, at the hour 
when the sun was just going behind the Capo di Sor- 
rento, in order to disrobe a little, I fancy, before plun- 
ging into the Mediterranean off the end of Capri, as is 
his wont about this time of year. When we turned out 
of the little piazza, our driver was obliged to take off 
one of our team of three horses driven abreast, so that 
we could pass through the narrow and crooked streets, 
or rather lanes of blank walls. With cracking whip, 
rattling wheels, and shouting to clear the way, we drove 
into the Strada di San Francisca, and to an arched gate- 
way. This led down a straight path, between olives and 
orange and lemon trees, gleaming with shining leaves 
and fruit of gold, with hedges of rose-trees in full bloom, 
to another leafy arch; through which I saw tropical 
trees, and a terrace with a low wall and battered busts 
guarding it, and, beyond, the blue sea, a white sail or 
two slanting across the opening, and the whiteness of 
Naples some twenty miles away on the shore. 

The noble family of the Villa did not descend into 


the garden to welcome us, as we should have liked ; in 
fact, they have been absent now for a long time, so long 
that even their ghosts, if they ever pace the terrace-walk 
towards the convent, would appear strange to one who 
should meet them ; and yet our hostess, the Tramontano, 
did what the ancient occupants scarcely could have done, 
gave us the choice of rooms in the entire house. The 
stranger who finds himself in this secluded paradise, at 
this season, is always at a loss whether to take a room 
on the sea, with all its changeable loveliness, but no sun, 
or one overlooking the garden, where the sun all day 
pours itself into the orange boughs, and where the birds 
are just beginning to get up a spring twitteration. My 
friend, whose capacity for taking in the luxurious repose 
of this region is something extraordinary, has tried, I 
believe, nearly every room in the house, and has at length 
gone up to a solitary room on the top, where, like a bird 
on a tree, he looks all ways, and, so to say, swings in the 
entrancing air. But, wherever you are, you will grow 
into content with your situation. 

At the Villa Nardi, we have no sound of wheels, no 
