ing David, and Solomon his son. Behold, David and Solomon truly had 
many wives and concubines, which thing was abominable oefore me, saith 
the Lord ; wherefore, thus saith the Lord, I have led this people forth out 
of the land of Jerusalem, by the power of mine arm, that I might raise up 
unto me a righteous branch from the fruit of the loins of Joseph. Where- 
fore, I the Lord God, will not suffer that this people shall do like unto them 
of old. 
However, the project failed — or at least the modern Mormon end of it — 
for Brigham " suffers " it. This verse is from 
the same chapter : 

Behold, the Lamanites your brethren, whom ye hate, because of their 
filthiness and the cursings which hath come upon their skins, are more 
righteous than you ; for they have not forgotten the commandment of the 
Lord, which was given unto our fathers, that they should have, save it were 
one wife ; and concubines they should have none. 

The following verse (from Chapter IX. of the Book of 
Nephi) appears to contain information not familiar to every- 
body : 

And now it came to pass that when Jesus had ascended into heaven, the 
multitude did disperse, and every man did take his wife and his children, 
and did return to his own home. 

And it came to pass that on the morrow, when the multitude was gath- 
ered together, behold, Nephi and his brother whom he had raised from the 
dead, whose name was Timothy, and also his son, whose name was Jonas, 
and also Mathoui, and Mathonihah, his brother, and Kumen, and Kumen, 
onhi, and Jeremiah, and Shemnon, and Jonas, and Zedekiah. and Isaiah-, 
now these were the names of the disciples whom Jesus had chosen. 

In order that the reader may observe how much more 
grandeur and picturesqueness (as seen by these Mormon twelve) 
accompanied one of the tenderest episodes in the Hfe of our 
Saviour than other eyes seem to have been aware of, I quote 
the following from the same " book " — Nephi : 

And it came to pass that Jesus spake unto tliem, and bade tliem arise. 
And they arose from the earth, and He said unto them. Blessed are ye be- 
cause of your faith. And now behold. My joy is full. And when He had 
said these words. He wept, and the multitude bear record of it, and He took 
their little children, one by one, and blessed them, and prayed unto the 
Father for them. And when He had done this He wept again, and He spake 
unto the multitude, and saith unto them. Behold your little ones. And as 
they looked to behold, they cast their eyes toward heaven, and they saw 
the heavens open, and they saw angels descending out of heaven as it were, 
in the midst of fire ; and they came down and encircled those little ones 
about, and they were encircled about with fire ; and the angels did minister 
unto them, and the multitude did see and hear and bear record ; and they 
know that their record is true, for they all of them did see and hear, every 
man for himself; and they were in number about two thousand and five 
hundred souls ; and they did consist of men, women, and children. 

And what else would they be likely to consist of? 

The Book of Ether is an incomprehensible medley of "his- 
tory," much of it relating to battles and sieges among peoples 
whom the reader has possibly never heard of; and who inhabited 
a country which is not set down in the geography. There was 
a King with the remarkable name of Coriantumr, and he 
warred with Shared, and Lib, and Shiz, and others, in the 
" plains of Heshlon " ; and the " valley of Gilgal " ; and the 
" wilderness of Akish " ; and the " land of Moran " ; and the 
" plains of Agosh " ; and " Ogath," and " Ramali," and the 
" land of Corihor," and the " hill Conmor," by " the waters 
of Ripliancum," etc., etc., etc. " And it came to pass," after 
a deal of fighting, that Coriantumr, upon making calculation 
of his losses, found that " there had been slain two millions of 
mighty men, and also their wives and their children " — say 
5,000,000 or 6,000,000 in all—" and he began to sorrow in his 
heart." Unquestionably it was time. So he wrote to Shiz, 
asking a cessation of hostilities, and offering to give up his 
kingdom to save his people. Shiz declined, except npon con- 
dition that Coriantumr would come and let him cut his head 
off first — a thing which Coriantumr would not do. Then 
there was more fighting for a season ; then Jour years were de- 
voted to gathering the forces for a final struggle — after which 
ensued a battle, which, I take it, is the most remarkaljle set 
forth in history, — except, perhaps, that of the Kilkenny cats, 
