She probably expects him to come with his bun 
galow, and his sedan, and his palanquin, and his 
elephants, and his retinue of servants, and his 
principalities, and his powers, and his ha 
(no, not that), and his chow-chow, and his I 
scarcely know what besides. 

Christmas eve was a shiny cold night, a creaking 
cold night, a placid, calm, swingeing cold night. 
Out-doors had gone intcj a general state of crys 
tallization. The snow-fields were like the vast 
Arctic ice-fields that Kane looked on, and lay 
sparkling under the moonlight, crfep and Christ- 




masy, and all the crystals on the trees and bushes 
hung glistening, as if ready, at a breath of air, to 
break out into metallic ringing, like a million 
silver joy-bells. I mentioned the conceit to Polly, 
as we stood at the window, and she said it reminded her of Jean Paul. She is a woman of 
most remarkable discernment. 

Christmas is a great festival at our house in a 
small way. Among the many delightful customs 
we did not inherit from our Pilgrim Fathers, 
there is none so pleasant as that of giving pres 
ents at this season. It is the most exciting time 
of the year. No one is too rich to receive some 
thing, and no one too poor to give a trifle. And 
in the act of giving and receiving these tokens of 
regard, all the world is kin for once, and brighter 
for this transient glow of generosity. Delightful 
custom ! Hard is the lot of childhood that knows 
nothing of the visits. of Kriss Kringle, or the 
stockings hung by the chimney at night ; and 
cheerless is any age that is not brightened by  
some Christmas gift, however humble, What a 
mystery of preparation there is in the preceding 
days, what planning and plottings of surprises ! 



 

Polly and I keep up the custom in our simple 
way, and great is the perplexity to express the 
greatest amount of affection with a limited outlay. 
For the excellence of a gift lies in its appropriate 
ness rather than in its value. As we stood by 
the window that night, we wondered what we 
should receive this year, and indulged in I know 
not what little hypocrisies and deceptions. 

" I wish," said Polly, " that my uncle in India 
would send me a camel's-hair shawl, or a string 
of pearls, each as big as the end of my thumb." 

" Or a white cow, which would give golden 
milk, that would make butter worth seventy-five 
cents a pound," I added, as we drew the curtains, 
and turned to our chairs before the open fire. 

It is our custom on every Christmas eve as I 
believe I have somewhere said, or if I have not, I 
say it again, as the member from Erin might remark to read one of Dickens's Christmas stories. 
And this night, after punching the fire until it 
sent showers of sparks up the chimney, I read the 
opening chapter of " Mrs. Lirriper's Lodgings," in 
my best manner, and handed the book to Polly to 
continue ; for I do not so much relish reading 



 

aloud the succeeding stories of Mr. Dickens's 
annual budget, since he wrote them, as men go 
to war in these days, by substitute. And Polly 
