they had seen Phil enter the house, and the padrone, having a contempt
for the physical powers of woman, followed boldly.

They met Mrs. McGuire at the door.

“What do you want?” she demanded.

“The boy,” said the padrone. “I saw him come in here.”

“Did ye? Your eyes is sharp thin.”

She stood directly in the passage, so that neither could enter without
brushing her aside.

“Send him out,” said the padrone.

“Faith, and I won’t,” said Bridget. “He shall stay here as long as he
likes.”

“I will come in and take him,” said the padrone, furiously.

“I wouldn’t advise ye to thry it,” said Mrs. McGuire, coolly.

“Move aside, woman, or I will make you,” said the Italian, angrily.

“I’ll stay where I am. Shure, it’s my own house, and I have a right to
do it.”

“Pietro,” said the padrone, with sudden thought, “he may escape from the
front door. Go round and watch it.”

By his sign Bridget guessed what he said, though it was spoken in
Italian.

“He won’t run away,” she said. “I’ll tell you where he is, if you want
to know.”

“Where?” asked the padrone, eagerly.

“He’s upstairs, thin.”

The padrone would not be restrained any longer. He made a rush forward,
and, pushing Mrs. McGuire aside, sprang up the stairs. He would have
found greater difficulty in doing this, but Bridget, knowing her husband
was upstairs, made little resistance, and contented herself, after
the padrone had passed, with intercepting Pietro, and clutching him
vigorously by the hair, to his great discomfort, screaming “Murther!” at
the top of her lungs.

The padrone heard the cry, but in his impetuosity he did not heed it. He
expected to gain an easy victory over Phil, whom he supposed to be alone
in the chamber. He sprang toward him, but had barely seized him by the
arm, when the gigantic form of the Irishman appeared, and the padrone
found himself in his powerful grasp.

“What business have ye here, you bloody villain?” demanded Pat;
“breakin’ into an honest man’s house, without lave or license. I’ll
teach you manners, you baste!”

“Give me the boy!” gasped the padrone.

“You can’t have him, thin!” said Pat “You want to bate him, you
murderin’ ould villain!”

“I’ll have you arrested,” said the padrone, furiously, writhing vainly
to get himself free. He was almost beside himself that Phil should be
the witness of his humiliation.

“Will you, thin?” demanded Pat. “Thin the sooner you do it the betther.
Open the window, Phil!”

Phil obeyed, not knowing why the request was made. He was soon
enlightened. The Irishman seized the padrone, and, lifting him from the
floor, carried him to the window, despite his struggles, and, thrusting
him out, let him drop. It was only the second story, and there was no
danger of serious injury. The padrone picked himself up, only to meet
with another disaster. A passing policeman had heard Mrs. McGuire’s
cries, and on hearing her account had arrested Pietro, and was just in
time to arrest the padrone also, on the charge of forcibly entering the
house. As the guardian of the peace marched off with Pietro on one
