proposed that he should go to Washington with him and become his private
secretary and the secretary of his committee; a proposal which was
eagerly accepted.

The Senator spent Sunday in Hawkeye and attended church. He cheered
the heart of the worthy and zealous minister by an expression of his
sympathy in his labors, and by many inquiries in regard to the religious
state of the region. It was not a very promising state, and the good man
felt how much lighter his task would be, if he had the aid of such a man
as Senator Dilworthy.

“I am glad to see, my dear sir,” said the Senator, “that you give them
the doctrines. It is owing to a neglect of the doctrines, that there is
such a fearful falling away in the country. I wish that we might have
you in Washington--as chaplain, now, in the senate.”

The good man could not but be a little flattered, and if sometimes,
thereafter, in his discouraging work, he allowed the thought that he
might perhaps be called to Washington as chaplain of the Senate, to
cheer him, who can wonder. The Senator’s commendation at least did one
service for him, it elevated him in the opinion of Hawkeye.

Laura was at church alone that day, and Mr. Brierly walked home with
her. A part of their way lay with that of General Boswell and Senator
Dilworthy, and introductions were made. Laura had her own reasons for
wishing to know the Senator, and the Senator was not a man who could
be called indifferent to charms such as hers. That meek young lady
so commended herself to him in the short walk, that he announced his
intentions of paying his respects to her the next day, an intention
which Harry received glumly; and when the Senator was out of hearing he
called him “an old fool.”

“Fie,” said Laura, “I do believe you are jealous, Harry. He is a very
pleasant man. He said you were a young man of great promise.”

The Senator did call next day, and the result of his visit was that he
was confirmed in his impression that there was something about him very
attractive to ladies. He saw Laura again and again during his stay, and
felt more and more the subtle influence of her feminine beauty, which
every man felt who came near her.

Harry was beside himself with rage while the Senator remained in town;
he declared that women were always ready to drop any man for higher
game; and he attributed his own ill-luck to the Senator’s appearance.
The fellow was in fact crazy about her beauty and ready to beat his
brains out in chagrin. Perhaps Laura enjoyed his torment, but she
soothed him with blandishments that increased his ardor, and she smiled
to herself to think that he had, with all his protestations of love,
never spoken of marriage. Probably the vivacious fellow never had
thought of it. At any rate when he at length went away from Hawkeye he
was no nearer it. But there was no telling to what desperate lengths his
passion might not carry him.

Laura bade him good bye with tender regret, which, however, did not
disturb her peace or interfere with her plans. The visit of Senator
Dilworthy had become of more importance to her, and it by and by bore
the fruit she longed for, in an invitation to visit his family in the
National Capital during the winter session of Congress.

CHAPTER XXI.

     O lift your natures up:
     Embrace our aims: work out your freedom. Girls,
     Knowledge is now no more a fountain sealed;
     Drink deep until the habits of the slave,
     The sins of emptiness, gossip and spite
     And slander, die.

                    The Princess.

Whether medicine is a science, or only an empirical method of getting
a living out of the ignorance of the human race, Ruth found before her
first term was over at the medical school that there were other things
she needed to know quite as much as that which is taught in medical
books, and that she could never satisfy her aspirations without more
general culture.

“Does your doctor know any thing--I don’t mean about medicine, but about
things in general, is he a man of information and good sense?” once
asked an old practitioner. “If he doesn’t know anything but medicine the
