Laud could not gainsay this honest avowal; but there was no limit to his
wrath at that moment, and he determined to punish the boat-builder for
"going back" on him, as he regarded it.

The collation was a sumptuous one, for when Belfast nabobs do anything,
they do it. The guests had good appetites, and did abundant justice to
the feast. The incident of which Laud Cavendish had been the central
figure caused some talk and some laughter.

"He had the impudence to say he was going to name his boat after me,"
said Nellie Patterdale. "He don't like the name of Juno."

"Does he own the Juno?" asked Captain Patterdale, quietly.

"I suppose he does."

"How is that, Don John?" added the captain.

"Yes, sir, he owns her; Captain Shivernock got tired of the Juno, and
Laud bought her."

Captain Patterdale made a note of that piece of information, and
regarded it as a clew to assist in the discovery of the tin box, which
had not yet been found, though the owner and the deputy sheriff had been
looking diligently for it ever since its disappearance.

"What did he pay for her?" inquired Captain Patterdale.

"Three hundred and fifty dollars," answered Donald, who hoped he would
not be asked of whom Laud had bought the Juno.

The captain did not ask the question, for it seemed to be self-evident
that he had purchased her of Captain Shivernock. Indeed, nothing more
was said about the matter. A dance on the shaven lawn followed the
collation, and the guests remained until the dews of evening began to
fall. Donald walked home with Nellie, and then went to the shop. He
expected to find Hasbrook there, but he had returned to Lincolnville. He
saw that the sails for the Maud had been sent down during his absence,
and on the desk lay the bill for them, enclosed in an envelope, directed
to "Messrs. Ramsay & Son." While he was looking at it, Mr. Leach, the
sail-maker, entered the shop. He had come to look after his money, for
possibly he had not entire confidence in the financial stability of the
firm.

"Have you looked over those sails, Don John?" asked Leach.

"Not yet; it is rather too dark to examine them to-night," replied
Donald.

"That's the best suit of sails I ever made," added the sail-maker. "You
said you wanted the best that could be had."

"I did." And Donald unrolled them. "They look like a good job."

"If they are not as good as anything that ever went on a boat, I'll make
you another suit for nothing. I was in hopes you would look them over
to-night. I don't want to trouble you, Don John, but I'm a little short
of money. Captain Patterdale has a mortgage on my house, and I like to
pay the interest on it the day it is due. You said you would let me have
the money when the sails were delivered."

"And so I will."

"If they are not all right, I will make them so," added Leach. "I should
like to pay the captain my interest money to-night, if I can."

"You can. I will go into the house and get the money."

Donald went to his room in the cottage, and took from their hiding-place
the bills which had been paid to him by Laud Cavendish for the Juno.
Without this he had not enough to pay the sail-maker. He did not like to
use this money, for he was not fully satisfied that Laud would not get
into trouble on account of it, or that he might not himself have some
difficulty with Captain Shivernock. He feared that he should be called
upon to refund this money; but Mr. Rodman would pay him another
instalment of the price of the Maud in a few days, and he should then be
in condition to meet any demand upon him. Laud had paid him seven
fifty-dollar bills, and he put them in his pocket. As he passed through
the kitchen, he lighted the lantern, and returned to the shop.

