claimed Bessie. " We must have tried your 
patience severely, Aunt Faith. But we do love 
you dearly, every one of us." And the impul- 
sive girl threw her arms around her aunt and 
kissed her affectionately. 

About half-past nine they heard the sound of 
the gate, and recognized Hugh's step on the 
gravel walk. 

" How is he, Hugh ? " said Bessie, before he 
came in sight. 



 

" He is a very sick man," replied Hugh 
gravely, as he came up the steps. " The doctors 
are perplexed, for the case is not like ordinary 
fever. They think he will either be much better 
or much worse before morning." 

" Oh, Hugh ; you do not mean that he is in 
any danger ? " 

" Yes ; so the doctors say. There is trouble 
with the brain, threatenings of congestion, I be- 
lieve. As I said before, he will probably be out 
of danger before morning, or, — or, gone where 
he is fully prepared to go," said Hugh with 
emotion. 

" Then I shall go to see him now, — directly," 
said a strange, muffled voice behind them. 

" Sibyl ! " exclaimed Aunt Faith. 

" Yes, aunt," said Sibyl, stepping forward and 
speaking in .the same muffled voice. "I heard 
what Hugh said, and I wish to go directly to see 
Mr. Leslie ; you must go with me." 

They all looked at her as she stood in the 
lighted hall ; her face was deadly pale, and her 



 

eyes had a far-off look as though she saw some- 
thing terrible in the distance. Behind her was 
Graham Marr looking perplexed and angry ; he 
did not know what to do or say, and his usual 
graceful manner had given place to confused 
irritation. As Sibyl spoke he made an effort to 
regain his composure. 

"Ah!" he said, with studied carelessness, " so 
Leslie is sick, is he ? I must really send a nurse 
to take care of him. I will do what I can for 
him, poor fellow ! " 

" I shall be his nurse," said Sibyl, in the same 
strange, still voice. 

" You are joking, Miss Warrington. Of 
course you would not expose yourself so fool- 
ishly," said Graham angrily. 

"i" shall be his nurse. I shall go to-night," 
repeated Sibyl, without changing her atti- 
tude. 

Graham looked at her a moment as if about to 
continue the argument, but something in the 
set expression of her face convinced him of the 



