have thought of it all night; and I must have my answer now, whatever it
is."
She did not speak; for every word that she had uttered had only served
to close escape behind her. She did not know what to do; she looked up
at him for help. He said with an accent of meekness pathetic from him,
"Why must you still doubt me?"
"I don't," she scarcely more than breathed.
"Then you are mine, now, without waiting, and forever," he cried; and
caught her to him in a swift embrace.
She only said, "Oh!" in a tone of gentle reproach, yet clung to him a
helpless moment as for rescue from himself. She looked at him in blank
pallor, striving to realize the tender violence in which his pulses
wildly exulted; then a burning flush dyed her face, and tears came into
her eyes. "O, I hope you'll never be sorry," she said; and then, "Do let
us go," for she had no distinct desire save for movement, for escape
from that place.
Her heart had been surprised, she hardly knew how; but at his kiss a
novel tenderness had leaped to life in it. She suffered him to put her
hand upon his arm, and then she began to feel a strange pride in his
being tall and handsome, and hers. But she kept thinking as they walked,
"I hope he'll never he sorry," and she said it again, half in jest. He
pressed her hand against his heart, and met her look with one of protest
and reassurance, that presently melted into something sweeter yet. He
said, "What beautiful eyes you have! I noticed the long lashes when I
saw you on the Saguenay boat, and I couldn't get away from them."
"O please, don't speak of that dreadful time!" cried Kitty.
"No? Why not?"
"O because! I think it was such a bold kind of accident my taking your
arm by mistake; and the whole next day has always been a perfect horror
to me."
He looked at her in questioning amaze.
"I think I was very pert with you all day,--and I don't think I'm pert
naturally,--taking you up about the landscape, and twitting you about
the Saguenay scenery and legends, you know. But I thought you were
trying to put me down,--you are rather down-putting at times,--and I
admired you, and I couldn't bear it."
"Oh!" said Mr. Arbuton. He dimly recollected, as if it had been in some
former state of existence, that there were things he had not approved in
Kitty that day, but now he met her penitence with a smile and another
pressure of the hand. "Well, then," he said, "if you don't like to
recall that time, let's go back of it to the day I met you on Goat
Island Bridge at Niagara."
"O, did you see me there? I thought you didn't; but I saw you. You
had on a blue cravat," she answered; and he returned with as much the
air of coherency as if really continuing the same train of thought, "You
won't think it necessary to visit Boston, now, I suppose," and he smiled
triumphantly upon her. "I fancy that I have now a better right to
introduce you there than your South End friends."
Kitty smiled, too. "I'm willing to wait. But don't you think you ought
to see Eriecreek before you promise too solemnly? I can't allow that
there's anything serious, till you've seen me at home."
They had been going, for no reason that they knew, back to the country
inn near which you purchase admittance to a certain view of the falls,
and now they sat down on the piazza, somewhat apart from other people
who were there, as Mr. Arbuton said, "O, I shall visit Eriecreek soon
enough. But I shall not come to put myself or you to the proof. I don't
ask to see you at home before claiming you forever."
Kitty murmured, "Ah! you are more generous than I was."
"I doubt it."
"O yes, you are. But I wonder if you'll be able to find Eriecreek."
"Is it on the map?"
"It's on the county map; and so is Uncle Jack's lot on it, and a picture
of his house, for that matter. They'll all be standing on the
piazza--something like this one--when you come up. You'll know Uncle
Jack by his big gray beard, and his bushy eyebrows, and his boots, which
he won't have blacked, and his Leghorn hat, which we can't get him to
change. The girls will be there with him,--Virginia all red and heated
with having got supper for you, and Rachel with the family mending in
her hand,--and they'll both come running down the walk to welcome you.
How will you like it?"
Mr. Arbuton suspected the gross caricature of this picture, and smiled
securely at it. "I shall like it well enough," he said, "if you run down
with them. Where shall you be?"
"I forgot. I shall be up stairs in my room, peeping through the
window-blinds, to see how you take it. Then I shall come down, and
receive you with dignity in the parlor, but after supper you'll have to
excuse me while I help with the dishes. Uncle Jack will talk to you.
He'll talk to you about Boston. He's much fonder of Boston than you are,
even." And here Kitty broke off with a laugh, thinking what a very
different Boston her Uncle Jack's was from Mr. Arbuton's, and
