tre rollers home. A peculiar awe seemed to fall upon the 
household, that in all their discussions had never agreed 
upon any one person. And as the hour of their arrival 
dr'iw nigh, every sound was noted with a strained and 
wrtchful anxiety. Madge laughed over her own ner- 
vousnoss. 

The carriage swept around the drive at length, and 
halted at the steps. Philip sprang out first. 

Was this really Clement? Taller and larger than 
Philip in every respect, bronzed by the burning suns of 
that far-distant land, blooming and bearded, and with the 
easy, elegant air of an Eastern prince in the books of their 
childhood. The familiar boyishness had long since dis- 
appeared. Not one trait that they remembered, hardly a 
feature that they could recall, and, perhaps, the first mo- 
ment was one of disappointment as well as surprise. 

Only a moment, however; for with the next he had 
clasped his mother fondly in his strong young arms, and 
wrung his father's hand, while his voice was lost in 
emotion. 

" Dear mother ! to find you all here again alive and 
well " 

" Thank God for your return, my son, my son ! " and the 
father's voice was tremulous. 

" And for the rest I believe I shall have to be intro- 
duced. This is Eleanor, I know " 

" And Madge and Jessie." 

" I think I can faintly remember Jessie ; but Madge fai 
exceeds my expectations, having outgrown her twinship 
O, brother, and sisters, and parents, this is a happy day 
for me ! And here is my gift to your household." 

They had all watched the slight, girlish figure hanging 
on Philip's arm, and mounting the steps slowly, delicately 
giving them time for their first greeting. Now, as Clem- 
ent took her hand, no larger than a child's, she raised hei 
veil, and disclosed a face they had seen before indeed 



 

Only the most genuine refinement of feeling kept the sur- 
prise silent on their lips, for it was Rose Stanhope. 

"My wife," Clement said, in his rich, deep tone. 

Her eyes were downcast, and a painful flush of embar 
rassment fluttered over her face. 

Mrs. Asbburton broke the fast-growing awkwardness 
by a cordial embrace. 

" My child ! " she exclaimed, with motherly tenderness, 
"you are most welcome, even though you come as a 
stranger." 

Rose raised her eyes timidly. They all remembered the 
last painful interview, she, perhaps, more keenly than the 
rest. Little did she dream then that there was ever to be 
a place for her in their circle. 

Eleanor's movement roused both Madge and Jessie. 
It was no time to be cold and formal. And they felt in 
their secret hearts that Clement must have been convinced 
of the wisdom of this step before he had ventured to take 
it. So there were sisterly tones and pleasant words which 
bore the impress of sincerity. 

Yet Jessie's exceeding delicacy felt the awkwardness 
of the position. Rose was blushing and trembling, and so 
near to tears that they caught the sound in her voice ; so 
