comparatively still, there was a joyous scene in the cabin of the Orion.
Hot tears dropped from the eyes of father and mother, and convulsive
embraces were exchanged. Leopold's right hand was nearly twisted off by
the overjoyed parents and friends of her who had been saved from the
Coming Wave.

The yacht sailed into the river again, and on the passage, Leopold,
assisted by Rosabel, related all the particulars of the loss of the
Rosabel, and of their narrow escape from the rocks and the billows on
the beach under High Rock.

If Mr. and Mrs. Hamilton had before regarded Leopold, in any sense, as a
servant, or even a boatman, they no longer considered him as anything
but a social equal, a noble and dear friend, who had risked his life to
save their beloved daughter. If they were grateful and devoted to him,
not less so was Rosabel herself.

The party stayed a fortnight at the Sea Cliff House, and enjoyed
themselves even more than during the preceding season. Every pleasant
day a party went out in the Orion, and, having no boat of his own now,
Leopold was glad to go with them. On the day after the storm, the mate
of the yacht had left Rockhaven for New York, and the late skipper of
the Rosabel was requested to perform his duty on board, which he did to
the entire satisfaction of Captain Bounce. After the mate had been
absent a week, the mate pro tem. of the Orion, as the yacht was
running out of the river, discovered a small sloop, headed for the
light. Her hull and her sails were intensely white. She was a beautiful
craft, and appeared to be entirely new. She was evidently a yacht, and
Leopold knew that she did not belong to any of the places in the lower
bay. The word was passed aft that a yacht was approaching, and all the
passengers came forward to see her.

"That's her, Mr. Hamilton," said Captain Bounce, mysteriously after a
little talk with his owner.

"Where is she from?" asked Leopold.

"New York," replied the ex-congressman, chuckling.

"What's her name?"

"The Rosabel."

"I didn't know there was any craft with that name, except mine," replied
Leopold, as Rosabel placed herself by his side.

"She is new, and has not had that name more than a week," added Mr.
Hamilton.

"Whom does she belong to?" inquired Leopold.

"She belongs to Leopold Bennington now."

This announcement was followed by a silvery laugh from the merchant's
daughter.

"She is to take the place of the boat you lost."

"Here's a go!" grinned Stumpy, who was doing duty on board as assistant
steward.

"We don't care to mystify you, Leopold," laughed Mr. Hamilton. "The mate
of the Orion is in charge of her. She is a new boat, finished just
before I left New York, and offered for sale. On the day after you lost
your sloop, I sent the mate to purchase her for you. There she is, and
she is yours. You can go on board of her now, if you please."

"Let me go, too," interposed Rosabel.

The new yacht came up into the wind, when the Orion did so, and one of
the boats of the latter conveyed Rosabel, Leopold, and Stumpy to the
sloop, bringing back the mate and the man who had come with him from New
York. The new Rosabel was thirty-two feet long, with a large cabin,
furnished with berths, and a cook-room forward. Leopold and Stumpy were
enraptured with the craft, and looked her over with the utmost delight.
They followed the Orion all day, and kept up with her, for the new
Rosabel was even faster than the old one.

But our story is nearly told, and we cannot follow these pleasant
parties on their excursions on the bay. Leopold and Stumpy sailed the
