through familiarity, and observed that it was an 
“ alligator boat.” 

“ An alligator boat? What's it for?” 

“To dredge out alligators with.” 

“ Are they so thick as to be troublesome?” 

“Well, not now, because the government keeps 

them down. But they used to be. Not everywhere; 
but in favorite places, here and there, where the river 
is wide and shoal — like Plum Point, and Stack Island, 
and so on — places they call alligator beds.” 

“ Did they actually impede navigation?” 

“Years ago, yes, in very low water; there was 
hardly a trip, then, that we didn’t get aground on 
alligators.” 

It seemed to me that I should certainly have to get 
out my tomahawk. However, I restrained myself and 
said : 

“ It must have been dreadful.” 

“Yes, it was one of the main difficulties about pilots 
ing. It was so hard to tell anything about the water; 

the d d things shift around so — never lie still five 

minutes at a time. You can tell a wind-reef, straight 
off, by the look of it; you can tell a break; you can 
tell a sand-reef — that’s all easy; but an alligator reef 
doesn’t show up, worth anything. Nine times in ten 
you can’t tell where the water is; and when you do see 
where it is, like as not it ain’t there when you get there, 
the devils have swapped around so, meantime. Of 
course there were some few pilots that could judge of 
alligator water nearly as well as they could of any 
other kind, but they had to have natural talent for it; 
it wasn’t a thing a body could learn , yqu had to be 
born with it. Let me see : There was Ben Thornburg, 
and Beck Jolly, and Squire Bell, and Horace Bixby, 
and Major Downing, and John Stevenson, and Billy 
Gordon, and Jim Brady, and George Ealer, and Billy 
Youngblood — all A I alligator pilots. They could tell 
alligator water as far as another Christian could tell 
whisky. Read it? Ah, couldn't they, though! I 
only wish I had as many dollars as they could read 
alligator water a mile and a half off. Yes, and it paid 
them to do it, too. A good alligator pilot could always 


get fifteen hundred dollars a month. Nights, other 
people had to lay up for alligators, but those fellows 
never laid up for alligators; they never laid up for 
anything but fog. They could smell the best alligator 
water — so it was said. I don’t know whether it was 
so or not, and I think a body’s got his hands full 
enough if he sticks to just what he knows himself, 
without going around backing up other people’s say- 
so’s, though there’s a plenty that ain’t backward about 
doing it, as long as they can roust out something 
wonderful to tell. Which is not the style of Robert 
Styles, by as much as three fathom — maybe quarter- 
ly.” 

[My ! Was this Rob Styles ? This mustached and 
stately figure? A slim enough cub, in my time. How 
he has improved in comeliness in five-and-twenty years 
— and in the noble art of inflating his facts.] After 
these musings, I said aloud : 

"I should think that dredging out the alligators 
wouldn’t have done much good, because they could 
come back again right away.” 

