strangling fashion by this time. 
We will clean house, mend the stockings, 
weed the flower beds, and keep matters straight. 
You will hardly know the place when you 
return." 
" Here, Tim, look after your village ! Baby 
has commenced to devour the cows, and I think 
them a rather heavy article of diet for her jusfc 
yet." 
"What is one little make-believe cow?' said 
Tim disdainfully. 
 
"Well, pick up the fragments. And here is 
Miss Dolly looking tired and sleepy. Then run 
out and play." 
"We don't want to;" cried the younger ones 
in chorus. 
" Well, have your own way ; ' and Fan sat 
down in mock despair. "I am determined to 
be obeyed in some respect." 
After we had them all snugly tucked in bed 
that evening, the elders discussed the plan again. 
Papa approved of it so strongly that he wrote 
the letter immediately. 
"But there is so much to do," declared mam- 
ma. "I intended to change the girls to the 
front chamber and put Nelly and Daisy in theirs. 
And we want a new carpet for the study, and 
oh, I don't believe I can go!' 
" There is always some path out of the 
woods ; ' said Mrs. Whitcomb when our laugh 
had subsided. "You need the rest that is the 
strongest argument. And I have come to help. 
You cannot make me company if you try." 
On the following day we had it all out straight. 
The three seniors were to go to Westburg on 
Thursday and buy everything they could lay 
their hands upon. Friday afternoon mamma was 
 
to take her journey. The next week on Wed- 
nesday or Thursday papa was to go up after 
her, the two to come home on Saturday. There 
it was all as plain and easy as " twice two ' in 
the multiplication table. 
They started bright and early in the morning. 
Fan and I went at the front chamber. There 
was not much to do, for the walls were papered. 
Ann cleaned the paint, we washed windows and 
rubbed the paper with a soft cloth, then she 
shook the carpet for us and we tacked it down. 
" It seems odd to move over to this side of the 
house," said Fan, "but I shall like it ever so 
much. And Nell will be so pleased. She hates to 
be packed like pins in a paper. But now comes 
the tug of war- -clothes, bureau drawers, odds 
and ends, and the plagues of Egypt." 
" O no ; ' I returned laughingly. 
"Well- -flies, anyhow. They are not all 
gone." 
There was a large old-fashioned chest of drawers 
in the room. We brought in our dainty bureau 
with its pretty glass, and I gave up all the 
drawers to Fan, taking the other. There was a 
nice wardrobe for our dresses and boxes. When 
Nelly returned from school she helped with our 
 
pictures and brackets, and we had ourselves 
as well as our room in order before the travel- 
ers returned. Baby had been good as an angel 
all day. I dressed her clean and put on one 
of the pretty bibs that Daisy had crocheted, and 
Ann had the supper table in readiness. 
They were all tired, enough, though we had 
bound them by solemn promises not to do any 
of our fall shopping. They had made a few 
calls, selected the carpet and made arrangements 
to have papa's study chair covered with Russia 
leather. So we kissed them and made them 
welcome, both ladies being somewhat surprised 
by our day's work. 
