and be kissed by the dear old lips that prayed daily and nightly for
her welfare?
There came some quite important changes to Madison. A new railroad was
projected, that would shorten the distance to the intervening cities,
and bring it within an hour's ride from the great emporium, New York.
Then began a great era of activity. Streets were laid out around the
station; quite an extensive woollen-mill was put in operation, which
caused an influx of population. The old sawing-mill was enlarged, so
great became the demand for lumber; the Kinsey farm was divided into
building-lots, some rather elegant mansions were raised, and a new
church erected.
The Kenneth place was rather out of range of all this.
"But our little farm may be quite valuable by and by," declared Hal.
"It would be astonishing, Granny, if you were to become a rich woman
before you died."
"I'll have to live a good long while;" and Granny gave her cracked but
still pleasant little laugh.
Joe remained nearly two years and a half with Capt. Burton, when the
crowning good fortune of his life, as he thought it, occurred. This was
nothing less than an opportunity to go to China, his great ambition.
It almost broke Granny's heart. To have him away two or three months
had appeared a long while; but when it came to be years--
"Of course I shall return," declared Joe. "Did you ever hear of a fish
being drowned, or a bad penny that didn't come back? And then for a
silk gown, Granny, and a crape shawl! You shall have one if you are a
hundred years old, and have to hobble around with a crutch."
"I'd rather have you than a hundred silk gowns."
"And I expect you to have me. The very handsomest grandson in the
family. If you are not proud of me, Granny, I shall cut you off with a
shilling, and wear a willow garland all the days of my life, in token
of grief."
So he kept them laughing to the latest moment; and, after all, it was
not so very different from the other partings. But he declared, if
Granny didn't live to see him come home, he never should be able to
forgive her.
Hal actually went down to New York to see him off, and had a pleasant
visit with Mrs. Burton. It was a great event in the boy's life.
"I didn't think there ever could be quite such a splendid place!" he
said on his return. "And the great beautiful bay, with its crowds and
crowds of shipping, looking like flocks of birds in the distance; but
the people almost frightened me, for it seemed as if one could never
get out of the tangle. Then the park is just like fairy-land. And I
found a place where a man buys cut-flowers, especially all kinds of
beautiful white ones. And, Granny, one could make a good deal of
money with a hot-house."
"I hope you'll have it," Granny answered; though, truth to tell, she
had no very clear ideas upon the subject, except that Hal of all others
deserved to have his dream come true.
Hal had treated himself to a book on gardening, and another on
floriculture. He was fifteen now,--a steady, industrious little chap;
and the farmers round were very glad to have him when they were in
a hurry or ran short of help. For Hal had a good many very sensible
ideas, and sometimes quite astonished the country people who went on
in the same groove as their fathers and grandfathers. To be sure,
they laughed and pooh-poohed a little; but, when his plans proved more
fortunate in some respect, they admitted that he had an old head on
young shoulders.
"I'm going to have some nice hot-beds for next spring," he said to
Granny. "I'm sure I can sell early lettuce and radishes, and some of
those things."
So he worked on, spending his leisure days in improving his own little
garden-spot. The place had begun "to blossom like a rose," dear Joe
said. There were honeysuckle and roses trained over the house, making
it a pretty little nest, in spite of want of paint and a general
tumbling into decay. Over the kitchen part crept clusters of wisteria;
and in front there were two mounds of flowers, making the small
dooryard bright and attractive.
The chickens had to be kept by themselves, on Hal's farm. Every day
he felt thankful for that little plot of ground. Mr. Terry was glad
to take all their eggs, for Hal managed that they should be large and
choice.
"And if I should have a hot-house by the time Joe comes back, it will
be just royal!"
Granny smiled.
Poor dear Hal! One day he was working out in the hayfield, gay as a
lark; and Farmer Morris said his boys did as much again work when
Hal was there. The last load was going home. Hal mounted to the top,
calling merrily to the group, when the horses gave a sudden start. It
seemed as if he only slid down, and the distance was not very great;
but he lay quite still. They waited for a laugh or a shout, and then
