
“Yes.”

“It is a lovely evening.”

“Yes.”

“Did you have a pleasant time?”

“Yes.”

I knew that blank book well; it contained all Sara’s printed stories and
verses; my eyes glanced toward it.

“Yes,” said Sara; “there it is! I gave it to him yesterday. I knew he
would read it through, and I knew also that I could read his real
opinion in those honest eyes of his.”

“Well?”

“There isn’t a thing in it worth the paper it is written on.”

“Oh, Sara!”

“And what is more, I have known it myself all along.”

“Is it possible he said so?”

“He? Never. He said every thing that was generous and kind and cordial
and appreciative; and he gave me solid assistance, too, in the way of
advice, and suggestive hints worth their weight in gold to an isolated
beginner like myself. But--”

“But?”

“Yes, ‘but.’ Through it all, Martha, I could see the truth written in
the sky over that old look-out tower; we were on the glacis under that
tower all the time, and I never took my eyes off from it. That tower is
my fate, I feel sure.”

“What do you mean? Your fate?”

“I don’t know exactly myself. But, nevertheless, in some way or other
that look-out tower is connected with my fate--the fate of poor Sara St.
John.”

In John Hoffman’s room at the same time another conversation was going
on.

JOHN. “Has she genius, do you think?”

EUGENIO. “Not an iota.”

JOHN. “What do you mean, you iron-hearted despot? Has the girl no
poetry in her?”



EUGENIO. “Plenty; but not of the kind that can express itself in
writing. Sara St. John has poetry, but she ought not to try to write it;
she is one of the kind to--”

JOHN. “Well, what?”

EUGENIO. “Live it.”

Eugenio went, leaving real regret behind. The crowd of tourists began to
diminish, the season was approaching its end, and Aunt Diana gathered
her strength for a final contest.

“We are not out of the wilderness yet, it seems,” said Sara to me, in
her mocking voice. “Mokes, the Captain, the Professor, and the
Knickerbocker, and nothing settled! How is this, my countrymen?”

Our last week came, and the Captain and Iris continued their murmured
conversations. In vain Aunt Diana, with the vigilance of a Seminole,
contested every inch of the ground; the Captain outgeneraled her, and
Iris, with her innocent little ways, aided and abetted him. Aunt Di
never made open warfare; she believed in strategy; through the whole she
never once said, “Iris, you must not,” or wavered for one moment in her
