as the housewives of the neighborhood and the lo 
cal force of strong-backed Friulan water-girls drew 
their day's supply of water ; and on that sort of 
special parochial holiday, called a sagra, the campo 
hummed and clattered ad shrieked with a multi 
tude celebrating the day around the stands where 
pumpkin seeds and roast pumpkin and anisette- 
water were sold, and before the movable kitchen 
where cakes were fried in caldrons of oil, and up 
roariously offered to the crowd by the cook, who 
did not suffer himself to be embarrassed by the 



 

rival drama of adjoining puppet-shows, but contin 
ued to bellow forth his bargains all day long and 
far into the night, when the flames under his ket 
tles painted his visage a fine crimson. The sagra 
once over, however, the campo relapsed into its 
habitual silence, and no one looking at the front of 
the palace would have thought of it as a place for 
distraction-seeking foreign sojourners. But it was 
not on this side that the landlord tempted his 
tenants ; his principal notice of lodgings to let wag 
affixed to the water-gate of the palace, which opened 
on a smaller channel so near the Grand Canal 
that no wandering eye could fail to see it. The 
portal was a tall arch of Venetian gothic tipped 
with a carven flame ; steps of white Istrian stone 
descended to the level of the lowest ebb, irregularly 
embossed with barnacles, and dabbling long fringes 
of soft green sea-mosses in the rising and falling 
tide. Swarms of water-bugs and beetles played 
over the edges of the steps, and crabs scuttled side- 
wise into deeper water at the approach of a gon 
dola. A length of stone-capped brick wall, to 
which patches of stucco still clung, stretched from 
the gate on either hand under cover of an ivy that 
flung its mesh of shining green from within, where 
there lurked a lovely garden, stately, spacious for 
Venice, and full of a delicious, half -sad surprise for 
wli so opened upon it. In the midst it had a 
broken fountain, with a marble naiad standing on 
a shell, and looking saucier than the sculptor 



 

meant, from having lost the point of her nose ; 
nymphs and fauns, and shepherds and shejjierdesses, 
her kinsfolk, coquetted in and out among the green 
ery in flirtation not to be embarrassed by the frac 
ture of an arm, or the casting of a leg or so ; one 
lady had no head, but she was the boldest of all. 
In this garden there were some mulberry and pome 
granate trees, several of which hung about the 
fountain with seats in their shade, and for the rest 
there seemed to be mostly roses and oleanders, with 
other shrubs of a kind that made the greatest show 
of blossom and cost the least for tendance. A wide 
terrace stretched across the rear of the palace, drop 
ping to the garden path by a flight of balustraded 
steps, and upon this terrace opened the long win 
dows of Mrs. Vervain's parlor and dining-room. 
Her landlord owned only the first story and the 
basement of the palace, in some corner of which he 
cowered with his servants, his taste for pictures and 
bric-a-brac, and his little branch of inquiry into 
Venetian history, whatever it was, ready to let 
himself or anything he had for hire at a mo 
ment's notice, but very pleasant, gentle, and un 
obtrusive ; a cheat and a liar, but of a kind heart 
and sympathetic manners. Under his protection 
Mrs. Vervain set up her impermanent household 
gods. The apartment was taken only from week 
to week, and as she freely explained to the pa 
drone hovering about with offers of service, she 
