last hope of Mr. Tremaine. 
"It must have been a desperate quarrel," she 
thought; 
dbyGoogk 
CHAPTER IX. 
WAITING. 
SOR forty-eight hours, Dora Tremaine lingered 
on the brink of a severe and dangerous fever. 
Though young, Dr. Mackey was already skill- 
ful in his profession, and something in this woman's 
face, although he knew nothing of her history, appealed 
to him strongly. All this time Catherine Dawson was 
alone with her, save for the occasional visits of the 
warm-hearted Mrs. Connor, who asked no uncomfort- 
able questions. 
Dora was quiet most of the time, though lapsing now 
and then into momentary wanderings. In the few 
moments of consciousness, she seemed in deadly terror 
of some person, whether her husband or another, Cath- 
erine could not tell. 
Another incident had startled the grave, steady-going 
woman not a little. The morning after Dora's uncere- 
monious arrival, a gentleman had called who insisted 
upon seeing her, and nothing short of representing Dora 
in a most critical position could induce him to forego 
his wishes. He had called again later in the da} r , 
indeed, fairly haunted the house, filling Catherine with 
strange apprehensions. A daring, handsome fellow, 
Di 
/ 
d ^ Google 
It a DRIFTED ASUNDER, OR 
but she instinctively shrank from him. There seemed 
something so cruel in the half-mocking face, and a 
vengeful, determined look in the deep eyes. Catherine 
shivered as she thought of Dora becoming entangled 
with this man. She had heard of women imprudently 
placing themselves in the power of an unscrupulous 
man, and suffering the keenest tortures without being 
able to snap the bond, yet sinless in their own course. 
Catherine Dawson had some rigid, old-fashioned 
notions, but if she had not loved Dora so well, she 
possessed an unswerving, sense of justice. She would 
not blame her even in thought,until she knew all the 
circumstances, and she waited with the utmost patience. 
The child had been very dear to her during the years 
they had spent together. But she was troubled with a 
little misgiving as to whether she had done quite right 
in sending for Mr. Tremaine. However, neither good 
nor harm had come of it. 
Dora opened her eyes languidly on Thursday morn- 
ing. The surroundings were so strange that she would 
not have recollected at all, if she had not recognized 
Catherine's" slow moving figure. She took up con- 
sciousness at the exact time and place where it had 
failed her — her fainting away in Catherine's arms. 
And with that, some detached drifts of the day's doings 
floated dimly through her brain, as with a shudder she 
remembered Jasper Cameron. 
" Catherine," she said feebly, turning her head with 
an effort. 
"My child, my precious bairn ! Thank the Lord that 
you are better," and Mrs. Dawson leaned over the 
pillow. 
" I fainted^ did I not? Why, I feel as weak as a 
child, but I must get up. It is • not night yet. I am 
glad of that, for I must do something. If I could only 
think — Catherine — " 
The weary eyelids fluttered down, and for a moment 
consciousness was almost lost again. 
" Hush, child. You have been very sick since then." 
" Since when? What day is it, Catherine? " 
"Thursday. It was on Tuesday that you came." 
"Thursday? Has anyone been hereto ask after 
me?" and a convulsive movement shook her frame. 
There was a low knock at the door. Catherine took 
the precaution of shutting close the invalid's room, but- 
it was net needed. The visitor was Dr. Mackey. 
There was something inspiriting in his fresh, cheer- 
ful face and the clear ring in the well-modulated voice. 
