stuffed fillet are good for this purpose, especially if underdone.
1 pound cold boiled ham.
1 large cupful gravy. If you have none left over, make it of the refuse
bits of the cold meat, such as fat, skin, etc.
1 small teaspoonful finely minced lemon-peel, the same of mace, and a
table-spoonful chopped parsley.
Salt and pepper.
1 cupful bread-crumbs, dry and fine.
Yolks of 3 eggs beaten light, reserving the whites for glazing the
cannelon when done.
Chop the meat very well, season it and stir in the beaten yolks; wet
with half the gravy, and mix in the bread-crumbs. It should be just
soft enough to handle without running into a shapeless mass. Flour your
hands and make it into a roll about three times as long as it is broad.
Flour the outside well and lay it in a greased baking-pan. Cover and
set in the oven until it is smoking hot, when remove the cover and
brown quickly. Draw to the oven-door and brush over with white of egg,
shut the door for one minute to set this, and transfer the cannelon,
by the help of a cake-turner or a wooden paddle, to a hot dish. Lay
three-cornered pieces of fried bread close about it, and pour a rich
gravy over all.
You can make a really elegant dish of this by adding to the gravy a
half-pint of sliced mushrooms, and stewing them in it until they are
tender and savory, then pouring them over the rouleau of meat.
A savory and inexpensive dish, and a good entrée at a family dinner.
Of course you can vary the size to suit the remnants of meat.
CANNELON OF BEEF
Is made precisely like one of veal, except that mashed potato is
substituted for bread-crumbs, and an onion is stewed in the gravy
before the latter is strained over the baked roll of meat.
Green pickles or olives are a palatable accompaniment to it.
A PRETTY BREAKFAST DISH
May be made of croquettes of fish, lobster, fowl or meat in the shape
of hen’s eggs, heaped upon a dish and surrounded by very thin strips of
fried potato, arranged to look as much as possible like straw. If sauce
is poured over the croquettes, be careful not to let it deluge the
potato that forms the nest.
SWEETBREADS.
IT is usually necessary to bespeak sweetbreads several days in
advance, as they are both scarce and popular. But if your butcher be
accommodating, and yourself a valued customer, there is seldom much
difficulty in procuring enough to make a dish for a family of ordinary
size.
Keep sweetbreads in a cold, dry place, and cook as soon as possible
after getting them, as they soon spoil. Be careful, moreover, in
cooking them, to see that they are thoroughly done.
BROWN FRICASSEE OF SWEETBREADS. (No. 1.) +
4 sweetbreads.
2 cups brown veal gravy, strong and well-seasoned.
4 table-spoonfuls of butter.
Pinch of mace, and twice as much cloves.
Browned flour for thickening.
1 teaspoonful chopped onion, stewed in, and then strained out of the
gravy.
Wash the sweetbreads carefully in warm water, removing every bit of
skin and gristle. Lay them in a saucepan, and cover with boiling
water. Boil them ten minutes hard, turn off the hot water, and plunge
them instantly into very cold, in which you have dissolved a little
salt. Leave them in this about fifteen minutes, or until they are
cool, white and firm. Cut each crosswise into slices nearly half an
inch thick. Have ready the butter in the frying-pan, and fry the
slices, turning frequently, until they are a good brown, but do not
dry them up. Drain off the fat through a cullender, lay the sliced
sweetbreads within a saucepan, pour the hot brown gravy, already
seasoned, over them, cover closely, and simmer, not boil, fifteen
minutes longer.
BROWN FRICASSEE. (No. 2.) +
4 sweetbreads.
2 cups good brown gravy—veal is best. Spice with mace and cloves.
1 onion.
½ cup butter.
1 pint mushrooms.
Prepare the sweetbreads by boiling and blanching as in previous
receipt. Slice the onion and mushrooms, and fry quickly to a fine brown
in half the butter. Strain the fat from these, and return it to the
frying-pan, adding the rest of the butter. When hissing hot, put in the
sliced sweetbreads. Turn over and over in the fat for three minutes.
Meanwhile, let the fried onions and mushrooms be stewing in the gravy.
Pour this gravy, when the sweetbreads are ready, into a jar or tin pail
with a closely-fitting top; set it in a pot of boiling water, taking
