
"Yes; he came here last night sick, and I took him in my carriage to
a Home for just such as he is, where he will be kindly taken care of
until he gets well."

Ethel's large brown eyes were fixed in a kind of thankful wonder on
the face of Mrs. Birtwell. She could not speak. She did not even try
to put thought or feeling into words. She only took the hand of Mrs.
Birtwell, and after touching it with her lips laid her wet cheek
against it and held it there tightly.

"Can I go and see him?" she asked, lifting her face after some
moments.

"It will not be best, I think," replied Mrs. Birtwell--"that is, not
now. He was very sick when we took him there, and may not be well
enough to be seen this morning."

"Very sick! Oh, ma'am!" The face of Ethel grew white and her lips
trembled.

"Not dangerously," said Mrs. Birtwell, "but yet quite ill. I am
going now to see him; and if you will come here in a couple of
hours, when I shall return home--"

"Oh. ma'am, let me go along with you," broke in Ethel. "I won't ask
to see him if it isn't thought best, but I'll know how he is without
waiting so long."

The fear that Mr. Ridley might die in his delirium had troubled Mrs.
Birtwell all night, and it still oppressed her. She would have much
preferred to go alone and learn first the good or ill of the case,
but Ethel begged so hard to be permitted to accompany her that she
could not persist in objection.

On reaching the Home, Mrs. Birtwell found in the office the man in
whose care Mr. Ridley had been placed. Remembering what Mr. G----had
said of this man, a fresh hope for Ethel's father sprang up in her
soul as she looked into his clear eyes and saw his firm mouth and
air of conscious poise and strength. She did not see in his manly
face a single scar from the old battle out of which he had come at
last victorious. Recognizing her, he called her by name, and not
waiting for her to ask the question that looked out of her face,
said:

"It is all right with him."

A cry of joy that she could not repress broke from Ethel. It was
followed by sobbing and tears.

"Can we see him?" asked Mrs. Birtwell.

"The doctor will not think it best," replied the man. "He has had a
pretty hard night, but, the worst is over. We must keep him quiet
to-day."

"In the morning can I see him?" asked Ethel lifting her eyes, half
blinded by tears, to the man's face.

"Yes; I think I can say yes," was the reply.

"How soon?"

"Come at ten o'clock."

"You'll let me call and ask about him this evening, won't you?"

"Oh yes, and you will get a good report, I am sure."

The care and help and wise consideration received in the Home by Mr.
Ridley, while passing through the awful stages of his mania, had
probably saved his life. The fits of frenzy were violent, so
overwhelming him with phantom terrors that in his wild and desperate
struggles to escape the fangs of serpents and dragons and the horrid
crew of imaginary demons that crowded his room and pressed madly
upon him he would, but for the restraint to which he was subjected,
have thrown himself headlong from a window or bruised and broken
himself against the wall.

It was the morning of the second day after Mr. Ridley entered the
