she is, are finely formed and delicate. Well, being beautiful, she
was just like any other young girl--her head was turned by flattery.
She was silly and foolish, and had not the protections and barriers
that are around us, and she fell. Well, then, we that have been more
fortunate must help her up. Is it not so?

So, dear Mother, my mission work is coming to me. I need not go out
for it. I shall write more of this in a day or two.

     Ever yours,

          EVA.




CHAPTER XXV.

AUNT MARIA ENDEAVORS TO SET MATTERS RIGHT.


Mrs. Maria Wouvermans was one of those forces in creation to whom
quiet is impossible. Watchfulness, enterprise and motion were the laws
of her existence, as incessantly operating as any other laws of nature.

When we last saw her, she was in high ill-humor with her sister, Mrs.
Van Arsdel, with Alice and Eva, and the whole family. She revenged
herself upon them, as such good creatures know how to do, by heaping
coals of fire on their heads in the form of ostentatiously untiring
and uncalled-for labors for them all. The places she explored to get
their laces mended and their quillings done up and their dresses
made, the pilgrimages she performed in omnibuses, the staircases she
climbed, the men and women whom she browbeat and circumvented in
bargains--all to the advantage of the Van Arsdel purse--were they
not recounted and told over in a way to appall the conscience of
poor, easy Mrs. Van Arsdel, whom they summarily convicted of being
an inefficient little know-nothing, and of her girls, who thus stood
arraigned for the blackest ingratitude in not appreciating Aunt Maria?

"I'll tell you what it is, Alice," said Eva, when Aunt Maria's labors
had come to the usual climax of such smart people, and laid her up
with a sick-headache, "we girls have just got to make up with Aunt
Maria, or she'll tear down all New York. I always notice that when
she's out with us she goes tearing about in this way, using herself up
for us--doing things no mortal wants her to do, and yet that it seems
black ingratitude not to thank her for. Now, Alice, you are the one,
this time, and you must just go and sit with her and make up, as I
did."

"But, Eva, I know the trouble you fell into, letting her and mother
entangle you with Wat Sydney, and I'm not going to have it happen
again. I will not be compromised in any way or shape with a man whom I
never mean to marry."

"Oh, well, I think by this time Aunt Maria understands this, only she
wants you to come back and be loving to her, and say you're sorry you
can't, etc. After all, Aunt Maria is devoted to us and is miserable
when we are out with her."

"Well, I hate to have friends that one must be always bearing with and
deferring to."

"Well, Alice, you remember Mr. St. John's sermons on the trials of the
first Christians--when he made us all feel that it would have been a
blessed chance to go to the stake for our religion?"

"Yes; it was magnificent. I felt a great exaltation."

"Well, I'll tell you what I thought. It may be as heroic, and more
difficult, to put down our own temper and make the first concession to
an unreasonable old aunt who really loves us than to be martyrs for
Christ. Nobody wants us to be martyrs now-a-days; but I think these
things that make no show and have no glory are a harder cross to take
up."

"Well, Eva, I'll do as you say," said Alice, after a few moments
of silence, "for really you speak the truth. I don't know anything
harder than to go and make concessions to a person who has acted
as ridiculously as Aunt Maria has, and who will take all your
concessions and never own a word on her side."
