" And how does he get on with the Mormons ? " 

"Excellently. He lets them talk, and sells them 
fish, and shuts his eyes to everything elsa" 

" What is his name ? " 



 

" "Well, over there they call him the Preacher, princi- 
pally because he does not preach, I suppose. It is a 
way they have over on Beaver to call people names ; 
they call me Believer." 

" Believer ? " 

"Yes, because I believe nothing; at least so they 
think" 

A few days later, out they sailed over the freed 
water, around the point, through the sedge-gate grow- 
ing green again, across the channelled marsh, and out 
towards the Beavers, Fog and Waring, armed as if 
for a foray. 

" Why ? " asked Waring. 

" It 's safer ; the Mormons are a queer lot," was the 
reply. 

When they came in sight of the islands, the younger 
man scanned them curiously. Some years later an ex- 
pedition composed of exasperated crews of lake schoon- 
ers, exasperated fishermen, exasperated mainland set- 
tlers, sailed westward through the straits bound for 
these islands, armed to the teeth and determined upon 
vengeance and slaughter. False lights, stolen nets, 
and stolen wives were their grievances; and no aid 
coming from the general government, then as now 
sorely perplexed over the Mormon problem, they took 
justice into their own hands and sailed bravely out, 
with the stars and stripes floating from the mast of 
their flag-ship, an old scow impressed for military 



 

service. But this was later ; and when Fog and Waring 
came scudding into the harbor, the wild little village 
existed in all its pristine outlawry, a city of refuge for 
the flotsam vagabondage of the lower lakes. 

" Perhaps he will not come with us," suggested 
Waring. 

" I have thought of that, but it need not delay us 
long," replied Fog ; " we can kidnap him." 

" Kidnap him ? " 

" Yes ; he is but a small chap," said the old man, 
tranquilly. 

They fastened their boat to the long log-dock, 
and started ashore. The houses of the settlement 
straggled irregularly along the beach and inland to- 
wards the fields where fine crops were raised by the 
Saints, who had made here, as is their custom every- 
where, a garden in the- wilderness; the only defence 
was simple but strong, an earthwork on one of the 
white sand-hills back of the village, over whose ram- 
part peeped two small cannon, commanding the harbor. 
Once on shore, however, a foe found only a living, 
moving rampart of flesh and blood, as reckless a set of 
villains as New World history can produce. But this 
rampart came together only in times of danger ; ordi- 
nary visitors, coming by twos and threes, they wel- 
