
'What has come to my lad's lady?'

A quick spasm of pain passed over the face she was watching. 
'Hush!' the girl said under her breadth. 'I am not that.'

'Then something wants to be set right,' said the old woman quietly. 
'What is it, dear? Tell me, and the Lord will shew us how to do.'

'If He cared, he would have hindered,' said Hazel drearily.

'He doesn't hinder, sometimes, to shew us that he cares,' said Gyda. 
'You may not question his love, dear; you'll be sure to get wrong if 
you do.' And then bending nearer, so as to look close in the girl's 
face, with her little black eyes shining both keen and tender, she 
repeated, 'My lad's lady, what is it? I am his servant, and so I am 
her servant.'

If anything could have broken down the fierce self-control in 
which Hazel had been entrenched for the last ten days, it was 
perhaps the repetition of those words. But tears were biding their 
time; none had come, none could come yet. Only her lips 
trembled.

'Please, please!' she said, raising her hand in mute pleading. Then 
adding, in a tone that went to Gyda's heart, 'He has doubted my 
word. There is nothing to be done.'

'My lad? Olaf?'

'Yes.'

'It seems ye've doubted him. Is that it?'

'His truth? Never.'

'Nein, not his truth. But you have doubted him, yet. What cause 
had he to doubt your word?'

'Appearances. They were all against me. But there is no use in 
trusting, unless you trust.'

'Has Olaf done you wrong, you think, and no cause?'

'I did not come to complain of him,' said the girl quickly. 'ButI 
had nobody to speak toand I wasdying by inches.'

'Suppose you complain, dear,' said the old woman, with a smile 
which was anything but unsympathetic. 'Complain, and make the 
worst of it; then we will know how to begin. Say all he has done, 
as bad as it is, and we will see what it means, maybe.'

The wistful eyes looked up at her, then down again. She answered 
softly:

'He thought, he had reason to think, that I had broken my promise. 
And he did not wait, nor try, for an explanation. That is one thing.'

'How could he have reason to think that, my lady?'

'Because of something I could not help,' said Hazel. 'You know 
that can be,' she added with an appealing look, as if to see whether 
Gyda doubted her too.

'Did you speak to him?'

'He gave me no chance. I have not seen him sincesincehe 
looked at me so,' said Hazel.

'Maybe he had his own part to bear,' said the old woman. 'But Olaf 
will be back again in a few days.'

'Yes,'said the girl slowly,'that makes no difference. He has 
given me up.'

'Love doesn't give up,' said Gyda. 'He asked me, a few days ago, to 
pray for him, that he might be strong to do right. I wot, it'll be an 
easier part then he thought of!'

But the words touched a sore spot. 'No,' the girl thought to herself. 
