
CHAPTER XXI. 

" She is not dead, and she is not wed, 

And she loves me now, and she loved me then : 
At the very first word her sweet lips said, 
My heart grew youthful again." OWEX MEREDITH. 

ARTHUR DUDLEY, after the fii-st keenness of his disap 
pointment, had thrown himself, heart and soul, into his 
church-work. The new building had come opportunely. 
It contented him in staying. It brought him into active, 
friendly interests with the Kinnards again. He understood 
now, by Daisy's continued avoidance of him, that her 
refusal was in earnest ; not from coquetry, or an}* girlish 
ignorance, or even momentary offencs. 

He saw so little of her through the winter ! During the 
summer, he exchanged with Mr. Duncan ; and, though 
warmly pressed to stay at the rectory, he had declined 
courteously, with the better grace because he had prom 
ised to spend the time with a friend. He and Miss 
Endicott had been pleasantly polite ; but the old cordiality 
was wanting. 

Then the}* had gone through another winter, meeting on 
rare occasions. Daisy staid so little at Edgerly now ! 
It was not until the birth of the baby, that she appeared 
to resume her olden place. Then she rode out with the 
doctor, and drove Nelly in the pony-carriage. 

One day Dr. Kinnard had brought her to inspect the 
church. The general depression of business had been 
rather in their favor. One and another, while out of em 
ployment, had given the labor of their hands ; and, on 

St. James's Day, the church was to be consecrated, 
though the tower was not jet completed, and msLny little 
things remained. The windows had been put in (nearly 
all of them gifts) ; and the wood-work was being rapidly 
finished. 

The main part was designed for a permanent structure ; 
but, at the chancel end, a temporary room had been 
erected to serve for. the Sunday school and business- 
meetings at present, and until the church should need 
enlarging. 


Daisy and the doctor were rambling about, and com 
menting. There was much to praise, and very little to 
blame. It was simple, neat, and not at all common. 

" The ladies are to have the carpet all ready," said the 
doctor. " The chancel furniture is to be a gift from 
Mrs. Warner's mother ; and the O Dudley ! " 

Daisy turned with a quick rift of color, and a smile, so 
like the Daisy of old times, that he held out his hand with 
a sudden, cordial movement ; and in that clasp they seemed 
to renew their friendship. 

" Did she like the windows? What did she think of 
the color of the wall? They were to have some illumi 
nated emblems in the chancel. The organ was to stand 
here, and the choir just within reach. He liked so to hear 
the voices ? Would she be likely to stay or to come 
over to the consecration? " 

He asked that hesitatingly, and stooped to pick some 
thing from the floor. 

" We are going to keep her for a while," said Dr. 
Kinnard. " Mrs. Kinnard and the baby cannot do with 
out her." 

' ' Have j'ou decided upon the christening ? ' ' 

" Yes. We had delayed on account of the difficulty of 
