Francis Xavier, in 1548, protesting that he had spent
every thing he had in supplying the wants of his comrades
in arms. He declared that he had not a change
of linen, or money enough to buy him a chicken for his
dinner. Most of the enormous wealth of the Indies
had passed through his hands; and he had not stolen
a vintem of it. What an example for modern office–holders!
When he was dead, only one vintem—about
two cents—was found in his coffers. His descendants
were prohibited from deriving any profit from the cultivation
of this property.

The rest of the time was given to wandering about
among the estates of the wealthy men, including some
of the foreign ministers, who have quintas in Cintra.

After a lunch, the excursionists proceeded to Mafra,
about ten miles from Cintra. This place contains an
enormous pile of buildings on the plan of the Escurial,
and rather larger, if any thing. It was erected by
John V. to carry out his vow to change the poorest
monastery into the most magnificent one when Heaven
would give him a son. It contains eight hundred and
sixty–six apartments; but the only one of interest to
the students was the audience–chamber, preserved as it
was when the palace was inhabited by Dom John.

It was late in the evening when the Princes returned
to Lisbon; and they were rather glad to learn that the
ship was to sail for Barcelona after breakfast the next
morning.

“I am rather sorry that we do not go to Oporto,”
said the doctor, when the captain informed him of the
order. “It is an old city set on a hillside; but it
would not interest the students any more than Lisbon
has.”

“By the way, doctor, we have not seen any port
wine,” added Sheridan.

“It is not a great sight to look at the casks that contain
port wine. In Porto, not Oporto in Portugal, it is
not the black, logwood decoction which passes under
the name of port in the United States, though it is
darker than ordinary wines. It gets its color and flavor
from the peculiarity of the grapes that grow in the
vicinity of Porto.”

The officers were tired enough to turn in. Early the
next morning the fires were roaring in the furnaces of
the Prince; at a later hour the pipe of the boatswain
was heard; and at half–past eight the steamer was
standing down the river. As the students had not
come to Lisbon from the sea, they all gathered on the
deck and in the rigging to see the surroundings.

“That building on the height is the palace of Ajuda,
where the present king ordinarily resides,” said the
surgeon, when the captain pointed it out to one of the
officers. “A temporary wooden house was built on
that hill for the royal family after the earthquake. It
is very large for this little kingdom, but is only one–third
of the size it was intended to be. It was erected
by John VI.; or, rather, it was begun by him, for it is
not finished.”

“You can see the buildings on the Cintra hills,”
added Murray.

“Yes; and you can see them better from the ocean.”

“That is Belem Castle,” said Sheridan, as the ship
approached the mouth of the river. “I saw a picture
of it in an illustrated paper at home.”

“It is called the Tower of Belem; and there is a
palace with the same name on the shore. This is half
Gothic and half Moorish. It is round, and the style is
unique. What it was built for, no one knows. I suppose
