admiration for beauty,—what is the trouble that keeps us apart? At
first I was too blindly happy to perceive it; now tears have cleared my
eyes, and I see that he hides something from me,—something which he
longs, yet dares not tell.”

“I know: I saw it long ago; but Jasper alone can tell that secret. He
holds Felix by it, and I fear the knowledge would be worse than the
suspicion. Let it be: time sets all things right, and it is ill
thwarting my poor cousin. I have a charming plan for you and Felix; and,
when you have him to yourself, you may be able to win his confidence,
as, I am sure, you have already won his heart.”

Then Olivia told her plan, which was both generous and politic; since it
made Gladys truly happy, proved her own sincerity, secured her own peace
and that of the men whose lives seemed to become more and more
inextricably tangled together.

“Now I shall go to Jasper, and conquer all his opposition; for I know I
am right. Dear little creature, what is it about you that makes one feel
both humble and strong when one is near you?” asked Olivia, looking down
at Gladys with a hand on either shoulder, and genuine wonder in the eyes
still soft with unwonted tears.

“God made me truthful, and I try to keep so; that is all,” she answered,
simply.

“That is enough. Kiss me, Gladys, and make me better. I am not good
enough to be the mother that I might have been to you; but I am a
friend; believe that, and trust me, if you can?”

“I do;” and Gladys sealed her confidence with both lips and hand.

“Jasper, I have invited those children to spend the summer at the villa,
since you have decided for the sea. Gladys is mortally tired of this
hot-house life, so is Felix: give them a long holiday, or they will run
away together. Mrs. Bland and I will take care of you till they come
back.”

Olivia walked in upon Helwyze with this abrupt announcement, well
knowing that persuasion would be useless, and vigorous measures surest
to win the day. Artful as well as courageous in her assault, she
answered in that one speech several objections against her plan, and
suggested several strong reasons for it, sure that he would yield the
first, and own the latter.

He did, with unexpected readiness; for a motive which she could not
fathom prompted his seemingly careless acquiescence. He had no thought
of relinquishing his hold on Canaris, since through him alone he held
Gladys; but he often longed to escape from both for a time, that he
might study and adjust the new power which had come into his life,
unbidden, undesired. Surprise and disappointment were almost
instantaneously followed by a sense of relief when Olivia spoke; for he
saw at once that this project was a wiser one than she knew.

Before her rapid sentences were ended, the thought had come and gone,
the decision was made, and he could answer, in a tone of indifference
which both pleased and perplexed her,—

“Amiable woman, with what helpful aspirations are you blest. Seeing your
failure with Felix, I have been wondering how I should get rid of him
till he recovers from this comically tardy passion for his wife. They
can have another and a longer honeymoon up at the villa, if they like:
the other was far from romantic, I suspect. Well, why that sphinx-like
expression, if you please?” he added, as Olivia stood regarding him from
behind the fading hawthorn which she forgot to offer.

“I was wondering if I should ever understand you, Jasper.”

“Doubtful, since I shall never understand myself.”

“You ought, if any man; for you spend your life in studying yourself.”

“And the more I study, the less I know. It is very like a child with a
toy ark: I never know what animal may appear first. I put in my hand for
a dove, and I get a serpent; I open the door for the sagacious elephant,
and out rushes a tiger; I think I have found a favorite dog, and it is a
wolf, looking ready to devour me. An unsatisfactory toy, better put it
away and choose another.”

Helwyze spoke in the half-jesting, half-serious way habitual to him; but
