tized." And Landolf kneels down by his friend's 
couch and prays, and Heinrich on his bed joins in 
the prayer, and they hold up to the Lord the word 
that he had given "If two of you shall agree on 
earth as touching anything that ye shall ask, it 
shall be done for them of my Father which is in 
heaven;" and they doubt not that he is the Al 
mighty and living God; therefore they ask that 
He will give strength and grace, that Heinrich 
may come to his daughter Ikia and see her baptism. And when they had finished praying, Hein 
rich rose up from his couch; bade them bring his 
horse ; begged his friend and his son to help him 
to mount; and when he was seated on the beast's 
back he went forward, up the Oerze, towards the 
sanctuary of Freija, where Ikia was priestess. Lan 
dolf on one side, Schwerting on the other side, led 
the horse, and supported the tottering old man. 
Whoever met the procession joined it, for Gad's 
hand was plainly there; and after three hours of 
travelling Heinrich reached Ikia. He found her 
dying, but still in full possession of her senses. A 
 
happy smile flowed over her death-white features. 
"Father," said she, "the Christian's God is the true 
God. His hand has been too strong for me. I have 
been a godless child towards you; will you forgive 
me?" "My child," said her father, "I have for 
given you; and I have prayed to my God that he 
would not let me die till I have seen your conversion and that of your brothers, till I have seen you 
turn from false gods to the living God who has 
made heaven and earth, who has died for sinners 
and made intercession for the transgressors. I for 
give thee, my daughter, and Christ also forgives 
thee, if thou wilt be baptized for the remission of 
sins. See here," pointing to Landolf, " here is the 
priest of the Lord. Let Landolf baptize my child, 
before she dies. Ikia, wilt thou be baptized?" She 
said, "Father, will Christ take me?" "My child, I 
have received you and not been angry with you, 
and I am a sinful man. And Christ, my Lord, is 
the Son of God; he died for sinners; and now he 
lives, and has the keys of hell and of death. He 
will receive thee, only believe." She turned her 
eyes inquiringly upon Landolf, and he spoke ; " Ikia, 
it is written in the word of my God, * this is a faithful saying and worthy of all acceptation, that Christ 
Jesus came into the world to save sinners, of whom 
I am chief.' So says the holy apostle Paul. And 
Jesus spoke to the thief on the cross, who had just 
been reviling him, but now had bethought himself, 
turned, and said, 'Lord, remember me when thou 
comest into thy kingdom' He said to him, 'Verily, I say unto thee, this day slialt thou be with me 
in paradise ! ' ' : " Then baptize me, father, before I 
die. I believe that Christ is the Son of God." And 
Schwerting went out and fetched water in a bowl, 
and handed the bowl to Landolf. But when Landolf had spoken the prayer over the water and was 
about to baptize Ikia in the name of the Triune 
God, then down kneeled Schwerting at the side of 
his sister's couch; and from the crowd of people 
collected before the open door hurriedly broke forth 
two tall men and kneeled down by Schwerting's 
side; and all three cried out, "Father, baptize us 
with our sister ! " The baptism was performed. 
And when it was done, and over the four newly 
baptized had been spoken the word " The God of 
all grace by whom you have been born again in 
the washing of regeneration and renewing of the 
Holy Ghost, strengthen you and uphold you firm 
in the faith unto the end. Peace be with you," 
then the voice of old Heinrich who had sunk on 
his knees, came out in a shout of joy. " Lord, now 
lettest thou thy servant depart in peace, for my 
eyes have seen the salvation which I prayed the 
Lord for ; that he would not suffer me to die before 
I had seen the conversion of my children." And 
when he had said that, he bowed his head and de 
parted; and Landolf caught the dying man in his 
faithful arms. Ikia however did not die ; the Lord, 
who had quickened her spiritually, gave her also her 
bodily life again. She recovered, and her recovery 
was a new salvation. For soon after, Freija's altar 
