sand dollars on a mortgage for a year. Business was 
straightened up a little, and we all felt encouraged. 

But the spring trade was nothing, and living was get- 
ting quite expensive. A year of war had brought about 
no results, except to show us it must be a life-and-death 
struggle, — a country, or ruin. 

Meanwhile my own experiences had been going on. 
Theo and I were asked to take part in an amateur dra- 
matic entertainment for the benefit of the widows and or- 
phans of one of our regiments that had suffered severely. 
It was to take place on the 22d of February. There were 
to be two pretty little comedies, and some elegant ta- 
bleaux. 

The second evening of our practising I was introduced 
to Horace Sargent. He was a young lawyer who had 
recently come to Northwood, and was junior partner in 
the old firm of Sargent & Fanning. Old Mr. Sargent, 
one of onr leading lawyers, and a man who had held sev- 
eral high political and judicial positions, was a cousin of 
his father. 

A fine-looking man of eight and twenty, perhaps, who 
reminded me wonderfully of Mr. Danforth. He was a fin- 
ished reader and a most excellent Shaksperian scholar, as 
I afterward learned, and in no wise conceited or pedantic. 
We had some merry passages that evening, and felt 
strangely well acquainted when we separated. 

We talk a good deal of the intuitive sense that warns us 





of danger, or presages future delights ; yet, after all, hoTt 
futile the occult judgment really is ! It may be very dam 
gerous, yet with no word or look or misgiving to rouse, 
until it has done its fatal work ; or it may be excellent, 
perhaps the very influence we need, yet possess some 
curious repellant force. We like what suits us ; and 
though it may be better not to like, to hold aloof, how can 
one always judge rightly? 

Between us there was an instant sympathy. His soft, 
mellow laugh roused within me the puzzling, indistinct 
memory of something heard in another phase of existence, 
as we say. 

We were all gay and bright with the badinage and 
laughter that youth loves. I look back now, and think 
how sweet youth is. No wonder poets never weary of 
singing its praises ; but, ah ! how carelessly we cast those 
golden days behind us ! 

I had part in the comedy : I was considered to have 
quite a gift that way. Theo stood in some tableaux. I 
must describe her to you, now that she has come to the 
estate of young ladyhood, — this same bright, bewildering, 
seductive youth. The Duchess of Abrantes, writing of 
the Empress Josephine, said she was that most beautiful 
height in woman, — one inch over five feet. It may be 
for a French woman ; but we thought Theo rather petite. 
A slender, lithe figure, lovely shoulders, and beautifully- 
rounded arms, with the softest and whitest of hands, and 
a peculiar magnetic touch. Her hair was very dark, but 
not black : duskj' just expresses it. It lay in great waves 
on her forehead ; not the small prettiness of regularly curly 
hair, but a luxuriousness that was of the Oriental t}q)e. 
Her eyes were changeable, sometimes of a deep blue, at 
others a pure dark gray ; and, when she was vexed or very 
happy, the dusky look came in them that made them match 
her hair. Her complexion had a creamy tint, with a sort 
of peach-bloom, that came and went most bewitchingly, 


 

