was in the home of another, and dependent. No 
wonder the truth that all of God 's ways are in 
love and mercy, was afar off from her perceptions, 
and but dimly seen. She was one of those who 
tenderly love children. In her own babes, her 
very life had rested ; rested in such overweening 
tenderness, that weak indulgence took the place 
of a wise maternal discipline. She could not 
bear to cross their natural desires in anything, 
even though reason told her that it was essential 
to their higher good. Better for them, the wiser 
ministrations of angels, in the heaven of inno 
cence, than the weak compliances of an over-fond 
mother. They were safe, and she sorrowing for 
their loss as one without hope. Widowed and 



 

childless ! Ah, the night was very dark around 
the mourner! 

Mrs. Fielding had an active, independent mind. 
As her bowed spirit lifted itself, feebly, under the 
weight which had at first crushed her to the earth, 
and she began to realize her new position and relation to the world, thought turned in all direc 
tions, searching for the right way. She could not 
sit down, with folded hands, and become a burden 
some drone ; pride, if no higher impulse, would 
have forbidden that. But, like far too many 
young ladies, whose parents expend large sums 
on their education, she had closed her school-girl 
days without a thorough knowledge of any one 
of the branches to which she had given attention. 
She had a clear, intelligent mind, and was regarded as a well-educated woman ; but her education was not of the kind to fit her for the duties 
of a teacher. She was not well grounded in Eng 
lish ; nor in French, Italian, or German, though 
she had attempted the acquirement of these languages under competent instructors. For music, 



 

she had no taste ; and, though she played tolerably well at the time of her marriage, her skill 
soon left her, for want of practice. Tenderly she 
loved children, as we have said, and this love led 
her thoughts out towards them in her questioning 
as to the future, and she was beginning to think 
of a school for little ones. " I can teach them," 
she said. And of this, it had come into her 
thought to speak several times. But, the way 
did not look clear before her yet. 

"All His ways are in mercy." She was still 
dwelling upon what the minister had said, and 
trying to see how affliction and poverty could be 
in mercy to her, when a friend who had drawn 
very near since her days of darkness began, came 
in. 

" It must be so," Mrs. Fielding said, referring 
to the minister 's words, " and yet, in coming down 
to my own case, doubt arises. In my heart, I 
cannot accept this faith." 

" The time is not yet, but it will come," an 
swered the friend, " for it is a true faith. God 's 



 

ways are not our ways especially not as our 
ways in regard to the individual alone. Good is 
always the end of God 's providences ; not good to 
you or to me only, in the dispensations that reach 
us, but good, as well, to all who can in any way 
be affected through our lives. Did you ever 
think of that ?" 
