claimed Diana's full time and strength, as well as her 
mother's, she had scarcely a minute to think ; and that 
was one reason no doubt, why she went through them with 
such unchanged composure. They were all behind her at 
last. Everything was in order and readiness, down to the 
smallest particular, and it was with a dull sense of this 
that Diana went up to her room the last night before her 
wedding day. It was all done, and the time was all gone. 
She went in slowly went to the window, opened it and 
sat down before it. June had come again ; one day of 
June was passed, and to-morrow would be the second. 
Through the bustle of May, Diana had hardly given a look 
to the weather or a thought to the time of year ; it greeted 
her now at her window like a dear old friend that she had 
been forgetting. The moon about an hour high gave a 
gentle illumination through the dewy air, revealing plainly 
enough the level meadows, and the hills which made their 
distant bordering. The scent of roses and honeysuckles 
was abroad ; just under Diana's window there was a honey- 
suckle vine in full blossom, and the rich, peculiar fragrance 
came in heavily laden puffs of air ; the softest of breezes 
brought them, stirring the little leaves lazily, and just 
touched Diana's face, sweet and tender, reminding, caress- 
ing. Reminding of what ? For it began to stir vaguely 
and uneasily in Diana's heart. Things not thought of be- 
fore put in a claim to be looked at. This her home and 
sanctuary for so many years, it was to be hers no longer 
This was the last night at her window, by her honeysuckle 
vine. She would not have another evening the enjoyment 
of her wonted favourite view over the fields and hills ; she 
had done with all that. Other scenes, another home, 
would claim her ; and then slowly rose the thought that 
her freedom was gone ; this was the last time she would 
belong to herself. Oddly enough, nothing of all this had 
come under consideration before. Diana had been stunned ; 
she had believed for a long time that she was dead, mentally ; she had been as it were in a slumber, partly of hopelessness, partly of preoccupation ; now the time of waking 
had come ; and the hidden life in her stirred and rose 
and shivered with the consciousness that it was alive and in 
its full strength, and what it meant for it to be alive now. As 
I said, Diana's nature was too sound and well balanced and 
strong for anything to crush it or even any part of it ; and 
now she knew that the nerves of feeling she thought Evan 
had killed for ever, were all astir and quivering and would 
never be fooled into slumbering again. I cannot tell how 
all this dawned and broke to her consciousness. She had 
sat down at her window a calm, weary-hearted girl, placid, 
and with even a dull sort of content upon her ; so she had 
sat and dreamed awhile ; and then, June and moonlight, 
and her honeysuckle, and the roses, and the memory of 
her free childish days, and the image of her lost lover, and 
the thought of where she was standing, by degrees how 
gently they did it, too, roused her and pricked her up to 
the consciousness of what she going to do. What was she 
going to do ? Marry a man who had no real place in her 
heart. She had thought it did not matter ; she had thought 
she was dead ; now all at once she knew that she was 
alive in every fibre, and that it mattered fearfully. The 
idea of Mr. Masters stung her, not as novel writers say 
' almost to madness,' for there was no such irregularity 
in Diana's round, sound, healthy nature, but to pain that 
seemed unbearable. No confusion in her brain, and no 
dulness now ; on the contrary, an intense consciousness 
of all that her position involved. She had made a mistake, 
like many another ; unlike many, she had found it out early. 
She was going to marry a man to whom she had no love to 
give ; and she knew now that the life she must thenceforth 
lead would be daily torture. Almost the worse because she 
had for Mr. Masters so deep a respect and so true an appre- 
ciation. And he loved her ; of that there was no question ; 
the whole affection of the best man she had ever known, 
was bestowed upon her, and in his hopes he saw doubtless a 
future when she would have learnt to return his love. 
'And I never shall,' thought Diana. ' Never, as long as I live. 
I wonder if I shall get to hate him, because I am obliged 
to live with him ? All the heart I have is Evan's, and will 
be Evan's ; it don't make any difference that he was not 
worthy of me, as I suppose he wasn't ; I have given, and I 
cannot take back. And now I must live with this other 
man ! ' Diana shuddered already. 
She shed no tears. Happy are they whose grief can 
