Still New England survives. To what purpose? 
I say, as an example : the politician says, to produce 
" Poor Boys." Bah ! The poor boy is an anachro- 
nism in civilization. He is no longer poor, and he is 
not a boy. In Tartary they would hang him for 
sucking all the asses' milk that belongs to the chil- 
dren : in New England he has all the cream from the 
Public Cow. What can you expect in a country 
where one knows not to-day what the weather will be 
to-morrow ? Climate makes the man. Suppose he, 
too, dwells on the Channel Islands, where he has all 





climates, and is superior to all. Perhaps he will be- 
come the prophet, the seer, of his age, as he is its Poet. 
The New-Englander is the man without a climate. 
Why is his country recognized ? You won't find it 
on any map of Paris. 

And yet Paris is the universe. Strange anomaly ! 
The greater must include the less ; but how if the less 
leaks out? This sometimes happens. 

And yet there are phenomena in that country worth 
observing. One of them is the conduct of Nature 
from the 1st of March to the 1st of June, or, as some 
say, from the vernal equinox to the summer solstice. 
As Tourmalain remarked, " You 'd better observe the 
unpleasant than to be blind." This was in 802. Tour- 
malain is dead ; so is Gross Alain ; so is little Pee- 
Wee: we shall all be dead before things get any 
better. 

That is the law. Without revolution there is no- 
thing. What is revolution? It is turning society 
over, and putting the best underground for a fertilizer. 
Thus only will things grow. What has this to do with 
New England ? In the language of that flash of social 
lightning, Beranger, " May the Devil fly away with 
me if I can see ! " 

Let us speak of the period in the year in New Eng- 
land when winter appears to hesitate. Except in the 
calendar, the action is ironical ; but it is still decep- 
tive. The sun mounts high : it is above the horizon 
twelve hours at a time. The snow gradually sneaks 
away in liquid repentance. One morning it is gone, 
except in shaded spots and close by the fences. From 
about the trunks of the trees it has long departed : 
the tree is a living thing, and its growth repels it. 
The fence is dead, driven into the earth in a rigid line 

by man : the fence, in short, is dogma : icy prejudice 
lingers near it. 

The snow has disappeared; but the landscape is a 
ghastly sight, — bleached, dead. The trees are stakes ; 
the grass is of no color ; and the bare soil is not brown 
with a healthful brown ; life has gone out of it. Take 
up a piece of turf: it is a clod, without warmth, inanimate. Pull it in pieces : there is no hope in it : it 
is a part of the past ; it is the refuse of last year. This 
is the condition to which winter has reduced the landscape. When the snow, which was a pall, is removed, 
you see how ghastly it is. The face of the country is 
sodden. It needs now only the south wind to sweep 
over it, full of the damp breath of death ; and that 
begins to blow. No prospect would be more dreary. 

And yet the south wind fills credulous man with joy. 
He opens the window. He goes out, and catches cold. 
He is stirred by the mysterious coming of something. 
If there is sign of change nowhere else, we detect it in 
the newspaper. In sheltered corners of that truculent 
instrument for the diffusion of the prejudices of the 
few among the many begin to grow the violets of ten- 
der sentiment, the early greens of yearning. The 
poet feels the sap of the new year before the marsh- 
willow. He blossoms in advance of the catkins. Man 
