ready to take her cue when she understood it ; 
but she liked to understand it, and on this occa- 
sion comprehension failed. What, indeed, was 
the Baroness doing dans cette galere ? what fish 
did she expect to land out of these very stagnant 
waters ? The game was evidently a deep one. 
Augustine could trust her ; but the sense of walk- 
ing in the dark betrayed itself in the physiognomy 
of this spare, sober, sallow, middle-aged person, 
who had nothing in common with Gertrude Went- 
worth's conception of a soubrette, by the most 
ironical scowl that had ever rested upon the un- 
pretending tokens of the peace and plenty of 



   

the Wentworths. Fortunately, Augustine could 
quench skepticism in action. She quite agreed 
with her mistress or rather she quite outstripped 
her mistress in thinking that the little white 
house was pitifully bare. " II faudra," said Au- 
gustine, " lui faire un peu de toilette." And she 
began to hang up portieres t in the doorways; to 
place wax candles, procured after some research, 
in unexpected situations ; to dispose anomalous 
draperies over the arms of sofas and the backs of 
chairs. The Baroness had brought with her to 
the New World a copious provision of the element 
of costume ; and the two Miss Wentworths, when 
they came over to see her, were somewhat bewild- 
ered by the obtrusive distribution of her ward- 
robe. There were India shawls suspended, cur- 
tain-wise, in the parlor door, and curious fabrics, 
corresponding to Gertrude's metaphysical vision 
of an opera-cloak, tumbled about in the sitting- 
places. There were pink silk blinds in the win- 
dows, by which the room was strangely bedimmed ; 
and along the chimney-piece was disposed a re- 
markable band of velvet, covered with coarse, 
dirty-looking lace. " I have been making myself 
a little comfortable," said the Baroness, much to 
the confusion of Charlotte, who had been on the 
point of proposing to come and help her put her 
superfluous draperies away. But what Charlotte 



 

mistook for an almost culpably delayed subsidence 
Gertrude very presently perceived to be the most 
ingenious, the most interesting, the most romantic 
intention. "What is life, indeed, without cur- 
tains ? " she secretly asked herself ; and she ap- 
peared to herself to have been leading hitherto an 
existence singularly garish and totally devoid of 
festoons. 

Felix was not a young man who troubled him- 
self greatly about anything least of all about the 
conditions of enjoyment. His faculty of enjoy- 
ment was so large, so unconsciously eager, that it 
may be said of it that it had a permanent ad- 
vance upon embarrassment and sorrow. His sen- 
tient faculty was intrinsically joyous, and novelty 
and change were in themselves a delight to him. 
As they had come to him with a great deal of fre- 
quency, his life had been more agreeable than 
appeared. Never was a nature more perfectly 
fortunate. It was not a restless, apprehensive, 
ambitious spirit, running a race with the tyranny 
of fate, but a temper so unsuspicious as to put 
Adversity off her guard, dodging and evading her 
with the easy, natural motion of a wind-shifted 
flower. Felix extracted entertainment from all 
things, and all his faculties his imagination, his 
intelligence, his affections, his senses had a hand 
in the game. It seemed to him that Eugenia and 
