pork. Season them with a mixture of pepper, salt, and mace. Put into a
saucepan; cover with a little of yesterday’s soup, if you have no other
gravy, and a spoonful of tomato catsup. If you have a spoonful or two
of green peas left from Sunday, put them in, and a little minced onion.
Cover, and cook slowly half an hour. Turn the chops, and cook twenty
minutes longer. Take out, and keep warm. Strain the gravy; thicken with
browned flour and a tablespoonful of chopped cucumber pickle; boil two
minutes. Put in the chops, and simmer three minutes. Arrange the chops
upon a hot dish, and cover with the gravy.
TOMATO SAUCE.
Stew a can of tomatoes twenty minutes. Pulp through a colander, and put
back into the saucepan, with pepper, salt, sugar, and a great spoonful
of butter rolled in flour. Simmer twenty minutes more, or until the
sauce is of the consistency of boiled custard.
LIMA BEANS.
Soak the dried beans all night. Next day, cook soft, putting them on in
cold water, and boiling slowly. Drain; season with pepper, salt, and
butter, and dish.
MACARONI À LA CRÊME.
Cook—having broken it into short pieces—half a pound of macaroni ten
minutes in boiling water. Pour this off, and add a cupful of milk, with
a little salt. Stew tender in this. In another saucepan heat a cup of
milk, thicken with a teaspoonful of flour, stir in a tablespoonful of
butter, and, at last, a beaten egg. Drain the macaroni; dish; stir
through it two heaping tablespoonfuls of grated cheese, with a little
cayenne. Pour on the sauce, and serve.
APPLE AND TAPIOCA PUDDING.
1 teacupful tapioca; 6 pippins, pared and cored; 1 quart of water; 1
teaspoonful of salt; a little grated lemon-peel; sugar; cloves.
Cover the tapioca with three cups of tepid water, and set in a warm
place for five hours, stirring once in a while. Pack the apples in a
pudding-dish, with a pinch of lemon-peel in each. Add a cup of warm
water; cover closely, and cook in a moderate oven, turning as they cook
at the bottom. When soft, drain off the water, fill the centre of each
apple with sugar, put a clove in each, and pour over them the tapioca.
Cover, and bake one hour. Eat warm, with hard sauce.
  Third Week.      Wednesday.
  ——
  Rabbit Soup.
  Venison Steaks.      Oyster Salad.
  Stewed Celery.      Potatoes à la Lyonnaise.
  ——
  Cottage Pudding.
  ——
RABBIT SOUP.
1 large rabbit; 2 lbs. of beef-bones; 2 slices lean corned ham; 1 large
onion; bunch of sweet herbs; 2 tablespoonfuls of tomato sauce; 3
quarts of water; raw egg; crumbs.
Put the rabbit, jointed, the cracked bones, sliced ham and onion, and
chopped herbs on in the water. Fit a tight cover upon the pot; set a
weight on top, and stew four hours. The meat should be in rags. Strain,
rubbing the vegetables through the colander. Season, cool, and take off
the fat. Put over the fire, add some tomato sauce left from yesterday,
boil up, and pour out. Chop a little of the soup-meat fine while the
soup is cooling; season; work in some fine crumbs and a beaten egg.
Make into balls, flour well, and fry in dripping. Put these into the
tureen before the soup goes in.
VENISON STEAKS.
Trim off the hard skin, and flatten each steak with the side of a
hatchet. Butter the gridiron well, and have the fire clear and hot.
Turn often, not to lose a drop of the juice. Cook three or four minutes
longer than you would beefsteaks. The Vertical Broiler is admirably
adapted for broiling venison. Have ready, in a hot chafing-dish, a
tablespoonful of butter for each pound of venison, a pinch of salt, a
little pepper, a tablespoonful of currant jelly for each pound, and a
glass of wine for every four pounds. This should be warmed by the hot
water beneath the dish, by the time the venison is laid in it. Turn the
steaks twice in it; cover; put fresh boiling water below, or light the
lamp, and let it stand five minutes before serving.
OYSTER SALAD.
1 quart of oysters—cut, not chopped, to pieces; 1 bunch of celery, also
cut small; 2 tablespoonfuls best salad oil; 1 teaspoonful of powdered
sugar; ½ teaspoonful of salt, and the same of pepper and of made
mustard; yolks of 2 raw eggs; 4 tablespoonfuls cider vinegar.
Beat the yolks light, with sugar, salt, pepper, and mustard. Whip in,
gradually, the oil until the mixture is thick; add the vinegar—beating
still—a little at a time. Put the oysters, drained and cut up, with the
celery, into a salad-dish; pour over them the dressing; stir in well;
garnish with a fringe of delicate celery-tops, and serve as soon as
possible.
