should come abroad and should spend a few 
weeks in England on their way to the Continent, 
they of course exchanged a good many allusions 
to their London acquaintance. 

" It will certainly be much nicer having friends 
there," Bessie Alden had said one day, as she 
sat, on the sunny deck of the steamer at her sister 's feet on a large blue rug. 

" Whom do you mean by friends ?" Mrs. West- 
gate asked. 

" All those English gentlemen whom you have 
known and entertained. Captain Littledale, for 
instance. And Lord Lambeth and Mr. Beau 
mont," added Bessie Alden. 

" Do you expect them to give us a very grand 
reception ?" 

Bessie reflected a moment ; she was addicted, 
as we know, to reflection. " Well, yes." 

" My poor sweet child," murmured her sister. 

" W r hat have I said that is so silly ?" asked 
Bessie. 

" You are a little too simple ; just a little. It 
is very becoming, but it pleases people at your 
expense." 

" I am certainly too simple to understand you," 
said Bessie. 

" Shall I tell y6u a story ?" asked her sister. 

"If you would be so good. That is what they 
do to amuse simple people." 

Mrs. Westgate consulted her memory, while 




her companion sat gazing at the shining sea. 
"Did you ever hear of the Duke of Green-Erin ?" 

"I think not," said Bessie. 

" Well, it 's no matter," her sister went on. 

"It 's a proof of my simplicity." 

" My story is meant to illustrate that of some 
other people," said Mrs. Westgate. " The Duke 
of Green-Erin is what they call in England a 
great swell, and some five years ago he came to 
America. He spent most of his time in New 
York, and in New York he spent his days and 
his nights at the Butterworths . You have heard, 
at least, of the Butterworths. JBien. They did 
every thing in the world for him they turned 
themselves inside out. They gave him a dozen 
dinner parties and balls, and were the means of 
his being invited to fifty more. At first he used 
to come into Mrs. Butterworth 's box at the opera 
in a tweed travelling suit ; but some one stopped 
that. At any rate, he had a beautiful time, and 
they parted the best friends in the world. Two 
years elapse, and the Butterworths come abroad 
and go to London. The first thing they see in 
all the papers in England those things are in. 
the most prominent place is that the Duke of 
Green-Erin has arrived in town for the Season. 
They wait a little, and then Mr. Butterworth as 
polite as ever goes and leaves a card. They 



