"Can you tell me his name? I may be acquainted with him."

"His name is Haynes."

"How much does he pay?"

"He pays eight dollars a week, and has the room alone."

"I suppose his room is not likely to become vacant soon?"

"Oh, dear, no. He has been with us for several years. We should be sorry
to lose him. Last Christmas he gave my daughter a present of a nice
silk-dress pattern."

Frank was struck by this information.

"I don't believe he paid anything for the silk," thought he. "I wish I
could find out."

He had learned all he cared for, and left, saying he might call again.

"His expenses seem very moderate for a man in his position," thought
Frank. "I wonder if he makes any investments."

Fortune favored our hero in the prosecution of his inquiry. Keeping
Haynes in sight, as was his custom, he observed that the latter, in
pulling out a handkerchief from the breast-pocket of his coat, had
brought with it a letter also. Frank, quickly and unobserved, picked it
up, and when he was alone looked at the address. It was directed to
James Haynes, at his residence in Waverley place. On the envelope was
the printed address of a real-estate broker in Brooklyn.

Frank knew that there was at that time considerable speculation in
Brooklyn real estate, and he examined the letter. It ran thus:--

     We have found a corner lot, with several lots adjoining, near
     Prospect Park, which may be obtained for five thousand dollars,
     half cash. We have no hesitation in recommending the purchase,
     being convinced, from the tendencies of the market, that the buyer
     will double his money in a comparatively short time. If you are
     engaged at other times, come over on Sunday afternoon, and we will
     show you the property. The house you purchased of us last year is
     worth fully a thousand dollars more than the price you gave.

"I wonder how much he gave," said Frank to himself.

The letter was signed "Henderson & Co., No. -- Fulton street."

Our hero was elated by the discovery he had made, and he sought an
interview with Mr. Hartley.

"Have you discovered anything?" asked the merchant, noticing the eager
look of his young detective.

Without attaching especial importance to the fact, Frank answered, "I
have found out that Mr. Haynes owns a house in Brooklyn."

"Indeed!" said Hartley, quickly. "But," he continued more slowly, "he
might buy one with the money saved from his salary."

"He is also thinking of buying some lots near Prospect Park."

"How did you learn this?" asked the merchant, surprised.

"I would rather not tell you," said Frank, who was not quite sure
whether Mr. Hartley would sanction his examination of a private letter.
"You may be sure that it is true."

"Very well; I will rest contented with that assurance. I will leave you
to work in your own way. Your information is important, for it seems to
show that Mr. Haynes has made investments beyond his ability, if he were
dependent upon his savings alone."

"That is what I thought," said Frank. "I must try to find out where he
gets this extra money."

"If you do that, and prove my suspicions correct, I will make you a
handsome present, besides paying the company regular rates for your
services."

