be brought to tolerate such an instrument of evil.

Tom was a country boy, and unsophisticated, but he could not help
understanding the nature of the business which brought so many to the
place.

"I suppose they are gambling," he said.

"Yes, poor, deluded creatures!" said the Scotchman, who had been brought
up to an abhorrence of games of chance. "They are wasting their time and
their substance, and foolishly laying up for themselves future misery."

Had this remark been heard it would have excited indignation, and
perhaps subjected the speaker to insult; but the players were too
intent upon their varying chances to pay any attention to the remarks of
by-standers.

"I hope, Tom, you will never yield to the seductive lures of the
gaming-table," continued Ferguson.

"I don't think there is much danger," said Tom. "I have always been
taught that gambling is wicked."

"May you long feel so, my lad!"

Tom did, however, watch the players with interest. He saw money lost and
won, without understanding exactly how it was decided. From the game his
attention was drawn to the gamesters. He was led to notice,
particularly, a young man of prepossessing countenance, who was
evidently profoundly excited. From time to time he drew out a roll of
gold pieces, which he placed on a card, and invariably lost. He must
have had a considerable sum; but, small or large, he was in ill-luck,
and constantly lost. As he neared the end of his resources the feverish
blush upon his handsome features was succeeded by a deep pallor, and
there was no mistaking the expression of deep anguish and despair which
announced that he had reached the end.

Tom became painfully interested in the young man, and silently drew the
attention of his companion to him. When the end came, and the victim,
thoroughly "cleaned out," turned to go out, Tom said, in a low voice,
"Let us follow him."

Ferguson acquiesced. He, too, had become interested, and the young man's
expression as he passed our two friends was so despairing that Ferguson
felt some alarm as to the effect of his disappointment upon his mind.

Once in the street, Ferguson and Tom followed the unfortunate young man
into an obscure street, keeping up with difficulty, for his pace was
rapid and excited. It proved to be a fortunate thing, for when he
supposed himself free from observation the young man drew a pistol, and,
with an incoherent exclamation, placed it in contact with his temple.

Tom sprang forward, and so did the Scotchman; but the boy was the
quicker and more agile, and dashed the pistol aside just in time to
prevent a suicide.

"Why did you do that?" asked the baffled would-be-suicide, gloomily,
turning his gaze upon Tom.

"I was afraid you were going to kill yourself."

"So I was."

"What could induce you to take such a rash step?" asked Ferguson.

"I have been a reckless fool. I have lost all my money at the accursed
gambling-table, and my life is not worth retaining."

"It appears to me," said the Scotchman, quietly, "that you set too high
a value upon money. You have certainly been very foolish to risk it at
the gaming-table, and the loss will no doubt inconvenience you; but was
your money all you had to live for?"

The young man regarded Ferguson with some surprise; but his excitement
was evidently abated. The quiet tone of the speaker had a favorable
effect upon him.

"I didn't think of it in that light," he admitted.

"Have you no relatives to whom your life is of value?"
