upon my heart with a sense almost of pain. Then 
I thought of those words 
" My beloved spake, and said unto me, Itise up, 
 
my love, my fair one, and come away. For, lo, the 
winter is past, the rain is over and gone; the flow 
ers appear on the earth ; the time of the singing of 
birds is come, and the voice of the turtle is heard 
in our land: the fig tree puttcth forth her green 
figs, and the vines with the tender grapes give a 
good smell. Arise, my love, my fair one, and come 
away." 
That is the voice of Christ to his church; but 
when is the time of it ? It must be in what the 
Bible calls "the morning," I should think; "the 
time of the restitution of all things;" and what 
is that but the spring of the year ? The time 
of those words "Arise, shine; for thy light is 
come, and the glory of the Lord is risen upon 
thee." And those other words "The wilderness 
and the solitary place shall^be glad for them; 
and the desert shall rejoice and blossom as the 
rose. It shall blossom abundantly, and rejoice 
even with joy and singing ; the glory of Lebanon 
shall be given unto it, the excellency of Carmel 
and Sharon. . . Then the eyes of the blind shall 
be opened, and the ears of the deaf shall be un 
stopped; then shall the lame man leap as an hart, 
and the tongue of the dumb sing ; for in the wilderness shall waters break out, and streams in the 
desert. And the parched ground shall become a 
pool, and the thirsty land springs of water; in the 
habitation of dragons, where each lay, shall be 
grass, with reeds and rushes." 
Will not that be spring ? I stood by the fence, 
looking and thinking and tasting all this as if for 
the first time. What a rich walk my walk was be 
coming to me ! But I could not remember accu 
rately all those words I have written above, and I 
did not want to wait till I got home. I thought I 
would accomplish two things at the first house 
where I went in. And then a whimsical idea 
struck me. The first house I came to, of course, 
was Deacon Parsons . Not much chance of find 
ing new reading matter there ; but at least I could 
find a Bible. 
Mrs. Parsons was sitting up, and the deacon 
was keeping her company, and I believe reading 
the Bible himself; for it lay open before him. The 
old lady was very glad to see me, and as usual 
wanted me to tell her all the news. I believe she 
would like to have, me give an account of my 
breakfast and dinner; so it were only anything 
that she had not heard before. 
"What books have you got in the house, Deacon 
Parsons ? " I asked after talking a while. 
"Books? what do ye want o books?" was his 
answer. 
" Just reading; that is what books are good for, 
you know. What have you in the house ? " 
" I don't think much o no readin but one book," 
said he slowly. "And that one, I guess, you've 
got it already." 
" But I like to read other things too." 
"Well," said the deacon, "some folks doos; some 
folks doos. But I should hev thought, you'd hev 
done readin enough all the time you was to Bosting to school." 
" no," said I. " That was only getting ready 
to read." 
"Du tell, ef you was all that time a larnin 
that!" said Mrs. Parsons. "Why, my Manda.'s 
little gal six year old, she kin read a ready, fust- 
rate." 
"Have you no books really, deacon?" I persisted. 
" Ain't many on em," said he, rubbing his very 
grey whiskers, " ain't many on em ; and I hain't 
much idee where they be. Mother, ha you got 
em put away somewheres ? " 
But I found it would be a matter of time to 
reach the books ; so I would not wait for that. 
" It's a beautiful day, deacon," I remarked, in 
