less than a month he was dead. It was better for his poor hard-working
wife and family.
One other death grew out of the summer riots, though this was at a
distance. Dennis Connelly had been working with a railroad-gang, and the
strikers there had a desperate struggle with the civil authority. They
were worsted in the end, and Connelly was one of the victims, or perhaps
more truly speaking, a victim to bad whiskey, for when sober he was very
peaceable. Kit sent for his body, and had him decently buried.
CHAPTER XXVII.
THE strikers at the hat-factory did not carry the day. The employers
were very indignant, and tabooed the union men altogether. At
Garafield's the men were called in council, the points discussed, and a
small advance in wages allowed. The co-operatives went their way
quietly. Perhaps the most convincing argument was a very jubilant letter
from Winston, part of which Darcy put up in the hall. He had just
succeeded in making an important contract for two years, on very fair
terms. That would see them through safely unless the whole world came to
grief again!
Jack wrote Miss McLeod a graphic account of the "labor troubles," and
she replied with equally characteristic verve. "She could hardly
decide," she declared, "whether to be glad, or sorry, that her young
friend had grown so independent of her; but in any emergency she wished
to be remembered."
There was now a certain respect paid to Hope Mills, among the community
at Yerbury. Perhaps there are no people so exacting and difficult to
satisfy as those friends and neighbors whose advice you have not taken,
and prospered without it. They indulge in a righteous self-complacency
if you are unfortunate, and pity you grandly; but to own themselves
mistaken is the one bitter flavor in the cup. There seemed to be but one
point now upon which they were doubtful,--the honesty of the managers at
the last moment. Every workman knew or might know exactly how affairs
stood, but they did not have the capital. Just at the end of the five
years somebody might abscond with the money-bag under his arm. It
seemed so every way certain that human nature could not withstand the
temptation.
Yet there was growing up among the hands a curious neighborly sympathy,
as if they were in some degree relatives; and they were made so, in
fact, by some marriages of sons and daughters. They were more
intelligent; they kept their houses cleaner, their little gardens
prettier, not allowing them to go to weeds before the summer was half
over. Those who could go to the industrial school learned a deal about
sewing, and became seamstresses instead of mill-girls. Some made their
own family dresses, some were very tasty milliners. It gave them a
reliance upon what they could do themselves. The two daughters of one
workman kept a little poultry-yard "scientifically," and dressed
themselves from its proceeds. Industry became more general. Instead of
dawdling away whole evenings in gossip, they had some light employment,
and worked as they talked.
The September showing was very encouraging. There were still a great
many bankruptcies and losses, but some of them could not be guarded
against. Darcy and Winston regularly eschewed speculation, though the
latter confessed his fingers sometimes burned to be in the pie.
"But, after all," he said frankly, "if the energy, ingenuity, ambition,
and strength that are expended to make certain people buy and sell, over
and over, a thing that can be no more valuable than the money it makes
year by year, which often is not much,--if this were turned into
industrial and commercial channels,--gad! what a country we would be!
Our flag would float on every sea, our goods be in every port. And yet
they go on, rich to-day because they have beggared their neighbor, poor
to-morrow because their neighbor has beggared them. What idiotic
business!"
But I must go back a little with my hero. There were many things to
occupy his mind, the summer of the "strikes;" yet through it all, like
one strain of heavenly harmony in a clash of discord, he came to know
the diviner needs of his being. Another man might have been dismayed at
the revelation. Like a flash when the horizon is opened, he saw the
light; and he knew, from the depths of the darkness the next moment,
what manner of storm it would be.
He had never weakened or frittered away his sweetest emotions on the
various flirtations that fill the early years of so many men. He had
liked and admired Sylvie Barry above all young women he had ever met;
but this emotion, though pure and lasting, never stirred the ardor of
his soul. Had it really lain untouched so long, or had some vague dream
slipped into it the night he and Sylvie had planned the costume for
Irene Lawrence, the time he first encountered her beauty in all its
vivid splendor? To him she was a glorious young goddess.
The long-ago summer day he had met the two in the phaeton, he was more
keenly pained for her sake than his own. To be sure, his first emotion
was that of angry indignation, sending the outraged blood through every
pulse; then, as it cooled, the act appeared so utterly unwomanly. If she
