She answered in the same breathless murmur, 
" I think you are good." Her averted face drooped 
lower. 
"I will tell you all about it, some day ! " be cried, 
with joyful vehemence. " Will you let me ? " 
"Yes," she answered, with the swift expulsion 
of breath that sometimes comes with tears. She 
rose quickly and turned away. He did not try to 
keep her from leaving him. His heart beat tumult- 
uously ; his brain seemed in a whirl. It all meant 
nothing, or it meant everything. 
" What is the matter with Miss Blood?" asked 
Dunham, who joined him at this moment. " I just 
spoke to her at the foot of the gangway stairs, and 
she wouldn't answer me." 
" Oh, I don't know about Miss Blood — I don't 
know what's the matter," said Staniford. " Look 
here, Dunham ; I want to talk with you — I want 
to tell you something — I want you to advise me 
— I — There 's only one thing that can explain 
it, that can excuse it. There 's only one thing that 
can justify all that I 've done and said, and that 
can not only justify it, but can make it sacredly 
and eternally right, — right for her and right for 
me. Yes, it 's reason for all, and for a thousand 
times more. It makes it fair for me to have let 
her see that I thought her beautiful and charming, 
 
that I delighted to be with her, that I — Dunham," 
cried Stamford, " I 'm in love ! " 
Dunham started at the burst in which these rav- 
ings ended. " Stamford," he faltered, with grave 
regret, "I hope not ! " 
u You hope not ? You — you — What do you 
mean ? How else can I free myself from the self- 
reproach of having trifled with her, of " — 
Dunham shook his head compassionately. " You 
can't do it that way. Your only safety is to fight 
it to the death, — to run from it." 
" But if I don't choose to fight it ? " shouted 
Staniford, — "if I don't choose to run from it ? If 
I" — 
" For Heaven's sake, hush ! The whole ship 
will hear you, and you oughtn 't to breathe it in 
the desert. I saw how it was going ! I dreaded 
it ; I knew it ; and I longed to speak. I 'm to 
blame for not speaking ! " 
"I should like to know what would have author- 
ized you to speak ? " demanded Staniford, haugh- 
tily. 
" Only my regard for you; only what urges me 
to speak now ! You must fight it, Staniford, whether 
you choose or not. Think of yourself, — think of 
her ! Think — you have always been my ideal of 
honor and truth and loyalty — think of her hus- 
band"— 
" Her husband ! " gasped Staniford. " Whose 
husband ? What the deuce — who the deuce — 
are you talking about, Dunham ? " 
" Mrs. Rivers." 
" Mrs. Rivers ? That flimsy, feather-headed, 
empty-hearted — eyes-maker! That frivolous, ri- 
diculous — Pah! And did you think that I was 
talking of her ? Did you think I was in love with 
her?'  
" Why," stammered Dunham, "I supposed — I 
thought — At Messina, you know " — 
" Oh ! " Stamford walked the deck's length 
away. " Well, Dunham," he said, as he came 
back, " you've spoilt a pretty scene with your rot 
about Mrs. Rivers. I was going to be romantic ! 
But perhaps I 'd better say in ordinary newspaper 
English that I 've just found out that I'm in love 
with Miss Blood." 
" With her ! " cried Dunham, springing at his 
hand. 
" Oh, come now ! Don't you be romantic, after 
knocking my chance." 
" Why, but Staniford ! " said Dunham, wringing 
his hand with a lover's joy in another's love and his 
