Mrs. Vivian for a moment said nothing. 

" Do you want very much to be just ? " she pres- 
ently asked. 

" It 's my most ardent desire." 

" I 'm glad to hear that — and I can easily believe 
it," said Mrs. Vivian. 

Bernard gave her a grateful smile, but while he 
smiled, he asked himself a serious question. " Why 
the deuce does she go on flattering me ? — You have 
always been very kind to me," he said aloud. 

" It 's on Mr. Wright's account," she answered de- 
murely. 

In speaking the words I have just quoted, Bernard 
Longueville had felt himself, with a certain compunc- 





tion, to be fikirting the edge of clever impudence; 
but Mrs. Vivian's quiet little reply suggested to him 
that her cleverness, if not her impudence, was almost 
equal to his own. He remarked to himself that he 
had not yet done her justice. 

"You bring everything back to Gordon TVright," 
he said, continuing to smile. 

Mrs. Vivian blushed a little. 

" It is because he is really at the foundation of 
everything that is pleasant for us here. When we 
first came we had some very disagreeable rooms, and 
as soon as he arrived he found us some excellent 
ones — that were less expensive. And then, Mr. 
Longueville," she added, with a soft, sweet emphasis 
which should properly have contradicted the idea of 
audacity, but which, to Bernard's awakened sense, 
seemed really to impart a vivid color to it, " he was 
also the cause of your joining our little party." 

" Oh, among his services that should never be for- 
gotten. You should set up a tablet to commemorate 
it, in the wall of the Kursaal ! — The wicked little 
woman ! " Bernard mentally subjoined. 

Mrs. Vivian appeared, quite unruffled by his sportive 
sarcasm, and she continued to enumerate her obliga- 
tions to Gordon Wright. 

" There are so many ways in which a gentleman 
can be of assistance to three poor lonely women, 
especially when he is at the same time so friendly 





and so delicate as Mr. Wright. I don't know what 
we should have done withoiit him, and I feel as 
if every one ought to know it. He seems like 
a very old friend. My daughter and I quite wor- 
ship him. I will not conceal from you that when 
I saw you coming through the grounds a short time 
ago without him I was very much disappointed. I 
hope he is not ill." 

Bernard sat listening, with his eyes on the ground. 

" Oh no, he is simply at home writing letters." 

Mrs. Vivian was silent a moment. 

" I suppose he has a very large correspondence." 
