“Play away, No. 2,” called out Frank as he put on his vest, while Jack
was still at it with a pair of the stiffest brushes procurable for
money.
“Hold hard, No. 11, and don’t forget your teeth,” answered Jack, who had
done his.
Frank took a hasty rub and whisked on his coat, while Jack was picking
up the various treasures which had flown out of his pockets as he caught
up his roundabout.
“Ready! I’ll trouble you for a cent, sonny;” and Frank held out his hand
as he appeared equipped for the day.
“You haven’t hung up your night-gown, nor aired the bed, nor opened
the windows. That’s part of the dressing; mother said so. I’ve got you
there, for you did all that for me, except this,” and Jack threw his
gown over a chair with a triumphant flourish as Frank turned back to
leave his room in the order which they had been taught was one of the
signs of a good bringing-up in boys as well as girls.
“Ready! I’ll trouble you for a cent, old man;” and Jack held out his
hand, with a chuckle.
He got the money and a good clap beside; then they retired to the shed
to black their boots, after which Frank filled the woodboxes and Jack
split kindlings, till the daily allowance was ready. Both went at their
lessons for half an hour, Jack scowling over his algebra in the sofa
corner, while Frank, with his elbows on and his legs round the little
stand which held his books, seemed to be having a wrestling-match with
Herodotus.
When the bell rang they were glad to drop the lessons and fall upon
their breakfast with the appetite of wolves, especially Jack, who
sequestered oatmeal and milk with such rapidity that one would have
thought he had a leathern bag hidden somewhere to slip it into, like his
famous namesake when he breakfasted with the giant.
“I declare I don’t see what he does with it! He really ought not to
‘gobble’ so, mother,” said Frank, who was eating with great deliberation
and propriety.
“Never you mind, old quiddle. I’m so hungry I could tuck away a bushel,”
 answered Jack, emptying a glass of milk and holding out his plate for
more mush, regardless of his white moustache.
“Temperance in all things is wise, in speech as well as eating and
drinking--remember that, boys,” said Mamma from behind the urn.
“That reminds me! We promised to do the ‘Observer’ this week, and here
it is Tuesday and I haven’t done a thing: have you?” asked Frank.
“Never thought of it. We must look up some bits at noon instead of
playing. Dare say Jill has got some: she always saves all she finds for
me.”
“I have one or two good items, and can do any copying there may be. But
I think if you undertake the paper you should give some time and labor
to make it good,” said Mamma, who was used to this state of affairs,
and often edited the little sheet read every week at the Lodge. The boys
seldom missed going, but the busy lady was often unable to be there, so
helped with the paper as her share of the labor.
“Yes, we ought, but somehow we don’t seem to get up much steam about it
lately. If more people belonged, and we could have a grand time now and
then, it would be jolly;” and Jack sighed at the lack of interest felt
by outsiders in the loyal little Lodge which went on year after year
kept up by the faithful few.
“I remember when in this very town we used to have a Cold Water Army,
and in the summer turn out with processions, banners, and bands of music
to march about, and end with a picnic, songs, and speeches in some grove
or hall. Nearly all the children belonged to it, and the parents also,
and we had fine times here twenty-five or thirty years ago.”
“It didn’t do much good, seems to me, for people still drink, and we
haven’t a decent hotel in the place,” said Frank, as his mother sat
looking out of the window as if she saw again the pleasant sight of old
and young working together against the great enemy of home peace and
safety.
“Oh yes, it did, my dear; for to this day many of those children are
true to their pledge. One little girl was, I am sure, and now has two
big boys to fight for the reform she has upheld all her life. The
town is better than it was in those days, and if we each do our part
faithfully, it will improve yet more. Every boy and girl who joins is
one gained, perhaps, and your example is the best temperance lecture you
can give. Hold fast, and don’t mind if it isn’t ‘jolly’: it is right,
and that should be enough for us.”
Mamma spoke warmly, for she heartily believed in young people’s guarding
against this dangerous vice before it became a temptation, and hoped
her boys would never break the pledge they had taken; for, young as they
were, they were old enough to see its worth, feel its wisdom, and pride
themselves on the promise which was fast growing into a principle.
Jack’s face brightened as he listened, and Frank said, with the steady
look which made his face manly,--
“It shall be. Now I’ll tell you what I was going to keep as a surprise
