
"I am not at liberty to answer any questions about 
Mam'selle Zanfretti," he said at length. 

" But that is so simple," was the impatient responsa 
Or could I see her ? " 

" You cannot. I think, indeed, she has gone home." 

" If you will answer that question, in strictest confi- 
dence, it may be of immense importance to her. If she 
is not the person, that ends it." 

Ritchie stroked his beard thoughtfully 

" Griffin," he said, " take this gentleman to my den, and 
call Madame Denzil. You can ask her to Roger. 

Roger's heart gave a great thump. It seemed to him 
the question had been answered in the affirmative already. 
Had he really found her little Queenie? He murmured 
her name softly in the solitude, and waited, no longer im- 
patient. His quest had certainly been crowned. Now he 
saw, in his mind, so many resemblances, And that dainty, 
delicious song ! Her mother was a singer, and she had in- 
herited that vith her other gifts. 

Would Madame Denzil never come ? 




CHAPTER XXXIII. 

AN UNKNOWN RIVAL. 

QUBENIH'S tired out, throbbing nerves yielded to 
Madame Denzil's soothing treatment, as they had in by- 
gone times to Dick Bridger's. She fell asleep, and Dolly 
had not the heart to wake her until it was absolutely ne- 
cessary. She was bright and fresh for the evening, her 
soft starry eyes gleaming with unwonted splendor. 

"And now," began Dolly, "I've been thinking over this 
vile plot, and it seems to me the best and wisest course is to 
take no notice at all of it. I'd like to hire a brawny Irish- 
man to thrash that scoundrel Winstead to a jelly, but that 
would make a scandal, and now we must begin to consider 
Mr. Grenville. I am actually amazed at you, Queenie, for 
I think the young man must be in earnest, and it is won- 
derful luck ; but then there's Kitty Bell, not as handsome 
as you, who has gone to be a great and real lady in upper 
ten-dom. But I must see him. I shall be your self-ap- 
pointed guardian in love matters, and if he is not all on the 
square he can march." 

" But is it quite right ? " asked Queenie, timidly. " He 
is rich, and his family are grand, and I am only " 

" Lovely enough to grace any station in society. And 
fur that matter who is going to know of this bit of stage 
life ! There, not a word, modest little violet. I'll settle 
the whole matter." 

"And you will take me to Chicago?" she asked, ear- 
nestly. " I would like to get away. And if we could man- 
age not to say anything " 

"Of course we can. We start next Tuesday. Now 





you must eat a little supper, and then we will be off to the 
scene of our labors, practical women that we are." 

Mademoiselle Zelie was quite confounded at Queenie's 
self-possession. She did not seem to shun her in the 
slightest degree, or appear conscious that any incident had 
