dotted, uneven bed, hid the sound of his footsteps as he 
climbed up the steep bank, ran forward, and came down into 
the road in advance of her. 
" Where are you going, Miss Honor ? " he said, showing 
himself, and speaking quietly. 
She started back, and gasped out his name. 
" Yes, it is I," he answered, " Stephen Wainwright. I am 
alone ; you need not be frightened." 
She came close up to him and took his hand. 
" Do not stop me," she said entreatingly. " I am on an 
errand of life and death ! " 
" I will go in your place, Honor." 
" You can not." 
" Yes, I can. Rutyou shall not." 
" Will you betray me, then ? " she said, in an agonized 
tone. 
" No ; but you will tell me what it is, and I will go for 
you." 
" I tell you, you can not go." 
" Why ? " 
"You do not know; and, besides you would not." 
" I will do anything you ask me to do," said Stephen. 
" Anything ? " 
" Anything." 
She hesitated, looking at him. 
" Do you give me your word ? " 
"I do." 
" But but it is an enormous thing you are doing for me." 
" I know it is." 
" Oh, let me go let me go myself ! " she cried suddenly, 
with a half sob ; " it is so much better." 
" I will never let you go," said Stephen. His voice was in 
flexible. She surveyed him tremulously, hopelessly ; then sank 
down upon her knees, praying, but not to him. Stephen took 
off his hat, and waited, bareheaded. It was but a moment ; 
then she rose. " My cousin, Richard Eliot, my uncle's eldest 
 
son, has been with these men, at one of their hiding-places, 
for some months. My uncle knows nothing of it ; but Brother 
Bethuel is in the secret, and keeps watch of him." 
" Your cousin is Masters, then ? " 
" He is. Ask no more questions, but hasten on ; take the 
first broad trail which leaves the road on the right, follow it 
until you come to Brother Bethuel's house ; you can not miss 
it ; it is the only one. He will guide you to the place where 
Richard is, and you must warn him that the troops are com 
ing." 
" Only one question, Honor. Come out into the moon- 
light ; give me both your hands. Do you love this man ? " 
He looked at her fixedly. She gave a quick, strong start, 
as though she must break away from him at all hazards, and 
turned darkly red, the deep, almost painful, blush of the 
brunette. Her hands shook in his grasp, tears of shame rose 
in her eyes ; it was as though some one had struck her in the 
face. 
"Do you love this Eliot?" repeated Stephen, compelling 
her still to meet his eyes. 
She drew in her breath suddenly, and answered, with a 
rush of quick words : " No, no, no ! Not in the way you 
mean. But he is my cousin. Go ! " 
He went. Nearly two miles farther down the road the 
trail turned off ; it climbed directly up a glen by the side of a 
brook w-hich ran downward to the river in a series of little 
waterfalls. It was wide enough for a horse, and showed the 
track of Marcher's hoofs. It came out on a flank of the 
mountain and turned westward, then northward, then straight 
up again through the thick woods to a house whose light 
shone down like a beacon, and guided him. 
Wainwright knocked ; Brother Bethuel opened, started 
slightly, then recovered himself, and welcomed his guest 
effusively. 
" Is there any one in the house besides ourselves ? " said 
Stephen, ignorant as to whether there was or was not a Mrs. 
Head. There was ; but she had gone, "with her five offspring, 
to visit her mother in Tennessee. 
" Then," said Stephen, " take me immediately to Richard 
Eliot." 
The little minister stared innocently at his guest. 
" Take you where ? " he repeated, with surprised face. 
" Come," said Stephen, " you need not conceal. Miss 
