Lawrence looked over towards the innocent 
face, so innocent of anything false, he knew, or 
even of anything ambiguous; a face of pure womanly nature, childlike in its naturalness, although 
womanly in its gravity. Perhaps he drew a swift 
comparison between a man's chances with a face 
of that sort, and the counter advantages of Christina's more conventional beauty. Mr. Thayer had 
sat down beside Dolly and was drawing her into 
talk. 
"You are fond of art, Miss Copley. I remember we met you first in the room of the dying 
gladiator, in the Capitoline Museum. But everybody has to go to see the dying gladiator and the 
rest." 
" I suppose so," said Dolly. 
" I remember though, I thought you were enjoying it." 
"I was." 
" I can always find out whether people really 
enjoy things. How many times did you go to see 
the gladiator? Let me see, you were in Home 
three months ? " 
"Nearer four." 
" Four ! Well, and how many times did you see 
the gladiator ? " 
"I don't quite know. Half a dozen times, I 
think. I went until I had got it by heart; and 
now I can look at it whenever I like." 
" Humph ! " said Mr. Thayer. " The only thing 
Christina wanted to see a second time was the 
mosaics; and those she did not get by heart exactly, but brought them away, a good many of 
them, bodily. And have you developed any taste 
for architecture during your travels ? " 
" I take great pleasure in some architecture," 
said Dolly. 
"May I ask what instances? I am curious to 
see how our tastes harmonize." 
" Ah, but I know nothing about it," said Dolly. 
"I am entirely or almost entirely ignorant; and 
you know and understand." 
'"Almost entirely'?" said Mr. Thayer. "You 
have studied the subject ? " 
 
" A little " said Dolly smiling and blushing. 
"Do favour me. I am desirous to know what 
you have seen that particularly pleased you." 
"The cathedral at Limburg." 
" Limburg. Oh Ah ! yes it was there we first 
met you. I was thinking it was in the museum 
of the Capitol. Limburg. You liked that ? " 
" Very much ! " 
" Komanesque or rather Transition." 
" I do not know what Romanesque is, or Transi- 
tion either." 
" Did you notice the round arches and the 
pointed arches ? " 
" I do not remember. Yes, I do remember the 
round arches; but I was thinking rather of the 
effect of the whole." 
"The church at Limburg shews a mixture of 
the round Romanesque and the pointed Gothic; 
Gothic was preparing; that sort of thing belongs 
to the first half of the thirteenth century. Well, 
that bespeaks very good taste. What next would 
you mention, Miss Dolly ? " 
" I don't know, I have enjoyed so many things. 
Perhaps I should say the doge's palace at Venice." 
"Ha! the doge's palace, hey? You like the 
pink and white marble." 
" Don't you, Mr. Thayer ? " 
" That's not what one looks for in architecture. 
What do you say to St. Peter's ? " 
" You will find a great deal of fault with me. 
I did not care for it." 
 
" Not? It is Michael Angelo's work." 
" But knowing the artist is no reason for admiring the work," said Dolly smiling. 
" You are very independent ! St. Peter's ! Not 
to admire St. Peter's ! " 
"I admired the magnificence, and the power, 
and a great many things; but I did not like the 
building. Not nearly so much as some others." 
" Now I wish we could go to Passtum, and see 
what you would say to pure old Greek work. But 
