The Doctor had his revenge, after all. 



XXXII. 

OUR story has hitherto moved with very short 
steps, but as it approaches its termination it must 
take a long stride. As time went on, it might have 
appeared to the Doctor that his daughter's account 
of her rupture with Morris Townsend, mere bravado 
as he had deemed it, was in some degree justified by 
the sequel. Morris remained as rigidly and unre- 
mittingly absent as if he had died of a broken heart, 
and Catherine had apparently buried the memory 
of this fruitless episode as deep as if it had ter- 
minated by her own choice. We know that she 
had been deeply and incurably wounded, but the 
Doctor had no means of knowing it. He was cer- 
tainly curious about it, and would have given a good 
deal to discover the exact truth ; but it was his pun- 
ishment that he never knew his punishment, I 
mean, for the abuse of sarcasm in his relations with 
his daughter. There was a good deal of effective 





sarcasm in her keeping him in the dark, and the rest 
of the world conspired with her, in this sense, to be 
sarcastic. Mrs. Penniman told him nothing, partly 
because he never questioned her he made too light 
of Mrs. Penniman for that and partly because she 
flattered herself that a tormenting reserve, and a 
serene profession of ignorance, would avenge her 
for his theory that she had meddled in the matter. 
He went two or three times to see Mrs. Montgom- 
ery, but Mrs. Montgomery had nothing to impart. 
She simply knew that her brother's engagement was 
broken off; and now that Miss Sloper was out of 
danger, she preferred not to bear witness in any 
way against Morris. She had done so before how- 
ever unwillingly because she was sorry for Miss 
Sloper ; but she was not sorry for Miss Sloper now 
not at all sorry. Morris had told her nothing 
about his relations with Miss Sloper at the time, 
and he had told her nothing since. He was always 
away, and he very seldom wrote to her ; she believed 
he had gone to California. Mrs. Almond had, in 
her sister's phrase, " taken up " Catherine violently 
since the recent catastrophe ; but, though the girl 
was very grateful to her for her kindness, she revealed no secrets, and the good lady could give the 
Doctor no satisfaction. Even, however, had she 
been able to narrate to him the private history of 
his daughter's unhappy love affair, it would have 
given her a certain comfort to leave him in ignorance ; for Mrs. Almond was at this time not alto- 
gether in sympathy with her brother. She had 
guessed for herself that Catherine had been cruelly 
jilted she knew nothing from Mrs. Penniman, for 





Mrs. Penniman had not ventured to lay the famous 
explanation of Morris's motives before Mrs. Almond, 
though she had thought it good enough for Catherine and she pronounced her brother too consistently indifferent to what the poor creature must have 
suffered and must still be suffering. Doctor Sloper 
had his theory, and he rarely altered his theories. 
The marriage would have been an abominable one, 
and the girl had had a blessed escape. She was not 
to be pitied for that, and to pretend to condole with 
her would have been to make concessions to the 
idea that she had ever had a right to think of 
Morris. 

" I put my foot on this idea from the first, and I 
keep it there now," said the Doctor. "I don't see 
anything cruel in that ; one can't keep it there too 
