" Why are you afraid ? " he demanded, harshly. 

" We had a quarrel, and I I ran away I said 
that I would never come back. I left him " 

" You must go back to him," said Halleck. " He 's 
your husband ! " He pushed on again, saying over 
and over, as if the words were some spell in which 
he found safety, "You must go back, you must go 
back, you must go back ! " 

He dragged her with him now, for she hung help 
less on his arm, which she had seized, and moaned to 
herself. At the threshold, " I can 't go in ! " she broke 
out. " I 'm afraid to go in ! What will he say ? 
What will he do ? Oh, come in with me ! You are 
good, and then I shall not be afraid ! " 

" You must go in alone ! No man can be your 
refuge from your husband ! Here ! " He released 
himself, and, kissing the warm little face of the sleep 
ing child, he pressed it into her arms. His fingers 
touched hers under the shawl ; he tore his hand away 
with a shiver. 



 

She stood a moment looking at the closed door; 
then she Hung it open, and, pausing as if to gather 
her strength, vanished into the brightness within. 

He turned, and ran crookedly down the street, 
wavering from side to side in his lameness, and fling 
ing up his arms to save himself from falling as he 
ran, with a gesture that was like a wild and hopeless 
appeal. 



 



XXXIV. 

MARCIA pushed into the ro&lt;jm where she had left 
Bartley. She had no escape from her fate ; she must 
meet it, whatever it was. The room was empty, and 
she began doggedly to search the house for him, up 
stairs and down, carrying the child with her. She 
would not have been afraid now to call him ; but she 
had no voice, and she could not ask the servant any 
thing when she looked into the kitchen. She saw the 
traces of the meal he had made in the dining-room, 
and when she went a second time to their chamber to 
lay the little girl down in her crib, she saw the draw 
ers pulled open, and the things as he had tossed them 
about in packing his bag. She looked at the clock 
on the mantel an extravagance of Bartley s, for 
which she had scolded him and it was only half 
past eight ; she had thought it must be midnight. 

She sat all night in a chair beside the bed ; in the 
morning she drowsed and dreamed that she was weep 
ing on Bartley 's shoulder, and he was joking her and 
trying to comfort her, as he used to do when they 
were first married ; but it was the little girl, sitting up 
in her crib, and crying loudly for her breakfast. She 
put on the child a pretty frock that Bartley liked, and 
when she had dressed her own tumbled hair she went 
down stairs, feigning to herself that they should find 
him in the parlor. The servant was setting the table 
for breakfast, and the little one ran forward : " Baby 's 
chair ; mamma 's chair ; papa 's chair ! " 

" Yes," answered Marcia, so that the servant might 
hear too. " Papa will soon be home." 

