He showed no sign of intending to continue, and after a moment of
restlessness, she began again.
“If I have been rude or hasty in refusing to hear you, Mr. Libby, I am
very wrong. I must hear anything you have to say.”
“Oh, not unless you wish.”
“I wish whatever you wish.”
“I’m not sure that I wish that now. I have thought it over; I should
only distress you for nothing. You are letting me say why sentence
shouldn’t be passed upon me. Sentence is going to be passed any way. I
should only repeat what I have said. You would pity me, but you couldn’t
help me. And that would give you pain for nothing. No, it would be
useless.”
“It would be useless to talk to me about--loving.” She took the word on
her lips with a certain effect of adopting it for convenience’ sake in
her vocabulary. “All that was ended for me long ago,--ten years ago. And
my whole life since then has been shaped to do without it. I will tell
you my story if you like. Perhaps it’s your due. I wish to be just. You
may have a right to know.”
“No, I haven’t. But--perhaps I ought to say that Mrs. Maynard told me
something.”
“Well, I am glad of that, though she had no right to do it. Then you can
understand.”
“Oh, yes, I can understand. I don’t pretend that I had any reason in
it.”
He forbore again to urge any plea for himself, and once more she was
obliged to interfere in his behalf. “Mr. Libby, I have never confessed
that I once wronged you in a way that I’m very sorry for.”
“About Mrs. Maynard? Yes, I know. I won’t try to whitewash myself; but
it didn’t occur to me how it would look. I wanted to talk with her about
you.”
“You ought to have considered her, though,” she said gently.
“She ought to have considered herself,” he retorted, with his unfailing
bitterness for Mrs. Maynard. “But it doesn’t matter whose fault it was.
I’m sufficiently punished; for I know that it injured me with you.”
“It did at first. But now I can see that I was wrong. I wished to tell
you that. It isn’t creditable to me that I thought you intended to flirt
with her. If I had been better myself”--
“You!” He could not say more.
That utter faith in her was very charming. It softened her more and
more; it made her wish to reason with him, and try gently to show him
how impossible his hope was. “And you know,” she said, recurring to
something that had gone before, “that even if I had cared for you in
the way you wish, it could n’t be. You would n’t want to have people
laughing and saying I had been a doctress.”
“I shouldn’t have minded. I know how much people’s talk is worth.”
“Yes,” she said, “I know you would be generous and brave about
that--about anything. But what--what if I could n’t give up my
career--my hopes of being useful in the way I have planned? You would
n’t have liked me to go on practising medicine?”
“I thought of that,” he answered simply. “I didn’t see how it could
be done. But if you saw any way, I was willing--No, that was my great
trouble! I knew that it was selfish in me, and very conceited, to
suppose you would give up your whole life for me; and whenever I thought
of that, I determined not to ask you. But I tried not to think of that.”
“Well, don’t you see? But if I could have answered you as you wish, it
wouldn’t have been anything to give up everything for you. A woman
isn’t something else first, and a woman afterwards. I understand how
unselfishly you meant, and indeed, indeed, I thank you. But don’t let’s
talk of it any more. It couldn’t have been, and there is nothing
but misery in thinking of it. Come,” she said, with a struggle for
cheerfulness, “let us forget it. Let it be just as if you hadn’t spoken
to me; I know you did n’t intend to do it; and let us go on as if
nothing had happened.”
“Oh, we can’t go on,” he answered. “I shall get away, as soon as Maynard
comes, and rid you of the sight of me.”
“Are you going away?” she softly asked. “Why need you? I know that
people always seem to think they can’t be friends after--such a thing as
this. But why shouldn’t we? I respect you, and I like you very much. You
have shown me more regard and more kindness than any other friend”--
“But I wasn’t your friend,” he interrupted. “I loved you.”
“Well,” she sighed, in gentle perplexity, “then you can’t be my friend?”
“Never. But I shall always love you. If it would do any good, I would
stay, as you ask it. I should n’t mind myself. But I should be a
nuisance to you.”
“No, no!” she exclaimed. “I will take the risk of that. I need your
advice, your--sympathy, your--You won’t trouble me, indeed you won’t.
Perhaps you have mistaken your--feeling about me. It’s such a very
little time since we met,” she pleaded.
“That makes no difference,--the time. And I’m not mistaken.”
“Well, stay at least till Mrs. Maynard is well, and we can all go away
