" Really, I shall have to be carefol if you are going to 
be so penetrating. You will discover all my secrets." 

" I 'm not curious about secrets," DoUy returns, lan- 
guidly. "We will lock up the past on Saturday, and 
brgin anew." 

The two at the table chat in a desultory fashion, with an 
occasional comment from Dolly. Then the fragments are 
sent away, except the fruit, and St. Greorge returns to the 
sofa. 

" You have not touched your grapes," he says in sur- 
prise. You eat nothing." 

" Then I must be in love," she replies, in a quaint irre- 
sistible tone. 

He stoops and kisses her. Her forehead is cool and 
purely white, with stray curling ends of golden-brown hair, 
and her drooping eyelids are blue with veins crossing and 
recrossing. 

" Now go and play for me," she requests. " The So- 
nata Pathetique. Christmas played it one evening in the 
twilight. I don't know why, but your playing makes mo 
think of her." 

The windows are closed, and up at this height there is 
no roar from the busy street below. Helen has lowered 
the lights, and St. Greorge, seating himself, plays with inef- 
fable tenderness. What is sTie doing at Glen Ormiston in 
that great, lonely house? What will she do with all the 
years to come? 

Beethoven is St. George's favorite master. This dreamy 
playing takes him back to nights with his father. What 
strange mood has come over Dolly, or is there some latent 
capability in every woman's soul? Has he fought out his 
battle and come off victor? for he looks at the future with 
nnshrinking eyes, and softens marvellously toward the 



 



 





woman who is to be his wife a few days hence. Fanlty 
she certainly is, but does he care to plunge into the past 
that she has hidden away? Will he wring anything out 
of Jeffries to-morrow morning ; any secret that he would 
not like confronting him when she sat at his table and 
shared his daily life ? 

" Dolly must be asleep,' Helen says in one of the 
pauses. " Dolly ! " raising her yoice a trifle. 

There is no answer. 

" Don't play any more,' Mrs. Stannard exclaims. There 
is a curious jealousy at fever heat in her veins. So soon 
he will belong to another. All these years he has been 
free, and the want has been slowly crystallizing, the hope- 
less, passionless longing for something she had blindly 
put away, and now, when she knows what it is, and is 
free, when a few more months would give her the right to 
incline this soul gently towards herself, he will be beyond 
that boundary, his life wasted upon futQe and frivolous 
endeavors. 

He looks at his watch presently. << It is late," he ex- 
claims in surprise. ''Is Dolly sleeping all this while?" 
Then he crosses the room to her sofa. She has turned 
