it.” 

“Thou art not my father. I know thee not. I 
am the king. If thou hast hid my servant, find him 
for me, or thou shalt sup sorrow for what thou hast 
done.” 

John Canty replied, in a stem and measured 
voice: 

“It is plain thou art mad, and I am loath to ptm- 
ish thee; but if thou provoke me, I must. Thy 

prating doth no harm here, where there are no eais 
that need to mind thy follies, yet is it well to 
practise thy tongue to wary speech, that it may do no 
hurt when our quarters change. I have done a 
murder, and may not tarry at home — neither shalt 
thou, seeing I need thy service. My name is 
changed, for wise reasons; it is Hobbs — John 
Hobbs; thine is Jack — charge thy memory accordingly.
Now, then, speak. Where is thy mother? 
Where are thy sisters? They came not to the place 
appointed — knowest thou whither they went?” 

The king answered, sullenly: 

"Trouble me not with these riddles. My mother 
is dead; my sisters are in the palace.” 

The youth near by burst into a derisive laugh, 
and the king would have assaulted him, but Canty — 
or Hobbs, as he now called himself — prevented 
him, and said; 

"Peace, Hugo, vex him not; his mind is astray, 
and thy ways fret him. Sit thee down. Jack, and 
quiet thyself; thou shalt have a morsel to eat, 
anon.” 

Hobbs and Hugo fell to talking together, in low 
voices, and the king removed himself as far as he 
could from their disagreeable company. He with- 
drew into the twilight cf the farther end of the bam, 
where he found the earthen floor bedded a foot deep 
with straw. He lay down here, drew straw over 
himself in lieu of blankets, and was soon absorbed 
in thinking. He had many griefs, but the minor 
caies were swept almost into forgetfulness by the 
supreme one, the loss of his father. To the rest of 
tire world the name of Henry VIII. brought a shiver, 
aid suggested an ogre whose nostrils breathed de- 
stiuction and whose hand dealt scourgings and 
death; but to this boy the name brought only sen- 
satons of pleasure, the figure it invoked wore a 
countenance that was all gentleness and affection. 
He called to mind a long succession of loving pas- 
sages between his father and himself, and dwelt 
fondly upon them, his unstinted tears attesting how 
deep and real was the grief that possessed his heart. 
As the afternoon wasted away, the lad, wearied with 
his troubles, sunk gradually into a tranquil and heal- 
ing slumber. 

After a considerable time — he could not tell how 
long — his senses struggled to a half-consciousness, 
and as he lay with closed eyes vaguely wondering 
where he was and what had been happening, he 
noted a murmurous soimd, the sullen beating of rain 
upon the roof. A snug sense of comfort stole over 
him, which was rudely broken, the next moment, 
by a chorus of piping cackles and coarse laughter. 
It startled him disagreeably, and he unmuffled his 
head to see whence this interruption proceeded. A 
grim and unsightly picture met his eye. A bright 
fire was burning in the middle of the floor, at the 
other end of the bam; and around it, and lit weirdly 
up by the red glare, lolled and sprawled the mothest 
company of tattered gutter-scum and ruffians, of 
both sexes, he had ever read or dreamed of. There 
