 

she had grown up under other stars. Isabel believed that at 
bottom she had a different morality. Of course the morality 
of civilised persons has always much in common ; but Isabel 
suspected that her friend had esoteric views. She believed, 
with the presumption of youth, that a morality which differed 
from her own must be inferior to it ; and this conviction was an 
aid to detecting an occasional flash of cruelty, an occasional lapse 
from candour, in the conversation of a woman who had raised 
delicate kindness to an art, and whose nature was too large for 
the narrow ways of deception. Her conception of human motives 
was different from Isabel's, and there were several in her list of 
which our heroine had not even heard. She had not heard of 
everything, that was very plain ; and there were evidently 
things in the world of which it was not advantageous to 
hear. Once or twice Isabel had a sort of fright, but the 
reader will be amused at the cause of it. Madame Merle, as we 
know, comprehended, responded, sympathised, with wonderful 
readiness ; yet it had nevertheless happened that her young 
friend mentally exclaimed " Heaven forgive her, she doesn't 
understand me ! " Absurd as it may seem, this discovery operated 
as a shock ; it left Isabel with a vague horror, in which there 
was even an element of foreboding. The horror of course sub- 
sided, in the light of some sudden proof of Madame Merle's 
remarkable intelligence ; but it left a" sort of high-water-mark 
in the development of this delightful intimacy. Madame Merle 
had once said that, in her belief, when a friendship ceased to 
grow, it immediately began to decline there was no point of 
equilibrium between liking a person more and liking him less. 
A stationary affection, in other words, was impossible it must 
move one way or the other. Without estimating the value of 
this doctrine, I may say that if Isabel's imagination, which had 
hitherto been so actively engaged on her friend's behalf, began 
at last to languish, she enjoyed her society not a particle less 
than before. If their friendship had declined, it had declined 
to a very comfortable level. The truth is that in these days 
the girl had other uses for her imagination, which was better 
occupied than it had ever been. I do not allude to the impulse 
it received as she gazed at the Pyramids in the course of an 
excursion from Cairo, or as she stood among the broken columns 
of the Acropolis and fixed her eyes upon the point designated 
to her as the Strait of Salamis ; deep and memorable as these 
emotions had been. She came back by the last of March from 
Egypt and Greece, and made another stay in Rome. A few 
days after her arrival Gilbert Osmond came down from Florence 



 

and remained three weeks, during which the fact of her being 
with his old friend, Madame Merle, in whose house she had 
gone to lodge, made it virtually inevitable that he should see 
her every day. "When the last of April came she wrote to Mrs. 
Touchett that she should now be very happy to accept an invit- 
ation given long before, and went to pay a visit at the Palazzo 
Crescentini, Madame Merle on this occasion remaining in Eome. 
Isabel found her aunt alone; her cousin was still at Corfu. 
Ealph, however, was expected in Florence from day to day, and 
Isabel, who had not seen him for upwards of a year, was prepared 
to give him the most affectionate welcome. 



XXXII. 

IT was not of him, nevertheless, that she was thinking while 
she stood at the window, where we found her a while ago, and 
it was not of any of the matters that I have just rapidly sketched. 
She was not thinking of the past, but of the future ; of the 
immediate, impending hour. She had reason to expect a scene, 
and she was not fond of scenes. She was not asking herself 
what she should say to her visitor ; this question had already 
been answered. What he would say to her that was the 
interesting speculation. It could be nothing agreeable ; Isabel 
was convinced of this, and the conviction had something to do 
with her being rather paler than usual. For the rest, however, 
she wore her natural brightness of aspect ; even deep grief, with 
this vivid young lady, would have had a certain soft effulgence. 
