
"By remaining!" answered Marcantonio cheerfully. "I was in the act of
writing a very pressing invitation to you to stay a week with us, and
thus to make up the most agreeable party of four in the world. Madame
unites herself with me in the request, I am sure," added Carantoni,
turning to his wife, who looked rather pale.

"Mais certainement--we shall be charmed," said Leonora, utterly
astonished and confused by the suddenness of the situation.

She had herself thought how delightful such an arrangement would
be--more than once. But coming so suddenly, from her husband, without
her suggestion, it frightened her and did not seem quite natural. Her
voice did not sound very cordial as she spoke, but it was sufficient,
and her husband, being full of his idea, noticed nothing.

"You are very kind. It will really give me very great pleasure," said
Julius, controlling his voice wonderfully.

For he, too, was taken off his guard. Marcantonio was delighted. It was
such a wonderful piece of luck, he said, that Monsieur Batiscombe should
have called at that hour.

"But come with me, if madame permits," said he, "and I will show you
your room. You can send for your things in the afternoon."

Leonora was only too glad to be left alone for a moment, and the two men
went away, Marcantonio rubbing his hands at the success of his
arrangements for a pleasant week. With Batiscombe in the house the time
could not fail to pass pleasantly, he thought.

There are some men who seem to be pursued by an evil destiny that
continually forces them to do the wrong thing out of pure goodness of
heart. From an innocent desire to make his household pleasant for his
sister, and to amuse the wife of his heart, he had asked the man of all
others whom the one desired to avoid, and the other ought to have been
kept from, simply because he wanted somebody and the man happened to be
on the spot. And the whole thing had originated in a laudable desire to
see pleasant relations established between his wife and his sister, the
two persons in the whole world whom he most loved. Poor Marcantonio! He
was under an unlucky star.

Presently Batiscombe returned alone to the drawing-room, his host
remaining to give some orders about the luncheon. He looked curiously at
Leonora as he sat down opposite to her.

"This is very charming," he said, smiling. "It is so kind of you."

"I had nothing to do with it," said Leonora, avoiding his glance. "But
of course I am very glad. I was dreadfully afraid of being left alone
with my sister-in-law, and of course you will help me to make it
pleasant for her. Really, it is just like my husband,--he is so good."

"It would have been very miserable to have our good time cut short,"
said Julius reflectively, "and I suppose they would have thought it odd
if I went on calling every day at the same hour." Leonora blushed very
slightly.

"Yes," she said, "I suppose so. People have such ideas about the
appearances. You know I should not mind in the least if it were only my
husband; you might stay from morning till night, and we should all
enjoy it. But I am so afraid of Madame de Charleroi,--she is so
tremendously correct, you know."

From which piece of conversation it will be seen that Julius and Leonora
had grown intimate of late, and regarded things from a practical point
of view.

All this time Madame de Charleroi was in ignorance of the amiable
arrangement concluded by her brother, and was looking forward with
almost as much dislike as he had done to the family trio in which she
was to play a part during the week.

She understood Leonora to a certain extent. She had at least a very
strong presentiment that there would be trouble between her brother and
his wife; not an open disagreement nor anything dramatic, but the sort
of small worry and discord that begins slowly and surely, and finally
embitters the whole lives of people who are not suited to each other.
She had agreed to come down to Sorrento in order to "make friends" with
Leonora, as her brother had expressed it, and in her wisdom and
