 

Hedwig had regained her composure, perhaps 
because she was reassured by my manner of speaking 
about Nino. I, however, was anxious to hear from 
her own lips some confirmation of my suspicions concerning the baron. "I have no doubt," I continued, 
presently, " that, with your consent, my boy will be 
able to deliver you from this prison " 

I used the word at a venture. Had Hedwig suf 
fered less, and been less cruelly tormented, she 
would have rebuked me for the expression. But I 
had recalled her to her position, and her self-control 
gave way at once. 

" Oh, you are right to call it a prison ! " she cried. 
" It is as much a prison as this chamber hewn out of 
the rock, where so many a wretch has languished 
hopelessly; a prison from which I am daily taken 
out into the sweet sun, to breathe and be kept alive, 
and to taste how joyful a thing liberty must be! 
And every day I am brought back, and told fchat I 
may be free if I will consent. Consent! God of 
mercy!" she moaned, in a sudden tempest of passionate despair. "Consent ever to belong, body 
and soul to be touched, polluted, desecrated, by 
that inhuman monster; sold to him, to a creature 
without pity, whose heart is a toad, a venomous 
creeping thing, sold to him for this life, and to the 
vengeance of God hereafter; bartered, traded, and 
told that I am so vile and lost that the very price I 
am offered is an honour to me, being so much more 
than my value." 

She came toward me as she spoke, and the passion 
ate, unshed tears that wore in her seemed to choke 
her, so that her voice was hoarse. 



 

"And for what for what?" she cried wildly, 
seizing my arm and looking fiercely into my eyes. 
"For what, I say? Because I gave him a poor rose; 
because I let him see me once; because I loved his 
sweet voice; because because I love him, and 
will love him, and do love him, though I die! " 

The girl was in a frenzy of passion and love and 
hate all together, and did not count her words. The 
white heat of her tormented soul blazed from her 
pale face and illuminated every feature, though she 
was turned from the light, and she shook my arm in 
her grasp so that it pained me. The marble was 
burned in the fire, and must consume itself to ashes. 
The white and calm statue was become a pillar of 
flame in the life-and-death struggle for love. I 
strove to speak, but could not, for fear and wonder tied my tongue. And indeed she gave me short time 
to think. 

"I tell you I love him, as he loves me," she con 
tinued, her voice trembling upon the rising cadence, 
" with all my whole being. Tell him so. Tell him 
he must save me, and that only he can : that for his 
sake I am tortured, and scorned, and disgraced, and 
sold; my body thrown to dogs, and worse than dogs; 
my soul given over to devils that tempt me to kill 
and be free, by my own father, for his sake. Tell 
him that these hands he kissed are wasted with wringing small pains from each other, but the greater pain 
drives them to do worse. Tell him, good sir, you 
are kind and love him, but not as I do, tell him 
that this golden hair of mine has streaks of white in 
these terrible two months ; that these eyes he loved 
are worn with weeping. Tell him " 



 

But her voice failed her, and she staggered against 
