day or other I am sure she will judge fairly and wisely 
of everything. " 

"Stay a bit !" cried Roderick; "you are a better 
Catholic than the Pope. I shall be content if she judges 
fairly of me of my merits, that is. The rest she must 
not judge at all. She 's a grimly devoted little creature ; 
may she always remain so ! Changed as I am, I adore 
her none the less. What becomes of all our emotions, 
our impressions," he went on after a long pause, "all the 
material of thought that life pours into us at such a rate 
during such a memorable three months as these? There 
are twenty moments a week a day, for that matter, some 
days that seem supreme, twenty impressions that seem 
ultimate, that appear to form an intellectual era. But 
others come treading on their heels and sweeping them 
along, and they all melt like water into water and settle 
the question of precedence among themselves. The 
curious thing is that the more the mind takes in, the 


more it has space for, and that all one 's ideas are like the 
Irish people at home who live in the different corners of 
a room and take boarders." 

" I fancy it is our peculiar good luck that we don't see 
the limits of our minds," said Rowland. " We are 
young, compared with what we may one day be. That 
belongs to youth ; it is perhaps the best part of it. They 
say that old people do find themselves at last face to face 
with a solid blank wall and stand thumping against it in 
vain. It resounds, it seems to have something beyond 
it, but it won't move ! That 's only a reason for living 
with open doors as long as we can ! " 

" Open doors?" murmured Roderick. "Yes, let us 
close no doors that open upon Rome. For this, for the 
mind, is eternal warm weather ! But though my doors 
may stand open to-day," he presently added, "I shall see 
no visitors. I want to pause and breathe ; I want to 
dream of a statue. I have been working hard for three 
months ; I have earned a right to a reverie." 

Rowland, on his side, was not without provision for 
reflection, and they lingered on in gentle desultory gossip. 
Rowland felt the need for intellectual rest, for a truce to 
present care for churches, statues, and pictures, on even 
better grounds than his companion, inasmuch as he had 
really been living Roderick 's intellectual life the past three 
months as well as his own. As he looked back on these 
animated weeks he drew a long breath of satisfaction 
almost of relief. Roderick so far had justified his con 
fidence and flattered his perspicacity ; he was giving a 
splendid account of himself. He was changed even 
more than he himself suspected ; he had stepped without 
faltering into his birthright, and was spending money, 
intellectually, as lavishly as a young heir who has just 
won an obstructive lawsuit. Roderick 's glance and voice 
were the same, doubtless, as when they enlivened the 
summer dusk on Cecilia 's verandah, but in his person 
generally there was an indefinable expression of experience 



 

rapidly and easily assimilated. Rowland had been struck 
at the outset with the instinctive quickness of his obser 
vation and his free appropriation of whatever might serve 
his purpose. He had not been, for instance, half an hour 
on English soil before he perceived that he was dressed 
provincially, and he had immediately reformed his toilet 
with the most unerring tact. His appetite for novelty 
was insatiable, and for everything characteristically foreign, 
as it presented itself, he had an extravagant greeting ; but 
in half an hour the novelty had faded, he had guessed the 
secret, he had plucked out the heart of the mystery and 
was clamouring for a keener sensation. At the end of a 
month he presented a puzzling spectacle to his companion. 
He had caught instinctively the keynote of the Old World. 
