He makes a brief explanation to his mother and leaves excuses for
madame, who is lying down in order to be fresh and enchanting for
evening. His orders for Jane are rather more lengthy, and she is to
comfort Cecil if he should not be home for breakfast.
He has a simple supper in the little nest among the cliffs. Violet
pours the tea with a serene unconsciousness. She is nothing but a
child. Her life and education have been so by rule, emotions repressed,
bits of character trimmed and trained, though they have not taken all
out, he is sure. She is very proper and precise now, a little afraid
she shall blunder somewhere, and with a rare delicacy will not mention
the child, lest its father should think she has coaxed it from some
duty or love. He almost smiles to himself as he speculates upon her.
Once there was just such another,--no, the other was unlike her in all
but youth and beauty, with a hundred coquettish ways where this one is
honest, simple, and sincere. Could she have served a table gravely
like this, and made no vain use of lovely eyes or dimpled mouth?
He goes up-stairs and takes his place as a watcher. There is nothing to
do but administer a few drops of medicine every half-hour. The evening
is warm and he sits by the open window, trying not to think, telling
himself that in honor he has no right to for the next forty hours, and
then the decision must come. He could fight her battle so much better
if--if he had the one right, but does he want it? He has counted on
many other things in his life. For his dead father's sake he is willing
to make some sacrifice, but why should this come to him?
The stars shine out in the wide blue heavens, the wind whispers softly
among the leaves, the water ripples in the distance. The mysterious
noises of night grow shriller for a while, then fainter, until at
midnight there is scarcely a sound. How strangely solemn to sit here by
this lapsing soul, that but a little while ago was the veriest stranger
to him! He has sent Denise to bed, Violet is sleeping with childhood's
ease and unconsciousness. A week hence and everything will be changed
for her; she will never be a child again.
There is a pale bit of moon towards morning, then faint streaks raying
up in the east, and sounds of life once more. A sacred Sunday morning.
He feels unusually reverent and grave, and breathes a prayer. He wants
guidance so much, and yet--does one pray about secular affairs? he
wonders.
Denise taps lightly at the door. She looks refreshed, but the awe will
not soon go out of her old face. Mr. St. Vincent has rested quietly,
his pulse is no weaker; how could it be to live? He stirs and opens his
eyes. They feed him some broth and a little wine, and he drops off
drowsily again.
"You are so good," says the grateful old creature, who studies him with
wistful eyes. Has she any unspoken hope?
While she waits he goes down to stretch his cramped limbs. The doctor
can do no good and will not come to-day. There is no one else to call
upon. He must stay; it would be brutal to leave them alone.
Denise has a lovely little breakfast spread for him, but Violet is not
present. Denise, too, has her Old World ideas. He goes up again to the
invalid, and after an hour or two walks down home. His mother and
madame are at church, as he supposed they would be. He talks a little
to Gertrude, who is nervous and shocked at the thought of any one
dying, and wonders if it can make any difference to the business. He
takes a walk with Cecil, who coaxes to go back with him to her dear
Miss Violet, but he convinces her that it cannot be to-day; to-morrow,
perhaps.
He walks back, rambling down to the spot where Cecil came so near
destruction. The land-slide is clearly visible, the young tree, torn up
by the roots, is a ghost, with brown, withered leaves, and there are
the jagged rocks going steeply down to the shore. If no hand had been
there to save! If no steady foot had dared climb from point to point!
He wonders now how she did it! It seems a greater miracle than before.
And how strange that Cecil should evince such an unwonted partiality
for Miss St. Vincent! Does it all point one way to a certain ending?
It is well that Floyd Grandon has taken this path. He goes up through
the garden and hears a voice at the hall door.
"You cannot see him," Denise is saying. "He is scarcely conscious, and
cannot be disturbed. Your call of yesterday made him much worse."
"But I must see him, my good woman!" in an imperative tone. "If he is
going to die, it is so much the more necessary."
"It is Sunday," she replies. "You can talk no business, you can do him
no good."
"Who is here with him?"
"No one," she answers, "but his daughter and myself. Go away and leave
us to our quiet. If you must see him, come to-morrow."
He takes out a pencil and writes a rather lengthy message. "Give this
to him, and to no one else," he says, sharply, turning away with
evident reluctance.
"Oh!" Denise cries as she espies Mr. Grandon, "if I had known you were
here; I was afraid he would force his way in."
