she felt if she ever needed some one strong and comforting 
in any great perplexity Sarah would be that friend. 

" You are so generous: do you think me weak with 
the weakest? " and she gave a bright little laugh. kt I shall 
tire you of myself and love ; but one comfort is that it is 
new to every one, just as is the dawn, though we see it 
every day." 

' ' You could not tire me with anything you might s&y ; 
and I am so glad to have you happy. Yet when it comes 
to one's own self, what a solemn thing it seems, to say 
what can never be unsaid. If one should make a mistake." 

She let her thoughts revert a moment to Eugene Colla-r 
more. No ; centuries of waiting could not make love on 
her part. 

''I suppose one who realizes all the solemnity must 
have some fear and questioning at first ; but soul answers 
to soul. You could not receive an unwelcome or inhar- 
monious guest. It is the peace and the satisfaction that 
determines whether it rightly belongs to you. And when 
it comes to you I think you will know. You have been 
the dearest of friends and confidantes." 

They talked a little of other matters and then lapsed 
into contented silence, just glancing and smiling at some 
lovely view, or a bit of bird song that broke the stillness. 
And all this had come from one small deed of kindliness : 
the drawing in instead of the crowding out. Why was 
she not doing something now, instead of idling away her 
days in pleasure ? Then she thought of Charlie, and longed 



for him with that curious sense of loneliness that sometimes 
pervades the soul. 

They said good by at length, and Kathie turned home- 
ward. For days afterward she was haunted by a tender 
gravity, far removed from sadness, yet it seemed to bring 
her nearer to all who came in contact with her. 



CHAPTER XII. 

THE lovely summer day was on the wane. Lengthening 
shadows, a waft of cooler air, the long-cadenced song of a 
homeward bird, the tremulous, infrequent chirp of a hidden 
insect muffled in turfy fragrance were suggestions of com- 
ing evening. A perfect day, Charlie Darrell had said a 
dozen times. 

He and Kathie had been spending it together. In the 
morning there had been a lovely drive ; then after dinner 
she had swung in a hammock in a shady place, while he, 
stretched on the grass, recounted the last days of study, 
the examinations, parting with friends, and the sanguine 
plans of youth. 

" I always tell you everything," he declared laughingly. 
' ' I wonder how I managed to exist while you were away ! 
My remembrance of it is as a long, lonesome time." 

" Thank you," gayly. 

Kathie had been letting herself be quite free and joyous 
this day. For several weeks she had been on guard every 
moment, for she saw that, although Eugene Collamore 
held himself bravely, the fire still burned. He tried to be 
the same to others and chaffed gayly with Georgie Halford ; 
but when his eyes turned to her, waiting and hoping were 
written in them. 

A few days before he had started for Canada on some 
business for his father, accompanied Fay. Louise had 
taken a new whim, archaeological studies with Mr. HULIS- 
don. Jessie and the children had come down for the two 
