wandered about rather restlessly, and yawned a good deal in corners.
These little ways of his, however, were considered to belong to the
"fantasies of genius;" Madam Carroll herself had so characterized them.

The stranger had, indeed, unlimited genius, if signs of this kind were
to be taken as evidences of it; he interrupted people in the middle of
their sentences; he left them abruptly while they were still talking to
him; he yawned (as has already been mentioned), and not always in
corners; he went to see the persons he fancied, whether they had asked
him to do so or not; he never dreamed of going to see the persons he
did not fancy, no matter how many times they had invited him. He had a
liking for flower-gardens, and had been discovered more than once, soon
after his arrival, sitting in honeysuckle arbors which the owners had
supposed were for their own private enjoyment. When found, he had not
apologized; he had complimented the owners upon their honeysuckles.

Strangers were so rare in Far Edgerley--high, ancient little village in
the mountains, far from railways, unmentioned in guide-books--that this
admirer of flower-gardens was known by sight through all the town before
he had been two days in the place. He was named Dupont, and he was
staying at the village inn, the Washington Hotel--an old red brick
structure, whose sign, a weather-beaten portrait of the Father of his
Country, crowned the top of a thick blue pole set out in the middle of
Edgerley Street. He was apparently about twenty-eight or thirty years of
age, tall, slender, carelessly dressed, yet possessing, too, some
picturesque articles of attire to which Far Edgerley was not accustomed;
notably, low shoes with red silk stockings above them, and a red silk
handkerchief to match the stockings peeping from the breast pocket of
the coat; a cream-colored umbrella lined with red silk; a quantity of
cream-colored gauze wound round a straw hat.

But it was not these articles, remarkable as they were, nor his taste
for opening gates without permission, nor his habit of walking in the
middle of the street, ignoring sidewalks, nor another habit he had of
rising and going out of church just before the sermon--it was none of
these which had given him his privilege of entering "the best society."
The best society had opened its doors to Genius, and to Genius alone.
This genius was of the musical kind. Dupont played and sang his own
compositions. "What," said Madam Carroll, "is genius, if not this?"

Madam Carroll's opinion was followed in Far Edgerley, and Dupont now had
the benefit of it. The Rendleshams invited him to tea; the Greers sang
for him; he was offered the Saturday Review; even Mrs. General
Hibbard, joining the gentle tide, invited him to Chapultepec, and when
he came, showed him the duck yard. Miss Honoria Ashley did not yield to
the current. But then Miss Honoria never yielded to anything. Her
father, the junior warden, freely announced (outside his own gate) that
the "singing man" amused him. Mr. Phipps hated him, but that was because
Dupont had shown some interest in Miss Lucy Rendlesham, who was pretty.
Not that they cared much, however, for beauty in Far Edgerley; it was
so much better to be intellectual. Ferdinand Kenneway, when he learned
that the new-comer had been received both at Chapultepec and the Farms,
called at the inn, and left one of his engraved cards--"Mr. F. Kenneway,
Baltimore." He had once lived in Baltimore six months. Dupont made an
excellent caricature of Ferdinand on the back of the card, and never
returned the call. On the whole, the musician had reason to congratulate
himself upon so complete a conquest of Far Edgerley's highest circle.
Only two persons (besides Phipps) in all that circle disliked him. True,
these two disliked him strongly; but they remained only two, and they
were, in public, at least, silent. They were Miss Carroll and the rector
of St. John's.

Perhaps it was but natural that a clergyman should look askance at a man
who always rose and walked out of church at the very moment when he was
preparing to begin his sermon. Miss Carroll, however, had no such
sufficient reason to give for her dislike; when Dupont came to the Farms
he was as respectfully polite to her as he could be in the very small
opportunity she vouchsafed him. He came often to their flower-garden.
She complained of his constant presence. "I am never sure that he is not
there. He is either lying at full length in the shade of the
rhododendrons, or else sitting in the rose arbor, drumming on the
table."

"Very harmless amusements they seem to me," replied Madam Carroll.

"Yes. But why should we be compelled to provide his amusements? I think
that office we might decline."

"You are rather unkind, aren't you? What harm has the poor fellow done
to us?"
