like to go with you," said Rowland. 

" I am fit only to be alone. I am damned !" 

"You had better not think of it at all," Rowland 
cried, "than think in that way." 

"There is only one way. I have been hideous!" 
And he broke off and marched away with his long elastic 
step, swinging his stick. Rowland watched him, and 
at the end of a moment called to him. Roderick stopped 
and looked at him in silence, and then abruptly turned 
and disappeared below the crest of a hill. 



XXVI. 

ROWLAND passed the remainder of the clay as best he 
could. He was half exasperated, half depressed ; he 
had an insufferable feeling of having been placed in the 
wrong in spite of his excellent cause. Roderick did not 
come home to lunch ; but of this, with his passion for 
brooding away the hours on far-off mountain-sides, he 



 

had almost made a habit. Mrs. Hudson appeared at 
the noonday repast with a face which showed that 
Roderick 's demand for money had unsealed the fountains 
of her distress. Little Singleton consumed an enormous 
and well-earned meal. Mary Garland, Rowland ob 
served, had not contributed her scanty assistance to her 
kinsman 's pursuit of the Princess Casamassima without 
an effort. The effort was visible in her pale face and 
her silence ; she looked so ill that when they left the 
table Rowland felt almost bound to remark upon it. 
They had come out upon the grass in front of the inn. 

" I have a headache," she said. And then suddenly, 
looking about at the menacing sky and motionless air, 
" It 's this horrible day !" 

Rowland that afternoon tried to write a letter to his 
cousin Cecilia, but his head and his heart wtre alike 
heavy, and he traced upon the paper but a single line. 
" I believe there is such a thing as being too reasonable. 
But when once the habit is formed, what is one to do?" 
He had occasion to use his keys, and he felt for them in 
his pockets ; they were missing, and he remembered that 
he had left them lying on the hill-top where he had had 
his talk with Roderick. He went forth in search of them, 
and found them where he had thrown them. He flung 
himself down in the same place again ; he felt indis 
posed to walk. He was conscious that his mood had 
greatly changed since the morning ; his extraordinary 
acute sense of his rights had been replaced by the familiar 
chronic sense of his duties. Only, his duties now seemed 
impracticable ; he turned over and buried his face in his 
arms. He lay so a long time, thinking of many things ; 
the sum of them all was that Roderick had beaten him. 
At last he was startled by an extraordinary sound ; it 
took him a moment to perceive that it was a portentous 
growl of thunder. He aroused himself and saw that 
the whole face of the sky had altered. The clouds that 
had hung motionless all day were moving from their 



 

stations, and getting into position for a battle. The 
wind was rising, the turbid vapours were growing dark 
and thick. It was a striking spectacle, but Rowland 
judged best to observe it briefly, as a storm was evidently 
imminent. He took his way down to the inn, and found 
Singleton still at his post, profiting by the last of the 
rapidly-failing light to finish his study, and yet at the same 
