“Let me alone!” growled Oscar, attempting to break away from the grip
of the master-carpenter.

“I will let you alone when I have locked you in the ice-house,” added
Mr. Brookbine, giving his patient several sharp twists and shakes,
which certainly did not improve his temper.

“He sneaked up behind me, or I should not have needed any help,” said
Dory, who felt that he had suffered a partial defeat in being taken by
surprise. “I am sorry I did not see him, for I think I should have
made it hot for him.”

“I shall make it hot for you before you have seen the end of this
affair. I will teach you what it is to insult your betters,” replied
Oscar. “If I don’t pitch you into the lake before I have done with
you, it will be because I can’t.”

“Any time when you are ready, let the fun begin,” added Dory, when he
had better have held his tongue.

“You will cool off in the ice-house; and we will see what you can do
in there,” continued Mr. Brookbine, as he dragged the rebel out of the
pilot-house.

“Let me alone! I don’t let anybody put his hands upon me,” yelled
Oscar, struggling to escape from the grasp of the carpenter.

“But you will be a good boy, and let me put my hands upon you, won’t
you?” added the big mechanic.

“No, I won’t! I will be the death of you if you don’t let go!”

“Steady, my boy: you are getting excited. You are wasting a great deal
of bad breath on nothing.”

The carpenter slapped his victim over a few times on the deck before
he reached the stairs to the main deck. Oscar could not stand this: he
said it hurt, and he became comparatively quiet. His tyrant walked him
down the steps. The boys on both decks gathered to witness the
exciting scene; but no one offered to interfere, and no one spoke a
word of comfort for the rebel.

“Will Orwell!” called the victim, when he saw his crony among the
spectators to his humiliation. “Come here, and help me!”

“No, I thank you! I don’t believe in butting your head against a
stonewall, and I told you not to do it beforehand.”

The carpenter opened the door of the ice-house, and thrust his
prisoner into the dark hole, as it was when the door was closed.




CHAPTER XII.

CAPTAIN GILDROCK’s FIRST LESSON IN NAVIGATION.


Mr. Brookbine secured the door of the ice-house, and put the key into
his pocket. The interior was ventilated for the benefit of the
provisions that were kept on the ice when the steamer was on a long
cruise, but there was no window or other opening which would admit a
particle of light.

“What’s the trouble, Mr. Brookbine?” asked Jepson the engineer, who
was the master-machinist and an instructor of the school.

“That is the most desperate young cub I ever happened to encounter,”
replied the carpenter, as he proceeded to relate what had happened in
the Goldwing and on board of the steamer.

“Captain Gildrock will bring him to his senses,” added the engineer,
laughing; for he believed the captain could do any thing that was
within the scope of mortal man.

“I am ready to have him begin where I leave off; but there won’t be
much left of the young rascal when I get through with him if I have to
deal with him,” replied the carpenter.

