clean hands into balls and pat them into flat cakes. Arrange them in a
frying-pan and cook (not too fast) in their own fat, turning them twice
until they are nicely and evenly browned. The time allowed for frying
them depends on the size of the cakes. If they are not large, fifteen
minutes should be enough.

Serve on a hot dish, without gravy.


Smothered Sausages.

Prick “link” sausages—that is, those done up in skins, in fifteen or
twenty places, with a large needle; put them in a clean frying-pan in
which is a half a teacup full of hot water. Roll the sausages over in
this several times and cover closely. If you have not the lid of a
pot or of a tin-pail that fits the frying-pan, use a pie-dish turned
upside down. Set the pan where the water will bubble slowly, for ten
minutes. Lift the cover then, and roll the sausages over again two or
three times, to wet them thoroughly, leaving them with the sides up
that were down. Cover again and cook ten minutes longer. Turn them
twice more, at intervals of five minutes, cover, and let them steam
four minutes before taking them up. They will be plump, whole, tender
and well-done, and the bottom of the pan be almost dry. Lay in neat
rows on a hot dish.


Fish Balls.

Soak a pound of cod-fish all night in cold water. Change it in the
morning, and cover with lukewarm water for three hours more. Wash it,
scraping off the salt and fat; put it into a sauce-pan, cover it well
with water just blood-warm, and let it simmer—that is, not quite
boil, two hours. Take it up, pick out the bones and remove the skin,
and set the fish aside to cool.

When perfectly cold chop it fine in a wooden tray. Have ready, for a
cupful of minced fish, nearly two cupfuls of potato boiled and mashed
very smooth.

    A tablespoonful of butter.

    Half a teaspoonful of salt.

    Two tablespoonfuls of milk worked into the fish while
      hot.

    Add also, when the potato has been rubbed until free
      from lumps, the beaten yolk of an egg. Work this in
      well with a wooden or silver spoon.

    Now stir in the chopped fish, a little at a time,
      mixing all together until you have a soft mass which
      you can handle easily.

Drop a tablespoonful of the mixture on a floured pastry board, or a
floured dish. Flour your hands, roll the fish and potato into a ball,
and pat it into a cake, or make it as round as a marble. Lay these as
you form them on a dish dusted with flour, and when all are made out,
set in a cool place until morning.

Half an hour before breakfast, have five or six great spoonfuls of
sweet lard hissing hot in a frying-pan or doughnut-kettle. Put in the
balls a few at a time; turn as they color; take them out when they are
of a tanny brown, lay them in a hot colander set in a plate, and keep
warm in the open oven until all are fried.


A Breakfast Stew (very nice).

    Two pounds of lean beef. (The “second best cuts” may be
      used here.)

    A quarter of a medium-sized onion.

    A tablespoonful of browned flour.

    Half a teaspoonful each of minced parsley, summer
      savory, and sweet marjoram.

    As much allspice as will lie on a silver dime.
