

 

I 've got my horse at the door, and I can drop you 
on my way home. I 'm going to take Mis' Lapham 
to look at a house I 'm driving piles for, down on the 
New Land." 

" Don't care if I do," said Hartley. 

Lapham put on a straw hat, gathered up some 
papers lying on his desk, pulled down its rolling 
cover, turned the key in it, and gave the papers 
to an extremely handsome young woman at one 
of the desks in the outer office. She was stylishly 
dressed, as Bartley saw, and her smooth, yellow hair 
was sculpturesquely waved over a low, white fore 
head. " Here," said Lapham, with the same prompt 
gruff kindness that he had used in addressing the 
young man, " I want you should put these in shape, 
and give me a type- writer copy to morrow." 

" What an uncommonly pretty girl !" said Bartley, 
as they descended the rough stairway and found 
their way out to the street, past the dangling rope 
of a block and tackle wandering up into the caver 
nous darkness overhead. 

" She does her work," said Lapham shortly. 

Bartley mounted to the left side of the open buggy 
standing at the curb-stone, and Lapham, gathering 
up the hitching-weight, slid it under the buggy-seat 
and mounted beside him. 

" No chance to speed a horse here, of course," 
said Lapham, while the horse with a spirited gentle 
ness picked her way, with a high, long action, over 
the pavement of the street". The streets were all nar 
row, and most of them crooked, in that quarter of 



 

the town ; but at the end of one the spars of a vessel 
pencilled themselves delicately against the cool blue 
of the afternoon sky. The air was full of a smell 
pleasantly compounded of oakum, of leather, and of 
oil. It was not the busy season, and they met only 
two or three trucks heavily straggling toward the 
wharf with their long string teams ; but the cobble 
stones of the pavement were worn with the dint of 
ponderous wheels, and discoloured with iron-rust 
from them ; here and there, in wandering streaks 
over its surface, was the grey stain of the salt water 
with which the street had been sprinkled. 

After an interval of some minutes, which both men 
spent in looking round the dash-board from opposite 
sides to watch the stride of the horse, Bartley said, 
with a light sigh, " I had a colt once down in Maine 
that stepped just like that mare." 

"Well!" said Lapham, sympathetically recognis 
ing the bond that this fact created between them. 
" Well, now, I tell you what you do. You let me 
come for you 'most any afternoon, now, and take 
vou out over the Milldam, and speed this mare a 
little. I 'd like to show you what this mare can do. 
Yes, I would." 

"All right," answered Bartley; "I'll let you 
know my first day off." 

" Good," cried Lapham. 

" Kentucky ?" queried Bartley. 

