
she had not been crying at the time she had made 
that declaration, the tears had taken their revenge 
and were coming now. Yet only in a calm, repressed way; now and then he saw a drop fall, 
or caught a motion of Esther's hand which could 
only have been made to prevent a drop from fall 
ing. She walked along steadily, turning neither to 
the right hand or the left; she who ordinarily 
watched every hedgerow and ran to explore every 
group of plants in the corner of a field, and was 
keen to see everything that was to be seen in 
earth or heaven. Pitt walked along silently too. 
He was at a careless age, but he was a generous 
minded fellow; and to a mind of that sort there is 
something exceedingly attractive and an influence 
exceedingly powerful in the fact of being trusted 
and depended on. 

" Mother," he said when he got home, " I wish 
you would look after that little girl now and then." 

" What little girl V " 

"You must know whom I mean; the colonel's 
daughter." 

" The colonel is sufficient for that, I should say." 

" But you know what sort of a man he is. And 
she has no mother, nor anybody else, except 
servants." 

"Isn't he fond of her?" 

"Very fond; but then he isn't well, and he is a 
reserved, silent man; the child is left to herself in 
a way that is bad for her." 

" What do you suppose I can do ? " 



 

" A great deal ; if you once knew her and got 
fond of her, mother." 

Mrs. Dallas made no promise; however she did 
go to see Esther. It was about a week after Pitt's 
departure. She found father and daughter very 
much as her son had found them the day he was 
introduced to the box of coins. Esther was on the 
floor, beside the same box, and the colonel was on 
his sofa. Mrs. Dallas did take the effect of the 
picture for that moment before the colonel sprang 
up to receive her. Then she had to do with a 
somewhat formal but courtly host, and the picture 
was lost. The lady sat there, stately in her silks 
and laces, carrying on a stiff conversation ; for she 
and Col. Gainsborough had few points of sympathy 
or mutual understanding; and for awhile she forgot 
Esther. Then her eye again fell upon the child in 
her corner, sitting by her box with a sad, uninterested air. 

"And how is Esther?" she said, turning herself 
a little towards that end of the room. " Eeally I 
came to see Esther, colonel. How does she do ? " 

"She is much obliged to you, and quite well, 
madam, I believe." 

" But she must want playmates, colonel. Why 
don't you send her to school ? " 

" I would, if there were a good school at hand." 

"There are schools at New Haven, and Hartford, 
and Boston; plenty of schools, that would suit 
you." 

