blinking through her glasses in a funny way.

There was a laugh and then a pause, broken in a moment by Maud, who
said, in a tone of apprehension:

"I do hope Miss Orne isn't full of the new notions about clothes and
food and exercise and rights and rubbish of that sort. Mamma hates such
ideas, and so do I."

"I hope she is full of good, wise notions about health and work and
study. It is just what we need in this school. Madame is old and lets
things go, and the other teachers only care to get through and have an
easy time. We ought to be a great deal better, brisker, and wiser than
we are, and I'm ready for a good stirring up if any one will give it to
us," declared Sally, who was a very independent girl and had read as
well as studied much.

"You Massachusetts girls are always raving about self-culture, and ready
for queer new ways. I'm contented with the old ones, and want to be let
alone and finished off easily," said Nelly, the pretty New Yorker.

"Well, I go with Sally, and want to get all I can in the way of health,
learning, and manners while I'm here; and I'm real glad Miss Orne has
come, for Madame's old-fashioned, niminy priminy ways did fret me
dreadfully. Miss Orne is more like our folks out West,--spry and strong
and smart, see if she isn't," said Julia, with a decided nod of her
auburn head.

"There she is now! Girls, she's running! actually trotting up the
avenue--not like a hen, but a boy--with her elbows down and her head up.
Do come and see!" cried Kitty, dancing about at the window as if she
longed to go and do likewise.

All ran in time to see a tall young lady come up the wide path at a good
pace, looking as fresh and blithe as the goddess of health, as she
smiled and nodded at them, so like a girl that all returned her salute
with equal cordiality.

"She gives a new sort of interest to the old treadmill, doesn't she?"
said Nelly, as they scattered to their places at the stroke of nine,
feeling unusually anxious to appear well before the new teacher.

While they pull down their jerseys and take up their books, we will
briefly state that Madame Stein's select boarding-school had for many
years received six girls at a time, and finished them off in the old
style. Plenty of French, German, music, painting, dancing, and
deportment turned out well-bred, accomplished, and amiable young ladies,
ready for fashionable society, easy lives, and entire dependence on
other people. Dainty and delicate creatures usually, for, as in most
schools of this sort, minds and manners were much cultivated, but bodies
rather neglected. Heads and backs ached, dyspepsia was a common ailment,
and poorlies of all sorts afflicted the dear girls, who ought not to
have known what "nerves" meant, and should have had no bottles in their
closets holding wine and iron, cough mixtures, soothing drops and
cod-liver oil for weak lungs. Gymnastics had once flourished, but the
fashion had gone by, and a short walk each day was all the exercise they
took, though they might have had glorious romps in the old coach-house
and bowling-alley in bad weather, and lovely rambles about the spacious
grounds; for the house was in the suburbs, and had once been a fine
country mansion. Some of the liveliest girls did race down the avenue
now and then, when Madame was away, and one irrepressible creature had
actually slid down the wide balusters, to the horror of the entire
household.

In cold weather all grew lazy and cuddled under blankets and around
registers, like so many warmth-loving pussies,--poor Madame's rheumatism
making her enjoy a hot-house temperature and indulge the girls in
luxurious habits. Now she had been obliged to give up entirely and take
to her bed, saying, with the resignation of an indolent nature:--

"If Anna Orne takes charge of the school I shall feel no anxiety. She
is equal to anything."

She certainly looked so as she came into the school-room ready for her
day's work, with lungs full of fresh air, brain stimulated by sound
sleep, wholesome exercise, and a simple breakfast, and a mind much
interested in the task before her. The girls' eyes followed her as she
took her place, involuntarily attracted by the unusual spectacle of a
robust woman. Everything about her seemed so fresh, harmonious, and
happy, that it was a pleasure to see the brilliant color in her cheeks,
