" Time enough," he growled. " Women beat the very 
devil for nagging." 
" I have nagged very little I think," trying to steady 
her voice and keep it kindly. " When I gave you your 
choice, I told you I was in earnest. I have made some 
new arrangements quite independent of you. From 
henceforth our paths will lie apart until you reform and 
become what you promised me at God's altar. I will 
care for the children and myself, but my home you can- 
not enter while you cling to this deadly monster, intem- 
perance. I shall go out of this house to-day. For the 
next fortnight it will provide you a shelter, and then you 
must look elsewhere." 
He stared at her stupidly, his fork poised in the air. 
It seemed as if he would never speak. She had heard of 
people who had died from the effects of some sudden 
 
news, and oh, what if she should be his murderer ! She 
watched him with dilated eyes and throbbing nerves, but 
she might have spared herself. 
" This is some of your Aunt Clara's cursed meddling," 
he began fiercely. " She will learn what it is to part man 
and wife, or I am much mistaken." 
"Aunt Clara has nothing to do with it. She does not 
even know of nay plans. No relative has advised me. I 
could not stand this life, endurance had passed the far- 
thest point. I told you I could support you no longer. 
If we had no children, I might have given you my whole 
duty — to be mocked at and outraged; but I must save 
them. You have chosen. You have thrown away every- 
thing, prosperity, honor, manhood, love," and her voice 
trembled. "I have gathered up a few treasures from the 
wreck and shall care for them until you come clothed in 
your right mind to demand them." 
" Where are you going ? " 
"That does not matter now. I shall not be so far but 
that you can find me with honorable intent, and the law 
will protect me from any other. I shall earn my living 
decently and respectably — " 
"Will you? we'll see!" and he made a sudden 
plunge at her, but missing his aim, fell heavily to the 
floor. 
" O Tom," she cried, " do not seek to add any other 
crimes to the long list." Then she went to the door and 
held the knob in her hand. 
Tom Marshall began to cry: "Because a man's unfor- 
tunate, even his own wife casts him off. I 'd never have 
believed it of you, Nelly ! My love has never changed 
since the day I married you, but I 've been hunted from 
pillar to post ; and a man wants some comfort when it 's 
all down hill. I Ve tried to reform, I swear I have — " 
" Not in that tremendous earnest as souls do who want 
to be saved, who cry out of the very depths to Godl 
Ton could have helped all this wretched business. Sup- 
pose I had said when little Freddie died that I could not 
endure it, and found solace in the poisoned stimulants 
that sap the very springs of life. What if I had left my 
house and children for hours, and spent your money in 
some vile den — given my lips to be kissed by a — O 
God, the thought is horrible ! The whole world would 
execrate me." 
" But you are a — woman," he flung out sullenly. 
" Is not the sin just the same ? Society punishes the 
woman more heavily, and, not content with that, visits the 
sins of others upon her as well. Heaven only knows how 
bitterly I have suffered for yours. In God's sight one 
human being has rights as well as another." 
"And you throw me off; you desert me! You take 
my children away ! By heaven ! I will have my son 
again." 
" You shall have them all when you resolve to be man 
enough to care for them. I simply say that not another 
penny of my money shall go for rum. I will not aid you 
in your downward career, for it is surely that. What has 
my patience and long-suffering brought me ? You have 
been more cruelly indifferent this winter than ever be- 
fore." 
" It's very hard, God knows," he maundered, " when my 
own wife turns against me ! You promised to love, Nelly, 
'till death do us part.' " 
