case have stayed at home on account of the weather, but on this particular
morning he had very urgent business with a gentleman who, like Lamb, rose
with the lark, though he did not go to bed with the chickens. There are no
larks in Boston, but the scream of the locomotives answers nearly as well.

Vancouver accordingly had himself driven at an early hour to a certain
house not situated in the West End, but of stone quite as brown, and
having a bay window as prominent as any sixteen-foot-front on Beacon
Street; those advantages, however, did not prevent Mr. Vancouver from
wearing an expression of fastidious scorn as he mounted the steps and
pulled the polished German silver handle of the door-bell. The curl on his
lip gave way to a smile of joyous cordiality as he was ushered into the
presence of the owner of the house.

"Indeed, I'm glad to see you, Mr. Vancouver," said his host, whose
extremely Celtic appearance was not belied by unctuous modulation of his
voice, and the pleasant roll of his softly aspirated consonants.

This great man was no other than Mr. Patrick Ballymolloy. He received
Vancouver in his study, which was handsomely furnished with bright green
wall-paper, a sideboard on which stood a number of decanters and glasses,
several leather easy-chairs, and a green china spittoon.

In personal appearance, Mr. Patrick Ballymolloy was vastly more striking
than attractive. He was both corpulent and truculent, and his hands and
feet were of a size and thickness calculated to crush a paving-stone at a
step, or to fell an ox at a blow. The nails of his fingers were of a hue
which is made artificially fashionable in eastern countries, but which
excites prejudice in western civilization from an undue display of real
estate. A neck which the Minotaur might have justly envied surmounted the
thickness and roundness of Mr. Ballymolloy's shoulders, and supported a
head more remarkable for the immense cavity of the mouth, and for a
quantity of highly pomaded sandy hair, than for any intellectuality of the
brows or high-bred fineness of the nose. Mr. Ballymolloy's nose was
nevertheless an astonishing feature, and at a distance called vividly to
mind the effect of one of those great glass bottles of reddened water,
behind which apothecaries of all degrees put a lamp at dusk in order that
their light may the better shine in the darkness. It was one of the most
surprising feats of nature's alchemy that a liquid so brown as that
contained in the decanters on Patrick's sideboard should be able to
produce and maintain anything so supernaturally red as Patrick's nose.

Mr. Ballymolloy was clad in a beautiful suit of shiny black broadcloth,
and the front of his coat was irregularly but richly adorned with a
profusion of grease-spots of all sizes. A delicate suggestive mezzotint
shaded the edges of his collar and cuffs, and from his heavy gold watch-chain depended a malachite seal of unusual greenness and brilliancy.

Vancouver took the gigantic outstretched hand of his host in his delicate
fingers, with an air of cordiality which, if not genuine, was very well
assumed.

"I'm glad to see you, sir," said the Irishman again.

"Thanks," said Vancouver, "and I am fortunate in finding you at home."

Mr. Ballymolloy smiled, and pushed one of his leather easy-chairs towards
the fire. Both men sat down.

"I suppose you are pretty busy over this election, Mr. Ballymolloy," said
Vancouver; blandly.

"Now, that's just it, Mr. Vancouver," replied the Irishman. "That's just
exactly what's the matter with me, for indeed I am very busy, and that's
the truth."

"Just so, Mr. Ballymolloy. Especially since the change last night. I
remember what a good friend you have always been to Mr. Jobbins."

"Well, as you say, Mr. Vancouver, I have been thinking that I and Mr.
Jobbins are pretty good friends, and that's just about what it is, I
think."

"Yes, I remember that on more than one occasion you and he have acted
together in the affairs of the state," said Vancouver, thoughtfully.

'"Ah, but it's the soul of him that I like," answered Mr. Ballymolloy very
sweetly. "He has such a beautiful soul, Mr. Jobbins; it does me good, and
indeed it does, Mr. Vancouver."

"As you say, sir, a man full of broad human sympathies. Nevertheless I
