
Dismissing the men, Winthrop went up the path after her. "I am sure he
has come," she said, hurrying on.

"Who? Lanse? Oh no, it's those old goblins of yours who have illuminated
in this way; it's their idea of keeping watch for you."

The doors had been left unfastened, they entered. Inside, everything was
as brilliant as though the house had been made ready for a ball. But
there was not a sound, no one stirred. They went through to the kitchen;
and there, each on her knees before a wooden chair, with her head
resting upon it on her folded arms, appeared the little Africans, sound
asleep; the soles of their shoes, turned up behind them, seemed almost
as long as they were.

Winthrop roused them. "Here," he said; "we're back. Make some coffee for
your mistress as quickly as you can; and you, Rose, light a fire in the
sitting-room."

The queer little old women ran about like frightened hens. They tumbled
over each other, and let everything drop. Winthrop stood over them
sternly, he took the pitch-pine from the distracted Rose and lighted the
fire himself. "Now go and put out all those lights," he said; "and bring
in the coffee the moment it's ready."

He had made Margaret sit down in a low easy-chair, still wrapped in her
cloak, and had placed a footstool for her feet; the fire danced and
sparkled, she sat with her head thrown back, her eyes closed.

"Are you warmer?" he asked. "You were chilled through all the way down
the river; every now and then I could feel you shiver."

"It was more fatigue than cold." His voice had roused her, she sat up.
"Oh, I ought to be doing something--trying--"

"You can do no more now; you must have some coffee, and then you must go
to bed. But, in the mean while, I will do everything possible."

"But you don't believe--I don't know what you believe!" She rose.

He put her back in her chair. "I will believe nothing if you will go and
rest--I mean my beliefs shall not interfere with my actions; I will
simply do everything I can--all I should do if I were sure he was lost,
somewhere about here."

She remained where he had placed her. After a while she said, "I was so
certain he was in the swamp!" Her tired eyes, beginning to glisten a
little with tears, had a childlike look as she raised them to his.

Old Rose now came hurrying in with the coffee, its fragrant aroma filled
the room. Winthrop poured it out himself, and made Margaret swallow it,
spoonful by spoonful, until the cup was empty.

"You have a little color now," he said.

She put the cup down, and rose.

"You're going? Yes, go; go to bed, and sleep as long as you can, it must
be near dawn. I will meet you here for a late breakfast at eleven."

She still stood there. "But will you--will you really----"

"Haven't I given you my word?" he said. "Are you afraid that I shall not
be tender enough to him? Don't you comprehend that no matter how much I
may hate him myself, his being your husband protects him perfectly,
because, so long as you persist in continuing so subservient, he could
visit anything else upon you?"

She went out without reply.

He sank into the chair she had left vacant to rest for a moment or two;
he was desperately tired.

When he came back to the room at eleven, she was already there. It was a
dark day, with the same New-England-feeling wind blowing over river and
land; there had been spurts of rain, and he was wet. "Why have you no
fire?" he asked.

"It did not seem cold enough."

