the wrong road, and after climbing a long while found the path ended in
rocks over which she could not go.  She was very tired and hungry; for
her food was gone, and there were no houses in this wild place.  Night
was coming on, and it was so cold she was afraid she would freeze before
morning, but dared not go on lest she should fall down some steep hole
and be killed. Much discouraged, she lay down on the moss and cried a
little; then she tried to sleep, but something kept buzzing in her ear,
and looking carefully she saw a fly prancing about on the moss, as if
anxious to make her listen to his song,--

      "Rosy, my dear,
      Don’t cry,--I ’m here
    To help you all I can.
      I ’m only a fly,
      But you ’ll see that I
    Will keep my word like a man."


Rosy could n’t help laughing to hear the brisk little fellow talk as if
he could do great things; but she was very glad to see him and hear his
cheerful song, so she held out her finger, and while he sat there told
him all her troubles.

"Bless your heart! my friend the eagle will carry you right up the
mountains and leave you at your father’s door," cried the fly; and he
was off with a flirt of his gauzy wings, for he meant what he said.

Rosy was ready for her new horse, and not at all afraid after the whale
and the lion; so when a great eagle swooped down and alighted near her,
she just looked at his sharp claws, big eyes, and crooked beak as coolly
as if he had been a cock-robin.

He liked her courage, and said kindly in his rough voice,--

"Hop up, little girl, and sit among my feathers. Hold me fast round the
neck, or you may grow dizzy and get a fall."

Rosy nestled down among the thick gray feathers, and put both arms round
his neck; and whiz they went, up, up, up, higher and higher, till the
trees looked like grass, they were so far below.  At first it was very
cold, and Rosy cuddled deeper into her feather bed; then, as they came
nearer to the sun, it grew warm, and she peeped out to see the huts
standing in a green spot on the top of the mountain.

"Here we are.  You’ll find all the men are down in the mine at this
time.  They won’t come up till morning; so you will have to wait for
your father.  Good-by; good luck, my dear."  And the eagle soared away,
higher still, to his nest among the clouds.

It was night now, but fires were burning in all the houses; so Rosy went
from hut to hut trying to find her father’s, that she might rest while
she waited: at last in one the picture of a pretty little girl hung on
the wall, and under it was written, "My Rosy."  Then she knew that this
was the right place; and she ate some supper, put on more wood, and went
to bed, for she wanted to be fresh when her father came in the morning.

While she slept a storm came on,--thunder rolled and lightning flashed,
the wind blew a gale, and rain poured,--but Rosy never waked till dawn,
when she heard men shouting outside,--

"Run, run!  The river is rising!  We shall all be drowned!"

Rosy ran out to see what was the matter, though the wind nearly blew her
away; she found that so much rain had made the river overflow till it
began to wash the banks away.

"What shall I do? what shall I do?" cried Rosy, watching the men rush
about like ants, getting their bags of gold ready to carry off before
the water swept them away, if it became a flood.

As if in answer to her cry, Rosy heard a voice say close by,--

      "Splash, dash!
      Rumble and crash!
    Here come the beavers gay;
      See what they do,
      Rosy, for you,
    Because you helped me one day."

And there in the water was the little fish swimming about, while an army
