of his body was even then leaving him. 

Zoroaster raised the heavy curtain of carpet that 
hung before the low square door, and came and bowed 
himself before the teacher of his youth and the friend 
of his manhood. The prophet looked up keenly, and 
something like a smile crossed his stern features as 
his eyes rested on the young officer in his magnificent 
armour ; Zoroaster held his helmet in his hand, and 
his fair hair fell like a glory to his shoulders, mingling 
with his silky beard upon his breastplate. His dark 
blue eyes met his master's fearlessly. 

" Hail ! and live for ever, chosen of the Lord ! " he 
said in salutation. '' I bring tidings of great moment 
and importance. If it be thy pleasure, I will speak ; 
but if not, I will come at another season." 



 

" Sit upon my right hand, Zoroaster, and tell me all 
that thou hast to tell. Art thou not my beloved son, 
whom the Lord hath given me to comfort mine old 
age?" 

" I am thy servant and the servant of thine house, 
my father," answered Zoroaster, seating himself upon 
a carved chair at a little distance from the prophet. 

" Speak, my son, — what tidings hast thou ? " 

" There is a messenger come in haste from Shushan, 
bearing tidings and letters. The seven princes have 
slain Smerdis in his house, and have chosen Darius 
the son of Gushtasp to be king." 

"Praise be to the Lord who hath chosen a just 
man ! " exclaimed the prophet devoutly. " So may 
good come out of evil, and salvation by the shedding 
of blood." 

" Even so, my master," answered Zoroaster. " It 
is also written that Darius, may he live for ever, will 
establish himself very surely upon the throne of the 
Medes and Persians. There are letters by the hand 
of the same messenger, sealed with the signet of the 
Great King, wherein I am bidden to bring the kinsfolk of Jehoiakim, who was king over Judah, to Shu- 
shan without delay, that the Great King may do them 
honour as is meet and right; but what that honour 
may be that he would do to them, I know not." 

"What is this that thou sayest?" asked Daniel, 
starting forward from his reclining position, and fixing his dark eyes on Zoroaster. " Will the king take 
away from me the children of my old age ? Art not 
thou as my son ? And is not Nehushta as my daughter ? 
As for the rest, I care not if they go. But Nehushta 



 

is as the apple of my eye ! She is as a fair flower 
growing in the desert of my years ! What is this 
that the king hath done to me? Whither will he 
take her from me ? " 

" Let not my lord be troubled," said Zoroaster, earnestly, for he was moved by the sudden grief of the 
prophet. " Let not my lord be troubled. It is but 
for a space, for a few weeks ; and thy kinsfolk will be 
with thee again, and I also." 

" A space, a few weeks ! What is a space to thee, 
child, or a week that thou shouldest regard it ? But 
I am old and full of years. It may be, if now thou 
takest my daughter Nehushta from me, that I shall see 
her face no more, neither thine, before I go hence and 
return not. Go to ! Thou art young, but I am now 
nigh unto a hundred years old." 
