
"Oh, bring him in, too," said Mrs. Goddard coming forward and taking Mr.
Juxon's hand. "I am so fond of dogs." Indeed she was rather embarrassed
and was glad of the diversion.

"He is really very quiet," said the squire apologetically, "only he is a
little impetuous about getting into a house." Then, seeing that Mrs.
Goddard looked at the enormous animal with some interest and much wonder,
he added, "he is a Russian bloodhound--perhaps you never saw one? He was
given to me in Constantinople, so I call him Stamboul--good name for a
big dog is not it?"

"Very," said Mrs. Goddard rather nervously. Stamboul was indeed an
exceedingly remarkable beast. Taller than the tallest mastiff, he
combined with his gigantic strength and size a grace and swiftness of
motion which no mastiff can possess. His smooth clean coat, of a
perfectly even slate colour throughout, was without folds, close as a
greyhound's, showing every articulation and every swelling muscle of his
body. His broad square head and monstrous jaw betrayed more of the
quickness and sudden ferocity of the tiger than those suggested by the
heavy, lion-like jowl of the English mastiff. His ears, too, were close
cropped, in accordance with the Russian fashion, and somehow the
compactness this gave to his head seemed to throw forward and bring into
prominence his great fiery eyes, that reflected red lights as he moved,
and did not tend to inspire confidence in the timid stranger.

"Do sit down," said Mrs. Goddard, and when the squire was seated Stamboul
sat himself down upon his haunches beside him, and looked slowly from his
master to the lady and back again, his tongue hanging out as though
anxious to hear what they might have to say to each other.

"I thought I should be sure to find you in the morning," began Mr. Juxon,
after a pause. "I hope I have not disturbed you?"

"Oh, not at all. Nellie has just finished her lessons."

"The fact is," continued the squire, "that I was going to survey the
nakedness of the land which has fallen to my lot, and as I came out of
the park I saw the cottage right before me and I could not resist the
temptation of calling. I had no idea we were such near neighbours."

"Yes," said Mrs. Goddard, "it is very near."

Mr. Juxon glanced round the room. He was not exactly at a loss for words,
but Mrs. Goddard did not seem inclined to encourage the conversation. He
saw that the room was not only exceedingly comfortable but that its
arrangement betrayed a considerable taste for luxury. The furniture was
of a kind not generally seen in cottages, and appeared to have formed
part of some great establishment. The carpet itself was of a finer and
softer kind than any at the Hall. The writing-table was a piece of richly
inlaid work, and the implements upon it were of the solid, severe and
valuable kind that are seen in rich men's houses. A clock which was
undoubtedly of the Louis Quinze period stood upon the chimneypiece. On
the walls were hung three or four pictures which, Mr. Juxon thought, must
be both old and of great value. Upon a little table by the fireplace lay
four or five objects of Chinese jade and Japanese ivory and a silver
chatelaine of old workmanship. The squire saw, and wondered why such a
very pretty woman, who possessed such very pretty things, should choose
to come and live in his cottage in the parish of Billingsfield. And
having seen and wondered he became interested in his charming tenant and
endeavoured to carry on the conversation in a more confidential strain.




CHAPTER V.


"You have done more towards beautifying the cottage than I could have
hoped to do," said Mr. Juxon, leaning back in his chair and resting one
hand on Stamboul's great head.

"It was very pretty of itself," answered Mrs. Goddard, "and fortunately
it is not very big, or my things would look lost in it."

"I should not say that--you have so many beautiful things. They seem to
suit the place so well. I am sure you will never think of taking them
away."

"Not if I can help it--I am too glad to be quiet."
