you stayed in Florence to please her ! " 

She rose and ran down the broken seats and ruined 



 

steps so recklessly and yet so sure-footedly that it 
seemed more like a flight than a pace to the place 
where Mrs. Bowen and Mr. Morton were talking 
together. 

Colville followed as he could, slowly and with a 
heavy heart. A good thing develops itself in infi- 
nite and unexpected shapes of goodj a bad thing 
into manifold and astounding evils.. This mis take 
was whirling away beyond his recall in hopeless 
mazes of error, tie saw tnis ge nerous young spirit 
betrayed by it to ignoble and un worthy excess, and 
he knew that he and not she w as to iDlame. 

He was helpless to approach her, to speak with 
her, to set her right, great as the need of that was, 
and he could see that she avoided him. But their 
relations remained outwardly undisturbed. The 
artists brought their sketches for inspection and 
comment, and, without speaking- to each other, he 
and Imogene discussed them with the rest. 

When they started homeward the painters said 
they were coming a little way with them for a 
send-ofiF, and then going back to spend the night in 
Fiesole. They walked beside the carriage, talking 
with Mrs. Bowen and Imogene, who had taken their 
places, with Effie between them, on the back seat ; 
and when they took their leave, Colville and the 
young clergyman, who had politely walked with 
them, continued on foot a little further, till they 
came to the place where the highway to Florence 
divided into the new road and the old. At this 
point it steeply overtops the fields on one side, 



 

which is shored up by a wall some ten or twelve 
feet deep ; and here round a sharp turn of the hill 
on the other side came a peasant driving a herd of 
the black pigs of the country. 

Mrs. Bowen's horses were, perhaps, pampered be- 
yond the habitual resignation of Florentine horses 
to all manner of natural phenomena; they reared 
at sight of the sable crew, and backing violently up- 
hill, set the carriage across the road, with its hind 
wheels a few feet from the brink of the wall. The 
coachman sprang from his seat, the ladies and the 
child remained in theirs as if paralysed. 

Colville ran forward to the side of the carriage. 
" Jump, Mrs. Bowen ! jump, Effie ! Imogene " 

The mother and the little one obeyed. He caught 
them in his arms and set them down. The girl sat 
still, staring at him with reproachful, with disdain- 
ful eyes. 

He leaped forward to drag her out; she shrank 
away, and then he flew to help the coachman, who 
had the maddened horses by the bit. 

" Let go ! " he heard the young clergyman calling 
to him ; " she 's safe ! " He caught a glimpse of 
Imogene, whom Mr. Morton had pulled from the 
other side of the carriage. He struggled to free his 
wrist from the curb-bit chain of the horse, through 
which he had plunged it in his attempt to seize the 
bridle. The wheels of the carriage went over the 
