though not in being Dutch, it prepared me for the 
charms of La Rochelle, which from the moment I 
entered it I perceived to be a fascinating little town, 
a most original mixture of brightness and dulness. 
Part of its brightness comes from its being extra 
ordinarily clean, in which, after all, it is Dutch; a 
virtue not particularly noticeable at Bourges, Le Mans, 
and Angers. Whenever I go southward, if it be only 
twenty miles, I begin to look out for the south, pre 
pared as I am to find the careless grace of those latittudes 
even in things of which it may be said that 
they may be south of something, but are not southern. 
To go from Boston to New York (in this state of 
mind) is almost as soft a sensation as descending the 
Italian side of the Alps; and to go from New York to 
Philadelphia is to enter a zone of tropical luxuriance 
and warmth. Given this absurd disposition, I could 
not fail to flatter myself, on reaching La Rochelle, 
that I was already in the Midi, and to perceive in 
everything, in the language of the country, the ca- 
r act ere meridional. Really, a great many things had 
a hint of it. For that matter, it seems to me that to 
arrive in the south at a bound to wake up there, as 
it were would be a very imperfect pleasure. The 
full pleasure is to approach by stages and gradations; 
to observe the successive shades of difference by 
which it ceases to be the north. These shades are 
exceedingly fine, but your true south-lover has an eye 
for them all. If he perceive them at New York and 
Philadelphia, we imagine him boldly as liberated 



  

from Boston, how could he fail to perceive them at 
La Rochelle? The streets of this dear little city are 
lined with arcades, good, big, straddling arcades of 
stone, such as befit a land of hot summers, and which 
recalled to me, not to go further, the dusky porticos 
of Bayonne. It contains, moreover, a great wide 
place d armes, which looked for all the world like the 
piazza of some dead Italian town, empty, sunny, 
grass-grown, with a row of yellow houses overhanging 
it, an unfrequented cafe, with a striped awning, a tall, 
cold, florid, uninteresting cathedral of the eighteenth 
century on one side, and on the other a shady walk, 
which forms part of an old rampart. I followed this 
walk for some time, under the stunted trees, beside 
the grass-covered bastions; it is very charming, wind 
ing and wandering, always with trees. Beneath the 
rampart is a tidal river, and on the other side, for a 
long distance , the mossy walls of the immense garden 
of a seminary. Three hundred years ago, La Rochelle 
was the great French stronghold of Protestantism; but 
to-day it appears to be a nursery of Papists. 

The walk upon the rampart led me round to one 
of the gates of the town, where I found some small 
modern fortifications and sundry red-legged soldiers, 
and, beyond the fortifications, another shady walk, 
a mail, as the French say, as well as a champ de 
manoeuvre, on which latter expanse the poor little 
red-legs were doing their exercise. It was all very 
quiet and very picturesque, rather in miniature; and 
at once very tidy and a little out of repair. This, 





however, was but a meagre back-view of La Rochelle, 
or poor side-view at best. There are other gates than 
the small fortified aperture just mentioned; one of 
them, an old gray arch beneath a fine clock-tower, I 
had passed through on my way from the station. 
This picturesque Tour de 1 Horloge separates the town 
proper from the port; for beyond the old gray arch, 
the place presents its bright, expressive little face to 
the sea. I had a charming walk about the harbor, 
