his opinions. He had always had a desire for public life ; 
to cause one's ideas to be embodied in national conduct 
appeared to him the highest form of human enjoyment. 
But there was little enough that was public in his solitary 
studies, and he asked himself what was the use of his having 
an office at all, and why he might not as well carry on his 
profession at the Astor Library, where, in his spare hours 
and on chance holidays, he did an immense deal of sugges- 
tive reading. He took copious notes and memoranda, and 
these things sometimes shaped themselves in a way that 
might possibly commend them to the editors of periodicals. 
Readers perhaps would come, if clients didn't; so he 



 

produced, with a great deal of labour, half a dozen articles, 
from which, when they were finished, it seemed to him that 
he had omitted all the points he wished most to make, and 
addressed them to the powers that preside over weekly and 
monthly publications. They were all declined with thanks, 
and he would have been forced to believe that the accent 
of his languid clime brought him luck as little under the 
pen as on the lips, had not another explanation been 
suggested by one of the more explicit of his oracles, in 
relation to a paper on the rights of minorities. This 
gentleman pointed out that his doctrines were about three 
hundred years behind the age; doubtless some magazine 
of the sixteenth century would have been very happy to 
print them. This threw light on his own suspicion that he 
was attached to causes that could only, in the nature of 
things, be unpopular. The disagreeable editor was right 
about his being out of date, only he had got the time wrong. 
He had come centuries too soon ; he was not too old, but 
too new. Such an impression, however, would not have 
prevented him from going into politics, if there had been 
any other way to represent constituencies than by being 
elected. People might be found eccentric enough to vote 
for him in Mississippi, but meanwhile where should he find 
the twenty-dollar greenbacks which it was his ambition to 
transmit from time to time to his female relations, confined 
so constantly to a farinaceous diet ? It came over him with 
some force that his opinions would not yield interest, and 
the evaporation of this pleasing hypothesis made him feel 
like a man in an open boat, at sea, who should just have 
parted with his last rag of canvas. 

I shall not attempt a complete description of Ransom's 
ill-starred views, being convinced that the reader will guess 
them as he goes, for they had a frolicsome, ingenious way 
of peeping out of the young man's conversation. I shall 
do them sufficient justice in saying that he was by natural 
disposition a good deal of a stoic, and that, as the result of a 
considerable intellectual experience, he was, in social and 
political matters, a reactionary. I suppose he was very 
conceited, for he was much addicted to judging his age. 
He thought it talkative, querulous, hysterical, maudlin, full 



igo   xxi. 

of false ideas, of unhealthy germs, of extravagant, dissipated 
habits, for which a great reckoning was in store. He was 
an immense admirer of the late Thomas Carlyle, and was 
very suspicious of the encroachments of modern democracy. 
I know not exactly how these queer heresies had planted 
themselves, but he had a longish pedigree (it had flowered 
at one time with English royalists and cavaliers), and he 
seemed at moments to be inhabited by some transmitted 
spirit of a robust but narrow ancestor, some broad-faced 
wig-wearer or sword-bearer, with a more primitive conception 
of manhood than our modern temperament appears to 
require, and a programme of human felicity much less 
varied. He liked his pedigree, he revered his forefathers, 
and he rather pitied those who might come after him. In 
saying so, however, I betray him a little, for he never men- 
tioned such feelings as these. Though he thought the age 
too talkative, as I have hinted, he liked to talk as well as 
