to the seaside. Suppose we all go, Frances? I feel the 
need of a rest myself. We might ask some friends to 
join us." 

"Who?" she inquires, with a quickness that savors of 
insolence. 

"Who?" he bethinks himself, and answers, "Your 
sister perhaps, and the girls. And if we could go to-mor- 
row, or the day after — " 

"To-morrow!" Frances Wentworth is aghast. Who 
is at the bottom of this scheme, — her sister? But no. 

" Why, Alice is to be bridesmaid at the Collard wed- 
ding next Tuesday, and we are all invited. Marion must 
have been out of her senses ! " she declares, with em- 
phatic contempt. 



 



 



 

"It was not MarioD's plan/' he answers. "I only 
thought of her. But — must you go to the wedding?" 

Slie revolves various matters in her mind. To-morrow 
— that is Friday — there is to be an equestrienne party 
up the river, to a romantic spot called Holly's Glen, and 
(Jraham has their horses engaged ; Saturday morning, an 
elegant matinee with some professionals ; Monday night, 
the archery ball ; Tuesday, the wedding, and so on. To 
go to some stupid place and be shut up in one room with 
a whining baby ! She almost laughs at the idea. 

" I have at least a fortnight of steady engagements," 
she replies, gravely. '' It would be quite impossible for 
me to go. But that need not interfere with you. Gra- 
ham can look after the house and see that I do not come 
to grief. Still, I would advise you not to burden yourself 
with a baby, if you want to rest." 

The heartlessness is quite apparent. 

" Frances," he begins, with a positive feeling of curi- 
osity, " do you never tire of pleasure ? " 

'' No ; why should I? One may grow weary or languid 
in body, but how can one tire of enjoyment ? " she asks, 
in a tone of inquiry as well as surprise. 

lie sighs and is silent. 

"I suppose you would not be content without the ex- 
citement of business," she says, after a silence. 

'' But — I should have nothing else to do ! " He never 
longed for business when at the Elms, he remembers. 

'' And I have nothing else to do." She laughs rather 
constrainedly. " But I am satisfied," with a complacent 
nod. " And it rather amused me to find you thinking of 
a holiday when one can scarcely get you away from the 
oflSce before midnight." 

" I rarely stay as late as that. I was home to-night by 
nine." 

" Then you might have come to the Westbrooks'." 

" I certainly was too tired to stand around and talk 

