talking with Miss Carver she drawled, and said 
" N-y-e-e-e-s," and " I don't know as I d-o-o-o," and 
" Well, I should think as m-u-u-ch," with a prolonga 
tion of all the final syllables in her sentences which 
he had not observed in her before, and which she 
must have borrowed for the occasion for the gentil 
ity of the effect. She tried to refer everything to 
him, and she and Manda Grier talked together as 
much as they could, and when the others spoke of 



 

him as Mr. Barker, they called him Lem. They did 
not look at anything, or do anything to betray that 
they found the studio, on which Lemuel had 
once expatiated to them, different from other 
rooms. 

At last Miss Swan abruptly brought out the studies 
of Lemuel 's head, and put them in a good light ; 
Manda Grier and Statira got into the wrong place 
to see them. 

Manda blurted out, "Well, he looks 's if he'd 
had a fit of sickness in that one ; " and perhaps, in 
fact, Miss Carver had refined too much upon a deli 
cate ideal of Lemuel 's looks. 

" So he d-o-o-es ! " drawled Statira. " And how 
funny he looks with that red thing o-o-o-n ! " 

Miss Swan explained that she had thrown that in 
for the colour, and that they had been fancying him 
in the character of a young Roman. 

" You think he 's got a Roman n-o-o-se ? " asked 
Statira through her own. 

"I think Lem 's got a kind of a pug, m self," said 
Manda Grier. 

" Well, Manda Grier ! " said Statira. 

Lemuel could not look at Miss Carver, whom he 
knew to be gazing at the two girls from the little 
distance to which she had withdrawn ; Miss Swan 
was biting her lip. 

" So that 's the celebrated St. Albans, is it ? " said 
Manda Grier, when they got in the street. " Don't 
know 's I really ever expected to see the inside f it. 



 

You notice the kind of oilcloth they had on that 
upper entry, S tira ? " 

They did not mention Lemuel 's pictures, or the 
artists ; and he scarcely spoke on the way home. 

When they parted, Statira broke out crying, and 
would not let him kiss her. 



XX. 



" I M afraid your little friend at the St. Albans 
isn't altogether happy of late," said Evans toward 
the end of what he called one of his powwows with 
Sewell. Their talk had taken a vaster range than 
usual, and they both felt the need, that people know 
in dealing with abstractions, of finally getting the 
ground beneath their feet again. 
