now well behind us.  In the wide spaces we were quite alone.  Behind
us, dim and distant, shimmering like an opal in a haze of fair
half-tints, the city shone.  On either side of us, the forest trees
began to tread solemnly, like a vast procession which no man could
number, keeping step to some inaudible march.  Before us, the great
crest of the mountains towered dark as death against the upper sky.  As
we drew near, the loneliness of these hills was to me as something of
which I had never conceived before.  Earth did not hold their likeness,
and my heart had never held their meaning.  I could almost have dreaded
them, as we came nearer to them; but the deviation of the paths had
long since ceased.  In the desolate country which we were now crossing
choice was removed from conduct.  There was but one course for me to
take; I took it unhesitatingly and without fear, which belongs wholly
to the lower life.

As we advanced, the great mountain barrier rose high and higher before
us, till it seemed to shut out the very sky from our sight, and to
crush us apart from all the world--nay, from either world or any, I
could have thought, so desolate and so awful was the spot.  But when we
had entered the shadow formed by the mighty range, and had accustomed
our eyes to it for a time, I perceived, not far ahead of me, but in
fact quite near and sudden to the view, a long, dark, sharp defile cut
far into the heart of the hills.  The place had an unpleasant look, and
I stopped before it to regard it.  It was so grim of aspect and so
assured of outline, like a trap for travellers which had hung there
from all eternity, that I liked it not, and would not that the child
should enter till I had first inspected it.  Therefore, I bade him sit
and rest upon a bed of crimson mosses which grew at the feet of a great
rock, and to remain until he saw me turn to him again; and with many
cautions and the most minute directions for his obedience and his
comfort, I left him, and advanced alone.


My way had now grown quite or almost dark.  The light of heaven and
earth alike seemed banished from the dreadful spot.  As it narrowed,
the footing grew uncertain and slippery, and the air dense and damp.  I
had to remind myself that I was now become a being for whom physical
danger had ceased for ever.

"What a place," I thought, "for one less fortunate!"

As these words were in my mind, I lifted my eyes and looked, and saw
that I was not alone in the dark defile.  A figure was coming toward
me, slight of build and delicate; yet it had a firm tread, and moved
with well-nigh the balance of a spirit over the rough and giddy way.
As I watched it, I saw that it was a woman.  Uncertain for the moment
what to do, I remembered the command.

"Await what shall occur, and do as thy heart prompteth."  And
therefore--for my heart prompted me, as a man's must, to be of service
to the woman--I hastened, and advanced, and midway of the place I met
her.

It was now perfectly dark.  I could not see her face.

When I would have spoken with her, and given her good cheer, I could
not find my voice.  If she said aught to me, I could not hear her.  But
I gathered her hands, and held her, and led her on, and shielded her,
and gave her such comfort as a man by strength and silence may give a
woman when she has need of him; and as I supported her and aided her, I
thought of my dear wife, and prayed God that there might be found some
soul of fire and snow--since to me it was denied--to do as much as this
for her in some hour of her unknown need.

But when I had led the woman out into the lighter space, and turned to
look upon her, lo, it was none other.  It was she herself.  It was my
wife.  It was no man's beloved but my own....


So, then, crying,

"Helen!"

And "Forgive me, Helen!" till the dark place rang with her dear name, I
bowed myself and sunk before her, and could not put forth my hand to
touch her, for I thought of how we parted, and it seemed my heart would
break.

But she said,

