dory-mate came in one night and told her that it happened 
falling from the mast because he was not sober 

enough to be up there, Jack's mother said she had al- 
ways expected it. But she had not expected it, all the 
same. We never expect trouble, we only fear it. And 
she had put the baby on the edge of the bed and got 
upon her knees upon the floor, and laid her face on the 
baby, and tried to say her prayers, — for she was a pious 
little woman, not knowing any better, — but found she 
could not pray, she cried so. And the old dory-mate 
told her not to try, but to cry as hard as she could. 
And she told him he was very kind ; and so she did. 
For she was fond of her husband although he got 
drunk; because he got drunk, one is tempted to say. 
Her heart had gone the way of the hearts of drunkards' 
wives : she loved in proportion to her misery, and gave 
on equation with what she lost. All the woman in her 
mothered her husband when she could no longer wifely 
worship him. When he died she felt as if she had lost 
her eldest child. So, as I say, she kneeled with her face 
on the baby, and cried as if she had been the blessedest 
of wives. Afterward she thought of this with self-re 
proach. She said one day to the old dory-mate : 

" When my trouble came, I did not pray to God. I 'd 
ought to have. But I only cried at Him." 

Jack had come into the world in a storm, and he be 
gan it storm ily. He was a big, roaring baby, and he 
became a restless boy. 
His mother's gentle and unmodified femininity was helpless 
before the problem of this wholly masculine 
little being. She said Jack needed a man 
to manage him. He smoked at six ; he 
lived in the stables and on the wharves 
at eight ; he came 
when he got ready, 
and went when he 
pleased ; he obeyed when he felt like it, and when he 
was punished, he kicked. Once, in an imaginative moment, 
he bit her. 

She sent him to pack mackerel, for they were put to 
it to keep soul and body together, and he brought home 
such habits of speech as even the Fairharbor woman 
had never heard. From her little boy, her baby, — not 
yet old enough to be out of short trousers, and scarcely 
out of little sacks, had he been yours, my Lady, at the 
pretty age when one still fastens lace collars round their 

necks, and has them under shelter by dark, and hears 
their prayers, and challenges the breath of heaven lest 
it blow too rudely on some delicate forming fibre of soul 
or body, — from her little boy, at eight years old, the 
mother first learned the abysses of vulgarity in a seaport 
town. 

It must be admitted that her education in this respect 
had been defective. She had always been one of the 
women in whose presence her neighbors did not speak 
too carelessly. 

But Jack's mother had the kind of eyes which do not 
see mire, — the meek, religious, deep-blue eye which 
even growing sons respect while they strike the tears 
from it. At his worst Jack regardrd her as a species of 
sacred fact, much like heaven or a hymn. Sometimes 
on Sunday nights he stayed at home with her ; he liked 
to hear her sing. She sang Rock of Ages in her best 
black alpaca with her work-worn hands crossed upon 
the gingham apron which she put on to save the dress. 

But ah, she said, Jack needed a man to manage him. 
And one day when she said this, in spite of her gentle 
unconsciousness, or because of it, the old dory-mate to 
whom she said it said he thought so too, and that if she 
had no objections he would like to be that man. 

And the Fairharbor widow, who had never thought 
