"You must excuse my answering that question. Sam wouldn't like it."

"What difference does that make?"

"Sam is my friend. I think, however, you will soon know, as he means to
come back."

Wolverton smiled triumphantly.

"I shall be glad to see him," he said, significantly. Bob knew what that
meant.

"You must excuse me now, Mr. Wolverton," said Bob. "I must hurry home,
as mother will be anxious to see me."

"Tell her I shall call very soon--on business."

"I will."

When they were out of hearing the boys laughed in amusement. They had a
surprise in store for Wolverton.




CHAPTER XXXIX.

CONCLUSION.


There was another arrival at Burton's Ranch the next day. Sam Wolverton
came in charge of his new-found relative, Robert Granger. They took a
carriage, and reached the ranch without attracting the attention of
Aaron Wolverton.

Mrs. Burton welcomed her visitors, and expressed great pleasure at the
discovery that Sam's fortunes were likely to be improved. Mr. Granger
proposed to make a call upon the faithless guardian, but was saved the
necessity, as Mr. Wolverton called early in the afternoon of the same
day. He was in a hurry to show his power, and foreclose the mortgage. It
was arranged that Sam and Mr. Granger should remain out of sight at
first.

Robert answered the knock at the door.

"Is your mother at home?" asked Wolverton.

"Yes, sir; will you walk in?"

"I believe I will."

He entered the sitting-room, and Mrs. Burton soon made her appearance.

"I see your son has returned, widder," remarked the agent.

"Yes; it seems pleasant to have him back. I missed him greatly."

"Humph! I s'pose so. It's a pity he went at all."

"I don't know that."

"Why, it stands to reason," said Wolverton, impatiently. "He went on a
fool's errand."

"What makes you say that?"

"He might have known a boy like him couldn't succeed in such an
enterprise. If he had taken up with my offer, he would have been all
right."

"He said you offered him much less than the market price."

"And so he started off to do better, and lost his whole cargo," sneered
Wolverton, smiling unpleasantly.

Mrs. Burton was silent.

"I came to tell you that I should require not only the interest, but a
payment of half the mortgage, according to the conditions. It is due
next Saturday."
