battle. 

As has been told, he found Gouache at last, after a long 
and difficult search. The ground was so broken and divided 
by ditches walls and trees, that some of the wounded were 
not found until the middle of the next day. Unless 
Giovanni had undertaken the search Anastase might have 
escaped notice for a long time, and it was no wonder if he 
expressed astonishment on waking up to find himself com 
fortably installed in Saracinesca's carriage, tended by the 
man who a few days earlier had wanted to take his life. 



CHAPTER XV 

GOUACHE'S wound was by no means dangerous, and when he 
had somewhat recovered from the combined effects of loss of 
olood and excessive fatigue he did not feel much the worse for 
having a ball in his shoulder. Giovanni and the doctor gave 
him food and a little wine in the carriage, and long before they 
reached the gates of the city the Zouave was well enough to 
have heard Sant' Ilario's explanation. The presence of the 
surgeon, however, made any intimate conversation difficult. 

' I came to find you,' said Giovanni in a low voice, 
' because everything has been set right in your absence, and 
I was afraid you might be killed at Mentana without re 
ceiving my apology.' 

Gouache looked at his companion in some surprise. He 
knew very well that Sant' Ilario was not a man to make 
excuses without some very extraordinary reasons for such 




a step. It is a prime law of the code of honour, however, 
that an apology duly made must be duly accepted as putting 
an end to any quarrel, and Anastase saw at once that Gio 
vanni had relinquished all intention of fighting. 

' I am very glad that everything is explained,' answered 
Gouache. ' I confess that I was surprised beyond measure 
by the whole affair.' 

' I regret having entered your rooms without your per 
mission,' continued Giovanni who intended to go to the end 
of what he had undertaken. ' The pin was my wife's, but 
the letter was written by another person with a view to in 
fluencing your conduct. I cannot explain here, but you 
shall know whatever is necessary when we are alone. Of 
course, if you still desire any satisfaction, I am at your 
service.' 

' Pray do not suggest such a thing. I have no further 
feeling of annoyance in the matter.' 

Gouache insisted on being taken to his own lodgings, 
though Sant' Ilario offered him the hospitality of the Palazzo 
Saracinesca. By four o'clock in the morning the ball was 
extracted and the surgeon took his leave, recommending 
sleep and quiet for his patient. Gouache, however, would 
not let Giovanni go without hearing the end of the story. 

' The facts are very few,' said the latter after a moment's 
hesitation. ' It appears that you had arranged to meet a 
lady on Sunday morning. A certain person whom I will 
not name discovered your intention, and conceived the idea 
of preventing the meeting by sending you a note purporting 
to come from the lady. As he could get none of her note- 
paper he possessed himself of some of my wife's. He pinned 
the note on your table with the pin you had chanced to find. 
I was foolish enough to enter your room and I recognised 
the pin and the paper. You understand the rest.' 

Gouache laughed merrily. 

' I understand that you did me a great service. I met 
the lady after all, but if I had received the note I would not 
