only knows. Imprimis, if you accept Dr. Holmes as an authority, you are
a thorough-going swell. In the second place, you look like a Greek
shepherd. Third, you are the biggest catch in polite society. Certainly
it's odd that with such possibilities you should see no reason for not
marrying a girl who will want higher-stepping horses than Elisha's, and
who, while there is a bandit of a dressmaker in Paris, will decline to
imitate the lilies of the field. Certainly----"

"I never said anything about it, I never said anything about marrying or
not marrying----"

"Oh, didn't you? I thought you did." And Jones leaned back in his chair
and summoned a waiter with an upward movement of the chin. "Bring
another pint of this, will you."

"I think I won't take anything more," said Tristrem, rising from the
table as he spoke. "It's hot in here. I may see you down-stairs." And
with that he left the room.

Mr. Alphabet Jones looked after him a second and nodded sagaciously to
himself. "Another man overboard," he muttered, as he toyed with his
empty glass. "Ah! jeunesse, jeunesse!"




V.


Tristrem descended the stair and hesitated a moment at the door of the
smoking-room. Near-by, at a small table, two men were drinking brandy.
He caught a fragment of their speech: it was about a woman. Beyond,
another group was listening to that story of the eternal feminine which
is everlastingly the same. Within, the air was lifeless and heavy with
the odor of cigars, but in the hall there came through the wide portals
of the entrance the irresistible breath of a night in May.

Tristrem turned and presently sauntered aimlessly out of the club and up
the avenue. Before him, a man was loitering with a girl; his arm was in
hers, and he was whispering in her ear. A cab passed, bearing a couple
that sat waist-encircled devouring each other with insatiate eyes. And
at Twenty-third Street, a few shop-girls, young and very pretty, that
were laughing conspicuously together, were joined by some clerks, with
whom they paired off and disappeared. At the corner, through the
intersecting thoroughfares came couple after couple, silent for the most
part, as though oppressed by the invitations of the night. Beyond, in
the shadows of the Square, the benches were filled with youths and
maidens, who sat hand-in-hand, oblivious to the crowd that circled in
indolent coils about them. The moon had not yet risen, but a leash of
stars that night had loosed glowed and trembled with desire. The air was
sentient with murmurs, redolent with promise. The avenues and the
adjacent streets seemed to have forgotten their toil and to swoon
unhushed in the bewitchments of a dream of love.

Tristrem found himself straying through its mazes and convolutions.
Whichever way he turned there was some monition of its presence. From a
street-car which had stayed his passage he saw the conductor blow a kiss
to a hurrying form, and through an open window of Delmonico's he saw a
girl with summer in her eyes reach across the table at which she sat and
give her companion's hand an abrupt yet deliberate caress.

Tristrem continued his way, oppressed. He was beset by an insidious
duscholia. He felt as one does who witnesses a festival in which there
is no part for him. The town reeked with love as a brewery reeks with
beer. The stars, the air, the very pavements told of it. It was
omnipresent, and yet there was none for him.

He tried to put it from him and think of other things. Of Jones, for
instance. Why had he spoken of Viola? And then, in the flight of fancies
which surged through his mind, there was one that he stayed and
detained. It was that he must see her again before she left town. He
looked at his watch: it lacked twenty minutes to ten, and on the impulse
of the moment he hailed a passing 'bus. It was inexplicable to him that
the night before she should have let him go without a word as to her
movements. It seemed to be understood that he was to come again to wish
her a pleasant journey. And when was he to come if not that very
evening? Surely at the time she had forgotten this engagement with the
Wainwarings, and some note had been left for him at the door. And if no
note had been left, then why should he not ask for her mother or wait
till she returned? A bell rang sharply through the vehicle and aroused
