' She died,' continued the other. ' It was very long ago more 
than thirty years.' 

' Indeed,' said Greifenstein, as though he cared very little to 
hear more. 

Again there was silence in the room, broken only by the 
crackling of the fir logs in the fire and by the ticking of the clock 
in its tall carved case in the corner. A full hour must elapse 
before the evening meal, and Greifenstein did not know what 
to do with his unwelcome guest. At last the latter took out 
a black South American cigar and lit it. For a few moments 
he smoked thoughtfully, and then, as though the fragrant fumes 
had the power to unloose his tongue, he again began to talk. 

' She died,' he said. ' She ruined me. Yes, did you never 
hear how it was ? And yet I loved her. She would not follow 
me. Then they sent me some of her hair and the boy. But for 
her, it might never have happened, and yet I forgive her. You 
never heard how it all happened V 

I never inquired,' answered Greifenstein. l You say she ruined 
you. How do you mean ? ' 

' She made me do it. She was an enthusiast for liberty and 
revolution. She filled my mind with ideas of the people's 
sovereignty. She talked of nothing else. She besought me on 
her knees to join her party, as she called it. She flattered me 
with dreams of greatness in a great republic, she illuminated crime 
in the light of heroism, she pushed me into secret societies, and 
laughed at me for my want of courage. I loved her, and she made 
a fool of me, worse than a fool, a traitor, worse than a traitor, a 
murderer, for she persuaded me to give the arms to the mob, she 
made me an outlaw, an exile, an object of hatred to my countrymen, a 
thing loathsome to all who knew me. And yet I loved her, even when 
it was all over, and I would have given my soul to have her with me.' 

Greifenstein's face expressed unutterable contempt for this man, 
who in the strength and pride of youth had laid down his honour 



 

for a woman's word, not even for her love, since he had possessed 
that already. 

' It seems to me,' he said, 'that there was one very simple remedy 
for you.' 

' A little lead in the right place. I know. And yet I lived, 
and I live still. Why ? I do not know. I believed in the revolu- 
tion, though she had forced the belief upon me, and I continued to 
believe in it until long after I went to South America. And when 
I had ceased to believe in it, no one cared whether I lived or died. 
Then came this hope, and this blow. I could almost do it now.' 

Greifenstein looked at him curiously for a moment, and then 
rose from his place and went deliberately to a huge, dark piece of 
furniture that stood between the windows. He brought back a 
polished mahogany case, unlocked it and set it beside his brother 
upon the table, under the light of the lamp. 

Rieseneck knew what he meant well enough, but he did not 
wince. On the contrary he opened the case and looked at the 
beautiful weapon, as it lay all loaded and ready for use in its bed 
of green baize cloth. Then he laid it on the table again, and 
pushed it a little away from him. 

( Not now,' he said quietly. ' I am in your house. You would 
have to declare my identity. It would make a scandal. I will 
not do it.' 

' You had better put it into your pocket,' answered Greifenstein 
grimly, but without a trace of unkindness in his voice. ' You may 
like to have it about you, you know.' 

Rieseneck looked at his brother in silence for a few seconds, and 
then took the thing once more in his hands. 

