and happy, waiting for her somewhere in a lovely place called heaven.

The summer vacation came; and hundreds of eager children were hurrying
away to the mountains and seashore for two months of healthful pleasure.
Even the dirty children in the lane felt the approach of berry-time, and
rejoiced in their freedom from cold as they swarmed like flies about the
corner grocery where over-ripe fruit was thrown out for them to scramble
over.

Lizzie heard about good times when some of these young neighbors were
chosen to go on the poor children’s picnics, and came back with big
sandwiches buttoned up in their jackets, pickles, peanuts, and buns in
their pockets, hands full of faded flowers, and hearts brimming over
with childish delight at a day in the woods.  She listened with a faint
smile, enjoyed the "woodsy" smell of the green things, and wondered if
they had nice picnics in heaven, being sorry that Billy had missed them
here.  But she did not seem to care much, or hope for any pleasure for
herself except to see baby again.

I think there were few sadder sights in that great city than this
innocent prisoner waiting so patiently to be set free.  Would it be by
the gentle angel of death, or one of the human angels who keep these
little sparrows from falling to the ground?

One hot August day, when not a breath came into the room, and the dust
and noise and evil smells were almost unendurable, poor Lizzie lay on
her bed singing feebly to herself about "the beautiful blue sea."  She
was trying to get to sleep that she might dream of a cool place, and her
voice was growing fainter and fainter, when suddenly it seemed as if the
dream had come, for a sweet odor was near, something damp and fresh
touched her feverish cheek, and a kind voice said in her ear,--

"Here is the little bird I ’ve been following. Will you have some
flowers, dear?"

"Is it heaven?  Where’s Billy?" murmured Lizzie, groping about her, half
awake.

"Not yet.  I’m not Billy, but a friend who carries flowers to little
children who cannot go and get them.  Don’t be afraid, but let me sit
and tell you about it," answered the voice, as a gentle hand took hers.

"I thought maybe I ’d died, and I was glad, for I do want to see Billy
so much.  He’s baby, you know."  And the clinging hands held the kind
one fast till it filled them with a great bunch of roses that seemed to
bring all summer into the close, hot room with their sweetness.

"Oh, how nice! how nice!  I never had such a lot.  They ’re bigger ’n’
better ’n dandelions, are n’t they?  What a good lady you must be to go
’round giving folks posies like these!" cried Lizzie, trying to realize
the astonishing fact.

Then, while the new friend fanned her, she lay luxuriating in her roses,
and listening to the sweet story of the Flower Mission which, like many
other pleasant things, she knew nothing of in her prison.  Presently she
told her own little tale, never guessing how pathetic it was, till
lifting her hand to touch the new face, she found it wet with tears.

"Are you sorry for me?" she asked.  "Folks are very kind, but I ’m a
burden, you know, and I ’d better die and go to Billy; I was some use to
him, but I never can be to any one else. I heard ’em say so, and poor
mother would do better if I was n’t here."

"My child, I know a little blind girl who is no burden but a great help
to her mother, and a happy, useful creature, as you might be if you were
taught and helped as she was," went on the voice, sounding more than
ever like a good fairy’s as it told fresh wonders till Lizzie was sure
it must be all a dream.

"Who taught her?  Could I do it?  Where’s the place?" she asked, sitting
erect in her eagerness, like a bird that hears a hand at the door of its
cage.

Then, with the comfortable arm around her, the roses stirring with the
flutter of her heart, and the sightless eyes looking up as if they could
see the face of the deliverer, Lizzie heard the wonderful story of the
House Beautiful standing white and spacious on the hill, with the blue
sea before it, the fresh wind always blowing, the green gardens and
parks all about, and inside, music, happy voices, shining faces, busy
hands, and year after year the patient teaching by those who dedicate
