is ignorant of the laws of heredity, or that 
he overlooks the pressure of circumstance on 
human character. We do not believe that he 
ever created a soul, the least, the lowest, the 
most denied, the most sorely bestead by life, 
and pushed it aside as nature and the modern 
philosopher do, as an unfit survivor, beneath 
his careful respect and personal tenderness. 
We do not believe that he does not love poor 
wretches better than we do. We do not believe 
that he will not treat them better than 
we should. We do not believe, and our 
scholars do not teach us that our Bible
requires us to believe these things. 

Neither do we believe that God made the 
world in six days of twenty-four hours each ; 
that Moses may not have absorbed a great 
deal of Egyptian culture ; nor that the early 
Jews were not barbarians who acted and were 
treated accordingly ; nor that David and Solomon
were ideal modern Christians ; nor that 
Matthew and Luke were skilled as genealogists ;
nor that the substance of the Golden 
Rule had never been taught before Christ 




taught it ; nor that Gautama, and Mohammed, 
and Confucius did not say a great deal that 
was true. Nor do we assert that Moses and 
Paul knew as much science as Herbert Spen- 
cer ; we simply suggest, let me say in passing, 
that the Omniscient may. 

Though at the risk of being met by certain 
of my fellow-Christians with the historic reply 
of Priscilla to John Alden, I think I have not 
ventured too much in saying that, whatever 
else the Scriptures mean or give to modern 
belief, these are among the things which they 
do not reveal. 

Many of the dogmas attributed to us exist 
now only upon the lips or the pages of our 
opponents. Our young people are familiar 
with them chiefly in skeptical literature. 

Our educated pulpit does not teach them, 
our pews do not demand them, our press does 
not circulate them, our scholars smile at them, 
our saints have outgrown them. Our exploded 
theories provide occupation still for anxious 
and aimless infidels of a certain sort, but 
Christian scholarship must pass them with the 
silence which is the only practicable reply of 
any science to any charlatanism. 




Where is the Christian apologist who taunts 
Science with her abandoned outposts ? Who 
accuses her because George Washington was 
bled to death? Who denounces her because 
no physician in Europe over the age of forty 
accepted Harvey's discovery of the circulation 
of the blood ? Yet such jeers were on a level 
with the hue and cry to which scholars like 
Teschendorf, or Robertson Smith, or Bishop 
Lightfoot are expected to give chase. 

Let us remember that systematic religious 
belief is a science, as well as botany or 
physiology ; like other sciences, subject to human 
mistake, correction, and slow development ; 
that Revelation has no more done revealing 
than the cell-theory, or the theory of 
spontaneously moving plants ; and that we are to 
