nice a young chap to waste your strength and energy 
in dissipation, and wreck yourself before you reach 
middle life. Surely, you have had enough of it. 
Get well and come back to us, for Eve's sake, for 
your dead mother's sake. Try to make a man of 
yourself, and not drift down with the evil tide, until 
you are a terror and a disgrace. And now good-by, 
my lad. Come home to us as soon as you can. 
You are young enough to begin all over again." 

He wrung my hand with a pressure that went to 
my very soul. That night I did some sober think 
ing as I lay on my cot. A sentence I had heard 
somewhere ran through my mind with curious 
persistency, " The way thereof is death." I had 
been in that way I had seen lads younger than I 
go swift to destruction and death. Was it to be 
desired ? 



 

Another curious incident occurred the next day, 
which I think helped to settle my resolves. I had 
never been any thing of a novel-reader, but I took 
up a book my companion in the ward had thrown 
aside. It bore this title, " The Heir of Malreward." 

" You won't like that," he said. " Beastly, dismal, 
and dull ! Too preachy altogether." 

I opened it somewhere in the middle, the 
terrible remorse of Victor at having been betrayed 
into drunkenness at his father's dinner. Then I 
turned to the first page, and never skipped a line. 
I go over the book now ; and though the end jars on 
one's desire for human victory, and the reward of 
virtue, it is brave, strong, and manly a fight 
against the evil in the world, in one's own soul. 

Uncle Marvin sent me a check for fifty dollars in 
the course of the next week. I was young, and 
had a good constitution, and presently began to 
recover rapidly. But I did not go home. I had a 
feeling of pride in trying my own mettle. I found 
a situation in a country town in Michigan, and 
through that summer saved my first money, little 
enough, for the salary was low. But when I returned 
to New York I had sufficient to repay uncle his last 
generous loan. I found that I was still nearly a 
hundred dollars his debtor, and I also realized the 
pinches that were sometimes quite severe under the 



outside show. I met with an opportunity to go 
South on a salary of eighty dollars a month, and at 
once accepted it, and through that winter finished 
the payment ; though uncle generously handed it to 
Eve's account, I learned afterward. But the letter 
of commendation and affection he sent me repaid 
me a hundred times for the endeavor. 

The next year I took out an endowment policy 
in a life-insurance company for two thousand dollars. 
I would have that in case of an emergency. I do 
not mean that I turned saint. A hearty, healthy 
young fellow, with a keen sense of fun, is not 
much given to pulling a long face. But I kept my 
unwritten pledge over my sad hero of Malreward, 
that I would be temperate, and avoid the evils that 
can only bring destruction in the end. 

Do those who blame the hundreds going astray 
ever pause to think of the many temptations? the 
long hours, the exhausting work, in railroading 
especially; the lack of home comforts and nourish 
ing diet ; meals cold and poor ; deprivation of proper 
sleep ; illness when one cannot give up, and the 
