he, when he had made up his mind what to do.

"We might as well bury ourselves in the sands as try to go through
there," replied the leader of the mutiny, who seemed to be a very
intelligent man, and Christy concluded from his language and manner
that he was not a common sailor.

"That may be; but the captain is supreme on the deck of his own ship,"
argued Christy.

"We are not on the high seas, and the Teaser has not yet gone into
commission. It was only this afternoon in Pensacola that Captain Folkner
told his ship's company that he was going to burrow through the sand in
Santa Rosa Sound. We all said we would not go with him; but a dozen of
us came down with him when he told us that he had a way to float the
steamer through, and he was sure it would work. We did not understand
that we were to become mud-diggers. When we got here, we were satisfied
that his plan amounted to nothing, and would not work."

"I am satisfied that it will work," interposed Captain Folkner.

"The agreement in the articles was to run the blockade. If we got
through the sound, it would take a week of constant drudgery, which
we did not ship to do."

"Are you ready to do duty on board of the Teaser when she is in deep
water, Lonley?" asked Christy.

"Every one of us; and every one of the party on shore!" protested the
leader.

"Will that satisfy you, Captain Folkner?" continued Christy, appealing
to him.

"It would if I had the steamer in deep water," replied the captain. "But
how am I to get her into deep water if my crew will not work?"

"Run the blockade, according to the articles!" exclaimed Lonley.

"When are the rest of the ship's company to join you?" asked Christy of
the leader of the mutineers.

"They are coming down in boats at midnight or later; and we shall join
them then and wait till the ship is ready to take us on board. They will
come across from Pensacola to Navy Cove, and then walk till they come to
the Teaser."

"All right," said the lieutenant. "I will land you at Navy Cove, and you
can wait there till the rest of the crew come."

"I am perfectly satisfied with that arrangement," replied Lonley.

"But I am not," interposed the captain, angrily. "What can I do without
any crew to help get the steamer through the sound?"

"I have men enough to take care of you and the Teaser, Captain Folkner;
and the men in the boat will do everything that is required to be done
on board of the Teaser."

"That's another thing," replied the captain, appeased by the implied
promise.

"I can hardly blame your men because they are not willing to go through
the sound with a steamer drawing ten feet of water when there is not
more than six feet of water to float her," said Christy. "Besides, if
you do not get to the other end of the sound before morning, you will
be seen by some of the blockaders, and they could blow this steamer to
pieces, and kill half your people in a few minutes."

"It may be dangerous, but so is running the blockade," added the
captain.

"Going out in a dark night and spending a week in sight of the
blockaders are two different things. But we need not discuss the matter
any more. I will put your men on the point yonder, and then I will
return and help you out of your present difficulty. Am I to take off the
men in the engine department?" asked Christy, as he went to the side
where the boat was.

"No; the engineers and firemen are all right, for they were not called
