She finally recognised his disappointment : " Ah 
don't often get a chance at you, Mr. Beaton, and 
Ah 'm just goin' to toak yo' to death. Yo' have been 
Soath yo'self, and yo' know ho' we do toak." 

" I 've survived to say yes," Beaton admitted. 

"Oh, now, do you think we toak so much mo' 



 

than you do in the No'th ? " the young lady depre- 
cated. 

" I don't know. I only know you can't talk too 
much for me. I should like to hear you say Soaih 
and hoase and ahoat for the rest of my life." 

" That 's what Ah call raght personal, Mr. Beaton. 
Isow Ah 'm goin' to be personal, too." Miss Wood- 
burn flung out over her lap the square of cloth 
she was embroidering, and asked him, "Don't you 
think that 's beautiful ? Now, as an artist — a great 
artist ? " 

"As a great awtust, yes," said Beaton, mimicking 
her accent. " If I were less than great I might have 
something to say about the arrangement of colours. 
You 're as bold and original as Nature." 

"Really? Oh, now, do tell mc yo' favo'ite colo', 
Mr. Beaton." 

"My favourite colour'? Bless my soul, why 
should I prefer any ? Is blue good, or red wicked ] 
Do people have favourite colours ? " Beaton found 
himself suddenly interested. 

" Of co'se they do," answered the girl. " Don't 
awtusts ? " 

" I never heard of one that had — consciously." 

" Is it possible ? I supposed they all had. Now 
mah favo'ite colo' is gawnet. Don't you think it 's a 
pretty colo' ? " 

" It depends upon how it 's used. Do you mean 
in neckties ? " Beaton stole a glance at the one 
Fulkerson was wearing. 

Miss Woodburn laughed with her face bowed upon 


her wrist. "Ah do think you gentlemen in the 
No'th awe ten tnhms as lahvely as the ladies." 

" Strange," said Beaton. " In the South — Soath, 
excuse me ! — I made the observation that the ladies 
were ten times as lively as the gentlemen. What is 
that you 're working ? " 

"This?" Miss Woodburn gave it another flirt, 
and looked at it with a glance of dawning recogni- 
tion. "Oh, this is a table-cover. "Wouldn't you 
lahke to see where it 's to go ? " 

"Why, certainly." 

" Well, if you 'll be raght good I 'll let yo' give me 
some professional advass about putting something in 
the co'ners or not, when you have seen it on the 
table." 

She rose and led the way into the other room. 
Beaton knew she wanted to talk with him about 
something else ; but he waited patiently to let her 
play her comedy out. She spread the cover on the 
