had sailed, what burthen she carried, and other notices of the same
kind.
This finished, the Javanese barks rowed swiftly along side; these
small crafts are generally made of the trunk of a tree, neatly
hollowed out; they are filled with fruit, fowls, eggs, apes, parrots,
shells, and such like wares, with which the owner drives a profitable
trade with the ships. He sits on a little bench in the midst of his
merchandize with a short, broad oar in either hand; with this he
propels his fragile vessel; which is often not more than an inch or
two above the water's edge. After we had exchanged our pure Spanish
piastres, which is the coin they most prefer, for such things as we
needed, the traffic with the sailors commenced.
Such old jackets, woolen shirts, caps and whatever other articles of
clothing they could spare were bartered for eggs, cocoanuts, pine
apples and other eatables. This accounts for the singular garb of the
Javanese boatmen,--striped shirts, woolen caps and duck trowsers are
strangely mingled with portions of the oriental dress, and a sailor's
jacket with large brass buttons is considered quite ornamental. Next
to clothing they prefer knives, scissors and articles of iron ware. In
general the Javanese are pretty good judges of the value of these
articles, and mostly contrive to make a more profitable traffic from
their fruit and poultry than the European sailor with his stock of old
clothes. In the evening it is often the case at this time of year that
constant lightnings play round the horizon, illumining the picturesque
shores of Java and Sumatra. Impenetrable darkness shrouds both earth
and sea, and only by the light of the electric flash is the mariner
shown how to keep off land, and with shortened sail holds on his way.
On board of all vessels, on binnacle, masts and spars are hung lighted
lanterns in order to avoid collision with each other, for in the thick
darkness that envelopes all around, no object can be discerned at a
distance of three yards. In the meantime the wind pipes shrilly
through the shrouds, and lashes the waves into foam white as
snow-wreaths. After a few hours all again is still, no breeze disturbs
the ocean, the sails flap lazily against the mast, the waves subside
to a glassy smoothness, and the rain gradually ceases as the dawn
approaches. So pass the nights in this climate during the rainy
season.
In the morning we found ourselves surrounded with a great number of
vessels, the white sails of European ships covered the sea on all
sides, contrasting strongly with the small coasters made of plaited
hemp that darted gaily over the blue waves, and fishing boats of all
sorts and sizes were crossing our path or following in our wake. We
were seemingly enclosed in a nest of small islands, and it was a
mystery to conceive how it would be possible to find our way out of
such a labyrinth. Only by the high volcanic hills, with their crowns
of light smoke were we able to recognize the mainland of Java, whilst
the flowery coast of Sumatra faded gradually from our view, until at
length it was lost on the distant horizon. But the experienced eye of
our captain discerned clearly the way that lay before us; for many
years he had guided his ship in safety through these dangerous seas,
and attentive to his duty and his chart, he disentangled her from
among this knot of islands and we found ourselves once more in a free
offing. Soon the Roads of Batavia were in sight, where more than fifty
large ships and an incredible number of smaller ones were lying at
anchor. The French, Dutch, Austrian and English flags greeted our
arrival, one ship after another welcomed us to the roads with their
thundering cannon, which was regularly answered by the guard ship
constantly stationed here. At last our anchor was let down and fell
rattling into the deep. But, different from Sumatra and the coast of
Java we had left, nothing was to be seen at Batavia but a flat, low
beach overgrown with bushes, behind which appeared some groups of
green trees, and in the far distance rose a chain of blue hills from
the summits of which clouds of smoke were issuing, that told of the
many volcanic fires that are constantly burning in the Island of
Java.
Home-Sickness of a Siberian.
Every Russian officer is permitted to choose their servants from
among the soldiers, the number varying according to the rank; the
under lieutenants having the right to one, the captains can demand
three, and the field marshal twenty-four. These men, although freed
from military duty, are still numbered as belonging to their several
regiments, which they are obliged to enter, whenever their master
pleases. They are better fed and clothed than their comrades, and
upon the whole, live an easier and pleasanter life. Among these
soldier-servants, I became acquainted with one, a Siberian, whose
regiment was quartered in a small town in the government of Pultowa.
He was a dragoon and servant to the Adjutant of the division, with
whom I spent many hours in playing chess, and this man waited on us,
bringing us tea, or whatever other refreshments we needed.
Fulfilling all his duties to his master not only with ability, but the
