uninhabitable land to offset Alaska. Excluding the boundary great lakes
and rivers, Canada has 3,470,257 square miles of territory, or more than
one-third of the entire British Empire; the United States has 3,026,494
square miles, or, adding Alaska (577,390), 3,603,884 square miles. From
the eastern limit of the maritime provinces to Vancouver Island the
distance is over three thousand five hundred miles. This whole distance
is settled, but a considerable portion of it only by a thin skirmish
line. I have seen a map, colored according to the maker’s idea of
fertility, on which Canada appears little more than a green flush along
the northern boundary of the United States. With a territory equal to
our own, Canada has the population of the single State of New York—about
five millions.

Most of Canada lies north of the limit of what was reckoned agreeably
habitable before it was discovered that climate depends largely on
altitude, and that the isothermal lines and the lines of latitude do not
coincide. The division between the two countries is, however, mainly
a natural one, on a divide sloping one way to the arctic regions, the
other way to the tropics. It would seem better map-making to us if our
line followed the northern mountains of Maine and included New
Brunswick and the other maritime provinces. But it would seem a better
rectification to Canadians if their line included Maine with the harbor
of Portland, and dipped down in the North-west so as to take in the Red
River of the North, and all the waters discharging into Hudson’s Bay.

The great bulk of Canada is on the arctic slope. When we pass the
highlands of New Hampshire, Vermont, and New York we fall away into
a wide champaign country. The only break in this is the Lauren-tian
granite mountains, north of the St. Lawrence, the oldest land above
water, now degraded into hills of from 1500 to 2000 feet in height. The
central mass of Canada consists of three great basins: that portion of
the St. Lawrence in the Dominion, 400,000 square miles; the Hudson’s
Bay, 2,000,000 square miles; the Mackenzie, 550,000 square miles.
That is to say, of the 3,470,257 square miles of the area of Canada,
3,010,000 have a northern slope.

This decrease in altitude from our northern boundary makes Canada a
possible nation. The Rocky Mountains fall away north into the Mackenzie
plain. The highest altitude attained by the Union Pacific Railroad is
8240 feet; the highest of the Canadian Pacific is 5296; and a line of
railway still farther north, from the North Saskatchewan region, can,
and doubtless some time will, reach the Pacific without any obstruction
by the Rockies and the Selkirks. In estimating, therefore, the capacity
of Canada for sustaining a large population we have to remember that
the greater portion of it is but little above the sea-level; that the
climate of the interior is modified by vast bodies of water; that the
maximum summer heat of Montreal and Quebec exceeds that of New York;
and that there is a vast region east of the Rockies and north of
the Canadian Pacific Railway, not only the plains drained by the two
branches of the Saskatchewan, but those drained by the Peace River still
farther north, which have a fair share of summer weather, and winters
much milder than are enjoyed in our Territories farther south but higher
in altitude. The summers of this vast region are by all reports
most agreeable, warm days and refreshing nights, with a stimulating
atmosphere; winters with little snow, and usually bright and pleasant,
occasional falls of the thermometer for two or three days to arctic
temperature, but as certain a recovery to mildness by the “Chinook”
or Pacific winds. It is estimated that the plains of the
Saskatchewan—500,000 square miles—are capable of sustaining a population
of thirty millions. But nature there must call forth a good deal of
human energy and endurance. There is no doubt that frosts are liable
to come very late in the spring and very early in the autumn; that
persistent winds are hostile to the growth of trees; and that varieties
of hardy cereals and fruits must be selected for success in agriculture
and horticulture. The winters are exceedingly severe on all the prairies
east of Winnipeg, and westward on the Canadian Pacific as far as
Medicine Hat, the crossing of the South Saskatchewan. Heavy items in
the cost of living there must always be fuel, warm clothing, and solid
houses. Fortunately the region has an abundance of lignite and extensive
fields of easily workable coal.

Canada is really two countries, separated from each other by the vast
rocky wilderness between the lakes and James Bay. For a thousand miles
west of Ottawa, till the Manitoba prairie is reached, the traveller
on the line of the railway sees little but granite rock and stunted
balsams, larches, and poplars—a dreary region, impossible to attract
settlers. Copper and other minerals there are; and in the region north
of Lake Superior there is no doubt timber, and arable land is spoken
of; but the country is really unknown. Portions of this land, like that
about Lake Nipigon, offer attractions to sportsmen. Lake navigation is
