Fulkerson did not know what to say, perhaps 
because the extras did not ; but March laughed at 
this result. 

" It 's a good deal like the military manoeuvre of 
the King of France and his forty thousand men. I 
suppose somebody told him at the top of the hill 
that there was nothing to arbitrate, and to get out 
and go about his business, and that was the reason 
he marched down after he had marched up with all 
that ceremony. What amuses me is to find that in 
an affair of this kind the roads have rights and the 
stvikers have rights, but the public has no rights at 
all. The roads and the strikers are allowed to fight 
out a private war in our midst — as thoroughly and 
precisely a private war as any we despise the Middle 
Ages for having tolerated — as any street war in 
Florence or Verona — and to fight it out at our pains 
and expense, and we stand by like sheep, and wait 
till we get tired. It 's a funny attitude for a city of 
fifteen hundred thousand inhabitants." 

" what would you do ? " asked Fulkerson, a good 
deal daunted by this view of the case. 

"Do? Nothing. Hasn't the State Board of 
Arbitration declared itself powerless ? We have no 
hold upon the strikers ; and we 're so used to being 
snubbed and disobliged by common carriers that we 
have forgotten our hold on the roads, and always 
allow them to manage their own affairs in their own 



  

way, quite as if we liad nothing to do with them, and 
they owed us no services in return for their privi- 
leges." 

"That 's a good deal so," said Fulkerson, disordering 
his hair. " Well, it 's nuts for the colonel nowadays. 
He says if he was boss of this town he would seize 
the roads on behalf of the people, and man 'cm with 
policemen, and run 'em till the managers had come 
to terms with the strikers ; and he 'd do that every 
time there was a strike." 

" Doesn't that rather savour of the paternalism he 
condemned in Lindau ? " asked March. 

"I don't know. It savours of horse-sense." 

" You are pretty far gone, Fulkerson. I thought 
you were the most engaged man I ever saw ; but I 
guess you're more father-in-lawed. And before 
you 're married too." 

" Well, the colonel 's a glorious old fellow, March. 
I wish he had the power to do that thing, just for 
the fun of looking on while he waltzed in. He 's on 
the keen jump from morning till night, and he's up 
late and early to see the row. I 'm afraid he 'll get 
shot at some of the fights ; he sees them all ; I can't 
get any show at them : haven't seen a brickbat 
shied or a club swung yet. Have you ? " 

"No, I find I can philosophise the situation about 
as well from the papers, and that's what I really 
want to do, I suppose. Besides I 'm solemnly 
pledged by Mrs. March not to go near any sort of 
crowd, under penalty of having her bring the children 
and go with me. Her theory is that we must all die 



  

together ; the children haven't been at school since 
the strike began. There 's no precaution that Mrs. 
