
"That seems to be plain enough; and from the position in which we find
her, she has come out of the Bermudas, or is bound there," added the
commander. "Bring my glass from my state room," he continued to his
cabin steward, who was sunning himself on the deck.

When it was brought, the captain and the executive officer went forward
and mounted the top-gallant forecastle. Mr. Fillbrook procured a glass
from the pilot house, and both of them looked long and earnestly at the
speck in the distance. The steamer was hull down, and they soon agreed
that she was bound to the eastward.

"We have no business with her at present," said Christy, as he shut up
his glass.

"But I have no doubt she has already run the blockade, and came out of
Wilmington or Savannah. If that is the case, she must be loaded with
cotton, which contains a fortune at the present time within a small
compass," replied Mr. Fillbrook, who had not been as fortunate as some
others in the matter of prizes.

"Very likely," replied Christy, rather coldly, his companion thought.
"I do not think I should be justified in giving chase to her, which
could only be done by abandoning the convoy."

"Could we not pick up the convoy after we had captured the steamer?"
asked the first lieutenant.

"Yes, if some Confederate cruiser does not pick it up in our absence,"
replied Christy, with a significant smile.

Mr. Fillbrook was evidently very much disappointed, not to say
disgusted, with the decision of Captain Passford; but he was too good an
officer to make a complaint, or utter a comment. The ship's company had
become somewhat excited when it was announced that a sail, with black
smoke painting a long streak on the blue sky, was made out. If it was a
blockade runner, with a cargo of cotton, it meant a small fortune to
each officer, seaman, and others on board.

The new commander had a reputation as a daring leader, and the hopes of
the officers and men ran high. They waited eagerly to have the steamer
headed to the eastward; but no such order was given, and the chins of
all hands began to drop down.

Christy had no interest in the money value of a prize, and yet he could
understand the feeling of his ship's company. He was an heir of a
millionaire, and he had no occasion to trouble his head about the
profits of a capture. He looked at the question from a purely patriotic
point of view, and every prize secured was so much taken from the
resources of the enemy.

He saw the disappointment painted on the face of the first lieutenant,
and he went to his cabin to consider his duty again, and review the
reasoning that had influenced him; but he came to the conclusion he had
reached in the beginning. He was in charge of six vessels loaded with
cotton, and the ship's company of the Bronx and other vessels had an
interest in their cargoes. The Vixen was less than a hundred and fifty
miles from the coast, and a tug boat, with a bow gun and a crew of
twenty-five, could come out and capture the whole fleet without the
least difficulty. The risk was too great, and the commander was as firm
as a rock.

The next morning, before it was daylight, Mr. Bangs the second
lieutenant, who had the mid watch, sent a messenger to the commander
to inform him that a sail was made out, which appeared to be a steamer,
on the starboard bow, very broad, nearly on the beam. Christy dressed
himself in a great hurry, and hastened on deck. It was beginning to be a
little light, and the steamer appeared to be about five miles to the
eastward of the Vixen, and was headed towards her.

Christy at once concluded that the vessel meant mischief, and he
promptly gave the order to beat to quarters. He thought it must be the
steamer seen the day before, as she could hardly be a blockade runner
for the reason that she was headed towards the fleet. If she desired to
break through the blockading squadron, she would be likely to keep as
far as possible from anything that might be an armed vessel.

Christy went to his state room to write an order for Mr. Amblen in the
Havana, which was hardly a cable's length from the Vixen on the port
side, the Aleppo being ahead of her. He had already given his general
