
" And I don't know what you call intellectual," grumbled 
Mrs. Rooth. 

"Yes, but I don't see very well how I could make you 
understand that. At any rate," Miriam went on, looking at 
Nick, " I retract what I said the other day about Mr. Dormer. 





I've no wish to quarrel with him .about the way he has 
determined to dispose of his life, because after all it does 
suit me very well. It rests me, this little devoted corner ; 
oh, it rests me. It's out of the tussle and the heat, it's 
deliciously still, and they can't get at me. Ah, when art's 
like this, a la bonne heure ! " And she looked round on such 
a presentment of " art " with a splendid air that made Nick 
burst out laughing at its contrast with the humble fact. 
Miriam smiled at him as if she liked to be the cause of his 
mirth, and went on appealing to him : " You'll always let 
me come here for an hour, won't you, to take breath to let 
the whirlwind pass ? You needn't trouble yourself about me ; 
I don't mean to impose on you in the least the necessity of 
painting me, though if that's a manner of helping you to get 
on you may be sure it will always be open to you. Do what 
you like with me in that respect ; only let me sit here on a 
high stool, keeping well out of your way, and see what you 
happen to be doing. I'll tell you my own adventures when 
you want to hear them." 

"The fewer adventures you have to tell, the better, my 
dear," said Mrs. Rooth ; " and if Mr. Dormer keeps you quiet 
he will add ten years to my life." 

" This is an interesting comment on Mr. Dormer's own 
quietus, on his independence and sweet solitude," Nick 
observed. "Miss Rooth has to work with others, which is 
after all only what Mr. Dormer has to do when he works 
with Miss Rooth. What do you make of the inevitable 
sitter?" 

" Oh," answered Miriam, " you can say to the sitter : ' Hold 
your tongue, you brute ! ' ' 

" Isn't it a good deal in that manner that I've heard you 
address your comrades at the theatre?" asked Mrs. Rooth. 
"That's why my heart's in my mouth." 

" Yes, but they hit me back ; they reply to me comme de 
raison as I should never think of replying to Mr. Dormer. 
It's a great advantage to him that when he's peremptory with 
his model it only makes her better, adds to her expression of 
gloomy grandeur." 

" We did the gloomy grandeur in the other picture ; sup- 
pose therefore we try something different in this," suggested 
Nick. 

"It is serious, it is grand," murmured Mrs. Rooth, who 
had taken up a rapt attitude before the portrait of her 
daughter. " It makes one wonder what she's thinking of. 





Beautiful, commendable things that's what it seems to 
say." 

''What can I be thinking of but the tremendous wisdom of 
my mother ? " Miriam inquired. " I brought her this morning 
to see that thing she had only seen it in its earliest stage 
and not to presume to advise you about anything else you 
may be so good as to embark on. She wanted, or she pro- 
fessed that she wanted, terribly to know what you had finally 
arrived at. She was too impatient to wait till you should 
send it home." 

