masts, poles of the sails, and other pieces of the wreck 



 

It was to be loaded with two hundred men and provisioni, 
and then the boats were to take it in tow, and draw it to 
land, where a caravan might be formed which could pro- 
ceed to the French possessions at the mouth of the Sene- 
gal. The plan was wisely conceived, and might have had 
the most fortunate consequences, but, as we shall see, it 
was not carried into execution. 

The raft was completed the same day. Two great   
masts formed the two long sides, other masts in the mid- 
dle gave firmness to the whole, and small pieces of wood 
connected the layer; in front two poles were so arranged 
as to make a pointed end, and the whole was bound 
together by strong cables. But as the raft was scarcely 
sixty feet long, and only about twenty broad, it was 
impossible that it should hold two hundred people, still 
less the necessary provisions. 

They had, with praiseworthy foresight, made a list of 
the people and provisions destined for each boat, and for 
the raft; but as no one thought of obeying orders, the 
embarkation was conducted in the most disorderly manner, 
each endeavoring to rescue himself in the surest way. 
The provisions, too, were dispensed in the most incon- 
siderate fashion ; the raft was provided with wine and 
meal in abundance, but no meat or other provisions of any 
kind ; a bag of biscuits, that was thrown down at last, fell 
into the sea and was so drenched with salt water that the 
contents were a perfect dough. 

Towards evening the sign for getting on board was 
given, but scarcely had fifty men descended to the raft 
when it sunk almost two feet; they immediately threw 



 

the meal casks overboard, and retained only six casks of 
wine and two of water. When the whole crew were on 
board it sank again about three feet, so that those in the 
back and front part of it stood up to their hips in water, 
and were so crowded together that no one could move a 
step. No one had thought of a mast, and the sail that was 
thrown down to us, as we pushed off, was entirely useless, 
as we had no rope to hoist it with. There were a hundred 
and fifty people huddled together upon the raft, and among 
them about a hundred and twenty soldiers, who were 
armed only with swords, as from fear of a mutiny, none 
but the officers had been allowed to carry fire-arms. The 
boats were crowded full, and yet seventeen people remained 
behind on the wreck, eithef because they would not trust 
themselves to the frail, over-loaded skiff, that pushed off 
last, or because they were too much intoxicated to think 
of their safety. 

At first we sailed along in the most orderly manner; the 
boats took the raft in tow, and the commanding officers in 
them swore not tb forsake us, but if no rescue were possi- 
ble, to die with us. The coast was about fifteen leagues 
distant, and was seen from the boats before sunset; From 
this moment those in them appeared to consider only their 
own safety ; one after another they dropped the rope that 
bound us to them, and finally even the last boat, which 
contained the governor, followed this cruel and shameiuj 
example. 



 



II. 
