of relief to know that he had a fund to draw from in case of need.

On his way home, in passing a drinking saloon, Fred's attention was
drawn to two men who came out, arm in arm, both of whom appeared to be
under the influence of liquor. Something in the dress and figure of one
looked familiar. Coming closer Fred recognized his country friend,
Joshua Bascom.

"What, Mr. Bascom! Is this you?"

"Why, it's Fred!" said Bascom stopping short and trying to stand erect.

"Oh, come along!" said his companion impatiently.

"No, I want to see the train boy. Good night, old fellow!"

The other angrily protested against being shaken off, but Joshua
dropped his arm, and took Fred's instead.

"How came you with that man?" asked Fred.

"He's a jolly, sociable chap. Wanted to take me to a little card party,
but I guess it's too late."

"Did he meet you in the saloon?"

"No; he took me in there, and treated me to three glasses of milk
punch. I guess it's got into my head. Do you think I am--intoxicated,
Fred?"

"It looks very much like it, Mr. Bascom."

"I hope they won't hear of it at home. Dad would get the minister to
come and give me a talkin' to."

"I hope this stranger didn't get any of your money?"

"No; he wouldn't let me pay for a thing."

"He meant to get the money back. He was carrying you to some gambling
house, where he would have won all your money."

"You don't say!" exclaimed Joshua, panic-stricken. "I thought he was a
nice fellow."

"Be careful how you trust strangers, and don't go to any more drinking
saloons!"

"I won't," said Mr. Bascom, fervently.

"I will take you to your room, and you had better take a good long
sleep. If you want to go round, I'll call to-morrow evening, and go to
some place of amusement with you."

"I think Mr. Bascom had better go back to his farm soon," thought Fred,
as he returned from piloting Joshua home. "If he doesn't he is likely
to get into trouble."




CHAPTER VII.

FERDINAND MORRIS.

When Ferdinand Morris left the train after robbing Joshua Bascom, as
described in the first chapter, he was in excellent spirits. He had
effected his purpose, and got off scot free. He walked briskly away
from the station at which he got out, and didn't stop to examine the
wallet till he had got half a mile away.

When he discovered that it contained only ten dollars, he was filled
with disgust.

"What could the fellow mean by coming to the city with only ten dollars
in his pocketbook?" he muttered. "It's a regular imposition. It wasn't
worth taking. Here I am, stranded in the country, and my ticket of no
value, for only ten dollars! I should like to see my rural friend's
wo-begone look when he discovers the loss of his wallet, though."

