'Kill me, then!' she cried.

'Indeed, if you were not so valuable, I would cut off your head,' Khaled
answered. 'Why do you wish me to kill you?'

'I hate him,' she said, pointing to the captive who was drinking like a
thirsty camel.

'That is no reason why I should kill you. Go back to the tents.'

But Almasta laid her hand on the sword he held and tried to bring it to
her own throat.

'This is a strange woman,' said Khaled. 'Why do you wish to die? You
shall go to Riad and be the Sultan's wife.'

'No, no!' she cried. 'Kill me! Not him, not him!'

'Of whom do you speak?'

'Him!' she answered, again pointing to the prisoner. 'Is he not the
Sultan?'

Khaled laughed aloud, for he saw that she had supposed she was to be
taken to Riad to be made the wife of the Sultan of Shammar. Indeed, the
other women had told her so, to anger her.

'Not this man,' he said, endeavouring to make her understand. 'There is
another Sultan at Riad. The Sultan of Shammar is one, the Sultan of
Nejed another.'

'You?' she asked, suddenly springing up. 'With you?'

The moon was bright and Khaled saw that her eyes gleamed like stars and
her face grew warm, and when she took his hands her own were cold.

'No, not I,' he answered. 'I am not the Sultan.'

But her face became grey in the moonlight, and she covered her head with
her veil and went slowly back to her tent.

'This woman loves me,' Khaled thought. 'And as I have not talked much
with her, it must be because I am strong and have conquered the people
among whom she was captive. How much the more then, will Zehowah love
me, for the same reason.'

So he was light of heart, and soon afterwards he commanded everything to
be made ready and mounted his bay mare for the night march.




CHAPTER V


When Khaled was within half a day's march of Riad, the Sultan came out
to meet him with a great train of attendants and courtiers, with cooks
bringing food and sweetmeats, and a number of musicians. And they all
encamped together for a short time in the shade of the trees, for there
were gardens in the place. The Sultan embraced Khaled and put upon him a
very magnificent garment, after which they sat down together in a large
tent which the Sultan had brought with him. When they had eaten and
refreshed themselves they began to talk, and Khaled told his
father-in-law all that he had done, and gave him an account of the
spoils which he had brought back, commanding the most valuable objects
to be brought into the tent. After this the Sultan desired to see the
women captives.

'There is one especially whom it may please you to take for yourself,'
said Khaled, and he ordered Almasta to be brought in.

When the male slaves had left the tent, Almasta drew aside her veil. The
Sultan looked at her and smiled, stroking his beard, for he was much
pleased.

'Her face is like a pearl and her hair is a setting of red gold,' he
said. 'Truly she is like the sunrise on a fair morning when there are
red clouds in the east.'

Almasta looked attentively at him, and afterwards she glanced at Khaled,
