were alive with the glisten of gems, 
with marbles rarer than jewels. In 
one hall was a dome of sapphire, a 
 
floor of malachite, crystal columns 
and red -gold walls. 
"At last," Nero murmured, "I am 
lodged like a man." 
No doubt. Yet in a mirror he 
would have seen a bloated beast in a 
flowered gown, the hair done up in a 
chignon, the skin covered with eruptions, the eyes circled and yellow; 
a woman who had hours when she 
imitated a virgin atbay, others when 
she was wife, still others when she 
expected to be a mother, and that 
woman, a senatorial patent of divinity 
aiding, was god — Apollo's peer, imperator, chief of the army, pontifix 
maximus, master of the world, with 
the incontestible right of life and death 
over every being in the dominions. 
It had taken the fresh-faced lad who 
blushed so readily. Just fourteen years  
to effect that change. Did he regret ' 
it? And what should Nero regret? 
 
Nothing, perhaps, save that at the 
moment when he declared himself to 
be lodged like a man, he had not 
killed himself like one. But of that 
he was incapable. Had he known 
what the future held, possibly he 
might have imitated that apotheosis 
of vulgarity in which Sardanapalus 
eclipsed himself, but never could he 
have died with the good breeding 
and philosophy of Cato, for neither 
good breeding nor philosophy was in 
him. Nero killed himself like a coward, yet that he did kill himself, in no 
matter what fashion, is one of the few 
things that can be said in his favor. 
Those days differed from ours. 
There were circumstances in which 
suicide was regarded as the simplest 
of duties. Nero did his duty, but not 
until he was forced to it, and even then 
not until he had been asked several 
times whether it was so hard to die. 
 
The empire had wearied of him. In 
Neropolis his popularity had gone as 
popularity ever does; the conflagration 
had killed it. 
Even as he wandered, lyre in 
hand, a train of Lesbians and ped- 
erasts at his heels, through those halls 
which had risen on the ruins, and which 
inexhaustible Greece had furnished 
with a fresh crop of white immortals 
the world rebelled. Afar on the outskirts of civilization a vassal, ashamed 
of his vassalage, declared war, not 
against Rome, but against an emperor 
that played the flute. In Spain, in 
Gaul, the legions were choosing other 
chiefs. The provinces, depleted by 
imperial exactions, outwearied by the 
increasing number of accusers, whose 
accusations impoverishing them 
served only to multiply the prodigalities of their Ctcsar, revolted. 
Suddenly Nero found himself alone. 
 
As the advancing rumor of rebellion 
reached him, he thought of flight; 
there was no one that would accompany him. He called to the preto- 
rians; they would not hear. Through 
the immensity of his palace he sought 
one friend. The doors would not 
open. He returned to his apartment; 
the guards had gone. Then terror 
siezed him. He was afraid to die, 
