woman who loves him, and ask a large sum for them. She will probably pay
it and leave him. You will accomplish your object and earn money at the
same time. If you cannot forge his handwriting, forge that of an
imaginary woman--that is easy enough--and follow the same course as
before. It is almost sure to succeed."

"What a surpassingly diabolical scheme!" exclaimed Adele, with a laugh.

"Yes, I flatter myself it is not bad. Of course you can make the matter
public if only you are sure of the forgery being good, or of an
imaginary woman being forthcoming at the right moment. But, on the
whole, the finest way of ruining a man before the world is to steal his
money. No reputation can stand poverty and slander at the same time."

"But it is not always easy to steal a man's money," objected Adele.

"Oh, yes, unless a man is very rich. Bring a suit against his title, and
if he fights it, the lawyers will eat up all he has. Then you can play
the magnanimous part and say that you give up the suit out of pity for
him. That is very pretty, too. But the prettiest of all is the new way
of killing people, because nobody can possibly find you out."

"What do you make them die of?" asked Adele nervously.

"Cholera--typhus--fever, almost anything you please. It is a convenient
way because the epidemic of the day is generally the most ready to hand.
What did you say? I beg your pardon, I thought you spoke. Yes, it is
delightful, and in most cases I believe it is almost sure to succeed. I
dined with Gouache last night, and Professor Wüsterschinder, the great
German authority on cutting up live rabbits, you know, was there. A
charming man--speaks French like a human being, and understands Italian
well. I liked him very much. The conversation turned upon murder. You
know Gouache has a taste for horrors, being the gentlest and kindest of
men. The professor told a long story of a doctor who murdered the
father, mother, and aunt of a girl whom none of the three would let him
marry. He did it in the course of medical treatment, with three
different vegetable poisons--masterly, the professor said. There was an
inquiry and they dug everybody up again, and all that sort of thing, but
no one could positively prove anything and the doctor married the girl
after all."

"You seem full of horrors this evening," said Adele, moving one shoulder
in a restless, jerking way which was becoming a habit.

"I always am," answered Ghisleri, turning his cold blue eyes on her. "I
know the most horrible things and am always just on the point of saying
them."

"Please do not!" exclaimed Adele, shrinking away from him into the
corner of the sofa, almost in physical fear of him now.

"I was telling you about the cholera trick, or I was going to tell you.
The other story was only the prelude. After giving it to us with a
number of details I have forgotten, Professor Wüsterschinder launched
out about the wonders of science, as those men always do, and positively
made me uncomfortable with the numbers of unfortunate rabbits and
puppies he cut to shreds in his conversation. Then he came to the point
and began to explain how easy it is to murder people by natural means
like typhus. It is done by taking the--good Heavens, Donna Adele, what
is the matter!"

Adele had uttered a short, low cry, and her face had turned very white.
Her lips were contorted in an expression of anguish such as Pietro had
never seen, and her fingers were twisting together as though they would
break.

"Can I do anything?" he asked, anxiously. He feared she was going to be
seized by some kind of convulsion, but the woman's strong will helped
her even then.

"Hold my fan before my arm," she managed to say, and she felt for
something in her pocket with her right hand.

In a moment she produced a tiny syringe with a point like a needle, and
a little bottle. With incredible quickness and skill she filled the
syringe, pricked the skin on her left arm, and ran the point into it,
and then pressed the tiny piston slowly till it would go no further. In
little more than one minute she had put everything into her pocket
again, and taking her fan from Ghisleri's hand, leaned back in the
corner of the sofa, with a sigh of relief.
