the factory for a term of years, I should have 
thrown it up and gone off to some wholesomer, 
cleaner place. I have driven over that tract time 
and again, and thought of the fine site, gloated 
over it ! If I could have bought Chester House 







when this girl came of age, Fd have moved heaven 
and earth, formed a syndicate, done anything to 
compass my dream. So Fve kept it to myself. 
But no man seems to have a monopoly of ideas. 
And now the thing is done, and I am not in it 
at all." 

The lingering undercurrent in his voice would 
have been a tremble had he held himself less rig- 
orously in hand. The repressed emotion touched 
Olmstead keenly. 

"Why don't you make her another offer for 
it, Winchester ? " 

He laughed contemptuously, with a touch of 
cruel discordance. 

" You have been there," he resumed, after a 
long pause ; " what kind of a fad is it ? She 
may donate a Home for Incapables to the new 
town. The Eastwood Home. Has she taken 
orders ? " 

" She has very little to do with it. I wish you 
really knew Miss Disbrowe. Many of her ideas 
would suit you to a dot. She isn't weakly or 
sentimentally charitable. She believes in help- 
ing people to help themselves, and thinks the 
truest kindness one can do a fellow-creature, 
man or woman, is to put them in a way of self- 
support. This is the kind of home to which 
any lady might invite a friend, rich or poor." 





" No, Miss Eastwood isn't the kind to shoulder 
such an enterprise. She might give the house 
away ; she wouldn't go round in the slums to 
find people to fill it. She must have taken her 
style from the Eastwood side. You have seen 
her playing at charity. I haven't any doubt 
but that she was superlatively graceful! Well, 
I have seen her as one of the stars of society. 
She has the Vere-de-Vere manner. Do they all 
fall on their knees when she raises her hand ? " 

"Winchester, you are positively cantankerous! 
You gibe alike at her, whether she affects society 
or the chosen gray of some sisterhood. You have 
managed to carry away a distorted idea of her, 
quite unfair. Both are charming young women. 
They have a man and a maid, a horse and a dog. 
The house and the garden still hold their quaint, 
beautiful seclusion. Why shouldn't these girls of 
leisure try to do a little uplifting in the world ? 
Heaven knows there is need enough of it ! " 

" There is a deal of viciousness in this fashion- 
able benevolence. The schemers come to depend 
on it, to demand it. Let them take their own 
money. Why, see here, instead, I have not had 
a pleasure journey in years ! I have had other 
things to take my time. Yet I am in a fair condi- 
tion," with a sarcastic intonation. 

