she seemed to sweep downward from her horse 
rather than spring to the ground. She had the 
dark rich skin of Mexico — another source of 
envy and hatred, for the Iturbi y Moncadas, like 
most of the aristocracy of the country, were of 
pure Castilian blood and as white as porcelain 
in consequence — and a red full mouth. 
'* Welcome, my Chonita ! " she cried. " Val- 
game Dios ! but I am glad to see thee back ! " 
She kissed Chonita effusively. " Ay, my poor 
brother!" she whispered, hurriedly. "Tell 
him that thou art glad to see him." And then 
she welcomed me with words that fell as softly 
as rose-leaves in a zephyr, and patted Pru- 
dencia's head. 
Chonita, with a faint flush on her cheek, gave 
Adan her hand to kiss. She had given this 
faithful suitor little encouragement, but his un- 
swerving and honest devotion had wrung from 
her a sort of careless affection; and she told me 
that first night in Monterey that if she had
 
made up her mind to inr.rry she thought she 
would select Adan : he was more tolerable 
than any one she knew. It is doubtful if he 
had crossed her mind since ; and now, with all 
a woman's unreason, she conceived a sudden 
and violent dislike for him because she had 
treated him too kindly in her thoughts. I liked 
Adan Menendez ; there was something manly 
and sure about him, — the latter a restful if 
not a fascinating quality. And I liked his 
appearance. His clear brown eyes had a kind 
direct regard. His chin was round, and his
profile a little thick ; but the gray hair brushed up 
and away from his low forehead gave dignity 
to his face. His figure was pervaded with the 
indolence of the Californian. 
" At your feet, senorita mia," he murmured, 
his voice trembling. 
"It gives me pleasure to see thee again, 
Adan. Hast thou been well and happy since 
I left .? " 
, It was a careless question, and he looked at 
her reproachfully. 
" I have been well, Chonita," he said. 
At this moment our attention was startled by 
a sharp exclamation from Valencia. Prudencia 
had announced her engagement. Valerxria had 
refused many suitors, but she had intended to 
marry Reinaldo Iturbi y Moncada. Not that 
she loved him : he was the most brilliant 
match in three hundred leagues. Within the 
last year he had bent the knee to the famous 
coquette ; but she had lost her temper one day, 
— or, rather, it had found her, — and after a 
violent quarrel he had galloped away, and gone 
almost immediately to Los Angeles, there to 
remain until Don Juan went after him with a 
bushel of gold. She controlled herself in a 
moment, and swayed her graceful body over Pru- 
dencia, kissing her lightly on the cheek. 
"Thou baby, to marry!" she said, softly. 
"Thou didst take away my breath. Thou 
dost look no more than fourteen years. I had 
forgotten the grand merienda of thy eighteenth 
birthday." 
Prudcncia's little bosom swelled with pride 
at the discomfiture of the haughty beauty who 
had rarely remembered to notice her. 
Prudencia was not poor ; she owned a goodly 
rancho ; but it was an hacienda to the state of 
a Menendez. 
" Thou wilt be one of my bridesmaids, no, 
Dofia Valencia ?" she asked. 
"That will be the proud day of my life," 
said Valencia, graciously. 
'*We have a ball to-night," said Chonita. 
 
" Thou wouldst have had word to-day. Thou 
