He’s his own king, kingdom and court. He’s his own enemy, his own
conqueror, and his own captive--slave is a better word. In the course of
time he may even become perfectly indifferent to the weather in his
world--that is, to the public. And if he can believe that he is doing a
good work, and if he can keep inside his own world, he will probably be
happy.”

“But if he goes beyond it?” asked Katharine.

“He will probably be killed--body or soul, or both,” said Griggs, with a
queer change of tone.

“It seems to me, that you exclude women altogether from your paradise,”
observed Mrs. Crowdie, with a laugh.

“And amateurs,” said her husband. “It’s to be a professional paradise
for men--no admittance except on business. No one who hasn’t had a
picture on the line need apply. Special hell for minor poets. Crowns of
glory may be had on application at the desk--fit not guaranteed in cases
of swelled head--”

“Don’t be vulgar, Crowdie,” interrupted Griggs.

“Is ‘swelled head’ vulgar, Miss Lauderdale?” enquired the painter.

“It sounds like something horrid--mumps, or that sort of thing. What
does it mean?”

“It means a bad case of conceit. It’s a good New York expression. I
wonder you haven’t heard it. Go on about the professional persons,
Griggs. I’m not half good enough to chaff you. I wish Frank Miner were
here. He’s the literary man in the family.”

“Little Frank Miner--the brother of the three Miss Miners?” asked
Griggs.

“Yes--looks a well-dressed cock sparrow--always in a good humour--don’t
you know him?”

“Of course I do--the brother of the three Miss Miners,” said Griggs,
meditatively. “Does he write? I didn’t know.” Crowdie laughed, and
Hester smiled.

“Such is fame!” exclaimed Crowdie. “But then, literary men never seem to
have heard of each other.”

“No,” answered Griggs. “By the bye, Crowdie, have you heard anything of
Chang-Li-Ho lately?”

“Chang-Li-Ho? Who on earth is he? A Chinese laundryman?”

“No,” replied Griggs, unmoved. “He’s the greatest painter in the Chinese
Empire. But then, you painters never seem to have heard of one another.”

“By Jove! that’s not fair, Griggs! Is he to be in the professional
heaven, too?”

“I suppose so. There’ll probably be more Chinamen than New Yorkers
there. They know a great deal more about art.”

“You’re getting deucedly sarcastic, Griggs,” observed Crowdie. “You’d
better tell Miss Lauderdale more about the life to come. Your hobby
can’t be tired yet, and if you ride him industriously, it will soon be
time for luncheon.”

“We’d better have it at once if you two are going to quarrel,” suggested
Hester, with a laugh.

“Oh, we never quarrel,” answered Crowdie. “Besides, I’ve got no soul,
Griggs says, and he sold his own to the printer’s devil ages ago--so
that the life to come is a perfectly safe subject.”

“What do you mean by saying that Walter has no soul?” asked Hester,
looking up quickly at Griggs.

“My dear lady,” he answered, “please don’t be so terribly angry with me.
In the first place, I said it in fun; and secondly, it’s quite true; and
thirdly, it’s very lucky for him that he has none.”

“Are you joking now, or are you unintentionally funny?” asked Crowdie.
