
Nothing so needs reforming as other people's habits.--Pudd'nhead
Wilson's Calendar.

Behold, the fool saith, "Put not all thine eggs in the one
basket"--which is but a manner of saying, "Scatter your money and your
attention;" but the wise man saith, "Put all your eggs in the one basket
and--watch that basket"--Pudd'nhead Wilson's Calendar.

What a time of it Dawson's Landing was having! All its life it had been
asleep, but now it hardly got a chance for a nod, so swiftly did big
events and crashing surprises come along in one another's wake: Friday
morning, first glimpse of Real Nobility, also grand reception at Aunt
Patsy Cooper's, also great robber-raid; Friday evening, dramatic kicking
of the heir of the chief citizen in presence of four hundred people;
Saturday morning, emergence as practising lawyer of the long-submerged
Pudd'nhead Wilson; Saturday night, duel between chief citizen and titled
stranger.

The people took more pride in the duel than in all the other events put
together, perhaps. It was a glory to their town to have such a thing
happen there. In their eyes the principals had reached the summit of
human honor. Everybody paid homage to their names; their praises were in
all mouths. Even the duelists' subordinates came in for a handsome share
of the public approbation: wherefore Pudd'nhead Wilson was suddenly
become a man of consequence. When asked to run for the mayoralty
Saturday night he was risking defeat, but Sunday morning found him a
made man and his success assured.

The twins were prodigiously great, now; the town took them to its bosom
with enthusiasm. Day after day, and night after night, they went dining
and visiting from house to house, making friends, enlarging and
solidifying their popularity, and charming and surprising all with their
musical prodigies, and now and then heightening the effects with samples
of what they could do in other directions, out of their stock of rare
and curious accomplishments. They were so pleased that they gave the
regulation thirty days' notice, the required preparation for
citizenship, and resolved to finish their days in this pleasant place.
That was the climax. The delighted community rose as one man and
applauded; and when the twins were asked to stand for seats in the
forthcoming aldermanic board, and consented, the public contentment was
rounded and complete.

Tom Driscoll was not happy over these things; they sunk deep, and hurt
all the way down. He hated the one twin for kicking him, and the other
one for being the kicker's brother.

Now and then the people wondered why nothing was heard of the raider, or
of the stolen knife or the other plunder, but nobody was able to throw
any light on that matter. Nearly a week had drifted by, and still the
thing remained a vexed mystery.

On Saturday Constable Blake and Pudd'nhead Wilson met on the street, and
Tom Driscoll joined them in time to open their conversation for them. He
said to Blake--"You are not looking well, Blake; you seem to be annoyed
about something. Has anything gone wrong in the detective business? I
believe you fairly and justifiably claim to have a pretty good
reputation in that line, isn't it so?"--which made Blake feel good, and
look it; but Tom added, "for a country detective"--which made Blake feel
the other way, and not only look it, but betray it in his voice--

"Yes, sir, I have got a reputation; and it's as good as anybody's in the
profession, too, country or no country."

"Oh, I beg pardon; I didn't mean any offense. What I started out to ask
was only about the old woman that raided the town--the stoop-shouldered
old woman, you know, that you said you were going to catch; and I knew
you would, too, because you have the reputation of never boasting,
and--well, you--you've caught the old woman?"

"D------ the old woman!"

"Why, sho! you don't mean to say you haven't caught her?"

"No; I haven't caught her. If anybody could have caught her, I could;
but nobody couldn't, I don't care who he is."

"I am sorry, real sorry--for your sake; because, when it gets around
that a detective has expressed himself so confidently, and then--"

