
“There’s been a row, mother,” he began. “I couldn’t tell you before the
servants, but I’m going to tell you all about it now. I want your advice
and your help--all sorts of things of you. I’m rather worried.”

“Do you think I couldn’t see that in your face, Jack?” asked Mrs.
Ralston, smiling as she met his eyes. “There’s a certain line in your
forehead that always comes when there’s trouble. What is it, boy?”

John told his story briefly and accurately, without superfluous
comment, and as much of what had happened in Katharine’s life as she had
confided to him. He made it clear enough that she was being tormented to
give up Robert Lauderdale’s secret, and if he dwelt unduly upon any
point, it was upon this. Mrs. Ralston listened attentively. When he came
to the scene which had taken place on that afternoon, she leaned forward
in her chair, breathless with interest.

“Oh, Jack!” she cried. “You always seem to be fighting somebody!”

“Yes--but wasn’t I right, mother?” he asked, quickly. “What could I do?
He acted like a madman, and he dragged Katharine from me and whirled her
off upon the floor as though he’d been handling a man in a free fight. I
couldn’t stand that.”

“No--of course you couldn’t,” answered Mrs. Ralston. “I don’t see what
you could have done but hit him, I’m sure. And yet it’s a shocking
affair--it is, really. I’m afraid it’s cost uncle Robert his life, poor,
dear old man!”

“Poor man!” echoed Ralston, thoughtfully. “Routh didn’t seem to think he
could live through the night. We may get word at any moment.”

“The wonder is that he didn’t die then and there. And there’s no one
with him, either--Katharine laid up in her room--why didn’t you stay in
the house, Jack?”

“Routh wouldn’t let me. He’s there. He told me I should only be in the
way and that he’d send for me, if anything happened. It’s an odd thing,
mother--but there’s no one to go to uncle Robert but you and I and
cousin Emma. He’d have a fit if he saw cousin Alexander. And of course
the old gentleman can’t go.” He meant Robert’s brother.

“No--of course not.”

A short silence followed, and Mrs. Ralston seemed to be thinking over
the situation.

“Well, Jack,” she said, at last, “what are we going to do? This state of
things can’t go on.”

“No. It can’t. It shan’t. And I won’t let it. Mother--you know we talked
last winter--you said that if ever I wanted to marry Katharine--wanted
to! Well--that we could manage to live here--”

It would be hard to give any adequate idea of the reluctance with which
John approached the subject. Short of the consideration of Katharine’s
personal safety, which he believed to be endangered by the life she was
made to lead, nothing could have induced him to think of laying the
burden of his married life upon his mother’s comparatively slender
fortune. Although half of it was his, for she had made it over to him by
a deed during the previous winter, out of a conviction that he should
feel himself to be independent, yet he had never quite accepted the
position, and still regarded all there was as being, morally speaking,
her property. But now she met him more than half way.

“Jack,” she said, almost authoritatively, “if Katharine will marry you,
marry her to-morrow and bring her here.”

“Thank you, mother,” he answered, and was silent for a moment.

“We can live perfectly well--just as well as we do now. One person
more--what difference does it make?”

“It would make a difference--more than you think,” answered John. “But
there’s another thing about it, mother--there’s a secret I’ve kept from
you for a long time. I must tell you now. You must be the first to know
it. But I want to ask you first not to judge what I’ve done until I’ve
told you all about it.”

“Is it anything bad, Jack?” asked Mrs. Ralston, with quick anxiety,
