wish I knew where to find him."




CHAPTER X.

DAN AS A DETECTIVE.


Dan quickly decided that if Mike had been going to Brooklyn, he would
not have announced it under the circumstances.

"He meant to send me there on a wild-goose chase," he reflected. "I am
not quite so green as he takes me to be."

Dan could not decide as easily where Mike had gone. Hood says in his
poem of "The Lost Heir,"


     "A boy as is lost in London streets is like a needle in a bundle
       of hay."


A hunt for a boy in the streets of New York is about equally hopeless.
But Dan did not despair.

"I'll just stroll round a little," he said to himself. "Maybe I'll find
him."

Dan bent his steps toward the Courtlandt-street Ferry.

"Perhaps Mike has gone to Jersey City," he said to himself. "Anyway,
I'll go over there."

It was not an expensive journey. Six cents would defray Dan's expenses
both ways, and he was willing to incur this expense. He meant to look
about him, as something might turn up by which he could turn an honest
penny.

Something did turn up.

Near him in the cabin of the ferry-boat sat a gentleman of middle age,
who seemed overloaded with baggage. He had two heavy carpet-bags, a
satchel, and a bundle, at which he looked from time to time with a
nervous and uncomfortable glance. When the boat touched shore he tried
to gather his various pieces of luggage, but with indifferent success.
Noticing his look of perplexity, Dan approached him, and said,
respectfully:

"Can't I assist you, sir?"

"I wish you would, my boy," said the gentleman, relieved.

"All right, sir. I'll take one of the carpet-bags and the satchel, if
you like."

"Thank you; that will do nicely."

So the two left the boat together.

"Where are you going, sir?" asked Dan.

"Do you know the wharf of the Cunard steamers?" asked the gentleman.

"Yes, sir."

"Is it far off?"

"Not more than five or six minutes' walk," answered Dan.

"Can you help me as far as that with my luggage?"

"Yes, sir."

"I will make it worth your while, and you will be doing me a great favor
besides. I was brought down to the ferry, but the rascally hackman
demanded five dollars more to carry me across and land me at the Cunard
pier. He thought I would have to submit to this imposition, but I was so
indignant that I tried to handle all my luggage myself. I don't know how
