best citizens, all of the Angelo party ; and when the 
immersion was finished they escorted him back home : 
and would even have carried him on their shoulders, 
but that people might think they were carrying Luigi. 
Far into the night the citizens continued to discuss 
and wonder over the strangely mated pair of inci- 
dents that had distinguished and exalted the past 
twenty-four hours above any other twenty-four in the 
history of their town for picturesqueness and splen- 
did interest ; and long before the lights were out and 
burghers asleep it had been decided on all hands that 
in capturing these twins Dawson's Landing had drawn 
a prize in the great lottery of municipal fortune. 
At midnight Angelo was sleeping peacefully. His 
immersion had not harmed him, it had merely made 
him wholesomely drowsy, and he had been dead 
asleep many hours now. It had made Luigi drowsy, 
too, but he had got only brief naps, on account of 
his having to take the medicine every three-quarters 
of an hour — and Aunt Betsy Hale was there to see 
that he did it. When he complained and resisted, 
she was quietly firm with him, and said in a low 
voice : 
"No — no, that won't do; you mustn't talk, and 
you mustn't retch and gag that way, either — you'll 
wake up your poor brother." 
"Well, what of it, Aunt Betsy, he—" 
" 'Sh-h! Don't make a noise, dear. You mustn't 
forget that your poor brother is sick and — " 
"Sick, is he? Well, I wish I—" 
"'Sh-h-h! Will you be quiet, Luigi! Here, now, 
take the rest of it — don't keep me holding the dip- 
per all night. I declare if you haven't left a good 
fourth of it in the bottom! Come — that's a good 
boy." 
"Aunt Betsy, don't make me! I feel like I've 
swallowed a cemetery; I do, indeed. Do let me 
rest a little — just a little; I can't take any more of 
the devilish stuff now." 
"Luigil Using such language here, and him just 
baptized! Do you want the roof to fall on you?" 
"I wish to goodness it would!" 
"Why, you dreadful thing! I've a good notion 
to — let that blanket alone; do you want your 
brother to catch his death?" 
"Aunt Betsy, I've got to have it off, I'm being 
roasted alive; nobody could stand it — you couldn't 
yourself." 
"Now, then, you're sneezing again — I just ex- 
pected it." 
"Because I've caught a cold in my head. I 
always do, when I go in the water with my clothes 
on. And it takes me weeks to get over it, too. I 
think it was a shame to serve me so." 
"Luigi, you are unreasonable; you know very 
well they couldn't baptize him dry. I should think 
you would be willing to undergo a little inconven- 
ience for your brother's sake." 
"Inconvenience! Now how you talk, Aunt Betsy. 
I came as near as anything to getting drowned — 
you saw that yourself; and do you call this incon- 
venience? — the room shut up as tight as a drum, 
and so hot the mosquitoes are trying, to get out; 
and a cold in the head, and dying for sleep and no 
chance to get any on account of this infamous 
medicine that that assassin prescri — " 
"There, you're sneezing again. I'm going down 
and mix some more of this truck for you, dear." 
CHAPTER DC 
THE DRINKLESS DRUNK 
DURING Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday the 
twins grew steadily worse; but then the doctor 
was summoned South to attend his mother's funeral, 
and they got well in forty-eight hours. They ap- 
peared on the street on Friday, and were welcomed 
with enthusiasm by the new-born parties, the Luigi 
and Angelo factions. The Luigi faction carried its 
Strength into the Democratic party, the Angelo fac- 
tion entered into a combination with the Whigs. 
The Democrats nominated Luigi for alderman under 
