occupation of his friends, but some place where he 
was not known he felt that he might do something 
to regain his position, get some situation, or make 
some money lots of men had done it in a new 
country and reinstate himself in Edith's opinion. 

But he did not go, and days and weeks went by 
in irresolution. No word came from Carmen, and 
this humiliated Jack more than anything else 
not the loss of her friendship, but the remem- 
brance that he had ever danced attendance on her 
and trusted her. He was getting a good many 
wholesome lessons in these days. 

One afternoon he called upon Miss Tavish. There 
was no change in her. She received him with her 
usual gay cordiality, and with no affectation. 

" I didn't know what had become of you," she 
said. 

"I've been busy," he replied, with a faint at- 
tempt at a smile. 

"Yes, I know. It's been an awful time, what 





with Henderson's death and everything else. Al- 
most everybody has been hit. But," and she looked 
at him cheerfully, " they will come up again ; up and 
down; it is always so. Why, even I got a little 
twist in that panic." The girl was doing what she 
could in her way to cheer him up. 

"I think of going off somewhere to seek my 
fortune," said Jack, with a rueful smile. 

" Oh, I hope not ; your friends wouldn't like 
that. There is no place like New York, I'm sure." 
And there was a real note of friendliness and en- 
couragement in her tone. " Only," and she gave 
him another bright smile, " I think of running away 
from it myself, for a time. It's a secret yet. Car- 
men wants me to go abroad with her." 

" I have not seen Mrs. Henderson since her hus- 
band's death. How is she ?" 

" Oh, she bears up wonderfully. But then she 
has so much to do, poor thing. And then the let- 
ters she gets, the begging letters. You've no idea. 
I don't wonder she wants to go abroad. Don't 
stay away so long again," she said as Jack rose to 
go. " And, oh, can't you come in to dinner to- 
morrow night just Carmen I think I can per- 
suade her and nobody else ?" 

" I'm sorry that I have an engagement," Jack 
answered. 

" Well, some other time. Only soon." 

This call did Jack temporarily a world of good. 





It helped his self -esteem. But it was only tem- 
porary. The black fact stared him in the face 
every morning that he was ruined. And it came 
over him gradually that he was a useless member 
of society. He never had done anything ; he was 
not trained or fitted to do anything. And this 
^ was impressed upon him in the occasional attempts 
he made to get employment. He avoided as much 
as possible contact with those who knew him. 
