Rex scrubbed his brown and rosy cheeks with 
the big towel. 
Monsieur Bordier went on: "But the talent 
of Mademoiselle! Mon Dieu! what a talent! 
What a voice of silver and crystal! And to-day 
she will meet another pupil of Madame of ours 
a genius. My word!" 
"To-day?" 
"Yes, she is with us here. She makes her 
debut at the Fauvette next autumn." 
Rex concealed a frown in the ample folds of 
the towel. It crossed his mind that the colonel 
might better have stayed and taken care of his 
own daughter. If he, Rex, had had a sister, 
would he have liked her to be on a Bavarian 
mountain top in a company composed of a game- 
keeper, the manager of a Paris theater and his 
wife, and a young person who was about to make 
her debut in opera-bouffe, and to have no better 
guardian than a roving young art student? Rex 
felt his unfitness for the post with a pang of com 
punction. Meantime he rubbed his head, and 
Monsieur Bordier talked tranquilly on. But be 
tween vexation and friction Gethryn lost the 
thread of Monsieur's remarks for awhile. 
The first word which recalled his wandering 
attention was "Chamois?" and he saw that Mon 
sieur Bordier was pointing to the game bag and 
looking amiably at Sepp, who, divided between 
sulkiness at Monsieur's native language and good 
will toward any one who seemed to be accepted 
by his "Herrschaften," was in two minds, whether 
to open the bag and show the game to this smil 
ing Frenchman, or "to say him a Grobheit" and 
go away. Sepp's "Grobheit" could be very in 
sulting indeed when he cared to make it so. Rex 
hastened to turn the scale. 
"Yes, Herr Director, this is Sepp, one of the 
duke's best game-keepers, Monsieur speaks 
German?" he interrupted himself to ask in 
French, 
 
"Parfaitement! Well," he went on in Sepp's 
native tongue, "Herr Director, in Sepp you see 
one of the best woodsmen in Bavaria, one of 
the best shots in Germany. Sepp, we must 
show the Herr Director our Gems." 
And there was nothing for Sepp but to open 
the bag, sheepish, beaten, laughing in spite of 
himself, and before he knew it they all three had 
their heads together over the game in perfect 
amity. 
A step sounded along the front platform, and 
Madame looked round the corner of the house, 
saying that lunch was ready. Her husband and 
Rex joined her immediately. "Ze young ladees 
are wizin," she said and led the way. 
The sun-glare on the limestone rocks outside 
made the little room seem almost black at first, 
and all Rex could distinguish as he followed the 
others was Ruth's bright smile as she stood 
near the door, and a jumble of dark figures 
farther back. 
"Permit me," said Monsieur, "to introduce 
you to our Belle Helene." Rex had already 
bowed low, seeing nothing. "Mademoiselle 
Descartes Monsieur Gethryn " Rex raised 
his head and looked into the white face of 
Yvonne. 
"Ah, yes! as I was saying," gossiped Monsieur 
while they were taking their places at table, "I 
shoot when I can, but merely the partridge and 
rabbit of the turnip. Bah! a man may not 
boast of that!" 
Rex kept his eyes fixed on the speaker and 
forced himself to understand what was being 
said. 
"But the sanglier?" His voice sounded in his 
ears like noises one hears with the head under 
water. 
