conviction was not due to imagination, it was a certainty forced upon
her by actual fact; from her earliest girlhood men had been constantly
falling in love with her, and apparently they were going to continue it
indefinitely. But though not jealous herself, she sympathized deeply
with the pain which this tormenting feeling gave to others, and, on the
present occasion, she feared that Malachi might be suffering from the
mention of Walter Willoughby's name, and that of Achilles Larue, in
connection with her own; she therefore began to talk quickly, as a
diversion to another subject. "Oh, do you know, as I came here this
afternoon I was reminded of something I have often meant to ask you--ask
all of you, and I'll say it now, as it's in my mind. Don't you know that
sign one so often sees everywhere--'Job Printing'? There is one in
Charlotte Street, and it was seeing it there just now as I passed that
made me think of it again. I suppose it must be some especial kind of
printing that they have named after Job? But it has always seemed to me
so odd, because there was, of course, no printing at all, until some
time after Job was dead? Or do you suppose it means that printers have
to be so very patient (with the bad handwriting that comes to them),
that they name themselves after Job?"

Dolly put down her knitting. "Lilian, come here and let me kiss you. You
are too enchanting!"

Mrs. Kip kissed Dolly with amiability. She already knew--she could not
help knowing--that she was too enchanting. But it was not often a
woman's voice that mentioned the fact. "It is late, I must go," she
said. "Mr. Hill, if you--if you want those roses for Mrs. Chase's
bouquet, this is the best time to gather them."

Malachi Hill found his hat with alacrity, and they went out together.
And then Etheridge took refuge in general objurgations. "I'm dead sick
of Florida, Dolly! It's so monotonous. So flat, and deep in sand. No
driving is possible. One of the best drives I ever had in my life was in
a sleigh; right up the Green Mountains. The snow was over the tops of
the fences, and the air clear as a bell!"

"Do the Green Mountains interest the little turtle-dove who has just
gone out?" Dolly inquired.

"Little turtle-fool! She makes eyes at every young idiot who comes
along."

"Oh no, she only coos. It's her natural language. I won't answer as to
Achilles Larue, commodore, for that is a long-standing passion; she
began to admire his fur-lined overcoat, his neat shoes, his 'ish,' and
his mystic coldness within a month after the departure of her second
dear one. But as to her other flames, I think you could cut them out in
her affections if you would give your mind to it seriously; yes, even
the contemporary Willoughby. But you'll never give your mind to it,
you're a dog in the manger! You have no intention of marrying her
yourself. Yet you don't want any one else to marry her. Isn't it
tremendously appropriate that she happens to own an orange-grove?
Orange-blossoms always ready."

"Contemporary?" Etheridge repeated, going back to the word that had
startled him.

"Yes. Haven't you noticed how vividly contemporary young fellows of
Walter's type are? They have no fixed habits; for fixed habits are
founded in retrospect, and they never indulge in retrospect. Anything
that happened last week seems to them old; last year, antediluvian. They
live in the moment, with an outlook only towards the future. This makes
them very 'actual' wooers. As my brother-in-law would phrase it, they
are 'all there!'"

"Nonsense!" said Etheridge. But as he went home to his own quarters (to
take a nap so as to be fresh for the evening), he turned over in his
thoughts that word "contemporary!" And he made up his mind that from
that hour he would mention no event which had occurred more than one
year before; he would tell no story which dated back beyond the same
period of time; he would read only the younger authors (whom he loathed
without exception); he would not permit himself to prefer any particular
walking-stick, any especial chair. At the club he would play euchre
instead of whist; and if there was any other even more confoundedly
modern and vulgar game, he would play that. Habits, indeed? Stuff and
nonsense!

Left alone, Dolly went upstairs a second time. But Ruth's door was now
locked. The elder sister came back therefore to the drawing-room. Her
face was anxious.
