way to save a rascal is to give him another one to save; and Job,
who was no rascal, but the ruin of a very good fellow, brilliantly
illustrated this eternal law.

Bayard had come back, unusually tired, about noon, and had not left
the house since his return. He was reading, with his back to the
light, and the sea in his ears. The portière of mosquito netting,
which hung now at the door between his two rooms, was pushed aside
that he might see the photographed Leonardo as he liked to do. The
scanty furniture of his sleeping-room had been moved about during
his recent illness, so that now the picture was the only object
visible from the study where he sat. The mosquito portière was
white. Mrs. Granite having ineffectually urged a solferino pink,
Bayard regarded this portière with the disproportionate gratitude
of escape from evil.

A knock had struck the cottage door, and Jane Granite had run
to answer it. She was in her tidy, blue gingham dress, but a
little wet and crumply, as was to be expected on a Monday. She
had snatched up a white apron, and looked like an excellent
parlor-maid. For such, perhaps, the caller took her, for practical
tact was not his most obtrusive quality. He was an elderly man, a
gentleman; his mouth was stern, and his eyes were kind. He carried
a valuable cane, and spoke with a certain air of authority, as of a
man well acquainted with this world and the other too. He asked for
Mr. Bayard, and would send up his card before intruding upon him; a
ceremony which quite upset little Jane, and she stood crimson with
embarrassment. Her discomfort was not decreased by the bewildering
presence of a carriage at the gate of her mother’s garden. Beyond
the rows of larkspur and feverfew, planted for the vase on Mr.
Bayard’s study-table, Mr. Salt’s best carryall, splendid in spring
varnish, loomed importantly. Pepper, with the misanthropy of a
confirmed dyspeptic, drew the carryall, and ladies sat within
it. There were two. They were covered by certain strange, rich
carriage robes undreamed of by Mr. Salt; dull, silk blankets, not
of Windover designs. The ladies were both handsomely dressed. One
was old; but one--ah! one was young.

“Mr. Bayard is in, my dear.” The voice of the caller rose over the
larkspur to the carryall. “Will you wait, or drive on?”

“We’ll drive on,” replied the younger lady rather hurriedly.

“Helen, Helen!” complained the elder. “Don’t you know that Pepper
is afraid of the electric cars? I’ve noticed horses are that live
in the same town with them.”

Helen did not laugh at this, but her eyes twinkled irreverently.
She wrapped herself in her old-gold silk blanket, and turned to
watch the sea. She did not look at Mrs. Granite’s cottage.

The dignified accents of the Professor’s voice were now wafted over
the larkspur bed again.

“Mr. Bayard asks if the ladies will not come up to his study,
Statira? It is only one short flight. Will you do so?”

Simultaneously Bayard’s eager face flashed out of the doorway;
and before Helen could assent or dissent, her mother, on the
young man’s arm, was panting up between the feverfew and into the
cottage. Helen followed in meek amusement.

The stairs were scarcely more than a ship’s gangway. Mrs. Carruth
politely suppressed her sense of horrified inadequacy to the
ascent, and she climbed up as bravely as possible. Helen’s
cast-down eyes observed the uncarpeted steps of old, stained
pine-wood. She was still silent when they entered the study. Bayard
bustled about, offering Mrs. Carruth the bony rocking-chair with
the turkey-red cushion. The Professor had already ensconced himself
in the revolving study-chair, a luxury which had been recently
added to the room. There remained for Helen the lounge, and Bayard,
perforce, seated himself beside her. He did not remark upon the
deficiency of furniture. He seemed as much above an apology for
the lack of upholstery as a martyr in prison. His face was radiant
with a pleasure which no paltry thought could poison. The simple
occasion seemed to him one of high festivity. It would have been
impossible for any one of these comfortable people to understand
what it meant to the poor fellow to entertain old friends in his
lonely quarters.

