flintlock gun, which might have seen service in the time of Daniel
Boone, and had a package strapped on behind his saddle. Possibly they
belonged to the band of mounted men, and were going out to join them
with the important news they had obtained.

"Where are you uns bound?" demanded Knox, breaking out of his covert,
and planting himself in the road in front of them.

The Kentuckian was as prudent as he was brave; but if these brigands
were permitted to proceed, the business of the Riverlawn Cavalry would
be ended in this immediate locality for the present. The enemy before
him were two to his one; but he did not appear to take this fact into
consideration.

"Who are you?" shouted the foremost of the pair in a ferocious tone, as
though he expected to frighten the stalwart inquirer, and with a volley
of oaths which startled the Kentuckian, who, maugre his varied
experience, was a high-toned man morally, and never used any profane
expletives.

"I am in command of this road jest now; and no one, not even Gov'nor
McGoffin hisself, could pass out the way you uns is go'n'," replied
Life.

"I reckon we uns is gwine out," replied the spokesman of the pair.

"I reckon not," added the sergeant, as he seized the bridle of the
fellow's Rosinante, whisked him around, pointing him to the village, and
giving him a slap to set him going.

If the brigand had any bad blood in his veins, this decided action was
sufficient to make it boil; and he brought up his old flintlock, and
began to point it at the "commander of that road just then," and would
no doubt have put some of the contents of the rusty barrel through his
head or chest, if Life had waited for him to do so. He did not; and he
did not even take the trouble to unsling the loaded carbine at his back,
but, reaching up, seized the brigand by the throat, and dragged him from
his horse, planting him very solidly on the ground.

The ruffian seemed to be as powerless as an infant in his grasp. Knox
then snatched the gun from his hands; but the man, clinging to it, came
up with it. The sergeant shook him off as he would a fly, and he fell
all in a heap on the ground again. Life tossed the weapon over the fence
into the bushes. The brigand sprang to his feet, and with a long knife
in his hand rushed upon his herculean assailant.

Knox bestowed a blow on the arm with the blade at the end of it, which
was heavy enough to break the bone; and the weapon dropped in the road.
Then he seized the brigand by the throat again, and batted him over the
head with his iron fist, causing him to drop limp and senseless on the
ground. The other ruffian, who did not seem to be so desperate a
character, looked as though he were paralyzed by the vigorous treatment
of his companion; but he had by this time recovered enough of his
self-possession to think of his own safety; and he attempted to run by
the Kentuckian, in the direction of the guerillas.

"You're go'n' the wrong way, Chopsticks," said Life, seizing the bridle
of the horse, and bringing him up with a shock which nearly unseated the
rider. "You're bound for the village, and that's the way your go'n',"
continued Knox, as he unslung his carbine, standing in front of the
horse.

"I want to go the other way; and I reckon you'll git hung to one o'
these big trees for what you've jest did," said the second ruffian.

"I ain't go'n' to hang jest yet; and you're go'n' back to the village
whether you want to or not," replied Knox. "If you move without leave
from the commander of this road, a ball from his carbine will worry its
way through that head o' yourn."

[Illustration: "The ruffian seemed to be as powerless as an infant in
his grasp."]

As he spoke, the sergeant wrenched the gun from the hand of the
ruffian, and tossed it after the other. He seemed to be enjoying the
little scene in which he was the principal actor, and he was as unmoved
as though he had been taking his coffee and hard-tack at a camp-fire.
The horse of the disabled brigand still stood within reach; and, picking
up his first victim, he laid him, face down, across the saddle, as he
would have done a bag of grain. Then he led the steed, with his load, to
