bishop that can't cuss ain't got no business in 
society.' 

' Don't they ever cuss at all now, Tom ? ' 
' Not but very seldom. P'r'aps they do in Peru, 
but amongst people that knows anything it's 
played out, and they don't mind it no more than 
they do Ben Miller's kind. It's because they've 
got so far along that they know as much now as 
the grasshoppers did in the Middle Ages.' 
' The grasshoppers ? ' 

' Yes. In the Middle Ages, in France, when the 
grasshoppers started in to eat up the crops, the 
bishop would go out in the fields and pull a solemn 
face and give them a most solid good cussing. Just 
the way they done with a Jew or a heretic or a 
king, as I was telling you.' 

' And what did the grasshoppers do, Tom ? ' 
' Just laughed, and went on and et up the crop, 
same as they started in to do. The difference 
betwixt a man and a grasshopper, in the Middle 
Ages, was that the grasshopper warn't a fool.' 

' Oh, my goodness, oh, my goodness gracious, 
dah's de lake a'gin ! ' yelled Jim just then. ' Now, 
Mars Tom, what you gwyne to say ? ' 

Yes sir, there was the lake again, away yonder 
across the Desert, perfectly plain, trees and all, 
just the same as it was before. I says : 

'I reckon you're satisfied now, Tom Sawyer.' 

But he says, perfectly cam : 

' Yes, satisfied there ain't no lake there.' 

Jim says : 

' Don't talk so, Mars Tom — it sk'yers me to hear 
you. It's so hot, en you's so thirsty, dat you ain't 
in yo' right mine, Mars Tom. Oh, but don't she 
look good ! 'Clah I doan' know how I's gwyne 
to wait tell we gits dah, I's so thirsty.' 

' Well, you'll have to wait ; and it won't do you 
no good, either, because there ain't no lake there, I 
tell you.' 

I says : 

 Jim, don't you take your eye off of it, and I 
won't either.' 



' 'Deed I won't ; en bless you, honey, I couldn't 
ef I wanted to.' 

We went a-tearing along towards it, piling the 
miles behind us like nothing, but never gaining an 
inch on it— and all of a sudden it was gone again ! 
Jim staggered and 'most fell down. When he got 
his breath he says, gasping like a fish : 

' Mars Tom, hit's a ghos', dats what it is, en I
hopes to goodness we ain't gwyne to see it no mo'. 
Dey's ben a lake, en suthin's happened, en de lake's 
dead, en we's seen its ghos' ; we's seen it twyste, 
and dat's proof. De Desert's ha'nted — it's ha'nted, 
sho. Oh, Mars Tom, le's git outen it — I'd rather die 
than have de night ketch us in it ag'in, en de ghos' 
er dat lake come a-mournin' aroun' us, en we asleep 
en doan' know de danger we's in.' 

' Ghost, you gander ! it ain't anything but air 
and heat and thirstiness pasted together by a 
person's imagination. If I Gimme the glass ! 
