
" Myrrha and Mrs. Smithwick return to- 
morrow. Perhaps you -will find it convenient to get rooms elsewhere. I shall expect 
you at dinner on Sunday on every Sunday. 
That will do. Telephone to Mr. Bancroft. 
I would like a word with him." 

Mr. Attersol's private office had looked 
very bright to Quain when he entered it ; 
there was sunlight everywhere, and some of 





that sunlight accompanied his return. For 
the advancement was not only unexpected 
but unprecedented. It sent him careering 
over four of his seniors. One may indeed 
be an ataraxist, the recognition of one's 
abilities is pleasurable, after all. And besides, though the house on Fifth Avenue 
was sufficiently luxurious and exceedingly 
well appointed, through some strange over- 
sight no latchkeys had been provided, which 
perhaps was as well, for Mr. Attersol was 
very rigorous in his insistence that every 
one in that house should be present at morning prayers. Then, too, a release from the 
presence of that little vixen and her feather- 
headed aunt was a matter which Quain could 
contemplate with entire equanimity. On 
the whole, then, as he re-straddled his stool, 
he was on such good terms with the world 
at large, that a half-hour passed before he 
remembered the message to Mr. Bancroft. 
If bored at all, it was merely at the prospect 
of these Sunday dinners. 

" I wonder," he mused, " I wonder if 





that little catamount is any beastlier than 
she was before she went away." 

And for a moment he pictured her as he 
had seen her last the eyes half closed, the 
chin upraised, the mouth drawn in diligent 
disdain. 

" She couldn't be," he ultimately decided, 
and, consoled by the reflection, settled down 
to work. 

But the Sunday which followed was fertile in surprises. Who was this that looked 
like a willis in a ballad, and who, as he 
entered the drawing-room, came forward 
with an enchanted smile ? Surely this 
could not be Myrrha. And what was she 
saying to him ? When had he heard such 
melody before ? 

Her hand was in his ; about her mobile 
lips a smile was fluttering, one that mounted 
to her eyes, danced in them, and played 
again in the curves of her mouth. No, 
never had he seen that mouth before, nor 
yet in all the world any mouth that for 
sweetness resembled it. And that hand! 





Why was it in his ? And that face ? Surely 
this was some princess stepping from an 
idyl in a dream ! 

" Is it you ? " he asked grotesquely, and for 
