"But the heights upon which you had placed yourself, my dear, were too
superhuman," he said, excusingly.
The street of the Hyacinth experienced a great downfall, also. During
the summer it was demolished.
Before its demolition Mrs. Lawrence, after three long breaths of
astonishment, had come to offer her congratulations--in a new direction
this time.
"It is the most fortunate thing in the world," she said to everybody,
"that Mrs. Spurr is now confined to her bed for life, and is obliged to
wear mourning."
But Mrs. Spurr is not confined to her bed; she drives out with her
daughter whenever the weather is favorable. She wears black, but is now
beginning to vary it with purple and lavender.
A CHRISTMAS PARTY
In 188- the American Consul at Venice was occupying the second story of
an old palace on the Grand Canal. It was the story which is called by
Italians the piano nobile, or noble floor. Beneath this piano nobile
there is a large low ground, or rather water, floor, whose stone
pavement, only slightly above the level of the canal outside, is always
damp and often wet. At the time of the Consul's residence this
water-floor was held by another tenant, a dealer in antiquities, who had
partitioned off a shallow space across its broad front for a show-room.
As this dealer had the ground-floor, he possessed, of course, the
principal entrance of the palace, with its broad marble steps descending
into the rippling wavelets of the splendid azure street outside, and
with the tall, slender poles, irregularly placed in the water, which
bore testimony to the aristocracy of the venerable pile they guarded.
One could say that these blue wands, ornamented with heraldic devices,
were like the spears of knights; this is what Miss Senter said. Or one
could notice their strong resemblance to barbers' poles; and this was
what Peter Senter always mentioned.
Peter Senter was the American Consul, and his sister Barbara was the
Consuless; for she kept house for her brother, who was a bachelor. And
she not only kept house for him, but she assisted him in other ways,
owing to her knowledge of Italian. The Consul, a man of fifty-seven,
spoke only the language of his native place--Rochester, New York. That
he could not understand the speech (gibberish, he called it) of the
people with whom he was supposed to hold official relations did not
disturb him; he thought it patriotic not to understand. There was a
vice-consul, an Italian, who could attend to the business matters; and
as for the rest, wasn't Barbara there--Barbara, who could chatter not
only in Italian, but in French and German also, with true feminine
glibness? (For Peter, in his heart, thought it unmasculine to have a
polyglot tongue.) He knew how well his sister could speak, because he
had paid her bills during the six years of her education abroad. These
bills had been large; of course, therefore, the knowledge must be large
as well.
Miss Senter was always chronically annoyed that she and her brother did
not possess the state entrance. As the palace was at present divided,
the tenants of the noble floor descended by an outside stairway to a
large inner court, and from this court opened the second water-door.
Their staircase was a graceful construction of white marble, and the
court, with the blue sky above, one or two fretted balconies, and a
sculptured marble well-curb in the centre, was highly picturesque. But
this did not reconcile the American lady to the fact that their door was
at the side of the palace; she thought that by right the gondola of the
Consul should lie among the heraldic poles on the Grand Canal. But, in
spite of right, nothing could be done; the antiquity-dealer held his
premises on a long lease. Miss Senter, therefore, disliked the dealer.
Her dislike, however, had not prevented her from paying a visit to his
establishment soon after she had taken possession of the high-ceilinged
rooms above. For she was curious about the old palace, and wished to see
every inch of it; if there had been cellars, she would have gone down to
inspect them, and she was fully determined to walk "all over the roof."
The dealer's name was Pelham--"Z. Pelham" was inscribed on his sign. How
he came by this English title no one but himself could have told. He was
supposed to be either a Pole or an Armenian, and he spoke many languages
with equal fluency and incorrectness. He appeared to have feeble health,
and he always wore large arctic over-shoes; he was short and thin, and
the most noticeable expression of his plain, small face was resignation.
Z. Pelham conducted the Consuless through the dusky space behind his
show-room, a vast, low, open hall with massive squat columns and arches,
and the skeletons of two old gondolas decaying in a corner. At the back
he opened a small door, and pointed out a flight of stone steps going up
steeply in a spiral, enclosed in a circular shaft like a round tower.
"It leads to the attic floor. Her Excellency wishes to mount?" he
inquired, patiently. For, owing to the wares in which he dealt, he had
had a large acquaintance with eccentric characters of all nations.
"Certainly," replied Miss Senter. "Carmela, you can stay below, if you
like," she said to the servant who accompanied her.
