
outset an annoying social puzzle to his countrymen 
and to his times. 

In spite of his bitter experience at Nazareth, and 
of his more than usually lonely summer, he was 
happier at this time than often perhaps than ever 

ia his life. Of his public life, this was distinctly 

the most cheerful year. Now, he began to know the 
pleasantness of growing popularity. Now, he began 
to feel that his great sense of moral truth was really 
communicable to a certain proportion of minds. 
Now, his spiritual force gathered' itself to encour- 
aging action. Now, he knew what it was to hope 
for more than the space of a mood. Now, his con- 
sciousness of power grew upon something more solid 
than dreams, and more tangible than prayer. 

Having, for many practical reasons, selected Ca- 
pernaum, he made that thriving port his head- 
quarters- Here he recalled to his side the four fish- 
ermen friends who were pursuing their calling on the 
Galilean lake. Up to this time their service and 
society bad been irregular, but he now summoned 
them to new and definite obligations in his behalf. 
This downright act of authority a new assump- 
tion on his part he enfolded In such a warm out- 
burst of sympathy with their practical affairs that 
he became in a half hour the most popular of men 
among the Galilean fishermen. 

The men had been out since the day before, and 
the capricious lake whose abundant shoals of fish 
sometimes choked and sometimes evaded the most 
skillful net, had yielded nothing to an all night's 
hard work. Sleepless, hungry, uncomfortable, wet, 



THE HEALER 141 

and discouraged, the fishermen had rowed ashore, 
sullenly washed their nets, and put out again at the 
request of Jesus, who expressed a wish to use one 
of their boats as a temporary pulpit wherefrom to 
finish one of his brief discourses. At the surpris- 
ing order of the preacher that they set their nets 
in such and such a spot, the cross and disheartened 
men smiled with respectful doubt. A superior 
rabbi does not make a good fisherman. The lec- 
tern, not the deck, was the place for the landsman. 
When, however, tfiey hopelessly followed his sugges- 
tion, and the richest haul of fish taken on Gennesa- 
ret that night broke the nets and all but sank the 
boat, the moral effect was such as only poor men 
can appreciate. Here was no common rabbi who 
would stick to his synagogue and let a man starve. 
Here was a wonder and a wonderworker, caring 
for a poor fellow and the catch ; concerning him- 
self about your affairs, not above your troubles. 
The most warm-hearted man in the crew dropped to 
his knees among the leaping fish, and impulsively 
offered to Jesus the service of his life. 

From the fishing town the Nazarene made cir- 
cuits, taking preaching tours here and there about 
Galilee and back again, whenever and wherever the 
occasion seemed to demand. His gift in religious 
oratory quickly developed itself, and grew with 
marked effect to the point of public influence. But 
he gave less attention to preaching at this time 
than to the practice of the truths which he 
preached. His methods were intensely practical, 
and showed extraordinary wisdom. 



U2 THE STORY OF JESUS CHBIST 
