"Clisson!"
Clisson jumped like a flash and marked his name on the floor in chalk
before a front seat.
"Caron!"
Caron galloped away to secure his place. Bang! went an easel. "Nom de
Dieu!" in French,--"Where in h--l are you goin'!" in English. Crash! a
paintbox fell with brushes and all on board. "Dieu de Dieu de--" spat! A
blow, a short rush, a clinch and scuffle, and the voice of the massier,
stern and reproachful:
"Cochon!"
Then the roll-call was resumed.
"Clifford!"
The massier paused and looked up, one finger between the leaves of the
ledger.
"Clifford!"
Clifford was not there. He was about three miles away in a direct line and
every instant increased the distance. Not that he was walking fast,--on
the contrary, he was strolling with that leisurely gait peculiar to
himself. Elliott was beside him and two bulldogs covered the rear. Elliott
was reading the "Gil Blas," from which he seemed to extract amusement, but
deeming boisterous mirth unsuitable to Clifford's state of mind, subdued
his amusement to a series of discreet smiles. The latter, moodily aware of
this, said nothing, but leading the way into the Luxembourg Gardens
installed himself upon a bench by the northern terrace and surveyed the
landscape with disfavour. Elliott, according to the Luxembourg
regulations, tied the two dogs and then, with an interrogative glance
toward his friend, resumed the "Gil Blas" and the discreet smiles.
The day was perfect. The sun hung over Notre Dame, setting the city in a
glitter. The tender foliage of the chestnuts cast a shadow over the
terrace and flecked the paths and walks with tracery so blue that Clifford
might here have found encouragement for his violent "impressions" had he
but looked; but as usual in this period of his career, his thoughts were
anywhere except in his profession. Around about, the sparrows quarrelled
and chattered their courtship songs, the big rosy pigeons sailed from tree
to tree, the flies whirled in the sunbeams and the flowers exhaled a
thousand perfumes which stirred Clifford with languorous wistfulness.
Under this influence he spoke.
"Elliott, you are a true friend--"
"You make me ill," replied the latter, folding his paper. "It's just as I
thought,--you are tagging after some new petticoat again. And," he
continued wrathfully, "if this is what you've kept me away from Julian's
for,--if it's to fill me up with the perfections of some little idiot--"
"Not idiot," remonstrated Clifford gently.
"See here," cried Elliott, "have you the nerve to try to tell me that you
are in love again?"
"Again?"
"Yes, again and again and again and--by George have you?"
"This," observed Clifford sadly, "is serious."
For a moment Elliott would have laid hands on him, then he laughed from
sheer helplessness. "Oh, go on, go on; let's see, there's Clémence and
Marie Tellec and Cosette and Fifine, Colette, Marie Verdier--"
"All of whom are charming, most charming, but I never was serious--"
"So help me, Moses," said Elliott, solemnly, "each and every one of those
named have separately and in turn torn your heart with anguish and have
also made me lose my place at Julian's in this same manner; each and every
one, separately and in turn. Do you deny it?"
"What you say may be founded on facts--in a way--but give me the credit of
being faithful to one at a time--"
"Until the next came along."
"But this,--this is really very different. Elliott, believe me, I am all
broken up."
Then there being nothing else to do, Elliott gnashed his teeth and
listened.
"It's--it's Rue Barrée."
"Well," observed Elliott, with scorn, "if you are moping and moaning over
that girl,--the girl who has given you and myself every reason to wish
that the ground would open and engulf us,--well, go on!"
"I'm going on,--I don't care; timidity has fled--"
"Yes, your native timidity."
"I'm desperate, Elliott. Am I in love? Never, never did I feel so d--n
miserable. I can't sleep; honestly, I'm incapable of eating properly."
"Same symptoms noticed in the case of Colette."
"Listen, will you?"
"Hold on a moment, I know the rest by heart. Now let me ask you something.
Is it your belief that Rue Barrée is a pure girl?"
"Yes," said Clifford, turning red.
"Do you love her,--not as you dangle and tiptoe after every pretty
inanity--I mean, do you honestly love her?"
"Yes," said the other doggedly, "I would--"
"Hold on a moment; would you marry her?"
