pressed even a shade of irritation, and she was 
unable to conceal that she felt, on the spot, how 





memorable this fact was to make them. Tony's 
immediate glance at her showed equally that he 
had instantly become aware of their so affecting 
her. He did, however, nothing to modify the im 
pression : he only stood a moment looking across 
the river ; after which he observed quietly : " Here 
she is on the bridge." 

He had walked nearer to the stream, and Rose 
had moved back to the tea-table, from which 
the view of the bridge was obstructed. "Has 
she brought the child?" she asked. 

" I don't make out she may have her by the 
hand." He approached again, and as he came 
he said: "Your idea is really that I should 
speak to her now?" 

" Before she sees Paul ? " Rose met his eyes ; 
there was a quick anguish of uncertainty in all 
her person. "I leave that to you since you 
cast a doubt on the safety of your doing so. I 
leave it," said Rose, " to your judgment I leave 
it to your honour." 

" To my honour ? " Tony wondered with a 
showy jerk of his head what the deuce his hon 
our had to do with it. 

She went on without heeding him. " My idea 
is only that, whether you speak to her or not, 



 

she shall accept him. Gracious heavens, she 
must!" Rose broke out with passion. 

" You take an immense interest in it ! " Tony 
laughed. 

" Take the same, then, yourself, and the thing 
will come off." They stood a minute looking 
at each other, and more passed between them 
than had ever passed before. The result of it 
was that Rose had a drop from her strenuous 
height to sudden and beautiful gentleness. 
"Tony Bream, I trust you." 

She had uttered the word in a way that had 
the power to make him flush. He answered 
peaceably, however, laughing again: "I hope so, 
my dear Rose ! " Then in a moment he added : 
" I will speak." He glanced again at the cir 
cuitous path from the bridge, but Jean had not 
yet emerged from the shrubbery by which it was 
screened. " If she brings Effie, will you take her? " 

With her ominous face the girl considered. 
"I'm afraid I can't do that." 

Tony gave a gesture of impatience. " Good God, 
how you stand off from the poor little thing ! " 

Jean at this moment came into sight without 
the child. " I shall never take her from Tier ! " 
And Rose Armiger turned away. 



XIX 

