nothing to do wi,th Jeff Durgin or his affairs. But he 
did not promise this so confidently as upon former 
occasions, and he instinctively waited for a new com- 
plication. He could not understand why Jeff should 
not have come home to look after his insurance, unless 
it was because he had become interested in some 
woman even beyond his concern for his own advan- 
tage. He believed him capable of throwing away 
advantages for disadvantages in a thing of that kind, 
but he thought it more probable that he had fallen in 
love with one whom he would lose nothing by winning. 
It did not seem at all impossible that he should have 
again met Bessie Lynde, and that they should have 
made up their quarrel, or whatever it was. Jeff would 
consider that he had done his whole duty by Cynthia, 
and that he was free to renew his suit with Bessie ; 
and there was nothing in Bessie's character, as West- 
over understood it, to prevent her taking him back 
upon a very small show of repentance if the needed 
emotions were in prospect. He had decided pretty 
finally that it would be Bessie rather than another 



 

when lie received a letter from Mrs. Vostrand. It was 
dated at Florence, and after some pretty palaver about 
their old friendship, which she only hoped he remem- 
bered half as fondly as she did, the letter ran : 

" I am turning to you now in a very strange diffi- 
culty, but I do not know that I should turn to you 
even now, and knowing all I do of your goodness, if I 
were not asked to do so by another. 

" I believe we have not heard from each other since 
the first days of my poor Genevieve's marriage, when 
everything looked so bright and fair, and we little 
realized the clouds that were to overcast her happiness. 
It is a long story, and I will not go into it fully. The 
truth is that poor Gigi did not treat her very kindly, 
and that she has not lived with him since the birth of 
their little girl, now nearly two years old, and the 
sweetest little creature in the world; I wish you could 
see her ; I am sure it would inspire your pencil with 
the idea of an angel-child. At first I hoped that the 
separation would be only temporary, and that when 
Genevieve had regained her strength she would be 
willing to go back to her husband ; but nothing would 
induce her to do so. In fact, poor Gigi had spent all 
her money, and they would have had nothing to live 
upon but his pay, and you know that the pay of the 
Italian ofiicers is very small. 

" Gigi made several attempts to see her, and he 
threatened to take the child from her, but he was 
always willing to compromise for money. I am 
afraid that he never really loved her, and that we were 




botli deceived by his fervent protestations. We man- 
aged to get away from Florence without his knowing 
it, and we have spent the last two years in Lausanne, 
very happily, though very quietly. Our dear Checco 
is in the University there, his father having given up 
the plan of sending him to Harvard, and we had him 
with us, while we were taking measures to secure the 
divorce. Even in the simple way we lived Genevieve 
attracted a great deal of attention, as she always has 
done, apd she would have had several very eligible offers, 
if she had been divorced, or if her affections had not 
already been engaged, as I did not know at the time. 
" We were in this state of uncertainty up to the 
middle of last summer, when the news of poor Gigi's 
sudden death came. I am sorry to say that his habits 
in some respects were not good, and that probably has- 
tened it some ; it had obliged him to leave the army. 
