needful for you to readjust your life, and all 
that is therein. 

Obey the laws which you have discovered 
for yourself to be good government for you ; 
and probably, by respecting them, you will 
regain yourself, and receive once more the 
natural renovation of your soul and body. Com 
mon, human sleep, once indifferently accepted, 
like light, or air, or food, will then become the 
ecstasy of living. With it, all hardships can be 
borne ; without it, none. 

Guy de Maupassant, in his piteous condition 
at the last, chased, we are told, imaginary but 
terflies. "Where," he cried, "are my lost 
thoughts ? Who will tell me where to find 
my thoughts ? " Then, he beheld them blue 
for love, and silver for joy, and black for sorrow 
winged creatures, flitting from his grasp, and 
returning to his hand. 

So, I like to think, it will be with all of us 
who have ever had any thoughts to chase and 
who, through the physical disabilities of life, 
or any of its apparent refusals, have missed 
certain of our own best possibilities. Our but 
terflies will all dip on before, and circle round 
us the blue and the silver, the rose and the 
gold wings of what we might have done, 
and yet may do. For winged things know 
 

their course through space ; and life and death 
alike, I think, are flowers to them. 

" Tragic Gloucester," a friend once called it, 
who resented the effect upon myself of the 
troubled side of seaport life. But beautiful 
Gloucester, the same yesterday, to-day, and 
forever, it remains to me. Her tides may tell 
the saddest stories to those who have ears to 
hear them ; but, like many other sad racon 
teurs, they tell the sweetest, too. 

The autumn of 1888 brushed the palette of 
Gloucester Harbor. The face of the leaf and 
the tint of the lining of the wave took on their 
own strong colors. The October storms and 
the October suns, equally welcome to those 
who love the sea, changed places like figures 
in a graceful walking-dance ; and the first
delicate sheath of ice upon the top of the hogshead 
of rainwater which had always been my ther 
mometer at the chalet, and told me when it 
was time to go back to my father's house, 
called me to Andover Hill no more. 

The Old Maids Paradise was closed that 
year forever. 

Mr. Alger, in his " Friendships of Women," 

prudently observes : " A man's best friend is a 

wife of good sense and good heart, whom he 

loves, and who loves him." We might well 

 

say : A woman's best friend is a husband of 
intellect and of heart, whom she loves, and 
who loves her. And I should like to add : A 
literary woman's best critic is her husband ; 
and I cannot express in these few words the 
debt which I am proud to acknowledge to 
him who has never hindered my life's work 
by one hour of anything less than loyal 
delight in it, and who has never failed to urge 
