deep hush, one could catch, on every hand, half-audible 
ejaculations of ' How lovely ! — how beautiful ! — how
exquisite ! ' 

By this time the Paladin, who had gone away for a 
moment with the opening of the poem, was back again, 
and had stepped within the door. He stood there, now, 
resting his great frame against the wall and gazing toward 
the reciter like one entranced. When Noel got to the 
second part, and that heart-breaking refrain began to melt 
and move all listeners, the Paladin began to wipe away 
tears with the back of first one hand and then the other. 
The next time the refrain was repeated he got to snuffling, 
and sort of half sobbing, and went to wiping his eyes with 
the sleeves of his doublet. He was so conspicuous that he 
embarrassed Noel a little, and also had an ill effect upon 
the audience. With the next repetition he broke quite 
down and began to cry like a calf, which ruined all the 
effect and started many in the audience to laughing. Then 
he went on from bad to worse, until I never saw such a 
spectacle ; for he fetched out a towel from under his 
doublet and began to swab his eyes with it and let go the 
most infernal bellowings mixed up with sobbings and 
groanings and retchings and barkings and coughings and 
snortings and screamings and bowlings — and he twisted 
himself about on his heels and squirmed this way and that, 
still pouring out that brutal clamour and flourishing his 
towel in the air and swabbing again and wringing it out. 
Hear ? You couldn't hear yourself think. Noel was 
wholly drowned out and silenced, and those people were 
laug'hing the very lungs out of themselves. It was the 
most degrading sight that ever was. Now I heard the 
clankety-clank that plate-armour makes when the man that 
is in it is running, and then alongside my head there burst 
out the most inhuman explosion of laughter that ever rent 
the drum of a person's ear, and I looked, and it was La 
Hire ; and he stood there with his gauntlets on his hips 
and his head tilted back and his jaws spread to that degree 
to let out his hurricanes and his thunders that it amounted 
to indecent exposure, for you could see everything that was 
in him. Only one thing more and worse could happen 
and it happened : at the other door I saw the flurry and 
bustle and bowings and scrapings of officials and flunkeys 
which means that some great personage is coming — then 
Joan of Arc stepped in, and the house rose ! Yes, and 
tried to shut its indecorous mouth and make itself grave 
and proper ; but when it saw the Maid herself go to laugh- 
ing, it thanked God for this mercy and the earthquake 
followed. 

Such things make life a bitterness, and I do not wish 
to dwell upon them. The eff"ect of the poem was spoiled. 



CHAPTER XVI 

This episode disagreed with me and I was not able to 
leave my bed the next day. The others were in the same 
condition. But for this, one or another of us might have 
had the good luck that fell to the Paladin's share that day ; 
but it is observable that God in His compassion sends the 
good luck to such as are ill equipped with gifts, as com- 
pensation for their defect, but requires such as are more 
fortunately endowed to get by labour and talent what those 
others get by chance. It was Noel who said this, and it 
seemed to me to be well and justly thought. 

The Paladin, going about the town all the day in order 
to be followed and admired and overhear the people say in 
an awed voice, ' Ssh ! — look, it is the Standard-Bearer of 
Joan of Arc ! ' had speech with all sorts and conditions of 
folk, and he learned from some boatmen that there was a 
stir of some kind going on in the bastilles on the other 
side of the river ; and in the evening, seeking further, he 
found a deserter from the fortress called the ' Augustins,' 
who said that the English were going' to send men over to 
strengthen the garrisons on our side during the darkness 
of the night, and were exulting greatly, for they meant to 
spring upon Dunois and the army when it was passing the 
