a dear little fairyland princess, gravely willing to be friendly 
with the strangers, but in the beginning preferring to hold her 
father's hand until she could take stock of them and determine 
how far they were to be trusted. She must have been eight 
years old ; so in the natural (Indian) order of things she would 
be a bride in three or four years from now, and then this free 
contact with the sun and the air and the other belongings of 
out-door nature and comradeship with visiting male folk would 
end, and she would shut herself up in the zenana for life, like 
her mother, and by inherited habit of mind would be happy in 
that seclusion and not look upon it as an irksome restraint and 
a weary captivity. 

The game which the prince amuses his leisure with — how- 
ever, never mind it, I should never be able to describe it intel- 
ligibly. I tried to get an idea of it while my wife and daughter 

visited the princess in the zenana, 
a lady of charming graces and 
a fluent speaker of English, but I 
did not make it out. It is a 
complicated game, and I believe 
it is said that nobody can learn 
to play it well but an Indian. 
And I was not able to learn how 
to wind a turban. It seemed a 
simple art and easy ; but that 
was a deception. It is a piece of 
thin, delicate stuff a foot wide or 
more, and forty or fifty feet 
long ; and the exhibitor of the 
art takes one end of it in his 
two hands, and winds it in and 
out intricately about his head, 
twisting it as he goes, and in a minute or two the thing is 
finished, and is neat and symmetrical and fits as snugly as a 
mould. 

We were interested in the wardrobe and the jewels, and in 
the silverware, and its grace of shape and beauty and deli- 
cacy of ornamentation. The silverware is kept locked up, except 
at meal-times", and none but the chief butler and the prince 
have keys to the safe. I did not clearly understand why, but 
it was not for the protection of the silver. It was either to 
protect the prince from the contamination which his caste 
would suffer if the vessels were touched by low-caste hands, or 
it was to protect his highness from poison. Possibly it was 
both. I believ'e a salaried taster has to taste everything before 
the prince ventures it — an ancient and judicious custom in the 
East, and has thinned out the tasters a good deal, for of course 
it is the cook that puts the poison in. If I were an Indian 
prince I would not go to the expense of a taster, I would eat 
with the cook. 

Ceremonials are always interesting ; and I noted that the 
Indian good-morning is a ceremonial, whereas ours doesn't 
amount to that. In salutation the son reverently touches the 
father's forehead with a small silver implement tipped with 
Vermillion paste which leaves a red spot there, and in return 
the son receives the father's blessing. Our good morning is 
well enough for the rowdy West, perhaps, but would be too 
brusque for the soft and ceremonious East. 

After being properly necklaced, according to custom, with 
great garlands made of yellow flowers, and provided with 
betel-nut to chew, this pleasant visit closed, and we passed 
thence to a scene of a different sort : from this glow of color 
and this sunny life to those grim receptacles of the Parsee dead, 
the Towers of Silence. There is something stately about that 
name, and an impressiveness which sinks deep ; the hush of 
death is in it. We have the Grave, the Tomb, the Mausoleum, 
God's Acre, the Cemetery ; and association has made them elo- 
quent with solemn meaning ; but we have no name that is so 
majestic as that one, or lingers upon the ear with such deep and 
haunting pathos. 

On lofty ground, in the midst of a paradise of tropical foliage 
and flowers, remote from the world and its turmoil and noise, 
they stood — the Towers of Silence ; and away below was 
spread the wide groves of cocoa palms, then the city, mile on 
