
Then came the thought of her new widowhood and rebuked her, and with the
old habit of fighting battles against her heart for her conscience, she
turned fiercely against her long-silent love that was crying freedom so
loudly in her ears.  Harmon just dead, not buried yet, perhaps, and she
already thinking of marriage! Said in those words, it seemed
contemptible, though all her loyalty to her husband had been for a
word’s sake, almost since the beginning.

But then, again, as she closed her eyes to think sensibly, she set her
lips to stay the smile at her scruples.  Her loyalty had been all for
the vow, for the meaning of the bond, for the holiness of marriage
itself.  It had not been the loyalty of love for Harmon, and Harmon
being dead, its only object was gone.  The rest, the mourning for the
unloved dead, was a canon of the world, not a law of God.  For decency,
she would wear black for a short time, but in her heart she was free,
and free in her conscience.

To the last, she had borne all, and had been ready to bear more.  Her
last word had gone at once, with the message of forgiveness he had
asked, and though he had been dead before it reached him he could not
have doubted her answer, for he knew her.  If she had been near him, she
would have been with him to the end, to help him, and to comfort him if
she could. She had been ready to go back to him, and the letter that was
to have told him so was already gone upon its fruitless journey, to
return to her after a long time as a reminder of what she had been
willing to bear.  She could not reproach herself with any weakness or
omission, and her reason told her plainly that although she must mourn
outwardly to please the world, it would be folly to refuse her heart the
thought of a happiness for which she had paid beforehand with half a
lifetime of pain.

When that was all at once and unmistakably clear to her, she let her
head sink gently back upon the cushion of the chair, her set lips
parted, and she softly sighed, as though the day were done at last and
her rest had come.  As she sat there, the lines of sorrow and suffering
were smoothed away and the faint colour crept slowly and naturally to
her cheeks, as her eyes closed by slow degrees under the shaded light of
the lamp.  One more restful sigh, her sweet breath came slower and more
evenly, one hand fell upon her knee with upward palm and loosened
fingers that did not move again; she was asleep.




                              CHAPTER XIII


So ends the history of a day unforgotten in the memories of the men and
women, young and old, for whom it chanced to be life’s turning-point.
Looking back into the full, past years through which the fight has been
fought, most of us still know one day and hour in which the tide of
battle turned; we see the faces that rose up against us, and those that
stood beside us in the struggle; we hear the words spoken which cheered
us to the great charge, or turned our hearts cold and our daring to
fear; even our bodily hearts, handfuls of wandering atoms of which not
one is left in us from those times, answer the deep memory and beat
loud, or fail, as those other atoms did in the decisive instant when one
blow more meant victory, and one blow less, defeat.

Helen’s last letter to her husband came back to her like a ghost, after
many weeks, when she was going over Harmon’s papers.  There it lay,
unopened, as she had sealed it, full of the words that had seemed to
cost her life--the promise to pay a debt not justly owed, which no man
could claim now.  She burned it unread, for she knew every line of it by
heart.  To read it, even to glance at the writing, she thought, would
rouse some pride in her for what she had done and stir a sort of
gladness in her soul, because the man was dead and she was safe from him
forever.  She would not let herself feel such things.  Unconsciously she
had fought with herself for a principle, not, as most of us do, for the
intimate satisfaction of having done right, which is in itself a reward,
an object, and an aim for ambition, and therefore not wholly unselfish,
not wholly noble, though often both high and worthy.

Right, as we understand it, is the law for each individual, the
principle is for all mankind; and as the whole is greater than any of
its parts, so is the principle greater than the law.  The law says,
"Whosoever sheddeth man’s blood, by man shall his blood be shed."  But
the Blood which was shed for all men required of man no lawful avenging.

