But Helen herself did not suspect that a year 
or so ago she had appealed to him in just this 
manner, and he had been too much engrossed 
in his new love to note the change. The added 
dignity on Helen's part held her aloof with a 
certain pride. 





At their marriage, Mr. Otis had said : " A 
stepmother to a grown-up girl is an ungracious 
office, and of course Helen feels she could have 
kept my house and done everything for me, 
in the intervals of having lovers and getting 
married herself. It would have been too much 
to ask of any young girl. And I want compan 
ionship, not merely girlish prattle ; a love to 
gladden my coming years, selfish fellow that I 
am, not something to give away just as I am 
becoming accustomed to it. But I can trust you 
to be patient with her. It will all come around 
right in time." 

Mrs. Otis had not promised with her lips 
merely. She soon saw the cause of the inhar- 
mony that would never be patent to the world, 
for Helen was too proud to admit the slightest 
cause of disquiet. She resolved to win her step 
daughter's love even if it should take years. 

" Of course you hear from Westhorpe," Helen 
said, as Thirza was putting on her wraps and 
pinning her hat, while Helen hovered about her. 

" Oh, yes ; the new railroad progresses, and a 
large silk factory is to be taken out there, just 
across the river. I believe Mr. Kent is afraid of 
their setting up a rival town, my sister wrote." 

And as Clara was occupied mostly with herself 
and John, she had said not a word about the 



 

Palmers, as they had not come to the tragedy. 
Helen longed to ask, but did not. She clung curi 
ously to Thirza, because she was a part of the 
summer's life of something that would never 
come again. She ran in one morning during the 
next week. There was a curious lightness in her 
voice, a satisfaction in her whole air. 

" I want to tell you what a wonderful impres 
sion you made upon Mrs. Otis. She considers 
you quite a heroine. And papa hopes you will 
have the good sense to keep out of the strong- 
minded ranks. He is so bitterly opposed to the 
emancipation of women that, you see, I have not 
had the courage to admit your bearing that way. 
He classes them all with a few he has happened 
to meet. Yet he is compelled to admit that busi 
ness women are reliable. Oh, are you ill ? You 
look so pale and distraught. Forgive my heed- 
lessness ! " 

A letter lay on the table. Thirza's eyes went 
down to it, then up to Helen. " You will be sorry 
to hear," she began abruptly, "I don't know 
that I can tell it. Read, here." She gave one of 
the sheets to Helen. 

" Oh, how dreadful ! Poor dear Aunt Hannah ! 
I came to admire and appreciate her fully. If 
she was rather narrow according to later lights, 
she had so much good sense and kindliness. And 

