“I won’t keep you,” she said to Mr. Field. “I’ll only thank you again,
and promise to work as hard as Miss Merrien.”

“I haven’t the slightest doubt of your success. Always remember that,”
said Mr. Field. Patience saw Mr. Steele’s eyebrow give a slight
involuntary jerk; but it was immediately controlled, and he bowed her
through the door.

“We had better go upstairs to the evening room,” he said. “There is no
one there at present.”

Patience followed him up a precipitous stairway into a walled-off
section of the composing-room.

“Sit down,” he said politely, but Patience for the first time in her
life felt terrified and humble. This young man, of whom she had never
heard before, had the air of a superior being, omnipotent in her
destiny. His manner conveyed that he was not one whit impressed by the
fact that she had stepped down from the Sacred Reservation, took not the
faintest interest in her as a pretty woman. She was merely a young
person particularly recommended by his chief, and as such it was his
duty to give her consideration.

He took a chair opposite her own, and she felt as if those classic
guileless eyes were exploring her innermost brain.

“What can you do?” he asked coldly.

“Oh, nothing,” she said desperately, “absolutely nothing. I suppose you
feel like remarking that the ‘Day’ is not a kindergarten.”

“Well, it certainly is not. Nevertheless, as Mr. Field thinks that you
have ability, and wishes you to write for his paper, I, of course, shall
do all I can to abet him. I shall begin by giving you a few words of
advice. Have you a good memory; or should you prefer to write them
down?”

He spoke very slowly, as if he had a deep respect for the value of
words.

“I have read a great deal,” said Patience, proudly, “and my memory is
very good indeed.”

There was a faint twitching of one corner of Mr. Steele’s mouth, but he
continued in the same business-like tone:—

“Read the ‘Day’ through carefully, morning and evening. Observe the
style in which facts are presented, and the general tone and atmosphere
of the paper. Cultivate that general style, not your own. Remember that
you are not on this newspaper to make an individual reputation, but to
become, if possible, a unit of a harmonious whole, and to give the
public the best news in the style to which this newspaper has accustomed
it. When you are sent on an assignment remember that you are to gather
facts—facts. Keep your eyes open, and cultivate the faculty of
observation for all it is worth. When you have gathered these facts put
them into as picturesque a shape as you choose—or as you can. But no
rhetoric, no rhapsodies, no flights, no theories. If the facts admit of
being treated humorously, treat them in that way, by all means,—that
is, if you can imitate a man’s humour, not a woman’s flippancy. A good
many women can. And never forget that it must not be your humour but the
inherent humour of the subject. Be concise. When you feel disposed to
say a thing in ten words say it in five. That is all I can think of at
present. Be here at eight o’clock to-morrow, and I will give you an
assignment.”

He rose, and Patience felt herself dismissed. She sat for a minute
looking at him with angry eyes. Not even in the early days of her
married life had she been so patronised as by this unknown young man.
She felt as if he had plucked her individuality out with his thumb and
finger and contemptuously tossed it aside.

“Is anything the matter?” he asked indifferently, although one corner of
his mouth twitched again.

“No!” Patience sprang to her feet and ran down the stair, at the
imminent risk of breaking her neck. Miss Merrien was waiting for her.

“Why, what on earth is the matter?” she exclaimed.

“Oh, let us get out into the air! Come, and then I’ll tell you.”
