siderable young shrubbery, then an arrangement 
of beds ; the centre one, which was a circle, was 
filled with the most beautiful roses. The middle 
 
was raised somewhat, mound shape, with the dark 
red roses, then growing a little paler to pure rose- 
colour and pink, tea-rose with the salmon tint, and 
a border of white. And, oh, how fragrant ! 
Beside this bed there were others in clusters, 
and one clump in an exquisite yellow. 
" Some of them have been great travellers," said 
Mrs. French. " There are roses from Spain, from 
France and Italy." 
Hanny opened her eyes very wide, and then 
she looked at them again in surprise. 
" Oh, how could you get them ? " she asked. 
" I brought them from their homes. You see I 
have been quite a traveller, also." 
The child drew a long breath. " Did you go 
with Captain French?" she inquired. 
" Yes. When we were first married, his vessel 
traded in the Levant, and brought back fruits and 
silks and shawls and nuts, and ever so many things. 
After that we went to India, Calcutta. We took 
one of my sisters, and she married an English 
merchant, and has been home only once since then." 
" Oh, I shouldn't like Margaret to live in Cal- 
cutta," the little girl said, startled. 
Mrs. French smiled. " Then we were away 
almost four years. We went to the Chinese ports 
as well, and to some of the curious islands. We 
took a cargo of tea to London." 
" I know a little girl who has just gone to 
London, and who is to go on to Germany to take 
some special kind of baths. She is my very dear 
friend." 
"Is she ill?" 
" She is a great deal better now. When we first 
knew her, she couldn't walk but a few steps. She 
was in the hospital where my brother used to go 
when he was first a doctor. Then she came to live 
in our street." 
"With her parents? " 
" Oh, yes. She has one aunt, but no brothers 
or sisters. It must seem strange not to have any," 
and Hanny glanced up. 
" It would be strange to me. I had ten in all, 
and there is only one dead. Eugene is the oldest 
of the second family. One married brother lives 
in Baltimore, one only a short distance from here. 
And you have six brothers, a good supply for 
one little girl." 
" I suppose some of them belong to Margaret," 
and she gave a soft, rippling laugh. " We haven't 
ever divided them up. But Joe belongs to me. 
When I get to be a woman, and he has a good big 
practice, I am going to keep house for him." 
" But what will your father do? ' 
"Why ' Hanny had not considered that 
point. " Oh, it won't be in a long while ! And 
then father will be old, and he will come and live 
with us, I think. Dolly says she is going to have 
mother." 
Airs. French thought the division rather amus- 
ing. 
Where is Captain French gone now? ' 
" To China again. He has been going back and 
forth to Liverpool ; but he had an excellent offer for 
the long trip. I concluded not to go, grandpa was 
so old and feeble. And my sister is coming to 
England to live. Her husband is heir now to a 
fine estate and a title ; and they have quite a family 
of children." 
" Then you will want to go to England to see 
her," said Hanny. 
" Indeed, I shall. I have not seen her in seven 
years ; since the time she was here." 
" We all liked Mr. Eugene so much," Hanny 
remarked. " And Luella has grown so, I hardly 
knew her." 
