
"You forget, madam, the interruption to my studies," said Jasper.

"I should like to wring the boy's neck," thought Mrs. Kent, her eyes
contracting slightly, but she answered, amiably: "I am afraid I have
thought too much of that already. Let me make amends by welcoming you,
and asking you to stay as long as you can."

Mr. Kent nodded approvingly at these words of his wife.

"I ought not to complain," said Jasper, "since you treated me no worse
than you did your own son."

"Nicholas has betrayed my secret!" thought Mrs. Kent, turning pale.

"What are you talking about, Jasper?" demanded Mr. Kent, surprised. "My
wife has no son."

"Jasper means my nephew," explained Mrs. Kent, recovering her assurance.

"He said you were his mother," said Jasper.

"Yes," said Mrs. Kent, with admirable composure, "the poor boy has
always looked upon me as a mother, though such is not our relationship.
Indeed, I may say, orphan as he is, I have been a mother to him."

"And it is very much to your credit, my dear," said Mr. Kent, kindly.
"We must have him here on a visit. As Jasper's schoolmate, and your
nephew, he shall be doubly welcome."

"You are very kind, Mr. Kent," said his wife, in a tone which might well
be mistaken for that of grateful emotion. "It will, indeed, be a treat
to my poor Nicholas to come here, even for a day."

"He must spend his next vacation here, eh, Jasper? It will be pleasant
for you to have a boy of your own age here."

"Do as you like, father," said Jasper, who didn't care to say how
distasteful the proposition was to him, or to explain the nature of the
relations between Nicholas and himself.

Mrs. Kent looked at him sharply as he spoke, and understood better how
he felt. But, as he did not openly object, she was satisfied. It was
what she had wished to bring about, and she felt pleased that the
proposal had come from Mr. Kent, and that Jasper had not spoken against
it.

"I will go and order your room to be made ready for you, Jasper," she
said. "You had better write to Dr. Benton that you will stay with us a
day or two."

So saying, she left the room, and Jasper was left alone with his father.

"Don't you like this marriage, Jasper?" asked his father, anxiously,
seeing that his son looked sober.

"No, father," answered Jasper, frankly. "I have not yet got over the
shock of the first news."

"You think I ought to have told you about it."

"You are not accustomed to keep secrets from me, father."

"I did it for the best, Jasper; I wanted to tell you, but she--Mrs.
Kent--thought it best not."

"I am afraid, father," said Jasper, sadly, "it will not be the only time
that she is destined to come between us."

"No, Jasper," answered his father, with more energy than was usual with
him, "that shall not be. I am sure she would not wish it, and I know I
wouldn't permit it. I hope, my dear boy, that you will become reconciled
to the new state of things."

"One thing would reconcile me to it," said Jasper.

"What is it?"

"To be assured that it would promote your happiness."

