short, and though she was rather of the Diana or girlish type of goddess,
she was by no means lank.  Yet it was in this shape that I had always
thought of him, perhaps through an obscure association with his
fellow-villager, Deering.  I had fancied him saturnine of spirit,
slovenly of dress, and lounging of habit, upon no authority that I could
allege, and I was wholly unprepared for the neat, small figure of a man,
very precise of manner and scrupulous of aspect, who said, “How do you
do, sir?  I hope I see you well, sir,” when his daughter presented us to
each other, the morning after the eventful day described, and he shook my
hand with his very small, dry hand.

I could not make out from their manner with each other whether they had
been speaking of the great matter in hand or not.  I am rather at a loss
about people of that Philistine make as to what their procedure will be
in circumstances where I know just what people of my own sort of
sophistication would do.  These would come straight at the trouble, but I
fancy that with the other sort the convention is a preliminary reserve.
I found Mr. Gage disposed to prolong, with me at least, a discussion of
the weather, and the aspects of Saratoga, the events of his journey from
De Witt Point, and the hardship of having to ride all the way to Mooer’s
Junction in a stage-coach.  I felt more and more, while we bandied these
futilities, as if Mr. Gage had an overdue note of mine, and was waiting
for me, since I could not pay it, to make some proposition toward its
renewal; and he did really tire me out at last, so that I said, “Well,
Mr. Gage, I suppose Miss Gage has told you something of the tremendous
situation that has developed itself here?”

I thought I had better give the affair such smiling character as a jocose
treatment might impart, and the dry little man twinkled up responsively
so far as manner was concerned.  “Well, yes, yes.  There has been some
talk of it between us,” and again he left the word to me.

“Mrs. March urged your daughter to send for you at once because that was
the right and fit thing to do, and because we felt that the affair had
now quite transcended our powers, such as they were, and nobody could
really cope with it but yourself.  I hope you were not unduly alarmed by
the summons?”

“Not at all.  She said in the despatch that she was not sick.  I had been
anticipating a short visit to Saratoga for some days, and my business was
in a shape so that I could leave.”

“Oh!” I said vaguely, “I am very glad.  Mrs. March felt, as I did, that
circumstances had given us a certain obligation in regard to Miss Gage,
and we were anxious to discharge it faithfully and to the utmost.  We
should have written to you, summoned you, before, if we could have
supposed—or been sure; but you know these things go on so obscurely, and
we acted at the very first possible moment.  I wish you to understand
that.  We talked it over a great deal, and I hope you will believe that
we studied throughout—that we were most solicitous from beginning to end
for Miss Gage’s happiness, and that if we could have foreseen or
imagined—if we could have taken any steps—I trust you will believe—”  I
was furious at myself for being so confoundedly apologetic, for I was
thinking all the time of the bother and affliction we had had with the
girl; and there sat that little wooden image accepting my
self-inculpations, and apparently demanding more of me; but I could not
help going on in the same strain: “We felt especially bound in the
matter, from the fact that Mr. Kendricks was a personal friend of ours,
whom we are very fond of, and we both are very anxious that you should
not suppose that we promoted, or that we were not most vigilant—that we
were for a moment forgetful of your rights in such an affair—”

I stopped, and Mr. Gage passed his hand across his little meagre, smiling
mouth.

“Then he is not a connection of yours, Mr. March?”

“Bless me, no!” I said in great relief; “we are not so swell as that.”
And I tried to give him some notion of Kendricks’s local quality,
repeating a list of agglutinated New York surnames to which his was more
or less affiliated.  They always amuse me, those names, which more than
any in the world give the notion of social straining; but I doubt if they
affected the imagination of Mr. Gage, either in this way or in the way I
meanly meant them to affect him.

“And what did you say his business was?” he asked, with that implication
of a previous statement on your part which some people think it so clever
to make when they question you.

I always hate it, and I avenged myself by answering simply, “Bless my
