and saw a small roll enclosed in brown wrapping-paper, which, on being
removed, revealed twenty five-dollar gold pieces. He regarded them
with satisfaction, for they afforded him the means of leaving Oak
Forks and going out into the great world which he had such a curiosity
to enter.

But Ernest was not the only one who regarded the gold pieces with
satisfaction.

Hidden behind a tree only a few feet away was a person with whom we
are already acquainted. It was Tom Burns, the tramp and vagabond.

He, too, was out in search of gold. He had come from Daneboro and was
prowling round the neighborhood, searching for old Peter's hidden
treasure. He had deliberated as to whether the cabin or the fields was
the more likely place to have been selected. He had nothing in
particular to guide him. He did not, however, venture to approach the
house just yet, as it would probably be occupied by Ernest.

"I wish I knowed where the old man hid his boodle," soliloquized Tom.
"I can't dig all over."

In fact digging was not in Tom's line. It was too much like work, and
if there was anything to which Tom was bitterly opposed it was work of
any kind.

"The boy must know. Likely the old man told him," he finally
concluded. "I'll watch the boy."

He feared he might be too late. Had it been his own case, he would
have searched for the gold immediately after the funeral. He naturally
supposed that Ernest would do the same. He therefore lost no time in
prowling around the cabin, with the especial object of watching
Ernest's movements. He was especially favored, as he thought, when
from a distance he saw Ernest leaving the cabin with the spade in his
hand.

The tramp's heart was filled with joy.

"He is going to dig for the treasure," he said. "I'll keep him in
sight."

Tom Burns had no difficulty in doing this, for Ernest bent his steps
in his direction.

"I hope he won't discover me," thought Burns; "at any rate, not till I
find out where he's going to dig."

All things seemed to favor the tramp. Ernest stopped when he came to
the oak tree, and it was evident this was the spot of which he was in
search.

"Why, that's where I was lying the other night!" thought Burns. "If I
had only knowed! Why, the gold was right under me all the time. If I'd
found it then, I should have gone off with it before this time. How
ever, it isn't too late now."

He watched with subdued eagerness while Ernest was digging. He no
longer doubted that this was the place where the gold was hidden.
Ernest could have no other object in digging in this place.

"I wonder how much there is," thought Burns. "There ought to be as
much as a thousand dollars. Perhaps there's two or three. But even if
there is only a thousand, it will set me on my feet. I'll soon get out
of this neighborhood. I'll go to Chicago or New York, and I'll live in
clover. I'll make up for lost time. I've been a vagabond long enough.
I'll buy some new clothes, and set up as a respectable man."

When Ernest found the roll of coins, and taking them out, put them in
his pocket, he was not disappointed, for he knew what to expect, but
Tom Burns was in dismay.

"Only a hundred dollars?" he soliloquized. "What's a hundred dollars?
The old man ought to be ashamed of himself. Why, it isn't
respectable!"

However, one thing was certain. A hundred dollars was better than
nothing. It would take him to Chicago, and enable him to live in
comfort for a while. Besides, he might multiply it many times at the
gaming table, for Tom Burns had been a gambler in his day. He
