face, his soft blue eyes looked upward, filled with a 
light not earthly. The transparent brow and the 
almost emaciated cheeks were luminously pale, and 
seemed to shed a radiance of their own. 

But it would have been impossible to say what it 
was in the man's form or face that made him so 
utterly different and distinct from other men. It 
was not alone the Christlike brow, nor the noble 
features inherited from a line of heroes ; it was not 
the ascetic air, the look of bodily suffering, nor 
the fine-drawn lines of pain which, as it were, 
etched a shadowy background of sorrow upon which 
the spiritual supremacy blazed like a rising star: 
it was something beyond all these, above name 
and out of definition, the halo of saintship, the 




glory of genius, the crown of heroism. Of such a 
man, one's eyes might be filled, and one might say, 
'Let him not speak, lest some harsh tone or imper- 
fect speech should pierce the vision with sharp 
discord, as a rude and sudden sound ends a soft 
dream.' Yet he was a man who, when he raised 
his hand to lead, led millions like children; who, 
when he opened his lips to speak, spoke with the 
tongue of men and of angels such words as none 
had spoken before him — words which were the truth 
made light; one who, when he took pen in hand to 
write to the world's masters, wrote without fear or 
fault, as being the scribe of God, but who could 
pen messages of tenderest love and gentlest counsel 
to the broken-hearted and the heavy-laden. 

Gilbert's eyes followed the still, white glory of 
the monk's face, till the procession turned in a wide 
sweep behind the wing of the palace, and even then 
the tension of his look did not relax. He was still 
kneeling with fixed gaze when the Queen was stand- 
ing beside him. The scorn was gone from her lips 
and had given place to a sort of tender pity. She 
touched the young man's shoulder twice before he 
started, looked up, and then sprang to his feet. 

" Who is that man ? " he asked earnestly. 

"Bernard, Abbot of Clairvaux," answered the 
Queen, looking far away. " I almost worshipped him 
once, when I was a child, — it is the will of Heaven 
that I should lose my heart to monks I " 

She laughed, as she had laughed from the window. 

"Monks ? " Gilbert repeated the; word with curi- 
osity. 





"Are you one of those persons for whom it is 
necessary to explain everything?" asked Eleanor, 
still smiling and looking at him intently. " I think 
you must be half a monk yourself, for I heard you 
singing the psalms as sweetly as any convent 
scholar." 

"Even if I were not half a monk, but one alto- 
gether, I should not wholly understand your Grace's 
speech;" Gilbert smiled, too, for he was immeasur- 
ably far from guessing what was in her mind. 

" So I have thought, in all these weeks and days 
while we have been together." 

Her eyes darkened as she looked at him, but his 
were clear and calm. 

