the great morning papers for their regular supplies--politicians and
business men of all kinds.

More than once in Oliver Hitchcock's old saloon, farther up the
same street, Horace Greeley, the elder Bennett, and Raymond, of the
Times, could be found at the plain tables, unprovided with cloths,
but bearing appetizing dishes.

When Ben entered the restaurant at half-past eleven he was surprised
to find most of the tables occupied.

Coming from the country, where ten o'clock found nearly every one in
bed, he was much surprised to find so many persons up and engaged in
supping.

"People in New York seem to sit up all night," he thought.

He took a vacant seat, and the waiter soon coming up to him, stood
in silent expectation of an order.

"Give me a cup of coffee and a sandwich," said Ben.

"What kind?"

"Ham."

The waiter sped on his errand, and soon set before our hero a cup
of fragrant coffee, steaming hot, and a sandwich made of tender
meat and fresh bread, which tasted delicious to the hungry boy--so
delicious that he resolved to forego the intended piece of pie and
ordered another.

While he was eating the second sandwich, he observed that a young
man, sitting just opposite, was eyeing him attentively.

He was tall, dark-complexioned, slender, and had a kindly face.

"You seem to relish your supper, Johnny," he said.

"Yes, I do, but my name isn't Johnny."

The young man smiled.

"Excuse me," he said, "but in New York we call boys by that name,
if we don't know their real names. I suppose you have not been here
long?"

"No; I only arrived this afternoon."

"Come to make your fortune, eh?"

"Well, I don't know. I should like to, but if I can make a living
it is all I expect. Besides, I have another object," added the boy,
slowly.

"Were you ever here before?"

"No, sir."

"You are up rather late. You don't sit up so late in the country, do
you?"

"Oh, no, I am in bed by nine o'clock generally."

"We don't go to bed early here. I myself haven't been in bed before
midnight for three years."

"Do you like to sit up so late?" asked Ben.

"I didn't at first. Now I am used to it. My business keeps me up
late."

Seeing that Ben looked curious, he added:

"I am a reporter on a morning paper."

"Do you like it?" asked Ben, doubtfully.

"Oh, yes. It isn't a bad business."

