" Nothin . Never opened his head about 
the priest " 

" When I'm governor I'll reward him," 
said Roldan, warmly. 

" When you're President of the United 
States you might make him Secretary of 
State " 

" But the horses ? the horses ? " 

" They're tethered just over the moun 
tain. I suspicioned the priest might be 
here, seein as you were expectin him, 
more or less." 

"Did Don Tiburcio say about me us 
what you told the priest ? " 

" He did, and more of it. He was as 
mad as a bear with a sore head. You see, 
he hadn't had no peace of mind for some 
hours, and as for the old lady I believe 
she's been havin high strikes regular since 
breakfast. Now, I'm hospitable, but my 
advice to you is to git. Like as not the 
priest'll see old Carriller to-morrow, and 



 

then the cat'll come out. I kin git outen 
it all right enough I'll say as how the 
old man didn't see you, that you were 
restin on the other side of the wall. Like 
as not he'll believe me, but he thinks you're 
pointed fur home, and if he wants you 
badly, he'll follow. You'd better go 
South fur a month or so and go home by 
barque. I'll fetch the horses down now 
and put them in my shed. That'll rest 
em a bit and keep em warm, and then you 
kin start the minute it's daylight." 

" You have been a friend to us in trouble, 
Don Jim, and I shall never forget it." 

" Don't mention it, Roily, don't mention 
it. I kinder like excitement, when I ain't 
the hero, so ter speak. There's only one 
thing I've got to ask in return : Have you 
got a grudge agin the priest ? " 

" I have." 

" Be you meditatin revenge ? " 

" A Spaniard never forgives an insult." 

" Oh, . . . have you got it in yer power 
to injure Padre Osuna in the sight o 
men?" 

" I have, and worse for him." 



 

" Don't do it, young man," said Hill, 
solemnly. " Don't do it. It ain't worth 
shucks to ruin a man fur personal spite. 
You'll find that out the minute you've 
done it. You'll feel small and mean ; and 
if you want to be a great man and I kin 
see you're ambitious that ain't the way 
to go to work. Padre Osuna has his faults, 
but he's a big man ; there ain't none bigger 
