firstborn, and yet she would have liked a more intellec- 
tual pose, a real interest in the deeper things of life. 
She understood very well that she would not have changed 
her for any of the girls though Princess had immense 
qualities of self-sacrifice, and as she knew Ray could rise 
to heights of heroism, while Violet had an unmistakable 
genius. But she was fond of beauty herself, and she 
had always been a beautiful woman, neither silly nor vain. 
And her son was bright, an eager scholar; and her 
pretty ingenious Daisy was growing deeper into her 
father's heart every day with her peculiar gifts. 
"There is only one career for Pearl," she had said in 
the summer, to Mrs. Drayton, "that is marriage. She is 
not a sentimental girl, therefore much more likely to 
make a good marriage. And after all, marriage seems 
the natural destiny of women. Milly, were we more 
heroic than the girls of to-day? You were, I think." 
" Perhaps it was circumstances and the greater sim- 
plicity of our lives. We used to talk of aims and pur- 
poses, we were so proud of Bertram Carew, and oh, do 
you remember what a pleasure-loving fellow Leonard 
was, and how discouraged and disappointed father used 
to feel ? And we thought Ned a regular prig." 
"And I remember being tremendously vain of my 
lovely golden hair and my beautiful complexion. Really, 
I cannot blame Pearl. She has not much personal van- 
ity, it is rather an assured knowledge of her own 
charms. But there is something lacking to the young 
people of the present day," and Mrs. Amory's brow 
settled into thoughtful lines. 
"I am sure," returned Millicent, "that Ray lived 
nobly and wisely through a very sad tragedy. All of 
life will have a higher purpose to her. And yet I should 
not like to see her sacrifice all her young years — O 
Violet, I am afraid we do think marriage the best career 
for a woman and feel a little disappointed when she does 
not achieve it." 
" The most satisfactory career when it is happy. And 
many of ours have been exceptionally so. Even Ethel 
would have made a wretched single woman, unless she 
had taken up art. She really had no enthusiasm for life. 
I should be sorry to see Pearl repeat such a destiny." 
"I do not think Pearl will. She has a great deal of 
human love. I know I felt quite disappointed in Nora at 
one time. I should have enjoyed her going to college 
and distinguishing herself in some branch. But when I 
see the strife for the high places, the ambitious envyings 
and heart burnings, I am glad she has chosen the ordinary 
course. She is a very happy wife and mother, and old 
Mr. Mallory simply adores her. Perhaps when we look 
back there is a glamour about our own youth because we 
lived it. Our children may feel the same way years 
hence." 
" I really do think there was a higher and purer atmos- 
phere. There was not quite such a mad whirl in society. 
O, can you recall your betrothal party Aunt Lepage gave? 
How beautiful we thought the house, and the function 
really grand. And now the homes are palaces, and the 
entertainments ape royalty. I am glad we have a position 
outside of mere wealth, and that I do not need to enter 
the lists for display. But I dread the coming winter and 
my beautiful daughter. I must take in the other girls to 
preserve my own mental poise." 
Mrs. Amory was doing this quite to her own satisfac- 
tion. She found that Pearl had very little desire to out- 
shine her cousins. She liked a good time and plenty of 
people to enjoy it with her, in the zest of youth. And 
now she came home proud of her cousin's success, and 
full of pleasure. 
They looked over the invitations that had accumu- 
lated. 
"We can't take in two for the same night, when they 
are at the same hour," she said, complainingly. " And 
O, Princess, we must go to Mrs. Rheid's. I used to have 
an idea that young men were of more account than 
girls, but you would have a dull time with only one 
sex." 
"O, we didn't at school," declared Violet. 
"That was in our salad days, when we could dance 
with each other and did not have to be taken out to 
