
"Would you ruin me?" he asked.

"I would have you pay me what you owe me. If you don't there will be a
fuss."

"I wish I had never met you, Mr. Schuyler," said poor Edgar bitterly.

"I have been disappointed in you," said Schuyler coldly. "I thought you
were the son of a gentleman and a gentleman yourself."

"Who says I am not?"

"I don't. I expect you to behave like one. Good night."

This interview took place on Fifth Avenue not far from Delmonico's café.
When the two parted another boy, who had been following at a little
distance, moved rapidly forward and placed his hand on Edgar's shoulder.

"Cousin Edgar," he said.

Edgar turned.

"Mark!" he said, not with his old hauteur, for trouble had humbled his
pride.

"Yes. Who was that you were walking with?" asked Mark.

"No one you know. He is Mr. Schuyler, from one of the best New York
families."

Mark smiled.

"I hope you have no business with him," he said.

"I owe him seventy-five dollars, and I don't know how on earth I am
going to pay him."

"What do you owe him that for?"

"For bets on games of billiards."

"This Hamilton Schuyler, as he calls himself, is an adventurer, a
swindler, and a thief. His family is not as good as yours or mine."

"Is this true?" asked Edgar stupefied.

"Yes. Don't trouble yourself about what you owe him. Appoint a meeting
for him to-morrow evening at the Fifth Avenue Hotel. I will go there and
meet him with you. I'll get you out of your scrape."

"Do that, Mark, and I'll be your friend for life. I'll never treat you
meanly again."




CHAPTER XXXVI.

AT THE FIFTH AVENUE HOTEL.


ON arriving in New York Mark took his young charge at once to the house
of Mr. Gilbert.

It was at the close of the day, and Mr. Gilbert had returned from his
office. He received Mark with great cordiality.

"True and faithful, as I expected!" he said. "How did you enjoy your
trip?"

"Very much, sir. I hope, some day, to visit California again."

"So you are Philip Lillis, my boy," continued Mr. Gilbert kindly. "Do
you think you shall like to live in New York?"

"Yes, sir."

"Were you sorry to leave California?"

