She looked at Clementina with recurring grudge, 
and the girl could not bear it. 
" Then why don 't you tear it up, and make another? 
I don 't want anything, unless you want me to have it ; 
and I'd rather not have anything." 
" Yes, and what would folks say, afta youa takin 
care of me ? " 
" Do you think I do it for that ? " 
" What do you do it for ? " 
" What did you want me to come with you for ? " 
" That 's true." Mrs. Lander brightened and warmed 
again. " I guess it 's all right. I guess I done right, 
and I got to be satisfied. I presume I could get the 
consul to make me a will any time." 
 
Clementina did not relent so easily. " Mrs. Landa, 
whateva you do I don 't ca c to know it ; and if you 
talk to me again about this I shall go home. I would 
stay with you as long as you needed me, but I can 't 
if you keep bringing this up." 
" I suppose you think you don 't need me any moa ! 
Betta not be too su a." 
The girl jumped to her feet, and Mrs. Lander in 
terposed. " Well, the a ! I didn 't mean anything, 
and I won 't pesta you about it any moa. But I think 
it 's pretty ha d. Who am I going to talk it over with, 
then ? " 
" You can talk it over with the vice-consul," said 
Clementina, at random. 
" Well, that 's so." Mrs. Lander let Clementina 
get her ready for the night, in sign of returning amity ; 
when she was angry with her she always refused her 
help, and made her send Maddalena. 
The summer heat increased, and the sick woman 
suffered from it, but she could not be persuaded that 
she had strength to get away, though the vice-consul, 
whom she advised with, used all his logic with her. 
He was a gaunt and weary widower, who described 
himself as being officially between hay and grass ; the 
consul who appointed him had resigned after going 
home, and a new consul had not yet been sent out to 
remove him. On what she called her well days Mrs. 
Lander went to visit him, and she did not mind his 
being in his shirt-sleeves, in the bit of garden where 
she commonly found him, with his collar and cravat 
off, and clouded in his own smoke ; when she was sick 
 
she sent for him, to visit her. He made excuses as 
often as she could, and if he saw Mrs. Lander 's gon 
dola coming down the Grand Canal to his house he 
hurried on his cast clothing, and escaped to the Pi 
azza, at whatever discomfort and risk from the heat. 
" I don 't know how you stand it, Miss Claxon," he 
complained to Clementina, as soon as he learned that 
she was not a blood relation of Mrs. Lander s, and 
divined that she had her own reservations concerning 
her. " But that woman will be the death of me if 
she keeps this up. What does she think I 'm here 
for ? If this goes on much longer I 'll resign. The 
salary won 't begin to pay for it. What am I going 
to do ? I don 't want to hurt her feelings, or not to 
help her; but I know ten times as much about Mrs. 
Lander 's liver as I do about my own, now" 
He treated Clementina as a person of mature judgment and a sage discretion, and he accepted what 
comfort she could offer him when she explained that 
it was everything for Mrs. Lander to have him to talk 
with. " She gets ti ed of talking to me," she urged, 
" and there 's nobody else, now." 
" Why don 't she hire a valet de place, and talk to 
him ? I'd hire one myself for her. It would be a 
good deal cheaper for me. It 's as much as I can do 
to stand this weather as it is." 
The vice-consul laughed forlornly in his exaspera 
tion, but he agreed with Clementina when she said, in 
further excuse, that Mrs. Lander was really very sick. 
He pushed back his hat, and scratched his head with 
a grimace. 
"Of course, we 've  got to remember she 's sick, and 
I shall need a little sympathy myself if she keeps on 
at me this way. I believe I 'll tell her about my liver 
