"Rupert, I am afraid you were extravagant," said his mother. "These
oranges must have cost five cents each."

"Yes, they did."

"We cannot afford such a large purchase in our circumstances."

"They cost me nothing, mother. They are a present to Grace from a lady
who met me at the stand."

"She must have a kind heart. Do you know who she was?"

"No, I never saw her before."

"The world is not all unkind. Grace, I will prepare an orange for you. I
hope you will relish it."

The sick girl enjoyed the fruit, and after eating it lay back content.

"May I have another in the morning?" she asked.

"Yes, my child."

So the evening passed not wholly unhappily, but still Rupert could not
help thinking of the next week, when he would be out of a position.




CHAPTER II.

OUT OF WORK.


On Saturday Rupert received his last week's wages at the store.

"I am awfully sorry you are going, Rupert," said Harry Bacon. "It is a
shame you are discharged."

"No, it is not a shame. It is only because business is dull that I have
to go. I can't blame the firm."

Rupert ascended the stairway at his humble home in Elizabeth Street with
a slow step. He felt that he could no longer conceal his discharge from
his mother, and he knew what a blow it would be to her. So as he handed
the money to Mrs. Rollins he said: "I have bad news for you, mother. I
am discharged."

"Discharged!" repeated his mother, in dismay. "Why? What have you done?"

"There is no dissatisfaction with me. I am discharged because times are
dull, and business has fallen off."

"I am glad at least that no fault is found with you, but what shall we
do? Your salary was all we had to depend upon except the little I make
by sewing."

"Don't be discouraged, mother. I shall start to find a place Monday
morning. I am allowed to refer to the old firm."

"But--do you think there is any chance to get in elsewhere? Won't other
firms be affected by the dull times?"

This was precisely what troubled Rupert, but he answered his mother
cheerfully.

"To-morrow is Sunday," he said. "Don't let us think of the future till
Monday morning. I am sure something will turn up. At the worst, I can
earn something by selling papers."

When Monday morning came Rupert started out on his quest. He had been
sent on errands to several houses in the same line, and he resolved to
go from one to another in the hope of finding a vacancy.

At the first he was pleasantly received. He was recognized as coming
from Tenney & Rhodes, and it was supposed he came on an errand from
them. When he asked for a place the superintendent looked distrustful.

"Why do you leave Tenney & Rhodes?" he was asked.

