lyn, that I am more and more proud of 5'ou every 
day, as my daughter. I don't dare to tell you 
half the nice things that are said of you. It 
would make you vain." And the proud mother 
kissed her affectionately. The letters ceased. 
If the governess wrote, Evelyn did not see the 
letters. 

As the days went by, Lord Montague, in high 
and confident spirits, became more and more a 
familiar inmate of the house. Daily he sent 
flowers to Evelyn ; he contrived little excursions 
and suppers ; he was marked in his attentions 
wherever they went. " He is such a dear fel- 
low," said Mrs. Mavick to one of her friends ; " I 
don't know how we should get on without him." 

Onl}'', in the house, owing to some unnatural 
perversity of circumstances, he did not see much 
of Evelyn, never alone for more than a moment. 
It is wonderful what efficient, though invisible, 
defences most women, when they will, can throw 
about themselves. 



That the afPair was "arranged" Lord Mon- 
tague had no doubt. It was not conceivable that 
the daughter of an American stock-broker would 
refuse the offer of a position so transcendent and 
so evidently coveted in a democratic society. 
Not that the single-minded young man reasoned 
about it this way. He was born with a most 
comfortable belief in himself and the knowledge 
that when he decided to become a domestic man 
he had simply, as the phrase is, to throw his hand- 
kerchief. 

At home, where such qualities as distinguished 
him from the common were appreciated with- 
out the need of personal exertion, this might be 
true; but in America it did seem to be some- 
how different. American women, at least some of 
them, did need to be personally wooed ; and many 
of them had a sort of independence in the be- 
stowal of their affections or, what they under- 
stood to be the same thing, themselves that must 
be taken into account. And it gradually dawned 
upon the mind of this inheritor of privilege that 
in this case the approval of the family, even the 
pressure of the mother, was not sufficient ; he 
must have also Evelyn's consent. If she were a 
mature woman who knew and appreciated the 
world, she would perceive the advantages offered 
to her without argument. But a girl, just re- 
leased from the care of her governess, unaccustomed 
to society, might have notions, or, in the 
vernacular of the scion, might be skittish. 

And then, again, to do the wooer entire jus- 
tice, the dark little girl, so much mistress of 
herself, so evidently spirited, with such an air of 
distinction, began to separate herself in his mind 
as a good goer against the field, and he had a 
real desire to win her affection. The more in- 
different she was to him, the keener was his de- 
sire to possess her. His unsuccessful wooing 
had passed through several stages, first aston- 
ishment, then pique, and finally something very 
like passion, or a fair semblance of devotion, 
backed, of course, since all natures are more or 
less mixed, by the fact that this attractive figure 
of the woman was thrown into high relief by the 
colossal fortune behind her. 

And Evelyn herself ? ISTeither her mother nor 
her suitor appreciated the uncommon circum- 
stances that her education, her whole training in 
familiarity with pure and lofty ideals, had ren- 
dered her measurably insensible to the social 
