
"How do you do, Master Percy?" said Mrs. Fogson deferentially. "I am
always glad to see you enter our humble house."

"We were just talking of Jed Gilman before you came in," added Fogson.

"I saw him two days since," said Percy.

"You did!" exclaimed Fogson eagerly. "Where was he?"

"In the streets of New York. You know I went to the city Tuesday."

"What was he doing--blacking boots for a living?"

"Not much! I wish he was. That boy is about the luckiest chap I ever set
eyes on."

"What did he do?" asked Mrs. Fogson curiously.

"Invited me to go on board his yacht."

"What!"

"That's just what he did."

"He was bluffing. He wanted to deceive you."

"No he didn't, for I accepted his invitation and went on board."

"You don't say! Jed Gilman got a yacht!" exclaimed Fogson, his eyes
almost protruding from their sockets.

"Well, I don't say it's his, but he acts as if it were. He hired a boat
to take me out to the Juno--that's the name of the yacht, and it's a
regular beauty--and took me on board and treated me to some lunch. He
ordered the men about just as if he were a gentleman."

"Well, of all things!" exclaimed Mrs. Fogson, looking surprised and
scandalized. "Did he explain how he came to have anything to do with the
boat?"

"Yes; he said the owner had taken a fancy to him and was taking care of
him."

"Did he say who the owner was?"

"Yes; it's Schuyler Roper, a rich young man living in New York."

"Well, what next?"

"I stayed on board an hour or more, and then went back to the city."

"It seems strange how that boy gets along. Mr. Roper will find him out
sooner or later."

"I should say he would. I've written him a letter, and I brought it
along, thinking you might like to hear it read."

So Percy read the letter already laid before the reader in the last
chapter.

Mr. and Mrs. Fogson nodded delighted approval as Percy read his exposure
of Jed's humble past.

"I do say that's about the best-written letter I ever heard," said Mrs.
Fogson, as Percy concluded.

"Do you think so?" asked Percy with a gratified smile.

"Think so! I am sure of it. Master Percy, I had no idea you had so much
talent. Did it take you long to write it?"

"Oh no, I just dashed it off in a few minutes," answered Percy
carelessly.

"You ought to be a lawyer; you do express things so neat. Don't you
think so, Simeon?"

"Yes, Mrs. Fogson. I always thought Percy a smart boy. But where are you
going to send the letter?"
