“Let me see the bills, James.”

“There, take them in your hand if you like.”

Old Jerry took the bills, and eyed them at first longingly, but as he
marked their new appearance a suspicion entered his mind. If they were
counterfeit his son’s unexpected liberal offer would be accounted for.
James’s character, too, made it very probable that he would engage in
circulating counterfeit bills.

“I--I would rather keep the gold, James,” he said, handing back the
bills.

“Then you’re a fool!” said James Barclay roughly. “I see you don’t want
to be friendly. I wanted to be on good terms with you, seein’ you’re my
father, but now I don’t care. Give me that gold!”

“Go away!” said the old man, in renewed alarm.

James Barclay’s reply was to rise from his seat, and stride over to
where his father was sitting on the bed. He seized the old man roughly
by the shoulder, and made a motion to search the pocket containing the
gold pieces.

“Give it up peaceably or I’ll hurt you!” he said.

Jerry uttered a shrill cry, and tried to make a feeble opposition, but
he was like a child in the hands of the burly ruffian.

“Stop your whimpering!” said James, fiercely. “That gold I mean to
have, and you’d best give it up.”

Jerry again uttered a cry, which was heard by Mrs. Hogan, an opposite
neighbor, who, opening the door, saw, unnoticed by either, the uneven
struggle between Jerry and his assailant.

Mrs. Hogan was a brave woman. She dashed back into her own room, and
returned in an instant with a dipper of hot water. Armed with this she
was prepared for hostilities.

“Let the old man alone, you thafe of the worruld!” she exclaimed,
indignantly.

James Barclay turned, and, seeing that it was a woman, replied
scornfully, “Get out of here, woman, or it’ll be the worse for you!”




CHAPTER XX. JAMES BARCLAY COMES TO GRIEF.


“Get out yourself!” retorted Mrs. Hogan, as with undaunted mien she
faced the ruffian. “What are you doin’ to old Jerry?”

“Mind your business, woman, and leave the room, if you don’t want to
get hurt!”

James Barclay still retained his grip upon the old man as he spoke.

He was as bold as his father was timid, and did not mean to be
frightened away by a woman.

“I’m no more a woman than yourself,” said Mrs. Hogan, angrily, who
preferred to be addressed as a lady.

“Well, you’re dressed like one, any way,” rejoined Barclay, with a
smile of amusement. “My father and I have a little business together,
and you’re not wanted.”

“Is he your son, Jerry?” asked Mrs. Hogan, not certain whether the
statement was true.

“Yes,” answered Jerry, feebly, “but he wants to rob me. Take him away,
Mrs. Hogan.”

“Ain’t you ashamed of yourself to trate your old father so manely?”
demanded Mrs. Hogan, indignantly.

“Give me the money, father, and I’ll go,” said Barclay, thinking it
