about your comin', too. I guess it never entered into our heads you'd do
anything but to stick to the old place. An' now, after it's all past an'
gone, the neighbors say"--

Nicholas Oldfield had been smiling his slight, dry smile. At this point,
he took up a knife, and cut a careful triangle of pie. He did all these
things as if each one were very important.

"Here, Hattie," said he, "you taste o' this dried apple. I put a mite o'
lemon in."

Hattie, somehow abashed by the mental impact of the little man, ate her
pie meekly, and thenceforth waived the larger issue. All the same, she
knew the neighbors "pitied father," and that they would continue to pity
him so long as he lived alone in the little peaceful house, doing his
own washing and making his own pie.

To-night was a duplication of many another when Nicholas Oldfield had
turned the corner and come in sight of his own home; but often as it had
been repeated, the experience was never the same. Some would have named
his springing emotion delight; but it neither quickened his pace nor
made him draw his breath the faster. Perhaps he even walked a little
more slowly, to enjoy the taste, for he was a saving man. There was the
little house, white as paint could make it, and snug in bowering
foliage. He noted, with an approving eye, that the dahlias in the front
yard, set in stiff nodding rows, were holding their own bravely against
the dry fall weather, and that the asters were blooming profusely,
purple and pink. A rare softness came over his features when he stepped
into the yard; and though he examined the roof critically in passing, it
was with the eye of love. He fitted the key in the lock; the sound of
its turning made music in his ears, and, setting his foot upon the sill,
he was a man for whom that little was enough. Nicholas Oldfield was at
home.

He laid down his bag, and went, without an instant's pause, straight
through to the sitting-room, and stood before the tall eight-day clock.
He put his hand on the woodwork, as if it might have been the shoulder
of a friend, and looked up understandingly in its face.

"Well, here we be," said he. "You'd ha' hil' out till mornin', though."

For wherever he might travel, he always made it a point to be home in
time to wind the clocks; and however early he might hurry away again,
under stress of some antiquarian impulse, they were left alive and
pulsing behind him. There was one in each room, besides the tall
eight-day in the parlor, and they were all soft-voiced and leisurely,
reminiscent of another age than ours. Though three of them had been
inherited, it almost seemed as if Nicholas must have selected the entire
company, so harmonious were they, so serenely fitted to the calm decorum
of his own desires.

In half an hour he had accomplished many things, and his fire sent a
spiral breath toward heaven. The dark old kitchen lay open, door and
window, to the still opulent sun, and from the pantry and a corner
cupboard came gleams of color, to delight the eye. Here were riches,
indeed: old India china, an unbroken set of Sheltered Peasant, and, on
the top shelf, little mugs and cups of a pink lustre, soft and sweet as
flowers. Many a collector had wooed Nicholas Oldfield to part with his
china (for the fame of it had spread afar,) but his only response to
solicitation was to open the doors more widely on his treasures,
remarking, without emphasis:--

"I guess they might as well stay where they be."

So passive was he, that many among merchants judged they had impressed
him, and returned again and again to the charge; but when they found
always the same imperturbable front, the same mild neutrality of
demeanor, they melted sadly away, and were seen no more, leaving their
places to be taken by others equally hopeful and as sure to be betrayed.

One creature only was capable of rousing Nicholas Oldfield from that
calm wherein he went ticking on through life. She it was who, by some
natal likeness, understood him wholly; and to-night, just as he was
sitting down to his supper of "cream o' tartar" biscuits and smoking
tea, her clear voice broke upon his solitude.

"Gran'ther," called Mary Oldfield from the door, "mother says, 'Won't
you come over to supper?' She saw your smoke."

Nicholas pushed back his chair a little; he felt himself completed.
