it, and I can't help it any more than you can, can I ?'' 
So she appeared to put it to him, with something in hei 
lucidity that would have been infinitely touching ; 
strange, grave, calm consciousness of their commoi 
doom and of what in especial in it would be worst foi 
herself. He sprang up indeed, after an instant, as if he' 
had been infinitely touched ; he turned away, taking, 
just near her, a few steps to and fro, gazed about th Hi 
place again, but this time without the air of particularly"' 
seeing it, and then came back to her as if from a greater 
distance. An observer at all initiated would, at the t 
juncture, fairly have hung on his lips, and there was in ( 
fact on Vanderbank's part quite the look of the man — 
though it lasted but just while we seize it — in suspense 



 

about himself. The most initiated observer of all would 
!uive been poor Mr. Longdon, who would now have been 
destined, however, to be also the most defeated, and the 
sign of whose tension would have been a smothered ''Ah, 
if he doesn't do it noio f" Well, Vanderbank didn't do 
it "now," and the long, odd, irrelevant sigh that he gave 
out might have sufficed as the record of his recovery 
from a peril lasting just long enough to be measured. 
Had there been any measure of it, meanwhile, for Nan- 
da ? There was nothing at least to show either the pres- 
ence or the relief of anxiety in the way in which, by a 
prompt transition, she left her last appeal to him simply 
to take care of itself. ''You haven't denied that Harold 
does borrow." 

Vanderbank gave a note as of cheer for this luckily 
firmer ground. "My dear child, I never lent the silly 
boy five pounds in my life. In fact, I like the way you 
talk of that. I don't know quite for what you take me, 
but the number of persons to whom I Jiave lent five 
pounds — " 

"Is so awfully small" — she took him up on it — "as 
not to look so very well for you ?" She held him an in- 
stant as with the fine intelligence of his meaning in this, 
and then, though not with sharpness, she broke out : 
"Why are you trying to make out that you're nasty and 
stingy ? Why do you misrepresent — " 

" My natural generosity ? I don't misrepresent any- 
thing, but I take, I think, rather markedly good care of 
money." She had remained in her place and he was be- 
fore her on the grass, his hands in his pockets and his 
manner perhaps a little awkward. " The way you young 
things talk of it I" 

" Harold talks of it — but I don't think I  do. I'm not 

a bit expensive — ask mother, or even ask father. I do 

with awfully little — for clothes and things, and I could 

easily do with still less. Harold's a born consumer, as 


  

Mitchy says ; he says also he's one of those people 
will never really Avant' 

 ''  Ah, for that, Mitchy himself will never let him. 

 ' Well then, with every one helping us, all round, 
aren't we a lovely family ? I don't speak of it to tell 
tales, but when you mention hearing from Harold all sorts 
of things immediately come over me. We seem to be all 
living more or less on other people, all immensely 'be- 
holden.' You can easily say of course that I'm the worst 
of all. The children and their people, at Bognor, are ii 
borrowed quarters — mother got them lent her — as tc 
which, no doubt, I'm perfectly aware that I ought to bel 
