caps in hand, gazing fixedly into the gathering dimness of Caranay
forest.

[Illustration]




[Illustration]

CHAPTER XV

FLOTSAM AND JETSAM


"Ellis," said Jones, earnestly, as they climbed to the camp and stood
gazing at the whitening ashes of their fire, "the simple life is a state
of mind. I'm in it, now. And--do you know, Ellis, that--I--I could learn
to like it?"

Ellis prodded the back-log, and tossed on some dry sticks.

"Great Heaven!" breathed Jones, "did you ever see such eyes, Ellis?"

"The grey ones? They're very noticeable----"

"I meant--well, let it go at that. Here be two of us have lost a
thousand shillings to-day."

"And the ladies were not in buckram," rejoined Ellis, starting a blaze.
"Jones, can you prepare trout for the pan with the aid of a knife? Here,
rub salt in 'em--and leave all but two in that big tin--dry, mind, then
cover it and sink it in the spring, or something furry will come nosing
and clawing at it. I'll have things ready by the time you're back."

"About our canoes," began Jones. "I've daubed mine with white lead, but
I cut it up badly. Hadn't we better attend to them before the storm
breaks?"

"Get yours into camp. I'll fetch mine; it's cached just below the forks.
This storm may tear things."

A quarter of an hour later two vigorous young men swung into camp,
lowered the canoes from their heads and shoulders, carried the strapped
kits, poles and paddles into the lean-to, and turned the light crafts
bottom up as flanking shelters to headquarters.

"No use fishing; that thunder is spoiling the Caranay," muttered Ellis,
moving about and setting the camp in order. "This is a fine lean-to," he
added; "it's big enough for a regiment."

"I told you I was an architect," said Jones, surveying the open-faced
shanty with pride. "I had nothing else to do, so I spent the time in
making this. I'm a corker on the classic. Shall I take an axe and cut
some wood in the Ionic or Doric style?"

Ellis, squatting among the provisions, busily bringing order out of
chaos, told him what sort of wood to cut; and an hour later, when the
echoing thwacks of the axe ceased and Jones came in loaded with
firewood, the camp was in order; hambones, stale bedding, tin cans, the
heads and spinal processes of trout had been removed, dishes polished,
towels washed and drying, and a pleasant aroma of balsam tips mingled
with the spicy scent of the fire.

"Whew!" said Jones, sniffing; "it smells pleasant now."

"Your camp," observed Ellis, "had all the fragrance of a dog-fox in
March. How heavy the air is. Listen to that thunder! There's the deuce
to pay on the upper waters of the Caranay by this time."

"Do you think we'll get it?"

"Not the rain and wind; the electrical storms usually swing off,
following the Big Oswaya. But we may have a flood." He arose and picked
up his rod. "The thunder has probably blanked me, but if you'll tend
camp I'll try to pick up some fish in a binnikill I know of where the
trout are habituated to the roar of the fork falls. We may need every
fish we can get if the flood proves a bad one."

Jones said it would suit him perfectly to sit still. He curled up close
