her imagination do its final work. But Nature is inexorable. She commands union ; and as the years 
went by and one memory grew dimmer who knew ? 
But the thought gave her a moment of sadness so 
profound that she ceased to hear the voice of the 
man beside her. She had had moments of deep insight before, and again she stared down into the 



 

depths where so many women's agonized memories 
lie buried. 

She suddenly felt a warm clasp round her hand, and 
for a second responded to it gratefully, for hers had 
turned cold. Then she realized that she was in the 
present, and withdrew her hand hurriedly. 

" Forgive me," he said. " I simply couldn't help 
it. I could in Washington, and I felt that I must wait. 
But up here I want to marry you. You know 
that, do you not?" 

Betty glanced over her shoulder. There was to be 
no interruption. She was mistress of herself at once. 

" I cannot marry you," she said. " I almost wish 
I could, but I cannot." 

He swung into the middle of the path and stood 
still, looking down upon her squarely. There was 
nothing of the suppliant in his attitude. He looked 
unconquerable. 

" I did not expect to win you in a moment," he 
said. " I should not have expected it if I had waited 
another year. I knew from the beginning that it would 
be hard work, for if a woman does not love at once it 
takes a long time to teach her what love is. I have 
tried to make you like me, and I think I have succeeded. That is all I can hope for now. You have 
been surfeited and satiated with admiration, and you 
regard all men as having been born to burn incense 
before you. I love you for that too. I should hate a 
woman who even had it in her to love a man out of 
gratitude. You have your world at your feet, and I 
want mine at my feet. You have won yours without 
effort, for you were born with the crown and sceptre of 
fascination, I have to fight for mine. But the same 



 

instinct is in us both, the same possibilities on different 
lines. I am not making you the broken passionate 
appeal of the usual lover, because so long as I know 
you do not love me I could not place myself at the 
mercy of emotion I have no thought of making a 
fool of myself. But when I do win you then ah ! 
that will be another matter." 

She shook her head, but smiling, for she never had 
liked and admired him more. She knew of what 
passion he was capable, and how absurd he would have 
looked if lashed by it while her cool eyes looked on. 
His self-control made him magnificent. 

" I never shall marry," she said, and then laughed, 
in spite of herself, at the world-old formula. Burleigh 
laughed also. 

" There isn't.time enough left before chaos comes 
again to argue with a woman a question which means 
absolutely nothing. I am going to marry you. I have 
accomplished everything big I have ever strived for. 
I never have wanted to marry any other woman, and I 
want to marry you more than I wanted to become a 
Senator of the United States. Nothing could discourage me unless I thought you loved another man, but 
so far as I can see there is no other suitor in the field. 
You appear to have refused every proposing man in 
