quite sumptuous affairs in those days. There was a great supper and
dancing; one of the bride-cakes held a ring, put in by the hand of the
bride-elect, and great was the interest to see who would get it. This
fell to Jaqueline. And when the bride was escorted upstairs by her bevy
of maidens she paused on the landing and scattered her half-dozen roses
which had been sent from Washington, and cost extravagantly. The first
one did not go far, and caught in Jaqueline's shoulder-knot. There was
a general laughing exclamation.
"And I haven't even a lover!" cried the girl with dainty mock regret.
There was a grand breakfast the next morning--a real breakfast, not a
noon luncheon. Many of the guests had remained all night. Mirth and
jollity reigned, good-wishes were given, healths were drunk, and at
noon the young couple started on their long stage-coach journey. Tours
were hardly considered then, though the bride often journeyed to the
house of her husband's nearest relatives. But to take in Baltimore and
Philadelphia was enough to set one up for life, and Dolly was very much
elated. The return trip would be made by water, so she would be quite
a traveled bride.
Marian had been the sedate elder sister. She was not old, but she had
grown much older and lost the aspect of girlhood that she had kept her
three-and-twenty years. There was much kindly sympathy expressed for
her. Mr. Greaves grew more helpless instead of improving, and his mind
had never been quite clear.
But no one suggested an interrupted engagement except among the slaves,
who recalled that she had put out her candle on Christmas Eve, and the
ring in the cake had not come to her, nor a single rose.
"Looks laik she cut out fer 'n ole maid," declared a gray-haired mammy.
"En she mought 'a' bin a gret lady, goin' ober to de ole country. But
young missy goin' to be happy as de day is long. De house'll never seem
de same."
"Grandfather Floyd has begun to break," said Mr. Mason when they had
started on their homeward journey. "One can hardly decide whether to be
glad or sorry about Marian. Anyway, it is hard on the poor girl."
"And you can't decide whether she is sorry or not. I never saw anyone
change so. She has grown curiously close about herself," declared
Jaqueline.
The interrupted intimacy between the two families was taken up again.
Even Jane and her three children were invited to the Pineries for a hot
month in the summer. Grandfather was quite deaf, which made him more
irritable, and Marian played piquet with him for hours together. Mrs.
Floyd managed the plantation, though she had always taken her share of
that.
Patricia came home a slim, pretty, and piquant young woman, refined
and finished, and Louis was an attractive young collegian. The house
was filled with guests, and there was much merriment, until one day the
word came that surprised them all. Grandfather had been found dead in
his chair on the porch where he took his usual afternoon nap.
Family funerals were almost as grand occasions as marriages at this
period. The great house was filled with guests, and there was no
unseemly haste to bury the dead out of their sight. The funeral
procession might have been that of a famous man. When they returned
the relatives were gathered in the darkened parlor where the candles
stood lighted on a table, and Archibald Floyd's will was read in a dry,
decorous tone by the little old lawyer who had made wills for half a
century.
As was expected, the Pineries and slaves and appurtenances of all kinds
went to Brandon, who was the only son. The girls had an equal money
portion. The widow was provided with a home; certain rooms were set
apart for her, certain slaves were bequeathed to her with the bed and
table linen and some of the furnishings that she had brought with her;
and Brandon was to pay her a regular income out of the estate, which
was to cease at her death. A very fair and just will, it was agreed on
every side.
Meanwhile there had been no perceptible change in Mr. Greaves. He did
not suffer much; he was fed and cared for like a child. Some days he
brightened and talked with encouraging coherence, but it was mostly
about his early life, and he now and then mistook his sister for his
dead wife. And though Marian had gone over several times, he had not
seemed to recall her specially.
Miss Greaves was in her element. She had not taken kindly to the
prospect of being deposed, though the training of women in her day
led them to accept the inevitable without complaining. She was rather
proud, too, that her brother had won a young woman; and Marian's sudden
gravity after her engagement had given her considerable satisfaction.
"The doctor holds out very little hope of perfect recovery," she said
to the younger woman at one call. "He thinks brother's mind will never
be quite right again. He has a good appetite now and sleeps well, but
it is very sad to be stricken down in the very prime of life. On our
mother's side we are a long-lived race. I had an aunt who lay paralyzed
for seven years, and was eighty when she died."
