

had a knowledge above Sister Catharine’s, and that she 
could guide even a priest of the Church. 

“We go around gathering up our stray lambs,” he said, 
in a soft voice. “And whoever helps does a worthy deed. 
My child, where shall I find her?” 

“I have prayed night and morning for her conversion 
to the true faith.” Laure wanted credit for her good 
works. 

“Thou art a little missionary then. Thou wilt make a 
devoted Sister. Take my blessing. And now — where 
shall I find these people. There is a Monsieur Aubreton, 
and — I have the names in a list; it escapes me at this 
moment.” 

“It is on the St. John Road. There are not many 
houses. This has a magnolia avenue, and two giant pines 
at the gateway.” 

“Thanks, thanks, my daughter,” and the hands were 
folded over her head. 

It was full time to go back with the baby. Soeur 
Catharine scolded because it had been kept out in the 
evening air, and said it must be fed and put to bed at 
once. 

So Sylvie Perrier, with all her saucy pride and inde- 
pendence and her tendency to scoff at the Church, really 
belonged to it. She would be made to conform. And 
what if she had to be a nun ! It would be good for some 
of these pleasure-loving girls who were always talking of 
balls and lovers when two or three of them had their heads 
together. The poor girls with no homes and no families, 
no dowries, yes, that was the proper place for them. 
But some of the more favored ones ought to be made to 
take up the cross. Why should only the gay, bright side 
be reserved for them ? 

Father Gilbert inquired again the next morning. 





Yes, the convent girl had been correct. Monsieur and 
Madame Champe ! He smiled rather sardonically. What 
airs people put on in this new country ! Gervaise Aubre- 
ton — Angelique Saucier, Sylvie Perrier. And now it was 
a good thing this foolish marriage had taken place, 
though at first Pere Mambert had protested against it. 
How astute he had been in the marriage agreement ! 

Marti answered the clang at the gate. Gervaise had 
put up a larger bell when he went away, so they could 
even hear it in the garden to summon Jaques. A priest 
in his long cassock stood there, and Marti bowed her 
head and crossed herself. 

'T wish to see Madame Champe,” he said, briefly. 
“And Mademoiselle Saucier.” 

The court down here was comfortable enough to 
receive any casual guest. Some of the rustic seats had 
cushions on them. How ease-loving these heretics were ! 

Madame Champe looked askance at the new-comer, 
who bowed formally. Angelique had followed her, and 
cried, “Oh, are you from Pointe Coupee. Is there — 
news?” She could not bring herself to say “bad news.” 

“I am not from Pointe Coupee, but from France — 
Paris.” 

The two women glanced at each other. What word 
was this ? A sudden terror smote both. 
