
It brought him up shorter than I had expected. "Do you ask me that in
order that I shan't speak to her of this?"

I showed myself at a loss. "Of 'this'----?"

"Why, of what we've made out----"

"About Mrs. Server, you and I? You must act as to that, my dear fellow,
quite on your own discretion. All the more that what on earth have we
made out? I assure you I haven't a secret to confide to you about her,
except that I've never seen a person more unquenchably radiant."

He almost jumped at it. "Well, that's just it!"

"But just what?"

"Why, what they're all talking about. That she is so awfully radiant.
That she's so tremendously happy. It's the question," he explained, "of
what in the world she has to make her so."

I winced a little, but tried not to show it. "My dear man, how do I
know?"

"She thinks you know," he after a moment answered.

I could only stare. "Mrs. Server thinks I know what makes her happy?" I
the more easily represented such a conviction as monstrous in that it
truly had its surprise for me.

But Brissenden now was all with his own thought. "She isn't happy."

"You mean that that's what's the matter with her under her
appearance----? Then what makes the appearance so extraordinary?"

"Why, exactly what I mention--that one doesn't see anything whatever in
her to correspond to it."

I hesitated. "Do you mean in her circumstances?"

"Yes--or in her character. Her circumstances are nothing wonderful. She
has none too much money; she has had three children and lost them; and
nobody that belongs to her appears ever to have been particularly nice
to her."

I turned it over. "How you do get on with her!"

"Do you call it getting on with her to be the more bewildered the more I
see her?"

"Isn't to say you're bewildered only, on the whole, to say you're
charmed? That always--doesn't it?--describes more or less any engrossed
relation with a lovely lady."

"Well, I'm not sure I'm so charmed." He spoke as if he had thought this
particular question over for himself; he had his way of being lucid
without brightness. "I'm not at all easily charmed, you know," he the
next moment added; "and I'm not a fellow who goes about much after
women."

"Ah, that I never supposed! Why in the world should you? It's the last
thing!" I laughed. "But isn't this--quite (what shall one call it?)
innocently--rather a peculiar case?"

My question produced in him a little gesture of elation--a gesture
emphasised by a snap of his forefinger and thumb. "I knew you knew it
was special! I knew you've been thinking about it!"

"You certainly," I replied with assurance, "have, during the last five
minutes, made me do so with some sharpness. I don't pretend that I don't
now recognise that there must be something the matter. I only
desire--not unnaturally--that there should be, to put me in the right
for having thought, if, as you're so sure, such a freedom as that can be
brought home to me. If Mrs. Server is beautiful and gentle and
strange," I speciously went on, "what are those things but an
attraction?"

I saw how he had them, whatever they were, before him as he slowly shook
his head. "They're not an attraction. They're too queer."

