this--for--for your freedom, Jack!"

Mount was kneeling in the mud; she lay in his arms, the sleet
pattering on her upturned face.

"For your freedom," she murmured, drowsily--"a maid must burn in hell
for that. I burn, I burn! Oh, the fire in me, Jack!"

Her body writhed and twisted; her great bright eyes never left his.
Presently she lay still. A moment later the prison bell broke out
wildly through the storm, and a gunshot rang from the north
guard-house.

We placed the dead child under a tree in the new grass, and covered
her face with willow branches, all silky with the young buds of April.
Then, bending almost double, we ran south along the prison wall,
turning west as the wall turned, and presently came to the wooden
fence of King's Chapel.

Mount gained the top of the fence from my shoulders, and drew me up.
Then we dropped.

There were lights moving in Governor's Alley and the mews; through the
sleet great snow-flakes whirled into the slush of the filthy street.
The prison bell rang frantically behind us.

"It's the alarm, Jack!" I whispered.

He gave me a dull look, then shivered in his wet buckskins.

"She can't lie out there in the sleet," he muttered, blood-shot eyes
roving restlessly in the darkness. "I am going back!"

"For God's sake, don't do that!" I begged; but he cursed me and
brushed me aside.

Back over the wall he dropped. I started to follow, but he shoved me
roughly and bade me mind my own concerns.

I leaned against the foot of the wall; the sleet pelted me; I bared my
throat to it. After a while I heard Mount's labouring breath on the
other side of the wall, and I climbed up to aid him.

He held the dead child in his arms; I took the body from him; he
climbed over, and received it again, bearing it as though it were but
a snow-flake's weight in his great arms.

"Go you and find a pick and spade in the mews, yonder," he said. There
was a fixed stare in his eyes that alarmed me. "Damn you," he said,
"it is the least we can do!"

"Jack," I said, "we cannot stay here to be taken again! You cannot
bury her now; the ground is frosted; people will hear us!"

He glared at me, then swung his heavy head right and left. The next
moment he started running through the storm, cradling the burden in
his arms. I followed, not knowing what he meant to do.

At the King's Chapel gate he turned in along a dim gravel path, hedged
with dripping box. Around us lay the headstones of the dead, with here
and there a heavy tomb looming up in the storm around us.

For a moment he halted, peering about him. A square white sepulchre
surmounted a mound on his right; he motioned me to hold the dead child
and stepped forward, laying his hands on the slab. Then, with a heave
of his powerful back, he lifted the huge stone, laying open the
shadowy sepulchre below.

Again he took the dead in his arms, wiped the rain-drops from the
face, laid the limp form in the sepulchre, and smoothed the clothing.
Together we replaced the slab; it taxed all my strength to lift one
end of it. The bell of the prison clanged frantically.

Mount stood back, breathing heavily, hands hanging. I waited in
silence.

"What a little thing she was!" he muttered; "what a
child--to--do--that! Do you think she will lie easy there?"

"Yes," I said.
