of the detective trade, and tell you 
in a plain, straightforward way just 
 how this dismal thing happened' 

' He paused a moment, for effect — to 

happened allow silence and suspense 
to intensify and concentrate the house's interest; 
then he went on : 

"The assassin studied out his plan 
with a good deal of pains. It was a 
good plan, very ingenious, and showed 
an intelligent mind, not a feeble one. 
It was a plan which was well calcu- 
lated to ward off all suspicion from its 
inventor. In the first place, he marked 
a candle into spaces an inch apart, 
and lit it and timed it. He found it 
took three hours to burn four inches 
of it. I tried it myself for half an hour, 
awhile ago, upstairs here, while the 
inquiry into Flint Buckner's character 
and ways was being conducted in 
this room, and I arrived in that way 
at the rate of a candle's consumption 
when sheltered from the wind. Hav- 
ing proved his trial-candle's rate, he 
blew it out — I have already shown it 
to you — and put his inch-marks on a 
fresh one. 

"He put the fresh one into a tin 
candlestick. Then at the five-hour 
mark he bored a hole through the 
candle with a red-hot wire. I have 
already shown you the wire, with a 
smooth coat of tallow on it — tal- 
low that had been melted and had 
cooled. 

"With labor — very hard labor, I 
should say — he struggled up through 
the stiff chaparral that clothes the 
steep hill-side back of Flint Buckner's 
place, tugging an empty flour-barrel 
with him. He placed it in that ab- 
solutely secure hiding-place, and in 
the bottom of it he set the candlestick. 
Then he measured off about thirty- 
five feet of fuse — the barrel's distance 
from the back of the cabin. He bored 

Lavfria barrel — here 
the mine he large gimlet he did it with. He 

went on and finished his work; and 
when it was done, one end of the fuse 
was in Buckner's cabin, and the other 
end, with a notch chipped in it to ex- 
pose the powder, was in the hole in 
the candle — timed to blow the place 
up at one o'clock this morning, pro- 
vided the candle was lit about eight 
o'clock yesterday evening — which I 

am betting it was — and provided there 
was an explosive in the cabin and 
connected with that end of the fuse — ddaits 

which I am also betting there was, 
though I can't prove it. Boys, the 
barrel is there in the chaparral, the 
candle's remains are in it in the tin 
stick ; the burnt-out fuse is in the gim- 
let-hole, the other end is down the hill 
where the late cabin stood. I saw 
them all an hour or two ago, when 
the Professor here was measuring off 
unimplicated vacancies and collecting 
