thing, as she was afterwards to recall, was that her wonder for what
had brought him was not immediate, but had come at the end of five
minutes; and also, quite incoherently, that she felt almost as glad to
see him, and almost as forgiving of his interruption of her solitude,
as if he had already been in her thought or acting at her suggestion.
He was some-how, at the best, the end of a respite; one might like him
very much and yet feel that his presence tempered precious solitude
more than any other known to one: in spite of all of which, as he was
neither dear Susie, nor dear Kate, nor dear Aunt Maud, nor even, for
the least, dear Eugenio in person, the sight of him did no damage to
her sense of the dispersal of her friends. She hadn't been so
thoroughly alone with him since those moments of his showing her the
great portrait at Matcham, the moments that had exactly made the
high-water-mark of her security, the moments during which her tears
themselves, those she had been ashamed of, were the sign of her
consciously rounding her protective promontory, quitting the blue gulf
of comparative ignorance and reaching her view of the troubled sea. His
presence now referred itself to his presence then, reminding her how
kind he had been, altogether, at Matcham, and telling her,
unexpectedly, at a time when she could particularly feel it, that, for
such kindness and for the beauty of what they remembered together, she
hadn't lost him--quite the contrary. To receive him handsomely, to
receive him there, to see him interested and charmed, as well, clearly,
as delighted to have found her without some other person to spoil
it--these things were so pleasant for the first minutes that they might
have represented on her part some happy foreknowledge. She gave an
account of her companions while he on his side failed to press her
about them, even though describing his appearance, so unheralded, as
the result of an impulse obeyed on the spot. He had been shivering at
Carlsbad, belated there and blue, when taken by it; so that, knowing
where they all were, he had simply caught the first train. He explained
how he had known where they were; he had heard--what more
natural?--from their friends, Milly's and his. He mentioned this
betimes, but it was with his mention, singularly, that the girl became
conscious of her inner question about his reason. She noticed his
plural, which added to Mrs. Lowder or added to Kate; but she presently
noticed also that it didn't affect her as explaining. Aunt Maud had
written to him, Kate apparently--and this was interesting--had written
to him; but their design presumably hadn't been that he should come and
sit there as if rather relieved, so far as they were concerned, at
postponements. He only said "Oh!" and again "Oh!" when she sketched
their probable morning for him, under Eugenio's care and Mrs.
Stringham's--sounding it quite as if any suggestion that he should
overtake them at the Rialto or the Bridge of Sighs would leave him
temporarily cold. This precisely it was that, after a little, operated
for Milly as an obscure but still fairly direct check to confidence. He
had known where they all were from the others, but it was not for the
others that, in his actual dispositions, he had come. That, strange to
say, was a pity; for, stranger still to say, she could have shown him
more confidence if he himself had had less intention. His intention so
chilled her, from the moment she found herself divining it, that, just
for the pleasure of going on with him fairly, just for the pleasure of
their remembrance together of Matcham and the Bronzino, the climax of
her fortune, she could have fallen to pleading with him and to
reasoning, to undeceiving him in time. There had been, for ten minutes,
with the directness of her welcome to him and the way this clearly
pleased him, something of the grace of amends made, even though he
couldn't know it--amends for her not having been originally sure, for
instance at that first dinner of Aunt Maud's, that he was adequately
human. That first dinner of Aunt Maud's added itself to the hour at
Matcham, added itself to other things, to consolidate, for her present
benevolence, the ease of their relation, making it suddenly delightful
that he had thus turned up. He exclaimed, as he looked about, on the
charm of the place: "What a temple to taste and an expression of the
pride of life, yet, with all that, what a jolly home!"--so that, for
his entertainment, she could offer to walk him about though she
mentioned that she had just been, for her own purposes, in a general
prowl, taking everything in more susceptibly than before. He embraced
her offer without a scruple and seemed to rejoice that he was to find
her susceptible.


IV

She couldn't have said what it was, in the conditions, that renewed the
whole solemnity, but by the end of twenty minutes a kind of wistful
hush had fallen upon them, as before something poignant in which her
visitor also participated. That was nothing verily but the perfection
of the charm--or nothing rather but their excluded disinherited state
in the presence of it. The charm turned on them a face that was cold in
