
To act so as to be worthy of happiness, meant to act in such a way that
the reason for each action might be a law for the happiness of all. That
was the Categorical Imperative, and Cecilia believed in it.

Then, if she married Guido, she ought to be sure that all young girls in
her position would marry under the circumstances, and that the majority
of them would be happy. With a return of practical sense from the
regions of philosophy, she asked herself how she should feel if Guido
married some one else, one of the many young girls who were among her
friends. Should she be jealous?

At the mere thought she felt a little dull sinking that was anticipated
disappointment. Yes, she liked him enough, she was fond enough of him to
miss him terribly if he were taken away from her. This was undoubtedly
love, she thought. She could not be happy without that companionship,
though she wished that it might continue all her life, without the
necessity of being married to him.

Of all the other men she had met during the last month, the only one
whom she instinctively understood was Lamberti, but that was different.
It was the understanding of a fear that was sometimes almost abject; it
was the certainty that if he only would, he could lead her anywhere,
make her do anything, direct her as he directed his own hand. When she
had met him in the house of the Vestals, she had been sure that if she
stood a moment longer where he had come upon her, he would take her in
his arms and kiss her, and she would not resist. It was of no use to
argue about it, to tell herself that she would have been safe on a
desert island with Guido's trusted friend; the conviction was strong. At
the Villa Madama, he had made her say what he pleased, go with him where
he chose, tell him her secret. It was too horrible for words. She had
asked him to come to see her at an hour when there would be no visitors,
and she knew that she had meant to see him alone, in spite of her
mother, and even by stealth if need were. When he was out of her sight,
his influence was gone with him, and she thanked heaven that he had not
come, and that he apparently took care never to be alone with her for a
moment now. He had only to look at her in a certain way, and she must
obey him; if he ever touched her hand she would be his slave, powerless
to resist him.

Sometimes she could not help looking at him, but then he never turned
his eyes towards her, and she was thankful when she could turn hers
away. When he was not present, she hoped that she might never see his
face again, except in dreams, for there he was not the same. There, but
for that one passionate kiss that told all, he was tender, and gentle,
and true, and he listened to her, and in the end he lived as she wished
him to live. But he had come back to life with the same face, another
man--one whom she feared as she feared nothing in the world, and few
things beyond it, for he was born her master, and was strong, and had
ruthless eyes. Even Guido could not save her from him, she was sure.

Yet in spite of all this, she could meet him with outward indifference
in the world, before other people. She felt that there was no danger so
long as she was not alone with him, because he would not dare to use his
power, and the world protected her by its cheerful, careless presence.
She did not hate him, she only feared him, with every part of her, body
and soul.

She was sure that he knew it, but she was not grateful to him for
avoiding her. She could not be grateful to any one of whom she was in
terror. It was merely his will to avoid her, or perhaps, as Guido seemed
to think, he did not like her; or possibly it was for Guido's sake,
because Guido trusted him, and he was a man of honour.

He was that beyond doubt, for every one said so, and she knew that he
was brave; but though he might possess every quality and virtue under
the sun, she could never be less afraid of him. Her fear had nothing to
do with his character; it was bodily and spiritual, not reasonable. She
had found out that he was perfectly truthful, for nothing he said
escaped her, and Guido told her that he was kind, but that was hard to
believe of any one with those eyes. Yet the man in the dream was
gentleness itself, and his eyes never glittered when they looked at her.

To think that she could ever love Lamberti was utterly absurd. When she
was married to Guido she would tell him that she feared his friend. Now,
it was impossible. He would smile quietly and tell her there was nothing
to be afraid of; he would smile, too, if she told him that she had a
dual existence, and dreamed herself into the other every day.

And now she was smiling, too, as she thought of him, for she had thought
