
" Why, I don't know any reason why I can't 
rent it to you for a year — only it ain't worth 
nothin', an' " 

"Then rent it to me! The less it is worth 
the better it will suit me. But come, show me 
where it is! " 

" I reckon I can show you," said the man, 
looking perplexed. " But what in the world do 
you want to go into that lonesome place for? 
Why, boy, nobody goes there in a month! An' 
what you goin' to do for somethin' to eat, an' 
some place to sleep, an' " 

I managed to get him started at last. And 
now, oh just look at me! I've been roaming 
around staring at it — inside and outside. The 
gods love me after all. 



The infinite relief that it is! The infinite ex- 
ultation that it is! And all to myself — not a soul 
near me! And out in the woods! And mine for 
a month! Oh blessed 'cello player that moved 
away; blessed landlady's sister that talked — ! 

And oh blessed cook-house! We will make 
thee a consecrated cook-house before we get 
through — we will! We will cook a dish in thee 
that will warm the hearts of a goodly company — 
oh blessed cook-house! 

— And outside a great white moon streaming 
through the forest trees! 

The " cook-house " is about ten feet square. 
It is about one-third stove, now covered with a 
newspaper and serving as a table. Besides that 
there is one chair, for which I have just impro- 
vised a leg, with the help of my knife. 

Besides the knife I have a fork, a plate, a cup, 
and a spoon — borrowed from the farmer. I have 
a blanket and a bed consisting of an old carriage 
robe, rented from the farmer. I have a lamp and 
a kerosene-can — ditto. I have a frying-pan — 
ditto. But I haven't my little oil-stove, so I fear 
I shall eat mostly cold things. I have a pail of 
milk, a loaf of bread, a ginger-cake, some butter, 






some eggs, some bacon, some apples and some 
radishes; also a tooth-brush, a comb, a change 
of clothing, two handkerchiefs, some pencils and 
paper, Prometheus Bound, Prometheus Un- 
bound, Samson Agonistes, faith, hope, and 
charity! 

— I believe I have named all the necessaries 
of life. 

June isth. 

I have scooped myself out a bathtub below 
the spring. I forgot towels in my list of neces- 
saries! I fear it will be inconvenient on rainy 
days. I am like a child with a new toy, in my 
wonderful home. I was too excited to think of 
working. I fried an egg over a little fire, and 
then I roamed all about the woods. I don't re- 
member ever having been so happy before. I 
had forgotten there was anything beautiful in the 
world. — 
