if he remains unmarried, and it had never occurred to 
him that he might fall in love with a young girl, with- 
out whom life would seem empty. He was quixotic, 
generous and impulsive, but like many men who do 
extremely romantic things, he thought himself quite 
above sentimentality and entirely master of his heart. 
Hitherto the theory had worked very well, because he 
had never really tried to practise it. Nothing had 
seemed easier than not to fall in love with marriageable 
young women, and he had grown used to believing that 
he never could. 

With that brutality to his own feelings of which 





only a thoroughly sentimental man is capable, he left 
the Palazzo Conti on the day following the adventure, 
and took rooms in a hotel in the upper part of the city. 
Nothing would hare induced him to spend a night in 
his room since Sabina's head had lain upon his pillow. 
With Volterra's powerful help, Masin had been released, 
though poor Sassi had not returned to consciousness,, 
and Malipieri learned that the old man had changed his 
mind at the last minute, had insisted upon trying to fol- 
low Sabina after all, and had fallen heavily upon his 
head in trying to get down into the first chamber ; 
while Masin, behind him, implored him to come back, 
or at least to wait for help where he was. The rest 
needs no explanation. 

Malipieri took a few things with him to the hotel, 
and left Masin to collect his papers and books on the 
following day, instructing him to send the scanty furni- 
ture, linen and household belongings to the nearest 
auction rooms, to be sold at once. Masin, none the worse 
for a night and day in prison, came back to his functions 
as if nothing had happened. He and his master had 
been in more than one adventure together. This one 
was over and he was quite ready for the next. 

There was probably not another man in Italy, and 
there are not many alive anywhere, who would have 
done what Malipieri did, out of pure sentiment and 
nothing else. To him, it seemed like a natural sacrifice 
to his inward honour, to refuse which would have been 
cowardly. He had weakly allowed himself to fall in 
love with a girl whom he could not possibly marry, and 



 

whom lie respected as much as he loved. He guessed, 
though he tried to deny it, that she was more than half 
in love with him, since love sometimes comes by halves. 
To lie where she had lain, dreaming of her with his 
aching eyes open and his blood on fire, would be a 
violation of her maiden privacy, morally not much less 
cowardly in the spirit than it could have been in the 
letter, since he could not marry her. 

The world laughs at such refinements of delicate feel- 
ing in a man, but cannot help inwardly respecting 
them a little, as it respects many things at which it 
jeers and rails. Moreover, Malipieri did not care a fig 
for the world's opinion, and if he had needed to take a 
motto he would have chosen " Si omnes, ego non " ; for 
if there was a circumstance which always inclined him 
to do anything especially quixotic, it was the conviction 
that other people would probably do the exact opposite. 
So Masin took the furniture to an auction room on a 
cart, and Malipieri never saw it again. 

While the press was ringing his praises, and he him- 
self was preparing a carefully written paper on the two 
statues, while the public was pouring into the gate of 
the Palazzo Conti to see them, and Volterra was driving 
