ground of the Fitchburg Depot, of the maroon-coloured ! 
sanctum, the special-green vision, the ridiculous price, the 
poplars, the willows, the rushes, the river, the sunny, silvery  
sky, the shady, woody horizon. 

He observed in respect to his train almost no condition , 
save that it should stop a few times after getting out ol 
the banlieue ; he threw himself on the general amiability I 
of the day for the hint of where to alight. His theory 
of his excursion was that he could alight anywhere — not 
nearer Paris than an hour's run — on catching a suggestion 
of the particular note required. It made its sign, the ; 
suggestion — weather, air, light, colour and his mood all 
favouring — at the end of some eighty minutes ; the train I 
pulled up at just the right spot, and he found himself   
getting out as securely as if to keep an appointment. It I 
will be felt of him that he could amuse himself, at his age,  
with very small things if it be again noted that his appoint-   
ment was only with a faded Boston enthusiasm. He had  
not gone far without the quick confidence that it would be 
quite suf ciently kept. The oblong gilt frame disposed its I 
enclosing lines ; the poplars and willows, the reeds and  
river — a river of which he didn't know, and didn't want to 
know, the name — fell into a composition, full of felicity, 
within them; the sky was silver and turquoise and varnish; ; 
the village on the left was white and the church on the 
right was gray ; it was all there, in short — it was what he 
wanted : it was Tremont Street, it was France, it was 
Lambinet. Moreover he was freely walking about in it 
He did this last, for an hour, to his heart's content, 
making for the shady, woody horizon and boring so deep 
into his impression and his idleness that he might fairly 
have got through them again and reached the maroon- 
coloured wall. It was a wonder, no doubt, that the taste 
of idleness, for him, should not need more time to sweeten; 
but it had in fact taken the few previous days; it had been 





sweetening, in truth, ever since the retreat of the Fococks. 
He walked and walked as if to show himself how little he 
had now to do; he had nothing to do but turn off to some 
hillside where he might stretch himself and hear the pop- 
lars rustle, and whence — in the course of an afternoon so 
spent, an afternoon richly suffused too with the sense of a 
book in his pocket — he should sufficiently command the 
scene to be able to ,pick out just the right little rustic inn 
for an experiment in respect to dinner. There was a train 
back to Paris at 9.20, and he saw himself partaking, at the 
close of the day, with the enhancements of a coarse white 
:loth and a sanded floor, of something fried and felicitous, 
washed down with authentic wine ; after which he might, 
as he liked, either stroll back to his station in the gloaming 
or propose for the local carriole and converse with his 
driver, a driver who naturally wouldn't fail of a stiff clean 
blouse, of a knitted nightcap and of the genius of response 
— who, in fine, would sit on the shafts, tell him what the 
French people were thinking, and remind him, as indeed 
the whole episode would incidentally do, of Maupassant. 
Strether heard his lips, for the first time in French air, as 
this vision assumed consistency, emit sounds of expressive 
intention without fear of his company. He had been afraid 
of Chad and of Maria and of Mme. de Vionnet ; he had 
been most of all afraid of Waymarsh, in whose presence, 
so far as they had mixed together in the light of the town, 
he had never without somehow paying for it aired either his 
vocabulary or his accent. He usually paid for it by meet- 
ing immediately afterwards VVaymarsh's eye. 

Such were the liberties with which his fancy played after 
he had turned off to the hillside that did really and truly, 
as well as most amiably, await him beneath the poplars, 
the hillside that made him feel, for a murmurous couple 
of hours, how happy had been his thought. He had the 
sense of success, of a finer harmony in things; nothing but 
what had turned out, as yet, according to his plan. It 
most of all came home to him, as he lay on his back on 
the grass, that Sarah had really gone, that his tension was 
