already a fair musician and has had a year's tuition in Latin; in
several English branches you are much in advance. Then you have a study
habit, and that she lacks."

"I am glad I have one good quality," and the eager face flushed with
gratification.

"You have more than one," smiling. "You are too impatient about
learning. Everything does not come by nature, and there may be many
years to devote to it."

"I think of only two. I want to crowd in everything I can."

"Do not look so far ahead. It is better to live day by day; better to do
to-day's duty."

"But I am falling behind all the time. I spent Saturday trying to catch
up, instead of having a good time. And I do so want to walk in those
haunts over the river, those woods and wilds, before the frost comes
on."

"You were brave to give it up. They are beautiful even after frost, and
there will be some time to spare. The first week, the first month,
indeed, is generally the hardest. Then I'll send Miss Bell to you? I
think you will make good comrades."

"Oh, I shall be delighted."

She almost ran into Daisy's arms in the hall.

"I was coming to tell you some news," exclaimed the girl eagerly, her
eyes shining with pleasure.

"About----"

"Oh, I know Roxy Mays ferreted that out! I do believe it is as she says,
a bird in the air tells her."

"No. Mrs. Aldred spoke to me."

The sweet face lighted up instantly.

"That is all right then. I like to have the telling of something first,
don't you? I think we shall get along nicely. I should not like every
girl----"

"Oh, thank you;" laughingly.

"That is true of us all, isn't it, or most of us? I would not like to
room with anyone who was not neat, I'd like someone fond of study to
spur me on. I'm dismal at algebra, and I can help you in the Latin. And
then your room isn't crowded up with everything. I think so much makes
you tired. And this is an awful heresy, but I am tired of Gibson girls,
and nearly all having the same pictures and ornaments. It isn't restful.
Think of Claudine Marr's room. I wonder if she ever draws a good,
unimpeded breath? I'm not surprised that she has headaches."

"When I am tired I look out of the window at the most beautiful picture
I have ever seen. And I think how it will change all the autumn."

"And be dreary in the winter."

"I do not believe I feel about leafless trees as most people do. You see
all the fine little twigs and branches, some days in a gray-purple sort
of haze, some days tipped with shimmering gold, then silvered with
moonlight or sparkling with frost, and I am content that the leaves drop
off so that you can see how really wonderful they are. And when the wind
tosses them all about, nature seems rocking them with a lullaby, you
feel as if they were in some degree human."

"Oh, Helen, you ought to be a poet," Daisy exclaimed enthusiastically.

They had walked to Helen's room. Her clothes were all in the closet, her
books lay on the table, only her writing-desk was on the chair. She had
added nothing to the room, but she did want a case of shelves. And oddly
enough she had not encroached on the other side. Daisy wondered rather
at that.

"Then I may move in at once."

