and fencing.  I would that my purse were heavy enough to offer prizes."

"Amen to that."

The major watched the poet as he made for the main cabin.  "So the
Chevalier has a heart of gold?" he mused.  "It must be rich, indeed, if
richer than this poet's.  He's a good lad, and his part in life will
have a fine rounding out."

Victor passed into the cabin and seated himself at the table in the
main cabin.  Occasionally he would nod approvingly, or rumple the
feathery end of the quill between his teeth, or drum with his fingers
in the effort to prove a verse whose metrical evenness did not quite
satisfy his ear.  There were obstacles, however, which marred the
sureness of his inspiration.  First it was the face of madame as he had
seen it, now here, now there, in sunshine, in cloud.  Was hers a heart
of ice which the warmth of love could not melt?  Did she love another?
Would he ever see her again?  Spain!  Ah, but for the Chevalier he
might be riding at her side over the Pyrenees.  The pen moved
desultorily.  Line after line was written, only to be rejected.  The
envoi first took shape.  It is a peculiar habit the poet has of
sometimes putting on the cupola before laying the foundation of his
house of fancy.  Victor read over slowly what he had written:

  "Prince, where is the tavern's light that cheers?
  Where is La Place with its musketeers,
  Golden nights and the May-time breeze?
  And where are the belles of the balconies?"

Ah, the golden nights, indeed!  What were they doing yonder in Paris?
Were they all alive, the good lads in his company?  And how went the
war with Spain?  Would the ladies sometimes recall him in the tennis
courts?  With a sigh he dipped the quill in the inkhorn and went on.
The truth is, the poet was homesick.  But he was not alone in this
affliction.

Breton was sitting by the port-hole in his master's berthroom.  He was
reading from his favorite book.  Time after time he would look toward
the bunk where the Chevalier lay dozing.  Finally he closed the book
and rose to gaze out upon the sea.  In fancy he could see the hills of
Périgny.  The snow had left them by now.  They were green and soft,
rolling eastward as far as the eye could see.  Old Martin's daughter
was with the kine in the meadows.  The shepherd dog was rolling in the
grass at her feet.  Was she thinking of Breton, who was on his way to a
strange land, who had left her with never a good by to dull the edge of
separation?  He sobbed noiselessly.  The book slipped from his fingers
to the floor, and the noise of it brought the Chevalier out of his
gentle dreaming.

"Is it you, lad?"

"Yes, Monsieur Paul," swallowing desperately.

"What is the matter?"

"I was thinking how the snow has left the hills of Périgny.  I can see
my uncle puttering in the gardens at the château.  Do you remember the
lilacs which grew by the western gates?  They will soon be filling the
park with fragrance.  Monsieur will forgive me for recalling?"

"Yes; for I was there in my dreams, lad.  I was fishing for those
yellow perch by the poplars, and you were baiting my hooks."

"Was I, Monsieur?" joyfully.  "My mother used to tell me that it was a
sign of good luck to dream of fishing.  Was the water clear?"

"As clear as Monsieur le Cure's emerald.  Do you remember how he used
to twist it round and round when he visited the château?  It was a fine
ring.  The Duchesse d'Aiguillon gave it to him, so he used to tell us.
'Twas she who founded the Hôtel Dieu at Quebec, where we are going."

"Yes; and in the month of May, which is but a few days off, we used to
ride into Cévennes to the mines of porphyry and marbles which . . .
which . . ."  Breton stopped, embarrassed.

"Which I used to own," completed the Chevalier.  "They were quarries,
lad, not mines.  'Golden days, that turn to silver, then to lead,'
writes Victor.  Eh, well!  Do you know how much longer we are to remain
upon this abominable sea?  This must be something like the eighteenth
of April."
