
We will only need three more at dinner, 
and I can do it all then under the one 
fuss. And I’ll just brush up the kitchen. 
I shall have to give it a good sweeping 
after dinner. Eleven will be early 
enough to begin at the beans. If I kept 
house I should not work every moment 
of the time, I know. When I am mar- 
ried— ” 

Bessie fell into a brown study there, 
and out of the chaos of thought came 
a bright idea. There was a book 
up in Dick’s room that she wanted to 

 


read; she had stolen a few pages of it 
already. She did not even pause to 
brush up the kitchen, but ran upstairs. 

The room was in perfect order. On 
his table lay a Bible, a Familiar Science, 
and a Tourist 's Guide. Dick had a mean 
way of hiding his nice story books, and 
mamma approved of it. When she was a 
young lady she would read everything 
that she wanted to. Patchwork and 
crocheting were foolish things and a 
great waste of time nowadays— Mrs. 
Alwin said so the other day. And mend- 
ing and all that, Bessie had a little twinge 
of conscience there. Her stocking darn- 
ing for the week was not done, because 
she went out to tea yesterday. "But, 
then, there is plenty of time," she said 
to herself. 

So Bessie began to hunt around ; three 

 


bureau drawers were searched with no 
result, hut the fourth was locked. She 
found her mother’s hunch of keys, hut 
none of them would fit. Her own little 
trunk key— but no. There was some- 
thing in the drawer, of course— the book 
she wanted and maybe others. Then a 
bright thought came into her mind. 
Take out the drawer above it, to be sure ! 

It was quite heavy and her arms were 
not very strong, so it came down with a 
crash, tumbling out the clothes, and a 
bottle of something that, fortunately, did 
not break. Yes, there was the very book. 
She seized it eagerly, found her place, 
sat down by the window, and forgot all 
else. 

‘When you are older and have more 
judgment you may read some of these 
works,” her mother had said, ‘'but at 

 


present excessive reading is a bad habit, 
and I do not want your mind taken away 
from your studies. There are other 
reasons, too, that you will understand 
as you grow older. 




