“They say all Americans are rich.”

“That’s where they make a big mistake. I know plenty of men in Omaha
that wouldn’t be worth a hundred dollars if their debts were paid. As to
my friend here being a rich milord, I don’t know but he is. I am not a
milord at all, but only a plain American citizen.”

“I am not a milord,” said Walter Cunningham, smiling. “However, I am
aware that in Italy every Englishman who has money enough to travel is
supposed to be a lord, just as every American is called rich.”

“They don’t say anything about me,” said Bernard. “I wonder whether they
take me to be rich or a milord?”

“They don’t take account of you because you are a boy. They think you
are related to Mr. Cunningham or myself.”

“I am willing to be overlooked.”

“I wonder if I could pass myself off for a boy,” said the American
humorously.

“Hardly. You have lost too much hair.”

“The gentlemen are getting impatient,” said Pas-quale warningly.

“Are they? Well, I guess we shall take our time.”

“It will not be well to provoke them needlessly,” said Walter
Cunningham. “You may tell them that we cannot give them five thousand
scudi,” he added addressing the vetturino.

The bandits held a conference, but it was not prolonged. Evidently they
were incensed at the contumacy of their victims.

After the conference, during which the three travelers were very
anxious, they spoke to Pasquale, who communicated their decision.

“They say you must either make arrangements to pay the five thousand
scudi, or go with them.”

“Where in thunder do they mean to carry us, Pasquale?”

“I don’t know. They would not tell if I asked them.”

“Tell them to take us along, then,” said Mr. Sanderson, leaning back in
his seat and nodding obstinately.

Walter Cunningham seemed to acquiesce, and the answer was returned.

Immediately one of the bandits took his seat beside the vetturino and
took the reins from him. The other two walked beside the carriage. The
party turned off from the main road, and entered a lane leading up the
hill to the left.

“Well, boys, we’re in for it, I s’pose,” said Amos Sanderson. “It’s too
bad, I vow. Such things couldn’t be done in America under the Stars and
Stripes.”

“Don’t robberies ever take place in the States?” asked Walter
Cunningham.

“Well, perhaps so, but these fellows have not only robbed us of all we
have, but are carrying us off because we won’t give them more. I’d just
like to wrestle with them one by one. If I didn’t throw them, I’d be
jiggered, that’s all.”

“I don’t think they would agree to any such plan. They carry pistols,
and probably knives. They are more used to them than to wrestling.”

“No doubt you are right, milord,” said Amos, at which Cunningham
laughed. “Where do you think they’re going to carry us?”

“They probably have some secret resort somewhere among these hills. We
shall find out before long. What do you think of our adventure,
Bernard?”

“I wish I knew how it was going to turn out, Walter,” returned Bernard
soberly.

