the bird whose feather I had secured.

Still, these ideas were not proven. Nothing concerning the birds had
been proven. I had but a single fact to lean on, and that was that the
feather I possessed could not have belonged to any known species of
bird. Nobody but myself knew of the existence of this feather. And now
I meant to cable to Bronx Park for it, and to place this evidence at
the disposal of the beautiful Countess d'Alzette.

My cigar had gone out, as I sat musing, and I relighted it and resumed
my reading of the type-written notes, lazily, even a trifle
sceptically, for all the evidence that she had been able to collect to
substantiate her theory of the existence of the ux was not half as
important as the evidence I was to produce in the shape of that
enormous green feather.

I came to the last paragraph, smoking serenely, and leaning back
comfortably, one leg crossed over the other. Then, suddenly, my
attention became riveted on the words under my eyes. Could I have read
them aright? Could I believe what I read in ever-growing astonishment
which culminated in an excitement that stirred the very hair on my
head?

    "The ux exists. There is no longer room for doubt. Ocular
    proof I can now offer in the shape of five living eggs of
    this gigantic bird. All measures have been taken to hatch
    these eggs; they are now in the vast incubator. It is my plan
    to have them hatch, one by one, under the very eyes of the
    International Congress. It will be the greatest triumph that
    science has witnessed since the discovery of the New World.

          [Signed] "SUSANNE D'ALZETTE."

"Either," I cried out, in uncontrollable excitement--"either that girl
is mad or she is the cleverest woman on earth."

After a moment I added:

"In either event I am going to marry her."




XI


That evening, a few minutes before nine o'clock, I descended from a
cab in front of No. 8 Rue d'Alouette, and was ushered into a pretty
reception-room by an irreproachable servant, who disappeared directly
with my card.

In a few moments the young Countess came in, exquisite in her silvery
dinner-gown, eyes bright, white arms extended in a charming, impulsive
welcome. The touch of her silky fingers thrilled me; I was dumb under
the enchantment of her beauty; and I think she understood my silence,
for her blue eyes became troubled and the happy parting of her lips
changed to a pensive curve.

Presently I began to tell her about my bronzed-green feather; at my
first word she looked up brightly, almost gratefully, I fancied; and
in another moment we were deep in eager discussion of the subject
which had first drawn us together.

What evidence I possessed to sustain our theory concerning the
existence of the ux I hastened to reveal; then, heart beating
excitedly, I asked her about the eggs and where they were at present,
and whether she believed it possible to bring them to Paris--all these
questions in the same breath--which brought a happy light into her
eyes and a delicious ripple of laughter to her lips.

"Why, of course it is possible to bring the eggs here," she cried. "Am
I sure? Parbleu! The eggs are already here, monsieur!"

"Here!" I exclaimed. "In Paris?"

"In Paris? Mais oui; and in my own house--this very house, monsieur.
Come, you shall behold them with your own eyes!"

Her eyes were brilliant with excitement; impulsively she stretched out
her rosy hand. I took it; and she led me quickly back through the
