having plotted so very hard against their destiny, and she knew well
enough, of course, what, in this connection, was at the bottom of his
thought, and what would have sounded out more or less if he had not
happily saved himself from words. All men were brutes enough to catch
when they might at such chances for dissent--for all the good it really
did them; but the Prince’s distinction was in being one of the few who
could check himself before acting on the impulse. This, obviously, was
what counted in a man as delicacy. If her friend had blurted or bungled
he would have said, in his simplicity, “Did we do ‘everything to avoid’
it when we faced your remarkable marriage?”--quite handsomely of course
using the plural, taking his share of the case, by way of a tribute
of memory to the telegram she had received from him in Paris after
Mr. Verver had despatched to Rome the news of their engagement.
That telegram, that acceptance of the prospect proposed to them--an
acceptance quite other than perfunctory--she had never destroyed; though
reserved for no eyes but her own it was still carefully reserved. She
kept it in a safe place--from which, very privately, she sometimes took
it out to read it over. “A la guerre comme a la guerre then”--it had
been couched in the French tongue. “We must lead our lives as we see
them; but I am charmed with your courage and almost surprised at my
own.” The message had remained ambiguous; she had read it in more lights
than one; it might mean that even without her his career was up-hill
work for him, a daily fighting-matter on behalf of a good appearance,
and that thus, if they were to become neighbours again, the event would
compel him to live still more under arms. It might mean on the other
hand that he found he was happy enough, and that accordingly, so far as
she might imagine herself a danger, she was to think of him as prepared
in advance, as really seasoned and secure. On his arrival in Paris with
his wife, none the less, she had asked for no explanation, just as he
himself had not asked if the document were still in her possession. Such
an inquiry, everything implied, was beneath him--just as it was beneath
herself to mention to him, uninvited, that she had instantly offered,
and in perfect honesty, to show the telegram to Mr. Verver, and that if
this companion had but said the word she would immediately have put
it before him. She had thereby forborne to call his attention to
her consciousness that such an exposure would, in all probability,
straightway have dished her marriage; that all her future had in fact,
for the moment, hung by the single hair of Mr. Verver’s delicacy (as
she supposed they must call it); and that her position, in the matter of
responsibility, was therefore inattackably straight.

For the Prince himself, meanwhile, time, in its measured allowance, had
originally much helped him--helped him in the sense of there not
being enough of it to trip him up; in spite of which it was just this
accessory element that seemed, at present, with wonders of patience,
to lie in wait. Time had begotten at first, more than anything else,
separations, delays and intervals; but it was troublesomely less of
an aid from the moment it began so to abound that he had to meet the
question of what to do with it. Less of it was required for the state of
being married than he had, on the whole, expected; less, strangely, for
the state of being married even as he was married. And there was a
logic in the matter, he knew; a logic that but gave this truth a sort
of solidity of evidence. Mr. Verver, decidedly, helped him with it--with
his wedded condition; helped him really so much that it made all the
difference. In the degree in which he rendered it the service on Mr.
Verver’s part was remarkable--as indeed what service, from the first
of their meeting, had not been? He was living, he had been living these
four or five years, on Mr. Verver’s services: a truth scarcely less
plain if he dealt with them, for appreciation, one by one, than if he
poured them all together into the general pot of his gratitude and let
the thing simmer to a nourishing broth. To the latter way with them he
was undoubtedly most disposed; yet he would even thus, on occasion, pick
out a piece to taste on its own merits. Wondrous at such hours could
seem the savour of the particular “treat,” at his father-in-law’s
expense, that he more and more struck himself as enjoying. He had
needed months and months to arrive at a full appreciation--he couldn’t
originally have given offhand a name to his deepest obligation; but by
the time the name had flowered in his mind he was practically living at
the ease guaranteed him. Mr. Verver then, in a word, took care of his
relation to Maggie, as he took care, and apparently always would, of
everything else. He relieved him of all anxiety about his married
life in the same manner in which he relieved him on the score of his
bank-account. And as he performed the latter office by communicating
with the bankers, so the former sprang as directly from his
good understanding with his daughter. This understanding had,
wonderfully--THAT was in high evidence--the same deep intimacy as the
commercial, the financial association founded, far down, on a community
of interest. And the correspondence, for the Prince, carried itself
out in identities of character the vision of which, fortunately, rather
tended to amuse than to--as might have happened--irritate him. Those
