river was set aside for the building of a fort where 
there had once been a French trading post. It was a 
stockade with block houses, to be one of the chain for 
outposts of defence for the trade growing of more im 
portance every year. Down here came Captain Whist 
ler and his son and the two wives from Detroit, with 
the company for work and for defence, and bravely 
they went at their task. On the north side was the 
sally port or passage leading from the parade ground 
to the river, to be used as an escape in time of emer 
gency. There were no horses or oxen and the men 
hauled the wood. There were Indian outbreaks now 
and then, but the little colony increased and all about 
the fort clustered a settlement. 

And so it remained for about nine years. The 
women had learned to be as brave as the men, as 
fearless too. Then came the sudden and unexpected 
orders from Detroit to evacuate the fort, as Detroit 
was to be surrendered to the English. There had been 
numerous Indian raids on other forts. 

The Pottawattamies had been very good friends 
with the soldiers and the dwellers about. But when 
they heard that General Hull had ordered that the 
property in the fort was to be distributed among the 
Indians they secretly joined the marauding bands, 





though they promised a safe-conduct to those within. 
Captain Wells ordered the whiskey to be poured into 
the river, and the powder to be destroyed, knowing the 
liquor would make fiends of the savages. So one 
August day they started, women, children and wagons, 
guarded by the soldiers; but when they had gone a 
mile or so from the fort, they found themselves almost 
surrounded by Indians, the remnants of various tribes 
that had not moved to the reservation, and the Potto- 
wattamies joining them, the dreadful massacre oc 
curred. A number were carried prisoners to St. 
Joseph. 

Mrs. Heald, who had brought with her from Ken 
tucky, on her marriage, a beautiful mare, which had 
aroused the envy of two Indian chiefs, who had made 
several attempts to steal it, rode out of the fort, but as 
soon as the raid was made she was forced to dismount 
and see her favorite in the hands of the savages, and 
she was led back to the fort a prisoner, while her hus 
band was killed and treated with cruel indignity. 
Then the Indians took possession of the fort and held 
pandemonium for a few days. Afterward the Indians 
went off to attack Fort Wayne. 

We rambled about the fort that had been rebuilt 
later on, and was now being evacuated for the second 
time, the victories over the rambling bands of Indians 
having made the country quite secure. Ruth Gaynor 
had heard of massacres in her native State not less 
cruel. 

"But Mrs. Heald and her beautiful horse?" she 
queried with pathos in both eyes and voice. 



 

"No money could buy it back. Some Indian chief 
thought too highly of his four-footed prisoner to give 
it up. Mrs. Heald, badly wounded, for she had 
fought bravely for her freedom, was left for a few 
days with an Indian trader at St. Joseph's and was 
finally permitted to return to Louisville. Some of the 
prisoners were taken up to Michigan and given their 
liberty on the recapture of Detroit. The fort was set 
on fire and made a heap of ruins. Several of the pris 
