come out for a -good-bye," and he entered the 
hall. 
Juliet dropped into the chair and one child al- 
most fell into her lap. The other put an arm 
around her neck and leaned close up against her 
in a transport of delight. 
"We're so glad," they cried in the same breath. 
"It's been such a long, lonesome summer without 
you. If we'd had wings we should have flown 
to you." 
CHAPTER IX 
AN ATMOSPHERE OF COMRADESHIP 
The Gartney children seemed crying for very 
joy. Helen looked on in surprise. 
One had outgrown the other a trifle. She pos- 
sessed a more vigorous organization, and her 
coloring was more decided. That was Wilma. 
Elma's hair was a paler gold, her eyes a lighter 
blue; her lips not such a brilliant red. 
Wilma looked around presently and caught 
Helen's eye, flushed, and then gave a half smile, 
as if not quite sure of its reception. 
"Did you have a nice time all summer?" she 
asked in a friendly way. 
"No, I didn't," returned the child. "It was 
a great, big farm full of cows and sheep and 
chickens, and a great old turkey gobbler who al- 
ways ran at you and made a horrible noise. And 
we are afraid of cows. The nights were so long 
and lonesome and when it rained it was like an 
army marching over the roof. And we were al- 
ways afraid of Aunt Mary. Oh, I would a million 
times rather stay here at school! We were so 
glad to come back that we danced for very joy. 
But papa said we need never go again." 
Elma gave a little shiver in Miss Craven's arms, 
and was pressed closer. 
"Then you do not like the country ?" 
"Not that country. Nor Aunt Mary, nor 
Uncle Jacob. And Aunt Mary made us wipe 
dishes and said we ought to learn to wash and 
sweep and keep house and be useful. And there 
was nothing to read. Oh, it was just dreadful ! 
We were frightened when we first came here to 
school, and homesick, but Miss Craven was so 
sweet. Oh, we do love you so," and she kissed 
Juliet with a passionate fervor that touched 
Helen, and gave her a curious gladness that 
Juliet had been able to awaken such an enthusias- 
tic affection. 
"Were there no children?" 
"There was a poor house girl, bigger and older 
than we are, but she worked all the time. And 
Aunt Mary wanted to cut our hair short, like hers, 
but Uncle Jacob was very angry and said he 
would write and tell papa to come and take us 
away. But she did it up in a great wad and said 
she wouldn't have so much frowsiness flying 
about." 
Helen laughed Perhaps she was like Aunt 
Jane. 
"And were there no other people?" 
"There were the men who worked on the 
farm." 
"It must have been lonesome." 
"It was dreadful. We used to say our lessons 
over to each other, and sometimes we sewed car- 
pet rags. I didn't mind that. But they wouldn't 
let the cats come in the house. We went down 
to the barn, but they were so shy. There were 
some kittens once but they were drowned and the 
poor mother went crying everywhere." 
Mrs. Aldred and Mr. Gartney came out pres- 
ently and she gave the little girls a warm wel- 
come. Their father had made all arrangements 
and had to take a train to the city. The children 
clung to him now. 
"Walk down a little way with me," he said. 
He was afraid there would be a pathetic scene. 
"Arid will not Miss Craven go to bring you 
