third floor of a large office building. He went upstairs, and managed to
get a peep into the office, and found Rufus Cameron was not there.

"Of course he may have been here already," he told himself. "But I've
got to take my chances about that. I'll stay here until the place shuts
up."

Going below again, he took a station across the street and began to wait
patiently for the appearance of Rufus Cameron.

As luck would have it, he had waited less than half an hour when he saw
Mrs. Parloe's nephew step from a car at the corner, and approach the
office building.

"Mr. Cameron, I want to see you!" he exclaimed, coming forward, and
confronting the man.

Rufus Cameron had not expected to meet Nat again so soon, and for the
moment he was dumfounded.

"Wha--what do you want?" he stammered, halting.

"You know well enough what I want," answered our hero, sharply. "I want
that document you stole from me."

"Stole from you!"

"That is what I said, Rufus Cameron."

"I--I don't know what you are talking about."

"You do know, and unless you give up the paper I am going to have you
arrested right now."

At these words Rufus Cameron turned pale. As said before, he was a good
deal of a coward, and being caught so unexpectedly threw him somewhat
from his mental balance.

"You--you can't have me arrested!"

"Yes, I can."

"How did you come to look for me here?"

"Mr. Garwell sent me here. He is up to your tricks."

"Did he tell you to--to have me arrested?"

"Never mind what he told me. I want that paper, and I want it right
now."

"I--I haven't got any paper. I--I don't know what you are talking
about."

"Yes, you have got that paper. You took it from me after you knocked me
down in your aunt's parlor. Isn't that so?"

As Nat finished he nodded, as if talking to somebody behind Rufus
Cameron. At once the guilty fellow turned his head to learn who was
listening to the conversation. As he did this, Nat thrust his hand in
the rascal's breast pocket, and brought forth the document which had
caused all the trouble.




CHAPTER XXII

AT THE ELEVATED STATION


"Hi, stop that!" roared Rufus Cameron, making a clutch for the document.
But before he could reach it Nat was at a safe distance. Our hero
glanced at the paper, to make certain that it was the right one, and
then put it in his pocket, and buttoned up his jacket.

"Now, Mr. Rufus Cameron, I guess we are square," said Nat, in something
a tone of triumph.

"You young thief, give me back that document," cried the man, savagely.
