"You have not been here long?" and there was more assertion than
inquiry in the tone.

"No," returned the younger woman. And then she told a part of her
story, how she had come from the east, the Atlantic coast, and that
she was governess to the child, and housekeeper. "Did the Señora know
a family by the name of Vanegas?"

"Ah, yes, they were old friends. Two daughters, admirable girls,
devoted to their mother, who had suffered much and whose husband had
made away with most of the estates. There was an American lady in her
house, she rented two rooms."

"A friend of mine. She came from the same place, and we have known
each other from girlhood."

Then the ice was broken, and Miss Holmes in a certain manner was
vouched for, which rather amused her, yet she accepted the Spanish
woman's pride. Many of them felt as if they had been banished from
their own land by these usurpers. Others accepted the new order of
things, and joined heart and soul in the advancement of the place, the
advancement of their own fortunes also. But these were mostly men. The
prejudice of the women died harder.

The children were in a group at one of the little hillocks, much
amused it would seem by their laughter. And the two women patched up a
bit of friendship which they both needed, seeing they were near
neighbors, and interested in the education of young people, Miss
Holmes listened to what the elder woman said and did not contradict or
call the ideas old-fashioned. After all it was very like some of her
old grandmother's strictures, and she was a staunch Puritan. What
would she have said to women who had not yet reached middle life, and
had planned to go to a strange land to seek their fortunes!

The Señora was so well satisfied that she asked Miss Holmes to come
and take coffee and sweetmeats with her the next afternoon.

Oh, how lovely the hills and vales were as they wandered homeward. For
now it was the time of growth and bloom and such sweetness in the air
that Marian Holmes thought of the gales of Araby the blest. Truly it
was an enchanted land. The birds were filling the air with melody,
here and there a farmer or gardener, for there was fine cultivated
lands about the foothills, and even higher up there were great patches
of green where some one would reap a harvest, garden stuff waving or
running about rich with melon blooms, here the blue of the wild
forget-me-nots and the lupines. And further on flocks of sheep
nibbling the tufts of grass or alfalfa. Some one was singing a song, a
rich, young voice:

     "Oh, Susanna, don't you cry for me,
     I'm goin' to California with my banjo on my knee."

Here and there in a clump of trees was a dark shadow, and the long
slant rays betokened the coming of evening. It gave one a luxurious
emotion, as if here was the true flavor of life.

Miss Holmes was feeling a little sorry for those swept off of their
own land, as it were.

"What have they been doing with it these hundreds of years?" asked
Jason Chadsey. "Even the Indians they have pretended to educate are
little better off for their civilization. And think how the gold lay
untouched in the hills! Spain still has the Philippines with all her
treasures."

It rained the next morning with a musical patter on everything, and
little rivulets ran down the steps. Then it suddenly lighted up and
all San Francisco was glorified. Pablo, an old Mexican, came to work
in the little garden patch. Laverne said her lessons, then went out to
find her squirrels and talk to her birds who came to enjoy the repast
of crumbs, and then went hunting bugs and worms for their importunate
babies. And at last they were making ready for their walk.

"It is nice to go out visiting," Laverne said, as she danced along,
for the sunshine and the magnetic air had gotten into the child's
feet. "We have been nowhere but at Mrs. Dawson's."

"And Miss Gaines."

"Oh, that isn't really visiting. Just a little cake and fruit on a
