“Poverty,” he said, cheerfully.

Catalina was furious with herself, the more so as she had descended to
the level of her cousins, whom she secretly despised as snobs. She did
not know how to extricate herself from the position she had assumed, and
answered, lamely:

“Poverty? You don’t look poor.”

“Only my debts keep me from being a pauper.”

“And you don’t mind travelling third?”

“Mind? It’s comfortable enough; as comfortable as sleeping on the
ground.”

Catalina’s face illumined. For the first time it occurred to him that
she might be pretty. She forgot the awkward subject, and asked, eagerly:

“Were you in the Boer War?”

“Yes.”

“All through it?”

“Pretty well.”

“Do tell me about it. I never before met any one who had been in the
Boer War, and it interested me tremendously.”

“There’s nothing to tell but what you must have read in the papers.”

“I suppose that is an affectation of modesty.”

“Not at all. Nothing is so commonplace as war. There is nothing in it to
make conversation about.”

“But you lost such a dreadful number of officers!”

“We had plenty to spare—could have got along better with less.”

His cheerfulness was certainly unaffected. The two pairs of dark eyes
watched each other narrowly, his keen and amused, hers with their stolid
surface and slumbering fires.

“But you were wounded!” she said, triumphantly.

“Never was hit in my life.”

“But you have been ill!”

“Oh, ill, fast enough—rheumatism.”

Her eyes softened. “Ah, sleeping on the damp ground!”

“No. Drink.”

For a moment the sullen fires in Catalina boiled high, then her eyes
caught the sparkle in his and she burst into a ringing peal of laughter.
She laughed rarely, and when she did her whole being vibrated to the
buoyancy of youth.

“Well,” she said, gayly, “I hope you have reformed. The Moultons are
temperance—rabid—and I had rheumatism once from camping out. I had to
set my teeth for a week. Then I went to a sulphur spring and cured it.
But I am hungry. Isn’t there a restaurant here, somewhere?”

“I was about to suggest a visit to the Café Miramar. It is only a step
from here.”

A few minutes later they sat at a little table on the terrace, and while
Captain Over ordered the coffee and rolls Catalina forgot him and stared
out over the vast blue sparkle of the Mediterranean. Above, the air had
drifted from gold to pink—a soft, vague pink, stealing away before the
mounting sun. She had pushed back her hat and coat, and the soft collar
of her blouse showed a youthful column upon which her head was proudly
set. She wore no hair on her fine, open brow, but the knot at the base
of the neck was rich in color. Her complexion, without red to break its
magnolia tint, was flawless even in that searching light. Her beautiful
eyes were vacant for the moment, and her nose, while delicate, was
