What a vision greeted my eye!  The decorations were in red and yellow,
and it seemed as though perpetual autumnal sunset lay over everything.
At the far end of the room was a small stage hidden behind palms and
giant ferns.  The band was just striking up A Summer Night in Munich,
and a wonderful kaleidoscope revolved around me.  I saw Cavaliers and
Roundheads, Puritans and Beelzebubs, Musketeers, fools, cowboys,
Indians, kings and princes; queens and empresses, fairies and Quaker
maids, white and black and red and green dominoes.  Tom Fool's night,
indeed!
Presently I saw the noble Doge of Venice coming my way.  From his
portly carriage I reasoned that if he wasn't in the gold-book of Venice
he stood very well up in the gold-book of New York, He stopped at my
side and struck an attitude.
"Pax vobiscum!" said I, bowing.
"Be at the Inquisition Chamber, directly the clock strikes the midnight
hour," he said mysteriously.
"I shall be there to deliver the supreme interrogation," I replied.
"It is well."  He drifted away like a stately ship.
Delightful foolery!  I saw the Jesuit, and moved toward him.
"Disciple of Loyola, hast thou the ten of hearts?"
"My hearts number nine, for I have lost one to the gay Columbine."
"I breathe!  Thou art not he whom I seek."
We separated.  I was mortally glad that Columbine had made a mistake.
The women always seek the monk at a masquerade; they want absolution
for the follies they are about to commit.  A demure Quakeress touched
my sleeve in passing.
"Tell me, grave monk, why did you seek the monastery?"
"My wife fell in love with me,"--gloomily.
"Then you have a skeleton in the clothes-press?"
"Do I look like a man who owned such a thing as a clothes-press, much
less so fashionable a thing as a family skeleton?"
"Then what do you here?"
"I am mingling with fools as a penance."
A fool caught me by the sleeve and batted me gaily over the head with a
bladder.
"Merry come up, why am I a fool?"
"It is the fashion," was my answer.  This was like to gain me the
reputation of being a wit.  I must walk carefully, or these thoughtless
ones would begin to suspect there was an impostor among them.
"Aha!"  There was mine ancient friend Julius.  "Hail Caesar!"
He stopped.
"Shall I beware the Ides of March?" I asked jovially.
"Nay, my good Cassius; rather beware of the ten of hearts," said Caesar
in hollow tones, and he was gone.
The ten of hearts again!  Hang the card!  And then with a sigh of
relief I recollected that in all probability he, like Columbine, had
heard me call out the card to Hamilton.  Still, the popularity of the
card was very disquieting.  I wished it had been seven or five; there's
luck in odd numbers. . . .  A Blue Domino!  My heart leaped, and I
thought of the little ticket in my waistcoat pocket.  A Blue Domino!
If, by chance, there should be a connection between her and the ticket!
She was sitting all alone in a corner near-by, partly screened by a pot
of orange-trees.  I crossed over and sat down by her side.  This might
prove an adventure worth while.
"What a beautiful night it is!" I said.
She turned, and I caught sight of a wisp of golden hair.
"That is very original," said she.  "Who in the world would have
thought of passing comments on the weather at a masque!  Prior to this
moment the men have been calling me all sorts of sentimental names."
"Oh, I am coming to that.  I am even going to make love to you."
She folded her hands,--rather resignedly, I thought,--and the
rollicking comedy began.
III
When they give you a mask at a ball they also give you the key to all
manner of folly and impudence.  Even stupid persons become witty, and
the witty become correspondingly daring.  For all I knew, the Blue
Domino at my side might be Jones' wife, or Brown's, or Smith's, or even
Green's; but so long as I was not certain, it mattered not in what
direction my whimsical fancy took me.  (It is true that ordinarily
Jones and Brown and Smith and Green do not receive invitations to
attend masquerades at fashionable hunt clubs; but somehow they seem to
worry along without these equivocal honors, and prosper.  Still, there
are persons in the swim named Johnes and Smythe and Browne and Greene.
Pardon this parenthesis!)
As I recollected the manner in which I had self-invited the pleasure of
my company to this carnival at the Blankshire Hunt Club, I smiled
behind my mask.  Nerves!  I ought to have been a professor of clinics
instead of an automobile agent.  But the whole affair appealed to me so
strongly I could not resist it.  I was drawn into the tangle by the
very fascination of the scheme.  I was an interloper, but nobody knew
