
sentence for wliich the trembling girl prepared 
herself. 

" Make more — quickly! " cried the lady of 
caprice. " They come. I hear them. But this is 
enough for the first. Make the rest and beat with 
the molinillo as I have done, and Malia will bring 
all to the corridor. " 

She ran to her room and her mirror. Both 
were small, the former little more luxurious than 
the cell of a nun. But the roses hung over the 
window, the birds had built in the eaves, and over 
the wall the sun shone in. In one corner was an 
altar and a crucifix. If the walls were rough and 
white, they were as spotless as the hands that 
shook out and then twisted high the fine dusky 
masses of hair. When a fold had been drawn 
down over either ear, in the modest fashion of the 
California maid and wife, and the tall shell comb 
had fastened the rest, Concha instead of finishing 
the head-dress with her long Spanish pins, divested 
the stems of two half -blown roses of their thorns 
and thrust them obliquely through the knot. 
Her dress was of simple white linen made with a 
very full skirt and little round jacket, but embroidered by her own deft fingers with the color 
she loved best. She patted her frock, rolled down 



 

her sleeves, and went out to the " corridor '' 
to stand demurely behind her mother as the 
Eussians, escorted by Father Ramon Abella, rode 
into the square. 

Rezanov had intended merely to pay a call of 
ceremony upon the hospitable Argiiellos, but 
after he had dismounted and kissed the hands of 
the smiling seiiora and her beautiful daughter 
he was nothing loath to linger over a cup of 
chocolate. 

It was served out there in the shade of the 
vines. Rezanov and Concha sat on the railing, 
and the man stared over his cup at the girl with 
the roses touching her cheek and ruffling her hair. 

'' Do you like chocolate, senor! " asked 
Concha, who was not in the intellectual mood of 
yesterday. " I made it myself — I and my poor 
Eosa." 

" It is the most delectable foam I have ever 
tasted. I am interested to know that it has the 
solid foundation of a name. What is the matter 
with your Rosa? '' 

" She is an unfortunate. Her lover killed his 
wife, and it is said that she is not innocent herself. The lover serves in chains for eight years, 
and she is with us that we may make her repent 



 

and keep her from further sin. She is very unhappy and will marry the man when his punishment is over. I am very sorry for her.'' 

" Fancy you living close to a woman like that ! 
I find it detestable." 

'' Why? — if I can do her good — and make her 
happy, sometimes! " 

" Does she ever talk about her life — before she 
came here! " 

" Oh, no ; §he is far too sad. Once only, when 
