have noticed them all. Yet every woman with whom he talked felt
that his face often said more than his words.

The keen blue light in his eyes softened at Maria’s simple answer
to his contemptuous speech; the strength was in his face still, but
without the brutality. She saw, and remembered why she had loved
him too well, and when he spoke she turned away lest she should
remember more.

‘I beg your pardon for what I said. I am sorry. Please forgive me.’

‘Yes,’ she answered, ‘I can forgive that, for you did not mean it.’

She looked behind her, for she had been expecting Oderisio to come
back at any moment. The booth was so small that she could lift the
curtain without leaving the counter. She looked under it and saw
that Oderisio was gone, and she guessed that he knew something and
had seen Castiglione coming; instead of being grateful to him for
leaving her, she at first resented his going away and bit her lip;
for she was a very womanly woman, and every woman is annoyed that
any man should know any secret of hers which she has not told him.
But later, when she was thinking over what had happened, she felt
that Oderisio had done what a gentleman should, according to his
lights; for he must have known that the two had not seen each other
for years, and that such a meeting could hardly take place without
some show of feeling on one side or the other.

Castiglione thanked her gently for her answer, and was going to say
more, but she interrupted him, and suddenly began to busy herself
with a lemon and a glass.

‘I am making you a lemonade,’ she said in a low voice. ‘There are
some people we know coming to the booth. Do not turn round to look.’

The new-comers were two rather young women and a man who was not
the husband of either. Castiglione knew them too, as Maria was well
aware, and she would not have let them find him there, talking to
her, without so much as a lemonade for an excuse.

But the necessity for the small artifice, the low tone in which she
had been obliged to speak, and, above all, the close connection of
that necessity with the past, had slightly changed the situation.

‘I shall go to your house to-morrow at three o’clock,’ said
Castiglione in a tone which the approaching party could not
possibly have heard. ‘Not much sugar, if you please,’ he added very
audibly and without pausing a second.

Again she bit her lip a little, and she drew a short breath which
he heard, and she shook her head, but it was impossible to answer
him otherwise, for the three new-comers were close to the booth,
and a moment later they were greeting her and Castiglione. The man
was one of the now numerous Saracinesca tribe, a married son of
the gigantic old Marchese di San Giacinto, who was still alive,
and who had married Flavia Montevarchi nearly forty years earlier.
His companions were the Marchesa di Parenzo, the Roman wife of
a gentleman of Bologna, and Donna Teresa Crescenzi, whose wild
husband had been killed in a motor-car accident at last, and who
was supposed to be looking for another. The Marchesa di Parenzo
was Maria Montalto’s most faithful friend, and Donna Teresa was one
of the most accomplished gossips in Rome.

An accomplished gossip is one who tells stories which sound as if
they might be true. This kind is very dangerous.

Neither of these two ladies knew all the truth about Maria and
Castiglione; the difference between them was that the Marchesa
never talked of the story, whereas Donna Teresa had concocted a
tale which she repeated at intervals in the course of years, with
constantly increasing precision of detail and dramatic sequence,
till society had almost accepted it as an accurate account of what
had taken place.

In actual fact there was not a word of truth in it, except that
Maria and Castiglione had loved each other dearly. Donna Teresa was
a tolerably good-natured woman on the whole, however, and her story
gave Maria credit for the most splendid self-sacrifice and the most
saintly life; it represented Baldassare del Castiglione as a hero
worthy of his knightly ancestor and a perfect Galahad, so far as
Maria was concerned; and it threw every particle of the blame on
