
And Mrs. Mortimer, abandoning Captain Voucher 
by the same token, displayed certain warning notices 
perfectly comprehensive to her husband. And at first 
he was inclined to recognise defeat. 

But the general insucccss which had so faithfully 
attended him recently had aroused the long-dormant 
desire for a general review of the situation with his wife 
— perhaps even the furtive hope of some conjugal ar- 
rangement tending toward an exchange of views con- 
cerning possible alliance. 

The evening previous, to his intense disgust, host, 
hostess, and guests had retired early, in view of the 
point-shooting at dawn. For not only was there to be 
no point-shooting for him, but he had risen from the 
card-table heavily hit ; and besides, for the first time his 
apples and port had disagreed with him. 





 



As he had not risen until mid-day he was not sleepy. 
Books were an aversion equalled only by distaste for his 
own company. Irritated, bored, he had perforce sulkily 
entered the elevator and passed to his room, where there 
was nothing on earth for him to do except to thumb over 
last week's sporting periodicals and smoke himself stupid. 

But it required more than that to ensnare the goddess 
of slumber. He walked about the room, haunted of slow 
thoughts ; he stood at the rain-smeared pane, fat fingers 
resting on the glass. The richly flavoured cigar grew 
distasteful: and if he could not smoke, what, in pity's 
name, was he to do.? 

Involuntarily his distended eyes wandered to his 
wife's locked and bolted door; then he thought of Bev- 
erly Plank, and his own failure to fasten himself upon 
that anxiously over-cordial individual with his houses 
and his villas and his yachts and his investments ! 

He stepped to the switch and extinguished the lights 
in his room. Under the door, along the sill, a glimmer 
came from his wife's bed-chamber. He listened; the 
maid was still there ; so he sat down in the darkness to 
wait; and by-and-by he heard the outer bedroom door 
close, and the subdued rustle of the departing maid. 

Then, turning on his lights, he moved ponderously 
and jauntily to his wife's door and knocked discreetly. 

Leila Mortimer came to the door and opened it ; her 
hair was coiled for the night, her pretty figure outlined 
under a cascade of clinging lace. 

" What is the matter.? " she asked quietly. 

"Are you point-shooting to-morrow.?" 

" No."' 

" I wanted to chat with you." 

" I'm sorry. I'm driving to Wenniston, after break- 
fast, with Beverly Plank, and I need sleep." 





 

'' I want to talk to you," he repeated doggedly. 
