“We all gain a good deal of our wisdom by 
experience, my little girl; but now you must 
go to bed, for I think you have had enough 
excitement for one day.” 

It was quite late when Grace came down the 

next morning. “Ah! honey,” said Bridget, 
“you may be glad you did n’t go sailing with 
the girls. They were upset, and Miss Jennie 
came near getting drowned.” 

Some one stood on the porch; it was Mrs. 
Dean’s nearest neighbor, and Grace ran out 
to ask after Alice. 

“She ’s up in heaven. Miss,” answered the 
woman solemnly. “She died in the night, as 
peaceful as she always lived. If ever there 
was an angel, she is one.” 

“O Mamma !” said Grace, with her eyes full 
of tears, “it is better to make others happy 
than to be thinking only of one’s self. I am 
so glad now !” 

And when she looked on Alice Dean’s still 
white face, she prayed that she might be less 
selfish and more thoughtful for the happiness 
of those around her. 



The Crosby boys knew little Miss 
Wing by sight — she went to the 
same church, and had a seat in the 
same aisle, nearer down by the door. 
An odd, quaint body, not larger than a girl of 
fourteen, with white side-curls done upon 
combs — once they had been flaxen. Her face 
was wrinkled, but her step retained all its 
youthful quickness, though her voice had a 
little cracked sound. 

Then she lived in the same street. A nest 
of a cottage, painted brown, but overgrown 
with vines; one large window full of flowers 
in winter, and in summer the prettiest garden 
for the size that you could imagine. It was 
Miss Wing’s delight. Early and late, you 
might find her working in it. Then she had an 
enormous Angora cat, a dainty little King 



Charles spaniel, and canary birds by the doz- 
ens. Here she lived with old black Hannah, 
her one servant-maid, for she had come here 
with her father when she was quite a young 
girl. 

At that time the place had been country in- 
deed. Now the city was stretching out to it. 
People of means had built pretty villas and 
cottages along the street, and it had become 
quite stylish. The Crosbys lived at the end 
nearer the city. 

One day Miss Wing had a letter from her 
cousin, who was a traveling agent for a com- 
mercial house; a widower with an only son, 
thirteen years of age. 

‘I want to send Frank to you,” he wrote; 
‘‘and please do not refuse me. He has been 
two years at boarding-school, and has given 
out — he always was rather delicate. The doctor 
says he must spend at least six months in 
the country, running about, and hardly looking 
inside a book. None of his mother’s 
