He would not send out messengers to ask for his master at the houses
of the Venetian merchants, or at their places of business, for he had
a true Italian's instinct to conceal from the outer world everything
that happens in the house. Yet he found himself in a dilemma; for Zeno
had invited Sebastian Polo, his wife and his daughter, and other
friends to dinner, and they would come, and be amazed to find that he
was not there to receive them. Yet if word were sent to them not to
come, Zeno might return in time and be justly angry; and then he would
call the poor secretary something worse than a cackling hen. It was a
terrible difficulty, and all the servants and slaves downstairs were
chattering about it like magpies, except when the secretary was just
passing. The cook sent to ask whether he was to prepare the dinner.

'Certainly,' answered Omobono. 'The master is no doubt gone out on
pressing business, and will be back in plenty of time to receive his
friends.'

He tried to speak calmly, poor man, but he was in a terrible stew.
Anxiety had brought out two round red spots on his grey cheeks; for
once his trim beard was almost ruffled, and his small round eyes were
haggard and bloodshot.

As the time for the arrival of the guests drew near, he felt his brain
reeling, and the rooms whirled round him, till he felt that the
universe was going raving mad, and that he was in the very centre of
it. Still Zoë slept, and still the master did not come.

At last there was but half an hour left. Omobono strained every nerve
he possessed, and determined to meet the tremendous difficulty in a
way that should elicit Zeno's admiration. He would receive the ladies
and gentlemen as major-duomo, he would make an excuse for his master,
he would instal them in their places at table, and would direct the
service. Of the cook and the cellar the little man felt quite sure,
and that was a great consolation in his extremity. If he gave Zeno's
friends of the best, and made a polite apology, and saw that nothing
went wrong, it would be impossible to ask more of him or to suggest
that he had failed in his duty. When the guests were gone he would go
to bed and have an attack of fever; of that he felt quite sure, but
then the terrible ordeal would be over, and it would be a relief to
lie on his back and feel very ill.

He retired and dressed himself in his best clothes. His cloth hose
were of a dark wine colour, but were now a little loose for his legs.
He looked at them affectionately as he examined them in the light.
They recalled many cheerful hours and some proud moments; they
remembered also the days when his little legs had not been so thin.
Yet by pulling them up almost to the tearing point they lost in width
what they gained in length, and made a very good appearance after all,
for he secured them by an ingenious contrivance of belt and string. It
was true that when he walked he felt as if he were being lifted from
the floor by the back of his waistband, but that only made him feel a
little taller than he was, and forced him to hold himself very
straight, which was a distinct advantage.

Now in all this trouble it never occurred to him that his master was
in any great danger or trouble, much less that he might have been
killed in some mad adventure. Carlo Zeno had lived through such
desperate perils again and again, that Omobono had formed the habit of
believing him to be indestructible, if not invulnerable, and sure to
fall on his feet whatever happened. The secretary only wished he would
not choose to disappear on the very day when he had asked five friends
to dine with him.

Omobono stood in his fine clean shirt and his wine-coloured hose,
combing and smoothing his beard carefully with the help of a little
mirror no bigger than the bottom of a tumbler. The glass was indeed so
small that he could only get an impression of his whole face by moving
the thing about, from his chin to his nose, from one cheek to the
other, and from his forehead to his thin throat, round which he
admired the neatly fitting line of the narrow linen collar. But this
last effort required a good deal of squinting, for the point of his
beard was in the way.

While he was thus engaged some one tapped at his door, and a small
voice informed him that Kokóna Arethusa was now awake, and wished to
see him instantly. Though the door was not opened by the speaker,
Omobono hastily laid down his glass and his comb, and struggled into
his tunic as if his life depended on his getting it on before he
answered; for he was a very modest man, and the voice was a girl's;
moreover, he was aware that the device of belt and strings by which
