“ I want my cousin a little while, to upbraid 
her for all her late neglect of me." 

“ You must blame that to the acquiring of 
much senior wisdom, and to farewell teas and 
talks and a play I had to take part in.” 

There was another grave matter that she 
could not explain. 

No one made any demur. Helen was 
gratified to have an opportunity to talk over 




family matters. She did pity poor Aurelia’s 
sad mistake. 

“ Silas is a good, commonplace fellow, and 
a sharp, stirring wife, like mother, might make 
something out of him. That isn’t any reflec- 
tion on father, for though mother doesn't rate 
the Mulford virtues very highly, Jen and I, 
and I think Fanny, also, have father’s kind of 
easy-going ways. We sort of finish up the 
day’s work and go on to the next, and don’t 
drag in yesterday and last week and bewail 
what couldn't have been accomplished, anyway. 
I make Silas real useful, but he is the sort of 
fellow who will never do anything for him- 
self, make any advance, or strike out in am- 
bitious ways. There are a good many such 
people in the world, I find, with a capacity 
for work that never seems to accomplish any 
real thing.” 

Yes, that was true enough. 

“ And now tell me about your affairs. 
Helen; you can’t think how interested I am 
in girls who want to know something of the 
higher knowledge. So many are frivolous 
and just thinking of the present pleasures, as 


 

if there were no years to come for which they 
must store up mental provision. You have 
written only such a little. What is Miss 
Morse like? Her brother is fine, isn’t he? 
He is the sort of man that gives you an idea, 
and puts it in such shape that you must think 
about it. And the girls — of course you have 
met almost every variety, but there must be 
some fine ones among them. I don’t suppose 
you ever felt hungry to hear about outside 
people ? ” 

“ I can understand the feeling, though. 
And Nat, I'll try to do better. There was the 
death of my friend, and then her father — ” 

“ Was she as fine as Miss Craven ? I think 
she is just splendid.” 

“ She wasn’t as fine and earnest to fill a 
place in the world, but she was very pretty and 
charming. And a curious little body has 
fallen in love with me at college, writes the 
daintiest verses to me ; and she isn't a gener- 
ally effusive girl, either.” 

“ Oh, isn't that queer ! And about the 
play? Why, it was almost like the theatre! 
I wish there was some place here a fellow 



