would never have opened to his knock. Even as it was, he was persona
non grata to the millionaire, who was mad for a duke in the family.
Besides, Cavenaugh had his suspicions of any lawyer who grubbed outside
the breastworks.

Some doves circled above a church-spire a few streets over the way,
breaking the sunbeams against their polished wings. Finally they settled
on the slate roof and fell to strutting and waddling and swelling their
breasts pompously. Carrington opened and refolded the document, but he
did not take his eyes from the doves. What should he do? What ill wind
had blown this thing into his doorway? Nothing had warned him of the
impending tangle. Until two days ago Cavenaugh was at the other end of
the world, so far as his investigations at that time were concerned.

He struck a match. The sliver of pine flared palely in the sunshine,
writhed and dropped, black and charred, to the floor. He shrugged his
shoulders. Chivalry of this sort was not the order of the day. There was
something stronger than the voice of duty, something stronger than the
voice of the heart; it was the voice of pity, which urged its appeal for
the hundreds of men and women who had invested their all in the
Cavenaugh concerns. The thought of their ultimate ruin, should Cavenaugh
be permitted to pursue his course unchecked, bore heavily upon him. No,
he could not do it. He must fight, even if he lost his all in the
battle. It is a fine thing to right a wrong. All the great victories in
the world have been won for others than the victors. That Cavenaugh was
the father of the girl he loved must have no weight on the scales of
justice.

Resolutely he thrust the document into his coat pocket, closed his desk
and relighted his cigar. In that moment he had mapped out his plan of
action. That very night he would lay the whole thing very clearly before
the girl herself, and whatever decision she made, he would stand or fall
by it, for he knew her to be the soul of honor.

Poor girl! It was a heart-breaking business. How in the world should he
begin, and where should he stop? Ah, that was it! He would lay the
matter before her in a manner that would conceal the vital nearness of
the case, as if it were some client of his who was unknown to her. And
when she had judged the case, he would speak the bald truth. It would be
a cruel blow, but nevertheless he must deal it. She loved her father,
and after his own peculiar fashion her father loved her. She was the
only one in the family who could wheedle him out of a purpose; to the
rest of the family his word was law immutable. It was very hard, sighed
Carrington. For the father he had neither pity nor sympathy; there were
many ugly tales about his financial dealings; but his whole heart went
out unreservedly to the girl.

When Carrington had gone to Cavenaugh, his heart in his throat, to speak
to him relative to his daughter's hand, he unwittingly knocked off the
top of a volcano.

"Marry my daughter?" Cavenaugh roared, emphasizing his wrath and
disapproval with a bang of fist upon palm. "My daughter shall marry only
among her equals, not among her inferiors. A king is not good enough for
my Kate." There was another bang of the fist, decided and final. "A
lawyer? Not if I know myself. I wouldn't trust a lawyer out of sight,"
bluntly. "Kate shall marry a duke or a prince, if I can find one
suitable."

Carrington would have smiled had the moment been less serious.

"No man can possibly appreciate her worth more readily than I, sir," he
replied, "or love her more dearly."

"Love?" with a snort. "Twaddle out of story-books!"

"But you yourself love her."

"I'm her father," Cavenaugh returned complacently, adding a gesture
which had the effect of describing the fact that it was perfectly
logical for a father to love his daughter, but that it wasn't logical at
all for any other male biped to love her.

"I am sorry," said the disheartened suitor, rising. "I suppose that
after this unpleasant interview ..."

"Oh, you're a decent sort," interrupted Cavenaugh generously; "and if
you are of a mind to behave yourself hereafter, you will always find a
chair at my table. But my daughter is not for you, sir, emphatically
not. That is all, sir;" and Cavenaugh picked up his evening paper.
