indolent, dishonest, mendacious, and all that Plato long ago explained
that slaves must be; but in the middle-class families they are mostly
faithful, diligent, and reliable in a degree that would put to shame most
men who hold positions of trust, and would leave many ladies whom they
relieve of work without ground for comparison.
IX
After Mrs. Makely had told me about the New York house, we began to talk
of the domestic service, and I ventured to hint some of the things that I
have so plainly said to you. She frankly consented to my whole view of
the matter, for if she wishes to make an effect or gain a point she has a
magnanimity that stops at nothing short of self-devotion. “I know it,”
 she said. “You are perfectly right; but here we are, and what are we to
do? What do you do in Altruria, I should like to know?”
I said that in Altruria we all worked, and that personal service was
honored among us like medical attendance in America; I did not know what
other comparison to make; but I said that any one in health would think
it as unwholesome and as immoral to let another serve him as to let a
doctor physic him. At this Mrs. Makely and her husband laughed so that I
found myself unable to go on for some moments, till Mrs. Makely, with a
final shriek, shouted to him: “Dick, do stop, or I shall die! Excuse me,
Mr. Homos, but you are so deliciously funny, and I know you’re just
joking. You won’t mind my laughing? Do go on.”
I tried to give her some notion as to how we manage, in our common life,
which we have simplified so much beyond anything that this barbarous
people dream of; and she grew a little soberer as I went on, and seemed
at least to believe that I was not, as her husband said, stuffing them;
but she ended, as they always do here, by saying that it might be all
very well in Altruria, but it would never do in America, and that it was
contrary to human nature to have so many things done in common. “Now,
I’ll tell you,” she said. “After we broke up housekeeping in Thirty-third
Street, we stored our furniture--”
“Excuse me,” I said. “How--stored?”
“Oh, I dare say you never store your furniture in Altruria. But here we
have hundreds of storage warehouses of all sorts and sizes, packed with
furniture that people put into them when they go to Europe, or get sick
to death of servants and the whole bother of house-keeping; and that’s
what we did; and then, as my husband says, we browsed about for a year
or two. First, we tried hotelling it, and we took a hotel apartment
furnished, and dined at the hotel table, until I certainly thought I
should go off, I got so tired of it. Then we hired a suite in one of the
family hotels that there are so many of, and got out enough of our
things to furnish it, and had our meals in our rooms; they let you do
that for the same price, often they are glad to have you, for the
dining-room is so packed. But everything got to tasting just the same as
everything else, and my husband had the dyspepsia so bad he couldn’t half
attend to business, and I suffered from indigestion myself, cooped up in
a few small rooms, that way; and the dog almost died; and finally we gave
that up, and took an apartment, and got out our things--the storage cost
as much as the rent of a small house--and put them into it, and had a
caterer send in the meals as they do in Europe. But it isn’t the same
here as it is in Europe, and we got so sick of it in a month that I
thought I should scream when I saw the same old dishes coming on the
table, day after day. We had to keep one servant--excuse me, Mr. Homos:
domestic--anyway, to look after the table and the parlor and
chamber work, and my husband said we might as well be hung for a sheep as
a lamb, and so we got in a cook; and, bad as it is, it’s twenty million
times better than anything else you can do. Servants are a plague, but
you have got to have them, and so I have resigned myself to the will of
Providence. If they don’t like it, neither do I, and so I fancy it’s
about as broad as it’s long.” I have found this is a favorite phrase of
Mrs. Makely’s, and that it seems to give her a great deal of comfort.
“And you don’t feel that there’s any harm in it?” I ventured to ask.
“Harm in it?” she repeated. “Why, aren’t the poor things glad to get the
work? What would they do without it?”
“From what I see of your conditions I should be afraid that they would
starve,” I said.
“Yes, they can’t all get places in shops or restaurants, and they have to
do something, or starve, as you say,” she said; and she seemed to think
what I had said was a concession to her position.
“But if it were your own case?” I suggested. “If you had no alternatives
but starvation and domestic service, you would think there was harm in
it, even although you were glad to take a servant’s place?”
I saw her flush, and she answered, haughtily, “You must excuse me if I
refuse to imagine myself taking a servant’s place, even for the sake of
argument.”
“And you are quite right,” I said. “Your American instinct is too strong
to brook even in imagination the indignities which seem daily, hourly,
and momently inflicted upon servants in your system.”
To my great astonishment she seemed delighted by this conclusion. “Yes,”
 she said, and she smiled radiantly, “and now you understand how it is
