Her head, sunken in her deep pillow, tossed
feverishly once or twice, but she was as composed as 
the other, and her physical weakness made this 
fact, somehow, remarkable. 

" I ought to have told you before," she added. 
" But I didn't. A gentleman doesn't explain at 
the expense of a woman — sometimes not even to 
his wife. He didn't, — did he ? " 

Carolyn shook her head. 

" I thought not. It wouldn't be like him. It's 
a pity. But it can't be helped. I 'm going to die. 
You know that, don't you ? Well, I am. And I 
had to tell you first. I had to, — don't you see ? " 

" I see," said Carolyn Dane. 

" The whole blame is mine," reiterated Mrs. Mar- 
riot. " When the devil was sick, the devil a monk 
would be. I found it inconvenient to die without 
easing you ... of that. I never did anything I 
. . . regretted more. Made up the way you are, 

 



you must have taken it . . . hard. Relieve his 
memory of that. He doesn't deserve it. Lay it on 
me — p U t it all on mine, when I am . . . floating 
about ... a clammy ghost. Lord ! " said Douce 
Marriot, "what a devil of a thing it is to die !" 

But Carolyn sat still with her face in her hands. 
For that first moment her intense personal emo- 
tion isolated her from the world and all that was 
therein ; the living or the dying were alike to her, 
spectres with which she had no concern. Then 
she uncovered her eyes, and they turned to the 
panting figure on the bed. 

" After all," she said gently, "you must have 
borne the harder end — of this." 

Douce Marriot regarded her solemnly. If she 
had wished to be forgiven, the woman of the world 
would not say so. She felt that she had received 
a nobler treatment than she had the right to 
expect ; but she did not put it to herself in this 
phrase. There are certain high-minded adjectives 
not apt to be used except by natures capable of 
that which they represent, and this may be called 
one of them. The sick woman closed her eyes 
before the subject wearily ; and Carolyn crept away. 
In the hall she met her cousin, coming from the 
great blue drawing-room. He looked something 
startled at seeing her where she was, but asked 
no questions. They met and passed with a strong 

 

and silent hand grasp, and the preacher went on, 
and up the stairs. 

" I see that you have no strength to talk. Can 
you put in a few words what it is you wish to say 
to me?" Sterling Hart sat by the elaborate bed, 
and looked with a solemn pity at its occupant. 

" It is about this business of dying," said Mrs. 
Marriot. " You understand the subject ; I do not. 
What is one to do under the circumstances ? " 

" Believe in the Lord Jesus Christ, His only 
Son, our Saviour," replied Mr. Hart, devoutly. 

" Oh, I have always been a good churchwoman," 
pleaded Mrs. Marriot. " I never doubted the doc- 
