how you feel about doing your duty, John; but now that things are so
comfortably settled, isn't it a pity to unsettle them?"

       *       *       *       *       *

Amherst had intended, on leaving his mother, to rejoin Bessy, whom he
could still discern, on the lawn, in absorbed communion with Miss Brent;
but after what had passed it seemed impossible, for the moment, to
recover the garden-party tone, and he made his escape through the house
while a trio of Cuban singers, who formed the crowning number of the
entertainment, gathered the company in a denser circle about their
guitars.

As he walked on aimlessly under the deep June shadows of Maplewood
Avenue his mother's last words formed an ironical accompaniment to his
thoughts. "Now that things are comfortably settled--" he knew so well
what that elastic epithet covered! Himself, for instance, ensconced in
the impenetrable prosperity of his wonderful marriage; herself too
(unconsciously, dear soul!), so happily tucked away in a cranny of that
new and spacious life, and no more able to conceive why existing
conditions should be disturbed than the bird in the eaves understands
why the house should be torn down. Well--he had learned at last what his
experience with his poor, valiant, puzzled mother might have taught him:
that one must never ask from women any view but the personal one, any
measure of conduct but that of their own pains and pleasures. She,
indeed, had borne undauntedly enough the brunt of their earlier trials;
but that was merely because, as she said, the mother's instinct bade her
heap all her private hopes on the great devouring altar of her son's
ambition; it was not because she had ever, in the very least, understood
or sympathized with his aims.

And Bessy--? Perhaps if their little son had lived she might in turn
have obeyed the world-old instinct of self-effacement--but now! He
remembered with an intenser self-derision that, not even in the first
surprise of his passion, had he deluded himself with the idea that Bessy
Westmore was an exception to her sex. He had argued rather that, being
only a lovelier product of the common mould, she would abound in the
adaptabilities and pliancies which the lords of the earth have seen fit
to cultivate in their companions. She would care for his aims because
they were his. During their precipitate wooing, and through the first
brief months of marriage, this profound and original theory had been
gratifyingly confirmed; then its perfect surface had begun to show a
flaw. Amherst had always conveniently supposed that the poet's line
summed up the good woman's rule of ethics: He for God only, she for God
in him. It was for the god in him, surely, that she had loved him: for
that first glimpse of an "ampler ether, a diviner air" that he had
brought into her cramped and curtained life. He could never, now, evoke
that earlier delusion without feeling on its still-tender surface the
keen edge of Mrs. Ansell's smile. She, no doubt, could have told him at
any time why Bessy had married him: it was for his beaux yeux, as Mrs.
Ansell would have put it--because he was young, handsome, persecuted, an
ardent lover if not a subtle one--because Bessy had met him at the fatal
moment, because her family had opposed the marriage--because, in brief,
the gods, that day, may have been a little short of amusement. Well,
they were having their laugh out now--there were moments when high
heaven seemed to ring with it....

With these thoughts at his heels Amherst strode on, overtaken now and
again by the wheels of departing guests from the garden-party, and
knowing, as they passed him, what was in their minds--envy of his
success, admiration of his cleverness in achieving it, and a little
half-contemptuous pity for his wife, who, with her wealth and looks,
might have done so much better. Certainly, if the case could have been
put to Hanaford--the Hanaford of the Gaines garden-party--it would have
sided with Bessy to a voice. And how much justice was there in what he
felt would have been the unanimous verdict of her class? Was his mother
right in hinting that he was sacrificing Bessy to the mills? But the
mills were Bessy--at least he had thought so when he married her!
They were her particular form of contact with life, the expression of
her relation to her fellow-men, her pretext, her opportunity--unless
they were merely a vast purse in which to plunge for her pin-money! He
had fancied it would rest with him to determine from which of these
stand-points she should view Westmore; and at the outset she had
enthusiastically viewed it from his. In her eager adoption of his ideas
she had made a pet of the mills, organizing the Mothers' Club, laying
out a recreation-ground on the Hopewood property, and playing with
pretty plans in water-colour for the Emergency Hospital and the building
which was to contain the night-schools, library and gymnasium; but even
these minor projects--which he had urged her to take up as a means of
learning their essential dependence on his larger scheme--were soon to
