received an envelope covering a brief note to himself 
from the editor, a copy of the letter he had written to 
Verrian's unknown correspondent, and her answer in 
the original. Verrian was alone when the postman 
brought him this envelope, and he could indulge a cer- 
tain passion for method by which he read its contents 
in the order named; if his mother had been by, she 
would have made him read the girl's reply first of all. 
Armiger wrote : 
" My dear Verrian, — I enclose two exhibits which 
will possess you of all the facts in the case of the young 
lady who feared she might die before she read the end 
of your story, but who, you will be glad to find, is likely to live through the year. As the story ends in our 
October number, she need not be supplied with advance 
sheets. I am sorry the house hurried out a paragraph 
concerning the matter, but it will not be followed by another. Perhaps you will feel, as I do, that the incident 
is closed. I have not replied to the writer, and you 
need not return her letter. ,Tours ever, 
" M. Armiger." 
The editor's letter to the young lady read : 
" Dear Madam, — Mr. P. S. Verrian has handed me 
your letter of the 4th, and I need not tell you that it has 
interested us both. 
" I am almost as much gratified as he by the testimony your request bears to the importance of his work, 
and if I could have acted upon my instant feeling I 
should have had no hesitation in granting it, though it 
is so very unusual as to be, in my experience as an 
editor, unprecedented. I am sure that you would not 
have made it so frankly if you had not been prepared 
to guard in return any confidence placed in you; but 
you will realize that as you are quite unknown to us, 
we should not be justified in taking a step so unusual 
as you propose without having some guarantee besides 
that which Mr. Verrian and I both feel from the character of your letter. Simply, then, for purposes of 
identification, as the phrase is, I must beg you to ask 
the pastor of your church, or, better still, your family 
physician, to write you a line saying that he knows you, 
as a sort of letter of introduction to me. Then I will 
send you the advance proofs of Mr. Verrian's story. 
You may like to address me personally in the care of 
the magazine, and not as the editor. 
" Yours very respectfully, 
" M. Abmigeb." 
The editor's letter was dated the 6th of the month ; 
the answer, dated the 8th, betrayed tbe anxious haste of 
the writer in replying, and it was not her fault if what 
she wrote came to Verrian when he was no longer able to 
do justice to her confession. Under the address given 
in her first letter she now began, in a hand into which 
a kindlier eye might have read a pathetic perturbation : 
" Deae Sib, — I have something awful to tell you. I 
might write pages without making you think better 
of me, and I will let you think the worst at once. I 
am not what I pretended to be. I wrote to Mr. Verrian 
 
saying what I did, and asking to see the rest of his story 
on the impulse of the moment. I had been reading it, 
for I think it is perfectly fascinating; and a friend 
of mine, another girl, and I got together trying to guess 
how he would end it, and we began to dare each other 
to write to him and ask. At first we did not dream of 
doing such a thing, but we went on, and just for the fun 
of it we drew lots to see which should write to him. 
The lot fell to me; but we composed that letter to- 
gether, and we put in about my dying for a joke. We 
never intended to send it; but then one thing led to 
another, and I signed it with my real name and we 
sent it. We did not really expect to hear anything 
from it, for we supposed he must get lots of letters 
about his story and never paid any attention to them. 
We did not realize what we had done till I got your 
letter yesterday. Then we saw it all, and ever since 
we have been trying to think what to do, and I do not 
believe either of us has slept a moment. We have come 
to the conclusion that there was only one thing we 
could do, and that was to tell you just exactly how it 
happened and take the consequences. But there is no 
reason why more than one person should be brought into 
it, and so I will not let my friend sign this letter with 
me, but I will put my own name alone to it. You may 
