“Johnny Price?” said the great lady. “Yes, I know him. It all
depends whether you are going to have him for a friend or an enemy.
His mother was Irish, and he is built after her. If he happens to
take a fancy to you, he’ll die for you; and if you make him hate
you, you will hear a greater variety of epithets than you ever
supposed the language contained.--I first met him in Washington,”
 Mrs. Billy went on, reminiscently; “that was fifteen years ago, when
my brother was in Congress. I think I told you once how Davy paid
forty thousand dollars for the nomination, and went to Congress. It
was the year of a Democratic landslide, and they could have elected
Reggie Mann if they had felt like it. I went to Washington to live
the next winter, and Price was there with a whole army of lobbyists,
fighting for free silver. That was before the craze, you know, when
silver was respectable; and Price was the Silver King. I saw the
inside of American government that winter, I can assure you.”

“Tell me about it,” said Montague.

“The Democratic party had been elected on a low tariff platform,”
 said Mrs. Billy; “and it sold out bag and baggage to the
corporations. Money was as free as water--my brother could have got
his forty thousand back three times over. It was the Steel crowd
that bossed the job, you know--William Roberts used to come down
from Pittsburg every two or three days, and he had a private
telephone wire the rest of the time. I have always said it was the
Steel Trust that clamped the tariff swindle on the American people,
and that’s held it there ever since.”

“What did Price do with his silver mines?” asked Montague.

“He sold them,” said she, “and just in the nick of time. He was on
the inside in the campaign of ‘96, and I remember one night he came
to dinner at our house and told us that the Republican party had
raised ten or fifteen million dollars to buy the election. ‘That’s
the end of silver,’ he said, and he sold out that very month, and
he’s been freelancing it in Wall Street ever since.”

“Have you met him yet?” asked Mrs. Billy, after a pause.

“Not yet,” he answered.

“He’s a character,” said she. “I’ve heard Davy tell about the first
time he struck New York--as a miner, with huge wads of greenbacks in
his pockets. He spent his money like a ‘coal-oil Johnny,’ as the
phrase is--a hundred-dollar bill for a shine, and that sort of
thing. And he’d go on the wildest debauches; you can have no idea of
it.”

“Is he that kind of a man?” said Montague.

“He used to be,” said the other. “But one day he had something the
matter with him, and he went to a doctor, and the doctor told him
something, I don’t know what, and he shut down like a steel trap.
Now he never drinks a drop, and he lives on one meal a day and a cup
of coffee. But he still goes with the old crowd--I don’t believe
there is a politician or a sporting-man in town that Johnny Price
does not know. He sits in their haunts and talks with them until all
sorts of hours in the morning, but I can never get him to come to my
dinner-parties. ‘My people are human,’ he will say; ‘yours are
sawdust.’ Sometime, if you want to see New York, just get Johnny
Price to take you about and introduce you to his bookmakers and
burglars!”

Montague meditated for a while over his friend’s picture. “Somehow
or other,” he said, “it doesn’t sound much like the president of a
hundred-million-dollar corporation.”

“That’s all right,” said Mrs. Billy, “but Price will be at his desk
bright and early the next morning, and every man in the office will
be there, too. And if you think he won’t have his wits about him,
just you try to fool him on some deal, and see. Let me tell you a
little that I know about the fight he has made with the Mississippi
Steel Company.” And she went on to tell. The upshot of her telling
was that Montague borrowed the use of her desk and wrote a note to
Stanley Ryder. “From my inquiries about John S. Price, I gather that
he makes steel. With the understanding that I am to make a railroad
and carry his steel, I have concluded to accept your proposition,
subject, of course, to a satisfactory arrangement as to terms.”


