
"But if it happened in the night?"

"We won't go and live on an island," he said with a smile.

It was rougher going back, but not bad enough to cause any alarm. The
wind had died down, but the swells were coming in. They stopped at
Gloucester and took on some boxes and great planks, and several pieces
of furniture.

"There's enough old truck in Salem now," declared Captain Green
ungraciously. "'F I had my way I'd turn it out on the Common and put a
match to it. Now there's the Hibbins--came over in 1680 and brought
their housen goods. There wan't any way of makin' 'em then but just
outen rough logs. An' now the old granma'am's died and 'twas her
mother's, I b'lieve, and Mis' Hibbins she's just gone crazy over it. And
they're buildin' a fine new house. Strange how Salem's buildin' up!
Those East Ingy traders do make lots of money. But before I'd have that
old truck in my nice new house!" And the captain gave a snort of
disdain.

He did not dream that before another hundred years had passed there
would be comparative fortunes made in the old truck.

"We'll be a little late gettin' in, but there'll be a moon. Lucky wind
ain't dead agin us."

How good the supper tasted, for Cynthia was very hungry. And then they
went on and on, hugging the shore, the captain said, until it was a kind
of shadowy waving blur, but on the other side most beautiful. It made
her think of coming from India, but she was glad to see the vague
outline of the shore.

The captain was much surprised that she had been such a traveller. He
had been to New York and all around Long Island, and up as far as Nova
Scotia. The Bay of Fundy was wonderful, with its strange dangerous
tides.

"We will go there another summer," Chilian said, holding her hand, and
she returned the soft pressure.

"I was 'most afraid something had happened." Eunice had gone down the
street to meet them. "But it's clear as a bell and no wind to speak of,
and the captains of the coasting vessels know every inch of the way."

"Only just lovely things happened. It's been splendid. But I'm hungry
again. Can't I have a second supper?"

How different she looked from the little girl who had come to him for
care and friendship. And he had been rather unwilling to accept her. She
was growing tall, and--yes, really pretty.

They had one more excursion to Winter Island. Why, it seemed as if they
were building ships enough for the whole world. And there were the
fisheries, and the curious musical singing, not really words, but sort
of detached sounds that floated off in a weird kind of way.

After that school again. She was glad to see the girls, and Madam Torrey
gave her a warm welcome, saying, "Why, Miss Cynthia, how tall you have
grown!"

"I'm very glad," she said smilingly. "All the Leveretts are tall, but I
don't ever want to be very large."

"And she had really been to Boston! Was it so much handsomer than Salem?
They had a real theatre, and parties, and balls. Sadie Adams' big
sister was going to spend the whole winter there."

Chilian Leverett decided to alter his house a little. The two rooms at
the back had always seemed crowded up, though Elizabeth preferred a
separate one so long as they connected. But he had the memory of the
poor drawn face, as he had seen it the morning of her seizure. Wouldn't
Eunice recall it as well?

"I think I will make some alterations," he announced to her. "I'll push
that upstairs room out over the summer kitchen and make it a good deal
larger. While they are doing it, Eunice, you had better go over the
other side and let Mrs. Taft take your room."

She assented, though she thought the house and the rooms were large
