
'No, hear me!' she cried anxiously. 'I offered God my life and my
strength for your sake, and if I have done any good here in five
years, as novice and nun, it has been in the hope that it might be
accepted for you, if your soul needed it. Though you may not believe
in such things, do you at least understand me?'

'Indeed I do, and I am grateful--most grateful.'

She was a little disappointed by his tone, for he spoke with an
evident effort.

'It was gladly given,' she said. 'But now you have come back to
life----'

She hesitated. With all her courage and strength, she could not quite
control her memory, and the words she had prepared so carefully were
suddenly confused. Giovanni completed the sentence for her in his own
way.

'I have come to life to find you dead for me, as I have been dead for
you. Is that what you were going to say?'

She was still hesitating.

'Was it that?' he insisted.

'No,' she answered, at last. 'Not dead for you--alive for you.'

He would have caught at a straw, and the joy came into his face as he
quickly held out his hand to her; but she would not take it: hers were
both hidden under her white cloth scapular and she shrank from him.
The light went out of his eyes.

'I might have known!' he said, deeply disappointed. 'You do not mean
it. I suppose you will explain that you are alive to pray for me!'

'You promised to listen quietly, whatever I might say.'

'Yes.' He controlled himself. 'I will,' he added, after a moment. 'Go
on.'

'I am not changed,' said Sister Giovanna, 'but my life is. That is
what I meant by the inevitable. No person can undo what I have
done'--Giovanni moved impatiently--'no power can loose me from my vows.'

In spite of himself, the man's temper broke out.

'You are mad,' he answered roughly, 'or else you do not know that you
can be free.'

'Hush!' cried the nun, trying once more to check him. 'Your
promise--remember it!'

'I break it! I will not listen meekly to such folly! Before you took
the vow, you had given me your word, as I gave you mine, that we would
be man and wife, and since I am not dead, no promise or oath made
after that is binding! I know that you love me still, as you did then,
and if you will not try to free yourself, then by all you believe, and
by all I honour, I will set you free!'

It was a challenge if it was not a threat, and Sister Giovanna
defended herself as she could. But she was painfully conscious that
something in her responded with a thrill to the cry of the pursuer.
Nevertheless, she answered with a firm refusal.

'You cannot make me do what I will not,' she said.

'I can and I will!' he retorted vehemently. 'It is monstrous that you
should be bound by a promise made in ignorance, under a wretched
mistake, on a false report that I was dead!'

'We were not even formally betrothed----'

'We loved each other,' interrupted Giovanni, 'and we had told each
other so. That is enough. We belong to each other just as truly as if
we were man and wife----'

'Even if we were,' said the nun, interrupting him in her turn, 'if I
had taken my vows in the belief that my husband had been dead for
