it is the same with Archie. Oh, let me live my own quiet life with
father and mother----"

"And never marry?"

"Not for years to come, perhaps never. I am not afraid of being called
an old maid. For Miss Wharton was delightful and merry, and like a
mother to me, though I shall not be as gay and fond of good times. I
like quiet and my own pretty dreams, and to talk with the birds and
squirrels in the woods, and the lambs in the fields, and sometimes
great-grandfather comes back."

Her face was partly turned away, and had a rapt expression. He was
walking moodily up and down. Why was she so different from most girls?
And yet he loved her. She might outgrow this--was it childishness?

"Well," with a long sigh, "I will wait. If it is not Archie----"

"It is no one. And when some nice girl loves you--oh, Ned, you should
find some nice sweet girl, who will be glad of your love. I think
girls are when they meet with the right one. And do not think of me in
that way."

"I shall think of you in that way all the rest of my life. And if you
do not marry, I shall not marry either."

Then there was a long silence.

"Shall we go on?" she asked timidly.

"The walk is spoiled. It doesn't matter now;" moodily.

"Oh, Ned, let us be friends again. I cannot bear to have any one angry
with me. No one ever is but grandad, when we talk about the country or
the whiskey tax," and she laughed, but it was half-heartedly.

What a child she was, after all. For a moment or two he fancied he did
not care so much, but her sweet face, her lovely eyes, the dainty
hands hanging listlessly at her side, brought him back to his
allegiance.

They walked on, but the glory had gone out of the day, the hope in his
heart, the simple gladness of hers. Then the wind began to blow up
chilly, and dark clouds were drifting about. She shivered.

"Are you cold? Perhaps we had better go back?"

"Well"--in a sort of resigned tone. Then, after a pause--"Are you very
angry with me?"

"Perhaps not angry--disappointed. I had meant to have such a nice
time."

"I am sorry. If I could have guessed, I would not have agreed to
come."

They paused at the gate. No, he would not come in. The fine face
betrayed disappointment.

"But you will come sometime, when you have quite forgiven me," and the
adorable tenderness in her tone reawakened hope. After all, Archie was
not looking forward to marriage. Jeffrey Andsdell had not even entered
his mind.

She went in, and threw aside her hat.

"Did you have a nice walk? You came back soon."

"No, I did not. Ned neither." She went and stood straight before her
mother, pale, yet with a certain dignity.

"You did not quarrel, I hope. Is it true he is charmed by Bessy?"

"He asked me to love him. He wants to marry me;" in a tone that was
almost a cry.

"Well?" subjoined her mother. The young lieutenant was a favorite with
her, worth any girl's acceptance, in her estimation.

"I--I don't understand about love. To give away your whole life, years
