and admonitory of the living, when the poor mortal house of clay had
mouldered in the grave for half a year. I actually knew of one funeral
of a wife that was postponed by untoward circumstances until, when
a sympathizing community was convoked to listen to the sermon, the
ex-widower sat in the front seat as chief mourner with a second wife
and her baby beside him. And the wife wore a black gown with black
ribbon on her bonnet, out of respect to her predecessor!

They were whites, and church members in good and regular standing.

Little Edgar died the day after my father took the train from Richmond
for the fast run through to Boston—in two days and two nights! When
the master got home after a month’s absence, the funeral sermon was
preached in old Petersville Church, three miles from the Court House,
on a Sunday afternoon, and the parents and elder children were conveyed
thither in the family carriage, driven by Spotswood, who would now be
the “coachman.” Then he was the “carriage-driver.” They took time for
everything then-a-days, and plenty of it.

In September, Mea and I had the culmination of our experiences and
“privileges” upon College Hill in the Hampden-Sidney Commencement. I
had never attended one before. I have seen none since that were so
grand, and none that thrilled me to the remotest fibre of my being as
the exercises of that gloriously cloudless day. I hesitate to except
even the supreme occasion when, from a box above the audience-floor
packed with two thousand students and blazing with electric lights, I
saw my tall son march with his class to receive his diploma from the
president of a great university, and greeted him joyfully when, the
ceremonial over, he brought it up to lay in my lap.

There were but four graduates in that far-off little country college
with the hyphenated name and the honored history. It may be that their
grandchildren will read the roll here: Robert Campbell Anderson, Thomas
Brown Venable, Paul Carrington, and Mr. Rice, whose initials I think
were “T. C.” There were, I reiterate, but four graduates, but they
took three honors. Robert Anderson was valedictorian; Mr. Rice of the
uncertain initials had the philosophical oration; Tom Brown Venable
had the Latin salutatory; and Paul Carrington, the one honorless man,
made the most brilliant speech of them all. It was a way he had. The
madcap of the college—who just “got through,” as it were, by the skin
of his teeth, by cramming night and day for two months to make up for
an indefinite series of wretched recitations and numberless escapades
out of class—he easily eclipsed his mates on that day of days. The boys
used to say that he was “Saul,” until he got up to declaim, or make an
original address. Then he was “Paul.” He was Pauline, par éminence,
to-day.

I could recite verbatim his lament over Byron’s wasted powers, and
I see, as if it were but yesterday that it thrilled me, the pose and
passion of the outburst, arms tossed to heaven in the declamation:

    “O! had his harp been tuned to Zion’s songs!”

Music was “rendered” by an admirably trained choir. The hour of the
brass-band had not come yet to Hampden-Sidney. And the choir rendered
sacred music—such grand old anthems as,

    “Awake! awake! put on thy strength, O Zion!
       Put on thy beautiful garments”;

and,

    “How beautiful upon the mountains
     Are the feet of him that publisheth salvation;
     That saith unto Zion,
       ‘Thy God reigneth!’”

Doctor Maxwell was the president then, and was portentous in my eyes in
his don’s gown.

Dear old Hampden-Sidney! she has arisen, renewed in youth and vigor,
from the cinders of semi-desolation, has cast aside the sackcloth and
ashes of her grass-widowhood, and stepped into the ranks of modern
progress. I like best to recall her when she maintained the prestige of
her traditional honors and refused to accept decadence as a fixed fact.




XI
