social instincts of the House of Seagrave. Educated according to my own
ideas, they must inevitably have become, in a measure, types of the set
with which they are identified.... And the only serious flaw in the
Seagraves was--weakness."

Duane nodded, looking ahead into the star-illumined night.

"I don't know. Tappan's poison may have been the antidote for them in
this case. Tell me, Kathleen, has Geraldine--suffered?"

"Yes."

"Very--much?"

"Very much, Duane. Has she said nothing about it to you in her letters?"

"Nothing since she went to town that time. Every letter flies the red
cross. Does she still suffer?"

"I don't think so. She seems so wonderfully happy--so vigorous, in such
superb physical condition. For a month I have not seen that pitiful,
haunted expression come into her eyes. And it is not mere restlessness
that drives her into perpetual motion now; it's a new delight in living
hard and with all her might every moment of the day!... She overdoes it;
you will turn her energy into other channels. She's ready for you, I
think."

They drove on in silence for a few minutes, then swung into a broader
avenue of pines. Straight ahead glimmered the lights of Roya-Neh.

Duane said naïvely: "I don't suppose I could get up to Lynx Peak camp
to-night, could I?"

Kathleen threw back her head, making no effort to control her laughter.

"It isn't necessary," she managed to explain; "I sent a messenger up the
mountain with a note to her saying that matters of importance required
her immediate return. She'll come down to-night by sleigh from The Green
Pass and Westgate Centre."

"Won't she be furious?" he inquired, with a hypocritical side glance at
Kathleen, who laughed derisively and drew in the horses under the
porte-cochère. A groom took their heads; Duane swung Kathleen clear to
the steps just as Scott Seagrave, hearing sleigh-bells, came out,
bareheaded, his dinner-jacket wide open, as though he luxuriated in the
bitter air.

"Good work!" he said. "How are you, Duane? Geraldine arrived from The
Green Pass about five minutes ago. She thinks you're sleighing,
Kathleen, and she's tremendously curious to know why you want her."

"She probably suspects," said Kathleen, disappointed.

"No, she doesn't. I began to talk business immediately, and I know she
thinks that some of Mr. Tappan's lawyers are coming. So they are--next
month," he added with a grin, and, turning on Duane:

"I think I'll begin festivities by washing your face in the snow."

"You're not man enough," remarked the other; and the next moment they
had clinched and were swaying and struggling all over the terrace, to
the scandal of the servants peering from the door.

"He's tired and half frozen!" exclaimed Kathleen; "what a brute you are
to bully him, Scott!"

"I'll include you in a moment," he panted, loosing Duane and snatching a
handful of snow. Whereupon she caught up sufficient snow to fill the
hollow of her driving glove, powdered his face thoroughly with the
feathery flakes, picked up her skirt and ran for it, knowing full well
she could expect no mercy.

Duane watched their reckless flight through the hall and upstairs, then
walked in, dropped his coat, and advanced across the heavy rugs toward
the fireplace.

On the landing above he heard Geraldine's laughter, then silence, then
her clear, careless singing as she descended the stairs:

    "Lisetto quittée la plaine,
