
But Welden, accustomed to give orders 
and not at all to receive them, cut him short. 

"Harris, show the way. Do whatever 
is required. The brandy and soda can 
wait." 

In a little, however, the liquor was forthcoming. 

"There are two of them, sir, besides the 
chief," Harris volunteered, placing, as he 
spoke, the bottles on the table. "And the 
coroner is here." 

Welden, who had seated himself, took another cigarette. Through the windows 
came the savour of salt, the scent of flowers ; 
there came, too, the bark of a dog, caught 
up and repeated. The forenoon was departing in perfect clarity and, save for an occasional footfall, save, too, for an indistinct 





murmur of voices, in a peace that was per 
fect as well. 

Shortly the silence was stirred. There 
came a rap at the door. Before Welden 
could answer, it opened. The chief entered. 
With him was a little man, with smoke- 
coloured glasses and a suit of leprous brown. 

Closing the door, the officer indicated his 
companion. "This here is Dr. Quizen- 
berry, the coroner. We're goin to ask some 
questions." 

"Sit down," said Welden. "Will you 
drink anything?" 

The chief accepted, but the coroner refused. Welden filled a tumbler which he 
gave to the former. 

He drank it noisily. "Nasty business," 
he muttered. "Damn nasty." Wiping his 
mouth and drawing a chair, he seated himself in front of Welden. "When did you 
last see yer wife?" 

"A moment before you got here. You 



 

probably mean, though, when did I last see 
her alive. That was at midnight." 

"Nothin unusual been goin on?" 

"Nothing." 

The chief gnawed moodily at a finger nail. 
His thoughts were few and slow. He was 
assisting at their laborious accouchement. 
Presently, delivered of one, he looked suspiciously at it and from it to Welden. 

"You and yer wife had separate rooms?" 

Welden nodded. 

"The man out there showed me yours, it's 
on the other side of the house." 

Again Welden nodded. 

"Durin the night you heard nothin ?" 

"Nothing whatever. But in regard to my 
domestic arrangements you may have no 
