“ The something sweet 
That follows youth with flying feet.” 
The sun had grown paler and now the lav- 
ender gray clouds rose up and quite obscured 
it, while a slow-moving, sullen wind began to 
moan through the leafless trees. He tucked 
the wolf robe closer around her. How soft 
and white it was! She could have buried her 
face in it. 
“ Now for a spin! ” he exclaimed. “ Fancy 
yourself in an auto.” 
And spin they surely did. Trees, houses, 
and fences flew by with a blur. The horses 
felt they were on the homeward road, and 
jingled the bells merrily. A few flakes of 
snow drifted about. 
“ It spoiled the skating,” he said, “ but we 
have had this in its place. I wish the day had 
been pleasanter for your outing.” 
“ You have made it very pleasant,” she re- 
turned, with grave sweetness. 
There followed a very busy week. School 
was to close on Friday, though Christmas was 
not until Tuesday. They were all to go to 
the Auditorium for some closing exercises. 
Just before that Miss Grant demanded the 
attention of all the pupils. 
“ You are aware,” she began, “ that the 
mid-winter examination will take place next 
month and that will determine your standing 
until the close of the school year. There will 
be a reorganization of all the classes and per- 
haps some change in the studies. It is my ear- 
nest desire that you will be able to show a de- 
cided improvement that will not only be to 
your credit, but to that of the school. Each 
child has a duty toward that, a fact children do 
not seem to consider. You have been pro- 
vided with a beautiful building and many of 
the appliances of the higher education, but it 
rests with you to improve the advantages. I 
hope we shall all work together with a hearty 
good will during the next term, and I wish 
you all a very Merry Christmas.” 
Some of the children hung about her fondly. 
She had won a little love, she was sure of that, 
and there certainly was some improvement in 
them. They had not come up to her expecta- 
tions, it was true. 
(< And only a few of them will,” said Miss 
 
Parker. “ You see there’s the home environ- 
ment; the common ways, the incorrect speech, 
the careless habits. The mothers hope they 
will outgrow it all. A teacher can't do every- 
thing. If she can stuff a little knowledge into 
their addle-pates she must be satisfied with 
that.” 
It was not encouraging nor enthusiastic, in- 
deed it rather depressed Helen. 
“ You must not lay it to heart,” consoled 
Mr. Underwood. “You have done so much 
better than I was afraid you would that I feel 
quite jubilant. And now we will go off and 
refresh ourselves with chances and changes. I 
hope all yours will be pleasant,” and he bade 
her a very friendly adieu. 
Lilian Firth had decided to go home, as she 
called her brother’s house, and keep the feast 
with them. 
“ I don’t quite know what to make of her,” 
Mrs. Stirling said confidentially to Helen. 
“ She is a nice, truthful, helpful girl, and I 
shall be glad to have her. But somehow her 
heart doesn’t seem set on advancement. There 
may be schools that she could teach with her 
present knowledge, but they would be in some 
far-away place. That unlucky love affair has 
upset her. And I can’t tell you, Miss Grant, 
how much I have enjoyed your being here ! It 
