British princess, but is of a young girl certainly, dress- 
ed twenty centuries ago for the tomb in which it was 
found, and still faintly lucent with the fashionable 
unguent of the day, and kept in form by pins of jet. 
One thinks of the little, slender hands that used to put 
them there, and of the eyes that confronted themselves 
in the silver mirror under the warm shadow that the 
red -gold mass cast upon the white forehead. This 
sanctuary of the past was the most interesting place 
in that most interesting city of York, and the day of 
our first visit a princess of New York sat reading a 
book in the midst of it, waiting for the rain to be 
over, which was waiting for her to come out and then 
begin again. We knew her from having seen her at 


the station in relation to some trunks bearing her in- 
itials and those of her native city; and she could be 
about the age of the York princess or young Roman 
lady whose hair was kept in the urn hard by. 



There is in York a little, old, old church, whose dear 
and reverend name I have almost forgotten, if ever I 
knew it, but I think it is Holy Trinity Goodramgate, 
which divides the heart of my adoration with the Min- 
ster. We came to it quite by accident, one of our sad 
September afternoons, after we had been visiting the 
Guildhall, Venetianly overhanging the canal calm of 
the Ouse, and very worthy to be seen for its York 
histories in stained glass. The custodian had surprised 
us and the gentlemen of the committee by taking us 
into the room where they were investigating the claims 
of the registered voters to the suffrage; and so, much 
entertained and instructed, we issued forth, and, pass- 
ing by the church in which Guy Fawkes was baptized, 
only too ineffectually, we came quite unexpectedly upon 
Holy Trinity Goodramgate, if that and not another is 
indeed its name. N 

It stands sequestered in a little leafy and grassy 
space of its own, with a wall hardly overlooked on one 
side by low stone cottages, the immemorial homes of 
rheumatism and influenza. The church had the air of 
not knowing that it is of Perpendicular and Decorated 
Gothic, with a square, high - shouldered tower, as it 
bulks up to a very humble height from the turf to 
the boughs overhead, or that it has a nice girl sketching 
its doorway, where a few especially favored weddings 
and funerals may enter. It is open once a year for 

 

service, and when the tourist will, or can, for the sight 
of the time-mellowed, beautiful stained glass of its east- 
ward window. The oaken pews are square and high- 
shouldered, like the low church tower; and, without, 
the soft yellow sandstone is crumbling away from the 
window traceries. The church did not look as if it 
felt itself a thousand years old, and perhaps it is not; 
but I never was in a place where I seemed so like a 
ghost of that antiquity. I had a sense of haunting it, 
in the inner twilight and the outer sunlight, where a 
tender wind was stirring the leaves of its embowering 
trees and scattering them on the graves of my eleventh 
and twelfth century contemporaries. 



XI 



We chose the sunniest morning we could for our 
visit to Clifford's Tower, which remains witness of the 
Norman castle the Conqueror built and rebuilt to keep 
the Danish-Anglian-Roman-British town in awe. But 
the tower was no part of the original castle, and only 
testifies of it by hearsay. That was built by Roger do 
