
I have been walking about the arcades, which used to bestow a grateful
shade in July, but which seem rather dusky and chilly in these
shortening autumn days. I am struck with the way the English always
speak of them--with a shudder, as gloomy, as dirty, as evil-smelling,
as suffocating, as freezing, as anything and everything but admirably
picturesque. I take us Americans for the only people who, in travelling,
judge things on the first impulse--when we do judge them at all--not
from the standpoint of simple comfort. Most of us, strolling forth into
these bustling basements, are, I imagine, too much amused, too much
diverted from the sense of an alienable right to public ease, to be
conscious of heat or cold, of thick air, or even of the universal smell
of strong charcuterie. If the visible romantic were banished from the
face of the earth I am sure the idea of it would still survive in some
typical American heart....

Lucerne, September.--Berne, I find, has been filling with tourists at
the expense of Lucerne, which I have been having almost to myself. There
are six people at the table d’hôte; the excellent dinner denotes on the
part of the chef the easy leisure in which true artists love to work.
The waiters have nothing to do but lounge about the hall and chink in
their pockets the fees of the past season. The day has been lovely
in itself, and pervaded, to my sense, by the gentle glow of a natural
satisfaction at my finding myself again on the threshold of Italy. I am
lodged en prince, in a room with a balcony hanging over the lake--a
balcony on which I spent a long time this morning at dawn, thanking the
mountain-tops, from the depths of a landscape-lover’s heart, for their
promise of superbly fair weather. There were a great many mountain-tops
to thank, for the crags and peaks and pinnacles tumbled away through the
morning mist in an endless confusion of grandeur. I have been all day
in better humour with Lucerne than ever before--a forecast reflection of
Italian moods. If Switzerland, as I wrote the other day, is so furiously
a show-place, Lucerne is certainly one of the biggest booths at the
fair. The little quay, under the trees, squeezed in between the decks
of the steamboats and the doors of the hotels, is a terrible medley
of Saxon dialects--a jumble of pilgrims in all the phases of devotion,
equipped with book and staff, alpenstock and Baedeker. There are so
many hotels and trinket-shops, so many omnibuses and steamers, so many
Saint-Gothard vetturini, so many ragged urchins poking photographs,
minerals and Lucernese English at you, that you feel as if lake and
mountains themselves, in all their loveliness, were but a part of the
“enterprise” of landlords and pedlars, and half expect to see the Righi
and Pilatus and the fine weather figure as items on your hotel-bill
between the bougie and the siphon. Nature herself assists you
to this conceit; there is something so operatic and suggestive of
footlights and scene-shifters in the view on which Lucerne looks out.
You are one of five thousand--fifty thousand--“accommodated” spectators;
you have taken your season-ticket and there is a responsible impresario
somewhere behind the scenes. There is such a luxury of beauty in the
prospect--such a redundancy of composition and effect--so many more
peaks and pinnacles than are needed to make one heart happy or regale
the vision of one quiet observer, that you finally accept the little
Babel on the quay and the looming masses in the clouds as equal parts of
a perfect system, and feel as if the mountains had been waiting so many
ages for the hotels to come and balance the colossal group, that
they show a right, after all, to have them big and numerous.
The scene-shifters have been at work all day long, composing and
discomposing the beautiful background of the prospect--massing the
clouds and scattering the light, effacing and reviving, making play
with their wonderful machinery of mist and haze. The mountains rise, one
behind the other, in an enchanting gradation of distances and of melting
blues and greys; you think each successive tone the loveliest and
haziest possible till you see another loom dimly behind it. I couldn’t
enjoy even The Swiss Times, over my breakfast, till I had marched
forth to the office of the Saint-Gothard service of coaches and demanded
the banquette for to-morrow. The one place at the disposal of the office
was taken, but I might possibly m’entendre with the conductor for his
own seat--the conductor being generally visible, in the intervals of
business, at the post-office. To the post-office, after breakfast, I
repaired, over the fine new bridge which now spans the green Reuss and
gives such a woeful air of country-cousinship to the crooked old wooden
structure which did sole service when I was here four years ago. The
old bridge is covered with a running hood of shingles and adorned with
a series of very quaint and vivid little paintings of the “Dance of
Death,” quite in the Holbein manner; the new sends up a painful glare
from its white limestone, and is ornamented with candelabra in a
meretricious imitation of platinum. As an almost professional cherisher
of the quaint I ought to have chosen to return at least by the dark and
narrow way; but mark how luxury unmans us. I was already demoralised.
I crossed the threshold of the timbered portal, took a few steps, and
