Obviously, Millner’s original conception of his employer’s character had
suffered extensive modification; but no final outline had replaced the
first conjectural image. The two years spent in Mr. Spence’s service
had produced too many contradictory impressions to be fitted into any
definite pattern; and the chief lesson Millner had learned from them
was that life was less of an exact science, and character a more
incalculable element, than he had been taught in the schools. In the
light of this revised impression, his own footing seemed less secure
than he had imagined, and the rungs of the ladder he was climbing
more slippery than they had looked from below. He was not without
the reassuring sense of having made himself, in certain small ways,
necessary to Mr. Spence; and this conviction was confirmed by Draper’s
reiterated assurance of his father’s appreciation. But Millner had begun
to suspect that one might be necessary to Mr. Spence one day, and
a superfluity, if not an obstacle, the next; and that it would take
superhuman astuteness to foresee how and when the change would occur.
Every fluctuation of the great man’s mood was therefore anxiously noted
by the young meteorologist in his service; and this observer’s vigilance
was now strained to the utmost by the little cloud, no bigger than a
man’s hand, adumbrated by the banker’s unpunctuality.

When Mr. Spence finally appeared, his aspect did not tend to dissipate
the cloud. He wore what Millner had learned to call his “back-door
face”: a blank barred countenance, in which only an occasional twitch of
the lids behind his glasses suggested that some one was on the watch.
In this mood Mr. Spence usually seemed unconscious of his secretary’s
presence, or aware of it only as an arm terminating in a pen. Millner,
accustomed on such occasions to exist merely as a function, sat waiting
for the click of the spring that should set him in action; but the
pressure not being applied, he finally hazarded: “Are we to go on with
the Investigator, sir?”

Mr. Spence, who had been pacing up and down between the desk and the
fireplace, threw himself into his usual seat at Millner’s elbow.

“I don’t understand this new notion of Draper’s,” he said abruptly.
“Where’s he got it from? No one ever learned irreligion in my
household.”

He turned his eyes on Millner, who had the sense of being scrutinized
through a ground-glass window which left him visible while it concealed
his observer. The young man let his pen describe two or three vague
patterns on the blank sheet before him.

“Draper has ideas--” he risked at last.

Mr. Spence looked hard at him. “That’s all right,” he said. “I want
my son to have everything. But what’s the point of mixing up ideas and
principles? I’ve seen fellows who did that, and they were generally
trying to borrow five dollars to get away from the sheriff. What’s all
this talk about goodness? Goodness isn’t an idea. It’s a fact. It’s as
solid as a business proposition. And it’s Draper’s duty, as the son of a
wealthy man, and the prospective steward of a great fortune, to elevate
the standards of other young men--of young men who haven’t had his
opportunities. The rich ought to preach contentment, and to set the
example themselves. We have our cares, but we ought to conceal them. We
ought to be cheerful, and accept things as they are--not go about sowing
dissent and restlessness. What has Draper got to give these boys in his
Bible Class, that’s so much better than what he wants to take from them?
That’s the question I’d like to have answered?”

Mr. Spence, carried away by his own eloquence, had removed his
pince-nez and was twirling it about his extended fore-finger with the
gesture habitual to him when he spoke in public. After a pause, he went
on, with a drop to the level of private intercourse: “I tell you this
because I know you have a good deal of influence with Draper. He has a
high opinion of your brains. But you’re a practical fellow, and you must
see what I mean. Try to make Draper see it. Make him understand how it
looks to have him drop his Bible Class just at this particular time.
It was his own choice to take up religious teaching among young men. He
began with our office-boys, and then the work spread and was blessed.
I was almost alarmed, at one time, at the way it took hold of him: when
the papers began to talk about him as a formative influence I was afraid
he’d lose his head and go into the church. Luckily he tried University
Settlement first; but just as I thought he was settling down to that, he
took to worrying about the Higher Criticism, and saying he couldn’t go
on teaching fairy-tales as history. I can’t see that any good ever came
of criticizing what our parents believed, and it’s a queer time for
Draper to criticize my belief just as I’m backing it to the extent of
five millions.”
