self." 

But Tim refused and gave the variety of laugh known as 
a snicker. 

" You go ahead, Jackie," he recommended. " You 're 
doing it elegant. Nobody can do it as elegant as you." 

Winterbourne dried a shining pink cheek tenderly with a 
towel too smooth to take the water, and albeit full of holes. 
It was all he and Tonty had been able to find. 

" They 're your own blood and bone, young man," he 
said. "You 'd better take a hand at them now and then." 

But Tim shook his headsunnily and went away whistling. 
The wise Tonty heard this, and it gave her a serious look 
for a long time after the children were clean and until the 
day's carnival had made them dirty again. This was the first 



 





time she had suspected that Jackie's deeds, done for them, 
were not a part of his pleasure. Now it seemed that they 
were tasks, undertaken from benevolence, though she did 
not know so long a word, and the knowledge graved 
another line in her understanding of life, a line that 
should some time set its visible counterpart upon her fore- 
head also. From that morning she herself washed the two 
smallest faces, and bribed Tony, by means that led to her 
own penury in toys and dearest possessions, to wash his. 
Sometimes the bribes were big enough, sometimes they 
failed, and then Tony went smooched like a coal-man. But 
the two little ones she could manage by the sleight of her 
vigorous young arm, and they were made to rise the earlier 
that she and they might have their daily battle over the 
tub. 

Tonty was very much hated about this time. Often her 
lavatory offences were not forgotten all day long, and she was 
an outcast from her clan. On Saturday only there was a riot 
known as full bath. Of this little Harriet had official charge, 
but so ill did she accomplish her mission that Mr. Ramsay 
himself, the unknown as much almost to his children as to 
the town, plunged into the breach and either scrubbed his 
offspring or in some dark fashion ensured their cleansing. 

Winterbourne felt at one time a grudging appreciation of 
Mrs. Ramsay. Here she had been known as an absentee 
mother, and yet, behold, the children were manifestly in 
greater disorder than before her exile. This, in a modified 
form, he said one day to Tim. 

" The children evidently miss their mother very much," 
he conceded. 

Tim replied with an airy cynicism, — 

" They miss Mary Flaherty, that 's who they miss. If 
Mary 'd come back, we 'd all be as smooth as silk." 



 





As smooth as silk they had never been since Tim's birth, 
yet everything being relative, it might seem so now. 

But a solemn morning had come when, summoned by 
Bess, the children were to see their mother, and the three of 
