"Stakes?" inquired Mrs. Lorrimore with businesslike directness.
"Your pleasure," replied Judge Wicklow in the deep, thick voice
celebrated and feared where judicial procedures are thickest and most
unimportant.
"Neither Mr. Edgerton nor I care to gamble—I think," said Mrs. Rivett
timidly.
The judge turned his bovine countenance on Edgerton.  The only anomaly
in it seemed to be his eyebrows.  Cows have no eyebrows.
"I’m sorry," said Edgerton.
The judge seemed sorry, too, but he shuffled the two packs in his
enormous and hairy hands, dealt, and deposited the surplus in a pile
with a single card separate and face upward—the ace of hearts.
Mrs. Lorrimore promptly picked it up, laid down three aces, four fours,
a small sequence interiorly made possible by a joker, and sat back
triumphantly with her depleted suit in her gemmed fingers, which were
pressed comfortably to an ample bosom.
"Discard," rumbled the judge.
"Oh, I beg pardon!"  She laughed, and laid down a nine.
Nobody ever wants a nine, somehow.  The judge snorted, helped himself,
discarded, and turned his heavy countenance on his hostess.
"Dear me," she said in her humble little voice, "I—I’m afraid—afraid
I’m going out!"
"What!" thundered his honor.  "Nobody ever goes out first hand, madam!"
But she timidly did that very thing to the suppressed fury of his honor,
who had cherished a long sequence, according to rule, and was further
nursing the other joker and three kings.
"It’s too bad," she ventured, looking around at Edgerton, whose entire
hand was being minutely counted by Mrs. Lorrimore.
"I don’t mind!" said the young fellow, laughing; and he leaned a
trifle nearer and added under his breath: "But suppose I had played
for stakes!"
Into her timid and faded eyes came the ghost of a glimmer—the momentary
sparkle of fun, and went out very quickly.
But it had been there for a second; and thereafter Edgerton found a
curious pleasure in making it come back at intervals.  She even
laughed—even ventured to provoke his laughter—rather scared at trying
until his quick mirth set her at momentary ease again.
Luck bedeviled his honor; the fair Mrs. Lorrimore won steadily without
the least respect for the law and no consideration at all for the
sanctity of the bench; and the judge became peevish.  He was a very rich
man.
Presently he had enough of it—letters to write for the morning mail—and
got himself out and upstairs with the dignity of a fly-pestered ox.
"Horrid old screw," observed Mrs. Lorrimore in Edgerton’s ear, and
laughed her peculiarly sweet and captivating laugh as a servant returned
with his honor’s check in an angrily scrawled envelope.
Mrs. Rivett had passed into a farther room, where the high gilded pipes
of an organ glimmered in the subdued light.  Edgerton saw her seated
there—a thin, bejeweled little figure beneath the tall gothic majesty of
the pipes.
After a while the low harmony of an old-time hymn stole into the card
room.
Those at the bridge tables remained silent and absorbed, except Mr.
Rivett, who cautiously turned his sphinxlike countenance toward the
farther dusk where his wife was seated.
Edgerton stood behind Diana’s chair, watching.  Presently he went over
to Silvette, lingered for a while, then came back to Diana again.
An hour later Mr. Rivett said abruptly: "Does anybody care to dance?"
The effect was like a pistol shot on lotus eaters.  Slowly the players
came out of their absorption; color returned faintly to white, tense
faces.
"I suppose I may ask it?" added Mr. Rivett dryly.  "I’m a heavy loser."
"Sure thing, dad," said Jack with a laugh. "I’m about even, and I
venture to ask it, too. Does anybody here want to dance?  You surely
won’t object," he added mischievously to Silvette.
"I have no right to say anything at all," she laughed.
"Every right—the right of the conqueror! Accept my bow and spear—and
speak! ... How is it with your sister?"
"I’m afraid I haven’t any voice in the matter, either," said Diana
serenely.  "It is for the losers to decide."
They decided to dance.  Mrs. Rivett came from the dim music room and
stood watching them with her little worn hands folded, while servants
lighted and cleared the larger drawing-room, designed for a ballroom,
with its little gilded balcony aloft and the great concert grand in its
carved and gilded foliations sprawling like a bedizened elephant in the
corner.
A servant was sent for "mademoiselle"—evidently somebody who lived
somewhere in the house whose duties included dance music. Meanwhile
Edgerton sat down at the piano, and began a fascinating Spanish waltz.
"Traitor," whispered a fresh, young voice at his elbow, and he looked up
