afterwards, got rid of the enthusiastic young man who 
had inveigled him into "The Hearer of Truth" ; and 



 

perhaps also he had been reading the ridicule which the 
critics were pouring out upon that unhappy book. 

So once more Thyrsis wrote to Darrell a letter of 
agonized entreaty. He was at the most critical moment 
of his life; and now, at the very culmination of his ef- 
fort, to have to give up would be a calamity he could 
simply not contemplate. If only he could finish the 
task, he would be saved ; for this was a book that would 
grip men and shake them that it should fail was simply 
unthinkable. He could make out with two hundred dol- 
lars ; and he besought his friend at any sacrifice to stand 
by him. He asked him to cable ; and when, a couple of 
weeks later, the message came "all right" to Thyrsis 
it was like waking up and escaping from the grip of 
some terrible dream. 

6. AND so began the house-building. It was high 
time, too the latter part of September, and the nights 
were growing chill. He sought out a carpenter to help 
him, and had an interview with his friend the farmer, 
who agreed to rent a bit of land, in a corner of his 
orchard, by the edge of the wood. It was under the 
shade of a great elm-tree, and sufficiently remote from 
all the world to satisfy the taste of any literary hermit. 

For months before this he and Corydon had dis- 
cussed the plans of their future home; every square 
inch of it had been a subject of debate. In its archi- 
tectural style it was a compromise between Corydon's 
aesthetic yearnings, and the rigid standards of economy 
which circumstance imposed. It was to be eighteen 
feet long and sixteen feet wide six feet high at the 
sides and nine in the centre. It was to be "weather- 
boarded", and roofed with paper, instead of shingles 
this being so much cheaper. Corydon heard with dis- 



 

may that it would be necessary to paint this roofing- 
paper black ; and Thyrsis, by way of compensation, 
agreed that the weather-boards should have some 
"natural finish", instead of common paint. There was 
to be a six-foot piazza in front, and a little platform in 
back, with steps descending to the spring. 

There had been long discussions about the method 
of heating the mansion. Corydon had been observing 
the customs of her neighbors in this typical "small- 
farming" district, and declared that they had two lead- 
ing characteristics : first, they were not happy until 
they had had all their own teeth extracted, and a com- 
plete set of "store-teeth" substituted; and second, as 
soon as they moved into a house, they boarded over the 
open fire-place and covered the boards with wall-paper. 
But Thyrsis, making investigations along practical 
lines, found that the open fire-place had a bad reputa- 
tion as a consumer of fuel ; and also, it would take a 
mason to build a chimney, and the wages of masons were 
high. So Corydon had to reconcile herself to a house 
with a stove, and a stove-pipe that went through a hole 
in the wall ! 

Nevertheless this house-building time was one of the 
happiest periods of their lives. For here was something 
constructive, in which they could both be occupied. 
Thyrsis would be up and at work early in the morn- 
ing, before the carpenter came ; and in between the 
baby's various meals, Corydon would come also, and 
take part in the operations. A miraculous thing it 
was to see the house of their dreams coming into be- 
