Cynthia assented philosophically: "But most men bother a girl sooner or
later," she concluded. "You don't read about it in novels, but it's
true. Go down town and take dictation for a living. It's an education in
how to look out for yourself."

"It's a rotten state of things," said Jacqueline under her breath.

"Yes. It's funny, too. So many men are that way. What do they care? Do
you suppose we'd be that way, too, if we were men?"



"No. There are nice men, too."

"Yes--dead ones."

"Nonsense!"

"With very few exceptions, Jacqueline. There are horrid, horrid ones,
and nice, horrid ones, and dead ones and dead ones--but only a few
nice, nice ones. I've known some. You think your Mr. Desboro is one,
don't you?"

"I haven't thought about him----"

"Honestly, Jacqueline?"

"I tell you I haven't! He's nice to me. That's all I know."

"Is he too nice?"

"No. Besides, he's under his own roof. And it depends on a girl,
anyway."

"Not always. If we behave ourselves we're dead ones; if we don't we'd
better be. Isn't it a rotten deal, Jacqueline! Just one fresh man after
another dropped into the discards because he gets too gay. And being
employed by the kind who'd never marry us spoils us for the others.
You could marry one of your clients, I suppose, but I never could in a
million years."

"You and I will never marry such men," said Jacqueline coolly. "Perhaps
we wouldn't if they asked us."

"You might. You're educated and bright, and--you look the part, with
all the things you know--and your trips to Europe--and the kind of
beauty yours is. Why not? If I were you," she added, "I'd kill a man who
thought me good enough to hold hands with, but not good enough to
marry."

"I don't hold hands," observed Jacqueline scornfully.

"I do. I've done it when it was all right; and I've done it when I had
no business to; and the chances are I'll do it again without getting
hurt. And then I'll finally marry the sort of man you call Ed," she
added disgustedly.

Jacqueline laughed, and looked intently at her: "You're so pretty,
Cynthia--and so silly sometimes."

Cynthia stretched her young figure full length in the chair, yawning and
crooking both arms back under her curly brown head. Her eyes, too, were
brown, and had in them always a half-veiled languor that few men could
encounter undisturbed.

"A week ago," she said, "you told me over the telephone that you would
be at the dance. I never laid eyes on you."

"I came home too tired. It was my first day at Silverwood. I overdid it,
I suppose."

"Silverwood?"

"Where I go to business in Westchester," she explained patiently.

"Oh, Mr. Desboro's place!" with laughing malice.

"Yes, Mr. Desboro's place."

The hint of latent impatience in Jacqueline's voice was not lost on
