
"I--it's been unsaid so long--there was nobody to tell it to. I've done
my best to forget it--and for days I seem to forget it. But sometimes
when I wake at night it is there--the horror of it--the terror sinking
deeper into my breast.... I was very young. You knew that?"

"Yes."

"You knew my mother had very slender means?"

"Yes."

"I wouldn't have cared; I was an imaginative child--and could have lived
quite happy with my fancies on very, very little.... I was a sensitive
and affectionate child--inclined to be demonstrative. You wouldn't
believe it, would you?"

"I can understand it."

"Can you? It's odd because I have changed so.... I was quite romantic
about my mother--madly in love with her.... There is nothing more to
say.... In boarding-school I was perfectly aware that I was being given
the best grooming that we could afford. Even then romance persisted. I
had the ideas of a coloured picture-book concerning men and love and
marriage. I remember, as a very little child, that I had a picture-book
showing Cinderella's wedding. It was a very golden sort of picture. It
coloured my ideas long after I was grown up."

She moved her head a little, looked up for an instant and smiled; but at
his answering smile she turned her cheek to his shoulder, hastily, and
lay silent for a while. Presently she continued in a low voice:

"It was when we were returning for the April vacation--and the platform
was crowded and some of the girls' brothers were there. There were two
trains in--and much confusion--I don't know how I became separated from
Miss Buckley and my schoolmates--I don't know to this day how I found
myself on the Baltimore train, and Gladys Leeds's brother laughing and
talking and the train moving faster and faster.... There is no use
saying any more. I was as ignorant as I was innocent--a perfect little
fool, frightened, excited, even amused by turns.... He had been
attentive to me. We both were fools. Only finally I became badly scared
and he talked such nonsense--and I managed to slip away from him and
board the train at Baltimore as soon as we arrived there.... If he
hadn't found me and returned to New York with me, it might not have been
known. But we were recognised on the train and--it was a dreadful thing
for me when I arrived home after midnight...."

She fell silent; once or twice he looked down at her and saw that her
eyes were closed. Then, with a quick, uneven breath:

"I think you know the rest, don't you?"

"I think so."

But she went on in a low, emotionless voice: "I was treated like a
damaged gown--for which depreciation in value somebody was to be made
responsible. I suffered; days and nights seemed unreal. There were
lawyers; did you know it?"

"No."

"Yes," she said wearily, "it was a bad dream--my mother, others--his
family--many people strange and familiar passed through it. Then we
travelled; I saw nothing, feeling half dead.... We were married in the
Hawaiian Islands."

"I know."

"Then--the two years began."

After a long while she said again: "That was the real nightmare. I
passed through the depths as in a trance. There was nothing lower, not
even hell.... We travelled in Europe, Africa, and India for two
years.... I scarcely remember a soul I saw or one single object. And
then--that happened."

"I know, dear."

A slight shudder passed over her:

