children, and that she was to have no more anxiety, 
no more struggles with poverty, and be happy, be 
loved! It did not seem true. Wouldn’t some- 
thing happen! One always asks it on the eve of 
a great joy. She had been loved before, but not 
in this fashion. Mr. Firth had been twelve years 
older, and though she and Mr. Mann had come to 
middle life, it seemed like a new youth to her. 

She packed a few things into a basket, and 
then came downstairs. Oh, how good the warmth 
felt ! She held her hands over the cheering stove. 

Momsey, you look blue and cold, and as if 
you had been crying. What made you stay so 
long up in that cold garret ? ” asked Marigold. 

Why, you sleep up there all night.” Her heart 
leaped at the thought of the comfort they were 
going to have. 

Well, that’s different. We have the good 
warm brick, and we just cuddle down in the 
blankets and go to sleep before you can say ‘ Jack 
Robinson.’ ” 

“ Why do you have to say ‘ Jack Robinson ’ ? ” 
inquired Tip sleepily. 

Well — I don’t know, unless he carries about 
a bag of sleepy powder. Tip, do go to bed.” 




Chan convoyed him into the bedroom, and soon 
had him tucked in. Then he came back and placed 
one small arm about his mother’s waist, and whis- 
pered, I know. He told me we were to go over 
for Christmas.” 

She colored as she bent and kissed him. There 
was no need of keeping part of the secret any 
longer. The other he must tell himself. 

“Children,” — there were only five now, the 
others were in bed — “ children, we are all go- 
ing over to Grafton to-morrow to spend our 
Christmas ” 

“ Oh, mother ! ” and Marigold sprang up and 
gave her a tremendous hug that nearly pushed her 
over. “ Is that what’s made you so sort of queer 
and as if you didn’t take much interest in fixing 
anything? We have been talking about it, and 
somehow it seemed as if it would be a rather 
doleful Christmas. Oh, I’m so glad! I could 
hop around on one foot.” 

With that she caught Prim, and they pirouetted 
round the room as if they were born ballet dancers. 

It’s so delightful,” said Amaryllis sedately. 

Mother, doesn’t Mr. Mann think of the nicest 
things? ” 

“ That’s why I have a holiday to-morrow, I 
s’pose.” Linn had been wondering all the time. 


 

‘‘ And Mr. Beers was so pleasant about it I thought 
he couldn’t mean to discharge me. Hurray ! It’ll 
beat Thanksgiving I bet a cow ! ” 

“ And if you lose you haven’t any cow to pay 
with,” appended Chan. 

