March!"



CHAPTER XVIII

THE RITE OF THE HIDDEN CHILDREN

My Indians and I stood watching our riflemen as they swung to the east
and trotted out of sight among the trees. Then, at a curt nod from me,
the Indians lengthened their line, extending it westward along the
height of land, and so spreading out that they entirely commanded the
only outlet to the swamp below, by encircling both the trail and the
headwaters of the evil-looking little stream.

Through the unbroken thatch of matted foliage overhead no faintest ray
of sunlight filtered--not even where the stream coiled its slimy way
among the tamaracks and spruces. But south of us, along the ascending
trail by which we had come, the westering sun glowed red across a ledge
of rock, from which the hill fell sheer away, plunging into profound
green depths, where unseen waters flowed southward to the Susquehanna.

Around the massive elbow of this ledge, our back-trail, ascending into
view, curved under shouldering boulders. Blueberry scrub, already
turning gold and crimson, grew sparsely on the crag--cover enough for
any watcher of the trail. And thither I crept and stretched me out flat
in the bushes, where I could see the trail we had lately traversed, and
look along it far to our rear as clearly as one sees through a dim and
pillared corridor.

West of me, a purplish ridge ran north, the sun shining low through a
pine-clad notch. Southwest of me, little blue peaks pricked the
primrose sky; south-east lay endless forests, their green already
veiled in an ashy blue bloom. Far down, under me, wound the narrow
back-trail through the gulf below.

Presently, beside me came creeping the lithe Mohican, and lay down
prone, smooth and golden, and shining like a sleek panther in the sun.

"Is all well guarded, brother?" I whispered.

"Not even a wood-mouse could creep from the swamp unless our warriors
see it."

"And when dark comes?"

"Our ears must be our eyes, Loskiel.... But neither the Cat-People nor
the Andastes will venture out of that morass, save only by the trail.
And we shall have two watchers on it through the night."

"There is no other outlet?"

"None, except by the ridge Boyd travels. He blocks that pass with his
twenty men."

"Then we should have their egress blocked, except only in the north?"

"Yes--unless they learn of this by magic," muttered the Mohican.

It was utterly useless for me to decry or ridicule his superstitions;
and there was but one way to combat them.

"If witchcraft there truly be in Catharines-town," said I, "it is bad
magic, and therefore weak; and can avail nothing against true
priesthood. What could the degraded acolytes of this Red Priest do
against a consecrated Sagamore of the Lenape--against an ensign of the
Enchanted Clan? Else why do you wear your crest--or the great Ghost
Bear there rearing upon your breast?"

"It is true," he murmured uneasily. "What spell can Amochol lay upon
us? What magic can he make to escape us? For the trail from
Catharines-town is stopped by a Siwanois Sagamore and a Mohican
warrior! It is closed by an Oneida Sachem who stand watching. When the
Ghost Bear and the Were-Wolf watch, then the whole forest watches with
them--Loup, Blue Wolf, and Bear. Where, then, can the Forest Cats slink
out? Where can the filthy Carcajou escape?"

"Mayaro has spoken. It is a holy barrier that locks and bolts this door
of secret evils. Under Tharon shall this trap remain inviolate till the
last sorcerer be taken in it, the last demon be dead!"
