the flowers I You people do not seem to care for 
flowers.” 
We used to, but when Mr. Firth was gone 
there was so much to look after, and sewing for 
the children.” 
‘'Ach! That is so. We have but two, but 
now they will begin to help, besides going to school. 
And you cannot think of all the gladness that will 
be mine when I come here to live,” and her eyes 
shone with delight. 
“ We will have the place cleaned up and a good 
coat of whitewash put on when this rubbish is 
cleared away. We do not mean to take much of 
it. It is old and worn — if there is anything that 
would do you any good ” 
“ Oh, we have saved out a little to buy things 
when we had a better home.” 
“ But I do not mean that,” Mrs. Mann inter- 
posed quickly. Some have already gone away; 
they are not worth buying ; but you would be wel- 
come to them while they last.” 
Oh, you are too good in the matter. No, 
you must let us pay as we can, and we will be 
glad of the waiting-time until we can get turned 
about.” 
Mr. Bachman had been out with Linn inspecting 
the garden, the trees, and the chicken-house, that 
the boy had patched up many a time. They had 
trudged through the snowy paths, but his face was 
alight with satisfaction. 
“ Ach! But it is like a bit of a dream, Freda! 
We will come, and it will be like when we were 
first married, and we will make things lovely and 
begin a home over again as we did then. I thank 
you so much, madam, that you will let us have the 
nice house and all the garden. We shall live like 
princes.’' 
He talked rather more brokenly than his wife. 
She went to him now and clasped both hands. 
“ Oh, John,” she cried, ‘‘ we shall be so happy! 
There have been days when my heart was one big 
ache for the home and friends across the ocean, 
just as if I should never take root here. But now 
— oh, we shall be so happy once more when the 
spring and the blossoms come.” 
Mrs. Mann was truly moved by their childlike 
joy. Presently they veered around to business. 
They would like to come by the first of February, 
as the Graus wanted to repair their house some- 
what. And, yes, they would be delighted with the 
bedstead and the old bureau and whatever else 
Mrs. Mann cared to leave, and she promised the 
house should be in order for them. 
They took their departure with many protesta- 
tions of gratitude. 
I am so glad they are going to be happy here,” 
exclaimed Marigold. I think I should be angry 
if any one came in who despised the place and 
found fault.” 
Houses to rent are so scarce that no one feels 
inclined to cavil. We will have it whitewashed 
and freshly painted inside, and maybe before long 
on the outside. They are the kind of people who 
will take good care of it. And now, girls, let us 
finish the other chest, and take some of this rub- 
bish back into the garret, for time is flying. We 
will have to come over again.” 
They were barely through when Dan returned, 
and it was nearing night. So they put out the fire 
and picked up a few parcels and were off. 
The children made as much of a time as if their 
mother had never been away before. And there 
were piles of lumber that Tip declared were just 
dandy to climb over. 
“ Mr. Jones is going to bring a man to-morrow, 
and they will get to work right away,” said Ama- 
ryllis. “ Won’t it be splendid. Mother ! The chil- 
dren do litter up the library so.” 
Lai’s lost her nice Christmas doll,” announced 
Rhoda after Mrs. Alden had said they had not 
