all, he and she were of the same blood and had the same traditions. She
was light and frivolous, without strength of will or depth of purpose;
but she had the frankness of her foibles, and she would never have lied
to him or traded on his tenderness.

Clare's nervousness gradually subsided, and she lapsed into a low-voiced
mood which seemed like an answer to his secret thought. But she did not
sound the personal note, and they chatted quietly of commonplace things:
of the dinner-dance at which they were presently to meet, of the costume
she had chosen for the Driscoll fancy-ball, the recurring rumours of old
Driscoll's financial embarrassment, and the mysterious personality of
Elmer Moffatt, on whose movements Wall Street was beginning to fix a
fascinated eye. When Ralph, the year after his marriage, had renounced
his profession to go into partnership with a firm of real-estate agents,
he had come in contact for the first time with the drama of "business,"
and whenever he could turn his attention from his own tasks he found a
certain interest in watching the fierce interplay of its forces. In the
down-town world he had heard things of Moffatt that seemed to single him
out from the common herd of money-makers: anecdotes of his coolness, his
lazy good-temper, the humorous detachment he preserved in the heat of
conflicting interests; and his figure was enlarged by the mystery that
hung about it--the fact that no one seemed to know whence he came, or
how he had acquired the information which, for the moment, was making
him so formidable. "I should like to see him," Ralph said; "he must be a
good specimen of the one of the few picturesque types we've got."

"Yes--it might be amusing to fish him out; but the most picturesque
types in Wall Street are generally the tamest in a drawing-room." Clare
considered. "But doesn't Undine know him? I seem to remember seeing them
together."

"Undine and Moffatt? Then you KNOW him--you've' met him?"

"Not actually met him--but he's been pointed out to me. It must have
been some years ago. Yes--it was one night at the theatre, just after
you announced your engagement." He fancied her voice trembled slightly,
as though she thought he might notice her way of dating her memories.
"You came into our box," she went on, "and I asked you the name of the
red-faced man who was sitting in the stall next to Undine. You didn't
know, but some one told us it was Moffatt."

Marvell was more struck by her tone than by what she was saying.
"If Undine knows him it's odd she's never mentioned it," he answered
indifferently.

The motor stopped at his door and Clare, as she held out her hand,
turned a first full look on him.

"Why do you never come to see me? I miss you more than ever," she said.

He pressed her hand without answering, but after the motor had rolled
away he stood for a while on the pavement, looking after it.

When he entered the house the hall was still dark and the small
over-furnished drawing-room empty. The parlour-maid told him that Mrs.
Marvell had not yet come in, and he went upstairs to the nursery. But on
the threshold the nurse met him with the whispered request not to make
a noise, as it had been hard to quiet the boy after the afternoon's
disappointment, and she had just succeeded in putting him to sleep.
Ralph went down to his own room and threw himself in the old college
arm-chair in which, four years previously, he had sat the night out,
dreaming of Undine. He had no study of his own, and he had crowded into
his narrow bed-room his prints and bookshelves, and the other relics of
his youth. As he sat among them now the memory of that other night swept
over him--the night when he had heard the "call"! Fool as he had been
not to recognize its meaning then, he knew himself triply mocked in
being, even now, at its mercy. The flame of love that had played
about his passion for his wife had died down to its embers; all the
transfiguring hopes and illusions were gone, but they had left an
unquenchable ache for her nearness, her smile, her touch. His life
had come to be nothing but a long effort to win these mercies by one
concession after another: the sacrifice of his literary projects,
the exchange of his profession for an uncongenial business, and the
incessant struggle to make enough money to satisfy her increasing
exactions. That was where the "call" had led him... The clock struck
eight, but it was useless to begin to dress till Undine came in, and he
stretched himself out in his chair, reached for a pipe and took up the
evening paper. His passing annoyance had died out; he was usually too
tired after his day's work for such feelings to keep their edge long.
But he was curious--disinterestedly curious--to know what pretext Undine
