"Mr. Warrington, I am not a child!"

"To me you have been the Angel of Kindness; and the light in your face
I shall always see.  Please go now."

"Very well."  A new and unaccountable pain filled her throat and forced
her to carry her head high.  "I can find my way back to the other deck."

He saw her disappear down the first ladder, reappear up the other,
mingle with the passengers and vanish.  He then went forward to the
prow and stared down at the water, wondering if it held rest or pain or
what.




XII

THE GAME OF GOSSIP

During the concluding days of the voyage Elsa had her meals served on
deck.  She kept Martha with her continually, promenaded only early in
the morning and at night while the other passengers were at dinner.
This left a clear deck.  She walked quickly, her arm in Martha's,
literally propelling her along, never spoke unless spoken to, and then
answered in monosyllables.  Her thoughts flew to a thousand and one
things: home, her father, episodes from school-life; toward anything
and everywhere like a land-bird lost at sea, futilely and vainly in the
endeavor to shut out the portrait of the broken man.  In the midst of
some imaginary journey to the Sabine Hills she would find herself
asking: What was he doing, of what was he thinking, where would he go
and what would he do?  She hated night which, no longer offering sleep,
provided nothing in lieu of it, and compelled her to remain in the
stuffy cabin.  She was afraid.

Early Wednesday morning she passed Craig and Mallow; but the two had
wit enough to step aside for her and to speak only with their eyes.
She filled Craig with unadulterated fear.  Never had he met a woman
such as this one.  He warned Mallow at the beginning, without
explaining in detail, that she was fearless and dangerous.  And, of
course, Mallow laughed and dragged along the gambler whenever he found
a chance to see Elsa at close range.

"There's a woman.  Gad! that beach-comber has taste."

"I tell you to look out for her," Craig warned again.  "I know what I'm
talking about."

"What's she done; slapped your face?"

"That kind of woman doesn't slap.  Damn it, Mallow, she rammed a
hat-pin into me, if you will know!  Keep out of her way."

Mallow whistled.  "Oho!  You probably acted like a fool.  Drinking?"

Craig nodded affirmatively.

"Thought so.  Even a Yokohama bar-maid will fight shy of a boozer.  I'm
going to meet her when we get to Singapore, or my name's not Mallow."

Craig laughed with malice.  "I hope she sticks the pin into your
throat.  It will take some of the brag out of you.  Think because
you've got picturesque gray hair and are as strong as a bull, that all
the women are just pining for you.  Say, let's go aft and hunt up the
chap.  I understand he's taken up quarters in the second-cabin."

"Doesn't want to run into me.  All right; come on.  We'll stir him up a
little and have some fun."

They found Warrington up in the stern, sitting on the deck, surrounded
by squatting Lascars, some Chinamen and a solitary white man, the chief
engineer's assistant.  The center of interest was Rajah, who was
performing his tricks.  Among these was one that the bird rarely could
be made to perform, the threading of beads.  He despised this act as it
entailed the putting of a blunt needle in his beak.  He flung it aside
each time Warrington handed it to him.  But ever his master patiently
returned it.  At length, recognizing that the affair might be prolonged
indefinitely, Rajah put two beads on the thread and tossed it aside.
The Lascars jabbered, the Chinamen grinned, and the chief engineer's
assistant swore approvingly.
