what's right, but surely I have the right 
to think it over. And when I think it 
over, I reahze that all the evils with which 
you threaten me are only probable evils. 
In spite of your desire to terrify me, you 
have been forced to admit that possibly 
my marriage would not have any trouble- 
some consequence for my wife.' 

The doctor found difficulty in restraining 
himself. But he said, ''Go on. I will 
answer you afterwards." 

And George blundered ahead in his 
desperation. ''Your remedies are power- 
ful, you tell me; and for the calamities of 
which you speak to befall me, I would have 
to be among the rare exceptions — also my 
wife would have to be among the number 
of those rare exceptions. If a mathemati- 
cian were to apply the law of chance to 
these facts, the result of his operation 
would show but slight chance of a catas- 
trophe, as compared with the absolute 
certainty of a series of misfortunes, suffer- 
ings, troubles, tears, and perhaps tragic 
accidents which the breaking of my engage- 
ment would cause. So I say that the 



 

mathematician — 'who is, even more than 
you, a man of science, a man of a more 
infallible science — 'the mathematician would 
conclude that wisdom was not with you 
doctors, but with me.'' 

"You believe it, sir!" exclaimed the 
other. "But you deceive yourself." And 
he continued, driving home his point with 
a finger which seemed to George to pierce 
his very soul. "Twenty cases identical 
with your own have been patiently ob- 
served, from the beginning to the end. 
Nineteen times the woman was infected 
by her husband; you hear me, sir, nineteen 
times out of twenty! You believe that the 
disease is without danger, and you take to 
yourself the right to expose your wife to 
what you call the chance of your being 
one of those exceptions, for whom our 
remedies are without effect. Very well; 
it is necessary that you should know every- 
thing; it is necessary that you should 
know the disease which your wife, without 
being consulted, will run a chance of con- 
tracting. Take that book, sir; it is the 
work of my teacher. Read it yourself. 
Here, I have marked the passage." 



 

He held out the open book; but George 
could not lift a hand to take it. 

''You do not wish to read it?'' the other 
continued. '' Listen to me.'' And in a 
voice trembling with passion, he read: " 'I 
have watched the spectacle of an xmfor- 
tunate young woman, turned into a veri- 
table monster by means of a syphilitic 
infection. Her face, or rather let me say 
what was left of her face, was nothing but 
a flat surface seamed with scars.' '' 
* George covered his face, exclaiming, 
"Enough, sir! Have mercy!'' 
