“I can’t,” she at last replied.

Violet, her brilliant eye still cocked, almost winked.

“Yes, you said that before. But you see, don’t you know, that whether
you can or cannot tell me, you will have to tell him and, in the
circumstances, would it not be best to have me do it for you? To be
sure, if you had taken my advice and omitted to marry Barouffski, I
would say, have it out with him yourself. But your marriage does not
seem to have simplified matters, which, so far as I can make out, are
now pretty thoroughly mixed.”

The lady spoke better than she knew. Matters were complicated
though how profoundly she had no idea, nor was Leilah aware that the
situation, already tortuous, was to become even more intricately
labyrinthine.

“Of course,” Violet, in her bell-like voice, threw out, “after running
away, getting a divorce and marrying another man, I can fancy that you
don’t much want to see him. But, really, you owe it to yourself to give
the reason, particularly as it is he who is to blame.”

At this, Leilah, who had been looking down into her prison, looked up.
“I never said so.”

“No, but was it necessary? Even nowadays, even in the States, a woman
does not cut and run because butter won’t melt in her husband’s mouth.
She does so because she has, or thinks she has, a grievance and the
man, if he is a man, ought to be given an opportunity to apologise,
however imaginary the grievance may be.”

Leilah shook her head. “There can be no apology here.”

Violet laughed. “That is just what I would say if I had gone and done
it. Then it would be for Silverstairs to try on his knees to get me to
listen to one--provided, of course, that in the interim I had not taken
over another man, for in that case I verily believe he would wring my
neck. But you need fear nothing of the sort from Verplank. He seemed
anxious only to wring Barouffski’s.”

Leilah made another futile effort with her fork. Absently she answered:

“I don’t believe he knew who he was.”

“You don’t! After his telling him! But, apropos, what became of d’Arcy?
I thought you and he were safely tucked away in a corner, otherwise
never in the world would I have marched your Number One up to your
Number Two.”

“D’Arcy!” Leilah repeated. She had barely heard. She scarcely knew what
she was saying, still less what was being said.

“Yes, le beau d’Arcy. Marie de Fresnoy told me that the other day at
the races he was about to pay a ragamuffin of a girl for a flower, when
she said: ‘I’d rather you kissed me.’ Fancy that! She told me too that
a man who had a husband’s reasons for wanting to kill him, was afraid
to say a word. It appears he is a dead shot. But it appears also that
your lovely Barouffski is one of the best swordsmen here. Verplank had
better look out. To return though to our Chablis Moutonne. What will
you do?”

Leilah, her thoughts afar, made no reply.

“What will you do?” Violet repeated.

From afar the question floated, descended, trod among the tender
places of Leilah’s soul. At the pain of it she winced. “God help me, I
do not know.”

Violet, cocking an eye again, insinuated: “Let me take a hand.” She
paused, then, for clincher, threw out: “He dines here to-morrow.”

“Here!” Leilah exclaimed, half rising, fearful now that at any moment
he might appear. “Here! With you?”

Violet nodded. “Why yes. Why not? If I can’t confess you, perhaps I can
him. At any rate I can try. You can’t blame me for wanting to, either.
You abandoned him on your honeymoon. You won’t tell me why and he says
he don’t know. But he must suspect. He must have concluded that you
left him for this, that or the other. I want to find out what his this,
