Now I think they will be willing to give her 
up as they have a growm-up woman. She 
came while I was there. Dr. Baker told 
them Manila had a weak heart, and I 
think it startled them. They have no idea 
how hard she has been worked.” 
Oh, he longed to tell her of Marilla's good 
fortune. Somehow they must manage to 
share the child between them. She had the 
lovely home and the mother heart, and he 
wanted a home with a sweet little girl in it. 
At Arch street there was a good deal of 
confusion. Cousins and nieces who had called 
only at rare intervals on Mrs. Vanderveer were 
most attentive, suddenly. They did wonder 
between themselves if Aunt Hetty was going 
to leave all her money to John Borden! 
The new nurse, Lizzie by name, was really 
a great comfort. She took up the babies in 
the morning, bathed and dressed them and 
gave them their breakfast. They still took 
their midday nap but she managed to intro- 
duce some discipline, yet she was not harsh. 
Master Jack stood a little in awe of her. She 
was a good seamstress also. 
So passed the three days and they brought 
Aunt Hetty down in the parlor and put her 
in a fine casket, keeping the doors shut until 
the hour for service. Mrs. Seymour had the 
nurse bring the children in her house. So 
they said prayers reverently, sang some lovely 
parting hymns and laid her away, her long 
life on earth finished. 
The relatives were asked to meet at Mr. 
Borden’s office the next day at ten to hear the 
will read. 
Was ever any will satisfactory where prop- 
erty was divided up into small gifts? Five 
hundred dollars to this one and to that one, 
three hundred apiece to some others. Jack, 
Jr., had five hundred, the babies, three hun- 
dred, and Manila Bond, three hundred. 
'It was very nice of her in a way,” said Mrs. 
Borden, "but I think one hundred dollars 
would have been remembrance enough for the 
little waiting on she did, and I find Lizzie is of 
much more service than she was. Of course 
she costs more. I shall go out to the Home 
some day and give her up on account of her 
health. Miss Armitage might as well take 
her. She'll make a nice little waitress maid. 
And now that the house is clear I feel that we 
needn’t economize so closely. You and John 
get your five hundred with the rest, and she 
gave me her diamond ear rings after we came 
back in the summer. It was smart in her not 
to have John make her will, so none of them 
can say he persuaded her. Well, now we can 
settle ourselves to the next thing.” 
CHAPTER XII 
A WONDERFUL HAPPENING 
Mrs. Borden was surprised that Mrs. John- 
son received back Marilla Bond’s indentures 
with no remonstrance or objection. She cer- 
tainly had not known about this weak heart. 
The child had never been ill, but something 
else might come to hand. She was glad there 
was no other reason and that the little girl had 
proved trustworthy. 
Miss Armitage was also surprised that Mrs. 
Johnson would not agree to an immediate 
transferrence. 
"You may go on keeping her for awhile,’ 
said the lady in a lofty manner. ‘You may 
tire of her. We will see presently.” 
That was all the permission she could get 
and it was a blow to Miss Armitage. She had 
come to love the child with a fervor she had 
hardly dreamed of and Marilla simply adored 
her. Dr. Richards teased her a little about 
