either, but stunned, incapable now of judging whether there had been any
right or wrong. If no one belonging to her had been found--and her own
mother was among the killed, she might have been turned over to some
foundling asylum.
"I feel much better," exclaimed Mrs. Boyd. "But, oh, Lilian, don't pray
for me to live, for I should be a helpless burden on you, and I'll have
my two own babies in heaven. I meant to do it for the best when I
claimed you, and I think God will understand. It's been a poor, broken
sort of life but I've tried to do up to the lights I had, and yours will
be better, higher. Mrs. Barrington appreciated you and will help you.
God surely opened this way for us."
Was it truly of God's providence? She had longed so ardently for the
refinements of life, the possibilities of education. Some times it
seemed as if He answered petitions in the suppliant's way and freighted
them with another burden.
But if this should be laid upon her she would pray for strength to do
her whole duty. It was hardly likely she would ever find any one
belonging to her, that was too wild a thought. She would keep this
generous foster mother as long as she needed love and care.
CHAPTER IX
WHOSE CHILD AM I?
Miss Arran tapped lightly at the half-open door and Mrs. Barrington bade
both ladies enter.
"How is Mrs. Boyd?"
"Why she seems curiously better. She has been talking awhile to her
daughter and her voice has a latent strength that surprises one, and we
have been unwitting listeners to a most remarkable story. Did you ever
suspect that she might not be the own mother of Miss Boyd?"
"The thought has crossed my mind. They are so dissimilar."
"I have never really liked Mrs. Boyd or the girl either," began Mrs.
Dane. "There seemed something to conceal, some secret between them. I
had a fancy Lilian was on the watch all the time lest her mother should
betray it."
"Oh, did you think that? It appeared to me the anxiety of a girl of good
breeding lest her mother should fall into habits of a different kind
that were rather annoying. Yet they had always been together--"
"It seemed to me aping a style really above what she had been used, a
certain pretentiousness, that did not appear suitable to her position,
but she has proved a devoted nurse and daughter, and I will confess my
prejudice has received a great shock, and I admit frankly that I may
have been mistaken when I accused her of being at the Clairvoyant's.
Miss Arran will you tell the story--it seems a deathbed confession."
Miss Arran began. She had started to go in Mrs. Boyd's room to see if
anything was needed when the words arrested her, and she detailed the
journey Mrs. Boyd had undertaken with her infant child, the dreadful
midnight disaster, the unconsciousness of the poor woman until the next
day, her hearing the child cry and claiming it unwittingly, and then
learning the child's mother had been killed as well as her own baby and
her resolve to keep it; her taking it on her farther journey, and caring
for it as her own, her latent remorse lest she should have defrauded the
girl out of a better birthright--
Mrs. Barrington rose suddenly and paced the room in strange agitation.
"Somewhere I have heard a story that might be the other side of this. It
is very strange," clasping her hands. "One would not want to make a
mistake."
"I wish you might hear the story, and one point of importance is
whether it would be wisdom to help the girl in any search for her
parentage. Sometimes unfortunate facts come to light. You, perhaps, can
tell what will be the best course to pursue."
"Yes, I am glad you came to me. I had resolved to keep Miss Boyd here
after her mother was gone. I must give the matter some thought. We will
not be hasty. Yes, I should like to hear the confession and ask her some
questions. Lilian must not stay alone tonight."
"I will gladly offer my services if they would be acceptable," said Mrs.
Dane.
"I think I will take the first part of the night, and then you may be
watcher. I thank you very much for your kindness."
Mrs. Barrington went to the quiet apartment. Lilian had fallen asleep
with her head on her mother's pillow. She had exhausted herself with a
soft, pitiful crying. With the quick unreason of youth she upbraided
herself for the many times she had been secretly mortified at her
mother's lack of the qualities she liked best. She had spent hours in
dreaming of a phantom mother sweet, graceful and refined, who loved all
delightful things, who was stirred by music and poetry, who could
receive guests with a gracious hospitality in the pretty home which
should be simple as befitted moderate means. The sympathy between them
would be perfect. They would linger over well-loved poets, they would
discuss their brave heroes and favorite heroines. How many times she had
fallen asleep with this dear mother's hand clasped in hers!
But here had been the hard working mother instead. Yes, she had tried to
