like five thousand rupees--were demanded by the captors.
The council looked toward Umballa, who nodded, having in mind the part
of the good Samaritan, with reservations, to be sure.  Having trod the
paths of the white man, he had acquired a certain adroitness in holding
his people.  They had at best only the stability of chickens.  What at
one moment was a terror was at another a feast.  For the present, then,
he would pretend that he had forgot all about Ramabai's part in the
various unsuccessful episodes.
To the council and the gurus (or priests) he declared that he himself
would undertake to assume the part of envoy; he himself would bring the
legal king of Allaha back to his throne.  True, the daughter had been
crowned, but she had forfeited her rights.  Thus he would return with
Colonel Hare as soon as he could make the journey and return.
"He is contemplating some treachery," said Ramabai to his wife.  "I
must try to learn what it is."
In his shop in the bazaars Lal Singh had resumed his awl.  He had, as a
companion, a bent and shaky old man, whose voice, however, possessed a
resonance which belied the wrinkles and palsied hands.
"The rains," said Lal Singh, "are very late this year.  Leather will be
poor."
"Aye."
All of which signified to Ahmed that the British Raj had too many
affairs just then to give proper attention to the muddle in Allaha.
"But there is this man Ramabai.  He runs deep."
"So!"
"He has been conspiring for months."
"Then why does he not strike?"
"He is wary.  He is wary; a good sign."  Lal Singh reached for his pipe
and set the water bubbling.  "In a few weeks I believe all will be
ready, even the British Raj."
"Why will men be sheep?"
Lal Singh shrugged.  "Only Allah knows.  But what about this guru's
curse you say follows the Colonel Sahib?"
"It is true.  I was there," said Ahmed.  "And here am I, with a price
on my head!"
"In the business we are in there will always be a price on our heads.
And Umballa will bring back the Colonel Sahib.  What then?"
"We know what we know, Lal Singh," and the face under the hood broke
into a smile.
Five days passed.  The chief of the brigands was growing restless.  He
finally declared that unless the ransom was delivered that night he
would rid himself of them all.  The tiger was starving.  In order to
prove that he was not chattering idly he had the prisoners tied to the
wheels of the cage.  It would at least amuse him to watch their growing
terror.
"Look!  Some one is coming!" cried Kathlyn.
The chief saw the caravan at the same time, and he set up a shout of
pleasure.  Three fat bags of silver rupees!
Umballa, the good Samaritan, bargained with the chief.  He did not want
all the prisoners, only one.  Three bags of silver would be forthcoming
upon the promise that the young woman and the young man should be
disposed of.
"By the tiger?"
Umballa shrugged.  To him it mattered not how.  The chief, weary of his
vigil, agreed readily enough, and Umballa turned over the silver.
"The guru, my Kit!  You see?  This is the end.  Well, I am tired.  A
filigree basket of gems!"
"So!" said Umballa, smiling at Kathlyn.  "You and your lover shall
indeed be wed--by the striped one!  A sad tale I shall take back with
me.  You were both dead when I arrived."
Presently Bruce and Kathlyn were alone.  They could hear the brute in
the cage, snarling and clawing at the wooden door.
CHAPTER XIII
LOVE
The golden sands, the purple cliffs, the translucent blue of the
heavens, and the group of picturesque rascals jabbering and
gesticulating and pressing about their chief, made a picture Kathlyn
was never to forget.
"Patience, my little ones!" said the chief, showing his white strong
teeth in what was more of a snarl than a smile.  "There is plenty of
time."
Bruce leaned toward Kathlyn.
"Stand perfectly still, just as you are.  I believe I can reach the
knot back of your hands.  This squabbling is the very thing needed.
They will not pay any attention to us for a few minutes, and if I can
read signs they'll all be at one another's throats shortly."
"But even if we get free what can we do?"
Kathlyn was beginning to lose both faith and heart.  The sight of her
father being led back to Allaha by Durga Ram, after all the misery to
which he had been subjected, shook the courage which had held her up
