the blue, came a cablram from Sylvia, dated 
Cairo: " Sailing for New York Steamship Atlantic 
are you there answer." 

Of coiuse I answered. And I consulted the 
sailing-lists, and waited, wild with impatience. 
She sent me a wireless, two days out, and so I was 
at the pier when the great vessel docked. Yes, 
there she was, waving her handkerchief to me; 
and there by her side stood her husband. 

It was a long, cold ordeal, while the ship was 
warped in. We could only gaze at each other 
across the distance, and stamp our feet and beat 
our hands. There were other friends waiting for 
the van Tuivers, I saw, and so I held myself in 
the backgroimd, full of a thousand wild specula- 
tions. How incredible that Sylvia, arriving with 



 

her husband, shoiild have summoned me to meet 
her! 

At last the gangway was let down, and the 
stream of passengers began to flow. In time 
came the van Tuivers, and their friends gathered 
to welcome them. I waited; and at last Sylvia 
came to me — outwardly cahn — but with her 
emotion in the pressure of her two hands. " Oh, 
Mary, Mary!'' she murmured. "I'm so glad to 
see you! I'm so glad to see you!" 

"What has happened?" I asked. 

Her voice went to a whisper. "I am leaving 
my husband." 

"Leaving your husband!" I stood, dumb- 
fotmded. 

"Leaving him forever, Mary." 

"But — but — " I could not finish the sentence. 
My eyes moved to where he stood, calmly chatting 
with his friends. 

"He insisted on coming back with me, to pre- 
serve appearances. He is terrified of the gossip. 
He is going all the way home, and then leave me." 

"Sylvia! What does it mean?" I whispered. 

"I can't tell you here. I want to come and see 
you. Are you living at the same place?" 

I answered in the affirmative. 

"It's a long story," she added. "I must 
apologize for asking you to come here, where we 
can't talk. But I did it for an important reason. 
I can't make my husband really believe that I 
mean what I say; and you are my Declaration of 
Independence!" She laughed — but a trifle wildly, 



 

and looking at her suddenly, I realized that she 
was keyed almost to the breaking point. 

"You poor dear!" I mirrmured. 

"I wanted to show him that I meant what I 
said. I wanted him to see us meet. You see, he's 
going home, thinking that with the help of my 
people he can make me change my mind." 
