for an explanation. Then they declared that Mr. Halkett was a British
spy, and that they were Belgian police agents with full authority to
arrest him in France.  Which was a lie, of course, but it served its
purpose by increasing the tumult."
"Did they say that they were Belgians?"
"Yes.  I heard them.  They lied.  There was much confusion and
shouting—everybody crowding around and disputing.  The three Germans
pushed their way toward the door; nobody knew whether or not to stop
them."  She shrugged.  "They were gone before people could make up their
minds.  And, as usual, the police came in too late.  Now you know all
there is to tell about what happened after you left the cabaret."
Warner laid aside his brushes, looked curiously at the portfolio which
she held out to him, hesitated, then opened it and drew out three pages
of a letter in German, but written in English script.  Evidently it was
an unfinished fragment of a letter.  He translated it rather freely and
without any great difficulty:
—were followed from New York by this man, Halkett, and a companion of
his named Gray.  Disembarking at Antwerp and going immediately to room
No. 23 in the Hôtel St. Antoine, according to instructions, we walked
directly into a trap, prepared for us, no doubt, by a wireless message
sent from the steamer by the individual, Halkett.  Schmidt was knocked
flat on his back and lay unconscious; me they hurled violently on the
bed; my face was covered with a pillow, my legs and arms held as in a
vise, while they ripped my clothing from me and then literally tore it
to shreds in their search for the papers I carried.
In the lining of my vest they found the information and drawings which
we had been at such pains and danger to secure from the Yankee War
Department.  And now the Yankee Government will find out who has been
robbing it.
Unless we can overtake these individuals, Halkett and Gray, the loss to
us must be irreparable, as we dared not study the plans and formula on
board ship, nor even venture to trust in the security of our stateroom,
believing that British agents might be on board and watching.  God knows
they were.
I regret deeply that we did not suspect Halkett and Gray.
Also, the ship’s officers, crew, stewards, wireless operator—all
evidently were our enemies and in willing collusion with these two
Englishmen.
Gray, on his motor cycle, left Antwerp for Brussels. We shall watch him
and prevent his meeting Halkett in France.  We fear they have divided
the papers between them.
Our orders are to use our own discretion.  Therefore, I repeat that Gray
shall not live to meet Halkett.
As for Halkett, he undoubtedly has some of the papers on his person.  We
missed him in Holland by accident; we unfortunately failed in the city
of Luxembourg, because he was too crafty to cross the viaduct, but slept
that night in a water mill under the walls in the lower city.
We traced him to Diekirch, but missed him again, twice, although
Schmidt, who was posted further along on the narrow-gauge line, fired at
him as a last resort.  For, as you point out, it is better that France
should come into possession of the Harkness shell than that the British
Admiralty should control it.  The very existence of our fleet is now at
stake.  France is slow to accept foreign inventions; but England is
quick as lightning.
So, if necessary, we shall take extreme measures in regard to Halkett
and Gray, and stand the chances that we may secure their papers and get
back to Berlin before the French police interfere.
And if we fail to get away, well, at least England shall not profit by
the Harkness shell.
Meier and Hoffman are following Gray; we are now leaving for Ausone, and
hope to find Halkett somewhere in that vicinity.
I am writing this with difficulty, as the road is not what it ought to
be, and the wind is disconcerting.  Esser is acting as chauffeur——
And there the letter ended.
                              *CHAPTER X*
Philippa was plaiting grass stems when he finished his examination of
the letter.  And while she deftly braided boutons d’or among the green
blades, she continued under her breath the song of the Vidette, casting
an occasional side glance upward at him, where he sat on his camp stool
studying the written fragments.
At length, seeing that he had finished, she tossed aside the flowering
rope of grass, set her elbows on her knees, her rounded chin on her
hands, and regarded him inquiringly, as though, for the moment, she had
done with childish things.
"It is a letter which urgently concerns Mr. Halkett," he nodded coolly.
"Shall I give it to him?"
"Please."
He pocketed the portfolio, hesitated, glanced at his watch, then, with
an absent-minded air, began to pack up his painting kit.  As he unhooked
his toile he looked around at her.
