"I am sorry, very sorry," said the butler, torn between the desire to
comfort her and the law that he had laid down for himself.  "It is very
gloomy to-day, and perhaps we are a little depressed by it.  I am
sorry."

"Oh, I realize, Jones, that all this unending mystery and secrecy have
a set purpose at back.  Only, it does just seem as if I should go mad
sometimes with waiting and wondering."

"And if the truth must be told, it is the same with me.  We have to
wait for them to strike.  Shall I get you something to read?  I am
going down to the drug store and they have a circulating library."

"Get me anything you please.  But I'd feel better with a little
sunshine."

"That's universal," replied Jones, going into the hall for his hat.

Had the telephone rung again at that moment it is quite probable that
the day would have come to a close as the day before had, monotonously.
But the ring came five minutes after Jones had left the house.

"Is this the Hargreave place?"

"Yes," said Florence.  "Who is it?"

"This is Miss Hargreave talking?"

"Yes."

"This is Doctor Morse.  I am at the Queen Hotel.  Mr. Norton has been
badly hurt, and he wants you and Mr. Jones to come at once.  We can not
tell just how serious the injury is.  He is just conscious.  Shall I
tell him you will come immediately?"

"Yes, yes!"

Florence snapped the receiver on the hook.  She wanted to fly, fly.  He
was hurt.  How, when, where?

"Susan!  Susan!" she called.

"What is it?" asked Susan, running into the room.

"Jim is badly hurt.  He wants me to come at once.  Oh, Susan!  I've
been dreading something all day long."  Florence struck the maid's
bell.  "My wraps.  You will go with me, Susan."

"Where, Miss Florence," asked the maid, alive to her duty.

"Where?  What is that to you?" demanded Florence, who did not know that
this maid was a detective.

"Why not wait till Mr. Jones returns?" she suggested patiently.

"And let the man I love die?" vehemently.

"At least you will leave word where you are going, Miss Florence."

"The Queen Hotel.  And if you say another word I'll discharge you.
Come, Susan."

There happened to be a taxicab conveniently near (as Vroon took care
there should be), and Florence at once engaged it.  She did not see the
man hiding in the bushes.  The two young women stepped into the taxicab
and were driven off.  They had been gone less than five minutes when
Jones returned with his purchase, to find the house empty of its most
valuable asset.  He was furious, not only at the maid, who, he
realized, was virtually helpless, but at his own negligence.

In the midst of his violent harangue the bell sounded.  In his bones he
knew what was going to be found there.  It was a letter on the back of
which was drawn the fatal black mask.  With shaking fingers he tore
open the envelope and read the contents:


"Florence is now in our power.  Only the surrender of the million will
save her.  Our agent will call in an hour for an answer.  THE BLACK
HUNDRED."

