minutes he unlocked the front door and went out into the early sunshine.
It was as warm as a spring day; rain had freshened grass and trees; he
sat down on the fountain's rim and looked into the pool where a dozen
trout lay motionless, their fins winnowing the icy water.
No doubt some spring, high on the wooded hills, had been piped down to
furnish the pool with this perpetually bubbling jet.
The little bird who had entertained him vocally earlier in the morning
was still vocal somewhere in a huge beech-tree. Around a spot of
moisture on the gravel-drive two butterflies flitted incessantly. And
over all brooded the calm and exquisite silence of the forest.
An hour or more later he got up and re-entered the house.
First he took a look at the valet's room. Evidently Karen's clothes had
been brushed and pressed, for they had disappeared.
Another door in the square hall promised to lead into the pantry,
judging from significant sounds within.
It did, and the housekeeper was in there as energetically busy as every
German woman always is when occupied. And German women are always
occupied.
The kindly soul appeared to be much flattered by his visit. They had
quite a gossiping time of it while she was preparing the breakfast
dishes.
It was mostly a monologue.
No, she and Fritzl were not lonely at Quellenheim, although it was
pleasant to have the Lodge open and a noble company there shooting. But,
like Marlbrook, the Herr Baron had gone to the wars--alas!--and it might
take him some time to capture Paris and London and set the remainder of
the world in order.
But it really seemed too bad; the Herr Baron was fond of his shooting;
Fritzl had reported some good antlers in the forest, and a grey boar or
two--but enormous! As for the place it would certainly go to ruin what
with faggot stealers and godless poachers!--And the foresters, keepers,
and even the wood-choppers all gone off and deserting the place--think
of it!--the ungrateful Kerls--gone!--and doubtless to join the crazy
Belgian army which had refused to permit Prussian troops to pass!
Prussian troops! The impudence of it! Gratitude! There was little of
that in the world it seemed.
"When does the Herr Baron return here?" inquired Guild, smiling.
It appeared that the Herr Baron was to have arrived at Quellenheim this
very week. But yesterday his adjutant telegraphed that he could not come
perhaps for many weeks. No doubt he was very busy chasing the French and
English. It was a pity; because the autumn is wunderschön at
Quellenheim. And as for the deer!--they stand even in the driveway and
look at the Lodge, doubtless wondering, sir, why they are neglected by
the hunters, and asking one another why good fat venison is no longer
appreciated at Quellenheim.
"Could you tell me where I may telegraph to the Herr Baron?" asked the
young man, immensely amused by her gossip.
"That I can, sir. My careful household reports are sent to the Herr
Baron through military headquarters at Arenstein, Prussia. That is where
he is to be addressed."
"And a telegraph office?"
"At the railroad station."
"In communication with Prussia?"
"Yes, sir," she said with a vigorous nod. "And whenever any of the
yokels here about tamper with the wires the Uhlans come and chase them
till they think the devil is after them!"
"Uhlans. Here?"
"And why not? Certainly the Uhlans come occasionally. They come when it
is necessary. Also they cross the Grand Duchy when they please."
"Then, if I write out a telegram here----"
"Fritzl will take it, never fear, sir. Leave it on the billiard
table--any telegrams or letters--and they shall be sent when Fritzl
drives to the station."
"Where," he inquired, "is Lesse Forest?" And could he send a messenger?
"Lesse Forest? Why the chasse wall separates the range of the Lesse
Hills from Quellenheim. Any peasant at Trois Fontaines who possesses a
bicycle could take a message and return in an hour."
"Do you know who leases the chasse at Lesse?"
"Yes. Some wealthy Americans."
So he smiled his thanks and returned to the hall. There was writing
material on the long oak table. And first of all he wrote out a brief
telegram to General von Reiter saying that he had fulfilled his promise.
This was all he might venture to say in a telegram; the rest he embodied
in his letter to the Herr Baron:
    Having telegraphed to you, and fulfilled my enforced obligations
    to the letter, I am confident that you, in your turn, will
    fulfill yours, release the hostages held by your troops at
    Yslemont, and spare the village any further destruction and
    indemnity.
    You had made it a part of the contract that, in case you were
