into chaos? She frowned and put her thoughts more colloquially. Had her
luck changed? Was Fate against her? When she thought of Dwight Rush, it
was only to shrink again. If anything happened to him--and why not? Men
were killed every day by automobiles, and he had an absentminded way of
walking--
She sprang to her feet and paced up and down the two rooms of the suite,
determined upon composure, and angry with herself. She recovered her
mental balance (so rarely disturbed by imaginative flights), but her
spirits were at zero; and she was sitting with her elbows on her knees,
her hands pressed to her face when Rush entered promptly at four
o'clock. He was startled at the face she lifted. It looked older but
indefinably more attractive. Her inviolable serenity had irritated even
him at times, although she was his innocent ideal of a great lady.
The Warden, who had unlocked the door, left them alone, and Rush sat
down and took both her hands in his warm reassuring grasp.
"You are not to be the least bit frightened," he said. "The great thing
for you to remember is that your husband's political crowd rules, and
simply laughs at your arrest. They are more positive than ever that some
political enemy did it. Balfame's temper was growing shorter and
shorter, and he had many enemies, even in his own party. But the crowd
will pull every wire to get you off, and they can pull wires, all
right--"
"But on what evidence am I arrested? What did those abominable people
say to the Grand Jury? Am I never to know?"
"Well, rather. It's all in the afternoon papers, for one of the
reporters got the evidence before the Grand Jury did."
He had taken off his overcoat, and he crossed the room and took from a
pocket a copy of The Evening News. She glanced over it with her lips
drawn back from her teeth. It contained not only the story the
enterprising Mr. Bruce had managed to obtain from Frieda and Conrad Jr.,
but a corroboration of the maid's assertion that, warned by the family
friend and lawyer, Mr. Dwight Rush, to disappear, she had gone to Papa
Kraus for advice. Not a word, however, of blackmail.
"So the public believes already that I am a murderess! No doubt I should
be convinced as readily myself. It is all so adroit!" Mrs. Balfame
spoke quietly but with intense bitterness. "I suppose I must be
tried--more and still more publicity. No one will ever forget it. Do you
suppose it is true young Kraus saw me that night?"
"God knows!"
He got up again and moved nervously about the room. "I wish I could be
sure. That is the point to which I must give the deepest
consideration--whether you are to admit or not that you went out. The
Grand Jury and Gore believe it. Young Kraus has a very good name. Frieda
has always been well behaved. There are six Germans on the Grand Jury,
moreover. We must see that none get on the trial jury. Gore wants to
believe--"
"But he was a friend of Dave's."
"Exactly. He is making much of that point. Affects to be filled with
righteous wrath because you killed his dear old friend. Trust a district
attorney. All they care for is to win out, and he has his spurs to win,
in the bargain. I met him a few moments ago; he was about equally full
of gin fizzes and the 'indisputable fact' that you are the only person
in sight with a motive. Oh, don't! Don't!"
Mrs. Balfame had broken down. She flung her arms over the table and her
head upon them. More than once in her life she had shed tears both
diplomatic and spontaneous, but for the first time since she was a child
she sobbed heavily. She felt forlorn, deserted, in awful straits.
"Anna is ill," she articulated. "Anna! My one real friend--the only one
that has meant anything to me. Life has gone pretty well with me. Now
everything is changed. I know that terrible things are about to happen
to me."
"Not while I am alive. I heard of Dr. Anna's illness on my way to New
York. Lequeur was on the train. You--you must let me take her place. I
am devoted to you heart and soul. You surely know that."
"But you are not a woman. It's a woman friend I want now, a strong one
like Anna. Those other women--oh, yes, they're devoted to me--have been,
but they've suddenly ceased to count, somehow. Besides, they'll soon
believe me guilty. I hate them all. Only Anna would have understood--and
believed."
Rush had been administering awkward little pats to the soft masses of
her hair. Suddenly he realised that his faith in her complete innocence
was by no means as stable as it had been; she had confessed to him that
she had been in the grove that night stalking the intruder. How absurd
to believe that she had gone out unarmed. He had read the circumstantial
details of the reporter's interviews with Frieda and young Kraus. While
the writers were careful not to make the downright assertion that Mrs.
Balfame had fired the fatal shot, the public saw her in the act of
levelling one of the pistols--so mighty is the power of the trained and
ruthless pen.
As he stood looking down upon his unexpected surrender to emotional
