He took up cup and buttered croissant, and for a little while
nothing was said, except to Sandy who, upon invitation, repeated his
opinion of the Sultan and snapped in the offered emolument with
unsatiated satisfaction.

To Rue Carew as well as to Neeland there seemed to be a slight
constraint between them--something not entirely new to her since they
had met again after two years.

In the two years of her absence she had been very faithful to the
memory of his kindness; constant in the friendship which she had given
him unasked--given him first, she sometimes thought, when she was a
little child in a ragged pink frock, and he was a wonderful young man
who had taken the trouble to cross the pasture and warn her out of
range of the guns.

He had always held his unique place in her memory and in her innocent
affections; she had written to him again and again, in spite of his
evident lack of interest in the girl to whom he had been kind. Rare,
brief letters from him were read and reread, and laid away with her
best-loved treasures. And when the prospect of actually seeing him
again presented itself, she had been so frankly excited and happy that
the Princess Mistchenka could find in the girl's unfeigned delight
nothing except a young girl's touching and slightly amusing
hero-worship.

But with her first exclamation when she caught sight of him at the
terminal, something about her preconceived ideas of him, and her
memory of him, was suddenly and subtly altered, even while his name
fell from her excited lips.

Because she had suddenly realised that he was even more wonderful than
she had expected or remembered, and that she did not know him at
all--that she had no knowledge of this tall, handsome, well-built
young fellow with his sunburnt features and his air of smiling
aloofness and of graceful assurance, almost fascinating and a trifle
disturbing.

Which had made the girl rather grave and timid, uncertain of the
estimation in which he might hold her; no longer so sure of any
encouragement from him in her perfectly obvious attitude of a friend
of former days.

And so, shyly admiring, uncertain, inclined to warm response at any
advance from this wonderful young man, the girl had been trying to
adjust herself to this new incarnation of a certain James Neeland who
had won her gratitude and who had awed her, too, from the time when,
as a little girl, she had first beheld him.

She lifted her golden-grey eyes to him; a little unexpected sensation
not wholly unpleasant checked her speech for a moment.

This was odd, even unaccountable. Such awkwardness, such disquieting
and provincial timidity wouldn't do.

"Would you mind telling me a little about Brookhollow?" she ventured.

Certainly he would tell her. He laid aside his plate and tea cup and
told her of his visits there when he had walked over from Neeland's
Mills in the pleasant summer weather.

Nothing had changed, he assured her; mill-dam and pond and bridge, and
the rushing creek below were exactly as she knew them; her house stood
there at the crossroads, silent and closed in the sunshine, and under
the high moon; pickerel and sunfish still haunted the shallow pond;
partridges still frequented the alders and willows across her pasture;
fireflies sailed through the summer night; and the crows congregated
in the evening woods and talked over the events of the day.

"And my cat? You wrote that you would take care of Adoniram."

"Adoniram is an aged patriarch and occupies the place of honour in my
father's house," he said.

"He is well?"

"Oh, yes. He prefers his food cut finely, that is all."

"I don't suppose he will live very long."

