
"Like her? A woman like that? She doesn't even look clean."

Lydia answered quite eagerly.

"Oh, yes, Anne, I really like her. I thought I didn't when I heard her
talk. Sometimes I hated her. But I understand her somehow. And she's
clean. Really she is. It's the kind of clothes she wears." Lydia, to her
own surprise at this tragic moment, giggled a little here. Madame
Beattie, when in full fig, as she had first seen her, looked to her like
pictures of ancient hearses with plumes. "She's all right," said Lydia.
"She's just going to have what belongs to her, that's all. And if I were
in her place and felt as she does, I would, too."

Anne, with an air of now being ready for bed, threw the finished braid
over her back. She was looking at Lydia with her kind look, but, Lydia
could also see, compassionately.

"But, Lyd," she said, "the reason I call her a dreadful old woman is
that she's told you all this rigmarole. It makes me quite hot. She
sha'n't amuse herself by taking you in like that. I won't have it."

"Anne," said Lydia, "it's true. Don't you see it's true?"

"It's a silly story," said Anne. She could imagine certain things,
chiefly what men and women would like, in order to make them
comfortable, but she had no appetite for the incredible. "Do you suppose
Esther would have stolen her aunt's diamonds? Or was it pearls?"

"Yes, I do," said Lydia stoutly. "It's just like her."

"She might do other things, different kinds of things that are just as
bad. But stealing, Lyd! Why, think! Esther's a lady."

"Ladies are just like anybody else," said Lydia sulkily. She thought she
might have to consider that when she was alone, but at this moment the
world was against her and she had to catch up the first generality she
could find.

"And for a necklace to be so valuable," said Anne, "valuable enough for
Jeff to risk everything he had to try to pay for it--"

Lydia felt firmer ground. She read the newspapers and Anne did not.

"Now, Anne," said she, "you're 'way off. Diamonds cost thousands and
thousands of dollars, and so do pearls."

"Why, yes," said Anne, "royal jewels or something of that sort. But a
diamond necklace brought here to Addington in Madame Beattie's bag--"

Lydia got up and went over to her. Her charming face was hot with anger,
and she looked, too, so much a child that she might in a minute stamp
her foot or scream.

"Why, you simpleton!" said she.

"Lydia!" Anne threw in, the only stop-gap she could catch at in her
amaze. This was her "little sister", but of a complexion she had never
seen.

"Don't you know what kind of a person Madame Beattie is? Why, she's a
princess. She's more than a princess. She's had kings and emperors
wallowing round the floor after her, begging to kiss her hand."

Anne looked at her. Lydia afterward, in her own room, thought, with a
gale of hysterical laughter, "She just looked at me." And Anne couldn't
find a word to crush the little termagant. Everything that seemed to
pertain was either satirical, as to ask, "Did she tell you so?" or
compassionate, implying cerebral decay. But she did venture the
compassion.

"Lydia, don't you think you'd better go to bed?"

"Yes," said Lydia promptly, and went out and shut the door.

And on the way to her room, Anne noted, she was singing, or in a fashion
she had in moments of triumph, tooting through closed lips, like a
trumpet, the measures of a march. In half an hour Anne followed her, to
listen at her door. Lydia was silent. Anne hoped she was asleep.

