
" Oh, let me stay with him," said Ellen. " He's been 
gone so long." She laid her cheek on his shoulder an in- 
stant, and then smiled up in his face, and withdrew from 
him. " Sit down," she said. " Your mother's hardly 
seen you." 

So they all sat down, and that seemed a strange, acqui- 
escent thing to do. This was a battle. It had to be 
fought out. How could it be fought except on foot? 

" Ellen ! " said Ben sharply. He meant to lose no ad- 
vantage and no more self-respect by being treated like the 



 

prisoner at the bar. "Don't you remember you were 
married to me yesterday ? " 

Ellen turned to him in an impulsive warmth. 

"Oh, yes," she said. "That's what makes it dread- 
ful. Mrs. Neale, you mustn't blame Hugh. It was 
over before he came. I told Ben. It was when you 
brought me upstairs and kissed me and left me in that 
room. And when you had gone, I ran into my own 
room and locked the door, and when he spoke to me 
through the keyhole, I said, " Never ! never ! ' " 

Now Mary Neale's heart was with her other son, who 
had been deceived and, though innocently, tricked. 

"You said * never'?" she repeated. "But you were 
married, Ellen. Why didn't you say it before? " 

Ellen looked at her and it was impossible to believe she 
was not telling the truth. 

" I don't know," she said. " Truly, I don't know. I 
thought about it a great deal, last night. I didn't sleep. 
And I thought perhaps girls often don't know, till it is 
over, just what they've done." 

" I suppose," said Mary, in irrepressible bitterness, 
" if you'd married Hugh, you'd have said ' never,' and 
expected him to go away." 

" Oh, no," said Ellen, the ecstatic flush again in her 
face. " Oh, no ! not Hiigh. I understand now. Love ! " 

She said the word broodingly, and really to herself, but, 
Hugh knew, as he looked at her, possessed by him, the im- 
age of him trembling for her in every atom of the world. 
But Mary, though loving him, was the more on fire for 
justice to her other son. 

" You could have stayed awake and thought it out be- 
fore," she said. " Nobody made you marry Ben. You 
did it of your own free will." 

" Oh, but it was because Qrissie was telling those dread- 



 

fill things about him," said Ellen, " and they made you 
unhappy. She told lies about him, Hugh. And it was 
true, what he said to me. If he were married, she would 
stop persecuting him. And I like Ben. He hadn't been 
silly, as other boys are. Or rough, Hugh ! " She laughed 
a little, and he knew she was remembering the violet bank 
and that she had forgiven him at last. " O Ben ! '' said 
she, " I'm sorry." Ben was silent, looking at her. His 
mind was a battlefield. There was the jealousy incident 
to another's triumph; but there was, too, the wish that 
he could walk out of the room without being a coward, 
and the certainty that he'd got to fight it out with Hugh 
