With which too, as Graham but pleadingly gaped : 
"You'll be doing them for everyone else — that 
is finding it impossible to do what they do. From 
the moment they notice that — well, it will be 
what I want. We know, we know," he remarked 
further and as if this quite settled it. 

Any ambiguity in his "we" after an instant 
cleared up; he was to have alluded but ever so 
sparely, through all this scene, to Rosanna Gaw, 
but he alluded now, and again it had for' Gray 
an amount of reference that was like a great sum 
of items in a bill imperfectly scanned. None the 
less it left him desiring still more clearness. His 
whole soul centred at this point in the need not 
to have contributed by some confused accommo- 
dation to a strange theory of his future.' Strange 
he could but feel this one to be, however simply, 
that is on however large and vague an assump- 
tion, it might suit others, amid their fathomless 
resources and their luxuries or perversities of 
waste, to see it. He wouldn't be smothered in 
the vague, whatever happened, and had now the 
gasp and upward shake of the head of a man in 
too deep water. "What I want to insist on," he 
broke out with it, "is that I mustn't consent to 
any exaggeration in the interest of your, or of 
any other, sublime view of me, view of my ca- 
pacity of any sort. There's no sublime view of 





 

me to be taken that consorts in the least with 
any truth; and I should be a very poor creature 
if I didn't here and now assure you that no proof 
in the world exists, or has for a moment existed, 
of my being capable of anything whatever." 

He might have supposed himself for a little to 
have produced something of the effect that would 
naturally attach to a due vividness in this truth 
— for didn't his uncle now look at him just a shade 
harder, before the fixed eyes closed, indeed, as 
under a pressure to which they had at last really 
to yield ? They closed, and the old white face 
was for the couple of minutes so thoroughly still 
without them that a slight uneasiness quickened 
him, and it would have taken but another mo- 
ment to make a slight sound, which he had to 
turn his head for the explanation of, reach him 
as the response to an appeal. The door of the 
room, opening gently, had closed again behind 
Miss Goodenough, who came forward softly, but 
with more gravity, Gray thought, than he had 
previously seen her show. Still in his place and 
conscious of the undiminished freshness of her 
invalid's manual emphasis, he looked at her for 
some opinion as to the latter's appearance, or 
to the move on his own part next indicated; dur- 
ing which time her judgment itself, considering 
Mr. Betterman, a trifle heavily waited. Gray's 
doubt, before the stillness which had followed 
so great even if so undiscourageable an efFort, 





 

moved him to some play of disengagement; where- 
upon he knew himself again checked, and there, 
once more, the fine old eyes rested on him. "I'm 
afraid I've tired him out," he could but say to 
the nurse, who made the motion to feel her pa- 
tient's pulse without the effect of his releasing his 
