flat on the ground until the German guns turned elsewhere; then they ran for the nearest town. But during these distracted transfers many received wounds 
whose scars they are likely to carry through life. The 
most seriously wounded were taken to the military 
hospitals, where they either died, or, if merely in need 
of bandages, were quickly turned out to make room 
for some poilu arriving in the everlasting procession 
of stretchers. 

Sometimes, flat on their stomachs, the more curious 
and intelligent of the children watched the shells sailing overhead to drop upon some beautiful villa or 
chateau and transpose it into a heap of stones. Where 
there were English or Americans in these bombarded 
towns, or where the Cures or the Mayors of those 
invaded had not been shot or imprisoned, the children 
were sent as quickly as possible to Paris, the mothers, 
when there were any, only too content to let them go 
and to remain behind and take their chances with the 
shells. 

One little Belgian named Bonduelle, who, with two 
brothers, reached Paris in safety, is very graphic: 
"We are three orphans," he replied in answer to the 
usual questions. "Our uncle and aunt took the place 



 

of our dear parents, so soon taken from us. . . . It 
was towards the evening of Wednesday, 6th Septem- 
ber, 1 9 14, that I was coming back to my uncle's house 
from Ypres, when all at once I heard shrieks and 
yells in the distance. I stopped, for I was like one 
stunned. On hearing behind me, on the highway, German cavalry, I ran into a house where I spent the 
night. I could not close my eyes when I thought of 
the anxiety of my uncle and aunt and of the fate of 
my two small brothers, Michael and Roger. Early 
the following day I rushed to our house. Everybody 
was in the cellar. We shed tears on meeting again. 
I found two of my cousins wounded by a shell which 
had exploded outside our door. Soon another shell 
comes and smashes our house. I was wounded. Dazed 
with fear, my cousin and myself got out through a 
window from the cellar, we ran across fields and 
meadows to another uncle, where the rest of the 
family followed us soon. We remained there the 
whole winter, but what a sad winter! We have not 
taken off our clothes, for at every moment we feared 
to have to run away again. 

"The big guns rumbled very much and the shells 
whistled over our heads. Every one heard : 'So-and- 
so is killed' or 'wounded, by a shell.' 'Such-and-such- 
a-house is ruined by a shell.' 

"After having spent more than seven months in 
incredible fear, my brothers and myself have left the 
village, at the order of the gendarmes, and the Eng- 



 

lish took us to Hazebrouck, from where we went to 
Paris." 

In some cases the parents, or, as was most generally 
the case, the mother, after many terrifying experiences in her village, passed and repassed by the Ger- 
mans, having heard of the relief stations in Paris, sent 
their children, properly tagged, to be cared for in a 
place of comparative safety until the end of the war. 
"Young Bruno Van Wonterghem told his experience in 
characteristically simple words: 

"Towards the evening of September 6th, 1914, the 
Germans arrived at our village with their ammunition. One would have thought the Last Judgment was 
about to begin. All the inhabitants were hiding in 
•their houses. I was hiding in the attic, but, desirous 
to see a German, I was looking through a little window 
:in the roof. Nobody in the house dared to go to bed. 
