
" They know what they doin' ! " said Eosa. " They 
only f raid we find it out ! They told Mrs. Zamboni she 
keep away or they send her out of camp. And old Mrs. 
Jonotch — her husband and three sons inside ! " 

" They're getting rougher and rougher," declared Mrs. 
David. " That big fellow they call Pete, that came up 
from Pedro — 'the way he's handling the women is a 
shame ! " 

"I know hjjqa^put in Olson; "Pete Hanun. They 
had him in S tfafnn when the union first opened head- 
quarters. Qrfmrcbed one of our organisers in the mouth 
and broke j&lfQym his teeth. They say he has a jail- 
record." - *' 

All through the previous year at college Hal had lis- 
tened to lectures upon political economy, filled with the 



 

praises of a thing called "Private Ownership." This 
Private Ownership developed initiative and economy; it 
kept the wheels of industry a-roll, it kept fat the pay-rolls 
of college faculties ; it accorded itself with the sacred laws 
of supply and demand, it was the basis of the progress and 
prosperity wherewith America had been blessed. And 
here suddenly Hal found himself face to face with the 
reality of it ; he saw its wolfish eyes glaring into his own, 
he felt its smoking hot breath in his face, he saw its gleam- 
ing fangs and claw-like fingers, dripping with the blood 
of men and women and children. Private Ownership of 
coal-mines! Private Ownership of sealed-up entrances 
and non-existent escape-ways ! Private Ownership of fans 
which did not start, of sprinklers which did not sprinkle. 
Private Ownership of clubs and revolvers, and of thugs 
and ex-convicts to use them, driving away rescuers and 
shutting up agonised widows and orphans in their homes ! 
Oh, the serene and well-fed priests of Private Ownership, 
Chanting in academic halls the praises of the bloody 
Demon ! 

Suddenly Hal stopped still. Something had risen in 
him, the existence of which he had never suspected. There 
was a new look upon his face, his voice was deep as a 
strong man's when he spoke : " I am going to make them 
open that mine ! " 

They looked at him. They were all of them close to the 
border of hysteria, but they caught the strange note in his 
utterance. " I am going to make them open th$tt mine! ' 

" How ? " asked Olson. 

" The public doesn't know about this thing. If the 
story got out, there'd be such a clamour, it couldn't go on ! " 

" But how will you get it out ? " 

" I'll give it to the newspapers ! They can't suppress 
such a thing — I don't care how prejudiced they are ! " 

" But do you think they'd believe what a miner's buddy 
tells them ? " asked Mrs. David. 



  



 

" I'll find a way to make them believe me," said HaL 
" I'm going to mate them open that mine ! " 


