


X


The next morning Jacks dragged Troy out of bed by the feet. The room was
still dark, and through the square of the low window glittered a bunch
of stars.

"Hurry call to Montmirail--step lively!" Jacks ordered, his voice thick
with sleep.

All the old names; with every turn of the wheel they seemed to be
drawing nearer and nearer to the ravaged spot of earth where Paul
Gantier slept his faithful sleep. Strange if, to-day of all days, Troy
should again stand by his friend's grave.

They pushed along eastward under the last stars, the roll of the cannon
crashing through the quiet dawn. The birds flew up with frightened cries
from the trees along the roadside; rooks cawed their warning from clump
to clump, and gathered in the sky in dark triangles flying before the
danger.

The east began to redden through the dust-haze of the cloudless air. As
they advanced the road became more and more crowded, and the ambulance
was caught in the usual dense traffic of the front: artillery,
field-kitchens, motor-trucks, horse-wagons, hay-carts packed with
refugees, and popping motor-cycles zigzagging through the tangle of
vehicles. The movement seemed more feverish and uncertain than usual,
and now and then the road was jammed, and curses, shouts and the crack
of heavy whips sounded against the incessant cannonade that hung its
iron curtain above the hills to the north-east. The faces of soldiers
and officers were unshaved sallow drawn with fatigue and anxiety. Women
crouched sobbing on their piled-up baggage, and here and there, by the
roadside, a little country cart had broken down, and the occupants sat
on the bank watching the confusion like impassive lookers-on.

Suddenly, in the thickest of the struggle, a heavy lorry smashed into
Troy's ambulance, and he felt the unmistakable wrench of the
steering-gear. The car shook like a careening boat, and then righted
herself and stopped.

"Oh, hell!" shouted Jacks in a fury. The two lads jumped down, and in a
few minutes they saw that they were stranded beyond remedy. Tears of
anger rushed into Troy's eyes. On this day of days he was not even to
accomplish his own humble job!

Another ambulance of their own formation overtook them, and it was
agreed that Jacks, who was the sharper of the two, was to get a lift to
the nearest town, and try to bring back a spare part, or, failing that,
pick up some sort of a car in which they could continue their work.

Troy was left by the roadside. Hour after hour he sat there waiting and
cursing his fate. When would Jacks be back again? Not at all, most
likely; it was ten to one he would be caught on the way and turned on to
some more pressing job. He knew, and Troy knew, that their ambulance was
for the time being a hopeless wreck, and would probably have to stick
ignominiously in its ditch till some one could go and fetch a spare part
from Paris. And meanwhile, what might not be happening nearer by?

The rumble and thump of the cannonade grew more intense; a violent
engagement was evidently going on not far off. Troy pulled out his map
and tried to calculate how far he was from the front; but the front, at
that point, was a wavering and incalculable line. He had an idea that
the fighting was much nearer than he or Jacks had imagined. The place at
which they had broken down must be about fifteen miles from the Marne.
But could it be possible that the Germans had crossed the Marne?

Troy grew hungry, and thrust his hand in his pocket to pull out a
sandwich. With it came a letter of his mother's, carried off in haste
when he left Paris the previous morning. He re-read it with a mournful
smile. "Of course we all know the Allies must win; but the preparations
here seem so slow and blundering; and the Germans are still so
strong...." (Thump, thump, the artillery echoed: "Strong!") And just
at the end of the letter, again; "I do wonder if you'll run across
Sophy...."

He lit a cigarette, and shut his eyes and thought. The sight of Miss
Warlick had made Sophy Wicks's presence singularly vivid to him: he had
