to make his employer sweat under the collar. If you worked 
in a machine-shop, you dropped emery-powder into the bear- 
ings; if you worked on a farm, you drove copper nails into the 
fruit-trees, which caused them to die; if you packed apples, you 
stuck your thumb-nail into one, which made sure that the whole 
box would be rotten when it arrived ; if you worked in a saw-mill, 
you drove a spike into a log ; if you worked in a restaurant, you 
served double portions to ruin the boss, and spit in each por- 
tion, to make sure the customer did not derive any benefit. 
All these things you did in a fervour of exaltation, a mood of 
frenzied martyrdom, because of the blaze of hate which had been 
fanned in your soul by a social system based upon oppression 
and knavery. 



 



II 

To Jimmie, living the obscure and comparatively peaceful 
life of a Socialist propagandist, the question of "sabotage, vio- 
lence and crime'' had been a more or less academic one, about 
which the comrades debated acrimoniously, and against which 
they voted by a large majority. But now Jimmie was out among 
the "wobblies," the "blanket-stiffs" the unskilled workers who 
had literally nothing but their muscle-power to sell; here he 
was in the front-line trenches of the class war. These men 
wandered about from one job to another, at the mercy of the 
seasons and the fluctuations of industry. They were deprived 
of votes, and therefore of their status as citizens; they were de- 
prived of a chance to organise, and therefore of their status as 
human beings. They were lodged in filthy bunk-houses, fed 
upon rotten food, and beaten or jailed at the least word of 
revolt. So they fought their oppressors with any and every 
weapon they could lay hands on. 

In the turpentine-country, in a forest, Jimmie and his pal 
came to a "jungle' a place where the "wobblies" congregated, 
living off the country. Here around the camp-fires Jimmie met 
the guerrillas of the class-struggle, and learned the songs of 
revolt which they sang some of them parodies on Christian 
hymns which would have caused the orthodox and respectable 
to faint with horror. Here they rested up, and exchanged data 
on the progress of their fight, and argued over tactics, and 
cussed the Socialists and the other "politicians" and "labour- 
fakirs," and sang the praises of the "one big union' and the 
"mass strike' and "direct action" against the masters of indus- 
try. They told stories of their sufferings and their exploits, and 
Jimmie sat and listened. Sometimes his eyes were wide with 
consternation, for he had never met men so desperate as these. 

For example, "Strawberry" Curran named for his red hair 
and innumerable freckles an Irish boy with the face of a choir- 
singer, and eyes that must have been taken straight out of the 
blue vault of heaven. This lad told about a "free speech fight" 
in a far Western city, and how the chief of police had led the 
clubbing, and how they had got back at him. "We bumped 
him off all right," said "Strawberry" ; it was a favourite phrase 
of his whenever anybody got in his way, he "bumped him off." 
A.nd then "Flathead Joe," who came from the Indian country, 





was moved to emulation, and told how he had put dynamite 
under the supports of a mine-breaker, and the whole works had 
slid down a slope into a canyon a mile below. And then a 
lame fellow, "Chuck" Peterson, told about the imprisonment of 
two strike-leaders in the hop-country of California, and of the 
epidemic of fires and destructions that had plagued that region 
for several years since. 

All such things these men talked about quite casually, as 
soldiers would talk about the events of the last campaign. This 
class-war had been going on for ages, and had its own ethics 
and its own traditions; those who took part in it had their 
