It had been something in his tone rather than his actual words that
had frightened the girl. “Oh Peter!” she cried. “What does it matter
about me, or about any other one person, when millions of young men
are being shot to fragments, and millions of women and children are
starving to death!”

So there they were, fighting the war again; Peter had to take up her
burden, be a hero, and a martyr, and a “Red.” That same afternoon,
as fate willed it, three “wobblies” out of a job came to call; and
oh, how tired Peter was of these wandering agitators--insufferable
“grouches!” Peter would want to say: “Oh, cut it out! What you call
your `cause’ is nothing but your scheme to work with your tongues
instead of with a pick and a shovel.” And this would start an
imaginary quarrel in Peter’s mind. He would hear one of the fellows
demanding, “How much pick and shovel work you ever done?” Another
saying, “Looks to me like you been finding the easy jobs wherever
you go!” The fact that this was true did not make Peter’s irritation
any less, did not make it easier for him to meet with Comrade Smith,
and Brother Jones, and Fellow-worker Brown just out of jail, and
listen to their hard-luck stories, and watch them take from the
table food that Peter wanted, and--the bitterest pill of all--let
them think that they were fooling him with their patter!

The time came when Peter wasn’t able to stand it any longer. Shut up
in the house all day, he was becoming as irritable as a chained dog.
Unless he could get out in the world again, he would surely give
himself away. He pleaded that the doctors had warned him that his
health would not stand indoor life; he must get some fresh air. So
he got away by himself, and after that he found things much easier.
He could spend a little of his money; he could find a quiet corner
in a restaurant and get himself a beefsteak, and eat all he wanted
of it, without feeling the eyes of any “comrades” resting upon him
reprovingly. Peter had lived in a jail, and in an orphan asylum, and
in the home of Shoemaker Smithers, but nowhere had he fared so
meagerly as in the home of the Todd sisters, who were contributing
nearly everything they owned to the Goober defense, and to the
“Clarion,” the Socialist paper of American City.




Section 24


Peter went to see Andrews, the lawyer, and asked for a job; he
wanted to be active in the case, he said, so he was set to work in
the offices of the Defense Committee, where he heard people talking
about the case all day, and he could pick up no end of valuable
tips. He made himself agreeable and gained friends; before long he
was intimate with one of the best witnesses of the defense, and
discovered that this man had once been named as co-respondent in a
divorce case. Peter found out the name of the woman, and Guffey set
to work to bring her to American City. The job was to be done
cleverly, without the woman’s even knowing that she was being used.
She would have a little holiday, and the spell of old love would
reassert itself, and Guffey would have a half dozen men to spring
the trap--and there would be a star witness of the Goober defense
clean down and out! “There’s always something you can get them on!”
 said McGivney, and cheerfully paid Peter Gudge five hundred dollars
for the information he had brought.

Peter would have been wildly happy, but just at this moment a
dreadful calamity befell him. Jennie had been talking about marriage
more and more, and now she revealed to him a reason which made
marriage imperative. She revealed it with downcast eyes, with
blushes and trembling; and Peter was so overcome with consternation
that he could not play the part that was expected of him. Hitherto
in these love crises he had caught Jennie in his arms and comforted
her; but now for a moment he let her see his real emotions.

Jennie promptly had a fit. What was the matter with him? Didn’t he
mean to marry her, as he had promised? Surely he must realize now
that they could no longer delay! And Peter, who was not familiar
with the symptoms of hysterics, lost his head completely and could
think of nothing to do but rush out of the house and slam the door.

The more he considered it, the more clearly he realized that he was
in the devil of a predicament. As a servant of the Traction Trust,
he had taken it for granted that he was immune to all legal
penalties and obligations; but here, he had a feeling, was a trouble
