out to lunch -with him twice and once to dine; after 
which they drove hack to the hospital in a slow and battered old hansom. 
She returned a few weeks before the Armistice. She 
had not seen him for four months. He was well and 
expecting to be sent back to the front any day. At 
present they were making use of him in London. 
If anything he appeared to admire her more than ever, 
to be more solicitous for her health. He lamented personally her exacting duties. But it was the almost exuberant friendliness of one man for another, for a comrade, a good fellow; although he often paid her quick 
little diagnostic compliments. If she hadn't loved him 
she would have enjoyed his companionship. He had 
read and thought and lived. Before the war he had been 
in active public life. He had far greater plans for 
the future. 
He had been almost entirely impersonal. It had maddened her. Even the night they had driven through the 
dark streets of London out to her hospital, although he 
had talked more or less about himself, even encouraged 
her to talk about herself, there had not been one instant 
of correlation. 
But she had made excuses as women do, in self-defense. He assumed that he might easily go back to the 
front just in time to get himself killed, although the end 
of the war was in sight. . . . Her utter lack of experience with men in any sex relation had made her stiff, 
even in her letters; afraid of "giving herself away." 
She had no coquetry. If she had, pride would have 
forbidden her to use it. Her ideals were intensely old- 
fashioned. She wanted to be pursued, won. The man 
must do it all. Her writings had never been in the least 
romantic. "Well, she was, if romance meant having certain fixed ideals. 
One thing puzzled her. When she wrote she manipulated her men and women in their mutual relations with 
a master-hand. But she had not the least idea how to 
 
manage her own affair. What was genius? A rotten 
spot in the brain, a displacement of particles that operated independently of personality, of the inherited ego? 
Possession? Ancestors come to life for an hour in the 
subliminal depths? But what did she care for genius 
anyhow ! 
One thing she would have been willing to do as her 
part, aside from meeting him mentally at all points and 
showing a brisk frank pleasure in his society: give him 
every chance to woo and win her, to find her more and 
more indispensable to his happiness. But she was no 
woman of leisure. She could not receive him in charming toilettes in an equally seductive room. She had 
nothing for evening wear but an old black satin gown. 
After her arrival in London she had found time to buy 
a smart enough tailored coat and skirt, and a hat, but 
nothing more. 
And after the Armistice was declared she only saw 
him once. 
Then came his abrupt departure for Paris. His non- 
committal note. Even then she refused to despair. It 
would be an utterly impossible end to such a story . . . 
after twelve years . . . not for a moment would she 
accept that. 
ni 
She applied for her discharge. During her long stay 
in the British service she had made influential friends. 
She had also made a high record not only for ability 
but for an untiring fidelity. Her vacations had been few 
and brief. She obtained her discharge and went to 
Paris. Her pride would permit her to telephone. What 
more natural ? Nothing would have surprised him more 
than if she had not. She had little doubt of his falling 
into the habit of daily companionship. He knew Paris 
and she did not. He would have seen her daily in London if she had been free. 
Something, no doubt of that, held him back. He was 
discouraged ... or not sure of himself. . . . She had 
assumed as a matter of course that he was at the Ritz. 
When she found that he was not, had not been, she 
 
Realized that he had omitted to give her an address. 
That might have been mere carelessness. . . . But to 
find him in Paris ! She had not visualized such swarms 
of people. She might almost have passed him on the 
street and not seen him. But not for a moment did she 
waver from her purpose. She held passionately to the 
telief that were they together day after day, hours on 
end . . . 
Unbelievable. 
IV 
She had telephoned an hour ago to the hotel where he 
"was staying with other members of the British Commission and been told that he was out of town, but might 
