unloaded them and threw them out of the back window.” And even as he
spoke, the silence of the night outside was shattered by the scream
of that siren, which served to warn people out of the way when T-S
was moving his companies about “on location.”

I went up to Carpenter. I didn’t enjoy telling him a lie; in fact, I
had an idea that one couldn’t lie to him successfully. But I tried
it. “Mr. Carpenter, Hamby left a message; he had to go downstairs,
and said he wanted to see you. Would you come down and meet him?”

“Ah, yes!” said Carpenter. And he walked to the door and down the
stairs without another word. The rest of us followed him; Abell and
Moneta first, they being innocent and unsuspicious; and then Lynch,
and then Joe and I.

The prophet stepped out to the street, and was instantly surrounded
by a group of a dozen ex-service men, two of whom grasped him by the
arms. He did not lift a hand, nor even make a sound. Comrade Abell,
of course, started to cry out in protest; Moneta, the Mexican,
reverted to his ancestors. His hand flashed to an inside pocket, and
a knife leaped out. A soldier had hold of him, and Moneta shouted,
“Stand back, or I cut off your ears.” At which Carpenter turned, and
in a stern, commanding voice proclaimed: “Let no man use force in my
behalf! They who use force shall perish by force.” Moneta stood
still; and of course Lynch and Old Joe and I stood still; and the
dozen men about Carpenter started to lead him away to their
automobiles.

But they did not get very far. Upon the silence of the street a
voice rang out. Ordinarily, one would have known it was the voice of
a woman; but in this place, under these exciting circumstances, it
seemed the voice of a supernatural being. It almost sang the words;
it was like a silver bugle calling across a battle-field--glorious,
thrilling, hypnotic. “Make way-y-y-y for the Grand Imperial
Kle-e-e-agle of the Ku-u Klux Klan!” Every one was startled; but I
think I was startled more that the rest, for I knew the voice! Mary
Magna had taken another speaking part!

I was on the steps of the building, so I could see over the heads of
the crowd. There were four of the big busses from Eternal City, two
having approached from each direction. Some fifty figures had
descended from them, and others were still descending, each one clad
in a voluminous white robe, with a white hood over the head, and two
black holes for eyes, and another for the nose. These figures had
spread out in a half moon, entirely surrounding the little mob of
ex-service men, and penning them against the wall of the building.
In the center of the half moon, standing a few feet in advance, was
the figure of the “Grand Imperial Kleagle,” with a red star upon the
forehead of the white hood, and shrouded white arms stretched out,
and in one hand a magic wand with a red light on the end. This wand
was waving over the Brigade members, and had apparently its full
supernatural effect, for one and all they stood rooted to the spot,
staring with wide-open eyes.



LVII


The grand-opera voice raised again its silver chant: “Give way, all
mobs! Yield! Retire! Abdicate!--Bow down-n-n-n-n! Make way for the
Mob of Mobs, the irresistible, imperial, superior super-mob! Hearken
to the Lord High Chief Commanding Dragon of the Esoteric Cohorts,
the Exalted Immortal Grand Imperial Kleagle of the Ku Klux Klan!”

Then the Grand Imperial Kleagle turned and addressed the white-robed
throng in a voice of sharp command: “Klansmen! Remember your oath!
The hour of Judgment is here! The guilty wretch cowers! The grand
insuperable sentence has been spoken! Coelum animum imperiabilis
senescat! Similia similibus per quantum imperator. Inexorabilis
ingenium parasimilibua esperantur! Saeva itnparatus ignotum
indignatio! Salvo! Suppositio! Indurato! Klansmen, kneel!”

As one man, the host fell upon its knees.

“Klansmen, swear! Si fractus illibatur orbis, impavidum ferient
ruinae! You have heard the sentence. What is the penalty? Is it
death?”

And a voice in the crowd cried “Death!” And the others took it up;
