Another picture slid across her vision. She saw 
herself begin a slow, sinuous dance: and stop suddenly in the middle of a figure, conscious that the 
dance was not impromptu, her own, but native — 
the same dance she had quitted but a few minutes 
gone. She had fallen into it naturally, the only 
expression of the dance she had ever seen or known, 
and that a stolen sweet. That was odd : when young 
people were joyous, they had to express it physically. 
But native ! She must watch out. 
She remembered that she had not gone to bed 
until two o'clock in the morning. She had carried a 
 
chair into the room veranda and had watched and 
listened until the night silences had lengthened and 
only occasionally she heard a voice or the rattle of 
rickshaw wheels in the courtyard. 
The great ordeal —  that which she had most 
dreaded —  had proved to be no ordeal at all. The 
kindly American consul-general had himself taken 
her to the bank, where her banknotes had been ex- 
changed for a letter of credit, and had thoroughly 
advised her. Everything had so far come to pass as 
the withered old Kanaka woman had foretold. 
"The Golden One knows that I have seen the 
world; therefore follow my instructions. Never 
glance sideways at man. Nothing else matters." 
The prison bars of circumstance, they no longer 
encompassed her. Her wings were oddly weak, but 
for all that she could fly. That was the glorious if 
bewildering truth. She had left for ever the cage, 
the galling leash : she was free. The misty caravans 
of which she had dreamed were become actualities. 
She had but to choose. All about her, hither and 
yon, lay the enticing Unknown. Romance! The 
romance of passing faces, of wires that carried voices 
and words to the far ends of the world, of tremendous 
mechanisms that propelled ships and trains! And, 
oh the beautiful books ! 
She swiftly knelt upon the floor and once more 
gathered the books to her heart. 
CHAPTER V 
AT DINNER the spinsters invited Ruth to sit 
at their table, an invitation she accepted 
JLL gratefully. She was not afraid exauctly, but 
there was that about her loneliness to-night she distrusted. Detached, it was not impossible that she 
would be forced to leave the dining room because of 
invading tears. To be near someone, even someone 
who made a pretense of friendliness, to hear voices, 
her own intermingling, would serve as a rehabilitating tonic. The world had grown dark and wide, and 
she was very small. Doubts began to rise up all 
about her, plucking at her confidence. Could she 
go through with it? She must. She would never, 
never go back. 
As usual the substantive sister —  Prudence — did all 
the talking for the pair; Angelina, the shadow, 
offered only her submitting nods. Sometimes she 
missed her cue and nodded aflSrmatively when the 
gesture should have been the reverse; and Prudence 
would send her a sharp glance of disapproval. 
Angelina's distress over these mischances was 
pathetic. 
None of this by-play escaped Ruth, whose sense of 
humour needed no developing. That she possessed 
 
 
any sense of humour was in itself one of those human 
Tniracles which metaphysicians are always pothering 
over without arriving anywhere; for her previous 
environment had been particularly humourless. But 
if she smiled at all it was with her eyes. To-night 
she could have hugged both the old maids. 
"Somebody ought to get hold of that young man ' 
said Prudence, grimly, as she nodded in Spurlock's 
direction. " Look at him ! '' 
Ruth looked. He was draining a glass, and as he 
set it down he shuddered. A siphon and a whisky 
bottle stood before him. He measured out the 
portion of another peg, the bottle wavering in his 
hand. His food lay untouched about his plate. 
There was no disgust in Ruth's heart, only an infinite 
