didn't you go straight if you think it pays?"

"I haven't got a daughter to worry about," explained Smith. "If they get
me it won't hurt anybody else."

A dull red tinge came out under Clinch's tan:

"Who asked you to worry about Eve?"

"She's a fine girl: that's all."

Clinch's steely glare measured the young man:

"You trying to make up to her?" he enquired gently.

"No. She has no use for me."

Clinch reflected, his cold tiger-gaze still fastened on Smith.

"You're right," he said after a moment. "Eve is a good girl. Some day
I'll make a lady of her."

"She is one, Clinch."

At that Clinch reddened heavily--the first finer emotion ever betrayed
before Smith. He did not say anything for a few moments, but his grim
mouth worked. Finally:

"I guess you was a gentleman once before you went crooked, Hal," he
said. "You act up like you once was.... Say; there's only one thing on
God's earth I care about. You've guessed it, too." He was off again upon
his ruling passion.

"Eve," nodded Smith.

"Sure. She isn't my flesh and blood. But it seems like she's more, even.
I want she should be a lady. It's all I want. That damned millionaire
Harrod bust me. But he couldn't stop me giving Eve her schooling. And
now all I'm livin' for is to be fixed so's to give her money to go to
the city like a lady. I don't care how I make money; all I want is to
make it. And I'm a-going to."

Smith nodded again.

Clinch, now obsessed by his monomania, went on with an oath:

"I can't make no money on the level after what Harrod done to me. And I
gotta fix up Eve. What the hell do you mean by asking me would it pay me
to travel straight I dunno."

"I was only thinking of Eve. A lady isn't supposed to have a crook for a
father."

Clinch's grey eyes blazed for a moment, then their menacing glare
dulled, died out into wintry fixity.

"I wan't born a crook," he said. "I ain't got no choice. And don't
worry, young fella; they ain't a-going to get me."

"You can't go on beating the game forever, Clinch."

"I'm beating it----" he hesitated--"and it won't be so long, neither,
before I turn over enough to let Eve live in the city like any lady,
with her autymobile and her own butler and all her swell friends, in a
big house like she is educated for----"

He broke off abruptly as a procession approached from the lake,
escorting the battered gentry who now were able to wabble about a
little.

One of them, a fox-faced trap thief named Earl Leverett, slunk hastily
by as though expecting another kick from Clinch.

"G'wan inside, Earl, and act up right," said Clinch pleasantly. "You
oughter have more sense than to start a fight in my place--you and Sid
Hone and Harvey Chase. G'wan in and behave."

He and Smith followed the procession of damaged ones into the house.

The big unpainted room where a bar had once been was blue with cheap
