Meyerling tragedy given to the world.  But all documents relating to
private scandals must have been destroyed."  She spoke with the utmost
suavity, the patient hostess with rather tiresome guests.  "People in
Vienna, I assure you, take very little interest in that old scandal.
They are too busy and too uncomfortable making history of their own."
"Yes, it must be a hideously uncomfortable place to live in."  Mrs.
Leonard, another daughter-in-law of one of Mary's old friends, gave a
little shudder.  "No wonder you got out.  I was so glad to subscribe to
your noble charity, dear Madame Zattiany.  But"--and she smiled
winsomely--"I think we should get up a subscription for those wonderful
scientists in Vienna.  Every once in a while you hear the most
harrowing stories of the starving scientists of Europe, and it would be
too awful if those miracle men in Vienna should pass away from
malnutrition before it is our turn to need them."
"Ah, dear Mrs. Ruyler!" exclaimed Madame Zattiany with a smile as
winsome as her own.  "You forget they will probably all be dead by that
time and that their pupils will be equally eminent and even more
expert.  For that matter there will be experts in every city in the
world."
But Clavering, watching her anxiously, had seen an expression of wonder
dawn in her eyes, quickly as she had banished it.  It was evident that
whatever the secret spite of these women, this was the first time they
had given it open expression.  He glanced about the table.  Young
Vane's face was crimson and he had turned his back pointedly on Marian
Lawrence, who was smoking and grinning.  She had started the ball and
was too indolent to take it out of hands that seemed to be equally
efficient.
Clavering leaned forward and caught Mary's eye with a peremptory
expression, but she shook her head, although too imperceptibly for any
one else to catch the fleeting movement, and he sank back with a
humiliating sense of impotence.  He wished she were not so well able to
take care of herself.
"But this is abominable," murmured Anne Goodrich.  It was possible that
she was not in on the baiting.  "Abominable.  What must she think of
us?  Or, perhaps they don't really mean to be horrid.  They look
innocent enough.  After all, she could tell us many interesting things."
"Oh, they mean it," said Clavering bitterly.  "They mean it all right
and she knows it."
"You speak as if you were even more interested in her than poor Harry
Vane."  The indignation had faded from Miss Goodrich's lofty
countenance.  "Are you?"
"Yes, I am, if you want the truth.  I'd marry her tomorrow if she'd
have me."  This was as far as he could go.
"Oh!"  Her mouth trembled, but she did not look wholly unprepared for
the statement.  "But--Lee----  You know how interested I have always
been in you--how interested we all are in you----"
"What has that to do with it?  If you are so interested in me I should
think I'd have your best wishes to carry off such a prize.  Have you
ever seen a more remarkable woman?"
"Oh, remarkable, yes.  But--well----"  And then she burst out: "It
seems to me unspeakably horrid.  I can't say all I'd like to----"
"Pray, don't.  And suppose we change the subject----  They're at it
again, damn them."
The men were looking very uncomfortable.  The women were gazing at
their hostess with round apologetic eyes.  Mrs. de Lacey, the youngest
and prettiest of the married women, had clasped her hands as if
worshipping at a shrine.
"It seems too terrible when we look back upon it!" she exclaimed, and
she infused her tones with the tragic ring of truth, "dear Madame
Zattiany, that for even a little while we thought the most awful things
about you.  We'd heard of the wonderful things surgeons had done to
mutilated faces during the war, and we were sure that some one of them
bad taken one of your old photographs--how could we even guess the
truth?  How you must have hated us!"
"How could I hate you?"  Madame Zattiany smiled charmingly.  "I had not
the faintest idea you were discussing me."
"But why--why--did you shut yourself up so long after you came when you
must have known how mother and all your old friends longed to see you
again?"
"I was tired and resting."  She frowned slightly.  Such a question was
a distinct liberty and she had never either taken or permitted
liberties.  But she banished the frown and met her tormentor's eyes
blandly.  She had no intention of losing her poise for a moment.
"Ah!  I said it!" cried Mrs. de Lacey.  "I knew it was not because you
felt a natural hesitation in showing yourself.  To me you seem brave
enough for anything, but it must have taken a lot of courage."
"Courage?"
"Why, yes!  Fancy--well, you see, I'm such a coward about what people
say--especially if I thought they'd laugh at me--that if I'd done it I
should have run off and hidden somewhere."
