which showed that it gave his neighbour real pleasure to accommodate
him.

Gradually, difficulties gathered around Grasper so thickly, that he
found it almost impossible to keep his head above water. Two thirds of
his time were spent in efforts to raise money to meet his payments, and
the other third in brooding sadly and inactively over the embarrassed
condition of his affairs. This being the case, his business suffered
inevitably. Instead of going on and making handsome profits, as he had
once done, he was actually losing money, and that, too, rapidly; for,
when he bought, he often made imprudent purchases, and when he sold, he
made three bad debts where he formerly made one.

At last, a crisis came in his affairs, as come it must, sooner or
later, under such a system. A stoppage and ruin he saw to be
inevitable. He owed more borrowed money than he could possibly return
within the time for which he had obtained it, and had, besides, large
payments to make in bank within the period. Any effort to get through,
he saw would be hopeless, and he determined to give up; not, however,
without securing something for himself.

"Twenty cents less in the dollar for my creditors," he argued, "will
not kill them, and that difference will be quite important to me. When
the storm blows over, it will give me the means of hoisting sail again."

At this time, Grasper owed Layton two thousand dollars borrowed money,
and two thousand dollars in notes of hand, given for goods purchased of
him.

"It won't do," he said to himself, "to let him lose any thing. I
should never be able to look him in the face again, after what has
happened between us. No--no--I must see him safe."

On the next day, Grasper called in to see Layton. His face was serious.

"Can I say a word to you alone?" he asked.

"Certainly," and the two men retired to a private part of the store.
Grasper had never felt so wretched in all his life. After two or three
efforts to speak, he at last found voice enough to say--

"Mr. Layton, I have very bad news to tell you. It is impossible for me
to go on any longer. I shall stop to-morrow, inevitably. I owe you two
thousand dollars in borrowed money and two thousand in notes, making,
in all, four thousand dollars. I don't wish you to lose any thing by
me, and, to secure your borrowed money, I have brought you good notes
for two thousand dollars, which is the best I can possibly do. For the
other two thousand dollars, I want you to come into my store, and take
your choice of any thing there, which I will sell you, and take my own
notes back in payment. That is the best I can possibly do for you, Mr.
Layton, and it will be far better, I fear, than I shall be able to do
for any one else."

Layton was taken entirely by surprise.

"What you say astonishes me, Mr. Grasper; I thought you were doing a
very flourishing business?"

"And so I would have been, had I not ventured a little beyond my depth,
and got cramped for money to meet my payments. A neglect of my business
was the inevitable consequence; for, when all my time was taken up in
raising money, I had none left to see after my business in a proper
manner. Bad debts have been one of the consequences, and profitless
operations another, until I am involved beyond the power of
extrication, and must see every thing fall in ruins about my head."

"It really grieves me to hear you say this," replied Layton, not
offering to take the notes which Grasper was still holding out for his
acceptance. "But, perhaps, you magnify your difficulties. Don't you
think some temporary relief would help you over your present
embarrassments?"

"No: nothing temporary would be of any avail."

"Have you any objection to letting me see a full statement of your
affairs? Perhaps I can suggest something better than a failure, which
is almost always the very worst thing that can be done."

"Most gladly will I do so, Mr. Layton," returned Grasper; "and if you
can point out any way by which I can get over my present difficulties,
I shall be for ever under obligation to you."

An examination into Grasper's business satisfied Layton that a few
thousand dollars would save it.

"You need not fail," he said, cheerfully, to the unhappy man, as soon
as he fully comprehended the state of his affairs.

"What is to prevent it?" eagerly asked the embarrassed merchant.

"You want more money," said Layton.

"I know that. Seven or eight thousand dollars would relieve me, if I
had the use of it for one or two years, so that I could devote all my
time to business. I have enough to do. All that is wanted is to do it
well."

"Yes, I see that clearly enough."

"But the money, where is that to come from?"

"It can be raised, I think. In fact, if you will secure me against
loss, I will take your notes and raise it for you."

"I will secure you upon every thing that I possess," was instantly
replied.

"Very well. That will do. How much money must you have to-morrow?"

"Two thousand dollars."

"That can be managed easily enough. I will see that it is raised. In
the mean time, get all arrangements for the security in progress, so
that I can take your notes and pass them through bank as fast as you
need to have money."

Grasper was overpowered. He could hardly believe that he heard aright.
This was the man who had been driven by his grasping spirit into
bankruptcy, and utterly ruined. The thought again flashed through his
mind, and sent the blood burning to his face. Pride for a moment
tempted him to refuse the offered kindness; but there was too much at
stake--he could not do it. While the act of Layton heaped coals of fire
upon his head, he had no alternative but to submit to a thing only less
painful than utter ruin. From ruin he was saved; but he was an altered
and an humbled man. Many times since have unfortunate debtors been in
his power, and, although he has not acted towards them with much
liberality, (for it was not in him to do so,) he has not oppressed them.




A NEW PLEASURE.


THE whole purpose of Mr. Bolton's life had been the accumulation of
property, with an end to his own gratification. To part with a dollar
was therefore ever felt as the giving up of a prospective good; and it
acted as the abridgment of present happiness. Appeals to Mr. Bolton's
benevolence had never been very successful; and, in giving, he had not
experienced the blessing which belongs of right to good deeds. The
absolute selfishness of his feelings wronged him of what was justly his
due.

Thus passed the life of Mr. Bolton. Dollar was added to dollar, house
to house, and field to field. Yet he was never satisfied with gaining;
for the little he had, looked so small compared with the wealth of the
world, after the whole of which his heart really panted, as to appear
at times actually insignificant. Thus, as he grew older, he set a value
upon what he had, as the means of gaining more, and in his parting with
money, did so at the expense of a daily increasing reluctance.

In the beginning of life, Mr. Bolton possessed a few generous feelings,
the remains of early and innocent states stored up in childhood. His
mother, a true woman, perceiving the strong selfish and accumulative
bent of his character, had sought in every possible way to implant in
his mind feelings of benevolence and regard for others. One mode of
doing this had been to introduce him into scenes that appealed to his
sympathies. She often took him with her to see poor or sick persons,
and so interested him in them as to create a desire in his mind to
afford relief. So soon as she perceived this desire awakened, she
devised some mode of bringing it into activity, so that he might feel
the delights which spring from a consciousness of having done good to
another.

But so strong was the lad's hereditary love of self, that she ever
found difficulty in inducing him to sacrifice what he already
considered his own, in the effort to procure blessings for others, no
matter how greatly they stood in need. If urged to spend a sixpence of
his own for such a purpose, he would generally reply:

"But you've got a great many more sixpences than I have, mother: why
don't you spend them?"

To this, Mrs. Bolton would answer as appropriately as possible; but she
found but poor success in her efforts, which were never relaxed.

In early manhood, as Mr. Bolton began to come in actual contact with
the world, the remains of early states of innocence and sympathy with
others came back, as we have intimated, upon him, and he acted, in many
instances, with a generous disregard of self. But as he bent his mind
more and more earnestly to the accumulation of money, these feelings
had less and less influence over him. And as dollar after dollar was
added to his store, his interest in the welfare of others grew less and
less active. Early friendships were gradually forgotten, and the first
natural desire to see early friends prosperous like himself, gradually
died out. "Every man for himself," became the leading principle of his
life; and he acted upon it on all occasions. In taking a pew in church
and regularly attending worship every Sabbath, he was governed by the
idea that it was respectable to do so, and gave a man a standing in
society, that reacted favourably upon his worldly interests. In putting
his name to a subscription paper, a thing not always to be avoided,
even by him, a business view of the matter was invariably taken, and
the satisfaction of mind experienced on the occasion arose from the
reflection that the act would benefit him in the long run. As to the
minor charities, in the doing of which the left hand has no
acquaintance with the deeds of the right hand, Mr. Bolton never
indulged in them. If his left hand had known the doings of his right
hand in matters of this kind, said hand would not have been much wiser
for the knowledge.

Thus life went on; and Mr. Bolton was ever busy in gathering in his
golden harvest; so busy, that he had no time for any thing else, not
even to enjoy what he possessed. At last, he was sixty years old, and
his wealth extended to many hundreds of thousands of dollars. But he
was farther from being satisfied than ever, and less happy than at any
former period in his life.

One cause of unhappiness arose from the fact that, as a rich man, he
was constantly annoyed with applications to do a rich man's part in the
charities of the day. And to these applications it was impossible
always to turn a deaf ear. Give he must sometimes, and giving always
left a pain behind, because the gift came not from a spirit of
benevolence. There were other and various causes of unhappiness, all of
which combining, made Mr. Bolton, as old age came stealing upon him,
about as miserable as a man could well be. Money, in his eyes the
greatest good, had not brought the peace of mind to which he had looked
forward, and the days came and went without a smile. His children had
grown up and passed into the world, and were, as he had been at their
ages, so all-absorbed by the love of gain, as to have little love to
spare for any thing else.

About this time, Mr. Bolton, having made one or two losing operations,
determined to retire from business, invest all his money in real estate
and other securities, and let the management of these investments
constitute his future employment. In this new occupation he found so
little to do in comparison with his former busy life, that the change
proved adverse, so far as his repose of mind was concerned.

It happened, about this time, that Mr. Bolton had occasion to go some
twenty miles into the country. On returning home, and when within a few
miles of the city, his carriage was overset, and he had the misfortune
to fracture a limb. This occurred near a pleasant little farm-house
that stood a few hundred yards from the road; the owner of which,
seeing the accident, ran to the overturned carriage and assisted to
extricate the injured man. Seeing how badly he was hurt, he had him
removed to his house, and then, taking a horse, rode off two miles for
a physician. In the mean time, the driver of Mr. Bolton's carriage was
despatched to the city for some of his family and his own physician.
The country doctor and the one from the city arrived about the same
time. On making a careful examination as to the nature of Mr. Bolton's
injuries, it was found that his right leg, above the knee, was broken,
and that one of his ankles was dislocated. He was suffering great pain,
and was much exhausted. As quickly as it could be done, the bone was
set, and the dislocation reduced. By this time it was nightfall, and
too late to think seriously of returning home before morning. The
moment Mr. Gray, the farmer, saw the thoughts of the injured man and
his friends directed towards the city, he promptly invited them to
remain in his house all night, and as much longer as the nature of Mr.
Bolton's injuries might require. This invitation was thankfully
accepted.

During the night, Mr. Bolton suffered a great deal of pain, and in the
morning, when the physicians arrived, it was found that his injured
limb was much inflamed. Of course, a removal to the city was out of the
question. The doctors declared that the attempt would be made at the
risk of his life. Farmer Gray said that such a thing must not be
thought of until the patient was fully able to bear the journey; and
the farmer's wife as earnestly remonstrated against any attempt at
having the injured man disturbed until it could be perfectly safe to do
so. Both tendered the hospitalities of their humble home with so much
sincerity, that Mr. Bolton felt that he could accept of them with
perfect freedom.

It was a whole month ere the old gentleman was in a condition to bear
the journey to town; and not once in the whole of that time had Mr. and
Mrs. Gray seemed weary of his presence, nor once relaxed in their
efforts to make him comfortable. As Mr. Bolton was about leaving, he
tendered the farmer, with many expressions of gratitude for the
kindness he had received, a hundred-dollar bill, as some small
compensation for the trouble and expense he had occasioned him and his
family. But Mr. Gray declined the offer, saying, as he did so:

"I have only done what common humanity required, Mr. Bolton; and were I
to receive money, all the pleasure I now experience would be gone."

It was in vain that Mr. Bolton urged the farmer's acceptance of some
remuneration. Mr. Gray was firm in declining to the last. All that
could be done was to send Mrs. Gray a handsome present from the city;
but this did not entirely relieve the mind of Mr. Bolton from the sense
of obligation under which the disinterested kindness of the farmer had
laid him; and thoughts of this tended to soften his feelings, and to
awaken, in a small measure, the human sympathies which had so long
slumbered in his bosom.

Several months passed before Mr. Bolton was able to go out, and then he
resumed his old employment of looking after his rents, and seeking for
new and safe investments that promised some better returns than he was
yet receiving.

One day, a broker, who was in the habit of doing business for Mr.
Bolton, said to him:

"If you want to buy a small, well-cultivated farm, at about half what
it is worth, I think I know where you can get one."

"Do you?"

"Yes. Three years ago it was bought for three thousand dollars, and
seven hundred paid down in cash. Only eight hundred dollars have since
been paid on it; and as the time for which the mortgage was to remain
has now expired, a foreclosure is about to take place. By a little
management, I am satisfied that I can get you the farm for the balance
due on the mortgage."

"That is, for fifteen hundred dollars?"

"Yes."

"Is the farm worth that? Will it be a good investment?"

"It is in the highest state of cultivation. The owner has spent too
much money upon it. This, with the loss of his entire crop of wheat,
rye, corn, oats, and hay, last year, has crippled him, and made it
impossible to pay off the mortgage."

"How came he to meet with this loss?"

"His barn was struck by lightning."

"That was unfortunate."

"The farm will command, at the lowest, two hundred and fifty dollars
rent; and by forcing a sale just at this time, it can be had for
fifteen hundred or two thousand dollars--half its real value."

"It would be a good investment at that."

"Capital. I would advise you to secure it."

After making some brief inquiries as to its location, the quality of
the land, the improvements, etc., Mr. Bolton told the broker, in whom
he had great confidence, that he might buy the property for him, if he
could obtain it for any thing below two thousand dollars. This the
broker said he could easily do, as the business of foreclosure was in
his own hands.

In due time, Mr. Bolton was informed by his agent in the matter, that a
sale under the mortgage had taken place, and that, by means of the
little management proposed, he had succeeded in keeping away all
competition in bidding. The land, stock, farming implements, and all,
had been knocked down at a price that just covered the encumbrance on
the estate, and were the property of Mr. Bolton, at half their real
value.

"That was a good speculation," said the gray-headed money-lover, when
his agent informed him of what he had been doing.

"First-rate," replied the broker. "The farm is worth every cent of
three thousand dollars. Poor Gray! I can't help feeling sorry for him.
But it's his luck. He valued his farm at three thousand five hundred
dollars. A week ago he counted himself worth two thousand dollars,
clean. Now he isn't worth a copper. Fifteen hundred dollars and three
or four years' labour thrown away into the bargain. But it's his luck!
So the world goes. He must try again. It will all go in his lifetime."

"Gray? Is that the man's name?" inquired Mr. Bolton. His voice was
changed.

"Yes. I thought I had mentioned his name."

"I didn't remark it, if you did. It's the farm adjoining Harvey's, on
the north?"

"Yes."

"I have had it in my mind, all along, that it was the one on the south."

"No."

"When did you see Mr. Gray?"

"He was here about half an hour ago."

"How does he feel about the matter?"

"He takes it hard, of course. Any man would. But it's his luck, and he
must submit. It's no use crying over disappointments and losses, in
this world."

Mr. Bolton mused for a long time.

"I'll see you again to-morrow," he said, at length. "Let every thing
remain as it is until then."

The man who had been for so many years sold, as it were, to
selfishness, found himself checked at last by the thought of another.
While just in the act of grasping a money advantage, the interest of
another arose up, and made him pause.

"If it had been any one else," said he to himself, as he walked slowly
homeward, "all would have been plain sailing. But--but"--

The sentence was not finished.

"It won't do to turn HIM away," was at length uttered. "He shall have
the farm at a very moderate rent."

Still, these concessions of selfishness did not relieve the mind of Mr.
Bolton, nor make him feel more willing to meet the man who had done him
so groat a kindness, and in such a disinterested spirit.

All that day, and for a portion of the night that followed, Mr. Bolton
continued to think over the difficulty in which he found himself
placed; and the more he thought, the less willing did he feel to take
the great advantage of the poor farmer at first contemplated. After
falling asleep, his mind continued occupied with the same subject, and
in the dreams that came to him, he lived over a portion of the past.

He was again a helpless invalid, and the kind farmer and his excellent
wife were ministering, as before, to his comfort. His heart was full of
grateful feelings. Then a change came suddenly. He stood the spectator
of a widely-spread ruin which had fallen upon the excellent Mr. Gray
and his family. A fierce tempest was sweeping over his fields, and
levelling all-houses, trees, and grain--in ruin to the earth. A word
spoken by him would have saved all; he felt this: but he did not speak
the word. The look of reproach suddenly cast upon him by the farmer so
stung him that he awoke; and from that time until the day dawned, he
lay pondering on the course of conduct he had best pursue.

The advantage of the purchase he had made was so great, that Mr. Bolton
thought of relinquishing it with great reluctance. On the other hand,
his obligation to the farmer was of such a nature, that he must, in
clinging to his bargain, forfeit his self-respect, and must suffer a
keen sense of mortification, if not dishonour, at any time that he
happened to meet Mr. Gray face to face. Finally, after a long struggle,
continued through several days, he resolved to forego the good he had
attempted to grasp.

How many years since this man had done a generous action! since he had
relinquished a selfish and sordid purpose out of regard to another's
well-being! And now it had cost him a desperate struggle; but after the
trial was past, his mind became tranquil, and he could think of what he
was about to do with an emotion of pleasure that was new in his
experience. Immediately on this resolution being formed, Mr. Bolton
called upon his agent. His first inquiry was:

"When did you see Gray?"

"The previous owner of your farm?"

"Yes."

"Not since the sale. You told me to let every thing remain as it was."

"Hasn't he called?"

"No."

"The loss of his farm must be felt as a great misfortune."

"No doubt of that. Every man feels his losses as misfortunes. But we
all have to take the good and the bad in life together. It's his luck,
and he must put up with it."

"I wonder if he hasn't other property?"

"No."

"Are you certain?"

"Oh, yes. I know exactly what he was worth. He had been overseer for
Elbertson for several years, and while there, managed to save seven
hundred dollars, with which he paid down the cash required in
purchasing his farm. Since then, he has been paying off the mortgage
that remained on the property, and but for the burning of his barn,
might have prevented a result that has been so disastrous to himself.
But it's an ill wind that blows nobody any good. In every loss,
somebody gains; and the turn of the die has been in your favour this
time."

Mr. Bolton did not appear to feel as much satisfaction at this view of
the case as the broker anticipated; and seeing this, he changed the
subject, by asking some question about the consummation of the sale
under the mortgage.

"I'll see you about that to-morrow," said Mr. Bolton.

"Very well," was replied.

After some more conversation, Mr. Bolton left the office of his agent.

For years, farmer Gray had been toiling late and early, to become the
full owner of his beautiful farm. Its value had much increased since it
had come into his possession, and he looked forward with pleasure to
the time when it would be his own beyond all doubt. But the loss of an
entire year's crop, through the burning of his barn, deeply tried and
dispirited him. From this grievous disappointment, his spirits were
beginning to rise, when the sudden foreclosure of the mortgage and
hurried sale of his farm crushed all his hopes to the earth.

Who the real purchaser of his farm was, Mr. Gray did not know, for the
broker had bought in his own name. So bewildered was the farmer by the
suddenly-occurring disaster, that, for several days subsequent to the
sale, he remained almost totally paralyzed in mind. No plans were laid
for the future, nor even those ordinary steps for the present taken,
that common prudence would suggest; he wandered about the farm, or sat
at home, dreamily musing upon what seemed the utter ruin of all his
best hopes in life. While in this state, he was surprised by a visit
from Mr. Bolton. The old gentleman, in taking him by the hand,
said--"What's the matter, my friend? You appear in trouble."

"And I am in trouble," was unhesitatingly answered.

"Not so deep but that you may get out of it again, I hope?"

Mr. Gray shook his head in a desponding way.

"What is the trouble?" Mr. Bolton inquired.

"I have lost my farm."

"Oh, no!"

"It is too true; it has been sold for a mortgage of fifteen hundred
dollars. Though I have already paid more than that sum on account of
the purchase, it only brought enough to pay the encumbrance, and I am
ruined."

The farmer was deeply disturbed, and Mr. Bolton's feelings were much
interested.

"Don't be so troubled, my good friend," said the old gentleman. "You
rendered me a service in the time of need, and it is now in my power to
return it. The farm is still yours. I hold the mortgage, and you need
not fear another foreclosure."

Some moments passed after this announcement before Mr. Gray's mind
became clear, and his entire self-possession returned; then grasping
the hand of Mr. Bolton, he thanked him with all the eloquence a
grateful heart inspires. It was the happiest moment the old merchant
had seen for years. The mere possession of a thousand or two of dollars
seemed as nothing to the pleasure he felt at having performed a good
action; or, rather, at having refrained from doing an evil one.

As he rode back to the city, reflecting upon what he had done, and
recalling the delight shown by Mr. Gray and his kind partner, who had
attended him so carefully while he lay a sufferer beneath their roof,
his heart swelled in his bosom with a new and happy emotion.

Having once permitted himself to regard another with an unselfish
interest, that interest continued; it seemed as if he could not do
enough for the farmer in the way of aiding him to develop the resources
of his little property. In this he did not merely stop at suggestions,
but tendered something more substantial and available. Nor did the
feelings awakened in his mind run all in this direction; occasions
enough offered for him to be generous to others, and to refrain from
oppression for the sake of gain. Many of these were embraced, and Mr.
Bolton, in realizing the fact that it is sometimes more blessed to give
than to receive, found in the latter years of his life a NEW
PLEASURE--the pleasure of benevolence.




THE DAUGHTER-IN-LAW.


"I SHALL love your mother very much, Charles, but do you think she will
love me?" said a graceful young creature, leaning with an air of tender
confidence upon the arm of her companion, and looking earnestly in his
face. She was a little above the ordinary stature, with a form so
delicate as to appear almost fragile, a pure semi-transparent skin, and
a cheek--

  "Like the apple-tree blossom,
  By the dew-fountain fed,
  Was the bloom of her cheek,
  With its white and its red."

Eyes of heaven's own blue beamed with love and delight, as they
wandered over the frank, honest face of the young man, who stood
looking down into them, as they reflected back his own image. He could
not love himself without harm to himself, but he could gaze on, and
love to gaze for ever upon the image of himself pictured in those dear
eyes, and yet be innocent.

"Love you, Ellen? How can she help loving you?"

"I do not know why any one should love me," was the artless reply.

"I do not know how any one can help loving you."

"Ah, you may think so, but every one does not see with your eyes; and
maybe, you are only blinded. I am not perfect, Charles; don't forget
that."

"You are perfect to me, and that is all I ask. But say, Ellen, dear,
sha'n't we be married in a month?"

"I am so young, Charles; and then I ought to be certain that your
mother is willing. Does she know all about it? You have written to her,
have you not?"

The young man did not reply for some moments. Then he said--"Never
fear, Ellen; my mother will love you as her own child, when she sees
and knows you. I have not written about you to her, because, as I must
tell you, my mother, though one of the best of women, is a little proud
of her standing in society. The moment I write to her on the subject,
she will have a dozen grave questions to ask about your family, and
whether they are connected with this great personage or that--questions
that I despair of answering, in a letter, to her satisfaction. But your
dear face will explain all, and stop all inquiries, when I present you
to her as my wife."

"Don't be so certain of that, Charles. If your mother is proud of her
family, she will be mortified and displeased should her son marry an
unknown girl."

"The proudest mother on earth would receive you into her bosom, and
call you daughter, without an emotion of wounded pride," was the
lover's confident reply. "I know it. I know my mother too well, not to
be confident on this subject."

"You ought to know, Charles; but I would much rather be certain. I love
you better than my life; but if I thought that your marrying me would
separate you from your mother's love, I would never consent to a union.
Ah, there can be no love so pure, so deep, so unselfish as a mother's
love. A mother! Oh, how sweet the name! how holy the office! I can
remember, though but faintly, my own mother. I was but a little girl
when I lost her, but I still see her face as it often bent over me
while I lay in my bed, and still, at times, can hear her voice. Oh,
what would I not have given had she lived! Ah, Charles, be sure that in
no act of your life you wrong your mother, or give her pain."

Charles Linden belonged to a family that claimed descent from some
distinguished ancestor on the mother's side--some one who had come from
England a long time ago, and who, when there, was ranked one of gentle
blood. Of the worth of his principles, little was known. He may have
been a high-minded and honourable man, or he may have possessed
qualities worthy of the detestation of all. Be that as it may, Mrs.
Linden valued herself highly on having come down in a right line,
through three generations, from this distinguished individual; and
there were plenty to estimate her by her own standard. As a woman,
taking her for what she was worth, she would have done very well, and
received from all sensible people due consideration; but her true
character as a woman was glossed over and somewhat defaced by her
pride. She did not regard her own qualities of mind as any thing--her
standing as one of the true aristocrats of society was every thing. As
for her husband, little was ever said about his ancestors; he had no
scruples, while living, of an investigation, for he feared none. His
father was a wealthy merchant, and his grandfather an honest farmer,
who fought for his country during the whole revolutionary campaign. The
old soldier left to his son the inheritance of sound moral principles,
a good education, and an enthusiastic love of his country. With these
as his only patrimony, he started in the world. At the age of fifty, he
died, leaving to his children an untarnished name and forty thousand
dollars a piece.

The father of Charles Linden had been in business several years when
this event took place, and had already acquired by his own exertions,
as well as by marriage, a handsome property. He died when Charles, his
eldest son, was but sixteen, leaving three children, two sons and one
daughter; and a widow estimated to be worth a hundred thousand dollars.
To each of the children he left fifty thousand dollars. This did not
please the aristocratic notions of the mother. It would have been more
in consonance with her views, if but one-third of the whole property
had been left to her, and the balance to their eldest son, with the
reservation of small annuities for the other children. In her own mind
she determined to will all she had to Charles, with the distinct
proviso that he took possession of it only on the condition of dropping
his father's name, and assuming that of her family, which was Beauchamp.

Long before he was twenty-one years of age, she commenced her insidious
attacks upon his native manliness of character, which showed itself in
a disposition to value every thing with which he came in contact,
according to intrinsic worth. He never bought of the family of any one
with whom he was brown into association, but of qualities of head and
heart. At school he had learned how to estimate individual worth;
books, truly American books, conceived by American minds, strengthened
the right impression so made. When, therefore, Mrs. Linden attempted to
show him that family was the primary thing to be considered in his
associations with people, her efforts were altogether fruitless.

All persons of Mrs. Linden's way of thinking make it a point to take
the marriage of their children pretty much into their own hands,
believing that their external views on the subject are far better than
the internal attraction toward an object that can be truly loved, which
their children imagine they feel--or, as they say, "imagine." The
mother of Charles understood well her duty in this matter. Long before
her son had passed his fourteenth year, she had made a selection for
him in a little Miss, younger than he was by two years, named
Antoinette Billings. Antoinette's mother was a woman after Mrs.
Linden's own heart. She understood the first distant hint made on the
subject, and readily came to a fair and open understanding with Mrs.
Linden. Then it was managed so that the children were much together,
and they were taught to look upon each other as engaged for marriage at
some future day.

Charles was a fine, noble-hearted boy; but Antoinette was a spoiled,
pert, selfish creature, and had but little control over her tempers,
that were by no means amiable. It was not long before the future
husband, so called, wisely determined that Miss Antoinette should never
be his wife, and he told his mother so in very plain language. Mrs.
Linden tried every art in her power to influence Charles, but it was no
use. He inherited too much truly noble blood from this independent,
right-thinking father.

At the age of twenty-one, he left his native place and entered into
business in a neighbouring city. His mother parted with him
reluctantly; but there were strong reasons why he should go, and she
did not feel that it would be right to oppose him.

About a year after his removal from P--to his new place of residence,
Charles Linden met Ellen Fleetwood. She had come recently from one of
the Eastern States, and resided in the family of a distant relative.
His first impressions were favourable--each subsequent meeting
confirmed them--and, length, he found himself really attached to her.
So little of his mother's peculiar spirit had he imbibed, that it did
not once occur to him to ask about her family until he had made up his
mind to offer himself in marriage. Inquiry on this subject resulted in
the discovery that Ellen's parents were distinguished from the mass in
no particular way. They had married early, and her mother died early.
Her father, whose very existence seemed to have been wrapped up in that
of his wife, went away soon after her death, and never returned. It was
believed by his friends that he did not survive her long. Ellen was
then five years old. An aunt adopted her and raised her as her own
child. A year before Linden met her, this aunt had died, leaving her a
small income. She removed shortly after this event, at the request of a
relative--the only surviving one, as far as she knew--and now lived
with her. Of the precise character of the father and mother, he could
learn nothing. Ellen, therefore, neither lost nor gained any thing in
his eyes by birth. For what she was to him, and for that alone, he
loved her--and loved purely and tenderly.

An engagement took place in a few months after their acquaintance
commenced. It was shortly afterwards that the conversation detailed in
the opening of our story commenced, from which it will appear that
Charles had not yet ventured to inform his mother of the choice he had
made. Knowing the strength of her peculiar prejudices, he had every
thing to fear, as far as opposition was concerned. The fact that Ellen
appeared so anxious to obtain her favour made him less willing to risk
the consequences of informing his mother that he had made his choice of
a wife. He knew she would oppose a marriage most strenuously. What the
effect of such opposition upon Ellen would be, it would be impossible
to tell;--it might, he feared, lead her to decline his offer. For this
reason, he urged an immediate union; and wished it to take place
without his parent's knowledge. Ellen opposed this earnestly, but was
finally induced to yield. They were married, and started the next
morning to visit Mrs. Linden. Two days before, Charles had written to
inform his mother of what had taken place, and of his intended return
home, on a short visit, with his bride.

"My dear mother," a portion of his letter read, "I know you will be
grieved, and, I fear, offended at what I have done; but wait only for a
day or two, until you see my Ellen--your Ellen, let me say--and you
will be grieved and angry no longer. She will love you as only an
unselfish child can love a mother; and you will love her the moment you
see her. I have talked to her from the first about you, and she has
already so pure an affection for you, that she is longing to see you
and throw herself upon your bosom. Oh! let me beg of you to receive her
in the spirit with which she is coming to you. Be to her a mother, as
she wishes to be to you a child."

It was not without many misgivings at heart that Charles Linden set out
to visit his mother. These could not be felt without their effects
being perceived by Ellen, who was tremblingly anxious about her
reception. Her spirits became in consequence depressed, and more than
once Charles found tears stealing from beneath her half-closed eyelids.
He understood well the cause, and strove, but vainly, to assure her
that all would be as her heart could wish.

It was nearly nightfall when the carriage that conveyed them from the
steamboat landing drew up before the elegant residence of Mrs. Linden.
Charles hurried in with his bride in a tumult of anxiety. A servant was
sent up to announce his arrival. Five minutes passed, and they still
sat alone in the parlour--Charles deeply agitated, and Ellen looking
pale and frightened.

"What can keep her so long?" the young man had just said, in a husky
whisper, when the door opened and his mother entered with a slow,
dignified step, her face calm, but severe, and her tall person drawn up
to its full height. Charles started forward, but the instantly raised
hand and forbidding aspect of his mother restrained him.

"Don't come near me," said she, coldly--"you have done that for which I
never shall forgive you. Go at once from my presence, with the
mean-spirited creature who has dared to suppose that I would
acknowledge as my daughter one who has corrupted and robbed me of my
son. Go! We are mother and son no longer. I dissolve the tie. Go!"

And the mother, whose assumed calmness had given way to a highly
excited manner, waved her hand imperatively towards the door.

Ellen, who had started up at the moment Mrs. Linden appeared, now came
forward, and, throwing herself at her feet, clasped her hands together,
and lifted her sweet pale face and tearful eyes. For an instant the
mother's face grew dark with passion; then she made a movement as if
she were about to spurn the supplicant indignantly, when Charles sprang
before her, and lifting Ellen in his arms, bore her from the house, and
placed her half fainting in the carriage that still stood at the door.
A hurried direction was given to the driver, who mounted his box and
drove off to a hotel, where they passed the night, and, on the next
morning, returned home to the city they had left on the previous day.

It was long before a smile lighted the countenance of the young bride.
In silence she upbraided herself for having been the cause of
estranging from each other mother and son.

"It was wrong," she said, in a sad tone, when, after the passage of a
month, the subject was conversed about between them with more than
usual calmness. "You should, first of all, have written to your mother,
and asked her consent."

"But I knew she would not give it. I knew her peculiar prejudices too
well. My only hope was the impression your dear face would make upon
her. I was sure that for her to see you would be to love you. But I was
mistaken."

"Alas! too sadly mistaken. We have made her unhappy through life. Oh!
how that thought distresses me."

"She deserves all the unhappiness she may feel. For me, I do not pity
her." Charles Linden said this with a good deal of bitterness.

"Oh! Charles--do not speak so--do not feel so. She is your mother, and
you acted against what you knew to be one of her strongest prejudices,"
Ellen said earnestly. "I do not feel angry with her. When I think of
her, it is with grief, that she is unhappy. The time may yet come--pray
heaven it come quickly!--when she will feel differently toward one
whose heart she does not know--when she will love me as a mother."

"She does not deserve the love of one like you," was the bitterly
spoken reply.

"Ah, Charles! why will you speak so? It is not right."

"I can no more help it than I can help feeling and thinking, Ellen. I
am indignant, and I must express my feelings. What a poor substitute is
birth, or family connexion, or standing in society for a mother to
offer to her son, in the place of a pure heart that can love fervently.
If I had yielded to dictation on this subject, I would long ago have
been the unhappy husband of a vain, selfish, proud creature, whom I
never could have loved. No--no--Ellen. I cannot help being angry, if I
may so speak, at the thought of such unjust, such unwise assumption of
the prerogative in a parent. It is God who joins together in orderly
marriage--not man; and when man attempts to assume the place of God in
this matter, his work is evil. I would give my child, were I a parent,
all the light, all the intelligence in my power to give him, and then
let him choose for himself. To do more, would be, in my opinion, a sin
against God, and, as such, I would shun it with horror."

In time, the deep affliction of mind which Ellen had experienced
subsided. She felt the injustice of Mrs. Linden's conduct, and, though
she had no indignant nor unkind feeling toward her, she thought of her
without an emotion of filial regard. Year after year went by, and, as
no notice whatever was taken of Charles and his wife by Mrs. Linden,
they did not again venture near her, nor take any pains to conciliate
her favour. Her treatment of Ellen had so outraged her son, that he
tried to forget that he had a mother; for he could not think of her
without a bitterness which he did not wish to feel. The only means of
knowing what took place at home was through his sister, between whom
and himself had always existed a warm affection. She wrote to him
frequently, and he as well as his wife wrote to her often. Their
letters to her were, at her request, sent under cover to a friend, to
prevent the unpleasant consequences that would ensue, should the proud,
overbearing mother become aware of the correspondence.

From his sister, who had something of his own independence of feeling,
Charles learned, that his brother William, at his mother's instance,
was about to marry Antoinette Billings. And, also, that an application
had been made to the legislature to have his name changed to Beauchamp,
his mother's family name. As an inducement for him to gratify her pride
in this thing, Mrs. Linden had promised William, that, on the very day
that the legislature granted the petition, she should transfer to him
the whole amount of her property, with the exception of about twenty
thousand dollars. Subsequently, Charles learned that the name of his
brother had been changed; that the marriage had taken place; and that
his mother had relinquished all her property, with a small reservation,
into the hands of her son. All this took place within three years after
his marriage.

The next intelligence was of an attempt being made to force Florence,
his sister, into a marriage most repugnant to her feelings. This
aroused his indignation afresh. He wrote to her strongly, and conjured
her by every high and holy consideration not to permit the sacrifice to
take place. Florence possessed too much of the same spirit that he did
to yield tamely in a matter like this. His frequent letters
strengthened her to resist all the attempts of her mother and brother
to induce her to yield to their mercenary wishes. Finding that she was
firm, a system of persecution, in the hope of forcing her to an assent,
was commenced against her. As soon as Charles learned this, he went
immediately to P--, and saw Florence at the home of a mutual friend. He
had little difficulty in persuading her to return home with him.
Neither her mother nor William showed her any real affection, and they
were both plotting against her happiness for life. On the other hand,
there had always been between her and Charles a deep attachment. She
not only loved him, but confided in him. She had never seen his wife;
but Charles had written so much about her, and Ellen's letters had
pictured a mind so gentle, so good, that Florence loved her only less
than she loved her brother. And there was another there to love, of
whom she had heard much--a fair-haired girl named Florence. Is it a
subject of wonder that she fled from her mother, to find a paradise in
comparison to what she had left, in the home of Charles and his
pure-hearted companion? We think not.

The meeting between her and Ellen was one in which both their hearts
overflowed--in which affections mingled--in which two loving spirits
became united in bonds that nothing could break.

We turn, now, to the disappointed Mrs. Linden. Knowing that to inform
