  “It is proper I should state the whole matter, as I understand it,
  before this audience. I do not stand here to argue the question as
  presented by the report of the committee. My only wonder is that the
  honorable gentleman the chairman of that committee, for whose
  character I entertain great respect, though I have not the pleasure
  of his personal acquaintance,—my only wonder is how that gentleman
  could have brought himself to submit such a report.

  “Mr. Chairman, I do not admit that it is the business of this
  assembly to decide whether I shall or shall not publish a newspaper
  in this city. The gentlemen have, as the lawyers say, made a wrong
  issue. I have the right to do it. I know that I have the right
  freely to speak and publish my sentiments, subject only to the laws
  of the land for the abase of that right. This right was given me by
  my Maker; and is solemnly guaranteed to me by the constitution of
  these United States, and of this state. What I wish to know of you
  is, whether you will protect me in the exercise of this right; or
  whether, as heretofore, I am to be subjected to personal indignity
  and outrage. These resolutions, and the measures proposed by them,
  are spoken of as a compromise—a compromise between two parties. Mr.
  Chairman, this is not so. There is but one party here. It is simply
  a question whether the law shall be enforced, or whether the mob
  shall be allowed, as they now do, to continue to trample it under
  their feet, by violating with impunity the rights of an innocent
  individual.

  “Mr. Chairman, what have I to compromise? If freely to forgive those
  who have so greatly injured me, if to pray for their temporal and
  eternal happiness, if still to wish for the prosperity of your city
  and state, notwithstanding all the indignities l have suffered in
  it,—if this be the compromise intended, then do I willingly make it.
  My rights have been shamefully, wickedly outraged; this I know, and
  feel, and can never forget. But I can and do freely forgive those
  who have done it.

  “But if by a compromise is meant that I should cease from doing that
  which duty requires of me, I cannot make it. And the reason is, that
  I fear God more than I fear man. Think not that I would lightly go
  contrary to public sentiment around me. The good opinion of my
  fellow-men is dear to me, and I would sacrifice anything but
  principle to obtain their good wishes; but when they ask me to
  surrender this, they ask for more than I can, than I dare give.
  Reference is made to the fact that I offered a few days since to
  give up the editorship of the Observer into other hands. This is
  true; I did so because it was thought or said by some that perhaps
  the paper would be better patronized in other hands. They declined
  accepting my offer, however, and since then we have heard from the
  friends and supporters of the paper in all parts of the state. There
  was but one sentiment among them, and this was that the paper could
  be sustained in no other hands than mine. It is also a very
  different question, whether I shall voluntarily, or at the request
  of friends, yield up my post; or whether I shall forsake it at the
  demand of a mob. The former I am at all times ready to do, when
  circumstances occur to require it; as I will never put my personal
  wishes or interests in competition with the cause of that Master
  whose minister I am. But the latter, be assured. I NEVER will do.
  God, in his providence,—so say all my brethren, and so I think,—has
  devolved upon me the responsibility of maintaining my ground here;
  and, Mr. Chairman, I am determined to do it. A voice comes to me
  from Maine, from Massachusetts, from Connecticut, from New-York,
  from Pennsylvania,—yea, from Kentucky, from Mississippi, from
  Missouri,—calling upon me, in the name of all that is dear in heaven
  or earth, to stand fast; and, by the help of God, I WILL STAND. I
  know I am but one, and you are many. My strength would avail but
  little against you all. You can crush me, if you will; but I shall
  die at my post, for I cannot and will not forsake it.

  “Why should I flee from Alton? Is not this a free state? When
  assailed by a mob at St. Louis, I came hither, as to the home of
  freedom and of the laws. The mob has pursued me here, and why should
  I retreat again? Where can I be safe, if not here? Have not I a
  right to claim the protection of the laws? What more can I have in
  any other place? Sir, the very act of retreating will embolden the
  mob to follow me wherever I go. No, sir, there is no way to escape
  the mob, but to abandon the path of duty; and that, God helping me,
  I will never do.

  “It has been said here, that my hand is against every man, and every
  man’s hand against me. The last part of the declaration is too
  painfully true. I do indeed find almost every hand lifted against
  me; but against whom in this place has my hand been raised? I
  appeal to every individual present; whom of you have I injured?
  Whose character have I traduced? Whose family have I molested? Whose
  business have I meddled with? If any, let him rise here and testify
  against me.—No one answers.

  “And do not your resolutions say that you find nothing against my
  private or personal character? And does any one believe that, if
  there was anything to be found, it would not be found and brought
  forth? If in anything I have offended against the law, I am not so
  popular in this community as that it would be difficult to convict
  me. You have courts and judges and juries; they find nothing against
  me. And now you come together for the purpose of driving out a
  confessedly innocent man, for no cause but that he dares to think
  and speak as his conscience and his God dictate. Will conduct like
  this stand the scrutiny of your country, of posterity, above all, of
  the judgment-day? For remember, the Judge of that day is no
  respecter of persons. Pause, I beseech you, and reflect! The present
  excitement will soon be over; the voice of conscience will at last
  be heard. And in some season of honest thought, even in this world,
  as you review the scenes of this hour, you will be compelled to say,
  ‘He was right; he was right.’

  “But you have been exhorted to be lenient and compassionate, and in
  driving me away to affix no unnecessary disgrace upon me. Sir, I
  reject all such compassion. You cannot disgrace me. Scandal and
  falsehood and calumny have already done their worst. My shoulders
  have borne the burthen till it sits easy upon them. You may hang me
  up, as the mob hung up the individuals of Vicksburg! You may burn me
  at the stake, as they did McIntosh at St. Louis; or you may tar and
  feather me, or throw me into the Mississippi, as you have often
  threatened to do; but you cannot disgrace me. I, and I alone, can
  disgrace myself; and the deepest of all disgrace would be, at a time
  like this, to deny my Master by forsaking his cause. He died for me;
  and I were most unworthy to bear his name, should I refuse, if need
  be, to die for him.

  “Again, you have been told that I have a family, who are dependent
  on me; and this has been given as a reason why I should be driven
  off as gently as possible. It is true, Mr. Chairman, I am a husband
  and a father; and this it is that adds the bitterest ingredient to
  the cup of sorrow I am called to drink. I am made to feel the wisdom
  of the apostle’s advice; ‘It is better not to marry.’ I know, sir,
  that in this contest I stake not my life only, but that of others
  also. I do not expect my wife will ever recover the shock received
  at the awful scenes through which she was called to pass at St.
  Charles. And how was it the other night, on my return to my house? I
  found her driven to the garret, through fear of the mob, who were
  prowling round my house. And scarcely had I entered the house ere my
  windows were broken in by the brickbats of the mob, and she so
  alarmed that it was impossible for her to sleep or rest that night.
  I am hunted as a partridge upon the mountains; I am pursued us a
  felon through your streets; and to the guardian power of the law I
  look in vain for that protection against violence which even the
  vilest criminal may claim.

  “Yet think not that I am unhappy. Think not that I regret the choice
  that I have made. While all around me is violence and tumult, all is
  peace within. An approving conscience, and the rewarding smile of
  God, is a full recompense for all that I forego and all that I
  endure. Yes, sir, I enjoy a peace which nothing can destroy. I sleep
  sweetly and undisturbed, except when awaked by the brickbats of the
  mob.

  “No, sir, I am not unhappy. I have counted the cost, and stand
  prepared freely to offer up my all in the service of God. Yes, sir,
  I am fully aware of all the sacrifice I make, in here pledging
  myself to continue this contest to the last.—(Forgive these tears—I
  had not intended to shed them, and they flow not for myself but
  others.) But I am commanded to forsake father and mother and wife
  and children for Jesus’ sake; and as his professed disciple I stand
  prepared to do it. The time for fulfilling this pledge in my case,
  it seems to me, has come. Sir, I dare not flee away from Alton.
  Should I attempt it, I should feel that the angel of the Lord, with
  his flaming sword, was pursuing me wherever I went. It is because I
  fear God that I am not afraid of all who oppose me in this city. No,
  sir, the contest has commenced here; and here it must be finished.
  Before God and you all, I here pledge myself to continue it, if need
  be, till death. If I fall, my grave shall be made in Alton.”

In person Lovejoy was well formed, in voice and manners refined; and the
pathos of this last appeal, uttered in entire simplicity, melted every
one present, and produced a deep silence. It was one of those moments
when the feelings of an audience tremble in the balance, and a grain may
incline them to either side. A proposition to support him might have
carried, had it been made at that moment. The charm was broken by
another minister of the gospel, who rose and delivered a homily on the
necessity of compromise, recommending to Mr. Lovejoy especial attention
to the example of Paul, who was let down in a basket from a window in
Damascus; as if Alton had been a heathen city under a despotic
government! The charm once broken, the meeting became tumultuous and
excited, and all manner of denunciations were rained down upon
abolitionists. The meeting passed the resolutions reported by the
committee, and refused to resolve to aid in sustaining the law against
illegal violence; and the mob perfectly understood that, do what they
might, they should have no disturbance. It being now understood that Mr.
Lovejoy would not retreat, it was supposed that the crisis of the matter
would develop itself when his printing-press came on shore.

During the following three days there seemed to be something of a
reäction. One of the most influential of the mob-leaders was heard to
say that it was of no use to go on destroying presses, as there was
money enough on East to bring new ones, and that they might as well let
the fanatics alone.

This somewhat encouraged the irresolute city authorities, and the
friends of the press thought, if they could get it once landed, and safe
into the store of Messrs. Godfrey & Gilman, that the crisis would be
safely passed. They therefore sent an express to the captain to delay
the landing of the boat till three o’clock in the morning, and the
leaders of the mob, after watching till they were tired, went home; the
press was safely landed and deposited, and all supposed that the trouble
was safely passed. Under this impression Mr. Beecher left Alton, and
returned home.

We will give a few extracts from Mr. Beecher’s narrative, which describe
his last interview with Mr. Lovejoy on that night, after they had landed
and secured the press:

  Shortly after the hour fixed on for the landing of the boat, Mr.
  Lovejoy arose, and called me to go with him to see what was the
  result. The moon had set and it was still dark, but day was near;
  and here and there a light was glimmering from the window of some
  sick room, or of some early riser. The streets were empty and
  silent, and the sounds of our feet echoed from the walls as we
  passed along. Little did he dream, at that hour, of the contest
  which the next night would witness; that these same streets would
  echo with the shouts of an infuriate mob, and be stained with his
  own heart’s blood.

  We found the boat there, and the press in the warehouse; aided in
  raising it to the third story. We were all rejoiced that no conflict
  had ensued, and that the press was safe; and all felt that the
  crisis was over. We were sure that the store could not be carried by
  storm by so few men as had ever yet acted in a mob; and though the
  majority of the citizens would not aid to defend the press, we had
  no fear that they would aid in an attack. So deep was this feeling
  that it was thought that a small number was sufficient to guard the
  press afterward; and it was agreed that the company should be
  divided into sections of six, and take turns on successive nights.
  As they had been up all night, Mr. Lovejoy and myself offered to
  take charge of the press till morning; and they retired.

  The morning soon began to dawn; and that morning I shall never
  forget. Who that has stood on the banks of the mighty stream that
  then rolled before me can forget the emotions of sublimity that
  filled his heart, as in imagination he has traced those channels of
  intercourse opened by it and its branches through the illimitable
  regions of this western world? I thought of future ages, and of the
  countless millions that should dwell on this mighty stream; and that
  nothing but the truth would make them free. Never did I feel as then
  the value of the right for which we were contending thoroughly to
  investigate and fearlessly to proclaim that truth. O, the sublimity
  of moral power! By it God sways the universe. By it he will make the
  nations free.

  I passed through the scuttle to the roof, and ascended to the
  highest point of the wall. The sky and the river were beginning to
  glow with approaching day, and the busy hum of business to be heard.
  I looked with exultation on the scenes below. I felt that a
  bloodless battle had been gained for God and for the truth; and that
  Alton was redeemed from eternal shame. And as all around grew
  brighter with approaching day, I thought of that still brighter sun,
  even now dawning on the world, and soon to bathe it with floods of
  glorious light.

  Brother Lovejoy, too, was happy. He did not exult; he was tranquil
  and composed, but his countenance indicated the state of his mind.
  It was a calm and tranquil joy, for he trusted in God that the point
  was gained: that the banner of an unfettered press would soon wave
  over that mighty stream.

  Vain hopes! How soon to be buried in a martyr’s grave! Vain, did I
  say? No: they are not vain. Though dead he still speaketh; and a
  united world can never silence his voice.

The conclusion of the tragedy is briefly told. A volunteer company, of
whom Lovejoy was one, was formed to act under the mayor in defence of
the law. The next night the mob assailed the building at ten o’clock.
The store consisted of two stone buildings in one block, with doors and
windows at each end, but no windows at the sides. The roof was of wood.
Mr. Gilman, opening the end door of the third story, asked what they
wanted. They demanded the press. He refused to give it up, and earnestly
entreated them to go away without violence, assuring them that, as the
property had been committed to their charge, they should defend it at
the risk of their lives. After some ineffectual attempts, the mob
shouted to set fire to the roof. Mr. Lovejoy, with some others, went out
to defend it from this attack, and was shot down by the deliberate aim
of one of the mob. After this wound he had barely strength to return to
the store, went up one flight of stairs, fell and expired.

Those within then attempted to capitulate, but were refused with curses
by the mob, who threatened to burn the store, and shoot them as they
came out. At length the building was actually on fire, and they fled
out, fired on as they went by the mob. So terminated the Alton tragedy.

When the noble mother of Lovejoy heard of his death, she said, “It is
well. I had rather he would die so than forsake his principles.” All is
not over with America while such mothers are yet left. Was she not
blessed who could give up such a son in such a spirit? Who was that
woman whom God pronounced blessed above all women? Was it not she who
saw her dearest crucified? So differently does God see from what man
sees.




                              CHAPTER IV.
   SERVITUDE IN THE PRIMITIVE CHURCH COMPARED WITH AMERICAN SLAVERY.

           “Look now upon this picture!——and on this.”

                                                     HAMLET.


It is the standing claim of those professors of religion at the South
who support slavery that they are pursuing the same course in relation
to it that Christ and his apostles did. Let us consider the course of
Christ and his apostles, and the nature of the kingdom which they
founded, and see if this be the fact.

Napoleon said, “Alexander, Cæsar, Charlemagne and myself, have founded
empires; but upon what did we rest the creation of our genius? Upon
force. Jesus Christ alone founded his empire upon LOVE.”

The desire to be above others in power, rank and station, is one of the
deepest in human nature. If there is anything which distinguishes man
from other creatures, it is that he is par excellence an oppressive
animal. On this principle, as Napoleon observed, all empires have been
founded; and the idea of founding a kingdom in any other way had not
even been thought of when Jesus of Nazareth appeared.

When the serene Galilean came up from the waters of Jordan, crowned and
glorified by the descending Spirit, and began to preach, saying, “The
kingdom of God is at hand,” what expectations did he excite? Men’s
heads were full of armies to be marshalled, of provinces to be
conquered, of cabinets to be formed, and offices to be distributed.
There was no doubt at all that he could get all these things for them,
for had he not miraculous power?

Therefore it was that Jesus of Nazareth was very popular, and drew
crowds after him.

Of these, he chose, from the very lowest walk of life, twelve men of the
best and most honest heart which he could find, that he might make them
his inseparable companions, and mould them, by his sympathy and
friendship, into some capacity to receive and transmit his ideas to
mankind.

But they too, simple-hearted and honest though they were, were
bewildered and bewitched by the common vice of mankind; and, though they
loved him full well, still had an eye on the offices and ranks which he
was to confer, when, as they expected, this miraculous kingdom should
blaze forth.

While his heart was struggling and laboring, and nerving itself by
nights of prayer to meet desertion, betrayal, denial, rejection, by his
beloved people, and ignominious death, they were forever wrangling
about the offices in the new kingdom. Once and again, in the plainest
way, he told them that no such thing was to be looked for; that there
was to be no distinction in his kingdom, except the distinction of pain,
and suffering, and self-renunciation, voluntarily assumed for the good
of mankind.

His words seemed to them as idle tales. In fact, they considered him as
a kind of a myth,—a mystery,—a strange, supernatural, inexplicable
being, forever talking in parables, and saying things which they could
not understand.

One thing only they held fast to: he was a king, he would have a
kingdom; and he had told them that they should sit on twelve thrones,
judging the twelve tribes of Israel.

And so, when he was going up to Jerusalem to die,—when that anguish long
wrestled with in the distance had come, almost face to face, and he was
walking in front of them, silent, abstracted, speaking occasionally in
broken sentences, of which they feared to ask the meaning,—they, behind,
beguiled the time with the usual dispute of “who should be greatest.”

The mother of James and John came to him, and, breaking the mournful
train of revery, desired a certain thing of him,—that her two sons might
sit at his right hand and his left, as prime ministers, in the new
kingdom. With his sad, far-seeing eye still fixed upon Gethsemane and
Calvary, he said, “Ye know not what ye ask. Are ye able to drink of the
cup which I shall drink of, and to be baptized with the baptism
wherewith I shall be baptized?”

James and John were both quite certain that they were able. They were
willing to fight through anything for the kingdom’s sake. The ten were
very indignant. Were they not as willing as James and John? And so there
was a contention among them.

“But Jesus called them to him and said, Ye know that the princes of the
Gentiles exercise dominion over them, and their great ones exercise
authority upon them; but it shall not be so among you.

“Whosoever will be great among you, let him be your minister; and
whosoever will be chief among you, let him be your servant,—yea, the
servant of all. For even the Son of Man came not to be ministered unto,
but to minister, and to give his life a ransom for many.”

Let us now pass on to another week in this history. The disciples have
seen their Lord enter triumphantly into Jerusalem, amid the shouts of
the multitude. An indescribable something in his air and manner
convinces them that a great crisis is at hand. He walks among men as a
descended God. Never were his words so thrilling and energetic. Never
were words spoken on earth which so breathe and burn as these of the
last week of the life of Christ. All the fervor and imagery and fire of
the old prophets seemed to be raised from the dead, etherealized and
transfigured in the person of this Jesus. They dare not ask him, but
they are certain that the kingdom must be coming. They feel, in the
thrill of that mighty soul, that a great cycle of time is finishing, and
a new era in the world’s history beginning. Perhaps at this very feast
of the Passover is the time when the miraculous banner is to be
unfurled, and the new, immortal kingdom proclaimed. Again the ambitious
longings arise. This new kingdom shall have ranks and dignities. And who
is to sustain them? While therefore their Lord sits lost in thought,
revolving in his mind that simple ordinance of love which he is about to
constitute the sealing ordinance of his kingdom, it is said again,
“There was a strife among them which should be accounted the greatest.”

This time Jesus does not remonstrate. He expresses no impatience, no
weariness, no disgust. What does he, then? Hear what St. John says:

“Jesus knowing that the Father had given all things into his hands, and
that he was come from God and went to God, he riseth from supper, and
laid aside his garments, and took a towel and girded himself. After
that, he poureth water into a basin, and began to wash the disciples’
feet, and to wipe them with the towel wherewith he was girded.” “After
he had washed their feet and had taken his garments and was sat down
again, he said unto them, Know ye what I have done to you? Ye call me
Master and Lord: and ye say well, for so I am. If I, then, your Lord and
Master, have washed your feet, ye also ought to wash one another’s feet;
for I have given you an example that ye should do as I have done to
you.”

“Verily, verily I say unto you, the servant is not greater than his
lord, neither he that is sent greater than he that sent him. If ye know
these things, happy are ye if ye do them.”

Here, then, we have the king, and the constitution of the kingdom. The
king on his knees at the feet of his servants, performing the lowest
menial service, with the announcement, “I have given you an example,
that ye should do as I have done to you.”

And when, after the descent of the Holy Ghost, all these immortal words
of Christ, which had lain buried like dead seed in the heart, were
quickened and sprang up in celestial verdure, then these twelve became,
each one in his place, another Jesus, filled with the spirit of him who
had gone heavenward. The primitive church, as organized by them, was a
brotherhood of strict equality. There was no more contention who should
be greatest; the only contention was, who should suffer and serve the
most. The Christian church was an imperium in imperio; submitting
outwardly to the laws of the land, but professing inwardly to be
regulated by a higher faith and a higher law. They were dead to the
world, and the world to them. Its customs were not their customs; its
relations not their relations. All the ordinary relations of life, when
they passed into the Christian church, underwent a quick, immortal
change; so that the transformed relation resembled the old and heathen
one no more than the glorious body which is raised in incorruption
resembles the mortal one which was sown in corruption. The relation of
marriage was changed, from a tyrannous dominion of the stronger sex over
the weaker, to an intimate union, symbolizing the relation of Christ and
the church. The relation of parent and child, purified from the harsh
features of heathen law, became a just image of the love of the heavenly
Father; and the relation of master and servant, in like manner, was
refined into a voluntary relation between two equal brethren, in which
the servant faithfully performed his duties as to the Lord, and the
master gave him a full compensation for his services.

No one ever doubted that such a relation as this is an innocent one. It
exists in all free states. It is the relation which exists between
employer and employed generally, in the various departments of life. It
is true, the master was never called upon to perform the legal act of
enfranchisement,—and why? Because the very nature of the kingdom into
which the master and slave had entered enfranchised him. It is not
necessary for a master to write a deed of enfranchisement when he takes
his slaves into Canada, or even into New York or Pennsylvania. The
moment the master and slave stand together on this soil, their whole
relations to each other are changed. The master may remain master, and
the servant a servant; but, according to the constitution of the state
they have entered, the service must be a voluntary one on the part of
the slave, and the master must render a just equivalent. When the water
of baptism passed over the master and the slave, both alike came under
the great constitutional law of Christ’s empire, which is this:

“Whosoever will be great among you, let him be your minister; and
whosoever will be chief among you, let him be your servant, yea, the
servant of all.” Under such a law, servitude was dignified and made
honorable, but slavery was made an impossibility.

That the church was essentially, and in its own nature, such an
institution of equality, brotherhood, love and liberty, as made the
existence of a slave, in the character of a slave, in it, a
contradiction and an impossibility, is evident from the general scope
and tendency of all the apostolic writings, particularly those of Paul.

And this view is obtained, not from a dry analysis of Greek words, and
dismal discussions about the meaning of doulos, but from a full tide
of celestial, irresistible spirit, full of life and love, that breathes
in every description of the Christian church.

To all, whether bond or free, the apostle addresses these inspiring
words: “There is one body, and one spirit, even as ye are called in one
hope of your calling; one Lord, one faith, one baptism, one God and
Father of all, who is above all, and through all, and in you all.” “For
through him we all have access, by one Spirit, unto the Father.” “Now,
therefore, ye are no more strangers and foreigners, but fellow-citizens
with the saints, and of the household of God, and are built upon the
foundation of the apostles and prophets, Jesus Christ, himself, being
the chief corner-stone.” “Ye are all the children of God, by faith in
Jesus Christ; there is neither Jew nor Greek, there is neither bond nor
free, there is neither male nor female, for ye are all one in Christ
Jesus.”

“For, as the body is one, and hath many members, and all the members of
that one body, being many, are one body, so also is Christ; for by one
Spirit are we all baptized into one body, whether we be Jews or
Gentiles, whether we be bond or free; and whether one member suffer, all
the members suffer with it, or one member be honored, all the members
rejoice with it.”

It was the theory of this blessed and divine unity, that whatever gift,
or superiority, or advantage, was possessed by one member, was possessed
by every member. Thus Paul says to them, “All things are yours; whether
Paul, or Apollos, or Cephas, or life, or death, all are yours, and ye
are Christ’s, and Christ is God’s.”

Having thus represented the church as one living body, inseparably
united, the apostle uses a still more awful and impressive simile. The
church, he says, is one body, and that body is the fulness of Him who
filleth all in all. That is, He who filleth all in all seeks this church
to be the associate and complement of himself, even as a wife is of the
husband. This body of believers is spoken of as a bright and mystical
bride, in the world, but not of it; spotless, divine, immortal, raised
from the death of sin to newness of life, redeemed by the blood of her
Lord, and to be presented at last unto him, a glorious church, not
having spot or wrinkle, or any such thing.

A delicate and mysterious sympathy is supposed to pervade this church,
like that delicate and mysterious tracery of nerves that overspreads the
human body; the meanest member cannot suffer without the whole body
quivering in pain. Thus says Paul, who was himself a perfect realization
of this beautiful theory: “Who is weak, and I am not weak? Who is
offended, and I burn not?” “To whom ye forgive anything, I forgive
also.”

But still further, individual Christians were reminded, in language of
awful solemnity, “What! know ye not that your body is the temple of the
Holy Ghost, which is in you, which ye have of God, and that ye are not
your own?” And again, “Ye are the temple of the living God; as God hath
said, I will dwell in them and walk in them.” Nor was this sublime
language in those days passed over as a mere idle piece of rhetoric, but
was the ever-present consciousness of the soul.

Every Christian was made an object of sacred veneration to his brethren,
as the temple of the living God. The soul of every Christian was hushed
into awful stillness, and inspired to carefulness, watchfulness and
sanctity, by the consciousness of an indwelling God. Thus Ignatius, who
for his preëminent piety was called, par excellence, by his church,
“Theophorus, the God-bearer,” when summoned before the Emperor Trajan,
used the following remarkable language: “No one can call Theophorus an
evil spirit * * * * for, bearing in my heart Christ the king of heaven,
I bring to nothing the arts and devices of the evil spirits.”

“Who, then, is ‘the God-bearer’?” asked Trajan.

“He who carries Christ in his heart,” was the reply. * * * *

“Dost thou mean him whom Pontius Pilate crucified?”

“He is the one I mean,” replied Ignatius. * * *

“Dost thou then bear the crucified one in thy heart?” asked Trajan.

“Even so,” said Ignatius; “for it is written, ‘I will dwell in them and
rest in them.’”

So perfect was the identification of Christ with the individual
Christian in the primitive church, that it was a familiar form of
expression to speak of an injury done to the meanest Christian as an
injury done to Christ. So St. Paul says, “When ye sin so against the
weak brethren, and wound their weak consciences, ye sin against Christ.”
He says of himself, “I live, yet not I, but Christ liveth in me.”

See, also, the following extracts from a letter by Cyprian, Bishop of
Carthage, to some poor Numidian churches, who had applied to him to
redeem some of their members from slavery among bordering savage tribes.
(Neander Denkw. I. 340.)

  We could view the captivity of our brethren no otherwise than as our
  own, since we belong to one body, and not only love, but religion,
  excites us to redeem in our brethren the members of our own body. We
  must, even if affection were not sufficient to induce us to keep our
  brethren,—we must reflect that the temples of God are in captivity,
  and these temples of God ought not, by our neglect, long to remain
  in bondage. * * *

  Since the apostle says “as many of you as are baptized have put on
  Christ,” so in our captive brethren we must see before us CHRIST,
  who hath ransomed us from the danger of captivity, who hath redeemed
  us from the danger of death; Him who hath freed us from the abyss
  of Satan, and who now remains and dwells in us, to free Him from
  the hands of barbarians! With a small sum of money to ransom Him
  who hath ransomed us by his cross and blood; and who hath permitted
  this to take place that our faith may be proved thereby!

Now, because the Greek word doulos may mean a slave, and because it is
evident that there were men in the Christian church who were called
douloi, will anybody say, in the whole face and genius of this
beautiful institution, that these men were held actually as slaves in
the sense of Roman and American law? Of all dry, dull, hopeless
stupidities, this is the most stupid. Suppose Christian masters did have
servants who were called douloi, as is plain enough they did, is it
not evident that the word douloi had become significant of something
very different in the Christian church from what it meant in Roman law?
It was not the business of the apostles to make new dictionaries; they
did not change words,—they changed things. The baptized, regenerated,
new-created doulos, of one body and one spirit with his master, made
one with his master, even as Christ is one with the Father, a member
with him of that church which is the fulness of Him who filleth all in
all,—was his relation to his Christian master like that of an American
slave to his master? Would he who regarded his weakest brother as being
one with Christ hold his brother as a chattel personal? Could he hold
Christ as a chattel personal? Could he sell Christ for money? Could he
hold the temple of the Holy Ghost as his property, and gravely defend
his right to sell, lease, mortgage or hire the same, at his convenience,
as that right has been argued in the slave-holding pulpits of America?

What would have been said at such a doctrine announced in the Christian
church? Every member would have stopped his ears, and cried out,
“Judas!” If he was pronounced accursed who thought that the gift of the
Holy Ghost might be purchased with money, what would have been said of
him who held that the very temple of the Holy Ghost might be bought and
sold, and Christ the Lord become an article of merchandise? Such an idea
never was thought of. It could not have been refuted, for it never
existed. It was an unheard-of and unsupposable work of the devil, which
Paul never contemplated as even possible, that one Christian could claim
a right to hold another Christian as merchandise, and to trade in the
“member of the body, flesh and bones” of Christ. Such a horrible
doctrine never polluted the innocence of the Christian church even in
thought.

The directions which Paul gives to Christian masters and servants
sufficiently show what a redeeming change had passed over the
institution. In 1st Timothy, St. Paul gives the following directions,
first to those who have heathen masters, second, to those who have
Christian masters. That concerning heathen masters is thus expressed:
“Let as many servants as are under the yoke count their own masters
worthy of all honor, that the name of God and his doctrine be not
blasphemed.” In the next verse the direction is given to the servants of
Christian masters: “They that have believing masters, let them not
despise them because they are brethren, but rather do them service
because they are faithful and beloved, partakers of the benefit.”
Notice, now, the contrast between these directions. The servant of the
heathen master is said to be under the yoke, and it is evidently implied
that the servant of the Christian master was not under the yoke. The
servant of the heathen master was under the severe Roman law; the
servant of the Christian master is an equal, and a brother. In these
circumstances, the servant of the heathen master is commanded to obey
for the sake of recommending the Christian religion. The servant of the
Christian master, on the other hand, is commanded not to despise his
master because he is his brother; but he is to do him service because
his master is faithful and beloved, a partaker of the same glorious
hopes with himself. Let us suppose, now, a clergyman, employed as a
chaplain on a cotton plantation, where most of the members on the
plantation, as we are informed is sometimes the case, are members of the
same Christian church as their master, should assemble the hands around
him and say, “Now, boys, I would not have you despise your master
because he is your brother. It is true you are all one in Christ Jesus;
there is no distinction here; there is neither Jew nor Greek, neither
negro nor white man, neither bond nor free, but ye are all brethren,—all
alike members of Christ, and heirs of the same kingdom; but you must not
despise your master on this account. You must love him as a brother, and
be willing to do all you can to serve him; because you see he is a
partaker of the same benefit with you, and the Lord loves him as much as
he does you.” Would not such an address create a certain degree of
astonishment both with master and servants; and does not the fact that
it seems absurd show that the relation of the slave to his master in
American law is a very different one from what it was in the Christian
church? But again, let us quote another passage, which slave-owners are
much more fond of. In Colossians 4:22 and 5:1,—“Servants, obey, in all
things, your masters, according to the flesh; not with eye-service as
men-pleasers, but in singleness of heart as fearing God; and whatsoever
ye do, do it heartily as unto the Lord, and not unto men, knowing that
of the Lord ye shall receive the reward of the inheritance, for ye serve
the Lord Christ.” “Masters, give unto servants that which is just and
equal, knowing that ye also have a Master in heaven.”

Now, there is nothing in these directions to servants which would show
that they were chattel servants in the sense of slave-law; for they will
apply equally well to every servant in Old England and New England; but
there is something in the direction to masters which shows that they
were not considered chattel servants by the church, because the master
is commanded to give unto them that which is just and equal, as a
consideration for their service. Of the words “just and equal,” “just”
means that which is legally theirs, and “equal” means that which is in
itself equitable, irrespective of law.

Now, we have the undoubted testimony of all legal authorities on
American slave-law that American slavery does not pretend to be
founded on what is just or equal either. Thus Judge Ruffin says: “Merely
in the abstract it may well be asked which power of the master accords
with right. The answer will probably sweep away all of them;” and this
principle, so unequivocally asserted by Judge Ruffin, is all along
implied and taken for granted, as we have just seen, in all the
reasonings upon slavery and the slave-law. It would take very little
legal acumen to see that the enacting of these words of Paul into a
statute by any state would be a practical abolition of slavery in that
state.

But it is said that St. Paul sent Onesimus back to his master. Indeed!
but how? When, to our eternal shame and disgrace, the horrors of the
fugitive slave-law were being enacted in Boston, and the very Cradle of
Liberty resounded with the groans of the slave, and men harder-hearted
than Saul of Tarsus made havoc of the church, entering into every house,
haling men and women, committing them to prison; when whole churches of
humble Christians were broken up and scattered like flocks of trembling
sheep; when husbands and fathers were torn from their families, and
mothers, with poor, helpless children, fled at midnight, with bleeding
feet, through snow and ice, towards Canada;—in the midst of these
scenes, which have made America a by-word and a hissing and an
astonishment among all nations, there were found men, Christian men,
ministers of the gospel of Jesus, even,—alas! that this should ever be
written,—who, standing in the pulpit, in the name and by the authority
of Christ, justified and sanctioned these enormities, and used this most
loving and simple-hearted letter of the martyr Paul to justify these
unheard-of atrocities!

He who said, “Who is weak and I am not weak? Who is offended and I burn
not?”—he who called the converted slave his own body, the son begotten
in his bonds, and who sent him to the brother of his soul with the
direction, “Receive him as myself, not now as a slave, but above a
slave, a brother beloved,”—this beautiful letter, this outgush of
tenderness and love passing the love of woman, was held up to be pawed
over by the polluted hobgoblin-fingers of slave-dealers and
slave-whippers as their lettre de cachet, signed and sealed in the
name of Christ and his apostles, giving full authority to carry back
slaves to be tortured and whipped, and sold into perpetual bondage, as
were Henry Long and Thomas Sims! Just as well might a mother’s letter,
when, with prayers and tears, she commits her first and only child to
the cherishing love and sympathy of some trusted friend, be used as an
inquisitor’s warrant for inflicting imprisonment and torture upon that
child. Had not every fragment of the apostle’s body long since mouldered
to dust, his very bones would have moved in their grave, in protest
against such slander on the Christian name and faith. And is it come to
this. O Jesus Christ! have such things been done in thy name, and art
thou silent yet? Verily, thou art a God that hidest thyself, O God of
Israel, the Saviour!




                               CHAPTER V.


But why did not the apostles preach against the legal relation of
slavery, and seek its overthrow in the state? This question is often
argued as if the apostles were in the same condition with the clergy of
Southern churches, members of republican institutions, law-makers, and
possessed of all republican powers to agitate for the repeal of unjust
laws.

Contrary to all this, a little reading of the New Testament will show us
that the apostles were almost in the condition of outlaws, under a
severe and despotic government, whose spirit and laws they reprobated as
unchristian, and to which they submitted, just as they exhorted the
slave to submit, as to a necessary evil.

Hear the apostle Paul thus enumerating the political privileges incident
to the ministry of Christ. Some false teachers had risen in the church
at Corinth, and controverted his teachings, asserting that they had
greater pretensions to authority in the Christian ministry than he. St.
Paul, defending his apostolic position, thus speaks: “Are they ministers
of Christ? (I speak as a fool) I am more; in labors more abundant, in
stripes above measure, in prisons more frequent, in deaths oft. Of the
Jews five times received I forty stripes save one. Thrice was I beaten
with rods, once was I stoned, thrice I suffered shipwreck, a night and a
day have I been in the deep; in journeyings often, in perils of waters,
in perils of robbers, in perils by mine own countrymen, in perils by the
heathen, in perils in the city, in perils in the wilderness, in perils
in the sea, in perils among false brethren: in weariness and
painfulness, in watchings often, in hunger and thirst, in fastings
often, in cold and nakedness.”

What enumeration of the hardships of an American slave can more than
equal the hardships of the great apostle to the Gentiles? He had nothing
to do with laws except to suffer their penalties. They were made and
kept in operation without asking him, and the slave did not suffer any
more from them than he did.

It would appear that the clergymen of the South, when they imitate the
example of Paul, in letting entirely alone the civil relation of the
slave, have left wholly out of their account how different is the
position of an American clergyman, in a republican government, where he
himself helps make and sustain the laws, from the condition of the
apostle, under a heathen despotism, with whose laws he could have
nothing to do.

It is very proper for an outlawed slave to address to other outlawed
slaves exhortations to submit to a government which neither he nor they
have any power to alter.

We read, in sermons which clergymen at the South have addressed to
slaves, exhortations to submission, and patience, and humility, in their
enslaved condition, which would be exceedingly proper in the mouth of an
apostle, where he and the slaves were alike fellow-sufferers under a
despotism whose laws they could not alter, but which assume quite
another character when addressed to the slave by the very men who make
the laws that enslave them.

If a man has been waylaid and robbed of all his property, it would be
very becoming and proper for his clergyman to endeavor to reconcile him
to his condition, as, in some sense, a dispensation of Providence; but
if the man who robs him should come to him, and address to him the same
exhortations, he certainly will think that that is quite another phase
of the matter.

A clergyman of high rank in the church, in a sermon to the negroes, thus
addresses them:

  Almighty God hath been pleased to make you slaves here, and to give
  you nothing but labor and poverty in this world, which you are
  obliged to submit to, as it is his will that it should be so. And
  think within yourselves what a terrible thing it would be, after all
  your labors and sufferings in this life, to be turned into hell in
  the next life; and, after wearing out your bodies in service here,
  to go into a far worse slavery when this is over, and your poor
  souls be delivered over into the possession of the devil, to become
  his slaves forever in hell, without any hope of ever getting free
  from it. If, therefore, you would be God’s freemen in heaven, you
  must strive to be good and serve him here on earth. Your bodies, you
  know, are not your own; they are at the disposal of those you belong
  to; but your precious souls are still your own, which nothing can
  take from you, if it be not your own fault. Consider well, then,
  that if you lose your souls by leading idle, wicked lives here, you
  have got nothing by it in this world, and you have lost your all in
  the next. For your idleness and wickedness is generally found out,
  and your bodies suffer for it here; and, what is far worse, if you
  do not repent and amend, your unhappy souls will suffer for it
  hereafter.

Now, this clergyman was a man of undoubted sincerity. He had read the
New Testament, and observed that St. Paul addressed exhortations
something like this to slaves in his day.

But he entirely forgot to consider that Paul had not the rights of a
republican clergyman; that he was not a maker and sustainer of those
laws by which the slaves were reduced to their condition, but only a
fellow-sufferer under them. A case may be supposed which would
illustrate this principle to the clergyman. Suppose that he were
travelling along the highway, with all his worldly property about him,
in the shape of bank-bills. An association of highwaymen seize him, bind
him to a tree, and take away the whole of his worldly estate. This they
would have precisely the same right to do that the clergyman and his
brother republicans have to take all the earnings and possessions of
their slaves. The property would belong to these highwaymen by exactly
the same kind of title,—not because they have earned it, but simply
because they have got it and are able to keep it.

The head of this confederation, observing some dissatisfaction upon the
face of the clergyman, proceeds to address him a religious exhortation
to patience and submission, in much the same terms as he had before
addressed to the slaves. “Almighty God has been pleased to take away
your entire property, and to give you nothing but labor and poverty in
this world, which you are obliged to submit to, as it is his will that
it should be so. Now, think within yourself what a terrible thing it
would be, if, having lost all your worldly property, you should, by
discontent and want of resignation, lose also your soul; and, having
been robbed of all your property here, to have your poor soul delivered
over to the possession of the devil, to become his property forever in
hell, without any hope of ever getting free from it. Your property now
is no longer your own; we have taken possession of it; but your precious
soul is still your own, and nothing can take it from you but your own
fault. Consider well, then, that if you lose your soul by rebellion and
murmuring against this dispensation of Providence, you will get nothing
by it in this world, and will lose your all in the next.”

Now, should this clergyman say, as he might very properly, to these
robbers,—“There is no necessity for my being poor in this world, if you
will only give me back my property which you have taken from me,” he is
only saying precisely what the slaves to whom he has been preaching
might say to him and his fellow-republicans.




                              CHAPTER VI.


But it may still be said that the apostles might have commanded
Christian masters to perform the act of legal emancipation in all cases.
Certainly they might, and it is quite evident that they did not.

The professing primitive Christian regarded and treated his slave as a
brother, but in the eye of the law he was still his chattel personal,—a
thing, and not a man. Why did not the apostles, then, strike at the
legal relation? Why did they not command every Christian convert to
sunder that chain at once? In answer, we say that every attempt at
reform which comes from God has proceeded uniformly in this manner,—to
destroy the spirit of an abuse first, and leave the form of it to
drop away, of itself, afterwards,—to girdle the poisonous tree, and
leave it to take its own time for dying.

This mode of dealing with abuses has this advantage, that it is
compendious and universal, and can apply to that particular abuse in all
ages, and under all shades and modifications. If the apostle, in that
outward and physical age, had merely attacked the legal relation, and
had rested the whole burden of obligation on dissolving that, the
corrupt and selfish principle might have run into other forms of
oppression equally bad, and sheltered itself under the technicality of
avoiding legal slavery. God, therefore, dealt a surer blow at the
monster, by singling out the precise spot where his heart beat, and
saying to his apostles, “Strike there!”

Instead of saying to the slave-holder, “manumit your slave,” it said to
him. “treat him as your brother,” and left to the slave-holder’s
conscience to say how much was implied in this command.

In the directions which Paul gave about slavery, it is evident that he
