was not a sign of angry excitement, but a most touching sorrow.
"Edward!" he said, as he laid his hand gently on the young man's
shoulder. The latter started at the voice, and crimsoned deeply. A few
moments he sat irresolute.
"Edward, my son!" It would have been a cold, hard heart indeed that
softened not under the melting tenderness of these tones. The call was
irresistible, and obedience a necessity. The powers of evil had, yet,
too feeble a grasp on the young man's heart to hold him in thrall.
Rising with a half-reluctant manner, and with a shamefacedness that it
was impossible to conceal, he retired as quietly as possible. The
notice of only a few in the bar-room was attracted by the incident.
"I can tell you what," I heard the individual, with whom the young man
had been playing at dominoes, remark--himself not twenty years of
age--"if my old man were to make a fool of himself in this
way--sneaking around after me in bar-rooms-he'd get only his trouble
for his pains. I'd like to see him try it, though! There'd be a nice
time of it, I guess. Wouldn't I creep off with him, as meek as a lamb!
Ho! ho!"
"Who is that old gentleman who came in just now?" I inquired of the
person who thus commented on the incident which had just occurred.
"Mr. Hargrove is his name."
"And that was his son?"
"Yes; and I'm only sorry he doesn't possess a little more spirit."
"How old is he?"
"About twenty."
"Not of legal age, then?"
"He's old enough to be his own master."
"The law says differently," I suggested.
In answer, the young man cursed the law, snapping his fingers in its
imaginary face as he did so.
"At least you will admit," said I, "that Edward Hargrove, in the use of
a liberty to go where he pleases, and do what he pleases, exhibits but
small discretion."
"I will admit no such thing. What harm is there, I would like to know,
in a social little game such as we were playing? There were no
stakes--we were not gambling."
I pointed to the half-emptied glass of ale left by young Hargrove.
"Oh! oh!" half sneered, half laughed a man, twice the age of the one I
had addressed, who sat near by, listening to our conversation. I looked
at him for a moment, and then said:
"The great danger lies there, without doubt. If it were only a glass of
ale and a game of dominoes--but it doesn't stop there, and well the
young man's father knows it."
"Perhaps he does," was answered. "I remember him in his younger days;
and a pretty high boy he was. He didn't stop at a glass of ale and a
game of dominoes; not he! I've seen him as drunk as a lord many a time;
and many a time at a horse-race, or cock-fight, betting with the
bravest. I was only a boy, though a pretty old boy; but I can tell you,
Hargrove was no saint."
"I wonder not, then, that he is so anxious for his son," was my remark.
"He knows well the lurking dangers in the path he seems inclined to
enter."
"I don't see that they have done him much harm. He sowed his wild
oats--then got married, and settled down into a good, substantial
citizen. A little too religious and pharisaical, I always thought; but
upright in his dealings. He had his pleasures in early life, as was
befitting the season of youth--why not let his son taste of the same
agreeable fruit? He's wrong, sir--wrong! And I've said as much to Ned.
I only wish the boy had shown the right spunk this evening, and told
the old man to go home about his business."
"So do I," chimed in the young disciple in this bad school. "It's what
I'd say to my old man, in double quick time, if he was to come hunting
after me."
"He knows better than to do that," said the other, in a way that let me
deeper into the young man's character.
"Indeed he does. He's tried his hand on me once or twice during the
last year, but found it wouldn't do, no how; Tom Peters is out of his
leading-strings."
"And can drink his glass with any one, and not be a grain the worse for
it."
"Exactly, old boy!" said Peters, slapping his preceptor on the knee.
"Exactly! I'm not one of your weak-headed ones. Oh no!"
"Look here, Joe Morgan!"--the half-angry voice of Simon Slade now rung
through the bar-room,--"just take yourself off home!"
I had not observed the entrance of this person. He was standing at the
bar, with an emptied glass in his hand. A year had made no improvement
in his appearance. On the contrary, his clothes were more worn and
tattered; his countenance more sadly marred. What he had said to
irritate the landlord, I know not; but Slade's face was fiery with
passion, and his eyes glared threateningly at the poor besotted one,
who showed not the least inclination to obey.
"Off with you, I say! And never show your face here again. I won't have
such low vagabonds as you are about my house. If you can't keep decent
and stay decent, don't intrude yourself here."
"A rum-seller talk of decency!" retorted Morgan. "Pah! You were a
decent man once, and a good miller into the bargain. But that time's
past and gone. Decency died out when you exchanged the pick and
facing-hammer for the glass and muddler. Decency! Pah! How you talk! As
if it were any more decent to sell rum than to drink it."
There was so much of biting contempt in the tones, as well as the words
of the half-intoxicated man, that Slade, who had himself been drinking
rather more freely than usual, was angered beyond self-control.
Catching up an empty glass from the counter, he hurled it with all his
strength at the head of Joe Morgan. The missive just grazed one of his
temples, and flew by on its dangerous course. The quick sharp cry of a
child startled the air, followed by exclamations of alarm and horror
from many voices.
"It's Joe Morgan's child!" "He's killed her!" "Good heavens!" Such were
the exclamations that rang through the room. I was among the first to
reach the spot where a little girl, just gliding in through the door,
had been struck on the forehead by the glass, which had cut a deep
gash, and stunned her into insensibility. The blood flowed instantly
from the wound, and covered her face, which presented a shocking
appearance. As I lifted her from the floor, upon which she had fallen,
Morgan, into whose very soul the piercing cry of his child had
penetrated, stood by my side, and grappled his arms around her
insensible form, uttering as he did so heart-touching moans and
lamentations.
"What's the matter? Oh, what's the matter?" It was a woman's voice,
speaking in frightened tones.
"It's nothing! Just go out, will you, Ann?" I heard the landlord say.
But his wife--it was Mrs. Slade--having heard the shrieks of pain and
terror uttered by Morgan's child, had come running into the
bar-room--heeded not his words, but pressed forward into the little
group that stood around the bleeding girl.
"Run for Doctor Green, Frank," she cried in an imperative voice, the
moment her eyes rested on the little one's bloody face.
Frank came around from behind the bar, in obedience to the word; but
his father gave a partial countermand, and he stood still. Upon
observing which, his mother repeated the order, even more emphatically.
"Why don't you jump, you young rascal!" exclaimed Harvey Green. "The
child may be dead before the doctor can get here."
Frank hesitated no longer, but disappeared instantly through the door.
"Poor, poor child!" almost sobbed Mrs. Slade, as she lifted the
insensible form from my arms. "How did it happen? Who struck her?"
"Who? Curse him! Who but Simon Slade?" answered Joe Morgan, through his
clenched teeth.
The look of anguish, mingled with bitter reproach, instantly thrown
upon the landlord by his wife, can hardly be forgotten by any who saw
it that night.
"Oh, Simon! Simon! And has it come to this already?" What a world of
bitter memories, and sad forebodings of evil, did that little sentence
express. "To this already"--Ah! In the downward way, how rapidly the
steps do tread--how fast the progress!
"Bring me a basin of water, and a towel, quickly!" she now exclaimed.
The water was brought, and in a little while the face of the child lay
pure and as white as snow against her bosom. The wound from which the
blood had flowed so freely was found on the upper part of the forehead,
a little to the side, and extending several inches back, along the top
of the head. As soon as the blood stains were wiped away, and the
effusion partially stopped, Mrs. Slade carried the still insensible
body into the next room, whither the distressed, and now completely
sobered father, accompanied her. I went with them, but Slade remained
behind.
The arrival of the doctor was soon followed by the restoration of life
to the inanimate body. He happened to be at home, and came instantly.
He had just taken the last stitch in the wound, which required to be
drawn together, and was applying strips of adhesive plaster, when the
hurried entrance of some one caused me to look up. What an apparition
met my eyes! A woman stood in the door, with a face in which maternal
anxiety and terror blended fearfully. Her countenance was like
ashes--her eyes straining wildly--her lips apart, while the panting
breath almost hissed through them.
"Joe! Joe! What is it? Where is Mary? Is she dead?" were her eager
inquiries.
"No, Fanny," answered Joe Morgan, starting up from where he was
actually kneeling by the side of the reviving little one, and going
quickly to his wife. "She's better now. It's a bad hurt, but the doctor
says it's nothing dangerous. Poor, dear child!"
The pale face of the mother grew paler--she gasped--caught for breath
two or three times--a low shudder ran through her frame--and then she
lay white and pulseless in the arms of her husband. As the doctor
applied restoratives, I had opportunity to note more particularly the
appearance of Mrs. Morgan. Her person was very slender, and her face so
attenuated that it might almost be called shadowy. Her hair, which was
a rich chestnut brown, with a slight golden lustre, had fallen from her
comb, and now lay all over her neck and bosom in beautiful luxuriance.
Back from her full temples it had been smoothed away by the hand of
Morgan, that all the while moved over her brow and temples with a
caressing motion that I saw was unconscious, and which revealed the
tenderness of feeling with which, debased as he was, he regarded the
wife of his youth, and the long suffering companion of his later and
evil days. Her dress was plain and coarse, but clean and well fitting;
and about her whole person was an air of neatness and taste. She could
not now be called beautiful; yet in her marred features--marred by
suffering and grief--were many lineaments of beauty; and much that told
of a true, pure woman's heart beating in her bosom. Life came slowly
back to the stilled heart, and it was nearly half an hour before the
circle of motion was fully restored.
Then, the twain, with their child, tenderly borne in the arms of her
father, went sadly homeward, leaving more than one heart heavier for
their visit.
I saw more of the landlord's wife on this occasion than before. She had
acted with a promptness and humanity that impressed me very favorably.
It was plain, from her exclamations on learning that her husband's hand
inflicted the blow that came so near destroying the child's life, that
her faith for good in the tavern-keeping experiment had never been
strong. I had already inferred as much. Her face, the few times I had
seen her, wore a troubled look; and I could never forget its
expression, nor her anxious, warning voice, when she discovered Frank
sipping the dregs from a glass in the bar-room.
It is rarely, I believe, that wives consent freely to the opening of
taverns by their husbands; and the determination on the part of the
latter to do so, is not unfrequently attended with a breach of
confidence and good feeling never afterward fully healed. Men look
close to the money result; women to the moral consequences. I doubt if
there be one dram-seller in ten, between whom and his wife there exists
a good understanding--to say nothing of genuine affection. And, in the
exceptional cases, it will generally be found that the wife is as
mercenary, or careless of the public good, as her husband. I have known
some women to set up grog-shops; but they were women of bad principles
and worse hearts. I remember one case, where a woman, with a sober,
church-going husband, opened a dram-shop. The husband opposed,
remonstrated, begged, threatened--but all to no purpose. The wife, by
working for the clothing stores, had earned and saved about three
hundred dollars. The love of money, in the slow process of
accumulation, had been awakened; and, in ministering to the depraved
appetites of men who loved drink and neglected their families, she saw
a quicker mode of acquiring the gold she coveted. And so the dram-shop
was opened. And what was the result? The husband quit going to church.
He had no heart for that; for, even on the Sabbath day, the fiery
stream was stayed not in his house. Next he began to tipple. Soon,
alas! the subtle poison so pervaded his system that morbid desire came;
and then he moved along quick-footed in the way of ruin. In less than
three years, I think, from the time the grog-shop was opened by his
wife, he was in a drunkard's grave. A year or two more, and the pit
that was digged for others by the hands of the wife, she fell into
herself. After breathing an atmosphere poisoned by the fumes of liquor,
the love of tasting it was gradually formed, and she, too, in the end,
became a slave to the Demon Drink. She died at last, poor as a beggar
in the street. Ah! this liquor-selling is the way to ruin; and they who
open the gates, as well as those who enter the downward path, alike go
to destruction. But this is digressing.
After Joe Morgan and his wife left the "Sickle and Sheaf," with that
gentle child, who, as I afterward learned, had not, for a year or more,
laid her little head to sleep until her father returned home and who,
if he stayed out beyond a certain hour, would go for him, and lead him
back, a very angel of love and patience--I re-entered the bar-room, to
see how life was passing there. Not one of all I had left in the room
remained. The incident which had occurred was of so painful a nature,
that no further unalloyed pleasure was to be had there during the
evening, and so each had retired. In his little kingdom the landlord
sat alone, his head resting on his hand, and his face shaded from the
light. The whole aspect of the man was that of one in self-humiliation.
As I entered he raised his head, and turned his face toward me. Its
expression was painful.
"Rather an unfortunate affair," said he. "I'm angry with myself, and
sorry for the poor child. But she'd no business here. As for Joe
Morgan, it would take a saint to bear his tongue when once set a-going
by liquor. I wish he'd stay away from the house. Nobody wants his
company. Oh, dear!"
The ejaculation, or rather groan, that closed the sentence showed how
little Slade was satisfied with himself, notwithstanding this feeble
attempt at self-justification.
"His thirst for liquor draws him hither," I remarked. "The attraction
of your bar to his appetite is like that of the magnet to the needle.
He cannot stay away."
"He MUST stay away!" exclaimed the landlord, with some vehemence of
tone, striking his fist upon the table by which he sat. "He MUST stay
away! There is scarcely an evening that he does not ruffle my temper,
and mar good feelings in all the company. Just see what he provoked me
to do this evening. I might have killed the child. It makes my blood
run cold to think of it! Yes, sir--he must stay away. If no better can
be done, I'll hire a man to stand at the door and keep him out."
"He never troubled you at the mill," said I. "No man was required at
the mill door?"
"No!" And the landlord gave emphasis to the word by an oath, ejaculated
with a heartiness that almost startled me. I had not heard him swear
before. "No; the great trouble was to get him and keep him there, the
good-for-nothing, idle fellow!"
"I am afraid," I ventured to suggest, "that things don't go on quite so
smoothly here as they did at the mill. Your customers are of a
different class."
"I don't know about that; why not?" He did not just relish my remark.
"Between quiet, thrifty, substantial farmers, and drinking bar-room
loungers, are many degrees of comparison."
"Excuse me, sir!" Simon Slade elevated his person. "The men who visit
my bar-room, as a general thing, are quite as respectable, moral, and
substantial as any who came to the mill--and I believe more so. The
first people in the place, sir, are to be found here. Judge Lyman and
Judge Hammond; Lawyer Wilks and Doctor Maynard; Mr. Grand and Mr. Lee;
and dozens of others--all our first people. No, sir; you mustn't judge
all by vagabonds like Joe Morgan."
There was a testy spirit manifested that I did not care to provoke. I
could have met his assertion with facts and inferences of a character
to startle any one occupying his position, who was in a calm,
reflective state; but to argue with him then would have been worse than
idle; and so I let him talk on until the excitement occasioned by my
words died out for want of new fuel.
NIGHT THE THIRD.
JOE MORGAN'S CHILD.
"I don't see anything of your very particular friend, Joe Morgan, this
evening," said Harvey Green, leaning on the bar and speaking to Slade.
It was the night succeeding that on which the painful and exciting
scene with the child had occurred.
"No," was answered--and to the word was added a profane imprecation.
"No; and if he'll just keep away from here, he may go to--on a
hard-trotting horse and a porcupine saddle as fast as he pleases. He's
tried my patience beyond endurance, and my mind is made up that he gets
no more drams at this bar. I've borne his vile tongue and seen my
company annoyed by him just as long as I mean to stand it. Last night
decided me. Suppose I'd killed that child?"
"You'd have had trouble then, and no mistake."
"Wouldn't I? Blast her little picture! What business has she creeping
in here every night?"
"She must have a nice kind of a mother," remarked Green, with a cold
sneer.
"I don't know what she is now," said Slade, a slight touch of feeling
in his voice--"heart-broken, I suppose. I couldn't look at her last
night; it made me sick. But there was a time when Fanny Morgan was the
loveliest and best woman in Cedarville. I'll say that for her. Oh,
dear! What a life her miserable husband has caused her to lead."
"Better that he were dead and out of the way."
"Better a thousand times," answered Slade. "If he'd only fall down some
night and break his neck, it would be a blessing to his family."
"And to you in particular," laughed Green.
"You may be sure it wouldn't cost me a large sum for mourning," was the
unfeeling response.
Let us leave the bar-room of the "Sickle and Sheaf," and its
cold-hearted inmates, and look in upon the family of Joe Morgan, and
see how it is in the home of the poor inebriate. We will pass by a
quick transition.
"Joe!" The thin white hand of Mrs. Morgan clasps the arm of her
husband, who has arisen up suddenly, and now stands by the partly
opened door. "Don't go out to-night, Joe. Please, don't go out."
"Father!" A feeble voice calls from the corner of an old settee, where
little Mary lies with her head bandaged.
"Well, I won't then!" is replied--not angrily, nor even fretfully--but
in a kind voice.
"Come and sit by me, father." How tenderly, yet how full of concern is
that low, sweet voice. "Come, won't you?"
"Yes, dear."
"Now hold my hand, father."
Joe takes the hand of little Mary, that instantly tightens upon his.
"You won't go away and leave me to-night, will you, father? Say you
won't."
"How very hot your hand is, dear. Does your head ache?"
"A little; but it will soon feel better."
Up into the swollen and disfigured face of the fallen father, the
large, earnest blue eyes of the child are raised. She does not see the
marred lineaments; but only the beloved countenance of her parent.
"Dear father!"
"What, love?"
"I wish you'd promise me something."
"What, dear?"
"Will you promise?"
"I can't say until I hear your request. If I can promise, I will."
"Oh, you can promise--you can, father!"
How the large blue eyes dance and sparkle!
"What is it, love?"
"That you will never go into Simon Slade's bar any more."
The child raises herself, evidently with a painful effort; and leans
nearer to her father.
Joe shakes his head, and poor Mary drops back upon her pillow with a
sigh. Her lids fall, and the long lashes lie strongly relieved on her
colorless cheeks.
"I won't go there to-night, dear. So let your heart be at rest."
Mary's lids unclose, and two round drops, released from their clasp,
glide slowly over her face.
"Thank you, father--thank you. Mother will be so glad."
The eyes closed again; and the father moved uneasily. His heart is
touched. There is a struggle within him. It is on his lips to say that
he will never drink at the "Sickle and Sheaf" again; but resolution
just lacks the force of utterance.
"Father!"
"Well, dear?"
"I don't, think I'll be well enough to go out in two or three days. You
know the doctor said that I would have to keep very still, for I had a
great deal of fever."
"Yes, poor child."
"Now, won't you promise me one thing?"
"What is it, dear?"
"Not to go out in the evening until I get well."
Joe Morgan hesitated.
"Just promise me that, father. It won't be long; I shall be up again in
a little while."
How well the father knows what is in the heart of his child. Her fears
are all for him. Who is to go up after her poor father, and lead him
home when the darkness of inebriety is on his spirit, and external
perception so dulled that not skill enough remains to shun the harm
that lies in his path?
"Do promise just that, father, dear."
He cannot resist the pleading voice and look. "I promise it, Mary; so
shut your eyes now and go to sleep. I'm afraid this fever will
increase."
"Oh! I'm so glad--so glad!"
Mary does not clasp her hands, nor show strong external signs of
pleasure; but how full of a pure, unselfish joy is that low-murmured
ejaculation, spoken in the depths of her spirit, as well as syllabled
by her tongue!
Mrs. Morgan has been no unconcerned witness of all this; but knowing
the child's influence over her father, she has not ventured a word.
More was to be gained, she was sure, by silence on her part; and so she
kept silent. Now she comes nearer to them, and says, as she lets a hand
rest on the shoulder of her husband:
"You feel better for that promise already; I know you do."
He looks up to her, and smiles faintly. He does feel better, but is
hardly willing to acknowledge it.
Soon after Mary is sleeping. It does not escape the observation of Mrs.
Morgan that her husband grows restless; for he gets up suddenly, every
now and then, and walks quickly across the room, as if in search of
something. Then sits down, listlessly--sighs--stretches himself, and
says, "Oh dear!" What shall she do for him? How is the want of his
accustomed evening stimulus to be met? She thinks, and questions, and
grieves inwardly. Poor Joe Morgan! His wife understands his case, and
pities him from her heart. But what can she do? Go out and get him
something to drink? "Oh, no! no! no! never!" She answered the thought
audibly almost, in the excitement of her feelings. An hour has
passed--Joe's restlessness has increased instead of diminishing. What
is to be done? Now Mrs. Morgan has left the room. She has resolved upon
something, for the case must be met. Ah! here she comes, after an
absence of five minutes, bearing in her hand a cup of strong coffee.
"It was kind and thoughtful in you, Fanny," says Morgan, as with a
gratified look he takes the cup. But his hand trembles, and he spills a
portion of the contents as ho tries to raise it to his lips. How
dreadfully his nerves are shattered! Unnatural stimulants have been
applied so long, that all true vitality seems lost. And now the hand of
his wife is holding the cup to his lips, and he drinks eagerly.
"This is dreadful--dreadful! Where will it end? What is to be done?"
Fanny suppresses a sob, as she thus gives vent to her troubled
feelings. Twice, already, has her husband been seized with the
drunkard's madness; and, in the nervous prostration consequent upon
even a brief withdrawal of his usual strong stimulants, she sees the
fearful precursor of another attack of this dreadful and dangerous
malady. In the hope of supplying the needed tone she has given him
strong coffee; and this for the time, produces the effect desired. The
restlessness is allayed, and a quiet state of body and mind succeeds.
It needs but a suggestion to induce him to retire for the night. After
being a few minutes in bed, sleep steals over him, and his heavy
breathing tells that he is in the world of dreams.
And now there comes a tap at the door.
"Come in," is answered.
The latch is lifted, the door swings open, and a woman enters.
"Mrs. Slade!" The name is uttered in a tone of surprise.
"Fanny, how are you this evening?" Kindly, yet half sadly, the words
are said.
"Tolerable, I thank you."
The hands of the two women are clasped, and for a few moments they gaze
into each other's face. What a world of tender commiseration is in that
of Mrs. Slade!
"How is little Mary to-night?"
"Not so well, I'm afraid. She has a good deal of fever."
"Indeed! Oh, I'm sorry! Poor child! what a dreadful thing it was! Oh!
Fanny! you don't know how it has troubled me. I've been intending to
come around all day to see how she was, but couldn't get off until now."
"It came near killing her," said Mrs. Morgan.
"It's in God's mercy she escaped. The thought of it curdles the very
blood in my veins. Poor child! is this her on the settee?"
"Yes."
Mrs. Slade takes a chair, and sitting by the sleeping child, gazes long
upon her pale sweet face. Now the lips of Mary part--words are
murmured--what is she saying?
"No, no, mother; I can't go to bed yet. Father isn't home. And it's so
dark. There's no one to lead him over the bridge. I'm not afraid.
Don't--don't cry so, mother--I'm not afraid! Nothing will hurt me."
The child's face flushes. She moans, and throws her arms about
uneasily. Hark again.
"I wish Mr. Slade wouldn't look so cross at me. He never did when I
went to the mill. He doesn't take me on his knee now, and stroke my
hair. Oh, dear! I wish father wouldn't go there any more. Don't, don't,
Mr. Slade. Oh! oh!"--the ejaculation prolonged into a frightened cry,
"My head! my head!"
A few choking sobs are followed by low moans; and then the child
breathes easily again. But the flush does not leave her cheek; and when
Mrs. Slade, from whose eyes the tears come forth drop by drop, and roll
down her face, touches it lightly, she finds it hot with fever.
"Has the doctor seen her to-day, Fanny?"
"No, ma'am."
"He should see her at once. I will go for him"; and Mrs. Slade starts
up and goes quickly from the room. In a little while she returns with
Doctor Green, who sits down and looks at the child for some moments
with a sober, thoughtful face. Then he lays his fingers on her pulse
and times its beat by his watch--shakes his head, and looks graver
still.
"How long has she had fever?" he asks.
"All day."
"You should have sent for me earlier."
"Oh, doctor! She is not dangerous, I hope?" Mrs. Morgan looks
frightened.
"She's a sick child, madam."
"You've promised, father."--The dreamer is speaking again.--"I'm not
well enough yet. Oh, don't go, father; don't! There! He's gone! Well,
well! I'll try and walk there--I can sit down and rest by the way. Oh,
dear! How tired I am! Father! Father!"
The child starts up and looks about her wildly.
"Oh, mother, is it you?" And she sinks back upon her pillow, looking
now inquiringly from face to face.
"Father--where is father?" she asks.
"Asleep, dear."
"Oh! Is he? I'm glad."
Her eyes close wearily.
"Do you feel any pain, Mary?" inquired the doctor.
"Yes, sir--in my head. It aches and beats so."
The cry of "Father" had reached the ears of Morgan, who is sleeping in
the next room, and roused him into consciousness. He knows the doctor's
voice. Why is he here at this late hour? "Do you feel any pain, Mary?"
The question he hears distinctly, and the faintly uttered reply also.
He is sober enough to have all his fears instantly excited. There is
nothing in the world that he loves as he loves that child. And so he
gets up and dresses himself as quickly as possible; the stimulus of
anxiety giving tension to his relaxed nerves.
"Oh, father!" The quick ears of Mary detect his entrance first, and a
pleasant smile welcomes him.
"Is she very sick, doctor?" he asks, in a voice full of anxiety.
"She's a sick child, sir; you should have sent for me earlier." The
doctor speaks rather sternly, and with a purpose to rebuke.
The reply stirs Morgan, and he seems to cower half timidly under the
words, as if they were blows. Mary has already grasped her father's
hand, and holds on to it tightly.
After examining the case a little more closely, the doctor prepares
some medicine, and, promising to call early in the morning, goes away.
Mrs. Slade follows soon after; but, in parting with Mrs. Morgan, leaves
something in her hand, which, to the surprise of the latter, proves to
be a ten-dollar bill. The tears start to her eyes; and she conceals the
money in her bosom--murmuring a fervent "God bless her!"
A simple act of restitution is this on the part of Mrs. Slade, prompted
as well by humanity as a sense of justice. With one hand her husband
has taken the bread from the family of his old friend, and thus with
the other she restores it.
And now Morgan and his wife are alone with their sick child. Higher the
fever rises, and partial delirium seizes upon her over-excited brain.
She talks for a time almost incessantly. All her trouble is about her
father; and she is constantly referring to his promise not to go out in
the evening until she gets well. How tenderly and touchingly she
appeals to him; now looking up into his face in partial recognition;
and now calling anxiously after him, as if he had left her and was
going away.
"You'll not forget your promise, will you, father?" she says, speaking
so calmly, that he thinks her mind has ceased to wander.
"No, dear; I will not forget it," he answers, smoothing her hair gently
with his hand.
"You'll not go out in the evening again, until I get well?"
"No, dear."
"Father!"
"What, love?"
"Stoop down closer; I don't want mother to hear; it will make her feel
so bad."
The father bends his ear close to the lips of Mary. How he starts and
shudders! What has she said?--only these brief words:
"I shall not get well, father; I'm going to die."
The groans, impossible to repress, that issued through the lips of Joe
Morgan, startled the ears of his wife, and she came quickly to the
bedside.
"What is it? What is the matter, Joe?" she inquired, with a look of
anxiety.
"Hush, father. Don't tell her. I only said it to you." And Mary put a
finger on her lips, and looked mysterious. "There, mother--you go away;
you've got trouble enough, any how. Don't tell her, father."
But the words, which came to him like a prophecy, awoke such pangs of
fear and remorse in the heart of Joe Morgan, that it was impossible for
him to repress the signs of pain. For some moments he gazed at his
wife--then stooping forward, suddenly, he buried his face in the
bed-clothes, and sobbed bitterly.
A suggestion of the truth now flashed through the mind of Mrs. Morgan,
sending a thrill of pain along every nerve. Ere she had time to recover
herself, the low, sweet voice of Mary broke upon the hushed air of the
room, and she sung:
    "Jesus can make a dying bed
      Feel soft as downy pillows are,
    While on His breast I lean my head,
      And breathe my life out, sweetly, there."
It was impossible for Mrs. Morgan longer to repress her feelings. As
the softly breathed strain died away, her sobs broke forth, and for a
time she wept violently.
"There," said the child,--"I didn't mean to tell you. I only told
father, because--because he promised not to go to the tavern any more
until I got well; and I'm not going to get well. So, you see, mother,
he'll never go again--never--never--never. Oh, dear! how my head pains.
Mr. Slade threw it so hard. But it didn't strike father; and I'm so
glad. How it would have hurt him--poor father! But he'll never go there
any more; and that will be so good, won't it, mother?"
A light broke over her face; but seeing that her mother still wept, she
said:
"Don't cry. Maybe I'll be better."
And then her eyes closed heavily, and she slept again.
"Joe," said Mrs. Morgan, after she had in a measure recovered
herself--she spoke firmly--"Joe, did you hear what she said?"
Morgan only answered with a groan.
"Her mind wanders; and yet she may have spoken only the truth."
He groaned again.
"If she should die, Joe--"
"Don't; oh, don't talk so, Fanny. She's not going to die. It's only
because she's a little light-headed."
"Why is she light-headed, Joe?"
"It's the fever--only the fever, Fanny."
"It was the blow, and the wound on her head, that caused the fever. How
do we know the extent of injury on the brain? Doctor Green looked very
serious. I'm afraid, husband, that the worst is before us. I've borne
and suffered a great deal--only God knows how much--I pray that I may
have strength to bear this trial also. Dear child! She is better fitted
for heaven than for earth, and it may be that God is about to take her
to Himself. She's been a great comfort to me--and to you, Joe, more
like a guardian angel than a child."
Mrs. Morgan had tried to speak very firmly; but as sentence followed
sentence, her voice lost more and more of its even tone. With the
closing words all self-control vanished; and she wept bitterly. What
could her feeble, erring husband do, but weep with her?
"Joe,"--Mrs. Morgan aroused herself as quickly as possible, for she had
that to say which she feared she might not have the heart to
utter--"Joe, if Mary dies, you cannot forget the cause of her death."
"Oh, Fanny! Fanny!"
"Nor the hand that struck the cruel blow."
"Forget it? Never! And if I forgive Simon Slade--"
"Nor the place where the blow was dealt," said Mrs. Morgan,
interrupting him.
"Poor--poor child!" moaned the conscience-stricken man.
"Nor your promise, Joe--nor your promise given to our dying child."
"Father! Father! Dear father!" Mary's eyes suddenly unclosed, as she
called her father eagerly.
"Here I am, love. What is it?" And Joe Morgan pressed up to the bedside.
"Oh! it's you, father! I dreamed that you had gone out, and--and--but
you won't will you, dear father?"
"No, love--no."
"Never any more until I get well?"
"I must go out to work, you know, Mary."
"At night, father. That's what I mean. You won't, will you?"
"No, dear, no."
A soft smile trembled over the child's face; her eyelids drooped
wearily, and she fell off into slumber again. She seemed not so
restless as before--did not moan, nor throw herself about in her sleep.
"She's better, I think," said Morgan, as he bent over her, and listened
to her softer breathing.
"It seems so," replied his wife. "And now, Joe, you must go to bed
again. I will lie down here with Mary, and be ready to do any thing for
her that she may want."
"I don't feel sleepy. I'm sure I couldn't close my eyes. So let me sit
up with Mary. You are tired and worn out."
Mrs. Morgan looked earnestly into her husband's face. His eyes were
unusually bright, and she noticed a slight nervous restlessness about
his lips. She laid one of her hands on his, and perceived a slight
tremor.
"You must go to bed," she spoke firmly. "I shall not let you sit up
with Mary. So go at once." And she drew him almost by force into the
next room.
"It's no use, Fanny. There's not a wink of sleep in my eyes. I shall
lie awake anyhow. So do you get a little rest." Even as he spoke there
were nervous twitchings of his arms and shoulders; and as he entered
the chamber, impelled by his wife, he stopped suddenly and said:
"What is that?"
"Where?" asked Mrs. Morgan.
"Oh, it's nothing--I see. Only one of my old boots. I thought it a
great black cat."
Oh! what a shudder of despair seized upon the heart of the wretched
wife. Too well she knew the fearful signs of that terrible madness from
which, twice before, he had suffered. She could have looked on calmly
and seen him die--but, "Not this--not this! Oh, Father in heaven!" she
murmured, with such a heart-sinking that it seemed as if life itself
would go out.
"Get into bed, Joe; get into bed as quickly as possible."
Morgan was now passive in the hands of his wife, and obeyed her almost
like a child. He had turned down the bed-clothes, and was about getting
in, when he started back, with a look of disgust and alarm.
"There's nothing there, Joe. What's the matter with you?"
"I'm sure I don't know, Fanny," and his teeth rattled together, as he
spoke. "I thought there was a great toad under the clothes."
"How foolish you are!"--yet tears were blinding her eyes as she said
this. "It's only fancy. Get into bed and shut your eyes. I'll make you
another cup of strong coffee. Perhaps that will do you good. You're
only a little nervous. Mary's sickness has disturbed you."
Joe looked cautiously under the bedclothes, as he lifted them up still
farther, and peered beneath.
"You know there's nothing in your bed, see!"
And Mrs. Morgan threw with a single jerk all the clothes upon the floor.
"There now! look for yourself. Now shut your eyes," she continued as
she spread the sheet and quilt over him after his head was on the
pillow. "Shut them tight and keep them so until I boil the water and
make a cup of coffee You know as well as I do that it's nothing but
fancy."
Morgan closed his eyes firmly, and drew the clothes over his head.
"I'll be back in a few minutes" said his wife going hurriedly to the
door. Ere leaving, however she partly turned her head and glanced back.
There sat her husband upright and staring fearfully.
"Don't Fanny! don't go away!" he cried in a frightened voice.
Joe! Joe! why will you be so foolish? It's nothing but imagination. Now
do lie down and shut your eyes. Keep them shut. There now.
And she laid a hand over his eyes and pressed it down tightly.
"I wish Doctor Green was here," said the wretched man. "He could give
me something."
"Shall I go for him?"
"Go Fanny! Run over right quickly"
"But you won't keep in bed"
"Yes I will. There, now" And he drew the clothes over his face "There
I'll lie just so until you come back. Now run Fanny, and don't stay a
minute."
Scarcely stopping to think Mrs. Morgan went hurriedly from the room and
drawing an old shawl over her head started with swift feet for the
residence of Doctor Green which was not very far away. The kind doctor
understood at a word the sad condition of her husband and promised to
attend him immediately. Back she flew at even a wilder speed her heart
throbbing with vague apprehension. Oh! what a fearful cry was that
which smote her ears as she came within a few paces of home. She knew
the voice, changed as it was by terror, and a shudder almost palsied
her heart. At a single bound she cleared the intervening space and in
the next moment was in the room where she had left her husband. But he
was not there! With suspended breath, and feet that scarcely obeyed her
will, she passed into the chamber where little Mary lay. Not here!
"Joe! husband!" she called in a faint voice.
"Here he is, mother." And now she saw that Joe had crept into the bed
behind the sick child and that her arm was drawn tightly around his
neck.
"You won't let them hurt me, will you dear?" said the pool frightened
victim of a terrible mania.
"Nothing will hurt you father," answered Mary, in a voice that showed
her mind to be clear, and fully conscious of her parent's true
condition.
She had seen him thus before. Ah! what an experience for a child!
"You're an angel--my good angel, Mary," he murmured, in a voice yet
trembling with fear "Pray for me, my child. Oh ask your father in
heaven to save me from these dreadful creatures. There now!" he cried,
rising up suddenly and looking toward the door. "Keep out! Go away! You
can't come in here. This is Mary's room, and she's an angel. Ah, ha! I
knew you wouldn't dare come in here--
    "A single saint can put to flight
    Ten thousand blustering sons of night"
He added in a half wandering way yet with an assured voice, as he laid
himself back upon his pillow and drew the clothes over his head.
"Poor father!" sighed the child as she gathered both arms about his
neck! "I will be your good angel. Nothing shall hurt you here."
"I knew I would be safe where you were," he whispered--"I knew it, and
so I came. Kiss me, love."
How pure and fervent was the kiss laid instantly upon his lips! There
was a power in it to remand the evil influences that were surrounding
and pressing in upon him like a flood. All was quiet now, and Mrs.
Morgan neither by word nor movement disturbed the solemn stillness that
reigned in the apartment. In a few minutes the deepened breathing of
her husband gave a blessed intimation that he was sinking into sleep.
Oh, sleep! sleep! How tearfully, in times past, had she prayed that he
might sleep; and yet no sleep came for hours and days--even though
powerful opiates were given--until exhausted nature yielded, and then
sleep had a long, long struggle with death. Now the sphere of his
loving, innocent child seemed to have overcome, at least for the time,
the evil influences that were getting possession even of his external
senses. Yes, yes, he was sleeping! Oh, what a fervent "Thank God!" went
up from the heart of his stricken wife.
Soon the quick ears of Mrs. Morgan detected the doctor's approaching
footsteps, and she met him at the door with a finger on her lips. A
whispered word or two explained the better aspect of affairs, and the
doctor said, encouragingly:
"That's good, if he will only sleep on."
"Do you think he will, doctor?" was asked anxiously.
"He may. But we cannot hope too strongly. It would be something very
unusual."
Both passed noiselessly into the chamber. Morgan still slept, and by
his deep breathing it was plain that he slept soundly. And Mary, too,
was sleeping, her face now laid against her father's, and her arms
still about his neck. The sight touched even the doctor's heart and
moistened his eyes. For nearly half an hour he remained; and then, as
Morgan continued to sleep, he left medicine to be given immediately,
and went home, promising to call early in the morning.
It is now past midnight, and we leave the lonely, sad-hearted watcher
with her sick ones.
I was sitting, with a newspaper in my hand--not reading, but musing--at
the "Sickle and Sheaf," late in the evening marked by the incidents
just detailed.
"Where's your mother?" I heard Simon Slade inquire. He had just entered
an adjoining room.
"She's gone out somewhere," was answered by his daughter Flora.
"Where?"
"I don't know."
"How long has she been away?"
"More than an hour."
"And you don't know where she went to?"
"No, sir."
Nothing more was said, but I heard the landlord's heavy feet moving
backward and forward across the room for some minutes.
"Why, Ann! where have you been?" The door of the next room had opened
and shut.
"Where I wish you had been with me," was answered in a very firm voice.
"Where?"
"To Joe Morgan's."
"Humph!" Only this ejaculation met my ears. But something was said in a
low voice, to which Mrs. Slade replied with some warmth:
"If you don't have his child's blood clinging for life to your
garments, you may be thankful."
"What do you mean?" he asked, quickly.
"All that my words indicate. Little Mary is very ill!"
"Well, what of it?"
"Much. The doctor thinks her in great danger. The cut on her head has
thrown her into a violent fever, and she is delirious. Oh, Simon! if
you had heard what I heard to-night."
"What?" was asked in a growling tone.
"She is out of her mind, as I said, and talks a great deal. She talked
about you."
"Of me! Well, what had she to say?"
"She said--so pitifully--'I wish Mr. Slade wouldn't look so cross at
me. He never did when I went to the mill. He doesn't take me on his
knee now, and stroke my hair. Oh, dear!' Poor child! She was always so
good."
"Did she say that?" Slade seemed touched.
"Yes, and a great deal more. Once she screamed out, 'Oh, don't! don't,
Mr. Slade! don't! My head! my head!' It made my very heart ache. I can
never forget her pale, frightened face, nor her cry of fear. Simon--if
she should die!"
There was a long silence.
"If we were only back to the mill." It was Mrs. Slade's voice.
"There, now! I don't want to hear that again," quickly spoke out the
landlord. "I made a slave of myself long enough."
"You had at least a clear conscience," his wife answered.
"Do hush, will you?" Slade was now angry. "One would think, by the way
you talk sometimes, that I had broken every command of the Decalogue."
"You will break hearts as well as commandments, if you keep on for a
few years as you have begun--and ruin souls as well as fortunes."
Mrs. Slade spoke calmly, but with marked severity of tone. Her husband
answered with an oath, and then left the room, banging the door after
him. In the hush that followed I retired to my chamber, and lay for an
hour awake, pondering on all I had just heard. What a revelation was in
that brief passage of words between the landlord and his excited
companion!
NIGHT THE FOURTH.
DEATH OF LITTLE MARY MORGAN.
"Where are you going, Ann?" It was the landlord's voice. Time--a little
after dark.
"I'm going over to see Mrs. Morgan," answered his wife.
"What for?"
"I wish to go," was replied.
"Well, I don't wish you to go," said Slade, in a very decided way.
"I can't help that, Simon. Mary, I'm told, is dying, and Joe is in a
dreadful way. I'm needed there--and so are you, as to that matter.
There was a time when, if word came to you that Morgan or his family
were in trouble--"
"Do hush, will you!" exclaimed the landlord, angrily. "I won't be
preached to in this way any longer."
"Oh, well; then don't interfere with my movements, Simon; that's all I
have to say. I'm needed over there, as I just said, and I'm going."
There were considerable odds against him, and Slade, perceiving this,
turned off, muttering something that his wife did not hear, and she
went on her way. A hurried walk brought her to the wretched home of the
poor drunkard, whose wife met her at the door.
"How is Mary?" was the visitor's earnest inquiry.
Mrs. Morgan tried to answer the question; but, though her lips moved,
no sounds issued therefrom.
Mrs. Slade pressed her hands tightly in both of hers; and then passed
in with her to the room where the child lay. A stance sufficed to tell
Mrs. Slade that death had already laid his icy fingers upon her brow.
"How are you, dear?" she asked, as she bent over and kissed her.
"Better, I thank you!" replied Mary, in a low whisper.
Then she fixed her eyes upon her mother's face with a look of inquiry.
"What is it, love?"
"Hasn't father waked up yet?"
"No, dear."
"Won't he wake up soon?"
"He's sleeping very soundly. I wouldn't like to disturb him."
"Oh, no; don't disturb him. I thought, maybe, he was awake."
And the child's lids drooped languidly, until the long lashes lay close
against her cheeks.
There was silence for a little while, and then Mrs. Morgan said in a
half-whisper to Mrs. Slade:
"Oh, we've had such a dreadful time with poor Joe. He got in that
terrible way again last night. I had to go for Doctor Green and leave
him all alone. When I came back, he was in bed with Mary; and she, dear
child, had her arms around his neck, and was trying to comfort him; and
would you believe it, he went off to sleep, and slept in that way for a
long time. The doctor came, and when he saw how it was, left some
medicine for him, and went away. I was in such hopes that he would
sleep it all off. But about twelve o'clock he started up, and sprung
out of bed with an awful scream. Poor Mary! she too had fallen asleep.
The cry wakened her, and frightened her dreadfully. She's been getting
worse ever since, Mrs. Slade.
"Just as he was rushing out of the room, I caught him by the arm, and
it took all my strength to hold him.
"'Father! father!' Mary called after him as soon as she was awake
enough to understand what was the matter--'Don't go out, father;
there's nothing here.'
"He looked back toward the bed, in a frightful way.
"'See, father!' and the dear child turned down the quilt and sheet, in
order to convince him that nothing was in the bed. 'I'm here,' she
added. 'I'm not afraid. Come, father. If there's nothing here to hurt
me, there's nothing to hurt you.'
"There was something so assuring in this, that Joe took a step or two
toward the bed, looking sharply into it as he did so. From the bed his
eyes wandered up to the ceiling, and the old look of terror came into
his face.
"'There it is now! Jump out of bed, quick! Jump out, Mary!' he cried.
'See! it's right over your head.'
"Mary showed no sign of fear as she lifted her eyes to the ceiling, and
gazed steadily for a few moments in that direction.
"'There's nothing there, father,' said she, in a confident voice.
"'It's gone now,' Joe spoke in a tone of relief. 'Your angel-look drove
it away. Aha! There it is now, creeping along the floor!' he suddenly
exclaimed, fearfully; starting away from where he stood.
"'Here, father'! Here!' Mary called to him, and he sprung into the bed
again; while she gathered her arms about him tightly, saying in a low,
soothing voice, 'Nothing can harm you here, father.'
"Without a moment's delay, I gave him the morphine left by Doctor
Green. He took it eagerly, and then crouched down in the bed, while
Mary continued to assure him of perfect safety. So long as he was
clearly conscious as to where he was, he remained perfectly still. But,
as soon as partial slumber came, he would scream out, and spring from
the bed in terror and then it would take us several minutes to quiet
him again. Six times during the night did this occur; and as often,
Mary coaxed him back. The morphine I continued to give as the doctor
had directed. By morning, the opiates had done their work, and he was
sleeping soundly. When the doctor came, we removed him to his own bed.
He is still asleep; and I begin to feel uneasy, lest he should never
awake again. I have heard of this happening."
"See if father isn't awake," said Mary, raising her head from the
pillow. She had not heard what passed between her mother and Mrs.
Slade, for the conversation was carried on in low voices.
Mrs. Morgan stepped to the door, and looked into the room where her
husband lay.
"He is still asleep, dear," she remarked, coming back to the bed.
"Oh! I wish he was awake. I want to see him so much. Won't you call
him, mother?"
"I have called him a good many times. But you know the doctor gave him
opium. He can't wake up yet."
"He's been sleeping a very long time; don't you think so, mother?"
"Yes, dear, it does seem a long time. But it is best for him. He'll be
better when he wakes."
Mary closed her eyes, wearily. How deathly white was her face--how
sunken her eyes--how sharply contracted her features!
