writer to an artist of fiction that the English language affords. 
That power by which he wrought fiction to produce the impression of reality, so that his Plague in London was quoted 
by medical men as an authentic narrative, and his Life of a 
Cavalier recommended by Lord Chatham as an historical 
authority, is certainly worth an analysis. With him, undoubtedly, it was an instinct. 

One anecdote, related to us this evening by our friends, 
brought to mind with new power the annoyances to which the 
Quakers have been subjected in England, under the old system of church rates. It being contrary to the conscientious 
principles of the Quakers to pay these church rates voluntarily, they allowed the officers of the law to enter their houses 
and take whatever article he pleased in satisfaction of the 
claim. On one occasion, for the satisfaction of a claim of a 
few pounds, they seized and sold a most rare and costly mantel clock, which had a particular value as a choice specimen 
of mechanical skill, and which was worth four or five times 
the sum owed. A friend afterwards repurchased and presented it to the owner. 

We were rejoiced to hear that these church rates are now 
virtually abolished. The liberal policy pursued in England 
for the last twenty-five years is doing more to make the 
church of England, and the government generally, respectable 
and respected than the most extortionate exactions of violence. 

We parted from our kind friends in the morning ; came 
back and I sat a while to Mr. Burnard, the sculptor, who entertained me with various anecdotes. He had taken the bust 
of the Prince of Wales ; and I gathered from his statements 
that young princes have very much the same feelings and desires that other little boys have, and that he has a very judicious mother. 

In the afternoon, Mr. S., Mrs. B., and I had a pleasant 
drive in Hyde Park, as I used to read of heroines of romance 
doing in the old novels. It is delightful to get into this fairy- 
land of parks, so green and beautiful, which embellish the 
West End. 

In the evening we had an engagement at two places — at a 
Highland School dinner, and at Mr. Charles Dickens's. I felt 
myself too much exhausted for both, and so it was concluded 
that I should go to neither, but try a little quiet drive into 
the country, and an early retirement, as the most prudent termination of the week. While Mr. S. prepared to go to the 
meeting of the Highland School Society, Mr. and Mrs. B. 
took me a little drive into the country. After a while they 
alighted before a new Gothic Congregational college, in St. 
John's Wood. I found that there had been a kind of tea-drinking there by the Congregational ministers and their families, to celebrate the opening of the college. 

On returning, we called for Mr. S., at the dinner, and 
went for a few moments into the gallery, the entertainment 
being now nearly over. Here we heard some Scottish songs, 
very charmingly sung ; and, what amused me very much, a 
few Highland musicians, dressed hi full costume, occasionally 
marched through the hall, playing on their bagpipes, as was 
customary in old Scottish entertainments. The historian Sir 
Archibald Alison, sheriff of Lanarkshire, sat at the head of 
the table — a tall, fine-looking man, of very commanding 
presence. 



 

About nine o'clock we retired. 

May 15. Heard Mr. Binney preach this morning. He is 
one of the strongest men among the Congregationalists, and a 
very popular speaker. He is a tall, large man, with a finely- 
built head, high forehead, piercing, dark eye, and a good deal 
of force and determination in all his movements. His sermon 
was the first that I had heard in England which seemed to recognize the existence of any possible sceptical or rationalizing 
element in the minds of his hearers. It was in this respect 
more like the preaching that I had been in the habit of hearing at home. Instead of a calm statement of certain admitted 
religious facts, or exhortations founded upon them, his discourse seemed to be reasoning with individual cases, and answering various forms of objections, such as might arise in 
different minds. This mode of preaching, I think, cannot exist 
unless a minister cultivates an individual knowledge of his 
people. 

Mr. Binney's work, entitled How to make the best of both 
Worlds, I have heard spoken of as having had the largest 
sale of any religious writing of the present day. 

May 16. This evening is the great antislavery meeting at 
Exeter Hall. Lord Shaftesbury in the chair. Exeter Hall 
stands before the public as the representation of the strong 
democratic, religious element of England. In Exeter Hall 
are all the philanthropies, foreign and domestic ; and a crowded meeting there gives one perhaps a better idea of the force 
of English democracy — of that kind of material which goes 
to make up the mass of the nation — than any thing else. 

When Macaulay expressed some sentiments which gave 
offence to this portion of the community, he made a defence 
in which he alluded sarcastically to the bray of Exeter Hall. 







The expression seems to have been remembered, for I have 
often heard it quoted ; though I believe they have forgiven 
him for it, and concluded to accept it as a joke. 

The hall this night was densely crowded, and, as I felt very 
unwell, I did not go in till after the services had commenced 
— a thing which I greatly regretted afterwards, as by this 
means I lost a most able speech by Lord Shaftesbury. 

The Duchess of Sutherland entered soon after the com- 
mencement of the exercises, and was most enthusiastically 
cheered. When we came in, a seat had been reserved for us 
by her grace in the side gallery, and the cheering was repeated. I thought I had heard something of the sort in 
Scotland, but there was a vehemence about this that made me 
tremble. There is always something awful to my mind about 
a dense crowd in a state of high excitement, let the nature of 
that excitement be what it will. 

I do not believe that there is in all America more vehemence of democracy, more volcanic force of power, than comes 
out in one of these great gatherings in our old fatherland. I 
saw plainly enough where Concord, Lexington, and Bunker 
Hill came from ; and it seems to me there is enough of this 
element of indignation at wrong, and resistance to tyranny, to 
found half a dozen more republics as strong as we are. 

A little incident that occurred gave me an idea of what such 
a crowd might become in a confused state of excitement. A 
woman fainted in a distant part of the house, and a policeman 
attempted to force a way through the densely-packed crowd. 
The services were interrupted for a few moments, and there 
were hoarse surgings and swellings of the mighty mass, who 
were so closely packed that they moved together like waves. 
Some began to rise in their seats, and some cried "Order! 



 

order ! " And one could easily see, that were a sudden panic 
or overwhelming excitement to break up the order of the 
meeting, what a terrible scene might ensue. 

" What is it ? " said I to a friend who sat next to me. 

" A pickpocket, perhaps," said she. " I am afraid we are 
going to have a row. They are going to give you one of our 
genuine Exeter Hall ' brays' " 

I felt a good deal fluttered ; but the Duchess of Sutherland, 
who knew the British lion better than I did, seemed so perfectly collected that I became reassured. 

The character of the speeches at this meeting, with the 
exception of Lord Shaftesbury's, was more denunciatory, and 
had more to pain the national feelings of an American, than 
any I had ever attended. It was the real old Saxon battle 
axe of Brother John, swung without fear or favor. Such 
things do not hurt me individually, because I have such a radical faith in my country, such a genuine belief that she will 
at last right herself from every wrong, that I feel she can 
afford to have these things said. 

Mr. S. spoke on this point, that the cotton trade of Great 
Britain is the principal support to slavery, and read extracts 
from Charleston papers in which they boldly declare that they 
do not care for any amount of moral indignation wasted upon 
them by nations who, after all, must and will buy the cotton 
which they raise. 

The meeting was a very long one, and I was much fatigued 
when we returned. 

To-morrow we are to make a little run out to Windsor. 



 



LETTER XXII. 

May 18. 

Dear M.: — 

I can compare the embarrassment of our London life, with 
its multiplied solicitations and infinite stimulants to curiosity 
and desire, only to that annual perplexity which used to beset 
us in our childhood on thanksgiving day. Having been kept 
all the year within the limits which prudence assigns to well- 
regulated children, came at last the governor's proclamation, 
and a general saturnalia of dainties for the little ones. For one 
day the gates of license were thrown open, and we, plumped 
down into the midst of pie and pudding exceeding all conception but that of a Yankee housekeeper, were left to struggle 
our way out as best we might. 

So here, beside all the living world of London, its scope 
and range of persons and circles of thought, come its architecture, its arts, its localities, historic, poetic, all that expresses 
its past, its present, and its future. Every day and every hour 
brings its conflicting allurements, of persons to be seen, places 
to be visited, things to be done, beyond all computation. Like 
Miss Edgeworth's philosophic little Frank, we are obliged to 
make out our list of what man must want, and of what he may 
want ; and in our list of the former we set down, in large and 
decisive characters, one quiet day for the exploration and en- 
joyment of Windsor. 

We were solicited, indeed, to go in another direction; a 



 

party was formed to go down the Thames with the Right Hon. 
Sidney Herbert, secretary at war, and visit an emigrant ship 
just starting for Australia. I should say here, that since Mrs. 
Chisholm's labors have awakened the attention of the English 
public to the wants and condition of emigrants, the benevolent 
people of England take great interest in the departing of 
emigrant ships. A society has been formed called the Family 
Colonization Loan Society, and a fund raised by which money 
can be loaned to those desiring to emigrate. This society 
makes it an object to cultivate acquaintance and intimacy 
among those about going out by uniting them into groups, and, 
as far as possible, placing orphan children and single females 
under the protection of families. Any one, by subscribing six 
guineas towards the loan, can secure one passage. Each individual becomes responsible for refunding his own fare, and, 
furthermore, to pay a certain assessment in case any individual of the group fails to make up the passage money. 
The sailing of emigrant ships, therefore, has become a scene 
of great interest. Those departing do not leave their native 
shore without substantial proofs of the interest and care of the 
land they are leaving. 

In the party who were 'going down to-day were Mr. and 
Mrs. Binney, Mr. Sherman, and a number of distinguished 
names ; among whom I recollect to have heard the names of 
Lady Hatherton, and Lady Byron, widow of the poet. This 
would have been an exceedingly interesting scene to us, but 
being already worn witli company and excitement, we preferred a quiet day at Windsor. 

For if we took Warwick as the representative feudal estate, 
we took Windsor as the representative palace, that which imbodies the English idea of royalty. Apart from this, Wind- 







sor has been immortalized by the Merry "Wives ; it has still 
standing in its park the Heme oak, where the mischievous 
fairies played their pranks upon old Falstaff. 

And the castle still has about it the charm of the poet's 
invocation : — 

" Search "Windsor Castle, elves, within, without, 
Strew good luck, ouphes, on every sacred room, 
That it may stand till the perpetual doom 
In state as wholesome as in state 'tis fit, 
Worthy the owner, and the owner it. 
The several chairs of order, look you, scour 
With juice of balm and every precious flower, 
Each fair instalment, coat, and several crest, 
With loyal blazon evermore be blest. 
And nightly, meadow fairies, look you, sing 
Like to the garter's compass, in a ring. 
The expressure that it bears, green let it be, 
More fertile, fresh, than all the field to see, 
And Honi soit qui mal y pense, write 
In emerald tufts, flowers, purple, blue, and white, 
Like sapphire, pearl, and rich embroidery, 
Fairies use flowers for their charactery." 

As if for the loyal purpose of recommending old "Windsor, 
the English skies had cleared up into brightness. About nine 
o'clock we found ourselves in the cars, riding through a per- 
petual garden of blooming trees and blossoming hedges ; birds 
in a perfect fury of delight. Our spirits were all elated. 
Good, honest, cackling Mrs. Quickly herself was not more 
disposed to make the best of every thing and every body than 
were we. Mr. S., in particular, was so joyous that I was 
afraid he would break out into song, after the fashion of Sir 
Hugh Evans, — 

 



 

Melodious birds sung madrigals : 
Whenas I sat in Babylon," &c. 

By the by, the fishing ground of Izaak Walton is one of 
the localities connected with Windsor. 

The ride was done all too soon. One should not whirl 
through such a choice bit of England in the cars ; one should 
rather wish to arable over the way after a sleepy, contemplative old horse, as we used to make rural excursions in New 
England ere yet railroads were. However, all that's bright 
must fade, and this among the rest. 

About eleven o'clock we found ourselves going up the old 
stone steps to the castle. It was the last day of a fair which 
had been holden in this part of the country, and crowds of the 
common people were flocking to the castle, men, women, and 
children pattering up the stairs before and after us. 

We went first through the state apartments. The principal 
thing that interested me was the ball room, which was a perfect gallery of Vandyke's paintings. Here was certainly an 
opportunity to know what Vandyke is. I should call him a 
true court painter — a master of splendid conventionalities, 
whose portraits of kings are the most powerful arguments for 
the divine right I know of. Nevertheless, beyond conventionality and outward magnificence, his ideas have no range. He 
suggests nothing to the moral and ideal part of us. Here 
again was the picture of King Charles on horseback, which 
had interested me at Warwick. It had, however, a peculiar 
and romantic charm from its position at the end of that long, 
dim corridor, vis-a-vis with the masque of Cromwell, which 
did not accompany it here, where it was but one among a set 
of pictures. 







There was another, presenting the front side and three 
quarters face of the same sovereign, painted by Vandyke for 
Benini to make a bust from. There were no less than five 
portraits of his wife, Henrietta Maria, in different dresses and 
attitudes, and two pictures of their Children. No sovereign 
is so profusely and perseveringly represented. 

The queen's audience chamber is hung with tapestry representing scenes from the book of Esther. This tapestry made 
a very great impression upon me. A knowledge of the difficulties to be overcome in the material part of painting is 
undoubtedly an unsuspected element of much of the pleasure 
we derive from it ; and for this reason, probably, this tapestry 
appeared to us better than paintings executed with equal spirit 
in oils. We admired it exceedingly, entirely careless what 
critics might think of us if they knew it. 

Another room was hung with Gobelin tapestry representing the whole of the tragedy of Medea. First you have 
Jason cutting down the golden fleece, while the dragon lies 
slain, and Medea is looking on in admiration. In another he 
pledges his love to Medea. In a third, the men sprung from 
the dragon's teeth are seen contending with each other. In 
another the unfaithful lover espouses Creusa. In the next 
Creusa is seen burning in the poisoned shirt, given her by 
Medea. In another Medea is seen in a car drawn by dragons, 
bearing her two children by Jason, whom she has stabbed in 
revenge for his desertion. Nothing can exceed the ghastly 
reality of death, as shown in the stiffened limbs and sharpened 
features of those dead children. The whole drawing and 
grouping is exceedingly spirited and lifelike, and has great 
power of impression. 

I was charmed also by nine landscapes of Zuccarelli, which 







adorn the state drawing room. Zuccarelli was a follower of 
Claude, and these pictures far exceed in effect any of Claude's 
I have yet seen. The charm of them does not lie merely in 
the atmospheric tints and effects, as those of Cuyp, but in the 
rich and fanciful combination of objects. In this respect they 
perform in painting what the first part of the Castle of Indolence, or Tennyson's Lotus Eaters, do in poetry — evoke a 
fairyland. There was something peculiar about their charm 
for me. 

Who can decide how much in a picture belongs to the idiosyncrasies and associations of the person who looks upon it. 
Artists undoubtedly powerful and fine may have nothing in 
them which touches the nervous sympathies and tastes of some 
persons : who, therefore, shall establish any authoritative canon 
of taste ? who shall say that Claude is finer than Zuccarelli, 
or Zuccarelli than Claude ? A man might as well say that 
the woman who enchants him is the only true Yenus for the 
world. 

Then, again, how much in painting or in poetry depends 
upon the frame of mind in which we see or hear ! Whoever 
looks on these pictures, or reads the Lotus Eaters or Castle 
of Indolence, at a time when soul and body are weary, and 
longing for retirement and rest, will receive an impression 
from them such as could never be made on the strong nerves 
of our more healthful and hilarious seasons. 

Certainly no emotions so rigidly reject critical restraints, 
and disdain to be bound by rule, as those excited by the fine 
arts. A man unimpressible and incapable of moods and 
tenses, is for that reason an incompetent critic ; and the sensitive, excitable man, how can he know that he does not impose 
his peculiar mood as a general rule ? 







From the state rooms we were taken to the top of the Round 
Tower, where we gained a magnificent view of the Park of 
Windsor, with its regal avenue, miles in length, of ancient oaks ; 
its sweeps of greensward ; clumps of trees ; its old Herne oak, 
of classic memory ; in short, all that constitutes the idea of a 
perfect English landscape. The English tree is shorter and 
stouter than ours ; its foliage dense and deep, lying with a full, 
rounding outline against the sky. Every thing here conveys 
the idea of concentrated vitality, but without that rank luxuriance seen in our American growth. Having unfortunately 
exhausted the English language on the subject of grass, I will 
not repeat any ecstasies upon that topic. 

After descending from the tower we filed off to the proper 
quarter, to show our orders for the private rooms. The state 
apartments, which we had been looking at, are open at all 
times, but the private apartments can only be seen in the 
queen's absence, and by a special permission, which had been 
procured for us on this occasion by the kindness of the Duchess 
of Sutherland. 

One of the first objects that attracted my attention when 
entering the vestibule was a baby's wicker wagon, standing in 
one corner ; it was much such a carriage as all mothers are 
familiar with ; such as figures largely in the history of almost 
every family. It had neat curtains aud cushions of green 
merino, and was not royal, only maternal. I mused over the 
little thing with a good deal of interest. It is to my mind one 
of the providential signs of our times, that, at this stormy and 
most critical period of the world's history, the sovereignty of 
the most powerful nation on earth is represented by a woman 
and a mother. How many humanizing, gentle, and pacific influences constantly emanate from this centre ! 




 

One of the most interesting apartments was a long corridor, 
hung with paintings and garnished along the sides with objects 
of art and virtu. Here C. and I renewed a dispute which had 
for some time been pending, in respect to Canaletto's paintings. This Canaletto was a Venetian painter, who was born 
about 1697, and died in London in 1768, and was greatly in 
vogue with the upper circles in those days. He delighted in 
architectural paintings, which he represents with the accuracy of a daguerreotype, and a management of perspective, 
chiaro oscuro, and all the other mysteries of art, such as make 
his paintings amount to about the same as the reality. 

Well, here, in this corridor, we had him in full force. Here 
was Venice served up to order — its streets, palaces, churches, 
bridges, canals, and gondolas made as real to our eye as if we 
were looking at them out of a window. I admired them very 
warmly, but I could not go into the raptures that C. did, who 
kept calling me from every thing else that I wanted to see to 
come and look at this Canaletto. " Well, I see it," said I ; 
" it is good — it is perfect — it cannot be bettered ; but what 
then ? There is the same difference between these and a 
landscape of Zuccarelli as there is between a neatly-arranged 
statistical treatise and a poem. The latter suggests a thousand 
images, the former gives you only information." 

We were quite interested in a series of paintings which 
represented the various events of the present queen's history. 
There was the coronation in Westminster Abbey — that national romance which, for once in our prosaic world, nearly 
turned the heads of all the sensible people on earth. Think 
of vesting the sovereignty of so much of the world in a fair 
young girl of seventeen ! The picture is a very pretty one, 
and is taken at the very moment she is kneeling at the feet of 







the Archbishop of Canterbury to receive her crown. She is 
represented as a fair-haired, interesting girl, the simplicity of 
her air contrasting strangely with the pomp and gorgeous 
display around. The painter has done justice to a train of 
charming young ladies who surround her ; among the faces I 
recognized the blue eyes and noble forehead of the Duchess 
of Sutherland. 

Then followed, in due order, the baptism of children, the 
reception of poor old Louis Philippe in his exile, and various other matters of the sort which go to make up royal 
pictures. 

In the family breakfast room we saw some fine Gobelin 
tapestry, representing the classical story of Meleager. In one 
of the rooms, on a pedestal, stood a gigantic china vase, a 
present from the Emperor of Russia, and in the state rooms 
before we had seen a large malachite vase from the same 
donor. The toning of this room, with regard to color, was 
like that of the room I described in Stafford House — the 
carpet of green ground, with the same little leaf upon it, the 
walls, chairs, and sofas covered with green damask. Around 
the walls of the room, in some places, were arranged cases of 
books about three feet high. I liked this arrangement particularly, because it gives you the companionship of books in an 
apartment without occupying that space of the wall which is 
advantageous for pictures. Moreover, books placed high 
against the walls of a room give a gloomy appearance to the 
apartment. 

The whole air of these rooms was very charming, suggestive of refined taste and domestic habits. The idea of 
home, which pervades every thing in England, from the cottage to the palace, was as much suggested here as in any 



 

apartments I have seen. The walls of the different rooms 
were decorated with portraits of the members of the royal 
family, and those of other European princes. 

After this we went through the kitchen department — saw 
the silver and gold plate of the table ; among the latter 
were some designs which I thought particularly graceful. To 
conclude all, we went through the stables. The man who 
showed them told us that several of the queen's favorite horses 
were taken to Osborne ; but there were many beautiful creatures left, which I regarded with great complacency. The 
stables and stalls were perfectly clean, and neatly kept ; and 
one, in short, derives from the whole view of the economics 
of Windsor that satisfaction which results from seeing a thing 
thoroughly done in the best conceivable manner. 

The management of the estate of Windsor is, I am told, a 
model for all landholders in the kingdom. A society has been 
formed there, within a few years, under the patronage of the 
queen, Prince Albert, and the Duchess of Kent, in which the 
clergy and gentry of the principal parishes in this vicinity are 
interested, for improving the condition of the laboring classes 
in this region. The queen and Prince Albert have taken 
much interest in the planning and arranging of model houses 
for the laboring people, which combine cheapness, neatness, 
ventilation, and all the facilities for the formation of good 
personal habits. There is a school kept on the estate at 
Windsor, in which the queen takes a very practical interest, 
regulating the books and studies, and paying frequent visits 
to it during the time of her sojourn here. The young girls 
are instructed in fine needlework ; but the queen discourages 
embroidery and ornamental work, meaning to make practical, 
efficient wives for Laboring men. These particulars, with 







regard to this school, were related to me by a lady living in 
the vicinity of Windsor. 

We went into St. George's Chapel, and there we were all 
exceedingly interested and enchained in view of the marble 
monument to the Princess Charlotte. It consists of two 
groups, and is designed to express, in one view, both the 
celestial and the terrestrial aspect of death — the visible and 
the invisible part of dying. For the visible part, you have the 
body of the princess in all the desolation and abandonment of 
death. The attitude of the figure is as if she had thrown 
herself over in a convulsion, and died. The body is lying 
listless, simply covered with a sheet, through every fold of 
which you can see the utter relaxation of that moment when 
vitality departs, but the limbs have not yet stiffened. Her 
hand and a part of the arm are hanging down, exposed to 
view beneath the sheet. 

Four figures, with bowed heads, covered with drapery, are 
represented as sitting around in mute despair. The idea 
meant to be conveyed by the whole group is that of utter 
desolation and abandonment. All is over ; there is not even 
heart enough left in the mourners to straighten the corpse for 
the burial. The mute marble says, as plainly as marble can 
speak, "Let all go; 'tis no matter now ; there is no more use 
/ in living — nothing to be done, nothing to be hoped ! " 

Above this group rises the form of the princess, springing 
buoyant and elastic, on angel wings, a smile of triumph and 
aspiration lighting up her countenance. Her drapery floats 
behind her as she rises. Two angels, one carrying her infant 
child and the other with clasped hands of exultant joy, are 
,' rising with her, in serene and solemn triumph. 

Now, I simply put it to you, or to any one who can judge 







of poetry, if this is not a poetical conception. I ask any one 
who has a heart, if there is not pathos in it. Is there not a 
high poetic merit in the mere conception of these two scenes, 
thus presented? And had we seen it rudely chipped and 
chiselled out by some artist of the middle ages, whose hand had 
not yet been practised to do justice to his conceptions, should 
we not have said this sculptor had a glorious thought within 
him ? But the chiselling of this piece is not unworthy the 
conception. Nothing can be more exquisite than the turn of 
the head, neck, and shoulders ; nothing more finely wrought 
than the triumphant smile of the angel princess ; nothing 
could be more artistic than the representation of death in all 
its hopelessness, in the lower figure. The poor, dead hand, 
that shows itself beneath the sheet, has an unutterable pathos 
and beauty in it. As to the working of the drapery, — an 
inferior consideration, of course, — I see no reason why it 
should not compare advantageously with any in the British 
Museum. 

"Well, you will ask, why are you going on in this argumentative style ? Who doubts you ? Let me tell you, then, a 
little fragment of my experience. We saw this group of 
statuary the last thing before dinner, after a most fatiguing 
forenoon of sightseeing, when we were both tired and hungry, 
— a most unpropitious time, certainly, — and yet it enchanted 
our whole company ; what is more, it made us all cry — a fact 
of which I am not ashamed, yet. But, only the next day, 
when I was expressing my admiration to an artist, who is 
one of the authorities, and knows all that is proper to be 
admired, I was met with, — 

" O, you have seen that, have you ? Shocking thing! Miserable taste — miserable ! " 







" Dear me," said I, with apprehension, " what is the matter 
with it?" 

" O," said he, " melodramatic, melodramatic — terribly 
so!" 

I was so appalled by this word, of whose meaning I had not 
a very clear idea, that I dropped the defence at once, and 
determined to reconsider my tears. To have been actually 
made to cry by a thing that was melodramatic, was a distressing consideration. Seriously, however, on reconsidering the 
objection, I see no sense in it. A thing may be melodramatic, 
or any other atic that a man pleases ; so that it be strongly 
suggestive, poetic, pathetic, it has a right to its own peculiar 
place in the world of art. If artists had had their way in the 
creation of this world, there would have been only two or 
three kinds of things in it ; the first three or four things that 
God created would have been enacted into fixed rules for 
making all the rest. 

But they let the works of nature alone, because they know 
there is no hope for them, and content themselves with enacting rules in literature and art, which make all the perfection 
and grace of the past so many impassable barriers to progress 
in future. Because the ancients kept to unity of idea in their 
groups, and attained to most beautiful results by doing so, shall 
no modern make an antithesis in marble ? And why has not 
a man a right to dramatize in marble as well as on canvas, if 
he can produce a powerful and effective result by so doing ? 
And even if by being melodramatic, as the terrible word is, 
he can shadow forth a grand and comforting religious idea — 
if he can unveil to those who have seen only the desolation 
of death, its glory, and its triumph — who shall say that he may 
not do so, because he violates the lines of some old Greek 







artist ? Where would Sliakspeare's dramas have been, had he 
studied the old dramatic unities? 

So, you see, like an obstinate republican, as I am, I defend 
my right to have my own opinion about this monument, 
albeit the guide book, with its usual diplomatic caution, says, 
" It is in very questionable taste." 

We went for our dinner to the White Hart, the very 
inn which Shakspeare celebrates in his Merry Wives, and 
had a most overflowing, merry time of it. The fact is, we 
had not seen each other for so long that to be in each other's 
company for a whole day was quite a stimulant. 

After dinner we had a beautiful drive, passing the colleges 
at Eton, and seeing the boys out playing cricket ; had an ex- 
cellent opportunity to think how true Gray's poem on the 
Prospect of Eton is to boy-nature then, now, and forever. 
We were bent upon looking up the church winch gave rise to 
his Elegy in a Country Churchyard, intending, when we got 
there, to have a little scene over it ; Mr. S., in all the conscious importance of having been there before, assuring us 
that he knew exactly where it was. So, after some difficulty 
with our coachman, and being stopped at one church which 
would not answer our purpose in any respect, we were at 
last set down by one which looked authentic ; embowered in 
mossy elms, with a most ancient and goblin yew tree, an ivy- 
mantled tower, all perfect as could be. 

There had been a sprinkle of rain, — an ornament which 
few English days want, — and the westering beams of the sun 
twinkled through innumerable drops. In fact, it was a pretty 
place ; and I felt such " dispositions to melancholies," as Sir 
Hugh Evans would have it, that I half resented Mr. S.'s 
suggestion that the cars were waiting. However, as he was 






engaged to speak at a peace meeting in London, it-was agreed 
he should leave us there to stroll, while he took the cars. 
So away he went ; and we, leaning on the old fence, repeated 
the Elegy, which certainly applies here as beautifully as language could apply. 

What a calm, shady, poetical nature is expressed in these 
lines ! Gray seems to have been Bent into the world for 
nothing but to be a poem, like some of those fabulous, shadowy beings which haunted the cool grottoes on Grecian moun- 
tains; creatures that seem to have no practical vitality — 
to be only a kind of voice, an echo, heard for a little, and 
then lost in silence. He seemed to be in himself a kind of 
elegy. 

From thence we strolled along, enjoying the beautiful rural 
scenery. Having had a kind invitation to visit Labouchere 
Park that day, which we were obliged to decline for want 
of time, we were pleased to discover that we had two more 
hours, in which we could easily accomplish a stroll there. 
By a most singular infelicity, our party became separated ; 
and, misunderstanding each other, we remained waiting for 
W. till it was too late for us to go, while he, on the other 
hand, supposing us to have walked before him, was redoubling 
his speed all the while, hoping to overtake us. In consequence of this, he accomplished the walk to Labouchere Park, 
and we waited in the dismal depot till it was too late to wait 
any longer, and finally went into London without him. 

After all, imagine our chagrin on being informed that we 
had not been to the genuine churchyard. The gentleman 
who wept over the scenes of his early days on the wrong 
doorstep was not more grievously disappointed. However, 
he and we could both console ourselves with the reflection 

 



 

that the emotion was admirable, and wanted only the right 
place to make it the most appropriate in the world. The 
genuine country churchyard, however, was that at Stoke 
Pogis, which we should have seen had not the fates forbidden our going to Labouchere Park. 





LETTER XXIII. 

Dear Sister : — 

The evening after our return from Windsor was spent with 
our kind friends, Mr. and Mrs. Gurney. Mr. Gurney is rector 
of Mary-le-Bone parish, one of the largest districts in London ; and he is, I have been told, one of the court chaplains ; 
a man of the most cultivated and agreeable manners, earnestly 
and devoutly engaged in the business of his calling. As one 
of the working men of the church establishment, I felt a 
strong interest in his views and opinions, and he seemed to 
take no less interest in mine, as coming from a country where 
there is and can be no church establishment. He asked many 
questions about America ; the general style of our preaching ; 
the character of our theology ; our modes of religious action ; 
our revivals of religion ; our theories of sudden and instantaneous conversion, as distinguished from the gradual conversion of education ; our temperance societies, and the stand 
taken by our clergy in behalf of temperance. 

He wished to know how the English style of preaching appeared to me in comparison with that of America. I told him 
one principal difference that struck me was, that the English 
preaching did not recognize the existence of any element of 
inquiry or doubt in the popular mind ; that it treated certain 
truths as axioms, which only needed to be stated to be believed ; whereas in American sermons there is always more 
or less time employed in explaining, proving, and answering 


objections to, the truths enforced. I quoted Baptist Noel's 
sermon in illustration of what I meant. 

I asked him to what extent the element of scepticism, with 
regard to religious truth, had pervaded the mind of England ? 
adding that I had inferred its existence there from such novels 
as those of Kingsley. He thought that there was much of 
this element, particularly in the working classes ; that they 
were coming to regard the clergy with suspicion, and to be 
less under their influence than in former times ; and said 
it was a matter of much solicitude to know how to reach 
them. 

I told him that I had heard an American clergyman, who 
had travelled in England, say, that dissenters were treated 
much as free negroes were in America, and added that my 
experience must have been very exceptional, or the remark 
much overstated, as I had met dissenting clergymen in all 
circles of society. He admitted that there might be a good 
deal of bigotry in this respect, but added that the infrequency 
of association was more the result of those circumstances 
which would naturally draw the two parties to themselves, 
than to superciliousness on the side' of the establishment, adding that where a court and aristocracy were in the established 
church, there would necessarily be a pressure of fashion in 
its favor, which might at times bring uncomfortable results. 

The children were sitting by studying their evening lessons, 
and I begged Mrs. Gurney to allow me to look over their 
geographies and atlases ; and on her inquiring why, I told her 
that well-informed people in England sometimes made such 
unaccountable mistakes about the geography of our country 
as were quite surprising to me, and that I did not understand 
how it was that our children should know so much more about 






England than they about us. I found the children, however, 
in possession of a very excellent and authentic map of our 
country. I must say also that the most highly educated people I have met in England have never betrayed any want of 
information on this subject. 

The next morning we had at breakfast two clergymen, 
members of the established church. They appeared to be 
most excellent, devout, practical men, anxious to do good, and 
thoughtfully seeking for suggestions from any quarter which 
might assist them in their labors. They renewed many 
of the inquiries which Mr. Gurney had made the evening 
before. 

After breakfast I went with Mr. Gurney and Mr. S. to 
Richmond's studio to sit for a likeness, which is to be presented to Mr. S. by several friends. Richmond's name is 
one which in this London sphere has only to be announced 
to explain itself; not to know him argues yourself unknown. He is one of the most successful artists in a certain line of portrait painting that the present day affords. 
He devotes himself principally to crayon and water-color 
sketches. His crayon heads are generally the size of life ; 
his water-colors of a small size. He often takes full-lengths 
in this way, which render not merely the features, but the 
figure, air, manner, and what is characteristic about the dress. 
These latter sketches are finished up very highly, with the 
minuteness of a miniature. His forte consists in seizing and 
fixing those fleeting traits of countenance, air, and movement, 
which go so far towards making up our idea of a person's 
appearance. Many of the engravings of distinguished persons, with which we are familiar, have come from his designs, 
such as Wilberforce, Sir Powell Buxton, Elizabeth Fry, and 
 







others. I found his studio quite a gallery of notabilities, almost all the distingues of the day having sat to him ; so I 
certainly had the satisfaction of feeling myself in good company. Mr. Richmond looks quite youthful, (but I never can 
judge of any one's age here,) is most agreeable in conversation, full of anecdote in regard to all the moving life of 
London. I presume his power of entertaining conversation is 
one secret of his successful likenesses. Some portrait painters 
keep calling on you for expression all the while, and say nothing in the world to awaken it. 

From Richmond's, Mr. S., C, and I drove out to call upon 
Kossuth. We found him in an obscure lodging on the outskirts of London. I would that some of the editors in America, who have thrown out insinuations about his living in lux- 
ury, could have seen the utter bareness and plainness of the 
reception room, which had nothing in it beyond the simplest 
necessaries. Here dwells the man whose greatest fault is an 
undying love of his country. We all know that if Kossuth 
would have taken wealth and a secure retreat, with a life of 
ease for himself, America would gladly have laid all these at 
his feet. But because he could not acquiesce in the unmerited dishonor of his country, he lives a life of obscurity, poverty, and labor. All this was written in his pale, worn 
face, and sad, thoughtful blue eye. But to me the unselfish patriot is more venerable for his poverty and his 
misfortunes. 

" Have we, among the thousands who speak loud of patriotism in America, many men, who, were she enfeebled, despised, 
and trampled, would forego self, and suffer as long, as patiently for her ? It is even easier to die for a good cause, in some 
hour of high enthusiasm, when all that is noblest in us can be 







roused to one great venture, than to live fbr it amid wearing 
years of discouragement and hope delayed. 

There are those even here in England who delight to get 
up slanders against Kossuth, and not long ago some most unfounded charges were thrown out against him in some public 
prints. By way of counterpoise an enthusiastic public meeting was held, in which he was presented with a splendid set 
of Shakspeare. 

He entered into conversation with us with cheerfulness, 
speaking English well, though with the idioms of foreign languages. He seemed quite amused at the sensation which had 
been excited by Mr. S.'s cotton speech in Exeter Hall. C. 
asked him if he had still hopes for his cause. He answered, 
" I hope still, because I work still ; my hope is in God and in 
man." 

I inquired for Madame Kossuth, and he answered, " I have 
not yet seen her to-day," adding, " she has her family affairs, 
