it's quite moderate for a canal boat. However, we can't tell till they
have all come."

"All! for mercy's sake, you don't say there are any more coming!"
exclaim two or three in a breath; "they can't come; there is not
room!"

Notwithstanding the impressive utterance of this sentence, the contrary
is immediately demonstrated by the appearance of a very corpulent,
elderly lady, with three well-grown daughters, who come down looking
about them most complacently, entirely regardless of the unchristian
looks of the company. What a mercy it is that fat people are always good
natured!

After this follows an indiscriminate raining down of all shapes, sizes,
sexes, and ages--men, women, children, babies, and nurses. The state of
feeling becomes perfectly desperate. Darkness gathers on all faces. "We
shall be smothered! we shall be crowded to death! we can't stay here!"
are heard faintly from one and another; and yet, though the boat grows
no wider, the walls no higher, they do live, and do stay there, in spite
of repeated protestations to the contrary. Truly, as Sam Slick says,
"there's a sight of wear in human natur'."

But, meanwhile, the children grow sleepy, and divers interesting little
duets and trios arise from one part or another of the cabin.

"Hush, Johnny! be a good boy," says a pale, nursing mamma, to a great,
bristling, white-headed phenomenon, who is kicking very much at large in
her lap.

"I won't be a good boy, neither," responds Johnny, with interesting
explicitness; "I want to go to bed, and so-o-o-o!" and Johnny makes up a
mouth as big as a teacup, and roars with good courage, and his mamma
asks him "if he ever saw pa do so," and tells him that "he is mamma's
dear, good little boy, and must not make a noise," with various
observations of the kind, which are so strikingly efficacious in such
cases. Meanwhile, the domestic concert in other quarters proceeds with
vigor. "Mamma, I'm tired!" bawls a child. "Where's the baby's night
gown?" calls a nurse. "Do take Peter up in your lap, and keep him
still." "Pray get out some biscuits to stop their mouths." Meanwhile,
sundry babies strike in "con spirito," as the music books have it, and
execute various flourishes; the disconsolate mothers sigh, and look as
if all was over with them; and the young ladies appear extremely
disgusted, and wonder "what business women have to be travelling round
with babies."

To these troubles succeeds the turning-out scene, when the whole caravan
is ejected into the gentlemen's cabin, that the beds may be made. The
red curtains are put down, and in solemn silence all, the last
mysterious preparations begin. At length it is announced that all is
ready. Forthwith the whole company rush back, and find the walls
embellished by a series of little shelves, about a foot wide, each
furnished with a mattress and bedding, and hooked to the ceiling by a
very suspiciously slender cord. Direful are the ruminations and
exclamations of inexperienced travellers, particularly young ones, as
they eye these very equivocal accommodations. "What, sleep up there! I
won't sleep on one of those top shelves, I know. The cords will
certainly break." The chambermaid here takes up the conversation, and
solemnly assures them that such an accident is not to be thought of at
all; that it is a natural impossibility--a thing that could not happen
without an actual miracle; and since it becomes increasingly evident
that thirty ladies cannot all sleep on the lowest shelf, there is some
effort made to exercise faith in this doctrine; nevertheless, all look
on their neighbors with fear and trembling; and when the stout lady
talks of taking a shelf, she is most urgently pressed to change places
with her alarmed neighbor below. Points of location being after a while
adjusted, comes the last struggle. Every body wants to take off a
bonnet, or look for a shawl, to find a cloak, or get a carpet bag, and
all set about it with such zeal that nothing can be done. "Ma'am, you're
on my foot!" says one. "Will you please to move, ma'am?" says somebody,
who is gasping and struggling behind you. "Move!" you echo. "Indeed, I
should be very glad to, but I don't see much prospect of it."
"Chambermaid!" calls a lady, who is struggling among a heap of carpet
bags and children at one end of the cabin. "Ma'am!" echoes the poor
chambermaid, who is wedged fast, in a similar situation, at the other.
"Where's my cloak, chambermaid?" "I'd find it, ma'am, if I could move."
"Chambermaid, my basket!" "Chambermaid, my parasol!" "Chambermaid, my
carpet bag!" "Mamma, they push me so!" "Hush, child; crawl under there,
and lie still till I can undress you." At last, however, the various
distresses are over, the babies sink to sleep, and even that
much-enduring being, the chambermaid, seeks out some corner for repose.
Tired and drowsy, you are just sinking into a doze, when bang! goes the
boat against the sides of a lock; ropes scrape, men run and shout, and
up fly the heads of all the top shelfites, who are generally the more
juvenile and airy part of the company.

"What's that! what's that!" flies from mouth to mouth; and forthwith
they proceed to awaken their respective relations. "Mother! Aunt Hannah!
do wake up; what is this awful noise?" "O, only a lock!" "Pray be
still," groan out the sleepy members from below.

"A lock!" exclaim the vivacious creatures, ever on the alert for
information; "and what is a lock, pray?"

"Don't you know what a lock is, you silly creatures? Do lie down and go
to sleep."

"But say, there ain't any danger in a lock, is there?" respond the
querists. "Danger!" exclaims a deaf old lady, poking up her head;
"what's the matter? There hain't nothin' burst, has there?" "No, no,
no!" exclaim the provoked and despairing opposition party, who find that
there is no such thing as going to sleep till they have made the old
lady below and the young ladies above understand exactly the philosophy
of a lock. After a while the conversation again subsides; again all is
still; you hear only the trampling of horses and the rippling of the
rope in the water, and sleep again is stealing over you. You doze, you
dream, and all of a sudden you are started by a cry, "Chambermaid! wake
up the lady that wants to be set ashore." Up jumps chambermaid, and up
jump the lady and two children, and forthwith form a committee of
inquiry as to ways and means. "Where's my bonnet?" says the lady, half
awake, and fumbling among the various articles of that name. "I thought
I hung it up behind the door." "Can't you find it?" says poor
chambermaid, yawning and rubbing her eyes. "O, yes, here it is," says
the lady; and then the cloak, the shawl, the gloves, the shoes, receive
each a separate discussion. At last all seems ready, and they begin to
move off, when, lo! Peter's cap is missing. "Now, where can it be?"
soliloquizes the lady. "I put it right here by the table leg; maybe it
got into some of the berths." At this suggestion, the chambermaid takes
the candle, and goes round deliberately to every berth, poking the light
directly in the face of every sleeper. "Here it is," she exclaims,
pulling at something black under one pillow. "No, indeed, those are my
shoes," says the vexed sleeper. "Maybe it's here," she resumes, darting
upon something dark in another berth. "No, that's my bag," responds the
occupant. The chambermaid then proceeds to turn over all the children on
the floor, to see if it is not under them. In the course of which
process they are most agreeably waked up and enlivened; and when every
body is broad awake, and most uncharitably wishing the cap, and Peter
too, at the bottom of the canal, the good lady exclaims, "Well, if this
isn't lucky; here I had it safe in my basket all the time!" And she
departs amid the--what shall I say?--execrations?--of the whole company,
ladies though they be.

Well, after this follows a hushing up and wiping up among the juvenile
population, and a series of remarks commences from the various shelves,
of a very edifying and instructive tendency. One says that the woman did
not seem to know where any thing was; another says that she has waked
them all up; a third adds that she has waked up all the children, too;
and the elderly ladies make moral reflections on the importance of
putting your things where you can find them--being always ready; which
observations, being delivered in an exceedingly doleful and drowsy tone,
form a sort of sub-bass to the lively chattering of the upper shelfites,
who declare that they feel quite wide awake,--that they don't think they
shall go to sleep again to-night,--and discourse over every thing in
creation, until you heartily wish you were enough related to them to
give them a scolding.

At last, however, voice after voice drops off; you fall into a most
refreshing slumber; it seems to you that you sleep about a quarter of an
hour, when the chambermaid pulls you by the sleeve. "Will you please to
get up, ma'am? We want to make the beds." You start and stare. Sure
enough, the night is gone. So much for sleeping on board canal boats.

Let us not enumerate the manifold perplexities of the morning toilet in
a place where every lady realizes most forcibly the condition of the old
woman who lived under a broom: "All she wanted was elbow room." Let us
not tell how one glass is made to answer for thirty fair faces, one ewer
and vase for thirty lavations; and--tell it not in Gath!--one towel for
a company! Let us not intimate how ladies' shoes have, in a night,
clandestinely slid into the gentlemen's cabin, and gentlemen's boots
elbowed, or, rather, toed their way among ladies' gear, nor recite the
exclamations after runaway property that are heard. "I can't find
nothin' of Johnny's shoe!" "Here's a shoe in the water pitcher--is this
it?" "My side combs are gone!" exclaims a nymph with dishevelled curls.
"Massy! do look at my bonnet!" exclaims an old lady, elevating an
article crushed into as many angles as there are pieces in a minced pie.
"I never did sleep so much together in my life," echoes a poor little
French lady, whom despair has driven into talking English.

But our shortening paper warns us not to prolong our catalogue of
distresses beyond reasonable bounds, and therefore we will close with
advising all our friends, who intend to try this way of travelling for
pleasure, to take a good stock both of patience and clean towels with
them, for we think that they will find abundant need for both.




FEELING.


There is one way of studying human nature, which surveys mankind only as
a set of instruments for the accomplishment of personal plans. There is
another, which regards them simply as a gallery of pictures, to be
admired or laughed at as the caricature or the beau ideal
predominates. A third way regards them as human beings, having hearts
that can suffer and enjoy, that can be improved or be ruined; as those
who are linked to us by mysterious reciprocal influences, by the common
dangers of a present existence, and the uncertainties of a future one;
as presenting, wherever we meet them, claims on our sympathy and
assistance.

Those who adopt the last method are interested in human beings, not so
much by present attractions as by their capabilities as intelligent,
immortal beings; by a high belief of what every mind may attain in an
immortal existence; by anxieties for its temptations and dangers, and
often by the perception of errors and faults which threaten its ruin.
The first two modes are adopted by the great mass of society; the last
is the office of those few scattered stars in the sky of life, who look
down on its dark selfishness to remind us that there is a world of light
and love.

To this class did He belong, whose rising and setting on earth were
for "the healing of the nations;" and to this class has belonged many a
pure and devoted spirit, like him shining to cheer, like him fading away
into the heavens. To this class many a one wishes to belong, who has
an eye to distinguish the divinity of virtue, without the resolution to
attain it; who, while they sweep along with the selfish current of
society, still regret that society is not different--that they
themselves are not different. If this train of thought has no very
particular application to what follows, it was nevertheless suggested by
it, and of its relevancy others must judge.

Look into this school room. It is a warm, sleepy afternoon in July;
there is scarcely air enough to stir the leaves of the tall buttonwood
tree before the door, or to lift the loose leaves of the copy book in
the window; the sun has been diligently shining into those curtainless
west windows ever since three o'clock, upon those blotted and mangled
desks, and those decrepit and tottering benches, and that great arm
chair, the high place of authority.

You can faintly hear, about the door, the "craw, craw," of some
neighboring chickens, which have stepped around to consider the dinner
baskets, and pick up the crumbs of the noon's repast. For a marvel, the
busy school is still, because, in truth, it is too warm to stir. You
will find nothing to disturb your meditation on character, for you
cannot hear the beat of those little hearts, nor the bustle of all those
busy thoughts.

Now look around. Who of these is the most interesting? Is it that tall,
slender, hazel-eyed boy, with a glance like a falcon, whose elbows rest
on his book as he gazes out on the great buttonwood tree, and is
calculating how he shall fix his squirrel trap when school is out? Or is
it that curly-headed little rogue, who is shaking with repressed
laughter at seeing a chicken roll over in a dinner basket? Or is it that
arch boy with black eyelashes, and deep, mischievous dimple in his
cheeks, who is slyly fixing a fish hook to the skirts of the master's
coat, yet looking as abstracted as Archimedes whenever the good man
turns his head that way? No; these are intelligent, bright, beautiful,
but it is not these.

Perhaps, then, it is that sleepy little girl, with golden curls, and a
mouth like a half-blown rosebud. See, the small brass thimble has fallen
to the floor, her patchwork drops from her lap, her blue eyes close like
two sleepy violets, her little head is nodding, and she sinks on her
sister's shoulder: surely it is she. No, it is not.

But look in that corner. Do you see that boy with such a gloomy
countenance--so vacant, yet so ill natured? He is doing nothing, and he
very seldom does any thing. He is surly and gloomy in his looks and
actions. He never showed any more aptitude for saying or doing a pretty
thing than his straight white hair does for curling. He is regularly
blamed and punished every day, and the more he is blamed and punished,
the worse he grows. None of the boys and girls in school will play with
him; or, if they do, they will be sorry for it. And every day the master
assures him that "he does not know what to do with him," and that he
"makes him more trouble than any boy in school," with similar judicious
information, that has a striking tendency to promote improvement. That
is the boy to whom I apply the title of "the most interesting one."

He is interesting because he is not pleasing; because he has bad
habits; because he does wrong; because, under present influences, he is
always likely to do wrong. He is interesting because he has become what
he is now by means of the very temperament which often makes the noblest
virtue. It is feeling, acuteness of feeling, which has given that
countenance its expression, that character its moroseness.

He has no father, and that long-suffering friend, his mother, is gone
too. Yet he has relations, and kind ones too; and, in the compassionate
language of worldly charity, it may be said of him, "He would have
nothing of which to complain, if he would only behave himself."

His little sister is always bright, always pleasant and cheerful; and
his friends say, "Why should not he be so too? He is in exactly the same
circumstances." No, he is not. In one circumstance they differ. He has a
mind to feel and remember every thing that can pain; she can feel and
remember but little. If you blame him, he is exasperated, gloomy, and
cannot forget it. If you blame her, she can say she has done wrong in a
moment, and all is forgotten. Her mind can no more be wounded than the
little brook where she loves to play. The bright waters close again, and
smile and prattle as merry as before.

Which is the most desirable temperament? It would be hard to say. The
power of feeling is necessary for all that is noble in man, and yet it
involves the greatest risks. They who catch at happiness on the bright
surface of things, secure a portion, such as it is, with more certainty;
those who dive for it in the waters of deeper feeling, if they succeed,
will bring up pearls and diamonds, but if they sink they are lost
forever!

But now comes Saturday, and school is just out. Can any one of my
readers remember the rapturous prospect of a long, bright Saturday
afternoon? "Where are you going?" "Will you come and see me?" "We are
going a fishing!" "Let us go a strawberrying!" may be heard rising from
the happy group. But no one comes near the ill-humored James, and the
little party going to visit his sister "wish James was out of the way."
He sees every motion, hears every whisper, knows, suspects, feels it
all, and turns to go home more sullen and ill tempered than common. The
world looks dark--nobody loves him--and he is told that it is "all his
own fault," and that makes the matter still worse.

When the little party arrive, he is suspicious and irritable, and, of
course, soon excommunicated. Then, as he stands in disconsolate anger,
looking over the garden fence at the gay group making dandelion chains,
and playing baby house under the trees, he wonders why he is not like
other children. He wishes he were different, and yet he does not know
what to do. He looks around, and every thing is blooming and bright. His
little bed of flowers is even brighter and sweeter than ever before, and
a new rose is just opening on his rosebush.

There goes pussy, too, racing and scampering, with little Ellen after
her, in among the alleys and flowers; and the birds are singing in the
trees; and the soft winds brush the blossoms of the sweet pea against
his cheek; and yet, though all nature looks on him so kindly, he is
wretched.

Let us now change the scene. Why is that crowded assembly so
attentive--so silent? Who is speaking? It is our old friend, the little
disconsolate schoolboy. But his eyes are flashing with intellect, his
face fervent with emotion, his voice breathes like music, and every mind
is enchained.

Again, it is a splendid sunset, and yonder enthusiast meets it face to
face, as a friend. He is silent--rapt--happy. He feels the poetry which
God has written; he is touched by it, as God meant that the feeling
spirit should be touched.

Again, he is watching by the bed of sickness, and it is blessed to have
such a watcher! anticipating every want; relieving, not in a cold,
uninterested way, but with the quick perceptions, the tenderness, the
gentleness of an angel.

Follow him into the circle of friendship, and why is he so loved and
trusted? Why can you so easily tell to him what you can say to no one
else besides? Why is it that all around him feel that he can understand,
appreciate, be touched by all that touches them?

And when heaven uncloses its doors of light, when all its knowledge, its
purity, its bliss, rises on the eye and passes into the soul, who then
will be looked on as the one who might be envied--he who can, or he
who cannot feel?




THE SEAMSTRESS.

    "Few, save the poor, feel for the poor;
      The rich know not how hard
    It is to be of needful food
      And needful rest debarred.

    Their paths are paths of plenteousness;
      They sleep on silk and down;
    They never think how wearily
      The weary head lies down.

    They never by the window sit,
      And see the gay pass by,
    Yet take their weary work again,
      And with a mournful eye."

    L. E. L.


However fine and elevated, in a sentimental point of view, may have been
the poetry of this gifted writer, we think we have never seen any thing
from this source that ought to give a better opinion of her than the
little ballad from which the above verses are taken.

They show that the accomplished authoress possessed, not merely a
knowledge of the dreamy ideal wants of human beings, but the more
pressing and homely ones, which the fastidious and poetical are often
the last to appreciate. The sufferings of poverty are not confined to
those of the common, squalid, every day inured to hardships, and ready,
with open hand, to receive charity, let it come to them as it will.
There is another class on whom it presses with still heavier power--the
generous, the decent, the self-respecting, who have struggled with their
lot in silence, "bearing all things, hoping all things," and willing to
endure all things, rather than breathe a word of complaint, or to
acknowledge, even to themselves, that their own efforts will not be
sufficient for their own necessities.

Pause with me a while at the door of yonder room, whose small window
overlooks a little court below. It is inhabited by a widow and her
daughter, dependent entirely on the labors of the needle, and those
other slight and precarious resources, which are all that remain to
woman when left to struggle her way through the world alone. It contains
all their small earthly store, and there is scarce an article of its
little stock of furniture that has not been thought of, and toiled for,
and its price calculated over and over again, before every thing could
be made right for its purchase. Every article is arranged with the
utmost neatness and care; nor is the most costly furniture of a
fashionable parlor more sedulously guarded from a scratch or a rub, than
is that brightly-varnished bureau, and that neat cherry tea table and
bedstead. The floor, too, boasted once a carpet; but old Time has been
busy with it, picking a hole here, and making a thin place there; and
though the old fellow has been followed up by the most indefatigable
zeal in darning, the marks of his mischievous fingers are too plain to
be mistaken. It is true, a kindly neighbor has given a bit of faded
baize, which has been neatly clipped and bound, and spread down over an
entirely unmanageable hole in front of the fireplace; and other places
have been repaired with pieces of different colors; and yet, after all,
it is evident that the poor carpet is not long for this world.

But the best face is put upon every thing. The little cupboard in the
corner, that contains a few china cups, and one or two antiquated silver
spoons, relics of better days, is arranged with jealous neatness, and
the white muslin window curtain, albeit the muslin be old, has been
carefully whitened and starched, and smoothly ironed, and put up with
exact precision; and on the bureau, covered by a snowy cloth, are
arranged a few books and other memorials of former times, and a faded
miniature, which, though it have little about it to interest a stranger,
is more precious to the poor widow than every thing besides.

Mrs. Ames is seated in her rocking chair, supported by a pillow, and
busy cutting out work, while her daughter, a slender, sickly-looking
girl, is sitting by the window, intent on some fine stitching.

Mrs. Ames, in former days, was the wife of a respectable merchant, and
the mother of an affectionate family. But evil fortune had followed her
with a steadiness that seemed like the stern decree of some adverse fate
rather than the ordinary dealings of a merciful Providence. First came a
heavy run of losses in business; then long and expensive sickness in the
family, and the death of children. Then there was the selling of the
large house and elegant furniture, to retire to a humbler style of
living; and finally, the sale of all the property, with the view of
quitting the shores of a native land, and commencing life again in a new
one. But scarcely had the exiled family found themselves in the port of
a foreign land, when the father was suddenly smitten down by the hand of
death, and his lonely grave made in a land of strangers. The widow,
broken-hearted and discouraged, had still a wearisome journey before her
ere she could reach any whom she could consider as her friends. With her
two daughters, entirely unattended, and with her finances impoverished
by detention and sickness, she performed the tedious journey.

Arrived at the place of her destination, she found herself not only
without immediate resources, but considerably in debt to one who had
advanced money for her travelling expenses. With silent endurance she
met the necessities of her situation. Her daughters, delicately reared,
and hitherto carefully educated, were placed out to service, and Mrs.
Ames sought for employment as a nurse. The younger child fell sick, and
the hard earnings of the mother were all exhausted in the care of her;
and though she recovered in part, she was declared by her physician to
be the victim of a disease which would never leave her till it
terminated her life.

As soon, however, as her daughter was so far restored as not to need her
immediate care, Mrs. Ames resumed her laborious employment. Scarcely had
she been able, in this way, to discharge the debts for her journey and
to furnish the small room we have described, when the hand of disease
was laid heavily on herself. Too resolute and persevering to give way to
the first attacks of pain and weakness, she still continued her
fatiguing employment till her system was entirely prostrated. Thus all
possibility of pursuing her business was cut off, and nothing remained
but what could be accomplished by her own and her daughter's dexterity
at the needle. It is at this time we ask you to look in upon the mother
and daughter.

Mrs. Ames is sitting up, the first time for a week, and even to-day she
is scarcely fit to do so; but she remembers that the month is coming
round, and her rent will soon be due; and in her feebleness she will
stretch every nerve to meet her engagements with punctilious exactness.

Wearied at length with cutting out, and measuring, and drawing threads,
she leans back in her chair, and her eye rests on the pale face of her
daughter, who has been sitting for two hours intent on her stitching.

"Ellen, my child, your head aches; don't work so steadily."

"O, no, it don't ache much," said she, too conscious of looking very
much tired. Poor girl! had she remained in the situation in which she
was born, she would now have been skipping about, and enjoying life as
other young girls of fifteen do; but now there is no choice of
employments for her--no youthful companions--no visiting--no pleasant
walks in the fresh air. Evening and morning, it is all the same;
headache or sideache, it is all one. She must hold on the same unvarying
task--a wearisome thing for a girl of fifteen.

But see! the door opens, and Mrs. Ames's face brightens as her other
daughter enters. Mary has become a domestic in a neighboring family,
where her faithfulness and kindness of heart have caused her to be
regarded more as a daughter and a sister than as a servant. "Here,
mother, is your rent money," she exclaimed; "so do put up your work and
rest a while. I can get enough to pay it next time before the month
comes around again."

"Dear child, I do wish you would ever think to get any thing for
yourself," said Mrs. Ames. "I cannot consent to use up all your
earnings, as I have done lately, and all Ellen's too; you must have a
new dress this spring, and that bonnet of yours is not decent any
longer."

"O, no, mother! I have made over my blue calico, and you would be
surprised to see how well it looks; and my best frock, when it is washed
and darned, will answer some time longer. And then Mrs. Grant has given
me a ribbon, and when my bonnet is whitened and trimmed it will look
very well. And so," she added, "I brought you some wine this afternoon;
you know the doctor says you need wine."

"Dear child, I want to see you take some comfort of your money
yourself."

"Well, I do take comfort of it, mother. It is more comfort to be able to
help you than to wear all the finest dresses in the world."

       

Two months from this dialogue found our little family still more
straitened and perplexed. Mrs. Ames had been confined all the time with
sickness, and the greater part of Ellen's time and strength was occupied
with attending to her.

Very little sewing could the poor girl now do, in the broken intervals
that remained to her; and the wages of Mary were not only used as fast
as earned, but she anticipated two months in advance.

Mrs. Ames had been better for a day or two, and had been sitting up,
exerting all her strength to finish a set of shirts which had been sent
in to make. "The money for them will just pay our rent," sighed she;
"and if we can do a little more this week----"

"Dear mother, you are so tired," said Ellen; "do lie down, and not worry
any more till I come back."

Ellen went out, and passed on till she came to the door of an elegant
house, whose damask and muslin window curtains indicated a fashionable
residence.

Mrs. Elmore was sitting in her splendidly-furnished parlor, and around
her lay various fancy articles which two young girls were busily
unrolling. "What a lovely pink scarf!" said one, throwing it over her
shoulders and skipping before a mirror; while the other exclaimed, "Do
look at these pocket handkerchiefs, mother! what elegant lace!"

"Well, girls," said Mrs. Elmore, "these handkerchiefs are a shameful
piece of extravagance. I wonder you will insist on having such things."

"La, mamma, every body has such now; Laura Seymour has half a dozen that
cost more than these, and her father is no richer than ours."

"Well," said Mrs. Elmore, "rich or not rich, it seems to make very
little odds; we do not seem to have half as much money to spare as we
did when we lived in the little house in Spring Street. What with new
furnishing the house, and getting every thing you boys and girls say you
must have, we are poorer, if any thing, than we were then."

"Ma'am, here is Mrs. Ames's girl come with some sewing," said the
servant.

"Show her in," said Mrs. Elmore.

Ellen entered timidly, and handed her bundle of work to Mrs. Elmore, who
forthwith proceeded to a minute scrutiny of the articles; for she prided
herself on being very particular as to her sewing. But, though the work
had been executed by feeble hands and aching eyes, even Mrs. Elmore
could detect no fault in it.

"Well, it is very prettily done," said she. "What does your mother
charge?"

Ellen handed a neatly-folded bill which she had drawn for her mother. "I
must say, I think your mother's prices are very high," said Mrs. Elmore,
examining her nearly empty purse; "every thing is getting so dear that
one hardly knows how to live." Ellen looked at the fancy articles, and
glanced around the room with an air of innocent astonishment. "Ah," said
Mrs. Elmore, "I dare say it seems to you as if persons in our situation
had no need of economy; but, for my part, I feel the need of it more and
more every day." As she spoke she handed Ellen the three dollars, which,
though it was not a quarter the price of one of the handkerchiefs, was
all that she and her sick mother could claim in the world.

"There," said she; "tell your mother I like her work very much, but I do
not think I can afford to employ her, if I can find any one to work
cheaper."

Now, Mrs. Elmore was not a hard-hearted woman, and if Ellen had come as
a beggar to solicit help for her sick mother, Mrs. Elmore would have
fitted out a basket of provisions, and sent a bottle of wine, and a
bundle of old clothes, and all the et cetera of such occasions; but
the sight of a bill always aroused all the instinctive sharpness of
her business-like education. She never had the dawning of an idea that
it was her duty to pay any body any more than she could possibly help;
nay, she had an indistinct notion that it was her duty as an economist
to make every body take as little as possible. When she and her
daughters lived in Spring Street, to which she had alluded, they used to
spend the greater part of their time at home, and the family sewing was
commonly done among themselves. But since they had moved into a large
house, and set up a carriage, and addressed themselves to being genteel,
the girls found that they had altogether too much to do to attend to
their own sewing, much less to perform any for their father and
brothers. And their mother found her hands abundantly full in
overlooking her large house, in taking care of expensive furniture, and
in superintending her increased train of servants. The sewing,
therefore, was put out; and Mrs. Elmore felt it a duty to get it done
the cheapest way she could. Nevertheless, Mrs. Elmore was too notable a
lady, and her sons and daughters were altogether too fastidious as to
the make and quality of their clothing, to admit the idea of its being
done in any but the most complete and perfect manner.

Mrs. Elmore never accused herself of want of charity for the poor; but
she had never considered that the best class of the poor are those who
never ask charity. She did not consider that, by paying liberally those
who were honestly and independently struggling for themselves, she was
really doing a greater charity than by giving indiscriminately to a
dozen applicants.

"Don't you think, mother, she says we charge too high for this work!"
said Ellen, when she returned. "I am sure she did not know how much work
we put in those shirts. She says she cannot give us any more work; she
must look out for somebody that will do it cheaper. I do not see how it
is that people who live in such houses, and have so many beautiful
things, can feel that they cannot afford to pay for what costs us so
much."

"Well, child, they are more apt to feel so than people who live
plainer."

"Well, I am sure," said Ellen, "we cannot afford to spend so much time
as we have over these shirts for less money."

"Never mind, my dear," said the mother, soothingly; "here is a bundle of
work that another lady has sent in, and if we get it done, we shall have
enough for our rent, and something over to buy bread with."

It is needless to carry our readers over all the process of cutting, and
fitting, and gathering, and stitching, necessary in making up six fine
shirts. Suffice it to say that on Saturday evening all but one were
finished, and Ellen proceeded to carry them home, promising to bring the
remaining one on Tuesday morning. The lady examined the work, and gave
Ellen the money; but on Tuesday, when the child came with the remaining
work, she found her in great ill humor. Upon reëxamining the shirts, she
had discovered that in some important respects they differed from
directions she meant to have given, and supposed she had given; and,
accordingly, she vented her displeasure on Ellen.

"Why didn't you make these shirts as I told you?" said she, sharply.

"We did," said Ellen, mildly; "mother measured by the pattern every
part, and cut them herself."

"Your mother must be a fool, then, to make such a piece of work. I wish
you would just take them back and alter them over;" and the lady
proceeded with the directions, of which neither Ellen nor her mother
till then had had any intimation. Unused to such language, the
frightened Ellen took up her work and slowly walked homeward.

"O, dear, how my head does ache!" thought she to herself; "and poor
mother! she said this morning she was afraid another of her sick turns
was coming on, and we have all this work to pull out and do over."

"See here, mother," said she, with a disconsolate air, as she entered
the room; "Mrs. Rudd says, take out all the bosoms, and rip off all the
collars, and fix them quite another way. She says they are not like the
pattern she sent; but she must have forgotten, for here it is. Look,
mother; it is exactly as we made them."

"Well, my child, carry back the pattern, and show her that it is so."

"Indeed, mother, she spoke so cross to me, and looked at me so, that I
do not feel as if I could go back."

"I will go for you, then," said the kind Maria Stephens, who had been
sitting with Mrs. Ames while Ellen was out. "I will take the pattern and
shirts, and tell her the exact truth about it. I am not afraid of her."
Maria Stephens was a tailoress, who rented a room on the same floor with
Mrs. Ames, a cheerful, resolute, go-forward little body, and ready
always to give a helping hand to a neighbor in trouble. So she took the
pattern and shirts, and set out on her mission.

But poor Mrs. Ames, though she professed to take a right view of the
matter, and was very earnest in showing Ellen why she ought not to
distress herself about it, still felt a shivering sense of the hardness
and unkindness of the world coming over her. The bitter tears would
spring to her eyes, in spite of every effort to suppress them, as she
sat mournfully gazing on the little faded miniature before mentioned.
"When he was alive, I never knew what poverty or trouble was," was the
thought that often passed through her mind. And how many a poor forlorn
one has thought the same!

Poor Mrs. Ames was confined to her bed for most of that week. The doctor
gave absolute directions that she should do nothing, and keep entirely
quiet--a direction very sensible indeed in the chamber of ease and
competence, but hard to be observed in poverty and want.

What pains the kind and dutiful Ellen took that week to make her mother
feel easy! How often she replied to her anxious questions, "that she was
quite well," or "that her head did not ache much!" and by various
other evasive expedients the child tried to persuade herself that she
was speaking the truth. And during the times her mother slept, in the
day or evening, she accomplished one or two pieces of plain work, with
the price of which she expected to surprise her mother.

It was towards evening when Ellen took her finished work to the elegant
dwelling of Mrs. Page. "I shall get a dollar for this," said she;
"enough to pay for mother's wine and medicine."

"This work is done very neatly," said Mrs. Page, "and here is some more
I should like to have finished in the same way."

Ellen looked up wistfully, hoping Mrs. Page was going to pay her for the
last work. But Mrs. Page was only searching a drawer for a pattern,
which she put into Ellen's hands, and after explaining how she wanted
her work done, dismissed her without saying a word about the expected
dollar.

Poor Ellen tried two or three times, as she was going out, to turn round
and ask for it; but before she could decide what to say, she found
herself in the street.

Mrs. Page was an amiable, kind-hearted woman, but one who was so used to
large sums of money that she did not realize how great an affair a
single dollar might seem to other persons. For this reason, when Ellen
had worked incessantly at the new work put into her hands, that she
might get the money for all together, she again disappointed her in the
payment.

"I'll send the money round to-morrow," said she, when Ellen at last
found courage to ask for it. But to-morrow came, and Ellen was
forgotten; and it was not till after one or two applications more that
the small sum was paid.

But these sketches are already long enough, and let us hasten to close
them. Mrs. Ames found liberal friends, who could appreciate and honor
her integrity of principle and loveliness of character, and by their
assistance she was raised to see more prosperous days; and she, and the
delicate Ellen, and warm-hearted Mary were enabled to have a home and
fireside of their own, and to enjoy something like the return of their
former prosperity.

We have given these sketches, drawn from real life, because we think
there is in general too little consideration on the part of those who
give employment to those in situations like the widow here described.
The giving of employment is a very important branch of charity, inasmuch
as it assists that class of the poor who are the most deserving. It
should be looked on in this light, and the arrangements of a family be
so made that a suitable compensation can be given, and prompt and
cheerful payment be made, without the dread of transgressing the rules
of economy.

It is better to teach our daughters to do without expensive ornaments or
fashionable elegances; better even to deny ourselves the pleasure of
large donations or direct subscriptions to public charities, rather than
to curtail the small stipend of her whose "candle goeth not out by
night," and who labors with her needle for herself and the helpless dear
ones dependent on her exertions.




OLD FATHER MORRIS.

A SKETCH FROM NATURE.


Of all the marvels that astonished my childhood, there is none I
remember to this day with so much interest as the old man whose name
forms my caption. When I knew him, he was an aged clergyman, settled
over an obscure village in New England. He had enjoyed the advantages of
a liberal education, had a strong, original power of thought, an
omnipotent imagination, and much general information; but so early and
so deeply had the habits and associations of the plough, the farm, and
country life wrought themselves into his mind, that his after
acquirements could only mingle with them, forming an unexampled amalgam
like unto nothing but itself.

He was an ingrain New Englander, and whatever might have been the source
of his information, it came out in Yankee form, with the strong
provinciality of Yankee dialect.

It is in vain to attempt to give a full picture of such a genuine
unique; but some slight and imperfect dashes may help the imagination
to a faint idea of what none can fully conceive but those who have seen
and heard old Father Morris.

Suppose yourself one of half a dozen children, and you hear the cry,
"Father Morris is coming!" You run to the window or door, and you see a
tall, bulky old man, with a pair of saddle bags on one arm, hitching his
old horse with a fumbling carefulness, and then deliberately stumping
towards the house. You notice his tranquil, florid, full-moon face,
enlightened by a pair of great round blue eyes, that roll with dreamy
inattentiveness on all the objects around; and as he takes off his hat,
you see the white curling wig that sets off his round head. He comes
towards you, and as you stand staring, with all the children around, he
deliberately puts his great hand on your head, and, with deep, rumbling
voice, inquires,--

"How d'ye do, my darter? is your daddy at home?" "My darter" usually
makes off as fast as possible, in an unconquerable giggle. Father Morris
goes into the house, and we watch him at every turn, as, with the most
liberal simplicity, he makes himself at home, takes off his wig, wipes
down his great face with a checked pocket handkerchief, helps himself
hither and thither to whatever he wants, and asks for such things as he
cannot lay his hands on, with all the comfortable easiness of childhood.

I remember to this day how we used to peep through the crack of the
door, or hold it half ajar and peer in, to watch his motions; and how
mightily diverted we were with his deep, slow manner of speaking, his
heavy, cumbrous walk, but, above all, with the wonderful faculty of
"hemming" which he possessed.

His deep, thundering, protracted "A-hem-em" was like nothing else that
ever I heard; and when once, as he was in the midst of one of these
performances, the parlor door suddenly happened to swing open, I heard
one of my roguish brothers calling, in a suppressed tone, "Charles!
Charles! Father Morris has hemmed the door open!"--and then followed
the signs of a long and desperate titter, in which I sincerely
sympathized.

But the morrow is Sunday. The old man rises in the pulpit. He is not now
in his own humble little parish, preaching simply to the hoers of corn
and planters of potatoes, but there sits Governor D., and there is Judge
R., and Counsellor P., and Judge G. In short, he is before a refined and
literary audience. But Father Morris rises; he thinks nothing of this;
he cares nothing; he knows nothing, as he himself would say, but "Jesus
Christ, and him crucified." He takes a passage of Scripture to explain;
perhaps it is the walk to Emmaus, and the conversation of Jesus with his
disciples. Immediately the whole start out before you, living and
picturesque: the road to Emmaus is a New England turnpike; you can see
its mile stones, its mullein stalks, its toll gates. Next the disciples
rise, and you have before you all their anguish, and hesitation, and
dismay talked out to you in the language of your own fireside. You
smile; you are amused; yet you are touched, and the illusion grows every
moment. You see the approaching stranger, and the mysterious
conversation grows more and more interesting. Emmaus rises in the
distance, in the likeness of a New England village, with a white meeting
house and spire. You follow the travellers; you enter the house with
them; nor do you wake from your trance until, with streaming eyes, the
preacher tells you that "they saw it was the Lord Jesus--and what a
pity it was they could not have known it before!"

It was after a sermon on this very chapter of Scripture history that
Governor Griswold, in passing out of the house, laid hold on the sleeve
of his first acquaintance: "Pray tell me," said he, "who is this
minister?"

"Why, it is old Father Morris."

"Well, he is an oddity--and a genius too, I declare!" he continued. "I
have been wondering all the morning how I could have read the Bible to
so little purpose as not to see all these particulars he has presented."

I once heard him narrate in this picturesque way the story of Lazarus.
The great bustling city of Jerusalem first rises to view, and you are
told, with great simplicity, how the Lord Jesus "used to get tired of
the noise;" and how he was "tired of preaching, again and again, to
people who would not mind a word he said;" and how, "when it came
evening, he used to go out and see his friends in Bethany." Then he told
about the house of Martha and Mary: "a little white house among the
trees," he said; "you could just see it from Jerusalem." And there the
Lord Jesus and his disciples used to go and sit in the evenings, with
Martha, and Mary, and Lazarus.

Then the narrator went on to tell how Lazarus died, describing, with
tears and a choking voice, the distress they were in, and how they sent
a message to the Lord Jesus, and he did not come, and how they wondered
and wondered; and thus on he went, winding up the interest by the
graphic minutiæ of an eye witness, till he woke you from the dream by
his triumphant joy at the resurrection scene.

On another occasion, as he was sitting at a tea table, unusually
supplied with cakes and sweetmeats, he found an opportunity to make a
practical allusion to the same family story. He said that Mary was quiet
and humble, sitting at her Savior's feet to hear his words; but Martha
thought more of what was to be got for tea. Martha could not find time
to listen to Christ. No; she was "'cumbered with much serving'--around
the house, frying fritters and making gingerbread."

Among his own simple people, his style of Scripture painting was
listened to with breathless interest. But it was particularly in those
rustic circles, called "conference meetings," that his whole warm soul
unfolded, and the Bible in his hands became a gallery of New England
paintings.

He particularly loved the evangelists, following the footsteps of Jesus
Christ, dwelling upon his words, repeating over and over again the
stories of what he did, with all the fond veneration of an old and
favored servant.

Sometimes, too, he would give the narration an exceedingly practical
turn, as one example will illustrate.

He had noticed a falling off in his little circle that met for social
prayer, and took occasion, the first time he collected a tolerable
audience, to tell concerning "the conference meeting that the disciples
attended" after the resurrection.

"But Thomas was not with them." "Thomas not with them!" said the old
man, in a sorrowful voice. "Why, what could keep Thomas away? Perhaps,"
said he, glancing at some of his backward auditors, "Thomas had got
cold-hearted, and was afraid they would ask him to make the first
prayer; or perhaps," said he, looking at some of the farmers, "Thomas
was afraid the roads were bad; or perhaps," he added, after a pause,
"Thomas had got proud, and thought he could not come in his old
clothes." Thus he went on, significantly summing up the common excuses
of his people; and then, with great simplicity and emotion, he added,
"But only think what Thomas lost! for in the middle of the meeting, the
Lord Jesus came and stood among them! How sorry Thomas must have been!"
This representation served to fill the vacant seats for some time to
come.

