and tumbled about so in the heavy sea that Bobby 
did not sleep long, and when he woke he found Tom 
ready to assist him. But our hero felt better, and 
entreated Tom to go to sleep again. He made the 
best of his unpleasant situation. Sleep was not to 
be wooed, and he tried to pass away the dreary hours 
in thinking of Biverdale and,- the dear ones there. 
His mother was asleep, and Annie was asleep ; and 
that was about all the excitement he could get up 
even on the home question. He could not build 
castles in the air, fqr seasickness and castle building 
do not agree. The gold and purple clouds would be 
black in spite of him, and the aerial structure he es- 
sayed to build would pitch and tumble about, for all 
the world, just like a steamboat in a heavy sea. As 
often as he got fairly into it, he was violently rolled 



 

out, and in a twinkling found himself in his narrow 
berth, awfully seasick. 

He went to sleep again at last, and the long night 
passed away. When he woke in the morning, he felt 
tolerably well, and was thankful that he had got out 
of that scrape. But before he could dress himself, he 
heard a terrible racket on deck. The steam whistle 
was shrieking, the bell was banging, and he heard 
the hoarse bellowing of the captain. It was certain 
that something had happened, or was about to hap- 
pen. 

Then the boat stopped, rolling heavily in the sea. 
Tom was not there ; he had gone on deck. Bobby 
was beginning to consider what a dreadful thing a 
wreck was, when Tom appeared. 

"What's the matter?' asked Bobby, with some 
appearance of alarm. 

" Fog," replied Tom. " It is so thick you can cut 
it with a hatchet." 

" Is that all ? " 

" That's enough." 

" Where are we ? ' : 

" That is just what the pilot would like to know 



They can't see ahead a bit, and don't know 



we are.' 



Bobby went on deck. The ocean rolled beneath 
them, but there was nothing but fog to be seen above 
and around them. The lead was heaved every few 
moments, and the steamer crept slowly along till it 
was found the water shoaled rapidly, when the cap- 
tain ordered the men to let go the anchor. 

There they were ; the fog was as obstinate as a 
mule, and would not " lift." Hour after hour they 
waited, for the captain was a prudent man, and would 
not risk the life of those 011 board to save a few 
hours' time. After breakfast, the passengers began 
to display their uneasiness, and some of them called 
the captain very hard names, because he would not 
go on. Almost every body grumbled, and made them- 
selves miserable. 

" Nothing to do and nothing to read," growled a 
nicely-dressed gentleman, as he yawned and stretched 
himself to manifest his sensation of ennui. 

" Nothing to read, eh ? " thought Bobby. " We 
will soon supply that want." 

Calling Tom, they went down to the main deck, 
where the baggage had been placed. 





Now's our time," said he, as he proceeded to un- 
lock one of the trunks that contained his books. 
"now'or never." 

" I am with you," replied Tom, catching the idea. 

The books of the latter were in a box, and he was 
obliged to get a hammer to open it ; but with Bobby's 
assistance he soon got at them. 

" Buy ' The Wayfarer,' : ' said Bobby, when he re- 
turned to the saloon, and placed a volume in the 
hands of the yawning gentleman. " Best book of the 
season ; only one dollar." 

" That I will, and glad of the chance," replied the 
gentleman. " I would give five dollars for any thing, 
if it were only the ' Comic Almanac.' 

Others were of the same mind. There was no 
present prospect that the fog would lift, and before 
dinner time our merchant had sold fifty copies of 
" The Wayfarer." Tom, whose books were of an in- 
ferior description, and who was inexperienced as a 
salesman, disposed of twenty, which was more than 
half of his stock. The fog was a godsend to both 
of them, and they reaped a rich harvest from the oc- 



casion, for almost all the passengers seemed willing 
to spend their money freely for the means of occupy- 
ing the heavy hours, and driving away that dreadful 
ennui which reigns supreme in a fog-bound steamer. 
About the middle- of the afternoon, the fog blew 
over, and the boat proceeded on her voyage, and be- 
fore sunset our young merchants were safely landed 
at Bath. 



 



CHAPTER XVII. 

IN WHICH TOM HAS A GOOD TIME, AXD BOBBY MEETS 
WITH A TERRIBLE MISFORTUNE. 

BATH afforded our young merchants an excellent 
market for their wares, and they remained there the 
rest of the week. They then proceeded to Bruns- 
wick, where their success was equally flattering. 

Thus far Tom had done very well, though Bobby 
had frequent occasion to remind him of the pledges he 
had given to conduct himself in a proper manner. He 
would swear now and then, from the force of habit ; 
but invariably, when Bobby checked him, he promised 
to do better. 

At Brunswick Tom sold the last of his books, and 
was in possession of about thirty dollars, twelve of 
which he owed the publisher who had furnished his 
stock. This money seemed to burn in his pocket. 
He had the means of having a good time, and it went 

hard with him to plod along as Bobby did, careful to 
save every penny he could. 

" Come, Bob, let's get a horse and chaise and have 
a ride what do you say ? " proposed Tom, on the 
day he finished selling his books. 

" I can't spare the time or the money," replied 
Bobby, decidedly. 

" What is the use of having money if we can't 
spend it ? It is a first rate day, and we should have 
a good time." 

" I can't afford it. I have a great many books to 
sell." 

" About a hundred ; you can sell them fast enough." 

" I don't spend my money foolishly." 

" It wouldn't be foolishly. I have sold out, and I 
am bound to have a little fun now." 

" You never will succeed if you do business in that 
way." 

Why not?" 

You will spend your money as fast as you get it." 

" Pooh ! we can get a horse and chaise for the after- 
noon for two dollars. That is not much." 

" Considerable, I should say. But if you begin, 



.. 



.. 



 

there is no knowing where to leave off. I make it a 
rule not to spend a single cent foolishly, and if I 
don't begin, I shall never do it." 

" I don't mean to spend all I get ; only a little now 
and then," persisted Tom. 

" Don't spend the first dollar for nonsense, and 
then you won't spend the second. Besides, when I 
have any money to spare, I mean to buy books with 
it for my library." 

" Humbug ! Your library ! ' 

" Yes, my library ; I mean to have a library one 
of these davs." 

tt 

" I don't want any library, and I mean to spend 
some of my money in having a good time ; and if you 
won't go with me, I shall go alone that's all." 

" You can do as you please, of course ; but I ad- 
vise you to keep your money. You will want it to 
buy another stock of books." 

" I shall have enough for that. What do you say ? 
will you go with me or not ? ' 

" No, I will not." 

" Enough said ; then I shall go alone, or get some 
fellow to go with me." 



 

" Consider well before you go," pleaded Bobby, 
wlio had sense enough to see that Tom's proposed 
"good time " would put back, if not entirely prevent, 
the reform he was working out. 

He then proceeded to reason with him in a very 
earnest and feeling manner, telling him he would not 
only spend all his money, but completely unfit himself 
for business. What he proposed to do was nothing 
more nor less than extravagance, and it would lead 
him to dissipation and ruin. 

" To-day I am going to send one hundred dollars to 
Mr. Bayard," continued Bobby ; " for I am afraid to 
have so much money with me. I advise you to send 
your money to your employer." 

" Humph ! Catch me doing that ! I am bound to 
have a good time, any how." 

" At least, send the money you owe him." 

I'll bet I won't." 

" Well, do as you please ; I have said all I have to 
say." 

" You are a fool, Bob ! " exclaimed Tom, who had 
evidently used Bobby as much as he wished, and no 
longer cared to speak soft words to him. 



 

" Perhaps I am ; but I know better than to spend 
my money upon fast horses. If you will go, I can't 
help it. I am sorry you are going astray." 

" What do you mean by that, you young monkey ? " 
said Tom, angrily. 

This was Tom Spicer, the bully. It sounded like 
him ; and with a feeling of sorrow Bobby resigned 
the hopes he had cherished of making a good boy of 
him. 

" We had better part now," added our hero, sadly. 

I'm willing." 

" I shall leave Brunswick this afternoon for the 
towns up the river. I hope no harm will befall you. 
Good by, Tom." 

'' Go it ! I have heard your preaching about long 
enough, and I am more glad to get rid of you than 
you are to get rid of me." 

Bobby walked away towards the house where lie 
had left the trunk containing his books, while Tom 
made his way towards a livery stable. The boys had 
been in the place for several days, and had made some 
acquaintances ; so Tom had no difficulty in procuring 
a companion for his proposed ride. 



 

Our hero wrote a letter that afternoon to Mr. Bay- 
ard, in which he narrated all the particulars of his 
journey, his relations with Tom Spicer, and the suc- 
cess that had attended his labors. At the bank he 
procured a hundred dollar note for his small bills, and 
enclosed it in the letter. 

He felt sad about Tom. The runaway had done 
so well, had been so industrious, and shown such a 
tractable spirit, that he had been very much encour- 
aged about him. But if he meant to be wild again, 
for it was plain that the ride was only  the beodnninsr 



of sorrows," it was well that they should part. 

By the afternoon stage our hero proceeded to Gar- 
diner, passing through several smaller towns, which 
did not promise a very abundant harvest. His usual 
success attended him ; for wherever he went, people 
seemed to be pleased with him, as Squire Lee had de- 
clared they would be. His pleasant, honest face was 
a capital, recommendation, and his eloquence seldom 
failed to achieve the result which eloquence has ever 
achieved from Demosthenes down to the present day. 

Our limits do not permit us to follow him in all his 
peregrinations from town to town, and from house to 



 

house ; so we pass over the next fortnight, at the end 
of which time we find him at Augusta. He had sold 
all his books but twenty, and had that day remitted 
eighty dollars more to Mr. Bayard. It was Wednes- 
day, and he hoped to sell out so as to be able to take 
the next steamer for Boston, which was advertised to 
sail on the following day. 

He had heard nothing from Tom since their part- 
ing, and had given up all expectation of meeting him 
again ; but that bad penny maxim proved true once 
more, for, as he was walking through one of the 
streets of Augusta, he had the misfortune to meet 
him and this time it was indeed a misfortune. 

" Hallo, Bobby ! ' shouted the runaway, as famil- 
iarly as though nothing had happened to disturb the 
harmony of their relations. 

" Ah, Tom, I didn't expect to see you again," re- 
plied Bobby, not very much rejoiced to meet his late 
companion. 

" I suppose not ; but here I am, as good as new. 
Have you sold out ? ' 

" No, not quite." 

" How many have you left ? ' ! 




 

" About twenty ; but I thought, Tom, you would 
have returned to Boston before this time." 

" No ; " and Tom did not seem to be in very good 
spirits. 

" Where are you going now ? ' 

" I don't know. I ought to have taken your ad- 
vice, Bobby." 

This was a concession, and our hero began to feel 
some sympathy for his companion as who does not 
when the erring coniess their faults ? 

" I am sorry you did not." 

" I got in with some pretty hard fellows down 
there to Brunswick," continued Tom, rather sheep- 
ishly. 

" And spent all your money," added Bobby, who 
could readily understand the reason why Tom had 
put on his humility again. 

" Not all." 

" How much have you left ? ' 

" Not much," replied he, evasively. " I don't 
know what I shall do. I am in a strange place, and 
have no friends." 

Bobby's sympathies were aroused, and without 



 



- 



reflection, he promised to be a friend in his ex- 
tremity. 

" I will stick by you this time, Bob, come what 
will. I will do just as you say, now." 

Our merchant was a little flattered by this unre- 
served display of confidence. He did not give weight 
enough to the fact that it was adversity alone which 
made Tom so humble. He was in trouble, and gave 
him all the guarantee he could ask for his future good 
behavior. He could not desert him now he was in 
difficulty. 

" You shall help me sell my books, and then we 
will return to Boston together. Have you money 
enough left to pay your employer ? ' 

Tom hesitated ; something evidently hung heavily 
upon his mind. 

" I don't know how it will be after I have paid my 
expenses to Boston," he replied, averting his face. 

Bobby was perplexed by this evasive answer ; but 
as Tom seemed so reluctant to go into details, he 
reserved his inquiries for a more convenient season. 

" Now, Tom, you take the houses on that side of 
the street, and I will take those upon this side. You 
shall have the profits on all you sell." 



 

" You are a first rate fellow, Bob ; and I only 
wish I had done as you wanted me to do." 

" Can't be helped now, and we will do the next 
best thing," replied Bobby, as he left his companion 
to enter a house. 

Tom did very well, and by the middle of the after- 
noon they had sold all the books but four. " The 
Wayfarer" had been liberally advertised in that vi- 
cinity, and the work was in great demand. Bobby's 
heart grew lighter as the volumes disappeared from 
his valise, and already he had begun to picture the 
scene which would ensue upon his return to the little 
black house. How glad his mother would be to see 
him, and, he dared believe, how happy Annie would 
be as she listened to the account of his journey in the 
State of Maine ! Wouldn't she be astonished when 
he told her about the steamboat, about the fog, and 
about the wild region at the mouth of the beautiful 
Kennebec ! 

Poor Bobby ! the brightest dream often ends in 
sadness ; and a greater trial than any he had been 
called upon to endure was yet in store for him. 

As he walked along, thinking o'f Riverdale and its 



 

loved ones, Tom came out of a grocery store where he 
had just sold a book. 

" Here, Bob, is a ten dollar bill. I believe I have 
sold ten books for you," said Tom, after they had 
walked some distance. " You had better keep the 
money now ; and while I think of it, you had better 
take what I have left of my former sales ; ' and Tom 
handed him another ten dollar bill. 

Bobby noticed that Tom seemed very much con- 
fused and embarrassed ; but he did not observe that 
the two bills he had handed him were on the same 
bank. 

" Then you had ten dollars left after your frolic," 
he remarked, as he took the last bill. 

" About that ; ' and Tom glanced uneasily behind 
him. 

" What is the matter with you, Tom ? ' asked 
Bobby, who did not know what to make of his com- 
panion's embarrassment. 

" Nothing, Bob ; let us walk a little faster. We 
had better turn up this street," continued Tom, as, 
with a quick pace, he took the direction indicated. 

Bobby began to fear that Tom had been doing 
something wrong ; and the suspicion was confirmed 
by seeing two men running with all their might 
towards them. Tom perceived them at the same 
moment. 

" Run ! " he shouted, and suiting the action to the 
word, he took to his heels, and fled up the street into 
which he had proposed to turn. 

Bobby did not run, but stopped short where he 
was till the men came up to him. 

" Grab him," said one of them, " and I will catch 
the other." 

The man collared Bobby, and in spite of all the 
resistance he could make, dragged him down the 
street to the grocery store in which Tom had sold his 
last book. 

" What do you mean by this ? ' asked Bobby, his 
blood boiling with indignation at the harsh treatment 
to which he had been subjected. 

" We have got you, my hearty," replied the man, 
releasing his hold. 

No sooner was the grasp of the man removed, than 
Bobby, who determined on this as on former occa- 
sions to stand upon his inalienable rights, bolted for 



 

the door, and ran away with all his speed. But his 
captor was too fleet for him, and he was immediately 
retaken. To make him sure this time, his arms were 
tied behind him, and he was secured to the counter 
of the shop. 

In a few moments the other man returned dragging 
Tom in triumph after him. By this time quite a 
crowd had collected, which nearly filled the story 

Bobby was confounded at the sudden change that 
had come over his fortunes ; but seeing that resistance 
would be vain, he resolved to submit with the 
best grace he could. 

" I should like to know what all this means ? '' he 
inquired, indignantly. 

The crowd laughed in derision. 

" This is the chap that stole the wallet, I will be 
bound," said one, pointing to Tom, who stood in 
surly silence awaiting his fate. 

" He is the one who came into the store," replied 
the shopkeeper. 

" I haven't stole any wallet," protested Bobby, 
who now understood the whole affair. 

The names of the two boys were taken, and war- 


rants procured for their detention. They were 
searched, and upon Tom was found the lost wallet, 
and upon Bobby two ten dollar bills, which the loser 
was willing to swear had been in the wallet. The 
evidence therefore was conclusive, and they were both 
sent to jail. 

Poor Bobby ! the inmate of a prison 

The law took its course, and in due time both of 
them were sentenced to two years' imprisonment in 
the State Reform School. Bobby was innocent, but 
he could not make his innocence appear. He had 
been the companion of Tom, the real thief, and part 
of the money had been found upon his person. Tom 
was too mean to exonerate him, and even had the 
hardihood to exult over his misfortune. 

At the end of three days they reached the town in 
which the Reform School is located, and were duly 
committed for their long term. 

Poor Bobby ! 



 



CHAPTER XVIII. 

IN WHICH BOBBY TAKES FRENCH LEAVE, AND 
CAMPS IN THE WOODS. 

THE intelligence of Bobbv's misfortune reached 

Mr. Bayard, in Boston, by means of the newspapers. 
To the country press an item is a matter of consider- 
able importance, and the alleged offence against the 
peace and dignity of the State of Maine was duly 
heralded to the inquiring public as a " daring rob- 
bery." The reporter who furnished the facts in the 
case for publication was not entirely devoid of that 
essential qualification of the country item writer, a 
lively imagination, and was obliged to dress up the 
particulars a little, in order to produce the necessary 
amount of wonder and indignation. It was stated 
that one of the two young men had been prowling 
about the place for several days, ostensibly for the 
purpose of selling books, but really with the intention 




of stealing whatever lie could lay his hands upon. It 
was suggested that the boys were in league with an 
organized band of robbers, whose nefarious purposes 
would be defeated by the timely arrest of these young 
villains. The paper hinted that further depredations 
would probably be discovered, and warned people to 
beware of ruffians strolling about the country in the 
guise of pedlers. 

The writer of this thrilling paragraph must have 
had reason to believe that he had discharged his 
-whole duty to the public, and that our hero was duly 
branded as a desperate fellow. No doubt he believed 
Bobby was an awful monster; for at the conclusion of 
his remarks he introduced some severe strictures on 
the lenity of the magistrate, because he had made the 
> entence two years, instead of five, which the writer 
thought the atrocious crime deserved. But, then, the 
justice differed from him in politics, which may ac- 
count for the severity of the article. 

Mr. Bayard read this precious paragraph with min- 
gled grief and indignation. He understood the case 
at a glance. Tom Spicer had joined him, and the 
little merchant had been involved in his crime. He 



 

was sure that Bobby had had no part in stealing the 
money. One so noble and true as he had been could 
not steal, he reasoned. It was contrary to experi- 
ence, contrary to common sense. 

He was very much disturbed. This intelligence 
would be a severe blow to the poor boy's mother, and 
he had not the courage to destroy all her bright hopes 
by writing her the terrible truth. He was confident 
that Bobby was innocent, and that his being in the 
company of Tom Spicer had brought the imputation 
upon him; so he could not let the matter take its 
course. He was determined to do something to pro- 
cure his liberty and restore his reputation. 

Squire Lee was in the city that day, and had left 
his store only half an hour before he discovered the 
paragraph. He immediately sent to his hotel for 
him, and together they devised means to effect Bob- 
by's liberation. The squire was even more confident 
than Mr. Bayard that our hero was innocent of the 
crime charged upon him. They agreed to proceed 
immediately to the State of Maine, and use their in- 
fluence in obtaining his pardon. The bookseller was 
a man of influence in the community, and was as well 



known in Maine as in Massachusetts ; but to make 
their application the surer, he procured letters of in- 
troduction from some of the most distinguished men 
in Boston to the governor and other official persons 
in Maine. 

We will leave them now to do the work they had 
so generously undertaken, and return to the Reform 
School, where Bobby and Tom were confined. The 
latter took the matter very coolly. He seemed to 
feel that he deserved his sentence, but he took a ma- 
licious delight in seeing Bobby the companion of his 
captivity. Pie even had the hardihood to remind him 
of the blow he had struck him more than two months 
before, telling him that he had vowed vengeance 
then, and now the time had come. He was satisfied. 

" You know I didn't steal the money, or have any 
thing to do with it," said Bobby. 

" Some of it was found upon you, though," sneered 
Tom, maliciously. 

'' You know how it came there, if no one else 
does." 



' Of course I do ; but I like your company too well 
to get rid of you so easy." 



 

" The Lord is with the innocent," replied Bobby ; 
" and something tells me that I shall not stay in this 
place a great while." 

" Going to run away ? " asked Tom, with interest, 
and suddenly dropping his malicious look. 

" I know I am innocent of any crime ; and I know 
that .the Lord will not let me stay here a great while." 

" What do you mean to do, Bob ? ' 

Bobby made no reply ; he felt that he had had 
more confidence in Tom than he deserved, and he 
determined to keep his own counsel in future. He 
had a purpose in view. His innocence gave him 
courage ; and perhaps he did not feel that sense of 
necessity for submission to the laws of the land 
which age and experience give. He prayed earnest- 
ly for deliverance from the place in which he was 
confined. He felt that he did not deserve to be 
there ; and though it was a very comfortable place, 
and the boys fared as well as he wished to fare, still 
it seemed to him like a prison. He was unjustly de- 
tained ; and he not only prayed to be delivered, but 
he resolved to work out his own deliverance at the 
first opportunity. 


Knowing that whatever he had would be taken 
from him, he resolved by some means to keep posses- 
sion of the twenty dollars he had about him. He 
had always kept his moiiey in a secret place in his 
jacket to guard against accident, and the officers who 
had searched him had not discovered it. But now 
his clothes would be changed. He thought of these 
things before his arrival ; so, when he reached the 
entrance, and got out of the wagon, to open the gate, 
by order of the officer, he slipped his twenty dollars 
into a hole in the wall. 

It so happened that there was not a suit of clothes 
in the store room of the institution which would fit 
him ; and he was permitted to wear his own dress till 
another should be made. After his name and de- 
scription had been entered, and the superintendent 
had read him a lecture upon his future duties, he was 
permitted to join the other boys, who were at work on 
the farm. He was sent with half a dozen others to 
pick up stones in a neighboring field. No officer was 
with them, and Bobby was struck with the apparent 
freedom of the institution, and he so expressed him- 
self to his companions. 



" Not so much freedom as you think for," said one, 
in reply. 

"I should think the fellows would clear out." 

" Not so easy a matter. There is a standing re- 
ward of five dollars to any one who brings back a 
runaway." 

" They must catch him first." 

" No fellow ever got away yet. They always 
caught him before he got ten miles from the place." 

This was an important suggestion to Bobby, who 
already had a definite purpose in his mind. Like a 
skilful general, he had surveyed the ground on his 
arrival, and was at once prepared to execute his de- 
sign. 

In his conversation with the boys, he obtained the 
history of several who had attempted to escape, and 
found that even those who got a fair start were taken 
on some public road. He perceived that they were 
not good generals, and he determined to profit by 
their mistake. 

A short distance from the institution was what ap- 
peared to be a very extensive wood. Beyond this, 
many miles distant, he could see the ocean glittering 
like a sheet of ice under the setting sun. 



He carefully observed the hills, and obtained the 
bearings of various prominent objects in the vicinity, 
which would aid him in his flight. The boys gave 
him all the information in their power about the 
localities of the country. They seemed to feel that 
he was possessed of a superior spirit, and that he 
would not long remain among them ; but, whatever 
they thought, they kept their own counsel. 

Bobby behaved well, and was so intelligent and 
prompt that he obtained the confidence of the super- 
intendent, who began to employ him about the house, 
and in his own family. He was sent of errands in 
the neighborhood, and conducted himself so much to 
the satisfaction of his guardians that he was not re- 
quired to work in the field after the second day of his 
residence on the farm. 



One afternoon he was told that his clothes were 
ready, and that he might put them on the next morn- 
ing. This was a disagreeable announcement ; for 
Bobby saw that, with the uniform of the institution 
upon his back, his chance of escape would be very 
slight. But about sunset, he was sent by the super- 
intendent's lady to deliver a note at a house in the 
vicinity. 



 

"Now or never ! " said Bobby to himself, after he 
had left the house. " Now's my time." 

As he passed the gate, he secured his money, and 
placed it in the secret receptacle of his jacket. After 
he had delivered the letter, he took the road and 
hastened off in the direction of the wood. His heart 
beat wildly at the prospect of once more meeting his 
mother, after nearly four weeks' absence. Annie Lee 
would welcome him ; she would not believe that he 
was a thief. 

He had been four days an inmate of the Reform 
School, and nothing but the hope of soon attaining 
his liberty had kept his spirits from drooping. He 
had not for a moment despaired of getting away. 

He reached the entrance to the wood, and taking a 
cart path, began to penetrate its hidden depths. The 
night darkened upon him ; he heard the owl screech 
his dismal note, and the whip-poor-will chant his 
cheery song. A certain sense of security now per- 
vaded his mind, for the darkness concealed him from 
the world, and he had placed six good miles between 
him and the prison, as he considered it. 

He walked on, however, till he came to what 

seemed to be the end of the wood, and he hoped to 
reach the blue ocean he had seen in the distance be- 
