to his loss. He had made up his mind to be a rich 
man ; and he had carefully hoarded every cent he 
could spare, thus closely imitating the man who got 
rich by saving his fourpences. 

A few days after the loss, he was reading in one 
of Katy's Sunday school books about a miser. The 
wretch was held up as a warning to young folks, by 
showing them how he starved his body and soul for  
the sake of gold. 

" That's why I lost my money ! " exclaimed Harry 
as he laid the book upon the window. 

" What do you mean, Harry ? " asked Katy, wb 
ft it near him. 





"I have been hoarding up my money just like thifl 
aid man in the book." 

'* You are not a miser, Harry. You couldn't be 
mean and stingy, if you tried." 

" Yes, I could. I love money." 

" So does every body." 

" A miser wouldn't do what you did for us, Harry,*' 
added Mrs. Flint. " We ought to be careful and 
saving." 

" I have been thinking too much of money. After 
all, perhaps it was just as well that I lost that 
money." 

" I am sorry you lost it ; for I don't think there 
is any danger of youi becoming a miser," said 
Kary. 

" Perhaps not ; at any rate, it has set me to 
thinking." 

Haiiy finished the book; and it was, fortunately, 
just such a work as he required to give him right 
and proper views in regard to the value of wealth. 
His dream of being a rich man was essentially modi- 
fied by these views ; and he renewedly resoh ed that 
it was better to be a good man than to be i rub. man, 




if ne could not be both. It seemed to him a little 
remarkable that the minister should preach upon this 
rery topic on the following Sunday, taking for his 
text thn words, " Seek ye first the kingdom of 
heaven, and all these things shall be added unto you." 
He wae deeply impressed by the sermon, probably 
because it was on a subject to which he had given 
some attention. 

A few days after his return from Rockville, Harry 
received a very cheerful letter from Mr. Bryant, to 
which Julia had added a few lines in a postscript. 
The little angel was rapidly recovering, and our hero 
was rejoiced beyond expression. The favorable ter- 
mination of her illness was a joy which far outbal- 
anced the loss of his money, and he was as cheerful 
and contented as ever. As he expressed it, in rather 
homely terms, he had got " the streak of fat and the 
streak of lean." Julia was alive ; was to smile upon 
him again : was still to inspire him with that love 
of goodness which had given her such an influence 
over him. 

Week after week passed by, and Harry heard nolh' 
mg of his lost treasure ; but Julia had fully recoT< 





ered, and for the treasure lost an incomparably greater 
treasure had been gained. Edward and himself con- 
tinued to occupy the same room, though ever since 
the loss of the money box Harry's chum had tieated 
him coldly. There had never been much sympathy 
between them ; for while Edward was at the theatre, 
or perhaps at worse places, Harry was at home, read- 
ing some good book, writing a letter to Rockville, or 
employed in some other worthy occupation. While 
Harry was at church or at the Sunday school, Ed- 
ward, in company with some dissolute companion, 
was riding about the adjacent country. 

Mrs. Flint often remonstrated with her son upon 
the life he led, and the dissipated habits he was con- 
tracting ; and several times Harry ventured to intro- 
duce the subject. Edward, however, would not hear 
a word from either. It is true that we either grow 
better or worse, as we advance in life ; and Fdward 
Flint's path was down a headlong steep. His mother 
wept, and begged him to be a better b *j. He only 
laughed at her. 

Harry often wondered how he could afford to ridfc 
out, and visit the theatre and other places of am ise* 



 

meat so frequently. His salary wis only five dollars 
a week now ; it was only four when he had *aid it 
was five. He seemed to have money at all times, 
and to spend it very freely. He could not help be- 
lieving that the contents of his pill box had paid for 
some of the " stews " and " Tom and Jerrys " which 
his reckless chum consumed. But the nine dollars 
he had lost would have been but a drop in the bucket 
compared with his extravagant outlays. 

One day, about six months after Harry's return 
from Kockville, as he was engaged behind the coun- 
ter, a young man entered the store, and accosted him 

" Halloo, Harry ! How are you ? " 

It was a familiar voice ; and, to Harry's surprise, 
but not much to his satisfaction, he recognized his 
old companion, Ben Smart, who, he had learned Irora 
Mr. Bryant, had been sent to the house ul correction 
for burning Squire Walker's barn. 

"How dc you do, Ben?" returned Harry, not verj 
cerdiady. 

" So you are here — are you ? " 

" Yes, I have been here this &ix months." 

" Good place ? " 




" Firsi rate." 

i: Any chance for me ? " 

" No. I gueas not." 

" You have got a sign out for a boy, I spe." 

It was true they had. There were more errands 
to run than one boy could attend to ; besides, Harry 
had proved himself so faithful and so intelligent, that 
Mr. Wake wished to retain him in the store, to fit 
him for a salesman. 

" You can speak a good word for me, Harry ; for 
I should like to work here," continued Ben. 

" I thought you were in — in the " 

Harry did not like to use the offensive expression ; 
and Ben's face darkened when he discovered what 
the other was going to say. 

" Not a word about that," said he. " If you ever 
mention that little matter, I'll take your life." 

" But how was it? " 

" My father got me out, and then I ran away. Not 
& word more, for I had as lief be hung for an ol J 
sheep as a lamb." 

" There is Mr. Wake ; you can apply to him," 
continued H-irry. 



 

Ben walked boldly up to Mr. Wake, and asked 
for the place, The senior talked with him a few 
moments, and then retired to his private office, call- 
ing Harry as ho entered. 

" If you say any thing, I will be the death of you,' 
whispered Ben, as Harry passed him on his way to 
the office. 

Our hero was not particularly pleased with thes* 
threats ; he certainly was not frightened by them. 

" Do you know that boy, Harry ? " asked Mr. 
Wakp, as he presented himself before the senior. 

" I do, sir." 

" Who is he, and what is he ? " 

" His name is Benjamin Smart. He belongs to 
Redfield." 

' To Redfield ? He said he came from Worces- 
ter." 

" I believe Mr. Bryant told you the story about mj 
levring Redfield," said Harry. 

" He did." 

" That is the boy that run away with me." 

" And the one that set the barn afire ? * 

« ; Yea, sir." 





" That is enough." And Harry returned to his 
work at the counter. 

" What did he say to you ? " asked Ben. 

Before Harry had time to make any reply, Mr. 
Wake joined them. 

" We don't want you, young man," said he. 

With a glance of hatred at Harry, the applicant 
left the store. Since leaving Redfield, our hero's 
views of duty had undergone a change ; and he now 
realized that to screen a wicked person was to plot 
with him against the good order of society. He 
knew Ben's character ; he had no reason, after theii 
interview, to suppose it was changed ; and he could 
not wrong his employers by permitting them igno- 
rantly to engage a bad boy, especially when he had 
been questioned directly on the point. 

Towards evening, Harry was sent with a bundle 
to a place in Boylston Street, which required him to 
cross the Common. On his return, when he reached 
the corner of the burying ground, Ben Smart, who 
had evidently followed him, and lay in wait at this 
spot for him, sprang from his covert upon him. The 
young villain struck him a heavj blow in the eye 




before Harry realized his purpose. The blow, how- 
ever, was vigorously returned ; but Ben, besides 
oeing larger and stronger than his victim, had a 
large stone in his hand, with which he struck him a 
blow on the side of the head, knocking him insensi- 
ble to the ground. 

The wretch, seeing that he had done his work, fled 
along the side of the walk of the burying ground, 
pursued by several persons who had witnessed the 
assault. Ben was a fleet runner this time, and suc- 
ceeded in making his escape. 



CHAPTER XIX. 

IH WHICH HARRY FINDS THAT EVEN A BROKEM 
HEAD MAT BE OF SOME USE TO A PERSON. 

When Harry recovered his consciousness, he found 
dimself in an elegantly furnished chamber, with sev- 
eral persons standing around the bed upon which he 
had been laid. A physician was bending over him, 
engaged in dressing the severe wound he had received 
in the side of his head. 

" There, young man, you have had a narrow es- 
cape," said the doctor, as he saw his patient's eyes 
open. 

" Where am I ? " asked Harry, faintly, as he tried 
to concentrate his wandering senses. 

" You are in good hands, my boy. What is youl 
name ? " 

" Harry West. Can't I go home now ? " replied 
.he sufferer, trying to rise on the bed. 



 

" Do you feel as though you could walk home ? " 

" I don't know ; I feel kind of faint." 

" Does your head pain you ? " 

" No, sir ; it feels numb, and every thing seems t§ 
be flying round." 

" I dare say." 

Harry expressed an earnest desire to go home, and 
the physician consented to accompany him in a car- 
riage to Mrs. Flint's residence. He had been con- 
veyed in his insensible condition to a house in Bcyl- 
ston Street, the people of which were very kind to 
him, and used every effort to make him comfortable. 

A carriage was procured, and Harry was assisted 
to enter it ; for he was so weak and confused that he 
could not stand alone. Ben had struck him a terrible 
blow ; and, as the physician declared, it was almost 
a miracle that he had not been killed. 

Mrs. Flint and Katy were shocked and alarmed 
when they saw the helpless boy borne into the house ; 
but every thing that the circumstances required wai 
doco for him. 

" Has Edward come home ? ' ' he asked, when tbej 
had placed him on the bed. 


« No. not yet." 

" They will wonder what has become of me at the 
Ptore," continued the sufferer, whose thoughts revert* 
ed to his post of duty. 

" I will go down to the store, and tell them what 
has happened," said Mr. Callender, the kind gentle- 
mar, to whose house Harry had been carried, and who 
had attended him to his home. 

" Thank you, sir ; you are very good. I don't 
want them to think that I have run away, or any 
thing of that sort." 

" They will not think so, I am sure," returned 
Mr. Callender, as he departed upon his mission. 

" Do you think I can go to the store to-morrow ? " 
asked Harry, turning to the physician. 

" I am afraid not ; you must keep very quiet for a 
time." 

Harry did not like this announcement. He had 
never been sick a day in his life ; and it seemed to 
him just then as though the world could not possibly 
move on without him to help the thing along. A 
gieat many persons cherish similar notions, and cannot 
afford to be sick a single day. 
 

I should like to tell my readers at some length 
what blessings come to us while we are sick ; what 
angels with healing ministrations for the soul ^isit 
the couch of pain ; what holy thoughts are sometimes 
kindled in the darkened chamber ; what noble reso^ 
hitions have their birth in the heart when the head is 
pillowed on the bed of sickness. But my remaining 
space will not permit it ; and I content myself with 
remarking, that sickness in its place is just as great 
a blessing as health ; that it is part of our needed 
discipline. When any of my young friends are sick, 
therefore, let them yield uncomplainingly to their lot, 
assured that He who hath them in his keeping "doeth 
all things well." 

Harry was obliged to learn this lesson ; and when 
the pain in his head began to be almost intolerable, 
he fretted and vexed himself about things at the 
store. He was not half as patient as he might have 
been ; and, during the evening, he said a great many 
hr.Td things about Ben Smart, the author of his misfortune. 
I am sorry to say he cherished some ma- 
lignant, revengeful feelings towards Kim, and looked 
forward with a great deal of satisfaction to the time



when he should be arrested and punished for hit 
crime. 

Both Mr. Wake and Mr. Wade cahsd upon him 
ae soon as they heard of his misfortune. They were 
very indignant when they learned that Hairy was 
Buffering for telling the truth. They assuied him 
that they should miss him very much at the store, 
but they would do the best they could — which, of 
course, was very pleasant to him. But they told him 
they could get along without him, bade him not fret, 
and said his salary should be paid just the same a& 
though he did his work. 

*' Thank you ! thank you ! You are very good," 
exclaimed Harry. 

" Yes," Mr. Wake continued ; " and, as it will 
cost you more to be sick, we will raise your wages 
to four dollars a week. What do you say, Wade ? " 

" Certainly," replied the junior, warmly. 

There was no possible excuse for frptting new. 
With so many kind friends around him, he had no 
xcuse for fretting ; but his human nature rebelled at 
bis lot, and he made himself more miserable than 
the pain of h?s wound could possibly have made him 



 

Mrs. Flint, who sat all night by his bed side, labored 
ffi vain to make him resigned to his situation. It 
Beamed as though the great trial of his lifetime had 
come — that which he was least prepared to meet 
and conquer. 

The next day, he was very feverish. His hea^ 
ached, and the pain of his wound was very severe 
His moral condition was, if possible, worse than on 
the preceding night. He was fretful, morose, and 
unreasonable towards those kind friends who kept 
vigil around his bed side. Strange as it may seem, 
and strange as it did seem to himself, his thoughts 
seldom reverted to the little angel. Once, when he 
thought of her extended on the bed of pain as 
he was then, her example seemed to reproach him. 
She had been meek and patient through all her suf- 
ferings — had been content to die, even, if it was the 
w ill of the Father in heaven. With a peevish excla- 
mation, he drove her — his guardian angel, as she 
oftei seemed to him — from his mind, with the re- 
flection that she could not have been as sick as he 
was, that she did not endure as much pain as he did 
For several days he remained in i retty much tiw» 





same state. His head ached, and the fever burned 
in his veins. His moral symptoms were not im- 
proved, and he continued to snarl and growl at those 
who took care of him. 

" Give me some cold water, marm ; I don't want 
your slops," fretted he, when Mrs. Flint brought him 
his drink. 

" But the doctor says you mustn't have cold wa- 
ter." It was twenty-five years ago. 

" Confound the doctor ! Give me a glass of cold 
water, and I will " 

The door opened then, causing him to suspend the 
petulant words ; for one stood there whose good 
opinion he valued more than that of any other peTson. 

" O Harry ! I am so sorry to see you so sick ! " 
exclaimed Julia Bryant, rushing to his bed side. 

She was followed by her father and mother ; and 
Katy had admitted them unannounced to the chamber. 

" Julia ! is it you ? " replied Harry, smiling for the 
first time since the assault. 

" Yes, Harry ; I hope you are better. When I 
heard about it last night, I would not give father 
any peace till he promised to bring me to Boston." 




" Don't be so wild, Julia," interposed her mother. 
' You forget that he is very sick." 

'' Forgive me, Harry ; I was so glad and so sorry. 
I hope I didn't make your head ache," she added, in 
a very gentle tone. 

" No, Julia. It was very good of you to come 
and see me." 

Harry felt a change come over him the moment 
she entered the room. The rebellious thoughts in 
his bosom seemed to be banished by her presence ; 
and though his head ached and his flesh burned as 
much as ever, he somehow had more courage to en- 
dure them. 

After Mr. and Mrs. Bryant had asked him a few 
questions, and expressed their sympathy in proper 
terms, they departed, leaving Julia to remain with 
the invalid for a couple of hours. 

" I did not expect to see you, Julia," said Harry, 
when they had gone. 

" Didn't you think I would do as much fop you 
as you did for me ? " 

* It was rather different with you. I uSl. ur.ly a 
poor boy, and you are a rich man's child." 




" Pooh, Harry ! Our souls are all of a color. Yoxi 
can't think how had I felt when father got Mr. 
Wake's letter." 

" It's a hard case to be knocked down in that 
way, and laid up in the house for a week or two." 
" I know it ; hut we must be patient." 

"Can't be patient. I haven't any patience — not 
a bit. If I could get hold of Ben Smart, I would 
choke him. I hope they will catch him, and send 
him to the state prison for life." 

Julia looked sad. These malignant words did not 
sound like those of the Harry West she had known 
and loved. They were so bitter that they curdled the 
warm blood in her veins, and the heart of Harry 
seemed less tender than before. 

" Harry," said she, in soft tones, and so sad that 
he could not but observe the change which had come 
over her. 

" Well, Julia." 

" You don't mean what you said." 

" Don't mean it ? " 

''No, I am sure you don't. Do you remembei 
what the Bible says ? " 



" What does it say ? " asked he, deeply impressed 
by the sad and solemn tones of the little angel. 

" ' Forgive your enemies,' Harry." 

" Forgive Ben Smart, after he has almL=t killed 
me?" 

Julia took up the Bible, which lay on the table by 
the bed side, — it was the one she had given him, — 
and read scleral passages upon the topic she bad 
introduced. 

Harry was ashamed of himself. The gentle rebuke 
ehe administered touched his soul, and he thought 
how peevish and ill-natured he had been. 

" You have been badly hurt, Harry, and you are 
very sick. Now, let me ask you one question : 
Which would you rather be, Harry West, sick as 
you are, or Ben Smart, who struck the blow ? " 

" I had rather be myself," replied he, promptly 

" You ought to be glad that you are Harry West, 
Instead of Ben Smart. Sick as you are, I am sure 
you are a great deal happier than he can be, even if 
he is not punished for striking you." 

"You are right, Julia. I have been very wicked 
Here I have been grumbling and growling all the 



time for four lays. I have learned better It if 
lucky for me that I am Harry, instead of Ben. ' 

" I am sure I have been a great deal better since 
I was sick than before. When I lay on the bed, 
hardly able to move, I kept thinking all the time ; 
and my thoughts did me a great deal of good." 

Harry had learned his lesson, and Julia's presenca 
was indeed an angel's visit. For an hour longer she 
Bat by his bed, and her words were full of inspira- 
tion ; and when her father called for her, he could 
nardly repress a tear as she bade him good night. 

After she had gone Harry begged Mrs. Flint and 
Katy to forgive him for being so cross, promising to 
be patient in the future. And he kept his promise. 
The next day, Julia came again. She read to him, 
conversed with him about the scenes of the preceding 
autumn in the woods, and told him again about hei 
own illness. In the afternoon, she bade him a fina 
adieu, as she was to return that day to her home. 

The patience and resignation which he had learnt J 
gave a favorable turn to his sickness, and he began 
to improve. It was a month, however, bsfore he wag 
»ble to take his place in the store agaii . Without 



She assistance of Julia, perhaps, he had not learned 
th<; moral of sickness so well. As it was, he came 
forth from his chamber with truer and loftier motives, 
and with a more earnest desire to lead the true life. 

Ben Smart had bjen ai rested ; and, shortly after 
nis recovery, Harry was summoned as a witness a*, 
his trial. It was a plain case ; and Ben was seat 
to tfie h >use of correction for a long term 





CHAPTER XX. 

IM WHICH HARRY PASaSS THROUGH HIS SEVERE81 
TRIAL, AND ACHIEVES HIS GREATEST 1RIUMPH. 

Three years may appear to b3 a great while to the 
little pilgrim through life's vicissitudes ; but they 
e.ion pass away and are -as "a talc that is told." To 
note all the events of Harry's experience through this 
period, would require another volume ; therefore I 
can only tell the reader what he was, and what results 
he had achieved in that time. Jt was filled with triaU 
anu temptations, not all of which were overcome 
without care and privation. Often he failed, was 
often disappointed, and often was pained to see how 
feebly the Spirit warred againrt the Flesh. 

He loved money, and avaric. frequently prompted 
him to do those things which would have wrecked 
his bright hopes. That vision of the grandeui and 
influence of the ricli .v.t.i.'s posirlcu sometimes demid him, causing him to forget for a time that the sou] 
would live forever, while the body and its treasures 
would perish in the grave. As he grew older, he 
reasoned more ; his principles became more firmly 
fixed ; and the object of existence assumed a more 
definite character. He was an attentive student, and 
every year not only made him wiser, but better. I 
do not mean to say that Harry was a remarkably 
good boy, that his character was perfect, or any 
thing of the kind. He meant well, and tried to do 
well, and he did not struggle in vain against the trials 
and temptations that beset him. I dare say, those 
with whom he associated did not consider him much 
better than themselves. It is true, he did not swear, 
did not frequent the haunts of vice and dissipation, 
did not spend his Sundays in riding about the coun- 
try ; yet he had his faults, and captious people did 
nr>t fail to see them. 

He was still with Wake and Wade, though he was 
ft salesman now, on a salary of five dollars a week. 
lie still boarded with Mrs. Flint, though Edward wab 
no longer his room mate. A year had been sufficient 
to di&gust his "fast" companion with the hocely f^ro 




and homely quarters of his father's house ; and. a* 
his salary was now eight dollars a week, he vecupied 
a room in the attic of a first class hotel. 

Harry was sixteen years old, and he had three hun- 
dred dollars in the Savings Bank. He might have 
Had more, if he had not so carefully watched and 
guarded against the sin of avarice. He gave some 
very handsome sums to the various public charities, 
as well as expended them in relieving distress wher- 
ever it presented itself. It is true, it was sometimes 
very hard work to give of his earnings to relieve the 
poor ; and if he had acted in conformity with the 
nature he had inherited, he might never have known 
that it was " more blessed to give than to receive." 
As he grew older, and the worth of money was more 
apparent, he was tempted to let the poor and the 
unfortunate take care of themselves ; but the struggle 
of duty with parsimony rendered his gifts all the more 
v-orthy. 

Joe Flint had several times violated his solemn 
resolution to drink no more ardent spirits ; but Harry, 
who was his friend ai^d confidant, encouraged !im, 
when be failed, ';o try ?.gui> ; s^d It vY:;:- nev> ne»rl| 
a year since he had been on a " spiee."' 



i 

Our hero occasionally heard from Rockville; and a 
few months before the event we are about to nan ate, 
ne had spent the pleasantcst week of his life with 
Julia Bryant, amid those scenes which were so full 
of interest to both of them. As he walked through 
the woods where he had first met the M little angel," 
— she had now grown to be a tall girl, — he could 
rot but recall the events of that meeting. It was 
there that he first began to live, in the true sense of 
the word. It was there that he had been born into a 
new sphere of moral existence. 

Julia was still his friend, still his guiding star. 
Though the freedom of childish intimacy had beer 
diminished, the same heart resided in each, and each 
felt the same interest in the other. The correspond- 
ence between them had been almost wholly suspend- 
ed, perhaps by the interference of the " powers " at 
Rockville, and perhaps by the growing sense of the 
" fitness of things " in the parties. But they occa- 
Bionall) met, which amply compensated for the depri* 
\ntions which propriety demanded. 

But I must pass on to the closing event of nay 
»tory — it was Harry's severest trial, yet it resulted 
in bis most signd triumph. 




Edward Flint was always short of money. He 
lived extravagantly, and his increased salary was in- 
efficient to meet his wants. When Harry saw him 
drive a fast horse through the streets on Sundays, and 
hear" him say how often he went to the theatre, what 
balls and parties he attended, — when he observed 
how elegantly he dressed, and that he wore a gold 
chain, a costly breast pin, and several rings, — he did 
not wonder that he was " short." He lived like a 
prince, and it seemed as though eight dollars a week 
would be but a drop in the bucket in meeting hia 
expenses. 

One day, in his extremity, he applied to Harry for 
the loan of five dollars. Our hero did not like to 
encourage his extravagance ; but he was good-natured, 
&nd could not well avoid doing the favor, especially 
as Edward wanted the money to pay his board. How* 
ever, he made it the occasion for a friendly remon- 
strance, and gave the spendthrift youth some excel- 
lent advice. Edward was vexed at the lecture ; but, 
ts he obtained the loan, he did not resent the 
kir.dly act. 

Abo]it a fortnight after, Edward paid him the 



nuney. It consisted of a two dollar bill and six 
half dollars. Harry was about to make a furthet 
application of bis views of duty to his friend's case, 
when Edward impatiently interrupted him, telling 
aim that, as he had got his money, he need not preach. 
This was just before Harry went home to dinner. 

On his return, Mr. Wake called him into the pri- 
vate office ; and when they had entered, he closed and 
locked the door. Harry regarded this as rather a 
singular proceeding ; but, possessing the entire confi- 
dence of his employers, it gave him no uneasiness. 

" Harry," Mr. "Wake began, " we have been losing 
money from the store for the last year, or more. I 
have missed small sums a great many times." 

" Indeed ! " exclaimed Harry, not knowing wheth- 
er he was regarded as a confidant, or as the suspected 
person. 

" To-day I gave a friend of mine several marked 
coins, with which he purchased some goods. These 
coins have all been stolen." 

" Is it possible, sir ! " 

" Now, we have four salesmen besides yourself 
Which stole it > " 




"I can form no idea, sir," returned Hany "I 
can only speak for myself." 

" O, weil, I had no suspicion that it was you,' 
fcdded Mr. Wake, with a smile. " I am going to try 
the same experiment again ; and I want you to kecj 
four eyes on the money drawer all the rest cf the 
ifternoon." 

" I will do so, sir." 

Mr. Wake took several silver coins from his pocket, 
md scratched them in such a way that they could be 
readily identified, and then dismissed Harry, with 
the injunction to be very vigilant. 

When he came out of the office, he perceived that 
Edward and Charles Wallis were in close conversa- 
tion. 

" I say, Harry, what's in the wind ? " asked the 
former, as our hero returned to his position behind 
the counter. 

Harry evaded answering the question, md the other 
two salesmen, who were very intimate, and whose 
testes and amusements were very much alike, continued their conversation. They were evidently aware 
of something unusual had occurred, or was about

Soon after, a person appeared at the counter and 
aurchased a dozen spools of cotton, offering two half 
dollars in payment. Harry kept his eye upon the 
money drawer, but nothing was discovered, l'rorn hat he knew of Edward's mode of life, he was prepared to believe that he was the guilty person. 

The experiment was tried for three days in succestion before any result was obtained. The coins were 
always found in the drawer ; but on the fourth day, 
when they were very busy, and there was a great deal 
of money in the drawer, Harry distinctly observed 
Edward, while making change, take several coins
from the till. The act appalled him ; he forgot the 
customer to whose wants he was attending, and 
hastened to inform Mr. Wake of the discovery. 

" Where are you going, Harry ? " asked Edward, 
as he passed him. 

" Only to the office," replied he ; and his appearance and manner might have attracted the attention 
of any skilful rogue. 

" Come, Harry, don't leave your place," addet 
Edward, playfully grasping him by tho collar, on his 
returi;, 




" Don't stop to fool, Edward," answered Hairy, and
be shook him off, and took his place at the counter
again. 

He wan very absent-minded the rest of the fore- 
noon, and his frame shook with agitation, as he heard 
Mr. "Wake call Edward, shortly after. But he trem- 
bled still more when he was summoned also, for it 
was very unpleasant business. 

" Of course, you will not object to letting me see 
the contents of your pockets, Edward," said Mr. 
Wake, as Harry entered the office. 

" Certainly not, sir ; " and he turned every one of 
his pockets inside out. 

Not one of the decoy pieces was found upon him, 
or any other coins, for that matter ; he had no money. 
Mr. Wake was confused, for he fully expected to con- 
\ict the culprit on the spot. 

'I suppose I am indebted to this young man for  
tt is," continued Edward, with a sneer. " I'd bet five 
d< llais he stole the money himself, if any has been 
stolen. Why don't you search him ? " 

" Search me, sir, by all means," added Harry ; and 
he began to turn his pockets out. 




From his vest pocket he took out a little parcel 
