fire,--but you are not likely to find anything else there. You'll want
everything that is in this, Endy--please remember."
"I will not forget," he said, as he gave her his thanks. "But what did
that exclamation mean, before tea?"
"What exclamation?--Oh--" said Faith, smiling somewhat but looking
down, "I suppose it meant that I was disappointed."
"My dear little child--you must try not to feel disappointed, because I
am quite sure you ought not to go; and that must content both you and
me. So good night."--
Faith tried to be contented, but her little scholar lay on her heart.
And it lay on her heart too, that Mr. Linden would be watching all
night and teaching all day. He did not know how much he had
disappointed, for she had laid a fine plan to go by starlight in the
morning to take his place and send him home for a little rest before
breakfast and school. Faith studied only one book that night, and that
was her Bible.
It was a night of steady watching,--broken by many other things, but
not by sleep. There was constantly some little thing to do for the sick
child,--ranging from giving him a drink of water, to giving him "talk,"
or rocking and--it might be--singing him to sleep. But the restless
little requests never had to wait for their answer, and with the whole
house sunk in stillness or sleep, Mr. Linden played the part of a most
gentle and efficient nurse--and thought of Faith, and her
disappointment. And so the night wore away, and the morning star came
up, and then the red flushes of sunrise.
"Who turneth the night into day"--Mr. Linden thought, with a grave look
from the window to the little face beside him--and then the words
came,--
   "In the morning, children, in the morning;
   We'll all rise together in the morning!"
It was very early indeed, earlier even than usual, when Faith came down
and kindled her fire. And then leaving it to burn, she opened the
curtains of the window and looked out into the starlight. It was long
before the red flush of the morning; it was even before the time when
Faith would have gone to relieve the guard in that sick room; her
thoughts sped away to the distant watcher there and the sick child.
Faith could guess what sort of a watching it had been, and it was a
comfort to think that Johnny had it. But then as she looked out into
the clear still starlight, something brought up the question, what if
Johnny should die?--It was overwhelming to Faith for a minute; her
little scholar's loveliness had got fast hold of her heart; and she
loved him for deep and far-back associations too. She could not bear to
think that it might be. Yet she asked herself if this was a reasonable
feeling? Why should she be sorry--if it were so--that this little
blossom of Heaven should have an early transplanting thither? Ah, the
fragrance of such Heaven-flowers is too sweet to be missed, and Earth
wants them. As Faith looked sadly out into the night, watched the
eternal procession of bright stars, and heard the low sweep of the
wind, the words came to her,--separated from their context and from
everything else as it seemed,--"I, the Lord, do all these things." Her
mind as instantly gave a glad assent and rested itself in them. Not
seen by her or by mortal the place or fitting of any change or turn of
earthly things, in the great plan,--every one such turn and change had
its place, as sure as the post of each star in the sky--as true to its
commission as that wind, which came from no one knew where to go no one
knew whither. Faith looked and listened, and took the lesson deep down
in her heart.
Mr. Linden's little basket had stood him well in stead that long
night,--for Faith had said truth; nothing was for him in Mr. Fax's
house. Mr. Fax was well enough satisfied that Johnny's teacher should
take the trouble of nursing the child, had no idea that such trouble
would necessarily involve much loss of sleep, and still further no
notion of the fact that a watcher at night needs food as much as fire.
Fire Mr. Linden had, but he would have been worse off without the
stores he found in his basket. In truth the supply generally was
sufficient to have kept him from starving even if he had been obliged
to go without his breakfast; but Dr. Harrison concerned himself about
his little patient, and was better than Mr. Linden's hopes. He came,
though in the cold short February morning, a good while before eight
o'clock. He gave Mr. Linden a pleasant clasp of the hand; and then made
his observations in silence.
"Is this one of your favourites?" he said at length.
A grave "yes."
"I am sorry for it."
Mr. Linden was silent at first, looking down at the child with a sort
of expression the doctor had not often seen, and when he spoke it was
without raising his eyes.
"Tell me more particularly."
"I don't know myself,"--said the doctor with a frankness startling in
one of his profession; but Dr. Harrison's characteristic carelessness
nowhere made itself more apparent than in his words and about what
people might think of them.--"I don't say anything certainly--but I
do not like appearances."
"What is the matter?"
"It's an indefinite sort of attack--all the worse for that!--the root
of which is hid from me. All you can do is to watch and wait. Have you
been here through the night?"
"Yes," Mr. Linden answered--and put the further question, "Do you think
there is any danger of contagion?"
"O no!--the fever, what there is, comes from some inward cause--a
complicated one, I judge. I can guess, and that's all. Are there no
women about the house?"
"None that are good for much." And looking at his watch, Mr. Linden
laid the child--who had fallen asleep again--out of his arms among the
pillows, arranging them softly and dextrously as if he were used to the
business.
"Reuben Taylor will stay with him for the present," he said as he
turned to Dr. Harrison.
"I'll come again by and by," the doctor said. "Meanwhile all that can
be done is to let him have this, as I told you."
The directions were given to Reuben, the doctor drove off, and Mr.
Linden set out on his quick walk home; after the confinement of the
night, the cold morning air and exercise were rather resting than
otherwise. It was a very thoughtful half hour--very sorrowful at first;
but before he reached home, thought, and almost feeling, had got beyond
"the narrow bounds of time," and were resting peacefully--even
joyfully--"where bright celestial ages roll."
He entered the house with a light step, and went first upstairs to
change his dress; but when he came down and entered the sitting-room,
there was the tone of the whole walk upon his face still. Faith put her
question softly, as if she expected no glad answer. And yet it was
partly that, though given in very gentle, grave tones.
"There is more to fear than to hope, dear Faith,--and there is
everything to hope, and nothing to fear!"
She turned away to the breakfast-table; and said little more till the
meal was over. Then she rose when he did.
"I am going now, Endy!"--The tone was of very earnest determination,
that yet waited for sanction.
"Yes," he answered--"Dr. Harrison says the fever is not contagious, I
waited to know that. If I can I shall get free before midday, so I may
meet you there. And can you prepare and take with you two or three
things?"--he told her what.
Faith set about them; and when they were done, Mr. Skip had finished
his breakfast and got Jerry ready. Some other preparations Faith had
made beforehand; and with no delay now she was on her swift way to
little Johnny's bedside. She came in like a vision of comfort upon the
sick room, with all sorts of freshness about her; grasped Reuben's
hand, and throwing back her hood, stooped her lips to Johnny's cheek.
And Johnny gave her his usual little fair smile--and then his eyes went
off to the doorway, as if he half expected to see some one else behind
her. But it was from no want of love to her, as she knew from the way
the eyes came back to her face and rested there, and took a sort of
pleased survey of her hood and, her fur and her dress.
"Dear Johnny!--Can you speak to me?" said Faith tenderly touching her
cheek again to his.
"Oh yes, ma'am," he said, in a quiet voice and with the same bit of a
smile. That was what Faith wanted. Then she looked up.
"Are you going to school now, Reuben?"
"I didn't expect to this morning, Miss Faith," Reuben said with a sober
glance at his little comrade.
"Then you can wait here a bit for me."
Leaving Reuben once more in charge, Faith went on a rummaging
expedition over the house to find some woman inmate. Not too easily or
speedily she was found at last, the housekeeper and all-work woman deep
in all work as she really seemed, and in an outer kitchen of remote
business, whither Faith had traced her by an exercise of determinate
patience and skill. Having got so fur, Faith was not balked in the
rest; and obtaining from her some of Johnny's clean linen which she
persuaded her to go in search of, she returned to the room where she
had left Reuben; and set about making the sick child as comfortable as
in his sickness he could be.
It was a day or two already since Johnny had lain there and had had
little effectual attention from anybody, till Mr. Linden came last
night. The child might well look at his new nurse, for her neat dress
and gentle face and soft movements were alone a balm for any sick
place. And in her quiet way, Faith set about changing the look of this
one. There was plenty of wood, and she made a glorious fire. Then
tenderly and dextrously she managed to get a fresh nightgown on Johnny
without disturbing him more than pleasantly with her soft
manipulations; and wrapping him in a nice little old doublegown which
she had brought with her and which had been a friend of her own
childish days, Faith gave him to Reuben to hold while she made up the
bed and changed the clothes, the means for which she had also won from
the housekeeper. Then having let down the chintz curtains to shield off
the intense glare of the sunny snow, Faith assumed Johnny into her own
arms. She had brought vinegar from home, and with it bathed the little
boy's face and hands and brushed his hair, till the refreshed little
head lay upon her breast in soothed rest and comfort.
"There, Johnny!"--she whispered as her lips touched his brow,--"Mr.
Linden may come as soon as he pleases--we are ready for him!"
The child half unclosed his eyes at the words, and then sunk again into
one of his fits of feverish sleep, the colour rising in his cheeks a
little, the breath coming quick. Reuben knelt down at Faith's side and
watched him.
"I used to wonder, Miss Faith," he said softly, "what would become of
him if Mr. Linden ever went away"--and the quiet pause told what
provision Reuben thought was fast coming for any such contingency.
"You can't think what Mr. Linden's been to Johnny, Miss Faith," he went
on in the same low voice,--"and to all of us," he added lower still.
"But he's taken such care of him, in school and out. It was only last
week Johnny told me he liked coming to school in the winter, because
then Mr. Linden always went home with him. And whenever he could get in
Mr. Linden's lap he was perfectly happy. And Mr. Linden would let him,
sometimes, even in school, because Johnny was so little and not very
strong,--and he'd let him sit in his lap and go to sleep for a little
while when he got tired, and then Johnny would go back to his lessons
as bright as a bee. That was the way he did the very first day school
was opened, for Johnny was frightened at first, and a mind to cry--he'd
never had anybody to take much care of him. And Mr. Linden just called
him and took him up and spoke to him--and Johnny laid his head right
down and went to sleep; and he's loved Mr. Linden with all his heart
ever since. I know we all laughed--and he smiled himself, but it made
all the rest of us love him too."
Reuben had gone on talking, softly, as if he felt sure of sympathy in
all he might say on the subject. But that "first day school was
opened!"--how Faith's thoughts sprang back there,--with what strange,
mixed memories the vision of it came up before her! That day and time
when so many new threads were introduced into her life, which were now
shewing their colours and working out their various patterns. It was
only a spring there and back again, however, that her thoughts took; or
rather the vision was a sort of background to Reuben's delineations,
and her eye was upon these; with what kind of sympathy she did not care
to let him see. Her cheek was bent down to the sick child's head and
Faith's face was half hidden. Until a moment later, when the door
opened and Johnny's father came in to see what was become of him; and
then Mr. Fax had no clue to the lustrous softness of the eyes that
looked up at him. He could make nothing of it.
"What!" said he. "Why who's Johnny got to look after him now?"
"I am his teacher, sir."
"His teacher, be you? Seems to me he's a lot of 'em. One teacher stayed
with him last night. How many has he got, among you?"
"Only two--" said Faith, rejoicing that she was one. "I am his Sunday
school teacher."
"Well what's your name, now?"
"Faith Derrick."
"That's who you be!" said Mr. Fax in surprise. "Don't say! Well
Johnny's got into good hands, aint he? How's he gettin' along?"
Faith's eye went down to the little boy, and her hand passed slowly and
tenderly over his hair; she was at a loss how to answer, and Reuben
spoke for her.
"He's been sleeping a good deal this morning."
The father stooped towards the child, but his look went from him to
Faith, with a mixture of curiosity and uneasiness as he spoke.
"Sleepin', is he?--Then I guess he's gettin' along first-rate--aint he?"
Again Faith's look astonished the man, both because of its intent soft
beauty and the trembling set of her lip. But how to answer him she did
not know. Her head sunk over the child's brow as she exclaimed,
"His dear Master knows what to do with him!"
Jonathan Fax stood up straight and looked at Reuben.
"What does she mean!"
"She means that he is in God's hands, and that we don't know yet what
He will do," Reuben answered with clear simplicity.
Yet it was a strange view of the subject to Mr. Fax; and he stood stiff
and angular and square, looking down at Faith and her charge, feeling
startled and strange. Her face was bent so that he could not see that
quiver of her lip now; but he did see one or two drops fall from the
lowered eyelids on Johnny's hair. Perhaps he would have asked more
questions, but he did not; something kept them back. He stood fixed,
with gathering soberness growing over his features. Little he guessed
that those tears had been half wrung from Faith's eyes by the contrast
between his happy little child and him. It was with something like a
groan at last that he turned away, merely bidding Reuben Taylor to call
for anything that was wanted.
The morning wore on softly, for Johnny still slept. Reuben went quietly
about, giving attention where it was needed; to the fire, or to the
curtains--drawn back now as the sun got round--or bringing Faith a
footstool, or trying some other little thing for her comfort; and when
he was not wanted remaining in absolute stillness. As it neared midday,
however, he took his stand by the window, and after a short watch there
suddenly turned and left the room. And a moment after Mr. Linden came
in.
Faith met him with a look of grave, sweet quiet; in which was mingled a
certain joy at being where she was. She waited for him to speak. But
something in her face, or her office, moved him,--the gravity of his
own look deepened as he came forward--his words were not ready. He sat
down by her, resting his arm on the back of her chair and giving her
and Johnny the same salutation--the last too softly to rouse him.
"Has the doctor been here?" he said first.
"No."
He was silent again for a minute, but then Johnny suddenly started
up--waking perhaps out of some fever dream; for he seemed frightened
and bewildered, and almost ready to cry; turning his head uneasily away
from everything and everybody as it seemed, until his eyes were fairly
open, and then giving almost a spring out of Faith's arms into those of
Mr. Linden; holding him round the neck and breathing little sobbing
breaths on his shoulder, till the resting-place had done its
work,--till Mr. Linden's soft whispered words had given him comfort.
But it was a little wearily then that he said, "Sing."
Was it wearily that the song was given? Faith could not tell,--she
could not name those different notes in the voice, she could only feel
that the octave reached from earth to heaven.
   "'How kind is Jesus, Lord of all!
   To hear my little feeble call.
   How kind is Jesus, thus to be
   Physician, Saviour, all to me!
   'How much he loves me he doth shew;
   How much he loves I cannot know.
   I'm glad my life is his to keep,
   Then he will watch and I may sleep.
   'Jesus on earth, while here I lie;
   Jesus in heaven, if I die:
   I'm safe and happy in his care,
   His love will keep me, here or there.
   'An angel he may send for me,
   And then an angel I shall be.
   Lord Jesus, through thy love divine,
   Thy little child is ever thine.'"
Faith had drawn her chair a little back and with her head leaning on
the back of Mr. Linden's chair, listened--in a spirit not very
different from Johnny's own. She looked up then when it was done, with
almost as childlike a brow. It had quieted him, as with a charm, and
the little smile he gave Faith was almost wondering why she looked
grave.
"You've been here a good while," he said, as if the mere announcement
of the fact spoke his thanks.
"Has she?" Mr. Linden said. "What has Miss Faith done with you, Johnny,
if she has been here a good while?"
"All sorts of things," Johnny answered, with another comprehensive
expression of gratitude.
"I thought so!" said Mr. Linden. "I shouldn't wonder a bit if she had
dressed you up in something she used to wear herself."
"She wasn't ever so little," the child said softly.
Faith had been preparing for him a cup of some light nourishment which
he was to take from time to time, and now coming to Mr. Linden's side
kneeled down there before Johnny to give it to him. The child took the
delicate spoonfuls as she gave them, turning his fair eyes from her to
Mr. Linden as if he felt in a very sweet atmosphere of love and care;
and when she went away with the cup he said in his slow fashion,
"I love her very much."
And Faith heard the answer--
"And so do I."
Coming up behind Mr. Linden she laid her hand on his shoulder.
"Endecott--where are you going to take dinner and rest to-day?"
"O I will take rest by the way," he answered lightly, and with a smile
at her. "There is dinner enough in my supper basket--I have not much
time for it, neither."
"School again this afternoon?"
"Yes I must be there for awhile."
Faith moved away, remarking in a different tone, "Your supper basket is
at home, sir!"--and busied her energies about serving him as she had
just served Johnny. With something more substantial however. Faith had
brought a lunch basket, and in five minutes had made Mr. Linden a cup
of home tea.
"Now how shall we manage?" she said;--"for Johnny must have you every
minute while you are here--and there is no such thing as a little
table. I shall have to be table and dumb waiter for you--if you won't
mind."
And so Faith pulled up her chair again and sat down, with the basket
open on her lap and Mr. Linden's cup in her hand.
"I only hope," she said, "that Dr. Harrison will not choose this
particular minute to come in! If he does, catch the cup of tea,
Endecott!--for I won't answer for anything."
"I don't know whether I should be most sorry or proud, in case of such
event," said Mr. Linden,--"however, I do not wish the doctor anything
so disagreeable. But I will promise to catch the cup of tea--and
everything else, down to his displeasure. Only you must not be a dumb
waiter; for that will not suit me at all."
It was one of those pretty bits of sunshine that sometimes shew
themselves in the midst of a very unpromising day, the time when they
sat there with the lunch basket between them. The refreshment of talk
and of lunch (for lunch is refreshing when it is needed) brightened
both faces and voices; and Mr. Linden's little charge, in one of his
turns of happy rest and ease, watched them--amused and interested--till
he fell asleep. By that time Mr. Linden's spare minutes were about
over. As he was laying Johnny gently down on the bed, Faith seized her
chance.
"You'll let me stay here to-night--won't you, Endecott?"
"It would not be good for you, dear child,--if you stay until night it
will be quite as much as you ought to do. But I will see you again by
that time."
"I am strong, Endecott."
"Yes, you are strong, little Sunbeam," he said, turning now to her and
taking both her hands,--"and yet it is a sort of strength I must guard.
Even sunbeams must not be always on duty. But we'll see about it when I
come back."
Mr. Linden went off to his other sphere of action, and soon after
Reuben came softly in, just to let Faith know that he was at hand if
she wanted anything, and to offer to take her place.
"Reuben!" said Faith suddenly, "have you had any dinner?"
"O yes, ma'am--enough," Reuben said with a smile. "I brought something
with me this morning."
Faith put her lunch basket into his hand, but her words were cut short;
for she saw Dr. Harrison just coming to the house. She moved away and
stood gravely by the fire.
The doctor came in pulling off his glove. He gave his hand to Faith
with evident pleasure, but with a frank free pleasure, that had nothing
embarrassing about the manner of it; except the indication of its
depth. After a few words given with as easy an intonation as if the
thermometer were not just a few degrees above zero outside where he had
come from, the doctor's eye went over to the other person in the room;
and then the doctor himself crossed over and offered his hand.
"I shall never see you, Reuben,"--said he with a very pleasant
recollective play of eye and lip,--"without thinking of a friend."
The doctor had a more full view of Reuben's eyes, thereupon, than he
had ever before been favoured with,--for one moment their clear, true,
earnest expression met his. But whatever the boy read--or tried to
read--or did not read, he answered simply, as he looked away again,
"You have been that to me, sir."
"I don't know--" said the doctor lightly. "I am afraid not according to
your friend. Mr. Linden's definition. But reckon me such a one as I
can be, will you?"--He turned away without waiting for the answer and
went back to Faith.
"Do you know," he said, "I expected to find you here?"
"Very naturally," said Faith quietly.
"Yes--it is according to my experience. Now how is this child?"--
He turned to see, and so did Faith. He looked at the child, while
Faith's eye went from Johnny to him. Both faces were grave, but Faith's
grew more grave as she looked.
"How is this child?" she repeated.
"He is not worse," said the doctor; "except that not to be better is to
be worse. Are you particularly interested in him?"
Faith looked down at the sweet pure little face, and for a minute or
two was very still. She did not even think of answering the doctor, nor
dare speak words at all. Her first movement was to push away softly a
lock of hair from Johnny's forehead.
"What can I do for him, Dr. Harrison?"
"Not much just now--go on as you have been doing. I will be here
to-night again, and then perhaps I shall know more."
He gave her a new medicine for him however; and having said all that
was needful on that score, came back with her to the fire and stood a
little while talking--just so long as it would do for him to stay with
any chance of its being acceptable; talking in a tone that did not jar
with the place or the time, gravely and pleasantly, of some matters of
interest; and then he went. And Faith sat down by the bedside, and
forgot Dr. Harrison; and thought of the Sunday school in the woods that
evening in October, and the hymn, "I want to be an angel"; and looked
at Johnny with a very full heart.
Not a very long time had passed, when Faith heard sleigh bells again,
and a person very different from the doctor came softly in; even Mrs.
Derrick. She smiled at Reuben and Faith, and going close up to the bed
folded her hands quietly together and stood looking at the sick child;
the smile vanishing from her face, her lips taking a tender, pitiful
set--her eyes in their experience gravely reading the signs. She looked
for a few minutes in silence, then with a little sorrowful sigh she
turned to Faith.
"Pretty child," she said, "can't you take a little rest? I'll sit by
him now."
"O mother I'm not tired--much. I have not been very busy."
Mrs. Derrick however took the matter into her own hands, and did not
content herself till she had Faith on a low seat at her side, and
Faith's head on her lap; which was a rest, to mind and body both.
Reuben replenished the fire and went out, and the two sat alone.
"Faith," her mother said softly, "don't you think he'd be content with
me to-night? I can't bear to have Mr. Linden sit up."
"I want to stay myself, mother, if he would let me."
"I don't believe he'll do that, Faith--and I guess he's right But you
must make him go home to tea, child, and he might rest a little then;
and I'll stay till he comes back, at least."
There was not much more to be said then, for Johnny woke up and wanted
to be taken on Faith's lap, and talked to, and petted; answering all
her efforts with a sort of grateful little smile and way; but moving
himself about in her arms as if he felt restless and uneasy. It went to
her heart. Presently, in the low tones which were music of themselves,
she carried his thoughts off to the time when Jesus was a little child;
and began to give him, in the simplicity of very graphic detail, part
of the story of Christ's life upon earth. It was a name that Johnny
loved to hear; and Faith went from point to point of his words, and
wonders, and healing power and comforting love. Not dwelling too long,
but telling Johnny very much as if she had seen it, each gentle story
of the sick and the weary and the troubled, who came in their various
ways to ask pity of Jesus, and found it; and reporting to Johnny as if
she had heard them the words of promise and love that a little child
could understand. Mrs. Derrick listened; she had never heard just such
a talk in her life. The peculiarity of it was in the vivid faith and
love which took hold of the things as if Faith had had them by eyesight
and hearing, and in the simplicity of representation with which she
gave them, as a child to a child. And all the while she let Johnny
constantly be changing his position, as restlessness prompted; from
sitting to kneeling and lying in her arms; sometimes brushing his hair,
which once in a while he had a fancy for, and sometimes combing it off
from his forehead with her own fingers dipped in the vinegar and water
which he liked to smell. Nothing could be more winning--nothing more
skilful, in its way, than Faith's talk to the sick child that half hour
or more. And Johnny told its effect, in the way he would bid her
"talk," if she paused for a minute. So by degrees the restless fit
passed off for the time, and he lay still in her arms, with drooping
heavy eyelids now.
Everything was subsiding;--the sun sank down softly behind the wavy
horizon line, the clouds floated silently away to some other harbour,
and the blasts of wind came fainter and fainter, like the music of a
retreating army. Swiftly the daylight ebbed away, and still Faith
rocked softly back and forth, and her mother watched her. Once in a
while Reuben came silently in to bring wood or fresh water,--otherwise
they had no interruption. Then Mr. Linden came, and sitting down by
Faith as he had done before, asked about the child and about the doctor.
"He came very soon after you went away," said Faith. "He said that he
was no better, and that to be no better was to be worse." It was plain
that she thought more than she said. Faith had little experience, but
there is an intuitive skill in some eyes to know what they have never
known before.
Mr. Linden bent down over the child, laying cheek to cheek softly and
silently, until Johnny rousing up a little held up his lips to be
kissed,--and he did not raise his head then.
"Have you been asleep, Johnny?" he said.
"I don't know," the child said dreamily.
"Has Miss Faith taken care of you ever since I went?"
"Yes," Johnny said, with a little faint smile--"and we've had talk."
"I wish I had been here to hear it," said Mr. Linden. "What was it
about?--all sorts of sweet things?"
"Yes," Johnny said again, his face brightening--"out of the Bible."
"Well they are the sweetest things I know of," said Mr. Linden. "Now if
you will come on my lap, I am sure Miss Faith will get you something to
eat--she can do it a great deal better than I can."
Faith had soon done that, and brought the cup to Johnny, of something
that he liked, and fed him as she had done at noon. It seemed to
refresh him, for he fell into a quieter sleep than he had had for some
time, and was oftly laid on the bed.
"Now dear Faith," Mr. Linden said coming back to her, "it is time for
you to go home and rest."
"Do you mean to send me?" she said wistfully.
"Or take you--" he said, with a soft touch of his fingers on her hair.
"I don't know but I could be spared long enough for that."
It was arranged so, Mrs. Derrick undertaking to supply all deficiencies
so far as she could, until Mr. Linden should get back again. The fast
drive home through the still cold air was refreshing to both parties;
it was a still drive too. Then leaving Mr. Linden to get a little rest
on the sofa, Faith prepared tea. But Mr. Linden would not stay long
after that, for rest or anything.
"I am coming very early to-morrow, Endecott," Faith said then.
"You may, dear child--if you will promise to sleep to-night. But you
must not rouse yourself too early. You know to-morrow is Saturday--so
I shall not be called off by other duties."
He went, and Mrs. Derrick came; but Faith, though weary enough
certainly, spent the evening in study.
CHAPTER XII.
There is no knowing what Mr. Linden would have considered "too early,"
and Faith had prudently omitted to enquire. She studied nothing but her
Bible that morning and spent the rest of the time in getting ready what
she was to take with her; for Mr. Linden would not come home to
breakfast. And it was but fair day, the sun had not risen, when she was
on her way. She wondered, as she went, what they would have done that
winter without Jerry; and looked at the colouring clouds in the east
with a strange quick appreciation of the rising of that other day told
of in the Bible. Little Johnny brought the two near; the type and the
antitype. It was a pretty ride; cold, bright, still, shadowless; till
the sun got above the horizon, and then the long yellow faint beams
threw themselves across the snow that was all a white level before.
They reached Faith's heart, as the commissioned earnest of that other
Sun that will fill the world with his glory and that will make heaven a
place where "there shall be no night."
The room where little Johnny was,--lay like the chamber called Peace,
in the Pilgrim's Progress--towards the sunrising; but to reach it Faith
had first to pass through another on the darker side of the house. The
door between the two stood open, perhaps for fresher air, and as Faith
came lightly in she could see that room lit up as it were with the
early sunbeams. It was an old-fashioned room;--the windows with chintz
shades, the floor painted, with a single strip of rag carpet; the old
low-post bed-stead, with its check blue and white spread, the
high-backed splinter chairs, told of life that had made but little
progress in modern improvement. And Jonathan Fax himself, lean,
long-headed, and lantern-jawed, looked grimmer than ever under his new
veil of solemn feeling. He sat by the window.
The wood fire in the low fireplace flickered and fell with its changing
light, on all; but within the warm glow a little group told of life
that had made progress--progress which though but yet begun, was to
go on its fair course through all the ages of eternity!
Little Johnny sat in his teacher's lap, one arm round his neck, and his
weary little head resting as securely on Mr. Linden's breast as if it
had been a woman's. The other hand moved softly over the cuff of that
black sleeve, or twined its thin fingers in and out the strong hand
that was clasped round him. Sometimes raising his eyes, Johnny put some
question, or asked for "talk;" his own face then much the brighter of
the two,--Faith could see the face that bent over him not only touched
with its wonted gravity, which the heavenly seal set there, but moved
and shaken in its composure by the wistful eyes and words of the little
boy. The answering words were too low-spoken for her to hear. She could
see how tenderly the child's caresses were returned,--not the mother
whose care Johnny had never known, could have given the little head
gentler rest. Nay, not so good,--unless she could have given the little
heart such comfort. For Johnny was in the arms of one who knew well
that road to the unseen land--who had studied it; and now as the child
went on before him, could still give him words of cheer, and shew him
the stepping-stones through the dark river. It seemed to Faith as if
the river were already in sight,--as if somewhat of
   "that strange, unearthly grace
   Which crowns but once the children of our race--"
already rested upon Johnny's fair brow. Yet he looked brighter than
yesterday, bright with a very sweet clear quietness now.
Faith stood still one minute--and another; then pulling off her hood,
she came in with a footfall so noiseless that it never brought Mr.
Fax's head from the window, and knelt down by the side of that group.
She had a smile for Johnny too, but it was a smile that had quite left
the things of the world behind it and met the child on his own ground;
and her kiss was sweet accordingly. A look and a clasp of the hand to
Mr. Linden; then she rose up and went round to the window to take the
hand of Mr. Fax, who had found his feet.
"I'm very much beholden to ye!" said he in somewhat astonished wise.
"You're takin' a sight o' trouble among ye."
"It's no trouble, sir."
Mr. Fax looked bewildered. He advanced to Mr. Linden. "Now this girl's
here," said he, "don't you think you hadn't better come into another
room and try to drop off? I guess he can get along without you for a
spell--can't he?"
"I am not quite ready to leave him," Mr. Linden said,--"and I am not at
all sleepy, Mr. Fax. Perhaps I will come by and by."
"We'll have breakfast, I conclude, some time this forenoon. I'll go and
see if it's ever comin'. Maybe you'll take that first."
He went away; and Faith, rid of her wrappers, came up again behind
Johnny, passing her fingers through his hair and bending down her face
to his; she did not speak. Only her eye went to Mr. Linden for
intelligence, as the eye will, even when it has seen for itself!
"Dr. Harrison is coming this morning," was all he said. She did not
need to ask any more.
"May Johnny have anything now?"
"O yes--and he will like it," Mr. Linden said in a different tone, and
half addressing the child. "He asked me some time ago when you were
coming--but not for that."
Faith brought something freshly prepared for Johnny and served him
tenderly. Meanwhile her own coffee had been on the fire; and after
making two or three simple arrangements of things she came back to them.
"Will you sit with me now, Johnny, and let Mr. Linden have some
breakfast?"
"In here?" the child said. But being reassured on that point, he came
to Faith's arms very willingly, or rather let Mr. Linden place him
there, when she had drawn her chair up nearer the table so that he
could look on. And with her arms wrapped tenderly round him, but a face
of as clear quiet as the morning sky when there are no clouds before
the sunrise, she sat there, and she and Johnny matched Mr. Linden's
breakfast. There was no need to talk, for Johnny had a simple pleasure
in what was going on, and in everything his friend did. And if the
little face before him hindered Mr. Linden's enjoyment of breakfast,
that was suffered to appear as little as possible. Breakfast was even
rather prolonged and played with, because it seemed to amuse him; and
the word and the smile were always ready, either to call forth or to
answer one from the child. Nor from him alone, for by degrees even
Faith was drawn out of her silence.
Mr. Linden had not yet changed his place, when on the walk that led up
to the house Faith saw the approach of Dr. Harrison. The doctor as he
came in gave a comprehensive glance at the table, Mr. Linden who had
risen, and Faith with Johnny in her lap; shook hands with Mr. Linden,
and taking the chair he had quitted sat down in front of Faith and
Johnny. A question and answer first passed about her own well-being.
"You've not been here all night?" said he.
"No, sir. I came a while ago."
The doctor's unsatisfied eye fell on the child; fell, with no change of
its unsatisfied expression. It took rapid and yet critical note of him,
with a look that Faith knew through its unchangingness, scanned,
judged, and passed sentence. Then Dr. Harrison rose and walked over to
Mr. Linden.
"There is nothing to be done," he said in a low tone. "I would
stay--but I know that it would be in vain. She ought not to be here."
For the first remark Mr. Linden was prepared,--the second fell upon a
heart that was already keeping closer watch over her strength and
happiness than even the doctor could. He merely answered by a quiet
question or two as to what could be done for the child's comfort--as to
the probable length of time there would be to do anything.
"He may have any simple thing he likes," said the doctor--"such as he
has had. I need not give you directions for more than to-day. I am
sorry I cannot stay longer with you--but it does not matter--you can do
as well as I now."
He went up to Faith and spoke with a different manner. "Miss Faith, I
hope you will not let your goodness forget that its powers need to be
taken care of. You were here yesterday--there is no necessity for you
to be here to-day."
"I don't come for necessity, Dr. Harrison."
"I know!" said he shaking his head,--"your will is strong! but it ought
not to have full play. You are not wanted here."
Faith let him go without an answer to that. As soon as the doctor was
gone, Mr. Linden came and sat down by Johnny again, kissing the child's
brow and cheek and lips, with a face a little moved indeed, and yet
with its clear look unclouded; and softly asked what he should do for
him. But though Johnny smiled, and stroked his face, he seemed rather
inclined to be quiet and even to sleep; yielding partly to the effect
of weakness and fever, partly to the restless night; and his two
teachers watched him together. Faith was very silent and quiet. Then
suddenly she said,
"Go and take some rest yourself, won't you, Endecott--now."
"I do not feel the need of it--" he said. "I had some snatches of sleep
last night."
She looked at him, but the silence was unbroken again for some little
time longer. At length, pushing aside a lock of hair from the fair
little brow beneath which the eyelids drooped with such unnatural
heaviness, Faith said,--and the tone seemed to come from very stillness
of heart, the words dropped so grave and clear,--
"The name of Christ is good here to-day, Endecott."
"How good! how precious!" was his quick rejoinder. "And how very
precious too, is the love of his will!"--and he repeated softly, as if
half thinking it out--
   "'I worship thee, sweet will of God!
   And all thy ways adore!
   And every day I live, I seem
   To love thee more and more.'"
An earnest, somewhat wistful glance of Faith's eye was the answer; it
was not a dissenting answer, but it went back to Johnny. Her lip was a
child's lip in its humbleness.
"It was very hard for me to give him up at first--" Mr. Linden went on
softly; and the voice said it was yet; "but that answers all questions.
'The good Husbandman may pluck his roses, and gather in his lilies at
mid-summer, and, for aught I dare say, in the beginning of the first
summer month.'"--
Faith looked at the little human flower in her arms--and was silent.
"Reuben was telling me yesterday--" she said after a few
minutes,--"what you have been to him."
But her words touched sweet and bitter things--Mr. Linden did not
immediately answer,--his head drooped a little on his hand, and he did
not raise it again until Johnny claimed his attention.
The quiet rest of the little sleeper was passing off,--changing into an
unquiet waking; not with the fear of yesterday but with a restlessness
of discomfort that was not easily soothed. Words and caresses seemed to
have lost their quieting power for the time, though the child's face
never failed to answer them; but he presently held out his arms to Mr.
Linden, with the words, "Walk--like last night."
And for a while then Faith had nothing to do but to look and listen; to
listen to the soft measured steps through the room, to watch the
soothing, resting effect of the motion on the sick child, as wrapped in
Mr. Linden's arms he was carried to and fro. She could tell how it
wrought from the quieter, unbent muscles--from the words which by
degrees Johnny began to speak. But after a while, one of these words
was, "Sing."--Mr. Linden did not stay his walk, but though his tone was
almost as low as his foot-steps, Faith heard every word.
   "Jesus loves me--this I know,
   For the Bible tells me so:
   Little ones to him belong,--
   They are weak, but he is strong.
   "Jesus loves me,--he who died
   Heaven's gate to open wide;
   He will wash away my sin,
   Let his little child come in.
   "Jesus loves me--loves me still,
   Though I'm very weak and ill;
   From his shining throne on high
   Comes to watch me where I lie.
   "Jesus loves me,--he will stay
   Close beside me all the way.
   Then his little child will take
   Up to heaven for his dear sake."
There were a few silent turns taken after that, and then Mr. Linden
came back to the rocking-chair, and told Faith in a sort of bright
cheerful way--meant for her as well as the child--that Johnny wanted
her to brush his hair and give him something to eat. Which Johnny
enforced with one of his quiet smiles. Faith sprang to do it, and both
offices were performed with hands of tenderness and eyes of love, with
how much inner trembling of heart neither eyes nor hands told. Then,
after all that was done, Faith stood by the table and began to swallow
coffee and bread on her own account, somewhat eagerly. Mr. Linden
watched her, with grave eyes.
"Now you must go and lie down," he said.
"Not at all!" Faith said with a smile at him. "I hadn't time--or didn't
take time--to eat my breakfast before I came away from home--that is
all. It is you who ought to do that, Endy,"--she added gently.
She put away the things, cleared the table, made up the fire, and
smoothed the bed, ready for Johnny when he should want it; and then she
came and sat down.
"Won't you go?" she said softly.
"I would rather stay here."
Faith folded her hands and sat waiting to be useful.
Perhaps Mr. Linden thought it would be a comfort to her if he at least
partly granted her request, perhaps he thought it would be wise; for he
said, laying his cheek against the child's,--
"Johnny, if you will sit with Miss Faith now, I will lay my head down
on one of your pillows for a little while, and you can call me the
minute you want me."
The child was very quiet and resting then, and leaning his head happily
against Faith, watched Mr. Linden as he sat down by the bedside and
gave himself a sort of rest in the way he had proposed; and then
Faith's gentle voice was put in requisition. It was going over some
things Johnny liked to hear, very softly so that no ears but his might
be the wiser,--when the door opened and Jonathan Fax came in again. He
glanced at Mr. Linden, and advanced softly up to Faith. There stood and
looked down at his child and her with a curious look--that half
recognized what it would not see.
"You're as good to him as if he belonged to ye!--" said Jonathan, in a
voice not clear.
"So he does--" was Faith's answer, laying her cheek to the little boy's
head. "By how many ties," she thought; but she added no more. The words
had shaken her.
"How's he gettin' on?" was the uneasy question next, as the father
stooped with his hands on his knees to look nearer at the child.
Did he not know? Faith for a minute held her breath. Then she lifted
her face and looked up--looked full into his eyes.
"Don't you know, Mr. Fax, that Johnny cannot go any way but well?"
The words were soft and low, but the man stood up, straightening
himself instantly as if he had received a blow.
"Do you mean to say," he asked huskily, "that he is goin' to die?"
It startled Faith fearfully. She did not know how much Johnny would
understand or be moved by the words. And she saw that they had been
heard and noted. With infinite softness and quietness she laid her
cheek to the little boy's, answering in words as sweet as he had ever
heard from her voice--as unfearful--
"Johnny knows where he is going, if Jesus wants him."
"Jesus is in heaven," the child said instantly, as if she had asked him
a question, and with the same deliberate manner that he would have
answered her in Sunday school, and raising his clear eyes to hers as he
had been wont to do there. But the voice was fainter.
Faith's head drooped lower, and her voice was fainter too--but clear
and cheery.
"Yes, darling--and we'll be with him there by and by."
"Yes," the child repeated, nestling his head against her in a weary
sort of way, but with a little smile still. The father looked at Faith
and at the child like one mazed and bewildered; stood still as if he
had got a shock; then wheeling round spoke to nobody and went out.
Faith pressed her lips and cheek lightly to Johnny's brow, in a rush of
sorrow and joy; then began again some sweet Bible story for his tired
little spirit.
Mr. Linden did not long keep even his resting position, though perhaps
longer than he would but for the murmuring talk which he did not want
to interrupt. But when that ceased, he came back to his former seat,
leaning his arm on Faith's chair in a silence that was very
uninterrupted. There were plenty of comers and goers in the outer
room,--Miss Bezac, and Mrs. Stoutenburgh, and Mrs. Derrick, and Mrs.
Somers, were all there with offers of assistance; but Mr. Linden knew
well that little Johnny had all he could have, and his orders to Reuben
had been very strict that no one should come in. So except the various
tones of different voices--which made their way once in a while--the
two watchers had nothing to break the still quiet in which they sat.
Their own words only made the quiet deeper, as they watched the little
feet which they had first guided in the heavenward path, now passing on
before them.
"We were permitted to shew him the way at first, Faith," Mr. Linden
said, "but he is shewing it to us now! But 'suffer them to come'! in
death as in life."
Much of the time the child slumbered--or lay in a half stupor, though
often this was uneasy unless Mr. Linden walked with him up and down the
room. Then he would revive a little, and look and speak quite brightly,
asking for singing or reading or talk,--letting Faith smooth his hair,
or bathe his face and hands, or give him a spoonful or two from one of
her little cups; his face keeping its fair quiet look, even though the
mortal began to give way before the immortal.
In one of these times of greater strength and refreshment, when he was
in Mr. Linden's arms, he looked up at him and said,
"Read about heaven--what you used to."
Mr. Linden took his little Bible--remembering but too readily what that
"used" to be, and read softly and clearly the verses in Revelation--
"'And he shewed me that great city, the holy Jerusalem.--And the city
had no need of the sun, neither of the moon, to shine in it: for the
glory of God did lighten it, and the Lamb is the light thereof. And the
nations of them that are saved shall walk in the light of it, and the
kings of the earth do bring their glory and honour unto it. And the
gates of it shall not be shut at all by day, for there shall be no
night there. And there shall in no wise enter into it anything that
defileth, or whatsoever worketh abomination, or maketh a lie, but they
that are written in the Lamb's book of life.'"
The child listened, with his eyes upon his teacher's face and his arm
round him, as he had been "used," too, and when the reading was
finished lay quiet for a little time; while his friends too were
silent--thinking of "the city that hath foundations."
"That's the same gate," Johnny said in his slow, thoughtful way, as if
his mind had gone back to the morning hymn.
"Yes," Mr. Linden said, with lips that would not quite be controlled,
and yet answering the child's smile, "that is the gate where his little
child shall go in! And that is the beautiful city where the Lord Jesus
lives, and where my Johnny is going to be with him forever--and where
dear Miss Faith and I hope to come by and by."
The child's hands were folded together, and with a fair, pure smile he
looked from one face to the other; closing his eyes then in quiet
sleep, but with the smile yet left.
It was no time for words. The gates of the city seemed too near, where
the little traveller's feet were so soon to enter. The veil between
seemed so slight, that even sense might almost pass beyond it,--when
the Heaven-light was already shining on that fair little face! Faith
wiped away tears--and looked--and brushed them away again; but for a
long time was very silent. At last she said, very low, that it might be
quietly,--
"Endecott--it seems to me as if I could almost hear them!"
He half looked the question which yet needed no answer, looking down
then again at the little ransomed one in his arms, as he said in the
same low voice, wherein mingled a note of the church triumphant through
all its deep human feeling,--
"'And they sung a new song, saying, Thou art worthy to take the book
and to open the seals thereof, for thou wast slain: and hast redeemed
us to God by thy blood, out of every kindred, and tongue, and people
and nation'!"
"And," said Faith presently, lower still,--"can't you, as Bunyan says,
hear the bells of the city ringing for joy!--"
Those "choral harmonies of heaven, heard or unheard," were stilling to
mortal speech and even mortal feeling. Very quietly the minutes and the
hours of that day succeeded each other. Quietly even on the sick
child's part; more so than yesterday; nature succumbed gently, and the
restless uneasiness which had marked the night and the preceding day
gave place gradually before increasing faintness of the bodily powers.
There was little "talk" called for after that time--hardly any, though
never a word met his waking ear that did not meet the same grateful,
pleased manner and smile. But the occasions became fewer; Johnny
slumbered gently, but more plainly a sleep that was nearing the end, in
the arms of his best friend, who would let him even when unconscious
have no worse resting-place--would let every faint waking minute find
the same earthly love about him that had been his dearest earthly
refuge and stay. But earth was having less and less of her little
immortal tenant; and as the hours of the afternoon began to tell of
failing light and a fading day, it was plain that the little spirit was
almost ready to wing its way to the "city that hath no need of the sun."
Mr. Fax came in sometimes to look at the child, but never staid
long--never offered to take him out of the hands he perhaps
unconsciously felt were more of kin to him, spiritually, than his own.
Out of the room, he sat down in the midst of his visitors and said
nothing. He seemed bewildered--or astounded. "I never knowed," he said
once, "till that girl told me. I heard what the doctor said at
night--but I didn't think as he was any wiser than other doctors--and
their word's about as good one side as 'tother."
At the edge of the evening Reuben came in to say that Mr. Skip was
there with the sleigh.
"Let him put Jerry in the stable and go home," Faith said softly to Mr.
Linden. "One of Mr. Fax's men can harness him any time."
"Dear Faith!" he said, "you had better go with him."
"I can't go, Endecott. Don't tell me to go,"--she said with a
determinate quietness.
"How can I let you stay?--you ought not to watch here all night--unless
there were something for you to do."
"There may be something for me to do," she said, but not as if that
were what she wanted to stay for.
"I think not," he said softly, and looking down again,--"Faith--it is
near the dawning!--and yet it may not be till the dawning. And dear
child, you ought not to watch here."
"It will not hurt me," she said under her breath.
"I know--" he said with a gentle admission of all her reasons and full
sympathy with all her wishes,--"but I think you ought not."
"Do you mean," she said after a minute's pause,--"that you wish me to
go?"
It was hard for him to say yes--but he did.
She sat still a moment, with her face in the shade; then rose up and
arranged everything about the room which her hands could better; made a
cup of tea and brought it to Mr. Linden; and prepared herself for her
ride. When she came at last, ready, with only her hood to put on, her
face was almost as fair as Johnny's. There was no shadow on it of any
kind, but clear day, as if a reflection from the "city" she had been
looking towards. She put her hand in Mr. Linden's and knelt down as she
had done in the morning to kiss Johnny. Her lips trembled--but the
kisses were quietly given; and rising to her feet without speaking or
looking, Faith went away.
If quietness was broken on the ride home, it was restored by the time
