"I should like to see him licked, and so would every other fellow in
the school."

"I think I can take care of him."

"Do you know any thing about the science?"

"O, well, something," replied Richard, with assumed indifference.

But Richard had been very thoroughly educated in the science of
self-defence by Bob Bleeker, who had served his time as a butcher's boy
in New York city, and done duty there as a rough of the first water.

"Nevers knows all about it. He has had half a dozen pitched battles
with fellows whom he bullied, and all of them got whipped. Nevers has
been 'cock of the walk' for the last year, for no fellow dares say a
word to him."

Richard said no more, but went directly to the place where the bully
was standing. He walked up to him with a bold and defiant air.

"I am glad to meet you, Nevers," said he, with easy self-possession.

"Are you, my fighting chicken?" laughed Nevers.

"You called me a dough-head this morning," added Richard.

"I did; and to make sure that there is no mistake, I repeat it--You are
a dough-head."

"Then take that for your impudence!" said Richard, as with a sudden
movement he slapped the bully's face.

"A fight! A fight!" shouted the dozen boys who were gathered in that
part of the grove.

"What do you want, Grant?" demanded Nevers, turning pale and red with
rage. "Do you want me to lick you?"

"If you please. You wanted to know what I am made of. I am ready to
show you."

"Clear the ring!" shouted the boys, forming a circle round the two
belligerents.

Richard coolly threw off his jacket and vest, rolled up his shirt
sleeves, unloosed his suspenders, and wound them round his waist, to
support his pants. Nevers threw off his jacket only. By this time, at
least fifty boys had assembled to witness the encounter; and so
unpopular was the bully, that Richard had the sympathy of the whole
crowd, except a few personal friends of his opponent.

"I am all ready," said Richard, taking the most approved attitude.

"So am I," replied the ready Nevers, as he edged up to Richard, and
attempted to plant a blow by the side of his head, which was handsomely
parried, and a left-handed rap lodged under the eye of the bully.

This blow maddened Nevers, and he redoubled his efforts to crush his
opponent, as he had expected to do at the first onset. "Keep cool, and
have both eyes open," had been the oft-repeated admonition of Richard's
distinguished instructor in the sublime art of self-defence, and he
carefully observed the instruction. After a few more plunges on the
part of Nevers, he found himself on the ground, from the effect of a
stunning blow which Richard had given him on the side of the head.

"Are you satisfied?" called Richard, flushed with victory.

"No!" yelled Nevers, as he sprang to his feet, and rushed upon his
antagonist.

Richard's coolness enabled him to do wonders, and the bully was down
again in a moment more.

"Come on if you are not satisfied," said Richard, whose nose was
bleeding, and on whose face there was a huge swelling, caused by the
bully's hard fist.

"Time!" shouted the boys.

"Gault's coming! Dry up!" "Settle it another time," added others, as
they began to scatter.




CHAPTER XII.

RICHARD DOES A "BIG THING," AND TAKES THE CONSEQUENCES.


In the language of the "prize ring," Nevers was still able to "come to
time;" therefore Richard could not be regarded as the victor in the
fierce contest. The boys who formed the ring began to scatter as soon
as the coming of the assistant teacher was announced. But they helped
the combatants to clothe themselves, and used every effort in their
power to conceal the fact that a fight had taken place.

"A drawn battle," said one of the students.

"Grant," said Nevers, "I am far from being satisfied. At five o'clock,
if you are ready, we will finish this business."

"With all my heart," replied Richard, wiping the blood from his nose.

"I hope you will do so," said the bully, earnestly.

"You hope I will! Do you suppose I will not? I am willing to be put
under bonds to appeal at the time named, Nevers. If any body backs out,
I shall not be the one."

"I am sure I shall not."

"Good!" shouted the boys.

"Now, keep still, fellows," added Nevers. "Don't say a word about it,
or all the fun will be spoiled."

The spectators of the barbarous spectacle all promised to keep still,
and Richard moved over to a brook behind the grove to wash the blood
from his face. His opponent had sundry very bad-looking places on his
physiognomy, but no blood had been drawn.

By this time Mr. Gault made his appearance in the grove; but so well
did the boys play their parts, that he did not even suspect that any
unusual event had transpired. Some of them commenced a game of "tag,"
and played with such zeal that no one could have suspected they were
not in earnest. Others engaged in conversation, and those who had
followed Richard to the brook resumed their labors upon the dam and
water wheel.

Mr. Gault had no particular motive in visiting the grove. He was merely
taking a walk in the discharge of his duty, which included a general
supervision of the boys on all the grounds. But Richard kept out of his
way, fearful lest his swelled face should betray him, and thus prevent
the final settlement of the account. He felt like a victor already, for
he was perfectly confident that his superior science and coolness would
give him the battle.

I am sorry to add that he did not think of the good resolutions he had
made; or, if he did, he banished the thought as inconvenient and
uncomfortable. He really believed that he had been deeply injured by
the bully of the Institute, and if he did not regard it as a positive
duty to obtain satisfaction, he at least felt that such a course was
perfectly justifiable.

Nevers was the bully of the school. Weak and timid boys were obliged
to submit to his insults. He had won the position of the "best man" in
the school, and he employed his power in playing the tyrant. Richard
felt that he must either whip him, or acknowledge him as his superior,
and submit to his rule.

The element of pride also had a powerful influence upon his mind.
Bailey had told him that Nevers could whip any fellow in the Institute;
and it followed, of course, if he could master him, he should at once
become the champion of the ring. Richard regarded this as a proud
distinction, and he was quite willing to have a battered nose and a
swelled face in the achievement of such an honor.

More than all this, Richard was animated by the generous sentiment
that, in fighting and whipping the bully of the ring, he became the
champion of the weak and the timid, who dared not resent the insolence
of Nevers.

When he had washed his face and stopped the bleeding, he followed the
course of the brook, till it emptied itself into the river, which was a
small stream some four or five rods wide. He was attended by Bailey and
two or three other boys, who had suddenly conceived a very great
admiration for him. If he was not the victor in the fight, he had the
advantage, and he had already partially entered upon the enjoyment of
the honors which would be bestowed upon the conqueror of Nevers.

A short distance above the mouth of the brook, the river received the
waters of the beautiful and picturesque Tunbrook Lake. The Institute
grounds bordered upon it for some distance, and great was the
satisfaction of Richard when he saw several boats, which his companions
informed him belonged to the school. There was a large schooner-rigged
sail boat, two twelve-oar race boats, besides three smaller craft. He
felt at home here, and inquired particularly whether the boys were
allowed to use these boats. They were only permitted to sail in company
with some of the instructors.

The boys were exercised in rowing on Saturday afternoons, when the
regular sessions of the school were suspended, and also upon the
occasional holidays which were granted. The lake was seven miles long,
by about two in breadth, so that there was abundant sea room. While
they were examining the boats, and viewing the beautiful lake, the
signal bell in the tower of the Institute school room sounded its
warning peal, and summoned them to study and recitation.

"How does my face look, Bailey?"

"Not very bad."

"Do you think Gault will smell a mice when he hears my lessons?"

"I don't see why he should."

"I guess I can stave him off if he does," added Richard, confidently.
"Didn't you see me tumble down when that fellow chased me?"

"What fellow?" asked Bailey.

"Any fellow you please," replied Richard, with a knowing smile.

"I didn't see any fellow chase you," added Bailey, innocently.

"Can't you see through a millstone when there is a hole in it?"

"Of course I can."

"Don't you see what I mean?"

"No, I don't."

"If Gault asks me how I hurt my face, I will tell him a fellow was
chasing me, and I tumbled down. Of course all the rest of you saw it."

"But I don't see it," persisted Bailey.

"Don't you, indeed! Then I think you ought to have a pair of leather
spectacles."

"O, I know what you mean, but I don't believe in lying about it."

"Ah, then you are a military saint--are you?" said Richard, with a
sneer.

"All but the saint," laughed Bailey. "I don't think there is any use in
lying about it."

"Then I suppose you think it was very wicked of me to fight with
Nevers."

"No, I don't," answered Bailey, promptly and decidedly. "Nevers is a
bully, and he insulted you. My father always told me never to take an
insult, but he would thrash me for telling a lie."

"Well, Bailey, I believe you are right. I think it is mean to tell a
lie; but how shall I manage it?"

"Face the music. A fellow who can stand such a pounding as you have
had, wouldn't mind being punished."

"I don't like to be punished."

"I don't know as the colonel would punish you. If a fellow gets up a
fight, he has to take it; but if he only defends himself, he says he
does no more than his duty."

"Well, who got up this fight?"

"That's the point. Nevers insulted you, and you pitched into him. I
don't know which is most to blame."

"We will leave it to the powers that be, and not bother our heads about
the question. I won't lie about it, any how."

By the time this point was settled the boys had reached the school
room. Richard applied himself with zeal and patience to the labors of
the afternoon, determined to do his whole duty. When called out to
recite, Mr. Gault noticed the swelling upon his face, and at recess
asked him what had caused it.

"It was done in a little affair out in the grove sir," replied Richard.

"What kind of an affair?"

"Nevers and I had a little set-to," said Richard.

"Rather rough play, I should think," added Mr. Gault, as he struck the
bell for the work to be resumed.

Richard congratulated himself that he had escaped, and, as he thought,
without telling a lie. He told none with his lips, but his manner was
such as to assure the teacher that the affair in the grove had been
nothing but friendly sport. Deception, or wilfully misleading another,
for the accomplishment of a purpose, is, in our opinion, just as
culpable a falsehood as gaining the same end by a lie expressed in
words. But Richard had not come up to this standard.

At the close of the school session, Richard hastened to the grove, as
did all the boys who were in the secret of the fight. Nevers was on the
ground soon after him, and the arrangements for the fight were hastily
completed. A line of scouts reaching from the parade ground to the
grove was stationed at convenient distances to give warning of the
approach of any of the teachers. The ring was formed, and Richard
coolly divested himself of all superfluous clothing, and prepared with
the utmost care for the desperate encounter.

Nevers was ready sooner than Richard, for he was not so precise in the
arrangement of his garments. As he took his place in the ring, though
he stood strong and defiant, there was a kind of nervousness in his
manner, which might have been detected by a keen observer.

"Come, Grant, we shall not get to work to-day, if you don't hurry up,"
said Nevers, his lip curling into a sneer.

But it was the bully in him that spoke. He had a reputation to sustain,
and he was saying and doing all he could to ward off any imputation
upon his courage.

"In one moment, Nevers," added Richard.

"You are as particular as though you were going to a ball," continued
Nevers.

"I suppose you are too much of a man to bawl, whatever happens; so
there won't be any," replied Richard.

"We shall have the colonel and all the teachers down upon us, if you
don't get fixed soon."

"I'm all ready," said Richard, throwing himself into the attitude of
the pugilist.

"Come on, then."

Richard edged up to his antagonist, and after considerable sparring,
the fight commenced in good earnest. Nevers was too much excited to use
all his strength to the best advantage, for the first hit he received
seemed to make him angry. In the first round Richard had the advantage.
In the second, Nevers knocked him down; but he was not at all
disconcerted. The heavy blows he received did not appear to disturb his
equanimity, while his opponent worked himself up into a towering
passion. The fight went on for ten minutes with varying results. At one
time all the spectators were sure that Nevers would win, and at another
they were equally sure that Grant would be the victor.

The anger of Nevers exhausted him more than his tremendous efforts.
Both parties had been terribly punished, but Richard was still cool and
self-possessed. At last Nevers became desperate, and rushed upon his
foe, determined at one effort to crush him. He was furious, and
abandoned all the science he had brought to his aid, and apparently
depended entirely upon brute force. The consequence was, that he laid
himself open to his cool rival, and Richard rained a series of
tremendous blows upon his head, which carried him under. He fell
heavily upon the ground, and lay there incapable of moving.

Richard, though his nose was bleeding, and he could not see out of one
eye, seated himself on the ground for a moment, till he had recovered
his breath, and then took his place in the ring.

"Time!" cried the friends of Richard.

But Nevers could not "come to time." He raised himself partly up, but
sank back again, incapable of making the effort to rise.

"Come on!" said Richard, as he sparred a little with his fists to
assure the spectators that he was "game" to the last.

Nevers made no reply, and Richard was declared the victor by his own
friends, and the proposition was admitted by those of his prostrate
antagonist.

"I am satisfied," added Richard, as he picked up his clothes, and made
his way down to the brook, attended by an admiring crowd.

When Nevers recovered his breath, he rose from the ground, and his
companions helped him down to the water, where he was bathed by his
sympathizing friends. Both of the combatants were severely though not
seriously injured.

"What's to be done now, fellows?" asked Richard, when all that cold
water could do for him had been done. "I suppose we are all in a bad
scrape."

"That's so," replied several. "We will stand by you, Grant, as well as
we can."

"I am not exactly in condition to appear at dress parade," added
Richard, turning his head round, so as to bring his available eye to
bear upon his companions.

"You are better off than Nevers, who is first sergeant of Company D."

"Can't we keep out of sight till we get our eyes open, as little
kittens do?"

"Roll call before dress parade," suggested Bailey.

"Can't some fellow answer for me? I will spend the night in the cabin
of the sail boat on the lake. It won't be the first time I've slept in
a boat."

"That won't do. Better face the music, Grant."

"But I shall be punished for this affair. I don't----"

"Colonel Brockridge is coming!" was the word passed down the line of
scouts, interrupting Richard's remarks on the subject of punishment.

"What shall I do?"

"Don't do any thing, Grant," said Bailey. "You are sure to be found
out, whatever you do. If you run away, it will be all the worse for
you."

Richard, after a moment's reflection, was of the same opinion, and he
decided to take the consequences, whatever they might be.

"What does all this mean?" demanded the colonel, sternly, when he saw
the swelled face of Richard.

"Been a fight, sir," replied several of the boys.

"Between whom?"

"Nevers and Grant."

"Nevers and Grant will report forthwith in my office," said the
principal, as he walked back to the Institute.




CHAPTER XIII.

RICHARD LISTENS TO A HOMILY ON FIGHTING, AND SPENDS THE NIGHT IN THE
GUARD HOUSE.


Richard, in obedience to the order of the principal, immediately
repaired to the office, where he was soon joined by Nevers, both of
them very much the worse for the encounter.

"You have been fighting--have you, young gentlemen?" demanded Colonel
Brockridge, as he entered the room.

"Yes, sir," replied both of the culprits, in the same breath.

"You know the rules of the Institute, Nevers," added the principal,
sternly.

"I do, sir; but I was struck, and was obliged to fight in
self-defence."

"And you, Grant, had common sense enough to know better than to engage
in a fight. You struck the first blow--did you?"

"I struck the first blow that was given with the fist, but Nevers
struck the heaviest blow with his tongue."

"Explain, Grant."

"At breakfast I was informed by Nevers that they found out what boys
were made of on drill."

"Did you make use of this remark, Nevers?" asked the principal.

"I did, sir."

"What did you mean by it?"

"Simply that we found out something about a boy's capacity."

"Ah, indeed!" added Colonel Brockridge, in a slightly satirical tone.
"What did you understand by the remark, Grant?"

"That a fellow who hadn't spunk enough to protect himself must submit
to be insulted, and to be bullied by those who were wiser than he in
military matters."

"I did not mean that, sir," protested Nevers.

"His looks and his tone indicated it," said Richard. "And when he was
directed to instruct me in the positions, his tone and manner were
haughty and domineering. I so understood it, sir; if I am wrong, I am
willing to apologize. In the course of the drill he called me a
dough-head."

"Is this true, Nevers?"

"It is; but I did not call him so till I was satisfied he did not mean
to observe the order. In teaching him the facings, he would not come
about till all the others had finished the movement."

"I wouldn't, if I had been in his place," added the colonel, very much
to the astonishment of Richard, and very much to the indignation of
Nevers. "You know very well that one boy is never permitted in this
school to domineer over another. You took pains beforehand to inform
Grant, by your words, and especially by your looks and actions, that
you meant to haze him, to bully him. As a decent boy, he could not
submit to it. Then you called him a dough-head; which, as Grant
suggests, was the heaviest blow that was struck, for it touches a spot
which the fist cannot reach. Nevers, you commenced the fight."

"I think not, sir."

"We don't argue the matter, sir," said the colonel, sharply. "One thing
more: no pupil is allowed to use ungentlemanly language to another
pupil. Obedience to officers who are merely students is purely
voluntary. If a boy refuses to obey the officers, he must leave the
company. No boy is compelled to go into the ranks. On drill the case is
still stronger, Nevers. If the recruit will not obey, it is the duty of
the drill officer to report him to the instructor. If you had done so,
it would have been Mr. Gault's duty to drill Grant himself."

Nevers made no reply to these remarks. He cast a savage glance at
Richard, who appeared to have conquered him in the forum as well as in
the field.

"Grant, you are also to blame," continued the principal. "We will not
permit you to be insulted, bullied, or domineered over. I will protect
you, but you must not take the law into your own hands. A blow is not
justifiable except in self-defence, or when all other means have
failed. You knew it was wrong to strike Nevers."

"I did not think so, at the time, sir," replied Richard. "What you have
said has changed my view of the matter."

Nevers sneered at this remark of his antagonist, and Richard saw and
felt that sneer. It was as much as to say that he, Richard, was making
his peace with the principal by pretending a penitence he did not feel.
It stung him where he was very sensitive, and he was angry.

While his wrath was boiling, and he was considering in what manner he
should punish his crestfallen rival for his savage look and his bitter
sneer, the parting admonition of Bertha came to his mind, with the
promise that he had made to obey the rules of the school. This
suggested his big resolutions to reform his life and character. A
brutal fight on the first day of his residence at Tunbrook was not
exactly redeeming his solemn promise to his sister; nor was the
conquest of Nevers a step towards the conquest of himself.

Yet, in spite of his promise, and in spite of his resolutions, he could
not believe that he had been altogether in the wrong. He thought
Colonel Brockridge's views of the case were very sensible: and while he
wished he had not been so hasty in hitting Nevers, he felt, as the
principal had suggested, that his conduct was greatly palliated by the
provocation he had received.

Nevers cast looks of hatred and contempt at him, which stirred his
blood deeper than even the words of insults he had received. He came to
the conclusion that the bully had not got enough yet, and impulsively
he determined to give him some more at the first convenient
opportunity. But when he thought of the promise he had made to Bertha,
when he thought of his resolution to conquer himself, he struggled with
the temptation, and finally had the strength to say to the malignant
demon of hatred and revenge, "Get thee behind me, Satan." The victory
was won; the heart of Richard was at peace; he had actually conquered
himself this time.

"You have both done wrong," said the principal, after a few moments'
consideration, during which time Richard had won a greater and nobler
victory than that he had gained in the grove.

"I am sorry for it," said Richard, and it was almost the first time in
his life that he had acknowledged himself in the wrong.

Nevers cast a look full of contempt at him when he uttered these words;
but Richard, under the influence of the good angel which had taken
possession of his soul, did not permit the look to ruffle him.

"I will do right, and feel right, this time, if I never did before,"
said he to himself.

"Nevers," added the principal, "your warrant as orderly sergeant is
withdrawn; you are reduced to the ranks. You can go, now. Remove those
stripes from your arms."

The sentence was a heavy blow to the bully. For a year he had been
trying to obtain promotion. He wanted a commission. The company
officers were elected from the sergeants, and he was confident that he
should be chosen captain of Company D at the next election. He had been
a sergeant for a year and a half, and would have been a captain if he
had not been a bully; for there were enough who disliked him on this
account to prevent his election. As the first sergeant of the company,
he was almost sure that he should be chosen the next time. But his
sentence removed all hope of such preferment.

"Grant, I believe you are sincerely sorry for what has happened; but
you have done wrong, and you must be punished."

Richard's anger rose at these words, and he was disposed to resent the
idea of being punished for what he had done, especially after the judge
had ruled so decidedly in his favor.

"I shall order you to be placed under arrest, and to spend the night in
the guard house. You will report to me at dress parade. You can go."

The culprit's lips were compressed, and his teeth were tightly closed.
He was angry, for he had expected to be fully justified before the boys
for his conduct. An impudent remark trembled on the end of his tongue,
but the memory of the conquest he had achieved over himself prevented
him from uttering it.

"I have done wrong, and I have owned that I was in the wrong. I will
submit," said Richard to himself, as he left the office.

When he went out upon the play ground, he found the boys assembled in
groups discussing the exciting event of the day. They gathered around
him to learn the result of the trial.

"Nevers has lost his office, and I am under arrest, to spend the night
in the guard house," replied Richard, in answer to their inquiries.

"You got off easy," said Bailey.

"I suppose I did; at any rate, I am satisfied."

"Nevers has lost his warrant," exclaimed the boys, who were
particularly technical in speaking of military events. "Let's give
three cheers."

"Don't do it," said Richard. "It's a hard case for him."

"I am glad of it. The bully is down," added one."

"You licked him well," said another.

"I am sorry I did," replied Richard. "I didn't understand the matter so
well then as I do now. Colonel Brockridge is a trump!"

If any of Richard's friends at Woodville had heard this remark, they
would have been ready to canonize him at once, for it was so utterly at
variance with his style, that his acquaintances would not have
recognized it as coming from him. But Richard was engaged in the
conquest of himself, and had won two or three important victories.

The early call for dress parade sounded, and the boys all hasted to the
armories to prepare for it. As Richard had no uniform yet, he was
excused from serving, and reported himself to the colonel, as he had
been ordered. When the parade was finished, the principal delivered a
homily on fighting, stating the facts connected with the combat of that
day, and commenting upon them. He condemned fighting in round terms,
declaring it was never necessary, except in self-defence. The civil and
the social law would protect every member of the community, and there
could be no need of resorting to the barbarous custom of settling
differences by single combat. He applied the principles he laid down
to the case before him so clearly, that Richard lost much of his
admiration of the "noble art of self-defence"--as pugilists stupidly
style the act of fighting, to ascertain who is the better man.

Lest our boy friends should not fully understand us, we must add, that
the colonel's views are ours. A boy ought to fight in self-defence;
never to find out which is "the better man." He should use no more
violence than is necessary to defend himself. A boy is bound to protect
his weak friend--not from words, but from blows--to the best of his
ability, by using blows, when they are necessary. We can excuse, but we
cannot justify, the boy who strikes another for insulting his mother or
his sister. We believe in a "kiss for a blow," but we also believe that
cannon are often the best peacemakers. "Blessed are the peacemakers,"
but he who permits himself to be unjustly scourged is more truly a
fomenter of strife than he who conquers a peace in a good cause by the
might of his strong arm.

At the conclusion of his remarks, Colonel Brockridge ordered Richard to
be conducted to the guard house, where he was to spend the night. Mr.
Gault was directed to see the order executed, and the culprit was
marched to the apartment which served as a place of confinement for
offenders. He submitted to the punishment with the best grace he could
command, but he was mortified and humiliated.

The guard house was a bugbear to the boys of the Institute. It was a
small room, with the mockery of iron bars at the window, placed there
more for effect than for any thing else. It contained a bed and a
stool, with no other furniture. But it was regarded as a terrible place
by the boys; not that it was a very great hardship to spend a night
there, but because of the disgrace which the popular sentiment of the
establishment had attached to the prison.

Richard entered, and the door was locked upon him. The room was dark,
but he was not permitted to have a light. He seated himself upon the
stool, and it was literally the stool of repentance to him. His supper
was brought to him, and the servant stood by with a lamp till he had
eaten it. He was then left alone for the night, to meditate upon the
folly and wickedness of engaging in a fight without justifiable cause.

One of the first questions which the hero of the fight asked himself
was, whether he had not too tamely submitted to the authority which had
humiliated and punished him. That he had done so was the most
surprising thing he had ever known himself to do. And when he came to
ask himself why he had submitted, he could very clearly trace the
reason to the good resolution he had made to reform his life and
character--to conquer himself. It was hard for him to give in, but he
was satisfied with himself, and began to feel that he had really made
some progress in the great work.

He wanted to write a letter to Bertha, and tell her all about the
events of the day--how patiently he had submitted to reproof and
punishment; and record his solemn determination to conquer himself. He
had no light, and no materials for writing; so, at an early hour, he
went to bed; and fatigued with the labors and excitement of the day, he
forgot in sleep that he was a prisoner.

At reveille, in the morning, he was discharged from arrest, and ordered
to report for duty in the school room. He was still strong in his good
resolutions, and the sneers and frowns of Nevers and his clique did not
disturb him--did not even tempt him to indulge in the cheap retaliation
of sneers and frowns in return.

In the course of the day Richard found that he was a lion. He had
thrashed the bully of the school, and won the enviable position of
champion of the Institute. But even this glory did not seem to be worth
much; for since the fight, he realized that he had whipped a bigger
fellow than Nevers.

For a week, in school and out, Richard was true to himself, and behaved
nobly. More times than we have room to record, during this period, he
got the better of his ever-familiar foe, and every new victory improved
his morale and added to his prestige.

At this point in his school career, the students were ordered to
perform the usual round of camp duty; and at eight o'clock in the
morning, the battalion took up the line of march for the appointed
place, at the other end of Tunbrook Lake, distant ten miles by the
road.




CHAPTER XIV.

RICHARD DOES GUARD DUTY, AND IS CAPTURED BY AN ENEMY.


Camping out was a great event at Tunbrook, and the students looked
forward to it with pleasant anticipations for weeks. The principal was
shrewd in his policy, and no one knew when it would take place till it
was announced, only a day or two before the march. By this plan he
prevented any diversion of the thoughts from the lessons. Neither did
the boys know where they were going when they started. They obeyed the
orders which were given from time to time, and even when they halted
for the night and pitched their tents, they could not find out whether
they had reached the end of the march or not. The colonel told them
that soldiers should be taught to obey orders, and cured of all
propensity to ask questions.

The tour of camp duty for the summer term had been almost a continuous
march; and during the campaign of ten days, they had travelled over a
hundred miles. Colonel Brockridge was an earnest believer in the
necessity of physical development in boys. He was of the opinion that
they could stand almost every thing, if they were regularly and
systematically inured to hardship. Weak papas and tender mammas raised
their hands with horror at the idea of having their Johnny sleep on the
ground in a tent, and stick to the camp whether it was fair weather or
foul; but the colonel could adduce hundreds of instances where boys of
puny constitutions had become strong and vigorous under this treatment.

He believed that more boys had been spoiled by being "babied" than ever
had been injured in the slightest degree by hardship--if military duty,
as it was performed at Tunbrook, could be called hardship. It was very
certain that the boys enjoyed camping out; and if a few of them sneezed
or coughed after their return, these were not regarded as fatal
symptoms.

Richard was in his element when the school was put upon its muscle.
Though nothing but a private in Company D, and subject to the orders of
his inferiors in body and mind, he performed his duty cheerfully, and
enjoyed it very much. After Nevers had been cured of his folly, there
was not another boy in the establishment who had the hardihood or the
desire to impose upon him.

Every thing was done with military order and precision on the morning
that the battalion marched from the Institute. Though the reader knows
where they were going, not an officer or a private had a suspicion of
their destination; and none but a few of the new comers asked the
question, or appeared to care. In front of the battalion was the band,
and behind it came the wagons containing the tents, baggage, and
pontoon train. The principal and the instructors were scattered along
the line, where they could superintend the operations of the column.

Major Morgan, in command of the battalion, had evidently received
instructions for a portion of the day; for, without any direction from
the teachers, he led his command over the road to the grove, and in
fifteen minutes after they started, the order to halt was given. The
battalion stood rigid as a stake where they were ordered, and presently
the engineer corps was detached for duty. The pontoon wagon was brought
up, and unloaded by the side of the river. The boats, which were of
rubber, were inflated, and the business of building a bridge across the
stream was commenced.

Every thing was so nicely prepared that the work was accomplished in an
incredibly short space of time. The battalion, followed by its wagons,
crossed the pontoon bridge, the boats and the planks were taken up and
loaded upon the wagon again, and the troops were ready to march.
Neither Colonel Brockridge nor any of the instructors had spoken a word
during these operations, for the engineers had been thoroughly trained
in their difficult duty.

For an hour the battalion marched without stopping. The orders
"shoulder arms," "support arms," "right shoulder shift" relieved them
occasionally; but some legs began to ache before a halt was permitted.
During the next hour they marched most of the way with the "route
step." At twelve o'clock they halted for dinner and an hour's rest. The
haversacks of the soldiers had been filled with crackers and cold ham,
and they had a jolly dinner in a grove where they stopped.

About four o'clock in the afternoon, they reached the upper end of the
lake, and the orders necessary for forming a camp were given. The tents
were pitched, the boundaries of the camp marked out, and a detail for
guard duty was made from each company. Every thing proceeded precisely
as it would if they had been old soldiers, and engaged in the actual
business of war.

Richard was one of those who had been detailed from Company D, for
guard duty. The camp ground was a large, open plain, bordering on one
side upon a dense forest. The night was dark and dismal, and at nine
o'clock Richard found himself walking his lonely beat, on the verge of
the forest. There was a novelty about the situation that was very
attractive to him, and as he walked his solitary round, he actually
enjoyed it. It was not to all probable that an enemy, or even a
straggler, would disturb the quiet of the scene by attempting to pass
the line; but though the guard had been commanded to be vigilant, he
had abundant time and opportunity for reflection and castle-building.

Our sentinel had imbibed much of the spirit of the soldier, from the
martial exercise to which he had been trained, and he indulged in some
pretty visions of military glory. They were very pleasant and very
alluring at that time, when the country was enjoying profound peace.
Even the politicians, who were compromising with difficulties, present
and future, never dreamed that the war blast would sound through the
land in their day and generation, and were unbelievers in the dire
prophecies which they uttered. While Richard's fancy led him to scenes
of blood and glory on the battle field, he little thought that an
opportunity would so soon be presented for the practical application of
his military knowledge, and for the indulgence of his military
ambition.

While he was dreaming of war and glory, while in imagination he was
leading battalions of brave men to battle and victory, his reflections
were disturbed by the approach of a squad of boys. It was so dark that
he did not see them till they were within a few rods of him. It was
evident that they had left the tents by stealth, and must have crept
some portion of the way on the ground to escape observation. When they
came near enough to be challenged, the guard called out,--

"Who comes there?"

"Friends," replied one of the party.

"Advance, one friend, and give the countersign."

One of them stepped forward, and Richard held him at bay with his
bayonet, according to military custom.

"I declare, I have forgotten the countersign," said he.

"Then I will call the corporal of the guard."

"No; hold on a minute. I shall think of it in a moment."

Richard was willing to give him a fair chance, as there was no enemy in
the vicinity who could possibly intend to capture the battalion. But
while he was waiting, the fellow suddenly grasped his musket, and
attempted to wrest it from his hands. But this was a game at which two
could play as well as one; and Richard, instead of giving the alarm, as
he should have done, threw himself upon his muscle, and attempted to
beat off his assailants.

The rest of the party immediately came to the assistance of the fellow,
and, after a short but sharp struggle, the sentinel was overpowered,
and his gun taken from him. At the conclusion of the struggle Richard
found himself upon his back, on the ground, held down by the whole
squad of boys, or as many as could get hold of him. One of them held a
handkerchief over his mouth, so that he could not give the alarm, now
that he found it necessary to do so.

Richard supposed this rough treatment could be nothing more than a
practical joke--one of those tricks played off upon raw recruits, to
teach them the necessity of vigilance, and a nice observance of the
rules of the service. When he was overpowered, therefore, he submitted
to his fate, whatever it might prove to be, hoping his captors would
relax their hold upon him just long enough to enable him to turn the
tables upon them; for he was vain enough to believe that he could whip
the whole dozen of them, if he could only have fair play.

"Let him up, now, and we will tie his hands behind him," said one of
the party, in a feigned voice, to prevent the victim from recognizing
the speaker.

"But he will halloo, if we let him up," replied the one who had
answered his challenge, and whose voice Richard could not identify.

"I'll stop his mouth, if he hallooes," added the first speaker. "I'll
hit him over the head with the butt of his musket."

"No, no," said the other; "you'll kill him. We don't want to injure
him."

"I do; I wouldn't mind cracking his skull for him."

"No, no; we shall get into trouble ourselves if we do any thing of that
kind."

Richard thought they would any way, as soon as he could obtain the use
of his arms. He felt so well qualified to take care of himself that he
would have been willing to give his bond not to halloo, or call any one
to his assistance, though he could not help wondering that the
sentinels whose beats were next to his own, did not arrive at the scene
of operations. It was evident to him that they were asleep on their
posts, or that they were accomplices of the conspirators.

"Now, get up," said the speaker, who used the disguised voice.

Richard promptly obeyed this order, and though several of the boys held
on to him as he rose, a terrible struggle ensued, in which the captured
sentinel almost made good his mental boast; but they were too many for
him, and his hands were tied behind him with a knapsack strap, in spite
