from his fixed habits. 

His intercourse with Mr. Hunt's family was, as we know y 
purely accidental in its commencement, and in its earlier 
stages might have been induced by humanity or friendship 
for the sick father. In Sarah's brain there had never arisen 
a suspicion of any ulterior motive in the pointed attentions 
directed of late to herself. Before Lucy's return, the care 
of her invalid parent and her day-dreams had engrossed 
heart and thought to an extent that precluded much inquiry 
into other themes. Since that memorable night, inward 
torture had abstracted her mind still more from outward 
impressions. 

This afternoon she talked calmly and indifferently to Mr. 
Hammond, without an idea that he made any greater 
effort to please her. To Jeannie she was tender beyond her 
usual showing, in remembrance of the wrong done the sensitive child in the forenoon. Mr. Hammond emulated her 
in kindness to the third member of their party; and in the 
course of their ride, raised himself unwittingly to the rank 
of rivalship with " Cousin Philip," her model gentleman. 

Mr. Hunt came out to assist his daughter to alight, upon their return. There was a heartiness in his acknowledgment of his deputy's politeness, and invitation to enter the 
house and pss the evening with them, which Sarah had 
seldom heard him employ towards any visitor. Mr. Ham 
mond may have remarked it likewise, for his declinature 



 

was evidently against his inclination, and coupled with a 
promise to call at an early day. His visits were not altogether so agreeable as formerly, for he was received in the 
spacious parlors on a footing with other callers, and in the 
presence of several members of the family ; still he came 
repeatedly, with pretext and without, until his sentiments 
and design were a secret to no one except their object. 

Wrapped in the sad thoughts that isolated her from the 
rest of the world, even while she made a part of its show, 
Sarah omitted to mark many things that should have been 
significant signs of under-currents, and tokens of important 
issues to her and those about her. Lucy had ceased to 
harp perpetually upon her lover's perfections and idolatrous 
flattery to herself, and while the wedding arrangements 
went vigorously forward, the disengaged sister was rarely 
annoyed by references to her taste and demands for her 
sympathy. There had never existed much congeniality 
between the two, and their common ground was now ex 
ceedingly narrow. Lucy was gentle and pleasant, peace 
fully egotistic as ever, and Sarah understood her too well 
to expect active affection or disinterestedness. The only 
part of her behavior to herself to which she took mental 
exception was a certain pitying forbearance, a compassionate 
leniency with respect to her faults and foibles, that had 
grown upon her of late. Once or twice the younger sister 
had become so restive under this gratuitous charity as to 
reply sharply to the whey-like speeches of the mild elder, 
and, without any appearance of wounded feeling, yet with 
not a word of apology or reason for so doing, Lucy had 
left the apartment, and never hinted at the circumstance 
afterwards. 

Lucy was certainly the soul, the very cream of amiability. It was unaccountable to her admirers and they in 
cluded most of her associates that Lewis Hammond, with 



 

his peculiar habits and tastes, should prefer that severe- 
looking, strong-minded Sarah. But be it remembered that 
he had learned this love under far different influences ; in 
circumstances wholly unlike those in which he now beheld 
its object. His respect for unobtrusive intent and feeling ; 
his longing for a home which should be the abode of sacred 
domestic virtues ; and the sweet peace that had fled from the 
habitations frequented only by the frivolous, heartless, and 
vain these found in the sick-room of the father, and the 
affectionate fidelity of the daughter, something so like the 
embodiment of his fancy of earthly happiness, that he accepted as a benignant fate the accident which had admitted 
him to the arcana of their private life. Sarah's temporary 
illness had taught him the meaning of his dreams, by 
seeming to peril the chances of their fulfilment ; and from 
that hour he strove patiently and sedulously, as it was his 
habit, to seek all great ends for the acquisition of the heart 
whose depth he, perhaps, of all who knew her, best under 
stood. 

The most impatient person of those directly or indirectly concerned in the progress of this wooing was Mrs. Hunt. 
Her husband, with unwonted firmness, had forbidden that 
any one of the household should speak a word in raillery 
or otherwise to Sarah touching Mr. Hammond's intentions. 
- However earnestly I may desire his success," he said to 
his wife " and there is no man living whom I would rather 
call son I would not influence her by the weight of a 
single syllable. Hers is the happiness or the misery of a life 
with her husband whomsoever she may choose, and hers 
shall be the entire choice. If she can love and marry Lewis 
Hammond, I shall be gratified ; if not, she shall never 
guess at my disappointment." 

" La, Mr. H. ! you are as foolish and sentimental as the 
girl herself ! For my part, I ain't such a saint, and I do say, 



 

that if Sarah Hunt allows such a catch as this to slip 
through her fingers, she shall hear a piece of my mind !" 

"I insist," said Mr. Hunt, with immovable resolution, 
" that Sarah shall be allowed to follow the guidance of her 
own will in this matter. It is not often that I interfere 
with your plans; but in this one instance I must be 
obeyed!" 

With which astounding declaration of equal rights, if not 
of sovereignty, he left his consort to her reflections. 

Ignorant of the delicate watchfulness maintained over her 
by this best of friends, Sarah walked on her beclouded way 
without hope, without one anticipation of any future dis 
similar to her present, until awakened with a shock by a 
formal declaration of love from Lewis Hammond. 




 



CHAPTER IX. 

IT was at the close of an evening party which both the 
Hunts attended, and where Mr. Hammond's devotion was 
as marked as any thing so modest could be, that Sarah felt 
him slip an envelope into her hand, as he put her into the 
carriage. Surprised as she was at the singularity of the 
occurrence, and disposed to take offence at the familiarity 
it implied, she had yet the presence of mind to conceal 
the missive from Lucy, and talk about other things, until 
they were set down at home. In the privacy of her 
chamber, she broke the seal and read her first love-letter. 

It was a characteristic composition. If the strong hand 
had trembled above the lines, the clear, clerkly penman 
ship did not witness to the weakness. Nor was there any 
thing in the subject-matter that did not appear to Sarah as 
business-like and unimpassioned. It was a frank and manly 
avowal of attachment -for her ; a compliment implied, rather 
than broadly stated, to her virtues; the traits that had 
gained his esteem, then his love a deprecatory sentence as 
to his ability to deserve the treasure he dared to ask and 
then the question I in plain black and white, unequivocal to 
bluntness, simple and direct to curtness. 

" As he would ask the price of a bale of goods !" burst 
forth Sarah, indignant, as she threw the paper on the floor, 
and buried her burning face in her hands. 

"That there comes sometimes a glory to the Present, 
beside which the hues of Past and Future fade and are 



 

forgotten, I must and will believe. Such, it seems to me, 
must be the rapture of acknowledged and reciprocal affection !" This was the echo memory repeated to her soul. 
She saw again the gently gliding river, with its waves of 
crimson and gold ; breathed the pure fragrance of the summer evening ; floated on, towards the sunset, with the loved 
voice in her ear ; the dawn of a strange and beautiful life, 
shedding blissful calm throughout her being. 

And from this review, dangerous as it was, for one fleet- 
big instant, sweet, she returned to the proposal that had 
amazed and angered her. Lewis's undemonstrative exterior 
had misled her, as it did most persons, in the estimate of 
his inner nature. Kind, she was compelled to confess that 
he was, in the remembrance of his goodness to her father ; 
his demeanor was always gentlemanly, and she had caught 
here and there rumors of his generosity to the needy that 
prevented a suspicion of sordidness. No doubt he was very 
well in his way ; but he wanted to marry her ! With the 
intensity of her fiery spirit, her will arose against the pre 
sumptuous request. It was the natural recoil of the woman 
who already loves, at the suggestion of a union with another than the man of her choice ; the spontaneous outspeaking 
of a heart whose allegiance vows have been pledged and 
cannot be nullified. But she would not see this. Upon 
the unfortunate letter and its writer descended the storm 
of passionate repugnance aroused by its contents. With 
the reaction of excited feeling came tears a plentiful shower that relaxed the overwrought nerves, until they were 
ready to receive the benediction of sleep. 

Lewis had not asked a written or verbal reply. 

" I will call to take you to drive to-morrow afternoon," 
he wrote. " Should your decision upon the question I have 
proposed be favorable, your consent to accompany me in 




my ride will be understood as a signal that you have 
accepted my graver suit. If your conclusion is adverse to 
my hopes, you can signify the same to me in a letter, to be 
handed me when I ask for you. This course will spare us 
both embarrassment perhaps pain. In any event, be assured that you will ever have a firm friend in 
" Yours truly, 

"LEWIS HAMMOND." 

Sarah's lip curled as she reperused this clause of the letter 
on the following morning. 

" It is a comfort to know that I have not to answer for 
the sin of breaking my ardent suitor's heart!" she said, as 
she drew towards her the sheet upon which she was to 
indite her refusal. It was brief and courteous freezing in 
its punctilious civility, and prepared without a pang, or a 
solitary misgiving that its reception would not be philosoph 
ically calm. Her design was to intrust it to the footman, 
to be delivered when Mr. Hammond called ; and as the 
hour approached at which the expectant was to present 
himself, she took the note from the desk, and started down 
stairs with it. 

The sitting-room door was open, and, aware that Victoria 
West was in there with Lucy, Sarah trod very softly as she 
neared it. Her own name arrested her as she was going 
by., She stopped involuntarily. 

" I thought Sarah a girl of better regulated mind," said 
Victoria, in a tone of censorious pity. " Of course she 
suffers ! It is the inevitable consequence of an unrequited 
attachment. Such miserable folly, such unpardonable weak 
ness brings its punishment with it. But my sympathies 
are all yours, my dearest. I only wish you were not so 
sensitive. You are not to blame for her blind mistake. * 

" I cannot help it !" said Lucy, plaintively. " It seems so 



 

sad that I should be made the means of depriving her of 
happiness. I wish I had never known that she was attached 
to poor Philip. I can't tell you how awkward I feel when 
any allusion is made in her hearing to the dear fellow, or to 
our marriage." 

" I meant it for the best, dear, in telling you of my dis 
covery," replied Victoria, slightly hurt. 

" I know that, my dear creature ! And it is well that I 
should not be kept in the dark as to the state of her affec 
tions. I only hope that Philip never penetrated her secret. 
I should die of mortification for her, if he were to find it out. 
It. is a lamentable affair and I am sure that he is not in 
fault. What did you say that you gave for that set of 
handkerchiefs you showed me yesterday ?" 

" The cheapest things you ever saw ! I got them at 
Stewart's, and they averaged six dollars apiece ! As to Mr. 
Benson, I trust, with you, that he is as unsuspecting as he 
seems ; but he has remarkable discernment, you know. 
What I could not help seeing, before I had any other proof 
than her behavior, is not likely to have escaped him." 

Half an hour later the twain were disturbed in th,eir con 
fidences by the sound of wheels stopping before the house, 
followed by a ring at the door. Victoria, ever on the alert, 
peeped, with feline caution and curiosity, around the edge 
of the curtain. 

" What is going to happen ? Look, Lucy ! Mr. Hammond in a handsome light carriage, and driving a lovely 
pair of horses! I never thought to see him go in such 
style. How well he looks ! Take care ! he will see you !" 

Both dodged as he glanced at the upper windows ; but 
resumed their look-out in time to see the light that was 
kindled in his face when Sarah emerged from the front door. 
He was at her side in a second, to lead her down the steps, 
and his manner in this movement, and in assisting her into 



 

the carriage, the more striking in one generally so self-con 
tained and deliberate, inspired the pair of initiated observers 
with the same conviction. As the spirited horses disap 
peared into the- Avenue, the friends drew back from their 
loop-hole, and stared each other in the eyes, with the simul 
taneous exclamation " They are engaged !" 

They were engage'd ! Lewis felt it with a glad bound of 
the heart but a minute before sickening in deadly suspense : 
fell, as he seated himself by her side, that the sorrows of a 
lonely and struggling youth, the years of manhood's isola 
tion and unsatisfied longings, were swept from memory by 
this hour of abundant, unalloyed happiness. 

And Sarah felt it ! As her hand touched his, at their 
meeting upon the steps, a chill ran through her frame that 
told the consummation of the sacrifice which was to atone 
for past folly ; to silence, and brand as a lying rumor, the 
fearful tale that bruited abroad the revelation of that weakness. In her mad horror at the knowledge of its discovery, 
she had rushed upon this alternative. Better an estate of 
honorable misery, than to live on, solitary, disgraced, condemned and pitied by her meanest foe ! Now that the irreversible step was taken, she experienced no sharp regret, 
no wild impulse of retreat, but a gradual sinking of spirit 
into hopeless apathy. 

Her veil concealed her dull eyes and stolid features, and 
to Lewis's happy mood there was nothing surprising or dis 
couraging in her disposition to silence. With a tact for 
whicli she had not given him credit, and did not now value 
aright, he refrained from any direct reference to their altered 
relation until they were returning homeward. Then changing his tone of pleasant chat for one of deeper meaning, he 
said : 

" I have dared to hope much every thing rfrom your 
consent to become my companion for this afternoon. Be- 



 

fore I ventured to address you directly, I had a long and 
frank conversation with your father." 

" What did he say ?" asked Sarah, turning towards him 
for the first time. 

" He referred me to you for my answer, which, he said, 
must be final and positive, since he would never attempt to 
influence your choice. In the event of an affirmative reply 
from you, he promised that his sanction should not be with 
held." 

Sarah was silent. She comprehended fully her father's 
warm interest in his friend's suit, which the speaker was too 
diffident to imply, and how this expression of his wishes set 
the seal upon her fate. 

" We are poor and proud ! Mr. Hammond is rich and 
seeks to marry me !" was her bitter thought. " It is a fine 
bargain in the eyes of both my parents. It would be high 
treason in me to dispute their will. Mr. Hammond has 
conceived the notion that I am a useful domestic character, 
a good housekeeper and nurse, and he is willing to bid liberally for my services. It is all arranged between them ! 
Mine is a passive part, to copy Lucy's sweet, submissive 
ways for a season, for fear of frightening away the game, 
afterwards to attend to my business, while he looks after 
his. I have chosen my lot, and I will abide by it !" 

" Have I your permission to call this evening and inform 
your father of my success may I say of our engagement ?" 
asked Lewis. 

" It is best, I suppose, to call things by their right names," 
replied Sarah, in a cold voice, that was to him only coy. He 
smiled, and was about to speak, when she resumed : " Since 
we are virtually engaged" she caught her breath as she 
brought out the word " I see no reason why we should 
hesitate to announce it to those whose right it is to know 
it." 



 

" Thank you ! That was spoken like the noble, unaffected 
woman you are ! Will you always be equally sincere with 
me Sarah ?" His accent trembled with excess of emotion 
in calling the name. 

Is it, then, an easy lot that you have chosen, Sarah Hunt ? 
You, whose pride and glory it was to be truthful, who 
spurned whatever assimilated in the least degree to deception, what think you of a life where a lie meets you on the 
threshold, and must be accepted and perpetuated, if you 
would preserve your name and position in his eyes and those 
of the world. " It is the way two-thirds of the married 
people live !" you were saying to yourself, just now. It 
may be so ; but it is none the less a career of duplicity, per 
jury crime! 

" I will endeavor to please you !" she faltered, her face 
in a flame of shame and confusion. 

And this was the hue that met Lewis's eye, as her veil 
was blown aside, in her descent to the pavement, a blush he 
interpreted to suit his own wishes. Mr. Hunt appeared in 
the door-way as she alighted, and read in Hammond's 
smile and joyous salutation all that he most desired to learn. 
"When the door was closed upon the departing suitor, the 
father drew his best-beloved child to him, and kissed her, 
without a word of uttered blessing. 

"It would break his heart were I to recede now!" 
thought Sarah, as she bore hers heavy, hard up to her 
room. 

That evening was the proudest era of Mrs. Hunt's existence. Two daughters well engaged unexceptionably 
paired off! What mother more blest than she? Where 
could be found other children so dutiful ? other sons-in-law 
so acceptable? By breakfast time, next day, she had 
arranged every thing Sarah's trousseau, her house, and the 
double wedding. * 






Lucy expostulated here. " But, mother, this is the first 
of November." 

" I know that, my dear ; but the ceremony will not come 
off until Christmas, and much can be done in six weeks for 
your sister your work is so forward. Then, again, tisn't 
as if Sarah couldn't get every thing she needs right here, if 
she shouldn't have enough. It will be tremendously expensive awful, in fact ; but we must make sacrifices. We 
can live economical after you're married and gone, and 
save enough to meet the bills." 

" If you please, madam, I prefer a plain outfit, and no 
debts," said Sarah's most abrupt tones. 

" If you please, my dear, I understand my affairs, and 
mean to do as I think proper," retorted the no less strong- 
willed mother. 

Sarah was not cowed. " And as to the time you set, I 
cannot agree to it. I presume that in this matter I have 
some voice. I say six months instead of six weeks !" 

" Very well, my love." Mrs. Hunt went on polishing a 
tumbher with her napkin. She always washed her silver 
and glass herself. " You must settle that with your father 
and Mr. Hammond. They are crazy for this plan. They 
were talking to me about it last night, and I told them that 
I would engage to have every thing ready in time ; but you 
must be consulted. I never saw your father more set Upon 
any thing. He said to me, private, that he did hope that 
you wouldn't raise any squeamish objections, and upset their 
arrangements." 

Mrs. Hunt took up a handful of spoons as composedly as 
if she had never stretched her conscience in her life. 

Sarah's head drooped upon the table. She was very, very 
miserable. In her morbid state of mind she did not dream 
of questioning the accuracy of her mother's assertion. That 
a marriageable single daughter was a burden to one parent, 



 

she knew but too well ; that to this able financier the prospect of getting two out of the way, with the eclat of a 
double ceremony that should cost no more than Lucy's 
nuptials would have done, was a stupendous temptation, she 
also perceived. But that the father whom she so loved ; 
whose sick-bed she had tended so faithfully ; whose lonely 
hours it was her province and delight to solace that he 
should acquiesce nay, more, rejoice in this indelicate haste 
to get rid of her, was a cruel stab. 

" Very well," she said, raising an ashy face. " Let it be 
as you say. The sooner it is over, the better." 

This clause was unheeded by her mother and sister. Had 
they heard it, they might have understood it as little as they 
did the composure with which she joined in the work which 
was begun, without an hour's delay. In this trying juncture, Mrs. Hunt came out in all her strength. Her sewing- 
machine (she was one of the earliest purchasers of these in 
estimable time, labor, and money savers) went night and 
day ; she shopped largely and judiciously, giving orders to 
tradespeople with the air of a princess; "Jewed" her 
butcher ; watched her pantry, and served up poorer dinners 
than ever. Jeannie's winter outfit was ingeniously contrived 
from her sisters cast-off wardrobe; Mr. Hunt's and the 
boys shirts and socks were patched and darned until but a 
trifling quantity of the original material remained ; and this 
pearl of mothers had her two-year-old cloak and last 
season's hat " done over" for this year's wear. 

Foremost among the visitors to the Hunts, after this 
latest engagement was made public, was Mrs. Marlow, the 
wife of Mr. Hammond's benefactor and partner. Sarah was 
out when she called ; so Mrs. Hunt received her, and dis 
covering very soon that, in spite of her husband's wealth 
and her splendid establishment, she was not, as Mrs. Hunt 
phrased it to her daughters, " one mite proud, and thought 



 

the world and all of Lewis" the mother opened her heart 
to her so freely, with regard to the prospective weddings 
and her maternal anxieties, that Mrs. Maiiow was em 
boldened to introduce a subject which had taken hold of 
her thoughts so soon as she heard from Mr. Hammond of 
his expected marriage. 

She had a daughter, resident for the winter in Paris, 
whose taste in female attire was unquestionable, and her 
good-nature as praiseworthy. If Miss Sarah Hunt would 
prepare a memorandum of such articles as she would like 
to have selected in that emporium of fashion, she would 
promise, for her daughter, that they should be forwarded 
in time for "the occasion." 

" Some friends of mine, now abroad, have kindly offered 
to bring me over any quantity of fine dresses with their 
baggage," said the complaisant old lady ; " and, as I do not 
need their services for myself, I can smuggle in whatever 
your daughter may order. You would be surprised at the 
difference in prices here and there to say nothing of the 
superior excellence and variety of the assortment from 
which one can choose. My friends will return early in 
December. Therefore, should you like this arrange 
ment, I ought to have the list and write my letters to 
morrow." 

Energetic, fussy, snobbish Mrs. Hunt ! She stood an inch 
talher in her shoes at the imagination of this climax to the 
glory of the dual ceremony. " Trousseau ordered directly 
from Paris !" She seemed already to hear the envious and 
admiring buzz of her set ; saw herself the most blessed of 
women her daughters the brides of the season. She would 
order for Lucy, also ; for the longer the list the more importance would the future Mrs. Hammond acquire in the 
sight of her husband's friends. They could not know that 
it was not for her alone. Then, as Mrs. Marlow intimated, 



 

it would be a saving. Here, like a cold shower-bath, came 
the agonizing query " Where was the money to come 
from ?" It would never do to run in debt to such people as 
the Marlows. If they were hard-pressed shopkeepers, who 
needed the money, it would be another thing. No! the 
cash in hand, or its representative, must accompany the 
memorandum. 

Sarah was secretly pleased at this obstacle, for she 
despised the ostentation and extravagance going on in their 
hungry household. Strive as she did, with wicked perti 
nacity, to conform herself to the world's code, there was as 
yet too much of the ancient and better leaven left to permit 
more than an outward obedience to the dictates of customs 
so irrational and tyrannical. 

That very evening there arrived a letter that settled the 
question, and inflated Mrs. Hunt's collapsed spirits to an 
expansion hitherto unequalled. It was from Aunt Sarah to 
her namesake niece ; a guileless, fervent expression of good 
wishes and unabated affection, and a request from " hus 
band" and herself that she would accept the enclosure as a 
mark of that hopeful regard. 

" Since our daughters died" wrote this true and gentle 
mother " we have always intended to give you just exactly 
what we would have done one of them, as a wedding- 
present as you were named for me, and I had nursed you 
before your mother ever did, and you seemed in some way 
to belong to us. But since you paid us a visit we have felt 
nearer to you than ever, and seeing that the Lord has pros 
pered us in this world's goods, we have made up our minds 
to give you a double portion, dear, what both of our girls 
would have had, if it had pleased our Father to spare them 
to have homes of their own upon earth. Living is high in 
New York, but we have calculated that what we send will 
buy your wedding-clothes and furnish your house." 



 

The enclosed gift, to Sarah's astonishment, was a check 
upon a city bank for a thousand dollars ! 

" Was there ever such a child for luck?" exclaimed Mrs. 
Hunt, clapping her hands. " What a fortunate thing we 
sent you down there when we did ! That was one of my 
plans, you remember, Mr. H. Really, Lucy, our little Sarah 
understands how to play her cards, after all ! I never did 
you justice, my dear daughter. I ain't ashamed to confess 
it. This puts all straight, and is real handsome in sister 
Benson more than I expected. Go to work right away 
upon your list, girls ! We'll have to set up the best part of 
the night to get it ready. Ah, well ! this comes of putting 
one's trust in Providence and going ahead !" 

Sarah thought, with aching heart and moistened eyes, of 
Aunt Sarah's mind-pictures of the neat apparel and snug 
dwelling she deemed proper for a young couple just be 
ginning house-keeping, and rebelled at this waste, this frivolous expenditure of her love-portion. Mr. Hunt sided with 
her, so far as to urge the propriety of her doing as she 
pleased with what was her exclusive property ; but, as in a 
majority of former altercations, their arguments and powers 
of endurance were no match for the determination and mind 
of the real head of the family. With a sigh of pain, dis 
gust, and despair, Mr. Hunt succumbed, and, deserted by 
her ally, Sarah contended but a short time longer ere she 
yielded up the cause of the combat to the indomitable 
victress. 



 



CHAPTER X. 

THE bridal day came ; frosty and clear, dazzlingly bright, 
by reason of the reflection from the snow, which lay deep 
and firm upon the ground. 

" What a delightful novelty this is, coming to a wedding 
in a sleigh !" lisped one of the triad of bridesmaids, who 
were to do double duty for the sisters. "How very 
gay it makes one to hear the bells outside! Have they 
come, Yic. ?" 

Victoria, whose marriage was but one week off, was, true to 
instinct and habit, on the lookout behind the friendly curtain. 

She nodded. " Yes both of them, but not together. 
What a magnificent sleigh that is of the Marlows ! They 
brought Mr. Hammond. See the bridegrooms shake hands 
on the sidewalk ! That looks so sweet and brotherly ! They 
will be up here almost directly, I suppose." 

The attendants immediately began to shake out their 
robes and stroke their white gloves. They were collected 
in the sitting-room so often mentioned, and the sisters were 
also present. In accordance with the ridiculous custom of 
very parvenu modern marriages, although the ceremony was 
to take place precisely at twelve o'clock, daylight was care 
fully excluded from the parlors below, gas made its sickly 
substitute, and the whole company was in full evening 
costume. 

" Am I all right ?" inquired Lucy, with a cautious wave 
of her flowing veil. " Look at me, Vic. !" 

" You are perfect, my dearest!" replied the devoted parasite. " How I admire your beautiful self-possession ! And 
as for you, Sarah, your calmness is wonderful ! I fear that 
I should be terribly agitated" blushing, and casting a 
meaning smile at Lucy. 

Sarah's statuesque repose was broken by a ray of scorn 
from the eye, and a slight disdainful smile. Whatever were 
the feelings working beneath her marble mask, she was not 
yet reduced to the depth of wretchedness that would 
humble her to accept the insolent pity couched under the 
pretended praise. She vouchsafed no other reply ; but're 
mained standing a little apart from the rest ; her gloved 
hands crossed carelessly before her ; her gaze bent down 
wards ; her .whole posture that of one who neither waited, 
nor hoped, nor feared. 

" Who would have thought that she could be made such 
an elegant-looking woman ?" whispered one of the bride- 
maids aside to another. 

" She has actually a high-bred air ! I never imagined it 
was in her. So much for a Parisian toilette !" 

" I am so much afraid that I shall lose my color when we 
enter the room," said Lucy, surveying her pink cheeks in 
the mirror. " They say it is so trying to the nerves, and I 
am odious when I am pale." 

" Never fear, my sweetest. It is more likely that the un 
avoidable excitement will improve your complexion. There 
they are !" returned Victoria, hurriedly, and unconsciously, 
no doubt the three attendants and one of the principals in 
the forthcoming transaction, " struck an attitude," as the 
sound of footsteps approached the door. 

Lucy had only time for a whisper a last injunction to 
her faithful crony. " Remember to see that my veil and 
dress hang right when we get down-stairs." And the masculine portion of the procession marched in in order. 

Sarah did not look up. She bent her head as the formal 



 

exchange of salutations was executed, and yielded her hand 
to the person who took it in his warm pressure, and then 
transferred it to his arm. It was one of the freaks, thus de 
nominated by her acquaintances, in which she had been indulged, that she desired to have her marriage ceremony pre 
cede her sister s. She assigned what Lucy at least consid 
ered a sufficient reason for this caprice. 

" Nobody will care to look at me after you stand aside, 
Lucy. Keep the best wine until the last. My only chance 
of getting an approving glance lies in going in before you 
attract and fix the public gaze." 

She had her way. A limited number of select friends 
were admitted to behold " the ceremony ;" yet the parlors 
were comfortably filled, excepting in the magical semicircle 
described by an invisible line, in the centre of which stood 
the clergyman in his robes. 

Still dull and calm, Sarah went through the brief role that 
fell to her share. " Behaved charmingly," was the unanimous verdict of the beholders, and surprised other people, as 
well as the complimentary bridemaid, by her thorough-bred 
air and Parisian toilet. "Without the pause of a second, so 
perfect was the drill of the performers, the wedded pair 
stepped aside, and made way for the second happy couple. 
Lucy's solicitude on the score of her complexion was needless. 
As the solemn words were commenced, a rosy blush flickered 
up to its appointed resting-place another and another until, 
when Philip released her to the congratulatory throng, she 
was the most enchanting type of a radiant Hebe that poet 
ever sang, or painter burned to immortalize on canvas. 

Philip stood beside her and sustained his portion of the 
hand-shaking and felicitations until the press diminished, 
then stepped hastily over to where Hammond and his bride 
were undergoing a similar martyrdom. Until this moment 
Sarah had not looked at, or spoken to him had never met 





him face to face since their parting in the summer at Aunt 
Sarah s. Now, not aware who it was that approached her, 
she raised her eyes with the serious dignity with which she 
had received all other salutations, and met his downward 
gaze full of warm and honest feeling. 

" Sister !" he said, and in brotherly fondness he bent to 
wards her, and left a kiss upon her mouth. 

A hot glow, the lurid red of offended modesty or self-con 
victed guilt, overspread her face ; the lips parted, quivered, 
and closed tightly, after an ineffectual effort to articulate ; the 
room swam around her, and Mr. Hammond caught her just 
in time to save her from falling. It was Nature's vengeful 
reaction for the long and unnatural strain upon her energies. 
She did not faint entirely away, although several moments 
elapsed before she regained perfect consciousness of her situation and surrounding objects. She had been placed in an 
easy-chair; her head rested against her father's shoulder, 
and on the other side stood Lewis, almost as pale as herself, 
holding a glass of wine to her lips. - Around her were 
grouped her mother, Lucy, and Philip. The guests had 
withdrawn politely to the background, and maintained a're 
spectful silence. 

"What have I betrayed?" was her first coherent reflection ; and, with an instinctive perception of the quarter 
where such disclosures would do most harm, her eye turned 
with a sort of appealing terror to Lewis. His heart leaped 
at the movement, revealing, as he fancied it did, dependence 
upon his strength, recognition of his right to be with and 
nearest to her. 

" You are better," he said, with a moved tenderness he 
could not and cared not to restrain. 

The words, the manner, were an inexpressible relief to her 
fears, and trying to return his smile, she would have arisen 
but for her father's interposition. 



 

" Sit still," he advised. " Mrs. Hunt, Lucy, Mr. Benson, 
will you entertain our friends ? She will be all right in a 
little while, Mr. Hammond." 

" Tableaux vivants ," said Lucy's soft, rich voice, as she 
advanced towards the reassured guests. " This is a part of 
the performance not set down in the programme. Quite 
theatrical, was it not ?" 

It is very possible that Philip Benson would not have're 
garded this as an apropos or refined witticism, had any one 
else been the speaker ; but as the round, liquid tones rolled 
it forth, and her delicious laugh  led off the instant revival of 
mirth and badinage, he marvelled at her consummate tact, her 
happy play of fancy (!), and returned devout thanks to the 
stars that had bestowed upon him this prodigy of grace, wit, 
and beauty. Sarah rallied speedily; and, contrary to the 
advice of her father and husband, maintained her post in 
the drawing-room during all the reception, which contin 
ued from half-past twelve to half-past two. 

It was a gay and shifting scene a sparkling, murmuring 
tide, that ebbed and flowed to and from the quartette who 
formed the attractive power. Silks, laces, velvets, furs, and 
diamonds; faces young, old, and middle-aged; handsome, 
fair, and homely ; all decked in the same conventional holi 
day smile ; bodies tall and short, executing every variety of 
bow and courtesy ; voices sweet, sharp, and guttural, uttering the senseless formula of congratulation these were 
Sarah's impressions of the tedious ceremonial. Restored to 
her rigid composure, she too bowed and spoke the word or 
sentence custom exacted an emotionless automaton in 
seeming, while Lucy's matchless inflections lent interest and 
beauty to the like nothings, as she rehearsed them in her 
turn ; and Philip Benson, having no solicitude for his bride's 
health or ability to endure the fatigue, was collected enough 
to compare the two, and, while exulting in his selection, to 



 

commiserate the proprietor of the colder and less gifted 
sister. 

At last the trial was over ; the hospitable mansion was 
closed ; the parlors deserted ; the preparations for travelling 
hurried through ; and the daughters went forth from their 
girlhood's home. Philip had cordially invited Sarah and 
Lewis, by letter, to accompany Lucy and himself to Georgia ; 
but Sarah would not hear of it, and Lewis, while he left the 
decision to her, was not sorry that she preferred to journey instead with him alone. It was too cold to go north 
ward, and the Hammonds now proposed to proceed with 
the others as far as Baltimore, there to diverge upon a 
Western and Southern tour, which was to occupy three 
weeks, perhaps four. 




CHAPTER XI. 

DURING the month preceding his marriage, Lewis Hammond had spent much time and many thoughts in providing 
and furnishing a house for his wife. His coadjutor in this 
labor of love was not, as one might have expected, Mrs. Hunt, 
but his early friend, Mrs. Marlow. His omission of his future mother-in-law, in his committee of consultation, he ex 
plained to her by representing the number of duties already 
pressing upon her, and his unwillingness to add aught to 
their weight. But when both girls were married and gone, 
and the work of " getting to rights" was all over, this inde 
fatigable woman paid Mrs. Marlow a visit, and offered her 
assistance in completing the arrangements for the young 
housekeepers. 

" There is nothing for us to do," said Mrs. Marlow. 
" Lewis attended to the purchase of every thing before leaving ; and the orders are all in the hands of a competent 
upholsterer whom he has employed, as is also the key of the 
house. I offered to have the house-cleaning clone, but 
Lewis refused to let me help him even in this. He is very 
methodical, and rather strict in some of his ideas. When 
the premises are pronounced ready for the occupancy of the 
future residents, you and I will play inspectors, and find as 
much fault as we can." 

Mrs. Hunt went around by the house on her way home. 
It was new and handsome, a brown stone front, with stone 
balconies and balustrades ; but three stories higji, it was 
true, yet of ample width and pitch of ceiling, and as she 



 

discovered by skirting the square at least three rooms deep 
all the way up. The location was unobjectionable ; not 
more than four blocks from the paternal residence, and in a 
wider street. On the whole, she had no fault to find, pro 
vided Mr. Hammond had furnished it in such style as she 
would have recommended. She had her fears lest his sober 
taste in other respects should extend to these matters, and 
hinted something of the kind to her husband. 

" I have confidence in Mr. Hammond to believe that he 
will allow his wife every indulgence compatible with his 
means," was the reply. 

Mr. Hunt did not deem it obligatory upon him to state that 
his son-in-law had conferred with him upon numerous ques 
tions pertaining to Sarah's likes and probable wishes ; that he 
had examined and approved of the entire collection of furniture, etc., selected for her use. Why should he, how could 
he, without engendering in his wife's bosom the suspicion 
that had accounted to him for Lewis's choice of the father 
as an adviser ? namely, that the newly-made husband had 
gained a pretty correct estimate of this managing lady's 
character, her penny-wise and pound-foolish policy, and in 
tended to inaugurate altogether a different one in his house. 

