little out of your way to see it?"
"You can judge better than I, Mr. Rhys!" Eleanor said with her full,
rich smile, which that gentleman had not often seen before. He answered
it with his own very peculiar one, sober and sweet.
"I will take so much responsibility. You ought not to come so near and
miss it."
Turning from the course of their return way, they followed a wild woody
dell for a little distance; then making a sudden angle with that, a few
steps brought them in sight of a waterfall. It poured over a rocky
barrier of considerable height, the face of which was corrugated, as it
were, with great projecting ridges of rock. Separated of necessity by
these, the waters left the top of the precipice in four or five
distinct bands or ribbands of bright wave and foam, soon dashed into
whiteness; and towards the bottom of the fall at last found their way
all together; which they celebrated with a rush and a dance and a
sparkle and a roar that filled all the rocky abyss into which they
plunged. The life, the brightness, the peculiar form, the wild
surroundings, of this cataract made it a noted beauty. In front of it
the rocks closed in so nearly that spectators could only look at it
through a wild narrow gap. Above, beyond the top of the fall, the
waving branches could be seen of the trees and bushes that stood on the
borders of the water; to reach which was a mere impossibility, unless
by taking a very long way round. At the foot, the waters turned off
suddenly and sought their course where the eye could not follow them.
It was out of the question to talk in the presence of the shout of
those glad waters. Mr. Rhys leaned against the rock, and looked at
them, so motionless that more than once the eye of Eleanor went from
them to him with a little note-taking. When at last he turned away and
they got back into the stillness of the glen, he asked her, "how
looking at such a thing made her feel?"
"Nothing but surprise and pleasure, I think," said Eleanor; "but a
great deal of both those." Then as he still remained silent, she went
on,--"To tell the truth, Mr. Rhys, I think my mental eye is only
beginning to get educated. I used always to enjoy natural beauty, but I
think it was in a superficial kind of way. Since I have been at
Plassy--and especially since a few weeks back,--all nature is much more
to me than it was."
"It is sure to be so," he said. "Nature without and nature within are
made for each other; and till the two are set to the same key, you
cannot have a good tune.--There is a fellow who is in pretty good
order! Do you hear that blackbird?"
"Sweet!" said Eleanor. "And what is that other note--'chee chee, chee,'
so many times?"
"That is a green wren."
"You are something of a naturalist, Mr. Rhys," said Eleanor.
"Not at all! no more than my acquaintance with you and Mrs. Caxton
makes me a philosopher."
Eleanor wanted to ask what looking at the cataract made him think of;
but as she had told her aunt, Mr. Rhys exercised a sort of quieting
influence over her. No natural audacity, of which she had an innocent
share, remained to her in his company. She walked along in demure
silence. And to say the truth, the sun was now growing warm, and the
two had walked not a few good miles that morning; which also has a
quieting influence. Eleanor queried with herself whether all the bright
part of the walk were over.
"I think it is time we varied our attention," said Mr. Rhys breaking
silence. "We have been upon one class of subjects a good
while;--suppose we try another. Don't you want to rest?"
"I am not tired,--but I have no objection."
"You are not easily tired?"
"Not about anything I like."
"You have struck a great secret of power and usefulness," he said
gravely. "What do you think of this bank?--it is dry, and it is
pleasant."
It would have been hardly possible to find a spot in all their way that
would not have been pleasant; and from this bank they looked over a
wide rich valley bordered with hills. It was not the valley where the
farmhouse of Plassy stood, with its meadows and river; this was
different in its features, and moreover some miles distant. Eleanor and
Mr. Rhys sat down on the moss at the foot of the trees, which gave both
shade and rest. It was the edge of a piece of woods, and a blackbird
was again heard saluting them.
"Now if you want refreshment," said Mr. Rhys, "I can give it to you;
but only of one kind."
"I don't know--I should say of several kinds," said Eleanor looking
into the basket--"but the quality doubtful."
"Did you think I meant that?"
Eleanor laughed at the earnest gravity of this speech. "Mr. Rhys, I saw
no other refreshment you had to offer me; but indeed I do not want
any--more than I am taking."
"I was going to offer it to you of another kind, but there is no kind
like it. What is your way of reading the Bible?"
"I have no particular 'way,'" said Eleanor in some surprise. "I read
several chapters a day--or at least always a chapter at morning and
another at evening. What 'way' do you mean?"
"There are a great many ways; and it is good to use them all at
different times. But what way would be good for a half hour's
refreshment, at such a time as this?"
"I am sure, I don't know," said Eleanor. "I have no way but the one."
"Yes, but we should not have seen the 'Bandel' of Helig, if we had not
turned aside to look at it; and you would not have heard the blackbird
and the wren perhaps, unless you had stopped to listen to them. I
suppose we have missed a million of other things, for want of looking."
"Yes, but we could not look at everything all along these miles of our
way," said Eleanor, her smile breaking forth again.
"Very true. On the other hand, if we go but a very little way, we can
examine all around us. Have you a Bible with you?"
"No. I never carry one."
"I am better off than you. Let us try a little of this--the first
chapter of Romans. Will you read the first verse, and consider it."
He handed her his Bible and Eleanor read.
"'Paul, a servant of Jesus Christ, called to be an apostle, separated
unto the gospel of God'--"
"What do you find there?" said her companion.
"Not much. This verse seems to be a sort of opening, or introduction to
the rest. Paul tells who he is, or what he is."
"And what does he say he is?"
"A servant of Jesus Christ."
"You think that is 'not much?'"
"Certainly it is much, in itself; but here I took it for a mere
statement of fact."
"But what a fact. A servant of Jesus Christ. Only that! Do you know
what a fact that is? What is it, to be a servant of Jesus Christ?"
Without waiting for the answer, which was not ready, Mr. Rhys rose up
from his seat and began an abstracted exploration of the bit of
woodland at the edge of which they had been sitting; wandering in and
out among the trees, and stooping now and then to pluck a flower or a
fern or to examine one; apparently too full of his thoughts to be
quiet. Eleanor heard him sometimes and watched him when she could; he
was very busy; she wished he I would give some of his thoughts to her.
"I thought you wanted rest, Mr. Rhys," she said boldly, when she got a
chance. "Please sit down here and take it, along with your other
refreshment."
He smiled and came immediately with a bunch of Myosotis in his hand,
which he threw into Eleanor's lap; and turning to her he repeated very
seriously his question.
"What is it, to be a servant of Jesus Christ?"
"I know very little," said Eleanor timidly. "I am only just beginning
to learn."
"You know the words bring for our refreshment only the meaning that we
attach to them--except so far as the Holy Spirit answering our prayers
and endeavours shews us new meaning and depth that we had not known
before."
"Of course--but I suppose I know very little. These words convey only
the mere fact to me."
"Let us weight the words. A servant is a follower. Christ said, 'If a
man serve me, let him follow me.'"
"Yes,--I know."
"A follower must know where his Master goes. How did Christ walk?"
"He went about doing good."
"He did; but mark, there are different ways of doing that. Get to the
root of the matter. The young man who kept all the commandments from
his youth, was not following Christ; and when it came to the pinch he
turned his back upon him."
"How then, Mr. Rhys? You mean heart-following?"
"That is what the Lord means. Look here--Paul says in the ninth
verse,--'Whom I serve with my spirit in the gospel'--Following cannot
have a different end in view from that of the person followed. And what
was Christ's?--'My meat is to do the will of him that sent me, and to
finish his work.' Are we servants of Christ after that rule, Miss
Powle?"
The question had a singular intonation, as if the questioner were
charging it home upon himself. Yet Eleanor knew he could answer it in
the affirmative and that she could not; she sat silent without looking
up. The old contrast of character recurred to her, in spite of the fact
that her own had changed so much. She hung over the book, while her
companion half abstractedly repeated,
"'My meat is to do the will of him that sent me.'--That makes a way of
life of great simplicity."
"Is it always easy to find?" ventured Eleanor.
"Very!--if his will is all that we desire."
"But that is a very searching, deep question."
"Let it search, then. 'My meat is to do the will of him--' No matter
what that may be, Miss Powle; our choice lies in this--that it is his
will. And as soon as we set our hearts upon one or the other particular
sort of work, or labour in any particular place, or even upon any given
measure of success attending our efforts, so that we are not willing to
have him reverse our arrangements,--we are getting to have too much
will about it."
Eleanor looked up with some effort.
"You are making it a great matter, to be a true servant of Christ, Mr.
Rhys."
"Would you have it a little matter?" he said with a smile of great
sweetness and brightness. "Let the Lord have all! He was among us 'as
one that serveth'--amid discouragements and disappointments, and abuse;
and he has warned us that the servant is not greater than his Lord. It
is not a little thing, to be the minister of Jesus Christ!"
"Now you are getting out of the general into the particular."
"No--I am not; a 'minister' is but a servant; what we call a minister,
is but in a more emphatic degree the servant of all. The rules of
service are the same for him and for others. Let us look at another
one. Here it is--in John--"
And the fingers that Eleanor had watched the other morning, and with
which she had a curious association, came turning over the leaves.
"'Ye call me Master, and Lord: and ye say well; for so I am. If I then,
your Lord and Master, have washed your feet; ye also ought to wash one
another's feet. For I have given you an example, that ye should do as I
have done to you.'--One thing is plain from that, Miss Eleanor--we are
not to consider ourselves too good for anything."
"No--" said Eleanor;--"but I suppose that does not forbid a just
judgment of ourselves or of others, in respect of their adaptations and
qualifications."
"Yes it does," he said quickly. "The only question is, Has the Lord put
that work in your hands? If he has, never ask whether your hands are
the right ones. He knows. What our Lord stooped to do, well may we!"
Eleanor dared not say any more; she knew of what he was thinking;
whether he had a like intuition with respect to her thoughts she did
not know, and would not risk them any nearer discovery.
"There is another thing about being a servant of Christ," he presently
went on;--"it ensures some kind and degree of persecution."
"Do you think so?" said Eleanor; "in these days? Why, it is thought
praiseworthy and honourable, is it not, through all the land, to be
good? to be a member of the Church, and to fulfil the requirements of
religion? Does anybody lose respect or liking from such a cause?"
"No. But he suffers persecution. My dear friend, what are the
'requirements of religion?' We are just considering them. Can you
remember a servant of Christ, such as we have seen the name means, in
your knowledge, whom the world allowed to live in peace?"
Eleanor was silent.
"'Remember the word that I said unto you, the servant is not greater
than his Lord. If they have persecuted me, they will also persecute
you; if they have kept my saying, they will keep yours also.'"
"But in these days, Mr. Rhys?" said Eleanor doubtfully.
"I can only say, that if you are of the world, the world will love his
own. I know no other way of securing that result. 'Because ye are not
of the world,' Jesus said, 'but I have chosen you out of the world,
therefore the world hateth you.' And it is declared, elsewhere, that
all that will live godly in Christ Jesus shall suffer persecution. Can
you remember any instance to the contrary?"
Eleanor looked up and gave Mr. Rhys a good view of her honest eyes;
they looked very intent now and somewhat sorrowful.
"Mr. Rhys, except in Plassy, I do not know such a person as you ask me
about."
"Is it possible!" he said.
"Mr. Rhys, I was thinking the servants of Christ have good need of that
'helmet of salvation' I used to wish for."
"Well, they have it!" he said brightly. "'If any man serve me, let him
follow me; and where I am, there shall also my servant be.' That is
the end of all. But there is another point of service that occurs to
me. We have seen that we must not lease ourselves; I recollect that in
another place Paul says that if he pleased men, he would not be the
servant of Christ. There is a point where he and the world would come
in contact of opposition."
"But I thought we ought to please everybody as much as we could?"
He smiled, put his hand over and turned two or three leaves of the
Bible which she kept open at the first of Romans, and pointed to a word
in the fifteenth chapter. "Let every one of us please his neighbour for
his good, to edification."
"There is your limit," said he. "So far thou mayest go, but no further.
And to do that you will find requires quite sufficiently that you
should not please yourself. And now how shall we do all this?--how
shall we be all this?"
"You are asking the very question!" said Eleanor gravely.
"We must come to the root and spring of all this service and
following--it is our love of the Lord himself. That will do it, and
nothing else will. 'What things were gain to me, those I counted loss
for Christ.'"
"But suppose," said Eleanor, with some difficulty commanding her
voice,--"suppose one is deficient in that very thing? suppose one wants
that love?"
"Ay!" he said, looking into her face with his eyes of light,--"suppose
one does; what then?"
Eleanor could not bear them; her own eyes fell. "What is one to
do?"--Mr. Rhys had risen up before he answered, in his deliberate
accents,
"'Seek him, that maketh the seven stars and Orion, and turneth the
shadow of night into morning.'"
He paced slowly up and down before Eleanor; then went off upon a
rambling search through the wood again; seeming to be busy with little
things in his way. Eleanor sat still. After a little he came and stood
before her with a bunch of ferns and Melic grass and lilies of the
valley, which he was ordering in his hands as he spoke.
"The effect of our following Christ in this way, Miss Powle, will be,
that we shall bear testimony to the world that He is our King, and what
sort of a king he is. We shall proclaim that Jesus Christ is Lord, to
the glory of God the Father. We shall have the invisible army of angels
for our fellow-servants and co-workers; and we shall be passing on with
the whole redeemed world to the day of full triumph and final
restoration; when Christ will come to be glorified in his saints and to
be admired in them that believe--because our testimony among you was
believed. But now our business is to give the testimony."
He walked up and down, up and down, before Eleanor for some minutes, in
a thoughtful, abstracted way. Eleanor felt his manner as much as his
words; the subject had clearly gone home to himself. She felt both so
much that she did not like to interrupt the silence, nor to look up. At
last he stopped again before her and said in quite a different tone,
"What are the next words, Miss Powle?"
"'Called to be an apostle.'"
"We shall not get home to dinner, if we go into that," he said smiling.
"You have preached a sermon to me, Mr. Rhys."
"I do that very often to myself," he answered.
"To yourself?" said Eleanor.
"Yes. Nobody needs it more."
"But when you have so much real preaching to do--I should think it
would be the last thing you would wish to do in private,--at other
times."
"For that very reason. I need to have a sermon always ready, and to be
always ready myself. Now, let us get home and look at our
'rotifera'--if we have any."
However, there was to be no microscopical examination that morning.
"The best laid schemes o' mice and men Gang aft agley."
They had gone but half a mile further homeward when their course was
again stopped. They came up with a man and a horse; the horse standing
still, the man lying on the ground beside him. At first sight they
thought it was a case of drunkenness, for the face of the man was very
red and he was unable to give any account of himself; but they were
soon convinced it was sudden illness, not intoxication, which was the
matter. He had fallen from his horse evidently, and now was not
unconscious but in great pain; the red in his face alternating with
sudden changes of colour. Apparently his condition was that of a small
farmer or upper farm servant, who had been overtaken on some business
errand by this attack of severe sickness. His horse stood quietly
beside him.
"This is no case for a lancet," said Mr. Rhys after making a slight
examination. "It calls for greater skill than mine. How will you do? I
must take the horse and ride for it. But the first thing is to find
where I ought to go--if I can--"
For this information he sought in the man's pockets; and found
presently a pocket-book with one or two bills, which gave the name he
wanted. It was a name not unknown to Mr. Rhys; and let him know also
the direction in which he must ride; not towards the valley of Plassy.
"What will you do, Miss Powle?--will you be afraid to find your way
home alone?"
"I will stay here till you come back."
"Will you? But I may be gone some time--and I must tell you," he said
gravely, "the man is very ill."
"There is the more reason then, I am sure. I will stay and do anything
for him I can, Mr. Rhys. You go--I will stay here."
Mr. Rhys said nothing more, though Eleanor felt sure from his face that
he did not disapprove of her conclusion. He mounted the horse
immediately.
"I will send help from the way if I can, though I doubt it. The way is
lonely, till I get almost there."
He rode off at a sharp pace, and Eleanor was left quite alone. Her
attention came back to the sick person at her feet. So near the
light-hearted pleasure of ten minutes ago had been to pain and death!
And Mr. Rhys's sermon was nearer still. The first thing to consider,
was what she could do for the man.
He had fallen and lay on the grass in the broad sunshine. The sun had
mounted high now; its beams fell hot and full on the sufferer's face.
At a little distance was a grove of oaks and beeches, and good shelter;
but Eleanor's strength could not move the man thither; he was a great,
thickset, burly fellow. Yet it was miserable to see the sun beating
upon his face where the sweat of pain already stood. Eleanor went to
the wood, and with much trouble and searching managed to find or break
off two or three sticks of a few feet in length. She planted these for
a frame near the sick man's head and spread her light summer shawl over
them to make a screen. It was a light screen; nevertheless much better
than nothing. Then Eleanor kneeled down by the man to see what more she
could do. Red and pale changed fast and fearfully upon his face; big
drops stood on the brow and cheeks. Eleanor doubted whether he were
conscious, he lay so still. She took her pocket-handkerchief to wipe
the wet brow. A groan answered her at that. It startled her, for it was
the first sound she had heard the sick person utter. Putting down her
face to receive if possible some intimation of a wish, she thought he
said or tried to say something about "drink." Eleanor rose up and
sought to recollect where last and nearest she had seen water. It was
some distance behind; a little spring that had crossed their foot-way
with its own bright track. Then what could she bring some in? The
phials! Quick the precious pond water and bog water was poured out,
with one thought of the nameless treasures for Mr. Rhys's microscope
that she was spilling upon the ground; and Eleanor took the basket
again and set off on the backward way. She was in a hurry, the sun was
warm, the distance was a good quarter of a mile; by the time she had
found the stream and filled her phial and retraced again her steps to
where the sick man lay, she was heated and weary; for every step was
hurried with the thought of that suffering which the water might
alleviate. This was pure, sparkling, good water with which the phials
were now filled. But when Eleanor got back to him, the man could not
open his lips to take it. She feared he would die, and suddenly.
It was a wild uncultivated place they were in. No signs of human
habitation were to be seen, except far up away on a hillside in the
distance, where smoke went up from a farmhouse or some sort of a house;
towards which Eleanor looked with earnest longings that the human help
which was there could be brought within available distance. It was
greatly too far for that. How soon would Mr. Rhys be back? Impossible
to say; she could not tell what length of road he might have to travel.
And the man seemed dying. Eleanor knelt down again, and with the
precious contents of one of the phial bathed the brow and the lips that
she thought would never return to their natural colour again. She did
it perseveringly; it was all she could do. Perhaps it gave comfort. But
Eleanor grew tired, and felt increasingly lonely and desirous that some
one should come. No one did come by that way, nor was likely to come,
until the return of Mr. Rhys; the place was not near a highway; only on
a wild mountain track. It struck Eleanor then that the sufferer's head
lay too low, upon the ground. She could not move him to a better
position; and finally placing herself on the grass beside him, she
contrived with great exertion to lift his head upon her lap. He could
not thank her; she did not know if he were aware of what she did; but
then Eleanor had done all. She schooled herself to sit patiently and
wipe the brow that lay upon her knee, and wait; knowing that death
might come to take her charge before any other arrival relieved her of
it. Eleanor had a great many thoughts meanwhile; and as she sat there
revolved Mr. Rhys's 'sermon' in her mind over and over, and from one
end to the other and back again.
So at last Mr. Rhys found her. He came as he had gone, full speed;
jumped off his horse, and took a very grave survey of the group on the
ground. It was not early. Mr. Rhys had been a long time away; it seemed
half a day's length to Eleanor.
"Have you been there all this time?" was his question.
"O no."
"I will take your place," said he kneeling down and lifting the
unconscious head from Eleanor's lap. "There is a waggon coming. It will
be here directly."
Eleanor got up, trembling and stiff from her long constrained position.
The waggon presently came in sight; a huge covered wain which had need
to move slowly. Mr. Rhys had stayed by it to guide it, and only spurred
forward when near enough to the place. Into it they now lifted the sick
man, and the horses' heads were turned again. Mr. Rhys had not been
able to bring a doctor.
"Why here is Powis!" exclaimed Eleanor, as on the waggon coming round
she discovered her pony hitched to the back of it. Mr. Rhys unhitched
him. Powis was saddled.
"I thought you would have done enough for to-day," said he; "and I went
round by the farm to bring him. Now you will ride home as fast as you
please."
"But I thought the farm was out of your way?"
"I had time to gallop over there and meet the waggon again; it went so
slowly."
"O thank you! But I do not need Powis--I can walk perfectly well. I am
sure you need him more than I do, Mr. Rhys. I do not need him at all."
"Come, mount!" said he. "I cannot ride on a side saddle, child."
Eleanor mounted in silence, a little surprised to find that Mr. Rhys
helped her not awkwardly; and not knowing exactly whence came a curious
warm glow that filled her heart like a golden reflection. But it kept
her silent too; and it did not go away even when Mr. Rhys said in his
usual manner,
"I beg your pardon, Miss Powle--I live among the hills till I grow
unceremonious."
Eleanor did not make any answer, and if she rode home as fast as she
pleased, it was her pleasure to ride slowly; for Mr. Rhys walked beside
her all the way. But she was too tired perhaps to talk much; and he was
in one of his silent moods.
"What have you done with the phials?" said he looking into the basket
as they neared home.
"I am very sorry, Mr. Rhys! I had to empty them to get water for that
poor man. I wasn't quite sure, but I thought he asked for it."
"Oh!--And where did you go to find water?"
"Back--don't you remember?--some distance back of where we found him,
we had passed a little brook of running clear water. I had to go there."
"Yes--I know. Well, we shall have to make another expedition."
CHAPTER III.
AT HOME.
  "I will have hopes that cannot fade,
  For flowers the valley yields!
  I will have humble thoughts instead
  Of silent, dewy fields!
  My spirit and my God shall be
  My sea-ward hill, my boundless sea."
The promised expedition came off; and a number of others; not too
frequently however, for Mr. Rhys continued to be one of the world's
busy people, and was often engaged and often weary. The walks after
natural history came between times; when he was not under the immediate
pressure of duty, and felt that he needed recreation to fit him for it.
Eleanor was his companion generally, and grew to be as much interested
in his objects as he was himself. Perhaps that is saying too much. In
the house certainly Mr. Rhys bestowed an amount of patient time and
investigation upon his microscopical studies which Eleanor did not
emulate; time and pains which made him presently a capital manipulator,
and probably stowed away quantities of knowledge under that quiet brow
of his. Many an hour Mr. Rhys and his microscope were silent
companions, during which he was rapt and absorbed in his contemplations
or his efforts--whichever it might be; but then at other times, and
before and after these times, Eleanor and Mrs. Caxton were constantly
invited to a share in some of the results at least of what was going on.
Perhaps three people rarely enjoy more comfort together in themselves
and in each other, than these three did for some weeks following the
date of the last chapter. Mr. Rhys was a wonderful pleasant addition to
the family. He was entirely at home, and not a person be trammelled by
any ordinary considerations. He was silent when he felt like it; he
kept alone when he was busy; he put no unnatural force upon himself
when he was fatigued; but silent, or weary, or busy, there was always
and at all times where he was, the feeling of the presence of one who
was never absent from God. It was in the atmosphere about him; it was
in the look that he wore, free and simple as that always was, in its
gravity; it was in the straightforward doing of duty, all little things
as much as in great things; the little things never forgotten, the
great things never waived. It was an unconscious testimony that Mr.
Rhys carried about with him; and which his companions seeing, they
moved about with softened steps and strengthened hearts all the while.
But he was not always tired and silent; and when he was not, he was a
most delightful companion, as free to talk as a child and as full of
matter as a wise man; and entirely social and sympathetic too in his
whole temper and behaviour. He would not enjoy his natural historical
discoveries alone; Mrs. Caxton and Eleanor were made to take their full
share. The family circle was, quietly, a very lively one; there was no
stagnating anywhere. He and Mrs. Caxton had many subjects and interests
in common of which they talked freely, and Eleanor was only too glad to
listen. There were books and reviews read aloud sometimes, with very
pithy discussion of the same; in fact, there was conversation, truly
deserving the name; such as Eleanor never listened to before she came
to Plassy, and which she enjoyed hugely. Then the walks after natural
objects were on the whole frequent; and Mr. Rhys was sure to ask her to
go along; and they were full of delightful pleasure and of nice talk
too, though it never happened that they sat down under a tree again to
sermonize and Mr. Rhys never forgot himself again to speak to her by
the undignified appellation he once had given her. But Eleanor had got
over her shyness of him pretty well, and was inclined to think it quite
honour and pleasure enough to be allowed to share his walks; waited
very contentedly when he was wrapped up in his own thoughts; wrapped
herself up in hers; and was all ready for the talk when it came. With
all this she observed that he never distinguished her by any more
familiarity than Mrs. Caxton's niece and his daily neighbour at the
table and in the family, might demand from a gentleman and Mrs.
Caxton's friend and guest. The hills and the valleys around Plassy were
very beautiful that summer.
So was Mrs. Caxton's garden. The roses flushed out into bloom, with all
their contemporaries; the terraces down to the river were aglow with
richness and profusion of blossoms, and sweet with many fragrances. The
old farmhouse itself had become an object of admiration to Eleanor.
Long and low, built of dark red stone and roofed with slate, it was now
in different parts wreathed and draped in climbing roses and
honeysuckle as well as in the ivy which did duty all winter. To stand
under these roses at the back of the house, and look down over the
gorgeous terraces, to the river and the bridge and the outspread
meadows on the other side, stretching away down and up the valley and
reaching to the foot of the hills which rose beyond them; to see all
this, was to see a combination of natural features rare even in
England, though words may not make it seem so.
Mrs. Caxton and Eleanor were there one evening. It was towards the end
of the season of "June roses," though indeed it was later than the
month of June. Mr. Rhys had been called away to some distance by
business, and been detained a week; and this evening he might be
expected home. They had missed him very much, Mrs. Caxton and Eleanor.
They had missed him exceedingly at prayer-time; they had missed him
desolately at meals. To-night the tea-table was spread where he loved
to have it; on the tiled floor under the projecting roof before
mentioned. A dish was crowned with red and white strawberries in the
middle of the table, and Eleanor stood decorating it slowly with ivy
leaves and blossoms of white heath.
"It is not certain, my dear, he will come home to-night," Mrs. Caxton
said as she watched her.
"No, aunty,"--said Eleanor with a slight start, but then going on with
her occupation. "What about it?"
"Nothing. We will enjoy the flowers ourselves."
"But he thought he would be at home to-night, aunt Caxton?"
"He could not be sure. He might easily be detained. You have got over
your fear of Mr. Rhys, Eleanor?"
"Aunt Caxton, I don't think I ever feared him!"
"He used to have a 'quieting influence' upon you," Mrs. Caxton said
smiling.
"Well,--he does now, ma'am. At least I am sure Mr. Rhys is one of the
persons I should never care to contradict."
"I should think not," said Mrs. Caxton quietly. Eleanor had coloured a
little.
"But that is not because, merely, I do not think myself wise; because
there are other persons before whom I think myself no wiser, whom I
would contradict--I mean, in a polite way--if it came into my head."
"We shall miss him when he goes," said Mrs. Caxton with a little bit of
a sigh. Eleanor wanted to ask a question, but the words did not come.
The ornamenting of the strawberry dish was finished. She turned from
it, and looked down where the long train of cows came winding through
the meadows and over the bridge. Pretty, peaceful, lovely, was this
gentle rural scene; what was the connection that made but a step in
Eleanor's thoughts between the meadows of Plassy and some far-off
islands in distant Polynesia? Eleanor had changed since some time ago.
She could understand now why Mr. Rhys wanted to go there; she could
comprehend it; she could understand how it was that he was not afraid
to go and did not shrink from leaving all this loveliness at her feet.
All that was no mystery now; but her thoughts fastened on her aunt's
words--how they would "miss him." She was very still, and so was Mrs.
Caxton; till a step brought both heads round to the door.
It was only a servant that came out, bringing letters; one for Eleanor,
one for Mrs. Caxton. Standing where she was, Eleanor broke hers open.
It was from her mother, and it contained something both new and
unexpected; an urgent injunction on her to return immediately home. The
family were going at once to Brighton, the letter said; Mrs. Powle
wished Eleanor to lose no time, in order that her wardrobe might be
properly cared for. Thomas was sent with the letter, and her mother
desired that Eleanor would immediately on the receipt of it, "without
an hour's delay," set off to come home with him. Reasons for this
sudden proceeding there were none given; and it came with the
suddenness of a hurricane upon Eleanor. Up to this time there had been
no intimation of her mother's wish to have her at home again ever; an
interval of several weeks had elapsed since any letters; now Mrs. Powle
said "she had been gone long enough," and they all wanted her, and must
have her at once to go to Brighton. So suddenly affectionate?
Eleanor stood looking at her letter some time after she had ceased to
read it, with a face that shewed turmoil. Mrs. Caxton came up to her.
Eleanor dropped the letter in her hand, but her eye avoided her aunt's.
"What is all this haste, Eleanor?" Mrs. Caxton said gravely.
"I don't know, ma'am."
"At any rate, my child, you cannot leave me to-night. It is too late."
"Yes, ma'am."
"Does your mother assign no reason for this sudden demand of you? She
gives me none."
"She gives me none, ma'am."
"Eleanor--"
It brought Eleanor's eye up, and that brought her head down on Mrs.
Caxton's shoulder. Her aunt clasped her tenderly for a moment, and then
said,
"Had you not better see your mother's servant, my dear, and give your
orders?--and then we will have tea."
Eleanor steadied herself immediately; went out and had an interview
with old Thomas, which however brought her no enlightenment; made her
arrangements with him, and returned to her aunt. Mrs. Caxton ordered
tea; they would not wait for Mr. Rhys any longer. The aunt and niece
sat down to the table behind the honeysuckle drapery of the pillars;
the sunlight had left the landscape; the breath of the flowers floated
up cool and sweet from the terraced garden and waved about them with
every stir of the long rose and honeysuckle sprays. Eleanor sat by the
table and looked out. Mrs. Caxton poured out the tea and looked at her.
"Aren't you going to take some strawberries, my love?"
"Shall I give you some, aunt Caxton?"
"And yourself, my dear."
She watched while Eleanor slowly broke up the heath and ivy adornment
of the strawberry dish, and carefully afterwards replaced the sprays
and leaves she had dislodged. It is no harm for a lady's hand to be
white; but travelling from the hand to the face, Mrs. Caxton's eye
found too little colour there. Eleanor's cheeks were not generally
wanting in a fine healthy tinge. The tinge was fainter than usual
to-night. Nevertheless she was eating strawberries with apparent
regularity.
"Eleanor, I do not understand this sudden recall. Have you any clue?"
"No ma'am, not the least."
"What arrangements have you made, my dear?"
"For to-morrow morning, ma'am. I had no choice."
"No, my dear, you had not; and I have not a word to say. I hope Mr.
Rhys will come back before you go."
Absolute silence on Eleanor's part.
"You would like to bid him good bye before you leave Plassy."
There was a cessation of any attention to the strawberries, and
Eleanor's hand took a position which rather hindered observations of
her face. You might have heard a slight little sigh come from behind
Mrs. Caxton's tea-pot.
"Eleanor, have you learned that the steps of a good man are ordered by
the Lord? My love, they are not left to our own disposal, and we should
not know how to manage it. You are going to do the Lord's work, are you
not, wherever you may be?"
"I hope so."
"Then trust him to place you where he wants the work to be done. Can
you, Eleanor?"
Eleanor left her seat, came round and knelt down by Mrs. Caxton's side,
putting her face in her lap.
"It is not like a good soldier, dear, to wish to play general. You have
something now to do at home--perhaps not more for others than for
yourself. Are you willing to do it?"
"Don't ask me if I am willing, aunt Caxton! I have been too happy--But
I shall be willing."
"That is all we live for, my dear--to do the Lord's work; and I am sure
that in service as in everything else, God loves a cheerful giver. Let
us give him that now, Eleanor; and trust him for the rest. My child,
you are not the only one who has to give up something."
And though Mrs. Caxton said little more than that word on the subject
of what Eleanor's departure cost herself, she manifested it in a
different way by the kind incessant solicitude and care with which she
watched over Eleanor and helped her and kept with her that night and
the next morning. Eleanor made her preparations and indulged in very
few words. There was too much to think of, in the last evening's
society, the last night in her happy room, the last morning hours. And
yet Eleanor did very little thinking. She was to go immediately after
breakfast. The early prayers were over, and the aunt and niece were
left by themselves a moment before the meal was served.
"And what shall I say to Mr. Rhys?" enquired Mrs. Caxton, as they stood
silent together. Eleanor hesitated, and hesitated; and finally said,
"I believe, nothing, ma'am."
"You have given me messages for so many other people, you know," said
Mrs. Caxton quietly.
"Yes, ma'am. I don't know how to make a message for him."
"I think he will feel it," said Mrs. Caxton in the same manner.
Then she saw, for her eyes were good, the lightning flash of emotion
which worked in Eleanor's face. Proud self-control kept it down, and
she stood motionless, though it did not prevent the perceptible paling
of her cheek which Mrs. Caxton had noticed last night. She stood
silent, then she said slowly,--
"If I thought that--You may give him any message for me that you
think good, aunt Caxton."
The breakfast arrived, and few more words passed on any topic. Another
hour, and Eleanor was on her journey.
She felt in a confusion of spirits and would not let herself think,
till they reached her stopping place for the night. And then, instead
of thinking, Eleanor to say the truth could do nothing but weep. It was
her time for tears; to-morrow would end such an indulgence. At an early
hour the next day she met her father's carriage which had been sent so
far for her; and the remaining hours of her way Eleanor did think. Her
thoughts are her own. But at the bottom of some that were sorrowful lay
one deep subject of joy. That she was not going helmet-less into the
fight which she felt might be before her. Of that she had an inward
presentiment, though what form it would take she was entirely uncertain.
Julia was the first person that met her, and that meeting was rapturous.
"O Nell! it has been so dreadful and dull since you have been gone! I'm
so glad to have you home! I'm so glad to have you home!"--she repeated,
with her arms round Eleanor's neck.
"But what are you going to Brighton for?" said Eleanor after the first
salutations had satisfied the first eagerness of the sisters.
"O I don't know. Papa isn't just well, I believe; and mamma thought it
would do him good. Mamma's in here."
It was to Eleanor's relief that her reception in this quarter also was
perfectly cordial. Mrs. Powle seemed to have forgotten, or to be
disposed to forget, old causes of trouble; and to begin again as if
nothing had happened.
"You look well, Eleanor. Bless me, I never saw your complexion better!
but how your hair is dressed! That isn't the way now; but you'll get to
rights soon. I've got a purple muslin for you that will be beautiful.
Your whole wardrobe will want attention, but I have everything
ready--dress-maker and all--only waiting for you. Think of your being
gone seven months and more! But never mind--we'll let bygones be
bygones. I am not going to rake up anything. We'll go to Brighton and
have everything pleasant."
"How soon, mamma?"
"Just as soon as I can get you dressed. And Eleanor! I wish you would
immediately take a review of all your wardrobe and all I have got for
you, and see if I have omitted anything."
"What has put you into the notion of Brighton, mamma?"
"Everybody is there now--and we want a change. I think it will do your
father good."
To see her father was the next thing; and here there was some comfort.
The squire was undoubtedly rejoiced to see his daughter and welcomed
her back right heartily. Made much of her in his way. He was the only
one too who cared much to hear of Mrs. Caxton and her way of life and
her farm. The squire did care. Eleanor was kept a long time answering
questions and giving details. It cost her some hard work.
"She is a good woman, is my sister Caxton," said the Squire; "and she
has pluck enough for half a dozen. The only thing I have against her is
her being a Methodist. She hasn't made a Methodist of you, hey,
Eleanor?"
"I don't think she has, papa," Eleanor answered slowly.
"That's the only fault I have to find with her," the Squire went on;
"but I suppose women must have an empty corner of their heads, where
they will stick fancies if they don't stick flowers. I think flowers
are the most becoming of the two. Wears a brown gown always, don't she?"
"No, sir."
"I thought they did," said the Squire; "but she's a clever woman, for
all that, or she wouldn't carry on that business of the farm as she
does. Your mother don't like the farm; but I think my sister is right.
Better be independent and ask leave of nobody. Well, you must get
dressed, must you. I am glad to have you home, child!"
"Why are we going to leave home, papa?"
"St. George and the Dragon! Ask your mother."
So Eleanor did not get much wiser on the subject till dinner-time; nor
then either, though it was nearly the only thing talked about, both
directly and indirectly. A great weariness came over her, as the
contrast rose up of Mrs. Caxton's dinner-table and the three faces
round it; with the sweet play of talk, on things natural or
philosophical, religious or civil, but always sensible, fresh, and
original and strong. Always that; the party might lapse into silence;
if one of them was tired it often did; but when the words came again,
they came with a ready life and purpose--with a sort of perfume of love
and purity--that it made Eleanor's heart ache now to think of. Her
mother was descanting on lodgings, on the people already at Brighton,
or coming there; on dresses ready and unready; and to vary this topic
the Squire complained that his wine was not cooled properly. Eleanor
sank into silence and then into extreme depression of spirits; which
grew more and more, until she caught her little sister's eye looking at
her wistfully. Julia had hardly said a word all dinner-time. The look
smote Eleanor's conscience. "Is this the way I am doing the work given
me?" she thought; "this selfish forgetting of all others in myself? Am
I standing in my post like a good soldier? Is this 'pleasing all men
for their good?'" Conscience thumped like a hammer; and Eleanor roused
up, entered into what was going, talked and made herself pleasant to
both father and mother, who grew sunshiny under the influence. Mrs.
Powle eat the remainder of her dinner with more appetite; and the
Squire declared Eleanor had grown handsome and Plassy had done her no
harm. But Julia looked and listened and said never a word. It was very
hard work to Eleanor, though it brought its reward as she went along,
not only in comments but in the sense of duty performed. She would not
run away from her post; she kept at it; when her father had gone away
to smoke she stayed by her mother; till Mrs. Powle dropped off into her
usual after dinner nap in her chair. Eleanor sat still a minute or two
longer, then made an escape. She sought her old garden, by the way of
her old summer parlour. Things were not changed there, except that the
garden was a little neglected. It brought painful things back, though
the flowers were sweet and the summer sunset glow was over them all. So
it used to be in old times. So it used to be in nearer times, last
summer. And now was another change. Eleanor paced slowly down one walk
and up another, looking sorrowfully at her old friends, the roses,
carnations and petunias, which looked at her as cheerfully as ever;
when a hand touched hers and she found Julia at her side.
"Eleanor," she said wistfully, "are you sorry to be at home again?"
"I am glad to see you, darling; and papa, and mamma."
"But you don't look glad. Was it so much pleasanter where you have
been?"
Eleanor struggled with herself.
"It was very different, Julia--and there were things that you and I
both love, that there are not here."
"What?"
"Here all is for the world, Julia; there, at Plassy, nothing is for the
world. I feel the difference just at first--I suppose I shall get a
little used to it presently."
"I have not thought so much about all that," said Julia soberly, "since
Mr. Rhys went away. But you must have loved aunt Caxton very much,
Eleanor, to make you sorry to come home."
Julia spoke almost sadly. Eleanor felt bitterly reproached. Was there
not work at home here for her to do! Yet she could hardly speak at
first. Putting her arm round Julia she drew her down beside her on a
green bank and took her little sister in her arms.
"You and I will help each other, Julia, will we not?"
"In what?"
"To love Christ, and please him."
"Why, do you love him?" said Julia. "Are you like Mr. Rhys?"
"Not much. But I do love the same Master he loves, Julia; and I have
come home to serve him. You will help me?"
"Mamma don't like all that," remarked Julia.
Eleanor sighed. The burden on her heart seemed growing heavy. Julia
half rose up and putting both arms round her neck covered her lips with
kisses.
"You don't seem like yourself!" she said; "and you look as grave as if
you had found us all dead. Eleanor--are you afraid?" she said with an
earnest look.
"Afraid of what, dear?"
"Of that man--afraid of Mr. Carlisle?"
"No, I am not afraid of him, or of anything. Besides, he is hundreds of
miles away, in Switzerland or somewhere."
"No he isn't; he is here."
"What do you mean by 'here?'"
"In England, I mean. He isn't at the Priory; but he was here at the
Lodge the other day."
Eleanor's heart made two or three springs one way and another.
"No dear, I am not afraid of him," she repeated, with a quietness that
was convincing; and Julia passed to other subjects. Eleanor did not
forget that one; and as Julia ran on with her talk, she pondered it,
and made a secret thanksgiving that she was so escaped both from danger
and from fear. Nevertheless she could not help thinking about the
subject. It seemed that Mr. Carlisle's wound had healed very rapidly.
And moreover she had not given him credit for finding any attraction in
that house, beyond her own personal presence in it. However, she
reflected that Mr. Carlisle was busy in politics, and perhaps
cultivated her father. They went in again, to take up the subject of
Brighton.
And what followed? Muslins, flowers, laces, bonnets and ribbands. They
were very irksome days to Eleanor, that were spent in getting ready for
Brighton; and the thought of the calm purity of Plassy with its
different occupations sometimes came over her and for the moment
unnerved her hands for the finery they had to handle. Once Eleanor took
a long rambling ride alone on her old pony; she did not try it again.
Business and bustle was better, at least was less painful, than such a
time for thinking and feeling. So the dresses were made, and they went
to Brighton.
CHAPTER IV.
AT A WATERING-PLACE.
  "In the world's broad field of battle,
  In the bivouac of Life,
  Be not like dumb, driven cattle!
  Be a hero in the strife!"
Eleanor was at once plunged into a whirl of engagements, with
acquaintances new and old. And the former class multiplied very
rapidly. Mrs. Powle's fair curls hung on either side of her face with
almost their full measure of complacency, as she saw and beheld her
daughter's successful attractions. It was true. Eleanor was found to
have something unique about her; some said it was her beauty, some said
it was her manners; some insisted it was neither, but had a deeper
origin; at any rate she was fresh. Something out of the common line and
that piqued curiosity, was delightful; and in despite of her very
moderate worldly advantages, compared with many others who were there,
Eleanor Powle seemed likely to become in a little while the belle of
Brighton. Certain rumours which were afloat no doubt facilitated and
expedited this progress of things. Happily Eleanor did not hear them.
The rush of engagements and whirl of society at first was very wearying
and painful to her. No heart had Eleanor to give to it. Only by putting
a force upon herself, to please her father and mother, she managed to
enter with some spirit into the amusements going forward, in which she
was expected to take an active part. Perhaps this very fact had
something to do with the noble and sweet disengagedness of manner which
marked her unlike those about her, in a world where self-interest of
some sort is the ruling motive. It was not Eleanor's world; it had
nothing to do with the interests that were dear in her regard; and
something of that carelessness which she brought to it conferred a
grace that the world imitates in vain. Eleanor found however after a
little, that the rush and hurry of her life and of all the people about
her had a contagion in it; her own thoughts were beginning to be
absorbed in what absorbed everybody; her own cherished interests were
getting pushed into a corner. Eleanor resolved to make a stand then,
and secure time enough to herself to let her own inner life have play
and breathing room. But it was very difficult to make such a stand.
Mrs. Powle ever stood like a watchman at the door to drive Eleanor out
when she wanted to be in. Time! there seemed to be no time.
Eleanor had heard that Mr. Carlisle was expected at Brighton; so she
was not greatly surprised one evening to find herself in the same room
with him. It was at a public assembly. The glances that her curiosity
cast, found him moving about among people very like, and in very
exactly the manner of his old self. No difference that she could see.
She wondered whether he would have the audacity to come and speak to
her. Audacity was not a point in which Mr. Carlisle was failing. He
came; and as he came others scattered away; melted off, and left her
alone.
He came with the best air in the world; a little conscious, a little
apologetic, wholly respectful, not altogether devoid of the old
familiarity. He offered his hand; did not to be sure detain hers, which
would have been inconvenient in a public assembly; but he detained
her, falling into talk with an ease or an effrontery which it was
impossible not to admire. And Eleanor admired him involuntarily.
Certainly this man had capacities. He did not detain her too long;
passed away as easily as he had come up; but returned again in the
course of the evening to offer her some civility; and it was Mr.
Carlisle who put her mother and herself into their carriage. Eleanor
looked for a remark from her mother on the subject during their drive
home; but Mrs. Powle made none.
The next evening he was at Mrs. Powle's rooms, where a small company
was gathered every Tuesday. He might be excused if he watched, more
than he wished to be seen watching, the sweet unconscious grace and
ease with which Eleanor moved and spoke. Others noticed it, but Mr.
Carlisle drew comparisons; and found to his mystification that her six
months on a cheese-farm had returned Eleanor with an added charm of eye
and manner, for which he could not account; which he could not
immediately define. She was not expecting to see him this time, for she
started a little when he presented himself. He came with the same
pleasant expression that he had worn last night.
"Will you excuse me for remarking, that your winter has done you good?"
he said.
"Yes. I know it has," Eleanor answered.
"With your old frankness, you acknowledge it?"
"Willingly."
Her accent was so simple and sweet, the attraction was irresistible. He
sat down by her.
"I hope you are as willing as I am to acknowledge that all our last
winter's work was not good. We exchanged letters."
"Hardly, Mr. Carlisle."
"Will you allow me to say, that I am ashamed of my part in that
transaction. Eleanor, I want you to forget it, and to receive me as if
it had not happened."
