afraid you are not literary. Now Daisy, exercise your discernment upon
that."
It was a little box containing a Chinese puzzle, with the plans and keys
belonging to it.
"Where do you think that comes from?"
Daisy looked up. "I think--perhaps--from you, Mr. McFarlane."
"Do you think I am anything like a puzzle?"
"I think--perhaps--you mean to be,"--Daisy said innocently. But a shout
from the whole tableful answered to this chance hit. Daisy didn't know
what they could mean.
"I have done!" said Gary. "I have got more than my match. But I know who
will plague people worse than a puzzle, if she gets well educated.
There's a pair of gloves, you little fencer."
It was a nice little thick pair of riding or driving gloves; beautifully
made and ornamented. These came from Eloïse, Daisy's other cousin. Mrs.
Gary had brought her two beautiful toilet bottles of Bohemian glass.
Daisy's end of the table was growing full.
"What is this?" said Mrs. Gary, taking from the épergne a sealed note
directed to Daisy.
"That is Ransom's present. Give her mine first," said Mr. Randolph.
"Which is yours? I don't see anything more."
"That little Proserpine in the middle."
"This? Are you going to give this to Daisy? But why is she called
Proserpine? I don't see."
"Nor I," said Mr. Randolph, "only that everything must have a name. And
this damsel is supposed to have been carrying a basket, which might
easily have been a basket of flowers, I don't see how the statement
could be disproved. And Daisy is fonder of the little nymph, I believe,
than any one else in the house."
"O papa! thank you," exclaimed Daisy, whose eyes sparkled. "I like to
have her very much!"
"Well, here she goes," said Mrs. Gary. "Hand her over. You have a
variety, Daisy. Chinese playthings and Grecian art."
"Some modern luxury," said Gary McFarlane. "Just a little."
"Egyptian art, too," said Capt. Drummond.
"O where's my spoon?" cried Daisy. "Has papa got it?"
"Here is Ransom's present," said her aunt, handing the note. "Nobody
knows what it is. Are we to know?"
Daisy opened and read, read over again, looked very grave, and finally
folded the note up in silence.
"What is it?" said her aunt.
Daisy hesitated, wishing, but in doubt if she would be permitted to keep
it to herself. Her father answered for her.
"It is all of Ransom's part, share, and possession in a certain small
equipage known about these premises; the intent and understanding being,
that henceforth the pony carriage and pony are Daisy's sole property,
and to be by her used and appropriated without any other person's
interference whatever."
"But, papa--" Ransom began.
"I think it is a very poor arrangement, Mr. Randolph," said Ransom's
mother. "Daisy cannot use the pony half enough for his good."
"She will make more use of him now," said Mr. Randolph.
Ransom looked very glum. His mother rose, with the ladies, and went to
the drawing-room.
CHAPTER VII.
A day or two after the birthday, it happened that Capt. Drummond was
enjoying the sunshine in a way that gentlemen like to enjoy it; that is,
he was stretched comfortably on the grass under the shade of some elm
trees, looking at it. Perhaps it was not exactly the sunshine that he
was enjoying, but the soft couch of short grass, and the luxurious warm
shadow of the elms, and a little fanciful breeze which played and
stopped playing, and set the elm trees all a flutter and let them be
still, by turns. But Capt. Drummond was having a good time there, all by
himself, and lying at length in a most lazy luxurious fashion; when he
suddenly was "ware" of a fold of white drapery somewhere not very far
from his left ear. He raised himself a little up, and there to be sure,
as he had guessed, was Daisy. She was all alone too, and standing there
looking at him.
Now Capt. Drummond was a great favourite of Daisy's. In the first place
he was a handsome fellow, with a face which was both gentle and manly;
and his curly light-brown hair and his slight well-trimmed moustache set
off features that were pleasant for man or woman to look upon. Perhaps
Daisy liked him partly for this, but I think she had other reasons. At
any rate, there she stood looking at him.
"Can you command me, Daisy?" said the young officer.
"Are you at leisure, Capt. Drummond?"
"Looks like it!" said the gentleman rousing himself. "What shall I give
you? a camp-chair? or will you take the--O! that is a better
arrangement."
For Daisy had thrown on the ground a soft shawl for a carpet, and took
her place upon it beside Capt. Drummond, who looked at her in a pleased
kind of way.
"Are you quite at leisure, Capt. Drummond?"
"Gentlemen always are--when ladies' affairs are to be attended to."
"Are they?" said Daisy.
"They ought to be!"
"But I am not a lady."
"What do you call yourself?"
"I don't know," said Daisy gravely. "I suppose I am a little piece of
one."
"Is that it?" said Capt. Drummond laughing. "Well, I will give you as
large a piece of my leisure as you can make use of--without regard to
proportions. What is on hand, Daisy?"
"Capt. Drummond," said Daisy with a very serious face,--"do soldiers
have a very hard time?"
"Not always. Not when they are lying out under the trees at Melbourne,
for example."
"But I mean, when they are acting like soldiers?"
He was ready with a laughing answer again, but seeing how earnest
Daisy's face was, he controlled himself; and leaning on his elbow, with
just a little smile of amusement on his face, he answered her.
"Well, Daisy--sometimes--they do."
"How, Capt. Drummond?"
"In a variety of ways."
"Will you please tell me about it?"
He looked up at her. "Why, Daisy, what makes you curious in the matter?
Have you a friend in the army?"
"No other but you," said Daisy.
"That is a kind speech. To reward you for it, I will tell you anything
you please. What is the question, Daisy?"
"I would like to know in what way soldiers have a hard time?"
"Well, Daisy, to begin, with, a soldier can't do what he has a mind."
"Not about anything?"
"Well--no; not unless he gets leave. I am only at Melbourne now because
I have got leave; and I must go when my leave is up. A soldier does not
belong to himself."
"To whom does he belong?'
"To his commander! He must go and come, do or not do things, just as his
General bids him; and ask no questions."
"Ask no questions?" said Daisy.
"No; only do what he is ordered."
"But why mayn't he ask questions?"
"That isn't his business. He has nothing to do with the reason of
things; all he has got to do is his duty. The reason is his General's
duty to look after."
"But suppose he had a very good General--then that wouldn't be much of a
hardship," said Daisy.
"Well, that is a very material point," said the Captain. "Suppose he
has a good General--as you say; that would make a great difference,
certainly."
"Is that all, Capt. Drummond?"
"Not quite all."
"What else?"
"Well, Daisy, a soldier, even under a good General, is often ordered to
do hard things."
"What sort of things?"
"What do you think," said the Captain lolling comfortably on the green
bank, "of camping out under the rain-clouds--with no bed but stones or
puddles of mud and wet leaves--and rain pouring down all night, and hard
work all day; and no better accommodations for week in and week out?"
"But Capt. Drummond!" said Daisy horrified, "I thought soldiers had
tents?"
"So they do--in fine weather--" said the Captain. "But just where the
hardest work is to do, is where they can't carry their tents."
"Couldn't that be prevented?"
"I'm afraid not."
"I should think they'd get sick?"
"Think they would! Why they do, Daisy, by hundreds and hundreds. What
then? A soldier's life isn't his own; and if he has to give it up in a
hospital instead of on the field, why it's good for some other fellow."
So this it was, not to belong to oneself! Daisy looked on the soldier
before her who had run, or would run, such risks, very tenderly; but
nevertheless the child was thinking her own thoughts all the while. The
Captain saw both things.
"What is the 'hard work' they have to do?" she asked presently.
"Daisy, you wouldn't like to see it."
"Why, sir?"
"Poor fellows digging and making walls of sand or sods to shelter them
from fire--when every now and then comes a shot from the enemy's
batteries, ploughs up their work, and knocks over some poor rascal who
never gets up again. That's one kind of hard work."
Daisy's face was intent in its interest; but she only said, "Please go
on."
"Do you like to hear it?"
"Yes, I like to know about it."
"I wonder what Mrs. Randolph would say to me?"
"Please go on, Capt. Drummond!"
"I don't know about that. However, Daisy, work in the trenches is not
the hardest thing--nor living wet through or frozen half through--nor
going half fed--About the hardest thing I know, is in a hurried retreat
to be obliged to leave sick and wounded friends and poor fellows to fall
into the hands of the enemy. That's hard."
"Isn't it hard to fight a battle?"
"You would not like to march up to the fire of the enemy's guns, and see
your friends falling right and left of you--struck down?"
"Would you?" said Daisy.
"Would I what?"
"Don't you think it is hard, to do that?"
"Not just at the time, Daisy. It is a little tough afterwards, when one
comes to think about it. It is hard to see fellows suffer too, that one
cannot help."
Daisy hardly knew what to think of Capt. Drummond. His handsome pleasant
face looked not less gentle than usual, and did look somewhat more
sober. Daisy concluded it must be something about a soldier's life that
she could not understand, all this coolness with which he spoke of
dreadful things. A deep sigh was the testimony of the different feelings
of her little breast. Capt. Drummond looked up at her.
"Daisy, women are not called to be soldiers."
Daisy passed that.
"Have you told me all you can tell me, Capt. Drummond?"
"I should not like to tell you all I could tell you."
"Why? Please do! I want to know all about soldiers."
He looked curiously at her. "After all," he said, "it is not so bad as
you think, Daisy. A good soldier does not find it hard to obey orders."
"What sorts of orders does he have to obey?"
"All sorts."
"But suppose they were wrong orders?"
"Makes no difference."
"Wrong orders?"
"Yes," said Capt. Drummond, laughing. "If it is something he can do, he
does it; if it is something he can't do, he loses his head trying."
"Loses his head, sir?"
"Yes--by a cannon ball; or his heart, by a musket ball; or maybe he gets
off with losing a hand or a leg; just as it happens. That makes no
difference, either." He watched Daisy as he spoke, seeing a slight
colour rise in her cheeks, and wondering what made the-child's quiet
grey eyes look at him so thoughtfully.
"Capt. Drummond, is he ever told to do anything he can't do?"
"A few years ago, Daisy, the English and the French were fighting the
Russians in the Crimea. I happened to be there on business, and I saw
some things. An order was brought one day to an officer commanding a
body of cavalry--you know what cavalry is?"
"Yes, I know."
"The order was brought in--Hallo! what's that?"
For a voice was heard shouting at a little distance, "Drummond!--Ho,
Drummond! Where are you?"
"It's Mr. McFarlane!" said Daisy. "He'll come here. I'm very sorry."
"Don't be sorry," said the Captain. "Come,--let us disappoint him. He
can't play hide and seek."
He jumped up and caught Daisy's willing hand, with the other hand caught
up her shawl, and drew her along swiftly under cover of the trees and
shrubbery towards the river, and away from the voice they heard calling.
Daisy half ran, half flew, it seemed to her; so fast the strong hand of
her friend pulled her over the ground. At the edge of the bank that
faced the river, at the top of a very steep descent of a hundred feet or
near that, under a thick shelter of trees, Capt. Drummond called a halt
and stood listening. Far off, faint in the distance, they could still
hear the shout.
"Drummond!--where are you? Hallo!"
"We'll go down to the river," said the Captain; "and he is too lazy to
look for us there. We shall be safe. Daisy, this is a retreat--but it is
not a hardship, is it?"
Daisy looked up delighted. The little face so soberly thoughtful a few
minutes ago was all bright and flushed. The Captain was charmed too.
"But we can't get down there,"--said Daisy, casting her eye down the
very steep pitch of the bank.
"That is something," said the Captain, "with which as a soldier you have
nothing to do. All you have to do is to obey orders; and the orders are
that we charge down hill."
"I shall go head first, then," said Daisy, "or over and over. I couldn't
keep my feet one minute."
"Now you are arguing," said the Captain; "and that shews
insubordination, or want of discipline. But we have got to charge, all
the same; and we'll see about putting you under arrest afterwards."
Daisy laughed at him, but she could not conceive how they should get to
the bottom. It was very steep and strewn with dead leaves from the trees
which grew thick all the way. Rolling down was out of the question, for
the stems of the trees would catch them; and to keep on their feet
seemed impossible. Daisy found however that Capt. Drummond could manage
what she could not. He took hold of her hand again; and then--Daisy
hardly believed it while she was doing it,--but there she was, going
down that bank in an upright position; not falling nor stumbling, though
it is true she was not walking neither. The Captain did not let her
fall, and his strong hand seemed to take her like a feather over the
stones and among the trees, giving her flying leaps and bounds down, the
hill along with him. How he went and kept his feet remained always a
marvel to Daisy; but down they went, and at the bottom they were in a
trifle of time.
"Do you think he will come down there after us?" said the Captain.
"I am sure he won't," said Daisy.
"So am I sure. We are safe, Daisy. Now I am your prisoner and you are my
prisoner; and we will set each other at any work we please. This is a
nice place."
Behind them, was the high, steep, wooded bank, rising right up. Before
them was a little strip of pebbly beach, and little wavelets of the
river washing past it. Beyond lay the broad stream, all bright in the
summer sunshine, with the great blue hills rising up misty and blue in
the distance. Nothing else; a little curve in the shore on each side
shut them in from all that was above or below near at hand.
"Why this is a fine place," repeated the Captain. "Were you ever here
before?"
"Not in a long time," said Daisy. "I have been here with June."
"June! Aren't we here with June now?"
"Now!--O I don't mean the month--I mean mamma's black June," said
Daisy laughing.
"Well that is the first time I ever heard of a black June!" muttered the
Captain. "Does she resemble her name or her colour?"
"She isn't much like the month of June," said Daisy. "I don't think she
is a very cheerful person."
"Then I wouldn't come here any more with her--or anywhere else."
"I don't," said Daisy. "I don't go with her, or with anybody else--much.
Only I go with Sam and the pony."
"Where's Ransom? Don't he go with you?"
"O Ransom's older, you know; and he's a boy."
"Ransom don't know his advantages. This is pleasant, Daisy. Now let us
see. What were you and I about?"
"You were telling me something, Capt. Drummond."
"What was it? O I know. Daisy, you are under arrest, you know, and
sentenced to extra duty. The work you are to perform, is to gather as
many of these little pebbles together--these white ones--as you can in
five minutes."
Daisy went to work; so did the Captain; and very busy they were, for the
Captain gathered as many pebbles as she did. He made her fetch them to a
place where the little beach was clean and smooth, and in the shadow of
an overhanging tree they both sat down. Then the Captain throwing off
his cap, began arranging the white pebbles on the sand in some
mysterious manner--lines of them hero and lines of them there--whistling
as he worked. Daisy waited with curious patience; watched him closely,
but never asked what he was doing. At last he stopped, looked up at her,
and smiled.
"Well!--" he said.
"What is it all, Capt. Drummond?"
"This is your story, Daisy."
"My story!"
"Yes. Look here--these rows of white stones are the Russians;--these
brown stones are the English," said he, beginning to marshal another set
into mysterious order some distance from the white stones. "Now what
shall I do for some guns?"
Daisy in a very great state of delight began to make search for
something that would do to stand for artillery; but Capt. Drummond
presently solved the question by breaking some twigs from the tree
overhead and cutting them up into inch lengths. These little mock guns
he distributed liberally among the white stones, pointing their muzzles
in various directions; and finally drew some lines in the sand which he
informed Daisy were fortifications. Daisy looked on; it was better than
a fairy tale.
"Now Daisy, we are ready for action. This is the battle of Balaklava;
and these are part of the lines. An order was brought to an officer
commanding a body of cavalry stationed up here--you know what cavalry
is?"
"Yes, I know."
"The order was brought to him to charge upon the enemy down there,--in
a place where he could do no good and must be cut to pieces;--the enemy
had so many guns in that place and he had so few men to attack them
with. The order was a mistake. He knew it was a mistake, but his General
had sent it--there was nothing for him to do but to obey. So he
charged."
"And his men?"
"Every one. They knew they were going to their death--and everybody else
knew it that saw them go--but they charged!"
"Did you see it, Capt. Drummond?"
"I saw it."
"And did they go to their death?" said Daisy, awe-stricken, for Captain
Drummond's look said that he was thinking of something it had been grave
to see.
"Why yes. Look here, Daisy--here were cannon; there were cannon; there
were more cannon; cannon on every side of them but one. They went into
death they knew, when they went in there."
"How many of them went there?"
"Six hundred."
"Six hundred!--were they all killed?"
"No. There were a part of them that escaped and lived to come back."
Daisy looked at the pebbles and the guns in profound silence.
"But if the officer knew the order was a mistake, why must he obey it?"
"That's a soldier's duty, Daisy. He can do nothing but follow orders. A
soldier can't know, very often, what an order is given for; he cannot
judge; he does not know what his General means to accomplish. All he has
to think of is to obey orders; and if every soldier does that, all is
right."
What was little Daisy thinking of? She sat looking at her friend the
Captain. He was amused.
"Well, Daisy--what do you think? will it do? Do you think you will stand
it and be a soldier?"
Daisy hesitated a good deal, and looked off and on at the Captain's
face. Then she said very quietly, "Yes."
"You will!" he said. "I wish you would join my branch of the service.
Suppose you come into my company?"
"Suppose you join mine?"
"With all my heart!" said the Captain laughing; "if it is not
inconsistent with my present duties. So you have enlisted already? Are
you authorized to receive recruits?"
Daisy shook her head and did not join in his laugh.
"Honestly, Daisy, tell me true; what did you want to know about soldiers
for? I have answered you; now answer me. I am curious."
Daisy did not answer, and seemed in doubt.
"Will you not honour me so far?"
Daisy hesitated still, and looked at the Captain more than once. But
Capt. Drummond was a great favourite, and had earned her favour partly
by never talking nonsense to her; a great distinction.
"I will tell you when we get back to the house," she said,--"if you will
not speak of it, Capt. Drummond."
The Captain could get no nearer his point; and he and Daisy spent a good
while longer by the river-side, erecting fortifications and studying the
charge of the Light brigade.
CHAPTER VIII.
The Captain was not able to claim Daisy's promise immediately. On their
return to the house he was at once taken up with some of the older
people, and Daisy ran off to her long delayed dinner.
The next day in the course of her wanderings about the grounds, which
were universal, Daisy came upon her cousin Preston. He sat in the shade
of a clump of larches under a great oak, making flies for fishing; which
occupation, like a gentlemanly boy as he was, he had carried out there
where the litter of it would be in nobody's way. Preston Gary was a very
fine fellow; about sixteen, a handsome fellow, very spirited, very
clever, and very gentle and kind to his little cousin Daisy. Daisy liked
him much, and was more entirely free with him perhaps than with any
other person in the family. Her seeing him now was the signal for a
joyous skip and bound which brought her to his side.
"O Preston, are you going fishing?"
"Perhaps--if I have a good day for it."
"When?"
"To-morrow."
"Who's going with you?"
"Nobody, I reckon. Unless you want to go, Daisy."
"O Preston, may I go with you? Where are you going?"
"Daisy, I'm bound for the Hillsdale woods, back of Crum Elbow--they say
there are first-rate trout streams there; but I am afraid you can't go
so far."
"O I can go anywhere, Preston! with Loupe, you know. You're going to
ride, aren't you?"
"Yes, but Loupe! What shall we do with Loupe? You see, I shall be gone
the whole day, Daisy--it's likely. You'd get tired."
"Why we could find somewhere to put Loupe--Sam could take care of him.
And I should like to go, Preston, if you think I would not frighten the
fish."
"O if Sam's going along, that is another matter," said Preston. "You
frighten the fish, Daisy! I don't believe you can do that for anything.
But I won't let you get into mischief."
So it was settled, and Daisy's face looked delighted; and for some time
she and Preston discussed the plan, the fish, and his flies. Then
suddenly Daisy introduced another subject.
"Preston, where is the Crimea?"
"The Crimea!" said Preston.
"Yes; where the English and the French were fighting with the Russians."
"The Crimea! Why Daisy, don't you know where it is? You'll find it in
the Black Sea somewhere."
Daisy hesitated.
"But Preston, I don't know where the Black Sea is."
"Why Daisy, what has become of your geography?"
"I never had much," said Daisy humbly, and looking serious;--"and lately
mamma hasn't wanted me to do anything but run about."
"Well, if you take the map of Europe, and set out from the north of
Russia and walk down, you'll find yourself in the Crimea after a while.
Just hold that, Daisy, will you?"
Daisy held the ends of silk he put in her fingers; but while he worked,
she thought. Might it not be possible that a good knowledge of geography
might have something to do with the use or the improvement of her
talents? And if a knowledge of geography, why not also a knowledge of
history, and of arithmetic,--and of everything! There could not be a
reasonable doubt of it. What would Preston be,--what would Mr. Dinwiddie
or Capt. Drummond be,--if they knew nothing? And by the same reasoning,
what would Daisy Randolph be? What could she do with her talents, if she
let them lie rusty with ignorance? Now this was a very serious thought
to Daisy, because she did not like study. She liked knowledge right
well, if she could get it without trouble, and if it was entertaining
knowledge; but she did not think geography at all entertaining, nor
arithmetic. Yet--Daisy forgot all about Preston's artificial flies, and
her face grew into a depth of sobriety.
"Preston--" she began slowly,--"is it hard?"
"Not just that," said Preston, busy in finishing a piece of work,--"it
is a little ticklish to stroke this into order--but it isn't hard, if
you have the right materials, and know how."
"O no--I don't mean flies--I mean geography."
"Geography!" said Preston. "O you are at the Crimea yet, are you? I'll
shew it to you, Daisy, when we go in."
"Preston, is the use of geography only to know where places are?"
"Well, that's pretty convenient," said Preston. "Daisy, just look for
that bunch of grey silk--I had it here a minute ago."
"But Preston, tell me what is the use of it?"
"Why, my dear little Daisy--thank you!--you'd be all abroad without it."
"All abroad!" exclaimed Daisy.
"It comes to about that, I reckon. You wouldn't understand anything. How
can you? Suppose I shew you my pictures of the North American
Indians--they'll be as good as Chinese to you, if you don't know
geography."
Daisy was silent, feeling puzzled.
"And," said Preston, binding his fly, "when you talk of the Crimea you
will not know whether the English came from the east or the west, nor
whether the Russians are not living under the equator and eating ripe
oranges."
"Don't they eat oranges?" said Daisy seriously. But that question set
Preston off into a burst of laughter, for which he atoned as soon as it
was over by a very gentle kiss to his little cousin.
"Never mind, Daisy," he said; "I think you are better without geography.
You aren't just like everybody else--that's a fact."
"Daisy," said Capt. Drummond, coming upon the scene, "do you allow such
things?"
"It is Preston's manner of asking my pardon, Capt. Drummond," Daisy
answered, looking a little troubled, but in her slow, womanly way. The
Captain could not help laughing in his turn.
"What offence has he been guilty of?--tell me, and I will make him ask
pardon in another manner. But Daisy, do you reckon such a liberty no
offence?"
"Not if I am willing he should take it," said Daisy. The Captain seemed
much amused.
"My dear little lady!" he said, "it is good for me you are not half a
score of years wiser. What were you talking about the Crimea?--I heard
the word as I came up."
"I asked Preston to shew it to me on the map--or he said he would."
"Come with me and I'll do it. You shouldn't ask anybody but me about the
Crimea."
So getting hold affectionately of Daisy's hand, he and she went off to
the house. No one was in the library. The Captain opened a large map of
Russia; Daisy got up in a chair, with her elbows on the great library
table, and leaned over it, while the Captain drew up another chair and
pointed out the Crimea and Sebastopol, and shewed the course by which
the English ships had come, for Daisy took care to ask that. Then,
finding so earnest a listener, he went on to describe to her the
situation of other places on the Peninsula, and the character of the
country, and the severities of the climate in the region of the great
struggle. Daisy listened, with her eyes varying between Capt. Drummond's
face and the map. The Black Sea became known to Daisy thence and
forever.
"I never thought geography was so interesting!" she remarked with a
sigh, as the Captain paused. He smiled.
"Now Daisy, you have something to tell me," he said.
"What?" said Daisy, looking up suddenly.
"Why you wanted to know about soldiers--don't you remember your
promise?"
The child's face all changed; her busy, eager, animated look, became on
the instant thoughtful and still. Yet changed, as the Captain saw with
some curiosity, not to lesser but to greater intentness.
"Well, Daisy?"
"Capt. Drummond, if I tell you, I do not wish it talked about."
"Certainly not!" he said suppressing a smile, and watched her while she
got down from her chair and looked about among the bookshelves.
"Will you please put this on the table for me?" she said--"I can't lift
it."
"A Bible!" said the Captain to himself. "This is growing serious." But
he carried the great quarto silently and placed it on the table. It was
a very large volume, full of magnificent engravings, which were the sole
cause and explanation of its finding a place in Mr. Randolph's library.
He put it on the table and watched Daisy curiously, who disregarding all
the pictures turned over the leaves hurriedly, till near the end of the
book; then stopped, put her little finger under some words, and turned
to him. The Captain looked and read--over the little finger--
"Thou therefore endure hardness, as a good soldier of Jesus Christ."
It gave the Captain a very odd feeling. He stopped and read it two or
three times over.
"But Daisy!"--he said.
"What, Capt. Drummond?"
"What has this to do with what we were talking about?"
"Would you please shut this up and put it away, first?"
The Captain obeyed, and as he turned from the bookshelves Daisy took his
hand again, and drew him, child-fashion, out of the house and through
the shrubbery. He let her alone till she had brought him to a shady
spot, where under the thick growth of magnificent trees a rustic seat
stood, in full view of the distant mountains and the river.
"Where is my answer, Daisy?" he said, as she let go his hand and seated
herself.
"What was your question, Capt. Drummond?"
"Now you are playing hide and seek with me. What have those words you
shewed me,--what have they to do with our yesterday's conversation?"
"I would like to know," said Daisy slowly, "what it means, to be a good
soldier?"
"Why?"
"I think I have told you," she said.
She said it with the most unmoved simplicity. The Captain could not
imagine what made him feel uncomfortable. He whistled.
"Daisy, you are incomprehensible!" he exclaimed, and catching hold of
her hand, he began a race down towards the river. Such a race as they
had taken the day before. Through shade and through sun, down grassy
steeps and up again, flying among the trees as if some one were after
them, the Captain ran; and Daisy was pulled along with him. At the edge
of the woods which crowned the river bank, he stopped and looked at
Daisy who was all flushed and sparkling with exertion and merriment.
"Sit down there!" said he, putting her on the bank and throwing himself
beside her. "Now you look as you ought to look!"
"I don't think mamma would think so," said Daisy panting and laughing.
"Yes, she would. Now tell me--do you call yourself a soldier?"
"I don't know whether there can be such little soldiers," said Daisy.
"If there can be, I am."
"And what fighting do you expect to do, little one?"
"I don't know," said Daisy. "Not very well."
"What enemies are you going to face?"
But Daisy only looked rather hard at the Captain and made him no answer.
"Do you expect to emulate the charge of the Light Brigade, in some tilt
against fancied wrong?"
Daisy looked at her friend; she did not quite understand him, but his
last words were intelligible.
"I don't know," she said meekly. "But if I do it will not be because the
order is a mistake, Capt. Drummond."
The Captain bit his lip. "Daisy," said he, "are you the only soldier in
the family?"
Daisy sat still, looking up over the sunny slopes of ground towards the
house.
The sunbeams shewed it bright and stately on the higher ground; they
poured over a rich luxuriant spread of greensward and trees, highly
kept; stately and fair; and Daisy could not help remembering that in all
that domain, so far as she knew, there was not a thought in any heart of
being the sort of soldier she wished to be. She got up from the ground
and smoothed her dress down.
"Capt. Drummond," she said with a grave dignity that was at the same
time perfectly childish too,--"I have told you about myself--I can't
tell you about other people."
"Daisy, you are not angry with me!"
"No sir."
"Don't you sometimes permit other people to ask your pardon in Preston
Gary's way?"
Daisy was about to give a quiet negative to this proposal, when
perceiving more mischief in the Captain's face than might be manageable,
she pulled away her hand from him, and dashed off like a deer. The
Captain was wiser than to follow.
Later in the day, which turned out a very warm one, he and Gary
McFarlane went down again to the edge of the bank, hoping to get if they
could a taste of the river breeze. Lying there stretched out under the
trees, after a little while they heard voices. The voices were down on
the shore. Gary moved his position to look.
"It's that child--what under the sun is she doing! I beg pardon for
naming anything warm just now, Drummond--but she is building
fortifications of some sort, down there."
Capt. Drummond came forward too. Down below them, a little to the right,
where a tiny bend in the shore made a spot of shade, Daisy was
crouching on the ground apparently very busy. Back of her a few paces
was her dark attendant, June.
"There's energy," said Gary. "What a nice thing it is to be a child and
play in the sand!"
The talk down on the shore went on; June's voice could scarcely be
heard, but Daisy's words were clear--"Do, June! Please try." Another
murmur from June, and then Daisy--"Try, June--do, please!" The little
voice was soft, but its utterances were distinct; the words could be
heard quite plainly. And Daisy sat back from her sand-work, and June
began to sing something. What, it would have been difficult to tell at
the top of the bank, but then Daisy's voice struck in. With no knowledge
that she had listeners, the notes came mounting up to the top of the
bank, clear, joyous and strong, with a sweet power that nobody knew
Daisy's voice had.
"Upon my word, that's pretty!" said the Captain.
"A pretty thing, too, faith," said Gary. "Captain, let's get nearer the
performers. Look out, now, and don't strike to windward."
They went, like hunters, softly down the bank, keeping under
shelter, and winding round so as to get near before they should be seen.
They succeeded. Daisy was intent upon her sand-work again, and June's
back was towards them. The song went on more softly; then in a chorus
Daisy's voice rang out again, and the words were plain.
  "Die in the field of battle,
   Die in the field of battle,
   Die in the field of battle,
     Glory in your view."
"Spirited!" whispered Gary.
"I almost think it is a Swedish war song," said the Captain. "I am not
sure."
"Miss Daisy!"--said June--"the gentlemen--"
Daisy started up. The intruders came near. On the ground beside her lay
an open map of Europe; in the sand before her she had drawn the same
outlines on a larger scale. The shore generally was rough and pebbly;
just in this little cove there was a space of very fine sand, left
wetted and adhesive by the last tide. Here the battle of Inkermann had
been fought, and here Daisy's geography was going on. Capt. Drummond,
who alone had the clue to all this, sat down on a convenient stone to
examine the work. The lines were pretty fairly drawn, and Daisy had gone
on to excavate to some depth the whole area of the Mediterranean and
Black Seas, and the region of the Atlantic to some extent; with the
course of the larger rivers deeply indented.
"What is all this gouging for, Daisy?" he said. "You want water here
now, to fill up."
"I thought when the tide came, Capt. Drummond, I could let it flow in
here, and see how it would look."
"It's a poor rule that don't work both ways," said the Captain. "I
always heard that 'time and tide wait for no man;' and we won't wait for
the tide. Here Gary--make yourself useful--fetch some water here; enough
to fill two seas and a portion of the Atlantic Ocean."
"What shall I bring it in, if you please?"
"Anything!--your hands, or your hat, man. Do impossibilities for once.
It is easy to see you are not a soldier."
"The fates preserve me from being a soldier under you!" said Gary--"if
that's your idea of military duty. What are you going to do while I
play Neptune in a bucket?"
"I am going to build cities and raise up mountains. Daisy, suppose we
lay in a supply of these little white stones, and some black ones----"
While this was done, and Daisy looked delighted, Mr. McFarlane seized
upon a tin dipper which June had brought, and filled it at the river.
Capt. Drummond carefully poured out the water into the Mediterranean,
and opened a channel through the Bosphorus and Dardanelles, which were
very full of sand, into the Black Sea. Then he sent Gary off again for
more, and began placing the pebbles.
"What is that for, Capt. Drummond?" asked Daisy.
"These are the Alps--white, as they should be, for the snow always lies
on them."
"Is it so cold there?"
"No,--but the mountains are so high. Their tops are always cold, but
flowers grow down in the valleys. These are very great mountains,
Daisy."
"And what are those black ones, Capt. Drummond?"
"This range is the Pyrenees--between France and Spain;--they are great
too, and beautiful. And here go the Carpathians--and here the Ural
mountains,--and these must stand for the Apennines."
"Are they beautiful too?"
"I suppose so--but I can't say, never having been there. Now what shall
we do for the cities? As they are centres of wealth, I think a
three-cent piece must mark them. Hand over, Gary; I have not thrips
enough. There is St. Petersburg--here is Constantinople--here is
Rome--now here is Paris. Hallo! we've no England! can't leave London
out. Give me that spoon, Daisy--" and the Captain, as he expressed it,
went to work in the trenches. England was duly marked out, the channel
filled, and a bit of silver planted for the metropolis of the world.
"Upon my word!" said Gary,--"I never knew geography before. I shall
carry away some ideas."
"Keep all you can get," said the Captain. "Now there's Europe."
"And here were the battles,"--said Daisy, touching the little spot of
wet sand which stood for the Crimea.
"The battles!" said Gary. "What battles?"
"Why, where the English and French fought the Russians."
"The battles! Shades of all the heroes! Why Daisy, Europe has done
nothing but fight for a hundred thousand years. There isn't a half inch
of it that hasn't had a battle. See, there was one,--and there was
another--tremendous;--and there,--and there,--and there,--and
there,--and all over! This little strip here that is getting swallowed
up in the Mediterranean--there has been blood enough shed on it to make
it red from one end to the other, a foot deep. That's because it has had
so many great men belonging to it."
Daisy looked at Capt. Drummond.
"It's pretty much so, Daisy," he said; "all over the south of Europe, at
any rate."
"Why over the south and not the north?"
"People in the north haven't anything to fight for," said Gary. "Nobody
wants a possession of ice and snow--more than will cool his butter."
"A good deal so, Daisy," said Capt. Drummond, taking the silent appeal
of her eyes.
"Besides," continued Gary, "great men don't grow in the north. Daisy, I
want to know which is the battle-field you are going to die on."
Daisy sat back from the map of Europe and looked at Gary with
unqualified amazement.
"Well?" said Gary. "I mean it."
"I don't know what you mean."
"I hear you are going to die on the field of battle--and I want to be
there that I may throw myself after you, as Douglas did after the
Bruce's locket; saying 'Go thou first, brave heart, as thou art wont,
and I will follow thee!'"
"Daisy," said the Captain, "you were singing a battle-song as we came
down the hill--that is what he means."
"Oh!--" said Daisy, her face changing from its amazed look. But her
colour rose too a little.
"What was it?"
"That?" said Daisy. "O that was a hymn."
"A hymn!" shouted Gary. "Good! A hymn! That's glorious! Where did you
get it, Daisy? Have you got a collection of Swedish war-songs? They
used to sing and fight together, I am told. They are the only people I
ever heard of that did--except North American Indians. Where did you get
it?"
"I got it from June."
"June! what, by inspiration? June is a fine month, I know--for
strawberries--but I had no idea----"
"No, no," said Daisy, half laughing,--"I mean my June--there she is; I
got it from her."
"Hollo!" cried Gary. "Come here, my good woman--Powers of Darkness! Is
your name June?"
"Yes sir, if you please," the woman said, in her low voice, dropping a
courtesy.
"Well, nobody offers more attractions--in a name," said Gary;--"I'll say
that for you. Where did you get that song your little mistress was
singing when we came down the hill? Can you sing it?"
June's reply was unintelligible.
"Speak louder, my friend. What did you say?"
June made an effort. "If you please, sir, I can't sing," she was
understood to say. "They sings it in camp meeting."
"In camp meeting!" said Gary. "I should think so! What's that! You see I
have never been there, and don't understand."
"If you please, sir--the gentleman knows"--June said, retreating
backwards as she spoke, and so fast that she soon got out of their
neighbourhood. The shrinking, gliding action accorded perfectly with the
smothered tones and subdued face of the woman.
"Don't she know!" said Gary. "Isn't that a character now? But, Daisy,
are you turning Puritan?"
"I don't know what that is," said Daisy.
"Upon my word you look like it! It's a dreadful disease,
Daisy;--generally takes the form of--I declare I don't know!--fever, I
believe, and delirium; and singing is one of the symptoms."
"You don't want to stop her singing?" said Capt. Drummond.
"That sort? yes I do. It wouldn't be healthy, up at the house. Daisy,
sing that gipsy song from 'The Camp in Silesia,' that I heard you
singing a day or two ago."
"'The Camp in Silesia?'" said Capt. Drummond. "Daisy, can you sing
that?"
"Whistles it off like a gipsy herself," said Gary. "Daisy, sing it."
"I like the other best," said Daisy.
But neither teasing nor coaxing could make her sing again, either the
one or the other.
CHAPTER IX.
It was bright morning, the pony chaise at the door, and Daisy in it;
standing to arrange matters.
"Now, Daisy, have you got all in there? I don't believe it."
"Why don't you believe it?"
"How much will that concern hold?"
"A great deal more than you want. There's a big box under all the seat."
"What have you got in it?"
Daisy went off into a laugh, such a laugh of glee as did her father's
heart good. Mr. Randolph was standing in the doorway to see the
expedition set forward.
"What's the matter, Daisy?" he said.
"Papa, he don't think anybody is a person of forethought but himself."
It was Preston's turn to laugh, and Mr. Randolph joined him.
"Shews he don't know you, Daisy, as well as I do. When do you expect to
be home again?"
Mr. Randolph had come down to the side of the chaise and was looking
with a very pleased face at what was in it. Daisy said she supposed they
would stay till Preston had caught as many fish as he wanted.
"And won't you be tired before that?"
"O no, papa! I am going to fish too."
"I'll have all you catch, Daisy,--for my own eating!"
He bent his head down as he spoke, to kiss the little fisherwoman; but
Daisy, answering some unusual tenderness of face or manner, sprung up
and threw her arms round his neck, and only released him after a very
close pressure.
"She is in a fair way to be cured of her morbid seriousness"--Mr.
Randolph thought as he saw the cavalcade set forth; and well pleased he
went in to breakfast. Daisy and Preston had breakfasted already, before
the family; and now were off to the hills just as other people were
stirring sugar into cups of coffee.
Preston led the way on a fine bay of his uncle's; taking good gallops
now and then to ease his own and his horse's spirits, and returning to
go quietly for a space by the side of the pony-chaise. Loupe never went
into anything more exciting than his waddling trot; though Daisy made
him keep that up briskly.
"What a thing it is, to have such short legs!" said Preston, watching
the movements of the pony.
"You go over the road without seeing it," said Daisy.
"I don't want to see it. What I want to see is Hillsdale."
"So do I; but I want to see everything."
Preston smiled, he could not help it, at the very happy and busy little
face and spirit down in the pony chaise.
"What do you see, Daisy, that you have not seen a hundred times before?"
"That makes no difference," said Daisy. "I have seen you a hundred
times before."
Preston laughed, set spurs to his horse, and went off for another
gallop.
Daisy enjoyed her morning's drive. The light was clear and the air was
fresh; Preston gallopping before and Sana jogging on behind; everything
was fine! Then it was quite true that she liked to see everything; those
grey eyes of hers were extremely busy. All the work going on in the
fields had interest for her, and all the passers-by on the road. A
strange interest, often, for Daisy was very apt to be wondering whether
any of them knew and loved the name she loved best; wondering who among
all those rough-looking, unknown people, might be her fellow-servants.
And with that a thought which, if Mr. Randolph had known it, would have
checked his self-congratulations. He had not guessed what made the clasp
of Daisy's arms round his neck so close that morning.
Till they passed through Crum Elbow everything had been, as Preston
said, seen a hundred times before. A little way beyond that everything
became new. Mrs. Randolph's carriage never came that road. The country
grew more rough and broken, and the hills in their woody dress shewed
more and more near.
"Do you see that break in the woods?" said Preston, pointing with his
whip; "that is where the brook comes out,--that is where we are going."
"What time is it, Preston?"
"Time?--it is half past nine. What about it?"
"I'm hungry--that's all. I wanted to know what time it was."
"Hungry! O what a fisher you will make, Daisy! Can't stand fasting for
two hours and a half."
"No, but Preston, I didn't eat much breakfast. And I've had all this
ride since. I am going to stand fasting; but I am going to be hungry
too."
"No you aren't," said Preston. "Just let Loupe take you up to that
little gate, will you? I'll see if we can leave the horses here.
Sam!--take this fellow!"
Preston jumped down from the saddle and went into the house, to the
front yard of which the little gate opened. Daisy looked after him. It
was a yard full of grass and weeds, among which a few poppies and
hollyhocks and balsams grew straggling up where they could. Nothing kept
them out of the path but the foot-tread of the people that went over it;
hoe and rake were never known there Since the walk was first made. The
house was a little, low, red-front house, with one small window on each
side the door.
"All right!" said Preston, coming back. "Sam, take the horses round to
the barn; and bring the baskets out of the chaise-box and wait at this
gate for us."
"Why is he to wait? where are we going?"
"Going in to get some breakfast."
"Here, Preston?--O I can't."
"What's the matter?"
"I can't eat anything in there. I can wait."
"Why it looks clean," said Preston; "room and table and woman and
all."--But Daisy still shook her head and was not to be persuaded; and
Preston laughing went back to the house. But presently he came out again
bearing a tray in his hand, and brought it to Daisy. On the tray was
very nice looking brown and white bread, and milk and cheese and a
platter of strawberries. Preston got into the chaise and set the tray on
his knees. After him had come from the house a woman in a fly-away cap
and short-gown. She stood just inside the gate leaning her arms on it.
If she had not been there, perhaps Daisy would still have refused to
touch the food; but she was afraid of offending or hurting the woman's
feelings; so first she tried a strawberry, and found it of rare flavour;
for it was a wild one; then she broke a morsel of bread, and that was
excellent. Daisy discovered that breakfast in a pony chaise, out in the
air, was a very fine thing. So did Preston.
"So you're agoin' afishin'?" said the woman at the gate.
"Yes, ma'am," Preston said.
"And that little one too?"
"Certainly."
"I declare! I never see nobody so little and gauzy as was willin' to do
such indelicate work! But I shouldn't wonder, now, if she was to catch
some. Fishes--and all things--is curious creeturs, and goes by
contrairies."
"Hope they won't to-day!" said Preston, who was eating strawberries and
bread and milk at a great rate.
"Where's the rest of your party?" the woman went on.
"We're all here, ma'am," said Preston.
"Well, I see a horse there that haint nobody on top of him?"
"I was on top of him a little while ago," said Preston.
"Well, I expect that little creetur haint druv herself?"
"Drove the pony, anyhow," said Preston. "Now, ma'am, what do we owe you,
besides thanks, for your excellent hospitality?"
"I reckon you don't owe me much," said the woman, as Preston got out of
the chaise. "You can set the tray in there on the table, if you're a
mind to. We always calculate to set a good meal, and we're allowed to;
but we don't never calculate to live by it and we've no dispensary.
There's only my husband and me, and there's a plenty for more than us."
Preston had handed the tray to Sam to carry in, and as soon as he could
get a chance bade good morning, and went forward with Daisy. On foot now
they took their way to the woods, and presently plunged into them. It
was very pleasant under the deep shade, for the sun had grown warm, and
there was hardly air enough to flutter the leaves in the high branches.
But Daisy and Preston pushed on briskly, and soon the gurgle of the
brook gave its sweet sound to their ears. They followed up the stream
then, over stones and rocks, and crossing from side to side on trunks of
trees that had fallen across the water; till a part of the brook was
reached far enough back among the hills to be wild and lonely; where the
trout might be supposed to be having a good time.
"Now, Daisy," said Preston, "I think this will do. Can't have a better
place. I'll try and get you to work here."
