"Yes; and shiver my timbers if I didn't want to keelhaul the old traitor
when I heard of it."

"I don't care anything about the scrape, sir; only I'm afraid the squire
will bother my mother when I'm gone," said Thomas, with some diffidence.

"If he does, he'll settle the matter with Jack Barney," replied the
captain, decidedly.

"My father may never come back, you know, and if he does he will be a
beggar. He owes the squire a note, which will be due in June."

"I'll pay it myself!" roared Captain Barney. "Go and fight for your
country, Tom, like a man. I'll call and see your mother once a week, or
every day in the week, if you say so. She shall not want for any thing as
long as I have a shot in the locker."

"Thank you, Captain Barney; thank you, sir."

"I'll take care of your mother, my lad, and I'll take care of the squire.
He shall not foreclose that mortgage, Tom. Don't bother your head about
any of those things. You're a good boy, Tom, and I'll keep every thing all
right at home."

"Thank you, sir," repeated the soldier boy, as Captain Barney started his
horse again.

The captain was a retired shipmaster, of ample means, and Tom knew that he
was not only able, but willing, to do all he had promised. His heart was
lighter; a load had been removed from his mind.




CHAPTER IX.

THE DEPARTURE.


At the time of which we write, recruiting officers were not very
particular in regard to the age of those whom they received into the
volunteer army. If the young man seemed to have the requisite physical
qualifications, it was of little consequence what his age was; and Tom
Somers was tall enough and stout enough to make a very good soldier.

Captain Benson examined the certificate brought to him by the young
recruit, not, however, because it was deemed a necessary legal form, but
because he was acquainted with his father and mother, and would not
willingly have done any thing to displease them. The matter, therefore,
was disposed of to the satisfaction of all the parties concerned, and Tom
actually commenced his career as a soldier boy. He immediately resigned
his situation in the store, for the company now numbered forty men, not
half a dozen of whom had any knowledge whatever of military drill.

As the volunteers of the Pinchbrook company could ill afford to lose the
time devoted to drill before they should be mustered into the service of
the United States, the town voted to pay each man fifteen dollars a month
for three months. This generous and patriotic action of the town rejoiced
the heart of Tom Somers, for his mother actually needed the pittance he
had earned at the store. Mrs. Somers had heard nothing from her husband;
but the destruction of the Gosport Navy Yard, and the seizure of several
northern vessels in the harbor of Norfolk, left her little to hope for in
that direction. Suddenly an impregnable wall seemed to rise up between the
North and the South, and she not only feared that Captain Somers had lost
all his worldly possessions, but that he would hardly be able to escape
himself from the fiery furnace of secession and treason.

To her, therefore, the future looked dark and forbidding. She foresaw that
she and her family would be subjected to the pressure of want, or at least
be dependent upon the kindness of friends for support. She had freely
stated her fears to her children, and fully exhibited the insufficiency of
the family resources. The vote of the town was a perfect godsend to Tom,
and a fat legacy from a rich relative would not have kindled a stronger
feeling of gratitude in his soul.

For the next five weeks, Tom was employed forenoon, afternoon, and
evening, in the drill, and he soon made himself proficient. The company
was recruited nearly up to its maximum number, and was then attached to
the --th regiment, which had just been formed and ordered to Fort Warren.

On the 27th day of May, the company, escorted by the patriotic citizens of
Pinchbrook, marched to Boston, and Tom took a sorrowful farewell of his
mother, his brother and sisters, and a score of anxious friends.

"Now don't let the rebels hit you in the backbone, Thomas," said gran'ther
Green, as he shook the hand of the soldier boy.

"No, gran'ther; if I can't fight, I won't run away," replied Tom.

"You've got good blood in your veins, my boy: don't disgrace it. I don't
know as you'll ever see me again, but God bless you, Thomas;" and the old
man turned away to hide the tears which began to course down his wrinkled
cheek.

"Be a good boy, Thomas," added his mother.

"I will, mother."

"And remember what I've been telling you. I'm not half so much afraid of
your being killed by a bullet, as I am of your being ruined by bad men."

"You needn't fear any thing of that kind, mother."

"I shall pray that you may be saved from your friends as well as from your
enemies. We shall see you again before you go off, I hope."

"Yes, mother; we shall not be sent south yet."

"Don't forget to read your Testament, Thomas," said Mrs. Somers.

"I won't, mother," replied the soldier boy, as he again shook hands with
all the members of the family, kissed his mother and his sisters, and
hitching up his knapsack, took his place in the ranks.

His heart seemed to be clear up in his throat. During the tender scene he
had just passed through, he had manfully resisted his inclination to weep,
but he could no longer restrain the tears. Suddenly they came like a flood
bursting the gates that confined it, and he choked and sobbed like a
little girl. He leaned upon his musket, covering his face with his arm.

"It's a hard case," said private Hapgood, who stood next to him in the
ranks.

"I didn't think it would take me down like this," sobbed Tom.

"Don't blubber, Tom. Let's go off game," added Ben Lethbridge, who stood
on the other side of him.

"I can't help it, Ben."

"Yes, you can--dry up! Soldiers don't cry, Tom."

"Yes, they do, my boy," said Hapgood, who was a little old man, nearly ten
years beyond the period of exemption from military duty. "I don't blame
Tom for crying, and, in my opinion, he'll fight all the better for it."

"Perhaps he will, old un; but I don't think much of a soldier that
blubbers like a baby. I hope he won't run away when he sees the rebels
coming," sneered Ben.

"If he does, he'll have a chance to see how thick the heels of your boots
are," answered the old man.

"What do you mean by that, old un?" demanded Ben.

"Attention--company! Shoulder--arms! Forward--march!" said the captain;
and the discussion was prevented from proceeding any further.

The band, which was at the head of the citizens' column, struck up an
inspiring march, and Tom dried his tears. The escort moved off, followed
by the company. They passed the little cottage of Captain Somers, and Tom
saw the whole family except John, who was in the escort, standing at the
front gate. The old soldier swung his hat, Tom's sisters and his mother
waved their handkerchiefs; but when they saw the soldier boy, they had to
use them for another purpose. Tom felt another upward pressure in the
region of the throat; but this time he choked down his rising emotions,
and saved himself from the ridicule of his more callous companion on the
left.

In violation of military discipline, he turned his head to take one last,
fond look at the home he was leaving behind. It might be the last time he
should ever gaze on that loved spot, now a thousand times more dear than
ever before. Never had he realized the meaning of home; never before had
he felt how closely his heart's tendrils were entwined about that hallowed
place. Again, in spite of his firmness and fortitude, and in spite of the
sneers of Ben Lethbridge, he felt the hot tears sliding down his cheek.

When he reached the brow of the hill which would soon hide the little
cottage from his view, perhaps forever, he gazed behind him again, to take
his last look at the familiar spot. His mother and sister still stood at
the front gate watching the receding column in which the son and the
brother was marching away to peril and perhaps death.

"God bless my mother! God bless them all!" were the involuntary
ejaculations of the soldier boy, as he turned away from the hallowed
scene.

But the memory of that blessed place, sanctified by the presence of those
loving and devoted ones, was shrined in the temple of his heart, ever to
go with him in camp and march, in the perils of battle and siege, to keep
him true to his God, true to himself, and true to those whom he had left
behind him. That last look at home and those that make it home, like the
last fond gaze we bestow on the loved and the lost, was treasured up in
the garner of the heart's choicest memories, to be recalled in the solemn
stillness of the midnight vigil, amid the horrors of the battle-field when
the angry strife of arms had ceased, and in the gloom of the soldier's
sick bed when no mother's hand was near to lave the fevered brow.

The moment when he obtained his last view of the home of his childhood
seemed like the most eventful period of his existence. His heart grew big
in his bosom, and yet not big enough to contain all he felt. He wept
again, and his tears seemed to come from deeper down than his eyes. He did
not hear the inspiring strains of the band, or the cheers that greeted the
company as they went forth to do and die for their country's imperilled
cause.

"Blubbering again, Tom?" sneered Ben Lethbridge. "I thought you was more
of a man than that, Tom Somers."

"I can't help it, Ben," replied Tom, vainly struggling to subdue his
emotions.

"Better go back, then. We don't want a great baby in the ranks."

"It's nateral, Ben," said old Hapgood. "He'll get over it when he sees the
rebels."

"Don't believe he will. I didn't think you were such a great calf, Tom."

"Shet up, now, Ben," interposed Hapgood. "I'll bet my life he'll stand
fire as well as you will. I've been about in the world some, and I reckon
I've as good an idee of this business as you have. Tom's got a heart under
his ribs."

"I'll bet he runs away at the first fire."

"I'll bet he won't."

"I know I won't!" exclaimed Tom, with energy, as he drew his coat sleeve
across his eyes.

"It isn't the cock that crows the loudest that will fight the best," added
the old man. "I'll bet Tom will be able to tell you the latest news from
the front, where the battle's the hottest. I fit my way up to the city of
Mexico long er old Scott, and I've heard boys crow afore today."

"Look here, old un! If you mean to call me a coward, why don't you say so,
right up and down?" growled Ben.

"Time'll tell, my boy. You don't know what gunpowder smells like yet. If
you'd been with the fust Pennsylvany, where I was, you'd a-known sunthin
about war. Now, shet up, Ben; and don't you worry Tom any more."

But Tom was no longer in a condition to be worried. Though still sad at
the thought of the home and friends he had left behind, he had reduced his
emotions to proper subjection, and before the column reached Boston, he
had even regained his wonted cheerfulness. The procession halted upon the
wharf, where the company was to embark on a steamer for Fort Warren. As
the boat which was to convey them to the fort had not yet arrived, the men
were permitted to mingle with their friends on the wharf, and, of course,
Tom immediately sought out his brother. He found him engaged in a spirited
conversation with Captain Benson.

"What is it, Jack?" asked the soldier boy.

"I want to join this company, and the captain won't let me," replied John.

"You, Jack!"

"Yes, I."

"Did mother say so?"

"No, but she won't care."

"Did you ask her?"

"No; I didn't think of going till after I started from home."

"Don't think of it, Jack. It would be an awful blow to mother to have both
of us go."

For half an hour Tom argued the matter with John; but the military
enthusiasm of the latter had been so aroused by the march and its
attendant circumstances, that he could not restrain his inclination.

"If I don't join this company, I shall some other," said John.

"I shall have to go home again, if you do; for I won't have mother left
alone. We haven't been mustered in yet. Besides, I thought you wanted to
go into the navy."

"I do; but I'm bound to go somehow," replied John.

But what neither Tom nor Captain Benson could do, was accomplished by
Captain Barney, who declared John should go home with him if he had to
take him by the collar. The ardent young patriot yielded as gracefully as
he could to this persuasion.

The steamer having arrived, the soldiers shook hands with their friends
again, went on board, and, amid the hearty cheers of the citizens of
Pinchbrook, were borne down the bay.




CHAPTER X.

COMPANY K.


Tom Somers felt that he was now a soldier indeed. While the company
remained in Pinchbrook, he had slept every night in his own bed, and taken
his meals in the kitchen of the little cottage. He fully realized that he
had bade a long farewell to all the comforts and luxuries of home. That
day, for the first time, he was to partake of soldiers' fare, and that
night, for the first time, he was to sleep upon a soldier's bed. These
thoughts did not make him repine, for before he signed the muster roll, he
had carefully considered, with the best information he could obtain, what
hardships and privations he would be called to endure. He had made up his
mind to bear all things without a murmur for the blessed land of his
birth, which now called upon her sons to defend her from the parricidal
blow of the traitor.

Tom had not only made up his mind to bear all these things, but to bear
them patiently and cheerfully. He had a little theory of his own, that
rather more than half of the discomforts of this mortal life exist only in
the imagination. If he only thought that every thing was all right, it
went a great way towards making it all right--a very comforting and
satisfactory philosophy, which reduced the thermometer from ninety down to
seventy degrees on a hot day in summer, and raised it from ten to forty
degrees on a cold day in winter; which filled his stomach when it was
empty, alleviated the toothache or the headache, and changed snarling
babies into new-fledged angels. I commend Tom's philosophy to the
attention and imitation of all my young friends, assured that nothing will
keep them so happy and comfortable as a cheerful and contented
disposition.

"Tom Somers," said a voice near him, cutting short the consoling
meditation in which he was engaged.

His name was pronounced in a low and cautious tone, but the voice sounded
familiar to him, and he turned to ascertain who had addressed him. He did
not discover any person who appeared to be the owner of the voice, and was
leaving the position he had taken on the forward deck of the steamer, when
his name was repeated, in the same low and cautious tone.

"Who is it? Where are you?" said Tom, looking all about him, among the
groups of soldiers who were gathered on various parts of the deck,
discussing the present and the future.

"Here, Tom," replied the voice, which sounded more familiar every time he
heard it.

He turned his eye in the direction from which the sound proceeded, and
there, coiled up behind a heap of barrels and boxes, and concealed by a
sail-cloth which had been thrown over the goods to protect them from an
expected shower, he discovered Fred Pemberton.

"What in the name of creation are you doing there, Fred?" exclaimed Tom,
laughing at the ludicrous attitude of the embryo secessionist.

"Hush! Don't say a word, Tom. Sit down here where I can talk with you,"
added Fred.

"What are you doing here?"

"I'll tell if you will keep quiet a moment. Is the company full?"

"What company?"

"Captain Benson's, of course."

"No."

"I want to join."

"You!" ejaculated Tom.

"Come, come, Tom, no blackguarding now. You and I used to be good
friends."

"I've nothing against you, Fred--that is, if you're not a traitor."

"I want to join the company."

"Is your father willing?"

"Of course he isn't; but that needn't make any difference."

"But you don't believe in our cause, Fred. We don't want a traitor in the
ranks."

"Hang the cause! I want to go with the company."

"Hang the cause? Well, I reckon that's a good recommendation."

"I'm all right on that."

"Are you willing to take the oath of allegiance, and swear to sustain the
flag of your country?"

"Of course I am. I only followed the old man's lead; but I have got enough
of it. Do you think Captain Benson will take me into the company?"

"Perhaps he will."

"Ask him--will you? You needn't say I'm here, you know."

"But what will your father say?"

"I don't care what he says."

Tom thought, if Fred didn't care, he needn't, and going aft, he found the
captain, and proposed to him the question.

"Take him--yes. We'll teach him loyalty and patriotism, and before his
time is out, we will make him an abolitionist," replied Captain Benson.
"What will his father say?"

"His father doesn't know anything about it. Fred ran away, and followed
the company into the city."

"Squire Pemberton is a traitor, and I believe the army will be the best
school in the world for his son," added the captain. "It will be better
for him to be with us than to be at home. If it was the son of any other
man in Pinchbrook, I wouldn't take him without the consent of his father;
as it is, I feel perfectly justified in accepting him."

Tom hastened to the forward deck to report the success of his mission. The
result was, that Fred came out of his hiding-place, and exhibited himself
to the astonished members of the Pinchbrook company. When he announced his
intention to go to the war, and, with a pardonable flourish, his desire to
serve his country, he was saluted with a volley of cheers. Captain Benson
soon appeared on the forward deck, and the name of the new recruit was
placed on the enlistment paper.

Fred was seventeen years of age, and was taller and stouter than Tom
Somers. No questions were asked in regard to his age or his physical
ability to endure the hardships of a campaign.

The steamer arrived at Fort Warren, and the company landed. After waiting
a short time on the wharf, the color company of the --th regiment, to
which they were attached, came down and escorted them to the parade ground
within the fort. It was a desolate and gloomy-looking place to Tom, who
had always lived among green fields, and the beautiful surroundings of a
New England rural district.

If the fort itself looked dreary, how much more so were the casemates in
which the company was quartered! But Tom's philosophy was proof against
the unpleasant impression, and his joke was as loud and hearty as that of
any of his companions. The men were divided off into messes, and they had
an abundance of work to do in bringing up the company's luggage, and
making their new habitation as comfortable and pleasant as the
circumstances would permit.

The next day the Pinchbrook boys were designated as Company K, and placed
in the regimental line. The limits of this volume do not permit me to
detail the every-day life of the soldier boy while at Fort Warren, however
interesting and instructive it might be to our friends. A large portion of
the forenoon was devoted to squad and company drill, and of the afternoon
to battalion drill. The colonel, though a very diminutive man in stature,
was an enthusiast in military matters, and had the reputation of being one
of the most thorough and skilful officers in the state. Tom Somers, who,
since he joined the company, had felt ashamed of himself because he was no
bigger, became quite reconciled to his low corporeal estate when he found
that the colonel of the regiment was no taller and no heavier than
himself. And when he heard the high praise bestowed upon the colonel's
military skill and martial energy, he came to the conclusion that it does
not require a big man to make a good soldier. With a feeling of
satisfaction he recalled the fact that Napoleon Bonaparte, when he
commanded the army of Italy, was scarcely a bigger man than the colonel or
himself.

The colonel was a strict disciplinarian, and he soon diffused his energy
throughout the regiment. It made rapid progress in its military education.
Tom was deeply interested in the details of his new profession, and used
his best endeavors to do his duty promptly and faithfully. This was not
the case with all the boys in the company from Pinchbrook, and I am sorry
to say that some of them, including the brave and chivalric Ben
Lethbridge, had to sit upon the stool of repentance in the guard room on
several occasions.

Fred Pemberton was clothed in the uniform of the United States volunteers,
and we must do him the justice to say that he performed his duty to the
entire satisfaction of his officers. Fred was a good fellow, and barring
his treason, which he had derived from his father, was highly esteemed by
those who knew him. The only stain that had ever rested upon his character
was removed, and he and Tom were as good friends as ever they had been.
His motive in joining the army, however, could not be applauded. He
thought all his friends were going off to the South upon a kind of frolic,
spiced with a little of peril and hardship to make it the more exciting,
and he did not like the idea of being left behind. To the sentiment of
patriotism, as developed in the soul of Tom Somers and many of his
companions, he was an entire stranger. He was going to the war to
participate in the adventures of the --th regiment, rather than to fight
for the flag which had been insulted and dishonored by treason.

Every day the steamers brought crowds of visitors to the fort to see their
friends in the regiments quartered there, or to witness the drills and
parades which were constantly succeeding each other. Among them came many
of the people of Pinchbrook, and Tom was delighted by a visit from his
whole family. His mother found him so comfortable and contented that she
returned with half the heavy burden on her soul removed.

While the Pinchbrook boys were generally rejoiced to see their friends
from home, there was one in the company who was in constant dread lest he
should recognize a too familiar face in the crowds which the steamers
daily poured into the fort. Fred Pemberton did not wish to see his nearest
friends; but after he had been in the company some ten days, just as the
boys had been dismissed from the forenoon drill, he discovered at a
distance the patriarchal form of his father.

"My pipe's out, Tom," said Fred, as he rushed into the casemate where a
group of his companions were resting from the fatigues of the morning.

"What's the matter now, Fred?"

"The old man has just come into the fort."

"Has he?"

"Yes--what shall I do?"

"Keep a stiff upper lip, Fred, and we will put you through all right,"
said Sergeant Porter.

"What shall I do?" demanded Fred, who, whatever his views in regard to the
justice or injustice of coercion, did not wish to be taken from the
company.

"Come with me," said the sergeant, as he led the way into an adjoining
casemate. "No; nobody else will come," added he, motioning back other
members of the mess who was disposed to follow.

In the casemate to which Sergeant Porter conducted Fred, there was a pile
of boxes, in which the muskets of one of the regiments had been packed.
The fugitive from his father's anxious search was directed to get into one
of these boxes, from which the sergeant removed the gun rests. He obeyed;
his confederate put on the lid so as to permit him to receive a plentiful
supply of air, and other boxes were placed upon that containing the
runaway.

Squire Pemberton presented himself before Captain Benson, and demanded his
son. Fred was sent for, but could not be found. Sergeant Porter kept out
of the way, and not another man in the company knew anything about him.
The boys were very willing to assist the indignant father in his search,
but all their efforts were unavailing. The squire examined every casemate,
and every nook and corner upon the island, but without effect.

"I want my son, sir," said the squire, angrily, to the captain. "I require
you to produce him."

"I don't know where he is," replied Captain Benson.

"You have concealed him, sir."

"I have not."

The squire appealed to the colonel, but obtained no satisfaction, and was
obliged to leave without accomplishing his purpose. As soon as he had
gone, Fred appeared, and the boys laughed for a week over the affair.




CHAPTER XI.

IN WASHINGTON.


On the 17th of June, the regiment left Port Warren, and after being
conveyed by steamer to Boston, marched to Camp Cameron. Here the "little
colonel" displayed his energy and military skill to much greater advantage
than when within the narrow confines of the fort. The men were not only
carefully and persistently drilled, but they were educated, as far as the
circumstances would permit, for the arduous duties of a campaign.

Tom Somers had already begun to feel a soldier's pride in his new
situation; and though he found that being a soldier boy was not always the
easiest and the pleasantest thing in the world, he bore his trials with
philosophical patience and fortitude, and made the most of whatever joys
the circumstances placed within his reach.

Others grumbled, but he did not. He declared that he had enlisted for the
war, and meant to take things as they came. It was not exactly agreeable
to stand on guard for two hours, on a cold, rainy night; but grumbling
would not make it any the more agreeable, and only made the grumbler
discontented and unhappy. It did not look like "the pomp and circumstance
of war," and no doubt most of the boys in the Pinchbrook company would
have been better satisfied in their own houses in "the village by the
sea." But most of these men had left their happy homes under the
inspiration of the highest and truest motives. They were going forth to
fight the battles of their imperilled country, and this reflection filled
them with a heroism which the petty trials and discomforts of the camp
could not impair.

While the regiment was at Camp Cameron, the state colors and a standard,
procured by the liberality of its friends, were presented; and the
patriotic speeches delivered on this occasion made a deep impression upon
the mind and heart of the soldier boy. To him they were real--perhaps more
real than to those who uttered the burning words. He was in a situation to
feel the full force of the great sacrifice which the soldier makes for his
country. He devoted himself, heart and soul, to the cause; and what was
but an idle sentiment in the mind of the flowery speech-makers, was truth
and soberness to him who was to meet the foe at the cannon's mouth and at
the bayonet's point.

"We are off on the 29th," said old Hapgood, one evening, as he entered the
barrack where Tom was writing a letter to his mother.

"Good! I am glad to hear it. I was just telling my mother that I hoped we
should not have to stay much longer in this place," replied Tom.

"I think we are having an easy time of it here," added the veteran. "When
you find out what hunger and fatigue mean, you will learn to be contented
with such a place as this."

"I'm contented enough; but I want to get into the field, and have
something done."

"Time enough, my boy. I used to feel just so, Tom, when I went to Mexico;
but after a while I got so I didn't care what we did or where we went."

Tom added a postscript to his letter, informing his mother of the time
fixed for the departure of the regiment. The intelligence in this instance
proved to be correct, for on the appointed day the little colonel marched
his command into the city, where it was duly embarked on the cars for New
York. It was a day of excitement, for the streets of the city were
thronged with people, whose cheers and applause were the benison with
which the regiment went forth to do and to die for the nation. Tom was
delighted with this warm reception, but more by meeting his mother and his
brother and sisters at the station. It was a joyous and yet a sad
meeting. Mrs. Somers wept; and what mother would not weep to see her son
go forth to encounter the perils of the battle-field, and the greater
perils of the camp?

It was a sad parting; and many a mother's heart was torn with anguish on
that day, when she pressed her noble boy to her bosom, for the last time,
as she gave him to his country. Cold, stern men, who had never wept
before, wept then--the flesh that was in their stony hearts yielded its
unwilling tribute to nature and affection.

"All aboard!" shouted the officers, when the train was ready to depart.

"God bless you, my boy!" sobbed Mrs. Somers, as she kissed her son. "Be
good and true, and don't forget to read your Testament."

"Good by, mother," was all that Tom could say, as he grasped his musket,
which John had been holding for him, and rushed into the car.

The train moved off amid the cheers of the thousands who had gathered to
witness their departure. At this moment, more than ever before, the
soldier boy realized what he had done when he entered the service. He
listened to the shouts of the multitude, but he was sad and silent. He
sank into his seat, and gave himself up to the anguish of the hour. On and
on dashed the train, and his thoughts still dwelt upon the home and the
mother he had left behind him.

Our readers can better imagine than we can describe the feelings of the
soldier boy during that long night. The regiment arrived in New York at
half-past ten in the forenoon of the following day, and was escorted up
Broadway by the Sons of Massachusetts. At the Park, it was warmly welcomed
by the President of the Sons, and as the little colonel was a better
soldier than a speech-maker, the response was made by the surgeon. By this
time, Tom was able to enter into the spirit of the occasion, and the
flattering ovation bestowed upon the regiment was a source of personal
pride and satisfaction. The little colonel's command was declared to be
the best drilled and most soldierly body of men which had yet departed for
the battle-fields of the republic.

The great city was full of wonders to the soldier boy, and during the few
hours he remained there, he was in a constant whirl of excitement. If the
mission before him had been less grand and sublime, he could have wished
to spend a few days in exploring the wonders of the great metropolis; but
the stupendous events that loomed up in the future, prophetic even to the
inexperienced eye of youth, engrossed all his thoughts. He partook of the
bountiful collation in the Park, and was content to march on to scenes
more thrilling and exciting than the tumult of the busy city.

The regiment took a steamer, at half-past four for Elizabethport, and
thence proceeded by railroad to Washington, by the way of Harrisburg. Some
portions of the journey were performed under the most trying
circumstances. The men were crowded, like sheep, into unsuitable cars, so
that not only were they subjected to many needless discomforts, but their
very lives were endangered. On the way, two men were crowded out of a car,
and, for a time, were supposed to have been killed.

On the 2d of July, they arrived at Washington, and Tom had an opportunity
to see the "city of magnificent distances," of which he had heard so much.
The regiment marched from the station, through Pennsylvania Avenue, to
their camp ground in the rear of the White House. They were received with
enthusiasm by the people, but the miserable uniforms with which they had
been supplied, now faded and dilapidated, with the finishing touch of
destruction given to them by the perilous journey they had made, gave the
politicians their first lesson on the worthlessness of "shoddy."

The regiment entered the grounds of the White House, and as it passed up
the avenue, President Lincoln appeared in front of his mansion. The boys
greeted him with a volley of stunning cheers, which the President
acknowledged by a series of bows, which were not half so ungraceful as one
might have expected after reading the descriptions of him contained in the
newspapers.

To Tom Somers the President was a great institution, and he could scarcely
believe that he was looking upon the chief magistrate of this great
nation. He was filled with boyish wonder and astonishment; but, after all,
he was forced to admit that the President, though a tall specimen of
humanity, looked very much like the rest of mankind--to borrow a phrase
from one of his illustrious predecessors.

Tom was too tired to wonder long at the grandeur of the Capitol, and the
simple magnificence of the President. The tents were pitched, and the
weary men were allowed a season of rest. In a couple of days, however, our
soldier boy was "as good as new."

"Come, Tom, it is about time for you too see something of the city," said
Ben Lethbridge, one afternoon, after the regiment had become fairly
settled in its new quarters.

"I should like to take a tramp. There are lots of congressmen here, and I
should like to know what they look like," replied Tom. "I haven't been
outside the lines since we came here."

"I have; and I'm going again! Fred and I mean to have a good time to-day.
Will you go?"

"Have you got a pass?"

"A pass! What a stupid! What do you want of a pass? You can't get one.
They won't give any."

"Then we can't go, of course."

"Bah! What a great calf you are! Don't you want to cry again?"

"Ben, you needn't say cry to me again as long as you live," added Tom. "If
you do, I'll give you something to cry for."

Tom did not like the style of remark which the other had adopted. He was
angry, and, as he spoke, his fist involuntarily clinched, and his eye
looked fierce and determined.

"Come, come, Tom; don't bristle up so. If you are a man, just show that
you are, and come along with us."

"I say, Ben, I want to know who's a baby or a calf, you or I, before we
go, I won't stand any more of your lip."

"Will you go with us?" demanded Ben, who was rather disposed to dodge the
issue.

"What do you mean by calling me a calf and a baby? And this isn't the
first time you've done it."

"Don't you know that every man in the regiment has been all over the city,
and without any pass? When I ask you to go, you begin to talk about a
pass."

"I choose to obey orders," replied Tom.

"O, you daresn't go with us."

"Come along!" said Tom, who had not yet learned to bear the taunts of his
companion.

"Get your pail."

Tom got his pail, and was immediately joined by Fred and Ben, each of whom
was also supplied with a pail. There was no water to be had within the
camp ground, and the men were obliged to bring it in pails from the
hydrants in the street. A pail, therefore, was quite as good as a written
document to enable them to pass the guard.

The party thus provided had no difficulty in passing the sentinels. At a
convenient place outside the line, they concealed the pails, and, for
three hours, roamed at will over the city.

"Now, Tom, you wanted to see the congressmen?" said Ben, after they had
"done" the city pretty thoroughly.

"Yes, but I have seen them at the Capitol."

"But don't you want to get nearer to them, and hear them talk?"

"Well, I should like to."

"Come with us, then."

Ben led the way down the avenue, and entered a building not far from the
railroad station. After passing through a long, narrow entry, they
ascended a flight of stairs, at the head of which the conductor gave two
raps. The door was opened by a negro, and they were invited to enter. At a
table in the middle of the room was seated a foppish-looking man who held
in his hand a silver box. As he turned it, Tom saw that it contained a
pack of cards.

"Where are your congressmen?" asked the soldier boy, whose eyes had been
opened by the appearance of the cards.

"They will be here pretty soon," replied Ben.

The foppish man looked at his watch, and declared they would come in the
course of five or ten minutes. He then took the cards out of the box, and,
after shuffling them, returned them to their place. Fred placed a
"quarter" on the table; the gambler put another by its side, and drew out
a card from the silver case. Tom did not understand the game; but his
companion put the quarters in his pocket.

"See that, Tom!" said he. "Got any money?"

"If I have I shall keep it."

"Put down a quarter, and make another."

"No, sir! I'm no gambler!" replied Tom, with emphasis.

"Quite respectable, I assure you," added the blackleg at the table.

"I'm going," said Tom, decidedly.

"Baby!" sneered Ben. "Afraid to play!"

"I won't play! I'm going."

The negro opened the door, and he passed out. Contrary to his expectation,
he was followed by Fred and Ben.

"Baby is afraid of cards!" sneered Ben, as they passed through the long
entry.

"Afraid of cards, but not afraid of you," replied Tom, as he planted a
heavy blow between the eyes of his companion.

Ben Lethbridge returned the blow, and it cost him another, and there was a
prospect of quite a lively skirmish in the entry; but Fred Pemberton
interposed his good offices, and effected a compromise, which, like most
of the political compromises, was only the postponement of the conflict.

"I told you not to call me 'baby,' again," said Tom, as they passed out of
the building. "I will convince you before I am done that I'm not a baby."

Ben found it convenient to offer no reply to this plain statement of
facts, and the three soldiers made their way back to the camp, and, having
obtained their pails and filled them with water at the hydrants, they
passed the guard without a question.




CHAPTER XII.

ON TO RICHMOND.


It so happened that Ben Lethbridge, probably satisfied that it was not the
fist of a baby which had partially blackened both of his eyes, and
produced a heavy pain under his left ear, did not demand the satisfaction
which was needed to heal his wounded honor. The matter was duly discussed
in the tent of Tom's mess; but our soldier boy, while he professed to be
entirely satisfied, was willing to meet Ben at such time and place as he
desired, and finish up the affair.

The other party was magnanimous, and declared that he too was satisfied;
and old Hapgood thought they had better proceed no further with the
affair, for both of them might be arrested for disorderly conduct.

"I am satisfied, Ben; but if you ever call me a baby or a calf again, it
will all have to be settled over again," said Tom, as he laid aside his
musket, which he had been cleaning during the conversation.

"I don't want to quarrel with you, Tom," replied Ben, "but I wish you
would be a little more like the rest of the fellows."

"What do you mean by that? I am like the rest of the fellows."

"You wouldn't play cards."

"Yes, I will play cards, but I won't gamble; and there isn't many fellows
in the company that will."

"That's so," added Hapgood. "I know all about that business. When I went
to Mexico, I lost my money as fast as I got it, playing cards. Don't
gamble, boys."

"I won't, for one," said Tom, with emphasis.

"Are you going to set up for a soldier-saint, too?" sneered Ben, turning
to the old man.

"I'm no saint, but I've larned better than to gamble."

"I think you'd better stop drinking too," added Ben.

"Come, Ben, you are meaner than dirt," said Tom, indignantly.

Old Hapgood was a confirmed toper. The people in Pinchbrook said he was a
good man, but, they used to add, with a shrug of the shoulders, "pity he
drinks." It was a sad pity, but he seemed to have no power over his
appetite. The allusion of Ben to his besetting sin was cruel and
mortifying, for the old man had certainly tried to reform, and since the
regiment left Boston, he had not tasted the intoxicating cup. He had
declared before the mess that he had stopped drinking; so his resolution
was known to all his companions, though none of them had much confidence
in his ability to carry it out.

"I didn't speak to you, Tom Somers," said Ben, sharply.

"You said a mean thing in my presence."

"By and by we shall be having a prayer meeting in our tent every night."

"If you are invited I hope you will come," added Tom, "for if prayers will
do any body any good, they won't hurt you."

"If you will take care of yourself, and let me alone, it's all I ask of
you."

"I'm agreed."

