"Why not, if you can bear our quiet life, for we are a Darby and Joan
already, though we do not look so to-night, I acknowledge."

Men seldom understand the subterfuges women instinctively use to conceal
many a natural emotion which they are not strong enough to control, not
brave enough to confess. To Warwick, Sylvia seemed almost careless, her
words a frivolous answer to the real meaning of his question, her smile
one of tranquil welcome. Her manner wrought an instant change in him,
and when he spoke again he was the Warwick of a year ago.

"I hesitated, Mrs. Moor, because I have sometimes heard young wives
complain that their husbands' friends were marplots, and I have no
desire to be one."

This speech, delivered with frosty gravity, made Sylvia as cool and
quiet as itself. She put her ally down, looked full at Warwick, and said
with a blending of dignity and cordiality which even the pinafore could
not destroy--

"Please to consider yourself a specially invited guest, now and always.
Never hesitate, but come and go as freely as you used to do, for nothing
need be changed between us three because two of us have one home to
offer you."

"Thanks; and now that the hearth is scrupulously clean may I offer you a
chair?"

The old keenness was in his eye, the old firmness about the mouth, the
old satirical smile on his lips as Warwick presented the seat, with an
inclination that to her seemed ironical. She sat down, but when she cast
about her mind for some safe and easy topic to introduce, every idea had
fled; even memory and fancy turned traitors; not a lively sally could be
found, not a pleasant remembrance returned to help her, and she sat
dumb. Before the dreadful pause grew awkward, however, rescue came in
the form of Tilly. Nothing daunted by the severe simplicity of her
attire she planted herself before Warwick, and shaking her hair out of
her eyes stared at him with an inquiring glance and cheeks as red as her
apple. She seemed satisfied in a moment, and climbing to his knee
established herself there, coolly taking possession of his watch, and
examining the brown beard curiously as it parted with the white flash of
teeth, when Warwick smiled his warmest smile.

"This recalls the night you fed the sparrow in your hand. Do you
remember, Adam?" and Sylvia looked and spoke like her old self again.

"I seldom forget anything. But pleasant as that hour was this is more to
me, for the bird flew away, the baby stays and gives me what I need."

He wrapt the child closer in his arms, leaned his dark head on the
bright one, and took the little feet into his hand with a fatherly look
that caused Tilly to pat his cheek and begin an animated recital of some
nursery legend, which ended in a sudden gape, reminding Sylvia that one
of her guests was keeping late hours.

"What comes next?" asked Warwick.

"Now I lay me and byelow in the trib," answered Tilly, stretching
herself over his arm with a great yawn.

Warwick kissed the rosy half-open mouth and seemed loth to part with the
pious baby, for he took the shawl Sylvia brought and did up the drowsy
bundle himself. While so busied she stole a furtive glance at him,
having looked without seeing before. Thinner and browner, but stronger
than ever was the familiar face she saw, yet neither sad nor stern, for
the grave gentleness which had been a fugitive expression before now
seemed habitual. This, with the hand at the lips and the slow dropping
of the eyes, were the only tokens of the sharp experience he had been
passing through. Born for conflict and endurance, he seemed to have
manfully accepted the sweet uses of adversity and grown the richer for
his loss.

Those who themselves are quick to suffer, are also quick to see the
marks of suffering in others; that hasty scrutiny assured Sylvia of all
she had yearned to know, yet wrung her heart with a pity the deeper for
its impotence. Tilly's heavy head drooped between her bearer and the
light as they left the room, but in the dusky hall a few hot tears fell
on the baby's hair, and her new nurse lingered long after the lullaby
was done. When she reappeared the girlish dress was gone, and she was
Madam Moor again, as her husband called her when she assumed her stately
air. All smiled at the change, but he alone spoke of it.

"I win the applause, Sylvia; for I sustain my character to the end,
while you give up before the curtain falls. You are not so good an
actress as I thought you."

Sylvia's smile was sadder than her tears as she briefly answered--

"No, I find I cannot be a child again."




CHAPTER XV.

EARLY AND LATE.


One of Sylvia's first acts when she rose was most significant. She shook
down her abundant hair, carefully arranged a part in thick curls over
cheeks and forehead, gathered the rest into its usual coil, and said to
herself, as she surveyed her face half hidden in the shining cloud--

"It looks very sentimental, and I hate the weakness that drives me to
it, but it must be done, because my face is such a traitor. Poor
Geoffrey! he said I was no actress; I am learning fast."

Why every faculty seemed sharpened, every object assumed an unwonted
interest, and that quiet hour possessed an excitement that made her own
room and countenance look strange to her, she would not ask herself, as
she paused on the threshold of the door to ascertain if her guests were
stirring. Nothing was heard but the sound of regular footfalls on the
walk before the door, and with an expression of relief she slowly went
down. Moor was taking his morning walk bareheaded in the sun. Usually
Sylvia ran to join him, but now she stood musing on the steps, until he
saw and came to her. As he offered the flower always ready for her, he
said smiling--

"Did the play last night so captivate you, that you go back to the
curls, because you cannot keep the braids?"

"A sillier whim than that, even. I am afraid of those two people; and as
I am so quick to show my feelings in my face, I intend to hide behind
this veil if I get shy or troubled. Did you think I could be so artful?"

"Your craft amazes me. But, dearest child, you need not be afraid of
Faith and Adam. Both already love you for my sake, and soon will for
your own. Both are so much older, that they can easily overlook any
little short-coming, in consideration of your youth. Sylvia, I want to
tell you something about Adam. I never spoke of it before, because,
although no promise of silence was asked or given, I knew he considered
it a confidence. Now that it is all over, I know that I may tell my
wife, and she will help me comfort him."

"Tell on, Geoffrey, I hear you."

"Well, dear, when we went gypsying long ago, on the night you and Adam
lost the boat, as I sat drying your boots, and privately adoring them in
spite of the mud, I made a discovery. Adam loved, was on some sort of
probation, and would be married in June. He was slow to speak of it, but
I understood, and last night when I went to his room with him, I asked
how he had fared. Sylvia, it would have made your heart ache to have
seen his face, as he said in that brief way of his--'Geoffrey, the woman
I loved is married, ask me nothing more.' I never shall; but I know, by
the change I see in him, that the love was very dear, the wound very
deep."

"Poor Adam! how can we help him?"

"Let him do as he likes. I will take him to his old haunts, and busy him
with my affairs till he forgets his own. In the evenings we will have
Prue, Mark, and Jessie over here, will surround him with social
influences, and make the last hours of the day the cheerfullest; then
he won't lie awake and think all night, as I suspect he has been doing
of late. Sylvia, I should like to see that woman; though I could find it
in my heart to hate her for her perfidy to such a man."

Sylvia's head was bent as if to inhale the sweetness of the flower she
held, and all her husband saw was the bright hair blowing in the wind.

"I pity her for her loss as well as hate her. Now, let us talk of
something else, or my tell-tale face will betray that we have been
talking of him, when we meet Adam."

They did so, and when Warwick put up his curtain, the first sight he
saw, was his friend walking with his young wife under the red-leaved
maples, in the sunshine. The look Moor had spoken of, came into his
eyes, darkening them with the shadow of despair. A moment it gloomed
there, then passed, for Honor said reproachfully to Love--"They are
happy, should not that content you?"

"It shall!" answered the master of both, as he dropped the curtain and
turned away.

In pursuance of his kindly plan, Moor took Adam out for a long tramp
soon after breakfast, and Sylvia and Miss Dane sat down to sew. In the
absence of the greater fear, Sylvia soon forgot the lesser one, and
began to feel at ease to study her new relative and covet her esteem.

Faith was past thirty, shapely and tall, with much natural dignity of
carriage, and a face never beautiful, but always singularly attractive
from its mild and earnest character. Looking at her, one felt assured
that here was a right womanly woman, gentle, just, and true; possessed
of a well-balanced mind, a self-reliant soul, and that fine gift which
is so rare, the power of acting as a touchstone to all who approached,
forcing them to rise or fall to their true level, unconscious of the
test applied. Her presence was comfortable, her voice had motherly tones
in it, her eyes a helpful look. Even the soft hue of her dress, the
brown gloss of her hair, the graceful industry of her hands, had their
attractive influence. Sylvia saw and felt these things with the
quickness of her susceptible temperament, and found herself so warmed
and won, that soon it cost her an effort to withhold anything that tried
or troubled her, for Faith was a born consoler, and Sylvia's heart was
full.

However gloomy her day might have been she always brightened in the
evening as naturally as moths begin to flutter when candles come. On the
evening of this day the friendly atmosphere about her, and the
excitement of Warwick's presence so affected her, that though the gayety
of girlhood was quite gone she looked as softly brilliant as some late
flower that has gathered the summer to itself and gives it out again in
the bloom and beauty of a single hour.

When tea was over, for heroes and heroines must eat if they are to do
anything worth the paper on which their triumphs and tribulations are
recorded, the women gathered about the library table, work in hand, as
female tongues go easier when their fingers are occupied. Sylvia left
Prue and Jessie to enjoy Faith, and while she fabricated some trifle
with scarlet silk and an ivory shuttle, she listened to the conversation
of the gentlemen who roved about the room till a remark of Prue's
brought the party together.

"Helen Chesterfield has run away from her husband in the most
disgraceful manner."

Mark and Moor drew near, Adam leaned on the chimney-piece, the workers
paused, and having produced her sensation, Prue proceeded to gratify
their curiosity as briefly as possible, for all knew the parties in
question and all waited anxiously to hear particulars.

"She married a Frenchman old enough to be her father, but very rich. She
thought she loved him, but when she got tired of her fine establishment,
and the novelties of Paris, she found she did not, and was miserable.
Many of her new friends had lovers, so why should not she; and presently
she began to amuse herself with this Louis Gustave Isadore Theodule de
Roueville--There's a name for a Christian man! Well, she began in play,
grew in earnest, and when she could bear her domestic trouble no longer
she just ran away, ruining herself for this life, and really I don't
know but for the next also."

"Poor soul! I always thought she was a fool, but upon my word I pity
her," said Mark.

"Remember she was very young, so far away from her mother, with no real
friend to warn and help her, and love is so sweet. No wonder she went."

"Sylvia, how can you excuse her in that way? She should have done her
duty whether she loved the old gentleman or not, and kept her troubles
to herself in a proper manner. You young girls think so much of love, so
little of moral obligations, decorum, and the opinions of the world, you
are not fit judges of the case. Mr. Warwick agrees with me, I am sure."

"Not in the least."

"Do you mean to say that Helen should have left her husband?"

"Certainly, if she could not love him."

"Do you also mean to say that she did right to run off with that Gustave
Isadore Theodule creature?"

"By no means. It is worse than folly to attempt the righting of one
wrong by the commission of another."

"Then what in the world should she have done?"

"She should have honestly decided which she loved, have frankly told the
husband the mistake both had made, and demanded her liberty. If the
lover was worthy, have openly married him and borne the world's
censures. If not worthy, have stood alone, an honest woman in God's
eyes, whatever the blind world might have thought."

Prue was scandalized to the last degree, for with her marriage was more
a law than a gospel; a law which ordained that a pair once yoked should
abide by their bargain, be it good or ill, and preserve the proprieties
in public no matter how hot a hell their home might be for them and for
their children.

"What a dreadful state society would be in if your ideas were adopted!
People would constantly be finding out that they were mismatched, and go
running about as if playing that game where every one changes places.
I'd rather die at once than live to see such a state of things as that,"
said the worthy spinster.

"So would I, and recommend prevention rather than a dangerous cure."

"I really should like to hear your views, Mr. Warwick, for you quite
take my breath away."

Much to Sylvia's surprise Adam appeared to like the subject, and placed
his views at Prue's disposal with alacrity.

"I would begin at the beginning, and teach young people that marriage is
not the only aim and end of life, yet would fit them for it, as for a
sacrament too high and holy to be profaned by a light word or thought.
Show them how to be worthy of it and how to wait for it. Give them a
law of life both cheerful and sustaining; a law that shall keep them
hopeful if single, sure that here or hereafter they will find that other
self and be accepted by it; happy if wedded, for their own integrity of
heart will teach them to know the true god when he comes, and keep them
loyal to the last."

"That is all very excellent and charming, but what are the poor souls to
do who haven't been educated in this fine way?" asked Prue.

"Unhappy marriages are the tragedies of our day, and will be, till we
learn that there are truer laws to be obeyed than those custom
sanctions, other obstacles than inequalities of fortune, rank, and age.
Because two persons love, it is not always safe or wise for them to
marry, nor need it necessarily wreck their peace to live apart. Often
what seems the best affection of our hearts does more for us by being
thwarted than if granted its fulfilment and prove a failure which
embitters two lives instead of sweetening one."

He paused there, but Prue wanted a clearer answer, and turned to Faith,
sure that the woman would take her own view of the matter.

"Which of us is right, Miss Dane, in Helen's case?"

"I cannot venture to judge the young lady, knowing so little of her
character or the influences that have surrounded her, and believing that
a certain divine example is best for us to follow at such times. I agree
with Mr. Warwick, but not wholly, for his summary mode of adjustment
would not be quite just nor right in all cases. If both find that they
do not love, the sooner they part the wiser; if one alone makes the
discovery the case is sadder still, and harder for either to decide. But
as I speak from observation only my opinions are of little worth."

"Of great worth, Miss Dane; for to women like yourself observation often
does the work of experience, and despite your modesty I wait to hear the
opinions."

Warwick spoke, and spoke urgently, for the effect of all this upon
Sylvia was too absorbing a study to be relinquished yet. As he turned to
her, Faith gave him an intelligent glance, and answered like one
speaking with intention and to some secret but serious issue--

"You shall have them. Let us suppose that Helen was a woman possessed of
a stronger character, a deeper nature; the husband a younger, nobler
man; the lover truly excellent, and above even counselling the step this
pair have taken. In a case like that the wife, having promised to guard
another's happiness, should sincerely endeavor to do so, remembering
that in making the joy of others we often find our own, and that having
made so great a mistake the other should not bear all the loss. If there
be a strong attachment on the husband's part, and he a man worthy of
affection and respect, who has given himself confidingly, believing
himself beloved by the woman he so loves, she should leave no effort
unmade, no self-denial unexacted, till she has proved beyond all doubt
that it is impossible to be a true wife. Then, and not till then, has
she the right to dissolve the tie that has become a sin, because where
no love lives inevitable suffering and sorrow enter in, falling not only
upon guilty parents, but the innocent children who may be given them."

"And the lover, what of him?" asked Adam, still intent upon his purpose,
for, though he looked steadily at Faith, he knew that Sylvia drove the
shuttle in and out with a desperate industry that made her silence
significant to him.

"I would have the lover suffer and wait; sure that, however it may fare
with him, he will be the richer and the better for having known the joy
and pain of love."

"Thank you." And to Mark's surprise Warwick bowed gravely, and Miss Dane
resumed her work with a preoccupied air.

"Well, for a confirmed celibate, it strikes me you take a remarkable
interest in matrimony," said Mark. "Or is it merely a base desire to
speculate upon the tribulations of your fellow-beings, and congratulate
yourself upon your escape from them?"

"Neither; I not only pity and long to alleviate them, but have a strong
desire to share them, and the wish and purpose of my life for the last
year has been to marry."

Outspoken as Warwick was at all times and on all subjects, there was
something in this avowal that touched those present, for with the words
a quick rising light and warmth illuminated his whole countenance, and
the energy of his desire tuned his voice to a key which caused one heart
to beat fast, one pair of eyes to fill with sudden tears. Moor could not
see his friend's face, but he saw Mark's, divined the indiscreet inquiry
hovering on his lips, and arrested it with a warning gesture.

A pause ensued, during which each person made some mental comment on the
last speech, and to several of the group that little moment was a
memorable one. Remembering the lost love Warwick had confessed to him,
Moor thought with friendliest regret--"Poor Adam, he finds it impossible
to forget." Reading the truth in the keen delight the instant brought
her, Sylvia cried out within herself, "Oh, Geoffrey, forgive me, for I
love him!" and Warwick whispered to that impetuous heart of his, "Be
still, we have ventured far enough."

Prue spoke first, very much disturbed by having her prejudices and
opinions opposed, and very anxious to prove herself in the right.

"Mark and Geoffrey look as if they agreed with Mr. Warwick in
his--excuse me if I say, dangerous ideas; but I fancy the personal
application of them would change their minds. Now, Mark, just look at
it; suppose some one of Jessie's lovers should discover an affinity for
her, and she for him, what would you do?"

"Shoot him or myself, or all three, and make a neat little tragedy of
it."

"There is no getting a serious answer from you, and I wonder I ever try.
Geoffrey, I put the case to you; if Sylvia should find she adored Julian
Haize, who fell sick when she was married, you know, and should inform
you of that agreeable fact some fine day, should you think it quite
reasonable and right to say, 'Go, my dear, I'm very sorry, but it can't
be helped.'"

The way in which Prue put the case made it impossible for her hearers
not to laugh. But Sylvia held her breath while waiting for her husband's
answer. He was standing behind her chair, and spoke with the smile still
on his lips, too confident to harbor even a passing fancy.

"Perhaps I ought to be generous enough to do so, but not being a Jaques,
with a convenient glacier to help me out of the predicament, I am afraid
I should be hard to manage. I love but few, and those few are my world;
so do not try me too hardly, Sylvia."

"I shall do my best, Geoffrey."

She dropped her shuttle as she spoke, and stooping to pick it up, down
swept the long curls over either cheek; thus, when she fell to work
again, nothing of her face was visible but a glimpse of forehead, black
lashes and faintly smiling mouth. Moor led the conversation to other
topics, and was soon deep in an art discussion with Mark and Miss Dane,
while Prue and Jessie chatted away on that safe subject, dress. But
Sylvia worked silently, and Warwick still leaned there watching the busy
hand as if he saw something more than a pretty contrast between the
white fingers and the scarlet silk.

When the other guests had left, and Faith and himself had gone to their
rooms, Warwick, bent on not passing another sleepless night full of
unprofitable longings, went down again to get a book. The library was
still lighted, and standing there alone he saw Sylvia, wearing an
expression that startled him. Both hands pushed back and held her hair
away as if she scorned concealment from herself. Her eyes seemed fixed
with a despairing glance on some invisible disturber of her peace. All
the light and color that made her beautiful were gone, leaving her face
worn and old, and the language of both countenance and attitude was that
of one suddenly confronted with some hard fact, some heavy duty, that
must be accepted and performed.

This revelation lasted but a moment, Moor's step came down the hall, the
hair fell, the anguish passed, and nothing but a wan and weary face
remained. But Warwick had seen it, and as he stole away unperceived he
pressed his hands together, saying mournfully within himself, "I was
mistaken. God help us all."




CHAPTER XVI.

IN THE TWILIGHT.


If Sylvia needed another trial to make that hard week harder, it soon
came to her in the knowledge that Warwick watched her. She well knew
why, and vainly endeavored to conceal from him that which she had
succeeded in concealing entirely from others. But he possessed the key
to her variable moods; he alone knew that now painful forethought, not
caprice dictated many of her seeming whims, and ruled her simplest
action. To others she appeared busy, gay, and full of interest in all
about her; to him, the industry was a preventive of forbidden thoughts;
the gayety a daily endeavor to forget; the interest, an anxiety
concerning the looks and words of her companions, because she must guard
her own.

Sylvia felt something like terror in the presence of this penetrating
eye, this daring will, for the vigilance was unflagging and unobtrusive,
and with all her efforts she could not read his heart as she felt her
own was being read. Adam could act no part, but bent on learning the
truth for the sake of all, he surmounted the dangers of the situation by
no artifice, no rash indulgence, but by simply shunning solitary
interviews with Sylvia as carefully as the courtesy due his hostess
would allow. In walks and drives, and general conversation, he bore his
part, surprising and delighting those who knew him best by the genial
change which seemed to have softened his rugged nature. But the instant
the family group fell apart and Moor's devotion to his cousin left
Sylvia alone, Warwick was away into the wood or out upon the sea,
lingering there till some meal, some appointed pleasure, or the evening
lamp brought all together. Sylvia understood this, and loved him for it
even while she longed to have it otherwise. But Moor reproached him for
his desertion, doubly felt since the gentler acquirements made him
dearer to his friend. Hating all disguises, Warwick found it hard to
withhold the fact which was not his own to give, and sparing no blame to
himself, answered Moor's playful complaint with a sad sincerity that
freed him from all further pleadings.

"Geoffrey, I have a heavy heart which even you cannot heal. Leave it to
time, and let me come and go as of old, enjoying the social hour when I
may, flying to solitude when I must."

Much as Sylvia had longed to see these friends, she counted the hours of
their stay, for the presence of one was a daily disquieting, because
spirits would often flag, conversation fail, and an utter weariness
creep over her when she could least account for or yield to it. More
than once during that week she longed to lay her head on Faith's kind
bosom and ask help. Deep as was her husband's love it did not possess
the soothing power of a woman's sympathy, and though it cradled her as
tenderly as if she had been a child, Faith's compassion would have been
like motherly arms to fold and foster. But friendly as they soon became,
frank as was Faith's regard for Sylvia, earnest as was Sylvia's
affection for Faith, she never seemed to reach that deeper place where
she desired to be. Always when she thought she had found the innermost
that each of us seek for in our friend, she felt that Faith drew back,
and a reserve as delicate as inflexible barred her approach with chilly
gentleness. This seemed so foreign to Faith's nature that Sylvia
pondered and grieved over it till the belief came to her that this
woman, so truly excellent and loveworthy, did not desire to receive her
confidence, and sometimes a bitter fear assailed her that Warwick was
not the only reader of her secret trouble.

All things have an end, and the last day came none too soon for one
dweller under that hospitable roof. Faith refused all entreaties to
stay, and looked somewhat anxiously at Warwick as Moor turned from
herself to him with the same urgency.

"Adam, you will stay? Promise me another week?"

"I never promise, Geoffrey."

Believing that, as no denial came, his request was granted, Moor gave
his whole attention to Faith, who was to leave them in an hour.

"Sylvia, while I help our cousin to select and fasten up the books and
prints she likes to take with her, will you run down into the garden and
fill your prettiest basket with our finest grapes? You will like that
better than fumbling with folds and string; and you know one's servants
should not perform these pleasant services for one's best friends."

Glad to be away, Sylvia ran through the long grape walk to its sunniest
nook, and standing outside the arch, began to lay the purple clusters in
her basket. Only a moment was she there alone; Warwick's shadow,
lengthened by the declining sun, soon fell black along the path. He did
not see her, nor seem intent on following her; he walked slowly, hat in
hand, so slowly that he was but midway down the leafy lane when Faith's
voice arrested him. She was in haste, as her hurried step and almost
breathless words betrayed; and losing not an instant, she cried before
they met--

"Adam, you will come with me? I cannot leave you here."

"Do you doubt me, Faith?"

"No; but loving women are so weak."

"So strong, you mean; men are weakest when they love."

"Adam, will you come?"

"I will follow you; I shall speak with Geoffrey first."

"Must you tell him so soon?"

"I must."

Faith's hand had been on Warwick's arm; as he spoke the last words she
bent her head upon it for an instant, then without another word turned
and hurried back as rapidly as she had come, while Warwick stood where
she left him, motionless as if buried in some absorbing thought.

All had passed in a moment, a moment too short, too full of intense
surprise to leave Sylvia time for recollection and betrayal of her
presence. Half hidden and wholly unobserved she had seen the unwonted
agitation of Faith's countenance and manner, had heard Warwick's softly
spoken answers to those eager appeals, and with a great pang had
discovered that some tender confidence existed between these two of
which she had never dreamed. Sudden as the discovery was its acceptance
and belief; for, knowing her own weakness, Sylvia found something like
relief in the hope that a new happiness for Warwick had ended all
temptation, and in time perhaps all pain for herself. Impulsive as ever
she leaned upon the seeming truth, and making of the fancy a fact,
passed into a perfect passion of self-abnegation, thinking, in the brief
pause that followed Faith's departure--

"This is the change we see in him; this made him watch me, hoping I had
forgotten, as I once said and believed. I should be glad, I will be
glad, and let him see that even while I suffer I can rejoice in that
which helps us both."

Full of her generous purpose, yet half doubtful how to execute it,
Sylvia stepped from the recess where she had stood, and slowly passed
toward Warwick, apparently intent on settling her fruity burden as she
went. At the first sound of her light step on the gravel he turned,
feeling at once that she must have heard, and eager to learn what
significance that short dialogue possessed for her. Only a hasty glance
did she give him as she came, but it showed him flushed cheeks, excited
eyes, and lips a little tremulous as they said--

"These are for Faith; will you hold the basket while I cover it with
leaves?"

He took it, and as the first green covering was deftly laid, he asked,
below his breath--

"Sylvia, did you hear us?"

To his unutterable amazement she looked up clearly, and all her heart
was in her voice, as she answered with a fervency he could not doubt--

"Yes; and I was glad to hear, to know that a nobler woman filled the
place I cannot fill. Oh, believe it, Adam; and be sure that the
knowledge of your great content will lighten the terrible regret which
you have seen as nothing else ever could have done."

Down fell the basket at their feet, and taking her face between his
hands, Warwick bent and searched with a glance that seemed to penetrate
to her heart's core. For a moment she struggled to escape, but the grasp
that held her was immovable. She tried to oppose a steadfast front and
baffle that perilous inspection, but quick and deep rushed the
traitorous color over cheek and forehead with its mute betrayal. She
tried to turn her eyes away, but those other eyes, dark and dilated with
intensity of purpose, fixed her own, and the confronting countenance
wore an expression which made its familiar features look awfully large
and grand to her panic-stricken sight. A sense of utter helplessness
fell on her, courage deserted her, pride changed to fear, defiance to
despair; as the flush faded, the fugitive glance was arrested and the
upturned face became a pale blank, ready to receive the answer that
strong scrutiny was slowly bringing to the light, as invisible
characters start out upon a page when fire passes over them. Neither
spoke, but soon through all opposing barriers the magnetism of an
indomitable will drew forth the truth, set free the captive passion pent
so long, and wrung from those reluctant lineaments a full confession of
that power which heaven has gifted with eternal youth.

The instant this assurance was his own beyond a doubt, Warwick released
her, snatched up his hat, and hurrying down the path vanished in the
wood. Spent as with an hour's excitement, and bewildered by emotions
which she could no longer master, Sylvia lingered in the grape walk till
her husband called her. Then hastily refilling her basket, she shook her
hair about her face and went to bid Faith good by. Moor was to accompany
her to the city, and they left early, that Faith might pause for adieux
to Mark and Prudence.

"Where is Adam? Has he gone before, or been inveigled into staying?"

Moor spoke to Sylvia, but busied in fastening the basket-lid, she seemed
not to hear, and Faith replied for her.

"He will take a later boat, we need not wait for him."

When Faith embraced Sylvia, all the coldness had melted from her manner,
and her voice was tender as a mother's as she whispered low in her ear--

"Dear child, if ever you need any help that Geoffrey cannot give,
remember cousin Faith."

For two hours Sylvia sat alone, not idle, for in the first real solitude
she had enjoyed for seven days she looked deeply into herself, and
putting by all disguises owned the truth, and resolved to repair the
past if possible, as Faith had counselled in the case which she had now
made her own. Like so many of us, Sylvia often saw her errors too late
to avoid committing them, and failing to do the right thing at the right
moment, kept herself forever in arrears with that creditor who must
inevitably be satisfied. She had been coming to this decision all that
weary week, and these quiet hours left her both resolute and resigned.

As she sat there while the early twilight began to gather, her eye often
turned to Warwick's travelling bag, which Faith, having espied it ready
in his chamber, had brought down and laid in the library, as a reminder
of her wish. As she looked at it, Sylvia's heart yearned toward it in
the fond, foolish way which women have of endowing the possessions of
those they love with the attractions of sentient things, and a portion
of their owner's character or claim upon themselves. It was like
Warwick, simple and strong, no key, and every mark of the long use which
had tested its capabilities and proved them durable. A pair of gloves
lay beside it on the chair, and though she longed to touch anything of
his, she resisted the temptation till, pausing near them in one of her
journeys to the window, she saw a rent in the glove that lay
uppermost,--that appeal was irresistible,--"Poor Adam! there has been no
one to care for him so long, and Faith does not yet know how; surely I
may perform so small a service for him if he never knows how tenderly I
do it?"

Standing ready to drop her work at a sound, Sylvia snatched a brief
satisfaction which solaced her more than an hour of idle lamentation,
and as she kissed the glove with a long, sad kiss, and put it down with
eyes that dimly saw where it should be, perhaps there went as much real
love and sorrow into that little act as ever glorified some greater
deed. Then she went to lie in the "Refuge," as she had named an ancient
chair, with her head on its embracing arm. Not weeping, but quietly
watching the flicker of the fire, which filled the room with warm
duskiness, making the twilight doubly pleasant, till a sudden blaze
leaped up, showing her that her watch was over and Warwick come. She had
not heard him enter, but there he was close before her, his face glowing
with the frosty air, his eye clear and kind, and in his aspect that
nameless charm which won for him the confidence of whosoever read his
countenance. Scarce knowing why, Sylvia felt reassured that all was
well, and looked up with more welcome in her heart than she dared betray
in words.

"Come at last! where have you been so long, Adam?"

"Round the Island I suspect, for I lost my way, and had no guide but
instinct to lead me home again. I like to say that word, for though it
is not home it seems so to me now. May I sit here before I go, and warm
myself at your fire, Sylvia?"

Sure of his answer he established himself on the stool at her feet,
stretched his hands to the grateful blaze, and went on with some inward
resolution lending its power and depth to his voice.

"I had a question to settle with myself and went to find my best
counsellors in the wood. Often when I am harassed by some perplexity or
doubt to which I can find no wise or welcome answer, I walk myself into
a belief that it will come; then it appears. I stoop to break a handsome
flower, to pick up a cone, or watch some little creature happier than I,
and there lies my answer, like a good luck penny, ready to my hand."

"Faith has gone, but Geoffrey hopes to keep you for another week," said
Sylvia, ignoring the unsafe topic.

"Shall he have his wish?"

"Faith expects you to follow her."

"And you think I ought?"

"I think you will."

"When does the next boat leave?"

"An hour hence."

"I'll wait for it here. Did I wake you coming in?"

"I was not asleep; only lazy, warm, and quiet."

"And deadly tired;--dear soul, how can it be otherwise, leading the life
you lead."

There was such compassion in his voice, such affection in his eye, such
fostering kindliness in the touch of the hand he laid upon her own, that
Sylvia cried within herself,--"Oh, if Geoffrey would only come!" and
hoping for that help to save her from herself, she hastily replied--

"You are mistaken, Adam,--my life is easier than I deserve,--my husband
makes me very--"

"Miserable,--the truth to me, Sylvia."

Warwick rose as he spoke, closed the door and came back wearing an
expression which caused her to start up with a gesture of entreaty--

"No no, I will not hear you! Adam, you must not speak!"

He paused opposite her, leaving a little space between them, which he
did not cross through all that followed, and with that look, inflexible
yet pitiful, he answered steadily--

"I must speak and you will hear me. But understand me, Sylvia, I
desire and design no French sentiment nor sin like that we heard of, and
what I say now I would say if Geoffrey stood between us. I have settled
this point after long thought and the heartiest prayers I ever prayed;
and much as I have at stake, I speak more for your sake than my own.
Therefore do not entreat nor delay, but listen and let me show you the
wrong you are doing yourself, your husband, and your friend."

"Does Faith know all the past? does she desire you to do this that her
happiness may be secure?" demanded Sylvia.

"Faith is no more to me, nor I to Faith, than the friendliest regard can
make us. She suspected that I loved you long ago; she now believes that
you love me; she pities her cousin tenderly, but will not meddle with
the tangle we have made of our three lives. Forget that folly, and let
me speak to you as I should. When we parted I thought that you loved
Geoffrey; so did you. When I came here I was sure of it for a day; but
on that second night I saw your face as you stood here alone, and then I
knew what I have since assured myself of. God knows, I think my gain
dearly purchased by his loss. I see your double trial; I know the
tribulations in store for all of us; yet, as an honest man, I must speak
out, because you ought not to delude yourself or Geoffrey another day."

"What right have you to come between us and decide my duty, Adam?"
Sylvia spoke passionately, roused to resistance by his manner and the
turmoil of emotions warring within her.

"The right of a sane man to save the woman he loves from destroying her
own peace forever, and undermining the confidence of the friend dearest
to them both. I know this is not the world's way in such matters; but I
care not; because I believe one human creature has a right to speak to
another in times like these as if they two stood alone. I will not
command, I will appeal to you, and if you are the candid soul I think
you, your own words shall prove the truth of what I say. Sylvia, do you
love your husband?"

"Yes, Adam, dearly."

"More than you love me?"

"I wish I did! I wish I did!"

"Are you happy with him?"

"I was till you came; I shall be when you are gone."

"Never! It is impossible to go back to the blind tranquillity you once
enjoyed. Now a single duty lies before you; delay is weak, deceit is
wicked; utter sincerity alone can help us. Tell Geoffrey all; then,
whether you live your life alone, or one day come to me, there is no
false dealing to repent of, and looking the hard fact in the face robs
it of one half its terrors. Will you do this, Sylvia?"

"No, Adam. Remember what he said that night: 'I love but few, and those
few are my world,'--I am chief in that world; shall I destroy it, for my
selfish pleasure? He waited for me very long, is waiting still; can I
for a second time disappoint the patient heart that would find it
easier to give up life than the poor possession which I am? No, I ought
not, dare not do it yet."

"If you dare not speak the truth to your friend, you do not deserve him,
and the name is a lie. You ask me to remember what he said that
night,--I ask you to recall the look with which he begged you not to try
him too hardly. Put it to yourself,--which is the kinder justice, a full
confession now, or a late one hereafter, when longer subterfuge has made
it harder for you to offer, bitterer for him to receive? I tell you,
Sylvia, it were more merciful to murder him outright than to slowly wear
away his faith, his peace, and love by a vain endeavor to perform as a
duty what should be your sweetest pleasure, and what will soon become a
burden heavier than you can bear."

"You do not see as I see; you cannot understand what I am to him, nor
can I tell you what he is to me. It is not as if I could dislike or
despise him for any unworthiness of his own; nor as if he were a lover
only. Then I could do much which now is worse than impossible, for I
have married him, and it is too late."

"Oh, Sylvia! why could you not have waited?"

"Why? because I am what I am, too easily led by circumstances, too
entirely possessed by whatever hope, belief, or fear rules me for the
hour. Give me a steadfast nature like your own and I will be as strong.
I know I am weak, but I am not wilfully wicked; and when I ask you to be
silent, it is because I want to save him from the pain of doubt, and try
to teach myself to love him as I should. I must have time, but I can
bear much and endeavor more persistently than you believe. If I forgot
you once, can I not again? and should I not? I am all in all to him,
while you, so strong, so self-reliant, can do without my love as you
have done till now, and will soon outlive your sorrow for the loss of
that which might have made us happy had I been more patient."

"Yes, I shall outlive it, else I should have little faith in myself. But
I shall not forget; and if you would remain forever what you now are to
me, you will so act that nothing may mar this memory, if it is to be no
more. I doubt your power to forget an affection which has survived so
many changes and withstood assaults such as Geoffrey must unconsciously
have made upon it. But I have no right to condemn your beliefs, to order
your actions, or force you to accept my code of morals if you are not
ready for it. You must decide, but do not again deceive yourself, and
through whatever comes hold fast to that which is better worth
preserving than husband, happiness, or friend."

His words fell cold on Sylvia's ear, for with the inconsistency of a
woman's heart she thought he gave her up too readily, yet honored him
more truly for sacrificing both himself and her to the principle that
ruled his life and made him what he was. His seeming resignation
steadied her, for now he waited her decision, while before he was only
bent on executing the purpose wherein he believed salvation lay. She
girded up her strength, collected her thoughts, and tried to show him
what she believed to be her duty.

"Let me tell you how it is with me, Adam, and be patient if I am not
wise and brave like you, but far too young, too ignorant to bear such
troubles well. I am not leaning on my own judgment now, but on Faith's,
and though you do not love her as I hoped, you feel she is one to trust.
She said the wife, in that fictitious case which was so real to us, the
wife should leave no effort unmade, no self-denial unexacted, till she
had fairly proved that she could not be what she had promised. Then, and
then only, had she a right to undo the tie that had bound her. I must do
this before I think of your love or my own, for on my marriage morning I
made a vow within myself that Geoffrey's happiness should be the first
duty of my life. I shall keep that vow as sacredly as I will those I
made before the world, until I find that it is utterly beyond my power,
then I will break all together."

"You have tried that once, and failed."

"No, I have never tried it as I shall now. At first, I did not know the
truth, then I was afraid to believe, and struggled blindly to forget.
Now I see clearly, I confess it, I resolve to conquer it, and I will not
yield until I have done my best. You say you must respect me. Could you
do so if I no longer respected myself? I should not, if I forgot all
Geoffrey had borne and done for me, and could not bear and do this thing
for him. I must make the effort, and make it silently; for he is very
proud with all his gentleness, and would reject the seeming sacrifice
though he would make one doubly hard for love of me. If I am to stay
with him, it spares him the bitterest pain he could suffer; if I am to
go, it gives him a few more months of happiness, and I may so prepare
him that the parting will be less hard. How others would act I cannot
tell, I only know that this seems right to me; and I must fight my fight
alone, even if I die in doing it."

She was so earnest, yet so humble; so weak in all but the desire to do
well; so young to be tormented with such fateful issues, and withal so
steadfast in the grateful yet remorseful tenderness she bore her
husband, that though sorely disappointed and not one whit convinced,
Warwick could only submit to this woman-hearted child, and love her
with redoubled love, both for what she was and what she aspired to be.

"Sylvia, what would you have me do?"

"You must go away, and for a long time, Adam; because when you are near
me my will is swayed by yours, and what you desire I long to give you.
Go quite away, and through Faith you may learn whether I succeed or
fail. It is hard to say this, yet you know it is a truer hospitality in
me to send you from my door than to detain and offer you temptation for
your daily bread."

