his freedom as achieved, and he had even made himself familiar with his
new social condition.
Dandy handed Lily into the bateau which was to serve as the Isabel's
tender, and then seated himself in the bow.
"Come, bear a hand, Cyd," said the leader, in a low but sharp tone.
"What am I to bear a hand to?" demanded Cyd.
"Jump in quick, and paddle off to the Isabel."
"Golly! Is dis chile got to row de boat? Says I, 'Cyd,' says I, 'you's a
free nigger, and you got nuffin to do but----'"
"Take your paddle quick, or I will leave you here!" interposed Dandy.
Cyd obeyed this time. His ideas of freedom were, no doubt, derived from
his master and the other white people at Redlawn, who had nothing to do
but amuse themselves and order the negroes round the place. They were
very crude ideas, and he was yet to learn that freedom did not mean
idleness. He paddled the bateau off to the sail-boat, and Lily was put
on board.
"Now, haul the Edith alongside," said the skipper, as he proceeded to
unloose the sails.
"De Edif!" exclaimed Cyd. "Wha--wha--what you gwine to do wid de Edif?"
"Haul her alongside!" replied Dandy, sharply. "If you spend the night in
talking, we shall not get off till morning."
"Hossifus!" ejaculated Cyd, whose vocabulary being rather limited, he
was under the necessity of coining a word occasionally, when he felt the
need of a strong expression. "Dis nigger tink he was free, but it's Do
dis, and Do dat. Hossifus; dis chile tink he's only got a new
massa--dat's all, for sartin."
"If you don't want to go, Cyd, you needn't. I will put you on shore, and
go without you."
"Gossifus! Dis chile like to know what you gwine to do widout Cyd."
"I shall do very well without him. Shall I put you on shore, or not?"
"Possifus! No, Dandy; I'se gwine wid you, any how."
"Then you must mind me!" added the skipper, earnestly.
"I done do dat."
"Haul the Edith alongside, then."
"Sartin, Dandy. I'se gwine to haul de Edif alongside, but dis chile like
to know what for?"
"Mind me, or I'll put you on shore!" cried Dandy, angrily.
"Mossifus! I'se gwine, Dandy," said Cyd as he stepped into the tender,
and paddled off to the Edith, which was moored a short distance above.
Presently he returned, and the painter of the race boat was made fast to
a cleat on the quarter of the Isabel. Cyd was much mystified by the
operation, for he could not see why they should take the Edith with
them. He was very anxious to argue the point with Dandy, who, it seemed
to him, had never before in his life been so sharp and ill-natured. But
the skipper was too much excited by the tremendous issues of the hour to
be in a mood for argument.
By this time Dandy had cast loose the sails, and together they manned
the halyards, and hoisted the mainsail. It was large, and the fresh
breeze caused it to flap and beat with a fearful noise, which added not
a little to the excitement of the skipper.
"Stand by the moorings, Cyd, and have your jib halyards ready!" said
Dandy, as he took his place at the tiller.
"Hossifus! I'm dar, Massa Dandy."
"You needn't 'massa' me, Cyd. Stop!"
"Which'll I do, Massa Dandy, stand by de moorings, or stop?" demanded
Cyd, whose ivories were now distinctly visible in the gloom of the
night.
"Neither; jump into the bateau, and bring the wherry alongside," replied
Dandy.
"Gossifus! What you gwine to do wid de wherry?"
"Mind me, or go on shore!" said the skipper, sternly.
"I'se gwine. Golly! dat makes two boats apiece all round, for sartin."
"Go, quick!"
"I'se gone; 'pears like I'se only swapped off Massa Archy for Massa
Dandy."
But Cyd obeyed the order, and brought the wherry to the side of the
Isabel, to which she was secured, like the other boats. The bewildered
boy was not in the habit of doing his own thinking, and his faculties
were not, therefore, very fully developed, and an explanation would have
relieved him of a world of doubts and conjectures.
"Now, have your jib halyards ready, and stand by the moorings," said
Dandy.
"Yes, sar!" replied Cyd, putting a wicked emphasis on the complimentary
part of the answer.
"Let go the moorings!" shouted Dandy, as he hauled in the main sheet.
"All gone, Massa Dandy," replied Cyd, as the heavy rope by which the
boat was secured splashed into the water.
"Hoist the jib!" added the skipper, in the same loud tones, that he
might be heard above the noise of the flapping sail.
"Up she goes," responded Cyd, joyously.
The Isabel, released from her moorings, caught the breeze, and the
voyage of the young fugitives was commenced. She leaped like a
race-horse before the fresh breeze.
"We done gone!" exclaimed Cyd, as he walked aft, when he had secured the
jib sheet.
"We are off!" replied Dandy, as he cast an anxious glance in the
direction of the planter's great house, to assure himself that none of
its inmates witnessed their departure.
The night was very dark, and there were indications of a storm. It
required all the skill of the bold leader of the expedition to steer the
boat in the thick gloom of the night. The navigation was difficult and
dangerous. The bayou was filled with snags and stumps, and to strike one
of them was to dash the boat in pieces, and wreck all the hopes which
hung upon the success of the enterprise. But Dandy was thoroughly
acquainted with all the difficulties in his course, and was so familiar
with the waters of the bayou, that he was as much at home upon them by
night as by day.
"Hoist the foresail, Cyd," said the skipper.
"Mossifus! Dis chile tinks de boat's gwine fas enough," answered Cyd,
"but I'se gwine to do jus what you say, Massa Dandy."
"Do it then."
Cyd did do it then; but it was evident to the commander of the Isabel
that the "crew" of his vessel was in a lamentable state of
insubordination. All his orders were questioned, and the boat was liable
to go to the bottom in an emergency, because his commands were not
promptly obeyed. He was not a little astonished at Cyd's conduct, for in
the boat of Master Archy he was in the habit of obeying all orders like
a machine, never presuming to ask a question, or suggest a doubt.
The foresail was set, and the Isabel dashed on with increased speed.
There was no more "working ship" to be done, and Cyd again took his
place on the cushioned seats in the standing-room, a luxury, by the way,
in which he had never before attempted to indulge himself; but when it
is considered that he had just emerged from slavery to freedom, his want
of respect for the dignity of the "quarter deck" will be fully excused.
"Go forward, Cyd, and keep a sharp lookout ahead," said Dandy, as soon
as the "crew" was comfortably seated on the cushion.
"Gossifus! I suppose I'se a nigger still," said he. "Dis chile tinks
he's jes as good's any body now."
"You are, Cyd."
"Den I mus squat on de hard deck, and you sets on de cushions."
"Take one of the cushions with you, if you wish to; but go forward and
keep a sharp lookout."
"I'se gwine."
"Go, then."
"Dis nigger don't zackly like dis kind ob freedom," growled Cyd, as he
moved forward.
The wind was about south-west, which was fair for the course the Isabel
was then steering, and in three quarters of an hour she made Green
Point. Dandy could not but recall the events which had occurred there
three weeks before, for they had stimulated him to the daring enterprise
in which he was now engaged. It was there he had resolved to watch and
wait in patience and submission for a less perilous opportunity to
effect his escape than that which he had now embraced. The spot was full
of interest, for his great resolution had been born there; but the
moment was big with the destiny of the whole party, and he could not
stop to indulge in sentimental reflections.
"Stand by the jib sheet, Cyd!" said he, as the Isabel swept past the
point.
"Yes, sar--all ready!" replied Cyd, who had so many times assisted in
working the boat, that he was perfectly familiar with the routine of a
foremast hand's duty.
"Hard--lee!" cried Dandy, as he put the helm down, and brought the
Isabel up on the other tack.
Cyd tended the jib sheet without further instruction, and then took his
place again on the forecastle to look out for danger ahead. The course
for the next five miles was up the large bayou, of which the Crosscut
was a tributary. It was lined on both sides with large trees, which
sheltered the water, to some extent, from the force of the wind, and her
progress was less rapid than before. The navigation was less obstructed,
and Cyd was called aft to enjoy the luxury of the cushioned seats.
Lily, who had now become reconciled to her situation, also joined the
skipper in the standing room. The hurry and excitement of the departure
had passed off, and the load of anxiety was removed from the mind of
Dandy.
It was midnight, dark and gloomy; but the young fugitives felt that they
were passing from the gloom of slavery into the light of freedom. The
first difficulties of the enterprise had been overcome, and though there
were months of peril and hardship before them, it seemed as though the
glorious sun of the new existence had already risen.
CHAPTER IX.
THE FUGITIVES REACH LAKE CHICOT.
The Isabel moved steadily through the waters of the wide bayou, bearing
her precious freight farther and farther from the plantation. With every
mile she advanced, the hopes of the fugitives grew stronger. Though
Dandy alone knew the route by which they were to reach the land of
freedom, they were conscious that any white man whom they might meet
would arrest them as runaways. Before they could pass out of the limits
of the state, they must go in sight of many plantations, where they were
liable to be seen, and even near two or three villages.
In spite of the perils which the future had in store for them, the party
were quite cheerful. Even Lily, gentle and timid as she was, soon became
accustomed to the novel situation in which she was placed, and ceased
to dread the pursuing footsteps of the slave-hunters.
"Do you think we shall escape, Dandy?" asked she, as she seated herself
by the side of her friend.
"I expect we shall," replied he, unwilling to kindle too strong a hope
in the mind of the girl. "If we manage well, we have a good chance."
"I hope we shall, for master would certainly sell us all if we should be
caught."
"Dat ud be wus as staying wid Massa Kun'l," added Cyd. "But I s'pect we
won't be caught, Massa Dandy."
"Why do you call me master, Cyd?"
"Dis chile tink you cutting it rader fat."
"What do you mean by that?"
"You'se tell me do dis, and, Cyd, do dat,--jes as dough dis nigger no
account at all."
"I am in command of the boat; and it was my duty to get her under way.
When I told you to do any thing, you began to ask questions."
"Dis nigger's free now," replied Cyd, with becoming dignity.
"Not yet, Cyd. We may be caught at any moment."
"Gossifus! I tought I was free now."
"What made you think so?"
"We done runned away from Massa Kun'l."
"He may catch you again."
"De Kun'l ain't here, no how, Dandy; 'pose I neber see him any more, and
he neber see me any more, who's my massa den?"
"When you get into a free country, you will be free."
"But who's my massa now? Dat's what dis chile want to know for sartin."
"You have no master."
"Den I'se free," exclaimed Cyd, exhibiting his ivories, which the gloom
of the night, increased by the deep shadows of the tall trees, was
powerless to conceal. "I tell you, I'se a free nigger."
Cyd commenced a most violent demonstration of satisfaction as he
contemplated his new social position. He laughed, kicked with his heels,
sang and danced. He felt that he had got the best of the argument, and
this was no small ground of rejoicing.
"Suppose you should be caught?"
"Den I be Massa Kun'l's boy again."
"But why did you call me Massa Dandy?"
"Kase you order me round jes like Massa Kun'l, and de white folks. Dis
chile begin to tink he's your nigger."
"You are just as good as I am."
"Yes, sar; Cyd knows all about dat. You tell me to git de row boat; den
to git de wherry; and when I ask what for, you tell me to mind my own
business, and not ask queshuns."
"It was because we had no time to spare," replied Dandy, whose feelings
were injured by the charge of his sable companion.
"Dat may be; but you speak to me jes like de white folks."
"I didn't mean to do or say any thing that would make me seem like a
master, for I hate the very sound of the word."
"Hossifus!" exclaimed Cyd, gratified by this acknowledgment. "I done
tink you meant to be my massa, jes like de kun'l. If dis chile jes as
good you be, Cyd can't see why you don't tell what you do dese tings
for."
"I am willing to tell you what I did these things for, now that I have
time to do so. But, Cyd, I will change places with you."
"Possifus! What fur?"
"You shall command the boat, and I will obey all your orders without
asking a single question."
"What, Cyd?"
"Yes, Cyd," replied Dandy, earnestly. "Here, take the helm!"
"Gossifus! I dunno whar you're gwine."
"Very well; I will give you my map of the country, and you shall find
the way for yourself, as I shall have to do."
"What you gib me?"
"The map."
"What's dat?"
"Here it is," replied Dandy, giving him a small pocket map of the State
of Louisiana, of which he had possessed himself a few days before the
departure.
Cyd took the map, turned it over two or three times, and could not make
out its use. Lily and Dandy both enjoyed his confusion, for it was a
great puzzle to him to know how they were to find their way through the
swamp by the aid of this little book, as he called it. A lantern was
lighted, and Lily unfolded the map, and spread it out upon one of the
berths.
"Mossifus!" exclaimed Cyd, when he had carefully examined the map, and
the lantern was prudently extinguished. "I don't see what dis paper
fur."
"It's all I have to guide me to the ocean, after we have passed Chicot.
Now, if you will take the map, and command the boat, I will obey you in
all things."
"Golly! I don't see what good de paper's fur. I kin foller de norf
star."
"But we are going to the south."
"I tink I will stay where I is, and you shall command de boat."
"Then you must mind me at once. Our very lives may depend upon your
prompt obedience."
"I will, Dandy."
"Free men have to obey, as well as slaves. On board a ship, every body
obeys the captain."
"What's use ob bein free, den?"
"The captain of the ship can't sell the sailor, nor separate him from
his wife and children. The man is paid for what he does, and when his
voyage is up he may go where he pleases."
"I knows all about it now, Dandy."
"I don't want to be called Dandy any more. My name is Daniel, but you
may call me Dan for short."
"Possifus! Den's what's my name? I'se free too, and I wan't my name
changed."
"Your name is Thucydides."
"Tucydimes!"
"No, Thucydides," laughed Dan--for we will adopt his suggestion, and
call him no longer by his plantation name.
"Hossifus! Hab to git up afore breakfast to speak dat word in season for
dinner," chuckled Cyd.
"You are called Cyd for short, as I am Dan. There is nothing bad about
the word."
"It's a very good name, Cyd," added Lily.
"Goshus! If you say so, Missy Lily, it's all right. If it suits de fair
seck, it suits me," said Cyd, shaking his fat sides with satisfaction.
"Dis chile don't keer what you calls him, if you only calls him to
supper."
"Now, Cyd, I will answer the questions you asked when we were getting
under way."
"Yes, what ye got all dem boats draggin arter us fur?"
"Don't you see the reason, Cyd?"
The boy scratched his head, but he could not see. As we have before
observed, he had not been in the habit of doing his own thinking, and,
consequently, he was not skilled in reasoning from effect to cause.
"Suppose we had left the boats, Cyd," added Dan.
"Den we shouldn't hab em wid us, keepin de boat back."
"At six o'clock in the morning, Colonel Raybone will be ready to start
on his trip. He will go down to the pier, and expect to find us all
there."
"Gossifus! we shan't be dar!" exclaimed Cyd, whose imagination was
lively enough to enable him to picture the scene that would ensue.
"What then, Cyd?"
"Golly! Massa Kun'l up and rave like he neber did afore," replied Cyd,
who appeared to enjoy the idea.
"Well, what then?"
"Dunno. He can't help hisself," chuckled Cyd.
"Suppose we had left the boats?"
"Mossifus! He tell four stout boys to git in de club-boat, and streak it
down de riber like an alligator arter a possum. Yah! ha, ha!" roared
Cyd, holding on to his sides.
"Do you see why I have taken all the boats?"
"Yes, Dandy--Dan; I sees into it jes like a millstone. You'se got a long
head, Dan. But what ye gwine to do wid de paint?"
"We shall live in the swamp till the colonel has done looking for us.
This boat is white now, and we will paint her green, so that she can't
be seen so easily."
"Dat's good, Dan; but de kun'l won't stop lookin fur us till he finds
out something."
"I mean that he shall find out something. He will suppose that we have
gone to the north. He will never suspect that we have come this way.
Here we are," said Dan, suddenly rising in the boat, as she came to a
narrow opening on the southerly bank of the river.
Running the boat up to the bank of the bayou, he ordered Cyd to make her
fast to a tree on the shore.
"What's gwine to be done now, Dan?" asked Cyd, when he had obeyed the
order.
"We shall follow the big river no farther. Now, I want to make Master
Raybone think we have gone up that way, which leads to the Mississippi.
I left some papers in my room, which will convince him that I intended
to go that way. Now, Lily, we must leave you for a little while," added
Dan, as he drew the bateau alongside. "We will not be gone more than an
hour."
Dan and Cyd got into the bateau, and towed the other boats about two
miles up the river, where they secured them in such a position that they
seemed to be abandoned. When the search for them was made, these boats
would be found two miles from the course the fugitives had actually
taken. They then pulled back to the Isabel, and got under way again.
Their course was now changed, and the boat passed down the narrow
cut-off, which soon widened into a broad stream. The wind, which had
been quite fresh when they started, had now subsided to a gentle breeze;
but as the country was more open than on the Big River, as it was
called, they still moved along at the rate of three or four miles an
hour.
At five o'clock in the morning--Dan had a silver watch which had been
presented to him by Master Archy--they reached the entrance of Lake
Chicot. It was about daylight, and as there was a plantation on the
western bank, it was not deemed prudent to proceed any farther, for if
the boat was seen, it would at once be recognized as that of Colonel
Raybone.
The westerly side of the lake was low, swampy ground, covered with a
thick growth of trees and an undergrowth of cane. The skipper of the
Isabel ran along this shore till he found a stream flowing into the
lake. Hauling up the centre board, he ran his craft into this creek. As
the sails would not draw, being sheltered by the trees and cane, the two
boys worked the boat up the stream with their oars till she was
completely concealed from the opposite shore, or from the lake, if any
boat should happen to pass during the day.
Here the careful skipper intended to lie until the friendly shades of
another night should permit them to proceed on the voyage to a more
secure haven.
CHAPTER X.
BREAKFAST ON BOARD THE ISABEL.
"Now, Cyd, get up the furnace, and make a fire," said Dan, as soon as
the sails of the Isabel had been furled, and the boat carefully secured
to a tree on the shore.
"Sartin," replied Cyd, as he took off the hatch of the stow-hold. "Who's
gwine to be de cook, Dan?"
"Do you know how to cook, Cyd?"
"Hossifus! I don't know nossin at all 'bout it."
"Neither do I; and I think Lily does not. I will try my hand at the
business first. We can make some coffee, boil the potatoes, and fry the
bacon. I am sure I can do that."
"So kin Cyd."
"Just as soon as we get to the place where we are going, we will divide
the work between us. You shall be cook one week, and I will the next
week. Now bring up the bacon, the potatoes, and the coffee."
Old Jake, who was to do the cooking for the excursionists, had provided
every thing that would be needed for the purpose. In a short time the
fires were blazing in the two furnaces, the coffee and the potatoes were
boiling upon one, and the other was in readiness for the frying-pan,
when the other articles should be in a sufficiently forward state to
require its use.
Though Dan had never actually turned his hand to the business of
cooking, he had so often seen the various operations performed, that he
was competent to do it himself, after acquiring a little experience. He
was a keen observer, and whenever he saw any thing done, he could
generally do it himself.
In the forward part of the cabin of the Isabel, reaching from the
foremast to the centre-board, was a fixed table; and while Dan was
cooking the bacon, Cyd prepared it for the morning meal. They had every
thing which could be found in any well-ordered house, and the table had
more the appearance of that of a first-class hotel than one provided for
the use of the runaway slaves.
"Possifus!" exclaimed Cyd, when the table was ready, as he sat down upon
the berth to observe the effect. "Dat's bery fine! Cyd, you'se gwine to
set down to dat table. You'se a free nigger, now, Cyd, and jes as good
as de best ob dem. Dar's de bread, dar's de pickles, dar's de butter,
dar's de sugar, dar's de milk, dar's de salt, dar's de castor. Gossifus!
All dat's bery fine, and Cyd's gwine to set down at de fus table."
"Here, Cyd," called Dan, through the sky-light, as he proceeded to pass
down the breakfast. "Put them on the table."
"Mossifus! Do you think Cyd don't know what to do wid dese yere tings? I
knows what fried bacon's fur!"
The potatoes, the bacon, and the coffee were handed down, and when they
were placed upon the table, the effect called forth another rhapsody
from Cyd. While he was apostrophizing the bacon and the potatoes, he was
joined by Dan.
"Come, Lily," said he; "breakfast is ready."
"Hossifus! We forgot one ting for sartin," exclaimed Cyd, suddenly
looking as sober as though he had not a friend in the world.
"What, Cyd."
"De bell."
"Bell? What do we want of a bell?"
"To call de folks to breakfas, to be sure," replied Cyd, distending his
mouth from ear to ear.
"I think we can get along without a bell," replied Dan, laughing at the
folly of his companion.
Lily joined the boys in the forward cabin, as they called the space
forward of the centre-board. She looked as pleased and happy as Dan and
Cyd; and one would hardly have believed, from their appearance, that
they were fugitives from slavery. All the talk about the chilly damps of
the swamp, the perils and the hardships of the flight, appeared to have
been forgotten. The planter and his son could hardly have been more
jovial than the party which had taken possession of the yacht.
Cyd was not accustomed to the refinements of social life, as Dan and
Lily had been, and he began to behave in a very indecorous and
remarkable manner. As it was all in the family, Dan ventured to suggest
to him that, as he was now seated at a gentleman's table, he should
behave in a gentlemanly manner, and not eat bacon from his fingers, when
a knife and fork had been especially provided for this purpose. Cyd
accepted the rebuke, and thereafter imitated the manners of his
companions, even carrying his ideas of gentility to extremes.
The cooking was a decided success, with the exception of the coffee,
which was very muddy and uninviting. This was not strange, inasmuch as
none of the chemical conditions, upon which good coffee is produced, had
been complied with. It was nothing but coffee and water stewed together.
Dan was mortified, and apologized for the failure.
"How did you make it, Dan?" asked Lily, with a smile, which fully spoke
the offender's pardon.
"I put the coffee in, and then the water," replied the amateur cook,
with a blush.
"Hot water?"
"No, cold."
Lily laughed aloud at this blunder, and then gave him a receipt for
making good coffee, which included the use of boiling water and
fish-skin.
"I saw that fish-skin in the locker, and I couldn't think what it was
for?" laughed Dan.
But the breakfast was finished, and, in spite of the drawback of poor
coffee, it was pronounced satisfactory, especially by Cyd, whose
plantation rations had not included coffee, butter, white bread, and
other articles which graced the table of the Isabel.
"Now, Dan and Cyd, you can go away and do what you please," said Lily.
"We will clear up the table and wash the dishes first," replied Dan.
"No; I am going to do that."
"You, Lily?"
"I am going to do my share of the work. I can't manage a boat, but I
think I can cook, and take care of the cabin, set the table, and do
every thing that belongs to the women."
"I didn't mean to have you work, Lily," said Dan. "You have been a
lady's-maid all your life, and never did any work."
"Well, I know how; and I'm going to do my share. I should not feel right
to live like a lady here. I mean to do all the work in the cabin, and
the cooking too."
"No, Cyd and I will do that."
"Mossifus! Do all dat, and all de rest too."
"I must do something, or I should be very unhappy."
"Well, Lily, you shall have your own way; and while you are clearing off
the table, Cyd and I will prepare the lady's cabin."
"The what?" asked Lily.
"Your cabin; you shall have a room all to yourself."
Dan left the cabin, followed by Cyd. Taking from one of the lockers, in
the standing room, an awning which was used to spread over the forward
deck, he unrolled it, and proceeded to make his calculations, while Cyd
stood by, scratching his head and wondering what was going to be done.
The cabin of the Isabel was entered by two doors, one on each side of
the centre-board, which divided the after cabin into two apartments.
Dan, after measuring the cabin, cut the awning to the size required,
and then nailed it up as a partition between the forward and the after
cabin. The space thus enclosed formed a state room, six feet long and
three feet wide, outside of the berth. This room could be entered only
by the door from the standing room. It made a very neat and comfortable
chamber, and Lily was much pleased with it.
By the time the dishes were washed and put away, there was considerable
gaping among the party. Cyd opened his mouth fearfully wide, and Miss
Lily's eyelids drooped, like her fragrant namesake, when its mission on
earth is nearly finished. The fugitives had come to the knowledge that
they had slept none during the preceding night, and as the voyage was to
be continued when darkness favored the movement, it was necessary that
the hours should be appropriated to slumber. Lily retired to her new
state room, closed the door, and was soon asleep.
"Now, Cyd, one of us must turn in," said Dan.
"Can't we bof turn in?"
"No; one of us must stand watch while the other sleeps. We have been
getting along so finely, that we have almost forgot that we are in
danger."
"Possifus!" gasped Cyd. "Wha--wha--what you want to keep watch fur?"
"Suppose any one should come upon us while we are asleep?" added Dan.
"'Pose any one come 'pon us when we're awake: what den? Who's a gwine to
help hisself?" yawned Cyd.
"I am, for one. I shall not be taken, if I can help it."
"Gossifus! What you gwine to do? 'Pose you see de nigger hunter, wid
tree, four dozen bloodhounds: wha--wha--what you gwine to do den?"
"I'm going to fight! And you must do the same!" replied Dan, with
energy, as he grasped one of the fowling-pieces that lay upon the bunk.
"Gwine to fight!" cried Cyd, opening his eyes with astonishment. "Gwine
to kill de dogs and kill de men?"
"That's what I mean. I will shoot man or dog that attempts to touch me."
"Wha--wha--wha--" stammered Cyd, as he always did when excited; but the
idea was too big for him just then, and he broke down altogether.
"That's a settled point, and you must learn to use a gun."
"Woo--woo--woo--would you shoot Massa Kun'l, if he come for to take
you?" demanded Cyd.
"I would, or any other man. I belong to myself now, and I will fight for
my own freedom to the last."
"I dunno 'bout dat, Dan," mused Cyd. "Hossifus! Shoot Massa Kun'l! Dunno
'bout dat."
"Turn in, Cyd, and go to sleep. You may have the first chance."
The two boys drew lots for the choice of berths, and Dan obtained the
after one. Cyd was soon snoring in one of the forward bunks, while Dan
took his place upon deck to guard against the approach of man or beast
that might threaten their newly-acquired freedom.
CHAPTER XI.
THE BAY OF THE BLOODHOUNDS.
Dan had his solitary watch for four hours, with nothing to disturb his
meditations except the occasional visit of an alligator; but as the ugly
reptiles did not offer to swallow the boat, or otherwise interfere with
her, the lonely sentinel did not even challenge the intruders. He was
very sleepy, for he had not closed his eyes during the preceding night,
and his great purpose had sadly interfered with his slumbers since the
time for its execution had been fixed.
It was one o'clock when he called the "watch below." Lily was still
wrapped in slumber, worn out by her sleepless night, and by the
excitement of her novel position. After charging Cyd to keep awake,
assuring him that "eternal vigilance was the price of liberty," Dan went
into the cabin to obtain the rest he so much needed. He slept soundly,
and, no doubt, dreamed strange things; but when he awoke it was nearly
dark. Starting up with a spring, he bounded to the deck, where he found
Cyd fast asleep upon the cushions of the standing room.
"Cyd!" exclaimed he, seizing the faithless sentinel by the collar. "Is
this the way you keep watch?"
"Possifus!" ejaculated Cyd, as he sprang to his feet. "I done been
asleep."
"Been asleep! I should think you had! Have you been snoring there all
the afternoon?"
"No, sar! Dis chile hain't been asleep more'n two minutes--no, sar,
nor more'n a minute and a half."
"Yes, you have; you have been asleep all the afternoon. You deserve to
be a slave all the rest of your life!" added Dan, indignantly.
"Gossifus! I tink not. Wha--wha--wha--what does you mean by dat?"
stuttered Cyd.
"How dared you go to sleep when you were on watch?"
"I tell you, Dan, I'se been wide awake all de arternoon. Hadn't been
asleep quite two minutes."
"He hasn't slept long, Dan," said Lily, as she came out of the cabin;
"for I was with him only a little while ago."
"I'm glad of it, if he hasn't," added Dan, more calmly.
"You kin bet yer life dis chile don't go to sleep on de watch. No,
sar!"
"But you did go to sleep, Cyd. You were asleep when I came on deck."
"I jes close my eyes for a minute, but I was jes gwine to wake up when
you comed on deck."
"I can't keep awake all the time; I must sleep some."
"Bout six hours," chuckled Cyd; and his companion had really slept about
this time.
"Why didn't you call me then, as I did you?"
"I told him not to do so, Dan," interposed Lily, whose sweet smile was
sure to remove any objection which Dan might have. "We ate our supper
about an hour ago. Cyd was going to call you, but I wouldn't let him. I
knew how tired you were, and you will not have any chance to sleep
to-night."
"It was very kind of you, Lily," said Dan with a smile. "But I must
teach Cyd not to sleep when he is on watch. Any carelessness of this
kind might spoil every thing."
"I never'll go to sleep on de watch agin, so help me Possifus!"
exclaimed Cyd, now fully impressed by the magnitude of his criminal
neglect.
"I'll answer for him," said Lily; "I'll stay on deck and keep him awake
next time."
"O, no, you needn't, Lily."
"But why can't I keep watch in the daytime, and let both of you sleep?
If there was any danger I could call you."
"I don't mean to ask you to keep watch, or do any such work. It is not a
woman's place."
"I mean to take my turn next time," said she, resolutely. "Now, Dan, I
will get your supper. Cyd and I ate bread and butter, and drank cold
water; but if you are going to sail the boat all night, you will want
some tea."
"Thank you, Lily; you are very kind. I will get the tea myself."
"No, you shall not. I am not going to be idle all the time. I mean to do
my share of the labor. If it isn't a woman's work to keep watch, it is
to get tea; and if you please, I will do it myself."
My young readers will remember that Lily, though a slave girl, was a
gentle, delicate creature. She had never done any manual labor. She had
simply stood by her young mistress, fanned her when she was warm,
brushed away the flies, handed her a book, or other article, when she
wanted it, picked up her handkerchief when she dropped it, and assisted
at her toilet. If Miss Edith needed any greater exertion of bone and
muscle, another person was called to render the service. But she had
been about the kitchen and work rooms of the plantation, and having a
taste for the various housekeeping operations, she had incidentally
acquired some little skill in cooking, needle-work, and other branches
of female industry.
Her form was agile and graceful, her organization delicate; and no
person, even with a knowledge of her social condition, and rankly imbued
with southern prejudices, could have denied that she was beautiful in
form and feature. Her complexion was fairer than that of a majority of
Anglo-Saxon maidens. Her eye was soft, and sweetly expressive. Such was
Lily, the slave girl of Redlawn; and when she talked of performing the
drudgery of the Isabel, Dan, with that chivalrous consideration for the
gentler sex which characterizes the true gentleman, resented the idea.
He preferred to labor day and night, rather than permit her to soil her
white hands with the soot of the furnaces.
Lily, as we have seen, had wiser and more sensible ideas on the subject.
She had an instinctive contempt for that sort of chivalry, and in spite
of the remonstrances of the knightly skipper of the Isabel, she kindled
a fire, and with the assistance of Cyd, soon placed the tea and bread
and butter upon the cabin table. She then took her place at the head of
the board, and "did the honors" with an elegance and grace which would
have adorned the breakfast parlor at Redlawn. Though Cyd had been to
supper, he accepted the invitation to repeat the operation.
Before the meal was commenced, it was necessary to light the cabin
lantern, which swung over the table. Whether there is any exhilaration
in a cup of tea or not, the party soon became very cheerful; and Cyd was
as chipper as though he were in the midst of the Christmas holidays.
After supper Dan took the bateau, and pulled out to the lake, to
reconnoitre the position, and assure himself that there were no
obstacles to the departure of the Isabel. When he returned, Lily had
washed the dishes and put the cabin in order, thus carrying her point,
and establishing herself as mistress in this department. Dan did not
deem it prudent to start so early in the evening; but the sails were
hoisted, and every thing made ready for the departure.
The wind was light, and the leader of the expedition had some doubts
about starting at all that night. The Isabel had made only about twenty
miles during the preceding night, with a strong breeze to help her
during a portion of the time. He had carefully studied the maps in his
possession, and estimated the distances by the scale between the various
points. He knew exactly where he intended to go, and a failure to reach
the place before daylight would expose him to the risk of being seen
from some of the plantations on the banks of the lake.
The responsibility of deciding this important question rested upon him
alone. The distance to be accomplished before they could reach another
place of security was about twenty-five miles. An average of three miles
an hour would enable him to complete the passage by sunrise, and he at
last decided to attempt it.
About nine o'clock the two boys got into the bateau, and towed the
Isabel out of the creek, and with gaff-topsails and staysail set, in
addition to the jib, fore, and main sails, the voyage was renewed.
Keeping as near the western shore of the lake as it was prudent to go,
the boat glided gently over the tranquil waters.
In a couple of hours the Isabel reached the narrow outlet of the lake.
Thus far, the south-westerly wind had enabled her to run with a free
sheet; but at this point the course changed, and Dan found that he
should be compelled to beat dead to windward in order to reach his
destination. Then he wished he had not started; but up the creek he had
been unable to determine from what direction the light breeze came, and
had decided the question to the best of his ability.
Though he had no reason to reproach himself for his want of care, the
situation was none the less difficult or trying on that account. But
there was one compensating advantage: as he passed through the narrow
outlet of the lake, the broad surface of the Chetemache was before him.
It was forty miles long by ten miles wide, and afforded him abundant
space in which to work the boat. And in this open sea the wind came
unobstructed to his sails.
The course of the Isabel, on her first tack, lay close to the eastern
shore of the lake. The boat moved very slowly through the water, and
Lily and Cyd sat by the side of the skipper, talking in low tones of the
future, with its hopes and its trials, its joys and its dangers.
Suddenly they heard a crackling sound in the cane-brake near them; then
came from a greater distance the bay of bloodhounds. There was no
mistaking these sounds; and for an hour they listened in almost
breathless anxiety to these appalling indications of a slave-hunt.
The yelp of the dogs came nearer and nearer; but they had lost the
sounds which indicated the presence of the hunted fugitive.
"Gossifus!" whispered Cyd, for he had been forbidden to speak a loud
word. "Where you 'pose de nigger dem dogs is chasin' is?"
"I don't know. I pray that he may escape," replied Dan.
"Can't you help him?" asked Lily, whose frame shook with terror, as her
fancy pictured the terrible scene which she had so often heard
described.
A splash in the water a hundred yards astern of the Isabel now attracted
the attention of the party.
"Can't you help him?" repeated Lily, in trembling tones.
"It will not be safe for us to show ourselves, for the human bloodhounds
are not far off."
"Do help him if you can. Save him from those terrible dogs!" pleaded
Lily.
"He will swim to that island," said Dan. "Perhaps the dogs will not
catch him."
"Yes, they will."
"Yes, dey will. Dey done leap in de water. Dar dey go!" added Cyd, as
they listened to the splashes as the brutes sprang into the lake.
"Save him! Save him, Dan!" cried Lily.
"It may cost us our lives and our liberty," replied Dan.
"No matter. Let us die if we can save the poor man from the fangs of the
bloodhounds."
"I will, Lily," replied Dan, as he put the Isabel about, and headed
towards the small island, about half a mile from the shore. "Take the
helm, Cyd," continued he, as he left his post at the tiller, and rushed
into the cabin.
He returned in a moment with two fowling-pieces in his hands, and
proceeded to load them. By this time the panting fugitive was distinctly
seen, closely pursued by the dogs.
CHAPTER XII.
QUIN, THE RUNAWAY.
Dan had loaded the fowling-pieces with buckshot. Though not a good
marksman, he had some experience in the use of arms, and felt fully
competent to cut off the bloodhounds before they could pounce upon their
human prey. Leaving Cyd at the helm, he went forward and stationed
himself at the heel of the bowsprit.
The dogs were better swimmers than the fugitive, and were rapidly
gaining upon him, for the poor creature's limbs seemed to be partially
paralyzed by the appalling danger that menaced him. The Isabel was
approaching the scene of this exciting race with a rapidity which
promised soon to terminate the affair.
Dan immediately obtained a correct idea of the relative positions of the
dog and the man. His object was to run the boat between them, and thus
cut off the savage beasts from their prey.
"Luff a little, Cyd," said he.
"Luff 'em 'tis," replied the helmsman, who was boatman enough to
understand the nautical phrase, and even to handle the craft under the
direction of a more skilful skipper.
"Steady as she is."
"See here, Dan. Is you gwine to shoot?" asked Cyd.
"Certainly I am. What do you suppose I got the guns for?"
"Possifus! What you gwine to shoot?"
"The dogs, of course. Luff a little--luff! You are letting her fall
off."
"Luff 'em 'tis. See here, Dan. You be mighty keerful you don't hit de
nigger."
"Silence, now, and mind your helm! You are steering wild."
Cyd had so far improved in the cultivation of the quality of obedience
on shipboard, that he did not speak again, but he was fearfully excited
by the stirring scene which was transpiring near him. Dan was not less
moved, though his cool determination produced a different manifestation
of his feelings. He was conscious of the danger to which his
interference in the hunt subjected him. There were probably several
slave-hunters on the track of the fugitive. The Isabel would be seen by
them, and possibly be recognized, which would certainly bring pursuers
upon her track.
But it was not in his nature to permit his suffering fellow-creature, in
this unequal strife, to be conquered by his human and brute antagonists.
The appeal of the gentle Lily had been addressed to a sympathizing
heart, and he entered with all his soul upon the task of saving the
slave from the fangs of his pursuers.
The Isabel had now come within a few yards of the dogs and their prey.
The time for action had come. Dan was fully sensible of the great crime,
as the southern slave law regarded it, of shooting a "nigger dog;" but
with a steady hand, though his heart bounded with exciting emotions, he
raised the gun to his shoulder, and taking deliberate aim at the nearest
hound, he fired. The brute gave a deep yell, and for some time
continued to splash about in the water.
"Don't shoot me, massa! Don't shoot me, and I'll gib myself up," cried
the fugitive, who seemed to have heard the report of the gun, without
observing the effect which the shot had produced.
"I mean to save you," replied Dan, as he levelled the gun at another of
the dogs; but this time he missed his aim, and the hound continued to
swim towards the negro.
"Luff a little more," said Dan to Cyd, as the boat came between the man
and the dogs.
"Luff 'em 'tis."
As the boat now divided the dogs from their prey, Dan did not again load
the guns; but seizing the boat-hook, he gave the foremost hound a knock
on the head, which caused him to retreat, howling with pain.
"Swim this way," cried Dan to the negro. "I will save you."
"Yes, sar," gasped the negro, whose breath was nearly exhausted by the
hard struggle through which he had just passed.
As the Isabel luffed up, the fugitive came alongside, and Dan assisted
him to climb upon the deck.
"O Lord!" groaned he, as he threw himself at full length upon the
forecastle.
"Poor fellow!" sighed Lily, who ran forward to see the sufferer as soon
as he was hauled on board. "What can we do for him?"
"He needs rest. He is all worn out. He may have run for miles before he
took to the water."
"Can't we give him something? There is some cold tea in the cabin."
"I will get him something," added Dan; and he ran aft and entered the
cabin.
He returned in a moment with a bottle and a tumbler. The fugitive still
lay upon the deck, panting and groaning like a dying gladiator after the
mortal struggle of the arena. Freedom was worth the exertion he had
made, though every fibre in his frame had been strained. He had manfully
fought the battle, though without the interference of our party he would
certainly have lost the day. Dan poured out a tumblerful of the wine
which the bottle contained, and placed it at the lips of the sufferer.
He eagerly drank off the draught, and sank back upon the deck.
"He will be better soon. He is all out of breath," said Dan, as he
brought one of the cushions from the standing room and put it under the
poor man's head.
"Gossifus!" shouted Cyd, who still retained his position at the helm,
though his interest in the scene of the forward deck caused him to steer
very badly. "Hossifus!" added he, in gasping tones; "de dogs! de dogs!"
"What's the matter, Cyd?" demanded Dan.
"De dogs! Dey done eat dis chile all up! Dey won't leabe de ghost ob a
grease-spot luff of dis nigger!" cried Cyd, in mortal terror.
"Mind how you steer, then!" replied Dan, hastening to the assistance of
his terrified companion. "Don't you see you have thrown her up into the
wind, so that the sails don't draw a bit!"
"Mossifus! dis chile don't wan't to be food for de dogs."
"You will be, if you don't mind what you are about," said Dan, as he
took the tiller; and putting it up, the boat gathered fresh headway, and
soon shot out of reach of the bloodhounds.
"Why don't you shoot de wicked dogs?"
"I don't want any more noise. I hate the dogs as bad as you do, but we
must be careful," replied Dan. "Now, can you mind what you are about,
and keep the sails full."
"Dis chile kin do dat, for sartin."
"If you don't the dogs will have you. Now, be careful, and I will go
forward, and take care of the poor fellow, who is nearly dead. Watch the
sails; never mind the dogs; they can't catch you, if you sail the boat
properly."
"You kin trus dis chile for dat. Cyd isn't afeerd ob notin, only he
don't want to be eat up by de wicked dogs."
Dan went forward, where Lily was bending over the panting runaway,
rubbing his temples, and speaking sweet words of hope and comfort to
him. In a short time he was in some measure recovered from the effects
of his fearful struggle with the fate that beset him.
"I was sure I was caught, when I saw de boat," said he, as he raised
himself to a sitting posture, and gazed with astonishment at those who
had so singularly proved to be friends, instead of foes.
"Are there any men on your track?" asked Dan, who could not lose sight
of the peril he had incurred by this Samaritan act.
"I speck dar is," replied he. "I hear dem off eber so far, but I don't
see dem."
"Can they chase you on the lake?"
"I speck dey can. Dey'll get a boat and follor de dogs."
"Where are you from?" asked Lily.
"From Major Pembroke's plantation, 'bout ten mile from dese yere parts,
I speck."
"How long since you run away?"
"I luff de place about tree days ago. I stay in de cane-brake till noon
to-day, and git so hungry I could stan it no longer. Den I goes out to
find someting to eat. Den somebody sees me, and dey follow me wid de
dogs. I done kill two of dem dogs, and I kill de rest, but I hear de men
coming, and I run for de lake. I speck, when I git in de water, to frow
de dogs off de scent, but dey git so near dey see and hear me. Dem's
mighty fine nigger dogs, or dey never follor me into de water. I done
gib it all up when I hear dem in de water arter me."
"Did you get any thing to eat when you went out of the cane-brake,"
asked Lily.
"No, missy; I got seen 'fore I find any ting."
"Poor fellow! Then you haven't had any thing to eat for three days?"
"Noting but leabes an de bark ob trees."
"I will give you some supper at once," said Lily, as she hastened to the
cabin.
"Lily!" called Dan. "You mustn't light the lantern, or make a fire."
"Why not?"
"The light would betray us. The slave-hunters will soon be out in their
boat after this man."
"I will not, then."
While Lily was engaged below, Dan provided the runaway with a suit of
his own clothes, which were not much too small for him, as he was a man
of medium stature. He then conducted him to the standing room, for he
was still too weak to walk without support. His supper was brought up,
and he ate cold bacon and potatoes, bread and cheese, till the wondering
Lily thought he would devour their whole stock of provisions, and till
Dan kindly suggested that he would make himself sick if he ate any more.
While he was eating, Dan satisfied his curiosity in regard to the Isabel
and the party on board of her. The runaway, whose name was Quin,--an
abbreviation of Quincy,--listened with astonishment to the story of
these elegant fugitives, who ran away in a yacht, and lived in a style
worthy of a planter's mansion. No doubt he thought their experience was
poetical and pretty, compared with his own, for his flight had been a
death struggle with famine and flood, with man and brute.
In the mean time, the Isabel had run the dogs out of sight, and the
waters in the direction from which she had just come were as still as
death. No doubt the lake would be scoured in search of the fugitive; but
for the present the party seemed to be secure from pursuit.
The boat was now approaching the northern shore of the lake, and it
became necessary to tack. The wind held steady, but light; and Dan had
but small hopes of being able to reach his destination before daylight.
When every thing was made snug on the other tack, and there seemed to be
no present danger ahead or astern, Cyd conducted Quin to one of the
forward berths, and he turned in for the night. The runaway was
evidently a very pious slave, and the young fugitives listened with
reverend interest to the long prayer he offered up before he retired. It
was a pæan of thanksgiving for his escape from the fangs of the
slave-hunters. It was homely speech, but it was earnest and sincere, and
those who listened were deeply impressed by its fervid simplicity.
Dan and Lily sat alone in the stern of the boat, for Cyd had been
permitted to turn in with the runaway. They talked of freedom and the
future for an hour, and then they were started by the sound of oars in
the distance. The slave-hunters were on their track.
CHAPTER XIII.
THE NIGHT CHASE ON THE LAKE.
Though the Isabel carried all her extra sails, the wind was so light
that she made very little progress through the water, and the sound of
oars which indicated the approach of a boat was appalling to Dan. There
could be no doubt that it contained the slave-hunters in pursuit of
Quin; and the fate of the whole party seemed to be linked with that of
the slave, who was sleeping in happy security in the cabin.
The schooner was close-hauled, and sailing as near the wind as she
could; but Dan, as soon as he realized the peril of the situation, gave
the boat a couple of points, which sensibly increased her speed. When he
first heard the pursuer's boat, it was just abeam of the Isabel. His
present course, therefore, carried him nearer to the boat for a time,
but it was not safe to permit her to get to the windward of the Isabel,
in that light breeze.
Dan was satisfied that, if he had been in the four-oar boat with his
black crew, he could have overhauled the Isabel in a short time, if the
two craft had been in the positions occupied by the pursuer and the
pursued. The race depended entirely upon the character of the boat in
which the slave-hunters had embarked.
Whatever the result of the pursuit, Dan was fully determined not to be
