his hand, and grasped the slender stem of the wine- 
glass ; but his arm trembled more than that of the most 
hardened toper in the group before him. He had been 
trembling in the presence of that squad of tyrants, 



 

those leer-eyed, grinning debauchees, who seemed to be 
opening the gate of hell, and bidding him enter. 

" Tom Somers," said the still small voice which had 
spoken to him a thousand times before in the perils and 
temptations through which he had passed, " you have 
behaved yourself very well thus far. You have been 
promoted for bravery on the battle-field ; and now will 
you cower in the presence of this brilliant brawler, and 
these weak-minded, cowardly tipplers? What would 
your mother say if she could see you now, with your 
shaking hand fastened to the wine-cup? What would 
Lilian Ashford say ? Dare you drink the health of Em- 
mie Guilford in such a place as this? You should have 
smote the lips that mentioned her name in such a pres- 
ence ! ' 

He drew back his hand from the glass. His muscles 



tightened up, as they had on the bloody field of Williams- 
burg. Tom Somers was himself again. 



" Come, Somers, you don't drink," added the captain 
sarcastically. 

" No, I thank you ; I never drink," he answered resO' 
lutely, as he cast a steady glance of pity and contempt at 
the bloated crew who had been revelling in his embarrass- 
ment. 

" You won't refuse now?" 

" Most decidedly." 

'' Lieutenant Somers, I took you for a young man of 



 

pluck. I'm disappointed. You will pardon me, my 
dear fellow ; but I can't help regarding your conduct as 
rather shabby." 

" I never drink, as I have said before ; and I do not 
intend to begin now. If I have been shabby, I hope you 
will excuse me." 

" Certainly I will excuse you, when you atone for 
your folly, and drink with me." 

The spectators laughed, and evidently thought the captain
had made a point. 

" Then I can never atone for my folly, as you call 
it," replied Somers, his courage increasing as the trial 
demanded it. 

""What would Lord Raglan have said if I had refused 

to drink his Sicily Madeira?" 

" Very likely he would have said just what you said ; 
but there would have been no more sense in it then than 
now.' 




Bully for young 'un ! "' said a seedy dandy, whose 
love of fancy drinks had made a compromise with his 
love of dress. 

" I will leave it to these gentlemen to decide whether 
I have not spoken reason and good sense." 

" I will leave you and these gentlemen to settle that 
question to suit yourselves, and I will bid you good 
evening/' said Somers, rising from his chair. 

The unpleasant emphasis which he placed upon the 



 

word " gentlemen " created a decided sensation among 
the group of idlers ; and, as he stepped from behind the 
table, he was confronted by a young man with blood- 
shot eyes and bloated cheeks, but dressed in the ex- 
treme of fashion. 

" Sir, you wear the colors of the United-States army," 
said the juvenile tippler ; " but you can't be permitted to 
insult a gentleman with impunity." 

Lieutenant Somers wanted to laugh in the face of 
this specimen of bar-room chivalry, for he forcibly re- 
minded him of a belligerent little bantam-rooster that 
paraded the barnyard of his mother's cottage at Pinch- 
brook ; but he was prudent enough not to give any further 
cause of offence. Bestowing one glance at this champion 
of the tippler's coterie, he turned aside, and attempted to 
move towards the door. 

" Stop, sir," continued the young man, who plainly 
wanted to make a little capital out of a fight, in defence 
of the dignity of his friends. " You can't go without an 
apology, or or a fight," added the bully, shaking his 
head significantly, as he placed himself in front of the 
young lieutenant. 

"What am I to apologize for?" asked Somers. 

" You insulted the whole party of us. You intimated 
that we were no gentlemen." 

" I haven't spoken to any of you since I came in.'' 
protested Somers. " I never had any thing to do with 



 

you, and I don't know whether you are gentlemen or 
not." 

" You hear that, gentlemen ! "' added the bully. 

" I think I have said all that is necessary to say, and 
with your leave I will go," said Somers. 

" Stop, sir ! " snarled the young ruffian, putting his hand 
on the lieutenant's collar. 

" Take your hand off! " said he sternly. 

The fellow complied. 

"This thing has gone far enough, sir," said Captain 
de Banyan, stepping between Somers and his assailant. 
" Lieutenant Somers is my friend ; and, if you put the 
weight of your little finger upon him, I'll annihilate you 
quicker than I did a certain Austrian field-marshal at 
the battle of Solferino. Gentlemen, permit me to apolo- 
gize for my inexperienced friend if he has uttered any 
indiscreet word." 

"He must apologize!" blustered the young ruffian. 
"He says AVC are no gentlemen. Let him prove it." 

" You have proved it yourself, you little ape," replied 
the captain, as he stepped up to the bar, and paid liis 
reckoning, bestowing no more attention upon .the ruffled 
little bully than if he had been a very small puppy ; which 
perhaps lie was not, by a strict construction of terms. 

" I demand satisfaction ! " roared the flashy little toper. 

Apologize, or fight ! ' : 

Neither, my gay and festive lark," said the captain 




with abundant good humor, as he took Somers's arm, and 
sauntered leisurely towards the door. " Now, my dear 
fellow, we will go and hear what Lieutenant-Colonel 
Staggerback has to say about the battle of Bull Run. 
I was in that actica, and rallied the Fire Zouaves 
when Colonel Ellsworth was killed." 

" Colonel Ellsworth ! He wasn't killed at Bull Run ! " 
exclaimed Somers, astonished beyond measure at the sin- 
gular character which his companion was developing. 

" You are right : he was killed at Ball's Bluff." 

" I think not ; but were you at Bull Run? " 

" Certainly I was. I was on General Fremont's 
staff." 

li Were you, indeed ? Whew ! " 

"What may be the precise meaning of that whistle? 
Do you think I was not there ? " 

"Well, I don't remember to have seen you there?' 

" Very likely you did not ; but you will call to mind 
the fact, that things were rather mixed up in that action. 
But never mind that : we will talk those things over when 
we get down upon the Peninsula, and have nothing else to 
think about. Do you really mean to say, my dear fellow, 
that you never drink at all?" 

" I do not." 

" Well, I have heard of a man climbing up to the moon 
on a greased rainbow ; but I never heard of an officer 
oefore that didn't drink." 



 

" I'm afraid you haven't been very careful in the 
choice of your companions. I know a great many 
that never taste liquor under any circumstances." 

" It may be so ; and I am willing to confess that I 
have found one. I wouldn't have believed it before if 
I had read it in the Constitution of the United States. I 
owe you an apology, then, for letting on in that saloon. 
I didn't mean to hurt your feelings, my dear fellow ; but 
I thought you were joking." 

" I hope you will not repeat the experiment, then ; 
though I shall consider myself fair game if I ever enter 
another rum-shop," replied Somers. 

They proceeded to the place designated for the lecture ; 
and Captain de Banyan betrayed his interest in that 
memorable battle, where he had served on the staff of 
General Fremont, by going to sleep before the eloquent 
" participant " had got half-way through the exordium. 
Lieutenant Somers listened attentively until he was satis- 
fied that Colonel Staggerback either was not in the battle, 
or that he had escorted "Bull-Run Russell" off the field. 

When the lecture was finished, Somers awakened his 
edified companion, and they returned to the hotel ; though 


the captain hinted several times on the way that the 
"elephant" could be seen to better advantage in New 
York than in any other city in the Union. The young 
lieutenant had an utter disgust for the elephant, and took 



 

no hints. Before he retired that night, he thanked God, 
more earnestly and devoutly than usual, that he had been 
enabled to pass unscathed through the fires of temptation. 
He was still in condition to look his mother in the face. 




CHAPTER V. 

ON THE SKIRMISH LINE. 

'N the morning our travellers resumed their journey, 
more refreshed and in better condition for service 
than if they had spent the evening in chasing the 
"elephant" from one to another of the gilded 
dens of dissipation with which the metropolis abounds. 
In spite of his errors and sins, Somers could not help 
liking his dashing companion. Pie was a dangerous 
person ; but his enthusiasm was so captivating, that he 
could not close his heart against him. But, while he 
liked the captain, he hated his vices. 

They stopped in Philadelphia only long enough to dine ? 
and in Baltimore only long enough for supper ; arriv- 
ing at Washington in the evening. Captain de Banyar 
again proposed to "go round ;" which, rendered into un- 
mistakable English, meant to visit the drinking-houses 
and gambling-saloons of the city, to say nothing of worse 
places. Lieutenant Somers had grown wise by experi- 
ence ; and no amount of persuasion could induce him to 
leave the hotel. It was horrible to him to think of 


spending even his leisure time in the haunts of dissipation, 
when his country was bleeding from a thousand wounds ; 
when his gallant comrades in the Army of the Potomac 
were enduring peril and hardship in front of the enemy. 
He had no taste for carousing at any time, and every 
fibre of his moral nature was firmly set against the 
vices which lured on his reckless companion. 

Lieutenant Somers staid at the hotel that evening, 
listening to the conversation of the officers who had been 
at the front within a few days. The great battle of Fair 
Oaks had been fought during his absence, and there was 
every prospect that the most tremendous operations of 
the war would soon commence. He listened with the 
deepest interest to the accounts from the army, and 
needed none of the stimulus of the bar-room or the 
gambling-saloon to furnish him with excitement. He 
was soon to be an actor in the momentous events of the 
campaign ; and the thought was full of inspiration, and 
lifted him up from the gross and vulgar tastes of his 
companion. 

Before noon the next day, somewhat against the incli- 
nation of Captain de Banyan, the two officers were on 


board a steamer bound down the river. After some 
delays, they arrived at White House, on the Pamunkey 
River ; and then proceeded by railroad nearly to the 
camp of the regiment, at Poplar Hill, in the very depth. 
of White-oak Swamp. 



 

" My blessed boy ! " shouted Sergeant Hapgood when 
Lieutenant Somers appeared in the camp. 

The veteran rushed upon him, and, not content to shake 
his hand, he proceeded to hug him in the most extraor- 
dinary manner. 

U I am glad to see you, Hapgood! How have you 
been since I left?" said Somers. 

" First-rate ! Bless my withered old carcass, Tom, 
but I thought I never should see you again. Why, Tom, 
how handsome you've grown ! Well, you'll be a briga- 
dier one of these days, and there won't be a better looking 
officer on the field. Dear me, Tom Beg pardon : I 
forgot that you are an officer ; and I mustn't call you 
Tom any more." 

" Never mind that, uncle," added Somers, laughing. 
" It would hardly be good discipline for a sergeant to call 
an officer by a nickname ; but we will compromise, and 
you shall call me Tom when we are not on duty, and 
there is no one within hearing." 

" Compromise ! Don't never use that word to me. 
After we fit the battle of Bull Run, I gouged that word 
out of my dictionary. No, sir ! You are a leftenant 
now ; and I shall allers call you Leftenant Somers, een 
if there ain't nobody within ten mile of us." 

"Just as you please, uncle; but, whatever you call 
me, we shall be just as good friends as we ever were." 

" That's so, Leftenant Somers." 



 

I 

" Precisely, Sergeant Hapgood." 

"Now, what's the news in Pinchbrook ? '" asked the 
veteran. 

But, before Somers had a chance to tell the news from 
home, he was welcomed to the camp, and cheered, by 
officers and men ; and his account of what had trans- 
pired in Pinchbrook during his thirty-days' furlough was 
eagerly listened to by a large and attentive audience. He 
received in return a full history of the regiment during his 
absence. Though the narrative of sundry exciting events, 
such as forrays upon pig-sties, poultry-yards, and kitchen- 
gardens, was highly amusing, there was a tale of sadness 
to tell, of deaths by disease and on the battle-field. 

Many cheerful hearts, that were beating with life and 
hope a few weeks before, were now silent in the grave, 
the soldier's mausoleum in a strange land. But soldiers 
have no time to weep over a dead past ; they must live in 
the hope of a glorious future : and when they had dropped 
a tear to the memory of the noble and the true who had 
fallen on the field or died in the hospital, victims of the 
pestilential airs of the swamp, they laughed as merrily as 
ever, careless of Death's poised arrows which were always 
aimed at them. 

Captain de Banyan took his place in the regiment, 
where Somers found that he was prodigiously popular, 
even after a few hours' acquaintance with his new com- 
mand ; but who he was, where he caine from, and how 




he had procured his commission, was a mystery to offi- 
cers and men. He told tremendous stories about the 
Crimea and the Italian war ; and now, for the first time, 
intimated that he was the only survivor of the company 
which led the advance 4it the storming of Chepultepec, 
in the Mexican war. However much the officers enjoyed 
his stories, it is not probable that all of them believed 
what they heard. 

Lieutenant Somers was perfectly familiar with the 
company and battalion drill ; and, having quick percep- 
tion and abundant self-possession, he was competent at 
once to perform his duties as an officer. He had no vices 
to be criticised by the men, who respected him not only 
for his bravery on the battle-field, but for his good moral 
character ; for even the vicious respect the virtues which 
they practically cantemn. Being neither arbitrary nor 
tyrannical, he was cheerfully obeyed ; and his company 
never appeared better than when, by the temporary 
absence of his superior, it was under his command. 

He was, however, allowed but a short time to become 
acquainted with the routine of the new duty before he 
was summoned to participate in those tremendous events 
which have passed into history as at once the most bril- 
liant and disastrous operations of the war ; brilliant in 
that our gallant army was almost invariably victorious, 
disastrous in that they were the forerunners of the ulti- 
mate iaiiure of a hopeful campaign. The victory at 



 

Fair Oaks had raised the hopes of that brave, thinking 
army. 

The picket-lines were within a few miles of Richmond, 
and the soldiers were burning with enthusiasm to be led 
against the enemy in front of them. They were ready 
to lay down their lives on the altar of their bleeding 
country, if the survivors could grasp the boon of peace 
within the buttressed walls of the rebel capital, peace 
that would hurl to the ground the defiant traitors, and 
insure the safety and perpetuity of free institutions. The 
notes of victory, those thinking soldiers believed, would 
reverberate through the coming ages, and point an epoch 
from which America would date her grandest and most 
sublime triumphs. 

But not then was the great Rebellion to be overthrown : 
for not yet had the leaven of Liberty leavened the whole 
lump ; not yet had the purposes of a mysterious Provi- 
dence been accomplished ; and the brave men who sighed 
for victory and peace in the swamps of the Chickahom- 
iny were doomed to years of blood and toil, of victory 
and defeat, as they marched on, alike through both, to 
the consummation of a nation's glorious triumph, not 
over paltry armies of arrogant traitors, but over the 
incarnation of Evil, over Heaven-defying institutions, 
whose downfall established forever principles as eternal 
as God himself. 

Lieutenant Sorners was filled with the spirit of the 



 

army. He felt that the salvation of his country de- 
pended upon the valor of that army; and, impressed with 
the magnitude of the interests at stake, he was resolved 
to do his whole duty. With cheerful alacrity he obeyed 
the -summons which brought Grover's brigade into line 
of battle on the morning of the eventful 25th of June. 
What was to be accomplished was not for him to know ; 
but forward moved the line through the swamp, through 
the woods, through the pools of stagnant waters up to 
the hips of the soldiers. 

Impressed by the responsibility of his position, Lieu- 
tenant Somers encouraged the weak as they struggled 
through the mire on their trying march, and with fit 
words stimulated the enthusiasm oV all. After a march 
of about a mile, a heavy skirmish-line was thrown out, 
which soon confronted that of the rebels. 

" Now, Somers, my dear fellow, the concert is about 
to open," said Captain de Banyan. "By the way, my 
boy, this reminds me of Magenta, where " 

" Oh, confound Magenta ! " exclaimed Somers. 

" Why, my dear fellow, you are as petulant as a belle 
that has lost her beau." 

" You don't propose to tell us a story about Magenta 
at such a time as this, do you?" 

" Well, I confess I have a weakness in that direction. 
Magenta was a great battle. But I'm afraid you are a 
little nervous," laughed the captain. 




" Nervous? Do YOU think I'm a coward?" d 
Somers. 

'' I know you are not ; but you might be a little ner 
vons for all that." 

At that instant, the sharp crack of a single rifle wo, 
heard, and Somers observed a slight jerk in the brin- 
of the captain's felt hat. 

" Bravo ! " exclaimed Captain de Banyan as he too, 
off his hat, and pointed to a hole through which the rifle- 
ball had sped its way. t; I'll bet a month's pay that 
fellow couldn't do that again without making a hole 
through my head. But that's a singular coincidence. 
That's precisely the place where the first bullet went 
through my hat at Solferiuo. At Magenta ah! I see 
him," added the captain, as he took a musket from the 
hands of one of his men. k> I'll bet another mouth's pay 
that reb has fired his last shot." 

As he spoke, he raised the gun to his shoulder, and 
fired up into one of the trees. A crashing of boughs, a 
rattling of leaves, followed ; and a heavy body was heard 
to strike the ground. 

" You owe me a month's pay, Somers," continued 
Captain de Banyan, as he handed the musket back to 
the soldier. 

" I think not," replied the lieutenant, trying to be as 
cool as his companion. " I never bet." 

" Just so. I forgot that you were an exceedingly 
proper young man." 




The tikiruiiJiJme, which had paused a moment for an 
observation to be taken, now moved forward again. The 
rebel skirmishers were discovered, and the order was 
given to fire at will. The enemy's sharpshooters were 
posted in the trees, and they began to pour in a galling 
fire upon a portion of the line. 

" Steady, my men ! " said Seiners, when the firing com- 
menced. " Gunpowder's expensive : don't waste it." 

" Not a single grain of it, Leftenant Somers," added 
Sergeant Ilapgood. 

"There, uncle! up in that tree ! ' : said Somers, 
pointing to a grayback, who was loading his rifle, 
about twenty feet from the ground. 

" I see him ! " replied the sergeant as he levelled his 
piece, and fired. 

The rebel was wounded, but he did not come down ; 
and the captain of the company ordered his men to move 
forward. From the thunder of the artillery and the rattle 
of musketry, it was evident that heavy work was in prog- 
ress on the right and left. 

" Forward, men ! " said Somers, repeating the order 
of Captain Benson. 

The men were scattered along an irregular line, and 
firing into the bushes, which partially concealed the rebel 
skirmishers. Somers's platoon advanced a little moi-e 
rapidly than the rest of the line, being favored with a 
few rods of dry ground. He had urged them forward for 




the purpose of dislodging three sharpshooters perched 
in a large tree. 

" Conie down, rebs ! " shouted Somers, as he reached 
the foot of the tree, and told half a dozen of his men to 
point their guns towards them. 

" What d'yer say, Yank? " demanded one of them. 

"Will you come down head first, or feet first? Take 
your choice quick ! " replied the lieutenant. 

" As you seem to be in arnest, we'll come down the 
nateral way." 

They did come down without a more pressing invita- 
tion, and were disarmed, ready to be sent to the rear. 



 



CHAPTER VI. 



THE REBEL SHARPSHOOTERS. 



SOMERS, I don't think I can 

stand it much longer," said Phineas Deane, a 
Army private, who had joined the regiment a few 
days before the battle, as lie saluted his 
officer. 

"Can't stand what?" 

" The fact on't is, lieutenant, I'm sick. I haven't 
felt well for two or three days. I come out here to fight 
for my country, and I want to do some good. I might 
help take them prisoners back, if you say so." 

" Sick, are you? What's the matter?" 

" I've got a bad pain in the bowels," replied Phineas, 
as he placed himself on the right side of a tree, and 
glanced uneasily in the direction of the rebel skirmish 
line. "I'm subject to sich turns, but allus git over 'em 
if I have a chance to lay down for a few hours." 

" Oh, well, you can lie down here ! " added Somers. 
who understood the case pretty well. 

"What! down here in the mud and water? Wai, 




that would be rather steep for a sick man," said Phineas, 
with a ghastly smile, as he glanced again towards the 
enemy. 

" I will get some medicine for you. Here, uncle, let 
me have one of your powders," continued the lieutenant, 
addressing old Hapgood. 

" Sartiu : they've done me heaps of good, and I'm 
sure they're just the thing for that man." 

Somers took one of the powders, and opened the 
paper. 

" Now, my man, open your mouth, and let me give 
you this medicine," he added. 

"What kind of medicine is it?" 

" It'll make you kinder sick to the stomach ; but it'll 
cure you in less'n half an hour." 

" Well, lieutenant, I don't know as I want to take any 
medicine," answered poor Phineas, who was not prepared 
for this active treatment ; though he would have taken it 
quick enough if he could be sent to the rear. I guess I 
don't keer about takin' on it." 

"You needn't, if you don't want to get well." 

" I only want to go back to camp, and lay down for a 
spell." 

" We can't spare you just yet, Phineas ; but, if you 
don't stir yourself, you will lie down here somewhere, 
and never get up again," added Somers, as a shower 
of bullets passed over their heads. "Forward, boys!" 



 

The captain detailed a couple of men to conduct the 
prisoners to the rear, and the company pressed forward. 
The rebel sharpshooters were dislodged from the trees ; a 
few prisoners were captured : but the heavy fighting and 
the heavy losses fell upon other portions of the line. 
The rebels had been forced back, and the movement 
seemed to be a success. Half the regiment moved out 
of the woods, while the rest remained under the trees ; 
when a halt was ordered. Somers found himself near an 
old house, behind which a number of rebel sharpshooters 
had concealed themselves for the purpose of picking off 
the Union soldiers. 

The firing in the immediate vicinity had diminished, 
though the din of battle resounded on both sides. The 
boys were rather nervous, as men are when standing idle 
under fire ; but it was the nervousness of restrained 
enthusiasm, not of fear, unless it was in the case of in- 
valid Phineas, and a very few others whose physical 
health had not been completely established. 

"Well, Somers, my dear boy, how do you get on?" 
asked Captain de Banyan, as he sauntered leisurely up to 
the lieutenant, whose command stood next to his own. 

" First-rate ; only I should like to have., something a 
little more active than standing here." 

"It takes considerable experience to enable a man to 

stand still under fire. "When I was at the battle of Alma, 

I learned that lesson to a charm. We stood up for forty- 
two hours under a fierce fire of grape and canister, to 
say nothing of musketry." 

" Forty-two hours ! " exclaimed Somers. " I should 
think you would all have been killed off before that 
time." 

" In our regiment, only one man was killed ; and he 
got asleep, and walked in his dreams over towards, the 
enemy's line." 

" Captain, you can tell a bigger story than any other 
man in the army," said Somers, laughing. 

" That's because I have seen more of the world. 
When you have been about as much as I have, you will 
know more about it." 

" No doubt of it." 

" I should be very happy to be more actively employed 
just now ; but I am very well contented where I am." 

The position they occupied enabled the two officers to 
see some sharp fighting along the line. Through an 
opening at the right, they saw a rebel regiment, wearing 
white jackets, or else stripped to their shirts, march at 
double-quick, in splendid order, with arms at " right 
shoulder shift," to the scene of action. It was probably 
some volunteering body from Richmond, whom the ladies of 
the rebel capital had just dismissed, with sweet benedic- 
tions, to sweep the " foul Yankees " from the face of the 
earth. They were certainly a splendid body of men ; and 
the ladies might well be proud of them. They went into 



 

the field in good style, with the blessings of the fair still 
lingering fondly in their ears. But one volley from the 
veterans of the Army of the Potomac was enough for 
them, and they gave way, running off the field in wild 
disorder, threading their way in terror through the bushes, 
every man for himself. It is not likely that they were 
welcomed back from the gory field by the frothy feminine 
rebels of Richmond. 

" That's just the way the Russians ran at Palestro ! " 
exclaimed Captain de Banyan, as he watched the exciting 
scene. 

" The Russians at Palestro ! " added Somers. " I think 
you have got things a little mixed, captain." 

Before this difficult question could be settled, Captain 
de Banyan was ordered to take a sufficient force, and 
drive out the rebels who were skulking behind the old 
house. 

" Somers, you shall go with me," said he, when he 
had received his orders from the colonel. "We'll do a 
big thing, if there is any chance." 

" I am ready for any thing, big or little, captain," re- 
plied Somers heartily. " What shall I do?" 

" March your men over by that little knoll, and come 
round on the other side of the house ; I will move up in 
another direction, and we will bag the whole squad. 
But mind you, Somers, the enemy are round that way : 
don't let them gobble you up or lay you out." 



 

" I will do the best I can, captain." 

" Angels could no more." 

The lieutenant advanced, with the men detailed for 
the purpose, towards the hillock. By taking a circuitous 
route, he avoided the observation of the -rebels behind 
the house, and reached the other side of the knoll, where, 
behind the friendly shelter of a clump of bushes, he was 
enabled to survey the ground. Not more than a quarter 
of a mile distant, he discovered the rebel breastworks. It 
was about the same distance to the house. 

Between the knoll aud the house there was a small 
patch of wheat, which, by some chance, had escaped the 
havoc of foraging parties. Though the grain was not 
full-grown, it would afford concealment to his men. In 
order to reach it, he must expose his men to a volley 
from the rifle-pits, or from any body of rebels which 
might be posted in the vicinity. He could not afford to 
lose a single man, and he was preplexed to determine 
how he should overcome the distance between the wheat- 
field and the knoll. 

It seemed to him very singular that he had not already 
been fired upon ; and he concluded that it was because his 
party had been mistaken for rebels, or because some 
of their troops were between him and the Union lines. 
Whether the enemy had been deceived or not, he was 
fully determined to afford them no further information in 
regard to his politics, if any of them had seen him. He 



 

therefore ordered his men to take off their coats, which 
some of them had done before they started on the expe- 
dition. The blue trousers could not be so easily disposed 
of; but as some of the boys had straw hats, some felt, 
and some caps, it would have been hard to determine 
what they were at the distance of a quarter of a mile, 
especially as some of the Confederates wore the plun- 
dered clothing of the Union army 

After instructing his force in regard to their future 
conduct, he marched them boldly into the open space. 
To assist the deception, he directed one of his men to 
halt occasionally, and point his musket in the direction 
of the Union pickets. Not a shot was fired at them ; and, 
when the young lieutenant reached the wheat-field, he 
fancied that he was clever enough for anv brigadier in 


the rebel army. 

It was desirable that the rebel sharpshooters at the 
house should not be alarmed ; and, when his men reached 
the grain, Somers ordered them to get down upon their 
hands and knees, and creep cautiously towards the point 
to be assailed. The lieutenant, like a good officer, led 
the way himself, and had advanced about half the dis- 
tance to be accomplished, when he heard a rustling noise 
in the grain before him. It was an ominous sound, and 
he paused to take an observation. He could not see any 
thing without standing up ; and, as he was -within twenty 
rods of the house, it was necessary to avoid exposing 
himself. 



 

From whatever source the sounds proceeded, it was 
just as safe to advance as it was to retreat ; and lie 
decided to go forward. With the utmost caution, he con- 
tinued to creep along through the wheat ; but he was 
careful to assure himself that his men's muskets and his 
own revolver were in condition for instant use. After he 
had gone a few rods farther, the sounds were more 
apparent ; and, with no little consternation, he heard 
voices, rich with an unmistakable Southern accent. 

" I tell you, more of our fellers is coming through the 
grain. You mought hear 'em, ef you weren't deafer'n 
a dead nigger.' 



"I heerd 'em. You kin bet yer life they're some of our 
pickets. Howsomever, I'm gwine to see." 

" Hush, my men ! don't speak a word ! " whispered the 
young lieutenant. " Lie flat on the ground." 

The rebels were nearer than he had supposed ; for, as 
he turned from his men, he discovered a wiry grayback, 
with the chevron of a sergeant on his arms, frying to 
stare him out of countenance. The fellow did not look 
