structing garments so skillfully, that she was able to 
support herself in independence. Not alone did her 
fair countenance, grace of form, sweetness of manner, 
and more than ordinary intelligence, attract the eyes 
and win the heart of Adam Guy. These would have 
allured him in vain, had there not appeared the more 
solid basis of thrift and industry. He saw that she 
would make a good wife, in another sense than is 
always considered ; that she would work and save, and 
help him to grow rich. He did not find in her the non 
sense, frivolity and want of thought that displayed itself 
in so many of the young ladies who came under his ob 
servation ; and he was especially pleased to note the 
fact that she had acquired a better estimate of money 
than is ordinarily held by her sex. The necessity of 
earning before spending, had produced this result. 



 

Before marriage, they had talked freely about their 
housekeeping arrangements. Lydia noted, that in his 
calculation of expenses, nothing was said about the 
hire, or cost of keeping a servant in the beginning. 
As she felt well and strong, and really desired to join 
hands with her future husband, as a " helpmeet for 
him," she saw no objection to this ; she was willing, in 
the outset, to perform all the work of their little house 
hold. It could be a labor of love, and nothing else. 
She was used to being busy over some kind of work all 
the day long ; and the thought of having a home of 
her own to work in, and one loved above all others, 
to work for and make happy, was imagining to herself 
a paradise. 

And so they had begun their housekeeping, as we have 
seen, Lydia doing all her own work; and, up to the day 
on which she is introduced to the reader, doing it cheer 
fully. But, from that day, " a change came o'er the 
spirit of her dreams." 




CHAPTER IV. 



EARLY all the afternoon, on that first 
day of Lydia Guy's introduction to the 
reader, did she sit with idle hands, 
dreamy eyes, and lips just touched with 
a shade of sadness. The stream of her 
life, which had, since her marriage, been 
dancing along musically in the sunshine, 
all at once left the open fields and gentle 
declivities, losing itself in sluggish pools 
that widened and diverged, and hid their dark depths 
under thick, shadowing trees, and tangled brake. She 
could look forward in sweet hope no longer. There was 
cloud, and obscuring night, on all the future, that a little 
while ago had been so full of promise. The life, Jnto 
which her consciousness was opening, had a strange, re- 
pellant aspect; and a shudder crept into her heart as 
she tried to see light and beauty ahead, but could make 
out nothing, distinctly, among the gloomy shadows that 
obstructed her vision. 

Must all beauty, all gentle charity, all the soul's 
loving worship of things that dwell in regions above 
mere sordidness, or hard, accumulative actuality, be 
crushed out ? No wonder that a shudder crept through 
her heart ! No wonder she sat with idle hands through 



 

that afternoon, trying to comprehend all that was meant 
by this new relation in which she found herself standing 
to life. Was money property material wealth 
the greatest good ? Did it comprehend all worth living 
for? Must everything else be cast down for its enthrone 
ment beauty friendship charity love all the 
heart's riches ? Was she not to have a flower, even, 
because it was no money- producing, or money- saving 
instrument ? or because it absorbed a few pennies or 
dimes? or, worse still, in the eyes of her husband, fos 
tered taste, and a love of the mere beautiful, which were 
expensive attributes. 

The heart of Lydia Guy rebelled against all this. If 
such were her husband's requirements, she did not see 
how it was possible for them to draw any nearer in spirit 
to crow into that sweet oneness of life which her 
maiden fancies had loved to dwell upon as including the 
highest of human felicities. Her talk with Lena in the 
morning in no way tended to reconcile her to this change 
in the programme of life. How sharply in contrast stood 
the character of her husband with that of Doctor Hof- 
land ? What a light seemed to hover over the home of 
her friend, while clouds were gathering in the sky that 
arched above her. 

A few warm words had passed between Lydia and her 
husband at dinner-time, and he had gone away with a 
stern, admonitory sentence on his lips. He had spoken 
with authority, and left a spirit of rebellion in the heart 
of his wife. The law of force had come in, setting 
aside the law of love and sweet compliance was at an 


end. Foolish man ! Blind, weak, besotted man ! For 
what dross was he bartering the rich red gold of life ! 

Not with that light step, which gave to every motion 
a grace, as on the afternoon of the day before, when 
Lydia made preparation for her husband's coming at 
twilight, did she move, now, as the shadows began to 
lengthen, in the work of providing their evening repast. 
A heavy heart makes the feet heavy. 

Adam Guy was not a man from whose feelings any 
ripple passes quickly. All disturbances went down 
deeply, and surged to and fro for a long time after the 
cause had ceased. It must be remarked, however, that he 
was susceptible of -disturbance only in the direction of his 
avaricious cupidities. Lay your hand on these, and he 
felt the jar long and profoundly. Assault these in 
never so small a degree, and sympathy, pity, tenderness 
toward the assailant, even humanity, died out instantly. 
He was armed and guarded at every point. 

And so, Adam Guy's feelings did not soften toward 
his young wife during the few hours that elapsed from 
the time of his parting with her at mid-day, until he met 
her again in the first fall of twilight shadows. He saw 
in her a weakness that must be crushed out. His hand 
was upon it, and come what would, he meant to extin 
guish its life. Germs of extravagance were beginning 
to show themselves, which must be robbed of vitality. 
Not a single word of the sentence " Adam, you are 
stepping a little beyond your prerogative ! If I care to 
have a flower, it is not for you to object ! " failed from 
his memory. He conned them over and over, and over 
again, each time rejecting them with a stern purpose. 



 

" Stepping beyond my prerogative ! '' so he talked 
with himself, ever and anon " We shall see ! That 
was unwisely said, Lydia. Not for me to object to 
waste and extravagance ! Indeed ! I wonder who is 
to object, if not I ? Please heaven, I will object to the 
last ; and not only object, but extinguish waste and ex 
travagance. If this comes from the introduction of a 
single worthless flower, I shall take good care that my 
house is not transformed into a conservatory. Fore 
warned fore-armed." 

Weaned with beating about in a vague uncertainty ; 
weak and bewildered ; the heart of Lydia began to lift 
itself toward her husband, as the day declined, with a 
yearning for the sunshine of love which clouds had hid 
den. She repented of her hastily spoken words, and 
even went so far as to remove the geranium, which had 
been the exciting cause of this trouble, from theii 
sitting-room. In what spirit would he come home ? 
That was the question of greatest concern now. Would 
he bring the hard, threatening, almost angry face that 
frowned upon her in parting ; or the old, pleasant face, 
in which she read so many tender meanings ? Oh, she 
could not live without love ! could not go on through 
life in a spirit of antagonism. No ! no ! She was 
not strong enough for this. Death were to be prefer 
red. 

And so, looking away from the causes which had 
wrought this unhappy alienation, she tried to let re 
awakening love for her husband cover the hard, bare, 
unsightly aspects of character which had suddenly re 
vealed themselves ; and in this spirit she was awaiting 



 

his return, when she heard his well-known footsteps 
crossing their little parlor floor. She was in the kitch 
en, busied with preparations for supper, but came forth 
quickly, meeting him as he entered the sitting-room, 
where the table was spread. The light in her eyes, and 
the smile on her lips, died instantly ; for the face of her 
husband was cold as a sea of ice. The usual kiss was 
intermitted. Adam did not offer it, and the heart of 
Lydia rebelled against solicitation. A few distant words 
were exchanged, and then Lydia went back to the kitch 
en, with a heart of lead in her bosom. 

Almost silently passed the evening meal. Adam sat 
through it with a cold, implacable face Lydia with a 
heart ready, at each moment, to gush through her 
eyes. 

After the meal was finished Adam took a newspaper 
from his pocket and commenced reading, w r hile his wife 
removed the tea things. As she went and came, passing 
from their sitting room to the kitchen, he glanced, fur 
tively, over the edge of his newspaper- at her face, and 
was a little surprised as well as annoyed, at seeing tears 
falling silently down her cheeks. It was the first time 
Adam had seen his wife in tears, and it made him feel 
rather strangely. This was something not taken into 
the account in marriage. He had bargained for smiles, 
not tears ; for a mind that should be in complete har 
mony with his own never in opposition ; for a sec 
ond self. What was the cause- of these tears ? That 
question came naturally, and Adam Guy answered it 
from his own stand-point, and selfish perceptions. 

" And so it has come to this ! " he said, speaking to 



 

himself. " Because I will not consent to waste and ex 
travagance I must be punished with tears. But it wont 
do. Adam Guy isn't the man to be turned aside from, 
what is right by a woman's tears. If Lydia wont hear 
to reason wont act like a prudent, sensible wife the 
trouble be on her own head. As to wasting my hard 
earned money on such nonsense as flowers, it never shall 
be ; and the matter may as well be settled first as last. 
As for Dr. Hofland's wife, I don't think her the right 
stamp of a woman for Lydia, and I'll break off the in 
timacy, if possible. Hofland is an extravagant, thrift 
less fellow, and his wife is just like him. He is out of 
my books, anyhow. I don't like the way in which he 
is beginning life living beyond his means, and making 
debt certain. In less than a year he'll be on the bor 
rowing line. There'll be a break between us then, just 
as surely as the sun shines, should terms of intimacy 
exist. The prudent man forseeth evil, and lam a pru 
dent man. He is going his way and I am going mine, 
and the roads have a wide divergence." 

Thus he talked with himself, fortifying his mind 
against his wife and strengthening his purpose to have 
his own will in all that concerned them. 

"What's the matter? " he asked, in an abrupt, half 
imperative, half surprised tone, as Lydia came in from 
the kitchen, after having completed her duties there, af 
fecting just to have made the discovery that she had 
been weeping. 

The heart of Lydia was too full ; she could not an 
swer either calmly or indifferently, and so made no re 
ply. On this silence Adam placed his own construe- 



 

tion, and placed it wrongly of course. It was from 
moody self-will, that she did not answer so he read 
the reason. 

" A woman doesn't cry for nothing. What's the 
matter ? What's gone wrong ? Are you sick ? " 

Lydia had drawn a chair up to the little work-stand, 
on which a lamp burned, and near which her husband 
sat with his newspaper in his hand. She had already 
taken some needle-work into her lap. The tone in 
which he asked these questions, only made a reply on 
her part the more impossible ; and so she bent her head 
down over the sewing she had taken up, and gave no 
response. This, to Adam, was like placing an obstruc 
tion in a flowing stream. The waters of his mind be 
came agitated, and bore onward in turbulence. 

" Can't you speak ? Haven't you a tongue ? " 

Lydia started, looked up at her husband in a bewil 
dered way, and then burst into tears, sobbing violently. 

Adam Guy was at fault. He was dealing with an 
unknown element. A woman's mind is a mystery to 
most men most of all to men like Adam Guy ; yet 
have such men, in their blind antagonisms the fatal 
power of wounding to the heart's core. He sat, coldly 
observing the agitation of his wife, until her sobs gave 
way to an occasional short spasm in breathing, and 
these at length to low, fluttering sighs. 

" I think, Lydia," said Adam, in a firm voice, when 
the storm of feeling had completely died away, " that 
you have permitted a very small matter to come in, and 
make itself a disturber of our peace. I objected, as I 
claim that I have the right to do, to waste of money in 



 

any form. I objected to the purchase of useless flow 
ers ; and I still object. You charged me with stepping 
beyond my prerogative. That was unwisely remarked, 
permit me to say, and does not set well upon my mind. 
You threatened to do as you pleased, and I warned you 
against such folly, and again warn you. I am not a 
man to turn aside when I know myself to be in the 
right ; and I am very certain of my position in this 
matter. I am a poor young man, with my way to 
make in the world. I earn my money by hard and pa 
tient industry, and cannot see it thrown away in trifles. 
You know my opinion of flowers. I gave it to-dav ; 
and it is, and will remain, unchanged. Money spent 
in them I hold to be worse than wasted. A bouquet 
fades in a day, and the money it costs might as well 
have been cast into the sea. Pot flowers are a constant 
care, and involve waste of time, in addition to waste 
of money and time is money. So, you see that I 
have common sense and prudence on my side, opposed 
to weak fancy and extravagance. I'm sorry you have 
taken so small a matter into suctt serious account 
that you have made yourself unhappy about a poor ge 
ranium. Now, let me beg of you to rise above all girl 
ish weaknesses of this kind, and be a sensible woman 
all in earnest as to life's true objects. There are 
more enduring things than flowers to be gained, Lydia. 
Let us see eye to eye let us keep step in our onward 
march to a high place in the world let us deny all 
mere self-indulgences, that are unsatisfying at best, and 
always enervating, and press forward to the attainment 
of real and abiding things. Let us spare now, to spend 
in the coming time, when we can afford to spend." 



 

Adam Guy paused. His young wife was bending 
closer over her work, than when he commenced speak 
ing, and her hand moved steadily and quickly. She 
did not look up, nor answer. 

" Am I not right ? Does not your own better judg 
ment approve what I say ? " 

But she made no response. 

" Lydia ! " 

She looked up, showing a pale face and red eyes. 

" Why don't you answer ? " 

Her eyes, with an expression in them so strange, 
that he scarcely knew them as the eyes of his wife, 
looked steadily into his. But there was no reply on 
her lips. 

" Have you nothing to say ? " demanded Guy. 

" Nothing." How calm and cold her voice ! It gave 
not a sign of feeling. Her eyes fell away from the eyes 
of her husband, and went back to the sewino; in her 


lap. The needle hand, which had paused with the 
thread half drawn, took on again its quick and steady 
motion ; and there was silence between them through 
all the evening hours silence and alien thoughts. 



CHAPTER V. 




dwelling of Dr. Edward Hofland. It 
stood a little back from the street, with 
a garden and shrubbery in front, ar 
ranged in the neatest order. The 
house was called a half-house, standing 
with the end to the street, the front 
door opening directly into the parlor 
a side door led into a narrow entry, from which the 
stairs ascended. On one side of this entry, was the 
parlor ; on the other, a small dining or sitting room, 
and next to this the kitchen. The house was but two 
stories high, with an attic, and all the rooms were 
small. 

For this modest abode, the doctor, paid two hundred 
dollars a year. Its garden in front had pleased his 
taste, and he had taken it in preference to one with 
quite as much room, which would only have cost one 
hundred and fifty dollars. This fact was known to his 
old friend, Adam Guy, who had blamed him as extrav 
agant, in no choice terms not to himself, of course, 
but in conversations with his wife. A reason, besides 
the gratification of his taste, and one which did not 



 

come into the thought of Adam Guy, had also influ 
enced the doctor in making his selection. As a profes 
sional man, success depended, in some degree, on social 
appearances ; and he was very well satisfied that the 
more tasteful looking house would prove the cheapest 
and he was right so far. 

Let us look in upon the doctor and his wife, on the 
evening which passed so drearily, and with such a 
bad promise for Adam Guy and Lydia. 

Doctor Hofland was a quiet, thoughtful, rather grave 
looking young man, just a little above the medium 
height, slender, of fair complexion, and clearly cut fea 
tures. His eyes were brown rather than blue, and 
dark for his complexion. They were grave, like his 
face, but, like his face, kindled beautifully when thought 
grew active, or his feelings warmed. His whole air 
was refined his manner quiet, gentlemanly. 

The young wife of Dr. Hofland was of a different 
temperament from her husband, and as different as to 
personal appearance. She possessed a clear, strong, 
resolute mind, which was under the discipline of sound, 
good sense, ardent but not blindly impulsive feelings, a 
cheerful disposition, and a warmly affectionate nature. 
She had a round full face, complexion dark, eyes black, 
full of light, and all alive when she spoke. You would 
not call her features regular, but would say " How 
beautiful ! " at the first glance. Lena was a charming 
young woman, the favorite of all who knew her, and 
the tenderly loved wife of an appreciative husband. 

We may always know something of people's charac 
ters, by the things with which they surround themselves. 



 

Swedenborg says, that, in heaven, the scenery and 
objects by which angels are surrounded, and even the 
garments they wear, are representative of their states, 
and change always as their states change. The same 
thing is true of men and women in this world, only the 
changes here do not take place immediately, but by 
gradual progressions mind acting but feebly on the 
hard substances of nature, and moulding them to its 
ideal shapes by slow degrees. In a man's dress in 
his house and furniture in all material things, that he 
selects and arranges as the ultimate forms of his thought 
and affection, we see images of himself, and comprehend 
therefrom the quality of his mind. As his character 
changes, we see corresponding changes in his exterior 
things. 

In the furnishing of Adam Guy's house, the man's 
character was clearly illustrated. Love of money was 
his ruling desire, and to this everything had to be 
subordinated. Mere ornament, in his eyes, was a 
superfluity a useless waste and so only the plainest 
and least costly articles were bought. There was noth 
ing, out toward which taste could go, and rest in tranquil 
delight. 

Let us see how it is with Doctor Hofland. An in 
grain carpet is on the floor of his small parlor, but it 
cost ten cents a yard more than that of Adam Guy, the 
extra ten cents having been paid in consideration of a 
finer quality and more tasteful pattern. The chairs, in 
stead of being solid " Windsor," are " cane-seat," black, 
with ornamental gilding. Instead of a cheap mantle 
glass there is a small French clock ; and in place of th e 



 

two glass lamps, a pair of neat china vases, that rarely 
miss their burden of fragrant flowers. A pair of card 
tables stand on opposite sides of the room ; and in front 
of the fire-place, with its shining fender and andirons, is 
a small center-table, covered with books. Three or four 
choice engravings ornament the walls. How clearly 
does every article, as well as the style of arrangement, 
indicate the mental quality of the directing mind or 
minds. Here, husband and wife acted in sweet harmony, 
and their home gives expression to their mental states. 
In the other case, Guy's will governed in the selection of 
nearlv every article, and in his home you saw an outbirth 
of his state and character only. In the things by which 
he had surrounded himself and wife, Lydia's mind did 
not rest in calm content. Taste and feeling went out 
in a restless search for objects in fuller correspondence 
with themselves, and came back weary and dissatisfied. 
A few seemingly unimportant changes in the style of 
their furniture a trifling, and not costly addition here 
and there, a little more of the " uselessly ornamental," 
and it would have made all the difference in the world 
to her. But Adam Guy saw in all this but weakness 
and folly. The useful only had attractions for his eyes ; 
and what he meant by the useful referred to the mere 
wants of natural life, as the basis of effort toward worldly 
accumulation. Whatever came not in this category was 
superfluous, and to be rejected. He could subsist on 
husks, but not so the more delicately organized nature 
of his wife. On the fare that would sustain him she 
would feel the tooth of a perpetual hunger, and her life, 
only half-developed, beat about in restless, weary, un- 



 

satisfied consciousness of defect halting, astray, and 
stumbling in weakness and sadness to the very end. 

A lamp was burning cheerfully on the centre table in 
Doctor Hofland's little parlor, and his wife sat by it 
sewing, when the doctor came in from a professional 
call. Tea had been waiting for some time. 

{ ' You are late, dear," said Lena, as she received her 
young husband's fond kiss on almost bridal lips. 

" Yes ; I went to see a poor woman on Fell's Point. 
I am attending a Mrs. Helme in Exeter Street, and she 
told me about her mother down on the Point, who was 
very ill, and begged me to go and see her ; and I could 
not, of course, refuse. God's poor are always with us, 
and we cannot turn from them, when they stretch their 
hands toward us, and be conscience-clear at least as 
a physician, I cannot." 

The tea-bell rang at this moment, and they went to 
the dining-room, where, their single domestic having 
supplied everything for the table, they were alone. 

" I didn't tell you that I called to see Lydia this 
morning," said Mrs. Hofland, as she handed her hus 
band a cup of tea. 

" No ; how is she ? " 

" Very well." 

" And happy as the da}' is long," remarked the doc 
tor. 

" I don't know about that," replied Lena, a slight 
change in the sunny glow of her face. " I can't think 
it possible for a woman of Lydia's peculiar character 
to be happy with a man like Adam Guy." 

" He was never a favorite of yours." 



 

" O dear, no ! His sphere has always chilled me. 
My freedom is gone in his presence. I feel like a 
blossom shrinking in a frost-breath." 

" But, Lydia found in him a congenial spirit. All are 
not alike." 

' I cannot but feel," said Lena, " that, in wooing 
Lydia, Guy assumed a character not in agreement with 
his true quality ; and to-day I thought I could detect 
signs of an awakening to a hard realization of the fact 
that their lives were not, and never could be, in harmo- 

y." 

" Adam loves money," said the doctor. 

" And means to accumulate it. Lydia said that his 
salary had been advanced to twelve hundred dollars." 

" Ah ! I'm pleased to know that. The doctor spoke 
with genuine pleasure. 

"And it will not cost them six hundred to live, Lydia 
says." 

" So they will be six hundred dollars better off every 
year. A comfortable prospect." 

" And, moreover, Adam anticipates an interest in the 
firm. Give him that position, said Lydia, and to use 
his own language, 'he will snap his fingers in the world's 
face.' Now, doesn't that express the man's true char 
acter in a sentence ? Snap his fingers in the world's 
face ! He's selfish to the core, Edward selfish to the 
core ! And, as the sure consequence, unhappy. I told 
Lydia how hopeful and cheerful you were in your 
small beginnings and clouded future ; and she said, 
with a sigh, that her husband was not so easy in mind. 
How can he be ? Love of money, and the narrow 



 

spirit of selfishness, which always accompanies it, are 
never satisfied with the present, nor resigned as to the 
future. Men like Adam Guy are always impatient in 
the present, because gain comes too slowly for their de 
sires, and restless about the future, lest their one great 
cast in life should fail." 

" He will snap his fingers in the world's face ! " said 
the doctor, in a tone that mingled surprise, regret, and 
disappointment as if an unpleasant revelation had 
come to his mind. " I don't like that, Adam Guy. 
Snap your fingers in the world's face ! No man can 
afford to do this. No man is true to himself; far less 
true to society, who lives in that spirit. I knew he 
was selfish, and a money lover, but I hardly thought 
him so blind and foolish in his selfishness as this. Alas 
for him, and alas for his wife, if his words express a 
true purpose ! Life will prove to him, and it may be 
to her, also the saddest of failures. The life is more 
than meat and the body than raiment. What is simple 
possession what is wealth if made more than the 
life ? A burden and a curse nothing less, nothing 
more, as thousands, if the heart spoke out, would testi 
fy. And yet, the thousands who succeed them go on 
in the same blind, besotted way stifling the soul's 
higher instincts, dwarfing its powers, suppressing its 
yearnings after the things for which it hungers and 
thirsts with an immortal desire and for what ? Just 
for gold for gold, and the unsatisfying good that gold 
can buy this, and no more no more. If Adam is 
going to walk in the broad way to misery to misery 
in this world, I mean, for there is no happiness by the 
way nor at the end I pity him from my heart." 



" But most of all, I pity Lydia," said Lena. " If 
Adam will make his bed of husks, and put thorns in his 
own pillow, let him enjoy them if he can ; but for Ly 
dia ! Ah, my heart grows faint for her. She is of a 
purer substance, and of a tenderer organization. She 
will have no sordid loves to sustain her no end of world 
ly gain or worldly pride, like him ; and so must endure 
or die. This marriage is a serious thing, Edward. 
Thank God, that you are not like Adam Guy ! Could 
we be happier in a palace than in this modest home of 
ours ? Would hundreds of thousands of dollars make 
our hearts beat in closer unison, aud fill them with a 
purer happiness ? " 

" Not unless our lives were in accord with all things 


good, and true, and beautiful. Not unless in our souls 
were the spiritual riches to which this outward wealth 
corresponded. Anything less than this, and the ex 
change would be to our loss, instead of gain." 

" So I feel, and say, thank God, that you are wiser 
than most men ! " And Lena threw tender glances upon 
her husband. 

' It is one thing to see clearly the right way in which 
to walk, and another thing to go forward in that way," 
said the doctor. " I can philosophize, but do not find 
myself living up to the philosophy I approve." 

" That is the experience of every one," answered 
Lena. " Our ideals must always embrace unattained 
good, or there would be no going on toward perfection. 
But, in our contrasts with others we are able to see the 
positions we occupy. Take Adam, for instance, pro 
posing to snap his fingers in the world's face so soon as 



 

he is rich enough to cure for nobody, and contrast your 
ends of life with his, as expressed in that declaration. 
How much higher you stand ! You are wiser and bet 
ter than that, my husband wiser and better than that, 
thank God!" 




CHAPTER VI. 



AFTER tea, Doctor Hofland spent the 
evening with his wife, reading and 
conversing in their little parlor. Pa 
tients were not in abundance yet, and 
he had time on his hands. They 
talked of many things, and dwelt, 
with hope and interest, on their fu 
ture. Like Adam Guy, Doctor Hof 
land had visions of advancement in 
the world ; of success in his profession ; of accumula 
tion. He looked forward to the day when a widely ex 
tended practice would give him a liberal income, in 
fluence, and position looked forward, selfishly, as all 
men in whom natural life has not become subordinated 
to a spiritual and regenerate life, look. But, unlike his 
friend, Adam Guy, his thought did not centre upon and 
revolve only around himself. He had generous thoughts 
and purposes toward others- humanitary ends aspira 
tions that included the common good. Sordid love of 
money was not an element of his nature. He had no 
desire to accumulate, merely for the sake of riches, and 
the selfish independence of the world their possession 
would give. As thought went forward to the time 
when he should have money at command, and influence 



among men, he loved todwellon embryo schemes of 
social good benevolent, educational, or industrial. 
Means to ends, he did not see clearly. That time was 
yet to arrive. He was young and immature. But the 
germs of good citizenship were in his heart, and fructi 
fying life was beginning to stir their latent forces with 
a prophecy of things to come. 

" If I were only rich ! " How often did this sentence 
fall from his lips, as he looked on poverty and suffering, 
or contemplated the mental and moral destitution around 
him. And there were times when, in the ardor of his 
desire to relieve want, or help forward in some good 
enterprise, he fancied himself free from selfishness, and 
willing to devote all his powers to the service of others. 
In this, though it was but' an ideal state of good, there 
was given a reward. Into even the desire to benefit 
others flows a blessing how much higher the blessing 
for those who make desire an ultimate actuality. 

" If I were only rich ! " There is not a moment of 
time in which this aspiration does not rise from some 
heart dissatisfied with the amount of possession God has 
given. " If I were only rich ! " said Doctor Hofland, 
as he sat in his little earthly paradise that evening, 
" the world should be better for at least one life. I 
would not hoard my money for spendthrift heirs, nor 
mortuary endowments but scatter blessings as I passed 
along. Rich men are God's almoners. Alas ! how few 
are conscious of their responsibility, or dream that a 
day of reckoning must come." 

The doctor's mind was excited, and his imagination 
fast bearing him away. But, a word from his wife drew 



 

him back again, and his wings drooped from their airy 
flight. 

" God only requires a use of the talents given," said 
she. " Are we not all almoners in our sphere of life ? " 

" Truly said, Lena ! and I stand reproved." 

" No, no, not reproved." There was a tone of dep 
recation on Lena's lips. 

" Corrected, then, darling. Thank you for clipping 
the wings of my too aspiring imagination. It is even 
as you have said ; God only requires a use of the tal 
ents bestowed. I am rich ! Rich in the power to do 
good. I have but to dispense, freely, according to the 
ability He has given. Like to many others, I look away 
from my present sphere of life, and long for a wider 
field and higher opportunities. But, if not faithful in 
what is least, how can I expect to be trusted in greater 
things." 

" Ah, if we could always keep that thought in mind, 
how much more of peaceful life would be ours. Faith 
ful to-day. Let that be our motto, Edward. Faithful 
to-day." 

The eyes of Dr. Hofland turned from the face of his 
wife, and a sigh fluttered softly on his lips. 

" Is not that the right doctrine ? " Mrs. Hofland 
leaned toward her husband, and laid a hand gently on 
his arm. 

" Yes, darling. It is the true doctrine. Faithful to 
day ; and an impressive sense of its truth has sobered 
me. Faithful to-day ! Ah ! it is this looking beyond 
to-day this living in our to-morrows, that is such a 
hindrance to useful life. Our powers do not come 



 

down with that will into the present, which is needed 
to give them true efficiency. We reserve strength for 
the future, instead of putting it all forth in our to-days. 
Faithful to-day. You have expressed life's true philos 
ophy in its simplest formula. Let us accept the axiom 
as our rule of conduct. If our present work is always 
taken up and faithfully done, we need have no anxiety 
about the future. As servants of the Heavenly Master, 
whose hands never lie idle, the right work for us to do 
will be given in the right time. He knows what is best 
for us, and best for those to whom good is to come 
through our life in the world." 

" I do not think," said Lena, " that we shall ever 
be happier than now. Oh, is not life sweet to us ! " 
And her bright face grew sunnier. " God was good to 
me when he put love in your heart, Edward. I pray 
to become worthy of your love." 

" If eye sees fo eye, and heart beats to heart, darling, 
ever as now, life shall be to us one long, sweet day of 
happiness," returned the young husband, breathing the 
words on Lena's lips. " There will be care and toil ; 
hope and disappointment ; sorrow and pain but, with 
a love in our hearts growing purer, stronger, and more 
heavenly in its origin all the while, we shall never sit in 
darkness shall never be comfortless." 

" Purer and more heavenly," said Lena, as her eyes 
expressed deeper meanings, " the words bring back what 
our minister said yesterday, that true marriage was a 
union of souls. ' What God joins together,' he said, 
had a significance deeper than came to the common ap 
prehension. God conjoins in marriage by means of 



 

spiritual affinities, and these are heavenly. Without a 
good life, he argued, no true interior marriage was pos 
sible. There might be a likeness and a nearness of 

~ 

souls from natural affinities ; but genuine interior mar 
riage that conjunction which made of two minds, 
male and female, one harmoniously pulsating individual 
ity, for all time and eternity only took place with 
those who, through obedience to God's spiritual laws, 
advanced from natural into spiritual life along the grad 
ually ascending way of regeneration. I have thought 
about that new doctrine of marriage, Edward, a great 
deal. Shall we be thus conjoined, dear husband ? That 
would indeed be heaven ! " 

" And I have thought of it, also," replied Dr. Hof- 
land. " Our minister was right in what he said. The 
truth of his words came like sun-rays, bearing illustra 
tion into my mind. God must join together by spiritu 
al affinities, and these are heavenly affinities. May He 
do his good work in our hearts, Lena, that we may be 
one forever! " 




CHAPTER VII. 



HE heart never loses its memory. Ev 
ery experience records itself so indeli 
bly, that, always, what has preceded 
in our lives throws its shadows or sun 
shine on succeeding states. We can 
not forget, if we would. 

Lydia could not forget. Alas, no I 
