"I saw the smoke of it," replied Fanny.

"It is the strangest thing that ever happened. No one can tell how it
took fire."

Fanny made no reply, and the housekeeper hastened away to attend to her
duties. The poor girl was suffering all the tortures of remorse which a
wrong act can awaken, and she went up to her room with the feeling that
she did not wish to see another soul for a month.

Half an hour later, Noddy Newman presented himself at the great house,
laden with swamp pinks, whose fragrance filled the air, and seemed to
explain where he had been all the forenoon. With no little flourish, he
requested Mrs. Green to put them in the vases for Bertha's room; for his
young mistress was very fond of the sweet blossoms. He appeared to be
entirely satisfied with himself; and, with a branch of the pink in his
hand, he left the house, and walked towards the servants' quarters,
where, at his dinner, he met Ben, the boatman.




CHAPTER IV.

NODDY'S CONFESSION.


The old boatman never did any thing as other people did it; and though
Noddy had put on the best face he could assume to meet the shock of the
accusation which he was confident would be brought against him, Ben said
not a word about the boat-house. He did not seem to be aware that it had
been burned. He ate his dinner in his usual cheerful frame of mind, and
talked of swamp pinks, suggested by the branch which the young reprobate
had brought into the servants' hall.

Noddy was more perplexed than he had been before that day. Why didn't
the old man "pitch into him," and accuse him of kindling the fire? Why
didn't he get angry, as he did sometimes, and call him a young vagabond,
and threaten to horsewhip him? Ben talked of the pinks, of the weather,
the crops, and the latest news; but he did not say a word about the
destruction of the boat-house, or Noddy's absence during the forenoon.

After dinner, Noddy followed the old man down to the pier by the river
in a state of anxiety which hardly permitted him to keep up the cheerful
expression he had assumed, and which he usually wore. They reached the
smouldering ruins of the building, but Ben took no notice of it, and did
not allude to the great event which had occurred. Noddy was inclined to
doubt whether the boat-house had been burned at all; and he would have
rejected the fact, if the charred remains of the house had not been
there to attest it.

Ben hobbled down to the pier, and stepped on board the Greyhound, which
he had hauled up to the shore to enable him to make some repairs on the
mainsail. Noddy followed him; but he grew more desperate at every step
he advanced, for the old man still most provokingly refused to say a
single word about the fire.

"Gracious!" exclaimed Noddy, suddenly starting back in the utmost
astonishment; for he had come to the conclusion, that if Ben would not
speak about the fire, he must.

The old boatman was still vicious, and refused even to notice his
well-managed exclamation. Noddy thought it was very obstinate of Ben not
to say something, and offer him a chance, in the natural way, to prove
his innocence.

"Why, Ben, the boat-house is burned up!" shouted Noddy, determined that
the old man should have no excuse for not speaking about the fire.

Ben did not even raise his eyes from the work on which he was engaged.
He was adjusting the palm on his hand, and in a moment began to sew as
though nothing had happened, and no one was present but himself. Noddy
was fully satisfied now that the boatman was carrying out the details of
some plot of his own.

"Ben!" roared Noddy, at the top of his lungs, and still standing near
the ruins.

"What do you want, Noddy?" demanded Ben, as good-naturedly as though
everything had worked well during the day.

"The boat-house is burned up!" screamed Noddy, apparently as much
excited as though he had just discovered the fact.

Ben made no reply, which was another evidence that he was engaged in
working out some deep-laid plot, perhaps to convict him of the crime,
by some trick. Noddy was determined not to be convicted if he could
possibly help it.

"Ben!" shouted he again.

"Well, Noddy, what is it?"

"Did you know the boat-house was burned up?"

There was no answer; and Noddy ran down to the place where the sail-boat
was hauled up. He tried to look excited and indignant, and perhaps he
succeeded; though, as the old man preserved his equanimity, he had no
means of knowing what impression he had produced.

"Did you know the boat-house was burned up?" repeated Noddy, opening his
eyes as though he had made a discovery of the utmost importance.

"I did," replied Ben, as indifferently as though it had been a matter of
no consequence whatever.

"Why didn't you tell me about it?" demanded Noddy, with becoming
indignation.

"Because I decided that I wouldn't say a word about it to any person,"
answered Ben.

"How did it happen?"

"I haven't anything to say about it; so you mustn't ask me any
questions."

"Don't you know how it caught afire?" persisted Noddy.

"I've nothing to say on that subject."

Noddy was vexed and disheartened; but he felt that it would not be
prudent to deny the charge of setting it on fire before he was accused,
for that would certainly convict him. The old man was playing a deep
game, and that annoyed him still more.

"So you won't say anything about it, Ben?" added he, seating himself on
the pier.

"Not a word, Noddy."

"Well, I wouldn't if I were you," continued Noddy, lightly.

Ben took no notice of this sinister remark, thus exhibiting a presence
of mind which completely balked his assailant.

"I understand it all, Ben; and I don't blame you for not wanting to say
anything about it. I suppose you will own up when Mr. Grant comes home
to-night."

"Don't be saucy, Noddy," said the old man, mildly.

"So you smoked your pipe among the shavings, and set the boat-house
afire--did you, Ben? Well, I am sorry for you, you are generally so
careful; but I don't believe they will discharge you for it."

Ben was as calm and unruffled as a summer sea. Noddy knew that, under
ordinary circumstances, the boatman would have come down upon him like a
northeast gale, if he had dared to use such insulting language to him.
He tried him on every tack, but not a word could he obtain which
betrayed the opinion of the veteran, in regard to the origin of the
fire. It was useless to resort to any more arts, and he gave up the
point in despair. All the afternoon he wandered about the estate, and
could think of nothing but the unhappy event of the morning. Fanny did
not show herself, and he had no opportunity for further consultation.

About six o'clock Bertha returned with her father; and after tea they
walked down to the river. Fanny complained of a headache, and did not go
with them. It is more than probable that she was really afflicted, as
she said; for she had certainly suffered enough to make her head ache.
Of course the first thing that attracted the attention of Mr. Grant and
his daughter was the pile of charred timbers that indicated the place
where the boat-house had once stood.

"How did that happen?" asked Mr. Grant of Ben, who was on the pier.

"I don't know how it happened," replied the boatman, who had found his
tongue now, and proceeded to give his employer all the particulars of
the destruction of the building, concluding with Noddy's energetic
exclamation that he wished the boat-house was burned up.

"But did Noddy set the building on fire?" asked Bertha, greatly pained
to hear this charge against her pupil.

"I don't know, Miss Bertha. I went up to the house to get my morning
instructions, as I always do, and left Noddy at work washing up the
boat-house. I found you had gone to the city, and I went right out of
the house, and was coming down here. I got in sight of the pier, and saw
Miss Fanny come out of the boat-house."

"Fanny?"

"Yes; I am sure it was her. I didn't mind where she went, for I happened
to think the mainsail of the Greyhound wanted a little mending, and I
went over to my room after some needles. While I was in my chamber, one
of the gardeners rushed up to tell me the boat-house was afire. I came
down, but 'twasn't no use; the building was most gone when I got here."

"Did you leave anything in the building in the shape of matches, or
anything else?" asked Mr. Grant.

"No, sir; I never do that," replied the old man, with a blush.

"I know you are very careful, Ben. Then I suppose it was set on fire."

"I suppose it was, sir."

"Who do you suppose set it afire, Ben?" said Bertha, anxiously.

"Bless you, miss, I don't know."

"Do you think it was Noddy?"

"No, Miss Bertha, I don't think it was."

"Who could it have been?"

"That's more than I know. Here comes Noddy, and he can speak for
himself."

Noddy had come forward for this purpose when he saw Mr. Grant and Bertha
on the pier, and he had heard the last part of the conversation. He was
not a little astonished to hear Ben declare his belief that he was not
guilty, for he had been fully satisfied that he should have all the
credit of the naughty transaction.

"Do you know how the fire caught, Noddy?" said Mr. Grant.

"I reckon it caught from a bucket of water I left there," replied Noddy,
who did not know what to say till he had felt his way a little.

"No trifling, Noddy!" added Mr. Grant, though he could hardly keep from
laughing at the ridiculous answer.

"How should I know, sir, when Ben don't know? I tried to make him tell
me how it caught, and he wouldn't say a word about it."

"I thought it was best for me to keep still," said Ben.

"This is very strange," continued Mr. Grant. "Who was the last person
you saw in the boat-house, Ben?"

"Miss Fanny, sir. I saw her come out of it only a few moments before the
fire broke out."

Noddy was appalled at this answer, for it indicated that Fanny was
already suspected of the deed.

"Of course Fanny would not do such a thing as set the boat-house on
fire," said Bertha.

"Of course she wouldn't," added Noddy.

"What made you say you did not think Noddy set the fire, Ben?" asked Mr.
Grant.

"Because I think he had gone off somewhere before the fire, and that
Miss Fanny was in the building after he was. Noddy was sculling off
before he had done his work, and I called him back. That's when he
wished the boat-house was burned down."

"It is pretty evident that the fire was set by Noddy or Fanny," said Mr.
Grant; and he appeared to have no doubt as to which was the guilty one,
for he looked very sternly at the wayward boy before him.

"I think so, sir," added Ben.

"And you say that it was not Noddy?" continued Mr. Grant, looking
exceedingly troubled as he considered the alternative.

The boatman bowed his head in reply, as though his conclusion was so
serious and solemn that he could not express it in words. Noddy looked
from Ben to Mr. Grant, and from Mr. Grant to Ben again. It was plain
enough what they meant, and he had not even been suspected of the crime.
The boatman had seen Fanny come out of the building just before the
flames appeared, and all hope of charging the deed upon some vagabond
from the river was gone.

"Do you mean to say, Ben, that you think Fanny set the boat-house on
fire?" demanded Mr. Grant, sternly.

"I don't see who else could have set it," added Ben, stoutly.

"I do," interposed Noddy. "I say she didn't do it."

"Why do you say so?"

"Because I did it myself."

"I thought so!" exclaimed Mr. Grant, greatly relieved by the confession.

Ben was confused and annoyed, and Noddy was rather pleased at the
position in which he had placed the old man, who, in his opinion, had
not treated him as well as usual.

"Why didn't you own it before?" said Mr. Grant, "and not allow an
innocent person to be suspected."

"I didn't like to," answered the culprit, with a smile, as though he was
entirely satisfied with his own position.

"You must be taken care of."

"I am going to take care of myself, sir," said Noddy, with easy
indifference.

This remark was capable of so many interpretations that no one knew what
it meant--whether Noddy intended to run away, or reform his vicious
habits. Bertha had never seen him look so self-possessed and impudent
when he had done wrong, and she feared that all her labors for his moral
improvement had been wasted.

Some further explanations followed, and Noddy was questioned till a
satisfactory theory in regard to the fire was agreed upon. The boy
declared that he had visited the boat-house after Fanny left it, and
that she was walking towards the Glen when he kindled the fire. He made
out a consistent story, and completely upset Ben's conclusions, and left
the veteran in a very confused and uncomfortable state of mind.

Mr. Grant declared that something must be done with the boy at once;
that if he was permitted to continue on the place, he might take a
notion to burn the house down. Poor Bertha could not gainsay her
father's conclusion, and, sad as it was, she was compelled to leave the
culprit to whatever decision Mr. Grant might reach. For the present he
was ordered to his room, to which he submissively went, attended by
Bertha, though he was fully resolved not to be "taken care of;" for he
understood this to mean a place in the workhouse or the penitentiary.




CHAPTER V.

SQUIRE WRIGGS AT WOODVILLE.


Bertha was deeply pained at the reckless wrong which her protégé had
done, and more deeply by the cool indifference with which he carried
himself after his voluntary confession. There was little to hope for
while he manifested not a single sign of contrition for the crime
committed. He was truly sorry for the grief he had caused her; but for
his own sin he did not speak a word of regret.

"I suppose I am to be a tinker now," said Noddy to her, with a smile,
which looked absolutely awful to Bertha, for it was a token of depravity
she could not bear to look upon.

"I must leave you now, Noddy, for you are not good," replied Bertha,
sadly.

"I am sorry you feel so bad about me, Miss Bertha," added Noddy.

"I wish you would be sorry for yourself, instead of me."

"I am--sorry that you want to make a tinker of me;" and Noddy used this
word to express his contempt of any mechanical occupation.

He did not like to work. Patient, plodding labor, devoid of excitement,
was his aversion; though handling a boat, cleaning out a gutter on some
dizzy height of the mansion, or cutting off a limb at the highest point
of the tallest shade tree on the estate, was entirely to his taste, and
he did not regard anything as work which had a spice of danger or a
thrill of excitement about it. He was not lazy, in the broad sense of
the word; there was not a more active and restless person on the estate
than himself. A shop, therefore, was a horror which he had no words to
describe, and which he could never endure.

"I want to see you in some useful occupation, where you can earn your
living, and become a respectable man," said Bertha. "Don't you want to
be a respectable man, Noddy?"

"Well, I suppose I do; but I had rather be a vagabond than a respectable
tinker."

"You must work, Noddy, if you would win a good name, and enough of this
world's goods to make you comfortable. Work and win; I give you this
motto for your guidance. My father told me to lock you up in your room."

"You may do that, Miss Bertha," laughed Noddy. "I don't care how much
you lock me in. When I want to go out, I shall go. I shall work, and win
my freedom."

Noddy thought this application of Bertha's motto was funny, and he had
the hardihood to laugh at it, till Bertha, hopeless of making any
impression on him at the present time, left the room, and locked the
door behind her.

"Work and win!" said Noddy. "That's very pretty, and for Miss Bertha's
sake I shall remember it; but I shan't work in any tinker's shop. I may
as well take myself off, and go to work in my own way."

Noddy was tired, after the exertions of the day; and so deeply and truly
repentant was he for the wrong he had done, that he immediately went to
sleep, though it was not yet dark. Neither the present nor the future
seemed to give him any trouble; and if he could avoid the miseries of
the tinker's shop, as he was perfectly confident he could, he did not
concern himself about any of the prizes of life which are gained by
honest industry or patient well doing.

When it was quite dark, and Noddy had slept about two hours, the
springing of the bolt in the lock of his door awoke him. He leaped to
his feet, and his first thought was, that something was to be done with
him for burning the boat-house. But the door opened, and, by the dim
light which came through the window, he recognized the slight form of
Fanny Grant.

"Noddy," said she, timidly.

"Well, Miss Fanny, have you come to let me out of jail?"

"No; I came to see you, and nobody knows I am here. You won't expose
me--will you?"

"Of course I won't; that isn't much like me."

"I know it isn't, Noddy. What did you say that you set the fire for?"

"Because I thought that was the best way to settle the whole thing. Ben
saw you come out of the boat-house, and told your father he believed you
set the building on fire. That was the meanest thing the old man ever
did. Why didn't he lay it to me, as he ought to have done?"

"I suppose he knew you didn't do it."

"That don't make any difference. He ought to have known better than tell
your father it was you."

"I am so sorry for what you have done!"

"What are you sorry for? It won't hurt me, any how; and it would be an
awful thing for you. They were going to make a tinker of me before, and
I suppose they will do it now--if they can. I wouldn't care a fig for it
if Miss Bertha didn't feel so bad about it."

"I will tell her the truth."

"Don't you do it, Miss Fanny. That wouldn't help me a bit, and will
spoil you."

"But I must tell the truth. They don't suspect me even of going on the
water."

"So much the better. They won't ask you any hard questions. Now, Miss
Fanny, don't you say a word; for if you do, it will make it all the
worse for me."

"Why so, Noddy?"

"Because, according to my notion, I did set the building afire. If I
hadn't said what I did, you never would have thought of doing it. So I
was the fellow that did it, after all. That's the whole truth, and
nothing but the truth."

"But you didn't set it afire, and you didn't mean to do any such thing."

"That may be; but you wouldn't have done it if it hadn't been for me. It
was more my fault than it was yours; and I want you to leave the thing
just where it is now."

"But it would be mean for me to stand still, and see you bear all the
blame."

"It would be enough sight meaner for you to say anything about it."

"I don't think so."

"I do; for don't you see it is a good deal worse for me to put you up to
such a thing than it was for me to do it myself? Your father would
forgive me for setting the fire sooner than they would for making you do
it. I'm bad enough already, and they know it; but if they think I make
you as bad as I am myself, they would put me in a worse place than a
tinker's shop."

Noddy's argument was too much for the feminine mind of Miss Fanny, and
again she abandoned the purpose she had fully resolved upon, and decided
not to confess her guilt. We must do her the justice to say, that she
came to this conclusion, not from any fear of personal consequences, but
in order to save Noddy from the terrible reproach which would be cast
upon him if she did confess. Already, in her heart and before God, she
had acknowledged her error, and was sorrowfully repenting her
misconduct. But she could not expose Noddy to any penalty which he did
not deserve. She knew that he did not mean to set the fire; that his
words were idle, petulant ones, which had no real meaning; and it would
be wrong to let her father and Bertha suppose that Noddy had instigated
her to the criminal act.

Fanny had not yet learned that it is best to cleave unto the truth, and
let the consequences take care of themselves.

She yielded her own convictions to those of another, which no person
should ever do in questions of right and wrong.

She sacrificed her own faith in the simple truth, to another's faith in
policy, expediency.

The question was settled for the present, and Fanny crept back to her
chamber, no easier in mind, no better satisfied with herself, than
before. Noddy went to sleep again; but the only cloud he saw was the
displeasure of Bertha. He was simply conscious that he had got into a
scrape. He had not burned the boat-house, and he did not feel guilty.
He had not intended to induce Fanny to do the deed, and he did not feel
guilty of that. He was so generous that he wished to save her from the
consequences of her error, and the deception he used did not weigh very
heavily on his conscience.

He regarded his situation as merely a "scrape" into which he had
accidentally fallen, and his only business was to get out of it. These
thoughts filled his mind when he awoke in the morning. He was too
restless to remain a quiet prisoner for any great length of time; and
when he had dressed himself, he began to look about him for the means of
mitigating his imprisonment, or bringing it to a conclusion, as the case
might require. The window would be available at night, but it was in
full view of the gardeners in the daytime, who would be likely to report
any movement on his part. The door looked more hopeful.

One of the men brought his breakfast, and retired, locking the door
behind him. While he was eating it,--and his appetite did not seem to be
at all impaired by the situation to which he had been reduced,--he saw
Mr. Grant on the lawn, talking with a stranger. His interest was at once
excited, and a closer examination assured him that the visitor was
Squire Wriggs, of Whitestone. The discovery almost spoiled Noddy's
appetite, for he knew that the squire was a lawyer, and had often been
mixed up with cases of house-breaking, horse-stealing, robbery, and
murder; and he at once concluded that the legal gentleman's business
related to him.

His ideas of lawyers were rather confused and indistinct. He knew they
had a great deal to do in the court-house, when men were sent to the
penitentiary and the house of correction for various crimes. He watched
the squire and Mr. Grant, and he was fully satisfied in his own mind
what they were talking about when the latter pointed to the window of
his chamber. He had eaten only half his breakfast, but he found it
impossible to take another mouthful, after he realized that he was the
subject of the conversation between Mr. Grant and the lawyer.

It seemed just as though all his friends, even Miss Bertha, had suddenly
deserted him. That conference on the lawn was simply a plot to take him
to the court-house, and then send him to the penitentiary, the house of
correction, or some other abominable place, even if it were no worse
than a tinker's shop. He was absolutely terrified at the prospect.
After all his high hopes, and all his confidence in his supple limbs,
the judges, the lawyers, and the constables might fetter his muscles so
that he could not get away--so that he could not even run away to sea,
which was his ultimate intention, whenever he could make up his mind to
leave Miss Bertha.

Noddy watched the two gentlemen on the lawn, and his breast was filled
with a storm of emotions. He pictured the horrors of the prison to which
they were about to send him, and his fancy made the prospect far worse
than the reality could possibly have been. Mr. Grant led the way towards
the building occupied by the servants. Noddy was desperate. Squire
Wriggs was the visible manifestation of jails, courts, constables, and
other abominations, which were the sum of all that was terrible. He
decided at once not to wait for a visit from the awful personage, who
was evidently coming into the house to see him.

He raised the window a little, intending to throw it wide open, and leap
down upon the lawn, when his persecutor entered the door. There was not
a man or boy at Woodville who could catch him when he had the use of
his legs, and the world would then be open to him. But the gentlemen
paused at the door, and Noddy listened as a criminal would wait to hear
his sentence from the stern judge.

"Thirty thousand dollars is a great deal of money for a boy like him,"
said Mr. Grant. "Of course he must have a guardian."

"And you are the best person in the world for that position," added
Squire Wriggs.

"But he is a young reprobate, and something must be done with him."

"Certainly; he must be taken care of at once."

"I'm afraid he will burn my house down, as he did the boat-house. My
daughter is interested in him; if it wasn't for her, I would send him to
the house of correction before I slept again."

"When you are his guardian, you can do what you think best for him."

"That will be no easy matter."

"We will take the boy over to the court now, and then--"

Noddy did not hear any more, for the two gentlemen entered the house,
and he heard their step on the stairs. But he did not want to know
anything more. Squire Wriggs had distinctly said they would take him
over to the court, and that was enough to satisfy him that his worst
fears were to be realized. The talk about thirty thousand dollars, and
the guardian, was as unintelligible to him as though it had been in
ancient Greek, and he did not bestow a second thought upon it. The "boy
like him," to whom thirty thousand dollars would be a great deal of
money, meant some other person than himself. The court was Noddy's
peculiar abomination; and when he heard the words, he clutched the sash
of the window with convulsive energy.

Mr. Grant and Squire Wriggs passed into the house, and Noddy Newman
passed out. To a gymnast of his wiry experience, the feat was not
impossible, or even very difficult. Swinging out of the window, he
placed his feet on the window-cap below, and then, stooping down, he got
hold with his hands, and slipped down from his perch with about the same
ease with which a well-trained monkey would have accomplished the
descent.

He was on the solid earth now, and with the feeling that the court-house
and a whole regiment of constables were behind him, he took to his
heels. A stiff-kneed gardener, who had observed his exit from the
house, attempted to follow him; but he might as well have chased a
northwest gale. Noddy reached the Glen, and no sound of pursuers could
be heard. The phantom court-house had been beaten in the race.




CHAPTER VI.

NODDY'S ENGAGEMENT.


When Noddy reached the Glen, he had time to stop and think; and the
consequences of the sudden step he had taken came to his mind with
tremendous force. He had fled from Miss Bertha, and all the comforts and
luxuries which had surrounded him at Woodville. He was a vagabond again.

It was a great deal better to be a vagabond than it was to be an inmate
of a prison, or even of a tinker's shop. He had committed no crime; the
worst that could be said of him was, that he was a victim of
circumstances. It was unfortunate for him that he had used those
petulant words, that he wished the boat-house was burned down, for they
had put the idea into Fanny's head. He did not mean to kindle the fire,
but he believed that he had been the cause of it, and that it was hardly
fair to let the young lady suffer for what he had virtually done.

He was sorry to leave Woodville, and above all, sorry to be banished
from the presence of Miss Bertha. But that had already been agreed upon,
and he was only anticipating the event by taking himself off as he did.
He would rather have gone in a more honorable manner than running away
like a hunted dog; but he could not help that, and the very thought of
the horrible court-house was enough to drive him from the best home in
the world.

He walked up to a retired part of the Glen, where he could continue his
retreat without being intercepted, if it became necessary, and sat down
on a rock to think of the future. He had no more idea what he should do
with himself, than he had when he was a wanderer before in these
regions. Undoubtedly his ultimate purpose was to go to sea; but he was
not quite ready to depart. He cherished a hope that he might contrive to
meet Bertha in some of her walks, and say good-bye to her before he
committed himself to his fortunes on the stormy ocean.

While he was deliberating upon his prospects, a happy thought, as he
regarded it, came to his mind. He could turn somersets, and cut more
capers than any man in the circus company which he had seen on the
preceding day. With a little practice, he was satisfied that he could
learn to stand up on the back of a horse. A field of glory suddenly
opened to his vision, and he could win the applause of admiring
thousands by his daring feats. He had performed all sorts of gyrations
for the amusement of the idlers about Woodville, and he might now turn
his accomplishments to a useful purpose--indeed, make them pay for his
food and clothing.

Noddy had no idea that circus performances were not entirely
respectable; and it seemed to him that his early training had exactly
fitted him to shine in this peculiar sphere. It might not be decent
business for Mr. Grant and Bertha, but it was just the thing for him.
Whitestone was a very large town, and the circus was still there. He had
not a moment to lose; and, under the impulse of his new resolution, he
left the Glen, intending to walk up the river to the ferry, a couple of
miles distant.

Noddy went over the river, and reached the great tent of the circus
company about one o'clock. He was rather disturbed by the fear that he
might meet Squire Wriggs, or some of the constables; but all his hopes
were now centred on the circus, and he could not avoid the risk of
exposing himself. He boldly inquired for the "head man" of the
establishment; but this distinguished functionary was not on the
premises at that time; he would be there in the course of half an hour.

He walked down to a shop, and having a small sum of money in his pocket,
he obtained something to eat. On his return to the tent, the head man
was pointed out to him. Noddy, as a general rule, was not troubled with
bashfulness; and he walked resolutely up to the manager, and intimated
to him that he should like to be engaged as a performer.

"What do you want, my boy?" demanded the head man, who was quite
confident that he had mistaken the applicant's meaning, for it was
hardly possible that a youth like him could be a circus performer.

"I want a place to perform, sir," repeated Noddy, who was entirely
ignorant of the technical terms belonging to the profession.

"To perform!" laughed the manager, measuring him from head to foot with
his eye.

"Yes, sir."

"What kind of business can you do, my boy?"

"Almost anything, sir."

"Do you ride?"

"No, sir; I'm not much used to standing up on a horse, but I think I
could go it, after doing it a little while."

"Do you, indeed!" sneered the man. "Well, we don't want anybody that can
do almost any kind of business."

"I'm used to this thing, sir," pleaded Noddy.

"Used to it! I suppose you want a place as a bill-sticker, or to take
care of the horses."

"No, sir; I want to perform. If you will give me a chance to show what I
can do, I think you'll have me," persisted Noddy, not at all pleased
with the decided refusal he had received.

"Well, come in here," laughed the head man, who had no doubt that the
applicant would soon be brought to grief.

It was almost time for the doors to be opened for the afternoon
performance, and the man conducted Noddy to the ring, where he saw a
number of the riders and gymnasts, all dressed in their silks and
spangles to appear before the public.

"Here, Whippleby, is a young man that wants an engagement," said the
manager to the man who had acted as ring-master when Noddy was present.

"What can he do?"

"Almost everything; but he isn't much used to riding."

Whippleby laughed, and the manager laughed; and it was quite evident,
even to the aspirant for circus honors, that all present intended to
amuse themselves at his expense. But Noddy felt able to outdo most of
the circus people at their own profession, and he confidently expected
to turn the laugh upon them before the game was ended.

"A versatile genius," said Whippleby.

"Just try him, and see what he can do," added the manager,
significantly.

"Well, my little man, what do you say to a little ground and lofty
tumbling," said Whippleby, winking at the performers, who stood in a
circle around them.

"I'm at home in that," replied Noddy, throwing off his jacket.

"Good! You have got pluck enough, at any rate. Here, Nesmond, do
something," said the ring-master to a wiry young man of the group.

Nesmond did what Noddy had seen him do the day before; he whirled over
and over across the ring, like a hoop, striking his hands and feet
alternately on the ground.

"There, youngster, do you see that?" said Whippleby.

"Yes, sir, I see it," replied Noddy, unabashed by the work which was
expected of him.

"Now, let us see you do it."

Noddy did it, and if anything, more rapidly and gracefully than the
professional man. The men applauded, and Nesmond--"the great American
vaulter and tumbler"--looked exceedingly disconcerted when he saw his
wonderful act so easily imitated.

"Try it again, Nesmond," said Whippleby.

The distinguished athlete went on for half an hour, performing his
antics; and Noddy repeated them, though he had never before attempted
some of them. Nesmond gave it up.

"Well, young man, you can do almost everything, but you are as clumsy
and ungraceful as a bear about it. You need a little training on your
positions, and you will make a first-class tumbler," said the manager.

The men had ceased to laugh, and even looked admiringly on the prodigy
who had so suddenly developed himself. Noddy felt that his fortune was
already made, and he was almost ready to snap his fingers at the
court-house. Here was a chance for him to "work and win," and it was
entirely to his taste.

The manager then questioned him in regard to his family connections; but
as Noddy had none, his answers were very brief. He had no father nor
mother, and he had no home; he was no runaway, for there was no one
living who had any claim upon him. These answers were entirely
satisfactory to the head man.

"What salary do you expect?" asked the manager, when he had assured
himself there was no one to interfere with any arrangement he might
make.

"What do you give?" asked Noddy.

"Well, we give different salaries, depending on the men."

"You have seen what I can do--what will you give me? Talk right up, or I
shall have nothing to do with it," added Noddy, borrowing an expression
from a highly respectable horse jockey, who had a language of his own.

"I'll give you your board and clothes, and your dresses for the first
season."

"Nothing of that sort for me," replied Noddy, promptly. "I want to know
how much I am to have in hard cash."

"Very well; I'll give you five dollars a week, and you find yourself."

Five dollars a week looked like a large salary to Noddy, though it was
not one-fourth of what the distinguished Mr. Nesmond received, and he
immediately closed the bargain.

"I'll put you on the bills for the next town we visit. What's your
name?"

"Noddy Newman."

"What?"

The embryo performer repeated his name.

"That won't do; you must have a better name than that. Arthur De
Forrest--how will that suit you?"

"First rate," replied Noddy, who was very accommodating in minor
matters.

"We show in Disbury to-morrow night, and you must be ready to do your
business then, Mr. De Forrest," added the manager. "After the
performance this afternoon Mr. Whippleby will give you a few lessons."

"But where shall I get a dress?"

"I will furnish you one, and take it out of your salary. You had better
put it on when you practice, so as to get used to it."

Noddy was highly pleased with all these arrangements, and could not help
congratulating himself on the happy thought which had induced him to
join the circus. It was true, and he could not help noticing it, that
the men around him were not such people as Mr. Grant, and others whom he
had been in the habit of seeing at Woodville. All of them swore
terribly; their breath smelt of liquor, and they talked the language of
a depravity to which Noddy, with all his waywardness, was a stranger.
There were boys no older than himself in the company, but they did not
seem a whit less depraved than the older ones.

Though the novice was not a young man of high aims and purposes, he was
not much pleased with his companions. He was what they termed "green,"
and it was quite plain to him that there would be a fight before many
days had passed by, for he was too high-spirited to submit tamely to the
insults which were heaped upon him.

During the afternoon performance, he stood at the gates of the ring,
where the horses enter; and Mr. Whippleby sent him before the public for
the first time, to bring out a whip which had been left there.

"Noddy Newman!" shouted a boy among the spectators.

The young athlete heard his name, and too late he remembered that he had
exposed himself to the gaze of the constables, who might by this time be
in search of him. During the rest of the afternoon he kept himself out
of sight; but the mischief had already been done.




CHAPTER VII.

THE RING-MASTER.


When the performance was over, Noddy, with the assistance of one of his
companions, dressed himself in "trunk and tights," and appeared in the
ring to take his first lesson in graceful movements. He could turn the
somersets, and go through with the other evolutions; but there was a
certain polish needed--so the ring-master said--to make them pass off
well. He was to assume a graceful position at the beginning and end of
each act; he must recover himself without clumsiness; he must bow, and
make a flourish with his hands, when he had done a brilliant thing.

Noddy had not much taste for this branch of the profession. He did not
like the bowing and the flourishing. If the feat itself did not please
the people, he could not win them by smirking. He was much pleased with
his costume, and this kept him good-natured, under the severe training
of the ring-master, for a time. Mr. Whippleby was coarse and rough in
his manners. During the show he had been all grace and elegance, and did
not use any big words, but now he was as rough as a bear, and swore like
a pirate. He was just like a cat's paw,--he kept the sharp claws down
while the dear people were present; but now he thrust them out.

Noddy found the "business" was no joke. Mr. Whippleby did not so regard
it, now that the training had commenced; and the novice found that he
had placed himself under a very tyrannical master. He made his bows and
flourished his arms, with all the grace he could command for a time; but
he did not come up to his severe teacher's standard.

"Do that again," said Mr. Whippleby, with savage emphasis. "Don't hurry
it."

Noddy did it again, as slowly as he could; but he was apparently just as
far from perfection as before.

"If you don't do better than that, I'll put the whip around your legs!"
shouted the impatient ring-master. "One of the mules could do it
better."

"I did it as well as I could," replied Noddy, rather tartly.

"You will do it better than that, or your legs will smart. Now do it
