replied the ferryman, trying to smile. 

" It isn't likely we can find out anything here," 
said the constable. " If he has got the money, he 
has hid it round the house somewhere." 

Adopting this suggestion, the officers, followed by 
Mr. Randall, left the cottage to examine the vicinity. 
The constable was a shrewd man, and for a country 
locality, quite distinguished as a thief-taker. The 
shower early in the afternoon had left the ground in 
condition to receive the tracks of every individual 
who had been near the ferry. The sharp officer ex- 
amined all the marks in the earth, and finally fol- 
lowed the footsteps of John Wilford, through a corn- 
field, above the cottage. 

Mrs. Wilford and Lawry wept as though their 
hearts would break, while the ferryman, trembling 
with apprehension, paced the kitchen. 

" What are you crying for ? " said he, impatiently, 
as he paused before his wife. 

" O, John ! " sobbed his wife. 

" Nothing has been proved." 

" Yes, there has. You told me you had given the 
money to Mr. Randall." 



 



" You told me you would restore it to the owner, 
when I gave you the pocketbook," added Lawry, 
choking with grief. 

" Lawry, if you say a word about it, you shall go 
to jail with me," said Mr. Wilford, angrily, as he 
put on his hat and left the house. 







CHAPTER VII. 

THE PEKKYMAn's CRIME. 

Me. Wileord, in spite of his faults and pecul- 
iarities, was a kind father, and never before had 
been heard to utter such terrible words as those 
which had just passed his lips. It was a consola- 
tion to Lawry and his mother to believe that the 
words were only a threat which was never intended 
to be executed, and only made to awe the youth 
into silence. It was needless ; for, right or wrong, 
the son would have died rather than betray his 
father. 

John Wilford's operations in hiding the money 
were as transparent as his efforts to quiet the sus- 
picions of his family. The constable followed his 
tracks in the soft ground of the cornfield till he 
came to a stump in one corner of the lot. It was 
decayed and hollow, and in one of the cavities the 



 

pocketbook was discovered. Mr. Randall laughed 
for joy when it was handed to him. Its contents 
were undisturbed, and not a dollar of the money 
was missing. The party walked back to the house, 
having been absent less than half an hour. The 
ferryman was just coming out as they entered the 
gate. 

" I hope you are satisfied," said he, confident that 
the ofiicers would never think of crossing the corn- 
field in search of the lost treasure. 

" I'm satisfied, Mr. Wilford," said the sherifi". 

" Don't you think it is a mean thing to come 
here and accuse me of robbing one of my passen- 
gers?" continued the ferryman, still satisfied that 
he was safe if his wife and Lawry only kept still. 

" I don't think so." 

" In my opinion, Mr. Randall hasn't lost any 
money. I don't believe a man would throw his coat 
down anywhere if there was six thousand dollars in 
the pocket." 

" But the money was lost, whether you believe it 
or not," interposed the bank director, irritated by 
this charge. 







" I've heard of such a thing as men losing money 
to cheat their creditors, or something of that sort," 
added the ferryman. 

" Don't talk so, husband," said Mrs. Wilford, 
who, with Lawry, had come out of the house when 
they heard the voice of the sheriff, anxious to learn 
the result of the search. 

" Don't you think that's mean, to accuse a man 
of cheating his creditors, after you have stolen his 
money ? " retorted Mr. Randall. 

" What right have you to say I stole your money? " 
demanded Mr. Wilford, with a show of intense indig- 
nation. 

" Because you did." 

" Can you prove it ? " 

" I think we can." 

" No, you can't. I don't believe you lost any 
money. It's only a trick to cheat the bank or your 
creditors." 

" We shall see." 

" Don't talk so, husband," repeated Mrs. Wilford, 
whose honest heart revolted at the base insinuations 
of the ferryman. 



 

*' Keep still, wife. When a man hasn't done any- 
thing, it's hard to be charged with stealing six 
thousand dollars.. They can't prove anything." 

"Yes, we can, Mr. Wilford," interposed the sheriff. 
" It becomes my duty to arrest you, though I would 
rather have done it when your family were not 
present." 

" Arrest me ! What for ? " exclaimed John Wilford. 
" You can't prove anything." 

" Yes, we can," replied the sheriff, shaking his 
head, sadly ; for he was really performing an un- 
pleasant duty. 

"What can you prove?" 

" I think it would be better for you not to talk 
so much," added the sheriff, in a low tone. " Come 
with me, and I will do my duty as quietly as pos- 
sible." 

" Come with you ! What for ? " said Mr. Wilford, 
in a loud tone. " I didn't steal the money." 

" It's a plain case. It's no use for you to deny 
it any longer." 

" But I didn't." 

"We have found the money, just where you put it." 







" Found — what ! " stammered the guilty man. 

" O, husband ! " groaned Mrs. Wilford. 

" O, father ! " sobbed Lawry. 

" I'm sorry, Mrs. Wilford," said the kind-hearted 
officer ; " but it's all as plain as daylight. He took 
the money and hid it in a stump in the cornfield, 
where we found it." 

" What shall we do ? " cried Mrs. Wilford, as she 
threw her arm around Lawry's neck, in the agony 
of her grief, 

" It's bad business, marm, but I can't help it. I 
must do my duty." 

Mr. Wilford leaned on the garden fence, with his 
gaze fixed upon the ground. He could not look the 
loved ones in the face, after the crime he had com- 
mitted. The smaller children, who had been at play 
around the house, were now gathered about the 
group, unable fully to comprehend the terrible mis- 
fortune which had befallen them ; though, as they 
gazed on Lawry and their mother, they could not 
help realizing that something very sad had hap- 
pened. 

" I'm ready to go with you," said John Wilford 




to the sheriff, for the scene was so affecting' and so 
humiliating to him that he wished to end it. 

" O, husband, why did you do it?" exclaimed 
Mrs. Wilford, as she grasped one of his arms, cling- 
ing to him like a true woman, in spite of his shame 
and infamy. 

" I don't know why I did it. I was crazy. I 
wanted to be rich," replied the unhappy man. 

" I wish you had given back the money, as you 
said you did." 

" I wish I had now." 

" Can nothing be done ? " continued Mrs. Wilford, 
appealing to the sheriff. " Must he go with you ? " 

" He must ; my duty is as plain as it can be." 

The poor woman suggested various expedients to 
avoid the fearful consequences ; she appealed to the 
bank director, and begged him not to prosecute her 
husband. Mr. Randall, though he had been greatly 
irritated by the cruel insinuations of the culprit, was 
not a malignant man ; and he was disposed to grant 
the petition of the disconsolate wife. He had re- 
covered his money, and had no malice against the 
ferryman. But the sheriff declared that no such 



 



arrangement could be tolerated. The matter had 
been placed in his hands, and, as a sworn officer of 
the law, he should be obliged to arrest the offender. 

In vain Mrs. Wilford pleaded for her husband ; 
in vain Lawry pleaded for his father ; the sheriff, 
kind and considerate as he had shown himself to 
be, was inexorable in the discharge of his duty. 
There was no alternative ; and John Wilford must 
go to jail. The poor wife, when she found that her 
tears and her pleadings were unavailing, submitted 
to the stern necessity. She insisted that her hus- 
band should be allowed to change his dress, which 
the sheriff readily granted ; and in a short time the 
culprit appeared in his best clothes. It was a sad 
parting between him and his family, and even the 
ferryman wept as he passed out from beneath his 
humble roof, not again to come beneath its friendly 
shelter for many, many weary months. 

Mrs. Wilford and Lawry were stunned by the 
heavy blow. The light of earthly joys seemed sud- 
denly to have gone out, and left them in the gloom 
and woe of disgrace- and desolation. Mother and 
son wept long and bitterly. There was nothing to 



 

be said at such a time, and they sobbed in silence, 
until the sound of the ferry horn roused Lawry from 
his lethargy of grief. Some one wished to cross the 
lake, and had given the usual signal with the tin 
horn, placed on a post for the purpose, at the side of 
the road. 

" There is no ferryman here now," said Mrs. Wil- 
ford, gloomily. 

" I will go, mother," replied Lawry, as he rose 
and put on his cap. 

" It may be many a day before your father comes 
back," added Mrs. Wilford, as she wiped away her 
tears. " It is a great deal worse than a funeral." 

" We can't help it, mother, and I suppose we must 
make the best of it." 

" I suppose we must ; but I don't know what we 
are going to do." 

" We shall do well enough, mother. I will attend 
to the ferry ; but poor father " 

Lawry, finding he could not speak without a fresh 
flow of tears, hastened out of the house. There 
were two wagons waiting for him ; and when they 
were embarked in the boat, he pushed off, and 
 



 



trimmed the sail for the gentle breeze that was 
blowing up the lake. The passengers asked for his 
father ; but Lawry could only tell them that he had 
gone away : the truth was too painful for him to 
reveal. He returned to his desolate home when he 
had ferried the wagons over the lake. There was 
nothing but misery in that humble abode, and but 
little sleep for those who were old enough to com- 
prehend the sadness and shame of their situation. 

Before morning the news of John Wilford's crime 
had been circulated through the village of Port 
Rock and its vicinity. Some knew that the ferry- 
man was lazy and thriftless, and wondered he had 
not robbed somebody before. Others had always re- 
garded him as a person of no sagacity or forethought, 
but did not think he would steal. Many pitied his 
family, and some said that Lawry was " as smart as 
two of his father," and that his mother and the 
children would be well provided for. 

The intelligence went to the mansion of Mr. Sher- 
wood, and there it touched the hearts of true friends. 
Though none of them knew much about the ferry- 
man and his family, yet for Lawry' s sake they were 



 

deeply interested in them. After breakfast Mr. 
Sherwood went down to the ferry-house ; and the 
young pilot, with many tears and sobs, told him 
the whole of the sad story of his father s crime. 
The rich man was full of sympathy, but nothing 
could be done. He volunteered to be the culprit's 
bail, and to provide him with the best counsel in 
the state. But John Wilford was guilty, and noth- 
ing could wipe out this terrible truth. 

Mr. Sherwood did all lie had promised to do ; but 
the ferryman, after he had been examined and fully 
committed for trial, declined to furnish bail, de- 
claring that he did not wish to be seen at Port 
Rock again. At the next session of the court, two 
months after his committal, he pleaded guilty of the 
robbery, — as he had declared beforehand that he 
should do, — and was sentenced to three years' im- 
prisonment in the penitentiary at Sing Sing. His 
counsel, at the suggestion of Mr. Sherwood, proved 
the prisoner's good character, when the motion for 
sentence was made, and the judge had made his term 
three years, instead of five, as he had originally in~ 
tended. This was all the culprit's friends could do 
for him. 







After the sentence the prisoner was permitted to 
see his family for the last time for many months. 
It was a sad and touching interview ; but from it 
Lawry and his mother derived much consolation. 
John Wilford was penitent ; he was truly sorry for 
what he had done, and declared that, when he had 
served out his time, he would be a better man than 
lie had ever been before. It was comforting to the 
mother and son to know that the wanderer was not 
hardened and debased by his crime and the exposure ; 
and they returned to their home submissive to their 
lot, sad and dreary as it was. 

From the day his father had been arrested, Lawry 
felt that the care of the family devolved upon him. 
His older brother was away from home, and was 
indolent and dissipated. The ferry and the little 
farm must be cared for, as from them came the entire 
support of his mother and his brothers and sisters. 
Though he was oppressed by the burden of sorrow 
which his father's crime cast upon him, he did not 
yield to despair. 

Half a mile below the ferry landing he could see 
the smoke-stack of the Woodville, projecting above 



 

the water. She was his property ; and if she had 
seemed to be a prize to him before the calamity had 
fallen upon his father's household, she was doubly 
so now. As he crossed the ferry, he gazed up at 
the Goblins, with less of exultation, but more of 
hope, than before. In his opinion, as he expressed 
it to his mother, there was " money in her." Mrs. 
Wilford was in great tribulation lest the man who 
now held the mortgage upon the little farm should 
insist upon being paid, as there was now no hope 
that the debtor, in prison, would be able to do any- 
thing. Lawry told her that the steamboat would 
enable them to pay all claims upon his father. 

Mrs. Wilford had but little confidence in her son's 
schemes, but she did not discoui'age them ; and 
Lawry racked his brain for expedients to accom- 
plish the task he had imposed upon himself. He 
had no money, and he was too proud to ask Mr. 
Sherwood for the assistance which that gentleman 
would so gladly have rendered. Ethan French came 
down to see him every day, and the prairie boy was 
so kind and considerate that they soon became fast 
friends. 





 



" When are you going to work on the steamer, 
Lawry?" asked Ethan, two or three days after the 
arrest of the ferryman. " I suppose yoxi don't feel 
much like meddling with her yet." 

"I don't; but she ought to be raised as soon as 
possible," replied Lawry. " I am going to work 
upon her right off. I went down to see how she lies 
this morning, and I have got my plans all laid." 

" Have you ?" 

" I have." 

" Do you think you can get her up ? " 
" I know I can." 

" Well, how are you going to do it ? " inquired 
Ethan, delighted with the spirit of his companion. 

" Do you know Mr. Nelson, over at Pointville ? I 
suppose you don't. Well, he is a great oil man; he 
has got some oil wells down on the St. Johns River. 
He is getting together all the barrels and hogsheads 
he can find, to send down to his works. He has 
as many as a hundred at his place in Pointville. I'm 
going to borrow a lot of these casks, if I can, and 
raise the Woodville with them." 

" How are you going to manage with them ? " 
asked Ethan, deeply interested in the plan. 



 

" Sink them round the boat, and fasten them to 
her hull, till there is enough to float her." 

" But how are you going to sink them ? " 

" There's some one to go over the ferry," replied 
Lawry, as a blast of the tin horn was heard. " If 
you will go over with me, I will tell you all about it, 
and we will call and see Mr. Nelson while we are at 
Pointville." 

Ethan embarked with his friend, and when the 
boat started the subject was resumed. 



 



CHAPTER VIII , 

KAISING THE WOODVILLE. 

Ethan French, during the two years he had 
been a resident of the State of New York, had been 
an earnest and diligent student. His mind was even 
more improved than his manners. • His taste for 
mechanics had prompted him to study the various 
subjects incbided in this science, and as he stood by 
his companion the pilot, he talked quite learnedly 
about the specific gravity of wood and iron, about 
displacement, buoyancy, and similar topics. 

"The hull of the steamer — that is, the wood- 
work — will not only float itself, but it will sustain 
considerable additional weight," said he. 

" Yes, I understand all that," replied Lawry. " If 
there had been no iron in the Woodville she would 
not have gone down. ' 

" The iron in her engine is seven or eight times as 
 

heavy as the same bulk of water. Its weight carried 
the hull down with it." 

" Then we must put down empty casks enough to 
float the engine," added Lawry. 

" No ; the wood-work of the hulk will hold up a 
portion of the weight of the engine, and we must 
furnish buoyancy enough to sustain the rest of it." 

"It will not take a great many casks, then — 
will it?" 

" Not a great many ; but the difficulty is to get 
them down to the bottom, and fasten them to the 
hull." 

" I can do that," replied Lawry, confidently ; 
and he proceeded to explain to his interested friend 
the process by which the difficulty was to be over- 
come. 

Ethan approved the method, and promised to as- 
certain what weight each of the casks would sustain 
in the water, when he had obtained their dimensions. 
The ferry-boat reached the other side of the lake, 
and the young men went to see Mr. Nelson, the 
owner of the casks. He did not wish to use the 
hogsheads till October, and was willing they should 



 



be employed for the purpose indicated, if Lawry 
would give him security for their safe return. 

" Mr. Sherwood will do that for you, Lawry," said 
Ethan. 

" That's a good name," added the oil speculator. 
" If he will guarantee the safe return of the casks, 
that is all I ask. I wonder if Mr. Sherwood don't 
want some shares in the Meteor Oil Company." 

" I don't know ; I'll ask him," replied Ethan. 

" If you will, I won't charge you anything for the 
use of the casks," added Mr. Nelson, hopeful that 
the contract might improve the prospects of the 
Meteor Company. 

Mr. Sherwood was consulted in the evening. He 
was very willing to furnish the required security for 
the use of the oil casks, but he did not seem to have 
the same confidence in the " Meteor " which Mr. 
Nelson exhibited, though he promised to consider the 
matter. 

It required three days to complete the preparations 
for raising the Woodville. All the ropes and rigging 
in the neighborhood, including many hay-ropes and 
clothes-lines, had been collected; the oil casks had 



 

been conveyed over the lake in the ferry-boat, and 
secured within a " boom " composed of four long 
timbers, lashed together at the ends, forming a square, 
which was moored close to the Goblins ; and a raft 
had been built, upon which the operations were to 
be conducted. 

Mr. Sherwood had offered to furnish as many men 
as could be employed to assist in the work ; but the 
young engineers had so arranged their plans that no 
help was needed. At sunrise in the morning the 
boys ran down to the Goblins in the ferry-boat, 
which was necessary for the transportation of sundry 
heavy articles. The raft was already there, moored 
in the proper place for commencing the labors of the 
day. The engineers were deeply interested in the 
operations before them, for there was a difficult 
problem to be solved, which required all their skill 
and ingenuity ; and Lawry felt that his future pros- 
perity and happiness depended in a very great meas- 
ure upon the success of the undertaking. 

Their plans and their machinery were yet to he 
tried, and there was a degree of excitement attend- 
ing the execution of the project which was as 







agreeable as it was stimulating to their enthusiastic 
natures. People had laughed at the idea of two 
boys raising a steamer burdened with heavy machi- 
nery, and both of them felt that their reputations 
were at stake. 

" Now, Lawry, we shall soon find out what we can 
do," said Ethan, as they made fast the ferry-boat to 
the raft. 

" I know what we can do now," replied the young 
pilot, confidently. " If the casks will float her, she 
shall come to the top of the water before to-morrow 
night. Now, Ethan, the first thing is to get a rope 
under her." 

" That's easy enough." 

"It's all easy enough, if you only believe in 
yourself." 

A rope of six fathoms in length was selected 
from the mass of rigging on the raft, and a stone just 
heavy enough to sink the line attached to the middle 
of it. Lawry took it in the wherry, sculled to the 
stern of the sunken steamer, and dropped it into 
the water. He then carried one end to Ethan, 
on the raft, while he returned with the other in his 



 

boat, which he moored to the opposite side of the 
Woodville. The middle of the rope was kept on 
the bottom of the lake by the stone, while the two 
ends were carried forward by the boys until the bight 
was drawn under the keel of the steamer, as far as 
her position on the rocks would permit it to go. 
Lawry's end was made fast around the smoke-stack, 
and Ethan's to the raft. 

One of the hogsheads was next floated out of the 
boom enclosure, and hauled upon the raft. Lawry 
adjusted hogshead slings — as they are technically 
called by sailors — to the cask. In the middle of the 
raft an aperture had been left, large enough for a 
hogshead to pass through, over which a small derrick 
had been built. A stone post, about the length of 
the casks, and just heavy enough to sink one of 
them, had been brought down on the bateau. This 
" sinker," as the young engineers called it, had been 
weighed, and it exactly conformed to the requirement 
of Ethan's figures ; it was just sufficient to overcome 
the flotage power of the cask. 

" Now, keep cool, Ethan, and we shall find out 
whether your figures are correct or not," said Lawry, 
 







as the cask was rolled up to the aperture in the 
raft. 

" Figures won't lie," replied Ethan ; " I know they 
are correct, and that hogshead will go to the bottom 
as quick as though it were made of lead." 

" We shall soon see," added Lawry, as he placed 
a couple of skids across the " well," as they had 
named the aperture in the raft. "Now we must 
place the sinker on those skids." 

By the aid of the derrick, which was provided 
with a rude windlass, constructed by Ethan, the stone 
post was hoisted up, and then dropped down on the 
skids. The sinker had been rigged with slings, and 
the hogshead was attached to it by a contrivance of 
Lawry, upon which the success of the operation 
wholly depended, and which it will be very difficult 
to describe with words. The sinker would carry the 
cask to the bottom of the lake, where its buoyancy 
was to assist in bringing the steamer to the surface 
of the water; but it was necessary, after the cask 
had been sunk and fastened to the hull, to detach it 
from the sinker ; and this had been a problem of no 
little difficulty to Lawry, who managed the nautical 
part of the enterprise. 



I 

I 

 

Fastened to the slings on the sinker was a rope 
ten fathoms in length. A loop was formed in this 
line, close to the sinker, and the bight passed through 
the slings on the hogshead. The loop was then laid 
over the two ropes, one of which was fast to the 
sinker, and the other was the unattached end of 
the line, and " toggled " on with a marline-spike. 
If the young reader does not quite understand the 
process, let him take a string, with one end fastened 
to a flatiron ; double it, and pass the loop — which 
sailors call a hight — upwards between the thumb 
and forefinger ; bring the loop down to meet the two 
parts of the string on the palm of the hand ; then 
take the two lines into the loop, and put a pencil 
under the two parts drawn through the loop. The 
flatiron will correspond to the stone sinker, and the 
thumb to the slings on the hogshead. Lift up the 
flatiron, so that the weight will bear on the thumb ; 
then pull out the pencil, and the iron will drop. 

The marline-spike was thoroughly greased, and a 
small line attached to the head of it, so that it 
could be easily drawn out of the loop, when the 
cask had been secured to the hull of the steamer. 



 

" There, we are all right now," said Lawry, after 
he had tried the marline-spike several times to sat- 
isfy himself that it could be easily drawn from its 
place. " Now we will make fast the rope which 
runs under the keel to the hogshead." ' 

" Here it is," added Ethan, detaching the line 
from the end of the raft. 

" We want to have the cask under the guard of 
the steamer when we get it down." 

" That will be easy enough." 

" Perhaps it will ; but I'm afraid the rope will 
bind on the keel." 

"If it does, we must take the raft round to the 
other side of the Woodville, and pass it round the 
windlass ; we can haul it up in that way." 

" That will take too much time. I think you 
and I both will be strong enough to haul the cask 
into place." 

Everything was now in readiness for the sinking 
of the hogshead, and both of the boys were in- 
tensely excited to learn the success of the exper- 
iment. They had been very careful in adjusting all 
the ropes and other apparatus, and their calculations 



 

had been so accurately made, that little had been 
left to chance. The cask lay on the skids with the 
sinker. The long rope fastened to the weight, and 
"toggled" to the hogshead, was passed through the 
block on the derrick, and wound around the wind- 
lass. 

" Now, give us a turn at the windlass, Ethan," 
said Lawry, when he was ready. 

" Ay, ay," replied Ethan, as he turned the crank, 
and raised the sinker and the cask, so that the 
skids which supported them could be removed. 

" Lower away ! " added Lawry, highly excited ; and 
the sinker began to descend into the water, carry- 
ing with it the hogshead. " That works first rate. 
Now hold on till I get hold of the other end of 
the guide-rope." 

Lawry jumped into the wherry, and sculled round 
to the other side of the sunken steamer, where he 
detached the end of the line passing under the keel 
from the smoke-stack, where it had been secured. 
He hauled on the rope till he got it clear of the 
stone with which it had been sunk. 

" Lower away ! " shouted Lawry. 








" Lower, it is," answered Ethan. 
"Slowly," added the pilot, as he hauled in the 
rope. 

"It is going to the right place. I can see it in 
tho water." 

" Hold on ! " cried Lawry ; and the wherry was 
so unsteady beneath him, that it was with great 
difficulty he " kept what he had got " on the rope. 

In order to overcome this disadvantage he passed 
the rope around the smoke-stack. 

" I have it now ! " shouted he. " This gives me 
a splendid purchase ; " and he hauled in the rope, 
bringing the hogshead chock up to the hull of the 
sunken craft. 

" We are growing wiser every moment," laughed 
Ethan. 

" So we are. Lower away, slowly. That's it,"' 
said Lawry. " Lower away." 

" The sinker is on the bottom," replied Ethan, 
as he let go the crank of the windlass. 

"All right; can you see the hogshead?" 

" Yes ; you have hauled it completely under the 
guard. The water is as clear as crystal," answered 
Ethan. 



 

" Hold on a moment till I make fast this line ; " 
and Lawry secured the rope to the smoke-stack, so 
that the cask could not slip out from its position 
under the guard. 

Thus far the experiment had been entirely suc- 
cessful, and Lawry's bosom bounded with emotion. 
The plan for raising the Woodville was his own, 
though he had been greatly assisted by Ethan, who 
had designed and constructed the derrick and wind- 
lass, thus diminishing the labor of the enterprise. 
The young pilot felt like a conqueror when he had 
placed the first cask in position. 

Sculling the wherry back to the raft, he pulled 
the string attached to the toggle, and drew it out 
of the noose. 

" Hoist away," said he, grasping the crank of the 
windlass. 

" Hoist, it is," replied Ethan, as he took hold 
with him. 

