flame. His eye took in the drooping figure, the shining 
curls, the sweet face. 
" Lily ! " he said, softly ; and yet it was the man's invol- 
untary authority that spoke. 
A cry, sad, sweet, touching in -its utter humility, faltered 
up through quivering sobs. 
" Ulric ! let me come back to my old place in your 
heart. Do what you will, only love me a little ! " 
" Always, my darling ! Please God, nothing shall ever 
again come between us." 
 
'' Never again ! " and she lingered over the words with 
exceeding tenderness, as if they were sweet to say. 
And then they were content to remain silent through mo- 
ments of bliss, so pure, so exquisite, that no pen is worthy 
to describe them. .The true level of both lives had been 
reached. For them there could be no more doubt, no more 
coldness. They grew into one heart, one life, as all true 
love must, she rejoicing to be his, he rejoicing to be hers. 
He raised the dear face, and kissed away the tears sweeter 
to him 
" Than all the smiles in Christendom." 
Daisy gave the lovers all the time she dared. She sat in 
Mabel's room, dreamy and quiet. Both hearts were too 
full for any talk on the subject so dear and precious, and 
all others seemed out of place. She allowed two hours to 
elapse before she went up and tapped lightly at the door. 
" Come in," said Mr. Auchester. What a cheerful ring 
there was in the voice ! 
" A most unwelcome visitor, I know ; " and Daisy crossed 
over to be encircled by an arm slender and soft from the 
one side, strong and manly from the other. " Doubtless 
you have not the remotest idea how much time has passed. 
If you have not smoothed out all the crooked paths, I quite 
despair of you. Being Lily's keeper for the time, I shall 
have to invite you to relinquish your charge." 
" O, not quite yet, please." 
" Don't make me cruel," said Daisy. " I shall have to 
give an account to Dr. Bertrand, and wish to present Lily 
in good order. She has had enough excitement for the 
present." 
"We have been talking of of our future lives," con- 
tinued Mr. Auchester ; and it seemed such a sacred thing to 
touch upon, that his voice fell to a tender pathos. " And 
Lily agrees with me that a marriage will be best. She is 
quite willing to trust my love in all things. But it must be 
 
BO soon and will Dr. Bertrand consent ? What do you 
think about it ? " 
Daisy started. Lily to go away for years, perhaps. 
Then, as her mind took in the whole matter, she answered, 
slowly, 
" I think he will. I believe it is right and best." 
" Bravo ! " and he gave her hand a little squeeze. 
" I suspect," Lily said, dryly, " that if you asked Richard 
for the roc's egg, Aladdin's lamp, or the key to the north- 
west passage, he would give them to you straightway. 
Ulric, you see, is a little afraid of him." 
" If you think I mean to set Daisy at any more hard 
work, you are mistaken. And I shouldn't feel surprised if 
he delivered you over to my keeping without a word." 
" Out of pity, because you will have so many afterwards," 
annoted Lily, saucily. 
He laughed. " Daisy has trained you so well that the 
prospect does not alarm me. And since we owe our happi- 
ness to her, I suppose I must learn how sweet it is to 
obey." 
He rose with his arm still around Lily. 
" It is best," Daisy replied, with a bright smile. 
" But I mean to have her all day to-morrow. I give you 
fair warning." 
" I shall resign my commission, I think. Dr. Bertrand 
will surely come." 
There was a little more tender talk between the lovers, 
lingering good-night kisses, and Ulric turned away reluc- 
tantly. 
" Don't you keep Daisy very long," he said. " Think 
how many weeks I have been without the sight of a dear, 
familiar face, and be merciful. I want a nice talk with 
her." 
" Ask what you will. I am in a princely, generous 
mood." 
He came back for another kiss. 
 
When the door was closed, Lily took Daisy's face between 
her hands, and looked for many seconds in the deep, un- 
troubled eyes. 
"Daisy," she began, " Ulric told me all, all what you 
had never even let me suspect." 
" It was not fair," Daisy said, struggling to get beyond 
the reach of the watchful gaze. 
" Yes it was fair and right. His nobleness made it so. 
And, Daisy, we should scorn to have one thought in our 
hearts that we dared not tell each other. And I hardly 
feel right about accepting my happiness until you assure 
me " 
" O, Lily, Lily ! foolish child ! Not but that he is grand 
enough for any woman to love only somehow God seems 
to take care of these things in his own way." 
" You are so simply, almost severely, heroic, one might 
say, that one hardly knows what sacrifice you are not 
capable of. But O, Daisy, if it had been another woman 
a woman who loved him ! I shudder to think of it. Yet I 
could never, never have blamed him ! He was much better 
to me all the time than I deserved." 
" It couldn't have been another woman, Lily. Do not 
think of anything so terrible. It wasn't with him ' the stern 
necessity of loving,' but simply ' blind contact.' We had 
been thrown together so familiarly, and that fateful night we 
met by merest accident. After he had once opened his 
heart to me, it was so easy to go on. It was not the desper- 
ate clutching at straws that led him astray afterwards, but 
the sense of desolation, the longing for some balm to apply 
to his wound. With the world, I dare say he was as proud 
and self-contained as your inmost heart could desire." 
" He does love you, Daisy. I can hardly explain it, but 
I am happier in the fact." 
" I want to be to both as the dearest of sisters." 
" As you will be, my darling, forevermore." 
Presently she began again : 
 
" Dais;y ! how could I have lived but for you ! When 
I think of his true, priceless love, his patience, his peerless 
honor, I stand quite still, quite still, abashed, and feel like 
saying with another joyful woman, ' He raised me by love 
upon the pedestal of his own high thoughts, and I stood 
there, with downcast eyes, worthy, of his love, for he had 
made me so.' Life is too short to repay him. And so you 
need not fear I shall ever hew out broken cisterns for my- 
self again. I feel safe, secure, triumphant in his love. It 
is my whole world from henceforth, my glory, my crown of 
highest womanhood. At last I have come to my inherit- 
ance ! " 
How lovely she looked ! Was this really Lily ? Daisy 
felt bewildered. 
" my darling ! " Lily said, with her good-night kiss, 
" it is such a blessed, blessed thing to be happy ! If it was 
not for God watching over me continually, I should feel 
afraid to be alone with it, lest its glory should strike me 
blind. How do people live who never have this light dawn 
upon them, but wander continually through cold and dark ? 
God help them ! And now go to him, Daisy. I couldn't 
be selfish this night, of all nights in my life." 
 
CHAPTER XXXIV. 
And lore ; because we then are happiest. 
We shall lack nothing having love; and we, 
We must be happy everywhere we two ! 
For spiritual life is great and clear, 
And self-continuous as a changeless sea. 
Come to the light, love ! Let me look on thee ! 
Let me make sure I have thee. Is it thou ? 
Is this thy hand ? Are these thy velvet lipa 
Thy lips so lovable? 
FESTUS. 
DAISY went as one in a trance. It seemed to her as if, 
Bomehow, she was not quite ignorant of this great joy. Had 
Robert brought it, with his handsome face, his winning voice, 
his eyes, that could be so deep and tender ? No. Had any 
stray glance fallen in that brief episode with Ulric Auches- 
ter ? ! a thousand times, no. Where then ? She trem- 
bled and dared go no farther. 
A fragrant waft of Habaneros drifted from the balcony. 
She stole out shyly, as she caught sight of Mabel's dress. 
She would ^ther have sat down in the deserted study, and 
dreamed. But one of life's first lessons to Daisy Bertrand 
had been the grandest part of St. Paul's eighteen-century- 
old definition of charity. Seeketh not her own. It was more 
this than any personal energy that gave her the influence 
every one yielded to without questioning, even enjoying the 
gentle sway. There was no central point of self with her. 
She did daily and hourly for others just what her hands found 
to do ; not in a rigid, duty fashion, but with vital human 
pleasure. And now she went out on the balcony, because 
she knew Mr. Auchester was there and wanted to see her. 
 
" O, is that you, Daisy ? " He rose and threw away his 
cigar. " Are you too tired to walk a little way ? " 
" I am not tired at all." 
" Get a shawl, then. I must begin to copy Dr. Bertrand, 
for carefulness." 
" Here is mine ; " and Bel wrapped her up in shawl and 
Nubia, for the autumn nights were rather chilly. Being thus 
dispossessed, she entered the house ; but Philip remained to 
finish his cigar. 
Mr. Auchester and Daisy walked down the path silently. 
He began, at length, by a commonplace. 
" What a lovely night ! " 
" Yes. In every respect." 
" I suppose you think everything is lovely to me at this 
present moment. Indeed, I'm not sure but it is so. For 
happiness seems to be the best kind of glasses yet invented. 
I have so much to say to you, and yet I hardly know where 
to begin." 
" At the very last," said Daisy, archly. " The subject 
will read the same both ways." 
" Yes." He drew her closer to him, and in a low voice, 
that was not quite steady, went on : " From your hands I 
take my happiness. I cannot find words to thank you. I 
shall show you best by guarding it sacredly in all time to 
come. It is such a great and solemn thing to take a loving 
woman and say, as Robert Browning did, ' Gihis woman's 
heart, and soul, and brain are mine ; ' and her sweet, pure 
life, forever. I seem in these last few hours to have grown 
out of and above my olden self. It has dropped down like 
a discarded garment. Entering this new and complete world, 
I tremble, y>t I feel strong. You have opened this sphere 
to me, Daisy ; you have brought me out of the tangled 
wilderness into the house Beautiful." 
" O, no," she rejoined, softly. " You saw it all yourself, 
long before." . 
" ' Through a glass, darkly.' I should have gone on blind 
and dumb, until some fatal day of awakening. How many 
times in the last few weeks I have hated and despised my- 
self for that unintentional falsehood to you, God only knows.' 
It has been a rankling thorn, a keen, stinging mortification. 
Yet to-night I feel thankful that a higher power allowed me 
to stumble as I did. It has shown me my weakness, or 
rather my fajse strength. It has brought me down to the 
level of the most childish thing Lily ever did. And I am 
glad to be there. She shall not shame me in any noble con- 
fession ; and O, Daisy ! what a royal heart the child has ! 
She has startled me to-night by depths and heights such as 
one dreams of, but rarely realizes. And the past summer, 
nay, all my life, I have had a tendency to an egotistical and 
perhaps selfish indulgence of personal will. It has been ne- 
cessary for me to command a good deal, and I have slipped 
into it imperceptibly. Yet this experience will prove a valu- 
able lesson to me. I shall not again act without considering 
what the result may be. God mercifully shielded you from 
any bitter consequences of my impetuous words. And having 
been under the cloud and through the sea, we shall enjoy 
our good land of promise with a deeper zest. Let me say, 
again and again, that under God it is your gift." 
" I am so glad you are happy ! It is not a new love, but 
the dear old one, strengthened, purified." 
" You are right. I feel now that my affection for Lily is, 
and ever will be, the one great love of my life. And her 
happiness shall be my study, my chief delight. Not that I 
have ceased to believe a man should be master of his own 
household ; but his authority and dignity are to be tempered 
by the regard he must ever sustain towards the woman who 
fills that dearest of all positions wife. And relying on a 
better strength than my own, I hope to deal wisely and 
justly, not only with her, but also with myself." 
" ' Who giveth liberally, and upbraideth not,' " subjoined 
Daisy. 
And then they lapsed into silence. Under this silvery 
 
light both hearts unconsciously went back two months, to 
another glorious night. How changed ! What were tree, 
.and shrub, and moonlight then ? Of all women in the world, 
she would be next to Lily in his estimation and regard. A 
weak man may shun a woman to whom he has in some hour 
of extreme bitterness betrayed himself; but a noble man 
never, unless she proves unworthy of his confidence. 
A bright morning dawned upon Rothelan. Lily was going 
down to breakfast a great event. She felt her head swim 
a little on the stairs, yet the fond arm around her steadied 
not only her swaying figure, but the palpitant motions of her 
heart. She felt the touch of that protecting hand through 
all her nerves ; a master hand it was, but it no longer roused 
her mutinous blood. She was glad to have it there ; for 
now, strange even to her own heart, liberty was no longer 
sweet. 
Mr. Chaloner read the morning prayer for the household. 
Lily's heart throbbed with deepest emotion at the sentence 
in the general thanksgiving, " We bless Thee for our crea- 
tion, preservation, and all the blessings of this life." 
"Oh, how manifold they had been to her! There must be 
one continual hymn of praise swelling up from her heart lor 
these many mercies. She began to understand what the 
apostle meant, when he said, " In everything give thanks." 
Henceforth it was to be not only duty, but delight. 
Some time after breakfast Mr. Auchester took Lily out for 
a short drive. She returned radiant, though she confessed 
to feeling a little tired. He arranged the pillows on the sofa 
in the drawing-room for her, and sitting down, talked over 
the time when they first met, and she bad done these little 
favors for him. And he made her smile, as well as blush, 
as he spoke of the many times he had felt tempted to catch 
the pretty white hand and kiss it rapturously. 
She was profoundly thankful that, with all her folly and 
wilfulness, she had never fallen into the habit of allowing 
caresses from others. Even Fred, with all his audacity, had 
 
stood a trifle aloof. And though there were many things to 
regret, there were few to actually blush over, with her lover's 
eyes upon her. 
She took the first occasion to mention one incident of the 
ride to Daisy. They had met Mr. Joslyn. And so the per- 
plexing subject was likely to settle itself without any further 
difficulty. 
She began to develop the possibilities of a magnificent 
woman. Her very face seemed to acquire, in the dawn of 
this ripening love, the steadiness and resolve it had heretofore 
lacked. A bewildering glimpse of sweetness flashed ever 
and anon out of the deep eyes, or the curves of the mouth, 
which was rapidly assuming its olden scarlet. She began to 
realize, with a tender seriousness, what this'visit was doing 
for her. Giving Mr. Auchester the right, and 'he taking it 
every hour, of being first with her. In the summer he used to 
say, 'pleadingly, ' Lily, will you not ? " now he simply said, 
"You will," as if the matter was beyond doubt or questioning. 
Quite late in the afternoon, as Daisy sat alone by the study 
window, sewing, a familiar form turned into the path. She 
ran to the door without waiting a summons, her face aglow 
with pleasure. All day she had been on the watch for Rich- 
ard, resolved, if possible, to have the first interview. 
" Well, how are the household ? " he asked, smilingly. 
He did not stoop to kiss her, for he could not bring his 
feelings to the calm basis of fraternal affection. She re- 
marked it, and it gave her a sense of pain. 
" Doing splendidly ! to use a Lily-ism. Philip has taken 
Bel and the baby out, Mr. Chaloner has gone to visit some 
parishioners, and " 
" Why not go up stairs at once, then?" he asked, as she 
drew him towards the study door. 
"Because no one is there. I have so much to tell 
you." 
" Lily ! " and his countenance expressed alarm. 
" She came down stairs to-day. You will think her per- 
 
fectly well when you see her. I have been trying a new 
cure, and succeeded admirably. So sit down and prepare 
yourself for a good long talk." 
He seated himself, a little amused at her manner. She 
drew a footstool close to his side, and appropriating it, 
rested her arm upon his knee. 
" We have been so happy, so very happy ! It seems like 
a dream, or a page out of a fairy book. Mr. Auchester 
came last night I sent for him." 
Richard might' have seen it all at once, as she thought he 
would. Instead, he braced himself for the blow with that 
mechanical stoicism we use in the great straits of life, when 
every faculty is stunned. He looked steadily beyond Daisy's 
face, at the corner of the table. He remembered for years 
afterwards the peculiar conformation of the black scroll-work 
and clusters of flowers on the crimson ground of the cover ; 
and a Church Journal that overhung the edge, so nicely bal- 
anced that he almost expected to see it fall to the floor with 
a breath. The blood curdled at his heart, and impelled him 
to shiver with icy coldness ; but he resisted stoutly. 
She saw his face turning pale. That he could misunder- 
stand her, appeared so utterly impossible that it never crossed 
her mind. She could only explain it as displeasure against 
Mr. Auchester. 
" Richard," she cried, "please don't be angry ! I know 
you do not think it for the best ; but Lily loved him so, and 
he was willing to come to forget all the past. It seems 
so right, so just, to me. Why should two people, who love 
one another dearly, be kept forever apart, and miserable, for 
lack of a few words ? " 
" What was it you said ? " 
Richard pressed his hand to his forehead, and shut his 
eyes, for the whole room whirled round with lightning rapid- 
ity, and he could no longer think. Was it not Daisy ? Surely 
he had not heard correctly. 
"Lily and Mr. Auchester " but Daisy's voice sounded 
far away, fathoms deep under the sea. 
 
She was greatly distressed. With a grave, almost tear- 
iiil earnestness of tone, she made another beginning. 
" I am sorry that you cannot approve. It might not have 
been quite right to take the matter in my hands, but it had 
to be done then, if at all. When you see their perfect hap- 
piness, I think you will forgive me." 
" Their happiness," he repeated, in a confused, absent 
way. " Lily's and Mr. Auchester's ? " 
"Yes." 
He placed his arm around her with a sudden, ungoverna- 
ble impulse. He gazed into her eyes until the crimson tide 
of her heart flashed up and drowned the white out of brow 
and cheek. His again ! O, it was too strange, too sweet ; 
incredible ! The very glory of assurance blinded him. 
Presently he made a strong effort to calm himself, and 
asked, 
" What about Lily ? " 
" It was all my doing. Are you very angry ? " 
" Angry with you ? child, Daisy, as if such a thing 
could ever be ! Tell me the whole story." 
She told it simply, as if she had been a third person, yet 
withal so beautifully, that he listened as to a romance ; all 
the while thinking how wondrously she understood human 
love, and human hearts. 
She brought her story down to the present moment, end- 
ing with, " They are in the drawing-room." 
" Let me think a moment. And they have really resolved 
to be good children. Daisy, how dared you meddle with a 
man like Mr. Auchester ? And am I to go in and give con- 
sent for the second time ? " 
" Yes," with a happy smile. " But O, Dr. Bertrand " 
" What ? " he interrupted, with an amused look. 
"Kichard," she corrected, bashfully, "there is another 
thing I want you to do for my sake." 
" Anything for your sake. On that ground you may 
dictate terms like a tyrant." 
 
" Then," joyfully, " I mean to have just my OTTO way. 
And it's about the marriage. Mr. Auchester doesn't wish to 
give up going to Europe, and he does want to take Lily with 
him. I think it much better than a long engagement." 
" Amen to that," said Richard. " Truth to tell, I'm afraid 
Lily wouldn't be quite safe all that while. And if they do 
love each other, as now there seems no question about it, 
I think the wisest course would be marriage, even at this 
hasty rate." 
" O Richard, you have made me so happy ! " Then she 
clasped her arms around his neck, and kissed him of her own 
sweet accord. 
He held the little arms in their place for many seconds, 
and gave back kisses uncounted. He wanted to tell her the 
perfect rapture in his heart, but he could find no words. 
" And you are not displeased ? " she murmured, her face 
all hidden by his. 
" O, no, no. How could I be, when yon have restored 
Lily to happiness ? Love is such a dear, precious treasure ! 
I am afraid I made a little mistake in the beginning. What 
I intended for carefulness, Lily construed into license. Per- 
haps the wisest course would have been to have relinquished 
all authority in the affair, and delivered her at once into Mr. 
Auchester's keeping. But it's so hard always to do the best 
thing for the circumstances. Lily needed a mother's thought- 
ful care ; " and he sighed a little. 
Daisy went off to announce Richard. Obeying Mr. Au- 
chester's invitation to enter, she caught, in his full, rich 
voice, the last lines of Coleridge's Love, 
" I calmed her fears, and she was calm, 
And told her love with virgin pride ; 
And thus I won my Genevieve, 
My own sweet, smiling bride." 
" After the poets, Daisy," he said, glancing up. 
" And after Daisy, the doctor," she returned "a sugges- 
tive alliteration." 
 
"Dear old Dick! is he here?" and springing up, Lily 
ran into the hall, to be clasped to a heart whose warmth and 
fondness no fault could ever destroy. 
" Dick ! " she began, in a voice that sounded as if it 
came through waves of tears ; and what she could not say 
was lost in kisses. 
" I know all, my darling. God sent Daisy to be an angel 
to us. She always finds the shortest path out to the light." 
" Yes. And I am so happy ! I believe I never knew 
what happiness was until last night. And, Richard, will 
you I mean the trouble was all my fault, and he " 
" Shall have his dear, naughty girl, with my blessing, 
Lily. But one doesn't need two such lessons in a life. I 
can trust you henceforward ? " And he glanced deeply into 
her eyes. 
They filled with tears. " Yes," she answered, quite 
humbly. 
" Now for Ulric." 
Lily was delighted to hear him use Mr. Auchester's Chris- 
tian name. There had always been a fine, indescribable 
formality between the two. 
The gentleman answered for himself, by advancing to 
meet them. A warm color suffused his noble face, as, 
reaching out his hand, he said, in a tone that clearly asked 
a favor, 
" Dr. Bertrand, will you not give me a brother's place in 
your heart, as well as your household ? " 
" Willingly, joyfully ; " and the two hands rested in a olasp 
cordially fraternal. 
" If you can trust me, I hope to redeem the past." 
" And I think Lily understands better what she is doing 
than she did six months ago. We have all made some mis- 
takes about it except Daisy." 
They entered the room again. The manner in which Lily 
clung to Richard touched him deeply. The conversation 
unconsciously fell into a sweet, half sorrowful strain. 
 
Afterwards Richard and Mr. Auchester discussed the 
subject by themselves, and arrived at a most amicable con- 
clusion. 
" I am sorry to go away, on some accounts," Ulric said, 
"and if the position was offered to me now for the first 
time, should hardly accept it. But, besides being a per- 
sonal friend of Hon. Mr. , the opportunity is really too 
fine to be thrown up without just cause. Since Lily is will- 
ing to go, and has a great desire to travel, I think I can 
make it very pleasant for her." 
" It will also be better for you to begin your life away 
from old associations," Richard replied ; and thus consent 
was given for a marriage at their eai'liest convenience. 
" Auchester is a fine fellow," he admitted to Daisy, after- 
wards. " I believe I never did him quite justice before." 
Mr. Auchester concluded to go to New York that evening 
with Richard. He explained to Lily that there must of neces- 
sity be a great deal to do. 
"And I'll write to Alice this very night, and hurry her 
home." 
" O, that would be too bad ! " exclaimed Lily. 
" She would rather come, I know. She would never for- 
give us if we went on by ourselves. Besides, she is a capi- 
tal judge of all feminine matters, and will know just where to 
begin, to make the affair come out straight. You are not 
strong yet, and I can't have you worried with the thousand 
and one things that belong to a wedding." 
" How wise you are ! " Lily rejoined, mischievously. 
" Yes ; or, at least, determined. So you have nothing to 
do but get well and rosy as fast as possible. I shall be up 
every day or evening until you are strong enough to go 
home." 
" I think I could do it now. Or shall I try to-morrow ? " 
" Not until Alice returns. Remember how tired you were 
this morning, and the headaches. I want to show Richard 
what excellent care I can take of you. And now be a good 
child, and obey every word of Daisy's. I appoint her my 
vicegerent." 
Lily said good by. Yet somehow it came very hard. 
" What if I should never see him again, Daisy ? " she said, 
solemnly, trying to keep back some foolish tears. " People 
die suddenly, you know " 
" Since you have both been so near the grave, and lived, 
I think you can trust God for the rest." 
"I will," she answered, rebuked for her momentary 
distrust. 
She went to bed quite early, and soon fell asleep. The 
excitement and exertion had not injured her any, they all 
perceived on the following morning. She tried to sew a 
little, and succeeded very well. 
" I will not be sick a day longer," she said, in a resolute 
tone. " It is clearly indulging in laziness/' 
 
CHAPTER XXXV. 
Mine to the core of the heart, my beauty ! 
Mine all mine, and for love, not duty ; 
Love given willingly, full, and free; 
Love for love's sake, as I love thee. 
Duty, a servant, keeps the key; 
Cut Love, the master, goes in and out 
Of his goodly chambers, with song and shout, 
Constant and happy, merry and free ! 
Miss MULOCK. 
As Mr. Auchester expected, his sister hastened home, 
leaving her tour unfinished. She could not wait a day, but 
went immediately to Kothelan to see Lily, and express her 
delight. Still she was greatly disappointed to think Ulric 
was again going abroad. She could not resist saying, 
" I did so hope he would settle down somewhere in quiet, 
and behave like a reasonable citizen of the United States." 
" I am afraid it is my fault," began Lily, penitently. 
"If I had not " 
" Well, we will forgive you, since you are to pay for the 
mistake by years of exile. I am more than glad to have it 
end even this way, since you have learned how necessary 
you are to each other's happiness. But Ulric wants to start 
just as early in December as he can. So you will have only 
about three weeks in which to prepare." 
" Three weeks ! " said Lily, in dismay. " Why, I believe 
Bel was a whole year making wedding clothes." 
" The sooner the better, my dear, for it will grow colder 
every day. It is a bad season for a sea voyage, too ; but 
since Ulric is so resolutely bent on going, the best thing 
seems to be to go as soon as possible. He quoted Mr. 
 
Rochester to mejaot an hoar before I started : ' Fine clothes, 
and all that, are not worth a fillip.' Still you must have a 
few, I think." 
" I don't know what can be done in that little while," 
Mabel said. 
" O, you'll see how much I can accomplish. I mean to 
be real industrious after this long idleness," rejoined Lily. 
Mrs. Suydam laughed. 
"If you could have heard half the charges Ulric gave me, 
you would not count on doing very much. ' Don't worry 
her with troublesome details,' said he ; ' for as soon as she 
comes home, I shall take her under my wing, and you will 
hardly catch sight of her.' " 
" Somebody must go out shopping, and all that." 
" Ulric may possibly grant you permission to shop, but it 
wouldn't surprise me if he bought out a dry-goods' store at 
auction, and sent it home to you." 
This time it was Lily who laughed. " We will see," she 
said. 
And they did see. The next day Richard took Daisy and 
Lily home. Mrs. Suydam and her brother came over to 
dinner, and afterwards they proceeded to make arrange- 
ments. Ulric insisted that Lily was not strong enough to 
be burdened with so onerous a duty, and that Alice should 
take charge of the trousseau, leaving only the selecting and 
approval to Lily. Richard allowed her carte blanche in the 
matter, glad to have Lily so relieved. Mrs. Suydam's wide 
experience of fashionable life rendered her competent for 
the undertaking. Her energy, and the cheerful manner in 
which she went about everything, were good to behold. 
So the next day there was a grand shopping excursion, 
which included Daisy, Lily, Mrs. Suydam, and, part of the 
time, Mr. Auchester. After a peculiarly lovely shade of 
blue silk had been selected, his interest flagged, however. 
Mrs. Suydam possessed rare delicacy and good judgment. 
She thought they could fin'd all they needed at Stewart's ; 
and therefore Lily was not, dragged about^ the city. While 
she and Daisy went through various departments for minor 
but still necessary articles, the lovers discussed the relative 
beauty of white satin and white silk. 
" I believe I like those soft, heavy silks best," Mr. 
Auchester said. " I don't know which is the more suitable, 
but I do not ever want to see you in anything stiff, that 
gives you a dressed-up look. I dislike it." 
" We'll have the silk, then," was Lily's decision. 
Mrs. Suydain did not think it necessary to purchase more 
than Lily needed at present, for the sake of mere show. 
Her gift was an elegant velvet cloak, at which the child was 
surprised and overjoyed. The whole affair was concluded 
satisfactorily, only Lily whispered to Daisy, " It doesn't 
seein as if I had half enough ; but then Mrs. Suydam never 
makes a parade over anything ; so I suppose it's all right." 
When she had the dresses fitted, Ulric concluded their num- 
ber was legion. 
Mrs. Suydam carried her point about another matter. 
She wanted the wedding to take place from her house, and 
in Trinity Church. 
" Ulric said I was not to insist upon it," she explained to 
Lily, " because he had to hasten the time in such an un- 
ceremonious manner. But as you are to leave immediately, 
this will be the only compliment he can pay his friends. He 
spoke of it first himself, but he was afraid you would not 
quite approve." 
Lily thought it made no difference to her, so long as 
Philip performed the ceremony. Richard would rather have 
given his birdling his blessing in her dear old home, but he 
acquiesced, for he could see that it would be more con- 
venient. And then Mrs. Suydam had taken so much trouble 
was still giving her whole attention to dress-makers and 
little details that would have puzzled Lily sorely. Daisy, 
Mrs. Hall, and the sewing machine made brisk work of it at 
home. There was a continual going back and forth from 
 
city to city. Mr. Auchester was Lily's relentless shadow. 
He would not listen to such a thing as her sewing, although 
she declared if she was so idle the marriage would have to 
be delayed another month. 
Lily's languid state indisposed her for any vigorous men- 
tal exertion ; and so Ulric found his little rebel very tracta- 
ble. She was quite content to leave the guidance of her 
bark in more experienced hands, and drift gently down the 
stream in measureless content. Yet besides this there were 
principle and regard. She had reached that point of affec- 
tion when to inflict pain on one beloved gives the heart a 
pang. Satisfied to be entirely happy, supremacy of will 
tortured her no more with its illusive importance. 
Finding no longer a swift current of opposition to his 
wishes, Ulric Auchester grew unconsciously gentle. As a 
commander resolved upon besieging a fortress, he was stern 
and uncompromising ; but after the capitulation, one found 
him the most clement and considerate of conquerors. Re- 
lying fearlessly upon his generosity, Lily found she gained 
more from him than in the early and unsatisfactory days of 
their engagement. 
" Only," she said, laughingly, to Daisy, " he doesn't want 
me to be too good. He told me a story last night about 
Count and Countess Somebody, I've forgotten the name, 
who were so very amiable and unselfish that each insisted 
on giving up any point under consideration, and was so in- 
tent upon doing just what the other wished, that the result 
was, they could never agree upon pleasures, or journeys, or 
the commonest events of every-day life. Finally they both 
became angry over so much goodness, quarrelled, and 
parted an event we desire to avoid, as it would be exces- 
sively inconvenient when we are in Russian wilds." 
" Siberia is not far off," suggested Daisy, with a mirthful 
gleam in her eyes. 
" Daisy, you do not more than half believe in me. I 
suppose it does seem odd to you that I should find something 
 
better in the world than iny own ' sweet will ; ' but it is even 
so. And the matter that once appeared so difficult to me, 
has resolved itself into the simplest of all elements. I just 
begin to learn what a pleasure it is to yield. I suspect I 
have given you all trouble enough, heretofore." 
Daisy could not forbear kissing the sweet mouth, so ready 
with its concessions. 
Lily astonished Mr. Auchester one day by asking if they 
could not as well embark at Boston. 
" Certainly ; but why ? " and he looked surprised. 
" I'll tell you why, though you must help me keep it a secret. 
We all went to see Robert off poor, dear Robin, who never 
came back. It will remind them so much of that. I want 
everything to be gay and happy up to the latest moment. 
It will be sad enough when it is all over. And therefore I 
want it as little like that parting as we can possibly make it." 
Tears were glittering in her eyes. Touched by her thought- 
fulness, he replied, 
" My darling, it shall be as you wish. I think it a better 
arrangement." 
So he announced that he intended to take Lily to Boston, 
to show her the city. 
" It will not do for her to go abroad without having seen 
a little of her native land. I only wish there was time for 
a more extended tour." 
No one questioned or made any comments. And after 
that, Mr. Auchester kept himself and Lily in the most bril- 
liant spirits. Everything went on auspiciously. November 
was remarkably pleasant ; and although it was rather low- 
ering and cold the last of the month, December came in 
brightly. Mrs. Suydam was untiring, yet never displayed a 
sign of fatigue or trouble. When the dresses were done, she 
packed them, at least, all those Lily would not be likely to 
want soon. Having travelled much herself, she knew just 
what was needed, and the best disposition to make of every 
article. And last of all the wedding dress was finished ; the 
veil and wreath came home, and some elegant presents were 
sent in that quite astounded Lily. Nothing remained but 
the ceremony' 
" If it will only be clear ! " she said, as she laid her head 
on the pillow in her own room at home the last time she 
was to be there as Lily Bertrand ! Whether she should ever 
come again, God only knew. She trembled at the thought 
of her new life, yet she could not wish it different. Love 
with her was at full tide. Fear was cast out. She cried 
humbly to God that his presence might go with her to 
strengthen and support. 
The morning was most beautiful a clear, crisp air ; a 
sky of the peculiar frosty blue, seen only on the finest of 
winter days ; and a sun whose splendor had never been ex- 
ceeded. Lily was wild with delight. Before breakfast she 
ran from room to room, saying good by to nooks and cor- 
ners that held for her dear memories, both pleasant and sad. 
Here mamma's face seemed to gleam out a sweet, yet in- 
distinct vision, something that brought a waft of heaven and 
the angels. And dear, dear papa ! She drew a long, quiv- 
ering breath. He had carried them up stairs on his broad 
shoulders, played hide-and-seek with them through rooms 
and halls. Here they had all laughed with him on that fatal 
evening.. In the room below they had kissed him for the 
last time the last time ! and then her tears fell fast in- 
deed. A little distance above here, in the cemetery, he lay 
asleep, waiting for the dawn of the resurrection ; beside 
him, baby Charlie a dream, a strand of Daisy's life woven 
in with theirs. Here they had laughed and frolicked with 
Robert ; here Mabel's quiet girlhood had passed, blessed with 
all that makes life so rich to enjoy. And her own ! O, the 
dear old home ! the happy household, dividing, straying off 
into the keeping of others! 
She came to the table with a smiling countenance. Her 
resolute will stood her in good stead this day. She kept 
them all merry by the force of her own gay spirits, fullj 
resolved to have her day shadowed by no gloom. Arcluo 
had returned the night before. After the meal they started 
for New York. % 
Mr. Auchester met them at the ferry with the family car- 
riage. As they were riding up, he glanced at his watch, and 
whispered to Lily, " It is ten. Only three hours more ; " 
which called a bright color to her face. 
At Mrs. Suydam's they were greeted by the Rothelan 
household. Little Alice dressed in her beautiful christening 
robe to do honor to aunt Lily's bridal ; Bel, sweet and fair, 
in her lavender-colored silk ; Philip, in a sort of merry 
mood, amusing himself by quoting Katharine and Petruchio 
to the blushing couple. 
There was no break or awkwardness anywhere. Every- 
body's apparel, to gloves and handkerchief, was in the most 
perfect order, and readily found. There was no bustle, no 
disorder, and plenty of time. Indeed, too much, Mr. Au- 
chester thought. The moments lingered unconscionably. 
At length the dressing began. Lily's hair, always so 
beautiful, needed no more artistic hands than Daisy's. The 
golden ringlets rippled in their silken sheen and softness like 
a summer sunbeam. And then came the lovely white silk, 
with its ample, flowing skirt and train, its point lace ; the 
veil, whose filmy folds seemed like a soft cloud, toning down 
her dazzling radiance, and shutting within the purity and 
beauty of girlhood. A wreath of orange blossoms and starry 
jasmine crowned her. 
There had previously been a little discussion about Daisy. 
Since her baby's death she had worn mourning steadily. 
Richard, in his perplexity, had applied to Mrs. Suydam. 
" A deep purple silk will be the prettiest and most suit- 
able for her," the lady answered readily. " There will be 
nothing in the color to disturb her. I think she will not 
object." 
The dress had been a gift from Richard. Mrs. Suydam 
managed the rest. A tiny ruche of illusion at the neck and 
 
wrists, and Daisy was lovely indeed a pleasing contrast 
to the tall, elegant women fluttering about the apartment. 
Lily went down to the library to be inspected by Mr. Au- 
chester and Richard. She flushed a little as she thought of 
the night of the party, when Ulric first twined flowers in her 
hair, and asked her not to waltz with any one but him. 
Both gentlemen gazed at her in admiration. Indeed, it 
was impossible to do otherwise. 
" The carriages ! " announced Tessy, running through the 
hall, bright and childish in her pink silk, and important with 
the thought of holding Lily's bouquet during the ceremony. 
Lily put her hands upon Richard's shoulders. Her lips 
moved, but no sound came ; her eyes sparkled with some- 
thing beside their own lustrousness. 
" I know all," he said, gently. " And whatever of pain 
there may have been in the past, I want you to remember, 
when you are far away in your new home, that you have 
given me much joy, much comfort. And in our dear fa- 
ther's place, whose duties I have often failed to perform 
rightly, I say, God bless you, my darling, forevermore. May 
His face shine upon you continually." 
" Dick ! tender and true. Papa could have been no 
more patient could have loved me no better." 
He kissed away the tears ready to fall. 
The whole party came trooping down the wide stairs. Mr. 
Suydam gave orders in his courteous fashion, saw that the 
ladies were well wrapped in shawls, and marshalled them to 
the carriages. A niece of his, hardly second to Lily in 
beauty, was to be bridesmaid. 
" It's a shame to cover up so much white glory," Ulrio 
said, with a laugh ; " but it won't do to run the risk of hav- 
ing you shiver with the cold, or look like a ghost." 
They then started. The midday sunshine transfigured the 
winter scene, and imparted a certain warmth to the atmos- 
phere. Arriving at the church, the party lingered a few sec- 
onds to disrobe, and pass under Mrs. Suydam's watchful eye. 
Ulric bent over Lily until cheek and lip touched. 
" The last kiss of girlhood," he said. 
It brought a bright flush to her face, whose rosy hue 
hardly died away during the ceremony. She was amazed to 
find herself so tranquil, listening, answering with solemn 
joy, being given away by Richard, and feeling the ring as it 
slipped to its place on her finger her golden chain, the 
signet of another's proprietorship. 
Their pride in Lily was certainly very pardonable. She 
was indeed most exquisitely beautiful as she stood there, 
calm, unconscious of self, yet so thoroughly human and wo- 
manly. Mrs. Suydam was glad to show her to her own and 
Ulric's friends, dowered in her own right with a peerless 
loveliness no gold could ever buy. And the crowd who 
gazed felt its wondrous power. 
Ulric and Lily knelt to receive the blessing, while the rest 
stood. After this Mr. Chaloner's hands were folded over 
both heads, and his voice, ripe to tremulousness with age, 
repeated that most beautiful and tender of all benedictions : 
" The Lord bless thee and keep thee ; the Lord make his 
face to shine upon thee, and be gracious unto thee ; the 
Lord lift up his countenance upon thee, and give thee peace, 
both now and evermore." 
Before they rose Ulric kissed her. Her husband's first 
kiss ! Lilian Bertrand's seventeen years of girlhood were 
ended ; Lilian Auchester's new life begun. They walked 
slowly out of church in a spirit of great calm and happiness, 
she trustful, clinging ; he with a certain mdnly grandeur 
and dignity that enhanced the beauty of his face and figure. 
Mrs. Suydam, with her characteristic delicacy, had for- 
borne to invite even her most intimate friends to the house. 
Her own as well as her husband's hospitality was of that 
high order which never leaves a sense of obligation. And 
on this last day she gave up the house to them with so cor- 
dial a sweetness that each one felt entirely at home. So 
there was a joyous season of kisses and congratulations 
 
after their return. All wanted a special look at Lily, and 
she had to stand with Mr. Auchester as she did in the church. 
"After all," said Tessy, gravely, glancing at Lily, "I 
think he is fully as handsome as you ; " which frankness was 
greeted with a peal of laughter. 
" Bravo ! " returned Ulric. " That is the first compliment 
I have had, after all my efforts to render myself elegant as 
possible. Tessy, if his High Mightiness, Count Petropo- 
loswatoski is still unmarried, I will whisper a private word 
in his ear, and save him for you." 
" I won't have such a name ! " was the child's energetic 
rejoinder. 
A summons to luncheon interrupted them. Lily took off 
her veil, and went to the table in her wedding dress, to the 
great delight of everybody. They had a grand, enjoyable 
time. Mr. Suydam, as host, was admirable. He drank 
Lily's health, and showered upon them both wishes grave, 
gay, and not a few whose comicality elicited much mirth. 
From the ladies Ulric came in for his full share. 
A little time ^o don travelling attire, to interchange a few 
of those tender, sisterly words so hard to utter when the 
heart is full to overflowing. Yet they could hardly realize 
that Lily was going away for years. It seemed as if in a 
few weeks she must come back to them. 
A good by to Ann, Martin, and Mrs. Hall, who had 
come over to witness the wedding. The rest went to the 
depot at Twenty-seventh Street. And there Ulric found a 
crowd of literary friends, who had stolen a march upon him 
friends who shook hands in a heartfelt fashion, breathed 
wishes that would linger like benisons when the blue ocean 
rolled between them. They glanced at the bride, in her 
dress of rich, warm brown, not less elegant or graceful than 
when in church, her beautiful face framed in with white and 
scarlet, her golden ringlets gleaming with every movement. 
Her smiles and responses were enchanting. And both were 
blessed with a " God speed" from generous hearts. 
Lily nodded from the car window, bright and radiant, as 
they steamed slowly out of the depot. But the face she 
turned to her husband was flooded with a rain of tears. 
" And now," exclaimed Philip, when they had returned 
to the house, " nothing remains but for us to drink skal to 
each other, and depart in peace. Dear, winsome Lily ! 
How we shall all miss her ! And yet it is a marriage after my 
own heart. The right man and the right woman, in spite 
of trouble and perplexity. Richard, my dear fellow, your 
family is thinning out." 
" Yes." Both look and tone were a trifle sorrowful. 
" And since we have lost our beautiful Lily," said Mr. 
Suydam, " I shall lay claim upon this little girl. The chil- 
dren are wild to have her visit them, and I'll promise no
dangerous young man shall fall in her way." 
