

 

"It is strange that should have been so soon," said Dan. 
" One wonld think the story of the garden of Eden would 
have kept them straight a little longer." 

" It did not," said unde Sam. " Let us follow the record, 
and we shall find one reason why. Adam lived nine hundred 
and thirty years, and then died. Then at last the sentence, 
' dust to dust,' was fulfilled upon him. The golden bowl 
was broken after it had held the wine of life almost a 
thousand years. Let us see how the world was then. Seth 
was living yet, and all of his seven descendants mentioned 
in this list before Noah. It was seven hundred years since 
men had separated openly into two parties, the servants of 
God being known as distinct from the others. Enoch was 
prophesying that the Lord would come ' to execute judgment upon all, and to convince all that were ungodly among 
them of all their ungodly deeds which they had ungodly 
committed, and of all their hard speeches which ungodly 
sinners had spoken against him.' You see the world was 
becoming ready for the deluge. It was two or three hundred 
years already since Tubal Cain had found out how to work 
copper and iron to such advantage ; it was more than that 
since people had begun to live in defended places. Arts and 
manufactures, and cultivation and traffic, were going on 
with swift strides, and had reached a very great proficiency, 
and with long life and great strength men were pushing 
everything forward." 

" I always fancied they did not know much in those days," 
said Dan. 

" Why, if men learn so much and do so much in seventy 
years," said my uncle, " what would they do in seven 
hundred ? Very likely Tubal Cain was yet living and carrying on his manufactures, at the time when Adam died. 
Now-a-days a man makes some discovery or improvement 
and dies often before he can see its full results. All he can 
do for who comes after him is to put his knowledge in a 
book But in those days a man could tell and show his 
successors what he had done — watch their improvements, 
and go on with his own for hundreds and hundreds of years. 



The world must have moved fearfully fast in those times. 
If Roger Bacon could have lived on, some Fulton would have 
started up to verify his ideas about steam-power long before 
this day." 

" But they had so little to begin with,' said Liph. 

"No they hadn't," said uncle Sam. "It wasn't little. 
Adam had a great deal of knowledge to begin with, a first- 
rate intelligence, and perfection of strength and health. 
Whfat he knew, his sons for many hundreds of years had 
him to tell them. Eemember that He did not die at 
seventy years old. Why, my boy, when Tubal Cain began to 
work, Adam was five hundred years old. Think what must 
have been known before that time. Tubal Cain worked in 
copper and iron. Where did he get copper and iron to work 
with?" 

" I don't know, sir ; I suppose he found them." 

" Where is iron found ? do you know ? It is almost never 
found in the form of pure iron. We get it in the form of 
an oxide or a carburet ; that is, changed by its combination 
with some other substances ; and then buried in beds of 
day among coal seams, or locked up in rocks of granite or 
limestone. It is iron ore that we find in nature, and that 
not without taking terrible pains for it. Copper is sometimes 
found pure, but not commonly ; that, too, is in the form of 
ores of different sorts; and for both copper and iron we 
must dig deep and painfully ; me must blast the rocks, or 
hew them out. Indeed, how the ores were ever first discovered, and their hidden treasures made known, is a wonder 
and mystery to me." 

" I never thought of that." said Liph. 

" And when the ores are found and quarried, have you any 
notion of the processes that are necessary to separate the 
metal  Iron ore is first roasted ; that is, subjected to a 
great burning in layers with coal; as a preparation for smelting. Then it is put in a furnace and brought to fusing heat, 
that the metal may run oft The furnaces are of very peculiar construction too. And the heat that would melt the 
metal would not melt the rocky substance with which it is 



joined ; to make this flow, and disengage the iron, some other 
substance must be mixed with the mass, different of course 
in the cases of different ores ; and here knowledge of chemistry is required, as well as skill in ores. So see what elaborate, delicate, and difficult processes must have been gone 
through before Tubal Cain could have had a single pig of 
iron to place on his anvil, or in his refining laboratory. For 
this coarse iron is very far yet from steel." 

"Is copper as difficult to manage ?"  

"It is not so hard to find. I don't know about the management I should think it was more difficult, as the manufacture is carried on now. But the fact is, that iron has been 
the last metal for nations to discover, and one of the most 
refractory to reduce to order. Nations have had all other 
metals in use before they got hold of this. In old times 
copper was often its substitute; they had the art of hardening 
it so as to make it do what we cannot do without iron. Tubal 
Cain had iron and copper both." 
" Where do you suppose men first got fire, uncle Sam ?" 
" The Moslem tradition is, that the angel Gabriel taught 
Adam and Eve how to make bread. When they had built 
an oven as he showed them how, then, the story runs, he 
brought fire from the infernal regions for heating it ; but on 
the way the angel stopped to wash this fire seventy times in 
the sea, as otherwise it would have burnt up the earth, instead 
of heating the oven." 
" But what do you think, uncle Sam?"
" Tiny, I know as little as you do. However, I confess I 
think it is likely that the use of fire was one of the things 
taught them from heaven. They had no steel to strike fire 
with flint ; and they could not have got it by rubbing two 
dry pieces of wood together, as savages do, because till they 
knew it they would not seek it. I think the Lord gave it 
them. Lightning might have kindled it in a dry tree — or 
imperfectly cured hay might have blazed out in the stack, as 
happens now sometimes; but even then, unless taught, I 
think men would have been only frightened, or in wonder at 
the sight — not made wiser. We know there have been people 



who had not the use of fire, and never knew it till it was 
brought to them. It was so in the Phillippine and Canary 
Islands — they did not know it before Europeans came there. 
Savage tribes exist in Africa and America who do not know 
the use of fire, and eat their meat raw. In another place, the 
Mariana Isles, I remember, when the people first saw fire they 
thought it was a wild beast feeding on the wood ; and that 
the creature's breath burnt them. It is doubtful, I think, 
whether any people would or could find out the use of fire 
for themselves.'' 

" Then do you think they could ever have had it ? How 
could they have lost such a thing, uncle Sam ?" 

"As they lost better things, Liph. Coming to a warm 
region, where fruits ripened easily, and they had not war or 
trade to stir them up, a people without religion would sink 
down, down, into indolence and ignorance and vice, growing more and more animal, until they came to the condition 
of the Hottentots. Nations without the knowledge of God 
can lose everything. But to go back ; if the world had got 
so far by Tubal Cain's time, what must it not have done in 
a thousand years more, when every clever man lived on 
hundreds of years to carry forward his discoveries and improvements?" 

" I would have liked to live in those times," said Laph. 

" No, you wouldn't," said uncle Sam. " There were giants 
in the earth in those days ; and as they were wicked giants, 
of course they oppressed the weaker people. You would not 
have had a good time, unless you had been a giant too." 

"But it was grand to live so long," said Liph. 

" In a wicked world ? No. For wickedness went on with 
great strides, for the same reason that knowledge and arts 
did ; long life gave people a great chance to do mischief, 
and made them feel secure in it In spite of the fact that 
Adam was living, and could tell them all his story ; though 
Cain carried about the mark of God's curse upon him ; 
though Enoch preached and Noah prophesied— what did all 
that matter to people who had a thousand years to live ? 
So they went their own way, and lived lives of violence and 



 

selfishness, until God saw that the wickedness of man was 
great in the earth, and that every imagination of the thoughts 
of his heart was only evil continually. And it repented the 
Lord that he had made man on the earth, and it grieved 
him at his heart. And the Lord said, I will destroy man 
whom I have created from the face of the earth, both man, 
and beast, and the creeping thing, and the fowls of the air.' " 

" Why must they be killed, uncle Sam ?" 

" The whole place was so foul. Tiny, the Lord would wash 
it all away, and make a new world for a new family." 

" I should think Adam would have been glad to shut his 
eyes upon it," said my grandmother. 

" I have no doubt he was. His children were bom in his 
likeness, and his heart must have been bitter within him 
when he saw what sort of a likeness it was. Let us hope he 
had the comfort of knowing that ' as in Adam all die, even 
80 in Christ shall all be made alive.' " 

" What does that mean, uncle Sam ? " 

" It means this, Tiny. That Adam stood as the father of 
all mankind, and by sinning drew down a curse upon them ; 
and that Jesus stood as the Saviour of all mankind, and by 
doing lifted the curse off. Life is bought for everybody, 
unless they persist in going on to sin ; if they do, there remaineth no more sacrifice for them." 

" Uncle Sam," I said, " I guess Adam knew it" 

" I think he did. Tiny. And in this record of him and 
Seth's children, which tells how long he lived, and when 
each died, there is a beautiful account given of two among 
them. Enoch 'walked with God' — and so did Noah. In 
the midst of all the wickedness and confusion around them, 
those two men walked mith God." 

" How is that, uncle Sam ? " said I, when all the others 
were silent. 

" How is it when you and I go into the forest together ? " 

" Why, you carry me in your arms," I said. 

" Jesus carries the lambs in His bosom," said uncle Sam, 
gravely. "But how is it when a servant walks with his 
master ?" 
 

" Why, lie keeps near him, and watches to see what his 
master wants him to do." 

" ' As the eyes of servants look unto tbe hand of their 
masters, and as the eyes of a maiden unto the hand of her 
mistress, so our eyes wait upon the Lord our God.' And 
the Lord says, ' I will guide thee with mine eye. But can 
two walk together unless they be agreed?" 

"No, uncle Sam." 

"Then, if we walk with God, we must love what He loves, 
and hate what He hates, and be ready to do the work He 
wants done. We shall say — ' I have set the Lord alway before me ; because he is at my right hand, I shall not be 
moved.' And God will say, 'I tbe Lord thy God will hold 
thy right hand, saying unto thee. Fear not ; I will help thee. 
When thou passest through the waters, I will be with thee, 
and through the rivers, they shall not overflow thee : when 
thouwalkest through the fire, thou shalt not be burned; 
neither shall the flame kindle upon thee.' " 

Uncle Sam stopped speaking, and they were all silent. I 
thought I would like to walk so with God, and I wished 
God would walk with me ; but it seemed so wonderful and 
great, I could hardly understand it. 

" So I suppose the Lord was with His servant in those 
bad old times ; and Enoch had this testimony, that he 
pleased God ; and then — he was not ; for God took him." 

"Didn't he die?" 

" No, Tiny ; he went to heaven without dying. He and 
Elijah — those two, of all the world." 

" Why should they, those two particularly ? " Daniel asked. 

"Yes ; I suppose other people have been as good as they ?' 
said Ldph. 

"I cannot tell," said uncle Sam. "Only this we know: 
that those two stood almost alone for God in the midst of a 
wicked world ; preached and strove and fought for God, 
with wonderful faith, when everybody else went the other 
way ; and how hard it is, boys, to go alone against all the 
world, you will never know till you try. Three hundred 
years Enoch did it ; and then the truth of those words was 





 

proved — " He that loseth his life for my sake shall find it.' 
Enoch was gone ; he was not found, because God had translated him. All that his friends knew was that he was gone. 
He had not been sick ; he had not died ; God had taken 
him straight home." 

" He didn't live so long as the others ? " said Liph. 

" I don't know what you call living," said uncle Sam. " He 
never died — and he is living yet" 

" I mean he wasn't so long in this world," said liph. 

" He was three hundred and sixty-five years." 

"How long was that before the flood, uncle Sam ? " 

"Enoch was the father of Methuselah, and Methuselah was 
Noah's grandfather. Let me see — it was just six hundred 
and sixty-nine years from Enoch's death to the deluge ; and 
by that time there was only one good man left in the world- 
Boys and girls— it is time for your grandmother to go to the 
house and take her afternoon nap." 

" O uncle Sam," I said, " won't you tell us about Noah ? " 

" Then you will want me to go on and tell you about 
Abraham." 

" I wish you would, uncle Sam." 

" I say, let 's go straight on," said liph. 

" I'll go straight, if I go at all," said uncle Sam. " Well, I 
don't know but it would be as good a thing as we could do. 
I 'm agreed for my part." 

" Hurrah, for the Deluge ! " said Daniel. 

" Uncle Sam, you are very good ! " said I. 

" Let us all be as good as we can, Tiny," 



Skpt. a— NOAH AND THE FLOOD. 

It was in the peace of a Sunday evening that we had our 
talk about the flood. Of course, we had not dined out that 
day. Evening came, and we were all gathered in the old 
tumble-down porch, which just held us ; and we were enjoying the stillness and the sweetness and the light. For a 
great fragrance came out from the firs and pines in the 
forest, and the sun was throwing golden lances through the 
trees. 

" Couldn't we have Noah ? " said Daniel, softly. 

" Are we coming down the line of the Agesr said my uncle, 
with a smile. 

" It would be as good a thing as you could do,'' said my 
grandmother. "Tell the children what you know." 

" I do not know a great deal," said my uncle ; " I should 
have to read up. But I can tell them what I have seen." 

" And you have seen almost everything, uncle Sam," I 
said. 

" Not the ark," said my uncle ; " though I have seen the 
mountain where people said the pieces of the ark were left 
But let us begin a little further back. 

"Sixty-nine years after Enoch went up to heaven, a little 
baby was bom into the world, whom his father called 
'Comfort.' Lamech had somehow found the world a weary 
place ; and when this child was born, its father's heart 
hoped to find rest in it. ' This same shall comfort us concerning our work,' he said ; concerning our work and toil 
of our hands, because of the ground which the Lord hath 
cursed.' That name is what many parents have given their 
babies, but not all with such good reason. I suppose the 
world was growing a hard place to live in, his

heart getting faint. How little lie guessed what work that 
baby ' Comfort ' would live to do !" 

"He lived to do his father's heart good for five hundred 
and ninety-five years, and then Lamech died. Shem, Ham, 
and Japheth were born ; the eldest of them was ninety-five 
years old ; it was five years before the flood ; and the ark 
was, I suppose, nearly finished. Old Methuselah was lingering on to his last days, and Noah was preaching the judgment 
to come ; and nobody heeded him." 

" How long was the ark building, nuclei " 

" I cannot say, Tiny. Some people think it was a hundred 
and twenty years, and that so long was the time God gave 
the world for repentance, — have you got your Bibles ? — look 
at the third verse of the sixth chapter. At any rate it must 
have been a good while ; for the apostle Peter speaks of the 
time ' when once the long-suffering of God waited in the days 
of Noah, while the ark was arpreparing'— and we know the 
patience and long-suffering of God are very great. It is 
never a little time that He waits for sinners to come back to 
Him. But the world had grown so bad then that the Bible 
says it 'grieved' the Lord, and He could not bear the people 
whom He had made. But Noah found grace in the eyes of 
the Lord. He is the third example given in the Bible of the 
great things that faith can do." 

" I do not understand what he did that was so very great," 
said my brother Liph. 

" By faith Noah, being warned of God of thuigs not seen 
as yet, moved with fear, prepared an ark, to the saving of his 
house.' " 

"Well, I should think so he would," said Dan. "So 
would L" 

" And you would come into it when it was prepared ?" 

"Certainly." 

"Well, when you have tried," said my uncle, "then you 
will know what it is, to believe and declare publicly what no 
one else in the world believes. But Noah did more than 
that. You all know the story, — and yet you don't know it. 
Imagine that you were back in those times, a year or so 




"We were all gathered in the old tumble-down porch." 

  

before the flood came ; and thafc there, in a green meadow, 
yon saw an immense building, like neither a house nor a 
ship, but bigger than the largest ship that ever floated. It 
is far away from the sea — not even a river within some distance of it. You ask what that thing is ? ' Oh, that,' you are 
told, ' is Noah's folly ; have you never heard of it ? he is a 
crazy fool, whose mind is overset with the idea that he is 
going some day to be drowned ; and for a hundred years he 
has been building a boat to swim in. Everybody has seen it, 
from a hundred miles round, and everybody has heard him 
talk about it. He is clean mad— a fool— he can talk of 
nothing else. He declares there is a flood coming to 
swallow us all up ; where does he think the water is going 
to come from?' This was what Noah had to face, for all 
that time the ark was a-building. It is easy to think there is 
a storm coming when you see a cloud, and it is easy to 
believe and act as everybody around you does. But it is the 
sign of great faith or great wisdom to be far in advance of 
the age in which you live. So you think you would have 
gone into the ark ? " 

"Why, yes, sir," Dan answered, rather doubtfully. But 
my uncle went on. 

The day came at last when all was ready, and Noah and 
his family went into their place of shelter. And the Lord 
shut him in. And then, we know how it was around them. 
They, no doubt, were in great sorrow and fear and awe, for 
that which was coming upon them and their poor neighbours; 
waiting with beating hearts for the flrst signs of the calamity; but outside, people were gay; they feared nothing. 
'The heavens were of old,' they thought, 'and the earth 
standing out of the water and in the water;' why should 
they fear any change? 'They did eat, they drank, they 
married wives, they were given in marriage, until the day 
that Noah entered into the ark, and the flood came and 
destroyed them all.' But still, after Noah had gone into the 
ark, there was a dreadful seven days of waiting. All sunny 
and bright and quiet, the whole earth, as if nothing bad could 
happen ; and everybody gay and busy and careless. And 


then the rain came, and the fountains of the great deep were 
broken up." 

" What does that mean, uncle ? " 

" The sea was let in upon the land." 

"How, sir?" 

" I do not know ; perhaps by the surface of the land being 
depressed, as happens to us now and then on a small scale. 
All that the inhabitants of the land would know, would be 
that the sea was flowing in and kept flowing in at a terrible 
rate, as if the tide would never cease rising. The rivers were 
soon flooded, of course, with the great rain, and the skies 
seemed whole water; but besides this came that terrible 
tide of the sea, flowing in and in, and rising higher and 
higher. Then the thought of Noah's prophecy would have 
come on them at last as a death-peaL" 

" It must have been a terrible time for Noah ! " said my 
grandmother. "It always struck me as a merciful thing 
that there was no window in the ark through which he 
could look out." 

" And it was a significant thing," said my uncle, " that the 
Lord shut him in. He could not open the door." 

" But there was a window, uncle Sam," said Priscilla. 

" Not one that anybody could look out of, to see anything 
but the sky. It was in the top of the ark somewhere. The 
ark was not a ship ; it was more like a great floating chest ; 
only meant to float safely, not to sail. Noah's first tidings 
how deep the waters were must have been when he felt the 
ark moving upon them." 

"Then he knew that everybody was killed, of the people 
outside," I said. 

" No, Tiny, not then. The ark must have been built on 
low ground, where materials could be brought easily ; and it 
would be lifted up and go on the face of the waters before 
they had yet reached the higher country. People that could 
would flee to the mountains. Noah would know nothing 
about all that Only, for forty days it rained; and then the 
waters lifted up the ark. And then, how deep they grew, 
those within the ark could not tell But the sea kept coming 


in, a ceaseless dreadful tide that never ebbed, nntil height 
after height was reached, and at last all the tops of the high 
hills were covered ; and the water was about twenty-six 
feet over theuL From that point they began to abate. God 
made a wind to pass over the earth, and the waters were 
assuaged. But Noah could know nothing about it, till he 
felt the ark strike ground under him. That happened just 
five months after the rain began. Five weary, strange 
months they must have been; of rain and darkness and 
loneliness." 

'' And then he sent out the raven and the dove." 

"Why, no, Tiny ; not yet. There was no land to be seen 
yet. The ark lay deep in the water, you must remember ; 
the bottom of it would feel ground a good way down. Besides, the ark must have rested on a high peak of land ; for 
it was nigh two months and a half after that before the tops 
of the mountains were seen. Those were the mountains of 
Ararat.'' 

" You have been there, haven't you, uncle Sam ?" 

" Yes. I have been there." 

" And have you seen the mountain where the ark rested?" 

"Tiny, I do not know. I have seen the mountain where, 
in old times, and now, for that matter, people say the ark 
rested. Indeed, they will have it that remains of the old 
building are up there yet." 

" Didn't you go up to see ?" 

"Prissy, I did not I have climbed so many steep places 
in my time, that I concluded to let this one alone. It is 
scarcely possible to reach the top ; sometimes the mountain 
is covered with snow down to its very base ; and in the best 
of times the snow reaches four thousand feet from the summit. The long region of cold makes it next to impossible to 
get to the top, though the thing has been done. But it is 
one of the most magnificent mountains in the world. As 
you come from the north, and see it from the plain through 
which the river Araxes runs, it is one of the grandest things 
I ever saw. Up, fourteen thousand feet from the plain, 
with lesser mountains thrown around its base as if to make 



 

a pedestal for it, its two snowy heads shining and glittering 
with sunlight, away up into the blue heaven — it is as beautiful as such a thing can be. It is worthy to have been the 
resting-place of the ark ; and I felt like taking off my hat 
when I looked at it. Somebody has said it seems ' as if the 
hugest mountains of the world had been piled upon each 
other to form this sublime immensity of earth and rock and 
snow.' " 

" I wish you had gone up, uncle Sam," I said. 

"To see the bits of the arki I don't believe they are 
there. Tiny ; but I can tell you there is a town in that region, 
some leagues off, said to be one of the oldest towns in the 
world, that is called, Nak-schivan; and nak means 'ship,' and 
schivan means ' stopped,' or ' settled.' The old tradition is, 
that Noah settled there when he came out of the ark. Certainly he could not have stayed up on Mount Ararat long. 
And now I must tell you of the country of Ararat, and what 
a beautiful place it was for the ark to rest. 

" Boys, one of you go into the house and bring out the 
big atlas. We have good light yet. Now open it here on 
the floor, where you can all see. Now you see, here is the 
Caspian, — here is the Persian Gulf, — here is the Mediterranean, — and here is the Black Sea, or the Euxine. This 
part of Asia, a great deal of it, is very flat. Here, in the 
midst between these great waters, out of this vast region of 
plains, rises an island of rock, as somebody has described it 
well ; a little country of high lands, having a level about 
seven thousand feet above the surrounding plain. This is 
called Armenia now, this hilly country ; that is, Har-minni 
— the mountains of Minni From this table-land, some six 
or seven thousand feet high, springs up the mountain peak 
of Ararat, and other mountain peaks ; and on some one of 
them certainly, if not on that one, the ark rested. This was 
a grand centre for the new beginning of the human race ; the 
passes and ascents to this table-land are easy ; and by the 
valleys of the four rivers that spring there, and by the great 
waters of these gulfs and seas, men could spread away, as 
they did when they wanted room, to re-people the earth." 


" What four rivers, uncle Sam ? " I said. 

" Here, Tiny, is one ; the Araxes, emptying into the Caspian Sea. On the other side, here is the Acampsis, running 
away, which it does, very fast, into the Black Sea. Now, 
between these — you see — rises that great river, the river 
Euphrates, and takes its long course down through the lower 
plains, to the Persian Gulf. And a little east of it runs the 
Tigris, another great river, beginning up there in the heart 
of Armenia, and joining the Euphrates a little way from its 
mouth. Now, wherever there is a river, generally speaking, 
there is a valley through which it flows ; here are four rivers, 
and in the valleys of those rivers some of the greatest nations 
of old time had their homes. You see the mountains of 
Ararat were a grand starting-point for men that were going 
out to people the world. 

"By the mountains of Ararat, I do not mean simply that 
one great mountain, the 'Finger-mountain,' as it is called, 
because it sits all alone in its greatness pointing up into 
heaven ; but I mean all these hills that spring from the high 
table-lands of Armenia, and the table-land itself. Here, west 
of Ararat, runs one range ; and a little below it is another ; 
both lying east and west This lowest is the south border 
of Armenia ; and these are called the mountains of Koordistan now." 

" Isn't it a cold country, sir ? " asked Dan. 

"Yes, the climate is sharp enough in winter ; and the 
rammers are short and hot. It begins to freeze hard at 
night early in September ; and warm weather does not set in 
till May. In April you will find the plains down here between the Euphrates and the Tigris all scorched up with the 
heat ; and on the borders of the Black Sea I have left wild 
azalea and rhododendron in bloom, — got up to the Armenian 
plateau and found it all white with snow." 

" I hope Noah did not come out of the ark in snow time" 
said Pnscilla. 

" I always think it must have been in spring," said my 
micle, "when vegetation makes such a quick burst into 
greenness. The son does its work very fast up there who


 

it begins ; and it is not such a barren place as you wonld 
think. There are no trees, indeed, on the Armenian table
-land ; but the grass and herbage spring luxuriantly, and 
furnish pasture for myriads of cattle. There the Koords 
feed their flocks at the present day ; even as in old time the 
great production of Armenia was horses and mules ; they 
were the wealth of the country. But besides the rich pastures of the high land, the valleys grow the grape well ; and 
wheat and barley ripen at much greater heights than they 
will on the mountains of Europe ; the vine ripens its fruit 
nearly twice as high as it can be found on the Alps ; and in 
the south valleys I have found mulberries and figs, peaches, 
olives, pomegranates, walnuts, and grapes, all growing together, and Indian com and cotton ripening, and oleanders 
in bloom, and other flowers among the grass. You need not 
pity the people, as far as that goes." 

" But Noah came out upon the cold part of the country," 
I said. 

" Not so very cold, if it was May. What a coming out 
it must have been for those eight people ! A whole year 
they had been shut up in the ark, feeding their extensive 
collection of animals; able to hear nothing, unless they 
could hear the rain, and the wind, and the sound of waves ; 
and able to see nothing, out of the ark, except they looked 
up through their skylight to the cloudy sky. I suppose 
they had the sunshine, too, in time. But they must have 
been weary, thinking of the desolation outside." 

" I should think the rain would have come in through the 
skylight," said Liph, " if it was a skylight." 

"Which makes me think," said my uncle, "that their window had glass in it. I think it is very likely. No doubt 
many inventions had been found out by men before the 
flood which were lost then, when people had to begin all 
over again. However, at any rate, they could see nothing 
except through the window. And there were first the terrible 
days of storm and darkness ; and then the days of patient 
waiting, while the ark went upon the face of the waters. 
Them, after five months and a half the ark rested. But still 



Hoah waited; there was nothing for him outside, he knew. 
Two months and a half longer, and the tops of the mountains were seen. Noah was too high up to see them from his 
window. Forty days more he waited ; then he let go a 
raven out of the window, and a dove. The dove came back, 
80 he knew there was no place for her yet." 

"Why did not the raven come back, uncle Sam ?" 

"The raven is an unclean bird, Tiny ; it feeds on decaying 
flesh ; and there was too terrible provision for her, floating 
about and stranded on the rocks. The waters were on the 
face of the whole earth yet, all except the higher points. 
Noah waited till the next seventh day, and tried the dove 
again. All day she was gone ; at evening she came back 
to the window, and in her mouth was a green olive leaf 
pluckt oS. How good that little green leaf must have looked 
to the weary dwellers in the ark! How they must have 
thanked Grod over it ! It was like a bit of home again." 

"Uncle Sam, if there had not been glass in the window, 
how could Noah have seen the dove when she came back?" 

"Very true, Tiny." 

" Why, the window might have been open," said liph. 

"Then the dove could have flown in," said Priscilla ; " and 
she did not. Noah put out his hand and pulled her in." 

"Why did Noah wait any longer then ?" said Dan. 

" He was a wise man, and a patient. He knew it would 
not do to carry all his animals out of the ark until there was 
something for them to eat outside of it. He waited seven 
days more. When a man only wants to do God's will, Dan, 
he is never in a hurry — unless his obedience outruns Ms faith. 
At the end of the week he sent forth the dove again. This 
time she did not come back; so he knew she had found 
shelter and food, and that green things were getting to be 
plenty, or very soon would." 

" I think," said my grandmother, " Noah is one of the most 
beautiful examples that can be found of the humble, child- 
like spirit of a child of God. After his weary imprisonment 
in the ark, a year long driven about on the waters or stranded 
on the mountain top, in something that must have been, for 



 

pleasantness, a compound of a ship's hold and a stable; still, 
when the waters were dried, he waited in his place, just 
content to be and do as the Lord gave him, until the Lord 
himself appointed a change. It is beautiful ! After the dove 
was sent forth that last time and did not come back, Noah 
waited yet another seven days before he even ventured to 
indulge himself with looking out ; then he removed the 
covering of the ark so that he could get a view of the earth. 
And then he saw that the face of the ground was dry. And 
yet, it was nearly two months more that he abode patiently 
in his place, waiting for God's command to go forth. Who 
of us is so patient under trials — so willing to wait the Lord's 
time for putting an end to them ?" 

" That is what it is to love God and trust Him," said my 
uncle. 

" Uncle Sam, what sort of a leaf is an olive leaf ?" 

" A little like a willow leaf. Tiny, but more delicate. It 
is very pretty. The spikes of flowers are very delicate, too, 
coming out between the leaf and the stem ; a soft yellow 
spike of blossoms at first ; when the flowers are full opened 
they are white with only a little yellow in the middle. The 
whole tree is beautiful, I think. An orchard of olives, with 
the wind brushing their gray-green leaves, is to me one of 
the prettiest sights in the world." 

"Gray -green, uncle Sam ?"

"Yes, it is a soft kind of tree altogether, to look at ; the 
wood is hard enough. An olive leaf is just the thing the 
dove would bring. Tiny, if she could get it ; for the olive 
groves are the places where the doves like to be. They build 
their nests in them ; and go into an olive grove anywhere, 
and you may hear the soft sound of the dove's voice all the 
day long. And, besides that, the olive leaf would let Noah 
know how things were outside the ark. The olive-tree does 
not flourish on very high grounds ; it likes warm, sheltered 
places ; so Noah could tell by the fresh leaf the dove brought 
home, that the waters had been long enough dried away from 
some such places to have the vegetation spring. I guess the 
dove had to take a long flight to get that leaf ; for olive-trees 



do not grow on the cold slopes of Ararat, and scarcely in 
Armenia at all .Only in southern valleys, and low down ; it 
will not flourish as high up as the mulberry, and walnut, 
and apricot do." 

" I wonder what was the 'covering of the ark,' which Noah 
removed," said Liph. 

" Boards, perhaps," said my uncle, " or shingles, or thatch. 
You suppose the ark was built with boards, don't you ?" 

" Well, do you suppose the pasture had sprung, on those 
high lands, by the time he brought the auimals out ?'' 

" Yes. Let us see. Two months after the dove had found 
lier home among the green olive-trees far lower down ; yes, 
the herbage on the table-land of Armenia would be in full 
luxuriance ; and not that only. Dififerent kinds of food, you 
know, the different inhabitants of the ark would want. It 
must have been good to Noah and those that were with him, 
to remove the covering, and look abroad, and let in the sweet 
face of the blue sky ; and one would say, it must have been 
hard to wait any longer; only faith does not say that any- 
thing is hard. But when the order came, to go forth — what 
a coming into the world that must have been ! The green 
rich meadows, the flowers, the hills, the sunshine — how sweet 
they must have been ! but then, the world was empty ! 
Everybody was dead ; the very birds and beasts and insects 
were gone from the fields and woods ; a strange, still, green 
world I I do not wonder that the first thing Noah did was 
to build an altar."  

"To give thanks, uncle Sam ?" 

"Ay, Tiny, and to pray. To pray that God would never 
send a flood again." 

"Well, if he prayed that, he got his prayer," said Prisdlla. 

"I guess he got whatever he prayed for," said my uncle. 
"He was one of the men whose prayers the Lord hears. 
Once, long after, when the Lord was declaring that He would 
punish the nation of the Jews for their wickedness and would 
not be persuaded against it. He said, 'Though Noah, Daniel, 
and Job were in it, they should deliver but their own aoula 



 

by their righteousness.' So I suppose by that, if God would 
regard anybody, He would regard those three men. 'Noah 
found grace in the eyes of the Lord.' Ah, but that is a sweet 
record to be made of any man ! " 

"Was it because he was so patient, uncle Sam?" 

" See, Tiny. In the first place, he was a just man ; perfect, 
the Bible calls him. That is, his heart was whole towards 
God ; it was not divided ; whatever he saw to be duty, that 
Noah did. ' According to all that God commanded him, so 
did he;' with a sweet unquestioning obedience. And his 
faith in God was strong enough to make him go against the 
jeers and the unbelief of the whole world and stand alone, a 
preacher of righteousness, for the hundred and twenty years 
the ark was a-preparing. God loves the people that trust 
Him so." 

" But people cannot trust Him so now," said Priscilla. 

" Can't they ? " said my uncle. 

"I mean, — they cannot show their faith so now, unde 
Sara." 

"Are you sure of that? Turn to the Second Epistle 
of Peter, Prissy, and read the fifth verse of the third 
chapter." 

Priscilla turned to the place and read, while the boys 
peeped over her shoulder. 

"'By the word of God the heavens were of old, and the 
earth standing out of the water and in the water ; whereby 
the world that then was, being overflowed with water, 
perished : but the heavens and the earth which are now, 
by the same word are kept in store, reserved unto fire 
against the day of judgment and perdition of ungodly 
men.'" 

" Do you believe that ?" said my uncle. 

"Yes, sir," and "yes, sir," they all said as his eye went 
from one to the other. 

"You think you do," said he ; "but if you did, you would 
flee into the ark. Your belief is not worth much." 

" The ark ? " said Eliphalet. 
 

"Who is our ark now, Tinyl An ark of gopher- wood 
wonld not save us in the day of that fire." 

"But Jesus ?"— I said softly. 

"  He is able to save them to the uttermost that come unto 
God by him.'  The name of the Lord is a strong tower ; the 
righteous runneth into it and is safe.' ' There is no condemnation" — my uncle went on. 

" But, sir," said Eliphalet, "it is not such a proof of faith 
for people now to trust in the Saviour, as it was for Noah to 
build the ark" 

" To obey the Saviour is a great proof of faith, Liph, now 
as then j and makes a person just as unlike the rest of the 
world. Only now he is not alone in his faith ; that makes a 
difference ; and we have the advantage of much greater light 
than Noah had. But to this day, if a man will be for God 
only, as Noah was, he will have the world against him. And 
