with what it had been when she was at home in the midst of her family,
and as the last strain died away upon Helen’s lips, she burst into
tears.

Helen looked up in surprise at this unwonted display of emotion on the
part of one, usually so quiet and composed as Martha Grey.

“Don’t mind me, Helen,” said Martha, through her tears. “It came over
me, and I couldn’t help it. Some time, perhaps, I will tell you why it
is that that song always makes me shed tears.”




                             CHAPTER VIII.
                       SUNDAY AND TRINITY CHURCH.


It was Sunday morning. To thousands of frames, wearied by exhausting
labors, it brought the benediction of rest. To thousands of throbbing
brains it brought grateful relaxation. The great business thoroughfares
wear a Sunday look. The shops are closed, and no longer hold out,
through showily-arranged windows, invitations to enter. The bells in a
hundred steeples ring out in many voices the summons to worship.

Helen tapped gently at Martha’s door.

“Where do you attend church?” she inquired.

“I was just going to call for you, Helen,” said the seamstress, “to ask
if you and your father wouldn’t like to attend Trinity Church with me.”

Helen hesitated a little.

“That is the great church at the lower end of Broadway, isn’t it?” she
inquired.

“Yes.”

“I thought it might be a fashionable church. Father and I have been to
one or two of the great churches, where the sexton didn’t seem to care
about giving us seats, but finally put us away back where we found it
difficult to hear the service.”

“I have had the same experience more than once,” said Martha; “but we
shall have no such trouble at Trinity. Though one of the finest churches
in the city, it is free to all, and the poor are as welcome as the
rich.”

“Then I shall be glad to go, and so will papa. Wait a moment, and I will
tell him.”

They were soon in the street, mingling with the well-dressed crowds,
wending their way to their respective houses of worship.

“Sunday was always pleasant to me,” said Martha, “even as a child. I
remember the plain old meeting-house, where we all sat in square,
high-backed pews, listening to the good old minister who is gone now to
his rest and his reward. There have been great changes since then,” and
she sighed sadly.

A short walk brought them to the church portals. They were early, and
obtained excellent seats. The organist was already playing. Helen’s face
lit with pleasure, for she had never before heard so fine an instrument
or so skilful a player. Exquisitely fitted by nature for receiving
musical impressions, she felt her soul uplifted by the grandeur of the
music, and her heart penetrated by its sweetness. Now there was a
thunderous clang, as if the organist were seeking to evoke from the
instrument a fitting tribute to the majesty and power of the Creator. It
seemed as if hosts of angels were clashing their cymbals, and singing
God’s high praise. Now a delicate rill of silver-voiced melody trickled
forth, clear and sweet, interpreting the unfathomable love wherewith God
loves his children, even the lowliest.

Helen listened as one entranced, and when the last strain died away, and
the organ was still, she turned towards Martha, and whispered, for she
could not keep silence, “It lifts me up. It almost seems as if I were in
heaven.”

Unconsciously Helen expressed the same feeling which Milton has embodied
in fitting lines,—

                “But let my due feet never fail
                To walk the studious cloisters pale,
                And love the high embowered roof
                With antique pillars massy proof,
                And storied windows richly dight
                Casting a dim religious light;
                There let the pealing organ blow
                To the full-voiced choir below
                In service high and anthem clear,
                As may with sweetness through mine ear
                Dissolve me into ecstasies
                And bring all heaven before mine eyes.”

It is a mistake to suppose that the plainest and cheapest churches are
good enough for the poor. Europe is far more democratic in matters of
religion than America. In the great continental cathedrals I have more
than once felt inexpressibly touched to behold at my side some child of
poverty and misfortune bending a reverent gaze upon some imaged saint. I
have pictured to myself his probable home in some filthy court or dingy
alley, with the light of heaven shut out, dark, forbidding and noisome,
and rejoiced to think that it was his privilege to pass from such a
scene into the splendors that fitly adorn the house of God. It is
something to shed a ray of sunlight upon the life of a poor man—to
gratify his taste, mortified by the gloomy surroundings of his daily
life, to nourish the little flower of sentiment struggling out of the
rubbish that has well-nigh choked out his æsthetic nature, and help him
to feel that life has a beautiful side, from which he is not utterly
shut out.

So Helen and the poor seamstress, confined through the week in poor and
unattractive chambers, felt a quiet satisfaction in the grand
architectural proportions and solemn beauty of the great church in which
they felt themselves welcome guests. They derived new strength for the
plain and humble duties of every day in the thought that one day in
seven they could escape into a loftier atmosphere, and feel God’s
presence nearer.

Occasionally, as the service proceeded, Helen stole a glance at her
father, who sat beside her. His face wore a look of calm enjoyment and
intelligent appreciation.

As he sat with his clasped hands resting on his knees, and his eyes
fixed upon the preacher, the vanished years returned, and beside him
there sat once more the fair young bride, whose pure and saintly image
lived a hallowed remembrance in the heart of father and daughter alike.

When the service closed, he did not change his position, till Helen,
touching him gently, said, “It is time to go, papa.”

“We will come again next Sunday, Helen,” he said.

“Yes, papa.”

They walked back slowly and thoughtfully to their humble homes, speaking
little, but each more happy and peaceful for the hour passed in the
great church whose lofty spire seemed ever pointing upwards to that God
in whose service it was reared.




                              CHAPTER IX.
                         THE LAWYER’S PROGRESS.


The day after his meeting with Helen and her father, the worthy
attorney, Mr. Sharp, took his way leisurely to the boarding-house of
Mrs. Morton. Although the object of his visit was clearly defined to his
own mind, he scarcely knew in what manner he might best attain it. But
Mr. Sharp was not a man to be abashed or daunted by small difficulties.
Trusting, therefore, to what chance and the inspiration of the moment
might suggest, he mounted the steps and rang the bell.

“Mrs. Morton, I presume,” he remarked, with great affability, as that
lady opened the door in person.

“You are quite right, sir.”

“I believe,” he remarked with suavity, “that I am correct in the
supposition that you take boarders.”

“I wonder what he’s aiming at,” thought Mother Morton, glancing with
something of suspicion at the white hat set jauntily on one side of his
head. “I hope he won’t apply for board. I am always suspicious of those
who are so smooth-tongued.”

“Yes, sir,” she said aloud, “I do take boarders, but I am full now.”

“Indeed!” said Mr. Sharp, with a benignant smile, “I am delighted to
hear of your prosperity. I was not, however, thinking of making an
application for board in my own behalf, though I should undoubtedly
esteem it a high privilege to be an inmate of a boarding-house which I
am confident is so admirably conducted. Will you have the goodness to
tell me whether you have a boarder or lodger named Dupont?”

It is scarcely necessary to explain that this inquiry was employed by
Mr. Sharp as a plausible method of accounting for his calling, and to
pave the way for something else. He had no particular choice in the
name, but thought Dupont would be as uncommon as any.

“Yes,” was the unexpected reply of Mrs. Morton, “we have a lodger of
that name. I believe he is in. Will you step in and see him, sir?”

Unprepared for this answer, Mr. Sharp was for the moment undecided how
to act. Being sufficiently quick-witted, however, he soon devised a way
to extricate himself from his embarrassment.

“Poor man!” said he with a gentle sigh; “he’s much to be pitied.”

“Pitied!” echoed the landlady, opening wide her eyes in astonishment.
“Why?”

“To a sensitive mind,” continued Mr. Sharp, in a tone of mild pathos,
“bodily deformity must be a great drawback to one’s comfort and
happiness.”

“Deformity!” repeated the landlady in increased surprise.

“Yes, Mr. Dupont is a humpback, is he not?”

“A humpback!” returned Mrs. Morton, in a tone of some asperity. “You are
quite mistaken, sir; I have no humpback among my boarders.”

“Then it cannot be the man I mean,” said the lawyer, rejoiced to have
got out of the scrape so cleverly. “I beg ten thousand pardons for
having put you to so much trouble.”

“No trouble, sir,” was the civil reply.

Mrs. Morton held the door, wondering why the visitor still remained, now
that his errand was accomplished. The lawyer’s purpose, however, still
remained to be effected. He was even now cudgelling his brains to devise
a method of reaching it.

“A moment more,” he said, with suavity. “I think, as I passed last
evening, that I saw a little girl enter with an elderly gentleman.”

“Helen Ford?”

“Oh, yes. She boards with you, does she not?”

“Helen and her father have a room up stairs. They board themselves. I
only lodge them.”

“Pardon my curiosity, but I have an object in view. What is her father’s
occupation?”

“He is busy about some invention, and has been ever since he came here.
A flying machine, I believe.”

“Ah, yes,” said the lawyer, to whom this was all new. “It is as I
supposed. Can I see them? I picked up a small purse,” he added, by way
of explanation, “just after they passed me in the street, and I thought
it not unlikely that the young lady might have dropped it.”

“Certainly,” said the landlady, somewhat more favorably disposed to Mr.
Sharp, in consequence of this evidence of his integrity. “Their room is
on the fourth floor, at the head of the stairs. Perhaps I had better go
up and show you.”

“Oh, by no means, madam, by no means,” said the lawyer, politely. “I
know the value of your time, and would on no account subject you to so
much unnecessary trouble. I shall easily find it from your directions.”

Helen was looking out of the window, and her father was busied as usual,
when a low tap was heard at the door.

Supposing it was Martha, who, in fact, with the exception of the
landlady, was her only visitor, she cried, “Come in,” and then creeping
softly to the door, jumped out playfully upon the one who entered. Her
dismay may readily be conceived when, instead of the quiet seamstress,
she found that she had narrowly escaped jumping into the arms of a tall
man with a white hat.

“I am very sorry,—I did not know,—I thought it was Martha,” she
faltered, in great confusion, her cheeks dyed with blushes.

“Don’t apologize, I beg of you,” said the stranger, courteously. “It is
I, on the contrary, who should apologize for intruding upon you, and,”
he added, glancing to the corner of the room, “upon your respected
parent. I am not mistaken,” he added, inquiringly, “in supposing him to
be your father?”

“No, sir,” said Helen, who, without understanding why, felt a little ill
at ease from the elaborate politeness of her visitor.

“But I have not yet disclosed the motive of my visit. I chanced to be
walking behind you and your father yesterday in the afternoon. You
walked out at that time?”

“Yes, sir.”

“I thought I could not be mistaken. There are some countenances, my dear
young lady, that we are not likely to forget.”

Helen, unused as she was to flattery, did not understand that this was
meant for a compliment. Therefore it quite failed of its effect. Perhaps
this was quite as well, since, if understood, it would have confused
rather than pleased her. She was too deficient in vanity to have felt
flattered by a compliment from a stranger. Yet no one was more desirous
of winning the approval of those whose friendship she valued. Helen was,
in short, a truthful, unsophisticated child, perfectly transparent and
straightforward, and imagined that others were equally so. So she only
waited patiently for Mr. Sharp to announce the object of his call.

“Afterwards I discovered this purse on the sidewalk,” continued the
lawyer, displaying his own purse. “As you and your father had just
passed, I conjectured that one or the other of you must have dropped it.
I have, accordingly, called this morning to ascertain if I am correct in
my supposition, and if so, to return the purse.”

“No,” said Helen, shaking her head. “It cannot be ours.”

“Then I must seek farther for the owner. I beg you will pardon me for
this intrusion.”

Helen said, rather awkwardly, that it was of no consequence.

“May I inquire,” said Mr. Sharp, as if the idea suddenly struck him,
“whether your father is not an inventor? I think I was told so by the
very respectable lady down stairs.”

“Yes,” said Helen, more at her ease. “Papa has been busy a great while
about his invention. It requires a great deal of time and patience.”

“Indeed! Would it be taking too great a liberty to inquire the nature of
the proposed invention?”

“It is a flying machine,” said Helen. “Some people laugh at it,” she
added, a little hurriedly. “It seems strange to them because they have
never thought much about it.”

“Let them laugh,” said Mr. Sharp, with warmth. “Let them laugh, my dear
young lady,” he repeated in a tone of profound sympathy. “It is the way
of the world. There has never been any great discovery or invention,
from the earliest ages to the present time, that has not encountered
ridicule. Wait till success crowns your father’s exertions, and then you
will see how all will be changed.”

“So papa thinks,” said Helen, quite grateful to the lawyer for his words
of encouragement; “and it is that which makes him labor so patiently.”

“Undoubtedly. Would it be too great a liberty to ask permission to
examine your father’s invention. It is a subject in which I feel a very
deep interest. Indeed, I may say that I am something of an inventor
myself.”

Poor confiding Helen! How could she imagine that these words of sympathy
covered an unblushing falsehood?

“Papa will be very glad to show it to you,” she said. Then to her
father: “Papa, this gentleman would like to examine your model.”

“Certainly,” said Mr. Ford, courteously.

This was a subject on which, despite his taciturnity, he could talk
fluently. Mr. Sharp listened with an appearance of profound attention,
occasionally asking a question, and remarking modestly that he had once
entered upon a similar train of investigation, but that the imperative
claims of business had brought it to an abrupt termination.

“I have not by any means,” he concluded, “lost my interest in scientific
matters; and it would afford me great pleasure if you will permit me
occasionally to look in upon you and note your progress. I dare not hope
that I could offer any suggestions likely to be of service to one so far
my superior in scientific attainments, but should it be in my power to
aid you in any way, you can count on me with confidence.”

Mr. Ford felt flattered, as was but natural, by this evidence of
interest in his pursuits, and cordially invited Mr. Sharp to call
whenever he found it convenient.

“Well, Sharp,” said that gentleman, apostrophizing himself, as he made
his way down stairs, “you’ve done well, old fellow, though at one time I
trembled for you. You’ve flattered your way into the good graces of that
chimerical old fool, and now you are in a fair way to accomplish
something more, if needful.”

The next day found him closeted with Lewis Rand, from whom he received
instructions as to his future course.




                               CHAPTER X.
                             NEW PROJECTS.


Helen had been long and anxiously considering in what manner she could
employ herself so as to earn a sufficient amount to defray the expenses
of living. Every day the little stock of money remaining in her purse
became less. They lived very frugally, but there was the rent, and two
persons cannot live on air. So the little hoard diminished, and five
dollars were now all that remained to Helen. Five dollars! it might keep
them ten days, but certainly would not last longer, economize as they
might. From her father Helen could hope for no present assistance. He
was always at work, but his labor, however well it might be compensated
in the future, brought in no money now. And for money there would soon
be pressing occasion. Helen grew very uneasy at the thought that they
might be turned penniless into the street. Hitherto they had never been
without money. The five dollars that remained was the last instalment of
a small property left her father by his mother.

One morning Helen sat at the table, leaning her head upon her hand,
plunged in anxious thought. At first she could think of no possible
resource. But when everything looks dark, and all paths seem closed to
us, suddenly from out the thick darkness there sometimes streams a ray
of hope to cheer and sustain the sinking heart.

So it was in the present case.

In her humility, Helen had never dreamed that she possessed
extraordinary musical powers, and it was only through the warm
commendation of Martha Grey that this fact became known to her. Why
should she not employ these in her father’s service? At the theatre a
singer, but little older than herself, and as Martha declared inferior
in talent, had won the popular applause. Why should not she gain
employment in a similar capacity? Full of these thoughts, she entered
Martha’s room.

The seamstress sat at the open window. The cool breeze that found its
way in, lent a faint flush to her pale cheeks. In the cage over her head
a canary bird sang—Martha’s solitary extravagance. As she sat alone from
morning till night engaged in her monotonous task, the bird supplied the
place of human company, and beguiled a portion of the weary time.

Helen came in and seated herself on a cricket at Martha’s feet.

Martha’s face brightened, for she had already learned to love the child.

“I am glad to see you, Helen,” she said. “How is your father, to-day?”

“Papa is much as usual.”

“Hard at work as ever, I suppose.”

“Yes; he allows himself no time to rest. I really think he ought. But,
Martha, I am going to ask your advice about something very important to
me,” said the child, gravely.

“Thank you for your confidence, Helen. Whatever is of importance to you
will be of interest to me.”

“You remember telling me the other day that you liked my singing, and
that I might some day become a great singer. You know I told you at the
time how glad I was to hear you say so.”

“Yes, Helen; I remember it.”

“I did not tell you then why I felt glad; but I will now.”

Helen paused a moment, and then in a frank tone, which showed how little
she was affected by the conventional shame some feel in disclosing their
poverty, continued: “My father and I are very poor. We have been so for
some time, but I got a little money by sewing, and that helped along.
Now, you know, business is dull, and I can get no more work to do. The
little money we have left will not last a fortnight, though I am very
economical. So you see, Martha, it is quite necessary that I should find
some way of earning more money at once.”

“Does your father know how near you are to destitution?” inquired the
seamstress.

“No,” was the child’s reply; “and I hope he will not find out. I cannot
bear to trouble him with that, when he has so much to think of. It can’t
be very long before he finishes his model, and then we shall have plenty
of money. If I can only earn enough to keep us along till that time I
shall be very glad.”

“Poor child!” thought Martha, compassionately; “it will be long enough
before your father’s invention fills your purse.”

She was about to offer to procure Helen some work from the establishment
where she was employed, but when she looked at the bright face of the
young girl, and thought to what hours and days of weariness it would
consign her, how it would steal one by one the roses from her cheeks,
and the freshness from her heart, leaving her with little to enjoy in
the present and less to hope for in the future, she had not the heart to
offer her the destiny which she had been compelled to accept for
herself; nor could she bear to dim the child’s trustful confidence in
her father’s success by the expression of a single doubt.

She remained silent.

Finding that Martha said nothing, Helen continued: “When I came to see
you the other day, Martha, I had been trying to think of some way in
which I could help poor papa, but I could think of nothing. Then when I
sang to you and you liked it, I thought it possible that others might
like it, too. Do you think,” she asked, lifting her eyes with a look of
earnest expectation; “do you think they would hire me to sing at the
theatre?”

Martha started in surprise. As yet no thought of the child’s purpose had
entered her mind. To one so unobtrusive and retiring by natural
temperament, the thought of going forth at the head of an army would
have seemed scarcely more formidable that that of standing before a
public audience. Yet this was what Helen, so diffident always, actually
proposed to do.

“Can you really be in earnest, Helen?” she asked; gazing in amazement at
the child who cherished such bold aspirations.

She did not understand the power of the motive which influenced Helen;
how she made everything subordinate to the promptings of filial
affection, which was stronger than any other feeling of her nature. That
gave her courage to think of what she would otherwise have shrunk from
with nervous timidity. For her father she felt that she could dare all.
It was a strange position, that of a young girl at her age, called upon
to assume the oversight and care of providing for her father’s comfort
and necessities. Stranger still was it, that with all the knowledge of
her father’s dependence upon herself and his utter ignorance of the
world and its ways, she should yet have retained so thorough a respect
and reverence for him.

“Can you be in earnest?”

It was Helen’s turn to be surprised at the question.

“Why not?” she asked. “It is my duty to help poor papa, and if I can do
so in this way, why should I not?”

“That is true, Helen, but think of standing before so many hundreds, or
perhaps thousands of people, with every eye fixed upon you. How could
you bear that?”

“I should not think of it at all, Martha. When I am singing I can see
nothing and hear nothing. I seem to be mounting up—up into the air, and
floating among the clouds. I can’t tell you how much I enjoy singing.”

As Helen spoke her eyes sparkled, and her face flushed with enthusiasm.
The exhibition of deep natural feeling is always impressive. Martha felt
it to be so, and could not help admiring and loving the child more than
ever. Helen had almost persuaded her.

“But,” she continued with returning caution, “you may not always feel
so. There would be times when you would not feel like singing, but sing
only because you were obliged to. Then when you encountered the glances
of so many eyes, would not your heart sink and your courage fail you?”

“Then, Martha,” said Helen, with simplicity, “I should think of poor
papa, and how by my exertions I was able to make him comfortable, and
how by and by, when he had succeeded, I should not be obliged to do
anything more. Then I should think how much he had done for me, and how
hard he is laboring even now. There would be a great satisfaction in
that. I ought not to hesitate when I have an opportunity to do something
for him, ought I, Martha?”

“You are a dear, good child,” said the seamstress, affectionately; “and
I will not say a single word more against your plan. But you must not be
too hopeful. You may meet with disappointment about getting a
situation.”

“You mean that perhaps I shall not sing well enough, Martha,” said
Helen. “But I shall do my best when I think how much my father’s comfort
depends upon my success; and that will be sure to help me.”

“No, Helen; that was not what I meant. I never for a moment doubted that
you would sing well enough. Why, you sing like an angel.”

“Did you ever hear an angel sing?” asked Helen, a little mischievously.

“In my dreams,” said Martha, smiling. “But that was not the difficulty I
thought of. Would your father be willing to have you go on the stage?”

“He would not be willing at first, so I think I shall not tell him till
I find out whether they are willing to employ me. Papa is so thoughtful
of me that he would think I was attempting too much, or suspect it was
poverty that led me to it. It will be better not to tell him at first.”

“Then there is another thing to be considered. Perhaps there will be as
many singers employed as are required. It is not always easy to obtain
an engagement, even where one is deserving. If you only had some
influential friends——”

“I have you,” said Helen, archly.

Martha smiled faintly.

“I am afraid if that is all you have to rely upon that it will be
leaning on a broken reed. However, we will hope for the best, and not
despond till we have reason to do so.”

So the two conversed till Helen heard a neighboring clock striking five.

“Five o’clock!” she exclaimed. “I did not know it was so late. I must go
up and prepare supper.”

She tripped lightly up stairs with a new hope in her heart. Unconscious
of the cares which had fallen so early upon his daughter, Mr. Ford was
laboring at his machinery. Helen came and stood by his side.

“Well, papa, what progress?” she asked, cheerfully.

“Very good, my child,” said the dreamer. “I have just succeeded in
obviating a difficulty which has perplexed me for some time.”

“How very glad I am, papa. That ought to give you a good appetite for
your supper. I shall have it ready in a few minutes.”




                              CHAPTER XI.
                            THE ENGAGEMENT.


The next day Helen resolved to put her plan into execution. As soon as
her morning duties were completed, and her father seated at his
never-ending task, she dressed herself in the best manner her limited
wardrobe would admit. Though inexperienced in the ways of the world, she
felt instinctively the importance of making a favorable first
impression. When she was quite ready, she left the room softly, and was
soon mingling with the busy crowds that thronged Broadway. At first she
walked rapidly, but, as she drew nearer her destination, and could see
the imposing front of the theatre, her heart beat quick and her step
became slower.

When she actually reached the entrance, a feeling of diffidence seized
her, which she found it almost impossible to overcome. She felt that she
could not enter, at least just then, and walked slowly by. After a while
she walked back, but was withheld from entering again by a feeling
scarcely less strong. Again she walked past, and again returned. This
time she had schooled herself to the effort, and approaching, with
hesitation, the office where tickets were sold for the evening’s
entertainment, inquired, in a low voice, for the manager.

“Who did you wish to see?” inquired the clerk, with some surprise
visible in his manner.

The request was repeated.

“The manager? Can’t say whether he’s in or not. You must go to the back
entrance and turn to the left. Then knock at the first door.”

Helen looked bewildered.

“Have you been here before?”

“No, sir.”

“Stop a minute, and I will show you, then. I shall close the office
directly.”

Helen was very glad of the delay, as it gave her time to assume an
outward semblance of calmness.

Mr. Bowers, the manager, was seated in a small room connecting with the
stage. He was a man of comfortable proportions, and bore the appearance
of one whom the world had used not unkindly. Though, in general,
good-tempered, he was, on this particular morning, “out of sorts.” A new
play was to be brought out in the evening. The actors had been allowed
very little time to “get up” their parts, and, as a natural consequence,
the rehearsal of the morning had been, thus far, a series of blunders.
In addition to this, the “star” had failed to make his appearance, and
the prospect for a successful evening did not look very bright.

Under these circumstances it was not altogether surprising that Mr.
Bowers should feel disappointed and irritated.

It was at this inauspicious moment that Helen was ushered into his
presence. The manager looked up with visible vexation, serving to add to
the embarrassment under which Helen was already laboring.

“Well?” he demanded, in a quick, impatient tone.

Helen felt that it would be a relief if the floor would open and swallow
her up, or if she could escape in some other way. The interview, which
had seemed comparatively easy in the quiet of her own room, had now
become very formidable. She began to wonder at her own presumption in
supposing herself capable of pleasing the public with her simple songs,
and to feel that Martha’s partiality must have led astray her better
judgment.

While these thoughts were passing through her mind, she sat silent,
quite unable to frame a sentence. The manager regarded her with
surprise, unable to account for her silence.

“What is your business with me?” he inquired, in a tone which indicated
that his time was of great consequence, and the sooner he was left to
himself the better he should be suited.

Helen understood the tone quite as readily as the words, and, imperative
as it was, it assisted in recalling her to herself. She came to the
point at once.

“Do you wish to engage any one to sing for you?”

She had said all that was necessary, and then she stopped,
half-frightened at her own temerity.

It was the manager’s turn to look surprised. He had not taken the
trouble to wonder what the child’s business was. He had only asked as a
necessary form, preparatory to dismissing her. He looked more
particularly at her now, noticing her childish form and air, and asked,
abruptly,—

“Are you inquiring for yourself?”

“Yes, sir.”

She looked up earnestly in his face. Her bonnet had partly fallen back,
revealing the rare loveliness of which she was unconscious. She waited
breathlessly for the answer.

“Our company is full,” said Mr. Bowers, coldly. He turned again to his
desk, and resumed his writing. His manner said, so plainly, “You may
go,” that Helen prepared to obey the unspoken but implied direction. Her
heart sank within her at this first disappointment. Thoughts of the
coming destitution, which she had hoped to ward off by this means,
crowded upon her, and she could scarcely keep back the rebellious tears,
which, had she been alone would have had free course.

As she passed slowly out, a messenger hurriedly entered the office.

“Well, what now?” asked the manager, somewhat testily. “Any more
blunders? It seems as if everything conspired against us. Has —— made
his appearance?”

“No, sir.”

“And won’t, I’ll be bound. These fellows claim the lion’s share of the
profits, and trouble themselves little about the convenience of their
employers.”

“Miss De Forrest is indisposed, sir, and will be unable to sing this
evening.”

“Indisposed! Unable to appear!” repeated the manager, angrily. “And why
the d—l must she take this particular evening to be sick? I don’t
believe a word of it. Go to her, and tell her we can’t spare her.”

“It is reported,” said the messenger, deprecatingly, for Mr. Bowers was
in one of those moods when it was difficult to make him listen to
reason; “it is reported that she has a fever, and will not be able to
appear for some time.”

“A fever! And what business has she to have a fever?” growled the
manager. “Well,” said he, after a brief pause, “is there nobody to take
her place?”

“I know of no one.”

Mr. Bowers mused a moment. “It won’t do,” he thought, “to omit the songs
altogether, especially to-night, when we are likely to have so many
other shortcomings. I have it, Jeffries,” he exclaimed. “Did you notice
the child who left the office as you entered?”

“Yes, sir.”

“Do you think you should know her again?”

“I think so.”

“Then follow her immediately, and bring her back with you. Say I wish to
see her.”

When Helen left the theatre, she walked very slowly, as if to gain time
to become reconciled to her late disappointment. What a revulsion of
feeling had a single half-hour wrought in her! Her high hopes had been
dashed to the earth, and nothing was left but a sense of humiliation and
rebuked presumption. Had she but been invited to sing, by way of testing
her powers, that would have been something; but to have been refused so
coldly and peremptorily, might well depress her.

Walking slowly, she had not proceeded far when she heard some one
calling after her, “You are to come back. Mr. Bowers wishes to see you.”

Not supposing that she was intended, she did not turn till some one
touched her arm, and looking back she recognized the young man who had
entered the manager’s office as she left it.

“Did you just leave the theatre?” he inquired.

“Yes,” said Helen, with sudden hope.

“Mr. Bowers would like to see you again, then.”

Helen experienced another revulsion of feeling. The clouds seemed
breaking. The recall was evidently favorable to her prospects of an
engagement.

Five minutes found her once more in the manager’s presence.

“What is your name?” he asked, abruptly.

“Helen Ford.”

“Humph! that will do. Have you parents living?”

“Only a father.”

“And did he send you here?”

“No, sir,” said Helen.

“Does he know that you have come?”

Helen shook her head somewhat uneasily. New difficulties seemed to be
springing up in her path.

“After all,” thought the manager, “if she’s really worth engaging, her
father’s consent is not essential. He will not object to her earning
something by her voice. At any rate I’ll try her, and see if she has any
talent.”

“What can you sing?” he asked, after a pause, in which Helen watched his
face eagerly.

“What would you like to hear, sir?”

“Jeffries, what songs are announced for this evening?”

“‘The Widow Machree’ and ‘Comin’ thro’ the Rye,’ sir.”

“Can you sing these, Miss Ford?”

“I will try, sir.”

“Mind,” premised the manager, cautiously, “I don’t promise to engage
you, even if your singing is satisfactory. As I said before, our company
is already full, but there may be a vacancy some time; and if so, I
shall want to know where to look for some one to fill it.”

Mr. Bowers threw himself back in his arm-chair, and, with a magisterial
wave of the hand, signalled Helen to begin.

She paused a moment, as if to collect herself, resolutely putting aside
the feeling of embarrassment which was stealing over her. She felt that
she had too much at stake to hazard all by giving way to nervous
weakness. It was not long that she suffered from timidity. She commenced
singing in a low voice, but gradually confidence came to her, and it
acquired strength. Her voice was wonderfully sweet and flexible. Mr.
Bowers started slightly when she commenced, and at once became
attentive. More than this, he was charmed. The whole room became vocal
with melody. Even on the stage, where the actors were listlessly
rehearsing their parts for the evening, Helen’s voice was heard, and
they quietly gathered about the entrance, and listened in mute surprise,
wondering what musical prodigy had so seasonably turned up to supply the
place of Miss De Forrest.

The song ceased, and Helen stood in silence, awaiting the manager’s
verdict.

Mr. Bowers had been delighted with an exhibition of talent so far
surpassing his most sanguine expectations. But managers are not
enthusiastic, and he was far too polite to express all he felt. That
would have been quite unprofessional.

“You have done very well, Miss Ford,” he said, graciously. “You have not
overrated your talents, as is the case with some who aspire to sing in
public. Of whom have you taken lessons?”

“My mother taught me to sing.”

“Indeed! And was your mother a professional singer?”

“Oh, no, sir.”

“She has evidently taught you well. Your voice, too, is very fair,—very
fair, indeed.”

“Do I sing well enough to appear in public, sir?” asked Helen, eagerly.

“Yes, or you may in time. Of course, you require training.”

“Thank you, sir.”

“When you were here, a few minutes since, I thought I had no place for
you. I have been informed since that Miss De Forrest, my regular singer,
is unexpectedly taken ill, and may not recover for some time. I will
engage you for a week in her place if we can agree upon terms.”

“I am very much obliged to you, sir,” said Helen, with difficulty
concealing her joy.

“I will pay you six dollars for the first week,” continued the manager.
“Should you do well, and I have occasion to employ you longer, I may
increase your compensation. But, of course, being a beginner, you cannot
expect a large salary.”

Large! Six dollars seemed to Helen a small fortune. It would enable them
to live better than she had dared to do since they became inmates of
Mrs. Morton’s boarding-house.

“You will be expected to make your first appearance this evening, in the
songs which you have already sung. You will present yourself at
rehearsal to-morrow morning at ten o’clock. We will dispense with it
to-day.”

“At what hour shall I come this evening?” asked Helen.

“The doors will open at seven. You may present yourself an hour earlier.
It will be necessary for you to dress and become familiar with the stage
before the performance commences.”

Helen hurried home, not as before with a heavy heart, but with a feeling
of deep and thankful joy. It seemed as if she could not get over the
ground fast enough. She was anxious to report her success to good Martha
Grey, who, she felt sure, would sympathize with her. She bounded along,
regardless of the stares and astonished looks of those with whom she
came in collision, and never paused until she entered, breathless with
haste, the room of her friend.

“What is the matter, Helen?” asked Martha, looking up from her work.
“You seem quite wild with excitement.”

“I have succeeded, Martha. Only think of that. I am to sing to-night at
the theatre. I am engaged for a week, and am to receive six dollars.”

“I am sincerely glad, my dear child,” said Martha, affectionately. “Wait
till you have recovered your breath, and then you shall tell me all
about it.”

As Martha listened to her glowing recital, she caught some of her
enthusiasm, and never doubted that she must and would pass triumphantly
through the trying ordeal of a first introduction to the public.


