ing from the gallows some time, or else be butchered by 
the pirates for refusing to join them. So, as there 
didn't seem to be much but death in prospect, that con- 
sideration didn't weigh much. Then I thought that, if 
I did die by the explosion, I should have the satisfaction 
of knowing that the rascally pirates would share my 
'fate, and the Red Rover, the scourge of the seas, would 
never do any more harm. Besides that, I should save 

 



 

the Sally Ann, and the lives of the captain and crew, 
and that was something glorious to think of." 

The boy's cheek glowed with sympathetic ardor, and 
he clasped Bill Sturdy's rough hand, in token of under- 
standing and appreciating his motive. 

"That seemed the only way open to me," resumed 
Bill, " and I determined to adopt it. Of course, there 
were nine chances out of ten that I should be blown up 
with the rest of them, but still there was a possibility 
of escape. I couldn't help thinking of that, and the 
more I thought, the more I had a kind of feeling that I 
should escape. I thought I would go up on deck a min- 
ute, before carrying out my design, and see what was 
going on. Well, the pirates had about got ready for 
action. The decks had been cleared, the cutlasses and 
pistols and other murderous weapons had been distrib- 
uted among the men, and, altogether, there seemed 
precious little chance for the poor fellows on board the 
Sally Ann, especially, as I knew well enough that they 
had no cannon, and only a few pistols, that were not 
likely to do them much good. There wasn't much time 
to lose, as the action was going to commence. So I 
slipped down below, anmatch, so that it 
would reach the powder in about a minute. I had just 
about got it fixed, when who should I see coming down, 
but the pirate captain. It seemed as if all my plans 
were going to be knocked in the head. No dqubt he 
suspected that all was not as it should be, and was com- 
ing down to see what was to pay. I felt desperate, and 
fetched him as powerful a blow as I was able, on the 
side of his head, and he fell like an ox, pretty efiectu- 
ally stunned." 

 



 

"What next?" 

"The next thing I did was to hurry upon deck. 
'Where's the captain?' asked the mate. ' He'll be up 
directly,' said I. And so he was, but not in the sense 
that he understood it. 

" Well, I listened on deck for about half a minute, in 
a terrible state of anxiety, you may be sure. Then, 
feeling that it was not safe for me to stay any longer, I 
jumped into the water, and began to swim towards the 
Sally Ann. As my head rose above the water, I saw 
the mate about to fire at me, and I dove. When my 
head was fairly out of water again, such a sound as 
smote upon my ear ! The light had reached the powder,- 
and there was a terrible explosion. The ship was shat- 
tered to pieces. The pirates were hurled into the air, 
some with mutilated limbs, and I rather think that 
some of them were considerably astonished. The cap- 
tain did go up as I promised. He was flung a hundred 
feet into the air, and never "came down again alive. For 
my part, I was lucky enough to reach the Sally Ann, 
untouched by tlie falling fragments. When they found 
out who I was, and how I had saved them, their grati- 
tude knew no bounds. The owners made up a purse of 
two thousand dollars, and presented it to me." 

" And what did you do with it? " 

" When I got back to Boston, I put it in one of the 
places you call Savings Banks, and I expect it's there 



 



 

Such is a specimen of the yams — sometimes true, 
sotnetimes spun out of whole cloth — with which the 
sailors amused themselves and beguiled the tedium of 
the night-watch. 

The companionship of honest and stout-hearted Bill 
Sturdy proved a great source of happiness to Charlie, 
and enabled him to bear up, as otherwise he might have 
found it diflScult to do, under the hardships of his condition, the persecution of the captain and the mate, who 
had not forgotten their animosity, and the uncertainty 
he could not but feel as to the situation in which his 
mother was left, with the painful doubt as to whether 
she would be able to support herself till he could return 
and relieve her necessities. 

" When we get back, my lad," said Bill Sturdy, " Til 
put half that money in the Savings Bank in your name, 
so that if you and your mother want it at any time, you 
can use it." 

"No, Bill," said Charlie, earnestly, "you are very 
kind, but I couldn't consent to that." 

"And why not, my lad? What do I want of it? 



I've got neither chick nor child, and am not likely to 
have. I've taken a fancy to you, and the money'll do 
yon more good than me.'' \ 

"You are ver  kind," said Charlie, gratefhlly ; "but 
I mustn't take advantage of your generosity." 

" Nonsense, my lad. I know what it is to be a poor 
boy, without money or friends, and nowadays money 
will bring friends. Mayhap it'll start you in some 
business, and when you get rich you can pay me ; or 
if, by and by, I take a notion to come to anchor on 
shore, you'll give me a comer in your house, where I 
can smoke my pipe and spin my yams." 

"That I will, Bill," said Charlie, seizing the old 
sailor's rough hand. "If I have a roof. to cover me, 
it shall cover you too." 

"Thank you, my lad," said Bill. "I know you 
would." 

Under Bill Sturdy's rough exterior there was a kind 
heart which warmed to our young hero, partly because 
of his solitary position on board, partly on account of 
his manliness and attractive qualities. So they became 
fast friends. 

Charlie did not find his duties altogether distasteful. 
He was a bright, active boy, not without ambition, and 
resolved to do himself credit in his new position, how- 
ever it may have been forced upon him. For this rea- 
son it was that the captain and the mate, although they 
watched him with lynx eyes, hoping that he would afford 
them some pretext for showing their rancorous feelings 
towards him, watched ineffectually. By his activity, 
and his frank and manly disposition, he was fast ingratiating himself with the crew, who were the more 

 


 

disposed to espouse his cause, because they could not 
fail to notice the injustice with which the officers treated 
him. 

But trouble was brewing for Charlie, and soon the 
storm broke forth. -' 

The scuffle between Bill Sturdy and Antonio, of which 
Charlie was the occasion, will not have been forgotten. 
Antonio had before hated Bill on account of his superi- 
ority in strength, which deprived him of his former 
champion's life. This feeling was increased by the issue 
of the contest which had resulted in his humiliation and 
defeat, and his anger was also stirred up against Char- 
lie, who had been the occasion of it. Yet he did not 
dare to venture upon abuse, because it was generally 
derstood that Bill Sturdy had constituted himself Char- 
lie's especial friend and protector. 

But there were pther ways of compassing his end. 
Antonio was subtile. He felt that his revenge must be 
a more secret one, and he desired that it should involve 
both Bill Sturdy and his prot6gL If he could only 
involve Charlie in some offence which would draw upon 
him the active displeasure of the captain, and subject 
him to public punishment, he felt sure that Bill Sturdy 
would not stand tamely by and see it inflicted, while 
any interference would be insubordination, and get his 
rival into serious trouble. 

After reflection Antonio decided to implicate Charlie 
in a charge of theft. It happened that the captain had 
a valuable gold ring, set with diamonds, which, for rea- 
sons unnecessary to state, he prized even beyond its 
pecuniary value. Captain Brace, however, was not a 
careful man. He would sometimes take off his ring, 

 



and la  it down on the cabin, table. On one occasion 
Antonio, while upon deck, observed .the captain pass, 
and ascertained by a swift glance that the ring was not 
upon his finger. He watched his opportunity, and slip- 
ping down into the cabin, found, as he anticipated, the 
ring upon the table. It was the work of a moment to 
snatch and conceal it in his pocket. 

He returned to the work in which' he had been en- 
gaged, and resumed it, supposing he had not been 
observed. 

In this he was mistaken. 

Bill Sturdy had had his eye upon him from the time 
of his difficulty with him. He could see Antonio's 
craftiness in his face, and the apparent affability and 
conciliatory manner of the latter afterwards had by no 
means deceived him. 

" Look out for. squalls," thought he. " He's too fair 
seeming to be trusted. I've no doubt he's hatching up 
something or other. I'll keep a sharp lookout for him." 

When Antonio made his stealthy visit to the cabin, as 
above described, the vigilant eye of Bill Sturdy was 
upon him and his movements. 

In a moment he reappeared. Bill saw it all out of 
the corner of his eye, though he appeared to be looking 
in just the opposite direction. 

"What's the fellow up to?" he thought. "Some 
mischief, I reckon. What business has he in the 
cabin? I must watch him." 

Of course, Antonio's object will be understood. He 
meant to place the ring in Charlie's chest, and when the 
loss should be discovered by the captain, he would sug- 


gest that a general searcb hould be instituted, the result 
of which must involve our young hero. 

Charlie was, of course, quite unconscious of the 
machinations which were being formed against him, 
and even Bill was not yet quite certain for what pur- 
pose Antonio had made his visit to the cabin. 

Antonio felt the necessity of doing quickly what he 
had in contemplation. 

Going below, he made his way to the chest belonging 
to our hero, and, lifting the cover, Jbr it was unlocked,' 
let the ring drop into one comer. 

Bill Sturdy saw his second disappearance from the 
deck. He could not ascertain precisely what he was 
doing, without following him, — a thing which he did 
not wish to do, since it would arouse Antonio's suspi- 
cions, and place him on on his guard. 

Antonio came up with an expression of malicious 
satisfaction, which Bill did not fail to notice. 

"I wish," he thought, "I knew exactly what the 
fellow has been doing." 

Bill was destined to learn ere long. 

The captain went below, and glanced carelessly at the 
place, where he remembered to have left the ring. To 
his surprise, it had disappeared. 

" What can have become of it? " he thought. 

He instituted a careful examination, but did not suc- 
ceed in finding the lost article. 

He prized it beyond its actual value, which was con- 
siderable, and began to feel alarmed. It occurred to 
him that he might have been mistaken about leaving it 
on the table. It might possibly have been dropped 
upon deck. 

Going on deck, he communicated his loss to the crew, 
and requesled a general search. 

" I think, Captain Brace," said Antonio, officiously, 
'' that I can guess where it is." ' 

"Where?" 

" I saw that boy have it," pointing to Charlie. 

" It's a lie ! " exclaimed Charlie, sui'prised and 
indignant. 

" We'll see about that," said the captain, with a sneer. 
" Do you know what he did with it, Antonio ? " 

" I think he may have hidden it in his chest." 

"Let his chest be brought on deck, and publicly 
examined. If he is found guilty, he shall be punished, 
as sure as my name is Brace." 



 

Charlie, at first taken by surprise when the charge 
of thefb was brought against him, now looked scornfully 
indignant. Ignorant of the ways of the world, and the 
wickedness of which some men are capable, he never, 
for a moment, feared the result of the investigation. As 
for the crew, they had already become interested in his 
favor, and now pitied him for the unfortunate position 
in which he found himself, placed. None of them 
believed him guilty. 

As the captain had directed, his chest was brought on 
deck. 

Before this was searched, however, he was subjected 
to a personal examination, at which nothing was discov- 
ered. There was a murmur of satisfaction. 

" The lad never stole the ring," said a stout seaman, 
standing next to the real perpetrator of the crime, 
Antonio. 

'  Don't be too sure of that," said the Spaniard, in a 
malignant tone. " His chest hasn't been searched yet." 

'  I don't care for that ; I can tell by his face. A lad, 
with such a figure-head as that, wouldn't do anything 
mean or dishonorable." 


"You seem to have taken a great fancy to him," 
sneered Antonio. "You mustn't trust too much to 
appearances. He looks to me as if he were guilty." 

Charlie's cheeks were f ushed, but not with shame or 
confusion. It was indignation, that he should be sus- 
pected of such a disgraceful crime. 

By his side stood Bill Sturdy, who took an opportu- 
nity of whispering into his ear, " Never you mind, my 
lad, even if the ring is found in your chest." 

" But it isn't there," said Charlie. 

" It may be," said Bill, who, by this time, suspected 
the nature of Antonio's two errands below. 

"How should it be there?" asked Charlie, quite in 
the dark. 

" It might have been put there, my lad." 

"But who could put it there?" persisted our hero, 
but little enlightened. 

" Hark you, my lad," said Bill, still farther lowering 
his tones ; " you've got more than one enemy on board 
this ship." 

"The mate?" 

" Yes, and the captain too, for that matter." 

" But neither of them would put the ring in my chest." 

" No, probably not." 

"Then who would?" 

" There is another enemy besides these two' 

" Do you mean Antonio? " 

"Yes." 

" But he seemed friendly lately." 

" He isn't to be trusted, my lad. He's borne a grudge 
against both of us ever since I got the better of him the 
other day, and he's made up his mind to be revenged. 

 



 

Fve been watching him when he didn't suspect it, and 
know more than he thinks I do." 

" Do. you know anything of this affair, Bill? " asked 
Charlie, looking up hopefhlly into the face of his friend. 

" I expect I do." 

"What is it?" questioned our hero, eagerly, 

" I shall save it till it will do some good. But see, 
they have nearly finished searching your chest. Perhaps the ring is not there after all." 

As Bill said, the search was nearly completed. Charlie's clothes had been unceremoniously tumbled out upon 
deck, which was not calculated to improve their appearance, and the captain and mate, who had shown themselves particularly active on the occasion, were peering about in search of the lost ring. 

It chanced, however, that the ring had got in a fold 
of one of the shirts which lay upon deck. Of course, 
therefore, the search in the chest proved unavailing. 

" I doubt whether it is here," said the captain, in a 
tone of disappointment. 

" Let us look a little longer," said the mate,' who could 
not so easily resign the chance of getting into trouble 
the boy whom he hated with a malevolence such as his 
nature was capable of. 

Antonio became alarmed at the prospect of all his 
plans being frustrated by a failure to find the ring. 

When the mate also gave up the search, he came for- 
ward, and, addressing the captain, said, — 

"Captain Brace, if you will let me assist in the 
search, perhaps I can succeed in finding it." 

" You are the one that saw the boy have it, are you? '' 
queried the captain. 



 



"Yes, sir.'' 

" How long since? " 

" About half an hoar' 

" Why did yon not mention it at the time? " 

"I thought perhaps he had only picked it up, and 
would give it back to you," said the Spaniard, in some 
confusion. " I didn't want to charge him with the theft 
till I felt sure he meant to steal it." 

" And what makes j ou feel sure he did so intend?" 

" Because when you said the ring was lost, he did not 
come forward and restore it." 

" Ay," said Captain Brade, " that is strongly against 
him. If it is found that he has concealed it anywhere, 
he shall repent it, by " 

It is unnecessary to stain our pages by printing the 
oath with which he emphasized this assertion. 

" What reason have you for supposing that he con- 
cealed it in his chest?" asked the mate. 

" Because I saw him go down below," answered An- 
tonio, with unblushing falsehood. 

" It's a'lie," said Charlie, boldly. " I haven't been 
below this morning." 

" Silence ! " thundered the captain, scowling menac- 
ingly; "don't add falsehood to theft." 

"I haven't been guilty of theft," said Charlie, boldly. 

" Silence ! '' again thundered the captain, "or it will 
be the worse for you." 

" You had better not say anything more, my lad," 
whispered Bill Sturdy; "w  shall yet bring you off 
with flying colors. Don't you fear. Bill Sturdy 19 
your friend, and he will stand by you." 

Charlie looked grateful. 


When his statement had been so unequivocably denied 
by our hero, Antonio suffered himself to look at him for 
one instant, but in that brief glance was concentrated 
so much of spite and venom and malice, that the boy 
could not help shuddering, as if the countenance of a 
fiend had been unexpectedly revealed to him. 

"I think. Captain Brace,  said Randall, "that we 
may venture to let Antonio assist us, since he may 
succeed where we have failed." 

"Very well," said the captain, " I have no>objection 
to offer. On the contrary, if he succeeds in finding it, 
I will take care that he shall be rewarded." 

Antonio was already on his knees before the chest. 
There was a murmur of disapprobation among the crew. 
They were in favor of fair play, and this undue eager- 
ness to .convict our hero of guilt did not commend itself 
to their sense of justice and generosity. But Antonio 
cared little for the sensation which his conduct might 
excite among his fellow-seamen. He cared more for the 
gratification of his revenge than for personal popularity. 

A glance satisfied him that the ring wai  not in the 
chest. He next began to to examine carefully the 
clothes which had been taken out and were lying on 
deck. 

In lifting and shaking a shirt the ring rolled out. "" 

" There is your ring  Captain Brace," said he, in a 
tone of exultation, as he picked it up and extended it to 
the captain. 



The discovery of the ring made a profound impression upon all present. The sailors looked at first surprised, and then sorrowful, for they could not escape the 
conviction that Charlie had been tempted by the richness of the prize and had  ctn lly stolen it. 

Charlie was overwhelmed with astonishment and indignation, and the thought that he was considered 
guilty made him feel very uncomfortable. 

The captain, the mate, and Antonio could hardly conceal the satisfaction which this discovery aflbrded them. 
Each had motives of l is own, the captain being, of 
course, glad to recover an article which he valued, but 
of the three perhaps there was none that felt a more 
malicious satisfaction than the one who had devised the 
plot. He glanced exultantly at Charlie and Bill Sturdy, 
who he knew would be equally aflected by his favorite's 
misfortune.  

Bill Sturdy returned his glance composedly. Antonio was disappointed to find that he neither looked dis- 
tui'bed nor frightened. Bill waited calmly the course of 
events. 

Captain Brace exclaimed in his harsh voice, " It seems 

we have a thief on board. We'll soon teach him the 


way all such rascals will be treated on board this ship. 
Boy, take off your jacket." 

'' Captain Brace," said Charlie, with glowing cheeks, 
and in a tone that might have convinced any one not 
prejudiced against him, "just hear what I am going to 
say. I didn't steal your ring, indeed I didn't. I would 
scorn to do such a thing. Ever since I could speak my 
mother has taught me how mean a thing it is to take 
what belongs to another. I own that appearances are 
against me." 

Here Randall stepped forward with an evil smile upon 
his face. 

" Captain Brace, as I am the uncle of this boy, per- 
haps you will allow me to tell you how much dependence 
can be placed upon his word. He is an artful young 
rascal. I am sorry to say it, since he is related to me, 
but the fact is, he was on the point of being arrested for 
theft just before we sailed; when I, to protect him from 
imprisonment, and snatch him from the custody of the 
law, took him to sea with me. ' I have said this against 
my will, because, although I know you. Captain Brace, 
would not be imposed upon by his story, I thought there 
might be others that would." 

The sailors looked at each other, not knowing what 
to think, while the captain exclaimed, sternly, "So this 
is not the first of your tricks, my fine fellow. You shall 
have justice done you on the sea, if not on the land. 
Strip, I tell you." 

Charlie was so thunderstruck by Randall's bold falsehood that he actually had nothing to say. He mechanically began to take off his jacket. 

At this moment the clarion voice of Bill Sturdy wa  





 

heard, as, hitching up his trousers a bit, he left the mast 
against which he had been leaning, and advanced into 
the midst of the assembled sailors. 

'  Captain Brace," he said, in a tone firm but respect- 
ful, '' if 3 ou'U allow me, I'll tell you what I know of 
this affair." 

'' So you know something about it, do you?" 

" I thought so," said Randall, in a low voice, for he 
had disliked Bill from the first. 

"I do," was the composed reply, "but I have no 
reason to be ashamed of what I do know." 

" I think," said the mate, " we already know all that 
we require, since we have discovered the thief." 

He was apprehensive, from Bill's tone, that what he 
had to say might put a different face on the matter, and 
perhaps clear Charlie. 

Captain Brace, however, did not choose to, be guided 
by the implied advice of his first oflicer. He had a 
curiosity to learn what Sturdy had to communicate. 

" Say on ; what do you know of this affair? " 

" Very well, sir. About an hour ago you came up 
from the cabin and began to pace the deck." 

The captain assented. 

'' As you passed I observed one of the crew take a 
hasty glance at your finger. I looked also, and saw 
that you were not wearing your ring as usual." 

"Well?" 

" The sailor that I mentioned just now." 

"Whow she?" 

" I would rather not mention his name just at present  
unless you insist upon it." 

The captain did not insist, and Sturdy proceeded. 





'' I thought I would just keep my eyes open, and see 
what followed. Pretty soon the sailor I spoke of looked 
about him to see if he was unnoticed, and crept slyly 
down below. A little later he came up and went to 
work again." 

"Was that all?'' 

" It was not," answered Sturdy. " He kept at work 
about ten minutes longer, and then stole towards the 
forecastle with the same secrecy as before. I should 
have followed him down, but I thought he would notice 
me. My mind misgave me that he was in some mis- 
chief. I determined I would remember what happened, 
and if anything turned up, I should know how it came 
about." 

'' And what do you make of all this?" said Eandall, 
sneering. " To my mind it is a foolish story, and, even 
if true, aipounts to nothing." 

" I'll tell you what I think, and am about sure of, Mr. 
Randall," said Bill, without betraying a particle of ex- 
citement, but continuing to speak with the same calm 
composure as before, "I believe that man in the first 
place stole the captain's ring, and then went and put it 
into the lad's chest, in order that it might be found 
there, and the guilt fixed on him." 

This assertion made a sensation among the crew, and 
there was a general feeling that Charlie was innocent. 

" Who is this man of whom you have been speak- 
ing? " said the captain. 

" I don't need to name Mm," said Bill. " I don't 
need even to look at him. If you will look around you, 
Captain Brace, you can tell by his looks who the man is 



 



 

that has hatched this wicked plot against an innocent 
boy." 

Instantly the 'eyes of all, as if by some confmon im- 
pulse, were fixed upon the form of Antonio, who, con- 
fused, thunderstruck by the minute detail of his move- 
ments, which he had supposed unnoticed by any one, 
now stood with his face alternately flushing and paling, 
looking the very picture of confession and detected guilt. 

Unable to bear the glances fixed upon hifti, he ex- 
claimed, in a voice hoarse with passion, " It is false. I 
never did it." 

" No one has accused you that I know of," said Bill 
Sturdy, coolly. '' Leastways, nobody that I know of, 
excepting yourself, and your face is enough to do that. 
However, I don't mind saying that you are the man I 
mean. If Captain Brace will take the trouble to re- 
member, you are the first one that thought of searching 
for the ring, and told him falsely that you had seen it in 
the hands of that lad there. Then again, when the 
chest had been searched, and the ring couldn't be found, 
you came forward and offered to look for it yourself, and 
finally you did find it. That's all I've got to say, only, 
if you are not the real thief I am a liar, and so is that 
face of yours." 

Carried away by his rage, Antonio, forgetting the 

pruden9e which his past experience might have taught 

him, threw himself suddenly upon. Bill Sturdy, and 

nearly succeeded in laying him prostrate upon the 

deck. 





 



XXYI. 

A STORM BREWING. 

Antonio's assault was so unexpected that Bill Sturdy, 
being, of course, quite, unprepared for it, staggered and 
seemed about to fall. But, as, one who slips upon the 
ice instinctively makes an effort to preserve his equi- 
librium, so Sturdy immediately recovered from the mo- 
mentary disadvantage, and seizing Antonio with both 
hands threw him to the deck without any great apparent 
effort. 

Probably if Antonio had gained the advantage, Cap- 
tain Brace would have been in no haste to put a stop to 
the conflict. As it was, his brows knit with anger as 
he exclaimed, in a stentorian voice, — 

" Stop this fighting, you lubbers ! Don't you know 
better the respect which is due to my presence, you 
— rascals ! I'll let you know that I am not to be 
insulted on my own deck." 

" It wasn't a fight of my seeking. Captain Brace' 
said Bill, coolly. " I ain't disposed to be quarrelsome, 
and I gness he won't want to try it again immediately." 

As he said this he glanced at Antonio, who, sorely 
bruised by the fall, was slowly rising from the deck, and 

slinking away with a crestfallen and malignant look. 
Had he not been moved by an uncontrollable impulse 
of rage and disappointment, he would scarcely have 
ventured upon this open attack, knowing, as had been 
 ncontestably proved, that he was no match for the 
Herculean strength of Bill Sturdy. 

" Silence ! " roared the captain, in answer to Bill's 
vindication of himself. " One would think from your 
manner that you were the captain of .this ship instead 
of me." 

" If I were the captain," said Bill, bluntly, '' I'd have 
that man," pointing to Antonio, " put ashore at the first 
port. I wouldn't harbor such a rascal aboard the ship." 

" Silence ! " again thundered the captain. '' Don't, 
you know your place ? If you don't, by all the saints 
in the calendar, I'll make you know it before twenty- 
four hours have passed over your head. Let me tell you 
that I don't require any help in commanding this vessel. 
When I do. Twill call on you. Till then, you may 
keep your advice to yourself." 

Bill shrugged his shoulders, but thought it prudent, 
on the whole, to say nothing. Not that he feared for 
himself. He had a good deal of confidence in the 
strength with which nature had endowed him, but he 
feared that any unguarded words of his might incite the 
captain and mate to visit new hardships upon his young 
prot e, Charlie. 

"As to the matter of the ring," said the captain, 
"my mind is not made up. Mr. Randall, will you 
attend me?" 

The mate went below with Captain Brace. 



 



 

After a m6ment's silence the captain said, " I don't 
like that fellow, Mr. Randall." 

" Do you mean Antonio ? " 

" No ; this Sturdy, who takes such airs upon himself." 

 ' Neither do I," answered Randall, promptly.

"He's a mutinous rebel. I can see it in his eye," 
pursued the captain. 

"I have no doubt he would be if he had a good 
opportunity." 

. "Perhaps I shall give him one," said the captain, 
significantly. 

" He's as strong as a bull," said the mate. 

" Yes ; the fellow has fists like sledge-hammers, but 
be may use them once too often. We will speak of that 
hereafter. Now what do you think of this robbery?" 

"I suppose Antonio was the thief," said Randall, 
reluctantly. - ' 

" You think Sturdy's story is correct ? " 

" Yesi Antonio is a deep rascal, though of the two I 
hate Sturdy most." 

" Did you suppose your nephew to be the thief before 
the latter told his story ? " 

" I did not." 

" Yet you countenanced the charge." 

f Because I thought a flogging would do the boy no 
harm." . 

" You don't Beem to have any great affection for your 
nephew." 

" I do not." 

" And the reason ? " 

" Is simply this. The boy's mother jilted me, or 



 



 

rather refhsed me outright when I offered my hand ia 
marriage." 

'' Ha, that's where the shoe pinches.'' 

"You are right.'' 

" Well, I don't care to interfere with any little private 
revenge you may desire to take, as long as it chimes in 
with my own purposes. The boy shall be flogged if you 
wish it." 

"I do." 

" Find some pretext then, as long as the charge of 
