uneasiness in Sir Jasper’s manner in spite of his merry mood.

“There is a stupid superstition of that sort in the family, but no one
except the servants believes it, of course. In times of illness some
silly maid or croaking old woman can easily fancy they see a phantom,
and, if death comes, they are sure of the ghostly warning. Benson saw
it before my father died, and old Roger, the night my uncle was seized
with apoplexy. Patty will never be made to believe that this warning
does not forebode the death of Maurice or myself, for the gallant
spirit leaves the ladies of our house to depart in peace. How does it
strike you, Cousin?”

Turning as he spoke, Sir Jasper glanced at Treherne, who had entered
while he spoke.

“I am quite skeptical and indifferent to the whole affair, but I agree
with Octavia that it is best to say nothing to my aunt if she is
ignorant of the matter. Her rooms are a long way off, and perhaps she
did not hear the confusion.”

“You seem to hear everything; you were not with us when I said that.”
 And Octavia looked up with an air of surprise.

Smiling significantly, Treherne answered, “I hear, see, and understand
many things that escape others. Jasper, allow me to advise you to smooth
the hair which your sleep has disarranged. Mrs. Snowdon, permit me. This
rich velvet catches the least speck.” And with his handkerchief he
delicately brushed away several streaks of white dust which clung to the
lady’s skirt.

Sir Jasper turned hastily on his heel and went to remake his toilet;
Mrs. Snowdon bit her lip, but thanked Treherne sweetly and begged him to
fasten her glove. As he did so, she said softly, “Be more careful next
time. Octavia has keen eyes, and the major may prove inconvenient.”

“I have no fear that you will,” he whispered back, with a
malicious glance.

Here the entrance of my lady put an end to the ghostly episode, for it
was evident that she knew nothing of it. Octavia slipped away to
question John, and learn that no sign of a phantom was to be seen.
Treherne devoted himself to Mrs. Snowdon, and the major entertained my
lady, while Sir Jasper and the girls chatted apart.

It was Christmas Eve, and a dance in the great gallery was the yearly
festival at the abbey. All had been eager for it, but the maid’s story
seemed to have lessened their enthusiasm, though no one would own it.
This annoyed Sir Jasper, and he exerted himself to clear the atmosphere
by affecting gaiety he did not feel. The moment the gentlemen came in
after dinner he whispered to his mother, who rose, asked the general for
his arm, and led the way to the north gallery, whence the sound of music
now proceeded. The rest followed in a merry procession, even Treherne,
for two footmen carried him up the great stairway, chair and all.

Nothing could look less ghostly now than the haunted gallery. Fires
roared up a wide chimney at either end, long rows of figures clad in
armor stood on each side, one mailed hand grasping a lance, the other
bearing a lighted candle, a device of Sir Jasper’s. Narrow windows
pierced in the thick walls let in gleams of wintry moonlight; ivy,
holly, and evergreen glistened in the ruddy glow of mingled firelight
and candle shine. From the arched stone roof hung tattered banners, and
in the midst depended a great bunch of mistletoe. Red-cushioned seats
stood in recessed window nooks, and from behind a high-covered screen of
oak sounded the blithe air of Sir Roger de Coverley.

With the utmost gravity and stateliness my lady and the general led off
the dance, for, according to the good old fashion, the men and maids in
their best array joined the gentlefolk and danced with their betters in
a high state of pride and bashfulness. Sir Jasper twirled the old
housekeeper till her head spun around and around and her decorous skirts
rustled stormily; Mrs. Snowdon captivated the gray-haired butler by her
condescension; and John was made a proud man by the hand of his young
mistress. The major came out strong among the pretty maids, and Rose
danced the footmen out of breath long before the music paused.

The merriment increased from that moment, and when the general
surprised my lady by gallantly saluting her as she unconsciously stood
under the mistletoe, the applause was immense. Everyone followed the
old gentleman’s example as fast as opportunities occurred, and the
young ladies soon had as fine a color as the housemaids. More dancing,
games, songs, and all manner of festival devices filled the evening,
yet under cover of the gaiety more than one little scene was enacted
that night, and in an hour of seeming frivolity the current of several
lives was changed.

By a skillful maneuver Annon led Octavia to an isolated recess, as if to
rest after a brisk game, and, taking advantage of the auspicious hour,
pleaded his suit. She heard him patiently and, when he paused, said
slowly, yet decidedly, and with no sign of maiden hesitation, “Thanks
for the honor you do me, but I cannot accept it, for I do not love you.
I think I never can.”

“Have you tried?” he asked eagerly.

“Yes, indeed I have. I like you as a friend, but no more. I know Mamma
desires it, that Jasper hopes for it, and I try to please them, but love
will not be forced, so what can I do?” And she smiled in spite of
herself at her own blunt simplicity.

“No, but it can be cherished, strengthened, and in time won, with
patience and devotion. Let me try, Octavia; it is but fair, unless you
have already learned from another the lesson I hope to teach. Is it so?”

“No, I think not. I do not understand myself as yet, I am so young, and
this so sudden. Give me time, Frank.”

She blushed and fluttered now, looked half angry, half beseeching, and
altogether lovely.

“How much time shall I give? It cannot take long to read a heart like
yours, dear.” And fancying her emotion a propitious omen, he assumed the
lover in good earnest.

“Give me time till the New Year. I will answer then, and, meantime,
leave me free to study both myself and you. We have known each other
long, I own, but, still, this changes everything, and makes you seem
another person. Be patient, Frank, and I will try to make my duty a
pleasure.”

“I will. God bless you for the kind hope, Octavia. It has been mine for
years, and if I lose it, it will go hardly with me.”

Later in the evening General Snowdon stood examining the antique screen.
In many places carved oak was pierced quite through, so that voices were
audible from behind it. The musicians had gone down to supper, the young
folk were quietly busy at the other end of the hall, and as the old
gentleman admired the quaint carving, the sound of his own name caught
his ear. The housekeeper and butler still remained, though the other
servants had gone, and sitting cosily behind the screen chatted in low
tones believing themselves secure.

“It was Mrs. Snowdon, Adam, as I’m a living woman, though I wouldn’t
say it to anyone but you. She and Sir Jasper were here wrapped in
cloaks, and up to mischief, I’ll be bound. She is a beauty, but I don’t
envy her, and there’ll be trouble in the house if she stays long.”

“But how do you know, Mrs. Benson, she was here? Where’s your proof,
mum?” asked the pompous butler.

“Look at this, and then look at the outlandish trimming of the lady’s
dress. You men are so dull about such matters you’d never observe these
little points. Well, I was here first after Patty, and my light shone on
this jet ornament lying near where she saw the spirit. No one has any
such tasty trifles but Mrs. Snowdon, and these are all over her gown. If
that ain’t proof, what is?”

“Well, admitting it, I then say what on earth should she and Master be
up here for, at such a time?” asked the slow-witted butler.

“Adam, we are old servants of the family, and to you I’ll say what
tortures shouldn’t draw from to another. Master has been wild, as you
know, and it’s my belief that he loved this lady abroad. There was a
talk of some mystery, or misdeed, or misfortune, more than a year ago,
and she was in it. I’m loath to say it, but I think Master loves her
still, and she him. The general is an old man, she is but young, and so
spirited and winsome she can’t in reason care for him as for a fine,
gallant gentleman like Sir Jasper. There’s trouble brewing, Adam, mark
my words. There’s trouble brewing for the Trehernes.”

So low had the voices fallen that the listener could not have caught the
words had not his ear been strained to the utmost. He did hear all, and
his wasted face flashed with the wrath of a young man, then grew pale
and stern as he turned to watch his wife. She stood apart from the
others talking to Sir Jasper, who looked unusually handsome and debonair
as he fanned her with a devoted air.

Perhaps it is true, thought the old man bitterly. They are well matched,
were lovers once, no doubt, and long to be so again. Poor Edith, I was
very blind. And with his gray head bowed upon his breast the general
stole away, carrying an arrow in his brave old heart.

      

“Blanche, come here and rest, you will be ill tomorrow; and I promised
Mamma to take care of you.” With which elder-sisterly command Rose led
the girl to an immense old chair, which held them both. “Now listen to
me and follow my advice, for I am wise in my generation, though not yet
gray. They are all busy, so leave them alone and let me show you what is
to be done.”

Rose spoke softly, but with great resolution, and nodded her pretty head
so energetically that the holly berries came rolling over her white
shoulders.

“We are not as rich as we might be, and must establish ourselves as soon
and as well as possible. I intend to be Lady Treherne. You can be the
Honorable Mrs. Annon, if you give your mind to it.”

“My dear child, are you mad?” whispered Blanche.

“Far from it, but you will be if you waste your time on Maurice. He is
poor, and a cripple, though very charming, I admit. He loves Tavie, and
she will marry him, I am sure. She can’t endure Frank, but tries to
because my lady commands it. Nothing will come of it, so try your
fascinations and comfort the poor man; sympathy now will foster love
hereafter.”

“Don’t talk so here, Rose, someone will hear us,” began her sister, but
the other broke in briskly.

“No fear, a crowd is the best place for secrets. Now remember what I
say, and make your game while the ball is rolling. Other people are
careful not to put their plans into words, but I’m no hypocrite, and say
plainly what I mean. Bear my sage counsel in mind and act wisely. Now
come and begin.”

Treherne was sitting alone by one of the great fires, regarding the gay
scene with serious air. For him there was neither dancing nor games; he
could only roam about catching glimpses of forbidden pleasures,
impossible delights, and youthful hopes forever lost to him. Sad but not
morose was his face, and to Octavia it was a mute reproach which she
could not long resist. Coming up as if to warm herself, she spoke to him
in her usually frank and friendly way, and felt her heart beat fast when
she saw how swift a change her cordial manner wrought in him.

“How pretty your holly is! Do you remember how we used to go and gather
it for festivals like this, when we were happy children?” he asked,
looking up at her with eyes full of tender admiration.

“Yes, I remember. Everyone wears it tonight as a badge, but you have
none. Let me get you a bit, I like to have you one of us in all things.”

She leaned forward to break a green sprig from the branch over the
chimneypiece; the strong draft drew in her fleecy skirt, and in an
instant she was enveloped in flames.

“Maurice, save me, help me!” cried a voice of fear and agony, and
before anyone could reach her, before he himself knew how the deed was
done, Treherne had thrown himself from his chair, wrapped the tiger
skin tightly about her, and knelt there clasping her in his arms
heedless of fire, pain, or the incoherent expressions of love that
broke from his lips.




Chapter VI


MIRACLES

Great was the confusion and alarm which reigned for many minutes, but
when the panic subsided two miracles appeared. Octavia was entirely
uninjured, and Treherne was standing on his feet, a thing which for
months he had not done without crutches. In the excitement of the
moment, no one observed the wonder; all were crowding about the girl,
who, pale and breathless but now self-possessed, was the first to
exclaim, pointing to her cousin, who had drawn himself up, with the
help of his chair, and leaned there smiling, with a face full of
intense delight.

“Look at Maurice! Oh, Jasper, help him or he’ll fall!”

Sir Jasper sprung to his side and put a strong arm about him, while a
chorus of wonder, sympathy, and congratulations rose about them.

“Why, lad, what does it mean? Have you been deceiving us all this
time?” cried Jasper, as Treherne leaned on him, looking exhausted but
truly happy.

“It means that I am not to be a cripple all my life; that they did not
deceive me when they said a sudden shock might electrify me with a more
potent magnetism than any they could apply. It has, and if I am cured
I owe it all to you, Octavia.”

He stretched his hands to her with a gesture of such passionate
gratitude that the girl covered her face to hide its traitorous
tenderness, and my lady went to him, saying brokenly, as she embraced
him with maternal warmth, “God bless you for this act, Maurice, and
reward you with a perfect cure. To you I owe the lives of both my
children; how can I thank you as I ought?”

“I dare not tell you yet,” he whispered eagerly, then added, “I am
growing faint, Aunt. Get me away before I make a scene.”

This hint recalled my lady to her usual state of dignified
self-possession. Bidding Jasper and the major help Treherne to his room
without delay, she begged Rose to comfort her sister, who was sobbing
hysterically, and as they all obeyed her, she led her daughter away to
her own apartment, for the festivities of the evening were at an end.

At the same time Mrs. Snowdon and Annon bade my lady good-night, as if
they also were about to retire, but as they reached the door of the
gallery Mrs. Snowdon paused and beckoned Annon back. They were alone
now, and, standing before the fire which had so nearly made that
Christmas Eve a tragical one, she turned to him with a face full of
interest and sympathy as she said, nodding toward the blackened shreds
of Octavia’s dress, and the scorched tiger skin which still lay at their
feet, “That was both a fortunate and an unfortunate little affair, but I
fear Maurice’s gain will be your loss. Pardon my frankness for Octavia’s
sake; she is a fine creature, and I long to see her given to one worthy
of her. I am a woman to read faces quickly; I know that your suit does
not prosper as you would have it, and I desire to help you. May I?”

“Indeed you may, and command any service of me in return. But to what do
I owe this unexpected friendliness?” cried Annon, both grateful and
surprised.

“To my regard for the young lady, my wish to save her from an
unworthy man.”

“Do you mean Treherne?” asked Annon, more and more amazed.

“I do. Octavia must not marry a gambler!”

“My dear lady, you labor under some mistake; Treherne is by no means a
gambler. I owe him no goodwill, but I cannot hear him slandered.”

“You are generous, but I am not mistaken. Can you, on your honor, assure
me that Maurice never played?”

Mrs. Snowdon’s keen eyes were on him, and he looked embarrassed for a
moment, but answered with some hesitation, “Why, no, I cannot say that,
but I can assure you that he is not an habitual gambler. All young men
of his rank play more or less, especially abroad. It is merely an
amusement with most, and among men is not considered dishonorable or
dangerous. Ladies think differently, I believe, at least in England.”

At the word “abroad,” Mrs. Snowdon’s face brightened, and she suddenly
dropped her eyes, as if afraid of betraying some secret purpose.

“Indeed we do, and well we may, many of us having suffered from this
pernicious habit. I have had special cause to dread and condemn it, and
the fear that Octavia should in time suffer what I have suffered as a
girl urges me to interfere where otherwise I should be dumb. Mr. Annon,
there was a rumor that Maurice was forced to quit Paris, owing to some
dishonorable practices at the gaming table. Is this true?”

“Nay, don’t ask me; upon my soul I cannot tell you. I only know that
something was amiss, but what I never learned. Various tales were
whispered at the clubs, and Sir Jasper indignantly denied them all. The
bravery with which Maurice saved his cousin, and the sad affliction
which fell upon him, silenced the gossip, and it was soon forgotten.”

Mrs. Snowdon remained silent for a moment, with brows knit in deep
thought, while Annon uneasily watched her. Suddenly she glanced over her
shoulder, drew nearer, and whispered cautiously, “Did the rumors of
which you speak charge him with--” and the last word was breathed into
Annon’s ear almost inaudibily.

He started, as if some new light broke on him, and stared at the speaker
with a troubled face for an instant, saying hastily, “No, but now you
remind me that when an affair of that sort was discussed the other day
Treherne looked very odd, and rolled himself away, as if it didn’t
interest him. I can’t believe it, and yet it may be something of the
kind. That would account for old Sir Jasper’s whim, and Treherne’s
steady denial of any knowledge of the cause. How in heaven’s name did
you learn this?”

“My woman’s wit suggested it, and my woman’s will shall confirm or
destroy the suspicion. My lady and Octavia evidently know nothing, but
they shall if there is any danger of the girl’s being won by him.”

“You would not tell her!” exclaimed Annon.

“I will, unless you do it” was the firm answer.

“Never! To betray a friend, even to gain the woman I love, is a thing I
cannot do; my honor forbids it.”

Mrs. Snowdon smiled scornfully.

“Men’s code of honor is a strong one, and we poor women suffer from it.
Leave this to me; do your best, and if all other means fail, you may be
glad to try my device to prevent Maurice from marrying his cousin.
Gratitude and pity are strong allies, and if he recovers, his strong
will will move heaven and earth to gain her. Good night.” And leaving
her last words to rankle in Annon’s mind, Mrs. Snowdon departed to
endure sleepless hours full of tormenting memories, newborn hopes, and
alternations of determination and despair.

Treherne’s prospect of recovery filled the whole house with delight, for
his patient courage and unfailing cheerfulness had endeared him to all.
It was no transient amendment, for day by day he steadily gained
strength and power, passing rapidly from chair to crutches, from
crutches to a cane and a friend’s arm, which was always ready for him.
Pain returned with returning vitality, but he bore it with a fortitude
that touched all who witnessed it. At times motion was torture, yet
motion was necessary lest the torpidity should return, and Treherne took
his daily exercise with unfailing perseverance, saying with a smile,
though great drops stood upon his forehead, “I have something dearer
even than health to win. Hold me up, Jasper, and let me stagger on, in
spite of everything, till my twelve turns are made.”

He remembered Lady Treherne’s words, “If you were well, I’d gladly give
my girl to you.” This inspired him with strength, endurance, and a
happiness which could not be concealed. It overflowed in looks, words,
and acts; it infected everyone, and made these holidays the blithest the
old abbey had seen for many a day.

Annon devoted himself to Octavia, and in spite of her command to be left
in peace till the New Year, she was very kind--so kind that hope flamed
up in his heart, though he saw that something like compassion often
shone on him from her frank eyes, and her compliance had no touch of the
tender docility which lovers long to see. She still avoided Treherne,
but so skillfully that few observed the change but Annon and himself. In
public Sir Jasper appeared to worship at the sprightly Rose’s shrine,
and she fancied her game was prospering well.

But had any one peeped behind the scenes it would have been discovered
that during the half hour before dinner, when everyone was in their
dressing rooms and the general taking his nap, a pair of ghostly black
figures flitted about the haunted gallery, where no servant ventured
without orders. The major fancied himself the only one who had made this
discovery, for Mrs. Snowdon affected Treherne’s society in public, and
was assiduous in serving and amusing the “dear convalescent,” as she
called him. But the general did not sleep; he too watched and waited,
longing yet dreading to speak, and hoping that this was but a harmless
freak of Edith’s, for her caprices were many, and till now he had
indulged them freely. This hesitation disgusted the major, who, being a
bachelor, knew little of women’s ways, and less of their powers of
persuasion. The day before New Year he took a sudden resolution, and
demanded a private interview with the general.

“I have come on an unpleasant errand, sir,” he abruptly began, as the
old man received him with an expression which rather daunted the major.
“My friendship for Lady Treherne, and my guardianship of her children,
makes me jealous of the honor of the family. I fear it is in danger,
sir; pardon me for saying it, but your wife is the cause.”

“May I trouble you to explain, Major Royston” was all the general’s
reply, as his old face grew stern and haughty.

“I will, sir, briefly. I happen to know from Jasper that there were love
passages between Miss Dubarry and himself a year or more ago in Paris. A
whim parted them, and she married. So far no reproach rests upon either,
but since she came here it has been evident to others as well as myself
that Jasper’s affection has revived, and that Mrs. Snowdon does not
reject and reprove it as she should. They often meet, and from Jasper’s
manner I am convinced that mischief is afloat. He is ardent, headstrong,
and utterly regardless of the world’s opinion in some cases. I have
watched them, and what I tell you is true.”

“Prove it.”

“I will. They meet in the north gallery, wrapped in dark cloaks, and
play ghost if anyone comes. I concealed myself behind the screen last
evening at dusk, and satisfied myself that my suspicions were correct. I
heard little of their conversation, but that little was enough.”

“Repeat it, if you please.”

“Sir Jasper seemed pleading for some promise which she reluctantly gave,
saying, ‘While you live I will be true to my word with everyone but him.
He will suspect, and it will be useless to keep it from him.’

“‘He will shoot me for this if he knows I am the traitor,’
expostulated Jasper.

“‘He shall not know that; I can hoodwink him easily, and serve my
purpose also.’

“‘You are mysterious, but I leave all to you and wait for my reward.
When shall I have it, Edith?’ She laughed, and answered so low I could
not hear, for they left the gallery as they spoke. Forgive me, General,
for the pain I inflict. You are the only person to whom I have spoken,
and you are the only person who can properly and promptly prevent this
affair from bringing open shame and scandal on an honorable house. To
you I leave it, and will do my part with this infatuated young man if
you will withdraw the temptation which will ruin him.”

“I will. Thank you, Major. Trust to me, and by tomorrow I will prove
that I can act as becomes me.”

The grief and misery in the general’s face touched the major; he
silently wrung his hand and went away, thanking heaven more fervently
than ever that no cursed coquette of a woman had it in her power to
break his heart.

While this scene was going on above, another was taking place in the
library. Treherne sat there alone, thinking happy thoughts evidently,
for his eyes shone and his lips smiled as he mused, while watching the
splendors of a winter sunset. A soft rustle and the faint scent of
violets warned him of Mrs. Snowdon’s approach, and a sudden foreboding
told him that danger was near. The instant he saw her face his fear
was confirmed, for exultation, resolve, and love met and mingled in
the expression it wore. Leaning in the window recess, where the red
light shone full on her lovely face and queenly figure, she said,
softly yet with a ruthless accent below the softness, “Dreaming
dreams, Maurice, which will never come to pass, unless I will it. I
know your secret, and I shall use it to prevent the fulfillment of the
foolish hope you cherish.”

“Who told you?” he demanded, with an almost fierce flash of the eye and
an angry flush.

“I discovered it, as I warned you I should. My memory is good, I recall
the gossip of long ago, I observe the faces, words, and acts of those
whom I suspect, and unconscious hints from them give me the truth.”

“I doubt it,” and Treherne smiled securely.

She stooped and whispered one short sentence into his ear. Whatever it
was it caused him to start up with a pale, panic-stricken face, and eye
her as if she had pronounced his doom.

“Do you doubt it now?” she asked coldly.

“He told you! Even your skill and craft could not discover it alone,”
 he muttered.

“Nay, I told you nothing was impossible to a determined woman. I needed
no help, for I knew more than you think.”

He sank down again in a despairing attitude and hid his face, saying
mournfully, “I might have known you would hunt me down and dash my hopes
when they were surest. How will you use this unhappy secret?”

“I will tell Octavia, and make her duty less hard. It will be kind to
both of you, for even with her this memory would mar your happiness; and
it saves her from the shame and grief of discovering, when too late,
that she has given herself to a--”

“Stop!” he cried, in a tone that made her start and pale, as he rose out
of his chair white with a stern indignation which awed her for a moment.
“You shall not utter that word--you know but half the truth, and if you
wrong me or trouble the girl I will turn traitor also, and tell the
general the game you are playing with my cousin. You feign to love me as
you feigned before, but his title is the bait now as then, and you fancy
that by threatening to mar my hopes you will secure my silence, and gain
your end.”

“Wrong, quite wrong. Jasper is nothing to me; I use him as a tool, not
you. If I threaten, it is to keep you from Octavia, who cannot forgive
the past and love you for yourself, as I have done all these miserable
months. You say I know but half the truth. Tell me the whole and I will
spare you.”

If ever a man was tempted to betray a trust it was Treherne then. A
word, and Octavia might be his; silence, and she might be lost; for this
woman was in earnest, and possessed the power to ruin his good name
forever. The truth leaped to his lips and would have passed them, had
not his eye fallen on the portrait of Jasper’s father. This man had
loved and sheltered the orphan all his life, had made of him a son, and,
dying, urged him to guard and serve and save the rebellious youth he
left, when most needing a father’s care.

“I promised, and I will keep my promise at all costs,” sighed Treherne,
and with a gesture full of pathetic patience he waved the fair tempter
from him, saying steadily, “I will never tell you, though you rob me of
that which is dearer than my life. Go and work your will, but remember
that when you might have won the deepest gratitude of the man you
profess to love, you chose instead to earn his hatred and contempt.”

Waiting for no word of hers, he took refuge in his room, and Edith
Snowdon sank down upon the couch, struggling with contending emotions of
love and jealousy, remorse and despair. How long she sat there she could
not tell; an approaching step recalled her to herself, and looking up
she saw Octavia. As the girl approached down the long vista of the
drawing rooms, her youth and beauty, innocence and candor touched that
fairer and more gifted woman with an envy she had never known before.
Something in the girl’s face struck her instantly: a look of peace and
purity, a sweet serenity more winning than loveliness, more impressive
than dignity or grace. With a smile on her lips, yet a half-sad,
half-tender light in her eyes, and a cluster of pale winter roses in her
hand, she came on till she stood before her rival and, offering the
flowers, said, in words as simple as sincere, “Dear Mrs. Snowdon, I
cannot let the last sun of the old year set on any misdeeds of mine for
which I may atone. I have disliked, distrusted, and misjudged you, and
now I come to you in all humility to say forgive me.”

With the girlish abandon of her impulsive nature Octavia knelt down
before the woman who was plotting to destroy her happiness, laid the
roses like a little peace offering on her lap, and with eloquently
pleading eyes waited for pardon. For a moment Mrs. Snowdon watched her,
fancying it a well-acted ruse to disarm a dangerous rival; but in that
sweet face there was no art; one glance showed her that. The words smote
her to the heart and won her in spite of pride or passion, as she
suddenly took the girl into her arms, weeping repentant tears. Neither
spoke, but in the silence each felt the barrier which had stood between
them vanishing, and each learned to know the other better in that moment
than in a year of common life. Octavia rejoiced that the instinct which
had prompted her to make this appeal had not misled her, but assured her
that behind the veil of coldness, pride, and levity which this woman
wore there was a heart aching for sympathy and help and love. Mrs.
Snowdon felt her worser self slip from her, leaving all that was true
and noble to make her worthy of the test applied. Art she could meet
with equal art, but nature conquered her. For spite of her misspent life
and faulty character, the germ of virtue, which lives in the worst, was
there, only waiting for the fostering sun and dew of love to strengthen
it, even though the harvest be a late one.

“Forgive you!” she cried, brokenly. “It is I who should ask forgiveness
of you--I who should atone, confess, and repent. Pardon me, pity me,
love me, for I am more wretched than you know.”

“Dear, I do with heart and soul. Believe it, and let me be your friend”
 was the soft answer.

“God knows I need one!” sighed the poor woman, still holding fast the
only creature who had wholly won her. “Child, I am not good, but not so
bad that I dare not look in your innocent face and call you friend. I
never had one of my own sex. I never knew my mother; and no one ever saw
in me the possibility of goodness, truth, and justice but you. Trust and
love and help me, Octavia, and I will reward you with a better life, if
I can do no more.”

“I will, and the new year shall be happier than the old.”

“God bless you for that prophecy; may I be worthy of it.”

Then as a bell warned them away, the rivals kissed each other tenderly,
and parted friends. As Mrs. Snowdon entered her room, she saw her
husband sitting with his gray head in his hands, and heard him murmur
despairingly to himself, “My life makes her miserable. But for the sin
of it I’d die to free her.”

“No, live for me, and teach me to be happy in your love.” The clear
voice startled him, but not so much as the beautiful changed face of the
wife who laid the gray head on her bosom, saying tenderly, “My kind and
patient husband, you have been deceived. From me you shall know all the
truth, and when you have forgiven my faulty past, you shall see how
happy I will try to make your future.”




Chapter VII


A GHOSTLY REVEL

“Bless me, how dull we are tonight!” exclaimed Rose, as the younger
portion of the party wandered listlessly about the drawing rooms that
evening, while my lady and the major played an absorbing game of piquet,
and the general dozed peacefully at last.

“It is because Maurice is not here; he always keeps us going, for he is
a fellow of infinite resources,” replied Sir Jasper, suppressing a yawn.

“Have him out then,” said Annon.

“He won’t come. The poor lad is blue tonight, in spite of his
improvement. Something is amiss, and there is no getting a word
from him.”

“Sad memories afflict him, perhaps,” sighed Blanche.

“Don’t be absurd, dear, sad memories are all nonsense; melancholy is
always indigestion, and nothing is so sure a cure as fun,” said Rose
briskly. “I’m going to send in a polite invitation begging him to come
and amuse us. He’ll accept, I haven’t a doubt.”

The message was sent, but to Rose’s chagrin a polite refusal was
returned.

“He shall come. Sir Jasper, do you and Mr. Annon go as a deputation
from us, and return without him at your peril” was her command.

They went, and while waiting their reappearance the sisters spoke of
what all had observed.

“How lovely Mrs. Snowdon looks tonight. I always thought she owed half
her charms to her skill in dress, but she never looked so beautiful as
in that plain black silk, with those roses in her hair,” said Rose.

“What has she done to herself?” replied Blanche. “I see a change,
but can’t account for it. She and Tavie have made some beautifying
discovery, for both look altogether uplifted and angelic all of a
sudden.”

“Here come the gentlemen, and, as I’m a Talbot, they haven’t got him!”
 cried Rose as the deputation appeared, looking very crestfallen. “Don’t
come near me,” she added, irefully, “you are disloyal cowards, and I
doom you to exile till I want you. I am infinite in resources as well
as this recreant man, and come he shall. Mrs. Snowdon, would you mind
asking Mr. Treherne to suggest something to wile away the rest of this
evening? We are in despair, and can think of nothing, and you are
all-powerful with him.”

“I must decline, since he refuses you” was the decided answer, as Mrs.
Snowdon moved away.

“Tavie, dear, do go; we must have him; he always obeys you, and you
would be such a public benefactor, you know.”

Without a word Octavia wrote a line and sent it by a servant. Several
minutes passed, and the gentlemen began to lay wagers on the success of
her trial. “He will not come for me, you may be sure,” said Octavia. As
the words passed her lips he appeared.

A general laugh greeted him, but, taking no notice of the jests at
his expense, he turned to Octavia, saying quietly, “What can I do for
you, Cousin?”

His colorless face and weary eyes reproached her for disturbing him, but
it was too late for regret, and she answered hastily, “We are in want of
some new and amusing occupation to wile away the evening. Can you
suggest something appropriate?”

“Why not sit round the hall fire and tell stories, while we wait to see
the old year out, as we used to do long ago?” he asked, after a
moment’s thought.

“I told you so! There it is, just what we want.” And Sir Jasper looked
triumphant.

“It’s capital--let us begin at once. It is after ten now, so we shall
not have long to wait,” cried Rose, and, taking Sir Jasper’s arm, she
led the way to the hall.

A great fire always burned there, and in wintertime thick carpets
and curtains covered the stone floor and draped the tall windows.
Plants blossomed in the warm atmosphere, and chairs and lounges
stood about invitingly. The party was soon seated, and Treherne was
desired to begin.

“We must have ghost stories, and in order to be properly thrilling and
effective, the lights must be put out,” said Rose, who sat next him, and
spoke first, as usual.

This was soon done, and only a ruddy circle of firelight was left to
oppose the rapt gloom that filled the hall, where shadows now seemed to
lurk in every corner.

“Don’t be very dreadful, or I shall faint away,” pleaded Blanche,
drawing nearer to Annon, for she had taken her sister’s advice, and laid
close siege to that gentleman’s heart.

“I think your nerves will bear my little tale,” replied Treherne.
“When I was in India, four years ago, I had a very dear friend in my
regiment--a Scotchman; I’m half Scotch myself, you know, and clannish,
of course. Gordon was sent up the country on a scouting expedition,
and never returned. His men reported that he left them one evening to
take a survey, and his horse came home bloody and riderless. We
searched, but could not find a trace of him, and I was desperate to
discover and avenge his murder. About a month after his disappearance,
as I sat in my tent one fearfully hot day, suddenly the canvas door
flap was raised and there stood Gordon. I saw him as plainly as I see
you, Jasper, and should have sprung to meet him, but something held me
back. He was deathly pale, dripping with water, and in his bonny blue
eyes was a wild, woeful look that made my blood run cold. I stared
dumbly, for it was awful to see my friend so changed and so unearthly.
Stretching his arm to me he took my hand, saying solemnly, ‘Come!’ The
touch was like ice; an ominous thrill ran through me; I started up to
obey, and he was gone.”

“A horrid dream, of course. Is that all?” asked Rose.

With his eyes on the fire and his left hand half extended, Treherne went
on as if he had not heard her.

“I thought it was a fancy, and soon recovered myself, for no one had
seen or heard anything of Gordon, and my native servant lay just outside
my tent. A strange sensation remained in the hand the phantom touched.
It was cold, damp, and white. I found it vain to try to forget this
apparition; it took strong hold of me; I told Yermid, my man, and he
bade me consider it a sign that I was to seek my friend. That night I
dreamed I was riding up the country in hot haste; what led me I know
not, but I pressed on and on, longing to reach the end. A half-dried
river crossed my path, and, riding down the steep bank to ford it, I saw
Gordon’s body lying in the shallow water looking exactly as the vision
looked. I woke in a strange mood, told the story to my commanding
officer, and, as nothing was doing just then, easily got leave of
absence for a week. Taking Yermid, I set out on my sad quest. I thought
it folly, but I could not resist the impulse that drew me on. For seven
days I searched, and the strangest part of the story is that all that
time I went on exactly as in the dream, seeing what I saw then, and led
by the touch of a cold hand on mine. On the seventh day I reached the
river, and found my friend’s body.”

“How horrible! Is it really true?” cried Mrs. Snowdon.

“As true as I am a living man. Nor is that all: this left hand of mine
never has been warm since that time. See and feel for yourselves.”

He opened both hands, and all satisfied themselves that the left was
smaller, paler, and colder than the right.

“Pray someone tell another story to put this out of my mind; it makes me
nervous,” said Blanche.

“I’ll tell one, and you may laugh to quiet your nerves. I want to have
mine done with, so that I can enjoy the rest with a free mind.” With
these words Rose began her tale in the good old fashion.

“Once upon a time, when we were paying a visit to my blessed grandmamma,
I saw a ghost in this wise: The dear old lady was ill with a cold and
kept her room, leaving us to mope, for it was very dull in the great
lonely house. Blanche and I were both homesick, but didn’t like to leave
till she was better, so we ransacked the library and solaced ourselves
with all manner of queer books. One day I found Grandmamma very low and
nervous, and evidently with something on her mind. She would say
nothing, but the next day was worse, and I insisted on knowing the
cause, for the trouble was evidently mental. Charging me to keep it from
Blanche, who was, and is, a sad coward, she told me that a spirit had
appeared to her two successive nights. ‘If it comes a third time, I
shall prepare to die,’ said the foolish old lady.

“‘No, you won’t, for I’ll come and stay with you and lay your ghost,’ I
said. With some difficulty I made her yield, and after Blanche was
asleep I slipped away to Grandmamma, with a book and candle for a long
watch, as the spirit didn’t appear till after midnight. She usually
slept with her door unlocked, in case of fire or fright, and her maid
was close by. That night I locked the door, telling her that spirits
could come through the oak if they chose, and I preferred to have a fair
trial. Well, I read and chatted and dozed till dawn and nothing
appeared, so I laughed at the whole affair, and the old lady pretended
to be convinced that it was all a fancy.

“Next night I slept in my own room, and in the morning was told that not
only Grandmamma but Janet had seen the spirit. All in white, with
streaming hair, a pale face, and a red streak at the throat. It came and
parted the bed-curtains, looking in a moment, and then vanished. Janet
had slept with Grandmamma and kept a lamp burning on the chimney, so
both saw it.

“I was puzzled, but not frightened; I never am, and I insisted on trying
again. The door was left unlocked, as on the previous night, and I lay
with Grandmamma, a light burning as before. About two she clutched me as
I was dropping off. I looked, and there, peeping in between the dark
curtains, was a pale face with long hair all about it, and a red streak
at the throat. It was very dim, the light being low, but I saw it, and
after one breathless minute sprang up, caught my foot, fell down with a
crash, and by the time I was around the bed, not a vestige of the thing
appeared. I was angry, and vowed I’d succeed at all hazards, though I’ll
confess I was just a bit daunted.

“Next time Janet and I sat up in easy chairs, with bright lights
burning, and both wide awake with the strongest coffee we could make. As
the hour drew near we got nervous, and when the white shape came gliding
in Janet hid her face. I didn’t, and after one look was on the point of
laughing, for the spirit was Blanche walking in her sleep. She wore a
coral necklace in those days, and never took it off, and her long hair
half hid her face, which had the unnatural, uncanny look somnambulists
always wear. I had the sense to keep still and tell Janet what to do, so
the poor child went back unwaked, and Grandmamma’s spirit never walked
again for I took care of that.”

“Why did you haunt the old lady?” asked Annon, as the laughter ceased.

“I don’t know, unless it was that I wanted to ask leave to go home, and
was afraid to do it awake, so tried when asleep. I shall not tell any
story, as I was the heroine of this, but will give my turn to you, Mr.
Annon,” said Blanche, with a soft glance, which was quite thrown away,
for the gentleman’s eyes were fixed on Octavia, who sat on a low ottoman
at Mrs. Snowdon’s feet in the full glow of the firelight.

“I’ve had very small experience in ghosts, and can only recall a little
fright I once had when a boy at college. I’d been out to a party, got
home tired, couldn’t find my matches, and retired in the dark. Toward
morning I woke, and glancing up to see if the dim light was dawn or
moonshine I was horrified to see a coffin standing at the bed’s foot. I
rubbed my eyes to be sure I was awake, and looked with all my might.
There it was, a long black coffin, and I saw the white plate in the
dusk, for the moon was setting and my curtain was not drawn. ‘It’s some
trick of the fellows,’ I thought; ‘I’ll not betray myself, but keep
cool.’ Easy to say but hard to do, for it suddenly flashed into my mind
that I might be in the wrong room. I glanced about, but there were the
familiar objects as usual, as far as the indistinct light allowed me to
see, and I made sure by feeling on the wall at the bed’s head for my
watchcase. It was there, and mine beyond a doubt, being peculiar in
shape and fabric. Had I been to a college wine party I could have
accounted for the vision, but a quiet evening in a grave professor’s
well-conducted family could produce no ill effects. ‘It’s an optical
illusion, or a prank of my mates; I’ll sleep and forget it,’ I said, and
for a time endeavored to do so, but curiosity overcame my resolve, and
soon I peeped again. Judge of my horror when I saw the sharp white
outline of a dead face, which seemed to be peeping up from the coffin.
It gave me a terrible shock for I was but a lad and had been ill. I hid
my face and quaked like a nervous girl, still thinking it some joke and
too proud to betray fear lest I should be laughed at. How long I lay
there I don’t know, but when I looked again the face was farther out and
the whole figure seemed rising slowly. The moon was nearly down, I had
no lamp, and to be left in the dark with that awesome thing was more
than I could bear. Joke or earnest, I must end the panic, and bolting
out of my room I roused my neighbor. He told me I was mad or drunk, but
lit a lamp and returned with me, to find my horror only a heap of
clothes thrown on the table in such a way that, as the moon’s pale light
shot it, it struck upon my black student’s gown, with a white card lying
on it, and produced the effect of a coffin and plate. The face was a
crumpled handkerchief, and what seemed hair a brown muffler. As the moon
sank, these outlines changed and, incredible as it may seem, grew like a
face. My friend not having had the fright enjoyed the joke, and
‘Coffins’ was my sobriquet for a long while.”

“You get worse and worse. Sir Jasper, do vary the horrors by a touch of
fun, or I shall run away,” said Blanche, glancing over her shoulder
nervously.

“I’ll do my best, and tell a story my uncle used to relate of his young
days. I forget the name of the place, but it was some little country
town famous among anglers. My uncle often went to fish, and always
regretted that a deserted house near the trout stream was not occupied,
for the inn was inconveniently distant. Speaking of this one evening as
he lounged in the landlady’s parlor, he asked why no one took it and let
the rooms to strangers in the fishing season. ‘For fear of the
ghostissess, your honor,’ replied the woman, and proceeded to tell, him
that three distinct spirits haunted the house. In the garret was heard
the hum of a wheel and the tap of high-heeled shoes, as the ghostly
spinner went to and fro. In a chamber sounded the sharpening of a knife,
followed by groans and the drip of blood. The cellar was made awful by a
skeleton sitting on a half-buried box and chuckling fiendishly. It seems
a miser lived there once, and was believed to have starved his daughter
in the garret, keeping her at work till she died. The second spirit was
that of the girl’s rejected lover, who cut his throat in the chamber,
and the third of the miser who was found dead on the money chest he was
too feeble to conceal. My uncle laughed at all this, and offered to lay
the ghosts if anyone would take the house.

