yourself into trouble," she added, anxiously.
"Don't worry about me, Kate. I think Tom Thornton has a stronger desire
to capture me now than he has you. We are both in the same boat in a
double sense. I will tell you all about it by and by. I must keep my
eyes wide open now. Of course Tom knows you have an uncle in New York."
"I suppose he does."
"Then he will readily understand that you intend to reach him if you
can."
"Mrs. Loraine would think so, I know, for she burned the letter I wrote
to my uncle."
"There goes Tom Thornton's chaise," said I, pointing to the vehicle, as
we reached a part of the lake which commanded a view of the road. "He
has stopped to watch the boat. I know where he is going now, and that's
enough."
"What will you do?" asked Kate, fixing the gaze of her deep-blue eyes
upon me.
"I hardly know. I confess that my plans are not arranged yet, and
everything depends upon circumstances. I am going up to the Institute
now to find Bob Hale, if I can."
"Will that be safe?"
"I think it will. No boat on the lake can catch the Splash in this
breeze; and Bob may be able to help me."
In half an hour we were off the Institute pier; but the recess was over,
and the students were all in the school-room. It was not safe for me to
remain long in this vicinity, for my uncle had by this time reached
Parkville, and had probably employed some one to pursue me. I wrote a
note to Bob with pencil, on a slip of paper I had in my pocket, and
running the Splash up to the pier, sent it to the school-room by one of
the men who was at work in the garden. My friend appeared immediately.
"Come on board, Bob. I have a great deal to say to you, and only a
little time to say it in."
"But it is school time," replied Bob.
"I must not stop here a moment. I am going off, Bob, and may never see
you again, at least not for some time."
"Why, what's up, Ernest?" he asked, as he stepped on board, his scruples
removed by the announcement I had made.
"A great deal has happened since we parted last night," I replied,
pushing off the Splash from the pier.
"How do you do, Miss Loraine?" continued Bob. "I am glad to see you are
still safe."
"I am very well, thanks to Ernest Thornton," she replied.
I headed the boat up the lake towards the cottage again, and proceeded
to tell Bob all that had happened since midnight. He listened in
amazement to my story. I showed him my father's will, which I had not
yet read, and we went through it together.
"It is very plain that they mean to cheat you out of the property your
father left for you," said he.
"That is clear enough. My uncle told me nearly a year ago that my father
left nothing for me."
"It seems that your father died in England," added Bob.
"Yes; in London. This will names my mother as my guardian, and my uncle
Amos as the trustee, to take care of the property, which, it seems, was
all in stocks and bonds. But my uncle says my mother is in an insane
asylum; but whether in England or the United States, I don't know," I
continued, folding up the will.
"I don't see how your uncle did it. It is the most infernal, mean
business I ever heard of," said Bob, indignantly. "But what are you
going to do?"
"I am going to find my mother!"
"How will you find her? Where will you look for her?"
"I don't know," I answered, feeling for the first time that my
information was very insufficient.
"Were there no other papers in the safe?"
"Plenty of them; but I was so agitated I could not examine them."
"But what are you going to do, Ernest?"
"I am going to New York, first; then to Philadelphia, perhaps, where
Tom Thornton lives when he is at home. I may find out something there."
"But how will you get to New York?"
"My plan was to run up the creek, and take the train at the Adieno
station; but Tom Thornton has gone over that way, and I am afraid he
will have somebody stationed there and at Cannondale to stop us. If you
could help me, Bob--"
"Help you! certainly I'll help you!" interposed he, warmly. "What shall
I do?"
"If you could get a team and drive us over to Romer, which is about ten
miles, we could take the train there without danger."
"I'll do it."
"And, Bob, you may tell your father the whole story, and then he won't
blame you," I added, not wishing to get him into a scrape.
"My father is away; but don't worry about me. You are clearly in the
right, and I will do all I can for you, whatever happens to me."
"Thank you, Bob. The time will come when I shall stand on my feet, and
then it will be all right with you."
I ran the Splash up a small creek on the edge of the town, and landed
Bob. He was to procure a horse and covered wagon, and take Kate and
myself at the cottage; for, now that Tom and my uncle were away, it
seemed to be the safest place to land. Besides, I had another object in
view in choosing this locality.
For an hour I cruised about the upper end of the lake, until I saw Bob
wave his handkerchief from the wagon, near the cottage. I ran the Splash
into the mouth of the brook, which was the only place where the water
was deep enough to permit our landing. I lowered the sails, and fastened
the painter to a tree. I directed Kate to run through the grove to the
road, where she would find the wagon, and promised to join her in a few
moments. Trembling with fear, she ran up the hill, and I hastened to the
cottage. My uncle was away, and I was determined to look at the papers
in the safe again, for I was convinced that I could not find my mother
without more information than I possessed.
I went directly to the bay window where I had entered the library
before, and effected an entrance without any difficulty. I found the
key of the safe under the cushion, where I had left it, and opened the
door. Eagerly I seized the pile of papers I had seen before, and began
to examine them. Most of them were unintelligible to me, and apparently
had no connection with my father's affairs; but there were several
letters dated at London, which I thrust into my pocket. I could find
nothing else which promised to be of service to me, and I was about to
close the door, when I discovered a sealed letter lying in a pigeon hole
by itself. I took it from its place, and read the direction: "Robert G.
Bunyard, 47 Old Jewry, Chambers, London."
This letter, I was convinced, would afford me some information; indeed,
the address would give me a clew to what I wanted. I was kneeling on one
knee, with this letter in my hand, when the door of the library suddenly
opened, and my uncle stepped into the room.
"Ernest Thornton!" cried he, in tones so full of terror that they
pierced my soul.
He sprang towards me; but I stepped out of his way, though I was nearly
paralyzed by this unexpected interruption. I thrust the letter into my
pocket, and stood at bay near the window by which I had entered.
"What have you done?" gasped uncle Amos, as he staggered towards me, his
face pale as a sheet, and his limbs trembling in every fibre. "What
papers have you taken?"
"My father's will for one," I replied, almost as much disturbed as he
was.
"O Heaven!" groaned he.
"Uncle Amos, will you tell me now where my mother is?"
"O, Ernest! I am ruined!" exclaimed he, sinking into a chair.
"Will you tell me where my mother is?" I repeated, with all the
earnestness I could command.
"Is this the return you make to me for all my kindness to you?" he
added, in a choking voice. "I have given you all you wanted--boats,
money, everything. Have pity on me, Ernest. I--I shall--I shall go mad!"
"I should think you would," I replied, having in some degree recovered
my self-possession. "You told me my father left nothing for me; that my
mother was in an insane asylum."
"She is, Ernest--she is," said he.
"Where?" I demanded, in a loud, fierce tone.
"I cannot tell you. Where is Thomas? Send for him, and he will make it
all right. You shall have every dollar that belongs to you, Ernest. I am
a miserable wretch; but I did not do this deed for my own sake. Send for
Thomas."
"I have had enough of Thomas. He would cut my throat as readily as he
would turn his hand. Will you tell me where my mother is, or shall I
find her myself?"
"You cannot find her, Ernest. Be calm, and you shall have all. Send for
Thomas."
"I will not send for him. I don't care so much for the money as I do for
my mother. Tell me where she is, or send for her."
"She could not come."
"Then I can go to her."
"Sit down, Ernest, and be calm."
"I'm calm enough. I could forgive you for anything you have done to me.
If you will not tell me where she is, I shall find her myself."
"You cannot find her."
"I can apply to Mr. Robert G. Bunyard--and--"
My uncle sprang to his feet, uttered a cry of agony, and attempted to
stagger towards me; but his legs yielded beneath him, and he sank upon
the floor. He had either fainted or fallen in a fit. I called old
Betsey, and she and I placed him on a sofa. She said he had only
fainted, and wanted to know what had happened. I replied that my uncle
would tell her if he thought best. We bathed his head and rubbed his
temples till he opened his eyes.
"Send for Thomas," said he, feebly.
I was satisfied that he would recover, and being perfectly willing Tom
should be sent for, I told Jerry where he could probably be found. I
then left the house by the front door. My uncle's horse stood at the
hitching-post. He had probably employed some one to follow up the
Splash, and then returned to the house. As I went out, I saw a large
sail-boat standing up the lake, which I concluded was in pursuit of me.
Hastening up the hill, I found Bob greatly alarmed at my long absence.
"I was afraid something had happened to you," said he.
"Drive on, and I will tell you about it," I replied, as I seated myself
in the wagon.
CHAPTER XIII.
IN WHICH ERNEST LEAVES PARKVILLE, AND TAKES THE TRAIN FOR THE EASTWARD.
"WHAT kept you so long?" asked Bob, when I was seated. "I was sure
something had gone wrong with you."
"I don't know whether it has gone right or wrong. I went into the
library, and opened the safe again. While I was looking at the papers,
my uncle came in."
"Whew!" whistled Bob. "There was a storm in the library about that
time--wasn't there?"
"Not much of a storm. I pity my uncle from the bottom of my heart. He is
suffering more than you can imagine or I can describe, and he has been a
sufferer for years," I replied.
"Well, what did he say to you?" asked Bob, who did not seem to be in the
humor, at that moment, for moralizing.
I described the scene which had occurred in the library as minutely as I
could,--and Kate and Bob were thrilled by the narrative. For my own part
I had not yet recovered from the shock it had given me. The expression
of agony on my uncle's face haunted my imagination. I could still see
his pale face and his quivering lip, and his piteous pleading lingered
in my ears. Most terrible are the sufferings of the evil-doer, and I
resolved anew that I would always be true to God and principle. What
were mines of wealth to a man tortured with the pangs of remorse?
"Do you think there is any danger that we shall be pursued?" asked Bob.
"Not the least," I replied. "I don't think any one will suspect that we
have left town. I believe my uncle engaged a boatman to pursue the
Splash. I saw a schooner, which I think was the Alert, standing up the
lake, after we had landed. They will find the Splash in the brook where
I left her. Old Jerry was going over after Tom Thornton, and very likely
he will reach the cottage some time this afternoon. As it is almost a
matter of life and death with him, no doubt he will follow; but he will
be a day behind us. Now, Bob, I want to look over these papers, so as to
determine what I am to do."
I read my father's will again. It appeared from this document that he
belonged to the city of Philadelphia, but was temporarily residing in
London. How long he lived there, or for what purpose, I had no means of
knowing. His property, consisting of stocks, bonds, and other
securities, amounted to over one hundred and fifty thousand dollars, the
income of one third of which, after paying legacies, was placed in trust
for the use of my mother during her lifetime, and two thirds in trust
for his son during his minority. Five thousand dollars was given to his
brother, who was appointed his sole executor and trustee, with an
annuity of fifteen hundred dollars, payable from the income of the trust
funds, during the minority of his son Ernest; and of five hundred
dollars during the life of his wife, if she survived the son's maturity.
In the event of his wife's decease, her third was to be held in trust
for his son. The mother was appointed the guardian of the son; and if
the son died before he was twenty-one, then the property was to go to
his brother, "the said Amos."
"It is rather a mixed-up mess," said I, perplexed by the contingencies
and the repetitions.
"I don't think so," replied Bob, who was more of a lawyer than I was. "I
understand it well enough. Your father gives your uncle five thousand
dollars in the first place, and then the income of one third to your
mother, and two thirds to you till you are of age. If your mother is
living when you are twenty-one, your uncle pays you your two thirds; if
she is not living, he is to pay you the whole; and that ends his
connection with the business. He is to have fifteen hundred dollars a
year for taking care of the property."
"I understand all that," I added.
"The rest of it is clear enough. If your mother dies before you are
twenty-one, all the income goes to you. Whenever your mother dies, her
share goes to you. If you die before your mother, your share goes to
your uncle; and then your mother's share goes to him or his heirs at her
death. It says at the end there that your uncle shall not be required to
give bonds for the faithful performance of his duty under the will.
Don't you understand it?"
"I think I do; at least I understand enough of it. I would give all the
money to know where my poor mother is. I care more for her than I do for
myself."
"I think you will find her."
"O, I hope you will!" exclaimed Kate.
"I heard Tom tell my uncle that he had given him all the money he
wanted," I added. "What do you suppose that means?"
"I suppose your uncle has given up the property to Tom," replied Bob.
"Tom lives in Philadelphia--don't he, Kate?"
"I think he does; indeed I am pretty sure of it," she answered.
"I can't see how they have managed the business without discovery. My
father must have had some friends who knew about his affairs."
"And your mother, too," added Bob. "I don't see through it; but I
suppose you will understand it one of these days."
"Bob, I don't like to carry this will round with me. I may lose it, or
Tom Thornton may get it away from me. I want you to take it. Give it to
your father, and ask him to keep it safe for me. And when I want a
powerful friend, I shall call upon him."
"You may be sure he will do all he can for you," said Bob, heartily, as
he carefully deposited the precious document in his pocket. "What else
have you, Ernest?"
"Here is a letter directed to 'Robert G. Bunyard, London,'" I replied,
producing it.
"I wouldn't open that yet. What else have you?"
"Here are half a dozen letters," I added, opening one of them.
"What does it say?--read it," said Bob, impatiently.
I read it, and it proved to be an acknowledgment of the receipt of two
hundred pounds, signed by Bunyard.
Four others were of similar import, and all of them were dated in
different years. The sixth began in the same manner, acknowledging a
like sum of money. It was dated three years back. I read aloud, with
intense emotion, a few lines that followed the business matter.
"'The poor lady is much more quiet and contented in her new home than
she was at my last writing, and her physician hopes that she will soon
be quite reconciled. She persists in declaring that she is entirely
well, and wishes to return to America. She says nothing now about the
melancholy death of her son, and we hope that good nursing and skilful
treatment will eventually restore her, at least, to her ordinary degree
of health.'"
"My poor mother!" I exclaimed, bursting into tears, and crushing the
letter in my hand.
"How sad!" said Kate.
"I must go to her at once! I will find her, if I have to search through
the earth for her!" I ejaculated, bitterly, as I wiped away my tears.
"Did you think my uncle was such an infernal villain?"
"I did not, Ernest; but don't be distressed about it. The letter
intimates that she is kindly treated."
"I hope she is."
"Have you any more papers, Ernest?" asked Bob, apparently as much with
the intention of turning my thoughts away from the sad subject which
agitated me, as of gratifying his own curiosity.
"That's all, Bob," I replied, taking from my pocket the piece of
newspaper in which I had rolled up the money I had taken from the safe.
"Was it stealing for me to take this money?" I asked, as I unrolled the
bills.
"I don't think it was," replied Bob. "You took it to pay your expenses
in finding your mother; and, even if it were a technical theft, I don't
think any one can blame you for what you have done. The money is really
your own. How much is there?"
"I don't know. I haven't looked at it before."
"Count it, Ernest."
I did so, and was appalled to find I had taken between fourteen and
fifteen hundred dollars.
"All right, Ernest. You are a smart fellow, and I'll tell you what I
should do if I were in your place," replied Bob, who did not appear to
be alarmed at the magnitude of the sum.
"What?"
"I would go to England in the very next steamer, and find my mother."
"Go to England!"
"It is clear enough to me that your mother is there. If you expect to
find her, you must go there."
"I will do it, Bob," I replied, excited at the idea of crossing the
ocean in search of my mother.
"Certainly; do it. You have a letter directed to--what's his name?"
"Robert G. Bunyard."
"Go to London, find this man, deliver the letter, and tell him you want
to see the poor lady."
"I'll do it. Don't you suppose Tom Thornton will try to stop me?"
"No matter if he does. Keep a stiff upper lip."
"I shall do that. I have fought my way through so far, and I shall do it
to the end," I replied, confidently. "It would have been better if I had
avoided that scene with my uncle; but I could not help it."
"What odds will that make?"
"A great deal of odds. My uncle knows now that I have the address of his
London correspondent. He will tell Tom about it. My uncle may be full of
regret and sorrow; but his son will follow me like a bloodhound. But, no
matter what happens, Bob, I shall fight my way through. My poor mother
shall be released from her bondage, and be happy again."
"Right, Ernest!" exclaimed Bob, as he urged forward the horse.
We rode in silence for several miles; but I was intensely excited as I
thought of what my mother had endured for a dozen years. I recalled the
indistinct visions of the past, which still lingered in my mind; and
more vividly than ever before it came to my remembrance that, far back
in the past, I had known a motherly lady, who loved and cherished me as
a little child. The dreary waste of waters which had lingered in my
fancy became a reality to me. I had crossed the ocean, after the death
of my father; but I did not yet know whether I was born in England or
the United States.
I prayed for my mother; and she seemed more dear to me than if I had
seen her every day of my life. I prayed that God would spare her, and
restore her to me; that he would crown with success my exertions to find
her. I am sure that, in all my intense emotion, I did not cherish a
sentiment of revenge towards my uncle, or even towards his son, who had
treated me like a brute. My silent prayers warmed my heart, and blessed
me with new strength and courage.
At half past two we drove into Romer. Bob put up his horse at a stable,
and we dined together at a hotel. At quarter past four, the train going
east arrived; and, bidding Bob an affectionate farewell, after he had
promised to write me the news in Parkville on his return, Kate and I
entered the car, and were soon whirling away from the town, from friends
and from enemies.
CHAPTER XIV.
IN WHICH ERNEST WONDERS WHAT TOM THORNTON WILL DO, AND FINDS OUT.
THOUGH I had not travelled much, I felt quite at home on the train. I
was not troubled with any of that disagreeable quality called
"greenness," for I had read the newspapers every day regularly for five
years; and, through them, a person may know the world without seeing
much of it. Besides, nearly all my schoolmates had come from places more
or less distant; and, being of an inquiring mind, I had "pumped" many of
them dry.
With what I had read, with what I had learned from pictures, maps, and
diagrams, and with what my friends had told me while we were sailing in
the Splash, I had a tolerably correct idea of the city of New York. I
was very much surprised, when I arrived there, to find how familiar the
streets were to me. I had pored for hours at a time over the street
maps of the cities in Colton's Atlas; I had walked in imagination
through the streets of London and Paris; and I had read the
encyclopædia, and all the books of travel which came in my way.
After this course of study, I was not burdened with "greenness." I felt
at home; and, though I looked with interest upon scenes and objects that
were new to me, I did not keep my mouth wide open, or stare like an
idiot. I take all this pains to prove that I was not green, because I
had an especial horror of verdancy in general, and verdant boys in
particular. I kept myself cool and self-possessed, and I was delighted
to find that no one looked at me, or appeared to think I was ill at
ease.
I was dressed in my best clothes, and though they were made by a
provincial tailor, Parkville was progressive enough to boast of a
genuine artist in this line. There was nothing about my companion, any
more than myself, to attract attention. Doubtless most of the people
thought we were brother and sister, or that some elderly gentleman and
lady, seated in another part of the car, would claim us when we reached
our destination. I suppose I thought of all these things because I
feared that some one was looking at me, and because I had an especial
dread of being noticed at that time.
Even Bob Hale, partial as he was, and sympathizing with me to the
fullest extent, could not deny that I had been guilty of what he called
"technical theft." In the very worst possible phase in which it could be
viewed, I had robbed my uncle's safe of nearly fifteen hundred dollars,
and I had the money in my pocket. I was liable, therefore, to be
arrested at any moment when the intelligence of my constructive crime
should be forwarded to the proper officers, or whenever a deputy sheriff
from Parkville could overtake me.
My conscience did not then, and it does not now, accuse me of the crime
of theft. That money was really mine, though, if it had been applied or
invested by my legal trustee, in accordance with the law, and the last
will of my father, I should have had no more right to touch it than if
it had belonged to another person. My uncle and his graceless son were
engaged in a scheme to rob me. The latter wished to destroy the will at
once,--supposed it had already been done,--while the former, from simply
prudential motives, preserved it. In his own words, he dared not burn
it. He evidently kept it that it might open an avenue of escape in case
his vicious plan miscarried. After I had been disposed of, sent off and
had "lost the run" of my uncle, the document could be destroyed. I felt,
therefore, that I was fully justified in using enough of the money, at
least, to enable me to obtain justice.
It was nine o'clock in the evening when the train arrived at Albany. We
could go no farther that night, and I felt the awkwardness of my
situation. I did not like to go to a hotel with Kate Loraine; and,
leaving her in the ladies' room at the railroad station, I looked about
the premises till I found a respectable-looking baggage-master, whom I
asked to direct me to a good boarding-house. He gave me the street and
number of one he could recommend, and I called a carriage, which
conveyed us to the place indicated. It was kept by a very worthy old
lady, who fortunately had two vacant rooms, though she seemed to be
suspicious, and hesitated about taking us.
"Who are you?" asked she, bluntly, as she surveyed me from head to foot.
"My name is Ernest Thornton. This young lady's name is Kate Loraine. She
is going to her uncle's in New York. I was recommended to stop at your
house, and I have money enough to pay for all we have," I replied, as
squarely as I could speak, and telling as much of the truth as it was
important for the old lady to know.
"How long do you want to stop?" she asked, apparently satisfied with my
reply.
"I don't know yet. I shall be able to tell you to-morrow," I answered,
for I had some doubts whether I should leave the next day.
"Well, I suppose I can keep you," said she.
"Thank you."
"Have you had any supper?"
"No, ma'am, we have not."
I paid the hackman, who stood with the valise I had bought in Romer for
Kate, in his hand, and he departed. I don't know whether any one thought
we were runaways or not. We were safe for the present. The old lady
showed us our rooms, and then went to get us some supper. I sat down in
my chamber to think over the situation. I was not quite satisfied, and
of course I wished to keep out of trouble just as long as I could.
By this time Tom Thornton had probably reached the cottage of his
father, and had learned what had happened. My uncle had told him that I
had obtained the precious will--that the charter of their villany was
gone. He had found that "that boy" was not to be trifled with. "That
boy" had possessed himself of the fearful secret of their evil
practices, had probed the mystery of their iniquity, and was ready to
come down upon them like an avenging spirit, to expose their rascality,
and to publish to the world the story of their infamy.
How mad, vexed, overwhelmed Tom was I could easily imagine. He had no
more soul than a brickbat, and without a doubt had heaped abuse upon his
father, had berated him for not burning the will, and for permitting me,
by his weak fears, to be a bombshell in their path so long. Before I
knew who Tom was, I had heard hard words pass between them. I now
supposed he was angry because my uncle would not "dispose" of me in
some manner which he proposed.
Tom Thornton and his father had discovered that the evil man shall not
prosper in his way; the sword of retribution was hanging over them, and
their cherished scheme was crumbling to pieces. My uncle was in despair,
as he had been when I left him. Piteously he had begged of me to be
merciful to him; and if he had told me where my mother was, and promised
to do justice to her, I am sure I could not have gone another step to
expose him. But my uncle was an old man--if not in years, at least in
sorrow and suffering. For years he had been pursued by the terrors of a
guilty conscience; had been in an agony of doubt and fear, if not of
remorse. He was broken down, had lost his courage, and there was nothing
to fear from him.
Tom was a different person. He was bold and daring. He had no
conscience, and apparently no fears. He was young and vigorous,
strong-minded and reckless. For years he had been living like a nabob
upon the income of the property which my father had left for me. He had
been swimming in luxury, driving his span, and spending half his time
in winning the favor of the fair widow Loraine, whose fortune, if not
Kate's, he intended to add to his own ill-gotten wealth. Tom Thornton
would not resign his possession of the property, and his bright
prospects of the future, without a terrible struggle, and I was quite
confident that I should have to fight a grim battle with him.
What would he do? That was the vital question with me. As the prudent
general endeavors to anticipate the purposes of the enemy, I tried to
measure the probable intentions of Tom Thornton. What would he do? Would
he have me arrested as a criminal for robbing my uncle's safe? I confess
that the cold sweat stood upon my brow as I thought of it; as I
considered what an awful thing it would be to be carried back to
Parkville by an officer, and sent to the common jail. But, perhaps, if
this were done, it would be the best thing that could possibly happen to
me.
If arrested and tried, I should have the privilege of the meanest
criminal to defend myself. I should call on Squire Hale to produce my
father's will. I should lay bare in a court of justice the whole of
Tom's and his father's infamous conduct. But Tom knew that I had taken
the will; that I had deprived him of his sheet anchor. With only half an
eye he could see what the consequence of arresting me must be. My uncle
would groan and tremble at the very idea of such an exposure. After
these reflections, I came to the conclusion that I should not be
arrested as a criminal. Tom Thornton would fight his battle with other
weapons than those of justice and the law.
Tom had shown by his acts that he did not scruple to take the law into
his own hands, and I was convinced that my future trials were to be
caused by individual persecution rather than public prosecution. Again
the question came up, What will he do? It was certain that he would
follow me, and it was almost as certain that he would find me. I had
hardly a doubt that he would take the night train from the west, and be
in Albany the next morning. Such a person as Tom Thornton must be a
selfish man, and I concluded that he would not trouble himself much more
about finding Kate. His own trials overshadowed those of the fair widow
of Cannondale. He would be after me rather than Kate.
While I was anxiously considering the case, the landlady called me to
supper. She poured out the tea, and asked more questions than I cared to
answer; but so far as I said anything, I told the truth. I did not sleep
many hours that night; I was too much disturbed by the perils of my
situation to slumber. I thought, and thought, and thought. Tom Thornton
would arrive in the morning. At the railroad station he would begin his
inquiries for me. The baggage-master, who had directed me to the
boarding-house, would tell him just where I was.
I had almost made up my mind to leave Kate in Albany, go to New York
alone, find her uncle, and then return for her; but the thought that Tom
would arrive in the morning caused me to abandon this plan. I rose very
early, and walked down to the river, where I found a steamer would leave
for New York at eight o'clock. I went back to the boarding-house, and
after breakfast paid the bill. We walked down to the river, and went on
board of the steamer. I took a seat where I could see everybody that
came on board of the boat, for I felt very certain that Tom Thornton was
already in the city, and searching for me. I was not wrong, for just as
the boat was on the point of starting, and I was congratulating myself
on the fact that we were safe, I saw him standing on the wharf, looking
at me.
CHAPTER XV.
IN WHICH ERNEST FACES THE ENEMY.
I HAD discovered what Tom Thornton intended to do, in part. It was not
an officer who came to arrest me; it was Tom himself. Though I had
confidently expected him--as we always dread the worst possible thing
that can happen to us--I had hoped to escape him when the bell sounded
for the departure of the steamer. I felt quite sure that all was well
with me, and had begun to congratulate myself on my singular good
fortune, when his ugly face appeared on the wharf.
I do not think now that I made any mistake in not remaining in Albany,
for it was the easiest thing in the world for him to trace me out, and
find the boarding-house where I had spent the night. If I had left the
cars at the last station before the train reached Albany, I might have
avoided him. It seemed to me that my only way was to continue the
journey, and I did so. If I had been alone it would have been an easy
matter to evade him.
Tom Thornton rushed on board of the steamer just in season to secure his
passage, for the plank was hauled on board the moment he had crossed it.
I was on the hurricane deck when I saw him, and he saw me. Perhaps there
was a chance for me yet to outflank him. It was a bad scrape, but all I
could do was to make the best of it. I left my position when I saw Tom
coming on board, and went to Kate, whom I had requested to remain in the
saloon. I sat down by her side, and tried to look as unmoved as I could.
"Don't be frightened, Kate," I began.
"Frightened! Of course I am not frightened now," she replied, fixing the
gaze of her deep eyes upon me.
"But you musn't be when I tell you something."
"What, Ernest Thornton?" demanded she, taking the alarm at once.
"Tom Thornton is on board of this steamer. Don't be alarmed; I will take
care of you. He shall not harm you, and he shall not take you away from
me."
"O mercy!" exclaimed she, turning as white as a sheet.
"Don't be disturbed, Kate. I think I can take care of him," I added,
with more confidence than I felt.
"What shall we do?"
"I don't know yet, but I will see. Leave it all to me, Kate. If he
speaks to you, answer him civilly."
"I could not speak to him. I shall faint away if he comes near me. O,
Ernest Thornton, I am frightened almost to death!"
"There is no need of your being alarmed. I don't think he desires to see
you half so much as he does me. I will put you in a safe place soon.
Come down into the ladies' cabin for the present."
She followed me, trembling in every fibre of her frame. I left her at
the door, bidding her keep out of sight as much as possible. A glance
along the main deck, in the vicinity of the captain's office, assured me
Tom was not there and I procured a state-room of the clerk. Going half
way up the stairs to the saloon, I discovered my pursuer. He was
evidently looking for me. I watched him till he had made the circuit of
the long apartment, carefully avoiding him. He then went below, to look
for me in other parts of the boat. He walked forward first, and I took
this opportunity to conduct Kate to the saloon again, and gave her the
state-room I had procured, telling her to lock herself in.
"Won't he find me here?" asked she, with quivering lips.
"No matter if he does: keep your door locked. I will knock four times by
two's. Don't open the door on any account till you hear my rap."
"I will not."
"I will keep watch on the outside. Now don't be alarmed. I will take
good care of you."
She closed the door, and I heard her lock it. I felt then that she, at
least, was out of Tom's reach for a time, and that I was in condition to
fight the battle alone. Large as the steamer was, it was impossible for
me to avoid a meeting with him, since he knew that I was on board. If he
had not seen me the case would have been different, and I might have
contrived to keep out of his way.
I could not help asking myself what I should do. I did not expect Tom
would resort to violence in the presence of hundreds of passengers. He
would fasten himself upon me, and not lose sight of me. If he had
intended to arrest me, he would have sent a sheriff after me, instead of
coming himself. What would he do next? This was the important question.
Of course I could not answer it. I could only wait for time and
circumstances to develop his plan. As it was useless for me to attempt
to avoid him, I sat down in the saloon, resolved to let things take
their course.
Summoning to my aid all the coolness, self-possession, and impudence I
could command,--and I found that for an emergency in which I had right
and justice on my side, I had an abundant supply of this kind of
ammunition,--I calmly waited the appearance of my adversary. I
deliberately made up my mind to speak up like a man to him, and to stand
my ground like a hero. If he made a scene, I would denounce him, and
punch him with the naked truth.
Tom Thornton appeared to be making a very diligent search below, for it
was half an hour before he came up to the saloon again. Most of the
passengers were out on the hurricane deck, or in other places where they
could view the scenery on the shores of the river. I had plenty of time
to get thoroughly "primed" for the exciting interview I anticipated. As
I thought the matter over, I felt that I had the weather-gage of
him--that all the advantage was on my side. The will was in my
possession, and subject to my order. I had the address of my uncle's
London correspondent, and whatever Tom might threaten, he could not
deprive me of these favoring points. I could afford to be cool and
impudent; and if Tom wanted to talk, I could talk as fast and as much to
the point as he could.
At last I saw him come up the steps. He was certainly a splendid-looking
fellow, though he was evidently a man of the world. He was elegantly
dressed, not over-dressed, and his movements were easy and graceful. I
could not help thinking of these things, in which he had so decided an
advantage over me. But he lacked one thing, without which everything
else is vain and valueless--moral principle. He was a villain, and as
such I despised him.
I could not help noticing that the expression on his face was troubled,
rather than malignant; indeed, he really seemed to be more in sorrow
than in anger. He saw me when he first glanced around the saloon, and
walked towards the sofa on which I was seated. This time he was not
savage and violent, as he had been before when I met him. He had
something to think of now, and perhaps he had learned that "that boy"
was not to be trifled with.
"Good morning, Ernest," said he; and it would have been difficult to
discover in his tones that he was an enemy.
"Good morning, Mr. Tom Thornton," I replied, in cheerful tones,
intending to intimate to him that I was master of the situation.
"You left home rather suddenly," he continued.
"Rather; and I presume you did not think a great while about it before
you started."
"Ernest, I think we had better come to an understanding," he added,
seating himself on the sofa at my side.
"I know what I am about, and I suppose you know what you are about," I
answered, with easy assurance. "I don't know that we can come to any
better understanding."
"I think we can," added Tom, very mildly. "I don't believe you know what
you are about."
"Leave that to me."
"Ernest, I know what you have done at your uncle's house," said he, in a
whisper, as though he had possessed himself of a valuable secret.
"So do I."
"You robbed your uncle's safe," he continued, in the same confidential
tone.
"That depends on whether the safe was his or mine," I answered, readily.
"Ernest, it is no use for you to play bluff with me. You know what you
have done," he added, rather petulantly; and I saw he was disappointed
because he had failed to make an impression upon me.
"No one knows better than I what I have done."
"You have taken money and valuable papers out of your uncle's safe."
"I know it."
"You opened it without his knowledge or consent."
"I know that too."
"And then you ran away from your home."
"That also I know."
"I was sent for by your uncle--"
"By your father, you mean," I interposed.
"I said by your uncle," added he, persistently. "I found him quite
ill--made so by your bad behavior."
"Not much," I replied, when Tom looked into my face to notice the effect
of this revelation. "Didn't he tell you he had not slept nights for
years; that he had steeped his soul in crime for your sake, Mr. Tom
Thornton?"
He started, sprang to his feet; but recollecting himself, he sat down
again, and tried to recover his calmness.
"It's no use for you to tell me, Mr. Tom Thornton, that your father was
made ill by my bad behavior. It was your bad behavior and his own that
trouble him."
"Young man, you talk just as though you were entirely innocent
yourself," added Tom, virtuously. "Do you really think you are free from
guilt?"
"I think I have done nothing more than my duty."
"Then you believe it is all right to break into your uncle's safe, and
take his money and his papers?"
"Circumstances alter cases."
"They don't make black white."
"Sometimes a man's hypocrisy whitewashes his whole life. Sometimes a man
lives for years on his ill-gotten gains, and all the world thinks he is
an honest man. Then circumstances make black white."
"You are talking of something besides the subject before us. Let us come
back to it."
"No; I am talking about the subject before us."
"You confess that you robbed your uncle's safe."
"I admit that I helped myself to certain things in it which I wanted. I
am ready to admit it anywhere you choose to place me," I replied, easily
and good-naturedly.
"Are you aware that you have committed a crime?" said he, more
pointedly than he had before spoken.
"I don't think I have committed any crime, or even any wrong. If you
think so, Mr. Tom Thornton, you are welcome to your opinion."
"I do think so," he answered, beginning to be a little excited. "Do you
know that I can arrest you, and send you to prison?"
"I do know it; and I respectfully ask, Why don't you do it?"
"Why don't I do it?" repeated he, apparently amazed at my impudence, and
disappointed because an arrest and a prison appeared to have no terrors
to me.
"Yes, why don't you do it?"
"I'll tell you why I don't do it. Because your uncle is weak, and don't
wish to injure you. That's the reason."
"That isn't the reason. I want to tell you, Mr. Tom Thornton, that
nothing would suit me better than to have you arrest me, and send me to
prison."
This answer vexed him so much that he jumped up, and walked off.
CHAPTER XVI.
IN WHICH ERNEST MAKES A LANDING ON THE HUDSON.
TOM THORNTON was no fool, and it was easy enough for him to see that I
understood the situation. It was useless for him to tell me that any
tenderness on the part of my uncle saved me from arrest, for the son
would have crushed me like a worm beneath his feet in spite of the
father. I think he got up and left me because he could not control his
temper, and feared a scene. He cooled off in a few moments, and came
back, as I knew he would.
"You defy me to arrest you--do you, Ernest?" said he, dropping into the
seat at my side.
"Yes; if you wish to put it in that form, I defy you to arrest me. I
repeat that I should be very glad to have you do it."
"Why so?" asked he, nervously.
"It would give me a chance to defend myself, and that is just what I
want, now I have the means to do so."
"You have some queer conceits, young man," sneered he. "What have you
done with that girl?"
"She is safe."
"I asked you what you had done with her."
"And I didn't answer you."
"What have you done with her?"
"She is safe."
"Running away with her is another criminal offence."
"If it is, I shall fight that battle on the same ground with the other.
If you choose to take me back to Parkville on any charge, of course you
can do so. If you do, a certain document will be brought to light, which
will convince Mrs. Loraine and everybody else, that Mr. Tom Thornton,
with his gold watch and chain, his span of bays, and his fine clothes,
isn't worth a dollar in the world."
Tom's lip actually quivered.
"I don't want to injure you, Ernest," said he. "Your uncle is not
willing that you should be brought to justice."
"I have no desire to bring him to justice, either."
"You talk like a fool, like a small boy," said he, impatiently.
"Then don't talk with me."
"You will make out that you haven't done anything wrong yourself, but
your friends have made a martyr of you. When I offer to get you out of
the scrape into which you have plunged, you speak just as though you
were the injured party."
"Exactly so, and I speak just what I mean. You talk to me just as though
you and your father had not suppressed my father's will, intending to
rob me of my inheritance, and kept my mother in a madhouse for ten or a
dozen years."
"What sort of bosh are you talking now?" demanded Tom, with an effort,
while his face was pale, and his frame trembled.
"I can prove it all. If you and your father wish to tell me where my
mother is, and to make terms you can tell me what you will do," I added,
following up my advantage.
"You have taken some ridiculous notion into your head, and I really
don't know what you are talking about."
"Did you ever read my father's will?"
"Your father's will!" exclaimed he. "I never heard that he made a will.
If he did, it was the most ridiculous thing he ever did in the whole
course of his life, for he hadn't a penny to leave."
"Perhaps you can tell me why my uncle so persistently refused to tell me
anything about my father or my mother?"
"I certainly can if you insist upon it; though, having more regard for
you than you have for yourself, I should prefer to follow your uncle's
example, and not say anything about them."
"I will not ask you to spare my feelings, Mr. Tom Thornton. Your father
went so far, when I insisted upon it, as to tell me that my mother was
insane."
"She is, poor woman, and I don't wonder that her reason was dethroned,"
replied Tom, whose face brightened up wonderfully as he spoke.
"He refused to tell me anything about my father."
"Which was very kind of him. Your uncle is a strange man; but his
greatest weakness is his regard for you. It is best you should know
nothing of your father; but if you wish to know, I'll tell you."
"I do wish to know."
"He committed a forgery in London, and died in Newgate before his trial
took place. Your poor mother was so grieved that it made her insane. Now
you know the whole truth, and you can understand why your uncle did not
wish to talk to you about your father."
I confess that I was rather startled by this explanation, and I could
not help asking myself if there was any truth in it. It certainly
accounted for my uncle's unwillingness to tell me anything about my
parents. But I would not believe it. It was treachery to my father's
memory to do so.
"Did he make his will in Newgate?" I asked.
"His will! What will? I have told you he had not a penny in the world.
Your uncle has ever since paid your mother's board in the insane
asylum."
"That is very kind of him. Can you tell me where she is?"
"I don't know."
"I suppose not; and probably it would not be convenient for you to tell
if you did."
"I would tell you if I knew. If you desire it, I will persuade your
uncle to tell you. You keep talking about a will. What do you mean by
it?"
"I found such a document in my uncle's strong box."
"Where is it?"
"It is safe."
"If there is any such document it is a mere fiction. I don't know
anything about it."
"You don't?"
"No."
"All right."
"What do you mean?"
"Nothing."
"Of course when you speak of a will, you mean something by it,"
persisted Tom.
"It's no use to talk."
"Why not?"
"Because the truth isn't in you."
"I speak the exact truth."
"No--you don't."
"But I do."
"You know all about the will. I heard my uncle speak to you about it;
and I heard you ask if it was not destroyed. You asked for it, and
wanted to burn it then. Don't you know anything about it now?"
"You heard all this?" said he, biting his lips.
"I heard it."
"You dreamed it."
"No, I didn't dream it. I heard a great deal more than this. You wanted
to destroy the will; but your father said he dared not do it."
"Pray, where were you, when you heard all this?"
"On the top of the bay window of the library. The upper sash was pulled
down, so as to let the air in."
"Then you are an eaves-dropper as well as a thief."
"I was on the eaves of the bay window, and I dropped down about the time
you went up stairs to look for me. Now you know all about it--and so do
I. You may tell me my father died in Newgate, and that you never heard
of any will. I shall believe just as much of it as I please, and no
more. You think I'm a boy, Mr. Tom Thornton; but I've got brains enough
to know chalk from cheese."
Tom wiped his forehead. He did not like my style; but he could not do
anything. He dared not take any decided step. After observing the
feebleness of his position, I made up my mind that I had won the
victory. He was afraid to arrest me, and I felt as safe as though I had
been in London then. But there was one more point I wanted to impress
upon him.
"I have no doubt, Ernest, that you have some paper which you think is
valuable; something which has the form of a will," said Tom, after he
had fidgeted about in his seat for some time.
"It has that form," I replied.
"I should like to know what the paper is. Where is it?"
"No matter where it is. I know its value, and I have put it where, the
moment you take your first step against me, you will find it lying like
a big snake in your path."
"Won't you let me see it?"
"No."
"I only want to know what it is. You need not let it go out of your own
hands."
"I won't show it."
I had made my point. I had assured him the will would be forthcoming
when he took any step to annoy me. Tom tried all sorts of persuasion to
induce me to exhibit it; but without denying that I had it, I declined
to produce it. He was so weak that I began to despise him. At last he
got mad, and threatened me with all sorts of calamities. I told him,
when he became abusive, that I would not talk any more with him, and
abruptly left him.
Most of all, I desired to shake him off and get rid of him. While he was
watching me, I could not convey Kate to her uncle, and I was puzzled to
know what I should do. When the steamer arrived at New York, Tom would
keep both eyes fixed upon me, and I should have no chance to assist my
fair companion. I walked about the boat, and thought the matter over;
but the more I considered it, the more unsatisfactory it seemed.
About one o'clock the steamer made a landing at Poughkeepsie. I went
down to the main deck, from which the gangway planks led to the wharf. I
found Tom Thornton there, apparently for the purpose of assuring himself
that I did not take "French leave" of him, which was just the thing I
intended to do, if it could be done without his notice. I went forward,
but found that the stern of the boat was swung in, so that the forward
gangway was twenty feet from the pier.
Returning to the saloon deck, I carefully examined the position of the
boat in regard to the shore. I went out upon the space over the guards,
and outside of the state-rooms. On the edge of the wharf there was a
storehouse, the end of which reached about to the middle of the
steamer's wheel. The top of the paddle-box was nearly on a level with
the flat roof of this building. I could not see Tom Thornton, but I
concluded that he was still watching for me on the main deck. The space
between the top of the paddle-box and the roof of the storehouse was not
more than three or four feet, and I concluded that a girl as resolute as
Kate Loraine would leap across the gulf without difficulty. I went to
her state-room, and gave the four raps. She was glad enough to see me,
and taking her valise I told her to follow me. I waited till I heard the
order given to haul in the plank, and then led Kate up the rude steps on
the curve of the paddle-box, heedless of the sign which interdicted
passengers from ascending.
A waiter shouted to me; but, fearful that I should be accused of trying
to evade the payment of our fares, I threw him my tickets, and told him
I must land at Poughkeepsie. I reached the top of the paddle-box with
Kate, and jumped over on the roof myself, with her carpet-bag in my
hand.
"Now jump, Kate!" I called, as I heard the bell ring to start the
wheels.
"I am afraid," she replied, shuddering, as she looked down into the
yawning gulf below.
"Jump quick, and I will catch you!"
"I cannot! I cannot!" exclaimed she, in an agony of terror.
The wheels turned, and in an instant the space was too wide for her to
come on the roof, or for me to return to the boat. The people discovered
us, and began to shout. I saw the waiter give the tickets to a man;
but, at the same instant, Tom Thornton, perceiving me on the roof of the
storehouse, sprang upon the rail, and leaped ashore, as the stern swung
