
"I didn't take it," said Dick, shortly.

"Is this the boy that stole your pocket-book?" demanded the policeman of
the red-faced man, who had now recovered his breath.

"It's the very young rascal. Does he pretend to deny it?"

"Of course he does. They always do."

"When it was found on him too! I never knew such barefaced impudence."

"Stop a minute," said Dick, "while I explain. I was standing looking in
at that window, when I felt something thrust into my pocket. I took it
out and found it to be that pocket-book. Just then that gentleman came
up, and charged me with the theft."

"That's a likely story," said the officer. "If any one put the
pocket-book into your pocket, it shows you were a confederate of his.
You'll have to come with me."

And poor Dick, for the first time in his life, was marched to the
station-house, followed by his accuser, and a gang of boys. Among these
last, but managing to keep at a respectful distance, was Micky Maguire.




CHAPTER XIII.

DICK IN THE STATION-HOUSE.


Poor Dick! If Trinity Church spire had suddenly fallen to the ground, it
could scarcely have surprised and startled him more than his own arrest
for theft.

During the hard apprenticeship which he had served as a street boy, he
had not been without his share of faults and errors; but he had never,
even under the severest pressure, taken what did not belong to him.

Of religious and moral instruction he had then received none; but
something told him that it was mean to steal, and he was true to this
instinctive feeling. Yet, if he had been arrested a year before, it
would have brought him less shame and humiliation than now. Now he was
beginning to enjoy the feeling of respectability, which he had compassed
by his own earnest efforts. He felt he was regarded with favor by those
whose good opinion was worth having, and his heart swelled within him as
he thought that they might be led to believe him guilty. He had never
felt so down-hearted as when he walked in company with the policeman to
the station-house, to be locked up for examination the next morning.

"You wasn't sharp enough this time, young fellow," said the policeman.

"Do you think I stole the pocket-book?" asked Dick, looking up in the
officer's face.

"Oh, no, of course not! You wouldn't do anything of that kind," said the
policeman, ironically.

"No, I wouldn't," said Dick, emphatically. "I've been poor enough and
hungry enough sometimes, but I never stole. It's mean."

"What is your name?" said the officer. "I think I have seen you before."

"I used to black boots. Then my name was Ragged Dick. I know you. Your
name is Jones."

"Ragged Dick! Yes, yes, I remember. You used to be pretty well out at
elbows, if I remember rightly."

"My clothes used to be pretty well ventilated," said Dick, smiling
faintly. "That was what made me so healthy, I expect. But did you ever
know me to steal?"

"No," said the officer, "I can't say I have."

"I lived about the streets for more then eight years," said Dick, "and
this is the first time I was ever arrested."

"What do you do now?"

"I'm in a store on Pearl Street."

"What wages do you get?"

"Ten dollars a week."

"Do you expect me to believe that story?"

"It's true."

"I don't believe there's a boy of your age in the city that gets such
wages. You can't earn that amount."

"I jumped into the water, and saved the life of Mr. Rockwell's little
boy. That's why he pays me so much."

"Where did you get that watch and chain? Are they gold?"

"Yes, Mrs. Rockwell gave them to me."

"It seems to me you're in luck."

"I wasn't very lucky to fall in with you," said Dick. "Don't you see
what a fool I should be to begin to pick pockets now when I am so well
off?"

"That's true," said the officer, who began to be shaken in his previous
conviction of Dick's guilt.

"If I'd been going into that business, I would have tried it when I was
poor and ragged. I should not have waited till now."

"If you didn't take the pocket-book, then how came it in your pocket?"

"I was looking in at a shop window, when I felt it thrust into my
pocket. I suppose it was the thief who did it, to get out of the scrape
himself."

"That might be. At any rate, I've known of such cases. If so, you are
unlucky, and I am sorry for you. I can't let you go, because appearances
are against you, but if there is anything I can do to help you I will."

"Thank you, Mr. Jones," said Dick, gratefully. "I did not want you to
think me guilty. Where is the man that lost the pocket-book?"

"Just behind us."

"I should like to speak to him a moment."

The red-faced man, who was a little behind, came up, and Dick asked,
quietly, "What makes you think I took your pocket-book, sir?"

"Wasn't it found in your pocket, you young rascal?" said the other,
irritably.

"Yes," said Dick.

"And isn't that enough?"

"Not if somebody else put it there," said Dick.

"That's a likely story."

"It's a true story."

"Can you identify this as the boy who robbed you, and whom you saw
running?"

"No," said the red-faced man, rather unwillingly. "My eyesight is not
very good, but I've no doubt this is the young rascal."

"Well, that must be decided. You must appear to-morrow morning to prefer
your complaint."

"Mind you don't let the rascal escape," said the other.

"I shall carry him to the station-house, where he will be safe."

"That's right, I'll make an example of him. He won't pick my pocket
again in a hurry."

"I hope the judge won't be so sure that I am guilty," said Dick. "If he
is, it'll go hard with me."

"Why don't you call your employer to testify to your good character?"

"That's a good idea. Can I write a note to him, and to another friend?"

"Yes; but perhaps the mail wouldn't carry them in time."

"I will send a messenger. Can I do so?"

"When we get to the station-house I will see that you have a chance to
send. Here we are."

Escorted by the officer, and followed by his accuser, Dick entered.
There was a railing at the upper end of the room, and behind it a desk
at which sat a captain of the squad.

The officer made his report, which, though fair and impartial, still was
sufficient to cause our hero's commitment for trial.

"What is your name?" questioned the captain.

Dick thought it best to be straightforward, and, though he winced at the
idea of his name appearing in the daily papers, answered in a manly
tone, "Richard Hunter."

"Of what nation?"

"American."

"Where were you born?"

"In this city."

"What is your age?"

"Sixteen years."

These answers were recorded, and, as Dick expressed a desire to
communicate with his friends before trial, permission was given him to
write to them, and the trial was appointed for the next morning at the
Tombs. The red-faced man certified that his wallet contained nine
dollars and sixty-two cents, which was found to be correct. He agreed to
be present the next morning to prefer his charge, and with such manifest
pleasure that he was not retained, as it sometimes happens, to insure
his appearance.

"I will find a messenger to carry your notes," said the friendly
officer.

"Thank you," said Dick. "I will take care that you are paid for your
trouble."

"I require no pay except what I have to pay the messenger."

Dick was escorted to a cell for safe-keeping. He quickly dashed off a
letter to Mr. Murdock, fearing that Mr. Rockwell might not be in the
store. It was as follows:--

     "MR. MURDOCK,--What will you think when I tell you that I
     have been unlucky enough to be arrested on suspicion of picking a
     man's pocket? The real thief slipped the wallet into my pocket as I
     was looking into a shop window, and it was found on me. I couldn't
     prove my innocence, so here I am at the station-house. They will
     think strange at the store because I am absent. Will you tell Mr.
     Rockwell privately what has detained me; but don't tell Mr.
     Gilbert. He don't like me any too well, and would believe me guilty
     at once, or pretend he did. I am sure you won't believe I would
     do such a thing, or Mr. Rockwell either. Will you come and see me
     to-night? I am to be tried to-morrow morning. I aint very proud of
     the hotel where I am stopping, but they didn't give me much choice
     in the matter.

     "RICHARD HUNTER."

     "Station-House, Franklin Street."

The other letter was to Fosdick; here it is:--

     "DEAR FOSDICK,--I didn't much think when I left you this
     morning that I should be writing to you from the station-house
     before night. I'll tell you how it happened." [Here follows a
     detailed account, which is omitted, as the reader is already
     acquainted with all the circumstances.] "Of course they will wonder
     at the boarding-house where I am. If Miss Peyton or Mr. Clifton
     inquires after me to-night, you can say that I am detained by
     business of importance. That's true enough. I wish it wasn't. As
     soon as dinner is over, I wish you'd come and see me. I don't know
     if you can, not being acquainted with the rules of this hotel. I
     shan't stop here again very soon, if I can help it. There's a woman
     in the next cell, who was arrested for fighting. She is swearing
     frightfully. It almost makes me sick to be in such a place. It's
     pretty hard to have this happen to me just when I was getting along
     so well. But I hope it'll all come out right. Your true friend,

     "DICK.

     "P.S.--I've given my watch and chain to the officer to keep for me.
     Gold watches aint fashionable here, and I didn't want them to think
     me putting on airs.

     "Station-House, Franklin Street."

After Dick had written these letters he was left to himself. His
reflections, as may readily be supposed, were not the most pleasant.
What would they think at the boarding-house, if they should find what
kind of business it was that had detained him! Even if he was acquitted,
some might suppose that he was really guilty. But there was a worse
contingency. He might be unable to prove his innocence, and might be
found guilty. In that case he would be sent to the Island. Dick
shuddered at the thought. Just when he began to feel himself
respectable, it was certainly bad to meet with such hard luck. What,
too, would Mr. Greyson and Ida think? He had been so constant at the
Sunday school that his absence would be sure to be noticed, and he knew
that his former mode of life would make his guilt more readily believed
in the present instance.

"If Ida should think me a pick-pocket!" thought poor Dick, and the
thought made him miserable enough. The fact was, that Ida, by her
vivacity and lively manners, and her evident partiality for his society,
had quite won upon Dick, who considered her by all odds the nicest girl
he had ever seen. I don't mean to say that Dick was in love,--at least
not yet. Both he and Ida were too young for that; but he was certainly
quite an admirer of the young lady. Again, if he were convicted, he
would have to give up the party to which he had been invited, and he
could never hope to get another invitation.

All these reflections helped to increase Dick's unhappiness. I doubt if
he had ever felt so unhappy in all his life. But it never once occurred
to him that his arrest was brought about by the machinations of his
enemies. He hadn't chanced to see Micky Maguire, and had no suspicion
that it was he who dropped the wallet into his pocket. Still less did he
suspect that Gilbert's hostility had led him so far as to conspire with
such a boy as Micky against him. It was lucky that he did not know this,
or he would have felt still more unhappy.

But it is now time to turn to Micky Maguire and Mr. Gilbert, whose joint
scheme had met with so much success.




CHAPTER XIV.

MICKY MAGUIRE'S DISAPPOINTMENT.


Micky Maguire waited until Dick was actually on the way to the
station-house, and then started for Pearl Street to acquaint Gilbert
with the success of his machinations. His breast swelled with triumph at
the advantage he had gained over his enemy.

"May be he'll keep his 'cheerin' reflections' to himself another time,"
thought Micky. "He won't have much to say about my going to the Island
when he's been there himself. They won't stand none of his airs there,
I'm thinkin'."

There was another pleasant aspect to the affair. Micky had not only
triumphed over his enemy, but he was going to be paid for it. This was
the stipulation between Gilbert and himself. The book-keeper had not
promised any definite sum, but Micky, in speculating upon the proper
compensation for his service, fixed upon five dollars as about what he
ought to receive. Like many others who count their chickens before they
are hatched, he had already begun to consider what he would buy with it
when he had got it.

Now, only the day previous, Micky had noticed hanging in a window in
Chatham Street, a silver watch, and chain attached, which was labelled
"GENUINE SILVER, ONLY FIVE DOLLARS." Since Micky had been the
possessor of a blue coat with brass buttons, his thoughts had dwelt more
than ever before on his personal appearance, and the watch had struck his
fancy. He did not reflect much on the probable quality of a silver watch
which could be sold for five dollars, and a chain thrown into the
bargain. It was a watch, at any rate, and would make a show. Besides,
Dick wore a watch, and Micky felt that he did not wish to be outdone. As
soon as he received his reward he meant to go and buy it.

It was therefore in a very cheerful frame of mind that Micky walked up
in front of Rockwell & Cooper's store, and took his stand, occasionally
glancing at the window.

Ten minutes passed away, and still he remained unnoticed. He grew
impatient, and determined to enter, making his business an excuse.

Entering, he saw through the open door of the office, the book-keeper,
bending over the desk writing.

"Shine yer boots?" he asked.

Gilbert was about to answer angrily in the negative, when looking up he
recognized his young confederate. His manner changed, and he said, "Yes,
I believe I'll have a shine; but you must be quick about it."

Micky swung his box from his shoulder, and, sinking upon his knees,
seized his brush, and went to work scientifically.

"Any news?" asked Gilbert, in a low voice.

"Yes, mister, I've done it," said Micky.

"Have you managed to trap him?"

"Yes, I left him on his way to the station-house."

"How did you manage it?"

"I grabbed an old fellow's wallet, and dropped it into Dick's pocket. He
pulled it out, and while he was lookin' at it, up came the 'copp' and
nabbed him."

"How about the man from whom the wallet was taken?"

"He came up puffin', and swore Dick was the chap that stole it."

"So he was carried off to the station-house?"

"Yes; he's there safe enough."

"Then we shall have to carry on business without him," said Gilbert,
coolly. "I hope he will enjoy himself at his new quarters."

"Maybe they'll send him to the Island," said Micky, beginning his
professional operations upon the second boot.

"Very likely," said Gilbert. "I suppose you've been there before this."

"Wot if I have?" said Micky, in rather a surly tone, for he did not
relish the allusion.

"No offence," said Gilbert. "I only meant that if you have ever been
there, you can judge whether your friend Dick will enjoy it."

"Not a great deal," said Micky; "but you needn't call him my friend. I
hate him."

"Your enemy, then. But get through as soon as possible."

Micky struck his brush upon the floor to indicate that the job was
finished, and, rising, waited for his fee.

Gilbert took from his pocket ten cents and handed him.

"That's for the shine," he said; "and here's something for the other
matter."

So saying, he placed in the hand of the boot-black a bank-note.

Micky glanced at it, and his countenance changed ominously, when he
perceived the denomination. It was a one-dollar bill!

"It's one dollar," he said.

"Isn't that enough?"

"No, it isn't," he answered, sullenly. "I might 'ave been nabbed myself.
I can't afford to work on no such terms."

Micky was right. It certainly was a very small sum to receive for taking
such a risk, apart from all moral considerations, and his
dissatisfaction can hardly be wondered at. But Gilbert was not of a
generous nature. In fact he was disposed to be mean, and in the present
instance he had even expected to get the credit of being generous. A
dollar, he thought, must seem an immense sum to a ragged boot-black. But
Micky thought differently, and Gilbert felt irritated at his
ingratitude.

"It's all you'll get," said he, roughly.

"Then you'd better get somebody else to do your dirty work next time,
mister," said Micky, angrily.

"Clear out, you young blackguard!" exclaimed Gilbert, his temper by this
time fully aroused. "Clear out, if you don't want to be kicked out!"

"Maybe you'll wish you'd given me more," said Micky, sullenly picking up
his box, and leaving the office.

"What's the matter?" asked Mr. Murdock, who happened to come up just as
Micky went into the street, and heard the last words of the altercation.

"Oh," said Gilbert, carelessly, "he wasn't satisfied with his pay. I
gave him ten cents, but the young rascal wanted more."

As he said this, he turned back to his desk.

"I wonder whether Gilbert's going anywhere," thought the head clerk. "I
never knew him so extravagant before. He must be going out this
evening."

Just then it occurred to him that Dick had been absent longer than
usual, and, as he needed his services, he asked, "Has Richard returned,
Mr. Gilbert?"

"I haven't seen him."

"Did he go out at the usual time?"

"Yes."

"What can have detained him?" said Mr. Murdock, thoughtfully.

"He's probably fallen in with some of his old friends, and forgotten all
about his duties."

"That is not his way," said Mr. Murdock, quietly, as he walked away. He
understood very well Mr. Gilbert's hostility to Dick, and that the
latter was not likely to receive a very favorable judgment at his hands.

Five minutes later a boy entered the store, and, looking about him a
moment in uncertainty, said, "I want to see Mr. Murdock."

"I am Mr. Murdock," he answered.

"Then this note is for you."

The clerk felt instinctively that the note was from Dick, and, not
wishing Gilbert to hear the conversation, motioned the boy to follow him
to the back part of the store.

Then he opened and read the note quickly.

"Did Richard Hunter give this to you?" he asked.

"No," said Tim Ryan, for that was his name. "It was the 'copp' that
arrested him."

"I suppose a 'copp' is a policeman."

"Yes, sir."

"Were you present when he was arrested?"

"Yes, sir."

"Do you know anything about it?"

"Yes, I seed it all."

"You saw the wallet taken?"

"Yes, sir."

"Did Richard take it?"

"You mean Dick?" said Tim, interrogatively, for Richard was to him a
strange name.

"No, he didn't, then. He wouldn't steal. I never know'd him to."

"Then you know Dick?"

"Yes, sir. I've knowed him ever since I was so high," indicating a point
about three feet above the floor.

"Then who did take it, if not he?"

"Micky Maguire."

"Who is he?"

"He blacks boots."

"Then how did it happen that he was not arrested?"

"Micky was smart enough to drop the wallet into Dick's pocket as he was
standin' before a shop winder. Then he got out of the way, and Dick was
nabbed by the 'copp.'"

"Is this Micky of whom you speak a friend of yours?"

"No; he likes to bully small boys."

"Then why didn't you tell the officer he had arrested the wrong boy?"

"I wanted to," said Tim, "for Dick's always been kind to me; but I was
afraid Micky would give me a beatin' when he got free. Then there was
another reason."

"What was that?"

"It's mean to tell of a fellow."

"Isn't it meaner to let an innocent boy get punished, when you might
save him by telling?"

"Maybe it is," said Tim, perplexed.

"My lad," continued Mr. Murdock, "you say Dick has been kind to you. You
now have an opportunity to repay all he has ever done, by clearing him
from this false charge, which you can easily do."

"I'll do it," said Tim, stoutly. "I don't care if Micky does lick me for
it."

"By the way," said Mr. Murdock, with a sudden thought, "what is the
appearance of this Micky Maguire?"

"He's rather stout, and has freckles."

"Does he wear a blue coat, with large brass buttons?"

"Yes," said Tim, in surprise. "Do you know him?"

"I have seen him this morning," said Mr. Murdock. "Wait a minute, and I
will give you a line to Dick; or rather it will not be necessary. If you
can get a chance, let him know that I am going to call on him this
afternoon. Will you be at the station-house, or near it, at six
o'clock?"

"Yes, sir."

"Then we can arrange about your appearing as a witness at the trial.
Here is half a dollar for your trouble in bringing the note."

"I don't want it, sir," said Tim. "I don't want to take anything for
doing a good turn to Dick."

"But you have been prevented from earning money. You had better take
it."

But Tim, who was a warm-hearted Irish boy, steadfastly refused, and left
the store in quest of Henderson's hat and cap store, having also a note
to deliver to Fosdick.

"So that was Micky Maguire who was here a little while since," said Mr.
Murdock to himself. "It seems singular that immediately after getting
Richard into trouble, he should have come here where he was employed.
Can it be that Gilbert had a previous acquaintance with him?"

The more Mr. Murdock reflected, the more perplexed he became. It did
cross his mind that the two might be in league against Dick; but then,
on the other hand, they evidently parted on bad terms, and this seemed
to make such a combination improbable. So he gave up puzzling himself
about it, reflecting that time would clear up what seemed mysterious
about the affair.

Gilbert, on his part, could not help wondering on what errand Tim Ryan
came to Mr. Murdock. He suspected he might be a messenger from Dick, but
thought it best not to inquire, and Mr. Murdock did not volunteer any
information. When the store closed, the head clerk bent his steps
towards the station-house.




CHAPTER XV.

THE FRANKLIN STREET STATION-HOUSE.


The station-house to which Dick had been conveyed is situated in that
part of Franklin Street which lies between Centre and Baxter Streets.
The last is one of the most wretched streets in the city, lined with
miserable tenement houses, policy shops, and second-hand clothing
stores. Whoever passes through it in the evening, will do well to look
to the safety of his pocket-book and watch, if he is imprudent enough to
carry either in a district where the Ten Commandments are unknown, or
unregarded.

The station-house is an exception to the prevailing squalidness, being
kept with great neatness. Mr. Murdock ascended the steps, and found
himself in a large room, one side of which was fenced off by a railing.
Behind this was a desk, at which sat the officer in charge. To him, Mr.
Murdock directed himself.

"Have you a boy, named Richard Hunter, in the house?"

"Yes," said the sergeant, referring to his minutes. "He was brought in
this afternoon, charged with picking a gentleman's pocket."

"There is some mistake about this. He is as honest as I am."

"I have nothing to do with that. He will have a fair trial to-morrow
morning. All I have to do is to keep him in safe custody till then."

"Of course. Where is he?"

"In a cell below."

"Can I see him?"

"If you wish."

The officer summoned an attendant, and briefly ordered him to conduct
Mr. Murdock to Dick's cell.

"This way, sir," said the attendant.

Mr. Murdock followed him through a large rear room, which is intended
for the accommodation of the officers. Then, descending some steps into
the courtyard, he descended thence into the apartments in the basement.
Here are the cells for the temporary detention of offenders who are not
at once sent to the Tombs for trial. The passages are whitewashed and
the cells look very neat. They are on either side, with a grating, so
that one passing along can look into them readily. They are probably
about seven feet long, by four or five in width. A narrow raised
bedstead, covered with a pallet, occupies one side, on which the
prisoner can either lie or sit, as he pleases.

"How are you, boss?" asked a negro woman, who had been arrested for
drunkenness, swaying forward, as Mr. Murdock passed, and nearly losing
her balance as she did so. "Can't you give me a few cents to buy some
supper?"

Turning from this revolting spectacle, Mr. Murdock followed his guide to
the second cell beyond where our hero was confined.

"Is it you, Mr. Murdock?" exclaimed our hero, joyfully jumping to his
feet. "I am glad to see you."

"And I am glad to see you; but I wish it were somewhere else," said Mr.
Murdock.

"So do I," said Dick. "I aint partial to this hotel, though the
accommodations is gratooitous, and the company is very select."

"I see you will have your joke, Dick, even in such a place."

"I don't feel so jolly as I might," said Dick. "I never was in the
station-house before; but I shall be lucky if I don't get sent to a
worse place."

"Have you any idea who took the wallet which was found in your pocket?"

"No," said Dick.

"Do you know a boy called Micky Maguire?" proceeded Mr. Murdock.

"Yes," said Dick, looking up in surprise. "Micky used to be a great
friend of mine. He'd be delighted if he only knew that I was enjoyin'
the hospitality of the government."

"He does know it," said Mr. Murdock, quietly.

"How do you know?" asked Dick, quickly.

"Because it was he that stole the wallet and put it in your pocket."

"How did you find out?" asked Dick, eagerly.

"Do you know a boy named Tim Ryan?"

"Yes; he's a good boy."

"It was he that brought me your note. He saw the whole proceeding."

"Why didn't he tell, and stop my bein' arrested, then?"

"I asked him that; but he said he was afraid Micky would beat him when
he found out. But he is a friend of yours, and he stands ready to
testify what he knows, at your trial, to-morrow morning."

"That's lucky," said Dick, breathing a sigh of relief. "So it was Micky
that served me the trick. He always loved me like a brother, Micky did,
but I didn't expect he'd steal for my benefit. I'm very much obliged to
him, but I'd rather dispense with such little favors another time."

"You will be surprised to learn that Micky came round to our store this
afternoon."

"What for?" questioned Dick, in amazement.

"I don't know whether he came by accident or design; but Mr. Gilbert
employed him to black his boots."

"Mr. Gilbert!"

"Yes. They seemed to be conversing earnestly; but I was too far off to
hear what was said. Finally, Gilbert appeared to get angry, and drove
the boy out."

"That's strange!" said Dick, thoughtfully. "Mr. Gilbert loves me about
as much as Micky does."

"Yes, there seems to be some mystery about it. We may find out some time
what it is. But here is your friend Fosdick."

"How are you, Fosdick?" hailed Dick from his cell. "I'm holdin' a little
levee down here. Did you receive my card of invitation?"

"I've been uneasy all the afternoon, Dick," said Fosdick. "Ever since I
heard that you were here, I've been longing to come and see you."

"Then you aint ashamed of me, even if I am in the station-house?"

"Of course I know you don't deserve to be here. Tell me all about it. I
only got a chance to speak a minute with Tim Ryan, for there were
customers waiting."

"I'll tell you all I know myself," said Dick. "I'm sorry to keep you
standing, but the door is locked, and I've accidentally lost the key. So
I can't invite you into my parlor, as the spider invited the fly."

"Don't stand on ceremony, Dick. I'd just as lieves stay outside."

"So would I," said Dick, rather ruefully.

The story was told over again, with such new light as Mr. Murdock had
been able to throw upon it.

"It's just like Micky," said Fosdick. "He's a bad fellow."

"It was rather a mean trick," said Dick; "but he hasn't had a very good
bringin' up, or maybe he'd be a better boy."

That he should have spoken thus, at the moment when he was suffering
from Micky's malice, showed a generosity of feeling which was
characteristic of Dick. No one was more frank, open, or free from malice
than he, though always ready to stand up for his rights when he
considered them assailed. It is this quality in Dick, joined to his
manly spirit, which makes him a favorite with me, as he is also with
you, let me hope, young reader.

"It'll come out right, Dick," said Fosdick, cheerfully. "Tim Ryan's
testimony will clear you. I feel a good deal better about it now than I
did this afternoon, when I didn't know how things were likely to go with
you."

"I hope so," said Dick. "But I'm afraid you won't get any supper, if you
stay any longer with me."

"How about your supper, Dick?" asked Fosdick, with sudden thought. "Do
they give you any in this establishment?"

"No," said Dick; "this hotel's on the European system, with
improvements. You get your lodgin' for nothing, and nothing to eat along
with it. I don't like the system much. I don't think I could stand it
more'n a week without its hurtin' my constitution."

"I'll go out and get you something, Dick," said Fosdick, "if the rules
of the establishment allow it. Shall I?"

"Well," said Dick, "I think I might eat a little, though the place isn't
very stimulatin' to the appetite."

"What shall I bring you?"

"I aint particular," said Dick.

Just then the attendant came along, and Fosdick inquired if he would be
allowed to bring his friend something to eat.

"Certainly," was the reply. "We provide nothing ourselves, as the
prisoners only stay with us a few hours."

"I'll be right back," said Fosdick.

Not far from the station-house, Fosdick found a baker's shop, where he
bought some bread and cakes, with which he started to return. As he was
nearing the station-house, he caught sight of Micky Maguire hovering
about the door. Micky smiled significantly as he saw Fosdick and his
burden.

"Where are you carryin' that?" he asked.

"Why do you ask?" said Fosdick, who could not feel very friendly to the
author of Dick's misfortune.

"Never mind why," said Micky. "I know well enough. It's for your friend
Dick. How does he like his new lodgins'?"

"How do you like them? You've been there often enough."

"Don't be impudent, or I'll lam' ye," said Micky, scowling.

As Fosdick was considerably smaller than himself, Micky might have
ventured upon an assault, but deemed it imprudent in the immediate
vicinity of the station-house.

"Give my compliments to Dick," he said. "I hope he'll sleep well."

To this Fosdick returned no answer, but, entering the building,
descended to Dick's temporary quarters. He passed the bread and cake
through the grating, and Dick, cheered by the hope of an acquittal on
the morrow, and a speedy recovery of his freedom, partook with a good
appetite.

"Can't you give me a mouthful, boss?" muttered the negro woman before
mentioned, as she caught sight of Fosdick's load.

He passed a cake through the grating, which she seized eagerly, and
devoured with appetite.

"I think I must be going," said Mr. Murdock, consulting his watch, "or
my wife and children won't know what has become of me."

"Good-night, Mr. Murdock," said Dick. "Thank you for your kindness."

"Good-night, Richard. Keep up your courage."

"I'll try to."

Fosdick stopped longer. At last he went away, and our hero, left to
himself, lay down upon his pallet and tried to get to sleep.




CHAPTER XVI.

ROSWELL CRAWFORD RETIRES FROM BUSINESS.


"Can you send this home for me?" asked a lady in Hall & Turner's store
about three o'clock in the afternoon of the day on which Dick, as we
have related, was arrested.

"Certainly, madam. Where shall it be sent?" asked the clerk.

"No. 47 West Fortieth Street," was the reply.

"Very well, it shall be sent up immediately. Here, Roswell."

Roswell Crawford came forward not very willingly. He had no great liking
for the task which he saw would be required of him. Fortieth Street was
at least a mile and a half distant, and he had already just returned
from a walk in a different direction. Besides, the bundle was a large
one, containing three dress patterns. He did not think it very suitable
for a gentleman's son to be seen carrying such a large bundle through
the streets.

"Why don't you send Edward?" he said, complainingly. "He doesn't do half
as much as I."

"I shall send whom I please," said the clerk, sharply. "You wouldn't do
anything if you could help it."

"I won't carry bundles much longer," said Roswell. "You put all the
heaviest bundles off upon me."

Roswell's back being turned, he did not observe Mr. Turner, who had come
up as he was speaking.

"What are you complaining about?" asked that gentleman.

Roswell turned, and colored a little when he saw his employer.
