"First wasn't it superb last night! The handsomest 
woman in the room was acknowledged to be Mrs. Law- 
rence ; the two girls who bore off the palm were Miss 
Adriance and Miss Hastings: the one with her dusky, ori- 
ental magnificence, eyes of slumberous fire, and vivid 
southern temperament, the other with her cooler northern 
blood, that gives a touch of frost, melting at the first ad- 
vance of summer. Shall I go on?" 

" Spai-e your nonsense," I said. " If I hear so much of 
the ball I shall be sick of it." 

"There is no use of airing your humility before me. 
You did enjoy it, I know. I was glad to see you be- 
have so respectably." 

" I don't imagine a ball-room triumph is worth a great 
deal," I returned, with a doubtful smile. 

" Take the goods the gods provide, and make a feast 
over them all. That is the only true philosophy. I enjoy 
being considered handsome, though I do call in the assist- 



 

ance of art. I'm thankful to the Bloom of Youth for my 
radiant complexion, to the hair-dresser for making the most 
of my scanty locks, and the dress-maker for improving my 
figure. When society praises you, take it as your just 
desert, and people will pride themselves upon telling you 
the truth. It is pleasanter to be overvalued than under- 
valued." 

" But your conquest ? " I said, impatiently. 

"You were so engrossed with your own admirers that 
you missed the fun. Of course you were introduced to 

the poet, II ? The on dit is that he is engaged to Miss 

Conway, who really docs write delightful stories, and is a 
very fine, intellectual woman. She was determined to 
keep him within her charmed circle of congenial minds, 
and I threw out a little bait. My sweet simplicity capti- 
vated him, and he has asked me to drive with him this 
afternoon. I wonder how Miss Conway will take it! " 

"O, Laura, how could you ?" 

"All is fair in love and war, you know. I have im- 
proved the seventeen years and five months of my life. I 
think he is desperately smitten." 

"Suppose he should fall in love?" 

" Then he must fall out again." 

"You will not marry him?" 

" My dear simpleton, he is poor, and I am looking for a 
fortune." 

" Whether you love or not?" 

"When you come to take the census you will find that 
love matches do not pay. All I ever knew turned out 
miserably. Love in a cottage is charming to talk about, 
and I shall improve upon the theme this afternoon most 
eloquently." 

" And you can deliberately resolve to throw away hap- 
piness for a mere show ! " 





"Put it 'substantial,' and I'll risk the happiness. You 
are too romantic, Syclnie. Your ideals and dreams will 
never be realized in this world of shams." 

" There must be some truth, some reality." 

"Nonsense! Society is a very fine humbug, and it 
won't do to drag in Truth by the hair of her head. It 
does not ask what is under the satin, but it does insist 
rigorously upon the satin. You will find that the chief 
end of woman is to make a good marriage. What else 
can she do? Old maids are laughed at, quizzed, sent 
about from pillar to post, and made the slaves of every- 
body, unless they happen to have a fortune. Not to marry 
well is a capital sin against society." 

" But no true woman could degrade herself by marrying 
without aifection." 

" Of course it would be a crime to confess it. Here, 
with the mask off, we can show honest faces. What does 
a man marry for? He wants an elegant mistress to his 
establishment, or an income that will help him sustain one. 
In six months he wouldn't be able to tell his wife from 
other women, if it wasn't that she asked him for money 
occasionally. And if she was weak enough to pin her 
faith on his love, she can spend the rest of her days in the 
shadow of a dead hope, grow old and miserable at home, 
while society adores him, and pities him for being tied to 
such a log." 

"You will admit that people can love?" 

" One feels in one's novel-reading days as if there was 
a tender place in the head or the heart, that love alone 
could fill ; yet few of the people who marry for love are 
happy. It has a miserable faculty of turning to dross. I 
choose to look at the facts. Here is the world, pretty fair 
if you are sharp enough to take advantage of it ; other- 
wise you drift about to no purpose. When you have a 



 

good position you can dictate to your neighbors, and it is 
much pleasanter to rule than to be ruled." 

"How much nobler we should all be if we took as much 
pains to do right as some do to be false and unnatural." 

" O, it would wear me out in a month to practise so 
many virtues." 

" And you are willing to receive credit for qualities you 
don't even desire to possess ? " 

"O, my dear girl, you go too deeply into these matters. 
Life in general is like French flowers. Brilliancy and 
beauty at the top underneath, a little cotton and painted 
muslin stuck together by paste. It is not wise to go into 
details." 

" I can never be satisfied with such an existence," I said, 
warmly. 

" You had better ask for a missionary appointment, and 
go to foreign lands, for I think the majority of the people 
here do not desire to be converted from the error of their 
ways. You are a little too good for this world ; yet I 
don't quite despair of you, under Mrs. Lawrence's judicious 
training. But I must run away now. Wish me success." 

How much her views were like Mr. St. John's ! Was 
there no real nobleness and generosity in the world? I 
would not judge it so harshly, because I felt in my own 
soul that I was capable of higher joys than dressing and 
flirting. And yet, what else was there to do in such a 
life? One read novels in a desultory fashion, or sketched, 
or crocheted a little, the rest of the time being devoted to 
pleasure. 

Laura took her drive, and made a new engagement. 
She laughingly begged me to comfort Miss Conway, and 
fate threw us together. A fine, pure soul was hers, full of 

high aspirations. I liked II also. I could understand 

the harmony there might be between them, and it vexed 
me that he should neglect her for Laura. 



 

How the girl managed that her ninny flirtations should 
not interfere I cannot divine. Most of the gentlemen 
seemed to consider her a charming and almost irresponsible 
child, and more than one matron excused her on the ground 
that she really did not mean any harm, but was frank and 
impulsive, and always ready to please. She was not nn- 
mindful of the main chance, however, and kept Mr. Varick 
within reach constantly. He was a widower, but childless ; 
and for many years a sister, now dead, had superintended 
bis establishment. Others besides her cast longing eyes 
towards the possessor of such a fortune* 

As a whole, I believe my month at Newport was a suc- 
cess. Mrs. Lawrence approved, Mr. St. John took care 
that I should not lack for pleasures. Riding, bathing, 
dancing, and merriment of all kinds, that youth cannot 
resist. I honestly tried not to flirt, and was thankful that 
I had not come husband-hunting. 

Not that there were no men worthy of loving. But in 
the glamour of such gayety who can see soul to soul ? I 
felt that I would hardly risk a love born under such aus- 
pices. One could hot tell the tinsel from the pure gold, 
if indeed there was any. 

With all these gayeties there was little time to cultivate 
friendships, yet I did spend many pleasant hours with Miss 
Conway and Mrs. Westcrvelt. The latter was such a sweet, 
kind, motherly woman. I really wondered what attraction 
there was in the place for her, and found that her son had 
made her promise to join the Hastings party, as he expected 
to be away nearly all summer on business. Her passion 
for him was one of the rare romances of life. He was the 
last of quite a large family. 

" A good young man," said Laura, with her peculiar 
little laugh. "Devoted to his mother, and all that. I 
don't know but I should marry him, only I ain not of the 



 

goody sort, and want a little liberty to breathe now and 
then." 

At last we reached the grand ball of the season a mas- 
querade. Such an endless discussion as to characters and 
dresses, and guesses hazarded about every one ! The scene 
itself was beyond description. One felt transported to 
strange countries. Cavaliers, dukes, kings, historical char- 
acters, pages, and knights of romance jostled one another, 
ami jested gayly. Laura personated Byron's Leila, look- 
ing the coquettish girl to perfection, the Oriental dress and 
fillet of pearls making her absolutely beautiful. The poet 
paid court to her as the Giaour. Mr. St. John chose the 
costume of a Spanish woman for me ; and I wondered if 
my grandmother ever stepped more stately in flowing 
robes and lace mantle. Somehow I felt wondrously at 
home, and fancied that I acquitted myself very well. 

It was nc'iir d;i\vn when the revellers began to disperse. 
The night had been one of unusual enjoyment, but now 
crape, illusion, and flowers began to droop. 

" Let us go," I said to Mrs. Lawrence ; " I don't want to 
remember the scene in ruins." 

"You are right," Mr. St. John returned. "The last gala 
night here. Are you not sorry?" 

"No," I answered, a little wearily; "the whole month 
has appeared like a masquerade. I shall be glad to get 
back to sober life." 

" Laurelwood will seem dull and tame." 

"If it is as bright as my remembrance of it, I shall have 
no fear." 

It I turned me suddenly round, and gave one long, search- 
ing glance into my face ; then, with a hurried good night, 
we parted. 



CHAPTER V. 



THE next day was one of farewells. No more rambles 
in the tender, throbbing moonlight, with the great swells 
of the ocean rising and sinking with their thunderous 
rhythm, and foam phantoms chasing one another far up 
the shore. No more drives in softest twilight, where the 
purple air was all alive and quivering with the glory of 
the departed day. No more brilliance and flirting in the 
long hall, thronged with porters bringing down hosts of 
trunks. The revel was surely over, and the place already 
wore an air of desolation. 

Mrs. Westervelt had insisted, and Mrs. Lawrence had 
accepted an invitation for a few weeks in New York. 

"Miss Adriance will not want to keep straight on with 
dissipation, I think," Mr. St. John said. " Suppose we 
take a quiet little turn about the country for a fortnight." 

"O!" I exclaimed, in a delighted tone; and I know the 
gratification in my face finished the sentence. 

So we said good by to the party. I should have been 
very lonely for the remainder of the day if I had not 
heeded Mrs. Lawrence's fervent injunction, and gone to 
bed. I was really tired and sleepy. 

The parlors looked lonely enough in the evening. Two 
or three lingerers sang at the piano, but I fancied the 
voices had a pathetic touch. 



 

" Let us go out for a short walk," Mr. St. John said. 
"There is no moon, but we shall not lose our way." 

" Well," he began, after a long, long while, just as I fan- 
cied that he was not going to talk at all, " how do you 
like this phase of life'? I think its gayeties have not 
proved tiresome." 

"It seems a sort of hot-house existence," I answered; 
"and, though it is delightful for a while, I shouldn't want 
it continually." 

lie laughed sharply, with a curious sound in his voice 
that displeased me. 

" You still cling to the old notion. Your friend should 
have turned your thoughts into a more practical channel." 

I knew he meant Laura. 

"I think neither of us would be likely to influence the 
other. We are as widely different as one can well im- 
agine." Then, after a pause, which lie seemed in no hurry 
to break, I said, "Mr. St. John, have you tny faith, any 
creed, any rule of conduct?" 

"My beliefs are not for a woman fair and young;" and 
I knew the expression of his f;ice must be bitter by the 
tone he used. " But we will not spoil our last night here 
by disputing. We surely can find some pleasanter topic 
of conversation." 

And, to do him justice, he did. I confess I do not un- 
derstand the man at all. Every change in him surprises 
me. When lie seemed firmly fixed as the rock of Gibral- 
tar, and hedged about with thorns, and while you are con- 
sidering in what manner you can best meet his mood, ho 
suddenly becomes as calm and as fair as a summer s;-a. 

Our little tour was very delightful, taking in Niagara. 
My pen almost stops, my very thoughts stand with uncov- 
ered, reverent heads. Sublimity and grandeur arc mean- 
ing words, but they are tame when applied to this resistless 



 

tide, nature's magnificent organ, whose tones seem akin to 
the full choral of that morning when the stars all sang to- 
gether. Every dash of spray is deeply tinctured with a 
sense of mysterious loveliness, amber, opal, and frost-white 
with the warmer hues born of sunshine. A sacred pil- 
grimage that ought to make one's soul better and nobler. 

I liked Mr. St. John so much while we were there ! He 
seemed to throw off the mask he wears continually, and 
give one a glimpse of the real man, royally sweet, appre- 
ciative, and enjoyable. 

I was glad to see Mrs. Wcstervelt again. She welcomed 
us all warmly, with that genuine hospitality which is al- 
ways beyond question. Home is preeminently her place. 
Her gentleness, her affection, her comprehensive charity 
charm me. I wonder how it would have been with me if 
I had shared such a mother's love ! 

Philip, the son, was still away when we first came. I 
own that I was positively anxious to see him, and it was 
delightful to have his mother talk of him in her fond, half- 
girlish manner for she is one of the women who will 
never grow old. Mr. Westervelt, though not much her 
senior, seems quite aged beside her. He is still hale and 
hearty, though, with his mind completely engrossed by 
business. 

Mrs. Lawrence had gone out one afternoon, and I sat in 
Mrs. "Westervelt's room, reading to her. This was a great 
pleasure to me ; and coming occasionally to a passage 
marked, I lingered over it with peculiar interest. She 
would recognize it with a quick smile, and for a few sec- 
onds lose herself in happy remembrances. During one of 
these pauses I heard a servant's exclamation in the hall, 
the quiet shutting of the door, and a light, springing step 
mounted the stairs, two at a bound. 

She gave a little cry of joy, and started from her chair, 




to be clasped to a heart fond and warm as lier own. I 
had a glimpse of a frank, youthful face, blushing in sur- 
prise, and a head of tawny, chestnut curls, and then I ran 
away, feeling that the scene was too sacred for stranger 
eyes. And it saddened me to know that in all the wide 
world there was no such love and no such welcome for me. 

Presently I was sent for to the drawing-room, and intro- 
duced formally ; but Mr. Westervelt laughed as he said, 

" My mother insists that I shocked you half an hour ago, 
Miss Adriance, by my sudden appearance. Not having 
the grace of an angel, I suppose I ought to apologize. I 
expected to find her alone." 

"Not a very complimentary apology, when yon saw how 
I was entertained," Mrs. Westervelt said, deprecatingly. 

"Mother, do you mean to keep me from making peace 
with Miss Adriance? Did you expect me to send a tele- 
gram, with date of hour and moment, when I came flying 
upon the wings of the wind myself? Suppose we do it 
all over again ? Newport has put some grand ideas in 
your head. I shall have to take a turn there next sum- 
mer. Miss Adriance, am I forgiven ? Please don't think 
me a bear. I am more like a great, shaggy Newfoundland 
dog." 

" There certainly was nothing to pardon ; " and I 
smiled. 

" Mamma mine, you see she doesn't hold malice. I'm 
glad, Miss Adriance, for I want to be friends with you, 
since you have a claim on some one very clear to me. If 
you had not started quite so soon, I should have dropped 
down upon you at Laurelwood, for I have been rambling 
about Virginia the last six weeks. It would have been 
Tara's halls deserted." 

"But 'Beauty's reign ' was not over." 

"Ah, you have been conquered by its potent spell. Did 



 

you ever see so lovely a place, Miss Adrinnce? St. John 
goes on adding to it year by year, and yet to me it has 
always been perfect." 

Mrs. Westervelt rang for a servant to light tip the room. 
I ventured to take my first real glimpse of Philip then. 
Frank and manly, without being regulaily handsome ; a 
rather full figure, with remnants of boyish grace, and a 
face good and sweet, rather than strong. Not that it was 
weak ; but it lacked the sense of maturity and power that 
always pleased me so in Mr. St. John. I don't know why 
I should compare other men with him, as if he were a 
standard of excellence, and yet I often find myself doing 
it. There was nothing bitter nor satirical in this face ; and 
I felt how genial and warm his heart must be. 

Mrs. Westervelt left us to give some orders about the 
dinner. Philip eyed me in an odd, amused fashion for a 
moment, then said, with his bright smile, 

" You must pardon me, but I have had a great curiosity 
to see what Mr. St. John's ward would be like. Guardian- 
ship seems a new phase for him." 

"Pie did not choose her," I returned; "she was 'great- 
ness thrust upon him.' " 

"How does he bear his honors meekly?" 

" I have a fancy that meekness is not one of his strong 
characteristics." 

"You are right. Well, do you like him?" 

" Sometimes." I made a slight grimace for the rest. 

He laughed. 

"Don't think me impertinent. He is peculiar, and so 
are you." 

" Peculiar ! " I echoed. 

"Yes ; you carry it in your face ; a kind of mystery that 
perplexes one." 

" I was not aware of that," I said. " I always fancied 
my feelings came quite readily to the surface." 



 

u Do they ? Not those that you care the most about. Did 
you ever think, Miss Adriiince, of the different stories peo- 
ple carry in their faces? Some writer says, 'We come at 
length in ourselves to express the spirit within us. The 
physical fact has its perfect moral respondent.'" 

" But that cannot apply to faces." 

"I believe no general rule applies to all. But some 
faces do express at a glance the contents within. They 
are never difficult natures to read. Others set one wonder- 
ing what their possessors will do in the great straits of life, 
when some emotion, magnetized by its own strength, 
sways and thrills them, and hurries them impetuously 
through contests. You ask if they will be bitter in anger, 
defiant, and uncompromising; or if through all the power 
and strength runs a fine stream of rarest love, like the 
glowing veins in an agate, and tells you what the draught 
would be if the right hand held the key to the fountain." 

I was growing strangely interested, and asked, 

" What do you see in my face?" 

"I'm not going to tell you now; but some time, when 
the friendship warrants the frankness, you may ask me; 
though I assure you I do not boast of my skill. You see 
that I count upon being friends;" and he smiled. 

I held out my hand with a sudden impulse. 

"Thank you. I have another fancy about names, Miss 
Adriance. If you have been wrongly called, we shall have 
a new christening. Now my mother, you see, must have 
had a presentiment. Philip would call up a vision of 
hazel eyes, chestnut curls, a laughing, careless fellow, with 
small regard for extreme conventionalities, fond of gay, 
social life, and home love. And Stuart is just the name 
for St. John proud, stern, and suggestive." 

" I will give you three guesses," I said, as his eyes ques- 
tioned me. 



 

"Margaret or Eleanor?" 

"No." 

" You are so tall and stately, and with that wealth of 
dusky hair, that you ought to have a queenly appellative. 
Softness and gentleness will not do for you." 

" Why shouldn't I have a gentle name ? Do you think I 
have nothing appealing in ray nature ? " 

"Think of May, or Grace, or Jessie " 

" Or Ellen. Yet I am sure Ellen Douglas had some spirit 
and character." 

A strange light wandered over his face, softening it in- 
describably. 

"Your black eyes, with their slumberous fire, would 
spoil an Ellen. She should be small and slender, with 
loose, brown curls, and shy, downcast eyes of heaven's own. 
blue ; her voice should be smooth and cool, like the mur- 
mur of a midsummer stream through flowery meads. 
What strange dreams sometimes get tangled with one's 
life ! But my last chance," and he roused himself with 
an effort " Elizabeth ? " 

" It would be cruel to torment you. My mother loved my 
dead father so well that she gave me his name Sydnie." 

"Excellent. That heightens the mystery of your face." 

" You insist upon that ? " 

" It is a cardinal point of faith with me. There's St. 
John's voice in the hall, so we will append to our conver- 
sation a 'to be continued ; ' " and he laughed lightly as he 
went out to meet his friend. 

What a contrast the two men were ! I could not help 
remarking it at the dinner table. How they had ever be- 
come such warm friends puzzled me. And this night Mr. 
St. John blossomed into a geniality and richness that was 
absolutely fascinating. How handsome he was, with a 
bright glow in his eyes and a flush upon his cheek ! for 



 

although in the enjoyment of perfect health, he had very 
little color. We had a really delightful evening, and the 
picture remains in my mind as one of those perfect home 
ecenes that I, at least, had rarely witnessed. Mrs. Wester- 
velt's joy was complete ; the sweet face was serene and 
content. 

Mrs. Lawrence has a wonderful adaptableness. She 
seems at home everywhere, and enjoys all pleasures in 
the same refined and delicate manner. I suppose she has 
some choice, but none of her feelings are ever roused into 
active opposition. I wonder if she doesn't grow tired, liv- 
ing the same life over day after day. I should want some 
great event to happen, some incident that would stir my 
blood now and then. 

After Philip's return we were a good deal gayer, or at 
least he gave to all delights his peculiar zest. His love for 
his mother was like a tender romance, and he treated her 
with a deference and devotion any wife might have been 
proud of. She appreciated it thoroughly ; but I think she 
was most generous in that she did not seem to fear the 
time when she would be called upon to share it with 
another. Indeed, Philip's wife was rather a pet idea of 
hers. I smiled as I thought how Laura had discarded him 
from her future. 

There was a series of small dinner-parties, concerts, and 
several operas to take up our attention ; beyond this, ram- 
bles with Philip, who haunted picture galleries and artists' 
studios. He was not lacking in cultivation, as well as love 
for all things beautiful. 

"It puzzles me how you can have learned so much," I 
said, late one afternoon, as we were sauntering through a 
quiet street. 

"I believe nearly nil the good things in my life came 
from Laurehvood," he returned, seriously. 





"Love for art, for music, for home, and nil refined en- 
joyments. You must have been an apt scholar, and Mr. 
St. John a most generous preceptor." 

"When you know him better you will scarcely wonder. 
You have hardly seen his real character yet, and perhaps- 
he might not show his heart as readily to a woman. I 
think he is a little suspicious of the sex ; but he is noble 
enough to honor goodness when he meets with it." 

"I have not been sufficiently noble to justify his appre- 
ciation, then a rather mortifying conclusion." 

"You don't believe that: I can tell it by the compres- 
sion of your lips and the little shadow that comes in your 
eyes." 

" Then my face has ceased to be mysterious." 

"I understand some of its moods. Shall I tell you how 
I came to love St. John ?" 

" Yes," I answered, diverted from the question I meant 
to ask. 

"Of course you can imagine how I was indulged through 
my boyhood, especially after I became an only child. My 
father was very proud of me. At college he kept me lib- 
erally supplied with money, and I ran into many tempta- 
tions; youth is so taken with the glitter of show and 
power. I liked to be admired, and called a generous fel- 
low; and that I did not plunge into absolute excesses was 
owing to the influence of my sweet mother. But, as you 
see, there was scarcely any restraint upon me. When I 
came home my father took me into his counting-house. It 
was merely a nominal position, and I might have idled my 
time shamefully ; but I took quite a fancy to business. I 
squandered enough as it was, frequenting theatres, billiard 
halls, club-rooms, and champagne suppers, and driving a 
fast horse. You cannot realize the power of such influ- 
ences, and how they blunt the finer feelings. One becomes 



 

accustomed to hearing the names of women he had re- 
spected bandied about in toasts and idle jests; truth, af- 
fection, and purity sneered at, and love perverted bought 
and sold in market-places, until one loses all faith in the 
holiness of human nature. 

" After I while I was dangerously ill with a fever. I 
had never been sick before, and in the long convalescence 
there was plenty of time for thought. I used to watch 
mother, with her noiseless steps, smoothing pillows, 
arranging flowers, interpreting the slightest glance, and 
ministering unto me with unwearied devotion. How 
poorly I had requited her love and my father's unbounded 
confidence ! I had wasted my energies in an idle, unprofit- 
able life, and a weight like a mountain lay upon my heart. 
How could I escape walking in the old paths? 

" St. John, happening to have some business with father, 
was at the house quite frequently, and we used to drive 
together. I suppose I must have moped and betrayed my 
want of spirits, for he took great pains to interest me. I 
found him so different from the men I had known, that at 
last I was won into betraying my secret uneasiness. A 
grand, rich nature, full of power, intellect, and courage, 
living the great truths he teaches to others, and offering 
no draught, be it ever so unwelcome a tonic, that he is not 
willing to test himselK" 

" He doesn't impress me in that manner," I said. " I 
have seen him sneer and be very bitter over some things." 

" He is intolerant of shams. Having seen much of the 
world, he can readily distinguish between the false and the 
true. And, though gentle, there is a rigid side to his 
character. No man is ever wholly developed until he 
comes to the grand passion of his life. I want to see 
St. John fairly in love with a woman worthy of the regard 
such a man can jnve." 



 

" But your own story." 

"He persuaded mother to let him take me to Laurel- 
wood. It was my first visit, and in the spring. The glory 
of the place touched me deeply. It seemed to me that 
field and wood were never so beautiful. Quivering lights 
and trooping shadows ; a perfect splendor of life in the 
flowers that shook out clouds of incense as a morning 
hymn ; birds whose soaring crescendo broke into a thousand 
wild, sweet echoes ; skies fretted with silver bars at mid- 
day, and glowing with purple and golden sunsets at night. 
Everything was instinct with a sense of quick, vital fresh- 
ness. Do you wonder that I found my soul ? We used 
to have such long, delightful talks; and in the tender twi- 
light he would play on the organ many of those ineffable 
harmonies of the old masters. It was being ' born again.' 
I came back to my mother, her child." 

" And you discovered the true secret of life," I said, 
musingly. " Some souls have a more difficult search. It 
seems to me half the things in this world are at war with 
the other half. How is one to distinguish ?" 

" By being true to God and one's self. The way is not 
BO hard, after all; but we are blind and dull until some 
shock rouses us." 

"It is more trying for a woman," I returned. "She is 
expected to pay some regard to the claims of society. I 
believe female reformers are at a discount." 

"But patient, noble, high-toned women never are." 

We had reached the house by this time. The breezy 
autumn wind had inspirited me. I felt strong and glad in 
every pulse, and ready to begin anew. 

" I never can tell you all the reasons why I love St. 
John," Philip said, in a softened tone. "A month ago I 
was thankful for the lesson I had learned in self-denial 
and true manliness. Life isn't always fair and smooth. 



 

There are thorns in nearly every path. Have I tired you 
with my confidences?" 

"O, no." I experienced a quick, joyous, friendly feeling 
towards him. It was the first rare emotion of my life. 

Running up stairs eagerly, for we were a little late, 
I met Mr. St. John on the landing a cool, quiet, polished 
gentleman ; a picture there in the light, mellowed through 
the ground globe: Philip Westervelt's hero a Sir Ga- 
lahad. 

"Truant," he exclaimed, in a tone that influenced me 
curiously, "where have you been so long?" 

" Walking with Mr. Westervelt, and talking. He isn't 
bitter, and cynical, and unjust, as you are." 

Then I stood still, quite frightened. My thoughts had 
clothed themselves with words too soon. 

" I am glad you have been well entertained," he re- 
turned, coldly, allowing me to pass without further com- 
ment. 

What a bright, glowing face I saw in the glass ! It was 
beautiful, and I could not help feeling glad. I had a pre- 
sentiment that there were people in the world who could 
appreciate me, be patient with my faults, strengthen my 
earnest desire for what was best and highest in life, and 
help me to mould my character into that symmetry so 
much to be desired, where soul and body should not war 
with one another, but become a harmonious whole. 

I was a little nervous as I went down to dinner; but 
Mr. St. John's face wore its usual serene expression. He 
never betrays any feeling to me. 



 



CHAPTER VI. 

" This is the excellent foppery of the world." 

HAMLET. 

WE saw Laura Hastings frequently, and I was surprised 
at the readiness with which she adapted herself to any 
position. The girl was a born actress. It was a mystery 
to me how she could appear so completely at home in any 
kind of mental garb in which she chose to clothe herself. 

Mrs. Hastings smiled very complacently upon her child. 
Their rooms were generally thronged of an evening, and 
Laura queened it royally. I began to think Mrs. Hastings 
fully as good a manager as Mrs. Lawrence ; and, though 
they were not really wealthy, everything was carried on 
with an air of elegance. 

I called one day with Mrs. "VVestervelt, when Laura in- 
sisted I should remain to lunch, and carried me off to her 
room. 

" My dear," she said, " I've been wild to see you all the 
morning. I had a most magnificent present last night, 
which I am sure you can appreciate;" and opening a cas- 
ket, she displayed a pair of emerald bracelets of rare and 
exquisite workmanship. They seemed to make a glitter 
of sunlight in the small apartment. 

"I leave you to guess the donor." 

" Mr. Varick, I suppose : such gifts must be measured 
by the length of one's purse." 

" Are they not splendid ? You can have every lovely 



 

thing you want; but to me they are perfect treasures. 
And with them a card for Mrs. Thurston's ball. She is 
Lis only sister, and immensely aristocratic. I fancy it was 
a special permit." 

"In what manner?" 

" O, we plebeians haven't the entree of that golden circle 
by right. Mamma was hugely astonished. Of course you 
know what it means." 

"Not an erigairement?" 

O O 

"The next thing to it. We haven't progressed that 
rapidly. Indeed, I'm sorry it's coming quite so soon." 

"Do you really mean to accept him?" 

"O, I shall accept, of course. Mamma would feel 
tempted to sew me up in a sack and drop me in the Hud- 
son if I didn't. And I must be married by next summer." 

" What's the urgent necessity ? You will not be ancient 
by that time-."' 

" But I have a handsome sister who is to be introduced. 
We are too nearly of an age for comfort." 

" I should think a sister would be a pleasant compan- 
ion." 

" Obtuse mortal : if a sister is handsome, she will rival 
you; if plain, she will envy you and be spiteful. Gertrude 
is a brilliant brunette, with great, lustrous eyes, and rich, 
crimson cheeks, dashing, piquant, and glowing just the 
kind of woman that men go wild over. Mamma predicts 
wonderful things for her. So, you see, after this winter 
my reign will be at an end. I could comfort myself with 
the pleasure of seeing her married first, and, perhaps, pick 
up some of her old lovers." 

" After she was married, you could reassert your sway." 
'"And be merely a side ornament in fashion's drawing- 
room, holding a candle that my sister may see the better 
to put on airs and patronize me. O, I know the world to 


