"It's coming heavier and heavier," said Terrill, as the Josephine gave a
fearful lurch.

"Ay, ay! It's nothing less than a hurricane," replied Paul.

"It's the biggest squall I ever was in," added Terrill, blowing the salt
water out of his mouth, after a pint of spray had slapped him in the
face.

"It is kicking up an awful sea."

"That's so."

"Keep your helm hard down, Blair!" shouted Paul to the quartermaster in
charge of the wheel.

"She don't mind it now, sir!" yelled the quartermaster, at the top of
his lungs.

"She's falling off, Mr. Terrill," added Paul.

"I see she is, sir."

"We must keep her head up to it, or our decks will be washed. Hard down,
Blair!"

"She don't mind it, sir!"

"Set the close-reefed foresail, Mr. Terrill," said the captain. "But be
careful of the hands."

Terrill, with the trumpet in his hand, sprang from the life-line to the
fife-rail, so as to be nearer to the hands who were to execute the
captain's order. The unpleasant plight of Mr. Hamblin attracted his
attention, in spite of the pressure of the emergency. His gyrations, as
he bobbed about under the uneasy motions of the vessel, gave him a
ludicrous appearance, which even the positive expression of suffering on
his face did not essentially mitigate. He had evidently come to a
realizing sense of the perils of the sea, and was a pitiful sight to
behold.

"Man the foresail outhaul!" shouted Terrill, through his trumpet. "Mr.
Martyn!"

"Here, sir!" replied the second lieutenant; but his voice sounded like a
whisper in the roar of the hurricane.

"Double the hands on the outhaul!" added Terrill. "Stand by the brails!"

"All ready, forward, sir!" reported Martyn.

"Stand by the fore-sheets!--Mr. Cleats!" continued the executive
officer.

"Here, sir!" said the old sailor, who, with the carpenter, was holding
on at the weather-rail.

"Will you and Mr. Gage assist at the sheet?"

"Ay, ay, sir! This is heavy work. I hope she'll carry that foresail."

"She must carry it, or carry it away," added Terrill. "We are falling
off badly."

"So we are; it ought to be done," answered the boatswain, as he began to
overhaul the sheets.

It was with the greatest difficulty that any one could stand up on deck.
The billows were momentarily increasing, and the Josephine had fallen
off into the trough of the sea, and rolled helplessly in the surging
waves, so that her fore yard appeared almost to dip in the brine. The
outhaul was run out on the deck, and manned by all the hands that could
get hold of it. The lee sheet was extended in like manner, and the whole
after guard, besides the two adult forward officers, were called to walk
away with it.

"O, dear!" groaned Mr. Hamblin, after the vessel had given an unusually
heavy lee lurch, the jerk of which had nearly knocked the breath out of
his body.

"What's the matter, your honor?" demanded Cleats, who always pitied a
landlubber in a gale.

"Do you think there's any danger, Mr. Cleats?" gasped the professor.

"Danger! Bless your honor's heart! there's never any danger in a good
ship, well manned," replied the veteran tar, as he knocked a kink out of
the sheet. "Look at the captain! When he gets scared, you may."

"It is really terrible!" puffed the learned professor.

"Wouldn't your honor like the boat now?" growled the boatswain, with a
hearty chuckle.

"All ready at the sheets, sir!" screamed Robinson, the fourth
lieutenant, who had charge of the waist at quarters.

"Hold on, Mr. Terrill!" shouted the captain, as the Josephine rolled on
her lee side till the water bubbled up in her scuppers. "Wait till I
give you the word!"

Paul was waiting for a favorable moment, when the blast should lull a
little, to set the reefed foresail.

"You must get out of the way, gentlemen!" said Terrill, roaring out the
words through his trumpet. "The sheet blocks will knock you over!"

Mr. Stoute unmoored himself, and made a dive at the life-line, where the
captain was holding on; but, being rather clumsy in his obesity, he
missed his aim, and was thrown into the scuppers. Mr. Cleats went to his
assistance, and picked him up while he lay upon his back, with his legs
and arms thrown up like a turtle trying to turn over. Mr. Hamblin was
not encouraged by this experiment of his associate.

"Why don't you go below, sir?" shouted Terrill, placing his trumpet
close to the professor's head.

"I can't move," replied he.

"Mr. Gage will help you," added the lieutenant.

The carpenter assisted Mr. Hamblin to the companion-way, while the
boatswain had succeeded in rolling Mr. Stoute up to the same point. The
doors were opened, and the head steward helped them down the ladder.

"All ready!" shouted Captain Kendall, when the favorable moment came for
setting the foresail.

"Let go the brails!" bellowed the executive officer. "Haul out!"

The ready seaman promptly obeyed the order, at the instant when the
vessel, having rolled over as far as her centre of gravity would permit
her to go in the trough of the sea, was poised as it were on a balance,
waiting for the recoil of the wave that was to throw her down on the
weather roll. The close-reefed foresail flew out from the brails, and
began to thresh tremendously in the fierce blast.

"Slack the weather vang!" continued Terrill to the hands who had been
stationed at this rope. "Walk away with the sheet!"

It required a tremendous pull to haul home the sheet of the foresail,
banging furiously in the tempest; but there was force enough to
accomplish it, though not till the vessel had made her weather roll,
which lifted half the line of seamen from their feet. The close-reefed
foresail was trimmed so as to lay the schooner to with her head up to
the sea. The billows were increasing in volume so fearfully that it was
no longer prudent to permit the vessel to roll in the trough of the sea,
where she was in danger of being overwhelmed by the combing waves.

"Mind your helm, Blair!" called the first lieutenant, springing aft to
the wheel. "Port a little! Don't let the sail be taken aback!"

The head of the Josephine came up handsomely to the sea, and it was thus
proved that the double-reefed foresail was just the sail for such an
emergency. It was only to be demonstrated whether the sail would be
blown out of the bolt-ropes or not. If it had been an old one, such
would probably have been its fate; but being nearly new, and of the best
material, it stood the strain to the end.

"Mind your eye, Blair!" roared Terrill. "Starboard!"

"Starboard, sir!" replied the quartermaster.

"Touch her up when it comes so heavy," added the lieutenant.

The vessel had fallen off, and took the wind so far on the beam that she
buried her scuppers deep in the waves. The order to "touch her up," or
luff her up into the wind, so as partially to spill the sail, was given
to ease off the tremendous pressure. The Josephine minded her helm, and
luffed so that she righted herself.

"Steady, Blair!" called the lieutenant. "Port! Not too much, or you'll
broach her to!"

"Sail ho!" suddenly shouted several of the seamen in the forward part of
the vessel.

"Where away?"

"Right over the lee bow! She has capsized!"

Paul and Terrill ran to the rail, and discovered a small vessel, lying
over on her beam ends.

"That's a Dutch galiot!" exclaimed Cleats, who promptly recognized the
craft. "That's a trick they have of turning bottom upwards."

"Port!" shouted Terrill, who did not take his eye off the foresail of
the Josephine for more than an instant at a time.

The attention of the quartermaster and the helmsman had been attracted
by the announcement of the wreck, and they had permitted the Josephine
to luff up until the foresail began to shake. The atmosphere was so
thick that the galiot was seen but for an instant, and it then
disappeared in the dense mists. Captain Kendall trembled with emotion
when he saw the disabled vessel; but it was impossible to do anything
for her until the hurricane subsided.

Fortunately the worst of it had already passed, and a few moments later
it ceased almost as suddenly as it commenced. The rain began to fall in
torrents, while a fresh breeze and a tremendous sea were all that
remained of the hurricane--for such it was, rather than an ordinary
squall.

"Set the jib and mainsail, Mr. Terrill," said Captain Kendall. "We must
endeavor to find that wreck."

These sails were accordingly hoisted, the Josephine came about, and
stood off in the direction towards which the galiot was supposed to have
drifted. The Young America had not been seen since the squall came up;
but Paul conjectured that she had run away before it. He was deeply
interested in the fate of those on board of the wreck, and trusted he
should be able to render them some assistance, if all on board of her
had not already perished.

The rain poured down furiously; but it did not dampen the enthusiasm of
the young officers and crew, though they were already drenched to the
skin. The reefed foresail was taken in, for it was found that the jib
and mainsail were all the schooner needed. She stood on for an hour or
more, without obtaining a sight of the wreck, though every eye on board
was strained to catch the first glimpse of it.

"We must have passed her," said the captain.

"It is so thick we can't see her, even if we should go within half a
mile of her."

"Come about, and stand a little more to the southward!" added Captain
Kendall. "Let the fog-horns be blown. We may get a signal of some kind
from them."

"I am afraid they were lost overboard; and that there is no one left to
make a signal," answered Terrill, sadly.

The vessel was put about, and headed as indicated by the captain. The
fog-horns were blown at intervals, and every one on board listened
eagerly for a reply. These efforts were not unavailing, for a response
was obtained after the Josephine had run half an hour on her present
course. A hoarse shout was heard on the weather beam, which was
unmistakably a cry of distress.

"Steady as she is!" said Paul to the executive officer, as soon as the
sounds were reported to him, and the direction from which they came.

"Are you not going about, Captain Kendall?" asked Terrill, with a look
of anxiety on his dripping face.

"Certainly; but if we go about here, we should fall to leeward of the
wreck," replied Paul.

The Josephine stood on for a few moments longer, and then tacked.

"Blow the horns, and keep a sharp lookout forward," added the captain,
who was quite as anxious as any other person on board; but he kept
apparently cool, in deference to the dignity of his high office.

"I see her!" shouted Wheeler, the boatswain, who had gone out on the
flying jib-boom.

"Where away is she?" demanded Martyn, from the forecastle.

"Well on the lee bow, sir."

"Are we headed for her?"

"Ay, ay, sir! We shall go clear of her to windward."

"Wreck on the lee bow, sir," reported the second lieutenant to Terrill,
who in turn reported to the captain.

"Clear away the first cutter, Mr. Terrill," said Paul.

"All the first cutters, ahoy!" shouted the boatswain's mate.

"Mr. Pelham will have charge of the boat," added Captain Kendall, who
had great confidence in the zeal and ability of this officer.

"The wreck! The wreck!" shouted all hands, as the disabled galiot came
into view.

On the rail of the vessel, whose starboard half was completely submerged
in the water, were two men, making violent gestures, and shouting to the
crew of the Josephine. Not a word they said could be understood, but it
was easy enough for Yankees to guess the meaning of their words. The
schooner was thrown up into the wind, the jib lowered, and she lay to
under the mainsail. Pelham and the crew of the first cutter took their
places in the boat, and were lowered into the stormy sea. The falls were
cast off the instant she struck the water; the coxswain gave his orders
rapidly, and the cutter went off, rising and falling on the huge waves
like a feather.

The distance was short; but even this was a hard pull in such a violent
sea. Pelham was cool and steady, and his self-possession encouraged the
crew to their best efforts. The boat ran up under the lee of the wreck,
and made fast to one of the masts. As soon as it was secured, both of
the men on the rail began to jabber in an unintelligible language.

"Parlez-vous français?" shouted Pelham, who had some knowledge of the
polite language.

But the men made no response; and it was evident that no long speeches
need be made on the present occasion. Pelham made signs to them to come
down into the boat, which they did. They were not satisfied, but
continued to talk in their own language, and to point earnestly to the
after part of the wreck. One of them repeated a word so many times, that
the officer of the boat was enabled at last to separate it from the
confused jumble of sentences.

"Vrow?" said he.

The man nodded earnestly, and pointed with redoubled vigor to the after
part of the galiot.

Vrow means wife; and Pelham concluded that the skipper's lady was in
the cabin, but whether dead or alive he did not know.




CHAPTER III.

SOMETHING ABOUT DIKES.


It was evident to those on board of the Josephine that there was some
reason for the delay of the boat in not bringing off the survivors of
the wreck. The energetic motions of the men on the disabled vessel could
be dimly seen through the mist and rain.

"Hoist the jib, Terrill," said Captain Kendall. "We will run up to the
wreck, and ascertain what the trouble is."

"Man the jib halyards! Stand by the jib sheet!" added Terrill.

"All ready, sir!"

"Let go the downhaul! Hoist away!" continued the first lieutenant. "Port
the helm!"

The mainsail was trimmed, the jib sheet hauled down, and the schooner
filled away again. She ran close under the lee of the galiot, just far
enough off to clear her masts.

"What's the matter, Mr. Pelham?" called Terrill through his trumpet.

"There's a woman in the cabin," replied Pelham.

"Clear away the gig!" said Captain Kendall, as the Josephine passed out
of hailing distance of the wreck. "Mr. Martyn will take charge of the
boat."

The gig's crew were piped away, and the falls were manned. The second
lieutenant stood ready at the gangway to take his place in the boat. The
operation of hoisting out a boat was not so difficult and dangerous as
it had been when the first cutter went off, for the sea was every moment
abating its fury.

"Mr. Cleats and Mr. Gage will go in the boat with a couple of axes,"
added the captain, who had been studying the position of the wreck.

The first lieutenant gave the order to the adult forward officers, who
presented themselves at the gangway provided with their implements,
ready to do the work assigned to them. By this time the weather had
begun to clear off, and a streak of blue sky appeared in the west. The
low land and the white cliffs and sand hills were seen again; but the
coast was different from that which they had observed before the tempest
burst upon them.

"Mr. Martyn, you will cut away the masts of the wreck; but first
endeavor to save the woman in the cabin," added the captain, when the
crew of the boat had taken their places, and everything was in readiness
to lower the boat.

"I will do the best I can," replied Martyn, as he stepped into the gig.

"If the galiot does not right when the masts are cut away, report to
me."

The boat went off on her mission of mercy, and those left on board of
the schooner watched her progress with the most intense interest. All
felt that they were not "playing sailor" then, but that the issues of
life and death depended upon the exertions of the two boats' crews.

"Have you any idea where we are, Captain Kendall?" asked Terrill, gazing
earnestly at the distant shore, which was now revealing itself with
greater clearness.

Paul took a spy-glass and carefully surveyed the shore. Terrill took
another glass, and both of them went up into the main rigging, so as to
obtain a better view of the shore.

"There are some church steeples near the coast, and farther back there
is a great number of them," said Terrill.

"All right," replied Paul, as he returned to the deck, followed by the
first lieutenant.

"Do you make out the coast?" asked the latter.

"Yes; we are on Thornton's Ridge. Throw the lead!" replied Paul, with
some anxiety, as he took the glass and pointed it in the direction
opposite the shore.

"By the mark five!" reported the quartermaster, who was heaving the lead
in the fore chains.

"That proves it," exclaimed Paul. "We are on Thornton's. The steeples on
the shore are Blankenburg, and those farther off are the Bruges
steeples. We are about twelve miles to the eastward of the North Hinder,
where there is a light-vessel. We have been drifting to the southward.
We will tack now, and stand over to windward of the wreck."

The Josephine went about again, and stood up to the point indicated by
the captain. The wind had now subsided to a gentle breeze, and the sea
was abating its violence in a corresponding degree. The lead was thrown
continually, but not less than three fathoms was indicated at any time.
Cleats and Gage, with their sharp axes, were dealing heavy blows at the
masts of the galiot, while the crew of the gig and first cutter were
clearing away the standing rigging. By the time the schooner reached the
position to windward of the wreck, the work had been accomplished. The
two boats had backed away from the wreck, and suddenly the hull righted.
A few more strokes of the axes severed the shrouds, which could not be
reached while the vessel lay upon her side.

Pelham, who was on the deck of the vessel when she righted, rushed to
the companion-way, which had been submerged before. He was closely
followed by the two men. The cabin was half full of water; but he found
there a woman and a young girl of sixteen, who had been clinging for
life to an upper berth. The gallant lieutenant plunged up to his middle
in the water, and bore the girl to the ladder. At the same time, the
older of the men performed a similar service for the woman. He was
evidently the husband of the woman and the father of the girl. When he
returned to the deck, he embraced the woman and the girl, and lavished
upon them the most tender caresses.

"Mr. Pelham, you will convey these people to the Josephine, and report
what has been done to the captain," said Martyn, who was the superior
officer.

The first cutter was hauled up to the gangway of the galiot, and Pelham
by signs invited the family to embark. They comprehended his meaning,
and the females were assisted into the boat. The older man, who was
apparently the skipper of the vessel, exhibited some reluctance at
leaving his craft. His heart seemed to be broken by the calamity which
had befallen him, and he wept bitterly, uttering piteous exclamations,
which could not be understood by the Josephines, as Pelham hurried him
into the cutter.

The party continued their sad wailings till the boat reached the
schooner. The women were assisted to the deck, where they stood staring
with blank amazement at the vessel and her crew. The skipper was
bewildered by the misfortune that overshadowed him.

"I am glad to see you, sir," said Paul, as the disconsolate captain came
up the accommodation ladder.

"No use, Captain Kendall," said Pelham, smiling. "They can't speak a
word of English."

"Do you know anything about the vessel?" asked Paul.

"I read her name on the stern, as we came back, and wrote it down; for a
Yankee would choke to death in uttering it," replied Pelham, as he
produced a piece of wet paper. "It is the 'Wel tevreeden, Dordrecht.'"

"That's Dutch. She hails from Dort," added Paul.

"Where are the professors?" asked Terrill. "Can they speak Dutch?"

The professors, who had seen enough of rough weather for one day, had
been making themselves as comfortable as possible in the cabin. The
Dutchman and his family were conducted below by the first lieutenant.

"What have you here?" demanded Mr. Stoute, who had just come from his
berth, in which he had bolstered himself up, in order, as he expressed
it, to know exactly where he was.

"We have just saved them from the wreck of a Dutch galiot. They can't
speak a word of English, and we wish you to talk to them."

"In Dutch?" laughed Mr. Stoute. "I cannot do it."

"What is the matter, Mr. Terrill?" inquired Professor Hamblin, who had
also taken to his berth to save his limbs from being broken.

"A vessel has been wrecked, and we have saved two men and two women. Can
you talk Dutch?" asked the first lieutenant, going to the door of the
professor's state-room.

Mr. Hamblin proved to be no wiser than his associate, so far as the
Dutch language was concerned; and it was found to be impossible to hold
any communication with the wrecked persons except by signs. They were
committed to the care of the steward, by whom everything was done to
render them comfortable. The captain's state-room was given to the
women, and they were supplied with hot coffee and other refreshments.

"What is the condition of the wreck, Mr. Pelham?" asked Captain Kendall,
as soon as the unfortunate persons had been provided for.

"She is half full of water," replied the second master. "The crew of the
gig were pumping her out when we left."

"Do you know anything about her cargo?"

"No, sir. Her hatches were battened down, and we could not see what was
in the hold."

The first lieutenant was directed to detail a working party for the
wreck, to assist in pumping her out, and the first cutter returned to
the galiot with sixteen hands. Orders were sent to Martyn to use every
exertion to save the vessel and her cargo. It was now nearly dark; but
the weather was favorable, and Paul hoped to get the dismasted galiot
into port on the following day.

The cutter reached the wreck, and the crew of the gig, who had been
pumping and baling diligently, were relieved by fresh hands. The work
went on with renewed energy. The hatches had been taken off, and the
cargo was found to consist of butter, cheese, and manufactured goods.
The boatswain had explored the hold, and declared that the merchandise
was not badly damaged. The galiot had taken in less water than was
supposed, from her position on the waves. After four hours of severe
toil by the young seamen, the pumps sucked. The hull was tight, and the
working party were greatly encouraged by the success of their efforts.

The boatswain and carpenter, assisted by the boys, rigged a jury-mast
out of the foremast of the galiot, which had been saved for the purpose.
A jib and foresail were bent upon it, and the "Wel tevreeden" was in
condition to make a harbor. It was midnight when the work was completed,
and the report sent to Captain Kendall. Martyn, Pelham, and a crew of
ten, to be assisted by Cleats and Gage, were detailed to take the galiot
into the Scheldt.

During the first part of the night it had been a dead calm, which had
greatly assisted the labors of the working party. About four o'clock, on
the morning of Sunday, a light breeze from the westward sprang up, and
the order was given by signal for the galiot to make sail, and to follow
the Josephine. There was hardly a four-knot breeze, with the tide
setting out; and the progress of the galiot, under her short sail, was
very slow.

Nothing had been seen of the Young America since the storm shut down
upon her and concealed her from the view of those on board of the
Josephine. Paul knew that Mr. Lowington would be exceedingly anxious
about him and his vessel; but he was proud and happy in the reflection
that he had carried the Josephine safely through the perils which had
surrounded her. He had not closed his eyes during the night, as indeed
no one connected with the sailing department of the schooner had done.
The professors and the wrecked party had all turned in as usual, while
Paul kept vigil on deck with the first lieutenant.

"Sail ho!" cried the lookout forward, about seven o'clock in the
morning.

A small vessel was discovered approaching the Josephine from the
direction of the shore, or rather of the mouth of the Scheldt, whose
western estuary forms a broad bay about twelve miles in width. As the
small craft came near, it was evident that she was a pilot boat. She
carried a red flag at her mast-head, on which was a number in white
figures. On her principal sail there was a large letter "P," and under
it "ANTWERPEN." When she hove in sight, the jack was hoisted at the
foremast-head of the Josephine, which is the signal for a pilot. As the
little cutter rounded to, the words "Bateau Pilote" with her number,
were seen on the stern.

She was a Belgian pilot-boat. The mouth of the Scheldt, and its course
for forty miles, are in Holland, and off the mouth of the river both
Dutch and Belgian pilots offer their services to inward-bound vessels;
but the sea pilots take vessels only to Flushing, the river pilotage
being a separate charge. Mr. Lowington had instructed Paul, as the
squadron was bound to Antwerp, to prefer a Belgian pilot, who would take
the vessel up to that city, and charge the pilotage in one bill.

A canoe put off from the "Bateau Pilote," and a weather-beaten Belgian
sailor leaped upon the deck. He opened his eyes very wide when he had
taken a single glance at the vessel and her crew. He seemed to be as
much confounded as the Liverpool pilot had been on a similar occasion.
The professors were at breakfast in the cabin, and not a single man
appeared on deck.

"L'Amerique?" said the pilot, glancing at the flag which floated at
the peak.

"Oui," replied Paul, laughing.

"Où est le capitaine, monsieur?" added the pilot, looking around him
again.

"Je suis capitaine," replied Paul.

"Est-il possible!"

"C'est possible. You speak English?--parlez-vous anglais?" added
Paul.

"I speak un pere," replied the pilot. "What vessel that is?" he
continued, pointing to the galiot, which was following in the wake of
the Josephine.

"She is a Dutch vessel, that was upset yesterday. We saved her. The
captain and his family are on board, but none of us have been able to
speak a word to him."

"Where bound are you?"

"To Antwerp. We have a crew on board of the galiot. We will not attempt
to take her to Antwerp."

"She have taken a pilot," said the Belgian, as another man from the
"Bateau Pilote" boarded her. "She shall be taken to Flushing."

"You will put into Flushing, then, so that I can obtain the men on board
of her."

"I will--yes."

"Did a ship--the Young America--go up the river last night?" asked Paul.

"No; no ship. We see a ship off the Rabs when the storm came. She come
about, and go to sea before the wind."

This was what Paul supposed the Young America had done. He had no fears
in regard to the safety of the ship as long as she had plenty of sea
room. She would soon return, and the pilot-boat would be able to report
the Josephine to the anxious people on board of her. The Belgian pilot
took charge of the vessel; and after he had headed her towards the
channel by which he intended to enter the river, he began to ask
questions in regard to the juvenile officers and crew. He did not speak
English any more fluently than Paul did French, and they did not get
along very well. Mr. Stoute, having finished his breakfast, came on
deck. He taught the French in the Josephine, and was very happy to find
an opportunity to air his vocabulary.

The skipper of the galiot came up from the cabin soon after with his
family. As the pilot spoke Dutch, the story of the unfortunate captain
was obtained at last. The vessel had been caught in the squall, and
knocked down. Two men on deck had been washed away and drowned. The
companion-way being open, the water had rushed in and prevented the
vessel from righting. The women, who lived on board all the time, as is
frequently the case with the families of Dutch skippers, had climbed up
and obtained a hold upon the berths on the port side of the cabin. By
these means they were saved from drowning; but the cabin doors, being on
the starboard side, were under water, so that they could not escape
while the vessel lay on her beam-ends.

The Josephine, followed by the "Wel tevreeden," entered the river. It
was a beautiful day, warm and pleasant; and the officers and crew, in
spite of the hardships of the preceding night, were eager to obtain
their first view of the new country whose waters they were now entering.
It was still over sixty miles, by the course of the Scheldt, to Antwerp;
but the sights on the river and on the shore were novel and interesting.
The vessels which sailed up and down the river were essentially
different from any they had ever seen, with the exception, perhaps, of
the wrecked galiot. They looked more like huge canal-boats than
sea-going vessels. Some of them had wings, or boards, at their sides,
which were let down when the craft was going on the wind, thus serving
the same purpose as a centreboard. Others were rigged so that their
masts could be lowered to the deck in passing bridges.

Maps, guide-books, and other volumes of reference were in great demand
among the students, and Professor Stoute was continually questioned by
all hands. Mr. Hamblin was too grouty to permit any such familiarity,
and doubtless he was saved from exposing his ignorance of the
interesting country which the voyagers had now entered.

The West Scheldt, upon whose waters the Josephine was now sailing, is
sometimes called the Hond. On the left, and in plain sight from the
deck, was Walcheren, the most extensive of the nine islands which
constitute the province of Zealand, the most southern and western
division of the kingdom of Holland. Zeeland, or Zealand, means
sea-land; and its territory seems to belong to the ocean, since it is
only by the most persevering care that the sea is prevented from making
a conquest of it. These islands are for the most part surrounded and
divided by the several mouths of the Scheldt, all of which are
navigable.

Our readers who have been on the sea-shore where the coast is washed by
the broad ocean, or any considerable bay, have observed a ridge of sand,
gravel, or stones thrown up from ten to twenty feet higher than the land
behind. This was caused by the action of the sea. The exterior shore of
Holland, that is, the land bordering upon the open ocean, has generally
a ridge of sand of this description. The sand-hills or hummocks which
are observed on the shores of Holland and Belgium are produced by the
ceaseless beating of the stormy waves.

In Holland, these ridges, or chains of sand-hills, are called "dunes."
They extend, with little interruption, from the Straits of Dover to the
Zuyder Zee. The ridge is from one to three miles wide, and rising from
twenty to fifty feet in height. The sand of which the "dunes" are
composed is generally so fine that it is readily blown by a sharp wind;
and they were as troublesome as the sands of Sahara in a simoom. In a
dry and windy day, the atmosphere would become dim from the sand smoke
of the dunes, and the material was conveyed in this manner far into the
interior of the country, covering up the rich soil, so that it became
necessary to dig up the sand. To overcome this evil, a kind of coarse
reed grass is annually sown on the dunes, which forms a tough sod, and
prevents the sand from being blown away.

The dunes form a natural barrier to the progress of the sea; but these,
of themselves, are insufficient to accomplish the purpose; for in the
highest tides the waters sweep through the openings or valleys between
the sand-hills. Immense dikes and sea-walls are erected to complete the
security of the country from the invasions of the ocean. The embankments
which protect the islands of Zealand are over three hundred miles in
length in the aggregate, and involve an annual expense of two millions
of guilders--more than eight hundred thousand dollars--in repairs.

"The great dike of West Kappel is there," said the pilot to Captain
Kendall, as he pointed to the land on the northern shore of the estuary.

"I don't see anything," replied Paul.

"There is nothing particular to see on this side of the dike,"
interposed Professor Stoute, laughing at the astonishment of the
captain. "What did you expect to see?"

"I hardly know. I have heard so much about the dikes of Holland, that I
expected to see a big thing when I came across one of them," added Paul.

"They are a big thing; but really there is very little to see."

"But what is a dike, sir?" asked Paul, curiously. "I never supposed it
was anything more than a mud wall."

"It is nothing more than that, only it is on a very large scale, and it
must be constructed with the nicest care; for the lives and property of
the people depend upon its security. When they are going to build a
dike, the first consideration, as in putting up a heavy building, is the
foundation. I suppose you have seen a railroad built through a marsh, or
other soft place."

"Yes, sir; the railroad at Brockway went over the head of the bay, where
the bottom was very soft. As fast as they put in gravel for the road,
the mud squashed up on each side, making a ridge almost as high as the
road itself. They built a heavy stone wharf at Brockway, the year before
we sailed, and the weight of it lifted up the bottom of the shallow bay
a hundred feet from it, so that boats get aground there now at half
tide."

"That is the idea exactly: The foundation is not solid; and that is
often the chief difficulty in building a dike. The immense weight of the
material of which it is constructed crowds the earth out from under it,
and it sinks down faster than they can build it. In such places as this
they find it necessary to drive piles, to build the embankment on."

"They must cost a heap of money, then."

"The annual expense even for repairs of dikes in Holland is about three
millions of dollars of our money. Speaking of that very dike of West
Kappel," added the professor, pointing to its long, inclined escarpment,
"it is said if it had been originally built of solid copper, the prime
cost would have been less than the amount which has since been expended
upon it in building, rebuilding, restoring, and repairing it. But the
money spent on dikes is the salvation of Holland. The entire country
would be washed away in a few years, if they were suffered to decay."

"I see there are trees growing on the shore, farther up the river,"
added Paul.

"Those trees are willows; and wherever it is possible for them to
thrive, they encourage their growth for two reasons: first, because the
roots of the trees strengthen the dike; and, secondly, because the
willow twigs are wanted in repairing and securing the embankment. The
foundations of sea-dikes vary from a hundred and twenty to one hundred
and fifty feet in width. The rampart is made of clay, which, as being
impervious to water, forms the entire structure when the material is
available in sufficient quantities. The maximum height of the dikes is
forty feet; but of course they vary in this respect with the elevation
of the land to be protected by them."

"But I should think the mud and clay would be washed away by the beating
of the sea."

"So they are sometimes; and to guard against such an event, which is a
calamity in this country, the dike is covered with a kind of thatch-work
of willow twigs, which has to be renewed every three or four years.
Occasionally the outer surface of the embankment is faced with masonry,
the stone for which has to be brought from Norway."

"A ship there is coming in," interrupted the pilot, pointing to seaward.

She was several miles distant, standing in under all sail. She was
examined with the spy-glasses, and every one was rejoiced to learn that
it was the Young America.




CHAPTER IV.

UP THE SCHELDT TO FLUSHING.


"I am very glad to see the ship again," said Paul to Professor Stoute.

"I supposed she would get in before us, we were detained so long by the
wreck," replied Mr. Stoute.

"Probably she stood off and on during the night, seeking for us," added
Paul, as he again looked through the spy-glass at the ship. "She seems
to be sound in all her upper works, so far as I can see."

"I dare say the ship would be safe enough as long as Mr. Lowington and
Mr. Fluxion are on board of her."

"Yes, sir; I didn't suppose any harm had come to her; but Mr. Lowington
will naturally be very anxious about us. He has made us out by this
time, and is satisfied that we are still on the top of the water. There
are the steeples of a town," said Paul, pointing to the Walcheren shore.
"That must be Middleburg."

"This island was inundated in 1808," continued Mr. Stoute, after the
pilot had assured him that the steeples seen in the interior of the
island were those of Middleburg. "Though the sea is as diligently
watched as the advance-guard of an invading army, the great dike of
West Kappel broke through, and a large part of the island was under
water. Middleburg has its own dikes and ditches, the former constituting
the wall of the town, upon the top of which there is a public promenade.
This dike or mound kept the water out of the city after the sea-dike had
given way. The inundation rose as high as the roofs of the houses in the
town, but was fortunately kept at bay by the strength of the walls."

"Were you ever in Holland, Mr. Stoute?" asked Paul, with a significant
smile.

"Never," laughed the professor; "but the schoolmaster must not be abroad
when boys ask as many questions as the students on board of this vessel.
As soon as I learned that we were coming to Holland, I read up
everything I could find relating to the country, and I assure you my
interest in the country has been doubled by my studies. We have in our
library quite a collection of works relating more or less directly to
Holland. The New American Encyclopædia contains very full and reliable
articles on the subject. We have a full list of Murray's Hand-Books,
which form a library in themselves, and which impart the most minute
information. Indeed, half the books of travel which are written are
based upon Murray's invaluable works. Then we have Motley's History of
the Dutch Republic, and the two volumes of his United Netherlands which
have been published. My knowledge of Holland and Belgium comes mainly
from these works."

"I haven't had time to look up these matters yet. I have given
considerable extra time to my French. As soon as we are moored, I
suppose Mr. Mapps will give us his lecture on the country; and I intend
to make that the basis of my reading."

"Then I will not say anything more about the dikes," laughed Mr. Stoute.
"You can do the matter up more systematically by your intended course."

"I am very glad to get all I can without the trouble of hunting it up,"
replied Paul, as he glanced again at the Young America. "I may have more
time than I want to study up these subjects."

"Why so?"

"I suppose I am to be court-martialed for disobedience as soon as Mr.
Lowington arrives," replied Paul, fixing his eyes upon the deck. "Mr.
Hamblin has not spoken to me since I left the class yesterday
afternoon."

"It is not proper for me to say anything about that to you, Captain
Kendall," added Mr. Stoute.

"I feel that I have tried to do my duty; and, whatever happens to me, I
shall endeavor to be satisfied."

Professor Stoute walked away, apparently to avoid any further
conversation on the disagreeable subject. Paul did not feel quite easy
about the difficulty which had occurred between him and the dignified
professor. He had hoped and expected that the storm would justify his
action in the opinion of the learned gentleman; but Mr. Hamblin
carefully avoided him, and he was confident he intended to prefer
charges against him as soon as the principal arrived.

The Josephine was now entering the port of Flushing. The pilot was
talking with the Dutch skipper very earnestly, and occasionally glancing
at the "Wel tevreeden." The latter seemed to be very uneasy, and to
manifest a great deal of solicitude in regard to his vessel,
notwithstanding she was safe, though the cargo had been damaged, and she
had lost her masts and part of her standing rigging.

"Captain Schimmelpennink to you wish to talk," said the pilot, stepping
up to Paul.

"Who?" exclaimed Paul, almost stunned by the sound of the Dutchman's
name.

The pilot repeated it, but not much more to the edification of the young
commander than before.

"I can't talk Dutch," laughed Paul.

"I for you will speak the English," added the Belgian.

This was hardly more encouraging than the Dutch of the disconsolate
skipper; but Paul consented to the conference.

"The galiot to you belongs for the labor you have to save him,"
continued the pilot.

With some difficulty, with the assistance of Mr. Stoute, who, however,
was not familiar with French nautical terms, Paul learned that Captain
