would throw light on the matter and perhaps soften off the
uncompromising decision of the words of St. John. By and by I
came to these words 
"If ye were of the world, the world would love his own. But
because ye are not of the world, but I have chosen you out of
the world, therefore the world hateth you."
I shut the book. The issue could not be more plainly set
forth. I must choose between the one party and the other. Nay,
I had chosen;  but I must agree to belong but to one.
Would anybody say that a child could not have such a struggle?
that fourteen years do not know yet what "the world" means?
Alas, it is a relative term; and a child's "world" may be as
mighty for her to face, as any other she will ever know. I
think I never found any more formidable. Moreover, it is less
unlike the big world than some would suppose.
On the corner of the street, just opposite to our windows,
stood a large handsome house which we always noticed for its
flowers. The house stood in a little green courtyard,
exquisitely kept, which at one side and behind gave room for
several patches of flower beds, at this time filled with
bulbous plants. I always lingered as much as I could in
passing the iron railings, to have a peep at the beauty
within. The grass was now of a delicious green, and the tulips
and hyacinths and crocuses were in full bloom, in their
different oval-shaped beds, framed in with the green. Besides
these, from the windows of a greenhouse that stretched back
along the street, there looked over a brilliant array of other
beauty; I could not tell what; great bunches of scarlet and
tufts of white and gleamings of yellow, that made me long to
be there.
"Who lives in that house?" Miss Bentley asked one evening. It
was the hour before tea, and we were all at our room windows
gazing down into the avenue.
"Why don't you know?" said slow Miss Macy. That's Miss
Cardigan's house."
"I wonder who she is," said Miss Lansing. "It isn't a New York
name."
"Yes, it is," said Macy. "She's lived there forever. She used
to be there, and her flowers, when I was four years old."
"I guess she isn't anybody, is she?" said Miss Bentley. "I
never see any carriages at her door. Hasn't she a carriage of
her own, I wonder, or how does she travel? Such a house ought
to have a carriage."
"I'll tell you," said the St. Clair, coolly as usual. "She
goes out in a wagon with an awning to it. She don't know
anything about carriages."
"But she must have money, you know," urged Miss Bentley. "She
couldn't keep up that house, and the flowers, and the
greenhouse and all, without money."
"She's got money," said the St. Clair. "Her mother made it
selling cabbages in the market. Very likely she sold flowers
too."
There was a general exclamation and laughter at what was
supposed to be one of St. Clair's flights of mischief; but the
young lady stood her ground calmly, and insisted that it was a
thing well known. "My grandmother used to buy vegetables from
old Mrs. Cardigan when we lived in Broadway," she said. "It's
quite true. That's why she knows nothing about carriages."
"That sort of thing don't hinder other people from having
carriages," said Miss Lansing. "There's Mr. Mason, next door
to Miss Cardigan,  his father was a tailor; and the Steppes,
two doors off, do you know what they were? They were millers,
a little way out of town; nothing else; had a mill and ground
flour. They made a fortune I suppose, and now here they are in
the midst of other people."
"Plenty of carriages, too," said Miss Macy; "and everything
else."
"After all," said Miss Bentley, after a pause, "I suppose
everybody's money had to be made somehow, in the first
instance. I suppose all the Millers in the world came from
real millers once; and the Wheelwrights from wheelwrights."
"And what a world of smiths there must have been, first and
last," said Miss Lansing. "The world is full of their
descendants."
"Everybody's money wasn't made, though," said the St. Clair,
with an inexpressible attitude, of her short upper lip.
"I guess it was,  if you go back far enough," said Miss Macy,
whom nothing disturbed. But I saw that while Miss Lansing and
Miss St. Clair were at ease in the foregoing conversation,
Miss Bentley was not.
"You can't go back far enough," said the St. Clair haughtily.
"How then?" said the other. "How do you account for it? Where
did their money come from?"
"It grew," said the St. Clair ineffably. "They were lords of
the soil."
"Oh!  But it had to be dug out, I suppose," said Miss Macy.
"There were others to do that."
"After all," said Miss Macy, "how is money that grew any
better than money that is made? It is all made by somebody,
too."
"If it is made by somebody else, it leaves your hands clean,"
the St. Clair answered, with an insolence worthy of maturer
years; for Miss Macy's family had grown rich by trade. She was
of a slow temper, however, and did not take fire."
"My grandfather's hands were clean," she said; "yet he made his
own money. Honest hands always are clean."
"Do you suppose Miss Cardigan's were when she was handling her
cabbages?" said St. Clair. "I have no doubt Miss Cardigan's
house smells of cabbages now."
"O St. Clair!"  Miss Lansing said, laughing.
"I always smell them when I go past," said the other,
elevating her scornful little nose; it was a handsome nose
too.
"I don't think it makes any difference," said Miss Bentley,
"provided people have money, how they came by it. Money buys
the same things for one that it does for another."
"Now, my good Bentley, that is just what it don't," said St.
Clair, drumming upon the window-pane with the tips of her
fingers.
"Why not?"
"Because!  people that have always had money know how to use
it; and people that have just come into their money, don't
know. You can tell the one from the other as far off as the
head of the avenue."
"But what is to hinder their going to the same milliner and
mantua-maker, for instance, or the same cabinet-maker,  and
buying the same things?"
"Or the same jeweller, or the same  anything? So they could,
if they knew which they were."
"Which what were? It is easy to tell which is a fashionable
milliner, or mantua-maker; everybody knows that."
"It don't do some people any good," said St. Clair, turning
away. "When they get in the shop, they do not know what to buy;
and if they buy it they can't put it on. People that are not
fashionable can't be fashionable."
I saw the glance that fell, scarcely touching, on my plain
plaid frock. I was silly enough to feel it too. I was unused
to scorn. St. Clair returned to the window, perhaps sensible
that she had gone a little too far.
"I can tell you now," she said, "what that old Miss Cardigan
has got in her house  just as well as if I saw it."
"Did you ever go in?" said Lansing eagerly.
"We don't visit," said the other. "But I can tell you, just as
well; and you can send Daisy Randolph some day to see if it is
true."
"Well, go on, St. Clair  what is there?" said Miss Macy.
"There's a marble hall of course; that the mason built; it
isn't her fault. Then in the parlours there are thick carpets,
that cost a great deal of money and are as ugly as they can
be, with every colour in the world. The furniture is red
satin, or maybe blue, staring bright, against a light green
wall panelled with gold. The ceilings are gold and white, with
enormous chandeliers. On the wall there are some very big
picture frames, with nothing in them  to speak of; there is a
table in the middle of the floor with a marble top, and the
piers are filled with mirrors down to the floor; and the
second room is like the first and the third is like the
second, and there is nothing else in any of the rooms but what
I have told you."
"Well, it is a very handsome house, I should think, if you
have told true," said Miss Bentley.
St. Clair left the window with a scarce perceptible but most
wicked smile at her friend Miss Lansing; and the group
scattered. Only I remained to think it over and ask myself,
could I let go my vantage ground? could I make up my mind to
do forever without the smile and regard of that portion of the
world which little St. Clair represented? It is powerful, even
in a school!
I had seen how carelessly this undoubted child of birth and
fashion wielded the lash of her tongue; and how others bowed
before it. I had seen Miss Bentley wince, and Miss Macy bite
her lip; but neither of them dared affront the daughter of
Mrs. St. Clair. Miss Lansing was herself of the favoured
class, and had listened lightly. Fashion was power, that was
plain. Was I willing to forego it? was I willing to be one of
those whom fashion passes by as St. Clair had glanced on my
dress  as something not worthy a thought?
I was not happy, those days. Something within me was
struggling for self-assertion. It was new to me; for until
then I had never needed to assert my claims to anything. For
the first time, I was looked down upon, and I did not like it.
I do not quite know why I was made to know this so well. My
dress, if not showy or costly, was certainly without blame in
its neatness and niceness, and perfectly becoming my place as
a school-girl. And I had very little to do at that time with
my schoolmates, and that little was entirely friendly in its
character. I am obliged to think, looking back at it now, that
some rivalry was at work. I did not then understand it. But I
was taking a high place in all my classes. I had gone past St.
Clair in two or three things. Miss Lansing was too far behind
in her studies to feel any jealousy on that account; but
besides that, I was an unmistakeable favourite with all the
teachers. They liked to have me do anything for them or with
them; if any privilege was to be given, I was sure to be one
of the first names called to share it; if I was spoken to for
anything, the manner and tone were in contrast with those used
towards almost all my fellows. It may have been partly for
these reasons that there was a little positive element in the
slights which I felt. The effect of the whole was to make a
long struggle in my mind. "The world knoweth us not"  gave
the character and condition of that party to which I belonged.
I was feeling now what those words mean,  and it was not
pleasant.
This struggle had been going on for several weeks, and growing
more and more wearying, when Mrs. Sandford came one day to see
me. She said I did not look very well, and obtained leave for
me to take a walk with her. I was glad of the change. It was a
pleasant, bright afternoon; we strolled up the long avenue,
then gay and crowded with passers to and fro in every variety
and in the height of the mode; for our avenue was a favourite
and very fashionable promenade. The gay world nodded and bowed
to each other; the sun streamed on satins and laces, flowers
and embroidery; elegant toilettes passed and repassed each
other, with smiling recognition; the street was a show. I
walked by Mrs. Sandford's side in my chinchilla cap, for I had
not got a straw hat yet, though it was time; thinking,  "The
world knoweth us not"  and carrying on the struggle in my
heart all the while. By and by we turned to come down the
avenue.
"I want to stop a moment here on some business," said Mrs.
Sandford, as we came to Miss Cardigan's corner; "would you
like to go in with me, Daisy?"
I was pleased, and moreover glad that it was the hour for my
companions to be out walking. I did not wish to be seen going
in at that house and to have all the questions poured on me
that would be sure to come. Moreover I was curious to see how
far Miss St. Clair's judgment would be verified. The marble
hall was undoubted; it was large and square, with a handsome
staircase going up from it; but the parlour, into which we
were ushered the next minute, crossed all my expectations. It
was furnished with dark chintz; no satin, red or blue, was
anywhere to be seen; even the curtains were chintz. The carpet
was not rich; the engravings on the walls were in wooden
frames varnished; the long mirror between the windows, for
that was there, reflected a very simple mahogany table, on
which lay a large work basket, some rolls of muslin and
flannel, work cut and uncut, shears and spools of cotton.
Another smaller table held books and papers and writing
materials. This was shoved up to the corner of the hearth,
where a fire  a real, actual fire of sticks  was softly
burning. The room was full of the sweet smell of the burning
wood. Between the two tables, in a comfortable large chair,
sat the lady we had come to see. My heart warmed at the look
of her immediately. Such a face of genial gentle benevolence;
such a healthy sweet colour in the old cheeks; such a hearty,
kind, and withal shrewd and sound, expression of eye and lip.
She was stout and dumpy in figure, rather fat; with a little
plain cap on her head and a shawl pinned round her shoulders.
Somebody who had never been known to the world of fashion. But
oh, how homely and comfortable she and her room looked! she
and her room and her cat; for a great white cat sat with her
paws doubled under her in front of the fire.
"My sister begged that I would call and see you, Miss
Cardigan," Mrs. Sandford began, "about a poor family named
Whittaker, that live somewhere in Ellen Street."
"I know them. Be seated," said our hostess. "I know them well.
But I don't know this little lady."
"A little friend of mine, Miss Cardigan; she is at school with
your neighbour opposite,  Miss Daisy Randolph."
"If nearness made neighbourhood," said Miss Cardigan,
laughing, "Mme. Ricard and I would be neighbours; but I am
afraid the rule of the Good Samaritan would put us far apart.
Miss Daisy  do you like my cat; or would you like maybe to go
in and look at my flowers?  yes?  Step in that way, dear;
just go through that room, and on, straight through; you'll
smell them before you come to them."
I gladly obeyed her, stepping in through the darkened middle
room where already the greeting of the distant flowers met me;
then through a third smaller room, light and bright and full
of fragrance, and to my surprise, lined with books. From this
an open glass door let me into the greenhouse, and into the
presence of the beauties I had so often looked up to from the
street. I lost myself then. Geraniums breathed over me; roses
smiled at me; a daphne at one end of the room filled the whole
place with its fragrance. Amaryllis bulbs were magnificent;
fuchsias dropped with elegance; jonquils were shy and dainty;
violets were good; hyacinths were delicious; tulips were
splendid. Over and behind all these and others, were wonderful
ferns, and heaths most delicate in their simplicity, and
myrtles most beautiful with their shining dark foliage and
starry white blossoms. I lost myself at first, and wandered
past all these new and old friends in a dream; then I waked up
to an intense feeling of homesickness. I had not been in such
a greenhouse in a long time; the geraniums and roses and
myrtles summoned me back to the years when I was a little
happy thing at Melbourne House  or summoned the images of
that time back to me. Father and mother and home  the
delights and the freedoms of those days  the carelessness,
and the care  the blessed joys of that time before I knew
Miss Pinshon, or school, and before I was perplexed with the
sorrows and the wants of the world, and before I was alone 
above all, when papa and mamma and I were at home. The
geraniums and the roses set me back there so sharply that I
felt it all. I had lost myself at first going into the
greenhouse; and now I had quite lost sight of everything else,
and stood gazing at the faces of the flowers with some tears
on my own, and, I suppose, a good deal of revelation of my
feeling; for I was unutterably startled by the touch of two
hands upon my shoulders and a soft whisper in my ear. "What is
it, my bairn?"
It was Miss Cardigan's soft Scotch accent, and it was,
besides, a question of the tenderest sympathy. I looked at
her, saw the kind and strong grey eyes which were fixed on me
wistfully; and hiding my face in her bosom I sobbed aloud.
I don't know how I came to be there, in her arms, nor how I
did anything so unlike my habit; but there I was, and it was
done, and Miss Cardigan and I were in each other's confidence.
It was only for one moment that my tears came; then I
recovered myself.
"What sort of discourse did the flowers hold to you, little
one?" said Miss Cardigan's kind voice; while her stout person
hid all view of me that could have been had through the glass
door.
"Papa is away," I said, forcing myself to speak,  "and mamma;
 and we used to have these flowers "
"Yes, yes; I know. I know very well," said my friend. "The
flowers didn't know but you were there yet. They hadn't
discretion. Mrs. Sandford wants to go, clear.  Will you come
again and see them? They will say something else next time."
"Oh, may I?" I said.
"Just whenever you like, and as often as you like. So I'll
expect you."
I went home, very glad at having escaped notice from my
schoolmates, and firmly bent on accepting Miss Cardigan's
invitation at the first chance I had. I asked about her of
Mrs. Sandford in the first place; and learned that she was "a
very good sort of person; a little queer, but very kind; a
person that did a great deal of good and had plenty of money.
Not in society, of course," Mrs. Sandford added; "but I dare
say she don't miss that; and she is just as useful as if she
were."
"Not in society." That meant, I supposed, that Miss Cardigan
would not be asked to companies where Mrs. Randolph would be
found, or Mrs. Sandford; that such people would not "know"
her, in fact. That would certainly be a loss to Miss Cardigan;
but I wondered how much? "The world knoweth us not,"  the lot
of all Christ's people,  could it involve anything in itself
very bad? My old Juanita, for example, who held herself the
heir to a princely inheritance, was it any harm to her that
earthly palaces knew her only as a servant? But then, what did
not matter to Juanita or Miss Cardigan, might matter to
somebody who had been used to different things. I knew how it
had been with myself for a time past. I was puzzled. I
determined to wait and see, if I could, how much it mattered
to Miss Cardigan.
CHAPTER XII.
FRENCH DRESSES.
My new friend had given me free permission to come and see her
whenever I found myself able. Saturday afternoon we always had
to ourselves in the school; and the next Saturday found me at
Miss Cardigan's door again as soon as my friends and room-
mates were well out of my way. Miss Cardigan was not at home,
the servant said, but she would be in presently. I was just as
well pleased. I took off my cap, and carrying it in my hand I
went back through the rooms to the greenhouse. All still and
fresh and sweet, it seemed more delightful than ever, because
I knew there was nobody near. Some new flowers were out. An
azalea was in splendid beauty, and a white French rose, very
large and fair, was just blossoming, and with the red roses
and the hyacinths and the violets and the daphne and the
geraniums, made a wonderful sweet place of the little
greenhouse. I lost myself in delight again; but this time the
delight did not issue in homesickness. The flowers had another
message for me to-day. I did not heed it at first, busy with
examining and drinking in the fragrance and the loveliness
about me; but even as I looked and drank, the flowers began to
whisper to me. With their wealth of perfume, with all their
various, glorious beauty, one and another leaned towards me or
bent over me with the question  "Daisy are you afraid? 
Daisy, are you afraid?  The good God who has made us so rich,
do you think He will leave you poor? He loves you, Daisy. You
needn't be a bit afraid but that HE is enough, even if the
world does not know you. He is rich enough for you as well as
for us."
I heard no voice, but surely I heard that whisper, plain
enough. The roses seemed to kiss me with it. The sweet azalea
repeated it. The hyacinths stood witnesses of it. The gay
tulips and amaryllis held up a banner before me on which it
was blazoned.
I was so ashamed, and sorry, and glad, all at once, that I
fell down on my knees there, on the stone matted floor, and
gave up the world from my heart and for ever, and stretched
out my hands for the wealth that does not perish and the
blessing that has no sorrow with it.
I was afraid to stay long on my knees; but I could hardly get
my eyes dry again, I was so glad and so sorry. I remember I
was wiping a tear or two away when Miss Cardigan came in. She
greeted me kindly.
"There's a new rose out, did ye see it?" she said; "and this
blue hyacinth has opened its flowers. Isn't that bonny?"
"What is bonny, ma'am?" I asked.
Miss Cardigan laughed, the heartiest, sonsiest low laugh.
"There's a many things the Lord has made bonny," she said; "I
thank Him for it. Look at these violets  they're bonny; and
this sweet red rose." She broke it off the tree and gave it to
me. "It's bad that it shames your cheeks so. What's the matter
wi' em, my bairn?"
Miss Cardigan's soft finger touched my cheek as she spoke; and
the voice and tone of the question were so gently, tenderly
kind that it was pleasant to answer. I said I had not been
very strong.
"Nor just well in your mind. No, no. Well, what did the
flowers say to you to-day, my dear? Eh? They told you
something?"
"Oh, yes!" I said.
"Did they tell you that 'the Lord is good; a stronghold in the
day of trouble; and He knoweth them that trust in Him'?"
"Oh, yes," I said, looking up at her in surprise. "How did you
know?"
For all answer, Miss Cardigan folded her two arms tight about
me and kissed me with earnest good will.
"But they told me something else," I said, struggling to
command myself;  "they told me that I had not 'trusted in
Him.' "
"Ah, my bairn!" she said. "But the Lord is good."
There was so much both of understanding and sympathy in her
tones, that I had a great deal of trouble to control myself. I
felt unspeakably happy too, that I had found a friend that
could understand. I was silent, and Miss Cardigan looked at
me.
"Is it all right, noo?" she asked.
"Except me, " I said, with my eyes swimming.
"Ah, well!" she said. "You've seen the sky all black and
covered with the thick clouds  that's like our sins; but, 'I
have blotted out as a thick cloud thy transgressions, and as a
cloud thy sins.' You know how it is when the wind comes and
clears the clouds off, and you can look up through the blue,
till it seems as if your eye would win into heaven itself.
Keep the sky clear, my darling, so that you can always see up
straight to God, with never the fleck of a cloud between. But
do you ken what will clear the clouds away?"
And I looked up now with a smile and answered, " 'The precious
blood of Christ' "  for the two texts had been close together
in one of the pages of my little book not long before.
Miss Cardigan clapped her hands together softly and laughed.
"Ye've got it!" she said. "Ye have gotten the pearl of great
price. And where did ye find it, my dear?"
"I had a friend, that taught me in a Sunday school, four years
ago, " I said.
"Ah, there weren't so many Sunday schools in my day," said
Miss Cardigan. "And ye have found, maybe, that this other sort
of a school, that ye have gotten to now, isn't helpful
altogether? Is it a rough road, my bairn?"
"It is my own fault," I said, looking at her gratefully. The
tender voice went right into my heart.
"Well, noo, ye'll just stop and have tea with me here; and
whenever the way is rough, ye'll come over to my flowers and
rest yourself. And rest me too; it does me a world o' good to
see a young face. So take off your coat, my dear, and let us
sit down and be comfortable."
I was afraid at first that I could not; I had no liberty to be
absent at tea-time. But Miss Cardigan assured me I should be
home in good season; the school tea was at seven, and her own
was always served at six. So very gladly, with an
inexpressible sense of freedom and peace, I took off my coat,
and gloves, and followed my kind friend back to the parlour
where her fire was burning. For although it was late in April,
the day was cool and raw; and the fire one saw nowhere else
was delightful in Miss Cardigan's parlour.
Every minute of that afternoon was as bright as the fire glow.
I sat in the midst of that, on an ottoman, and Miss Cardigan,
busy between her two tables, made me very much interested in
her story of some distressed families for whom she was
working. She asked me very little about my own affairs;
nothing that the most delicate good breeding did not warrant;
but she found out that my father and mother were at a great
distance from me and I almost alone, and she gave me the
freedom of her house. I was to come there whenever I could and
liked; whenever I wanted to "rest my feet", as she said;
especially I might spend as much of every Sunday with her as I
could get leave for. And she made this first afternoon so
pleasant to me with her gentle beguiling talk, that the
permission to come often was like the entrance into a whole
world of comfort. She had plenty to talk about; plenty to
tell, of the poor people to whom she and others were
ministering; of plans and methods to do them good; all which
somehow she made exceedingly interesting. There was just a
little accent to her words, which made them, in their
peculiarity, all the more sweet to me; but she spoke good
English; the "noo" which slipped out now and then, with one or
two other like words, came only, I found, at times when the
fountain of feeling was more full than ordinary, and so flowed
over into the disused old channel. And her face was so fresh,
rosy, round and sweet, withal strong and sound, that it was a
perpetual pleasure to me.
As she told her stories of New York needy and suffering, I
mentally added my poor people at Magnolia, and began to wonder
with myself, was all the world so? Were these two spots but
samples of the whole? I got into a brown study, and was waked
out of it by Miss Cardigan's "What is it, my dear?"
"Ma'am?" I said.
"Ye are studying some deep question," she said, smiling.
"Maybe it's too big for you."
"So it is," said I, sighing. "Is it so everywhere, Miss
Cardigan?"
"So how, my bairn?"
"Is there so much trouble everywhere in the world?"
Her face clouded over.
"Jesus said, 'The poor ye have always with you, and whensoever
ye will ye may do them good.' "
"But that is what I don't understand about," I said. "How much
ought one to do, Miss Cardigan?"
There came a ray of infinite brightness over her features; I
can hardly describe it; it was warm with love, and bright with
pleasure, and  I thought sparkled with a little amusement.
"Have you thought upon that?" she said.
"Yes," I said,  "very much."
"It is a great question!" she said, her face becoming grave
again.
"I know," I said, "of course one ought to do all one can. But
what I want to know is, how much one can. How much ought one
to spend for such things?"
"It's a great question," Miss Cardigan repeated, more gravely
than before. "For when the King comes, to take account of His
servants, He will want to know what we have done with every
penny. Be sure, He will."
"Then how can one tell?" said I, hoping earnestly that now I
was going to get some help in my troubles. "How can one know?
It is very difficult."
"I'll no say it's not difficult," said Miss Cardigan, whose
thoughts seemed to have gone into the recesses of her own
mind. "Dear, it's nigh our tea-time. Let us go in."
I followed her, much disappointed, and feeling that if she
passed the subject by so, I could not bring it up again. We
went through to the inner room; the same from which the glass
door opened to the flowers. Here a small table was now spread.
This room was cosy. I had hardly seen it before. Low bookcases
lined it on every side; and above the bookcases hung maps;
maps of the city and of various parts of the world where
missionary stations were established. Along with the maps, a
few engravings and fine photographs. I remember one of the
Colosseum, which I used to study; and a very beautiful
engraving of Jerusalem. But the one that fixed my eyes this
first evening, perhaps because Miss Cardigan placed me in
front of it, was a picture of another sort. It was a good
photograph, and had beauty enough besides to hold my eyes. It
showed a group of three or four. A boy and girl in front,
handsome, careless, and well-to-do, passing along, with
wandering eyes. Behind them and disconnected from them by her
dress and expression, a tall woman in black robes with a baby
on her breast. The hand of the woman was stretched out with a
coin which she was about dropping into an iron-bound coffer
which stood at the side of the picture. It was "the widow's
mite;" and her face, wan, sad, sweet, yet loving and longing,
told the story. The two coin were going into the box with all
her heart.
"You know what it is?" said my hostess.
"I see, ma'am," I replied; "it is written under."
"That box is the Lord's treasury."
"Yes, ma'am," I said,  "I know."
"Do you remember how much that woman gave?"
"Two mites,"  I said.
"It was something more than that," said my hostess. "It was
more than anybody else gave that day. Don't you recollect? It
was all her living."
I looked at Miss Cardigan, and she looked at me. Then my eyes
went back to the picture, and to the sad yet sweet and most
loving face of the poor woman there.
"Ma'am," said I, "do you think people that are rich ought to
give all they have?"
"I only know, my Lord was pleased with her," said Miss
Cardigan softly; "and I always think I should like to have Him
pleased with me too."
I was silent, looking at the picture and thinking.
"You know what made that poor widow give her two mites?" Miss
Cardigan asked presently.
"I suppose she wanted to give them," I said.
"Ay," said my hostess, turning away,  "she loved the Lord's
glory beyond her own comfort. Come, my love, and let us have
some tea. She gave all she had, Miss Daisy, and the Lord liked
it; do ye think you and me can do less?"
"But that is what I do not understand," I said, following Miss
Cardigan to the little tea-table, and watching with great
comfort the bright unruffled face which promised to be such a
help to me.
"Now you'll sit down there," said my hostess, "where you can
see my flowers while I can see you. It's poor work eating, if
we cannot look at something or hear something at the same
time; and maybe we'll do the two things. And ye'll have a bit
of honey  here it is. And Lotty will bring us up a bit of hot
toast  or is the bread better, my dear? Now ye're at home;
and maybe you'll come over and drink tea with me whenever you
can run away from over there. I'll have Lotty set a place for
you. And then, when ye think of the empty place, you will know
you had better come over and fill it. See  you could bring
your study book and study here in this quiet little corner by
the flowers."
I gave my very glad thanks. I knew I could often do this.
"And now for the 'not understanding,' " said Miss Cardigan,
when tea was half over. "How was it, my dear?"
"I have been puzzled," I said, "about giving  how much one
ought to give, and how much one ought to spend  I mean, for
oneself."
"Well," said Miss Cardigan brightly, "we have fixed that. The
poor woman gave all her living."
"But one must spend some money for oneself," I said. "One must
have bonnets and cloaks and dresses."
"And houses, and books, and pictures," said Miss Cardigan,
looking around her. "My lamb, let us go to the Bible again.
That says, 'whether ye eat, or drink, or whatsoever ye do, do
all to the glory of God.' So I suppose we must buy cloaks and
bonnets on the same principle."
I turned this over in mind. Had I done this, when I was
choosing my chinchilla cap and grey cloak? A little ray of
infinite brightness began to steal in upon their quiet colours
and despised forms.
"If the rich are to give their all, as well as the poor, it
doesn't say  mind you  that they are to give it all to the
hungry, or all to the destitute; but only, they are to give it
all to Christ. Then, he will tell them what to do with it; do
ye understand, my dear?"
Miss Cardigan's eye was watching me, not more kindly than
keen. A wise and clear grey eye it was.
"But isn't it difficult to know sometimes what to do?" I said.
"I have been so puzzled to know about dresses. Mamma is away,
and I had to decide."
"It's no very difficult," said Miss Cardigan,  "if once ye
set your face in the right airth  as we speak. My dear,
there's a great many sorts of dresses and bonnets and things;
and I'd always buy just that bonnet and that gown, in which I
thought I could do most work for my Master; and that wouldn't
be the same sort of bonnet for you and for me," she said with
a merry smile. "Now ye'll have another cup of tea, and ye'll
tell me if my tea's good."
It was wonderfully good to me. I felt like a plant dried up
for want of water, suddenly set in a spring shower.
Refreshment was all around me, without and within. The faces
of the flowers looked at me through the glass, and the sweet
breath of them came from the open door. The room where I was
sitting pleased me mightily, in its comfortable and pretty
simplicity; and I had found a friend, even better than my old
Maria and Darry at Magnolia. It was not very long before I
told all about these to my new counsellor.
For the friendship between us ripened and grew. I often found
a chance to fill my place at the dear little tea-table.
Sundays I could always be there; and I went there straight
from afternoon church, and rested among Miss Cardigan's books
and in her sweet society and in the happy freedom and rest of
her house, with an intensity of enjoyment which words can but
feebly tell. So in time I came to tell her all my troubles and
the perplexities which had filled me; I was willing to talk to
Miss Cardigan about things that I would have breathed to no
other ear upon earth. She was so removed from all the sphere
of my past or present life, so utterly disconnected from all
the persons and things with which I had had to do, it was like
telling about them to a being of another planet. Yet she was
not so removed but that her sympathies and her judgment could
be living and full grown for my help; all ready to take hold
of the facts and to enter into the circumstances, and to give
me precious comfort and counsel. Miss Cardigan and I came to
be very dear to each other.
All this took time. Nobody noticed at first, or seemed to
notice, my visits to the "house with the flowers," as the
girls called it. I believe, in my plain dress, I was not
thought of importance enough to be watched. I went and came
very comfortably; and the weeks that remained before the
summer vacation slipped away ill quiet order.
Just before the vacation, my aunt came home from Europe. With
her came the end of my obscurity. She brought me, from my
mother, a great supply of all sorts of pretty French dresses,
hats, gloves, and varieties.  Chosen by my mother;  as
pretty and elegant, and simple too, as they could be; but once
putting them on, I could never be unnoticed by my schoolmates
any more. I knew it, with a certain feeling that was not
displeasure. Was it pride? Was it anything more than my
pleasure in all pretty things? I thought it was something
more. And I determined that I would not put on any of them
till school was broken up. If it was pride, I was ashamed of
it. But besides French dresses, my aunt brought me a better
thing; a promise from my father.
"He said I was to tell you, Daisy my dear,  and I hope you
will be a good child and take it as you ought,  but dear me!
how she is growing," said Mrs. Gary, turning to Mme. Ricard;
"I cannot talk about Daisy as a 'child' much longer. She's
tall."
"Not too tall," said Madame.
"No, but she is going to be tall. She has a right; her mother
is tall, and her father. Daisy, my dear, I do believe you are
going to look like your mother. You'll be very handsome if you
do. And yet, you look different "
"Miss Randolph will not shame anybody belonging to her," said
Mme. Ricard, graciously.
"Well, I suppose not," said my aunt. "I was going to tell you
what your father said, Daisy. He said  you know it takes a
long while to get to China and back, and if it does him good
he will stay a little while there; and then there's the return
voyage, and there may be delays; so altogether it was
impossible to say exactly how long he and your mother will be
gone. I mean, it was impossible to know certainly that they
would be able to come home by next summer; indeed I doubt if
your father ever does come home."
I waited, in silence.
"So altogether," my aunt went on, turning for a moment to Mme.
Ricard, "there was a doubt about it; and your father said, he
charged me to tell Daisy, that if she will make herself
contented  that is, supposing they cannot come home next
year, you know,  if she will make herself happy and be
patient and bear one or two years more, and stay at school and
do the best she can, then, the year after next or the next
year, he will send for you, your father says, unless they come
home themselves,  they will send, for you; and then, your
father says, he will give you any request you like to make of
him. Ask anything you can think of, that you would like best,
and he will do it or get it, whatever it is. He didn't say
like king Herod, 'to the half of his kingdom,' but I suppose
he meant that. And meanwhile, you know you have a guardian
now, Daisy, and there is no use for me in your affairs; and
having conveyed to you your mother's gifts and your father's
promises, I suppose there is nothing further for me to do."
I was silent yet, thinking. Two years more would be a dear
purchase of any pleasure that might come after. Two years! And
four were gone already. It seemed impossible to wait or to
bear it. I heard no more of what my aunt was saying, till she
turned to me again and asked, 
"Where are you going to pass the vacation?"
I did not know, for Mrs. Sandford was obliged to be with her
sister still, so that I could not go to Melbourne.
"Well, if your new guardian thinks well of it  you can
consult him if it is necessary  and if he does not object,
you can be with me if you like. Preston has leave of absence
this summer, I believe; and he will be with us."
It was in effect arranged so. My aunt took me about the
country from one watering place to another; from Saratoga to
the White Mountains; and Preston's being with us made it a gay
time. Preston had been for two years at West Point; he was
grown and improved everybody said; but to me he was just the
same. If anything, not improved; the old grace and
graciousness of his manner was edged with an occasional
hardness or abruptness which did not use to belong to him; and
which I did not understand. There seemed to be a latent cause
of irritation somewhere.
However, my summer went off smoothly enough. September brought
me back to Mme. Ricard's, and in view of Miss Cardigan's late
roses and budding chrysanthemums. I was not sorry. I had set
my heart on doing as much as could be done in these next two
years, if two they must be.
I was the first in my room; but before the end of the day they
all came pouring in; the two older and the two younger girls.
"Here's somebody already," exclaimed Miss Macy as she saw me.
"Why, Daisy Randolph! is it possible that's you? Is it Daisy
Randolph? what have you done to yourself? How you have
improved!"
"She is very much improved," said Miss Bentley more soberly.
"She has been learning the fashions," said Miss Lansing, her
bright eyes dancing as good-humouredly as ever. "Daisy, now
when your hair gets long you'll look quite nice. That frock is
made very well."
"She is changed " said Miss St. Clair, with a look I could
not quite make out.
"No," I said,  "I hope I am not changed."
"Your dress is," said St. Clair.
I thought of Dr. Sandford's "L'habit c'est l'homme." "My
mother had this dress made," I said; "and I ordered the other
one; that is all the difference."
"You're on the right side of the difference, then," said Miss
St. Clair.
"Has your mother come back, Daisy?" Miss Lansing asked.
"Not yet. She sent me this from Paris."
"It's very pretty!" she said; with, I saw, an increase of
admiration; but St. Clair gave me another strange look. "How
much prettier Paris things are than American!" Lansing went
on. "I wish I could have all my dresses from Paris. Why,
Daisy, you've grown handsome."
"Nonsense!" said Miss Macy; "she always was, only you didn't
see it."
"Style is more than a face," remarked Miss St. Clair
cavalierly. Somehow I felt that this little lady was not in a
good mood towards me. I boded mischief; for being nearly of an
age, we were together in most of our classes, studied the same
things and recited at the same times. There was an opportunity
for clashing.
They soon ran off, all four, to see their friends and
acquaintances and learn the news of the school. I was left
alone, making my arrangement of clothes and things in my
drawer and my corner of the closet; and I found that some
disturbance, in those few moments, had quite disarranged the
thoughts in my heart. They were peaceful enough before. There
was some confusion now. I could not at first tell what was
uppermost; only that St. Clair's words were those that most
returned to me. "She has changed. "Had I changed? or was I
going to change? was I going to enter the lists of fashion
with my young companions, and try who would win the race? No
doubt my mother could dress me better than almost any of their
mothers could dress them; what then? would this be a triumph?
or was this the sort of name and notoriety that became and
befitted a servant of Jesus? I could not help my dresses being
pretty; no, but I could help making much display of them. I
could wear my own school plaid when the weather grew cooler;
and one or two others of my wardrobe were all I need show.
"Style is more than a face." No doubt. What then? Did I want
style and a face too? Was I wishing to confound St. Clair? Was
I escaping already from that bond and mark of a Christian, 
"The world knoweth us not"? I was startled and afraid. I fell
down on my knees by the side of my bed, and tried to look at
the matter as God looked at it. And the Daisy I thought He
would be pleased with, was one who ran no race for worldly
supremacy. I resolved she should not. The praise of God, I
thought, was far better than the praise of men.
My mind was quite made up when I rose from my knees; but I
looked forward to a less quiet school term than the last had
been. Something told me that the rest of the girls would take
me up now, for good and for evil. My Paris dress set me in a
new position, no longer beneath their notice. I was an object
of attention. Even that first evening I felt the difference.
"Daisy, when is your mother coming home?"  "Oh, she is gone
to China; Daisy's mother is gone to China!"  "She'll bring
you lots of queer things, won't she?"  "What a sweet dress!"
 "That didn't come from China?"  "Daisy, who's head in
mathematics, you or St. Clair? I hope you will get before
her!"
"Why?" I ventured to ask.
"Oh, you're the best of the two; everybody knows that. But St.
Clair is smart, isn't she?"
"She thinks she is," answered another speaker; "she believes
she's at the tip top of creation; but she never had such a
pretty dress on as that in her days; and she knows it and she
don't like it. It's real fun to see St. Clair beat! she thinks
she is so much better than other girls, and she has such a way
of twisting that upper lip of hers. Do you know how St. Clair
twists her upper lip? Look!  she's doing it now."
"She's handsome though, aint she?" said Miss Macy. "She'll be
beautiful."
"No," said Mlle. Genevieve; "not that. Never that. She will be
handsome; but beauty is a thing of the soul. She will not be
beautiful. Daisy, are you going to work hard this year?"
"Yes, mademoiselle."
"I believe you," she said, taking my face between her two
hands and kissing it.
"Who ever saw Mlle. Genevieve do that before!" said Miss Macy,
as the other left us. "She is not apt to like the scholars."
I knew she had always liked me. But everybody had always liked
me, I reflected; this time at school was the first of my
knowing anything different. And in this there now came a
change. Since my wearing and using the Paris things sent me by
my mother, which I dared not fail to use and wear, I noticed
that my company was more sought in the school. Also my words
were deferred to, in a way they had not been before. I found,
and it was lot an unpleasant thing, that I had grown to be a
person of consequence. Even with the French and English
teachers; I observed that they treated me with more
consideration. And so, I reflected within myself again over
Dr. Sandford's observation, "L'habit, c'est l'homme." Of
course, it was a consideration given to my clothes, a
consideration also to be given up if I did not wear such
clothes. I saw all that. The world knew me, just for the
moment.
Well, the smooth way was very pleasant. I had it with
everybody for a time.
My little room-mate and classmate St. Clair was perhaps the
only exception to the general rule. I never felt that she
liked me much. She let me alone, however; until one unlucky
day  I do not mean to call it unlucky, either  when we had,
as usual, compositions to write, and the theme given out was
"Ruins." It was a delightful theme to me. I did not always
enjoy writing compositions; this one gave me permission to
roam in thoughts and imaginations that I liked. I went back to
my old Egyptian studies at Magnolia, and wrote my composition
about "Karnak." The subject was full in my memory; I had gone
over and over and all through it; I had measured the enormous
pillars and great gateways, and studied the sculptures on the
walls, and paced up and down the great avenue of sphinxes.
Sethos, and Amunoph and Rameses, the second and third, were
all known and familiar to me; and I knew just where Shishak
had recorded his triumphs over the land of Judea. I wrote my
composition with the greatest delight. The only danger was
that I might make it too long.
One evening I was using the last of the light, writing in the
window recess of the school parlour, when I felt a hand laid
on my shoulders.
"You are so hard at work!" said the voice of Mlle. Genevieve.
"Yes, mademoiselle, I like it."
"Have you got all the books and all that you want?"
"Books, mademoiselle?"  I said, wondering.
"Yes; have you got all you want?"
"I have not got any books," I said; "there are none that I
want in the school library."
"Have you never been in Madame's library?"
"No, mademoiselle."
"Come!"
I jumped up and followed her, up and down stairs and through
halls and turnings, till she brought me into a pretty room
lined with books from floor to ceiling. Nobody was there.
Mademoiselle lit the gas with great energy, and then turned to
me, her great black eyes shining.
"Now what do you want, mon enfant? here is everything."
"Is there anything about Egypt?"
"Egypt! Are you in Egypt?  See here  look, here is Denon 
here is Laborde; here is two or three more. Do you like that?
Ah! I see by the way your grey eyes grow big.  Now sit down,
and do what you like. Nobody will disturb you. You can come
here every evening for the hour before tea."
Mademoiselle scarce staid for my thanks, and left me alone. I
had not seen either Laborde or Denon in my grandfather's
library at Magnolia; they were after his time. The engravings
and illustrations also had not been very many or very fine in
his collection of travellers' books. It was the greatest joy
to me to see some of those things in Mme. Ricard's library,
that I had read and dreamed about so long in my head. It was
adding eyesight to hearsay. I found a good deal too that I
wanted to read, in these later authorities. Evening after
evening I was in Madame's library, lost among the halls of the
old Egyptian conquerors.
The interest and delight of my work quite filled me, so that
the fate of my composition hardly came into my thoughts, or
the fact that other people were writing compositions too. And
when it was done, I was simply very sorry that it was done. I
had not written it for honour or for duty, but for love. I
suppose that was the reason why it succeeded. I remember I was
anything but satisfied with it myself, as I was reading it
aloud for the benefit of my judges. For it was a day of prize
