
"Very much, sir, though if it had been the Bessie, I should have liked
it better."

"I intended to give her that name, but Bessie was contrary, and
insisted that she should be called The Starry Flag, in grateful
remembrance of her trip from the Penobscot. I really appreciate her
motives, and both of us desire to perpetuate the name of your boat by
giving it to the finest yacht that could be built."

"Since it pleases both you and her, I ought to be satisfied with
it--and I am. We have two Starry Flags now, and we may get them mixed."

"The name of your boat shall henceforth be The Starry Flag, Jr.,"
laughed Mr. Watson. "When we say The Starry Flag, we mean the yacht,
and when we say The Starry Flag, Jr., we mean your boat."

The Starry Flag, then, cut her way through the long billows at a rate
which was highly gratifying to the embryo captain, who, prompt to his
instincts, had taken the helm, when he had examined her. He declared
that she steered splendidly, and he was sure she would prove to be a
good sea-boat. In a short time she came to anchor off Mike's Point. The
steward had prepared a lunch for the party, and they sat down at the
table as soon as the yacht swung round to her cable.

"Now, Levi, you must get a crew for your vessel. These men, with the
exception of the cook and steward, will return to Boston this
afternoon," said Mr. Watson.

"Are the crew to leave her?"

"I only engaged them to bring her down, for I thought that you would
prefer to select your own hands."

"I should," replied Levi, thinking what young men he could procure.

"We shall be ready to start on our cruise to the eastward in three or
four days," added Mr. Watson.

"I will be ready, sir."

By the time the lunch was disposed of, The Starry Flag, Jr. had
arrived, and Levi landed the party. He was anxious to engage his crew,
and he ran the boat over to her moorings. On the rocks he found Dock
Vincent, who had been observing the yacht.




CHAPTER VII.

GRAVE CHARGES.


"What vessel's that, Levi?" asked Dock Vincent, as the young skipper
landed on the rocks.

"It's The Starry Flag," replied Levi, smiling.

"No, I mean the large yacht, off the Point."

"So do I."

"You don't mean to tell me that vessel's called The Starry Flag!"

"Yes, I do; that's her name. My boat is now called The Starry Flag,
Jr.," answered Levi, beginning to move off, for he was not disposed to
hold any intercourse with such a person as Dock Vincent.

"Hold on a minute, Levi; tell us about her," said Dock. "What is she
for?"

"A yacht; but I am in a hurry now."

"Wait a minute. I have some bad news to tell you."

"Bad news?"

"Your uncle had an ugly fall this morning, just after you went off in
the boat," added Dock.

"Where did he fall?" asked the young skipper, interested now, and
troubled by the information.

"He fell into the cut, where the plank crosses it," replied Dock,
pointing to the place where the accident had occurred.

"Is he much hurt?"

"Yes; I think the old man is putty badly damaged in his timbers. He has
taken to his bed, and I shouldn't wonder if he had to stay there a
month."

"I am sorry for it," said Levi, with entire sincerity. "How did it
happen?"

Dock explained how it happened, taking care to locate himself at a
considerable distance from the scene of the catastrophe.

"The old man thinks somebody fixed the plank so as to make him fall,"
added he, finishing his narrative.

"To make him fall!" exclaimed the attentive listener. "Who does he
think did it?"

"Well, Levi, he thinks you did it," answered Dock, softening his tones,
so as not to commit himself to this view.

"I!"

"The old man thinks so, but that don't make it so, you know."

"What makes him think I did it?"

"Because you were the last person that went down to the P'int before he
did. You were running over to Watson's new house, in the Flag, when the
thing happened."

"I haven't been over the plank to-day," said Levi.

"You went to your boat just before the old man come down here; and he
don't see who else could have done it."

"I did not cross on the plank; I went along on the rocks, as I always
do when I come across the second beach," protested the young skipper.

"Well, I don't know anything about it, you see, Levi," added Dock, in
deprecatory tones. "I only tell you what the old man told me. He knows
you hate him."

"But I don't hate him."

"Don't you?" asked Dock, with a sceptical grin.

"I'm sure I do not," answered Levi, with emphasis.

"Perhaps you don't; but after all the trouble there's been between you
and the old man, it wouldn't be strange if you hated him and he hated
you."

Probably Dock was as sincere as Levi; for there was not a Christian
idea in his head, or a Christian purpose in his heart. He had no keener
perception of the sublime doctrine of forgiving one's enemies, than the
beasts of the field or the fowls of the air. In his view it was the
most natural thing in the world for the uncle to hate the nephew, and
for the nephew to hate the uncle; and he did not believe it possible
for either of them to banish the foul impulse from his heart.

"I don't hate my uncle; I would do anything in the world for him,"
continued Levi, earnestly, but thoughtfully, for he was deeply pained
by the suspicions of his uncle.

"I'm going up to see the old man, by and by, and I'll tell him what you
say about it," added Dock.

"I have a great deal to do, but I shall go and see him myself," said
Levi, as he began to move up the rocks again.

"What's your hurry, Levi? I want to talk with you about that vessel.
She is a fine schooner."

"She is all that. I have to find a crew for her, for we are going off
on a cruise in three or four days. Do you know of any young fellows who
want to make good wages without working very hard?"

"Yes; there's Mat Mogmore," replied Dock, after a little reflection.
"He'll make a first-rate hand for you. I rather think he'll go off to
Australia with me in the Caribbee."

"In the what?"

"In the Caribbee--that's my vessel. She's a schooner, rather larger
than that yacht, and she'll outsail anything of her inches that ever
floated. If you want Mat Mogmore, he'll be glad of a lay in that yacht,
for I shan't get off for three weeks yet. I'll speak to him about it."

Levi preferred to do his own speaking, not wishing to place himself
under any obligation, however slight, to a man of Dock's character and
antecedents. He decided to visit his uncle at once, and call at Mr.
Mogmore's house on his way home. With some difficulty he escaped from
his ancient enemy, and crossing the plank, which had been placed in its
original position by Dock after the accident, he walked up the tongue
of land, dreading the scene at his uncle's which the information he had
received led him to expect.

He found his aunt in the kitchen, and inquired particularly into the
condition of uncle Nathan. She thought he was "a leetle more
comfortable," and told Levi to go in and see him if he wanted to, for
she was confident that the young man could clear himself from the grave
charge preferred against him.

"How do you feel, uncle Nathan?" asked Levi, kindly, as he entered the
bed-room.

The old man looked at him with a savage stare, but made no reply.

"I am sorry you have had such a fall," continued Levi.

"No, you ain't sorry, nuther! What do you want to say that for, Levi
Fairfield? It's all your work, and 'tain't likely you keer how much I
suffer," growled the injured man, his words interspersed with many a
groan.

"What is my work, uncle?" asked Levi, mildly.

"Didn't you fix that plank over the cut so's to gim me this fall?"

"No, sir, I'm sure I did not," protested Levi.

"Don't tell me!" groaned the old man, suffering as much from passion as
from pain.

"I can only say, uncle, that I have not touched the plank; and I did
not go near it this morning."

"'Tain't no use; I know you did! You went down to your boat afore I
did, for I see you standin' over to Watson's new house jest afore I
fell. You want to kill me--that's what you're tryin' to do; and you
e'enamost done it this mornin'."

"I'm sorry you have such an opinion of me, uncle," replied Levi, more
in sorrow and pity than in anger.

"You've got most of my money afore I'm dead, and you mean to have the
rest on't arter I'm gone," continued the old man, in angry, whining
tones.

"Do you still think I took the gold, uncle Nathan?"

"Do I think so! I know you did! Nobody else took it, and nobody could
done it but you! What have you done with it?"

"I know nothing about it, uncle. I am sorry you think so hard of me.
I'm ready and willing to do anything I can for you."

"Then gim me back my money!"

"I haven't it."

"Yes, you have!"

It was useless to talk with the sufferer, and Levi's presence only
excited him. After repeating, in the gentlest of tones, his desire to
serve him, the young skipper turned to depart.

"You'll be found out, Levi Fairfield, and you'll have to give that
money up. 'Tain't no use to try to git red on me, for I'm go'n' to make
a will, and leave what little I've got to your aunt," said Mr.
Fairfield.

"Uncle Nathan, do you really think I want your money?" asked Levi,
beginning to be indignant at the foul suspicious of the old man.

"That's what you want to kill me for," whined the miser.

"I don't want to kill you, or hurt you."

"I'm go'n' to make a will; so 'tain't no use to try to git red of me
any more."

Levi pitied the sufferer, as much for his moral as his mental
obtuseness, and fearful that his indignation might get the better of
his pity, he left the room. His uncle threatened him with all the
terrors of the courts and the prisons as he withdrew. In the kitchen he
found Dock Vincent, who had come to make his promised afternoon visit.
Levi left immediately, and called at the house of the carpenter. Mat
Mogmore, after some haggling, consented to become one of the crew of
the yacht. He was a young man of eighteen, who had made two or three
fishing voyages, and was a smart, active fellow. He had been rather
intimate with Dock since the return of the latter; and this was all
Levi had against him. Before night, the young captain of The Starry
Flag had engaged three other hands. The crew were to go on board the
next morning, when Levi intended to start on a trial trip, for the
purpose of training his men, and becoming more familiar himself with
the working of the yacht.

Dock Vincent entered the chamber of Mr. Fairfield. He found the old man
agitated, and almost crying with anger and vexation.

"So Levi's been to see you," said the visitor, seating himself at the
bedside.

"Yes, he has! Sunthin must be done, Cap'n Vincent," replied the old
man, trying to rise on the bed, but sinking back with a groan.

"Don't try to git up; keep still, Squire Fairfield, and don't hurt
yourself," interposed Dock.

"I can't stand this no longer!" howled the miserable man, the tears
starting in his eyes. "Sunthin must be done."

"What shall it be, squire?" asked the comforter, coolly.

"I can't stand it no longer, and I won't, nuther," repeated the
sufferer. "Somebody's got my money, and I must git it back, or it'll
kill me. That boy must be took up, and sarched till the money's found.
I know he's got it. Nobody else couldn't have took it. He must have
kerried it off in that little saw-mill. That's what he come arter the
saw-mill for--to kerry off the money in."

"Do you want to have Levi arrested?" asked Dock, musing.

"Yes; he must be took up. As soon as he sees I'm in airnest, he'll git
scared, and give up the money."

"Musn't be too hasty, squire. If you be, it'll damage you."

"No 'twon't; nothin' can damage me now. I'll resk it. Git a constable;
but don't git Gayles."

Dock counselled moderation, and thought it would be better to wait till
they had more proof, before taking any decisive steps. He finally
quieted the old man by promising to "hunt up the evidence," and have
Levi arrested as soon as there was any proof to work with.




CHAPTER VIII.

CONSTABLE COOKE.


Levi went on his experimental trip in The Starry Flag the next day. The
wind was very fresh, and he had an excellent opportunity to test the
weatherly qualities of the yacht, and she proved to be all he had
anticipated or desired. She would sail almost into the wind's eye, and
went through a chop sea as steadily as a judge through a trial. Captain
Fairfield, as all hands on board called him, was proud and happy in his
new situation. He was in his element; and it was not likely that the
possession of any sum of money could long keep him from the position he
was born to fill--the command of a vessel.

The yacht was fitted up below with special reference to the wants of
her owner's family and friends. Her trunk extended nearly the whole
length of her, affording a high and spacious cabin for a vessel of her
size. On each side of the companion-way, leading down from the cockpit,
or standing-room, was a small state-room, one of which was appropriated
to the use of the captain. It contained a single berth, a writing-desk,
a plentiful supply of lockers, drawers, shelves, and brackets for
clothing, charts, and nautical instruments. Levi had installed himself
in this little apartment, and felt like a lord, as he sat in its
cushioned arm-chair at the desk, glancing at his tasty and convenient
surroundings.

This state-room, and its fellow on the opposite side of the ladder,
opened into the main cabin, which contained four berths, with curtains
extending out in front, so as to form an enclosure for each occupant,
securing entire privacy. Opening from the forward part of the cabin
were two large and airy rooms, each having two berths, for the
accommodation of Mr. Watson's family. They contained every convenience
belonging to a first-class hotel, with a curious economy of space,
which would have excited the admiration of those who have a taste for
overcoming impossibilities.

Between these state-rooms was a narrow passageway leading to the
forecastle, which occupied about half the length of the vessel, and
contained the pantry, ice-house, cook-room, store-room, and six berths
in the forward part for the hands.

The cook and steward were colored men. The former had served for years
in a packet ship, and the latter was a steamboat waiter, who never
failed to put on a white jacket at meal times. The four hands who had
been employed on the Cape were young men, the oldest not over twenty,
all of whom had made several fishing voyages, and were hardy, active,
and accomplished seamen for a small craft.

On her trial trip Levi took the yacht as far as Boone Island, on the
coast of Maine. He dined in state, all alone in the cabin,--he had no
passengers on this cruise,--and Augustus, the cabin steward, wore his
white jacket, and stood behind his chair. In fact, Levi was Captain
Fairfield on this occasion; and he wore his dignity with becoming
modesty and grace.

In the evening, after his return, he made a full and enthusiastic
report to Mr. Watson and the ladies of the good behavior of the yacht,
and declared that he was ready at once to go round the world in her.

"We don't care about going round the world in her, Levi," laughed Mr.
Watson; "but on Monday morning we will start for Mount Desert, if you
are ready at that time."

"I am ready now, sir."

"I cannot leave before Monday. If we enjoy this trip, we will spend the
whole of the month of August on board of The Starry Flag. I should like
to go as far as the Bermudas, if you think it is safe to take so long a
voyage in her."

"Safe!" exclaimed Levi. "You can cross the Atlantic in her as safely as
in a steamship. For my part, I should feel safer in her than in any
steamer that ever went to sea. She would shake you up more, perhaps,
but she will take you through all right if she is well handled."

"No doubt of it. I told the builder to have her as strong as wood and
iron could make her. My directions were, first, strength, second,
comfort, and third, speed."

"I think he has got the speed in first, for we logged twelve knots
to-day, with the wind free in a chopping sea. But she can't be excelled
for comfort and safety. I know by the feeling of her in a sea just how
she would behave in a gale."

"Have you seen Mr. Gayles since your return, Levi?" asked Mr. Watson,
suddenly changing the subject, and wearing a look of anxiety.

"No, sir; he was not at home when I went to supper," replied Levi,
satisfied something unpleasant had occurred; and he had not much
difficulty in surmising its nature.

"Have you heard anything about a search-warrant?"

"Not a word, sir; but I almost expected something of the kind. My uncle
charged me with taking the money he lost; but I did not even know that
he had any money in his house," answered Levi, grieved and mortified at
the necessity of again defending himself from such an assault.

"Mr. Gayles told me that your room at his house, and indeed all his
premises, had been searched by Constable Cooke, in your absence,
to-day, for the missing gold."

"Of course they did not find anything," replied Levi, blushing.

"No, they did not; but perhaps they would if your affairs had been
managed by a less discreet person than Mr. Gayles. It seems that Dock
Vincent went to the house, with the constable, about dinner time. Your
uncle appears to have employed Vincent to look up the money for him.
Mr. Gayles was willing to admit the officer, but he positively refused
to allow Vincent to enter his house. Levi, that villain is the worst
enemy a man ever had. You must beware of him; have nothing to do with
him, and nothing to say to him."

"I do not, any more than I can help."

"The story now is, that you took your uncle's money, and set a trap to
kill or severely injure him at the cut, because you are his legal
heir."

"How absurd!" interposed Bessie, indignantly, as she rose from her
chair, and seated herself by the side of Levi on the sofa, her mild
eyes beaming with unwonted fire.

"Very absurd, my dear; but there are people who are foolish enough to
believe such absurd stories even of their own minister. Of course,
Levi, there is no real danger, but you may be seriously annoyed."

Levi was smart. He had done great deeds. He was known to be worth
thirty-five or forty thousand dollars, in the hands of his guardian;
and his intimate relations with the family of Mr. Watson rendered it
exceedingly probable that he would eventually roll in wealth, to be
counted by hundreds of thousands. Most of the people were generous
enough to congratulate the young man, in their hearts, on his brilliant
prospects, especially as he did not put on any airs, or cut any of his
old friends.

But there were weak and evil-minded men and women who envied his good
fortune, and were ready to seize upon any rumor which tended to bring
discredit upon him. Among these was Constable Cooke, whom Dock Vincent
had employed to search for Mr. Fairfield's money. He could not help
thinking that, if he had been intrusted with the warrant for the arrest
of Levi, on the charge, three years before, of purloining Ruel
Belcher's money, instead of Mr. Gayles, he would have done precisely as
that worthy man had, and in the end would have been appointed the young
man's guardian, making a few hundred dollars every year in commissions
on the care of the property. He could not exactly forgive Mr. Gayles
for being so fortunate; nor was he so exclusive as to confine his
dislike to the guardian, but extended it to the ward.

Constable Cooke, therefore, was a fit person to do the dirty work of
Nathan Fairfield and his coadjutor. He adopted the miser's theory in
full, that Levi had set the house on fire with the candle, in order to
cover up the loss of the money, which he had conveyed from the house in
the little saw-mill. Since the arrival of the yacht, it had even been
conjectured that she was the property of Levi, who had paid for her
with the ill-gotten gold. This theory, explained and bolstered up with
specious argument and sophistical evidence by the constable, rather
staggered many people who believed in Levi. If the young man's
character had been doubtful, the theory would have been plausible; for,
after all, a person's good character is the best testimony in his
favor.

Mr. Watson and Levi discussed the situation coolly, though the ladies,
with their warmer sympathies, were indignant, and disposed to be
violent in their measures. Nothing could be done but to wait the issue
of events; and Levi walked as proudly as ever through the streets of
the town. The next day he took the ladies out to sail in the yacht; but
before he went he called at his uncle's house, carrying a nice
tenderloin steak and a jar of jelly for the sufferer, who was
improving, in spite of the heat and excitement to which he agitated
himself.

"Don't tell him, aunt Susan, that I brought these, things," said Levi.
"I pity him, and I don't hate him. I shall try to be a Christian
towards him now, whatever he does."

The old lady burst into tears. Such a spirit amazed and overwhelmed
her. The reading of her religious paper had prepared her, in some
measure, to appreciate such conduct. The next day, which was Sunday,
Levi carried some other luxuries for the invalid; but he did not
venture to see his uncle after the violent scene which had attended his
first visit to the sick room.

On Monday morning Mr. and Mrs. Watson, Mrs. McGilvery, and Bessie were
conveyed on board of The Starry Flag. The foresail and the mainsail had
been hoisted, and the hands were heaving up the anchor, when a boat
from the shore was discovered approaching the yacht.

"Hold on!" shouted Constable Cooke; when the boat came nearer, and was
found to contain, besides the officer, Dock Vincent and two other men.

"Belay, all!" said Captain Fairfield; and the operations at the cable
were suspended.

"I've come to search this vessel," said Constable Cooke, when he and
his party had reached the deck. "I have a warrant."

"I will afford you every facility for the discharge of your duty,"
replied Levi, as he led the way to the cabin.

"Don't let Vincent go into the cabin," said Mr. Watson, in a whisper.

Levi promptly informed the officer that Captain Vincent must not go
below.

"I want him to help me," persisted Constable Cooke.

"Captain Vincent can't go into my cabin. If he attempts to do so, I'll
throw him overboard!" added Levi, rolling up his coat sleeves.

"I've a right to call in aid accordin' to law," said the officer,
angrily.

"You shall not call him in," protested Levi.

Mr. Watson spoke,--he had money, and the constable was afraid of
him,--and the matter was compromised. One of the other men went with
the officer, who proceeded directly to Levi's state-room. The desk was
opened, the lockers examined, and the drawers searched. In one of the
latter, a shot-bag, With ten half eagles in it, was found.

"That's one of the bags!" almost yelled the constable, in the fury of
his malignity.

"I never saw it before," said Levi, quietly, "nor the gold it
contains."

"I have a warrant for your arrest, Levi Fairfield; and sence you showed
fight on deck, I shall put the handcuffs on you."



Mr. Watson and the ladies were shocked and alarmed; but not one of them
for a moment doubted the innocence of Levi, who suffered himself to be
ironed without resistance.




CHAPTER IX.

THE EXAMINATION.


Constable Cooke put the irons on the wrists of Levi Fairfield, not from
a sense of duty, but with a keen relish for the act itself. It is but
justice to the officer, prejudiced though he was, to say that he was
entirely sincere in the belief that his prisoner had stolen the miser's
gold. He was needlessly rough and severe in the discharge of his duty,
and the irons were a gratuitous indignity. Mr. Watson protested
vigorously against the constable's useless display of authority. Bessie
was frightened and terribly grieved by the harsh treatment bestowed
upon her ideal of a hero.

Levi himself was the only person in the cabin who was calm. His quiet
dignity was unruffled by the insults heaped upon him, and he looked
proudly conscious of his innocence.

"What does all this mean?" demanded Mr. Watson, when Levi had been
effectually ironed, so that he could not tear the constable and his
assistant to pieces, as they seemed to fear he would.

"I do not know, sir," replied Levi, shaking his head, with a smile.

"I think it is all clear enough, Mr. Watson," interposed Constable
Cooke.

"I don't think it is," replied Mr. Watson, sharply. "You have found a
shot-bag with ten five-dollar gold pieces in it. What does that prove?"

"It proves that Levi stole the money just as clear as the sun proves
it's day."

"Is it anything surprising that the captain of a yacht has fifty
dollars in gold in his state-room?"

"I don't know's 'tis, but it's sunthin surprisin' that he should have
one of the bags the old man kept his money in, in his state-room," said
the officer, with a sneer.

"How do you know that is one of the bags?"

"How do I know?" repeated the constable, taking the bag from his
pocket. "Mr. Fairfield told me he writ his name on all the bags. There
it is."

The bag was exhibited, and over the imprint of the manufacturers of the
shot it had originally contained was the name, "N. Fairfield," rudely
traced in large, awkward characters, in pencil, on the cloth. Levi saw
it, and the formation of the two capital letters assured him it had
been written by his uncle. The bag was found in one of his drawers; but
it was plain that "an enemy had done this."

"If that don't satisfy you, Mr. Watson, I don't know what will. This
ain't pleasant business, but I can't help it," added Constable Cooke,
who perhaps had begun to think it was imprudent to offend a rich man.

"That doesn't satisfy me," replied the obstinate merchant. "Do you
suppose Levi put that bag and the gold into the drawer?"

"I suppose he did, sir. That's his state-room--isn't it?"

"There are half a dozen places there with locks on them. Do you think
he would put his money into a drawer without any lock upon it?"

"I don't know anything about that," answered the constable, who could
not help seeing that the argument was a good one. "I've got a warrant
for his arrest."

"Did you know the money was there before you came on board?" demanded
Mr. Watson, warmly.

"I supposed it was there."

"What made you suppose so?"

"I was told it was there."

"Who told you so?"

"I don't know as I'm obliged to tell you who told me," replied the
officer.

"I don't know that you are, either; but some of you shall be indicted
for conspiracy if you don't answer. You came on board with a warrant in
your pocket for the arrest of Captain Fairfield. You expected to find
the gold here, you say. Somebody told you it was here, and that
somebody knows more about it than the person you have arrested and put
in irons," continued the merchant, indignantly.

"You know why I put him in irons. Didn't he threaten to throw one of us
overboard?" replied the constable.

"When officers take graduates of the state prison to assist them in the
discharge of their duties, they must expect some opposition."

"But Captain Vincent is acting for Mr. Fairfield, who's too sick to do
anything himself," pleaded the officer, who could not help seeing that
Dock was not a proper person to aid him in the performance of his duty.
"I'll take the bracelets off, if you say so."

"I do say so, most emphatically!" added Mr. Watson.

Constable Cooke removed the irons, stepping between Levi and Bessie to
do so.

"So long as you and your father do not believe I am guilty of any
crime, I don't care for the irons or the prison," said Levi,
cheerfully. "I am rather glad of an opportunity to vindicate myself,
for I have no doubt there are some people who think I took my uncle's
money."

"But it is so terrible to be sent to prison, and to be ironed!" added
Bessie, her pretty face full of tender sympathy.

"Not at all. As I view it, the guilt is the only thing that is
terrible. This may lead to the discovery of the real thief."

"Levi, have you any idea how that bag came in your state-room?" asked
Mr. Watson.

"Not the least, sir. It must have been put there by the thief, or by
some one acting for him."

"We shall not make our trip to-day--that is clear enough. Come, Mr.
Cooke, we will go on shore, and inquire into this matter at once,"
continued Mr. Watson. "Levi, you must send all hands to the office of
Squire Saunders, for probably we shall want their evidence."

The four young men who constituted the crew of the yacht lived in
Rockport, and knew all about the relations of Levi with his uncle. They
were directed to go ashore, with the cook and steward, and appear at
the office of the trial justice. Levi was taken in charge by Constable
Cooke, and went in his boat, with Dock Vincent, much against his will.

"We are likely to have a sharp time on't," said the officer, when they
had pushed off from the yacht.

"Why so? What's up now?" demanded Dock.

"Mr. Watson has sent all hands ashore, and I suppose he'll have Squire
Cleaves, who's as sharp as a razor new set, and he'll rake us all over
the coals."

"What's going to be done, Levi?" asked Dock, turning to the prisoner.

"I have nothing to say about it," replied Levi.

"What did you send all hands on shore for?"

"I shall answer no questions."

"Afraid of committing yourself, I suppose," said Dock, with a sneer,
which did not wholly conceal his anxiety.

Levi made no reply. Without being willing, in the absence of some
evidence, even to suspect Dock of stealing his uncle's money, he could
not help feeling that the antecedents of his old enemy warranted him in
thinking that he had something to do with the robbery, or, at least,
with fastening the charge upon him, and causing the shot-bag to be
placed in his state-room. The party landed, and while Constable Cooke
conveyed his prisoner to the office of the justice, Dock called at Mr.
Fairfield's to inform him of the arrest.

The old man was somewhat better, and able to sit up in his
rocking-chair; but his bones still ached, though he suffered less in
body than in mind. Dock called upon him every day, and assured him he
would find his gold in time. On the present occasion he had encouraging
news, and related the particulars of the events which had occurred on
board of the yacht.

"I knowed it!" exclaimed Mr. Fairfield, when he had listened to Dock's
story. "I was sartain that boy took the money."

"I suppose it's a clear case enough now," added Dock. "Finding the bag
with your name on it settles the matter."

"But did you find all the money, Cap'n Vincent?" asked the old man,
nervously.

"No; only about fifty dollars of it."

"Didn't find no more?" added Mr. Fairfield, with a blank stare.

"No, but we shall find the rest of it. Mr. Watson's going to make an
awful fuss about it."

"About what?"

"About taking Levi up. I suppose they'll want you to swear to the bag."

"But I can't go out," said the old man with a grunt, when reminded of
the pains in his frame.

"Then the squire must come here, as he did when you swore before. I'll
go up, and see about it. But, Squire Fairfield, I shan't be able to do
much more for you, for I expect my vessel round here soon, and I shall
be busy fixing her up for the voyage to Australia."

"I hope I shall find the money afore you go," added the old man, with a
gloomy look.

"I hope so too, and I expect you will," replied Dock, as he left the
room to attend the examination.

In the mean time Levi had been conveyed to the office of Squire
Saunders, who, deeming the evidence of Mr. Fairfield absolutely
necessary, had decided to hold his court at the house of the miser; and
the old man was soon astonished by the appearance of the whole crowd of
officers, counsel, justice, and witnesses in his chamber.

Mr. Fairfield was examined first. He testified, with many a sigh and
groan, that he had deposited the four bags, each containing one
thousand dollars in gold, in the hole in the wall, which was pointed
out to the justice. He had marked his name on each bag, and he
identified that produced by Constable Cooke as one of the four. He was
asked if the ten half eagles were his property. He was disposed to
swear to them also; he had no doubt they were part of the money he had
lost; but when asked to state by what marks he recognized them, he was
unable to show wherein they differed from other coins of the same
value.

The officer then swore that he found the bag in a locker in the
state-room, with the money in it. Squire Cleaves, who had already been
fully instructed in the case by Mr. Watson, began to put disagreeable
questions to him, which appeared to make him nervous.

"You went off to the yacht with a search-warrant--did you, Mr. Cooke?"
asked the lawyer.

"I did, sir."

"Did you expect to find the money or the bag on board?"

"I did."

"Had any one told you the bag was there?"

"Well, I can't say any one told me it was there," replied Cooke, with
some embarrassment.

"You can't?"

"No, sir; I can't."

"What induced you to look for the money on board of the yacht?"

"I was pretty well satisfied that Levi stole that money, and being he
was goin' off on a cruise, I thought likely he would put some on't on
board to use. That's what made me expect to find it there," added
Constable Cooke, with a more satisfied expression on his face, for the
explanation he had given appeared to meet the exigencies of the case.

"Did you reason this out yourself, or did some one suggest the idea to
you?"

"Well, some one spoke to me about it, but----"

"Precisely so! Who spoke to you about it?"

"No one said much to me, and I----"

"But who said anything?" interposed the squire.

"Well, Captain Vincent said I might find the bag--he didn't say I
should find it."




CHAPTER X.

MR. C. AUGUSTUS EBÉNIER.


Squire Cleaves had brought out from the unwilling witness the fact that
he wanted, and Dock Vincent was put upon the stand. The learned counsel
adroitly conveyed the information that the witness had been convicted
of crime, and had served a term in the state prison--which, though it
did not exclude him from giving evidence, might affect his credibility.
This statement roused the ire of Dock, and he was cross and sullen,
which is a very bad state of mind to be in when subjected to the
torture of a skilful lawyer.

Dock described the manner in which he had assisted Mr. Fairfield in
finding his money. He had done all that an honest man and a good
neighbor should do to help a feeble old man; and it wasn't right for
"one-horse lawyers" to insult him.

"Do you consider yourself insulted, Captain Vincent?" asked the squire.

"Yes, sir; I do!"

"Have you been convicted of a crime?"

"What if I have? There was no justice in it," growled Dock.

"Have you served a term in the state prison?"

"If I have, it wasn't a fair thing; and a good many better men than you
or me have spent years in prison."

"Undoubtedly, but our best men don't usually graduate at the state
prison. You admit the facts as I stated them. Now, Captain Vincent, you
were employed by Mr. Fairfield in finding the money he lost."

"I said so; I was."

"Did you tell the constable he would find the bag on board of the
yacht?"

"No, sir; I did not."

"What did you tell him?"

"In my opinion, Levi stole that money. I didn't think so at first, but
his uncle convinced me he must have done it. I told the constable to
look for the money and the bags on board that vessel."

"Didn't you tell him he would find this bag in Levi's state-room?"

"No, sir; I did not."

"Didn't you tell him he might expect to find it there?"

"Perhaps I did; whether I did or not, I expected he would find it
there," answered Dock, casting a malicious glance at Levi.

"Why did you expect he would find it there?"

"Because I was satisfied Levi stole the money, and would use some of it
while he was gone on the cruise."

"Was that the only reason?"

"It was."

"Captain Vincent, do you know how that bag came in Levi's state-room?"
asked the lawyer, looking upon the floor, as though he considered the
question of little consequence.

