“Not more proportionately to numbers. But I would not have them thinned
out. The better we do Christ’s work, the more of uneducated, neglected,
or debased mind will be drawn to try and serve Him with us. He sought
out the lame, the halt, the blind, the stupid, the crotchety, the rough,
as well as the equable, the intelligent, the refined. Untrained
Christians in any sect will always have their eccentricities and their
littlenesses, at which the silken judgment of high places, where the
Carpenter’s Son would be a strange guest, will sneer. That never
troubles me. It only raises the question in my mind whether cultivated
Christians generally are sufficiently cultivators, scattering their
golden gifts on wayside ground.”

“Now take Deacon Quirk,” I suggested, when we had ridden along a little
way under the low, green arches of the elms, “and put him into heaven as
you proposed, just as he is, and what is he going to do with himself?
He can dig potatoes and sell them without cheating, and give generously
of their proceeds to foreign missions; but take away his potatoes, and
what would become of him? I don’t know a human being more incapacitated
to live in such a heaven as he believes in.”

“Very true, and a good, common-sense argument against such a heaven. I
don’t profess to surmise what will be found for him to do, beyond
this,--that it will be some very palpable work that he can understand.
How do we know that he would not be appointed guardian of his poor son
here, to whom I suspect he has not been all that father might be in this
life, and that he would not have his body as well as his soul to look
after, his farm as well as his prayers? to him might be committed the
charge of the dews and the rains and the hundred unseen influences that
are at work on this very potato-field.”

“But when his son has gone in his turn, and we have all gone, and there
are no more potato-fields? An Eternity remains.”

“You don’t know that there wouldn’t be any potato-fields; there may be
some kind of agricultural employments even then. To whomsoever a talent
is given, it will be given him wherewith to use it. Besides, by that
time the good Deacon will be immensely changed. I suppose that the
simple transition of death, which rids him of sin and of grossness, will
not only wonderfully refine him, but will have its effect upon his
intellect.”

“If a talent is given, use will be found for it? Tell me some more about
that.”

“I fancy many things about it; but of course can feel sure of only the
foundation principle. This life is a great school-house. The wise
Teacher trains in us such gifts as, if we graduate honorably, will be of
most service in the perfect manhood and womanhood that come after. He
sees, as we do not, that a power is sometimes best trained by
repression. ‘We do not always lose an advantage when we dispense with
it,’ Goethe says. But the suffocated lives, like little Clo’s there,
make my heart ache sometimes. I take comfort in thinking how they will
bud and blossom up in the air, by and by. There are a great many of
them. We tread them underfoot in our careless stepping now and then, and
do not see that they have not the elasticity to rise from our touch.
‘Heaven may be a place for those who failed on earth,’ the Country
Parson says.”

“Then there will be air enough for all?”

“For all; for those who have had a little bloom in this world, as well.
I suppose the artist will paint his pictures, the poet sing his happy
songs, the orator and author will not find their talents hidden in the
eternal darkness of a grave; the sculptor will use his beautiful gift in
the moulding of some heavenly Carrara; ‘as well the singer as the player
on instruments shall be there.’ Christ said a thing that has grown on me
with new meanings lately:--‘He that loseth his life for my sake shall
find it.’ It, you see,--not another man’s life, not a strange
compound of powers and pleasures, but his own familiar aspirations. So
we shall best ‘glorify God,’ not less there than here, by doing it in
the peculiar way that He himself marked out for us. But--ah, Mary, you
see it is only the life ‘lost’ for His sake that shall be so
beautifully found. A great man never goes to heaven because he is great.
He must go, as the meanest of his fellow-sinners go, with face towards
Calvary, and every golden treasure used for love of Him who showed him
how.”

“What would the old Pagans--and modern ones, too, for that matter--say
to that? Wasn’t it Tacitus who announced it as his belief, that
immortality was granted as a special gift to a few superior minds? For
the people who persisted in making up the rest of the world, poor
things! as it could be of little consequence what became of them, they
might die as the brute dieth.”

“It seems an unbearable thing to me sometimes,” she went on, “the wreck
of a gifted soul. A man who can be, if he chooses, as much better and
happier than the rest of us as the ocean reflects more sky than a
mill-pond, must also be, if he chooses, more wicked and more miserable.
It takes longer to reach sea-shells than river-pebbles. I am compelled
to think, also, that intellectual rank must in heaven bear some
proportion to goodness. There are last and there are first that shall
have changed places. As the tree falleth, there shall it lie, and with
that amount of holiness of which a man leaves this life the possessor,
he must start in another. I have seen great thinkers, ‘foremost men’ in
science, in theology, in the arts, who, I solemnly believe, will turn
aside in heaven,--and will turn humbly and heartily,--to let certain
day-laborers and paupers whom I have known go up before them as kings
and priests unto God.”

“I believe that. But I was going to ask,--for poor creatures like your
respected niece, who hasn’t a talent, nor even a single absorbing taste,
for one thing above another thing,--what shall she do?”

“Whatever she liketh best; something very useful, my dear, don’t be
afraid, and very pleasant. Something, too, for which this life has
fitted you; though you may not understand how that can be, better than
did poor Heine on his ‘matrazzen-gruft,’ reading all the books that
treated of his disease. ‘But what good this reading is to do me I don’t
know,’ he said, ‘except that it will qualify me to give lectures in
heaven on the ignorance of doctors on earth about diseases of the spinal
marrow.’”

“I don’t know how many times I have thought of--I believe it was the
poet Gray, who said that his idea of heaven was to lie on the sofa and
read novels. That touches the lazy part of us, though.”

“Yes, they will be the active, outgoing, generous elements of our nature
that will be brought into use then, rather than the self-centred and
dreamy ones. Though I suppose that we shall read in heaven,--being
influenced to be better and nobler by good and noble teachers of the
pen, not less there than here.”

“O think of it! To have books, and music,--and pictures?”

“All that Art, ‘the handmaid of the Lord,’ can do for us, I have no
doubt will be done. Eternity will never become monotonous. Variety
without end, charms unnumbered within charms, will be devised by
Infinite ingenuity to minister to our delight. Perhaps,--this is just my
fancying,--perhaps there will be whole planets turned into galleries of
art, over which we may wander at will; or into orchestral halls where
the highest possibilities of music will be realized to singer and to
hearer. Do you know, I have sometimes had a flitting notion that music
would be the language of heaven? It certainly differs in some
indescribable manner from the other arts. We have most of us felt it in
our different ways. It always seems to me like the cry of a great, sad
life dragged to use in this world against its will. Pictures and statues
and poems fit themselves to their work more contentedly. Symphony and
song struggle in fetters. That sense of conflict is not good for me. It
is quite as likely to harm as to help. Then perhaps the mysteries of
sidereal systems will be spread out like a child’s map before us.
Perhaps we shall take journeys to Jupiter and to Saturn and to the
glittering haze of nebulæ, and to the site of ruined worlds whose
‘extinct light is yet travelling through space.’ Occupation for
explorers there, you see!”

“You make me say with little Clo, ‘O, why, I want to go!’ every time I
hear you talk. But there is one thing,--you spoke of families living
together.”

“Yes.”

“And you spoke of--your husband. But the Bible--”

“Says there shall be no marrying nor giving in marriage. I know that.
Nor will there be such marrying or giving in marriage as there is in a
world like this. Christ expressly goes on to state, that we shall be
as the angels in heaven. How do we know what heavenly unions of heart
with heart exist among the angels? It leaves me margin enough to live
and be happy with John forever, and it holds many possibilities for the
settlement of all perplexing questions brought about by the relations of
this world. It is of no use to talk much about them. But it is on that
very verse that I found my unshaken belief that they will be smoothed
out in some natural and happy way, with which each one shall be
content.”

“But O, there is a great gulf fixed; and on one side one, and on the
other another, and they loved each other.”

Her face paled,--it always pales, I notice, at the mention of this
mystery,--but her eyes never lost by a shade their steadfast trust.

“Mary, don’t question me about that. That belongs to the unutterable
things. God will take care of it. I think I could leave it to him even
if he brought it for me myself to face. I feel sure that he will make it
all come out right. Perhaps He will be so dear to us, that we could not
love any one who hated him. In some way the void must be filled, for
he shall wipe away tears. But it seems to me that the only thought in
which there can be any rest, and in that there can, is this: that
Christ, who loves us even as his Father loves him, can be happy in spite
of the existence of a hell. If it is possible to him, surely he can make
it possible to us.”

“Two things that He has taught us,” she said after a silence, “give me
beautiful assurance that none of these dreams with which I help myself
can be beyond his intention to fulfil. One is, that eye hath not seen
it, nor ear heard it, nor the heart conceived it,--this lavishness of
reward which he is keeping for us. Another is, that ‘I shall be
satisfied when I awake.’”

“With his likeness.”

“With his likeness. And about that I have other things to say.”

But Old Gray stopped at the gate and Phœbe was watching for her
butter, and it was no time to say them then.




XII.


July 22.

Aunt Winifred has connected herself with our church. I think it was
rather hard for her, breaking the last tie that bound her to her
husband’s people; but she had a feeling, that, if her work is to be done
and her days ended here, she had better take up all such little threads
of influence to make herself one with us.


25th.

To-day what should Deacon Quirk do but make a solemn call on Mrs.
Forceythe, for the purpose of asking--and this with a hint that he
wished he had asked before she became a member of the Homer First
Congregational Church--whether there were truth in the rumors, now rife
about town, that she was a Swedenborgian!

Aunt Winifred broke out laughing, and laughed merrily. The Deacon
frowned.

“I used to fancy that I believed in Swedenborg,” she said, as soon as
she could sober down a little.

The Deacon pricked up his ears, with visions of excommunications and
councils reflected on every feature.

“Until I read his books,” she finished.

“Oh!” said the Deacon. He waited for more, but she seemed to consider
the conversation at an end.

“So then you--if I understand--are not a Swedenborgian, ma’am?”

“If I were, I certainly should have had no inducement to join myself to
your church,” she replied, with gentle dignity. “I believe, with all my
heart, in the same Bible and the same creed that you believe in, Deacon
Quirk.”

“And you live your creed, which all such genial Christians do not find
it necessary to do,” I thought, as the Deacon in some perplexity took
his departure, and she returned with a smile to her sewing.

I suppose the call came about in this way. We had the sewing-circle here
last week, and just before the lamps were lighted, and when people had
dropped their work to group and talk in the corners, Meta Tripp came up
with one or two other girls to Aunt Winifred, and begged “to hear some
of those queer things people said she believed about heaven.” Auntie is
never obtrusive with her views on this or any other matter, but, being
thus urged, she answered a few questions that they put to her, to the
extreme scandal of one or two old ladies, and the secret delight of the
rest.

“Well,” said little Mrs. Bland, squeezing and kissing her youngest, who
was at that moment vigorously employed in sticking very long
darning-needles into his mother’s waterfall, “I hope there’ll be a great
many babies there. I should be perfectly happy if I always could have
babies to play with!”

The look that Aunt Winifred shot over at me was worth seeing.

She merely replied, however, that she supposed all our “highest
aspirations,”--with an indescribable accent to which Mrs. Bland was
safely deaf,--if good ones, would be realized; and added, laughing, that
Swedenborg said that the babies in heaven--who outnumber the grown
people--will be given into the charge of those women especially fond of
them.

“Swedenborg is suggestive, even if you can’t accept what seem to the
uninitiated to be his natural impossibilities,” she said, after we had
discussed Deacon Quirk awhile. “He says a pretty thing, too,
occasionally. Did I ever read you about the houses?”

She had not, and I wished to hear, so she found the book on Heaven and
Hell, and read:--

“As often as I have spoken with the angels mouth to mouth, so often I
have been with them in their habitations: their habitations are
altogether like the habitations on earth which are called houses, but
more beautiful; in them are parlors, rooms, and chambers in great
numbers; there are also courts, and round about are gardens,
shrubberies, and fields. Palaces of heaven have been seen, which were so
magnificent that they could not be described; above, they glittered as
if they were of pure gold, and below, as if they were of precious
stones; one palace was more splendid than another; within, it was the
same the rooms were ornamented with such decorations as neither words
nor sciences are sufficient to describe. On the side which looked to the
south there were paradises, where all things in like manner glittered,
and in some places the leaves were as of silver, and the fruits as of
gold; and the flowers on their beds presented by colors as it were
rainbows; at the boundaries again were palaces, in which the view
terminated.”

Aunt Winifred says that our hymns, taken all together, contain the worst
and the best pictures of heaven that we have in any branch of
literature.

“It seems to me incredible,” she says, “that the Christian Church should
have allowed that beautiful ‘Jerusalem’ in its hymnology so long, with
the ghastly couplet,--

    ‘Where congregations ne’er break up,
       And Sabbaths have no end.’

The dullest preachers are sure to give it out, and that when there are
the greatest number of restless children wondering when it will be time
to go home. It is only within ten years that modern hymn books have
altered it, returning in part to the original.

“I do not think we have chosen the best parts of that hymn for our
‘service of song.’ You never read the whole of it? You don’t know how
pretty it is! It is a relief from the customary palms and choirs. One’s
whole heart is glad of the outlet of its sweet refrain,--

    ‘Would God that I were there!’

before one has half read it. You are quite ready to believe that

    ‘There is no hunger, heat, nor cold,
      But pleasure every way.’

Listen to this:--

    ‘Thy houses are of ivory,
      Thy windows crystal clear,
    Thy tiles are made of beaten gold;
      O God, that I were there!

    ‘We that are here in banishment
      Continually do moan.

    

    ‘Our sweet is mixed with bitter gall,
      Our pleasure is but pain,
    Our joys scarce last the looking on,
      Our sorrows still remain.

    ‘But there they live in such delight,
      Such pleasure and such play,
    As that to them a thousand years
      Doth seem as yesterday.’

And this:--

    ‘Thy gardens and thy gallant walks
       Continually are green;
     There grow such sweet and pleasant flowers
       As nowhere else are seen.

    ‘There cinnamon, there sugar grows,
       There nard and balm abound,
     What tongue can tell, or heart conceive
       The joys that there are found?

    ‘Quite through the streets, with silver sound,
       The flood of life doth flow,
     Upon whose banks, on every side,
       The wood of life doth grow.’

I tell you we may learn something from that grand old Catholic singer.
He is far nearer to the Bible than the innovators on his MSS. Do you not
notice how like his images are to the inspired ones, and yet how
pleasant and natural is the effect of the entire poem?

“There is nobody like Bonar, though, to sing about heaven. There is one
of his, ‘We shall meet and rest,’--do you know it?”

I shook my head, and knelt down beside her and watched her face,--it was
quite unconscious of me, the musing face,--while she repeated
dreamily:--

    “Where the faded flower shall freshen,--
       Freshen nevermore to fade;
     Where the shaded sky shall brighten,--
       Brighten nevermore to shade;
     Where the sun-blaze never scorches;
       Where the star-beams cease to chill;
     Where no tempest stirs the echoes
       Of the wood, or wave, or hill;....
     Where no shadow shall bewilder;
       Where life’s vain parade is o’er;
     Where the sleep of sin is broken,
       And the dreamer dreams no more;
     Where the bond is never severed,--
       Partings, claspings, sob and moan,
     Midnight waking, twilight weeping,
       Heavy noontide,--all are done;
     Where the child has found its mother;
       Where the mother finds the child;
     Where dear families are gathered,
       That were scattered on the wild;....
     Where the hidden wound is healed;
       Where the blighted life reblooms;
     Where the smitten heart the freshness
       Of its buoyant youth resumes;....
     Where we find the joy of loving,
       As we never loved before,--
     Loving on, unchilled, unhindered,
       Loving once, forevermore.” ...


30th.

Aunt Winifred was weeding her day-lilies this morning, when the gate
creaked timidly, and then swung noisily, and in walked Abinadab Quirk,
with a bouquet of China pinks in the button-hole of his green-gray linen
coat. He had taken evident pains to smarten himself up a little, for his
hair was combed into two horizontal dabs over his ears, and the
green-gray coat and blue-checked shirt-sleeves were quite clean; but he
certainly is the most uncouth specimen of six feet five that it has ever
been my privilege to behold. I feel sorry for him, though. I heard Meta
Tripp laughing at him in Sunday school the other day,--“Quadrangular
Quirk,” she called him, a little too loud, and the poor fellow heard
her. He half turned, blushing fiercely; then slunk down in his corner
with as pitiable a look as is often seen upon a man’s face.

He came up to Auntie awkwardly,--a part of the scene I saw from the
window, and the rest she told me,--head hanging, and the tiny bouquet
held out.

“Clo sent these to you,” he stammered out,--“my cousin Clo. I was coming
’long, and she thought, you know,--she’d get me, you see, to--to--that
is, to--bring them. She sent her--that is--let me see. She sent her
respect--ful--respectful--no, her love; that was it. She sent her love
’long with ’em.”

Mrs. Forceythe dropped her weeds, and held out her white, shapely hands,
wet with the heavy dew, to take the flowers.

“O, thank you! Clo knows my fancy for pinks. How kind in you to bring
them! Won’t you sit down a few moments? I was just going to rest a
little. Do you like flowers?”

Abinadab eyed the white hands, as his huge fingers just touched them,
with a sort of awe; and, sighing, sat down on the very edge of the
garden bench beside her. After a singular variety of efforts to take the
most uncomfortable position of which he was capable, he succeeded to his
satisfaction, and, growing then somewhat more at his ease, answered her
question.

“Flowers are sech gassy things. They just blow out and that’s the end
of ’em. I like machine-shops best.”

“Ah! well, that is a very useful liking. Do you ever invent machinery
yourself?”

“Sometimes,” said Abinadab, with a bashful smile. “There’s a little
improvement of mine for carpet-sweepers up before the patent-office now.
Don’t know whether they’ll run it through. Some of the chaps I saw in
Boston told me they thought they would do’t in time; it takes an awful
sight of time. I’m alwers fussing over something of the kind; alwers
did, sence I was a baby; had my little windmills and carts and things;
used to sell ’em to the other young uns. Father don’t like it. He wants
me to stick to the farm. I don’t like farming. I feel like a fish out of
water.--Mrs. Forceythe, marm!”

He turned on her with an abrupt change of tone, so funny that she could
with difficulty retain her gravity.

“I heard you saying a sight of queer things the other day about heaven.
Clo, she’s been telling me a sight more. Now, I never believed in
heaven!”

“Why?”

“Because I don’t believe,” said the poor fellow, with sullen decision,
“that a benevolent God ever would ha’ made sech a derned awkward chap as
I am!”

Aunt Winifred replied by stepping into the house, and bringing out a
fine photograph of one of the best of the St. Georges,--a rapt, yet very
manly face, in which the saint and the hero are wonderfully blended.

“I suppose,” she said, putting it into his hands, “that if you should go
to heaven, you would be as much fairer than that picture as that picture
is fairer than you are now.”

“No! Why, would I, though? Jim-miny! Why, it would be worth going for,
wouldn’t it?”

The words were no less reverently spoken than the vague rhapsodies of
his father; for the sullenness left his face, and his eyes--which are
pleasant, and not unmanly, when one fairly sees them--sparkled softly,
like a child’s.

“Make it all up there, maybe?” musing,--“the girls laughing at you all
your life, and all? That would be the bigger heft of the two then,
wouldn’t it? for they say there ain’t any end to things up there. Why,
so it might be fair in Him after all; more’n fair, perhaps. See here,
Mrs. Forceythe, I’m not a church-member, you know, and father, he’s
dreadful troubled about me; prays over me like a span of ministers, the
old gentleman does, every Sunday night. Now, I don’t want to go to the
other place any more than the next man, and I’ve had my times, too, of
thinking I’d keep steady and say my prayers reg’lar,--it makes a chap
feel on a sight better terms with himself,--but I don’t see how I’m
going to wear white frocks and stand up in a choir,--never could sing no
more’n a frog with a cold in his head,--it tires me more now, honest, to
think of it, than it does to do a week’s mowing. Look at me! Do you
s’pose I’m fit for it? Father, he’s always talking about the thrones,
and the wings, and the praises, and the palms, and having new names in
your foreheads, (shouldn’t object to that, though, by any means), till
he drives me into the tool-house, or off on a spree. I tell him if God
hain’t got a place where chaps like me can do something He’s fitted ’em
to do in this world, there’s no use thinking about it anyhow.”

So Auntie took the honest fellow into her most earnest thought for half
an hour, and argued, and suggested, and reproved, and helped him, as
only she could do; and at the end of it seemed to have worked into his
mind some distinct and not unwelcome ideas of what a Christ-like life
must mean to him, and of the coming heaven which is so much more real to
her than any life outside of it.

“And then,” she told him, “I imagine that your fancy for machinery will
be employed in some way. Perhaps you will do a great deal more
successful inventing there than you ever will here.”

“You don’t say so!” said radiant Abinadab.

“God will give you something to do, certainly, and something that you
will like.”

“I might turn it to some religious purpose, you know!” said Abinadab,
looking bright. “Perhaps I could help ’em build a church, or hist some
of their pearl gates, or something like!”

Upon that he said that it was time to be at home and see to the oxen,
and shambled awkwardly away.

Clo told us this afternoon that he begged the errand and the flowers
from her. She says: “‘Bin thinks there never was anybody like you, Mrs.
Forceythe, and ’Bin isn’t the only one, either.” At which Mrs. Forceythe
smiles absently, thinking--I wonder of what.


Monday night.

I saw as funny and as pretty a bit of a drama this afternoon as I have
seen for a long time.

Faith had been rolling out in the hot hay ever since three o’clock, with
one of the little Blands, and when the shadows grew long they came in
with flushed cheeks and tumbled hair, to rest and cool upon the
door-steps. I was sitting in the parlor, sewing energetically on some
sun-bonnets for some of Aunt Winifred’s people down town,--I found the
heat to be more bearable if I kept busy,--and could see, unseen, all the
little tableaux into which the two children grouped themselves; a new
one every instant; in the shadow now,--now in a quiver of golden glow;
the wind tossing their hair about, and their chatter chiming down the
hall like bells.

“O what a funny little sunset there’s going to be behind the
maple-tree,” said the blond-haired Bland, in a pause.

“Funny enough,” observed Faith, with her superior smile, “but it’s going
to be a great deal funnier up in heaven, I tell you, Molly Bland.”

“Funny in heaven? Why, Faith!” Molly drew herself up with a religious
air, and looked the image of her father.

“Yes, to be sure. I’m going to have some little pink blocks made out of
it when I go; pink and yellow and green and purple and--O, so many
blocks! I’m going to have a little red cloud to sail round in, like that
one up over the house, too, I shouldn’t wonder.”

Molly opened her eyes.

“O, I don’t believe it!”

“You don’t know much!” said Miss Faith, superbly. “I shouldn’t s’pose
you would believe it. P’r’aps I’ll have some strawberries too, and some
ginger-snaps,--I’m not going to have any old bread and butter up
there,--O, and some little gold apples, and a lot of playthings; nicer
playthings--why, nicer than they have in the shops in Boston, Molly
Bland! God’s keeping ’em up there a purpose.”

“Dear me!” said incredulous Molly, “I should just like to know who told
you that much. My mother never told it at me. Did your mother tell it at
you?”

“O, she told me some of it, and the rest I thinked out myself.”

“Let’s go and play One Old Cat,” said Molly, with an uncomfortable jump;
“I wish I hadn’t got to go to heaven!”

“Why, Molly Bland! why, I think heaven’s splendid! I’ve got my papa up
there, you know. ‘Here’s my little girl!’ That’s what he’s going to say.
Mamma, she’ll be there, too, and we’re all going to live in the
prettiest house. I have dreadful hurries to go this afternoon sometimes
when Phœbe’s cross and won’t give me sugar. They don’t let you in,
though, ’nless you’re a good girl.”

“Who gets it all up?” asked puzzled Molly.

“Jesus Christ will give me all these beautiful fings,” said Faith,
evidently repeating her mother’s words,--the only catechism that she has
been taught.

“And what will he do when he sees you?” asked her mother, coming down
the stairs and stepping up behind her.

“Take me up in His arms and kiss me.”

“And what will Faith say?”

“Fank--you!” said the child, softly.

In another minute she was absorbed, body and soul, in the mysteries of
One Old Cat.

“But I don’t think she will feel much like being naughty for half an
hour to come,” her mother said; “hear how pleasantly her words drop!
Such a talk quiets her, like a hand laid on her head. Mary, sometimes I
think it is His very hand, as much as when He touched those other little
children. I wish Faith to feel at home with Him and His home. Little
thing! I really do not think that she is conscious of any fear of dying;
I do not think it means anything to her but Christ, and her father, and
pink blocks, and a nice time, and never disobeying me, or being cross.
Many a time she wakes me up in the morning talking away to herself, and
when I turn and look at her, she says: ‘O mamma, won’t we go to heaven
to-day, you fink? When will we go, mamma?’”

“If there had been any pink blocks and ginger-snaps for me when I was at
her age, I should not have prayed every night to ‘die out.’ I think the
horrors of death that children live through, unguessed and unrelieved,
are awful. Faith may thank you all her life that she has escaped them.”

“I should feel answerable to God for the child’s soul, if I had not
prevented that. I always wanted to know what sort of mother that poor
little thing had, who asked, if she were very good up in heaven,
whether they wouldn’t let her go down to hell Saturday afternoons, and
play a little while!”

“I know. But think of it,--blocks and ginger-snaps!”

“I treat Faith just as the Bible treats us, by dealing in pictures of
truth that she can understand. I can make Clo and Abinadab Quirk
comprehend that their pianos and machinery may not be made of literal
rosewood and steel, but will be some synonyme of the thing, which will
answer just such wants of their changed natures as rosewood and steel
must answer now. There will be machinery and pianos in the same sense in
which there will be pearl gates and harps. Whatever enjoyment any or all
of them represent now, something will represent then.

“But Faith, if I told her that her heavenly ginger-snaps would not be
made of molasses and flour, would have a cry, for fear that she was not
going to have any ginger-snaps at all; so, until she is older, I give
her unqualified ginger-snaps. The principal joy of a child’s life
consists in eating. Faith begins, as soon as the light wanes, to dream
of that gum-drop which she is to have at bedtime. I don’t suppose she
can outgrow that at once by passing out of her little round body. She
must begin where she left off,--nothing but a baby, though it will be as
holy and happy a baby as Christ can make it. When she says: “Mamma, I
shall be hungery and want my dinner, up there,” I never hesitate to tell
her that she shall have her dinner. She would never, in her secret
heart, though she might not have the honesty to say so, expect to be
otherwise than miserable in a dinnerless eternity.”

“You are not afraid of misleading the child’s fancy?”

“Not so long as I can keep the two ideas--that Christ is her best
friend, and that heaven is not meant for naughty girls--pre-eminent in
her mind. And I sincerely believe that He would give her the very pink
blocks which she anticipates, no less than He would give back a poet his
lost dreams, or you your brother. He has been a child; perhaps,
incidentally to the unsolved mysteries of atonement, for this very
reason,--that He may know how to ‘prepare their places’ for them, whose
angels do always behold His Father. Ah, you may be sure that, if of such
is the happy Kingdom, He will not scorn to stoop and fit it to their
little needs.

“There was that poor little fellow whose guinea-pig died,--do you
remember?”

“Only half; what was it?”

“‘O mamma,’ he sobbed out, behind his handkerchief, ‘don’t great big
elephants have souls?’

“‘No, my son.’

“‘Nor camels, mamma?’

“‘No.’

“‘Nor bears, nor alligators, nor chickens?’

“‘O no, dear.’

“‘O mamma, mamma! Don’t little CLEAN--white--guinea-pigs have
souls?’

“I never should have had the heart to say no to that; especially as we
have no positive proof to the contrary.

“Then that scrap of a boy who lost his little red balloon the morning he
bought it, and, broken-hearted, wanted to know whether it had gone to
heaven. Don’t I suppose if he had been taken there himself that very
minute, that he would have found a little balloon in waiting for him?
How can I help it?”

“It has a pretty sound. If people would not think it so material and
shocking--”

“Let people read Martin Luther’s letter to his little boy. There is the
testimony of a pillar in good and regular standing! I don’t think you
need be afraid of my balloon, after that.”

I remembered that there was a letter of his on heaven, but, not
recalling it distinctly, I hunted for it to-night, and read it over. I
shall copy it, the better to retain it in mind.

“Grace and peace in Christ, my dear little son. I see with pleasure that
thou learnest well, and prayed diligently. Do so, my son, and continue.
When I come home I will bring thee a pretty fairing.

“I know a pretty, merry garden wherein are many children. They have
little golden coats, and they gather beautiful apples under the trees,
and pears, cherries, plums, and wheat-plums;--they sing, and jump, and
are merry. They have beautiful little horses, too, with gold bits and
silver saddles. And I asked the man to whom the garden belongs, whose
children they were. And he said: ‘They are the children that love to
pray and to learn, and are good.’ Then said I: ‘Dear man, I have a son,
too; his name is Johnny Luther. May he not also come into this garden
and eat these beautiful apples and pears, and ride these fine horses?’
Then the man said: ‘If he loves to pray and to learn, and is good, he
shall come into this garden, and Lippus and Jost too; and when they all
come together, they shall have fifes and trumpets, lutes and all sorts
of music, and they shall dance, and shoot with little cross-bows.’

“And he showed me a fine meadow there in the garden, made for dancing.
There hung nothing but golden fifes, trumpets, and fine silver
cross-bows. But it was early, and the children had not yet eaten;
therefore I could not wait the dance, and I said to the man: ‘Ah, dear
sir! I will immediately go and write all this to my little son Johnny,
and tell him to pray diligently, and to learn well, and to be good, so
that he also may come to this garden. But he has an Aunt Lehne, he must
bring her with him.’ Then the man said: ‘It shall be so; go, and write
him so.’

“Therefore, my dear little son Johnny, learn and pray away! and tell
Lippus and Jost, too that they must learn and pray. And then you shall
come to the garden together. Herewith I commend thee to Almighty God.
And greet Aunt Lehne, and give her a kiss for my sake.

                           “Thy dear Father,

                                   “MARTINUS LUTHER.

“ANNO 1530.”




XIII.


August 3.

The summer is sliding quietly away,--my desolate summer which I dreaded;
with the dreams gone from its wild flowers, the crown from its sunsets,
the thrill from its winds and its singing.

But I have found out a thing. One can live without dreams and crowns and
thrills.

I have not lost them. They lie under the ivied cross with Roy for a
little while. They will come back to me with him. “Nothing is lost,” she
teaches me. And until they come back, I see--for she shows me--fields
groaning under their white harvest, with laborers very few. Ruth
followed the sturdy reapers, gleaning a little. I, perhaps, can do as
much. The ways in which I must work seem so small and insignificant, so
pitifully trivial sometimes, that I do not even like to write them down
here. In fact, they are so small that, six months ago, I did not see
them at all. Only to be pleasant to old Phœbe, and charitable to
Meta Tripp, and faithful to my not very interesting little scholars,
and a bit watchful of worn-out Mrs. Bland, and--But dear me, I won’t!
They are so little!

But one’s self becomes of less importance, which seems to be the point.

It seems very strange to me sometimes, looking back to those desperate
winter days, what a change has come over my thoughts of Roy. Not that he
is any less--O, never any less to me. But it is almost as if she had
raised him from the grave. Why seek ye the living among the dead? Her
soft, compassionate eyes shine with the question every hour. And every
hour he is helping me,--ah, Roy, we understand one another now.

How he must love Aunt Winifred! How pleasant the days will be when we
can talk her over, and thank her together!

“To be happy because Roy is happy.” I remember how those first words of
hers struck me. It does not seem to me impossible, now.

       

Aunt Winifred and I laugh at each other for talking so much about
heaven. I see that the green book is filled with my questions and her
answers. The fact is, not that we do not talk as much about mundane
affairs as other people, but that this one thing interests us more.

If, instead, it had been flounces, or babies, or German philosophy, the
green book would have filled itself just as unconsciously with flounces,
or babies, or German philosophy. This interest in heaven is of course no
sign of especial piety in me, nor could people with young, warm,
uncrushed hopes throbbing through their days be expected to feel the
same. It is only the old principle of, where the treasure is--the heart.

“How spiritual-minded Mary has grown!” Mrs. Bland observes, regarding me
respectfully. I try in vain to laugh her out of the conviction. If Roy
had not gone before, I should think no more, probably, about the coming
life, than does the minister’s wife herself.

But now--I cannot help it--that is the reality, this the dream; that the
substance, this the shadow.

The other day Aunt Winifred and I had a talk which has been of more
value to me than all the rest.

Faith was in bed; it was a cold, rainy evening; we were secure from
callers; we lighted a few kindlers in the parlor grate; she rolled up
the easy-chair, and I took my cricket at her feet.

“Paul at the feet of Gamaliel! This is what I call comfort. Now, Auntie,
let us go to heaven awhile.”

“Very well. What do you want there now?”

I paused a moment, sobered by a thought that has been growing steadily
upon me of late.

“Something more, Aunt Winifred. All these other things are beautiful and
dear; but I believe I want--God.

“You have not said much about Him. The Bible says a great deal about
Him. You have given me the filling-up of heaven in all its pleasant
promise, but--I don’t know--there seems to be an outline wanting.”

She drew my hand up into hers, smiling.

“I have not done my painting by artistic methods, I know; but it was not
exactly accidental.

“Tell me, honestly,--is God more to you or less, a more distinct Being
or a more vague one, than He was six months ago? Is He, or is He not,
dearer to you now than then?”

I thought about it a minute, and then turned my face up to her.

“Mary, what a light in your eyes! How is it?”

It came over me slowly, but it came with such a passion of gratitude and
unworthiness, that I scarcely knew how to tell her--that He never has
been to me, in all my life, what he is now at the end of these six
months. He was once an abstract Grandeur which I struggled more in fear
than love to please. He has become a living Presence, dear and real.

    “No dead fact stranded on the shore
       Of the oblivious years;
     But warm, sweet, tender, even yet
       A present help.” ...

He was an inexorable Mystery who took Roy from me to lose him in the
glare of a more inexorable heaven. He is a Father who knew better than
we that we should be parted for a while; but He only means it to be a
little while. He is keeping him for me to find in the flush of some
summer morning, on which I shall open my eyes no less naturally than I
open them on June sunrises now. I always have that fancy of going in the
morning.

She understood what I could not tell her, and said, “I thought it would
be so.”

“You, His interpreter, have done it,” I answered her. “His heaven shows
what He is,--don’t you see?--like a friend’s letter. I could no more go
back to my old groping relations to Him, than I could make of you the
dim and somewhat apocryphal Western Auntie that you were before I saw
you.”

“Which was precisely why I have dealt with this subject as I have,” she
said. “You had all your life been directed to an indefinite heaven,
where the glory of God was to crowd out all individuality and all human
joy from His most individual and human creatures, till the “Glory of
God” had become nothing but a name and a dread to you. So I let those
three words slide by, and tried to bring you to them, as Christ brought
the Twelve to believe in him, ‘for the works’ sake.’

“Yes, my child; clinging human loves, stifled longings, cries for rest,
forgotten hopes, shall have their answer. Whatever the bewilderment of
beauties folded away for us in heavenly nature and art, they shall
strive with each other to make us glad. These things have their pleasant
place. But, through eternity, there will be always something beyond and
dearer than the dearest of them. God himself will be first,--naturally
and of necessity, without strain or struggle, first.”

When I sat here last winter with my dead in my house, those words would
have roused in me an agony of wild questionings. I should have beaten
about them and beaten against them, and cried in my honest heart that
they were false. I knew that I loved Roy more than I loved such a
