"Indeed!" exclaimed Richard Hunter, in visible excitement. "Well,
Fosdick, why don't you try to get the debt paid?"

"Of what use would it be? How do I know he is living in Milkwaukie now?
If I should write him a letter, there isn't much chance of my ever
getting an answer."

"Call and see him."

"What, go out to Milwaukie on such a wild-goose chase as that? I can't
think what you are driving at, Dick."

"Then I'll tell you, Fosdick. Hiram Bates is now in New York."

"How do you know?" asked Fosdick, with an expression of mingled
amazement and incredulity.

"I'll show you."

Richard Hunter pointed to the list of hotel arrivals in the "Evening
Express," which he held in his hand. Among the arrivals at the Astor
House occurred the name of Hiram Bates, from Milwaukie.

"If I am not mistaken," he said, "that is the name of your father's
debtor."

"I don't know but you are right," said Fosdick, thoughtfully.

"He must be prosperous if he stops at a high-priced hotel like the
Astor."

"Yes, I suppose so. How much good that money would have done my poor
father," he added, with a sigh.

"How much good it will do you, Fosdick."

Fosdick shook his head. "I would sell out my chance of getting it for
ten dollars," he said.

"I would buy it at that price if I wanted to make money out of you; but
I don't. I advise you to attend to this matter at once."

"What can I do?" asked Fosdick, who seemed at a loss to understand his
companion's meaning.

"There is only one thing to do," said Dick, promptly. "Call on Mr.
Bates this evening at the hotel. Tell him who you are, and hint that
you should like the money."

"I haven't got your confidence, Dick. I shouldn't know how to go about
it. Do you really think it would do any good? He might think I was
impertinent."

"Impertinent to ask payment of a just debt! I don't see it in that
light. I think I shall have to go with you."

"I wish you would,--that is, if you really think there is any use in
going."

"You mustn't be so bashful if you want to get on in the world, Fosdick.
As long as there's a chance of getting even a part of it, I advise you
to make the attempt."

"Well, Dick, I'll be guided by your advice."

"Two thousand dollars would be a pretty good windfall for you."

"That's true enough, considering that I only get eight dollars a week."

"I wish you got more."

"So do I, for one particular reason."

"What is that?"

"I don't feel satisfied to have you pay ten dollars a week towards our
board, while I pay only six."

"Didn't you promise not to say anything more about that?" said Dick,
reproachfully.

"But I can't help thinking about it. If we had stayed at our old
boarding-house in Bleecker Street, I could have paid my full share."

"But this is a nicer room."

"Much nicer. If I only paid my half, I should be glad of the chance."

"Well, I'll promise you one thing. If Mr. Bates pays you the two
thousand dollars, you may pay your half of the expense."

"Not much chance of that, Dick."

"We can tell better after calling at the Astor House. Get on your coat
and we'll start."

While the boys,--for the elder of the two is but eighteen--are making
preparations to go out, a few explanations may be required by the
reader. Those who have read "Ragged Dick" and "Fame and Fortune,"--the
preceding volumes of this series,--will understand that less than three
years before Richard Hunter was an ignorant and ragged boot-black about
the streets, and Fosdick, though possessing a better education, was
in the same business. By a series of upward steps, partly due to good
fortune, but largely to his own determination to improve, and hopeful
energy, Dick had now become a book-keeper in the establishment of
Rockwell & Cooper, on Pearl Street, and possessed the confidence and
good wishes of the firm in a high degree.

Fosdick was two years younger, and, though an excellent boy, was less
confident, and not so well fitted as his friend to contend with the
difficulties of life, and fight his way upward. He was employed in
Henderson's hat and cap store on Broadway, and was at present earning a
salary of eight dollars a week. As the two paid sixteen dollars weekly
for their board, Fosdick would have had nothing left if he had paid
his full share. But Richard Hunter at first insisted on paying eleven
dollars out of the sixteen, leaving his friend but five to pay. To this
Fosdick would not agree, and was with difficulty prevailed upon at last
to allow Richard to pay ten; but he had always felt a delicacy about
this, although he well knew how gladly his friend did it.

The room which they now occupied was situated in St. Mark's Place,
which forms the eastern portion of Eighth Street. It was a front
room on the third floor, and was handsomely furnished. There was a
thick carpet, of tasteful figure, on the floor. Between the two front
windows was a handsome bureau, surmounted by a large mirror. There was
a comfortable sofa, chairs covered with hair-cloth, a centre-table
covered with books, crimson curtains, which gave a warm and cosey look
to the room when lighted up in the evening, and all the accessories of
a well-furnished room which is used at the same time as parlor and
chamber. This, with an excellent table, afforded a very agreeable home
to the boys,--a home which, in these days, would cost considerably
more, but for which, at the time of which I write, sixteen dollars was
a fair price.

It may be thought that, considering how recently Richard Hunter had
been a ragged boot-black, content to sleep in boxes and sheltered
doorways, and live at the cheapest restaurants, he had become very
luxurious in his tastes. Why did he not get a cheaper boarding-place,
and save up the difference in price? No doubt this consideration will
readily suggest itself to the minds of some of my young readers.

As Richard Hunter had a philosophy of his own on this subject, I may as
well explain it here. He had observed that those young men who out of
economy contented themselves with small and cheerless rooms, in which
there was no provision for a fire, were driven in the evening to the
streets, theatres, and hotels, for the comfort which they could not
find at home. Here they felt obliged to spend money to an extent of
which they probably were not themselves fully aware; and in the end
wasted considerably more than the two or three dollars a week extra
which would have provided them with a comfortable home. But this was
not all. In the roamings spent outside many laid the foundation of
wrong habits, which eventually led to ruin or shortened their lives.
They lost all the chances of improvement which they might have secured
by study at home in the long winter evenings, and which in the end
might have qualified them for posts of higher responsibility, and with
a larger compensation.

Richard Hunter was ambitious. He wanted to rise to an honorable place
in the community, and he meant to earn it by hard study. So Fosdick
and he were in the habit of spending a portion of every evening in
improving reading or study. Occasionally he went to some place of
amusement, but he enjoyed thoroughly the many evenings when, before a
cheerful fire, with books in their hands, his room-mate and himself
were adding to their stock of knowledge. The boys had for over a year
taken lessons in French and mathematics, and were now able to read the
French language with considerable ease.

"What's the use of moping every evening in your room?" asked a young
clerk who occupied a hall bedroom adjoining.

"I don't call it moping. I enjoy it," was the reply.

"You don't go to a place of amusement once a month."

"I go as often as I like."

"Well, you're a queer chap. You pay such a thundering price for board.
You could go to the theatre four times a week without its costing you
any more, if you would take a room like mine."

"I know it; but I'd rather have a nice, comfortable room to come home
to."

"Are you studying for a college professor?" asked the other, with a
sneer.

"I don't know," said Dick, good-humoredly; "but I'm open to proposals,
as the oyster remarked. If you know any first-class institution that
would like a dignified professor, of extensive acquirements, just
mention me, will you?"

So Richard Hunter kept on his way, indifferent to the criticisms which
his conduct excited in the minds of young men of his own age. He looked
farther than they, and knew that if he wanted to succeed in life,
and win the respect of his fellow-men, he must do something else than
attend theatres, and spend his evenings in billiard saloons. Fosdick,
who was a quiet, studious boy, fully agreed with his friend in his
views of life, and by his companionship did much to strengthen and
confirm Richard in his resolution. He was less ambitious than Dick, and
perhaps loved study more for its own sake.

With these explanations we shall now be able to start fairly in our
story.




CHAPTER II.

AT THE ASTOR HOUSE.


The two friends started from their room about seven o'clock, and walked
up to Third Avenue, where they jumped on board a horse-car, and within
half an hour were landed at the foot of the City Hall Park, opposite
Beekman Street. From this point it was necessary only to cross the
street to the Astor House.

The Astor House is a massive pile of gray stone, and has a solid look,
as if it might stand for hundreds of years. When it was first erected,
a little more than thirty years since, it was considered far up town,
but now it is far down town, so rapid has been the growth of the city.

Richard Hunter ascended the stone steps with a firm step, but Henry
Fosdick lingered behind.

"Do you think we had better go up, Dick?" he said irresolutely.

"Why not?"

"I feel awkward about it."

"There is no reason why you should. The money belongs to you
rightfully, as the representative of your father, and it is worth
trying for."

"I suppose you are right, but I shan't know what to say."

"I'll help you along if I find you need it. Come along."

Those who possess energy and a strong will generally gain their point,
and it was so with Richard Hunter. They entered the hotel, and,
ascending some stone steps, found themselves on the main floor, where
the reading-room, clerk's office, and dining-room are located.

Dick, to adopt the familiar name by which his companion addressed him,
stepped up to the desk, and drew towards him the book of arrivals.
After a brief search he found the name of "Hiram Bates, Milwaukie,
Wis.," towards the top of the left-hand page.

"Is Mr. Bates in?" he inquired of the clerk, pointing to the name.

"I will send and inquire, if you will write your name on this card."

Dick thought it would be best to send his own name, as that of Fosdick
might lead Mr. Bates to guess the business on which they had come.

He accordingly wrote the name,

  Richard Hunter,

in his handsomest handwriting, and handed it to the clerk.

That functionary touched a bell. The summons was answered by a servant.

"James, go to No. 147, and see if Mr. Bates is in. If he is, give him
this card."

The messenger departed at once, and returned quickly.

"The gentleman is in, and would be glad to have Mr. Hunter walk up."

"Come along, Fosdick," said Dick, in a low voice.

Fosdick obeyed, feeling very nervous. Following the servant upstairs,
they soon stood before No. 147.

James knocked.

"Come in," was heard from the inside, and the two friends entered.

They found themselves in a comfortably furnished room. A man of
fifty-five, rather stout in build, and with iron-gray hair, rose from
his chair before the fire, and looked rather inquiringly. He seemed
rather surprised to find that there were two visitors, as well as at
the evident youth of both.

"Mr. Hunter?" he said, inquiringly, looking from one to the other.

"That is my name," said Dick, promptly.

"Have I met you before? If so, my memory is at fault."

"No, sir, we have never met."

"I presume you have business with me. Be seated, if you please."

"First," said Dick, "let me introduce my friend Henry Fosdick."

"Fosdick!" repeated Hiram Bates, with a slight tinge of color.

"I think you knew my father," said Fosdick, nervously.

"Your father was a printer,--was he not?" inquired Mr. Bates.

"Yes, sir."

"I do remember him. Do you come from him?"

Fosdick shook his head.

"He has been dead for two years," he said, sadly.

"Dead!" repeated Hiram Bates, as if shocked. "Indeed, I am sorry to
hear it."

He spoke with evident regret, and Henry Fosdick, whose feelings towards
his father's debtor had not been very friendly, noticed this, and was
softened by it.

"Did he die in poverty, may I ask?" inquired Mr. Bates, after a pause.

"He was poor," said Fosdick; "that is, he had nothing laid up; but his
wages were enough to support him and myself comfortably."

"Did he have any other family?"

"No, sir; my mother died six years since, and I had no brothers or
sisters."

"He left no property then?"

"No, sir."

"Then I suppose he was able to make no provision for you?"

"No, sir."

"But you probably had some relatives who came forward and provided for
you?"

"No, sir; I had no relatives in New York."

"What then did you do? Excuse my questions, but I have a motive in
asking."

"My father died suddenly, having fallen from a Brooklyn ferry-boat and
drowned. He left nothing, and I knew of nothing better to do than to go
into the streets as a boot-black."

"Surely you are not in that business now?" said Mr. Bates, glancing at
Fosdick's neat dress.

"No, sir; I was fortunate enough to find a friend,"--here Fosdick
glanced at Dick,--"who helped me along, and encouraged me to apply for
a place in a Broadway store. I have been there now for a year and a
half."

"What wages do you get? Excuse my curiosity, but your story interests
me."

"Eight dollars a week."

"And do you find you can live comfortably on that?"

"Yes, sir; that is, with the assistance of my friend here."

"I am glad you have a friend who is able and willing to help you."

"It is not worth mentioning," said Dick, modestly. "I have received as
much help from him as he has from me."

"I see at any rate that you are good friends, and a good friend is
worth having. May I ask, Mr. Fosdick, whether you ever heard your
father refer to me in any way?"

"Yes, sir."

"You are aware, then, that there were some money arrangements between
us?"

"I have heard him say that you had two thousand dollars of his, but
that you failed, and that it was lost."

"He informed you rightly. I will tell you the particulars, if you are
not already aware of them."

"I should be very glad to hear them, sir. My father died so suddenly
that I never knew anything more than that you owed him two thousand
dollars."

"Five years since," commenced Mr. Bates, "I was a broker in Wall
Street. As from my business I was expected to know the best
investments, some persons brought me money to keep for them, and I
either agreed to pay them a certain rate of interest, or gave them an
interest in my speculations. Among the persons was your father. The way
in which I got acquainted with him was this: Having occasion to get
some prospectuses of a new company printed, I went to the office with
which he was connected. There was some error in the printing, and he
was sent to my office to speak with me about it. When our business was
concluded, he waited a moment, and then said, 'Mr. Bates, I have saved
up two thousand dollars in the last ten years, but I don't know much
about investments, and I should consider it a favor if you would advise
me.'

"'I will do so with pleasure,' I said. 'If you desire it I will take
charge of it for you, and either allow you six per cent, interest, or
give you a share of the profits I may make from investing it.'"

"Your father said that he should be glad to have me take the money for
him, but he would prefer regular interest to uncertain profits. The
next day he brought the money, and put it in my hands. To confess the
truth I was glad to have him do so, for I was engaged in extensive
speculations, and thought I could make use of it to advantage. For
a year I paid him the interest regularly. Then there came a great
catastrophe, and I found my brilliant speculations were but bubbles,
which broke and left me but a mere pittance, instead of the hundred
thousand dollars which I considered myself worth. Of course those who
had placed money in my hands suffered, and among them your father.
I confess that I regretted his loss as much as that of any one, for
I liked his straightforward manner, and was touched by his evident
confidence in me."

Mr. Bates paused a moment and then resumed:--

"I left New York, and went to Milwaukie. Here I was obliged to begin
life anew, or nearly so, for I only carried a thousand dollars out
with me. But I have been greatly prospered since then. I took warning
by my past failures, and have succeeded, by care and good fortune,
in accumulating nearly as large a fortune as the one of which I once
thought myself possessed. When fortune began to smile upon me I thought
of your father, and tried through an agent to find him out. But he
reported to me that his name was not to be found either in the New
York or Brooklyn Directory, and I was too busily engaged to come on
myself, and make inquiries. But I am glad to find that his son is
living, and that I yet have it in my power to make restitution."

Fosdick could hardly believe his ears. Was he after all to receive the
money which he had supposed irrevocably lost?

As for Dick it is not too much to say that he felt even more pleased
at the prospective good fortune of his friend than if it had fallen to
himself.




CHAPTER III.

FOSDICK'S FORTUNE.


Mr. Bates took from his pocket a memorandum book, and jotted down a few
figures in it.

"As nearly as I can remember," he said, "it is four years since I
ceased paying interest on the money which your father entrusted to me.
The rate I agreed to pay was six per cent. How much will that amount
to?"

"Principal and interest two thousand four hundred and eighty dollars,"
said Dick, promptly.

Fosdick's breath was almost taken away as he heard this sum mentioned.
Could it be possible that Mr. Bates intended to pay him as much as
this? Why, it would be a fortune.

"Your figures would be quite correct, Mr. Hunter" said Mr. Bates, "but
for one consideration. You forget that your friend is entitled to
compound interest, as no interest has been paid for four years. Now,
as you are do doubt used to figures, I will leave you to make the
necessary correction."

Mr. Bates tore a leaf from his memorandum book as he spoke, and handed
it with a pencil to Richard Hunter.

Dick made a rapid calculation, and reported two thousand five hundred
and twenty-four dollars.

"It seems, then, Mr. Fosdick," said Mr. Bates, "that I am your debtor
to a very considerable amount."

"You are very kind, sir," said Fosdick; "but I shall be quite satisfied
with the two thousand dollars without any interest."

"Thank you for offering to relinquish the interest; but it is only
right that I should pay it. I have had the use of the money, and I
certainly would not wish to defraud you of a penny of the sum which it
took your father ten years of industry to accumulate. I wish he were
living now to see justice done his son."

"So do I," said Fosdick, earnestly. "I beg your pardon, sir," he said,
after a moment's pause.

"Why?" asked Mr. Bates in a tone of surprise.

"Because," said Fosdick, "I have done you injustice. I thought you
failed in order to make money, and intended to cheat my father out of
his savings. That made me feel hard towards you."

"You were justified in feeling so," said Mr. Bates. "Such cases are so
common that I am not surprised at your opinion of me. I ought to have
explained my position to your father, and promised to make restitution
whenever it should be in my power. But at the time I was discouraged,
and could not foresee the favorable turn which my affairs have since
taken. Now," he added, with a change of voice, "we will arrange about
the payment of this money."

"Do not pay it until it is convenient, Mr. Bates," said Fosdick.

"Your proposal is kind, but scarcely business-like, Mr. Fosdick," said
Mr. Bates. "Fortunately it will occasion me no inconvenience to pay
you at once I have not the ready money with me as you may suppose, but
I will give you a cheque for the amount upon the Broadway Bank, with
which I have an account; and it will be duly honored on presentation
to-morrow. You may in return make out a receipt in full for the debt
and interest. Wait a moment. I will ring for writing materials."

These were soon brought by a servant of the hotel and Mr. Bates filled
in a cheque for the sum specified above, while Fosdick, scarcely
knowing whether he was awake or dreaming, made out a receipt to which
he attached his name.

"Now," said Mr. Bates, "we will exchange documents."

Fosdick took the cheque, and deposited it carefully in his pocket-book.

"It is possible that payment might be refused to a boy like you,
especially as the amount is so large. At what time will you be
disengaged to-morrow?"

"I am absent from the store from twelve to one for dinner."

"Very well, come to the hotel as soon as you are free, and I will
accompany you to the bank, and get the money for you. I advise you,
however, to leave it there on deposit until you have a chance to invest
it."

"How would you advise me to invest it, sir?" asked Fosdick.

"Perhaps you cannot do better than buy shares of some good bank. You
will then have no care except to collect your dividends twice a year."

"That is what I should like to do," said Fosdick. "What bank would you
advise?"

"The Broadway, Park, or Bank of Commerce, are all good banks. I will
attend to the matter for you, if you desire it."

"I should be very glad if you would, sir."

"Then that matter is settled," said Mr. Bates. "I wish I could as
easily settle another matter which has brought me to New York at this
time, and which, I confess, occasions me considerable perplexity."

The boys remained respectfully silent, though not without curiosity as
to what this matter might be.

Mr. Bates seemed plunged in thought for a short time. Then speaking, as
if to himself, he said, in a low voice, "Why should I not tell them?
Perhaps they may help me."

"I believe," he said, "I will take you into my confidence. You may be
able to render me some assistance in my perplexing business."

"I shall be very glad to help you if I can," said Dick.

"And I also," said Fosdick.

"I have come to New York in search of my grandson," said Mr. Bates.

"Did he run away from home?" asked Dick.

"No, he has never lived with me. Indeed, I may add that I have never
seen him since he was an infant."

The boys looked surprised.

"How old is he now?" asked Fosdick.

"He must be about ten years old. But I see that I must give you the
whole story of what is a painful passage in my life, or you will be in
no position to help me.

"You must know, then, that twelve years since I considered myself rich,
and lived in a handsome house up town. My wife was dead, but I had
an only daughter, who I believe was generally considered attractive,
if not beautiful. I had set my heart upon her making an advantageous
marriage; that is, marrying a man of wealth and social position. I
had in my employ a clerk, of excellent business abilities, and of
good personal appearance, whom I sometimes invited to my house when I
entertained company. His name was John Talbot. I never suspected that
there was any danger of my daughter's falling in love with the young
man, until one day he came to me and overwhelmed me with surprise by
asking her hand in marriage.

"You can imagine that I was very angry, whether justly or not I will
not pretend to say. I dismissed the young man from my employ, and
informed him that never, under any circumstances, would I consent to
his marrying Irene. He was a high-spirited young man, and, though he
did not answer me, I saw by the expression of his face that he meant to
persevere in his suit.

"A week later my daughter was missing. She left behind a letter stating
that she could not give up John Talbot, and by the time I read the
letter she would be his wife. Two days later a Philadelphia paper was
sent me containing a printed notice of their marriage, and the same
mail brought me a joint letter from both, asking my forgiveness.

"I had no objections to John Talbot except his poverty; but my
ambitious hopes were disappointed, and I felt the blow severely. I
returned the letter to the address given, accompanied by a brief line
to Irene, to the effect that I disowned her, and would never more
acknowledge her as my daughter.

"I saw her only once after that. Two years after she appeared suddenly
in my library, having been admitted by the servant, with a child in
her arms. But I hardened my heart against her, and though she besought
my forgiveness, I refused it, and requested her to leave the house. I
cannot forgive myself when I think of my unfeeling severity. But it is
too late too redeem the past. As far as I can I would like to atone for
it.

"A month since I heard that both Irene and her husband were dead, the
latter five years since, but that the child, a boy, is still living,
probably in deep poverty. He is my only descendant, and I seek to
find him, hoping that he may be a joy and solace to me in the old age
which will soon be upon me. It is for the purpose of tracing him that
I have come to New York. When you," turning to Fosdick, "referred to
your being compelled to resort to the streets, and the hard life of a
boot-black, the thought came to me that my grandson may be reduced to
a similar extremity. It would be hard indeed that he should grow up
ignorant, neglected, and subject to every privation, when a comfortable
and even luxurious home awaits him, if he can only be found."

"What is his name?" inquired Dick.

"My impression is, that he was named after his father, John Talbot.
Indeed, I am quite sure that my daughter wrote me to this effect in a
letter which I returned after reading."

"Have you reason to think he is in New York?"

"My information is, that his mother died here a year since. It is not
likely that he has been able to leave the city."

"He is about ten years old?"

"I used to know most of the boot-blacks and newsboys when I was in the
business," said Dick, reflectively; "but I cannot recall that name."

"Were you ever in the business, Mr. Hunter?" asked Mr. Bates, in
surprise.

"Yes," said Richard Hunter, smiling; "I used to be one of the most
ragged boot-blacks in the city. Don't you remember my Washington coat,
and Napoleon pants, Fosdick?"

"I remember them well."

"Surely that was many years ago?"

"It is not yet two years since I gave up blacking boots."

"You surprise me Mr. Hunter," said Mr. Bates "I congratulate you on
your advance in life. Such a rise shows remarkable energy on your part."

"I was lucky," said Dick, modestly. "I found some good friends who
helped me along. But about your grandson: I have quite a number of
friends among the street-boys, and I can inquire of them whether any
boy named John Talbot has joined their ranks since my time."

"I shall be greatly obliged to you if you will," said Mr. Bates. "But
it is quite possible that circumstances may have led to a change of
name, so that it will not do to trust too much to this. Even if no boy
bearing that name is found, I shall feel that there is this possibility
in my favor."

"That is true," said Dick. "It is very common for boys to change their
name. Some can't remember whether they ever had any names, and pick one
out to suit themselves, or perhaps get one from those they go with.
There was one boy I knew named 'Horace Greeley'. Then there were 'Fat
Jack,' 'Pickle Nose,' 'Cranky Jim,' 'Tickle-me-foot,' and plenty of
others.[1] You knew some of them, didn't you, Fosdick?"

"I knew 'Fat Jack' and 'Tickle-me-Foot,'" answered Fosdick.

"This of course increases the difficulty of finding and identifying the
boy," said Mr. Bates. "Here," he said, taking a card photograph from
his pocket, "is a picture of my daughter at the time of her marriage. I
have had these taken from a portrait in my possession."

"Can you spare me one?" asked Dick. "It may help me to find the boy."

"I will give one to each of you. I need not say that I shall feel most
grateful for any service you may be able to render me, and will gladly
reimburse any expenses you may incur, besides paying you liberally for
your time. It will be better perhaps for me to leave fifty dollars with
each of you to defray any expenses you may be at."

"Thank you," said Dick; "but I am well supplied with money, and will
advance whatever is needful, and if I succeed I will hand in my bill."

Fosdick expressed himself in a similar way, and after some further
conversation he and Dick rose to go.

"I congratulate you on your wealth, Fosdick," said Dick, when they
were outside. "You're richer than I am now."

"I never should have got this money but for you, Dick. I wish you'd
take some of it."

"Well, I will. You may pay my fare home on the horse-cars."

"But really I wish you would."

But this Dick positively refused to do, as might have been expected.
He was himself the owner of two up-town lots, which he eventually sold
for five thousand dollars, though they only cost him one, and had three
hundred dollars besides in the bank. He agreed, however, to let Fosdick
henceforth bear his share of the expenses of board, and this added two
dollars a week to the sum he was able to lay up.


    [Footnote 1: See sketches of the Formation of the Newsboys'
    Lodging-house by C. L. Brace, Secretary of the Children's Aid Society.]




CHAPTER IV.

A DIFFICULT COMMISSION.


It need hardly be said that Fosdick was punctual to his appointment at
the Astor House on the following day.

He found Mr. Bates in the reading-room, looking over a Milwaukie paper.

"Good-morning, Mr. Fosdick," he said, extending his hand. "I suppose
your time is limited, therefore it will be best for us to go at once to
the bank."

"You are very kind, sir, to take so much trouble on my account," said
Fosdick.

"We ought all to help each other," said Mr. Bates. "I believe in that
doctrine, though I have not always lived up to it. On second thoughts,"
he added, as they got out in front of the hotel, "if you approve of my
suggestions about the purchase of bank shares, it may not be necessary
to go to the bank, as you can take this cheque in payment."

"Just as you think best, sir. I can depend upon your judgment, as you
know much more of such things than I."

"Then we will go at once to the office of Mr. Ferguson, a Wall Street
broker, and an old friend of mine. There we will give an order for some
bank shares."

Together the two walked down Broadway until they reached Trinity
Church, which fronts the entrance to Wall Street. Here then they
crossed the street, and soon reached the office of Mr. Ferguson.

Mr. Ferguson, a pleasant-looking man with sandy hair and whiskers, came
forward and shook Mr. Bates cordially by the hand.

"Glad to see you, Mr. Bates," he said. "Where have you been for the
last four years?"

"In Milwaukie. I see you are at the old place."

"Yes, plodding along as usual. How do you like the West?"

"I have found it a good place for business, though I am not sure
whether I like it as well to live in as New York."

"Shan't you come back to New York some time?"

Mr. Bates shook his head.

"My business ties me to Milwaukie," he said. "I doubt if I ever return."

"Who is this young man?" said the broker, looking at Fosdick. "He is
not a son of yours I think?"

"No; I am not fortunate enough to have a son. He is a young friend
who wants a little business done in your line and, I have accordingly
brought him to you."

"We will do our best for him. What is it?"

"He wants to purchase twenty shares in some good city bank. I used to
know all about such matters when I lived in the city, but I am out of
the way of such knowledge now."

"Twenty shares, you said?"

"Yes."

"It happens quite oddly that a party brought in only fifteen minutes
since twenty shares in the ---- Bank to dispose of. It is a good bank,
and I don't know that he can do any better than take them."

"Yes, it is a good bank. What interest does it pay now?"

"Eight per cent."[2]

"That is good. What is the market value of the stock?"

"It is selling this morning at one hundred and twenty."

"Twenty shares then will amount to twenty-four hundred dollars."

"Precisely."

"Well, perhaps we had better take them. What do you say, Mr. Fosdick?"

"If you advise it, sir, I shall be very glad to do so."

"Then the business can be accomplished at once, as the party left us
his signature, authorizing the transfer."

The transfer was rapidly effected. The broker's commission of
twenty-five cents per share amounted to five dollars. It was found on
paying this, added to the purchase money, that one hundred and nineteen
dollars remained,--the cheque being for two thousand five hundred and
twenty-four dollars.

The broker took the cheque, and returned this sum, which Mr. Bates
handed to Fosdick.

"You may need this for a reserve fund," he said, "to draw upon if
needful until your dividend comes due. The bank shares will pay you
probably one hundred and sixty dollars per year."

"One hundred and sixty dollars!" repeated Fosdick, in surprise. "That
is a little more than three dollars a week."

"Yes."

"It will be very acceptable, as my salary at the store is not enough to
pay my expenses."

"I would advise you not to break in upon your capital if you can avoid
it," said Mr. Bates. "By and by, if your salary increases, you may be
able to add the interest yearly to the principal, so that it may be
accumulating till you are a man, when you may find it of use in setting
you up in business."

"Yes, sir; I will remember that. But I can hardly realize that I am
really the owner of twenty bank shares."

"No doubt it seems sudden to you. Don't let it make you extravagant.
Most boys of your age would need a guardian, but you have had so much
experience in taking care of yourself, that I think you can get along
without one."

"I have my friend Dick to advise me," said Fosdick.

"Mr. Hunter seems quite a remarkable young man," said Mr. Bates. "I can
hardly believe that his past history has been as he gave it."

"It is strictly true, sir. Three years ago he could not read or write."

"If he continues to display the same energy, I can predict for him a
prominent position in the future."

"I am glad to hear you say so, sir. Dick is a very dear friend of mine."

"Now, Mr. Fosdick, it is time you were thinking of dinner. I believe
this is your dinner hour?"

"Yes, sir."

"And it is nearly over. You must be my guest to-day. I know of a quiet
little lunch room near by, which I used to frequent some years ago when
I was in business on this street. We will drop in there and I think
you will be able to get through in time."

Fosdick could not well decline the invitation, but accompanied Mr.
Bates to the place referred to, where he had a better meal than he was
accustomed to. It was finished in time, for as the clock on the city
hall struck one, he reached the door of Henderson's store.

Fosdick could not very well banish from his mind the thoughts of
his extraordinary change of fortune, and I am obliged to confess
that he did not discharge his duties quite as faithfully as usual
that afternoon. I will mention one rather amusing instance of his
preoccupation of mind.

A lady entered the store, leading by the hand her son Edwin, a little
boy of seven.

"Have you any hats that will fit my little boy?" she said.

"Yes, ma'am," said Fosdick, absently, and brought forward a large-sized
man's hat, of the kind popularly known as "stove-pipe."

"How will this do?" asked Fosdick.
