 How did it happen? You ought to have told me in your letter. Nor do I
 see how you can expect me to pay for the result of your carelessness.
 But even if I were to do it, you seem to forget that I advanced you
 seventy-five dollars on John's board. As he has remained only one
 week, that being deducted will leave a balance of sixty-nine dollars,
 or perhaps sixty, after taking out travelling expenses. I could
 rightfully require this back; but I will not be hard on you. You may
 pay for the damage done to the carriage (I am surprised that it should
 amount to forty dollars), and keep the balance as a gift from me.
 But it will be useless for you to make any further claim on me for a
 year, at least, as I have large expenses, and charity begins at home.
 Remember me to your wife."

  "JANE OAKLEY."

"Well, if that isn't a cold-blooded letter!" said Mr. Huxter, bitterly.
"Jane is rich now, and don't care for the privations of her poor
brother. She blames me because the chaise got broken,--just as if I
could help it."

Still Mr. Huxter had no real reason to complain. His sister had agreed
to pay for the damage done, and there would be something left out of
the money she had paid in advance. But Mr. Huxter, as soon as he had
received it, had at once looked upon it as his own, though not yet
earned, and to use it seemed as if he were paying the bill out of his
own pocket. Then, again, the very decided intimation that he need not
look for any more assistance at present was discouraging. Deducting
expenses, it would leave him but a small amount to pay him for his
journey to Hampton. He resolved not to pay the wheelwright, if he
could possibly avoid it, not being very conscientious about paying his
debts. But, as Mr. Huxter's reputation in that way was well known, the
wheelwright refused to surrender the chaise till his bill was paid; and
the stable-keeper made such a fuss that Mr. Huxter was compelled to pay
the bill, though very much against his inclination.

The result of his disappointment was, that he began to drink worse than
ever, and poor Mrs. Huxter, for some weeks, had a hard time of it. She
was certainly very much to be pitied, as is every poor woman who finds
herself yoked for life to a husband wedded to a habit so fatal to all
domestic comfort and happiness.




CHAPTER XXVII.

JOHN OAKLEY'S AUNT.


When John found that his enemy had abandoned the siege, he rowed
ashore, and watched Mr. Huxter until he became satisfied that it
would require a considerable time to catch the horse. He thought
that he might venture to pursue his journey, without further fear of
molestation. Of the incidents that followed, none are worth recording.
It is sufficient to say that on the evening of the second day John
entered the town of Wilton.

It was years since he had seen his aunt. She had been confined at home
by the cares of a young family, and the distance between Wilton and
Hampton seemed formidable. He knew, however, that his uncle, Thomas
Berry, kept a small country store, and had done so ever since his
marriage. In a country village it is always easy to find the "store,"
and John kept up the main road, feeling that it would not be necessary
to inquire. He came at length to a meeting-house, and judged that the
store would not be far off. In fact, a few rods further he came to a
long, two-story building, painted white, with a piazza in front. On a
large sign-board over it he read:--

  "THOMAS BERRY.

   PROVISION AND DRY-GOODS STORE."

"This must be the place," thought John. "I think I'll go into the store
first and see uncle."

He entered, and found himself in a broad room, low-studded, furnished
with counters on two sides, and crowded with a motley collection of
goods, embracing calicoes and dry goods generally, as well as barrels
of molasses and firkins of butter. There chanced to be no customer in
at the time. Behind the counter he saw, not his uncle, but a young man,
with long, light hair combed behind his ears, not very prepossessing in
his appearance,--at least so John thought.

"Is Mr. Berry in?" he asked, walking up to the counter.

"Mr. Berry is dead," was the unexpected reply.

"Dead!" exclaimed John, in surprise. "How long since he died?"

"A week ago."

"We never heard of it," said John, half to himself.

"Are you a relation?" asked the young man.

"He was my uncle."

"Is your name Oakley?"

"Yes, John Oakley."

"Of Hampton?"

"Yes."

"A letter was sent there, announcing the death."

This was true; but Mrs. Oakley, who received the letter, had not
thought it necessary to send intelligence of its contents to John.

"Didn't you get it?" continued the other.

"I haven't been at home for a week or more," said John. "I suppose that
accounts for it. How is my aunt?"

"She is not very well."

"I think I will go into the house and see her."

John went around to the door of the house and knocked. A young girl
of twelve answered. Though John had not seen her for six years, he
concluded that it must be his Cousin Martha.

"How do you do, Cousin Martha?" he said, extending his hand.

"Are you my Cousin John Oakley?" she said, doubtfully.

"Yes. I did not hear till just now of your loss," said John. "How is
your mother?"

"She is not very well. Come in, Cousin John. She will be glad to see
you."

John was ushered into a small sitting-room, where he found his aunt
seated in a chair by the window, sewing on a black dress for one of the
children.

"Here's Cousin John, mother," said Martha.

An expression of pleasure came to Mrs. Berry's pale face.

"I am very glad to see you, John," she said. "You were very kind to
come. Is your stepmother well?"

"Quite well," said John. "But I do not come directly from home."

"Indeed! How does that happen?" asked his aunt.

"It is rather a long story, aunt. I will tell you by and by. But now
tell me about yourself. Of what did my uncle die?"

"He exposed himself imprudently in a storm one evening three months
since," said Mrs. Berry. "In consequence of this, he took a severe
cold, which finally terminated in a fever. We did not at first suppose
him to be in any danger, but he gradually became worse, and a week
since he died. It is a terrible loss to me and my poor children."

Here his aunt put her handkerchief to her face to wipe away the tears
that started at the thought of her bereavement.

"Dear aunt, I sympathize with you," said John, earnestly, taking her
hand.

"I know you do, John," said his aunt. "I don't know how I can get along
alone, with four poor fatherless children to look after."

"God will help you, aunt. You must look to him," said John, reverently.

"It is that thought alone that sustains me," said Mrs. Berry. "But
sometimes, when the thought of my bereavement comes upon me, I don't
realize it as I should."

"I went into the store first," said John. "I suppose it was my uncle's
assistant that I saw there?"

"Yes," said Mrs. Berry; "it was Mr. Hall."

"I suppose he manages the store now for you?"

"Yes," said Mrs. Berry, slowly. "But I hardly know that it is right to
say that he manages it for me."

"Why not?" asked John, perplexed by his aunt's manner, which seemed to
him strange.

"I will tell you, John," said his aunt. "When Mr. Berry died, I
thought he owned the stock clear, and had no debts; but day before
yesterday Mr. Hall called in, and showed me a note for two thousand
dollars, signed by Mr. Berry. I don't suppose the stock is worth more
than three thousand. Of course that makes a very great difference in my
circumstances. In fact, it will leave me only a thousand dollars, at
the utmost, to support my poor children. I don't know what I shall do."
And the poor woman, whose nerves had been shaken by her grief, burst
into tears.

"Didn't my uncle own this building, then?" asked John.

"No, he never owned it. He hired it at a low rent from Mr. Mansfield,
one of the selectmen, and a rich man."

"Can't you keep up the store, aunt? Will not that give income enough to
support the family?"

"But for this note, I could. But if I have to pay that, it will leave
only a third of the store belonging to me. Then out of the profits I
must pay the rent, the wages of a salesman and a boy, before I can get
anything for myself. You see, John, there isn't much prospect."

"Yes," said John, thoughtfully. "It doesn't look very bright. You say,
aunt, that uncle never mentioned this note to you?"

"He never mentioned a syllable about it."

"Did he generally mention his affairs to you?"

"Yes; he wasn't one of those husbands that keep everything secret from
their wives. He always told me how he was getting along."

"When was the note dated?"

"A year and a half ago."

"Do you know whether my uncle had any particular use for so large a sum
of money at that time?"

"No. That is what puzzles me," said Mrs. Berry. "If he got the money, I
am sure I don't know what he did with it."

"Did he extend his business with it, do you think?"

"No, I am sure he did not. His stock is no larger now than it was six
years ago. He always calculated to keep it at about the same amount."

"That seems strange," said John,--"that we can't find where the money
went to, I mean; especially as it was so large a sum."

"Yes, John, that is what I think. There's some mystery about it. I've
thought and thought, and I can't tell how it happened."

"What sort of a man is Mr. Hall?" asked John, after a pause.

"I don't know anything against him," said Mrs. Berry.

"I don't know why it is," said John, "but I don't like his looks. I
took rather a prejudice against him when I saw him just now."

"I never liked him," said his aunt, "though I can't give any good
reason for my dislike. He never treated me in any way of which I could
complain."

"How long has he been in the store?"

"How long is it, Martha?" asked Mrs. Berry, turning to her oldest
daughter, who, by the way, was a very pretty girl, with blooming cheeks
and dark, sparkling eyes.

"It will be four years in October, mother."

"Yes, I remember now."

"He seems quite a young man."

"I think he is twenty-three."

"Does he get a large salary?"

"No, only forty dollars a month."

"Did you know of his having any property when he came here?"

"No; he seemed quite poor."

"Then I don't understand where he could have got the two thousand
dollars which he says he loaned uncle."

"I declare, John, you are right," said Mrs. Berry, looking as if new
light was thrown over the matter. "It certainly does look very strange.
I wonder I didn't think of it before; but I have had so much to think
of, that I couldn't think properly of anything. How do you account for
it, John?"

"I will tell you, aunt," said John, quietly. "I think the note is a
forgery, and that Mr. Hall means to cheat you out of two-thirds of your
property."




CHAPTER XXVIII.

JOHN MAKES A DISCOVERY.


"Do you really believe this, John?" asked Mrs. Berry, in excitement.

"I really do, aunt. I see no other way to account for the existence of
the note."

"But the signature looked like Mr. Berry's," said his aunt, doubtfully.

"Did you examine it carefully, aunt?"

"No, I didn't," admitted Mrs. Berry.

"I should like to compare it with uncle's handwriting."

"I suppose Mr. Hall would think it strange if I should ask him to let
me take it."

"Yes; but he must do it, if he wants the note acknowledged."

"I have no head for business," said Mrs. Berry. "A child could cheat
me. I wish you could stay with me and look after things."

"Perhaps I can."

"But will your mother be willing?"

"I have no mother," said John.

"Your stepmother, then?"

"I might as well tell you, aunt, that there has been a serious
difficulty between Mrs. Oakley and myself, and I have left home."

"Is it possible, John? Didn't your stepmother treat you right?"

"I will tell you all about it, aunt, and you shall judge."

It was a long story, but, as we already know all about it, it is
unnecessary to give John's account. His aunt listened attentively, and
sympathized fully with John in the matter.

"You have been badly treated, John," she said. "I am sure my poor
brother would feel badly enough if he could know how Mrs. Oakley has
driven you from home. You do not mean to go back?"

"No, aunt," said John, resolutely. "Until Mrs. Oakley restores me to my
former privileges, I shall not go home."

"Then you must stay here, John," said his aunt.

"If I can be of any service to you, aunt, I will."

"You can be of great service to me, John. I do not feel confidence in
Mr. Hall, and you know why I cannot be sure that he is not cheating me
in the store. I want you to keep an eye upon him."

"I will go into the store as an assistant," said John. "That will give
me the best opportunity."

"But you have never been used to work," said his aunt.

"I must work now. Remember, aunt, Mrs. Oakley holds the property, and I
am dependent on my own exertions."

"It is disgraceful that it should be so, John."

"But it is so. Perhaps matters may come right by and by; but for the
present I must work. I will go into the store, and you shall give me my
board."

"You will earn more than that, John."

"If we get clear of Mr. Hall's note, you can do better by me. Until
then, let that be the arrangement."

"You don't know what a load you have lifted from my mind, John. I am
very sorry that you have been driven from home; but I am very glad to
have you here. Martha, get ready the back bedroom for John."

"I begin to feel myself at home already," said John, brightly.

"Our home is a humble one compared with the one you have left, John,"
said his aunt.

"But you are here, aunt, and you seem like my own mother. That will
make more than the difference to me."

"I hope we can make you comfortable, John. Martha, you may set the
table for supper, and get John's room ready afterwards. I think he must
be hungry."

"I am as hungry as a bear, aunt," said John, smiling.

In the evening Martha went into the store by her mother's request, and
asked Mr. Hall to step in after closing the store.

He did so.

"I believe you wished to see me, Mrs. Berry," he said.

"Yes, Mr. Hall. Will you sit down?"

"Thank you." And the young man seated himself, looking furtively at
Mrs. Berry, as if to inquire the object of his being summoned.

"Mr. Hall, this is my nephew, John Oakley. I believe you have already
met."

"Yes, he came into the store," said Mr. Hall, glancing at John.

"He has agreed to remain here for the present, and will assist you in
the store."

Mr. Hall looked as if he was not pleased with this intelligence.

"I do not think that I shall need any assistance," he said.

"I am surprised to hear that," said Mrs. Berry. "Certainly you cannot
expect to do alone the business which formerly required Mr. Berry and
yourself to do."

"The business is not so large as it was," said Hall.

"Then you must try to bring it up to where it used to be. You must
remember that I have a young family to support, and it will require an
effort to do it."

"That is why I thought it would be better to save the wages of an extra
clerk," said Hall.

"You are considerate, especially as it would require you to work harder
yourself. But my nephew knows my circumstances, and does not wish large
compensation."

"Has he any experience in tending store?" asked Hall.

"No," said John.

"Then I should have to teach you. It would be more trouble than the
help I would get."

"I don't think you would find me so hard to learn," said John,
quietly. "I have always lived in the country, and know something about
the business of a country store. I don't think I shall be long in
learning."

"I agree with John," said Mrs. Berry.

"Of course it must be as you say," said Mr. Hall, appearing
dissatisfied; "but I hoped to save you the expense. And I cannot say
I think any help necessary; or, if it were, it would be better, with
all respect to Mr. Oakley, to take James Sanford, who has had some
experience at Trafton."

"Very well, Mr. Hall," said John, taking no notice of the opposition,
"then I will come in to-morrow morning. What time do you open the
store?"

"At six o'clock."

"Won't that be rather early for you, John?" asked his aunt.

"You are making me out to be lazy, aunt," said John.

"There isn't much business early in the morning," said Hall. "You need
not come till seven."

"I would rather go early," said John. "I want to learn the business as
soon as I can."

"Did you wish to speak about anything else, Mrs. Berry?" said Mr. Hall.

"No, Mr. Hall; but you need not be in haste."

"Thank you; I am feeling rather tired."

"Good-night, then."

"Good-night."

"It seems to me," said John, when they were alone, "that Mr. Hall did
not much want me to enter the store."

"No; I was surprised at that. It must be very hard for one."

"I have my thoughts about it," said John.

"What are they?" asked his aunt.

"I will not say anything now. They may amount to nothing. But I think
Mr. Hall is afraid I will find out something, and therefore he objects
to my going into the store. I shall keep good watch, and if I find out
anything I will let you know."

"I think you must be tired, John. You can go to bed when you please."

"Then I think I will go now, particularly as I am to be up by six in
the morning."

"Never mind about to-morrow morning."

"I had better begin as I am going to hold out, aunt. Good-night."

John took the lamp and entered his bedchamber with a happier and more
home-like feeling than he had had for months. He felt so interested in
his aunt's troubles that he almost forgot that he had any of his own.

In the morning, as the village clock struck six, John stood in front of
the store. A minute later, Mr. Hall, who boarded at a little distance,
came up. He greeted John coldly, and they entered.

"Now I hope you will make me useful," said John.

"You may sweep out," said Hall.

"Where shall I find the broom?"

Hall told him and John commenced. It was new work to him, but he did
it well, and then went to work to arrange things a little more neatly.
Occasionally he asked information of Mr. Hall, which was ungraciously
given. Still John learned rapidly, and in a fortnight had learned as
much as many boys in three months.

One day, when Hall was gone to dinner, John chanced to open the stove,
in which there had been no fire for the summer months. It was full of
papers and letters of various kinds, which had been crowded into it, as
a convenient receptacle. It was so full that, on the door being opened,
a considerable portion fell on the floor. John began to pick them up,
and, in doing so, naturally looked at some of the papers.

All at once he started with excitement as a particular paper caught his
attention. He read it eagerly, and his eyes lighted up with pleasure.

"I must show this to my aunt," he said. "I suspected that note of Mr.
Hall's was a forgery, and now I feel sure of it."

He carefully deposited the paper in his pocket-book, and, putting back
the rest of the papers, shut the stove door, and resumed his place
behind the counter, just as Mr. Hall returned from dinner.

He little guessed that John had made a discovery of the utmost
consequence to him.




CHAPTER XXIX.

MR. HALL'S DISCOMFITURE.


The paper which John had discovered among the rubbish in the stove
was a half sheet of foolscap, which was covered with imitations of
Mr. Berry's handwriting, the words occurring being those of the note
of hand which Hall had presented for payment. The first attempts were
inexact, but those further down, with which pains had evidently been
taken, were close copies of Mr. Berry's usual handwriting. This of
course John could not know, not being familiar with his uncle's hand,
but his aunt confirmed it.

"It is clear," said John, "that Mr. Hall has forged the note which he
presented against my uncle's estate."

"What a wicked man," said Mrs. Berry, "to seek to defraud me and my
poor fatherless children! I never could have suspected him."

"It was the love of money, aunt. He thought you would not detect the
fraud."

"I should not but for you, John. How lucky it was you came! Now tell me
what I ought to do."

"Is there a lawyer in the place?" asked John.

"Yes; there is Mr. Bradley."

"Then, aunt, you had better send for him, and ask his advice."

"I will do so; I think that will be the best way."

Mr. Bradley, though a country lawyer, was a man of sound judgment, and
quite reliable. When the circumstances were communicated to him, he
gave his opinion that John's suspicions were well founded.

"I should like to see Mr. Hall here," he said. "Can you not ask him to
be present, and bring the note with him?"

"The store closes at nine. I will invite him then, if you can meet him
at that hour."

"That will suit me, Mrs. Berry," said the lawyer.

Mr. Hall was not surprised at the message he received. He expected that
the widow would be troubled about the claim he had presented, and he
was prepared to listen to entreaties that payment might be postponed.
That his fraud was suspected he did not dream.

When Mr. Hall entered the little sitting-room he was somewhat surprised
to see Mr. Bradley, the lawyer; but it occurred to him that Mrs. Berry
in her trouble had applied to him to mediate between them.

"Good-evening, Mr. Bradley," he said.

"Good-evening, Mr. Hall," said the lawyer, rather coldly.

"It is rather cool this evening," said Hall, trying to appear at ease.

"I understand," said Mr. Bradley, not appearing to notice this remark,
"that you have a claim against the estate of my late friend, Mr. Berry."

"Yes, sir."

"And the amount is--"

"Two thousand dollars," said Hall, promptly.

"So I understood. Did you bring the note with you?"

Hall opened his pocket-book, and produced the note. The lawyer took it,
and scanned it closely.

"Do you know what led Mr. Berry to borrow this amount?" asked the
lawyer.

"He wanted to put it into his business."

"Did he extend his business then? He might have done it to a
considerable extent with that sum."

"No, I believe not," said Hall, hesitating.

"But I thought he borrowed the money with that object."

"The truth is," said Hall, after a pause, "he was owing parties in
Boston for a considerable portion of his stock, and it was to pay off
this sum that he borrowed the money."

"I suppose you are aware, Mr. Hall, that this claim will sweep away
two-thirds of Mr. Berry's estate?"

"I am sorry," said Hall, hesitating. "I didn't know but he left more."

"Scarcely a thousand dollars will be left to the family. Mrs. Berry
will have a very hard time."

"I won't be hard upon her," said Hall. "I don't need all the money now.
I will let half of it, say, stand for a year."

"But it will have to be paid finally."

"Yes, I suppose I must have my money."

"It is rather strange that Mrs. Berry never knew anything of this. Her
husband usually told her of his business affairs."

"She thought so," said Mr. Hall, significantly,

"Do you mean to imply that he did not?"

"It seems that he did not tell her of this."

"So it appears, and yet it is a very important matter. By the way, Mr.
Hall, it was very creditable to a young man, like yourself, to have
saved up so considerable an amount of money. Two thousand dollars is
quite a little sum."

"I did not save it up,--that is, not all of it," said Hall, perceiving
that this would lead to suspicion. In fact, he was beginning to feel
rather uneasy under the lawyer's questioning.

"You did not save it up?"

"Not all of it. I received a legacy a little more than two years since
from a relative."

"You were fortunate. What was the amount of the legacy?"

"Fifteen hundred dollars."

"And you loaned all this to Mr. Berry?"

"Yes, sir."

"And five hundred dollars more."

"Yes."

"You never mentioned this legacy at the time."

"Only to Mr. Berry."

"Where did your relative live, Mr. Hall?"

"In Worcester," said Hall, hesitating.

"What relative was it?"

"My aunt," answered Hall, beginning to feel uncomfortable.

"What was her name?"

"I don't see why you ask so many questions, Mr. Bradley," said Hall,
beginning to find this catechising embarrassing, especially as he had
to make up the answers on the spot.

"Surely you have no objection to answer my question, Mr. Hall?" said
the lawyer, looking fixedly at the young man, who changed color.

"It isn't that," said Hall; "but it seems unnecessary."

"You must consider, Mr. Hall, that this claim is a very unexpected one.
Mr. Berry never mentioned to any one, so far as I know, that he had
borrowed this money of you. Remember, also, that it will reduce Mrs.
Berry to poverty, and you will not be surprised that we want to know
all the particulars respecting the transaction."

"I should think the note ought to be sufficient," said Hall.

"True, the note. Let me examine it once more." The lawyer scrutinized
the note, and, raising his eyes, said:--

"This note is in Mr. Berry's handwriting, is it?"

"Yes."

"By the way, Mr. Hall, the interest has been paid on this note at
regular intervals."

"Ye--es," said Hall.

"How often?"

"Every six months," he answered, more boldly.

"Ah, then I suppose we shall find corresponding entries on Mr. Berry's
books."

"I suppose so," said Hall; but he began to feel very uncomfortable.

"So that no interest is due now."

"About a month's interest; but never mind about that, I won't say
anything about that," said Hall, magnanimously.

"You are very considerate, Mr. Hall," said the lawyer; "but I am sure
Mrs. Berry will not accept this favor. She intends to pay you every
penny she owes you."

Mr. Hall brightened up at this intimation. He thought it looked
encouraging.

"I don't want to be hard," he said. "I don't care for the trifle of
interest due."

"I repeat that Mrs. Berry means to pay every penny that is justly due,
but not one cent that is not so due," said the lawyer, emphasizing
the last words.

"Of course," said the clerk, nervously; "but why do you say that?"

"Do you wish me to tell you, Mr. Hall?" asked Mr. Bradley, fixing his
keen glance upon the young man.

"Yes."

"Then I will tell you. Because I believe this note which I hold in my
hand to be a base forgery."

Hall jumped to his feet in dismay.

"Do you mean to insult me?" he asked, with quivering lips.

"Sit down, Mr. Hall. It is best that this matter should be settled
at once. I have made a charge, and it is only fair that I should
substantiate it, or try to do so. Did you ever see this sheet of paper?"

So saying, he produced the crumpled half sheet which John found in the
stove.

Mr. Hall turned pale.

"I don't know what you mean," he faltered; but there was a look upon
his face which belied his words.

"I think you do know, Mr. Hall," said the lawyer. "You must be aware
that forgery is a serious matter."

"Give me back the note," said Hall.

"Do you admit it to be a forgery?"

"I admit nothing."

"Mr. Hall, I will hand you the note," said the lawyer, after a slight
pause, "merely reminding you that, if it is what I suppose, the sooner
you destroy it the better."

Hall took the note with nervous haste, and thrust it into the flame of
the lamp. In an instant it was consumed.

"You have done wisely, Mr. Hall," said Mr. Bradley. "I have no further
business with you."

"I shall leave Wilton to-morrow, Mrs. Berry," said Hall. "I must ask
you to get somebody else in my place."

"I will pay you to-night whatever wages are due you" said the lawyer,
"in behalf of Mrs. Berry."

"But how shall I manage about the store?" asked Mrs. Berry.

"I will take charge of it, aunt," said John, promptly, "if you will get
some one to assist me."

"Very well, John; but I am afraid it will be too much for you."

"Never fear, aunt; I haven't been in the store long, but I've learned a
good deal about the business."

Hall was paid, and that was the last that was seen of him. He went away
in the stage the next morning, and it is to be hoped that he has found
out that honesty is the best policy.

After he had left the room, Mr. Bradley advanced to Mrs. Berry, and,
grasping her hand, said, cordially:--

"I congratulate you on the new and improved look of your affairs."

"It has lifted a great weight from my mind," said the widow. "Now I
feel sure that I shall be able to get along, especially with John's
help. He was the first to suspect Mr. Hall of attempting to cheat me."

"You ought to be a lawyer, John," said Mr. Bradley. "You have shown
that you have a good head on your shoulders."

"Perhaps I may be one some time," said John, smiling.

"If you ever do, my office is open to you. Good-night, Mrs. Berry;
we've done a good evening's work."

The next day John undertook the chief management of his aunt's store.
He engaged James Sanford, who had had some experience in another town,
to help him, and things went on smoothly for a few weeks. At the end of
that time John received an important letter from Hampton.




CHAPTER XXX.

A DANGEROUS ACQUAINTANCE.


While John was attending to his aunt's interests at Wilton, important
events were occurring at Hampton.

It has already been stated that Ben Brayton was accustomed to spend
most of his time in lounging at the tavern, or in a billiard saloon
close by. It was at the latter place that he had the privilege of
forming an acquaintance with Arthur Winchester, a young man from the
city of New York (or so he represented). He was dressed in the extreme
of the fashion, sported a heavy gold chain, wore a diamond ring, and
carried a jaunty cane. I cannot guarantee the genuineness of the gold
or the diamond; but there was no one in Hampton who could distinguish
them from the real articles.

The appearance of Mr. Arthur Winchester created something of a
sensation among the young men of Hampton, or at least that portion
who aspired to wear fashionable clothes. Mr. Winchester's attire was
generally regarded as "nobby" in the extreme.

They exhibited an elegance which the highest efforts of the village
tailor had never succeeded in reaching. Forthwith the smart young men
in Hampton became possessed with the desire to have their clothes made
in the same faultless style, and Mr. Winchester was accommodating
enough to permit the village tailor to take a pattern from his garments.

Among those who gazed with admiration at the new-comer was Ben Brayton.
He was the first, indeed, to order a suit like Mr. Winchester's, in
which, when obtained, he strutted about proudly, arm in arm with the
young man himself.

Various circumstances served to strengthen the intimacy between the
two. In the first place neither had any weighty occupations to prevent
their drinking or playing billiards together, and it chanced after a
time that this became a regular business with them.

Ben Brayton was an average player, and appeared nearly equal to his new
friend. At all events, in the friendly trials of skill that took place
between them, Ben came off victorious perhaps a third of the time.

"Come, Ben," said Winchester, one morning, "this is slow. Suppose we
make the games a little more exciting by staking a little on the game."

[Illustration]

"You're a better player than I am, Winchester," said Ben.

"Not much. You beat me pretty often. However, I'll give you twenty
points, and stake a dollar on the game."

"I don't mind," said Ben. "A dollar isn't much."

"Agreed."

The game was played, and, counting the twenty points conceded, Ben came
off victorious by five points.

