"Oh, can I?" crowding down. a gasping, hysterical breath. 
"Mrs. Gilliat is mamma's friend : they will both be kind to 
her in this trouble, I think. But it might be a disgrace in 
their eyes. They are very proud. " 

Anah kissed her with sudden fervor, then went to the win 
dow. The voices below made her heart stand still with fear. 
Was it Kirke Gilliat's son uttering those angry oaths to her 
child ? 

Presently the horses moved on, and the clump of maples 
between broke the sound. The old clock in the corner be 
gan to strike slowly, but before it had told off its count of 
nine, a sharp, ringing thrill pierced the air, stunning them all 
with mortal terror. 

After that a long, awesome silence. Five minutes, perhaps, 
elapsed before Victor Hurst entered ; but to them it appeared 
half a lifetime. His face was flushed and the lips firmly set ; 
but he was unharmed. That brought them a great feeling of 
relief, yet no one asked a question. 

"The hand of Kirke Gilliat's son raised against him," 
Anah Hurst thought, with a sickening shiver. 



CHAPTER XXV. 

THE quarrel had been bitter enough on the one side. 
Eustace Gilliat affected to believe the tidings that called 
Sylvia thither, a mere ruse. He had come in after a day's 
hunting dissipation, rather the worse for the champagne and 
brandy that had washed down the dinner. Mrs. Redmond, 
in hysterics, making strange of the intelligence, bewailing, 
calling upon Sylvia, and denouncing Mrs. McRae, fired the 
weak and over-heated brain into ill-judged championship. 
More than all, Sylvia was among the Hursts. 

If he had felt certain of her regard for him, he would doubt 
less have waited until morning. But his jealous passion, his 
rights that had been so disregarded, and grudging hatred for 
the old blow, was strong upon him. And was he not shortly 
to be Sylvia's master ? As well give her a lesson in obedience 
and consideration now. 

So he summoned Jules, who would fain have dissuaded 
him ; but in such a mood as this, Eustace Gilliat was incapa 
ble of reasoning. Mrs. Gilliat was too much occupied with 
her friend to understand the true import of her son's resolve. 

Victor went out to the road to learn who these late visitors 
might be, and was met by a sudden and peremptory demand 
for Miss Redmond. 

"Her father is dying," he answered. "If it is necessary, 
Mrs. McRae will bring her back in the morning ; but she 
would hardly go to-night." 

Eustace Gilliat answered this by an offensive assumption of 
authority that brought Victor's blood to a white heat. And as 
he leaned out of the carriage, his breath still hot with the 



 

liquor rioting in his brain, Victor could have crushed him in 
the dust like any unclean thing. This man to marry Sylvia 
Redmond ! Why, he was a hundred times more loathsome 
and disgusting than the boy at Bohmerwald. 

"She will not go," he said, firmly. "Her friends would 
be wild to allow it. Why, you cannot reach St. Albans before 
midnight." 

' ' Sylvia Redmond is answerable to no one save her mother 
and myself. Will you take my message, or shall I ?" 

Victor understood which way would be the best, and he 
could almost hear Sylvia's answer before she had uttered it 
He brought back the refusal courteously. 

Eustace Gilliat was fearfully enraged. In another moment 
he would have leaped from the carriage. Victor held him in 
with a strong arm. 

"Listen," he began calmly. "Yonder house is mine; 
and you shall not step across its threshold to-night. I should 
as soon think of thrusting Sylvia Redmond to the edge of 
some dangerous precipice as to hand her over to your care. 
Her father is dying -no imposter, though you may choose to 
think so. Go peaceably away, and to-morrow assert your 
authority, if you have any." 

As he spoke he caught the leader's rein and ran down the 
road like a flash. Neither Sylvia's ears nor his mother's 
should be wounded by this drunken braggadocio. 

' ' Now, " he continued, ' ' go your way. If you have any sense, 
any natural feeling, you must know that a death-bed of all 
other places should be held sacred from intrusion." 

There was a rift of moonlight creeping through the cloud's 
ragged edge. Eustace Gilliat snatched the whip from its socket, 
but before he could strike, a strong hand had wrenched the 
weapon from him, and a stinging laugh smote his ear. 

"It is useless to try- the strength of arm or brain with me, 
Eustace Gilliat, as you might have known," he said, scornfully. 
"Go your way in peace." 



 

For an instant the man, in his helpless, impotent wrath, knew 
not what to do. 

"You love her" he hissed. "Ah, I have guessed that 
secret between you, and why she came at a word, on this weak 
excuse. Filial love ! ha ! ha ! But I want to tell you that 
she shall be my wife in the face of man or devil. If she hated 
me, I should still marry her. If her father is proven a vagabond 
or criminal, that will not stand in my way. I have not for 
gotten that old night, and the blow you gave me. I can strike 
you back now. If it were ten years instead of two, I should 
remember it, and be revenged." 

Something seemed to stifle heart and brain. Victor caught 
at a breath of wandering air, as if it had been his salvation. 
Sylvia Redmond this man's wife ! Her pure, sweet girlhood 
mated to this base, vile, unclean being ! Was this the high 
station that he had once almost envied ? 

" Ah, that stings you, does it ?" thus translating his silence. 
"I shall bring down her haughty pride as well ; she wears a 
diamond now, my fetter, and I shall load her with others, that 
may glitter in the world's sight, but be the chain of a galley- 
slave to her, if she ventures to rebel. And if you dare to cross 
her path " 

"I have no desire," in a strong, cold voice. " Leave her 
to-night in peace ; it is all I ask." 

He turned the horse again, and nodded to the driver. Jules 
felt that his master's anger rendered him indiscreet, and that 
it would be wiser to put an end to the parleying. 

Victor made a sudden plunge in the group of trees as the 
horses started. The darkness seemed to drop at that moment, 
as if the whole heavens were obscured. And then a sound that 
caused him to shiver, to start and see if he were unharmed. 

"A coward's revenge," he muttered, but he entered the house 
with a startled face. In the midst of the awesome silence the 
bell in his father's room summoned assistance or favor from 
some one, and he left them without an explanation. 

 



 

At midnight, as Trewartha had said, the poor stranded soul 
was loosed from the shoals among which it had floated, and 
passed out to the broad ocean, its futile efforts ended. Very 
peacefully, as if at rest, and glad to lay down the burden. On 
the other side, God took it into account, knowing the weakness 
and frustrated hopes better than any human eye. 

Mrs. McRae almost carried the unresisting Sylvia down 
stairs in her arms, and laid her on the sofa. The wide open 
eyes were tearless, and all the bright color had faded from the 
lips. It was partly terror, for the mystery and fearful power 
of death, witnessed for the first time, chills young blood. But 
something deeper still was stirring in her soul. Somewhere 
this poor, pale life had gone astray. The moment when it lost 
the clue, when it ceased to be what God had meant, and went 
drifting round in vague, purposeless confusion, its downfall 
began. She could see now where hers would be wrecked. As 
Mrs. Gilliat's nurse and companion, there might be use and 
work for her ; but as Eustace Gilliat's wife 

She drew her breath hard and quick, raising her head. 

"What is it, child? Are you never going to sleep?" 

The tone was not untender. She slipped to the floor and 
laid her head in Mrs. McRae's lap. 

" Dear Mrs. McRae," she said ; " if any one took a weak 
step unwittingly, or was wrongly persuaded in any vital matter, 
and came to know the truth afterward, would it not be right for 
this person to go back, no matter what might be the pain or 
shame ?" 

" I think it would," slowly, as if she were considering. 

" It is about my engagement. I would like to tell you. I 
have had no no friend ;" stumbling a little. 

"Yes, child," tenderly smoothing the fair cheek. 

It was a comfort to go over the story, to have her doubts 
solved, and her brooding fears dispelled. 

"For now that I have seen the end of mamma's ill-judged 
marriage, I cannot go on. She must have loved papa in the 




beginning ; and though I used to have a childish admiration 
for Eustace Gilliat, it was because I fancied he would make a 
gracious gentleman, like his father. He never will be. " 

"No. Virtues are not always hereditary, my dear, and 
vices are often frightfully exaggerated. The follies cf the 
whole race seem to culminate in him, for I dare say there were 
some questionable ancestors. If we could come down in a 
straight line of virtue, we should be as gods ;" with a short, grim 
laugh. ' ' I suppose the Master of all means that we shall have 
some fighting to do." 

" And I must fight hard for freedom. It was my weakness 
that led me astray." 

Mrs. Collins, a superannuated nurse, had come over at 
Hester's bidding, and the two women were busy up-stairs. 
Victor had gone quietly to his room, exchanging no word with 
any one. The thought of Sylvia's future rent his soul. There 
seemed to flash into existence another part of his being, hitherto 
unshared, unknown. A deep, awful power, magnetized by 
its own capacity for joy or bliss, and held in breathless thrall 
as if awaiting its hour of deliverance. His intuitions became 
refined, penetrating, able to translate this faint throb of mystery, 
and yet some shadow with its cold hand held him back. For 
if she knew all, what then ? He was not like other men, with 
this black fate at his back. 

No one slept through the night. The morning dawned dull 
and chilling, with a fine mist in the air. Breakfast was late, 
and just after they had been summoned, Trewartha walked in 
unceremoniously, his hair tumbled, his face flushed with some 
under-current of perplexity. 

After a word to the others he went over to the window and 
spoke in a low tone to Victor. 

" Gilliat was here last night. You and he had a quarrel ?" 

" He had been drinking, and was violent, as well as abusive. 
Only a madman would have trusted Sylvia with him, had she 
been willing to go. She refused, and I would not allow him 



 

to enter the house. His man was the more sensible of the 
two. " 

"And then?" 

Trewartha transfixed him with the strange meaning of his 
eye. 

Victor gave a nervous, embarrassed laugh. 

' ' I am alive, you see, so let it go, " he answered. 

"But it cannot," in a tone of irritation. "I may as well 
tell you if you do not know Eustace Gilliat was shot last 
night, just as he parted from you, and died at daylight this 
morning." 

" My God !" and Victor clasped his hand to his forehead. 

The three women heard this, and joined them in breathless 
terror. 

"I am an idiot," declared Trewartha. "Explain this 
mystery, some of you. You must have heard the report." 

Mrs. Hurst came close to her son, and took his hand as if 
she feared to see the stain. 

" Eustace Gilliat !" she repeated, in a strange, sinking voice, 
the lips flickering as if some torture had been suddenly applied 
that scorched the fine nerves. 

Looking into her wild eyes he read her secret. 

" It is clean ;" hoarsely, grasping her fingers within his, until 
she could have cried with the pain. " Clean !" holding it up. 
" Before God, and you all, I am guiltless of any man's blood." 
But he knew in his soul that it was a brother's. 

"Dead! Eustace Gilliat !" Sylvia had received her freedom. 

" Had you known him before ? Was there an old quarrel ?" 

"I met him more than two years ago. There was a harvest 
festival at a Bohemian settlement below Weareham. The 
quarrel was not much. He insulted a girl, held her captive, 
and I rescued her with a blow. That was all." 

" Did you hear the report of the pistol ? Surely you must 
have ?" 

The question was addressed to all, but no one replied. 



 

Then Janet McRae stepped forward. "If we could save 
Victor Hurst's life by a lie," she said, in her clear strong tone, 
"he would hardly accept. We all heard. He did not enter 
the house until some minutes afterward." 

All this time she was studying him with an awful, undefined 
fear. He had hot blood in his veins, and a fiery temper. 

" I can't tell," he said, with a perplexed air. " I thought 
it was meant for me, and that he had fired. But good heavens ! 
To die like the beasts of the field !" 

"A reptile rather, who leaves his venom behind. They, or 
rather his man, drove swiftly to Greaves, it seems. An artery 
had been severed and internal hemorrhage set in. They came 
for me at once, though nothing could have saved him. But 
he lived to make a deposition and sign it ; and his man attests 
every word. There was a grudging hate in him. I think 
he hardly felt the pain of dying, because he could revenge 
himself. And now what is to be done ?" 

In that moment of pain and terror Anah Hurst would have 
counselled flight. If they two were only free ! Ah, why had 
she induced him to come to Cragness ? 

"Is there a pistol in the house?" 

"I never owned one," Victor replied. 

"There is some strange mystery at the bottom of all this. 
The man, Jules Duconge, swears they were both unarmed. A 
keen, daring enemy must have done it. If you could prove " 

" I can prove nothing," impatiently. "I was near there, 
almost within range. The shot was fired after I had turned. 
But I think you must all believe me innocent of so terrible a 
crime ;" and a shiver ran through his frame. 

"There will be a warrant out presently. If I have blun 
dered in my telling, forgive. I could not bear the suspense, 
and it would not be pleasant tidings from a stranger. An 
inquest, I suppose, will he held immediately." 

It seemed to Victor Hursf that some unseen blow had 
stunned him utterly. He did not dare glance at his mother 



   

again, crushed and speechless by the weight of this misery. 
And even now it appeared to him as if the shot must have 
been given from the carriage, though human passion could 
hardly go that far for revenge. 

A strange morning, with the dead man in the house, and 
this nameless terror hanging over their heads. Sylvia forgot 
her own grief, her sense of freedom, even her mother. 

Once she came over to Victor. 

"You remembered the night at Bohmerwald," she said, 
with a poignant pain in her voice; "and him" tremulously. 
"You forgot only me." 

"No," looking past her, yet with some peculiar second 
sight reading the droop of the eyes and the quiver of the lips, 
and hearing Eustace Gilliat's words again. "But I am glad 
now that you never spoke. It could have made no difference." 

"The quarrel was about me. I know he was miserably 
jealous. If I should have cost you something dearer than 
life" 

"No, no. There is some fearful mistake. Or, is it all 
blind chance for a man to fight against ? Why did fate bring 
us all together then, to work out this awful tragedy at the last ?" 

There was an expression in her face that arrested his attention. 
A burden deeper than present pain, a haunting sense of lose 
and despair. Was it for Eustace Gilliat ? 

"Forgive me." His tone was very low. "I forgot your 
anguish. Good God ! Why can we not all go back ?" 

" You mistake me," she returned, falteringly. " Last night 
I resolved, come what would, to break the bond between my 
self and Eustace Gilliat. It was forced upon me and I 
proved too weak for the higher path of duty. But I think I 
should have found it at last." 

Her eyes were downcast, her face very pale, and her whole 
figure trembling. A great throb of relief sped through 
his veins. This could not bring them any nearer to 
gether, but it redeemed her in his estimation to know that 



 

she could not love that shallow, selfish man, and would have 
been in the end too true to holiest womanhood to give her 
self for his gold, or his proud lineage. 

" Do not fear for me." 

But even as he spoke, a tramp of feet and an authoritative 
knock were heard. How could they see him taken away like 
a common criminal ? Sylvia hid her face and sobbed, though 
her eyes were tearless. 

" I am innocent, let that comfort you, " he said, preparing 
to follow. 

As if links must multiply, a pistol was found not far 
from the spot, and carried off in triumph. Yet Trewartha's 
strong courage cheered them all. He was to make the expla 
nation to John Hurst. 

" It will not do to tell him the truth," he said ; so he laid 
stress upon important business. 

"But he did not even look in to say good-bye," was the 
grieved response. 

" The summons was sudden and imperative. I will be your 
son meanwhile. Command me," and he smiled with a poor 
attempt at his usual geniality. 

Anah Hurst was stunned. That God would right the terrible 
mistake she could scarcely doubt. Victor would soon return, 
cleared of the foul imputation. But that he should have been 
brought face to face with Eustace Gilliat ! 

She dragged herself up-stairs, where Sylvia was lying tearless 
and sleepless. 

"Oh, don't hate me," the poor girl moaned, covering her 
face with her hands. "That I should have brought all this 
trouble upon you, when you had already been so kind to 
poor papa !" the pale lips quivering as she spoke. 

"Child, "in a calm, peculiar manner, "I think it is some 
subtle fate working itself out. The sins of the fathers are to 
be visited upon the children ; but it seems cruel when the poor 
children are innocent. It is a great, unfathomable mystery." 



 

" He is guiltless," Sylvia cried, sharply. 

"Yes. Well, I am his mother." 

"Does any one doubt it?" thinking only of the crime, her 
wild, feverish eyes searching the cold, pale face. 

"But it is not that I came to ask you," pressing her hand 
against her forehead with a shiver, as if there was some strong 
repulsion in the subject. "You have known them,'" [she could 
not utter the name,] "a long while?" 

" Yes. Mamma and "Mrs. Gilliat are old friends." 

"Tell me about them !" 

She turned her face away and shaded her eyes, but her 
respiration was slow and labored. 

"About Rothermel ?" 

"The three the household." 

So Sylvia began. The past years had a charm for her, which 
no present, however terrible, could quite obliterate. The 
house lay always in her mind as a stately and beautiful picture, 
with its background of knights and heroes and handsome wo 
men. Mrs. Gilliat, with all her haughtiness and indifference, 
had petted Sylvia, and endeared herself in many ways to the 
girlish heart. 

" And the son ?" 

The child shuddered. 

"You were to marry him. It is strange, but I never heard 
of it until last night. I have lived so quietly." 

Victor had not spoken of it then. Of course, it could make 
no difference to him whom she married. 

"Yes, I was to marry him ; though, I think, I never could 
have done it," in a voice freighted with the strength of desper 
ation. ' ' I liked him as a boy, that is why, I was nothing but 
a child, you know ; a weak, vain, silly child, thinking myself 
so wise, yet fearfully ignorant. And as no one else cared for 
me, as I could not tell then how much a woman's soul might 
be to her own very self, I let them all persuade me into it. Do 
not believe that it was for the wealth or station why " hysteric- 



 

ally- "yesterday, I fancied I could be happy with papa alone, 
if I had to work or beg for the bread we ate. I began to learn, 
then, the full strength of a woman's love, and what a clean, 
pure life would be to her. He was small of soul, narrow, 
scoffing at virtue and generous impulses ; and when I came 
to realize his vices no, I could never have gone on even for 
his mother's sake ;" with an irrepressible shiver. 

Anah Hurst reached over and took the child in her arms. 
The two seemed to be brought together by common suffering. 
The father's hand had stabbed her, and the son's might have 
wrought a still deeper desolation in Sylvia's life. 

She had it all very clearly before her now. By some turn 
of fate she had been kept in ignorance of their near vicinity, 
and perhaps it was well, seeing that she was bound hand and 
foot and could not stir without telling her story. But why had 
God tangled all their lives together to culminate in this fearful 
tragedy ? blood arrayed against blood. She remembered the 
passionate hatred Victor had expressed against Kirke Gilliat on 
the night when he first heard the story. But now he had grown 
calmer and clearer of brain. 

A strange, awesome day indeed ! Doctor Trewartha went 
to St. Albans and brought from thence a report. Mrs. Red 
mond was really ill and bitterly incensed against her child. 
Mrs. Gilliat had been in strong convulsions since the sad 
tidings, and lay at the point of death. 

"There must be some arrangements made for the funeral," 
Mrs. McRae said, taking Trewartha into the deserted sitting- 
room. "Rachel Braisted has been over, and proposes that 
the body shall be brought there. They are very kind and 
sympathizing. I think they feel that Margaret Redmond hardly 
did her duty by her husband." 

"She must have believed him dead, at first." 

"So far as I can put his incoherent story together, he never 
made his existence known until latterly. If he went to St. 

Albans, I can fancy her dread and mortification. Perhaps she 




felt that he had forfeited all claim upon her. We will not judge 
too harshly now. I am glad to know that Sylvia can begin her 
life afresh." 

Trewartha looked surprised at this mercy where he had 
expected strict justice and condemnation. 

" Have you seen the young man's father?" 

"Yes. I may as well confess that Mr. Gilliat feels ter 
ribly bitter. It was his only child. From all I hear, the 
youth could hardly have died at a better time." A slight 
expression of contempt crossed Trewartha's face. "But I would 
give half my fortune, or all, that it had not occurred." 

"You apprehend no danger to Victor? He must be 
acquitted i" she exclaimed, with her old vehemence. 

"Circumstances multiply. Gilliat was shot from the left 
side, at which Victor stood, so there can be no hypothesis of 
accident. His man declares that Victor had barely time to 
turn. The pistol was found out yonder." 

"Yes!" She was studying Trewartha's anxious face 
intently. 

' "Is there some subtle demon at the bottom of it all? 
The pistol has a small silver plate on which is engraved an 
<H.'" 

"My God! But you don't believe "and her strong 
features trembled in ashen dullness. 

"Until Victor Hurst confesses the deed I shall hold him 
innocent." 

"Thank God!" grasping his arm with eager, desperate pas 
sion ; "for I have come to love the lad in spite of his cold, 
unsocial ways. And I know he could never have done it." 

"But even-thing will go against him. The inquest is tc 
be held to-morrow. We shall all be called." 

" Do they think that I can swear his life away ?" she cried, 
with sharp anguish. 



CHAPTER XXVI. 

WHEN Jules Duconge took the news of the murder to St. 
Albans, the whole house seemed horror-stricken. He told 
his story first to Mr. Milnor, for he hardly dared face Mr. 
Gilliat. 

Whatever hopes Kirke Gilliat might have had for his son 
in by-gone days, they had perished utterly during the last few 
months. A dozen years like the last two abroad would bring 
Rothermel near to the auctioneer's hammer. He and his wife 
had lived elegantly, sometimes to the extent of their income, 
and there was not much lying back ; but he had a hatred 
of debt. So a valuable piece of timber had gone to extricate 
Eustace. 

There was nothing noble, generous, or refined in the lad's 
nature. Exterior graces and foppishness he abounded in ; but 
the soul was unutterably indigent. His father not desiring to 
see his faults, appeared to be made all the more plainly 
aware of them, as sometimes when one's eyes are tightly shut, 
a past hideous sight will still linger. 

He could never quite forget what he had given up for pos 
sible children brave sons and beautiful daughters, not this 
one poor puny body, and coarse, shallow soul. Yet, now 
that he was dead, Kirke Gilliat beat his breast passionately. 
It was all he had. And with that, sweet, tender child, Sylvia, 
for wife, there might have been a nobler future. Perhaps he 
had been unjust all young men went astray at times. 

Half an hour afterward he sent for Milnor again. 

"Let me hear the man's story," he said, with feverish 
haste. "There must be some horrible mistake. What had 
Eustace done to make so bitter an enemy ?" 



 

So Jules was called in and questioned minutely. The 
story lost nothing at his hands. Not that he wilfully exagger 
ated, but his sympathies were with his master, who in his 
best moods had always been lavishly indulgent. The threats 
on the one side were softened down, and on the other, every 
word and gesture remembered. 

"Victor Hurst," Milnor said, thoughtfully. "I ought to 
know the name." 

"It appears to me that you mentioned it last winter when 
you were staying at Rothermel it's an unusual name, too." 

"Oh, I remember some trade outbreak in one of the 
northern towns and why, it must be the young man in 
whom Miss Lowndes was so much interested," with an expres 
sion of surprise at his own blindness. 

"That you were half-persuaded was a poor, struggling 
genius. But for me you would have taken him in hand. 
A coarse bully and ruffian." 

' ' Perhaps " 

"There may be an excuse for some sins, but murder 
brutal, wilful taking of life should be shown no mercy. If 
there is any law in the land, this man shall have his deserts. 
There is too much of this taking the law in one's own hands. 
The rabble learn only by sharp punishment. " 

Milnor profoundly pitied the man, reading the anguish in 
every line of his face. What was the stranger to him ? 

"The testimony must come out strong on the inquest. 
This fellow's past life and violence, his quarrel with my son 
everything that we can find. Milnor, I depute much of this 
to you, my friend. Help me to remember. My brain seems 
almost crazed." 

"Do not excite yourself so fearfully;" and Milnor laid his 
hands on the other's shoulder. 

Gilliat bowed his head, and shook with a strong man's pas 
sionate grief. 

"Let us go," he said, presently, when he could command 



 

himself. " If they have not arrested the cowardly villain, he 
may escape. And poor Sylvia ! Jules, go at once for Doctor 
Trewartha. Mrs. Gilliat is in imminent danger." 

"I might drive you over, monsieur;" and the man bowed 
obsequiously. 

' ' Yes. I can think of nothing. O God ! what a blow !" 

"Be calm," entreated Milnor, helping him to prepare for 
the ride. 

Jules had driven directly to the village after his master's first 
exclamation, knowing that it was not much beyond half a mile 
to the office of Doctor Greaves. And now the body lay on a 
long table in the back consulting-room, a constable from 
Taunton keeping watch over it until the jury could be sum 
moned. 

From the first, as Doctor Trewartha said, the wound had 
been mortal. When Greaves found it so serious a matter, he 
had despatched Jules for Trewartha ; but the wounded man's 
strength failing rapidly, he sent for a justice near by, afraid to 
have the whole weight on his hands. 

Eustace Gilliat's brain was a fiery, seething mass, brought 
to a scarlet flame by his last draught of brandy before he left 
St. Albans ; and this, with his outburst of anger, jealousy, 
and furious resentment at suddenly meeting the one who had 
struck him an unforgiven blow, threw him into a frantic 
state. At first he raved like a madman ; and it was only when 
his strength began to fail that he could be quieted. No bit 
ter enemy could have directed a more fatal shot. The group 
questioned each other with fearful eyes. A murder was so 
new to them that the shock went deep indeed. 

They hoped at first to keep him alive until the next day ; 
but at three he began to sink. The passionate voice fell to a 
mere whisper, and there came into his countenance a ghastly 
terror that those who saw never forgot. 

But when the last faint sigh passed the colorless lips, a touch 
of boyish beauty came back to the still face, bringing a thought 



o 



 



of pure, clean childhood, before he had begun to stain his soul 
with a man's dissipations. And seeing him thus, the old pride 
and tenderness returned to his father's heart. Death had 
obliterated the sins and follies. 

If anythnig, it made Kirke Gilliat a hundredfold more 
bitter. That this low wretch for a man who had been in a 
trad*- riot must, of necessity, be rough and vile dared to 
raise his hand against the life of a fellow-creature so much 
higher in the social scale, stamped the sin as more foul in his 
estimation. 

" Has the man been arrested?" he asked. 

Thay gaped at one another. Arrested ! Would Mrs. 
McRae allow such a thing. 

' ' Constable, have a warrant gotten out immediately. My 
son's deposition renders it more than a suspicion. It is 
proof !" raising his voice. 

Trewartha was amazed at the chain of evidence ; but to un 
dertake to combat it was folly. 

"We can keep him here until the inquest is ended," said 
constable Lowther. " After that there'll be a regular commit 
ment to Taunton jail. Shocking thing ! I can't more than 
half believe it !" 

"I will answer for him," exclaimed Trewartha,^ clearly. 
" Victor Hurst is no coward." 

Kirke Gilliat's lip curled scornfully. 

" You might have said yesterday that he was no murderer. 
But you see, you see !" 

Milnor stood by thoughtfully. How little Miss Lowndes 
knew of this turbulent fellow. He was glad now that he had 
not been persuaded into taking any interest. Perhaps Gilliat 
was right. The crude effervescence of such rude brains could 
never be genius, fine and heroic. 

Yet if they two had met on the day of the excursion, 
Eustace Gilliat might have finished his life in his own 
fashion. So closely are we all linked together that a word 



 

or deed changes the destiny of men for all time, perhaps 
for eternity. 

The stir, tumult, and excitement were so great that the inquest 
did not begin until mid-afternoon. Victor had been confined 
in the room above, a kind of hall used for a children's singing- 
school, and business meetings. A guard had been detailed to 
keep watch over him ; but he sat listlessly by the window, with 
the curtain nearly down. He heard the shuffling and sound 
of voices below, he seemed to see the dead man, and one other. 

The physician's evidence was taken first. The pistol had 
been fitted with the ball extracted from the body. There could 
be no doubt but that it had produced death. Trewartha was 
brief, but Greaves went through with a professional diagnosis, 
as well as the testimony of the dying man. 

After that came Jules Duconge. The case appeared hope 
lessly clear when they adjourned, at dusk ; but there were a 
number of witnesses yet to examine. 

Trewartha took his way to the cottage. Janet McRae was 
still there. Anah Hurst, in this bitter desolation, seemed very 
near to her. And though she would rather have held the poor 
woman's hand in silence, she forced herself to go about,- to 
cheer John Hurst, fretting for his absent son, and rouse Sylvia 
from her torpor. 

She started at Trewartha's step, and went out to the door. 

" What is it ?" she asked, in a sharp, nervous whisper. 

' ' It's not ended. But, oh Heaven ! It will be the worst, 
the worst !" 

"No !" Her strong frame trembled like an autumn leaf. 

"Yes. You will be summoned to-morrow. Somehow 
they have learned about the trouble at Weareham, which will be 
another thing to go against him. And Sylvia's testimony will 
be needed." 

" Did you see him ?" 

"Yes. I am going back to spend the night with him. He 
is very quiet, with grand, steady lines in his face, but an awful 



 

shadow, as if some sight was perpetually haunting him. But 
it cannot be. He is quick of temper, yet utterly incapable of 
such a deed." 

" He is ! he is ! Let us believe that to the last. I never 
was much mistaken in any one before." 

"If it had not been for that old quarrel ! Why must all the 
deeds of a man's life be dragged up against him in an unfor 
tunate moment ? Yet there is such a strange mystery about it. 
I incline to the opinion that Eustace Gilliat must have had a 
mortal enemy dogging his steps." 

He went in and spoke a few words to Mrs. Hurst, and 
examined Sylvia, whose eyes were feverishly bright. 

"Child," he said gently, "they will need your story to 
morrow. If you know anything that may ease matters for 
him" 

She shivered violently and seemed to shrink from the kindly 
clasp. 

"The truth, "she moaned, "the bitter, bitter truth! Oh, 
why does God make it so hard to tell ? If we could say " 

"If he had come in before the shot was fired ?" 

' ' But he did not. " She uttered it with the apathy of 
despair. 

The morning dawned too soon. Sylvia did not sleep at all, 
but lay all night with drear}', wide-open eyes. The man she 
loved. She knew it now with hot flushes of pain and shame. 
And because she had been willing to bear about a lie on her 
