instrument and its uses. Conant told me how to handle it with ease and
effect, and instructed me in setting the iron, so as to make it cut
more or less deeply, according to the work to be done.

It was hard work, harder than boarding or shingling; but I made it
unnecessarily severe for the first hour, and though it was a cool day,
the sweat poured off me in big drops. I had not yet got the hang of the
thing; but when Conant came from the roof for a bundle of shingles,
he looked in to see how I succeeded. A little more instruction from
him put me on the right track, and I worked much easier; in a word,
I learned to use the plane. After removing the rough side from the
plank, it was a relief to handle the smoothing-plane, and I polished
off the wood to my own satisfaction and that of my employer.

In the afternoon I was sent upon the roof again to lay shingles, and
we finished that part of the job before night. At six o'clock all the
hands were paid off for their week's work. I felt considerable interest
in this performance. I had worked three days, and at the price agreed
upon I was entitled to a dollar and a half.

"I shall not want you any longer, Blair," said Mr. Clinch to the young
fellow of whom Conant had spoken so disparagingly to me. "I owe you six
dollars; here is the amount."

"You don't want me any longer?" replied Blair, as he took his wages.

"No."

"Why not?"

"You don't suit me. I can't afford to pay you six dollars a week for
what you do," answered the employer, bluntly. "You don't understand the
business, and you don't try to learn it. That boy there does twice as
much work in a day as you do."

I did not think it right to hear any more of this conversation, and
moved away. Though I was pleased with the compliment, I was sorry to
have it bestowed upon me at the expense or to the disparagement of
another. I walked around the building, but I was soon sent for to
receive my wages.

"Phil, you have done remarkably well," said Mr. Clinch; "and I want to
use you well. You handle a plane well for one who never saw one before,
and I think you were born to be a carpenter."

"Thank you, sir," I replied. "You give me all the credit I deserve."

"And I give you a dollar a day for your work, for you have done twice
as much as I expected of you," he added, handing me three dollars.
"I supposed you would be in the way at first, and I only took you to
oblige Captain Davis."

"I have done the best I knew how, and shall always do so; but I don't
ask any more than you agreed to give me. I am entitled to only half of
this."

"Yes, you are. I agreed to give you more if you were worth it. Conant
says you have done a man's work most of the time. Of course you can't
do that on the average. But you will be worth about a dollar a day to
me, now that I have discharged Morgan Blair."

"Thank you, sir; you are very kind."

"Kind! Nonsense! I am only doing the fair thing by you. When I think
you are worth more than a dollar a day, I shall give it to you. On the
other hand, I shall discharge you when I don't want you, or when you
are lazy or clumsy. I always speak my mind."

I saw that he did, to Blair as well as to me, and I was very thankful
for having obtained so good an employer. I was determined to merit his
good will by doing my duty faithfully to him.

I went home, and found my father more comfortable than in the morning;
but he was still very sick, and unable to leave his bed. In the evening
I went out to purchase a suit of clothes, which I so much needed. I
obtained a complete outfit, which would enable me to attend church the
next day, looking like other young men of my age, in the humbler walks
of life. Mrs. Greenough had been very particular in urging me to be
prepared for church and Sunday school, and had even offered to lend me
money to purchase the needed articles. I told her I had never been to
church in my life, and I was very glad of the opportunity.

When my bundle was ready I turned to leave the store. A young man,
whose form and dress looked familiar to me,--though I did not see his
face, for he was looking at the goods in a glass case,--followed me
into the street.

"Phil," said he; and I recognized the voice of Morgan Blair, the young
man who had been discharged that afternoon by Mr. Clinch.

I paused to see what he wanted, though I was not very anxious to make
his acquaintance after what I knew of him.

"What is it?" I asked.

"I want to see you about a matter that interests me," he added.

"What is that?"

"They say you came from way up the Missouri River. Is that so?"

"That's so."

"Conant said you did. I want to know something about the country up
there, and I suppose you can tell me."

"What do you want to know?"

"I have an uncle up there somewhere, and I want to find him if I can."

"Do you know in what region he is located?" I inquired.

"I do not; that is what I want to ascertain. Conant told me you came
from that country, and I meant to talk with you about it; but you put
my pipe out, and I was discharged to-day. I saw you go into that store,
and I thought I would wait for you."

"What do you mean by putting your pipe out?"

"Didn't you put my pipe out?"

"I didn't even know that you smoked."

"You are rather green, but you have just come from the country. I meant
that you caused me to be discharged."

"I did?"

"You heard Clinch say that I did not do half as much work as you did?"

"Yes; I heard that; but it was not my fault."

"I didn't do any more than I could help, and you put in all you knew
how. If you hadn't come, Clinch never would have suspected that I
wasn't doing enough for a boy. I don't believe in breaking your back
for six dollars a week. But never mind that now. When can I see you and
talk over this other matter with you?"

"I can tell you now all I know," I replied.

"I think I shall go up the Missouri, if I have any chance of finding my
uncle."

"You can't go up this season. No steamers leave so late as this. When
did you see your uncle?"

"I never saw him, and I shouldn't know him if I met him to-night. He
has been up in the woods for twenty years, I believe."

"What is his name?"

"Rockwood."

"Rockwood!" I exclaimed, startled by his answer.

"Yes; my mother was his sister."

"What was his other name?"

"Matthew. He left Illinois before I was born; but my mother heard from
him about ten years ago. Somebody--I don't know who it was--saw him
at a wood-yard, and he sent word by this person that he was alive and
well, but did not think he should ever come back to Illinois. His name
was Matthew Rockwood. Did you ever hear of such a man?"

"I have, and I knew him well."

"You don't say so!" replied he, astonished in his turn. "Where is the
place?"

"On the Missouri, between Bear and Fish Creeks."

"Well, I don't know any better now than I did before. What was the old
man doing?"

"He has been hunting, trapping, and selling wood; but he is not living
now."

"Dead--is he?"

"Yes; he died last spring."

"You don't say it!"

"There was some trouble with the Indians in that region, and he was
shot in a skirmish with them."

"The last of them is gone, then," added Blair.

"Matt Rockwood had a brother--did he not?"

"He did have--but he is dead; and my mother died two years ago. And so
uncle Matt is dead too?"

"Yes."

"The man that told my mother about him thought he must be making money
out there, for he sold a great deal of wood to the steamers. Do you
know anything about it?"

"I know all about it."

"You lived near him, then?"

"I lived with him. To tell the whole story in a few words, I was
brought up by Matt Rockwood, and I was at his side when he was killed
by the Indians. But here is my boarding-house, and I don't care about
going any farther."

"But I want to know more about my uncle."

"Come in, then."

I conducted him up stairs to Mrs. Greenough's kitchen; and, after
ascertaining that my father was still very comfortable, I seated
myself with Morgan Blair.

"It is a little odd that I should stumble upon you," said he.

"Rather," I replied; and it seemed to be another of my mishaps, for in
him had appeared an heir to Matt Rockwood's little property, which had
come into my possession.

I told him all about his uncle; how he had lived and how he had died.

"Did he have any property?" asked Blair.

"Why do you ask?"

"Why do I ask? Well, that's a good one! My father and mother are both
dead, and I suppose I am the last of the Rockwoods. I am now out of
business, with less than ten dollars in the world; and why do I ask
whether my uncle had any property?"

"He had his farm--a quarter section of land," I added.

"How much is it worth?"

"Perhaps it is worth as much as it would cost you to go up there and
back."

"That's hopeful."

"There were a couple of horses, a lot of hogs, a log house and barn,
and the farming tools."

"Well, what are they worth?"

"They are worth considerable to a person who wishes to live up there."

"But I don't wish to live up there."

"Then they are worth whatever you can sell them for. Kit Cruncher has
the farm; but I think you will find that squatter sovereignty prevails
up there; and a man in possession, without any claim, is better off
than a man with a title, but not in possession."

"Then I have no chance, you think?"

"On the contrary, I know that Kit Cruncher is an honest man, and if you
prove your claim, he will either pay you the fair value of the place,
or give it up to you."

"But didn't my uncle have any money?"

"Yes; he left about nine hundred dollars in gold," I replied.

"Whew!" exclaimed Blair, opening his eyes.




  CHAPTER XVIII.

  IN WHICH PHIL CALLS UPON MR. LAMAR, AND DOES NOT FIND HIM.


I had heard nothing from Mr. Gracewood since my arrival in St. Louis.
He had in his possession all the moneyed property which had come to me
from the estate of Matt Rockwood. I had placed no little dependence
upon the fifteen hundred in gold, which I regarded as my inheritance;
and now an heir appeared, who certainly had a better legal claim than I
had.

"Nine hundred dollars!" exclaimed Morgan Blair again, and with as much
satisfaction as though this large sum was already in his own hands.

"And after his death we sold off wood and produce enough to amount to
over seven hundred dollars more."

"Better and better," added Blair. "Go on, Phil; perhaps you can make
it up to two thousand."

"I can't very easily make it any more," I replied.

"Well, I'm satisfied as it is. Now, can you tell me where this money
is?"

"A friend of mine has fifteen hundred dollars in gold, and I have his
note for it."

"Exactly so; and perhaps you won't object to handing the note over to
me, and telling me where I can find your friend."

"I must say that I do object."

"You do?"

"Certainly I do."

"But I am the last of the Rockwoods. Don't you think I look like my
uncle Matt?"

"I don't see it."

"Nor I; but my mother said I did. Be that as it may, you must see that
this money belongs to me, and not to you."

"I don't even see that."

"Don't be mean about it, Phil."

"I don't intend to be. I have told you the whole truth, and now I don't
care about talking any more on the subject."

"That's rather cool. You have my money, and you won't give it to me."

"Certainly not; I don't know anything about you. I never even heard old
Matt say he had a sister."

"That's nothing to do with me. He did have one, and I am her son."

"It's no use to say anything more about it. When Mr. Gracewood, who has
the money, arrives, I will speak to him about it."

"But I can't wait."

"You must wait."

"Couldn't you let me have a little of it?" persisted he.

"No, I could not. You haven't proved your claim yet."

"I will prove it."

"When you have done so, the money shall be paid."

"But I must go to Vandalia to obtain the proof; and I haven't money
enough to pay my expenses."

"I can't help that."

"Haven't you any money?"

"I have, and I intend to keep it for my own use."

"But the money is mine. I am the last of the Rockwoods. I know you have
nearly a hundred dollars; or you had before you went into that shop.
That money is mine, and when you spend a dollar of it you steal it.
That's what's the matter."

"I think you have said enough about it, and we will end up the matter
here," I replied, disgusted with his impudence, and wondering how he
knew that I had nearly a hundred dollars.

I refused to say anything more, and he threatened me with the terrors
of the law, and even with his individual vengeance. He teased me to
let him have fifty dollars on account, and declared he would have me
arrested if I did not comply. Finally I put on my cap, and he followed
me into the street, for I found I could get rid of him in no other way.
As soon as he was outside of the door, I made a flank movement upon
him, and returned to the house, shutting him out as I entered. He did
not trouble me any more that night, but I expected to see him again
soon.

I was inclined to believe that he was what he represented himself to
be, for I did not see how he could know anything about Matt Rockwood.
It was very singular that he had stumbled upon me so blindly, and I
regarded my fortune as already lost. I was sorry that Matt's heir had
appeared, for I had considered how convenient this large sum of money
would be when I began to look for my mother. I had thought, as soon as
my father's reformation was in a measure assured, of going to Chicago
to see my grandfather, Mr. Collingsby. My wages, even at six dollars a
week, would no more than pay my father's and my own board. But I was
fully determined to be honest; and, if the fifteen hundred dollars
belonged to Morgan Blair, he should have it, as soon as he satisfied
me that he was the "last of the Rockwoods," even without any legal
forms. The next day my father was a little better, and sat up a portion
of the time. Mrs. Greenough nursed him most tenderly, and insisted
that I should go to Sunday school and to church in the forenoon. I
dressed myself in my new clothes, and when my father saw me he smiled,
and seemed to be proud of his boy. I went to Sunday school at the
church which my landlady attended; and I realized all my pleasant
anticipations of the occasion. I was put into a class of boys of my own
age, and listened attentively to the instructions of my teacher, who, I
afterwards learned to my surprise, was one of the wealthiest merchants
in the city, though he was very plain in his manners and in his dress.

What was so new and strange, and withal so exceedingly pleasant to
me, is familiar to all my readers, and I need not describe it. Mr.
Phillips, my teacher, had an attentive scholar in me, and immediately
took an interest in me. He promised to call and see me some evening,
and presented me a class book for use in the school and at home. I
was astonished at his kindness and condescension, when Mrs. Greenough
told me who and what he was. The services in the church were not less
novel and interesting to me; and I am sure that I was deeply impressed
by the prayers, the singing, and the sermon. In the afternoon I staid
at home with my father, and Mrs. Greenough went to church. I read the
Bible and the library book I had obtained at the Sunday school to him,
and he was as much interested as I was. In the evening I went to the
prayer-meeting; and when I retired I felt more like being good and true
than ever before.

On Monday I was at the plane and plank again, and when night came I
was never so tired in my life, not even when I had tramped through the
woods for a day and a night. I did not go out; but Mr. Lamar and Mr.
Gray called to inquire for my father. As I had told them all about my
relations with Matt Rockwood, and that I had the money he had left, I
ventured to ask their advice in regard to the claimant who had appeared
in the person of Morgan Blair.

"Don't pay him a dollar," said Mr. Lamar, who was a very prudent man,
as I had learned before.

"I have no doubt he is the nephew of Matt Rockwood," I replied.

"If he is, he must prove his claim. Do nothing, Phil, without the
advice of your friends, especially Mr. Gracewood."

"As he has the money, I shall not be likely to do anything."

"The fellow may be an impostor," suggested Mr. Gray.

"I think that is impossible. He came to me simply to inquire about the
country on the upper Missouri, and said he had an uncle up there. Then
he gave me the name of Matthew Rockwood. If he were an impostor, he
could not have done that."

"Perhaps it is all right as you say; but don't pay him anything till we
have the evidence," added Mr. Lamar.

My friends left me, and the door had hardly closed behind them before
Morgan Blair called to see me. He pressed me to let him have fifty
dollars to enable him to go to Vandalia; but I continued to refuse, and
as before he waxed angry and threatened me.

"It's no use, Blair. I shall not let you have a dollar. I have
consulted Mr. Lamar and Mr. Gray, and I act under their advice. If you
want to do anything about it, go and see them."

"I don't know them, and don't want to know them. My business is with
you, and I will follow you till you give me that money. It belongs to
me, and I ought to have it."

"You can do as you think best; but following me won't do any good. If
you will wait till Mr. Gracewood comes, he will be able to settle the
question. He was with us when your uncle was killed. Perhaps Matt spoke
to him about his sister."

"Do you doubt my word?"

"No; but if I should pay this money to you, Matt's brother might come
after it."

"I tell you he is dead."

"That must be proved."

"I suppose I shall have to prove that I'm not dead myself, by and by."

"If you can prove the rest as easily, as you can prove that, you will
be all right. When I hear from Mr. Gracewood I will let you know."

"I can't wait."

"Very well; then go to work at once in the right way."

"What's that?"

"Go to the territory where your uncle lived and died, have an
administrator appointed, and he can legally claim the effects of Matt
Rockwood," I replied, rehearsing the information imparted to me by Mr.
Lamar.

"I can't go up there."

"Go to a lawyer, then, and he will advise you what to do."

"I haven't any money to pay a lawyer. I haven't a dollar left. I lost
nearly all I had."

"Lost it? Where?"

"At Forstellar's," he replied.

"Gambling?"

"Well, I played a little. I wanted to make a little money somehow."

"But you didn't make any?"

"Made it out of pocket."

"I should go to work if I were you."

His confession gave me a new revelation in regard to his character, and
I was the more determined not to let him have a dollar. He pleaded,
begged, and threatened; but I was firm, and he left me.

When I came home to dinner the next day, I found a letter from Mr.
Gracewood in reply to mine. With trembling hands I opened it. The
writer began by saying that he was very glad to hear from me, and that
he had worried a great deal about me. Mrs. Gracewood had been very
sick, but was now slowly improving. He did not think he should be
able to leave for St. Louis for two or three weeks. Ella was well, and
sent her regards to me. This was favorable news, and I was very much
rejoiced to receive the letter. I wrote immediately, giving him a full
account of what had happened to me since we parted, and sent the letter
by the next mail.

  [Illustration: PHIL READING THE BIBLE TO HIS FATHER. Page 212.]

My father improved very slowly, but I was not sure that his illness
was not a blessing to him, for he was unable to go out of the house,
and the process of weaning him from whiskey was thus assisted very
materially. On Saturday night, after I had been paid off, I found a
letter at the house. I opened it, and looked first at the signature,
which was Pierre Lamar. He wrote that he wished to see me about the
money matter of which I had spoken to him, and desired me to call
at a place in Fourth Street which he designated. In a postscript he
requested me to bring the note which Mr. Gracewood had given for the
money.

After supper, with the note in my pocket, I hastened to the place
indicated. It appeared to be a dwelling-house, and I rang the bell at
the front door, which was presently opened by a man in a white jacket.
I asked for Mr. Lamar, and was assured that he was in his room. I was
conducted up three flights of stairs, and the man knocked at a door. I
thought Mr. Lamar ought to be able to afford better accommodations for
himself; but the door opened, and I entered the room.

I looked for my friend; but instead of him, I saw only Mr. Leonidas
Lynchpinne and Morgan Blair.




  CHAPTER XIX.

  IN WHICH PHIL FINDS HIMSELF A PRISONER IN THE GAMBLERS' ROOM.


I was not suspicious; I had no idea that any one intended to wrong
me. I was even willing to believe that Morgan Blair was sincere, and
really thought that I ought to advance him money from the estate of his
uncle, even before he had proved his claim. After all, it is pleasant
to believe that no one intends to injure you; it is even better to be
occasionally deceived than to be always suspicious.

I went up the stairs in the house to which the note from Mr. Lamar had
given me the address without a suspicion that anything was, or could
be, wrong. I had never before seen the handwriting of my correspondent,
and had no reason to suppose that the note was a fraud upon me. Though
I had had a sharp experience of the villany of men since I came from my
home in the wilderness, I was still a child in the ways of the great
world.

I entered the room to which I had been conducted by the man in a white
jacket, and the door was instantly closed behind me and locked. The
apartment was an attic chamber, on the fourth floor of the house, and
contained the ordinary furniture of a bedroom. Mr. Leonidas Lynchpinne,
otherwise Lynch, sat in a rocking-chair, smoking a cigar. Blair had
slipped in behind me when I entered in order to secure the door; and
having done this, he took a chair near the blackleg. On a small table,
over which hung the gas-light, was a silver box, such as I had seen
in the hands of Redwood at Leavenworth. It contained a pack of cards,
and another lay upon the table. There was also a dice-box, and some
other gambling implements, of which I do not even know the names. I
concluded, from the position of the parties and the articles on the
table between them, that Lynch had been giving the young man a lesson
in the art of winning money.

"How are you, Phil Farringford?" said Lynch, with a sort of triumphant
smile, which indicated the pleasure he felt at the success of his trick.

"How are you, Mr. Leonidas Lynchpinne?" I replied, cheerfully; for
I felt it to be my duty to demonstrate that I was not alarmed at my
situation.

The demonstration was not a feint, either. I felt an utter contempt
for Lynch, and, now that I realized his rascality, for Morgan Blair.
I had fought the savage Indians in the forest, which had developed my
courage, if nothing more. I glanced around the room, and saw at the
grate an iron poker, with which I thought I might neutralize the odds
against me, in case the interview resulted in anything more dangerous
to life and health than mere words. The letter, in its postscript,
as though it had been an afterthought, requested me to bring Mr.
Gracewood's note. Blair had asked me to give it up to him. I was
inclined to think that the parties before me wanted this note, though
I could not imagine what earthly use it could be to them.

"You need not call me by that name any longer," added Lynch, biting
his lip, and evidently vexed to find that I was not intimidated by my
situation.

"As you gave me the name of Leonidas Lynchpinne, I shall consult my own
inclination, rather than yours, in the use of it."

"You will change your tune before you are an hour older, Phil."

"If I do I shall take the pitch from you."

"You are here at my summons, my lad."

"I see now that I am; brought here by a lie and a swindle, which seem
be your stock in trade."

"Don't be impudent, Phil."

"If you speak to me like a gentleman, I will answer you in the same
way. You need not put on airs."

"I have business with you, Phil."

"I have no business with you; and I respectfully decline having
anything whatever to do with you."

"Your declination is not accepted. I want to tell you that I never
forget a friend or forgive an enemy."

"I have fought Indians before, and though I don't like the business, I
can do it again."

"Do you call that talking like a gentleman, Phil?"

"No gentleman ever utters an Indian sentiment."

"You are in my power, Phil, and you had better come down from that high
horse."

"I'm not in your power, and never shall be till I become a thief, a
blackleg, and a swindler," I replied, calmly, as I glanced at Morgan
Blair, who, I thought, was completely in his power.

"What!" exclaimed Lynch, springing to his feet, his face red with anger.

I fell back two or three steps, and quietly took up the poker, which
rested against the bracket at the side of the grate.

"What are you going to do with that?" demanded he.

"That will depend upon circumstances."

"Drop that poker!"

"For the present I shall regard this poker as a part of myself; and I
hope you will so regard it."

"You impudent puppy!"

"Foul words are cheap, defiling only him who utters them," I added,
quoting a sentence from the instructions of Mr. Gracewood.

"I'm not to be trifled with, Phil," said Lynch, taking a small
Derringer pistol from his pocket.

"That's just my case," I answered, elevating the poker.

"Look here, Lynch," interrupted Morgan Blair, rising from his chair
in evident alarm, "if you are going to use pistols and such things, I
won't have anything to do with the scrape."

"Shut up, Blair!" replied Lynch.

"I won't!"

"You are a fool!" exclaimed the older villain, dropping into his
rocking-chair with an expression of utter disgust upon his face.

I felt that I was fighting my battle very well indeed, and I was
encouraged in the course I had chosen.

"I don't want any shooting where I am," said Blair. "I'm willing to
lick him within an inch of his life, if he don't play fair, but I
don't want him shot."

  [Illustration: PHIL DEFIES LYNCH. Page 224.]

"I don't intend to shoot him, unless he attacks me with that poker. I
want to show him that two can play at his game," added Lynch. "Will you
drop that poker, Phil?"

"I will not."

"If you undertake to use it, I want you to understand that pistol balls
travel faster than pokers."

"Very true; and if you are satisfied with your pistol, I am with my
poker. I am ready to end this meeting at any time."

"I am not ready to end it. I have business with you. I don't forgive an
enemy."

"I do, when he deserves to be forgiven."

"None of your cant! I'm not going to a prayer-meeting with you now."

"It would do you good to go to one; and I know of no one who needs to
go any more than you."

"If you can hold your tongue long enough, we will proceed to business,
Phil."

"I have no business to proceed to; and I'm going to speak as I feel
inclined," I replied, resting the poker in a chair near me.

"I have business with you, if you have not with me. As I told you, I
never forgive an enemy."

"As I told you before, that is an Indian sentiment."

"Will you hold your tongue?"

"No, sir, I will not."

"You knocked me down in the street, and took my money from me."

"At your request I took it; and you were kind enough to pay me the
balance in my favor when we parted at the police station," I replied.

"You must give me back that money, Phil."

"Not if I know it. Let me remind you that the money belonged to me, and
that I did not charge you any interest upon it for the time you had it."

"The money wasn't yours. It belonged to Matt Rockwood. You stole it;
and I intended to get all I could for my friend here, Morgan Blair, to
whom all of it belongs."

"You and your friend seem to understand each other very well, except
so far as the pistol is concerned."

"I act for him. He is a young fellow, and don't know much about the
ways of the world."

"He appears to be learning very rapidly."

"He is the rightful heir of the man up the river, whose money you have.
I expect you to give it up to him."

"And I expect to do so myself, just as soon as he proves the claim.
Though I think I have a better right to the money than he has, I will
give it up whenever he satisfies me that he is the nephew of Matt
Rockwood. If this is your business with me, you can't get ahead any
farther with it to-night."

"Have you the note with you--the note of Mr.--What's his name?"

"Mr. Gracewood," added Blair.

"I respectfully decline to answer," I replied.

"But you must give it up before you leave this house."

"Then I shall stay here longer than you will want to board me."

"I don't intend to board you," sneered Lynch. "You will neither eat nor
drink till you give up this note, and the hundred dollars you got out
of me at the police station."

"So far as the money is concerned, I spent a part of it, and the rest I
left at my boarding-house."

"You can give me an order on your landlady for what you have left, and
Blair will go and get it."

"I will not give him that trouble."

"You prefer to stay here--do you?"

"I do; this isn't a bad place to stay, and I can stand it here a while."

"Consider well your situation, Phil. This is my room. I board here when
I am in town, and--"

"It's good enough for me, if it is for you."

"It is a gambling-house, and the people who live here are my friends. I
can bring in half a dozen men to help me."

"Bring them in," I replied, laughing, though I confess that I was not
very much amused.

"It's no joke."

"It will not be for you when you are done with it. When my father
misses me, he will be very likely to send for our friends, Mr. Lamar
and Mr. Gray."

"In a word, Phil, will you give me that note."

"In a word, I will not; and in another word, I will fight just as long
as I have a breath in my body, if you or anybody else attempts to
meddle with me."

"Phil, you go to prayer-meetings, and claim to be honest," continued
Lynch, changing his tone when he found that he did not terrify me.

"I do go to prayer-meetings when I can, and I try to be honest."

"I hope you will keep on trying. By the merest accident Blair stumbled
upon you, and turns out to be the heir of the man whose money you have.
He is the last of the Rockwoods. Do you think it is honest to keep him
out of his money?"

"I'm not so sure now that he stumbled upon me."

"Didn't he ask you something about the upper Missouri, and tell you he
had an uncle there? and didn't he tell you the name of his uncle before
you had mentioned it?"

"He certainly did; but since I have found out what company he keeps, I
begin to think you posted him up, and sent him to stumble upon me."

"That's absurd."

"Not at all. Didn't you hear me tell the whole story in the police
station, Mr. Leonidas Lynchpinne?"

"I never saw him till after that," replied Lynch, angrily, as he picked
up the pistol, which he had laid upon the table. "It is useless to
reason with you. Come, Blair, we will leave him here to think about it
till morning."

The villain moved towards the door, pointing his pistol at me. It was
capped, and I supposed it was loaded. Blair unlocked the door, and
retreated into the entry. Lynch followed his example, and as it was
possible that he might fire at me, I did not deem it prudent to be the
aggressor. I heard the door locked upon me.




  CHAPTER XX.

  IN WHICH PHIL IS STARTLED BY THE SIGHT OF A FAMILIAR FACE.


I actually laughed when I heard the bolt of the lock snapped upon me;
partly because I thought it was better to laugh over my mishaps than to
cry, and partly because the trick of which I had been made the victim
was simply ridiculous. Perhaps, if I had been a boy brought up in the
city, and had never been thrown upon my own resources in times of
peril, I might have taken a different view of the matter. I can easily
believe that many boys would have been intimidated, and given up the
money and the note. Lynch ought to have known me better, though I had
been a lamb at Leavenworth.

I seated myself in the rocking-chair, and looked around the room. There
was a luthern window in it, which opened upon the roof. A cheerful
coal fire burned in the grate, and the room was quite comfortable.
I examined the silver card box on the table, and the other articles
there; but I was not much interested in them, and soon gave myself up
to a consideration of the situation. Of course the whole trick was
intended to intimidate me; but I positively refused to be intimidated.
I supposed my persecutors would soon return, and renew the onslaught.

For my own part, I could not see what they intended to gain, even if
they obtained the note against Mr. Gracewood. It was stupid of them to
imagine that he would give up the money to total strangers. Still they
must have believed he would let them have the gold, for they could not
have taken all this trouble for the seventy dollars which I had. But
it was no use to speculate upon their intentions. The note was safe in
my pocket, and the money at my boarding-house. If I had supposed there
was any possibility of the villains obtaining the former, I would have
burned it on the spot, for I knew that Mr. Gracewood would pay the
money whether there was any legal document to show for it or not.

I rose from my chair, and walked to the door, in order to examine it.
This same Lynch had once before locked me into a room, and it was
possible that I might break this door open, as I had done on the former
occasion. But I found this was a different piece of work from that at
Leavenworth. It fitted well in the frame. I tried the handle, and found
that it was securely locked.

"No use, Phil," said a voice in the entry, which I recognized as that
of Morgan Blair.

It appeared that my late fellow-workman was stationed as a sentinel at
the door to prevent my escape.

"Where's Lynch?" I asked, placing my mouth at the key-hole.

"Down stairs. Are you ready to give up the note?"

"No."

"When you are, let me know."

I made no reply, but walked to the window to see what the prospect was
