shaggy coat-sleeve around her, " it is a sore trial, and 
you would have less than a child's heart if you did 
not feel its bitterness. You have been very brave so 
far. We will take a little drive around and get some 
good spirits to carry back to auntie." 

Jenny, who was as black as a coal and had 
been pretty mettlesome in her young days, pricked 
up her ears at her master's voice, and after they 
turned into a quiet street flew along as if she 
was enjoying a good race. Kathie wiped away the 
tears and summoned all her courage, trying to think 
of the happy time two months distant. It seemed 
very long, looking ahead, but then she had already 
been in the city more than that length of time, so 
it would pass after a while. 

The remainder of the day was pretty quiet both 
for herself and Aunt Euth. Neither felt disposed to 
talk much, and perhaps it was as well. Now and 
then a great pang of homesickness and longing came 
over her, and at night she quietly cried herself to 
sleep ; not that she wished to return and leave Aunt 
Ruth alone, but her tender little heart yearned for 
the others. 

Mrs. Havens sent for her to come to tea one even- 




ing, and entertained her very charmingly with some 
collections of pictures she had just received. There 
was a beautiful series of marine plants, sea-ferns, 
and many curiosities, and Mrs. Havens related some 
interesting facts about them. 

Ada sent her an invitation for Saturday. Some 
friends of Mrs. Meredith, from Cuba, were staying 
with them, and as there were two girls they would 
like Kathie to join them. " Be in the best possible 
voice," wrote Ada. 

But on Friday the arrangements were changed. 
A new engagement had been made for Saturday, and 
Ada begged her to come on Sunday, as their friends 
expected to leave for Washington on the day follow- 
ing. Mr. Edward Meredith brought the message. 
"They all feel very sorry, and will be a good deal 
disappointed if you don't come. Then I should 
really like to have you see these young Cubans, for 
they are extremely odd and piquant. It will only 
be a quiet little supper." 

Kathie ran up to consult Aunt Ruth. 

" I don't quite approve of Sunday visiting ; but 
this is under peculiar circumstances ; do just as you 
like about it." 

 





So Katlie concluded to go, since Mr. Meredith was 
very much in earnest. 

" I 'll come for you/' lie said with his good-by. 
" Quite early too, I think, so be ready by a little after 
three." 

Kathie went to church in the morning with Mrs. 
Markham. She was beginning to feel quite happy 
and reconciled again. After dinner she read to Aunt 
Euth awhile, and then dressed herself in her pretty 
blue merino, and brushed her long curls until they 
shone. 

" Don't forget what day it is, Kathie," Aunt Euth 
said as she kissed her, for the servant announced 
that the carriage was at the door. 

Instead of Mr. Meredith only, there was a 
whole carriage full, and Kathie started in a little 
surprise. 

" We were all going to vespers," explained Uncle 
Edward, " so we thought we would call for you 
first." And then he introduced her to Madame 
Hernadez, and the two girls, Julie and Eomena. 

Madame Hernadez was very brilliant and stylish- 
looking, with the blackest of eyes and hair. The 
girls w r ere not nearly so pretty. Julie, fourteen, but 



 

very small of her age, was rather thin and sallow. 
Komena had a lovely color in her cheeks, and her 
eyes were much brighter. 

Uncle Edward took Kathie on the seat with him, 
but she felt very odd and strange. Ada was talking 
French with Julie, and feeling rather proud of her 
acquirements. 

" You have never been to a vesper service, have 
you ? " Mr. Meredith asked of Kathie. 

" No," she answered, in a low tone. 

"The music is really magnificent at St. Francis. 
I often drop in to hear it." 

" You have some beautiful churches here," ex- 
claimed Madame, " but they all look so new. No 
old ruins nor ancient shrines." 

" And we are a new people," he answered, with a 
peculiar smile. 

They soon reached the church, which was not 
crowded, though sendee was just commencing. An 
usher very politely seated them. Kathie felt some- 
what awkward and uncomfortable, but Ada adapted 
herself to the situation with admirable grace. The 
others were very devout. 

There was a series of prayers in Latin, with musi' 





cal interruptions, and then the place was filled with 
clouds of incense. After that the music became 
more of a chant, and the organ was most exquisitely 
played. The church seemed to grow darker, and the 
weird waves of melody affected Kathie . strangely. 
Some sad, soft swells that almost brought the tears 
to her eyes, and then the voices of the singers 
rising in pathetic strains. It was all unintelligible 
to her, to be sure, but she had too much reverence to 
be inattentive in any place of worship. 

Ada was quite eloquent in her appreciation of 
the music, and she discussed the service with the 
air of a devotee. Kathie and Eomena made a little 
acquaintance, but it was not until they were at home 
and had taken off their hats and cloaks that they 
began to feel at all familiar. 

Sunday was always considered as a sort of holi- 
day at the Merediths'. Uncle Edward rejoined the 
gentlemen in the smoking-room, Madame and Mrs. 
Meredith fell into a trifling conversation, and Ada 
began to tell Kathie about their going to the theatre 
on Saturday evening and an opera matinee in the 
morning. Between, there had been quite an elegant 
hotel dinner given to the Hernadez by some Cuban 
friends. 



 

" Two of the gentlemen are coming here to-night," 
she whispered, " and I think them so handsome." 

Then Kathie must come up stairs and see what 
elegant ball-dresses the girls had. Julie grew quite 
animated -on this subject, and made her displays 
with no little pride. It sounded very pretty to hear 
her talk in broken English, now and then using a 
Spanish phrase or sentence when at a loss to express 
herself. 

In the midst of this entertainment the supper-bell 
rang. Another lady and gentleman had arrived, and 
somehow Kathie could not help wishing herself at 
home. This feast that seemed almost like a party 
was so different from her quiet Sunday-night talks 
with Aunt Euth. 

The four girls had their end of the table, and Ada 
played hostess with a great deal of grace. There 
was a profusion of creams and jellies, and two pyr- 
amids of handsome hot-house flowers. The new- 
comer, Mrs. Henriques, was every elegantly dressed 
in a light silk, cut low in the neck and trimmed 
with white lace. 

They sat a long while at the table, until Kathie 
began to grow really tired. As they were returning
to the drawing-room Mrs. Henriques paused 

until she came up in range. 

" What lovely hair this young lady has ! ' : she ex- 
claimed, twining it around her fingers. " I was not 
sure that it was all real." 

" Eeal ! ' : echoed Kathie, in surprise, and then she 
blushed, half frightened at having spoken. 

" Your own, I meant, but you are hardly old 
enough for such things. When you go into society 
you will find these long golden curls worth a fortune 
to you. Look, Mr. Hernadez, did you ever see a more 
exquisite color ? ' : 

" But the child is such a perfect blonde ! You will 
make many a heart ache in the course of a few 
years " ; and he bowed gallantly. 

Kathie blushed deeper than ever and tried to 
shrink away. Madame Hernadez closed her in on 
the other side, however, and began to compliment her. 

" But you are quite too shy, ma belle" she said, in a 
most winning tone. 

At this juncture the two gentlemen were an- 
nounced, Cubans also, and brothers ; but the younger, 
who was less than twenty, was exceedingly handsome. 
Ada went forward to meet him with the air of a 



 

grown-up lady. He exchanged a few words with 
Julie Hernadez, and then devoted himself to Ada, 
the attention appearing to elate her greatly. 

" We were to have some music," began Madame 
Hernadez. " One of these young gentlemen is an 
excellent pianist." 

And so Ada's charming tete-a-tete was broken up ; 
but she and Julie, who was evidently a coquette, 
young as she appeared, stationed themselves within 



range. 



After playing several pieces he paused and spoke 
to Mrs. Meredith, who summoned her daughter with 
a glance. 

" Mr. De Castro wishes you and Kathie to sing. 
Kathie ! " elevating her voice a little. 

Kathie rose from her seat between the two ladies 
and came shyly forward. Mr. De Castro remarked 
for the first time how very pretty she was. 

Mrs. Meredith gave her a special introduction. 

" We want you and Ada to sing," she said. She 
was very proud of her daughter's fine voice, but being 
alto it was not so rich or perfect in soprano parts. 

" Mrs. Meredith ! " and Kathie's heart was in 
her throat. " I do not believe I can. I " 





" Nonsense ! " was the rather sharp reply. " Why, 
you have practised so much together ! Don't be 
foolish ! " 

Every pulse was in a quiver. Kathie wondered if 
she could acquit herself even tolerably. Then Mrs. 
Henriques came forward and gave her a bright smile. 

"What do you know?" asked Mr. De Castro, 
glancing at her encouragingly. 

" Oh, Ada, that Evening Hymn to the Virgin ! " ex- 
claimed Julie. " You know you promised me, and it 
is mamma's favorite." 

Mr. De Castro found it, and ran his fingers lightly 
through the accompaniment. 

Kathie was wondering in her heart if it was 
strictly a " Sunday tune." She was a good deal 
frightened and confused, and when he said 
"Eeady," she obeyed from her usual habit. Her 
voice trembled visibly, but as Ada's swelled clear and 
strong, she took courage. 

They did sing very beautifully together. The ladies 
made a circle around them, and even the gentle- 
men were attracted. When they came to the re- 
frain, " Ora pro nobis" the melody was absolutely 
touching. 



 

" Oh, how lovely ! how charming ! " and Mrs. Hen- 
riques stooped to kiss them both. 

" This is indeed a treat/' exclaimed Mr. Hernadez. 
" Why, I did not know that you had so much amateur 
musical talent. De Castro, we shall keep you busy 
the remainder of the evening. Young ladies, you 
must be indulgent." 

" You were humming something yesterday that I 
liked so much, Miss Ada. You said you sang it with 
a friend " : and Madame Hernadez gave her an eager 
glance. 

Ada bowed her head gracefully, affecting to think. 

"Was it Natalie, the mill song ? " 

" It had a very beautiful chorus, tra la, a sort 
of wild, ringing melody." 

" Oh, I remember, - - the Gypsy's Chorus." 

" They sing that finely, I think," said Mrs. Meredith. 

Mr. De Castro, guided by Ada, soon found it. But 
there had been a great struggle going on within 
Kathie's heart and conscience. This was a gay little 
opera song with an echo that was peculiarly adapted 
to Ada's voice. The simplest and easiest way would 
be to sing it. They would never think any the less 
of her, and to refuse would make such a scene. 





Just at tins moment her talk with General Mac- 
kenzie recurred to her. He had said that they were 
all soldiers, and though their great Captain might not 
reprimand or punish, his eye was never off them. 
She felt that all at home would disapprove of her 
singing such a song on the hallowed Sunday evening. 

The accompaniment sounded dreamily in her ears 
as she glanced around. All the faces were expectant, 
and she understood quite indifferent to the effort she 
must make alone. Mamma trusted her to do noth- 
ing that she could not conscientiously approve, but 
the trial was dreadful, and she trembled as if in 



ague. 



" Ada," she said, with a gasp, " I cannot sing it." 
" Why, yes, you can," returned Ada, in surprise. 
"No I mean that " 
Mr. De Castro struck the note. 
" There," said Ada, " begin ! " 
Kathie made a movement away and turned very 
pale. " If you will excuse me," she said to some 
one, and that happened to be Mrs. Meredith. 
" Why, what is the matter, child ? ' : 
" I think it - - not quite right - - for Sunday ! " 
It seemed to her that she had said the most dread- 



 

ful, disobliging, and impertinent thing she could 
utter. 

" Can't she, mamma ? " began Ada, disappointedly. 

Mrs. Meredith bridled in a dignified and rather 
austere fashion. " I suppose I am the best judge 
of what is to be done in my own house/' she ex- 
claimed, with cutting emphasis ; " and a simple little 
song like that can harm no one." 

" I would rather not," Kathie said, in her sweetest 
manner, though she could not keep the tears from her 
eyes. 

"What is the trouble?" asked Mr. De Castro, 
turning his soft dark eyes upon Kathie. 

Mrs. Henriques besieged her on the other side, and 
it seemed to her that she had better yield. 

" Uncle Edward," said Ada, " I wish you would 
come and talk to Kathie. She has taken an obsti- 
nate freak in her head and will not sing." Then she 
added in a whisper, meant only for Kathie's ears, 
" It 's real mean ! I believe you do it because you 
're jealous and don't want me to be admired ! ' : 

All this seemed to happen in a moment. Uncle 
Edward leaned over and caught sight of the tearful 
eyes. 





" What is it, Kathie ? " 

The kind voice almost unnerved her, but she 
would make one more effort. 

" I would rather not sing this song on Sunday 
night," she said, in a low tone. " I don't mean to be 
cross or disobliging " and she paused, for she could 
not utter another word. 

Mr. Meredith laughed. " If no one ever did any- 
thing worse than singing such a song on Sunday - 

" O, is that the trouble ? ' : said Mrs. Henriques. 
" Why, what a little puritan ! ' 

" The child is quite right if she does not feel like 
it," exclaimed Mr. De Castro, who had been studying 
the expression of her face. " I always respect the 
religious scruples of another." 

Kathie gave him a most grateful look. 

" Perhaps there is something else you can sing." 

" We will excuse Miss Kathie," rejoined Mrs. Mere- 
dith, haughtily, and she turned away. 

The party around the piano broke up and scattered 
to different portions of the room. 

" What an odd child ! " said Mrs. Henriques, passing 
her arm around Kathie. " Do you think we are all so 
very careless and wicked ? " 




" I don't want to think anything about others/' she 
replied, barely repressing a sob. " Mamma would not 
like to hear me sing the song, and I felt that I ought 
to do just what I would if she were here." 

" She is very brave and true," added Mr. De Castro, 
and somehow the look encouraged her. 







CHAPTEE XIV. 

OUT OF THE SHADOW AND IN THE SUN. 

BUT the charm of the evening was gone for Kathie, 
Mrs. Meredith was too well bred to allow any awk- 
wardness to fall upon her guests, and covered the 
little scene with a gay conversation. Mr. Meredith 
wanted very much to cross over to Kathie and com- 
fort her, but he was in the midst of a discussion with 
Mr. Hernadez. She sat beside Mrs. Henriques, look- 
ing quite forlorn, and wishing that she could go 
home. Then Mr. De Castro began to talk to her, 
much to Ada's vexation. He was very pleasant, and 
though he did not share her scruples, for his education 
had been so very different, he honored her courage in 
avowing them. 

" Is your mamma in the city ? " he asked. 

" No," returned Kathie. And then she explained 
that she was staying with an aunt who was here for 
medical treatment. 

" You are very fond of music," he continued., with 
a smile. " Are you studying ? ' : 



 

" A little," she answered, timidly. 

" And your voice is exceedingly sweet and smooth. 
You ought to have an excellent teacher. I should 
like to hear you in some other pieces. I suppose you 
sing a good deal." 

" When I am at home/' returned Kathie. 

Ada could no longer endure the sight of Mr. De 
Castro's attention to another. She called him to ex- 
plain to them the name of some tropical flower, and 
then she and Julie exerted their charms to the utmost. 
She might venture to deal more generously with Julie, 
as that young lady was so soon to leave the city. 

Mrs. Henriques changed her seat, and Kathie was 
left alone. Every one in the room seemed happy and 
engrossed except herself. And then the little French 
clock on the mantel struck the half-hour. At nine 
she must go home. 

The moments were long and wearisome. She 
counted the seconds and prayed for them to go faster. 
She did not dare to leave her seat, for a feeling of 
awkwardness chained her to it. Mr. Meredith, glan- 
cing up suddenly, took in the position of the droop- 
ing and dispirited face, and brought his argument to 
a rather abrupt close. 





" My dear child/' he said, approaching her, " you 
should not let such a trifling mischance cloud your 
evening. After all, it was of very little account." 

" I should like to go home," she made answer, in a 
tremulous voice. " Aunt Euth told me to come at 



nine." 



"Which gives you fifteen minutes' grace. Shall 
we go over and talk to Ada and Julie ? ' 

" I would rather go home " ; and this time her voice 
was full of tears. 

" My child, you shall do as you like. It is a fine 
night, so suppose I walk with you, instead of send- 
ing you in the carriage ? ' 

Kathie gave him a bright, grateful look. 

" Very well. Make your adieus then." 

That was a great trial. She had half a mind to 
slip unnoticed out of the room, but Mr. Meredith 
smoothed the way for her by announcing her de- 
parture to the girls and to Mrs. Henriques, who was 
in their vicinity. 

" What makes you go so soon ? ' : ' asked Ada, lan- 
guidly. 

Mrs. Henriques kissed her warmly, and this broke 
the spell of reserve. 



 

" I am sorry about the singing," said Madame 
Hernadez, in a low tone. " If we were not going to- 
morrow, I should ask to have the visit repeated." 

That comforted Kathie a good deal, the tone in 
which it was spoken being so frank and pleas- 
ant. 

Kathie thought she ought to make some apology 



to Mrs. Meredith, but although that lady dismissed 
her very graciously, there was an air about her that 
showed the child she still felt offended. 

" Will you order the carriage, Edward ? " she asked 
of her brother-in-law. 

He nodded and left the room. Ada, as a matter of 
courtesy, followed her friend. 

" It was a shame for you to spoil the evening, 
Kathie," she began. 

" Hush," said Uncle Edward. " It was right for 
Kathie to honor her mother as well in her absence 
as in her presence." 

Kathie hurried on her wrappings and uttered her 
good-by, but Ada was not very cordial, it must be 
confessed. 

It was so good to get out in the fresh air that 
Kathie drew a long breath of rapture. The moon 


was shining at its brightest, albeit it was a midwinter 
moon, and the atmosphere keen and frosty. 

" My dear little friend," Mr. Meredith began, pres- 
ently, " I regret so much that your visit has been 
spoiled. If you thought singing the song wrong, no 
one should have urged you." 

" I am afraid Mrs. Meredith considered me rude 
and foolish about it. I did not mean that I 
thought myself better than the others ' : 

" My dear Kathie, we could not suspect you of 
that. As for Mrs. Meredith, on sober consideration 
she will see that your course was right, even if the 
virtue was a little overstrained." 

Kathie's heart beat rapidly. Must she lose his 
good opinion also ? 

" Why did you think it so very wrong ? " and Mr. 
Meredith gave a light little laugh, which showed that 
he treated it as a matter of small importance. 

Kathie was a good deal troubled. What could she 
say to make him understand her feelings ? And as 
she was casting about in perplexity, the best of all 
reasons came into her mind. 

" Remember the Sabbath day to keep it holy." 
Her voice was low but earnest, and something in it 
touched Mr. Meredith. 



 

" Mamma, and Aunt Eutli, and Uncle Eobert would 
have felt very sorry to hear of my singing such a 
song on Sunday evening. I don't know as the other 
was quite right. I did not have hardly time to think 
of it." 

" You were right in not doing a thing of which 
you felt certain they would disapprove." 

"And because there was a higher right. I need 
not have told them, you know, and they would never 
ask me. I am glad now that I did n't, only it almost 
broke my heart to displease everybody." 

She uttered this so simply that he could see there 
had been no spirit of ostentation in her soul. 

" All those people have been brought up so dif- 
ferently' he said, " and are used to going to concerts 
and all kinds of amusements on Sunday evenings. I 
suppose Mrs. Meredith thought only of their enter- 
tainment, and Ada's voice sounds so beautifully with 
yours." 

Kathie imagined there was something a little re- 
gretful in his tone. 

" Are you sorry ? " she asked, humbly. 

" Not that you had the courage to do right in so 
simple yet perplexing a matter. And now you must 
forgive and forget." 





Katliie felt that this would be an easy matter foi 
her if she was not reminded of it too often. 

" And here we are at Dr. Markham's. How short 
the walk has "been ! ' 

He looked smilingly into Kathie's face, which was 
grave and sweet, and so full of childhood's innocence 
that he was deeply moved. 

" God bless you," he said, in an earnest tone, " and 
keep you as pure and steadfast in the truth as you 
are now. Heaven knows the world has need enough 
of good women ! ' 

Kathie just paused in the library to speak to Mrs. 
Markham, and then walked slowly up stairs. 

" Did you have a nice time ? " asked Aunt Euth. 

"The girls were very odd and foreign," she an- 
swered, " but the ladies and gentlemen were pleasant." 

Dr. Markham had forbidden conversations of any 
length at bedtime, and Kathie still adhered scrupu- 
lously to the command, though she longed to open 
her sore little heart to Aunt Euth, who could un- 
derstand her so well. Mr. Meredith's manner had 
pained her somewhat, and she wondered if any one 
ever appreciated the great effort a person must make 
continually to be good. Even tender and generous 



 

Charlie Darrell had once called her queer when she 
had just made a sacrifice of her own pleasure. And 
it seemed now that she wanted mamma more than 
ever, for she felt utterly friendless and forlorn. 

So it was a great relief to confess on the next day, 
and receive a little comfort. Kathie was not at all 
given to exaggeration, but told a story in a simple, 
straightforward manner. 

"I am afraid Mrs. Meredith thought me imper- 
tinent and obtrusive, but I did not mean to be," 
Kathie said, deprecatingly. " I am very sorry that I 
went, for we looked over the ball-dresses and pretty 
things, and talked about them until it seemed quite 
like a week-day." 

" And this is why I disapprove of Sunday visiting 
in most cases, though it would have appeared rather 
discourteous to refuse. I do not see how you could 
well have done differently, and I am thankful that 
you had the courage to confess the truth. It is hard 
to suffer ill consequences when one has taken the 
only right course, but you must bear it patiently." 

" I don't suppose they will ever ask me again. I 
believe I don't love Ada very much, Aunt Ruth, for 
she so often makes me uncomfortable ; but they have 
all been very kind to me." 





" So they have, my dear, and I regret a rupture. 
There are a good many trials in this life, Kathie, and 
so far your stay here has scarcely been shadowed from 
any outside cause. You must try to be just as happy 
as usual, let the result be what it may." 

She might have been a trifle more grave, perhaps, 
but no one save Aunt Ruth knew of her secret trouble. 
The matter was not to end there, however. Some 
days afterward Mrs. Havens called, and hough she 
was always fond of Kathie, her greeting now was 
quite extravagant. 

" My dear little girl," she exclaimed, " I heard an 
incident about you that filled my heart with joy,-- the 
occurrence at Mrs. Meredith's last Sunday evening. 
I am glad to know that you are not ashamed to bear 
witness for the truth." 

Kathie colored painfully. 

" We had talked the subject over and dismissed it," 
explained Aunt Euth. " It was rather an unfortu- 
nate affair." 

" Nay, I do not think so. Of course the Cuban 
party were accustomed to such entertainments, but 
Mrs. Meredith said that although she was vexed at 
the moment, and much disappointed at having her 



 

guests miss the song, she honored Kathie for not be- 
ing persuaded to do what she did not consider right. 

" Did she say that ? "' exclaimed Kathie, in amaze, 
her sweet face flushing with delight. 

" Yes, my dear, and much more. Don't allow it to 
make you vain, for there is no charm like perfect 
simplicity." 

" I am so glad that she is not angry. But I wonder 
if Mr. Edward Meredith " 

"You will not lose in his estimation by such an 
act, I assure you." 

It seemed to Kathie then that she was perfectly 
happy. And when, on the following Sunday morning, 
she received a basket of lovelv hot-house flowers with 



a card attached, on which was written, " with the kind 
regards of Mrs. Emily Meredith," Kathie felt that it 
was a peace-offering, and if one hard thought had 
Lingered she would have banished it then. Uncle 
Edward made a flying trip to Cedarwood, and when 
he returned, with loads of love and the best of news, 
he was doubly welcome to Kathie. 

February came in quite mild. The snow nearly all 
melted away, and for several days there was a bright, 
warm sun. Aunt Euth improved rapidly. She was 





allowed to walk around a little, though still compelled 
to use her crutch, as Dr. Markham thought it hardly 
safe to bear so much weight on her yet enfeebled 
limb. One of these bright days he proposed to take 
her out in an easy carriage. 

Kathie was delighted. That really looked like 
getting well. And though Aunt Euth was bundled 
up and carried down stairs, she came back with a 
faint tinge of pink in her cheeks, and the brightest 
light in her eye that had been there for a long time. 

Kathie wrote home a most glowing letter. It had 
the effect of bringing Uncle Eobert at once, though 
he declared that his principal errand was to see if 
Kathie was in possession of her senses. 

" To think that we can go home in a month if 
Aunt Euth doesn't have any relapse ! " she said, 
dancing round. " Dear old Cedarwood, and Eob, 
and Fred, and everybody ! " 

" And that 's all my reward ? " growled the doctor. 
" If you were real generous you would propose to 
stay a month at least with me ! " 

Kathie's bright face grew suddenly grave. " I 
don't know how I could stay away from mamma," 
she said, pleadingly. 



 

" Wouldn't Mrs. Markliam make a good mamma, 
I want to know?" 

" But she would not be quite your own, - - would 
she, Kathie ? ' ; exclaimed Mrs. Markham, with a 
sweet smile. 



Kathie nestled lovingly at her side. She had 
made many dear friends during this stay, - - friends 
who would not soon forget the cheerful and sweet- 
tempered little girl. 

In one respect the time appeared to go rapidly 
with Kathie, and in another slowly. The days were 
"busy and happy. There were little keepsakes to 
make for one and another, visiting, music, and rides 
with Aunt Ruth, who now went out on every fine 
day. Uncle Robert took her while he stayed, and 
then Mr. Meredith begged that he might be allowed 
to make himself useful whenever the doctor was 
busy. He and Kathie had taken up their old friend- 
ship without a word ; indeed, she had been reinstated 
in her former place, but Ada seemed rather disposed 
to be captious. It appeared to her that Kathie 
created quite too much interest for an unstylish 
little body, who was never elegantly dressed, and 
who had no particular accomplishments. 



