"You are a blockhead, Phil."
"I know it. My head is so hard you can't get any of that sort of
nonsense into it."
"I see that you are disposed to quarrel with me."
"Not at all, Mr. Waterford," I protested. "If you consider this cruise
a failure, I am willing to go on board of the yacht and return to
Chicago."
"Do you know who owns that yacht?" said he, sternly.
"Of course I do. I wish I did, but I don't."
"I judged from your talk that you thought she belonged to you."
"That happiness is not mine. I wish it was. But her gentlemanly owner
was kind enough to invite me to sail with him; and I don't intend to
deprive him of the pleasure of my company until we return to Chicago. I
think it would be mean to do so."
"I wish to remind you that I claim the right to choose my own company."
"To be sure; and you exercised it when you invited Miss Collingsby and
myself to sail with you."
"But having changed my mind after your strange conduct, I may decline
your company any longer."
"It would be very proper to decline it after we return to the city."
"I may find it necessary to refuse to take you on board again."
"You would not leave me in this desolate place?"
"If you don't behave yourself, I may."
"If you do, I shall protest."
"Protest!" sneered he.
"Perhaps I might even protest with the boat-hook," I added; "for such a
step on your part would be an outrage."
"You are smart for a boy."
"I did not exactly force myself into your boat, though I was very glad
to go in her, for I expected by this time to meet Mr. Whippleton."
"I wanted to tell you what my purpose was," said he, making another
effort to approach the subject which he had tried to introduce before.
"I think I know what your purpose was."
"Do you, indeed?"
"I do, indeed."
"Perhaps you would be willing to state it."
"To save you the trouble of doing so in your roundabout way, I will.
You intended to run away with Miss Collingsby. You deceived her, lied
to her, and thus induced her to come on board of your yacht. You asked
me only because she would not go alone with you."
"Did she tell you that?" demanded he, biting his lip, and trying to
subdue his rising wrath.
"No matter what she told me; I am not blind. You told her you would
join Mr. Whippleton's party, and that the two Miss Lords were on board
of his boat. I saw her when she came in here, and he was alone."
"The ladies were in the cabin, I suppose."
"Mr. Whippleton is alone: he does not wish for any company to-day."
"What do you mean by that?" he asked, evidently suspecting that I was
wiser than I ought to be.
"Miss Collingsby is alone on board of the Marian. I am afraid she will
be uneasy if you remain here any longer. If you are engaged to her, she
must be very anxious about you."
"Don't be ugly and disagreeable, Phil. You are a good fellow. No one
knows it better than I do. Now let us fix this thing up."
"I'm too thick to understand you."
"You are a good fellow, and I know you will help me out of this
scrape," he continued, suddenly looking cheerful and pleasant, as
though the whole difficulty had been solved.
"If you will do the right thing, I will help you out of it."
"I knew you would. You understand the matter. I do love Miss
Collingsby, and she will tell you herself that she is not indifferent
to me. She consented some time ago to elope with me, in my boat. We can
run over to Lansing, St. Joseph, or some other town on the east side of
the lake, be married, and return a happy couple. Since we are both
agreed on this step, you are not hard-hearted enough to step between
us. Her mother is willing, but her father, you know, is a stiff and
unreasonable man. It will be all right with him when we return."
"Has Miss Collingsby consented to this step?" I asked.
"She consented to it once before, and if the way is open she will not
object. Of course girls are coy about these things."
"I have been told they are," I replied, indifferently.
"Now you will help me out, Phil--won't you?"
"I will," I added, rising from my seat.
"That's a good fellow; and you shall never want for a friend. By the
way, a smart book-keeper, like yourself, ought to have double the
salary you are receiving now: and I will see that you have a better
place as soon as we return. Whippleton says you are worth a thousand
dollars a year."
"Thank you."
"And I will make it my whole business to see that you have such a
situation. Now I think of it, our bank wants a book-keeper, and will
pay twelve hundred a year. I can almost promise you the place."
"You are very kind, and I am much obliged to you."
"I will make it all right within three days after we come back. We can
run over to St. Joseph, as the wind is now, before night. Then the knot
can be tied, and we shall be back to-morrow night, or the next day; or,
if you don't wish to be absent from your business so long, all you have
to do is to wait here till Whippleton comes down in the Florina, and go
on board of her. He will take you right back to Chicago before dark.
What do you think of my plan?" he asked, nervously.
"The plan is good enough, but it won't work."
"What's the reason it won't?"
"Well, I object, for one reason."
"You object! Permit me to say, it is none of your business."
"Isn't it? Well, I thought it was, after your elaborate argument to
convince me. Miss Collingsby objects also."
"No, she does not. Don't I tell you that she consented to elope with
me?"
"I know you do; but I don't believe it--to be as frank as the occasion
requires."
"Do you doubt my word?"
"We won't quarrel about anybody's word. If Miss Collingsby will tell me
herself that she consents to your plan, I will stay on shore here, or
go to St. Joseph with you, just as you desire."
"Of course she is not going to talk with you about such a matter. Girls
are timid. You said you would help me out of this scrape, Phil."
"And so I will, with the greatest pleasure."
"What do you mean, then, by saying that you object?"
"I want to help you out of the scrape, and not into it. That's what I
mean. Let us return to Chicago, and that will get you out of the
scrape."
"Do you think I am to be made a fool of by a boy like you?" said he,
rising and stepping towards me.
"I hope not; I assure you I have no such wicked intention."
"You have said enough, Phil."
"That's just my opinion; and I would like to amend it by adding that
you also have said enough."
"Whether you help me or not, I want you to understand that I intend to
carry out my plan."
"Not if I can help it. I want to be understood, too."
"The Marian belongs to me, and I can dispense with your company."
"Send Miss Collingsby on shore, and you may do so. I claim to be her
protector, and I intend to stand by her to the end."
"Protector! You blockhead!" sneered he. "Pray, who made you her
protector?"
"She did, for one; and I happen to be a relative of hers, which is an
additional reason why I should not permit any one to mislead her."
"How long have you been a relative?"
"Ever since I was born, of course."
"Of course you are lying."
"I am not recognized as a relative; but no matter for that. I feel just
as much interest in her as though she was my own sister."
"I am going on board of the boat now," said Mr. Waterford, gathering
himself up.
"So am I."
"No, you are not--on board of my boat. There comes the Florina," he
added, pointing to Mr. Whippleton's yacht, which was coming down the
lagoon before the wind. "You had better hail her."
"I shall not. My present business is to take care of Miss Collingsby.
When she is safe, I have business with Mr. Whippleton."
"I tell you once for all, that you shall not put your foot on board the
Marian again."
Mr. Waterford walked towards the place where we had landed, and I
followed him closely enough to prevent him from stealing a march upon
me. As the matter now stood, he would attempt to prevent me from
getting into the boat. I intended to insist, and a battle seemed to be
imminent. The Florina stood over towards the opposite side of the
creek, apparently for the purpose of giving the Marian a wider berth. I
could see that Mr. Whippleton was alone in the standing-room, and I was
confident that, if he had any ladies on board, they would not stay in
the cabin.
Mr. Ben Waterford stepped into the tender, after he had pushed it down
the bank so that it would float. I picked up the boat-hook, which lay
on the ground, because I thought it was not a proper place to leave it.
With this implement in my hand, I stepped lightly into the boat.
"I told you not to come on board of my boat," said Mr. Waterford,
angrily.
"I know you did. I am sorry to intrude, but I must. If you will land
Miss Collingsby, I will relieve you of my company."
"I will not land Miss Collingsby. Now get out of this boat!" he added,
taking up one of the oars.
"You must excuse me."
"I'll excuse you," cried he, rushing upon me with the oar.
I defended myself with the boat-hook, and being the cooler of the two,
I did so with tolerable success. He struck and thrust furiously with
his weapon, till he was out of breath; and I was also, besides having
had two or three hard raps on the head and arms with his weapon. A
desperate lunge knocked me over backwards, and I fell over the bow of
the boat upon the beach. I felt that I was defeated, and that I had
promised Miss Collingsby more than I had thus far been able to perform.
With this advantage over me, Mr. Waterford pushed me back with the oar,
and then endeavored to shove off the tender.
My catastrophe seemed to have defeated all my good intentions; and as I
went over, I heard Miss Collingsby utter a shrill scream, as though she
were the sufferer, instead of myself, as, indeed, she was likely to be.
CHAPTER XIX.
IN WHICH PHIL PROFITS BY CIRCUMSTANCES, AND WEIGHS ANCHOR IN THE
MARIAN.
More than once in my eventful career I have realized that neither
success nor defeat is what it appears to be. While Mr. Ben Waterford
was congratulating himself upon the victory he had apparently achieved,
and I was mourning over the defeat involved in my catastrophe, neither
of us had foreseen the end. Miss Collingsby appeared to be the greatest
sufferer; and the scream with which she announced my defeat was only
the echo of my own feelings. As the battle was really her own, rather
than mine, of course my misfortune was the greater catastrophe to her.
I lay upon my back on the ground, just as I had tumbled over the bow of
the tender. But I did not lie there any great length of time--perhaps
not the hundredth part of a second. But there are times when one can
think of a great deal in the hundredth part of a second; and I am sure
my thoughts were very busy during that infinitesimal period. My
reflections were not selfish, and it did not occur to me that Mr.
Whippleton was escaping from me and from the wrath to come--only that
my fair cousin would be at the mercy of my conqueror.
This was the pungent regret of the moment; and it seemed to me that I
ought not to stay conquered. I had left my coat on board of the yacht
in order to be able to swim if occasion should require; and I voted
unanimously that the occasion did require that I should take a muddy
bath in the service of the young lady. My first care was to get up. In
doing so, I felt the painter of the boat under me. It seemed to have
been left there when the tender was pushed into the water to suggest my
next step. It did suggest it, and I hastened to profit by the
advantage.
As I began to get up, Mr. Ben Waterford began to push off the boat; and
I had just time to seize the rope before it was dragged into the water.
I picked it up, and promptly checked the operations of the angry
skipper. I checked them rather suddenly. Mr. Waterford was at the stern
of the boat; and as he raised his oar to give it another push, I
gathered up all my strength, and made a desperate twitch at the rope.
As every one knows who has had anything to do with them, boats are
wretchedly unsteady to a person in a standing position. Even an old
sailor may find it impossible to maintain his perpendicularity when the
boat is unexpectedly moved. Philosophically, the inertia of the man
should be gradually overcome, and suddenly overcoming the inertia of
the boat, as practice and the formula have both demonstrated, does not
overcome that of the man. If he be not prepared for the change from
rest to motion, he is in very great danger of being thrown down, and if
near the water, of being thrown into it.
The body of Mr. Ben Waterford was not proof against the law of nature.
It followed the rule deduced by practical men from the phenomena of
every-day experience, and the formula laid down by those learned in
physics. When I twitched the rope, I suddenly and violently overcame
the inertia of the tender. Though without any malice on my part, the
inertia of Mr. Ben Waterford was not overcome at the same time. His
tendency was to remain at rest, and the consequence was, that I pulled
the boat out from under him. Furthermore, as there was water where the
boat had been when I pulled, because two bodies cannot occupy the same
space at the same time, the body of Mr. Waterford went into the
water--the muddy, dirty water of the lagoon--stirred up by the oar with
which he had pushed off the tender.
Divested of the language of science, the fact was, that Mr. Ben
Waterford had tumbled over backward into the creek. In substance, he
had repeated the experiment at the stern of the boat which I had tried
at the bow, only he had fallen into the water, and I had fallen upon
the land. In spite of preferences for the water, I must acknowledge
that the land is a pleasanter element to fall upon than the water,
especially if the water is dirty, for a gentleman instinctively abhors
filth.
I protest that I had not intended to pitch Mr. Ben Waterford into the
lagoon. Although I was familiar with the law of physics applicable to
his case, I could not foresee what measure of resistance he would offer
to the action of the formula, or what degree of caution he would use.
Without any premeditation on my part,--for I solemnly declare that I
only intended to prevent him from pushing off the tender,--it was an
accomplished fact that Mr. Ben Waterford was floundering in the muddy
water of the lagoon, while the tender was absolutely in my possession.
I could not quarrel with fate, destiny, good fortune, or whatever it
was that had turned the tide in my favor at the very moment of defeat;
and I made haste to profit by the circumstances as I found them. I ran
along the bank of the creek, dragging the boat after me; and by the
time the unhappy skipper had elevated his head above the surface of the
foul pool, now rendered doubly foul by his own movements upon the soft
bottom, I had the tender a couple of rods from him. He was in no danger
of drowning; for while I should say that he was sunk half way up to his
knees in the mud, the tiny wavelets rippled against the gold vest chain
to which his watch was attached. In other words, the water was not
quite up to his armpits. I do not know whether Mr. Waterford was able
to swim or not: I never saw him swim, and he did not swim on this
momentous occasion. He simply stood up in the water, rubbing the muddy
fluid out of his eyes. He had not yet sufficiently recovered from the
shock of his fall, and the muddy blindness which surrounded him, to
realize the nature of the situation.
At a safe distance from his convulsive clutch, I jumped into the
tender, and paddled rapidly to the yacht. I gave Mr. Waterford a wide
berth, and left him trying to obtain a better vision of the
surroundings. I leaped upon the deck of the Marian, and fastened the
painter of the tender at the taffrail. Miss Collingsby spoke to me, but
I heeded not what she said, and sprang forward as fast as I could move
my steps. I hauled up the anchor, but without waiting to wash off the
mud, or stow the cable, I hastened to the helm. Letting out the sheet,
I "wore ship," and in half a minute the Marian was standing out of the
lagoon.
"Stop! What are you about!" shouted Mr. Ben Waterford, who was paddling
through the mud towards the shore.
I made no reply to him, for I had nothing to say. Between running away
from him and permitting him to run away with Miss Collingsby, I was
compelled to choose the less of the two evils. My mission was to save
the young lady, and I intended to do so. I had made a faithful use of
the opportunity presented to me; and after attempting to leave me in
that desolate place, I thought it was not unreasonable for Mr.
Waterford to "try it on" himself, even if the yacht did belong to him.
I was not disposed to weigh all the nice questions which the situation
presented. It was clearly my duty to assist Miss Collingsby, and I was
disposed to do it without consulting the comfort and convenience of Mr.
Waterford, who meditated the mischief against her.
The defeated skipper continued to shout at me in the most furious
manner, threatening me with all the terrors of the law and his own
wrath. I was willing to refer the whole subject to Mr. Collingsby after
we returned to Chicago; and I regarded him as an all-sufficient
defender against both the law and the wrath of Mr. Waterford. I saw him
make his way to the shore, shake the mud and water from his garments,
and then hasten to a point of land which projected out into the lake at
the mouth of the creek. But he might as well have hastened towards the
other end of the lake, for long before he could reach it, I had passed
the point, and was out in the open lake.
I was out of hailing distance of the unhappy skipper when he reached
the point, though I could still see his violent gestures. Miss
Collingsby sat in the standing-room, watching her late persecutor with
anxious interest. Perhaps she feared he might, by some foul mischance,
undo what I had done; that he might annihilate the waste of waters
before him, and step between her and me. I had no such fears. There
were no boats or vessels near us, and I was satisfied that Mr.
Waterford would be obliged to walk several miles to a station on the
railroad which passed through the swamp and over the lagoon.
I was so well satisfied with the good fortune that grew out of my
catastrophe, that I soon neglected to think of Mr. Ben Waterford. I
left him to enjoy his own reflections; and I hoped one of them would
be, that villany could not long prosper even in this world. I wished
that he might recall, if he had ever heard of it, the Scotch poet's
proverb, that
    "The best laid schemes o' mice an' men
                    Gang aft a-gley,
    An' lea'e us nought but grief and pain
                    For promised joy."
This bit of romance was not likely to end in a marriage, thanks to the
returning or awaked sense of Miss Collingsby.
I ceased to think of my discomfited skipper, and turned my thoughts to
Mr. Charles Whippleton, to whom I devoted my whole attention. The
Florina had passed out of the creek in the midst of the encounter
between Waterford and myself; and the junior partner of our firm must
have seen me when I was pitched over the bow of the tender. Whether he
had been able to see the issue of the battle or not, I did not know,
for his yacht passed beyond the point before it was terminated. The
Florina was headed to the eastward, and I judged that she was about a
mile ahead of me when I tripped the anchor of the Marian. I intended to
chase him even into the adjoining lakes, if he led me so far. I meant
to recover Mrs. Whippleton's treasure, if it took me all summer, and
used up all the money I had in the world.
Marian Collingsby looked very sad and anxious. Her chest heaved with
emotion as she realized how serious was the movement upon which we had
entered. I was confident that, if she ever reached the shelter of her
father's roof, she would never be imprudent again; that she would have
more regard for her father's solid judgment than for her own fanciful
preferences.
"You don't know how frightened I was, Philip," said she, when I took my
place at the helm.
"I don't wonder. I was frightened myself; but it was more for you than
for me," I replied, as I let out the main sheet.
"But what a terrible fight you had with him!" exclaimed she, with
something like a shudder.
"O, that was nothing!" I replied, laughing, in order to encourage her.
"Nothing! Why, he struck at you with the oar!"
"And I struck at him with the boat-hook. I have been in a worse fight
than that."
"You have!"
"Yes; I have been where the bullets flew thick and fast."
"You!"
"I was in a battle with the Indians; and I once had the happiness to
rescue a young lady from the savages; so I think this is a very mild
kind of fighting."
"What a hero you have been!"
"Not much of a hero; but I don't like to see anything go wrong with a
young lady. I never saw a young lady till I was twelve years old, and I
find myself very kindly disposed towards all of them--strange as it may
seem."
Miss Collingsby tried to smile, but she did not feel able to do so.
CHAPTER XX.
IN WHICH PHIL SAILS THE MARIAN ACROSS LAKE MICHIGAN.
"Where are you going now, Philip?" asked Miss Collingsby.
"I am obliged to chase Mr. Whippleton. I told you what he had been
doing. He has swindled your father out of a large sum of money, and he
has also robbed me of a valuable package, which was put in my care for
safe keeping. I must catch him if I follow him all night."
"You are very faithful to my father's interests. I didn't think Mr.
Whippleton was such a bad man."
"Your father did not think so, either," I continued; and I explained to
her in full the financial operations of the junior partner.
"Do you expect to catch him, Philip?"
"I mean to do so."
"What can you do with him? He is a man, and you are but a boy--excuse
me, a young man."
"I don't object to being called a boy, for I am one; but I think I am a
match for Mr. Whippleton, physically."
"I think you are, after your battle with Mr. Waterford, who is larger
than Mr. Whippleton. But what am I to do?"
"I don't know. I must not lose sight of the Florina."
"I don't want to stay all night in this boat," said she, timidly.
"If I run over to the city and land you, I may as well give up all
thought of ever seeing Mr. Whippleton again," I replied, annoyed at the
situation.
"My mother will be very anxious about me."
"I know she will; but what can I do?"
"I really don't know."
"If Mr. Whippleton leads me any where near a railroad station, I will
see that you are put in the way of returning to your home. I am sure if
your father was here, he would insist upon my chasing the villain. If
he escapes me, your father will lose a large sum of money--not less
than forty thousand dollars, and perhaps more."
"How terrible! You must do as you think best, Philip, without regard to
me. I don't like to stay in this boat all night."
"It isn't a bad place to stay," I replied, glancing down into the
handsome and comfortable cabin.
"Perhaps not; but I had rather be at home. My father and mother will
both worry about me."
"They will ascertain before night where you are; and perhaps Mr.
Waterford will return to the city and inform them that you are safe."
"He will not be likely to say anything about me."
"Your father sent me to follow Mr. Whippleton, and I am now literally
obeying his orders."
I saw that my fair companion was uneasy in a direction she did not care
to explain; and I am sure I respected her all the more for the delicacy
of feeling she exhibited. If she and her mother objected to her being
alone in the yacht with Mr. Waterford, they might also object to me. I
deemed it necessary to say and do all I could to assure her of her own
safety.
"Can you steer a boat, Miss Collingsby?" I asked.
"I have steered this boat," she replied.
"Would you like to take the tiller for a while?"
"I can't steer unless some one tells me which way to go."
"You can follow the Florina--can you not?"
"Why do you ask, Philip?"
"I wish to secure the anchor, and put the cook-room and cabin in order.
If it should come on to blow, all our dishes would be smashed."
"I will try to steer."
I gave her the helm, and told her to keep the foremast in range with
the Florina. The tiller was long, so that it was not very hard to
steer, though we were going before the wind. I soon found that she
understood the business very well. I told her how to keep the boat
steady, and in a short time she was able to do it to her own and to my
satisfaction. I had on some good clothes, and I did not care to injure
them at the dirty work of cleaning and stowing the anchor. I went below
and drew on a pair of old overalls I found in the cook-room, which I
had used while getting dinner. In the cabin I took a coat and an old
hat, belonging to the owner of the Marian, from a locker, and these
completed my outfit. Thus rigged I went on deck again.
"Dear me! How you startled me!" exclaimed Marian, as I stepped into the
standing-room.
"Why, what's the matter?"
"I thought it was Mr. Waterford. You looked just like him when you came
up those stairs. You have on the clothes he wore the last time I sailed
with him."
"He is larger than I am."
"I know he is; but that hat and coat made you look just like him when
you were coming up. No matter; I know you are not Mr. Waterford, and I
am thankful you are not."
"So am I. If I were Mr. Waterford, I would sell out, and be somebody
else the first thing I did," I replied, as I went forward.
I washed off the anchor, and the end of the cable, and stowed them in
their proper places. I cleaned off the deck, and was only satisfied
when I had everything neat enough to take dinner upon. I was sure the
fair helms-lady could steer better now that this mud and confusion were
removed, for they lay in her line of vision as she sighted the Florina.
I then went below, cleared off the table, washed the dishes, and put
them in the lockers, swept out the cabin and cook-room, and put
everything in good order. The interior of the yacht was a model of
comfort and elegance, and it was unpleasant to see anything out of
place there.
As it was probable that Miss Collingsby would be compelled to sleep on
board, I satisfied myself that everything in and about the berths was
in good order. I took a pair of rifles from one of them, where Mr.
Waterford kept them for his hunting trips, and set them up near the
companion-way. While I was about it, I explored the cabin in order to
ascertain its resources. I found almost everything there which could
make the voyagers on the lake happy and comfortable. There was plenty
of whiskey and wine, as well as other liquors, which could possibly
make the owner happy; but they had no allurements to me.
Having finished my examination, I went on deck, and relieved Marian at
the helm, though she declared that she was not tired. I thought it best
for her to save her strength, for I did not know what she might be
called upon to endure before we returned to Chicago.
"I have put the cabin in order for you, Miss Collingsby," said I, as I
seated myself.
"For me? I am very grateful to you, but I don't think I shall have any
use for it."
"We may have to sail all night."
"If we do, I will stay here with you. I could not sleep in such a place
as that."
"I think it is a very nice place."
"So do I; and under other circumstances I should be very happy there.
Do you suppose Julia or Florina Lord is with Mr. Whippleton?"
"I am satisfied that neither of them is with him."
"Mr. Waterford said they were; but that was a part of his deception."
"He does not scruple to lie."
"If Julia were only here, I should be satisfied," added she, looking
out upon the lake.
"I am sorry she is not; but you may be satisfied as it is. You shall
have the cabin all to yourself."
"I'm not afraid of anything," said she, with some confusion on her
pretty face.
"You ought not to be afraid of your own cousin."
"My own what?" asked she, with a smile.
"Of your own cousin."
"Where is he?"
"I am he."
"You, Philip," laughed she.
"Perhaps you think I am joking; but I am not."
"You really don't mean to say that you are my cousin."
"I do really mean to say it, and I know it is true."
"How can that be?"
"It so happens that my mother and your father are brother and sister;
and I believe the relationship of cousin is usually established in some
such way."
"Doubtless you are quite right, Mr. Philip; but my father has but one
sister, and she does not happen to have any children. Therefore I
cannot possibly have any such cousin as you mention," said she, smiling
at what she deemed her overwhelming argument; and perhaps she thought I
was getting up a conspiracy against her.
"Your conclusion would be entirely just if the premises were correct.
Your father's sister had one child."
"Had, but has not now. Her little son was lost on the Missouri River."
"Supposed to be lost, but not lost," I replied, warmly. "I am that
son."
"Do you really mean so, Philip?" she inquired, looking at me earnestly,
as if to fathom the trick I was playing upon her.
"I do most certainly."
"What is your other name?"
"Farringford."
"That was certainly the name of my aunt's husband; but it is impossible
to believe so strange a story."
"I am afraid your father and your grandfather would refuse to believe
what I say. Now, while we are chasing Mr. Whippleton, I will tell you
the whole story."
I did tell it, and I had an attentive auditor; but when I had finished
it, I was taken aback by her declaring that I had been reading dime
novels, and had stolen the plot of one of them. But she said it so
prettily and so good-naturedly, that I forgave her on the instant,
though she did not sue for pardon.
"But I have heard that your father--" she began.
"Was a drunkard and a spendthrift," I added, completing the sentence
for her. "He was, but is not now. He is a sober, honest, prudent, and
Christian man."
"I am glad to hear that, for I was forbidden years ago even to mention
his name," added Marian. "I don't think my father or grandfather will
believe this story."
"They will have to believe it, if evidence will convince them," I
replied, stoutly.
"But what does my aunt say?"
"My mother has not yet heard the story. My father wrote to my
grandfather several times, but he took no notice of the letters."
"Aunt Louise has been in Europe several years."
"I have never seen my mother since I was a child; I do not remember
her. Do you know where she is?"
"She was in Italy last winter; but I don't know where she is now."
"Will you ascertain for me?" I asked, with more interest than I cared
to manifest.
"I will."
"I have her portrait in St. Louis. It was in a locket attached to a
coral chain which I wore when I was saved from the river. I will show
it to you some time."
"If it is really her portrait, I shall believe the story, whether
anybody else does or not."
"My father says it is her portrait, and he ought to know. He is sure I
am the lost son."
"You are so honest and brave, Philip, that I can't help believing you.
I hope you are my cousin, at any rate, for I shall be proud of the
relationship."
"Thank you, Marian--may I call you so?"
"Certainly you may, if you are my cousin."
"You are very kind."
"Indeed, you have already placed me under a debt of obligation to you
which I can never repay."
"I am more glad to serve you than you can be to be served. Steady!"
"What's the matter?"
"The Florina has hauled her wind," I replied, watching the chase.
"What does that mean?"
"She has turned her head more to the north."
I hauled in the main sheet, and stood after the other yacht. It was
sundown now, and we were within two or three miles of the Michigan
shore. Half an hour later the Florina ran in at the mouth of a river.
When we reached the opening, we found she had anchored half a mile up
the stream. I did not deem it prudent to follow her, and I dropped the
Marian's anchor at once.
CHAPTER XXI.
IN WHICH PHIL ANSWERS SOME INQUIRIES ABOUT THE FAWN, AND OTHER MATTERS.
I hauled down the jib, and left the mainsail standing when I anchored
the Marian at the mouth of the river, for I did not know what Mr.
Whippleton intended to do, and his movements were to govern mine.
Though the mouth of the river was rather narrow, it opened, like the
creek where we had anchored at noon, into a broad lagoon. There were
hundreds of just such small lakes near the large one, in some cases
with a narrow outlet, and in others with none at all. Among the effects
of Mr. Ben Waterford which I found in the cabin, were several large
maps, and one of these was the most interesting study I could find as I
watched the Florina.
I saw from this map that there was no large town near the lagoon, and
no means of reaching a railroad. I concluded, therefore, that Mr.
Whippleton did not intend to abandon his yacht at this point. I was
ready to make any movement as soon as he showed his purpose, and he
could not take the Florina out of the lagoon without passing very near
the Marian. He had anchored at a considerable distance from the shore,
but he had a tender.
"What are you going to do here, Philip?" asked Marian, after I had
studied the map to my satisfaction.
"I am going to see what Mr. Whippleton does. He knows that I am on his
track, I suppose."
"If he has as much money as you say, he will be likely to run away."
"Not to-night; he will not like the idea of tramping through the woods
in the dark."
"There! he's hauling in his small boat," added Marian, pointing to the
yacht.
"So he is," I replied, pulling in the tender of the Marian.
"What will you do?"
"If he attempts to land, I shall follow him. I don't intend to lose
sight of him. I haven't come so far to be balked now."
"What shall I do?" asked my fair cousin, with an anxious look.
"You will be perfectly safe here."
"What, alone?"
"I shall be sorry to leave you; but I must follow Mr. Whippleton, for
your father's sake as well as my own."
"I will go with you then. I should not dare to stay here alone."
"But I don't believe Mr. Whippleton intends to leave the yacht. If he
had meant to do so, he would have run into St. Joseph's River, instead
of this lagoon, where there seems to be no good landing-place. We will
wait and see what he is about."
"There are two of them," said Marian.
"So I perceive. I was not aware before that he had any one with him."
I observed the movements of the two persons on board of the Florina for
some time. One of them jumped into the tender, at last, and shoved off.
"He's coming this way," said Marian.
"I see he is; it don't look like Mr. Whippleton," I replied, closely
scrutinizing the person in the small boat. "I think you had better stay
in the cabin, Marian."
"Why?"
"If it should be Mr. Whippleton, there may be some trouble."
"What trouble?"
"The moment he sees me he will understand my business with him; and to
be entirely candid with you, I am afraid I shall have a worse battle
with him than I had with Mr. Waterford."
"Why, you will not fight!"
"I must have your father's money, and the property he stole from me."
"I hope you won't quarrel," she added, anxiously.
"Not if I can help it. Mr. Whippleton is a fugitive from justice, and I
don't mean to let him escape me."
"I am afraid of him. If he gets rid of you, he will go back and find
Mr. Waterford."
"Well, don't worry any more yet. That is not Mr. Whippleton in the
boat. I am sorry it is not he," I continued, satisfied, as the boat
approached, that it was not the fugitive.
"Why are you sorry?"
"Because, if this other person, whoever he is, come on board, and find
that Mr. Waterford is not here, and that I am here, he will try to
escape."
"Of course he knows that you are here."
"I am afraid he does; but I hope not. He had passed the point at the
mouth of the creek when the battle was finished on the other side of
the lake. I can't tell whether he saw the result or not."
"That's a black man in the boat," said Marian.
"Then he has engaged a cook."
I knew that Mr. Whippleton sometimes employed a colored man, who had
been a sailor and a cook on the lake, to help him work the yacht when I
could not go with him; but I had never seen him, and did not think it
probable that he knew me. I went into the cabin, and brought out one of
Mr. Waterford's rifles; but as I did not intend to kill anybody, I did
not take the precaution to load it.
"What are you going to do with that, Philip?" asked Marian, as I
returned to the standing-room, with the rifle in my hand.
"I may have occasion to use it; but it is not loaded."
"Don't shoot any one, Philip--pray don't."
"I shall not be likely to do so while the rifle is not loaded."
"But you may do something you don't intend to do."
"I certainly don't intend to fire a rifle that isn't loaded; and I
shall not shoot any one."
I had not yet decided what to do, though a desperate scheme was
flitting through my mind. If Mr. Whippleton slept in the cabin of the
Florina that night, it would be possible to board the yacht by stealth
in the darkness, fall upon him, and bind him hand and foot. The plan
looked practicable to me, and though I had not yet arranged the details
of it in my mind, or considered its difficulties, I was disposed to
undertake it. I did not care, therefore, to have the negro return to
the Florina with the intelligence that I was in possession of the
Marian. I intended, therefore, to make him sleep on board of our boat.
Before I had fully determined in what manner I should detain the cook
on board of the Marian, the boat came alongside. I turned my head away
from the man, so that her need not discover that I was not Mr.
Waterford before he came on board. I opened a conversation with Miss
Collingsby, and appeared to take no notice of the arrival. The negro
was evidently one of the lazy kind, for he did not offer to come on
board.
"How do you do, Mr. Waterford?" said the cook, as he brought his boat
under the quarter of the yacht.
"How do you do?" I replied, in a gruff tone.
"Gorrificious! Don't you know old Peter?" exclaimed the cook,
apparently wounded at my want of recognition of him.
"How are you, old Peter?" I added, coughing violently to disguise my
voice.
"Gorrificious, Mr. Waterford! I reckon you've got a bad cold. I've got
a letter for you from Mr. Whippleton," continued the cook.
"Take it--will you, Marian?" I added, still coughing. "I don't want him
to see me;" and I retreated into the cabin.
"Thank you miss," said Peter, as he delivered the letter. "I'm right
down sorry Mr. Waterford has got such a terrible cough--on his wedding
day, too, miss. Gorrificious, Miss Collingsby! Mr. Waterford is a lucky
gentleman; but he desarves you. He's a fine gentleman--liberal to old
Peter and all the boys."
Marian made no reply to this speech, though, when she appeared in the
cabin, her cheeks and forehead were crimson with confusion.
"Did you hear what old Peter said," she asked.
"I did; and it is plain enough that Mr. Whippleton is in the secret,
and has even told it to his cook."
"If I ever get home again, I shall not disobey my father. To think that
the wretch told Mr. Whippleton all about it beforehand."
"I supposed he had," I replied, as I opened the letter.
"What does he say, Philip?" asked Marian, curiously.
"'Dear Ben'--that's the way he begins. 'How is the fawn?'"
"The fawn?"
"Probably meaning Miss Collingsby," I replied. "'I was afraid Phil
would give you some trouble when I saw you had him on board. But you
fixed him handsomely. I saw him tip over the bow of the boat. If you
hadn't got rid of him, I should have gone ashore and helped you. I'm
glad it's all right. Why didn't you run up the river farther, and
anchor near the Florina? I thought I wouldn't call upon you till I knew
how the fawn was. If she is agreeable, we will run to St. Joseph in the
morning, and have your business done before noon.'"
"The brute!" exclaimed Marian, indignantly. "This has cured me of all
the romance I ever had. I used to think my father was very harsh; but
now I know he was right. He knew this man better than I did."
The familiarity and coarseness of the epistle were very offensive to
her, and she could hardly restrain her indignation.
"'P.S.' I continued, reading from the letter. 'In my hurry I forgot
the most important part of my stores. Please send me a couple of
bottles of whiskey, and let me know all about the fawn.'"
That was all; and Mr. Whippleton wanted but two things--whiskey and
information in regard to the fawn. I intended to furnish him with both,
as the representative of Mr. Ben Waterford. I found a sheet of paper in
the cabin, and I proceeded to describe the condition of the "fawn."
"Dear Charley," I began; and I had heard Mr. Waterford apply this
familiar name to our junior partner: "The fawn is very uneasy, and does
not like the idea of staying over night in this lagoon. I don't think
it is safe for you to remain here. Phil said the officers were on your
track, that Collingsby was after you with a sharp stick. Phil must have
spoken to the fawn, for she is very suspicious. I shall have to leave
in order to quiet her. I am all alone, and can't cook, or do anything,
while sailing. I am in a fix. I want Peter badly. Can't you let me have
him? I need him more than you do. Why can't you leave the Florina here,
and come on board of the Marian? I send you four bottles of whiskey.
"P.S. I got a rap on the right hand in the fight, and can't write
much."
I wrote this with a pencil, and in a style which would pass for
anybody's handwriting who had been wounded in a fight. I folded it up,
and having placed the four bottles of whiskey in a basket, I asked
Marian to deliver them to the cook, while I continued to cough
vigorously. I stood at the companion-way while my fair companion did
the errand.
"Gorrificious, Miss Collingsby!" exclaimed the negro. "Whiskey's plenty
as water, but none of it for old Peter."
"Take this letter to Mr. Whippleton," added Marian.
"Yes, miss. Old Peter'll do that. Can you told me if the letter says
how many bottles of whiskey they is in the basket?"
"It says four."
"Marian," I called to her. "Here is one for Peter."
I gave her the extra bottle, and she presented it to the cook, who was
more grateful for the gift than he would have been for its value in
cash. I am willing to acknowledge that it was against my principles to
give liquor to any one; but the probability was, that I should have a
battle with the master, who would perhaps be aided by the man; and I
regarded the whiskey as an ally of mine, as long as they, and not I,
drank it. As soon as Peter had departed, my cough improved, and I
ventured on deck again. I was sure that what I had written would make a
breeze, when Mr. Whippleton read it, and I tried to prepare myself for
whatever might happen.
CHAPTER XXII.
IN WHICH PHIL IS BEWILDERED, AND THE MARIAN SAILS FOR CHICAGO.
"What next, Philip?" asked Marian, when I had seated myself in the
standing-room.
"That boat will return next with Mr. Whippleton," I replied, picking up
the rifle which I had left upon the cushion.
"I hope there will be no violence," she added, anxiously.
"I hope not; but what shall I do? Shall I let him rob your father of
half the capital of the firm? Shall I let him rob his mother of nearly
all she has in the world? If I don't strike when I have an opportunity,
everything will be lost."
"What do you mean by his mother?"
"The package which Mr. Whippleton took from the safe was placed in my
charge by his mother, to keep it from falling into his hands. She was
very sick, and may not live many days. Your father had no idea what a
villain his partner was."
"I am sure he had not; but can't you manage it without any violence?"
"If I can, I will. I have no taste for a fight; but I have still less
for letting Mr. Whippleton run away with his ill-gotten gains. I should
be ashamed of myself if I did. Besides, your father accuses me of
concealing the villany of his partner, and even of being a participator
in it. He would have good reason to think so if I let him slip through
my fingers now. No, I will not do it. I will follow him to the end of
the earth, and if he don't give up his plunder there will be a fight,
though I may get my own head smashed in the scrape."
Marian said no more about peace on such terms, and I watched the boat
with interest, as it came up under the counter of the Florina. I did
not see Mr. Whippleton read the letter I had written; but I have no
doubt that he did read it, for in a few moments more he embarked in the
tender with Peter.
"There they come, just as you said!" exclaimed Marian, apparently in
despair.
"I knew that letter would bring him, for I informed him that the
officers of justice were on his track. I have no doubt that the police
have telegraphed to all the cities within a thousand miles of Chicago
by this time. If anything would wake up the rascal, the news I sent him
would have that effect. Besides, I invited him to take passage in the
Marian."
"You did!"
"Yes, for I want him where I can put my hand upon him."
"But he can put his hand upon you, and then I shall be alone. What will
become of me?"
"You need not be at all alarmed. He will not injure or insult you."
"What do you mean to do, Philip? Can't I help you?"
"I intend to make a prisoner of him, if possible. I don't think you can
help me do such a job. I am going into the cabin now, for I don't wish
him to see me until he is fairly on board."
"What shall I do?"
"Stay here, if you please. He will go below immediately."
The tender was rapidly approaching the yacht, and I went into the
cabin, where I had another attack of coughing as soon as I heard Mr.
Whippleton step upon the deck.
"Good evening, Miss Collingsby," said he, as he saw our fair passenger.
"I hope you are very well. Where is your friend?"
"What friend?" she asked, in such a tone that I was afraid she would
excite his suspicions before he came into the cabin.
"Why, Mr. Waterford, of course. Since you are to become his wife
to-morrow morning, he ought to be the dearest friend on earth to you.
But as he is not on deck, he must be in the cabin."
I heard his step on the ladder, and I confess that I felt no little
anxiety for the issue. I sat upon one of the lockers, still wearing the
skipper's coat and hat. It was rather dark in the cabin, and I was not
surprised that he did not recognize me at first.
"What's all this, Ben?" said he, in hurried speech. "Every dollar
counts now, and I can't afford to lose a thousand by leaving my boat
here. I was to deliver her to the purchaser to-morrow at St. Joseph.
What do you mean about officers? Collingsby hasn't the remotest
suspicion that anything is wrong."
"Yes, he has," I replied, coughing and choking, so that I could not
have identified my own voice.
"What has happened?" he demanded, in obvious alarm.
"He knows everything," I barked, with my handkerchief over my mouth.
"He has telegraphed to St. Joseph and fifty other places before this
time to have you arrested."
"Arrested!"
I heard the long breath he drew in his terror.
"We must be off at once."
"What's the matter with you? What makes you cough so?"
"A cold."
"What will you do with the fawn, Ben?"
"She is not agreed to anything," I replied, as I struck a match, for I
thought it was time to have a little more light on the subject.
I had waited till he was in a comfortable position on the locker
opposite me, with the table between us. I lighted the lamp, which was
suspended from the ceiling of the cabin. My cough was suddenly and
miraculously cured.
"What are you going to do, Ben?"
"That will depend upon what you do," I replied, in my natural voice.
"Who are you?"
"Your obedient servant," I answered, throwing off the hat I had worn,
which concealed my face in part.
"Phil!" gasped he, starting back with astonishment.
"Assistant book-keeper, &c.," I replied.
"What are you doing here?"
"Attending to the affairs of the firm which I have the honor to serve.
I am here on their business, though I have a little of mine to attend
to at the same time."
"Where is Mr. Waterford?" demanded he; and I saw by the light of the
lamp that he was as pale as when I had startled him with my balance
sheet in the counting-room.
"I left him over at the mouth of that creek on the other side of the
lake."
"You left him there? Do you mean to say that you have stolen his
yacht?"
"No, sir; I don't mean to say so, and I don't think it is quite fair
for you to say so, since I intend to restore her to Mr. Waterford, or
to his legal representative, on claim, and sufficient evidence of
ownership."
"Who wrote the letter which Peter brought me?"
"I did; but, as I told you in the letter, my hand was injured in the
fight, and I couldn't do justice to my own style of penmanship."
"It was a forgery then."
"I signed no name to it, but left you to draw your own inferences."
"It is just as much a forgery as though you had signed it."
"But not half so much a forgery as receipting a lumber bill of the
Michigan Pine Company. I hope the whiskey reached you in good order and
condition."
"None of your impudence, Phil. This isn't the way to treat one who has
used you as well as I have."
"For all the kindness you have bestowed upon me, I am very grateful;
and I am only sorry you were not worthy of the confidence I felt in
your integrity."
"We need not quarrel, Phil," said he, after a short pause. "We have
always been good friends; let us be so still. I saw a scuffle between
you and Mr. Waterford over at the creek."
"And you thought I had the worst of it."
"I saw him pitch you out of the boat."
"If you had staid a moment longer in sight, you would have seen me
pitch him out afterwards."
I defined and explained my position, and justified it as well as I was
able. Miss Collingsby had appealed to me for help, and in rendering it,
under the circumstances, I did not feel disposed to let the ownership
of the yacht defeat my good intentions to save her from the wiles of a
villain.
"Do you call Ben Waterford a villain?" he demanded.
"The dictionary does not afford me any better word to express my
opinion of him. I wish he was the only one I knew."
"Do you refer to me?"
I explained myself more fully on this point, and the junior partner of
our house mildly expressed his rage. I suppose his stinging conscience
did not permit him to do so in a more determined manner. I told him
that Mr. Collingsby was in possession of all the facts relating to his
defalcations, both of the money and the notes of the firm. He bit his
lip in silence for a few moments, as if arranging his mental forces for
an assault upon me.
"Phil, you have made another stupid blunder," said he. "As I have told
you plainly before, you are insufferably conceited. You think you know
enough for two men, when you know just half enough for one. That's
what's the matter. You have made a pretty kettle of fish."
"I think you made it yourself."
