" It is no part of goodness to go preaching 
to other people, I would have you know," 
said Maria. 
Matilda turned over the leaves of her new 
Bible lovingly, and said no more. But her 
sister failing her, she was all the more driven 
to seek the little meetings in the corner of ihe 
 
Sunday school room ; and they grew to be 
more and more pleasant. At home nothing 
seemed to be right. Mrs. Englefield was not 
like herself. Anne and Letitia were gloomy 
and silent. The air was heavy. Even Clarissa's 
beautiful eyes, when they were slowly lifted 
up to look at somebody, according to her custom, seemed cold and distant as they were not 
at first. Clarissa visited several sick people 
and carried them nourishing things ; but she 
looked calm disapproval when Maria proclaimed that Tilly had been all up Lilac lane 
to look for a stray Sunday school scholar. 
Mrs. Englefield laughed and did not interfere. 
" I would never let a child of mine go there 
alone," said Mrs. Candy. 
" There is no danger in Shadywalk," said 
Mrs. Englefield. 
" You will be sorry for it, sister." 
" Well I am sorry for most things, sooner 
or later," said Mrs. Englefield. 
So weeks went by ; until it came to be the 
end of winter, and something of spring was 
 
already stealing into the sunlight and softening the air ; that wonderful nameless " something," which is nothing but a far-off kiss from 
Spring's fingers. One Sunday Mrs. Englefield had gone to bed with a headache ; and 
hastening away from the dinner table, Matilda 
went off to her appointment. Mr. Ulshoeffer 
had been propitious ; he let the little girls have 
the key on the inside of the schoolroom door ; 
and an hour before it was time for the classes 
of the school to be gathering, the three friends 
met at the gate and went in. They always 
sat in a far-off corner of one of the transepts, 
to be as cozy as possible. They were all 
punctual to-day, Ailie having the key of the 
door. 
" Girls, don't you get confused sometimes, 
with the things you hear people say? "she 
asked as she unlocked the door. " I do ; and 
then sometimes I get real worried." 
" So do I get worried ! " Mary Edwards 
assented. " And I don't know what to say 
*Sat's the worst of it." 
 
" Now only to-day," Ailie went on, as they 
walked up the matted aisle with a delicious 
sense of being free and alone and confidential, 
" I heard some one say it was no use for 
children to be Christians ; he said they didn't 
know their own minds, and don't know what 
they want, and by and by it will all be smoke. 
And when I hear such things, it affects me 
differently. Sometimes I get mad ; and then 
sometimes it takes the strength all out of 
me." 
" But if we have the right sort of strength," 
said Matilda, " people can't take it from us, 
Ailie." 
" Well, mine seems to go," said Ailie. 
And then I feel bad." 
" We know what we want," said Mary, 
" if we are children." 
" We know our own minds," said Matilda. 
" We know we do. It is no matter what 
people say." 
" I wish they wouldn't say it," said Ailie. 
" Or I wish I needn't hear it. But it is good 
 
tc come here and read, isn't it ? And I think 
our talk helps us don't you ? " 
" It helps me," said Mary Edwards. " I've 
got nobody at home to talk to." 
" Let us begin, girls, or we shall not have 
time," said Matilda. " It's the fourteenth 
chapter.' * 
" Of Luke ? " said Ailie. " Here it is. But 
I don't like Luke so well as Matthew; do 
you? Well, begin." 
They began and read on, verse by verse, 
until fourteen verses were read. There they 
paused. 
"What does this mean?" said Matilda, 
knitting her small brows. 
" Isn't it right to ask our friends to tea or 
anything? Why, Jesus went to dine with 
this Pharisee," said Mary looking up. 
Yes, but that is another thing," said Matilda. " You see, we must ask the people 
who have no friends." 
" But why not our friends too ? " 
" Perhaps it would cost too much to ask 
 
everybody" said Ailie. " One would be giving 
parties all the time ; and they cost, I can tell 
you." 
" But some people are rich enough," said 
Mary. 
" Those people don't make parties for the 
poor, though," said Ailie. " Catch them ! " 
" But then, can it mean that it is wrong to 
have our friends come and see us ? " said Ma- 
tilda. 
" It cannot be wrong. Don't you remember, Martha and Mary used to have Jesus 
come to their house ? and they used to make 
suppers for him." 
" But he was poor " said Matilda. 
" That is different, too, from having a party, 
and making a great fuss," said Ailie. 
" And that is done just to pay one's debts," 
said Matilda, " for I have heard mother say 
so. People ask her, and so she must ask peo- 
ple. And that is what it means, girls, I 
guess. See, ' lest they also bid thee again, 
and a recompense be made thee.' That 
isn't making a feast for people that you 
tove." 
" Then it is wicked to ask people just that 
-.hey may ask you," said Mary Edwards. 
" Instead of that, we must ask people who 
mnnot ask us," said Matilda. 
" But how queer we should be ! " said Ailie 
Swan. " Just think ; we should not be like 
anybody else. And what should we do if 
people asked us ? " 
I don't care," said Matilda. See, girls ; 
" thou shalt be recompensed at the resurrection of the just.' " 
" And is that what it means in the next 
verse ? " said Mary Edwards. " But I don't 
understand that. ' Blessed is he that shall 
eat bread in the kingdom of God.' Do they 
eat bread there ? I thought they didn't." 
" It is like what we read a little way back," 
said Matilda, flirting over one or two leaves, 
"yes, here in the 12th chapter, 'Blessed 
are those servants whom the Lord when he 
cometh shall find watching; verily I say unto 
 
you, that he shall gird himself, and make 
them to sit down to meat, and will come forth 
and serve them.' " 
" That means Jesus," said Mary Edwards. 
" He will make them to sit down to meat ! 
and will serve them. What does it mean, I 
wonder ? " 
" It means, that Jesus will give them good 
things," said Ailie. 
" I guess they will be blessed, then, that 
eat when He feeds them," said the other little 
girl. " I would like to be there." 
" There is a verse or two that my Bible 
turns to," said Matilda. " In the Revelation. 
" And he saith unto me, Write, Blessed are 
they which are called unto the marriage supper of the Lamb.' O, don't you like to read 
in the Revelation ? But we are all called ; 
aren't we ? " 
" And here, in our chapter," said Mary, " it 
goes on to tell of the people who were called 
and wouldn't come. So I suppose everybody 
is called ; and some won't come." 
 
" Some don't get the invitation," said Ma- 
tilda looking up. 
" A good many don't, I guess," said Ailie. 
" Who do you think gets it in Lilac lane ? " 
" Nobody, hardly, I guess," said Mary Ed- 
wards ; " there don't many people come 
to church out of Lilac lane." 
" But then, girls," said Matilda, " don't you 
think we ought to take it there ? the invitation, I mean ? " 
" How can we ? Why, there are lots of 
people in Lilac lane that I would be afraid to 
speak to." 
' I wouldn't be afraid," said Matilda. 
" They wouldn't do us any harm." 
" But what would you say to them, Tilly ? " 
" I would just ask them to come, Ailie. I 
would take the message to them. Just think, 
Ailie, of that time, of that supper when 
Jesus will give good things with his own 
hand ; and how many people would come 
if they knew. I would tell everybody. Don't 
you think we ought to ? " 
 
" I don't like to speak to people, much," 
said Ailie. " They would think I was setting 
myself up." 
" It is only carrying the message," said Matilda. " And that is what Jesus was doing 
all the time, you know ; and he has told us to 
follow him." 
" Then must we be telling it all the time 
too ? " asked Ailie. " We should do nothing 
else." 
" O yes, we should. That would not 
hinder," said Matilda. " It doesn't take so 
very long to say a word. Here is another 
verse, girls ; this is in the Revelation too ; 
listen. This must be what those other verses 
mean : ' They shall hunger no more, neither 
thirst any more ; neither shall the sun light 
on them, nor any heat. For the Lamb which 
is in the midst of the throne shall feed them, 
and shall lead them unto living fountains of 
waters ; and God shall wipe away all tears 
from their eyes.' " 
As if a thrill from some chord of an angel's 
harp had reached them, the children were 
still for a moment. 
" I don't believe the people are happy in 
Lilac lane," said Matilda. 
" Maybe they are," said Ailie. " But I 
guess they can't be. People that are not 
good, can't be happy." 
" And Jesus has given us the message to 
take to everybody," said Matilda ; " and when 
we come up there, to that supper, and he asks 
us if we took the message to the people in 
the Lane, what shall we say ? I know what 
I would like to say." 
" But there are other people, besides in the 
Lane," said Ailie. 
" We must take it to them too," said Mary 
Edwards. 
" We can't take it to everybody." 
" No; only to everybody that we can" said 
Matilda. " Just think how glad some of 
those people will be, when they hear it. 
What should we do if Mr. Richmond had 
never told it to us ? " 
Ailie bit her lip. Whether by design or 
not, Mary Edwards turned to her Testament 
and read the next words that followed in 
course. 
" And there went great multitudes with 
him : and he turned, and said unto them, If 
any man come to me, and hate not his father, 
and mother, and wife, and children, and 
brethren, and sisters, yea, and his own life 
also, he cannot be my disciple." 
And seeing Mr. Ulshoeffer coming to open 
the door, the little conclave broke up. The 
children and teachers came pouring in for the 
Sunday school. 
Going out after it was over, Matilda noticed 
a face she had not seen ; a boy older than 
herself, but not very old, standing near the 
door, looking at the small crowd that trooped 
along the aisle. The thought came to Matilda that he was a new scholar, and if so 
somebody ought to welcome him ; but nobody did, that she could see. He stood alone, 
looking at the people as if they were strange 
 
to him ; with a good, bright, wide-awake face, 
handsome and bold. Matilda did not want 
to take the welcoming upon herself, but she 
thought somebody should do it; and the 
next minute she had paused in front of the 
stranger. 
" Is this the first time you have been 
here ? " she asked, with a kind of shy grace. 
The boy's bright eyes came down to her with 
a look of surprise, as he assented. 
" I am very glad to see you in our Sunday 
school," she went on. " I hope it was pleasant." 
" It was pleasant enough," said the stranger. " There is a jolly fellow over there 
asked me to come Ben Barth ; are you his 
sister ? " 
" O no," said Matilda. " Ben has his own 
sisters. I am not one of them." 
" I thought maybe he told you to speak to 
me." 
" Nobody told me," said Matilda. By this 
time they had followed the crowd out at the 
door and were taking their way down the 
street. 
"What did you speak to me then, for ? " 
said the boy with a roguish look at her. 
" I thought you were a stranger." 
" And what if I was ? " 
" I think, if you are a stranger anywhere, 
it is pleasant to have somebody speak to 
you." 
" You're a Brick ! " was the stranger's conclusion. 
" Am I ? " said Matilda. " Why am I ? " 
" You're a girl, I suppose, and don't understand things," said her companion. "Boys 
know what a Brick is when they see it." 
Why, so do I," said Matilda, don't I ? " 
But the boy only laughed, and then asked 
Matilda where she lived, and if she had any 
brothers, and where she went to school. 
" I go to the other school, you see," said 
he ; " that's how I've never seen you before. 
I wish you went to my school ; and I'd give 
you a ride on my sled." 
 
"But you'll come to our Sunday school, 
won't you ? " Matilda asked. 
" To be sure I will ; but you see, I can't take 
you on my sled on Sunday. They'd have all 
the ministers out after me." 
" O, no ! " said Matilda. " I was not thinking of the sled ; but you are very kind." 
" I should like it," said the boy. " Yes, I 
am coming to the school though I guess 
I've got an old fogy of a teacher. But the 
minister's a Brick isn't he ? " 
" He isn't much like me" said Matilda 
laughing. " And the sort of bricks that I 
know, one is very much like another." 
The boy laughed too, and asked if she 
didn't want to know his name? Matilda 
glanced again at the frank face and nice dress, 
and said yes. 
" My name's Norton Laval. What's 
yours ? " 
" Matilda Englefield. I am going this 
way." 
" Yes, you go that way and I go this way , 
but we shall see each other again. Good 
bye." 
So at the corner they parted ; and Matilda 
went home, thinking that in this instance at 
least the welcoming of strangers had paid well. 
For this was a pleasant new acquaintance, 
she was sure. She mounted the stairs with 
happy feet to her room ; and there found 
Maria in a flood of tears. Maria had staid 
at home from Sunday school to-day. 
"What is the matter, Maria?" her little 
sister inquired. " How's mamma ? " 
" I don't know ! O, nothing will ever be 
well again! O Tilly, what will become of 
us!" 
And here a storm of sobs and tears came 
on, in the midst of which Matilda's questions 
could get no attention. Matilda knew her 
sister, however, and waited. 
O Tilly it's so dreadful ! " 
" What ? " said Matilda calmly. 
" We haven't got anything to live upon. 
Anne and Letty have been telling me. We 
haven't. We are going to be as poor as as 
poor as anybody. We have got nothing to 
buy anything with nothing at all! Anne 
says so." 
" Did mamma say so ? " 
" Mother's sick. No, aunt Candy told the 
girls. It's true. Somebody or something 
that had mamma's money to take care of 
has gone off, or been ruined, or something; 
and we are ruined! There is nothing left at 
all for us to live upon. And that is what has 
been troubling mamma all these weeks ; and 
now it is certain and she knows all about it; 
and I guess it is that has made her sick. O, 
what shall we do ? " 
The turn of Matilda's head was inimitable 
and indescribable. It was not arrogance or 
affectation ; it was perfectly natural to the 
child ; but to a bystander it would have signified that she was aware Maria's views and 
statements were not to be relied upon and 
could not be made the basis of either opinion 
or action. She took off her things, and with- 
 
out another word made her way to the room 
of her elder sisters. They were both sitting 
there gloomily. 
" How is mamma ? " 
" I don't know. I haven't seen her since 
dinner." 
It was with a little of the same half graceful, half competent gesture of the head that 
Matilda applied herself to Letitia. 
" What is all this story, Letty, that Maria 
has been telling me ? " 
" How should I know ? Maria tells a great 
many stories." 
" I mean, about what has been troubling 
mamma." 
" Maria had no business to tell you, and so 
trouble you with it." 
" But is it true, Letty ? Anne, is it true ? " 
" I suppose it is true if you mean what 
she heard from me a little while ago. That 
is true." 
" And mamma has lost all her monev ? " 
" Every cent." 
 
" When did you know it, Anne and 
Letty ? " 
" We have known it a day or two. It is 
true. It is all true, Tilly." 
" What is mamma going to do, then ? " 
" Get well, I hope. That is the first thing. 
Aunt Candy says she will pay for her board 
and Clarissa's, and mamma and you can live 
on that. Letty and I must go get our living 
somehow." 
And here Anne broke down. Matilda 
wanted to ask about Maria's fate in the general falling to pieces of the family ; but her 
throat felt so full, she was afraid she could 
not. So she did not try ; she turned and 
went downstairs to her mother. 
Mrs. Englefield was dozing, flushed and 
uneasy ; she hardly noticed who was with her, 
but asked for water, and then for cologne 
water. Matilda brought the one and the 
other, and sat by the bedside wiping her 
mother's brow and cheeks with the cologne. 
Nobody came to interrupt or relieve her for 
 
some time. The light of the afternoon began 
to fade and the sunbeams came aslant from, 
the western sky ; and still the child sat there 
passing the handkerchief gently over her 
mother's face. And while she sat so, Matilda 
was thinking what possible ways there might 
be by which she could make money. 
" Tilly, is that you ? " said Mrs. Englefield 
faintly as the sunbeams were just quitting the 
room. 
" Yes, mamma. Are you better? " 
" Is there no one else here ? " 
" No, mamma. Aunt Candy is out ; and 
I suppose the girls thought you were sleeping. 
Are you better, mamma? You have had a 
nice long nap." 
" It's been horrid ! " said Mrs. Englefield. 
" I have dreamed of every possible dreadful 
thing." 
" But you feel better now ? " 
" My head aches no O my head ! 
Tilly" 
What, mamma ? " 
 
"I am going to be sick. I sha'n't be about 
again for a while, I know. I want you to do 
just what I tell you." 
" Yes, mamma. What ? " 
" Anne and Letty are going away." 
" Yes, mamma. I know." 
" Do you know why, dear?" 
The tone of tender, sorrowful sympathy in 
which this was said, overcame the child. As 
her mother's eyes with the question languidly 
sought her face, Matilda burst into tears and 
threw herself upon her neck. 
No, don't," said Mrs. Englefield faintly, 
I can't bear it. Don't, Matilda ! Rise up 
and listen to me." 
Matilda did as she was told. She forced 
back her tears ; stopped her sobs ; dashed 
away the drops from the corners of her eyes ; 
and sat up again to hear what her mother had 
to say to her. 
"Give rne some more water first. Anne 
and Letty are going away, Tilly ; and I can- 
not be up and see to anything ; and I can't 
 
hire a woman to do what's to be done. You 
tell Maria, from me, she must stay home from 
school and take care of the house. You will 
do what you can, Tilly oh, my head ! you 
can put rooms in order and such things ; and 
Maria must go down into the kitchen and get 
the breakfast " 
" Must Maria get the dinner too, mamma ? " 
" Yes, the dinner " 
" But can she, mamma ? " 
" She must ; or else your aunt Candy will 
hire somebody to do it ; and that will come 
out of what she pays me, and we shall not 
have enough left. She must, Tilly." 
" But aunt Candy wouldn't mind, just while 
you are sick, mamma, would she?" 
" Yes ! I know. Just you do as I tell you ; 
promise me that you will." 
" I will, mamma." 
" Promise me that Maria will." 
" I guess she will, mamma. I'll try and make 
her. Shall I bring her here, and you tell her 
yourself ? " 
" No, indeed. Don't bring Maria here. 
She would make such a row she would kill 
me. Anne and Letty will see to things, till 
they go O, I can't talk any longer. Give 
me some more water." 
She was presently dozing again ; and Ma- 
tilda, clasping her small hands, sat and 
thought over what was before her. It began 
to feel like a weight on her somewhere on 
her shoulders, she thought, and lying on her 
heart too ; and the longer she thought about 
it, the heavier and harder it pressed. The 
family to be broken up; her mother to be 
straitened for money ; Matilda did not know 
very well what that meant, but it sounded 
disagreeable; her aunt suddenly presented in 
new and not pleasant colours ; a general threatening cloud overshadowing all the future. Matilda began to get, what her strong little 
heart was not accustomed to, a feeling of real 
discouragement. What could she do ? And 
then a word of the afternoon's lesson in the 
Sunday school came freshly to mind. It had 
 
Deen quite new to Matilda, and had seemed 
to her very beautiful ; but it took on quite another sort of beauty now, " Cast thy burden 
upon the Lord ; he shall sustain thee." 
Will he ? " thought Matilda. " Can he ? 
May I tell him about all this? and will he 
help me to bear it, and help me to do all that 
work, and to make Maria do hers ? But he 
will, for he has said so" 
It was getting dusk in the room. Matilda 
knelt down by her chair, and poured out all 
her troubles into the ear that would heed and 
could help her. 
" Who's here ? " said the voice of Mrs. 
Candy coming in. " Who is that ? Matilda ? How did you come here, Tilly ? " 
" I have been taking care of my mother." 
" Have you ? How is she ? Well, you run 
downstairs I'll take care of her now. It 
is better for you not to be here. Don't come 
in again, unless I give you leave. Now you 
may go." 
"I wonder, must I mind her?" said Ma- 
 
tilda to herself. " I do not see why. She 
is not mother; and if mother is sick, that 
does not give everybody else a right to 
say what I shall do. I think it is very 
queer of aunt Candy to take that way with 
me." 
And I am afraid Matilda's head was carried a little with the air which was, to be 
sure, natural to her, and not unpretty, and 
yet which spoke of a good deal of conscious 
competency. It is no more than justice to 
Matilda to say that she did not ever put the 
feeling into any ill-mannerly form. It hardly 
appeared at all, except in this turn of her head, 
which all her own family knew, laughed at, 
admired, and even loved. So she went down 
stairs to the parlour. 
" How is aunt Marianne ? " was the question from Clarissa. " Letty told me where 
you were. But little one, it is not good for 
you to go into your mother's sick room ; you 
can do nothing, and you are better out. 
So mamma wishes you not to go in there 
 
till aunt Marianne is better you understand?" 
" Clarissa too ! " thought Matilda to herself. 
But she made no answer. She came by the 
fire to warm herself; for her mother's room 
had been cold. 
" You shouldn't go so near the fire ; you'll 
burn your dress," Clarissa remarked. 
" No," said Matilda ; and she said but that 
one word. 
" You will take the colour out, if you do 
not set it on fire ; and that is what I meant. 
That is your best dress, Tilly." 
It was true ; and sorely against her will 
Matilda stepped a little back. 
" You were a great while at Sunday school 
to-day," Clarissa went on. 
" No," said Matilda ; " not longer than 
usual." 
" What do you learn there ? " 
" Why, cousin Issa, what do you teach at 
your Sunday school ? " said Matilda. For 
Clarissa had sheered off from Mr. Richmond's 
church, and gone into a neighbouring one 
which belonged to the denomination in which 
she had been brought up. 
" That is not good manners, to answer one 
question with another, little one." 
" I thought one answer might serve for 
both," said Matilda. 
" I am afraid it would not. For in my Sunday school I teach the catechism." 
" Don't the catechism tell about Jesus ? " 
" Some things, of course." 
" Our lessons tell all things about him," 
said Matilda ; " and that is what I learn." 
" Do you learn about yourself ? " 
What about myself? " 
" How you ought to behave, and how you 
ought not to behave." 
" Why, I think learning about Jesus teaches 
one that" said Matilda. 
" I think there is nothing so good as coming home to learn about home," said Clarissa. 
The talk did not run in a way to please 
Matilda, and she was silent. Presently they 
were called down to tea. Everybody suffering from a fit of taciturnity. 
" Maria, sit up straight," said Mrs. Candy. 
" I always sit so," was the answer. 
" So, is not very graceful. Matilda does not 
sit so." 
" Matilda was always straight it's her 
way," said Maria. 
" Well make it your way too. Come ! 
Straighten up. What shoulders ! One would 
think you were a boy playing at leap-frog." 
"I don't know what 'leap-frog' is," said 
Maria colouring ; " and I don't think anybody 
would think I was anything but a girl anyhow. I get tired sitting up straight." 
When ? " asked Clarissa. 
Matilda's head was quite indescribable in 
the turn it gave at this moment. Her supper 
was done ; she was leaving the table. 
" You are not going into your mother's 
room ? " said her aunt, catching her hand as 
she passed. 
" You said you wished I would not." 
" Yes, my dear. I am going up there immediately. Don't go out either, Matilda." 
" I am going to church, aunt Candy." 
" I think not. Not to-night. I do not ap- 
prove of so much church going for little girls. 
You can study your lesson, you know, for 
next Sunday. I do not want to have anybody else sick on my hands till your mother 
is well." 
Matilda's face expressed none of her disappointment ; her head was even carried a little 
higher than usual as she left the room. But 
outside the door her steps flagged ; and she 
went slowly up the stairs, asking herself if she 
wa? bound to mind what her aunt said. She. 
was not clear about it. In the abstract, Matilda was well enough disposed to obey all 
lawful authority; just now a spirit of opposition had risen. Was this lawful authority? 
Mrs. Englefield was sick, to be sure ; but did 
that give Mrs. Candy any right to interfere 
with what was known to be Mrs. Englefield's 
will when she was not sick, Matilda thought 
not. Then, on the other hand, she did not 
wish to do anything to displease her aunt, 
who had always been kind to her; she did not 
wish to change the relations between them. 
Slowly Matilda mounted stair after stair till 
she got to her room. There she stood by the 
window a moment, thinking and sorrowing ; 
for if she did not wish to anger her aunt, 
neither did she wish to lose her evening in 
church, her sight of Mr. Richmond, and his 
sermon. And just then, the clear sweet sound 
of the church bell came, with its first note, to 
tell that the service would begin in a quarter 
of an hour. It sounded like a friend's voice 
calling her. Her aunt Candy's church bell 
joined in, and Mr. Everett's church, and Mr. 
Schonflocker's church ; but that one which 
Mr. Ulshoeffer rang was the loudest of all to 
Matilda's ear. She could hardly stand it. 
Then Maria burst in. 
" "What are you going to do?" said Matilda. 
" Do ? Why, I am going to church, of 
course ; and in a hurry." 
 
And Anne and Letty ? " 
" Certainly ; and Issa too." 
Matilda said no more, but hastily made her 
self ready, and went down with the rest. 
CHAPTER IX. 
ANNE and Letitia were to leave home in 
the afternoon of Monday; and Maria 
and Matilda went to school that morning as 
usual. But when the noon hour came, Matilda called her sister into a corner of the emptied schoolroom, and sat down with a face of 
business. 
" What is the matter? " said Maria. " We 
must go home to dinner." 
" I should like to speak to you here first." 
" About what ? Say it and be quick ; for 
I am ever so hungry. Aunt Candy cut my 
breakfast short this morning." 
" I wanted to say to you, that we had better take home our books." 
"What for?" said Maria with opening 
eyes. 
" Because, Maria, mamma was talking to 
me last night about it. You know there will 
be no one at home now, after to-day, but you 
and me." 
" Aunt Erminia and Clarissa ? " 
" Nobody to do anything, I mean." 
" Can't they do anything? I don't know 
what you are talking of, Matilda; but I know 
I want my dinner." 
" Who do you think will get dinner to- 
morrow ? " 
" Well mother's sick of course ; and Anne 
and Letty are going. I should think aunt 
Candy might." 
" No, she won't." 
" How do you know ? " 
" Because mother said so. She won't do 
anything." 
" Then she'll have to get a girl to do things, 
I suppose." 
" But Maria, that is just what mother wants 
she shouldn't do ; because she'd have to pay 
for it." 
 
" Who would have to pay for it?" 
" Mamma." 
" Why would she ? " 
" She said so." 
" I don't see why she would, I am sure. 
If aunt Erminia hires a girl, she'll pay for 
her." 
" But that will come out of what aunt Erminia pays to mamma ; and what aunt 
Erminia pays to mamma is what we have got 
to live upon." 
"Who said so?" 
" Mamma said so." Matilda answered with 
her lip trembling; for the bringing facts all 
down to hard detail, was difficult to bear. 
Well I do think," exclaimed Maria, " if I 
had a sister sick and not able to help herself, 
I would not be so mean ! " 
Matilda sat still and cried and said noth- 
ing. 
" Who is going to do all the work then, 
Tilly ? " 
There would have been something comical, 
 
if it had not been sad, in the way the little 
girl looked up and said, " You and I." 
" I guess we will!" said Maria with open- 
ing eyes. " You and I ! Take care of the 
house, and wash the dishes, and cook the din- 
ner, and everything! You know we couldn't, 
Matilda; and what's more, 7 know we 
won't." 
" Yes, mamma wishes it. We must ; and 
so we can, Maria." 
" I can't," said Maria, taking down her 
school cloak. 
" But Maria ! we must. Marnma will be 
more sick if we do not ; you heard what aunt 
Candy said at breakfast, that she is fearfully 
nervous; and if she hears that there is a 
hired girl in the house, it will worry her dread- 
fully." 
" It will be aunt Candy's fault then," said 
Maria, fastening her cloak. " I never heard 
of anybody so mean in all my life! never." 
" But that don't help anything, Maria. 
And you and I must do what mamma said. 
You know we shall have little enough to 
live on, as it is, and if you take the pay of 
a hired girl out of it, there will be so little 
left." 
" I've got my twenty-five dollars, that I can 
get summer dresses with ; I am glad I haven't 
spent it," said Maria. " Corne, Tilly ; I'm 
going home." 
" But Maria, you have not said what you 
ought to say yet." 
What ought I to say ? " 
" I will help and do my part. We can 
manage it. Come, Maria, say that you 
will." 
" Your part," said Maria. " What do you 
suppose your part would come to ? What 
can such a child as you do ? " 
" Maria, now is the time to shew whether 
you are really one of the Band of workers." 
" I am, of course. I joined it." 
" That would not make you one of them, 
if you don't do what they promised to do." 
"When did I ever promise to be aunt 
 
Candy's servant girl ? " said Maria fiercely 
I should like to know." 
But ' we are the servants of Christ,' " said 
Matilda softly, her eyes glistening through 
What then?" 
" We promised to try to do whatever would 
honour him." 
" I don't know what all this affair has to 
do with it," said Maria. " You say we 
promised ; you didn't ? " 
Yes, I did." 
" You didn't join the Band ? " 
Yes, I did." 
"When?" 
" A few days after you did." 
Why didn't you tell me? Did you tell 
Mr. Richmond?" 
Yes." 
" I think it is mean, that you did not tell 
me." 
" I am telling you now. But now, Maria, 
you know what you promised." 
 
" I did not promise this sort of thing at all, 
Tilly." 
" Yes, don't you know ? ' we stand ready 
to do his will.' That's in the covenant." 
" But this is not his will," insisted Maria. 
" This is aunt Erminia's meanness." 
" But it certainly is his will that we should 
do what mamma says, and please her ; and 
this is the work he has given us to do." 
Maria's answer this time was to sit down 
and cry for her part. Matilda did not join 
her, but stood by, patiently waiting. Maria 
cried and sobbed for several minutes; then 
she started up and set off homewards at a 
furious rate. Matilda gathered together her 
books and followed her sister; trying to comfort herself with the thought that this was 
certainly the work given them to do, and that 
she would try and make the best of it. 
The dinner was sorrowful enough. Maria 
indeed eat it as if remembering it was the 
last dinner for some time to come that she 
would find ready prepared for her. But 
 
Anne and Letty were broken down with 
grief ; and Mrs. Candy's endeavours to comfort them were either not the right sort, or 
fell upon unready ears. Clarissa was composed as usual. 
" You were late from school, Maria and 
Matilda," their aunt remarked ; finding Anne 
and Letty unmanageable. " What was the 
reason ? " 
" Tilly was talking to me," Maria 
said. 
" You could talk on the way home, I should 
think. I dislike to have dinner eaten by 
stages ; first one set coming, and then another. 
I am going to ask you to be punctual for the 
future. Do not be in a hurry, Maria ; there 
is time enough, now you are here, to eat 
moderately." 
" I am hungry. I don't want to eat 
moderately, aunt Erminia." 
" As much as you wish ; but you can be 
moderate in manner, cannot you, even if not 
in quantity ? " 
" Nobody ever told me I eat too much, before," said Maria. 
" There are a great many things that you 
have never been told, I suppose ? " said 
Clarissa, lifting her handsome eyes quietly. 
" I don't care about your telling me either," 
said Maria. 
" My dear, that is not polite," interposed 
her aunt. " I am sorry to hear you speak so. 
Would you not like to have Issa, or any 
one, tell you things that you would be the 
better for ? You would not wish to remain 
just as you are, to the end of your days? " 
" It don't hurt anybody but me," said 
Maria. 
" I beg your pardon. Everything that is 
not graceful and well-mannered, on the part 
of people in whose company we are, hurts me 
and Clarissa. It hurts me to have you bolt 
down your food as you were doing just now 
if I am sitting at the same table with you 
And it hurts me to have you speak rudely. 
I hope you will mend in all these things." 
"It will not hurt you to have us say 
good-bye," sa5d Anne rising. " I will do 
that now, if you please. Letty, I will leave 
you to take care of these things, and I 
will finish the packing. We must be quick, 
too." 
The farewell greetings with her aunt and 
cousin were soon spoken ; and Maria and Matilda tore upstairs after their sister, to pour 
out tears and complaints together during the 
remaining moments of her being at home. 
Matilda's tears however were quiet and her 
words very few. 
" Ain't she too bad ! " exclaimed Maria. 
" You must try and hold your own the best 
you can," said Anne ; " until mamma gets 
up again. Poor children! I am afraid she 
will be too much for you." 
"But, Anne, did you think aunt Candy 
was like that ? " said Maria. " She wasn't 
like that at first." 
" I guess she was. All she wanted was a 
chance. Now she's got it. Try and bear it 
 
the best you can, till marnma is well. She 
cannot be worried now." 
"Is mamma very sick, Anne?" Matilda 
ventured. 
N-o," said Anne, " but she might be, Tiliy, 
if she was worried. The doctor says she is 
very nervous, and must be kept quiet. She 
has been worrying so long, you see. So 
you must try and not do anything to fret 
her." 
The prospect was sad. When the omni- 
bus came to take Anne and Letty to the sta- 
tion, and when the last kisses and hugs were 
over, and the omnibus bounced away, carrying with it all they had at the moment, the 
two girls left at home felt forlorn enough. 
The only thing to be done was to rush upstairs to their room and cry their hearts out. 
And that was done thoroughly. 
But by and by, Matilda's thoughts, in their 
very extreme need of comfort, began to take 
