she bit her lip, and submitted after a second of thought. He owed his
exemption from rebuke to her memory of his latest utterance. She could
not mistake the tone of genuine feeling, and she overlooked the breach
of taste that followed; treasured up the heart-saying as one of the few
souvenirs she cared to preserve of his courtship.

“If he is content, I need not be miserable,” was the consolatory
reflection with which she took upon herself her new and binding
obligations.




CHAPTER VIII. -- THE FACE AT THE WINDOW.


MRS. AYLETT was in her best feather that night; the suave chatelaine,
the dutiful consort; the tactful warder of the interesting pair whose
movements she had not ceased to watch from the moment they took their
places with the party about the fire-place in the hall until she, alone
of all the company, saw Herbert Dorrance draw the diamond signet from
its receptacle, and the sparkle of the jewel as it slipped to its
abiding-place upon Mabel’s finger.

Lest something unusual in their look or behavior should excite the
suspicions of their companions, make them the focus of inquisitive
observation and whispered remark, the diplomate passed again into
the hall, sweeping along in advance of them when they deserted their
curtained recess, and would have joined the rest of the company.

“Are we to have no dancing this evening?” she said, in hospitable
solicitude. “It wants an hour yet of supper-time. The exercise will do
you all good, particularly the young ladies, who have not stirred beyond
the piazzas to-day. I have been waiting for an invitation to play for
you, but my desire for your welfare has overcome native humility. Will
you accept my services as your musician?”

The suggestion was acceded to by acclamation, and while one gentleman
led her to the grand piano which stood between the front windows of the
drawing-room, and another opened a music-book which she named, a set was
quickly formed in the long apartment, the soberer portion of the crowd
ranging themselves along the walls as lookers-on.

Mrs. Aylett was a proficient in dance-music. She never volunteered
to perform that which she was not conscious of doing well. She had
occasionally taken the floor for a single quadrille, to oblige a favored
guest--always a middle-aged or elderly gentleman--or moved through
a cotillion with ease and spirit as partner to her husband, but
she declined dancing, as a rule; was altogether indifferent to the
amusement, while she delighted to oblige her friends by playing for them
whenever and as long as they required her aid. Without saying, in so
many words, that she disapproved of the waltz for unmarried ladies,
and frowned upon promiscuous dancing for matrons, she yet managed to
regulate the social code of the neighborhood in both these respects, was
imitated and quoted by the most discreet of chaperones and belles.

Mr. Dorrance was Mabel’s partner; Rosa stood up with Randolph Harrison,
a gay youth, who was her latest attache; Tom Barksdale led out a
blushing, yet sprightly school-girl, and Imogene was his vis-a-vis
supported by an ancient admirer, who had comforted himself for her
preference for another man by falling in love with a prettier woman.
The room was decorated with garlands of running cedar--a vine known
in higher latitudes as “ground-pine,” and which carpeted acres of the
Ridgeley woods. The vases on the mantel were filled with holly,
and other gayly colored berry boughs, while roses, lemon and orange
blossoms, mignonette and violets from the conservatory were set about
on tables and brackets, blending fresher and more wholesome odors with
those of the Parisian extracts wafted from the ladies’ dresses and
handkerchiefs.

Mr. Aylett had--accidentally, it would seem--his wife understood that
the action was premeditated--stationed himself at an angle to the piano
that allowed him a fair view of her, and did not grudge the merriest
bachelor there his share of enjoyment, while he could keep furtive watch
upon the changeful countenance, the Sappho-like head, and the delicate
hands which one could have thought made the music, rather than did the
obedient keys they touched. The wedded lovers had taste and pride in
equal proportions, and a parade of their satisfaction in one another for
the edification or amusement of indifferent spectators would have been
revolting to both, but the ray that sped from half-averted eyes, from
time to time, and was returned by a kindling glance, also shot sidelong
beneath dropped lashes, said more to each other than would a quarto
volume of stereotyped protestations and caresses, such as Tom Barksdale
dealt out profusely to his beauteous Imogene. Clearly, neither Mr. nor
Mrs. Winston Aylett was fond of sugar-candy.

Mabel’s faith in the sincerity of her sister-in-law’s agreeable sayings
and ways was not invariable nor absolute. She liked her after a certain
fashion; got along swimmingly with her, the amazed public decided “SO
much better than could have been expected, and than was customary with
relations by marriage, and not by descent;” yet her more upright nature
and different training helped her to detect the petty artifices with
which Clara cajoled the unwary, moulded the plastic at her will. But she
had never questioned the reality of her love for Winston. As a wife,
her deportment was exemplary, her devotion too freely and consistently
rendered to have its spring in policy or affectation. She gloried in her
handsome, courtly lord, and in his attachment for herself. Whether she
would have espied the same causes for loving exultation in him, had
he been a poor clergyman or merchant’s clerk, was an irrelevant
consideration. The master of Ridgeley was not to be contemplated apart
from the possessions and dignities that were his inalienable pedestal.
Clara Dorrance was a clever woman, and she had given these due weight in
accepting his hand; and they may have had their influence in moving
her to unceasing, yet unobtrusive endeavor to make herself still more
necessary to his happiness, to strengthen her hold upon him by every
means an affectionate and beloved wife has at her command. She had done
well for herself--she was thinking while he concluded as silently within
himself that the slight pensiveness tempering the expressive face was
its loveliest dress.

She--beautiful and penniless, ambitious, and a devotee of pleasure--yet
dependent for food and clothing upon her mother’s life-interest in
an estate, not one penny of which would revert to her children at her
decease; without kindred and without society in the elegant suburb they
had inhabited for four or five years, might have been elated at a
less brilliant match than that she had made. The “best people” of the
aforesaid suburb were exclusive; slow to form intimacies with their
unaccredited neighbors, and very hasty in breaking them at the faintest
whiff of a doubtful or tainted reputation. And of the second best the
Dorrances had kept themselves clear. Having met and captivated her
wealthy lover on a rarely fortunate summer jaunt, made in company with
her eldest brother, his wife, and two relatives of the last-named, Clara
did not repel him or disgust the best people of Roxbury by indiscreet
raptures over, or exhibition of, her prize.

“I feel with you an invincible repugnance to throwing open our hearts to
the inspection of the unsympathizing world, at the most sacred moment
of our lives,” she said, in stating her preference for a quiet
morning-wedding, a family breakfast, and instant departure upon their
bridal-trip. “If I begin to invite my friends and neighbors, our
cottage--lawn and garden included--would not contain them, and after
all were asked whom I could remember, as many more would be mortally
offended at being forgotten.”

The bridegroom gladly acquiescing, with a compliment to her womanly
delicacy, the ceremony was performed in the presence of the bride’s
nearest relatives; an elegant repast was served, at which the Dorrance
plate made an imposing show, and Clara turned her back upon the scenes
and reminiscences of her past life to commence the world anew.

Yes, she had done very well for herself--how wonderfully well she knew
better than did any one else, and at this date she had fresh cause for
self-gratulation. Through her, Herbert, her favorite brother, was
likely to form an alliance which would be a timely and substantial
stepping-stone to his aggrandizement and wealth. There were more reasons
why she should hold her head higher--why the blood should clothe her
cheek with a richer carmine, and a smile encircle the mouth, as one
swift glance took in the spacious, luxurious room, thronged with
well-dressed aristocrats, her husband the stateliest, most honored of
them all, yet her fond thrall; the splendid apparel in which his wealth
had bedecked her, the queen of the scene--more reasons, I say, for the
ineffable thrill of pleasure that coursed, a rapid, intoxicating stream,
through her veins, than grateful affection for the author of all these
goods. With a Sybarite’s dread of pain and loneliness, she seldom
trusted herself to look at the dark curtain in the background, against
which her latter-day glories shone the more dazzlingly. But to-night
she felt safe upon her throne--sat, the lady of kingdoms, sultana in the
realm of her spouse’s heart and in his domain, and could stare full upon
the past--could measure, without shuddering, the height of her actual
and assumed estate above--

Mr. Aylett stepped forward in haste and concern at the deadly pallor
that overspread her face--the look of horror, fear, loathing, before
which smile and brightness fled, blasted into wretchedness. The
revellers stopped in their giddy measure at the discordant jangle,
preluding a dead silence.

Mabel, chancing in the evolutions of the set to be nearest the window,
and noting the direction of the fainting woman’s eyes, was quick enough
to see a shadow flit across the yellow square of light upon the snowy
floor of the portico--a man’s shape, as it appeared to her, crouching
and slinking out of view into the darkness.

“She saw something, or somebody, through the window, and was
frightened,” she said, in a low voice, checking Tom Barksdale and
another gentleman, who would have pressed with the inconsiderate crowd
toward the senseless figure Mr. Aylett had laid upon the sofa. “Will you
see what it was?”

The request cleared the room directly of all the men of the assembly,
with the exception of Winston and Dr. Ritchie, a young physician, who
was superintending the administration of restoratives to Mrs. Aylett.

She was reviving rapidly when the search party gave in their report.
There were fresh tracks upon the piazza, and these they had traced to
the back of the house, losing them there in the drifting snow, the wind
blowing like a hurricane, and ploughing what had fallen and what was
descending into constantly changing heaps. But the watch-dogs had
been unchained, and four of the negro men detailed as sentinels, the
gentlemen engaging to make the round of the premises again before
bed-time.

The effect of this communication was the reverse of tranquillizing
upon the patient. The wild, terrified look in her eye resembled the
unreasoning fear of lunacy as she seized her husband’s arm.

“Indeed, indeed they must not. It is not right or safe to make such a
serious matter of my foolish nervousness. I am not sure there was any
one there! It was probably an optical delusion. I was plunged in a
reverie, thinking of happy, peaceful, lovely things”--with the sickly
feint of a meaning smile into his face--“and, happening to look at
the window, I fancied that I saw”--with all her self-command her voice
failed here, and she put her hand before her eyes for a moment before
she could go on--“I thought I saw--SOMETHING! It may have been a human
face--it may have been the shadow of the curtains, or the reflection of
the lights upon the glass; but it startled me, appearing so abruptly.
Please say no more about it. If it was a living creature, it must have
been one of the servants, tempted by curiosity to peep at the dancers.”

“It will prove to be a costly indulgence to him, if I can discover who
the rascal was,” said Mr. Aylett, decisively. “I would not have had you
so startled for the worth of all the lazy hounds on the premises.”

His wife laid her hand upon his.

“It is Christmas night, my love, and the poor fellow is excusable. He
showed excellent taste. It was a very pretty scene. I shall not soon
forgive myself for throwing it into such ‘admired disorder.’ Miss
Scott”--[to a musical spinster]--“may I tax your politeness so far as
to ask you to take my seat at the piano? I must go to my room for a few
minutes,” raising her finger smilingly to her displaced ivy wreath. “If
you would testify your tolerance of my folly, please go on with your
amusement. I shall be encouraged to return when I hear the music.”

Her collected, urbane self once more, she took her husband’s arm, and
passed through the opening ranks of her friends, bowing to this side and
that, with apologetic banter and graceful words of regret--still very
pale, but changed in no other respect.

“A singular episode in an evening’s entertainment,” said Mr. Dorrance,
leading Mabel to her stand in the re-forming set. “I never knew Clara
to succumb before to any type of syncope or asphyxia. She is a woman of
remarkable nerve and courage. And, by the way, how preposterous is the
common use of the word ‘nervous.’ The ablest lexicographers define it as
‘strong, well-strung, full of nerve,’ whereas, in ordinary parlance,
it has come to signify the very opposite of these. When I speak of a
nervous speaker or writer, for example, what do I mean?”

“One who imbibes unwholesomely large quantities of strong green tea,
and sees hobgoblins peering at her through the window-panes!” said Rosa,
sarcastically artless, tripping by in season to overhear this clause of
his small-talk.

Mabel’s imperturbable good-breeding prevented embarrassment or
resentment at the interruption. At heart, she was vexed that Rosa should
omit no opportunity of shooting privily and audaciously at her practical
admirer, but to betray her appreciation of the impertinence would be to
subject herself to imputations of sensitiveness on his account.

“I saw the hobgoblin without the aid of green tea,” she rejoined. “There
was really some one upon the porch, but why the apparition should scare
Clara out of her wits, I cannot divine. The negro is an incurable Paul
Pry, and, next to dancing a Christmas jig himself, is the pleasure of
seeing others do it.”

Mrs. Aylett verified her brother’s encomium upon her nerve by
reappearing in the saloon by the time another set was over, and just
before the announcement of supper, radiant and self-possessed, prepared
to do double social duty to atone for the fright she had caused, and the
temporary damp her swoon had cast over the festivities.

The revel went joyously forward--Christmas-games and incantations, the
dexterous introduction, by a jocose old gentleman, of a mistletoe-bough
into the festoons draping the chandelier, and divers other tricks,
all of which were taken in excellent part by the victims thereof, and
vociferously applauded by the spectators. The great hall-clock had rung
out twelve strokes, and two or three methodical seniors were beginning
to whisper to one another their intention to take French leave of the
indefatigable juniors and seek their couches, when a continued tumult
arose from the yard--barking and shouts, and voices in angry or eager
dispute.

Unmindful of the nipping air, the ladies flew to the windows and raised
them, while the gentlemen, in a body, rushed out upon the porch, many to
the lawn--the scene of the disturbance.

“They have caught him!”

“There are several of them--a gang of thieves, no doubt!”

“No! I see but one! They are bringing him to the house!” were morsels
of information passed over the shoulders of the foremost rank of
inquisitive fair ones to the rear, but none were able to answer the
returning inquiries.

“Who is it?”

“What does he look like like?”

“Does he offer any resistance?”

“Do you suppose he is a burglar, or only a common vagrant?”

“I thought the Ridgeley grounds were never infested by prowling beggars,
or other vagabonds,” said a lady to Mrs. Aylett, who prudently remained
near the fire, even then shivering with the cold, and casting uneasy
looks at the windows.

“Mr. Aylett is a model to his brother magistrates in his treatment of
such nuisances,” remarked another “His name is a terror to strollers,
whether they be organ-grinders, peddlers, or incendiaries.”

Mrs. Aylett, excessively pale, applied her vinaigrette to her nose, and
trembled yet more violently.

“I believe he is very strict,” she assented. “But I am really afraid
those ladies will take cold! The snow-air is piercing. And they
are--most of them--heated with dancing. Cannot we prevail upon them to
close the windows, now that the mysterious prowler is secured? We shall
hear all about him when the gentlemen return, and they will not stay out
of doors longer than is necessary.”

They began to pour back into the room, while she was speaking, laughing,
and talking, all together shaking the snow-powder from their hair and
hands, and anathematizing the cold and their thin boots. The particulars
of the midnight disturbance were quickly disseminated. The ebon
sentinels had, directed by the barking of their canine associates,
discovered, under a holly hedge on one side of the yard, a man lying
upon the earth, and almost buried in the snow he seemed not to have
strength to throw off. He was either drunk or so nearly frozen as to be
incapable of answering coherently their demands as to what was his
name and what his business upon the premises. The interrogations of the
gentlemen and the ungentle shakings administered by his captors elicited
nothing but groans and muttered oaths. He could not, or would not, walk
without support, and to leave him where he was, or to turn him adrift
into the public road, would be certain death. Therefore Mr. Aylett
had ordered him to be confined for the night in a garret room. In the
morning he might be examined to more purpose.

“But he ought to have a fire, and something hot and nourishing to
drink!” exclaimed Mrs. Button, upon hearing the story. “He will freeze
in that barn of a place--poor wretch!”

“I imagine he has no need of additional stimulants,” said Mrs. Aylett,
dryly, again resorting to her smelling-bottle. “From what the gentlemen
say, I judge that he had laid in a supply of caloric sufficient to last
through the night. And the first use he would make of fire would be
to burn the house over our heads. His lodgings are certainly more
comfortable than those selected by himself. There is little danger of
his finding fault with them. What manner of looking creature is he?”

“An unkempt vagabond!” rejoined Randolph Harrison, rubbing his blue
fingers before the fire. “His clothes are ragged, and frozen stiff. I
suppose he has been out in the storm ever since it set in. There were
icicles upon his beard and hair, his hat having fallen off. It is a
miracle he did not freeze to death long ago. It is a bitter night.”

“Did you say he was an old man?” inquired the hostess languidly, from
the depths of her easy chair.

“He is not a young one, for his hair is grizzled. But we will form
ourselves into a court of inquiry in the morning, with Mr. Aylett as
presiding officer--have in the nocturnal wanderer, and hear what account
he can give of himself. Who knows what romantic history we may hear--one
that may become a Christmas legend in after years?”

“You will get nothing more sensational than the confessions of a
hen-roost robber, I suspect,” said Mrs. Aylett, more wearily than was
consistent with her role of attentive hostess.

Her husband noticed the tokens of exhaustion, and interposed to spare
her further exertion.

“Our friends will excuse you if you retire without delay, Clara. You
still feel the effects of your agitation and faintness.”

This was the signal for a general dispersion of the ladies--the
gentlemen, or most of them, adjourning to the smoking-room.

Since the late extraordinary influx of visitors, Mabel had shared her
aunt’s chamber, but, instead of seeking this now, she went straight from
the parlor to the supper-room, where she found, as she had expected,
Mrs. Sutton in the height of business, directing the setting of the
breakfast-table, clearing away the debris of the evening feast, and
counting the silver with unusual care, lest a stray fork or spoon had,
by some hocus-pocus known to the class, been slipped into the pocket of
the supposititious burglar.

“Aunt,” began Mabel, drawing her aside, “that poor wretch up-stairs must
be cared for. It is the height of cruelty to lock him up in a fireless
room, without provisions or dry clothing. If he should die, would we be
guiltless?”

Mrs. Sutton’s benevolent physiognomy was perplexed.

“Didn’t I say as much in the other room, before everybody, my dear? And
didn’t SHE put me down with one of her magisterial sentences? She is
mistress here--not you or I. Besides, Winston has the key of that east
garret in his pocket, and I would not be the one to ask him for it,
since he has had his wife’s opinion upon the subject of humanity to
prisoners.”

“I shall not trouble him with my petition. I discovered by accident,
when I was a child, that the key of the north room would open that door.
If I order, upon my own responsibility, that a cup of hot coffee, and
some bread and meat be taken up to him, you will not deny them to me, I
suppose?”

“Certainly not, my child! but I dare not send a servant with them.
Winston’s orders were positive--they all tell me--that not a soul should
attempt to hold communication with him. And what he says he means.”

“Then,” replied Winston’s sister, with a spark of his spirit, “I will
take the waiter up myself. I cannot sleep with this horror hanging
over me--the fear lest, through my neglect or cowardice, a
fellow-being--whose only offence against society, so far as we knows
is his dropping down in a faint or stupor under a hedge on the Ridgeley
plantation--should lose his life.”

“Your feelings are only what I should expect from you, my love; but
think twice before you go up-stairs yourself! It would be considered an
outrageous impropriety, were it found out.”

“Less outrageous than to let a stranger perish for want of such
attention as one would vouchsafe to a stray dog?” questioned Mabel, with
a queer smile. “Roger! pour me out a bowl of coffee at once. Put it on
a waiter with a plate of bread and butter--or stay! oysters will be
more warming and nourishing. I am very sure that Daphne is keeping a
saucepanful hot for her supper and yours. Hurry!”

The waiter, whose wife was the cook, ducked his head with a grin
confirmatory of his young mistress’ shrewd suspicion, and vanished
to obey her orders, never dreaming but she wanted the edibles for her
private consumption. He enjoyed late and hot suppers, and why not she?
Thanks to this persuasion, the coffee was strong, clear, and boiling,
the oysters done to a turn, and smoking from the saucepan.

Taking the tray from him, with a gracious “Thank you! This is just as
it should be,” Mabel negatived his offer to carry it to her room, and
started up-stairs.

Mrs. Sutton followed with a lighted candle.

“Winston or no Winston, you shall not face that desperado alone,” she
said, obstinately. “There is no telling what he may do--murder you,
perhaps, or at least knock you down in order to escape. Winston talks as
if he were the captain of the forty thieves.”’

“He is pretty well hors de combat now, at any rate,” smiled Mabel, but
allowing her aunt to precede her with the light to the upper floor. “And
should he offer violence--scalding coffee may defend me as effectually
as Morgiana’s boiling oil routed the gang. MY captain had to be carried
up-stairs by four servants, who left him upon a pile of old mattresses
in one corner of the room. Here we are!”

They were in a wide hall at the top of the house, the unceiled rafters
above their heads, carpetless boards beneath their feet. Mabel set her
waiter upon a worm-eaten, iron-bound chest, and went further down the
passage to get the key of the north room. Her light footstep stirred
dismal echoes in the dark corners; the wind screamed through every crack
and keyhole, like a legion of piping devils; rumbled lugubriously over
the steep roof. The one candle flickering in the draught showed Mabel’s
white bust and arms, like those of a phantom, beaming through a cloud
of blackness, when she stooped to try the key in the lock of the
prison-chamber.

After fitting it, she knocked before she turned it in the rusty
wards--again, and more loudly--then spoke, putting her lips close to the
key-hole:

“We are friends, and have brought you supper. Can we come in?”

There was no answer, and with a beating heart she unlocked the door,
pushed it ajar, and motioned to Aunt Rachel to hold her candle up, that
she might gain a view of the interior.

The wan, uncertain rays revealed the heap of mattresses, and upon them
what looked like a mass of rough, wet clothing, without sound or motion.

“He is pretending to be asleep! Take care!” whispered Mrs. Sutton,
trying to restrain Mabel as she pressed by her into the room.

“He is dead, I fear!” was the low answer.

Forgetful of her nephew’s prohibition and her recent fears, the good
widow entered, and leaned anxiously over the stranger’s form. A tall,
gaunt man, clad in threadbare garments, which hung loosely upon the
shrunken breast and arms, black hair and beard, mottled with white,
ragged, and unshorn, and dank from exposure to the snow and sleet; a
chalky-white face, with closed and sunken eyes, sharpened nose, and
prominent cheek-bones--this was what they beheld as the candle flamed
up steadily in the comparatively still air of the ceiled apartment. The
miserable coat was buttoned up to his chin, and the shreds of a coarse
woollen comforter, torn from his throat at his capture, still hung about
his shoulders. His clothes were sodden with wet, as Harrison had said,
and the solitary pretence at rendering him comfortable for the night,
had been the act of a negro, who contemptuously flung an old blanket
across his nether limbs before leaving him to his lethargic slumbers.
He had not moved since they tossed him, like a worthless sack, upon
this sorry resting-place, but lay an unsightly huddle of arms, legs, and
head, such as was never achieved, much less continued, by any one save a
drunken man or a corpse. Mabel ended the awed silence.

“This is torpor--not sleep, nor yet death,” she said, without recoiling
from the pitiful wreck.

Indeed, as she spoke, she bent to feel his pulse; held the emaciated
wrist in her warm fingers until she could determine whether the feeble
stroke were a reality, or a trick of the imagination.

“Dr. Ritchie should see him immediately. He is in the smoking-room. If
you call him out, it will excite less remark than if I were to do it.
Don’t let Winston guess why you want him,” were her directions to her
aunt, uttered quickly, but distinctly.

“You will not stay here! At least, go into the hall! What will the
doctor think?”

“I shall remain where I am. The poor creature is too far gone to presume
upon my condescension,” with a faint sarcastic emphasis.

At Mrs. Sutton’s return with the physician, she perceived that her niece
had not awaited her coming in sentimental idleness. A thick woollen
coverlet was wrapped about the prostrate figure, and Mabel, upon her
knees on the dusty hearth, was applying the candle to a heap of waste
paper and bits of board she had ferreted out in closets and cuddy-holes.
It caught and blazed up hurriedly in season to facilitate the doctor’s
examination of the patient, thrown so oddly upon his care. Mrs. Sutton
had not neglected, in her haste, to procure a warm shawl from her room,
and she folded it about the girl’s shoulders, whispering an entreaty
that she would go to bed, and leave the man to her management and Dr.
Ritchie.

Mabel waved her off impatiently.

“Presently! when I hear how he is!” moving toward the comfortless couch.

The physician looked around at the rustle of her dress, his pleasant
face perturbed, and perhaps remorseful.

“This is a bad business! I wish I had examined him when he was brought
in. There would have been more hope of doing something for him then.
But, to tell the truth, I was one of the five or six prudent fellows who
stayed upon the piazza, and witnessed the capture from a distance. I had
no idea of the man’s real situation. Mrs. Sutton! can I have brandy, hot
water, and mustard at once! Miss Mabel! may I trouble you to call your
brother? He ought to be advised of this unforeseen turn of affairs.”

His emissaries were prompt. In less than ten minutes, all the appliances
the household could furnish for the restoration of the failing life were
at his command. An immense fire roared in the long-disused chimney; warm
blankets, bottles of hot water and mustard-poultices were prepared by
a corps of officious servants; the master of the mansion, with three
or four friends at his heels, and a half-smoked cigar in his hand, had
looked in for a moment, to hope that Dr. Ritchie would not hesitate to
order whatever was needed, and to predict a favorable result as the meed
of his skill.

Half an hour after her brother’s visit, Mabel tapped at the door to
inquire how the patient was, and whether she could be of use in any way.
She still wore her evening dress, and the fire of excitement had not
gone out in her eyes and complexion.

“Don’t sit up longer,” said the doctor, with the authority of an old
friend. “It will not benefit your protege for you to have a headache,
pale cheeks, and heavy eyes to-morrow, while it will render others,
whose claims upon you are stronger, very miserable.”

She thanked him laconically for his thoughtfulness, and bade him
“good-night,” without a responsive gleam of playfulness. Her heart was
weighed down with sick horror. The almost certainty of which he spoke
with professional coolness, was to her, who had never within her
recollection stood beside a death-bed, a thing too frightful to be
anticipated without dread, however its terrors might be alleviated by
affection and wealth. As the finale of their Christmas frolic--perhaps
the consequence of wilful neglect in those who should have known
better than to abandon the wanderer to the ravages of hunger, cold, and
intoxication--the idea was ghastly beyond description.

She was about to diverge from the main hall on the second floor into the
lateral passage leading to Mrs. Sutton’s room in the wing, when her name
was called in a gentle, guarded key by her sister-in-law.




CHAPTER IX. -- HE DEPARTETH IN DARKNESS.


“COME in! I want to talk to you!” said Mrs. Aylett, beckoning Mabel into
her chamber, from the door of which she had hailed her. “Sit down, my
poor girl! You are white as a sheet with fatigue. I cannot see why you
should have been suffered to know anything about this very disagreeable
occurrence. And Emmeline has been telling me that Mrs. Sutton actually
let you go up into that Arctic room.”

“It was my choice. Aunt Rachel went along to carry the light and to
keep me company. She would have dissuaded me from the enterprise if she
could,” responded Mabel, sinking into the low, cushioned chair before
the fire, which the mistress of the luxurious apartment had just wheeled
forward for her, and confessing to herself, for the first time, that she
was chilly and very tired.

“But where were the servants, my dear? Surely you are not required, in
your brother’s house, to perform such menial services as taking food and
medicine to a sick vagrant.”

“Winston had forbidden them to go near the room. I wish I had gone up
earlier. I might have been the means of saving a life which, however
worthless it may seem to us, must be of value to some one.”

“Is he so far gone?”

The inquiry was hoarsely whispered, and the speaker leaned back in her
fauteuil, a spark of fierce eagerness in her dilated eyes, Mabel, in
her own anxiety, did not consider overstrained solicitude in behalf of
a disreputable stranger. She had more sympathy with it than with the
relapse into apparent nonchalance that succeeded her repetition of the
doctor’s report.

“He does not think the unfortunate wretch will revive, even temporarily,
then?” commented the lady, conventionally compassionate, playing with
her ringed fingers, turning her diamond solitaire in various directions
to catch the firelight. “How unlucky he should have strayed upon our
grounds! Was he on his way to the village?”

“Who can say? Not he, assuredly. He has not spoken a coherent word. Dr.
Ritchie thinks he will never be conscious again.”

“I am afraid the event will mar our holiday gayeties to some extent,
stranger though he is!” deplored the hostess. “Some people are
superstitious about such things. His must have been the spectral visage
I saw at the window. I was sure it was that of a white man although
Winston tried, to persuade me to the contrary.”

“It is dreadful!” ejaculated Mabel energetically. “He, poor homeless
wayfarer, perishing with cold and want in the very light of our
summer-like rooms; getting his only glimpse of the fires that would have
brought back vitality to his freezing body through closed windows! Then
to be hunted down by dogs, and locked up by more unfeeling men, as if
he were a ravenous beast, instead of a suffering fellow-mortal! I
shall always feel as if I were, in some measure, chargeable with his
death--should he die. Heaven forgive us our selfish thoughtlessness, our
criminal disregard of our brother’s life!”

“I understood you to say there was no hope!” interrupted Mrs. Aylett.

“So Dr. Ritchie declares. But I cannot bear to believe it!”

She pressed her fingers upon her eyeballs as if she would exclude some
horrid vision.

“My dear sister! your nerves have been cruelly tried. To-morrow, you
will see this matter--and everything else--through a different medium.
As for the object of your amiable pity, he is, without doubt, some low,
dissipated creature, of whom the world will be well rid.”

“I am not certain of that. There are traces of something like refinement
and gentle breeding about him in all his squalor and unconsciousness.
I noticed his hands particularly. They are slender and long, and his
features in youth and health must have been handsome. Dr. Ritchie
thought the same. Who can tell that his wife is not mourning his
absence to-night, as the fondest woman under this roof would regret
her husband’s disappearance? And she may never learn when and how he
died--never visit his grave!”

“I have lived in this wicked world longer than you have, my sweet Mabel;
so you must not quarrel with me if these fancy pictures do not move me
as they do your guileless heart,” said Mrs. Aylett, the sinister shadow
of a mocking smile playing about her mouth. “Nor must you be offended
with me for suggesting as a pendant to your crayon sketch of widowhood
and desolation the probability that the decease of a drunken thief or
beggar cannot be a serious bereavement, even to his nearest of kin.
Women who are beaten and trampled under foot by those who should be
their comfort and protection are generally relieved when they take to
vagrancy as a profession. It may be that this man’s wife, if she were
cognizant of his condition, would not lift a finger, or take a step to
prolong his life for one hour. Such things have been.”

“More shame to human nature that they have!” was the impetuous
rejoinder. “In every true woman’s heart there must be tender memories of
buried loves, let their death have been natural or violent.”

“So says your gentler nature. There are women--and I believe they are in
the majority in this crooked lower sphere--in whose hearts the monument
to departed affection--when love is indeed no more--is a hatred that
can never die. But we have wandered an immense distance from the unlucky
chicken-thief or burglar overhead. Dr. Ritchie’s sudden and ostentatious
attack of philanthropy will hardly beguile him into watching over his
charge--a guardian angel in dress-coat and white silk neck-tie--until
morning?”

“Mammy is to relieve him so soon as he is convinced that human skill can
do nothing for his relief,” said Mabel very gravely.

Her sister-in-law’s high spirits and jocular tone jarred upon her
most disagreeably, but she tried to bear in mind in what dissimilar
circumstances they had passed the last hour. If Clara appeared
unfeeling, and her remarks were distinguished by less taste than was
customary in one so thoroughly bred, it was because the exhilaration
of the evening was yet upon her, and she had not seen the death’s-head
prone upon the pillows in the cheerless attic. Thoughts of poverty and
dying beds were unseemly in this apartment when the very warmth and
fragrance of the air told of fostering and sheltering love. The heavy
curtains did not sway in the blast that hurled its whole fury against
the windows; the furniture was handsome, and in perfect harmony with the
dark, yet glowing hues of the carpet, and with the tinted walls. A tall
dressing mirror let into a recess reflected the picture, brilliant with
firelight that colored the shadows themselves; lengthened into a deep
perspective the apparent extent of the chamber and showed, like a fine
old painting, the central figure in the vista.

Mrs. Aylett had exchanged her evening dress for a cashmere wrapper, the
dark-blue ground of which was enlivened by a Grecian pattern of gold
and scarlet; her unbound hair draped her shoulders, and framed her arch
face, as she threaded the bronze ripples with her fingers. She looked
contented, restful, complacent in herself and her belongings--one whom
Time had touched lovingly as he swept by, and whom sorrow had forgotten.

“Not asleep yet!” was her husband’s exclamation, entering before
anything further passed between the two women; and when his sister
started up, with an apology for being found there at so late an hour,
he added, more reproachfully than he ever spoke to his wife, “You
should not have kept her up, Mabel! Her strength has been too much taxed
already to-night. I hoped and believed that she had been in bed and
asleep for an hour.”

“Don’t blame her!” said Mrs. Aylett, hastily. “I called her in as she
was proceeding to bed in the most decorous manner possible. I may as
well own the truth of my weakness. I was nervously wakeful--the effect,
in part, of the ultra-strong coffee Dr. Ritchie advised me to drink
at supper-tine--in part, of the silly sensation I got up to terrify my
friends. So I maneuvered to secure a fireside companion until you should
have dispatched your cigar. Gossip is as pleasant a sedative to ladies
as is a prime Havana to their lords.”

“And what is the latest morceau?” inquired Mr Aylett, indulgently, when
Mabel had gone.

He was standing by his wife’s chair, and she leaned her head against
him, her bright eyes uplifted to his, her hair falling in a long,
burnished fringe over his arm--a fond, sparkling siren, whom no man,
with living blood in his veins, could help stooping to kiss before her
lips had shaped a reply.

“You wouldn’t think it an appetizing morsel! But I listened with
interest to our unsophisticated Mabel’s account of her Quixotic
expedition to what will, I foresee, be the haunted chamber of Ridgeley
in the next generation. Her penchant for adventure has, I suspect,
embellished her portrait of the hapless house-breaker.”

“A common-looking tramp!” returned Winston, disdainfully. “As villanous
a dog in physiognomy and dress as I ever saw! Such an one as generally
draws his last breath where he drew the first--in a ditch or jail;
and too seldom, for the peace and safety of society, finds his noblest
earthly elevation upon a gallows. It is a nuisance, though, having him
pay this trifling debt of Nature--nobody but Nature would trust him--in
my house. There must be an inquest and a commotion. The whole thing is
an insufferable bore. Ritchie has given him up, and gone to bed, leaving
old Phillis on the watch, with unlimited rations of whiskey, and a pile
of fire-wood higher than herself. But I did not mean that you should
hear anything about this dirty business. It is not fit for my darling’s
ears. Mabel showed even less than her usual discretion in detailing the
incidents of her adventure to you.”

Flattery of his sister had never been a failing with him, but, since his
marriage, the occasions were manifold in which her inferiority to his
wife was so glaring as to elicit a verbal expression of disapproval. It
was remarkable that Clara’s advocacy of Mabel’s cause, at these times,
so frequently failed to alter his purpose of censure or to mitigate it,
since, in all other respects, her influence over him was more firmly
established each day and hour.

Old Phillis, Mabel’s nurse and the doctress of the plantation--albeit
a less zealous devotee than her master had intimated of the potent
beverages left within her reach, ostensibly for the use of her patient
should he revive sufficiently to swallow a few drops--was yet too drowsy
from the fatigues of the day, sundry cups of Christmas egg-nogg, and the
obesity of age, to maintain alert vigil over one she, in common with her
fellow-servitors, scorned as an aggravated specimen of the always and
ever-to-be despicable genus, “poor white folks.” There was next to
nothing for her to do when the fire had been replenished, the bottles
of hot water renewed at the feet and heart, and fresh mustard draughts
wound about the almost pulseless limbs of the dying stranger. She did
contrive to keep Somnus at arm’s length for a while longer, by a minute
examination of his upper clothing, which, by Dr. Ritchie’s directions,
had been removed, that the remedies might be more conveniently applied,
and the heated blankets the sooner infuse a vital glow through the
storm-beaten frame. The ancient crone took them up with the tips of
her fingers--ragged coat, vest, and pantaloons--rummaged in the same
contemptuous fashion every pocket, and kicked over the worn, soaked
boots with the toe of her leather brogan, sniffing her disappointment at
the worthlessness of the habiliments and the result of her search.

“Fit fur nothin’ but to bury his poor carcuss in!” she grunted, and
had recourse to her own plethoric pocket for a clay pipe and a bag of
tobacco.

This lighted by a coal from the hearth, she tied a second handkerchief
over that she wore, turban-wise, on her head, mumbling something about
“cold ears” and “rheumatiz;” settled herself in a rush-bottomed chair,
put her feet upon the rounds of another, and was regularly on duty,
prepared for any emergency, and to be alarmed at nothing that might
occur.

So strict was the discipline she established over herself in fifteen
minutes, that she did not stir at the creaking of the bolt, or the
shriller warning of the unoiled hinges, as the door moved cautiously
back, and a cloaked form became dimly visible in the opening. A survey
of the inside of the chamber, the unmoving nurse and her senseless
charge, with the fumes of brandy and tobacco, reassured the visitant.
Her stockingless feet were thrust into wadded slippers; over her white
night-dress was a dark-blue wrapper, and, in addition to this protection
against the cold, she was enveloped in a great shawl, disposed like a
cowl about her head. Without rustle or incautious mis-step she gained
the side of the improvised bed, and leaned over it. The face of the
occupant was turned slightly toward the left shoulder, and away from
the light. The apparition raised herself, with a gesture of impatience,
caught the candle from the rickety table at the head of the mattress,
snuffed it hurriedly, and again stooped toward the recumbent figure,
with it in her hand.

It was then that the vigilant watcher unclosed her flabby lids, slowly,
and without start or exclamation, much as a dozing cat blinks when a
redder sparkle from the fire dazzles her out of dreams. One hard wink,
one bewildered stare, and Phillis was awake and wary. Her chin sank yet
lower upon her chest, but the black eyes were rolled upward until they
bore directly upon the strange tableau. The shawl had dropped from the
lady’s head, and the candle shone broadly upon her features, as upon the
sick man’s profile. Apparently dissatisfied with this view, she slipped
her disengaged hand under the cheek which was downward, and drew his
face around into full sight.

“And bless your soul, honey!” Aunt Phillis told her young mistress, long
afterward, “you never see sech a look as was on hern--while her eyes
was thar bright and big, they was jist like live coals sot in a lump of
dough--she growed so white!”

Nevertheless the spy could return the candle to its place upon the
table without perceptible tremor of lip or limb, and after bestowing one
scrutinizing glance upon the nurse, who was fast asleep beneath it, she
went to the heap of damp clothing. These she lifted--one by one--less
gingerly than Phillis had done, and ransacked every likely hiding-place
of papers or valuables, going through the operation with a rapid
dexterity that astounded the old woman’s weak mind, and made her ashamed
of her own clumsiness. Anticipating the final stealthy look in her
direction, the heavy lids fell once again, and were not raised until the
rusty bolt passed gratingly into the socket, and she felt that the place
was deserted by all save herself and the dying stroller.

She was in no danger of dozing upon her post after this visitation. For
the few hours of darkness that yet remained, she sat in her chair,
her elbows upon her knees, smoking, and pondering upon what she had
witnessed, varying her occupations by feeding the fire and such care
of the patient as she considered advisable; likening, in her rude,
yet excitable imagination, the rumbling of the gale in the chimney and
across the roof-tree, to the roll of the chariot-wheels which were to
carry away the parting soul; the tap and rattle of sleet and wind at the
windows to the summons of demons, impatient at Death’s delay.

“The Lord send him an easy death, and let him go up, instead of down!”
 she groaned aloud, once.

But the dubious shake of the head accompanying the benevolent petition
betokened her disbelief in the possibility of a favorable reply. In
her articles of faith it was only by a miracle that a “no-account white
man,” picked up out of the highway, and whose pockets were barren as
were those she had examined, could get an impetus in that direction.

The stormy dawn was revealing, with dreary distinctness, the shabby
disorder of the lumber-room, when Dr. Ritchie appeared in his
dressing-gown, rubbing his eyes, and yawning audibly.

“Gone--hey?” was his comment upon the negress’ movements.

She had bound a strip of linen about the lank jaws; combed back the
grizzled hair from the forehead into sleek respectability; crossed the
hands at the wrists, as only dead hands are ever laid; straightened the
limbs, and was in the act of spreading a clean sheet over her finished
work.

“Nigh upon an hour since, sir,” she responded, respectfully.

“He did not revive at all after I left him?”

“Not a breath or a motion, sir. He went off at the last jist as easy as
a lamb. Never tried to say nothin’, nor opened his eyes after you went
down. ‘Twould a’ been a pity ef you had a’ lost more sleep a-settin’ up
with him. Ah, well, poor soul! ‘taint for us to say whar he is now. I
would hope he is in glory, ef I could. I ‘spose the Almighty knows, and
that’s enough.”

The doctor arrested her hand when she would have covered the face.

“He must have been a fine-looking fellow in his day!” he said, more to
himself than to her. “But he has lived fast, burned himself up alive
with liquor.”

“I didn’t call nobody, sir, to help me, ‘cause nobody couldn’t do no
good, and I was afeared of wakin’ the gentlemen and ladies, a trottin’
up and downstairs,” continued Phillis, bent upon exculpating herself
from all blame in the affair, and mistaking his momentary pensiveness
for displeasure.

“You were quite right, old lady! All the doctors and medicines in the
world could not have pulled him through after the drink and the snow had
had their way with him for so many hours--poor devil! Well! I’ll go back
to bed now, and finish my morning nap.”

He was at the threshold when he bethought himself of a final injunction.
