"What should you do, Kathie Alston, if you had been intimate with her?"
It was Sue Coleman who spoke, and there was a husky strand in her voice.

"I should keep on just the same. It will be very painful for her to bear
anyhow. Suppose it was one of us!"

"You don't know what hateful things she said about your uncle ever so
long ago," pursued Lottie.

"But if they were false, her merely saying them could not make them
true, you know."

It was a bit of philosophy quite new to the girls, though each one might
have thought of it long before, and was one of the things that had been
a great comfort to Kathie many a time.

"But this is true."

"It will be bitter enough to bear, then, without our adding to the
burden"; and a tremulous color flitted over Kathie's fair face, not so
much at what she had been saying as the fact that these girls were
grouped around listening for her verdict.

"I don't believe she will come to-morrow," two or three voices decided.

They never knew how hard her coming was, how she had begged and
entreated her mother to let her stay at home, and finally threatened
not to go, when Mrs. Hadden had taken her in the carriage. There was
no pride in her soul as she stepped out of it, only a bitter, haughty
hatred.

"Don't act like a fool!" was her mother's parting advice. "The matter
will soon blow over."

For Mrs. Hadden felt that she should not be utterly crushed. The deed of
the house was in her name, and the furniture bills had been made out in
the same manner, consequently that much was secure. Mr. Hadden had
probably not done more than hundreds of others, and she felt confident
that he would get out of it somehow. They had plenty of money, and could
start afresh in a new place, but the people here should see that she was
able to hold her head as high as the best of them.

There was a little bouquet on Belle's desk. No one knew who put it
there. They would have suspected Kathie Alston, of course, if they had
not seen her come in empty-handed, but no one guessed it was her second
coming that morning.

The Brookside Standard copied the report, stating also that Mr. Hadden
had asked a suspension of public opinion for the present.

"Do you suppose it is really true?" inquired Kathie of Uncle Robert.

"I believe Mr. Hadden's reputation does not stand very high, at the
best. I can forgive a man who is tempted to retrieve himself by some
desperate step, when on the brink of ruin; but the men who wronged our
poor brave boys with clothing that was but half made, and food of the
poorest kind, enriching themselves while the country was at her sorest
need, do deserve punishment. Still, it would be hardly kind to begin by
meting it out to his children."

"How terrible it must be, Uncle Robert, to know that some one you held
dear was guilty of such a crime!"

"Yes, I think it would be worse than taking up poor and uncultivated
people"; and a peculiar smile crossed his face. "You will have an
opportunity to show your blue blood, Kathie. I believe I never knew a
Conover who struck a fallen foe."

"Yes," she answered, wondering if it would be foolish to tell him about
the flowers; but just then Freddy ran in, full of tribulation as usual.

Mr. Meredith improved rapidly. Kathie had to take him in her way some
time during the day, or there was a most heart-rending complaint.

"It is so delightful to have them all love him so well!" she said to
Aunt Ruth. "Charlie has a hero of his own now."

They received a long and characteristic letter from Rob, who wished he
was a bombshell and could be dropped down into Brookside. The war was
actually ended, and "Johnny was marching home," and everything had
happened about right. "Only I am awful sorry about Mr. Morrison. I can't
seem to believe but that he will come to light somewhere yet. It gave me
such a strange feeling,--thinking, for a moment, if it had been Uncle
Robert. We will try all our lives to make it up to Ethel. I will never
tease her again, at any rate." Which was all the resolve in Rob's power
at present.




CHAPTER XIII.

GOOD NEWS.


IT seemed to Kathie in these days as if she had her hands very full. The
weeks were hardly long enough. Yet what could be left out? The daily
call at the Darrells', or the Morrisons', for now Ethel looked to see
her every day, and used to confide to her the sums that bothered, the
thoughts that puzzled, and the many things which come to trouble little
girls; and if sometimes Kathie considered them tiresome or foolish, she
remembered how patient dear Aunt Ruth used to be with her in the old
times,--and now she had Uncle Robert saved to her by Ethel's loss.

No, neither of those could be given up, nor the school-lessons, nor the
music, nor even Sarah, who was improving.

The blue ribbon had delighted her exceedingly. Kathie said, very gently
indeed,--that is, prefacing and ending it with something pleasant,--"I
think it will be much prettier for your hair than any other color." That
started Sarah upon a new tack.

"I wish you would tell me something about colors," she begged in her
next letter. "I always remember how lovely you looked that night at the
Fair, and some of the ladies too. I can't be pretty, I know, but I'd
like to look nice, so that people wouldn't laugh at me. Now that I have
begun, there are so many things that I want to know. Cousin Ellen helps
me a good deal, and she is such a rest to mother. She has the
pleasantest way of managing the children, and does such a deal of
sewing. Father said I might raise all the chickens I wanted to this
summer, and I think I'll buy a nice rocking-chair for the parlor. O, I
have crocheted two beautiful tidies, and one of them is about as good as
sold for two dollars and a half. If it isn't too much trouble, I would
like to send the money to you, and let you buy me some books. You know
what is pretty and interesting. And if you would only tell me what would
be nice for summer dresses and a hat."

The ice being once broken, discussions upon dress followed quite
frequently. When Kathie was in any doubt she referred the subject to
Aunt Ruth. It was plain that Sarah was emerging from her crude and
barbaric state, yet she showed no disposition thus far to drift over
into the frothy waves of vanity. With her other knowledge seemed to come
shrewd, practical self-knowledge.

Jim too had been made the happy recipient of some useful books. He
seemed to have a great taste for wood-working,--"conjuring," his father
said,--and talked a little of going to the city to learn a trade, but
Mr. Strong had no fancy for giving him up now, when he was such a help.

"The farm is plenty large enough for two," Mr. Strong said, "and there's
no life so independent."

But Mr. Conover felt that it ought to be rendered interesting as well.
So he asked Jim to come down to Cedarwood and take a look around, which
delighted the youth greatly, and gave him some new ideas.

The rumors concerning Belle Hadden's father proved too true. It was an
aggravated case, and each day brought new circumstances to light. It was
useless to think of holding their position in Brookside. Acquaintances
began to make ceremonious calls, or bow coldly. A few of the girls in
school openly rejoiced.

"Thank the Lord my father never stole nor cheated," said Mary Carson.
"I'd rather be a plebeian than a thief."

The mortification was too much. Belle begged and prayed that she might
be allowed to leave Brookside, and finally a visit to an aunt was
determined upon. She was a queen to the last moment, though, and said
her good-bys to the few with a haughty grace.

"Thus endeth the reign of the patricians," commented Emma Lauriston.

There was a grave, perplexed light in Sue Coleman's eyes.

"Belle was real fascinating," she said; "but I wonder that we--that some
of us hadn't more sense last winter. We all went to persecuting and
ruling out Kathie Alston, who bore it all like a saint. Belle had
courage and pride, but there was something nobler in Kathie." Yet Sue
knit her brows in silent perplexity.

"But there is another view of it that puzzles me, after all," she said,
breaking her long silence. "Where do people make a distinction? Now
suppose Kathie Alston invited this protégée of hers to her house, and
you or I should drop in--it would look ill-bred to take Kathie away from
her guest, and yet it is not likely her talk would interest us much.
Then as Kathie grows larger--well, it is all of a muddle in my brain. I
dare say these Strongs are good, honest, respectable people, and--there
is no use in smoothing it over--Mr. Hadden was dreadfully dishonest. All
their grandeur and fine clothes belong by right to some one else. And
yet they are allowed to go into the best society. Is it quite right?"

"Not the very best, perhaps," returned Emma, slowly. "A good many
people do insist upon worth, virtue, honesty, and all that."

"And then, as Kathie said, Belle was not to blame for her father's
sins."

"It seems to me now that Belle's mistake was in trying to decide who
should be greatest, and pushing down all who did not exactly suit her.
She had no right to be the judge."

"Who of us has? And here is another question. You remember Mrs. Duncan?
She went to the city about a fortnight ago, and had a business offer.
First, I must tell you that she was very elegantly brought up, but her
father died, and somehow the fortune melted into thin air. She went to
visit an aunt, and met Mr. Duncan, who was cashier in a bank. They have
always lived very nicely,--stylishly, Belle would say,--but now they
have nothing, and Mrs. Duncan has no friends who can take care of
her. She has forgotten a good deal of her French and her other
accomplishments, and teachers' situations are hard to get. Well, a Mrs.
Marsh in the city has offered Mrs. Duncan eight hundred dollars a year
to take a position in her millinery establishment. She has a marvellous
faculty for trimming,--equal to any French woman. And why wouldn't she
be just as good and just as much of a lady if she did take it? Will it
make her coarse and vulgar?"

"No," answered Emma, decisively.

"Yet I dare say the Hadden children would not be allowed to associate
with the Duncan girls. I cannot seem to get at the wrong, nor where it
comes in."

"I believe, after all, Kathie Alston has the secret,--the little leaven
which leavens the whole lump."

"Only some of us object to being leavened"; and Sue finished with a
laugh.

But though Kathie had not heard the talk, there was a secret uneasiness
in her soul as well. Sarah Strong was begging her to come up to
Middleville again, and Uncle Robert believed the relaxation would do her
good.

"Mamma," she said, thoughtfully, "there are one or two puzzles that I
cannot make quite clear to my own mind."

"What is the matter now? Any new gift for Sarah?"

"Not a gift exactly, but--a great pleasure. When I was with them in the
wagon that day, and they were both so cordial and warm-hearted, it
appeared rude, or at least impolite, not to ask them to call here. Mrs.
Strong said, 'Sarah wouldn't look well among your grand people'; but
there was such a sad, wistful look in Sarah's eyes, as if somehow she
felt that she was shut out."

"And you would like to have her come?" returned Mrs. Alston, with a
smile.

"I was thinking how happy it would make her, mamma. I don't believe she
ever saw so many pretty things together in her life,--and she is so fond
of them."

"And what puzzles you?"

"Whether it would be quite--I don't mean that I am too proud," catching
herself with a quick breath, while a scarlet flush quivered from brow to
chin.

"Whether it would be proper,--is that what you mean?" asked her mother.

"Yes"; and Kathie began to twist the fringe of the nearest tidy.

"Miss Jessie asked you to her house, you know. We lived very plainly
then, and you had to wear a cheap delaine for best dress all winter."

"Then you think I may?" she exclaimed, joyously, while her soft eyes
brightened.

"It all depends upon the manner of the asking. I think she might come
some Saturday when you were alone and have a very pleasant visit. It is
not likely she would enjoy meeting several of the girls here."

"O mamma, I should ask no one!"

"Not because we should be so ashamed of Sarah, but on account of her
feelings. It is best for little girls to exercise tact, as well as
grown-up people; and sometimes it proves awkward work trying to make
different kinds or sets harmonize. By observing a few simple rules, and
studying the comfort of both parties, you may be able to give all
greater happiness."

"Then, when I go up, I shall invite Sarah in so cordial a manner that
her mother will see that I mean every word."

"Yes; for the unkindest invitation of all is to ask people purely out of
compliment."

The smooth brow was slightly shadowed again. "Mamma," she said, in a low
tone, "can people--grown-up ladies, I mean--get along without saying or
doing things that they really do not mean to have taken in earnest?"

"They had better not say them. A Christian woman will be truthful first
of all; but it is not necessary to make candor a cloak for the
indulgence of unkind or heartless remarks. Religion, it seems to me,
holds the essence of true politeness,--to do unto others as you would
have them do unto you."

The next day Kathie was quite late in getting home, having stopped at
the Darrells'. Uncle Robert and mamma were up in Aunt Ruth's room.

"What will you give me for a letter with a grand seal as if it came from
the very Commander-in-Chief or the President? Look! To 'Miss Kathie
Alston.' What correspondent have you in Washington, we would all like to
know?"

Uncle Robert held the letter above her head. A bold, peculiar
handwriting that she had never seen before. Whose could it be?

"I am sure I don't know," coloring with interest and excitement. "I have
a gold piece in my purse."

"I will not be quite so mercenary as that. You shall tell us whom it is
from."

Kathie took the letter and broke it open so as not to destroy the seal,
saw the beginning,--"My dear little friend,"--ran her eye over the two
pages without taking in anything, and looked at the signature.

"O," with a cry of surprise, "it is from General Mackenzie! Why,"--and
then she began to read in good earnest,--"Mr. Morrison is alive, safe!
General Mackenzie found him. O Uncle Robert!"

She could not finish the rest, but buried her head on Uncle Robert's
shoulder to have a good little cry out of pure joy and thankfulness.

"Shall I read it aloud?"

She placed the letter in his hand.

      "MY DEAR LITTLE FRIEND,--I dare say you will be
      surprised at receiving a letter from a busy old
      soldier like me, but I met with an incident a few days
      ago with which you are so intimately connected that I
      cannot resist the good excuse. Of course all the
      glorious news and rejoicing has reached you, but we
      here on the spot are hearing new things daily, some
      joyful, but many sad. We went up the James River one
      morning to a small settlement originally negro
      quarters, where we heard a number of wounded prisoners
      had been taken. We found thirty poor fellows in all,
      who had suffered terribly from neglect, for though the
      negroes were well-meaning and very warm-hearted, they
      were miserably poor and ignorant. Half a dozen of the
      soldiers had been very ill from fevers, and upon
      questioning them I found one was--whom do you
      think?--your uncle's substitute, a William Morrison.
      That took me back to last winter at once, and to my
      little friend, so do not wonder if we had a good long
      talk about you and the beautiful Cedarwood of which I
      have heard so much. I believe it did the poor fellow a
      world of good. He was wounded and taken prisoner, and
      brought up here by the negroes, as far as I can learn.
      In those few days of our final successes the small
      events were overlooked in the glory of the grander
      ones. His wound was not very severe, but fever set in,
      and for three weeks he was delirious. About ten days
      ago he wrote home, but he was not sure that his
      messenger was reliable. He was much better, and we
      despatched those who could travel to head-quarters at
      once. I fancy that he will be mustered out as soon as
      possible. If his friends should not have heard, will
      you please inform them? He holds you all in such warm
      and grateful remembrance that it was delightful to
      talk to him. I rejoice with you that he is safe, and I
      do not question but that he has done a soldier's whole
      duty, I thought I discerned in him the spirit of
      another little soldier, who I dare say finds some
      battles to fight. Give my regards to your family, and
      do not feel surprised when I tell you that you may
      expect me at Cedarwood some day before long.

                         "Truly yours,
                              "W. MACKENZIE, U. S. A."

"It hardly seems possible!" Kathie said, with a sob. "But they have not
heard, and they will be so glad!"

Uncle Robert began to pace the room, much moved. Of late death had
appeared such a certainty, and though he knew the life had been freely
given for his, his first emotions were those of devout gratitude to God
that this sacrifice had not been required. Then he paused before
Kathie. "My little darling," he said, "it is your good news. And
though the Morrisons may hear it in a day or two from other sources, we
owe it to them immediately. Will you go?"

Kathie wanted to very much, but O, how was she ever to get through with
it! Her voice seemed to be all a quiver of tears.

"Would you like me to accompany you?

"If you will."

So Kathie bathed her face and tried to rub the little throbs out of her
temples. In a few moments she was ready, and the two walked down the
avenue.

"There cannot be any mistake?" she exclaimed, pausing at the door.

"O no."

Grandmother was holding the baby, who had a slight cold and fever. Ethel
sat at the window, hemming some breadths of ruffling. She sprang up and
brought out chairs for them, and after one or two little inquiries went
back to her work. Oddly enough the conversation ceased for a few
moments, and in the silence Kathie fancied that she heard her heart
beat, it was in such a tumult.

"I believe Kathie has some news for you," announced Mr. Conover,
gravely.

Kathie rose and twined her arms around Ethel's neck.

"It is this," she said, all in a tremble,--"I cannot tell it as I ought,
but your dear father is alive, Ethel, and is coming home soon."

"Not William! Miss Kathie!" and grandmother almost let the baby fall.

"Yes," replied Mr. Conover; "we heard to-day. I have brought the
letter."

"The Lord be praised!" Then grandmother came over to Kathie, but she and
Ethel were crying softly in each other's arms.

"Child, are you one of God's own--Heaven-sent? for you bring us joy
continually."

"But it was sent to me," Kathie said, over a great break and falter. "If
I could have made it so in the beginning,--but I couldn't, and God kept
him safely. We all waited and prayed."

"And I despaired! I am worse than doubting Thomas! Ah, how good God is
to us all!"

Mrs. Morrison entered with a pail of milk "O," she exclaimed, "you have
had news! Have they found his body?"

"His body and soul. He will be back shortly. The tidings came through a
friend of Kathie."

"Dear Ethel, little one, it is blessed news! You would never have wanted
for love and kindness while Hugh and I were alive; but there's no love
quite like a parent's. How Hugh will rejoice! He never could give him up
altogether."

"Mr. Conover has a letter to read," said grandmother.

Little did General Mackenzie imagine that his words would bring so great
a joy. They all listened breathlessly, and then wanted it read over
again to lengthen out the good news. And when at dusk Uncle Robert
declared they must go, they all begged for Kathie to stay and drink tea,
and would take no refusal.

"But I must return," said Uncle Robert, "or the table will be kept for
us both."

Mrs. Morrison made some biscuits, and brought out her china, as well as
a damask table-cloth. Hugh, coming in, wondered at the feast; but
Ethel's first word told him all. She, poor child, was brimful of joy. It
did one good to look at the roses on her cheeks, and hear the little
laughs that came for joy, and yet were so near to tears.

When Kathie reached home she was absolutely tired with all the
excitement, and mamma said there must be no lessons that night; so they
took the lounge in the shaded half-light of the library, and Kathie laid
her head in Uncle Robert's lap, for it almost ached. And there they had
a tender talk.

"But we shall never forget it," she said. "It seems as if it would help
me to remember all the pains and sorrows and burdens that we can try to
bear for one another."

"It is what God means us to learn and to do. 'For no man liveth unto
himself, and no man dieth unto himself.'"

"And we are all so oddly linked in with one another,--such a little
thing brought the Morrisons here, and then my meeting General Mackenzie
gave him an interest. The news would have come in a day or two, I
suppose; but, Uncle Robert, it seemed so good, since he risked his life
in your place, that we should be the first to take the joyful tidings to
them. I haven't anything in the world to ask."

"Yes, my darling, I am so glad that General Mackenzie did find him; and
more than glad that our brave soldiers can return to their own pleasant
firesides."

"Neither of our soldiers was very grand in the world's estimation,
that is, as to position, but they have both suffered a good deal for the
cause. It is so sweet to think that, though the world knows nothing
about it, God remembers."

"And that no act of self-denial or heroism goes without its reward
there. It is hard sometimes to see it passed so unnoticed in this world,
but I suppose that is where patience needs to have her perfect work."

Kathie wrote a little note to Rob the next morning, beside getting her
lessons; and before the day ended they had a letter from Mr. Morrison
himself, announcing that he was to be sent home on a furlough.

"I shall have a dangerous rival," exclaimed Mr. Meredith, in his teasing
tone, "and when General Mackenzie comes I expect to be quite
overshadowed. No stars nor bars nor shoulder-straps,--nothing but a poor
unknown private! What good could he do?"

"He followed his captain and did his duty."

"Good!" exclaimed Charlie, who was standing beside his brother-in-law.
"You will never find Kathie being caught by the glitter and show."

The old smile twinkled in Mr. Meredith's eyes.

"Well, I will promise not to be very jealous. Only you know you sent
me off to war, so you ought to allow me some special indulgence."

"I!" exclaimed Kathie, coloring violently.

"Yes, you cannot disown me; I am one of your soldiers. Dear little
Kathie, I hope always to be true to my colors."

The last was uttered in a low tone, but it brought a more vivid flush
than the preceding sentence. Though now her eyes were downcast, yet in
her heart of hearts she understood.

"It seems as if Rob ought to come home in the general returning. How
glad I shall be to see the dear old fellow!"

Was Rob fighting the good fight?




CHAPTER XIV.

PUT TO THE TEST.


THE days were so long and pleasant now that Uncle Robert thought they
would not start for Middleville until after dinner, especially as there
would be a bright moon in the evening. Kathie had written a little note
to Sarah, and now the two started in high satisfaction. For since the
good news about Mr. Morrison Kathie seemed full of happiness and
content.

The place looked less dreary than in winter, though the houses appeared
rather more shabby by contrast. One or two were being painted, which
would shame the rest sadly. But the hillsides were taking on an emerald
tint, and groups of cows were wandering about as if patiently waiting
for the grass to grow into nibbling length.

Sarah was standing by the gate, watching for them. A very decided change
had come over her. She was taller and looked less stout, her
complexion was not so rough and red, her dress, a striped green and
white gingham, fitted nicely, and was finished at the throat by a linen
collar. She had eschewed waterfalls and rolls, though she laughingly
admitted to Kathie afterwards that it was because she couldn't get her
hair up to look like anything. But the great thick coil was really
beautiful, and the green ribbon very becoming.

She had changed somewhat in manners as well, being less boisterous and
effusive. Indeed, Kathie thought her very lady-like as she ushered them
into the house.

"Is your brother anywhere about?" asked Uncle Robert. "If so, I will go
and find him while you girls have a talk."

"He is up in the lot. Steve will show you, or, better yet, call him."

Then she led Kathie into the parlor. There were green paper shades at
the windows, which softened the light in the room, and Kathie's first
glance took in a world of improvements.

Sarah colored with a little conscious pride as she led her to a
veritable modern sofa, instead of the old stiff one, worn at the edges.

"Take off your hat and sack," she said, with a touch of bashfulness.

Kathie complied.

"I am so glad to see you. I have such a host of things to tell you."

"And you have been out gathering violets. How pretty and spring-like
they are!"

"Yes, Jim helped me. We thought you would like them so much. And I have
been trying to--to get fixed up a little. It cannot be anything like
your house, but somehow I want it as nice as I can make it. Jim is so
good too, and Cousin Nelly; and I am so happy sometimes that I really
wonder if I be I, like the old woman."

"I am very glad"; and Kathie gave the hand a squeeze in her own tender
little fashion.

"I want to tell you all before any one comes in. Isn't it delightful to
have this sofa? I made father half a dozen shirts all by myself, and he
was so pleased,--you can hardly think! He gave me twelve dollars to
spend just as I pleased; but I told mother I would rather let it go
towards a new sofa than to buy the finest dress. Nelly said it would be
so much more comfortable than that hard, shabby thing, that looked as
if it might have come out of Noah's Ark. So mother gave me fifteen,--she
has all the money for the milk and butter and eggs,--and when father
heard of it he added three more. I was afraid he would think I wanted to
be too fine, but he only laughed a little. Mother and Nelly went to the
city and bought it. I was so glad that I could have cried for joy, and I
know father is very proud of it, though he does not say it in so many
words."

"It is a very nice one, and furnishes the room quite prettily, beside
the comfort of it."

"Jim made me this table, and Cousin Nelly and I covered it with paper
and then varnished it over, and we have a pretty chintz one up stairs.
Nelly and I have a room together now. I can keep everything so much more
tidy than when the children pulled all the rubbish about. And look at my
two new pictures!"

They were large colored engravings,--one, "The Wood-Gatherers," and the
other the interior of a German peasant's cottage, where the mother was
putting a babe to sleep in its odd wicker cradle.

"Jim bought them at a newspaper-stand one day, and only paid twelve
cents apiece for them. He's powerful--no, I mean very fond of them. I am
trying to leave off all those old-fashioned words and expressions. Then
he made the frames, and Nelly and I covered them with pine-cones."

They certainly were very creditable.

"But how industrious you must be!" exclaimed Kathie. "You still go to
school?"

"Yes. I wouldn't give that up for half the world. You see Cousin Nelly
helps mother a good deal, and she helps me too. I have been telling her
ever so much about you, how good and lovely you were. But O, wasn't I a
clown and an ignoramus when you first saw me! I don't wonder that girl
laughed, though it was hateful in her; but I shall never, never forget
how kind you were. O Miss Kathie, it seems to me if the real nice people
in the world would only help the others a bit, we should get along so
much faster. I feel as if I'd had it in me all the time,--a great hungry
longing for something,--and I find now that it is beauty and order and
knowledge."

Sarah's face was in a glow, and her steady, ardent eyes held in them a
soft and tender light. It seemed to Kathie that she was really pretty,
or something more than that,--electrified with soul beauty.

"Father pretends that he is afraid I shall get too proud and not be good
for anything, though he was ever so much pleased when he saw the parlor
in such nice order. And he thought the shirts a wonder. I shall not be
sixteen until November, and there are girls older than I who could not
do it. In vacation I am going to make Jim a whole new set of nice ones
with linen bosoms."

It seemed to Kathie that there was very little danger of Sarah's being
spoiled by acquiring knowledge.

"You deserve the utmost credit," she returned, in her simple manner,
that had in it no shade of patronage or condescension.

"I ought to do something for the pains and trouble you have taken."

"It is a pleasure too."

"Miss Kathie, you are so different from some rich people. I wonder what
makes it?"

A soft color stole up into her face. She would fain have kept silence,
but she saw that Sarah was waiting for an answer. "I think it is because
mamma and Uncle Robert believe that wealth was not given for purely
personal or selfish purposes. It is God's treasure, and we are to put it
out at usury, like the parable of the talents, and the usury means
making other people happy if we can."

"Then I suppose I ought to try and make some one happy?"

"Do you not?" asked Kathie, simply.

"Yes, I do occasionally when it is quite a trouble. The children beg me
to read to them,--they are so fond of stories; and now father always
wants me to read our paper to him. It comes on Saturday and he is always
so tired that night. Still, that isn't--" and Sarah paused as if she
despaired of rendering her meaning clear to her young listener.

"I think Uncle Robert would say that is it surely. Once in a while we
can do larger things; but isn't it the little deeds that require the
most patience? It is the steps that make up the whole path."

"So it is. I never thought of it before"; and she smiled, relieved. "You
believe, Miss Kathie, that what we do at home is just as good in God's
eyes as if we did it for a stranger? It almost seemed to me as if I
ought to go out and look for some poor ignorant person instead."

"Both are doing good in different ways. Maybe it is best to learn to do
the good at home first"; and Kathie remembered her early efforts in
assisting her mother.

"I want father to see that all my knowledge and my queer likes, as he
calls them, will not really spoil me. Grandmother Strong has just such
old-fashioned notions. She thinks my going to school perfectly absurd.
But Cousin Ellen says the world has changed a good deal since
grandmother was young."

"And I have brought your books," said Kathie, when there was a pause of
sufficient length. "The three are half of a pretty set; some time you
may like to get the others."

"You are so kind. I hated to bother you, but I knew you could make the
best choice."

"It was no trouble at all,--Uncle Robert did it, and he bought them for
half a dollar less than their usual price."

"I am so much obliged!" and Sarah's face was in a grateful glow.

Kathie had wanted very much to supply the other three.

"If Sarah were poor," replied Uncle Robert, "I should not object; but
when such a person asks you to do a favor, it is best to keep simply to
the letter of the request. If you gave her so much more, she would
hesitate about asking you to do such a thing a second time, that is, if
she possessed any real delicacy."

Kathie saw the force of the reasoning.

Presently Cousin Ellen came down. She was a neat, commonplace-looking
woman of about thirty, but with a good deal of shrewd sense in her dark
gray eyes. Her black calico dress was the perfection of tidiness, and
the merest little ruff of book-muslin edged it round the neck.

Kathie liked her very much. She had been in the midst of the war
operations for the last three years, and to please Sarah she related
numberless incidents that interested Kathie exceedingly. Then she had to
go up stairs and see their room, take a tour around, and have all the
flower-beds explained to her, to go to the barn and inspect several new
articles Jim was making. Uncle Robert and the boys joined them here, and
Kathie was introduced to Mr. Strong.

"Don't you have a little too much in-doors and study?" he asked,
pleasantly. "I shouldn't like to see one of my gals look as white as you
do."

"O, she is always white, father," said Sarah, admiringly.

"And she has plenty of roses too, for the most part," explained Uncle
Robert, "only for the last few weeks she has been rather overtaxed, I
think. We have had a returned soldier, a very dear friend, ill, and been
in great anxiety about another."

"Thank the Lord for all who've come home safe," said Mr. Strong, in his
clear, forcible tone, and every one of them felt like adding an "Amen"
to it.

Martha ran out to call them to tea.

There was the great table spread, and all the children around it, even
to fatherless Willie, who would never need a friend while Jotham Strong
lived.

It was a very enjoyable supper. The new influence was perceptible even
in sturdy Mrs. Strong, who took a little pains that she might not shame
Sarah before her company.

Kathie asked Mrs. Strong to let Sarah come down some Saturday and make
her a visit.

"I can't exactly explain, Miss Kathie, and I hate to be ungrateful for
your kindness, but I feel as if you and your friends were above Sarah.
Folks ain't all alike, and I s'pose the Lord didn't mean 'em to be, but
I don't want Sarah laughed at, and I don't want any one to think she's
trying to crowd in We're plain, old-fashioned people"--

Mrs. Strong paused, very red in the face.

"No one will think that at Cedarwood," answered Kathie, softly.

So presently the promise was given. In a fortnight Cousin Ellen and
Sarah were to go down to Brookside to do some shopping. Ellen wanted to
call on several of the relatives, but Sarah might go at once to
Cedarwood.

"I expect it will be like a little bit of heaven," the girl whispered.
"I never was in a real elegant house in all my life."

Kathie described her visit to Aunt Ruth in glowing terms. "I think it
is delightful to be rich, after all," she said, contentedly. "You can
make so many people happy."

"And while you study the happiness of others and your duty towards them
the riches will hardly prove a snare," returned Aunt Ruth.

Before another week had ended they had a new joy for which to be very
thankful,--the return of Mr. Morrison. He still looked a little pale and
thin, but had improved wonderfully since the day when General Mackenzie
found him in the forlorn negro quarters. Glad enough he was to get home
to his little Ethel, who hardly let him go out of her sight. Nothing
would do but that the whole family must come down to the cottage and
drink tea.

"I must express my obligations once more to you," said Uncle Robert, in
the evening; "and I am most grateful to God for your return, and that he
did not require so costly a sacrifice at my hands."

"He knows that I am glad enough to come back; but if you'll believe me,
sir, it was a great comfort, when I thought myself dying, that it was in
your stead, and that your life, so much more valuable than mine, had
been spared. I believe you would have sorrowed for me truly,--and Miss
Kathie here,--as well as my own."

Kathie took his hand. "I've been thinking of this ever since the night
you offered to go: 'Greater love hath no man than this, that a man lay
down his life for his friends.'"

The sweet voice trembled a little. It would always have a tender strand
in it when it came to that verse.

"Ah, Miss Kathie, those precious words were for the Saviour of us all.
What can we ever do to merit them?" and the soldier drew the back of his
hand across his eyes.

"God gives the grace to weak human nature," Uncle Robert said, with
solemn sweetness.

Walking home, Kathie started from her revery. "Now if Rob could only
come back," she exclaimed, "our soldiers would all be together. You
remember the day he was so elated about the draft?"

"Yes. Dear Rob! I hope he has done good service. I am very anxious to
see him again."

Then Kathie began to count on the promised visit. "It is not because I
am so proud of Cedarwood, or the handsome things in it," she explained
to Uncle Robert, "though I do think them all very lovely; but it will be
such a pleasure to her,--just as my going to Miss Jessie's when we were
so poor."

"I understand"; and he smiled.

There had been quite a discussion about having a second girl. Uncle
Robert fancied that Kathie's further knowledge of household details had
better be postponed until she had less upon her hands. Jane Maybin, who
had been a good deal out of health lately, and unable to work in the
factory, as the dust irritated her lungs and made her cough, was quite
anxious to take the situation. What with company and increasing social
duties, Mrs. Alston found her time much interrupted.

Hannah did all the sweeping on Friday, but it was a heavy tax; so Kathie
only dusted awhile on Saturday morning, cut fresh flowers and arranged
them, and busied herself about little odds and ends. Mrs. Alston decided
to have Jane, and Aunt Ruth took a walk over to the cottage.

Kathie waited in a peculiar state of anxiety, Lucy and Annie Gardiner
had proposed to come over that very afternoon, but she preferred to have
Sarah quite alone, that she might feel free to enjoy everything.

It was almost twelve when she reached Cedarwood. Kathie was haunting the
cottage, where she could have a good look down the street, but she
hardly recognized the figure at first. It seemed as if Sarah grew every
week. She looked quite like a young lady, Kathie thought. Her light gray
dress was trimmed with several rows of blue ribbon, and the sack,
matching it, made a very neat suit. Her white straw hat was trimmed with
blue, and a cluster of crisp, fresh flowers, that looked almost good
enough to be natural. There was nothing in that outfit to be ashamed of.

"O," she exclaimed, with a long breath, "it's like going into the Garden
of Eden! The house and the trees, and that lovely lake! I should want to
be out of doors forever."

"Uncle Robert has promised to row us around the lake this afternoon. A
month later it will be much more beautiful. Did you finish your
shopping?"

"O yes, though we were bothered a good deal, and that made me later.
Nelly wanted me to go to dinner at Cousin Rachel's."

"I am glad that you did not."

Sarah could not be hurried into the house. She wanted to view the
fountain, the groups of evergreens, the broad porch, and fancy just how
the roses and honeysuckle would look. But presently they entered. Kathie
led her up stairs to her room, to lay aside her hat.

"O, I don't wonder Jim said it was a palace!" she exclaimed, with
breathless delight. "What a lovely room! Why, it's pretty enough for any
one's parlor!"

Kathie smiled a little, remembering the day on which she had thought it
wonderful as well.

Sarah was hardly satisfied with her inspection when the bell rang for
dinner. In the hall they met Aunt Ruth, and in the dining-room Kathie
introduced Sarah to her mother.

A girl with less natural adaptation or ambition might have been very
awkward. But Sarah had watched Kathie to some purpose, and now gave
herself courage with the thought that she could not go far astray if she
copied Kathie. To be sure she blushed and hesitated a little, and, as
she afterward confessed at home, "trembled all over"; but she did acquit
herself very creditably.

"I can scarcely realize that it is the same girl who wrote you the
Christmas letter," whispered Mrs. Alston in a soft aside, and Kathie
smiled gratefully at her mother's commendation.

Then the two girls began a regular tour about the house. The pictures,
the statues, the furniture, Aunt Ruth's beautiful bay-window still full
of vines and flowers, and the abundance of books, were so many marvels
to Sarah. And here, in the midst of all this beauty, hung her lichen.
The tears of delight came to her eyes, in spite of her strong effort at
repression.

"Now if you would only play and sing for me," she pleaded, bashfully.
"You're so good that I hate to ask anything."

