his theory, prevailed with the contributor to ask him 
to come in and sit down ; though I hope that some 
abstract impulse of humanity, some compassionate 
and miselfish care for the man's misfortunes as mis- 
fortunes, was not wholly wanting. Indeed, the help- 
less simphcity with which he had confided his case 
might have touched a harder heart. " Thank you," 
said the poor fellow, after a moment's hesita,tion. 
*'I believe I will come in. I've been on foot all 
day, and after such a long voyage it makes a man 
dreadfully sore to walk about so much. Perhaps 
you can think of a Mr. Hapford living somewhere in 
the neighborhood." 
He sat down, and, after a pondering' silence, in 
which he had remained with his head fallen upon 
his breast, " My name is Jonathan Tinker," he said, 
with the unaffected air which had already impressed 
 
the contributor, and as if he felt that some form of 
introduction was necessary, "and the girl that I 
want to find is Julia Tinker." Then he added, r=i- 
suming the eventM personal history which the 
listener exulted, while he regretted, to hear : " You 
see, I shipped first to Liverpool, and there I heard 
from my family ; and then I shipped again for Hong- 
Kong, and after that I never heard a word : I seemed 
to miss the letters everywhere. This morning, at 
four o'clock, I left my ship as soon as she had hauled 
into the dock, and hurried up home. The house 
was shut, and not a soul in it ; and I didn't know 
what to do, and I sat down on the doorstep to wait 
till the neighbors woke up, to ask them what had 
become of my family. And the first one come out 
he told me my wife had been dead a year and a half, 
and the baby I'd never seen, with her ; and one of 
my boys was dead ; and he didn't know where the 
rest of the children was, but he'd heard two of the 
little ones was with a family in the city." 
The man mentioned these' things with the half- 
apologetic air observable in a certain kind of Amer- 
icans when some accident obliges them to confess the 
infirmity of the natural feelings. They do not ask 
your sympathy, and you offer it quite at your own 
risk, with a chance of having' it thrown back upon 
your hands. The contributor assumed the risk so 
far as to say, " Pretty rough ! " when the stranger 
paused ; and perhaps these homely words were best 
suited to reach the homely heart. The man's quiv- 
ering lips closed hard agam, a kind of spasm passed 
 
over his dark face, and then two very small drops of 
brine shone upon his weather-worn cheeks. This 
demonstration, into which he had been surprised, 
seemed to stand for the passion of tears into which 
the emotional races fall at such times. He opened 
his lips with a kind of dry click, and went on : — 
" I hunted about the whole forenoon in the city, 
and at last I found the children. I'd been gone so 
long they didn't know me, and somehow I thought 
the people they were with weren't over-glad I'd 
turned up. Finally the oldest child told me that 
Julia was living with a Mr. Hapford on this street, 
and I started out here to-night to look her up. If I 
can find her, I'm all right. I can get the family to- 
gether, then, and start new." 
" It seems rather odd," mused the listener aloud, 
" that the neighbors let them break up so, and that 
they should all scatter as they did." 
" Well, it ain't so curious as it seems, Cap'n. 
There was money for them at the owners', all the 
time ; I'd left part of my wages when I sailed ; but 
they didn't know how to get at it, and what could 
a parcel of children do ? Julia 's a good girl, and 
when I find her I'm all right." 
The writer could only repeat that there was no 
Mr. Hapford living on that street, and never had 
been, so far as he knew. Yet there might be such a 
person in the neighborhood ; and they would go out 
together, and ask at some of the houses about. But 
the stranger must first take a glass of wine ; for he 
looked used up. 
 
The sailor awkwardly but civilly enough protested 
that he did not want to give so much trouble, but 
took the glass, and, as he put it to his lips, said for- 
mally, as if it were a toast or a kind of grace, " I 
hope I may have the opportunity of returning the 
compliment." The contributor thanked him ; though, 
as he thought of all the circumstances of the case, 
and considered the cost at which the stranger had 
come to enjoy his pohteness, he felt little eagerness 
to secure the return of the compliment at the same 
price, and added, with the consequence of another 
set phrase, " Not at ajl." But the thought had made 
him the more anxious to befriend the luckless soul 
fortune had cast in his way ; and so the two sallied 
out together, and rang door-bells wherever lights 
were still seen burning in the windows, and asked 
the astonished people who answered their summons 
whether any Mr. Hapford were known to hve in the 
neighborhood. 
And although the search for this gentleman proved 
vain, the contributor could not feel that an expedi- 
tion which set familiar objects in such novel lights 
was altogether a failure. He entered so intimately 
jito the cares and anxieties of his protSffS, thait at 
times he felt himself in some inexphcable sort a ship- 
mate of Jonathan Tinker, and almost personally a 
partner of his calamities. The estrangement of all 
things which takes place, within doors and vvdthout, 
about midnight may have helped to cast this doubt 
upon his identity ; — he seemed to be visiting now 
for the first time the streets and neighborhoods near- 
est his own, and his feet stumbled over the accus- 
tomed walks. In his quality of houseless wanderer, 
and — so  far as appeared to others — possibly 
worthless vagabond, he also got a new and instruc- 
tive effect upon the faces which, in his real character, 
he knew so well by their looks of neighborly greet- 
ing; and it is his belief that the first hospitable 
prompting of the human heart is to shut the door in 
the eyes of homeless strangers who present them- 
selves after eleven o'clock. By that time the ser- 
vants are all abed, and the gentleman of the house 
answers the bell, and looks out with a loath and be- 
wildered face, which gradually changes to one of 
suspicion, and of wonder as to what those fellows 
can possibly want of him, till at last the prevailing 
expression is one of contrite desire to atone for the 
first reluctance by any sort of service. The con- 
tributor professes to have observed these changing 
phases in the visages of those whom he that night 
called from their dreams, or arrested in the act of 
going to bed; and he drew the conclusion — very 
proper for his imaginable connection with the garrot- 
ing and other adventurous brotherhoods — that the 
most flattering moment for knocking on the head 
people who answer a late ring at night is either in 
their first selfish bewilderment, or their final self- 
abandonment to their better impulses. It does not 
seem to have occurred to him that he would himself 
have been a much more favorable subject for the 
predatory arts that any of his neighbors, if his ship- 
mate, the unknown companion of his researches for 
Mr. Hapford, had been at all so minded. But the 
faith of the gaunt giant upon which he reposed was  
good, and the contributor continued to wander about 
with him in*perfect safety. Not a soul among those 
they asked had ever heard of a Mr. Hapford, — fer 
less of a Julia Tinker Hving with him. But they all 
listened to the contributor's explanation with interest 
and eventual sympathy ; and in truth, — briefly told, 
with a word now and then thrown in by Jonathan 
Tinker, who kept at the bottom of the steps, showing 
like a gloomy spectre in the night, or, in his gro- 
tesque length and gauntness, like the other's shadow 
cast there by the lamphght, — it was a story which 
could hardly fail to awaken pity. 
At last, after ringing several bells where there 
were no lights, in the mere wantonness of good-will, 
and going away before they could be answered (it 
would be entertaining to know what dreams they 
caused the sleepers within), there seemed to be 
nothing for it but to give up the search till morning,, 
and go to the main street and wait for the last horse- 
car to the city. 
There, seated upon the curbstone, Jonathan 
Tinker, being plied with a few leading questions, 
told in hints and scraps the story of his hard life, 
which was at present that of a second mate, and had 
been that of a cabin-boy and of a seaman before the 
mast. The second mate's place he held to be the 
hardest aboard ship. You got only a few dollars 
more than the men, and you did not rank with the 
officers ; you took your meals alone, and in every- 
thing you belonged by yourself. The men did not 
respect you, and sometimes the captain abused you 
awfully before the passengers. The hardest captain 
that Jonathan Tinker ever sailed with was Captain 
Gooding of the Cape. It had got to be so that no 
man would ship second mate under Captain Good- 
ing ; and Jonathan Tinker was with him only one 
voyage. When he had been home awhile, he saw 
an advertisement for a second mate, and he went 
round to the owners'. They }iad kept it secret who 
the captain was ; but there was Captain Gooding in 
the owners' office. " Why, here's the man, now, 
that I want for a second mate," said he, when Jona- 
than Tinker entered ; " he knows me." — " Captain 
Gooding, I know you 'most too well to want to sail 
under you," answered Jonathan. " I might go if I 
hadn't been with you one voyage too many already." 
" And then the men ! " said Jonathan, " the men 
coming aboard drunk, and having to be pounded 
sober! And the hardest of the fight falls on the 
second mate ! Why, there isn't an inch of me 
that hasn't been cut over or smashed into a jell. 
I've had three ribs broken ; I've got a scar from a 
knife on my cheek; and I've been stabbed bad 
enough, half a dozen times, to lay me up." 
Here he gave a sort of desperate laugh, as if the 
notion of so much misery and such various mutila- 
tion were too grotesque not to be amusing. " Well, 
what can you do ? " he went on. " If you don't 
strike, the men think you're afraid of them ; and so 
you have to begin hard and go on hard. I always 
 
tell a man, ' Now, my man, I always begin with a 
man the way I mean to keep on. You do your duty 
and you're all right. But if you don't ' — Well, 
the men ain't Americans any more, — Dutch, Span- 
iards, Chinese, Portuguee, — and it ain't like abusing 
a white man." 
Jonathan Tinker was plainly part of the horrible 
tyranny which we all know exists on shipboard ; and 
his hstener respected him the more that, though he 
had heart enough to be ashamed of it, he was too 
honest not to own it. 
Why did he still follow the sea? Because he did 
not know what else to do. When he was younger, 
he used to love it, but now he hated it. Yet there 
was not a prettier life in the world if you got to be 
captain. He used to hope for that once, but not 
now ; though he thought he could navigate a ship. 
Only let him get his family together again, and he 
would — yes, he would — try to do something ashore. 
No car had yet come in sight, and so the con- 
tributor suggested that they should walk to the car- 
office, and look in the "Directory," which is kept 
there, for the name of Hapford, in search of whom it 
had already been arranged that they should renew 
their acquaintance on the morrow. Jonathan Tinker, 
when they had reached the office, heard with con- 
stitutional phlegm that the name of the Hapford, 
for whom he inquired was not in the " Directory." 
" Never mind," said the other ; " come round to my 
house in the morning. We'll find him yet." So they 
parted with a shake of the hand, the second mate say- 
 
ing that he believed he should go down to the vessel 
and sleep aboard, — if he could sleep, — and murmur- 
ing at the last moment the hope of returning the 
compliment, while the other walked homeward, weary 
as to the flesh, but, in spite of his sympathy for Jona- 
than Tinker, very elate in spirit. The truth is, — 
and however disgraceftd to human nature, let the 
truth still be told, — he had recurred to his primal 
satisfaction in the man as calamity capable of being 
used for such and such literary ends, and, while he 
pitied him, rejoiced in him as an episode of real life 
quite as striking and complete as anything in fiction. 
It was literature made to his hand. Nothing could 
be better, he mused ; and once, more he passed the 
details of the story in review, and beheld all those 
pictures which the poor fellow's artless words had so 
vividly conjured up : he saw him leaping ashore in 
the gray summer dawn as soon as the ship hauled 
into the dock, and making his way, with his vague 
sea-legs unaccustomed to the pavements, up through 
the silent and empty city streets ; he imagined the 
tumult of fear and hope which the sight of the man's 
home must have caused in him, and the benumbing 
shock of finding it blind and deaf to all his appeals ; 
he saw him sitting down upon what had been his 
own threshold, and waiting in a sort of bewildered 
patience till the neighbors should be awake, while 
the noises of the streets gradually arose, and the 
wheels began to rattle over the stones, and the milk- 
man and the ice-man came and went, and the wait- 
ing figure began to be stared at, and to challenge the 
 
curiosity of the passing policeman ; he fancied the 
opening of the neighbor's door, and the slow, cold 
understanding of the case ; the manner, whatever it 
was, in which the sailor was told that one year be- 
fore his wife had died, with her babe, and that his 
children were scattered, none knew where. As the 
contributor dwelt pityingly upon these things, but at 
the same time estimated their aesthetic value one by 
one, he drew near the head of his street, and found 
himself a few paces behind a boy slouching onward 
through the night, to whom he called out, adventur- 
ously, and with no real hope of information, — 
" Do you happen to know anybody on this street 
by the name of Hapford?" 
" Why no, not in this town," said the boy; but 
he added that there was a street of the same name 
in a neighboring suburb, and that there was a" Hap- 
ford living on it. 
" By Jove I " thought the contributor, " this is 
more like literature than ever ; " and he hardly 
knew whether to be more provoked at his own stu- 
pidity in not thinking of a street of the same name in 
the next village, or delighted at the element of fatal- 
ity which the fact introduced into the story ; for 
Tinker, according to his own account, must have 
landed from the cars a few rods from the very door 
he was -seeking, and so walked fai'ther and farther 
from it every moment. He thought the case so 
curious, that he laid it briefly before the boy, who, 
however he might have been inwardly affected, was 
sufficiently true to the national traditions not tc 
make the smallest conceivable outward sign of con- 
cern in it. 
At home, however, the contributor related his 
adventures and the story of Tinker's life, adding the 
fact that he had just found out where Mr. Hapford 
lived. " It was the only touch wanting," said he ; 
" the whole thing is now perfect." 
" It's too perfect," was answered from a sad enthu- 
siasm. " Don't speak of it ! I can't take it in." 
" But the question is," said the contributor, peni- 
tently taking himself to task for forgetting the hero 
of these excellent misfortunes in his delight at their 
perfection, " how am I to sleep to-night, thinking of 
that poor soul's suspense and uncertainty ? Never 
mind, — I'll be up early, and run over and make 
sure that it is Tinker's Hapford, before he gets out 
here," and have a pleasant surprise for him. Would 
it not be a justifiable coup de thSdtre to fetch his 
daughter here, and let her answer his ring at the 
door when he comes in the morning ? " 
This plan was discouraged. " No, no ; let them 
meet in their own way. Just take him to Hapford's 
house and leave him." 
" Very well. But he's too good a character to 
lose sight of. He's got to come back here and tell 
us what he intends to do." 
The birds, next morning, not having had the sec- 
ond mate on their minds either as an unhappy man 
or a most fortunate episode, but having slept long 
and soundly, were singing in a very sprightly way 
in the way-side trees; and the sweetness of thefa 
 
notes made the contributor's heart light as he 
climbed the hill and rang at Mr. Hapford's door. 
The door was opened by a young girl of fifteen or 
sixteen, whom lie knew at a glance for the second 
mate's daughter, but of whom, for form's sake, he 
asked if there were a girl named Julia Tinker living 
there."  
" My name's Julia Tinker," answered the maid, 
who had rather a disappointing face. 
" Well," said the contributor, " your father's got 
back from his Hong-Kong voyage." 
" Hong-Kong voyage ? " echoed the girl, with a 
stare of helpless inquiry, but no other visible emo- 
tion. 
" Yes. He had never heard of yoyr mother's 
death. He came home yesterday morning, and was 
looking for you all day." 
Julia Tinker remained open-mouthed but mute ; 
and the other was puzzled at the want of feeling 
shown, which he could not account for even as a na- 
tional trait. " Perhaps there's some mistake," he 
said. 
" There must be," answered Julia : " my father 
hasn't been to sea for a good many years. My 
father," she added, with a diffidence indescribably 
mingled with a sense of distinction, — " my father's 
in State's Prison. What kind of looking man was 
this ? " 
The contributor mechanically described him. 
Julia Tinker broke into a loud, hoarse laugh. 
" Yes, it 's him, sure enough." And then, as if the 
joke were too good to keep : " Miss Hapford, Miss 
Hapford, father's got out. Do come here ! " she 
called into a back room. 
When Mrs. Hapford appeared, Julia fell back, 
and, having deftly caught a fly on the door-post, 
occupied herself in plucking it to pieces, while she 
listened to the conversation of the others. 
" It 's all true enough," said Mrs. Hapford, when 
the writer had recounted the moving story of Jona- 
than Tinker, " so far as the death of his wife and 
baby goes. But he hasin't been to sea for a good 
many years, and he must have just come out of 
State's Prison, where he was put for bigamy. 
There's always two sides to a story, 'you know ; but 
they say it broke his first wife's heart, and she died. 
His friends don't want him to find his children, and 
this girl especially." 
" He's found his children in the city," said the 
contributor, gloomily, being at a loss what to do or 
say, in view of the wreck of his romance. 
" O, he's found 'em has he ? " cried Juha, with 
heightened amusement. " Then he'll have me next, 
if I don't pack and go." 
" I'm very, very sorry," said the contributor, se- 
cretly resolved never to do another good deed, no 
matter how temptingly the opportunity presented 
itself. "But you may depend he won't find out 
from me where you are. Of course I had no earthly 
reason for supposing his story was not true." 
" Of course," said kind-hearted Mrs. Hapford; 
mingling a drop of honey with the gaJl in the con- 
tributor's soul, " you only did your duty." 
 
And indeed, as lie turned away lie did not fee 
altogether witliout compensation. However Jona- 
than Tinker had fallen in his esteem as a man, he 
had even risen as literature. The episode which 
had appeared so perfect in its pathetic phases did not 
seem less finished as a farce ; and this person, to 
whom all things of every-day life presented them- 
selves in periods more or less rounded, and capable 
of use as facts or illustrations, could not but rejoice 
in these new incidents, as dramatically fashioned as 
the rest. It occurred to him that, wrought into a 
story, even better use might be made of the facts 
now than before, for they had developed questions 
of character and of human nature which could not 
fiiil to interest. The more he pondered upon his 
acquaintance with Jonathan Tinker, the more fasci- 
nating the erring mariner became, in his complex 
truth and falsehood, his delicately blending shades of 
artifice and naivete. He must, it was felt, have be- 
lieved to a certain point in his own inventions : nay, 
starting with that groundwork of truth, — the feet 
that his wife was really dead, and that he had not 
seen his family for two years, — why should he not 
place implicit faith in all the fictions reared upon it ? 
It was probable that he felt a real sorrow for her 
loss, and that he found a fantastic consolation in de- 
picting the circumstances of her death so that they 
should look like his inevitable misfortunes rather 
than his faults. He might well have repented his 
offense during those two years of prison ; and why 
should he not now cast their dreariness and shame 
 
out of his memory, and replace them with the free- 
dom and adventure of a two years' voyage to China, 
— so probahle, in all respects, that the fact should 
appear an impossible nightmare? In the experi- 
ences of his life he had abundant material to furnish 
forth the facts of such a voyage, and in the weari- 
ness arid lassitude that should follow a day's walking 
equally after a two years' voyage and two years' 
imprisonment, he had as much physical proof in 
favor of one hypothesis as the other. It was doubt- 
less true, also, as he said, that he had gone to his 
house at dawn, and sat down on the threshold of his 
ruined home ; and perhaps he felt the desire he had 
expressed to see his daughter, with a purpose of be- 
ginning life anew ; and it may have cost him a veri- 
table pang when he found that his little ones did not 
know him. All the sentiments of the situation were 
such as might persuade a lively fancy of the truth 
of its own inventions ; and as he heard these contin- 
ually repeated_by the contributor in their search for 
Mr. Hapford, they must have acquired an objective 
force and repute scarcely to be resisted. At the 
same time, there were touches of nature throughout 
Jonathan Tinker's narrative which could not fail to 
take the faith of another. The contributor, in re- 
viewing it, thought it particularly charming that his 
mariner had not overdrawn himself,, or attempted to 
paint his character otherwise than as it probably was ; 
that he had shown his ideas and practices of life to 
be those of a second mate, nor more nor less, with- 
out the gloss of regret or the pretenses to refine- 
 
ment that might be pleasing to the supposed philan- 
thropist with whom he had fallen in. Captain 
Gooding was of course a true portrait; and there 
was nothing in Jonathan Tinker's statement of the 
relations of a second mate to his superiors and his 
inferiors which did not agree perfectly with what the 
contributor had just read in " Two Years before the 
Mast," — a book which had possibly cast its glamour 
upon the adventure. He admired also the just and 
perfectly characteristic air of grief in the bereaved 
husband and father, — those occasional escapes from 
the sense of loss into a brief hilarity and forgetful- 
ness, and those relapses into the hovering gloom, 
which every one has observed in this poor, crazy 
human nature when oppressed by sorrow, and which 
it would have been hard to simidate. But, above 
all, he exulted in that supreme stroke of the imagi- 
nation given by the second mate when, at parting, 
he said he believed he would go down and sleep on 
board the vessel. In view of this, the State's 
Prison theory almost appeared a malign and foolish 
scandal. 
Yet even if this theory were correct, was the 
second mate wholly answerable for beginning his 
life again with the imposture he had practiced ? 
The contributor had either so fallen in love with the 
literary advantages of his forlorn deceiver that he 
would see no moral obliquity in him, or he had 
touched a subtler verity at last in pondering the 
affair. It seemed now no longer a farce, but had a 
pathos which, though very different from that of its 
first aspect, was hardly less tragical. Knowing with 
what coldness, or, at the best, uncandor,' he (repre- 
senting Society in its attitude toward convicted Er- 
ror) would have met the fact had it been owned to 
him at first, he had not virtue enough to condemn 
the illusory stranger, who must have been helpless to 
make at once evident any repentance he felt or good 
purpose he cherished. Was it not one of the saddest 
consequences of the man's past, — a dark necessity 
of misdoing, — that, even with the best will in the 
world to retrieve himself, his first endeavor must 
involve a wrong? Might he not, indeed, be con- 
sidered a martyr, in some sort, to his own admirable 
impulses ? I can see clearly enough where the con- 
tributor was astray in this reasoning, but I can also 
understand how one accustomed to value realities 
only as they resembled fables should be won with 
such pensive sophistry ; and I can certainly sympa- 
thize with his feeling that the mariner's failure to 
reappear according to appointment added its final 
and most agreeable charm to the whole afiair, and 
completed the mystery from which the man emerged 
and which swallowed him up again. 
On that loveliest autumn morning, the swollen 
tide had spread over all the russet levels, and 
gleamed in the sunlight a mile away. As the con- 
tributor moved onward down the street, luminous 
on either hand with crimsoning and yellowing ma- 
ples, he was so filled with the tender serenity of 
the scene, as not to be troubled by the spectacle of 
small Irish houses standing miserably about on the 
flats ankle deep, as it were, in little pools of the tide, 
or to be aware at first, of a strange stir of people 
upon the streets : a fluttering to and fi-o and lively 
encounter and separation of groups of bareheaded 
women, ' a flying of children through the broken 
fences of the neighborhood, and across the vacant 
lots on which the insulted sign-boards forbade them 
to trespass ; a sluggish movement of men through 
all, and a pause of difierent vehicles along the side- 
walks. When a sense of these facts had penetrated 
his enjoyment, he asked a matron whose snowy arms, 
freshly taken from the wash-tub, were folded across 
a mighty chest, " What is the matter ? " 
" A girl drowned herself, sir-r-r, over there on the 
flats, last Saturday, and they're looking for her." 
" It was the best thing she could do," said another 
matron grimly. 
Upon this answer that literary soul fell at once to 
patching himself up a romantic story for the suicide, 
after the pitifiil fashion of this fiction-ridden age, 
when we must relate everything we see to something 
we have read. He was the less to blame for it, he- 
cause he could not help it ; but certainly he is not to 
be praised for his associations with the tragic fact 
brought to his notice. Nothing could have been 
more trite or obvious, and he felt his intellectual 
poverty so keenly that he might almost have believed 
his discomfort a sympathy for the girl who had 
drowned herself last Saturday. But of course, this 
could not be, for he had but lately been thinking 
what a very tiresome figure to the imagination the 
Fallen Woman had become. As a fact of Chris- 
tian, civilization, she was a spectacle to wring one's 
heart, he owned ; but he wished she were well out 
of the romances, and it really seemed a fatality 
that she should be the principal personage of this 
little scene. The preparation for it, whatever it 
was to be, was so deliberate, and the reality had so 
slight relation to the French roofs and modem im- 
provements of the comfortable Charlesbridge which 
he knew, that he could not consider himself other 
than as a spectator awaiting some entertainment, 
with a faint inclination to be critical. 
In the mean time there passed through the mot- 
ley crowd, not so much a cry as a sensation of 
" They've found her, they've found her I " and then 
the one terrible picturesque fact, " She was stand- 
ing upright ! " 
 
Upon this there was wilder and wilder clamor 
among the people, dropping by degrees and almost 
dying away, before a flight of boys came down the 
street with the tidings, " They are bringing her — 
bringing her in a wagon." 
The contributor knew that she whom they were 
bringing in the wagon, had had the poetry of love 
to her dismal and otherwise squalid death ; but the 
history was of fancy, not of fact in his mind. Of 
course, he reflected, her lot must have been obscure 
and hard ; the aspect of those concerned about her 
death implied that. But of her hopes and her fears, 
who could tell him anything ? To be sure he could 
imagine the lovers, and how they first met, and 
where, and who he was that was doomed to work 
her shame and death ; but here his fancy came upon 
something coarse and common : a man of her own 
race and grade, handsome after tliat manner of 
beauty which is so much more hateful than ugliness 
is ; or, worse still, another kind of man whose deceit 
must have been subtler and wickeder ; but whatever 
the person, a presence defiant of sympathy or even 
interest, and simply horrible. Then there were the 
details of the affair, in great degree common to all 
love affairs, and not varying so widely in any con- 
dition of life ; for the passion which is so rich and 
infinite to those within its charm, is apt to seem a 
little tedious and monotonous in its character, and 
poor in resources to the cold looker-on. 
Then, finally, there was the crazy purpose and its 
fulfillment : the headlong plunge from bank or 
bridge; the eddy, and the bubbles on the current 
that calmed itself above the suicide ; the tide that 
rose and stretched itself abroad in the sunshine, 
carrying hither and thither the burden with which it 
knew not what to do ; the arrest, as by some ghastly 
caprice of fate, of the dead girl, in that upright pos- 
ture, in which she should meet the quest for her, as 
it were defiantly. 
And now they were bringing her in a wagon. 
Involuntarily all stood aside, and waited till the 
funeral car, which they saw, should come up toward 
them through the long vista of the maple-shaded 
street, a noiseless riot stirring the legs and arms of 
the boys into frantic demonstration, while the women 
remained quiet with arms folded or akimbo. Before 
and behind the wagon, driven slowly, went a guard 
of ragged urchins, while on the raised seat above sat 
two Americans, unperturbed by anything, and con- 
cerned merely with the business of the afiair. 
The vehicle was a grocer's cart which had per- 
haps been pressed into the service; and inevitably 
the contributor thought of Zenobia, and of Miles 
Coverdale's belief that if she could have foreboded 
all the postmortem ugliness and grotesqueness of 
suicide, she never would have drowned herself. 
This girl, too, had doubtless had her own ideas of 
the effect that her death was to make, her convic- 
tion that it was to wring one heart, at least, and to 
strike awe and pity to every other ; and her woman's 
soul must have been shocked from death could she 
have known in what a ghastly comedy the body she 
put off was to play a part. 
In the bottom of the cart lay something long and 
straight and terrible, covered with a red shawl that 
drooped over the end of the wagon; and on this 
thing were piled the baskets in which the grocers had 
delivered their orders for sugar and flour, and coffee 
and tea. As the cart jolted through their lines, the 
boys could no longer be restrained ; they broke out 
with wild yells, and danced madly about it, while 
the red shawl hanging from the rigid feet nodded to 
their frantic mirth ; and the sun dropped its light 
through the maples and shone bright upon the flooded 
flats. 
 
I BELIEVE I have no good reason for including 
among these suburban sketches my recollections of 
the Peace Jubilee, celebrated by a monster musical 
entertainment at Boston, in June, 1869 ; and I 
do not know if it will serve as excuse for their 
intrusion to say that the exhibition was not urban 
in character, and that I attended it in a feeling of 
curiosity and amusement which the Bostonians did 
not seem to feel, and which I suspect was a strictly 
suburban if not rural sentiment. 
I thought, on that Tuesday morning, as our horse- 
car drew near the Long Bridge, and we saw the Col- 
iseum spectral through the rain, that Boston was 
going to show people representing other parts of the 
country her Notion of weather. I looked forward 
to a forenoon of clammy warmth, and an afternoon 
of clammy cold and of east wind, with a misty night- 
fall soaking men to the bones. But the day really 
turned out well enough ; it was showery, but not 
shrewish, and it smiled pleasantly at sunset, as if 
content with the opening ceremonies of the Great 
Peace Jubilee. 
The city, as we entered it, gave due token of ex- 
citement, and we felt the celebration even in the 
 
air, which had a holiday quality very different from 
that of ordinary workday air. The crowds filled the 
decorous streets, and the trim pathways of the Com- 
mon and the Public Garden, and flowed in an orderly 
course towards the vast edifice on the Back Bay, pre- 
senting the interesting points which always distinguish 
a crowd come to town from a city crowd. You get so 
used to the Boston face and the Boston dress, that a 
coat from New York or a visage from Chicago is at 
once conspicuous to you ; and in these people there 
was not only this strangeness, but the different oddi- 
ties that lurk in out-of-way comers of society every- 
where had started suddenly into notice. Long-haired 
men, popularly supposed to have perished with the 
institution of slavery, appeared before me, and men 
with various causes and manias looking from their 
wild eyes confronted each other, let alone such 
charlatans as had clothed themselves quaintly or 
grotesquely to add a charm to the virtue of what- 
ever nostrum they peddled. It was, however, for 
the most part, a remarkably well-dressed crowd ; 
and therein it probably differed more than in any 
other respect from the crowd which a holiday would 
have assembled in former times. There was little 
rusticity to be noted anywhere, and the uncouthness 
which has already disappeared from the national face 
seemed to be passing from the national wardrobe. 
Nearly all the visitors seemed to be Americans, but 
neither the Yankee type nor the Hoosier was to be 
found. They were apparently very happy, too ; the 
ancestral solemnity of the race that amuses itself 
 
sadly was not to be seen in them, and, if they were 
not making it a duty to be gay, they were really 
taking their pleasure in a cheerful spirit. 
There was, in fact, something in the sight of the 
Coliseum, as we approached it, which was a sufficient 
cause of elation to whoever is buoyed up by the 
flutter of bright flags, and the movement in and 
about holiday booths, as I think we all are apt to be. 
One may not have the stomach of happier days for 
the swing or the whirhgig ; he may not drink soda- 
water intemperately ; pop-corn may not tempt him, 
nor tropical fruits allure ; but he beholds them with- 
out gloom, — nay, a gi'in inevitably lights up his 
countenance at the sight of a great show of these 
amusements and refreshments. And any Bostonian 
might have felt proud that morning that his city did 
not hide the light of her mercantile merit under a 
bushel, but blazoned it about on the booths and walls 
in every variety of printed and painted advertise- 
ment. To the mere aesthetic observer, these vast 
placards gave the delight of brilliant color, and 
blended prettily enough in effect with the flags ; and 
at first glance I received quite as much pleasure 
from the frescoes that advised me where to buy my 
summer clothing, as from any bunting I saw. 
I had the good fortune on the morning of this first 
Jubilee day to view the interior of the Coliseum 
when there was scarcely anybody there, — a trifle 
of ten thousand singers at one end, and a few thou- 
sand other people scattered about over the wide 
expanses of parquet and galleries. The decorations 
 
within, as without, were a pleasure to the eyes that 
love gayety of color ; and the interior was certainly 
magnificent, with those long lines of white and hlue 
drapery roofing the balconies, the slim, lofty columns 
festooned with flags and drooping banners, the arms 
of the States decking the fronts of the galleries, and 
the arabesques of painted muslin everywhere. I do 
not know that my taste concerned itself with the 
decorations, or that I have any taste in such things ; 
but I testify that these tints and draperies gave no 
small part of the comfort of being where all things 
conspired for one's pleasure. The airy amplitude 
of the building, the perfect order and the perfect 
freedom of movement, the ease of access and exit, 
the completeness of the arrangements that in the 
afternoon gave all of us thirty thousand spectators a 
chance to behold the great spectacle as well as to 
hear the music, were felt, I am sure, as personal 
favors by every one. These minor particulars, in 
fact, served greatly to assist you in identifying your- 
self, when the vast hive swarmed with humanily, 
and you became a mere sentient atom of the mass. 
It was rumored in the morning that the cere- 
monies were to begin with prayer by a hundred 
ministers, but I missed this striking feature of the 
exhibition, for I did not arrive in the afternoon till 
the last speech was being made by a gentleman 
whom I saw gesticulating effectively, and whom I 
suppose to have been intelligible to a matter of 
twenty thousand people in his vicinity, but who,was 
to me, of the remote, outlying thirty thousand, a 
 
voice merely. One word only I caught, and I 
report it here that posterity may know as much as 
we thirty thousand contemporaries did of 
THE president's SPEECH. 
I do not know if I shall he ahle to give an idea of 
the immensity of this scene ; but if such a reader as 
has the dimensions of the Coliseum accurately fixed 
in his mind will, in imagination, densely hide all that 
interminable array of benching in the parquet and 
the galleries and the slopes at either end of the edi- 
fice with human heads, showing here crowns, there 
occiputs, and yonder faces, he will perhaps have 
some notion of the spectacle as we beheld it from 
the northern hill-side. Some thousands of heads 
nearest were recognizable as attached by the usual 
neck to the customary human body, but for the rest, 
we seemed to have entered a world of cherubim. 
Especially did the multitudinous singers seated far 
opposite encourage this illusion ; and their fluttering 
fens and handkerchiefs wonderfiilly mocked the 
movement of those cravat-like pinions which the 
fency attributed to them. They rose or sank at the 
wave of the director's baton ; and still looked like 
an innumerable flock of cherubs drifting over some 
slopes of Paradise, or settling upon it, — if cherubs 
ean settle. 
 
The immensity was quite as striking to the mind 
as to the eye, and an absolute democracy was appre- 
ciable in it. Not only did all artificial distinctions 
cease, but those of nature were practically obliter- 
ated, and you felt for once the full meaning of unan- 
imity. No one was at a disadvantage ; one was as 
wise, as good, as handsome as another. In most 
public assemblages, the foolish eye roves in search 
of the vanity of female beauty, and rests upon some 
lovely visage, or pretty figure ; but here it seemed to 
matter nothing whether ladies were well or ill-look- 
ing ; and one might have been perfectly ascetic 
without self-denial. A blue eye or a black, — what 
of it ? A mass of blonde or chestnut hair, this sort 
of walking-dress or that, — you might note the 
difference casually in a few hundred around you ; 
but a sense of those myriads of other eyes and 
chignons and walking-dresses absorbed the impres- 
sion in an instant, and left a dim, strange sense of 
loss, as if all women had suddenly become Woman. 
For the time, one would have been preposterously 
conceited to have felt his Httleness in that crowd ; 
you never thought of yourself in an individual 
capacity at all. It was as if you were a private in an 
army, or a very ordinary billow of the sea, feeling 
the battle or the storm, in a collective sort of way, 
but unable to distinguish your sensations from those 
of the mass. If a rafter had fallen and crushed you 
and your unimportant row of people, you could 
scarcely have regarded it as a personal calamity, but 
might have found it disagreeable as a shock to that 
 
great body of humanity. Recall, then, how aston- 
ished you were to be recognized by some one, and 
to have your hand shaken in your individual charac- 
ter of Smith. "Smith? My dear What's-your- 
name, I am for the present the fifty-thousandth part 
of an enormous emotion ! " 
It was as difficult to distribute the various facts of 
the whole effect, as to identify one's self. I had only 
a public and general consciousness of the delight 
given by the harmony of hues in the parquet below ; 
and concerning the orchestra I had at first no dis- 
tinct impression save of the three hundred and thirty 
violin-bows held erect like standing wheat at one 
motion of the director's wand, and then falling as if 
with the next he swept them down. Afterwards 
files of men with horns, and other files of men with 
drums and cymbals, discovered themselves ; while far 
above all, certain laborious figures pumped or groimd 
vnth incessant obeisance at the apparatus supplying 
the organ with wind. 
What helped, more than anything else, to restore 
you your dispersed and wandering individuality was 
the singing of Parepa-Rosa, as she triumphed over 
the harmonious rivalry of the orchestra. There wg,s 
something in the generous amplitude and robust 
cheerfulness of this great artist that accorded well with 
the ideal of the occasion ; she was in herself a great 
musical festival ; and one felt, as she floated down 
the stage with her far-spreading white draperies, and 
swept the audience a colossal courtesy, that here was 
the embodied genius of the Jubilee. I do not trust 
 
myself to speak particularly of her singing, for I 
have the natural modesty of people who know noth- 
ing about music, and I have not at command the 
phraseology of those who pretend to understand it ; 
but I say that her voice filled the whole edifice with 
delicious melody, that it soothed and composed and 
utterly enchanted, that, though two hundred Adolins 
accompanied her, the greater sweetness of her note 
prevailed over all, like a mighty will commanding 
many. What a sublime ovation for her when a 
hundred thousand hands thundered their acclaim ! 
A victorious general, an accepted lover, a successftd 
young author, — these know a measure of bliss, I 
dare say ; but in one throb, the singer's heart, as it 
leaps in exultation at the loud delight of her applau- 
sive thousands, must out-enjoy them all. Let me 
lay these poor little artificial flowers of rhetoric at 
the feet of the divine singer, as a faint token of grat- 
itude and eloquent intention. 
When Parepa (or Prepper, as I have heard her 
name popularly pronounced) had sung, the revived 
consciousness of an individual life rose in rebellion 
against the oppression of that dominant vastness. In 
fact, human nature can stand only so much of any 
one thing. To a certain degree you accept and 
conceive of facts truthfully, but beyond this a mere 
fantasticality rules ; and having got enough of grand- 
eur, the senses played themselves false. That array 
of fluttering and tuning people on the southern slope 
began to look minute, like the myriad heads assem- 
bled in the infinitesimal photograph which you view 
through one of those little half-inch lorgnettes ; and 
you had the satisfaction of knowing that to any lovely 
infinitesimality yonder you showed no bigger than a 
carpet-tack. The whole performance now seemed 
to be worked by those tireless figures pumping at 
the orn, in obedience to signals from a very alert 
figure on the platform below. The choral and 
orchestral thousands sang and piped and played ; 
