butter for her supper, and that she was eating 
from a stone-china plate, and with a steel fork 
and with a pewter spoon. She noticed that the 
bread was toasted, it seemed in deference to the 
presence of a guest, and that the toasting had 
feverishly flushed Sip's haggard face. She noticed 
that Sip and Catty ate no butter, but dipped 
their bread into a little blue bowl of thick black 
molasses. She noticed that there was a kind of 
coarse black tea upon the table, and noticed that 
she found a single pewter spoonful of it quite 
sufficient for her wants. She noticed that Sip 
made rather a form than a fact of playing with 
her toasted bread in the thick black molasses, 
and that she drained her dreadful teacup thirstily, 
and that she then leaned, with a sudden sick look, 
back into her chair. 

Everything tasted of oil, she said. She could 





not eat. There were times that she could not eat 
day nor night for a long time. How long .? She 
was not sure. It had been often two days that 
nothing passed her lips. Sometimes, with the 
tea, it was longer. There were times that she 
came home and got right into bed, dirt and 
all. She couldn't undress, no, not if it was to 
save her soul, nor eat. But, generally, she 
managed to cook for Catty. Besides, there was the 
work. 

" What work ! " asked Miss Kelso, innocently. 

" Washing. Ironing. Baking. Sweeping. 
Dusting. Sewing. Marketing. Pumping. Scrub- 
bing. Scouring," said Sip, drumming out her 
periods on a teaspoon with her hard, worn fingers. 

" Oh ! " said Miss Kelso. 

" For two, you see," said Sip. 

" But all this, — you cannot have all this to do 
after you have stood eleven hours and a half at 
your loom .' " 

" When should I have it to do ! There 's Sunday, 
to be sure ; but I don't do so much now Sundays,
except the washing and the brushing up. 
I like,'' with a gentle, quick look at the deaf and 
dumb girl, who still sat dipping bread crusts into 





black molasses, absorbed and still, " to make it a 
kind of a comfortable day for Catty, Sunday. 
I don't bother Catty so much to help me, you 
know," added' Sip, cheerfully. " I like," with
another very pleasant look, " to make it comfortable 
for Catty." 

" I went into the mills to-day," said Miss Kelso, 
in reply. It was not very much to the point as a 
reply, and was said with an interrogatory accent, 
which lessened its aptness. 

" Yes .'' " said Sip, in the same tone. 

" I never was in a mill before." 

" No ? " 

" No." 

There was a pause, in which the young lady 
seemed to be waiting for a leading question, like a 
puzzled scholar. If she were, she had none. Sip 
sat with her dogged smile, and snapped little paper 
balls into the fire. 

" I thought it rather close in the mills." 

" Yes .? " 

"And — dirty. And — there was one very 
warm room ; the overseer advised me not to go in." 

" It was very good advice." 

" I went into the Company boarding-house too." 





"For the first time?" 

" For the first time. I went to inquire after 
you. The landlady took me about. Now I think 
of it, she invited me to tea." 

" Why didn't you stay .? " 

" Why, to tell the truth, the — tablecloth was 
— rather dirty." 

" Oh ! " 

" And I saw her wipe her face on — the dish- 
towel. Do the girls often sleep six in a room .' 
They had no wash-stands. I saw some basins 
set on trunks. They carried all the water up and 
down stairs themselves ; there were two or three 
flights. There wasn't a ventilator in the house. 
I saw a girl there sick." 

" Sick ? O, Bert Bush. Yes. Pleurisy. She 's 
going to work her notice when she gets about 
again. Given out." 

" She coughed while I was there. I thought 
her room was rather cold. I thought all the 
rooms were rather cold. I didn't seem to see 
any fire for anybody, except in the common 
sitting-room. But tjie bread was sweet." 

" Yes, the bread was sweet." 

"And the gingerbread." 





" Very sweet." 

" And, I suppose, the board — 

" The board is quarter of a dollar cheaper than 
in other places." 

Sip stopped snapping paper balls into the fire, 
and snapped instead one of her shrewd, sidewise 
glances at her visitor's face. 

The fine, fair, finished face ! How puzzled it 
looked ! Sip smiled. 

Catty had crept around while they were talk- 
ing, and sat upon the floor by Miss Kelso's chair. 
She was still amusing herself with the young 
lady's dress, passing her wise fingers to and fro 
across its elegant surface, and nodding to herself 
in her dull way. Miss Kelso's hand, the one with 
the rings, lay upon her lap, and Catty, attracted 
suddenly by the blaze of the jewels, took it up. 
She took it up as she would a novel toy, examined 
it for a few moments with much pleasure, then 
removed the rings and dropped them carelessly, 
and laid her cheek down upon the soft flesh. It 
was such a dusty cheek, and such a beautiful, 
bare, clean hand, that Sip started anxiously to 
speak to Catty, but saw that Perley sat quite still, 
and that her earnest eyes were full of sudden tears: 





" You will not let me say, you know, that I am 
sorry for you. I have been trying all the even- 
ing. I can't come any nearer than this." This 
she said smiling. 

" Look here ! " said Sip ; her brown face worked 
and altered. She said, " Look here ! " again, and 
stopped. " That 's nigh enough. I 'll take that. 
I like that. I like you. Look here ! I never 
said that to one of your kind of folks before ; I 
like you. Generally I hate your kind of folks." 

" Now that," said Miss Kelso, musing, " per- 
plexes me. We feel no such instinct of aversion 
to you. As far as I understand ' my kind of 
folks,' they have kindly hearts, and they have it 
in their hearts to feel very sorry for the poor." 

" Who wants their pity .' And who cares 
what 's in their hearts ? " 

Sip had hardened again like a little growing 
prickly nut. The subject and her softer mood 
dropped away together. 

" Sip," said Perley, fallen into another revery, 
"you see how little I know — " 

Sip nodded. 

" About — people who work and — have a 
hard time." 




" They don't none of 'em know. That 's why 
I hate your kind of folks. It ain't because they 
don't care, it 's because they don't know ; nor 
they don't care enough to know." 

" Now I have always been brought up to 
believe," urged Miss Kelso, " that our factory- 
people, for instance, had good wages." 

" I never complained of the wages. Hayle 
and Kelso couldn't get a cotton-weaver for 
three dollars a week, like a paper-factory I 
know about in Cincinnati. I knew a girl as 
worked to Cincinnati. Three dollars a week, 
and board to come out of it ! Cotton-weaving 's 
no play, and cotton-weavers are no 
fools." 

" And I always thought," continued Miss Kelso, 
"that such people were — why, happy and
comfortable, you know. Of course, I knew they must 
economize, and that, but — " 

She looked vaguely over at the supper-table ; 
such uncertain conceptions as she might hitherto 
be said to have had of " economizing " 
acquiring suddenly the form of thick, black mo- 
lasses, a little sticky, to be sure, but tangible. 

Sip made no reply, and Perley, suddenly aware 





of the lateness of the hour, started in dismay to 
take her leave. It occurred to her that the sticky 
stone-china dishes were yet to be washed, and 
that she had done a thoughtless thing in imposing, 
for a novel evening's entertainment, upon 
the scanty leisure of a worn-out factory-girl. 

She turned, however, neither an entertained 
nor a thoughtless face upon Sip when she tried 
to rise from her chair. Catty had fallen asleep, 
with her dirty cheek upon the shining hand, from 
which the rings were gone. Her ugly lower lip 
protruded, and all the repulsive lines about her 
eyes came out. Her long fingers moved a little, 
as is often the way with the deaf and dumb in 
sleep, framing broken words. Even in her 
dreams, this miserable creature bore about her a 
dull sense of denial and distress. Even in her 
dreams she listened for what she never heard, 
and spoke that which no man understood. 

"Mother used to say," said Sip, under her 
breath, "that it was the noise." 

" The noise .? " 

"The noise of the wheels. She said they 
beat about in her head. She come home o' 
nights, and says to herself, ' The baby 'll never 





hear in this world unless she hears the wheels ' ; 
and sure enough " (Sip lifted her face to Perley's, 
with a look of awe), "it is true enough that 
Catty hears the wheels ; but never anything 
besides." 







CHAPTER V. 



BUB MELL. 



IT was a March night, and a gray night, and a 
wild night ; Perley Kelso stepped out into 
it, from the damp little stone house, with
something of the confusion of the time upon her. Her 
head and heart both ached. She felt like a 
stranger setting foot in a strange land. Old, 
home-like boundary lines of things to which her 
smooth young life had rounded, wavered before 
her. It even occurred to her that she should 
never be very happy again, for knowing that 
factory-girls ate black molasses and had the cotton- 
cough. 

She meant to tell Maverick about it. She 
might have meant many other things, but for 
being so suddenly and violently jerked by the 
elbow that she preserved herself with difficulty 
from a smart fall into the slushy street. Striking 
out with one hand to preserve her balance, she 





found herself in the novel position of collaring 
either a very old young child or a very young 
old man, it was impossible at first sight to tell 
which. Whatever he was, it was easy at first 
sight to tell that he was filthy and ragged. 

" Le' go ! " yelled the old young creature, 
writhing. " Le' go, I say, dern yer ! Le' me be ! " 

Perley concluded, as her eyes wonted to the 
dark street, that the old young creature was by 
right a child. 

" If yer hadn't le' go I 'd 'a' made yer, yer 
bet," said the boy, gallantly. " Pretty way to 
treat a cove as doin' yer a favor. You bet. 
Hi-igh ! " 

This, with a cross between a growl of defiance 
and a whine of injury. 

" Guess what I 've got o' yourn ! You couldn't. 
You bet." 

" But I don't bet," said Perley, with an amused 
face. 

" Yer don't ? I do. Hi-igh ! Don't I though .? 
You bet ! Now what do you call that t Say ! " 

"I call that my glove. I did not miss it till 
this minute. Did you pick it up ? Thank you." 

" You needn't thank me till you 've got you 





needn't," said the child. " I 'm a cove as knows 
a thing or two. I want ten cents. You bet I do." 

" Where do you live .' " asked Perley. 

He lived down to East Street. Fust Tene- 
ment. No. 6. What business was it of hern, 
he'd like to know. 

" Have you a father and mother .' " 

Lor yes ! Two of 'em. Why shouldn't he ?

" I believe I will go home with you," said 
Perley, " it is so near by ; and — I suppose you are 
poor. " 

Lor, yes. She might bet. 

"And I can make it right about the recovery 
of the glove when I get there .'' " 

" N-n-oo you don't ! " promptly, from the cove 
as knew a thing or two. "You'll sling over 
to the old folks, I 'll bet. You don't come 
that ! " 

" But," suggested Perley, " I can, perhaps, 
give your father and mother a much larger 
sum of money than I should think it best to 
give you. If they are poor, I should think you 
would be glad that they should have it. And 
I can't walk in, you know, and give your father 
and mother money for nothing." 




" You give me ten cents," said this young old 
man, stoutly, "or what do you s'pose I 'll do with 
this 'ere glove ? Guess now ! " 

Perley failed to guess now. 

" I 'll cut 'n' run with it. I 'll cut 'n' run like 
mad. You bet. I 'II snip it up with a pair of 
shears I know about. I 'll jab holes in it with 
a jackknife I 've got. No, I won't. I 'll swop 
it off with my sister, for a yaller yaggate I 've got 
my eye on in the 'pothecarry's winder. My sis- 
ter 's a mill-gal. She 'll wear it on one hand to 
meetin', an' stick the t'other in her muff. That 's 
what I 'll do. How 'll you like that .? Hi-igh ! 
You bet ! " 

"At least, I can go home with you,'' said 
Perley, absently effecting an exchange between 
her glove and a fresh piece of ten-cent scrip, 
which the boy held up in the light from a shop- 
window, and tested with the air of a middle-aged 
counterfeiter ; " you ought to have been at home 
an hour ago." 

" Lor now," said this promising youth, " I was 
just thinkin' so ought you." 

" What is your name ." asked Perley, as they 
turned their two faces (one would have been 





struck, seeing them together, with thinking how 
much younger the woman looked than the child), 
toward East Street, the First Tenement, and 
No. 6. 

" My name 's Bub. Bub Mell. They used to 
call me Bubby, for short, till I got so large they 
give it up." 

" How old are you .' " 

"Eight last Febiverry." 

" What do you do ? " 

" Work -to the Old Stone." 

" But I thought no children under ten years 
of age were allowed to work in the mills." 

" You must be green ! " said Bub. 

" But you go to school ? " 

"I went to school till I got so large they 
give it up." 

" But you go a part of the time, of course ! " 

" No, I don't neither. Don't you s'pose I 
knows .'' " 

" What is that you have in your mouth .' " 
asked Perley, suddenly. 

Bub relieved himself of a quid of fabulous size, 
making quite superfluous the concise 
reply, " Terbaccer." 




"I never saw such a little boy as you chew 
tobacco before," said Perley, gasping. 

" You must be green ! I took my fust swag a 
year and a half ago. We all does. I 'm just 
out, it happens," said Bub, with a candid smile. 
" That 's what I wanted your ten cents for. 
I smokes too," added Bub, with an air of 
having tried not to mention it, for modesty's 
sake, but of being tempted overmuch. "You 
bet I do ! Sometimes it 's pipes, and sometimes 
it 's ends. As a gener'l thing, give me a pipe." 

" What else do you do ? " demanded Perley, 
faintly. 

"What else?" Bub reflected, with his old, 
old head on one side. He bet on marbles. 
He knew a tip-top gin-sling, when he see it, well 
as most folks. He could pitch pennies. He 
could ketch a rat ag'in any cove on East Street. 
Lor ! couldn't he ? 

" But what else ? " persisted Perley. 

Bub was puzzled. He thought there warn't 
nothin' else- After that he had his supper. 

" And after that ? " 

Lor. After that he went to bed. 

" And after that ? " 





After that he got up and went in. 

" Went in where ? " 

She must be green. Into the Old Stone. 
Spoolin', you know. 

Did he go to church.' 

She might bet he didn't ! Why, when 
should he ketch the rats.' 

Nor Sunday school.' 

He went to the Mission once. Had a card 
with a green boy onto it. Got so old he give 
it up. 

What did he expect, asked Perley, in a 
sudden, severe burst of religious enthusiasm, 
would become of him when he died ?

Eh? 

When he died, what would become of him ? 

Lor. 

Could he read.' 

Fust Primer. Never tried nothin' else. 

Could he write .' 

No. 

Was he going to school again ? 

Couldn't say. 

Why didn't his parents send him ? 

Couldn't say that. Thought they was too old ; 




no, thought he was too old ; well, he didn't know ; 
thought somebody was too old, and give it up. 

Was this where he lived ? 

She must be green ! Of course he did. 
Comin' in .' 

Perley was coming in. With hesitation she 
came in. 

She came into what struck her as a very 
unpleasant place ; a narrow, crumbling place ; 
a place with a peculiar odor ; a very dark place. 
Bub cheerfully suggested that she 'd better look 
out. 

For what .' 

Holes. 

Where .' 

Holes in the stairs. He used to step into 'em 
and sprain his ankles, you bet, till he got so old 
he give it up She 'd better look out for the 
plaster too. She 'd bump her head. She never 
saw nothin' break like that plaster did ; great 
cakes of it. Here, this way. Keerful now ! 

By this way and that way, by being careful 

now and patient then and quite persistent at 

all times, Perley contrived to follow Bub in safety 

up two flights of villanous stairs and into the 




sudden shine of a low, little foom, into which he 
shot rather than introduced her, with the 
unembarrassing remark that he didn't know what 
she 'd come for, but there she was. 

There were six children, a cooking-stove, a 
bed, a table, and, a man with stooped shoulders 
in the room. There was an odor in the room 
like that upon the stairs. The man, the children, 
the cooking-stove, the bed, the table, and the odor 
quite filled the room. 

The room opened into another room, in which 
there seemed to be a bureau, a bed, and a sick 
woman. 

Miss Kelso met with but a cool reception in 
these rooms. The man, the children, the cook- 
ing-stove, the bed, the odor, and the woman thrust 
her at once, she could not have said how, into 
the position of an intruder. The sick woman, 
upon hearing her errand, flung herself over to 
the wall with an impatient motion. The man 
sullenly invited her to sit down ; gave her to 
understand — - again she could hardly have told how 

that he wanted no money of her ; no doubt the 
boy had had more than he deserved ; but that, if 
she felt inclined, she might sit down. 





" To tell the truth," said Parley, in much 
confusion, " I did not come so much on account of 
the glove as on account of the boy." 

What had the boy been up to now ? The 
sullen man darted so fierce a look at the boy, 
who sat with his old, old smile, lighting an old 
pipe behind the cooking-stove, that Perley 
hastened to explain that she did not blame the boy. 
Who could blame the boy t 

" But he was out so late about the streets, Mr. 
Mell. He uses tobacco as most children use 
candy. And a child of that age ought not to be 
in the mills, sir," said Perley, warming, " he ought 
to be at school ! " 

O, that was all, was it ? Mr. Mell pushed back 
his stooped shoulders into his chair with an air 
of relief, and Bub lighted his pipe in peace. But 
he had a frowning face, this Mr. Mell, and he 
turned its frown upon his visitor. He would like 
to know what business it was of hers what he did 
with his boy, and made no scruple of saying so. 

" It ought to be some of my business," said the 
young lady, growing bolder, " when a child of 
eight years works all the year round in these 
mills. I have no doubt that I seem very rude. 





sir ; but I have in fact come out, and come out 
alone as you see me, to see with my own eyes 
and to hear with my own ears how people live 
who work in these mills." 

Had she ? Mr. Mell smiled grimly. Not a 
pleasant job for a lady he should think ; and uncommon. 

" It 's a job I mean to finish," said Miss Kelso, 
firmly. " The stairs in this house are in a 
shocking condition. What is — excuse me — the very 
peculiar odor which I notice on these premises ? 
It must be poisonous to the sick woman, — your 
wife ! " 

It was his wife. Yes ; consumption ; took it 
weaving ; had been abed this four month ; could 
n't say how long she 'd hold out. Doctor said, 
five month ago, as nothin' would save her but a 
change. So he sits and talks about Florida and 
the South sun, and the folks as had been saved 
down there. It was a sort of a fretful thing to 
hear him. Florida ! Good God ! How was the 
likes of him to get a dyin' wife to Florida ? 

She didn't like strangers overmuch ; better not 
go. nigh her ; she was kind of fretful; the 
childern was kind of fretful too ; sometimes they cried 
like as his head would split ; he kept the gell 





home to look after 'em ; not the first gell ; he 
couldn't keep her to home at all ; she made 
seven ; he didn't know 's he blamed her ; it was 
a kind of a fretful place, let alon' the stairs and 
the smell. It come from the flood, the smell did. 

" The flood .? " 

Yes, the cellar flooded up every spring from the 
river ; it might be drained, he should think ; but 
it never was as he heard of. There was the 
ofial from the mills floated in ; it left a smell 
pretty much the year round ; and a kind of chill. 
Then they hadn't any drain, you see. There was 
that hole in the wall where they threw out dish- 
water and such. So it fell into the yard under 
the old woman's window, and made her kind of 
fretful. It made her fretful to see the children 
ragged too. She greeted over it odd times. She 
had a clean way about her, when she was up and 
about, the old woman had. 

" Who owns this house .? " asked Miss Kelso, 
with burning eyes. 

The man seemed unaccountably reluctant to 
reply ; he fixed the fire, scolded Bub, scolded a 
few other children, and shook the baby, but was 
evidently unwilling to reply. 





Upon Perley's repeating her question, the sick 
woman, with another impatient fling against the 
wall, cried out sharply, What was the odds ? Do 
tell the girl. It couldn't harm her, could it ? 
Her husband, very ill at ease, believed that young 
Mr. Hayle owned the house ; though they dealt 
with his lessee ; Mr. Hayle had never been down 
himself. 

For a sullen man, with a stoop in the shoul- 
ders, a frown in the face, seven children, a sick 
wife, and no drain-spout, Mr. Mell did very well 
about this. He grew even communicative, when 
the blaze in Miss Kelso's eyes went out, paled 
by the sudden fire in her cheek. 

He supposed he was the more riled up by this 
and that, he said, for being English ; Scotch by 
breed, you know ; they 'd named the first gell 
after her grandma, — Nynee ; quite Scotch, ye 
see ; she was a Hielander, grandma, — but married 
to England, and used to their ways. Now there 
was ways and ways, and one way was a ten-hour 
bill. There was no mistaking that, one way was 
a ten-hour bill, and it was a way they did well by 
in England, and it was a way they 'd have to walk 
in this side the water yet — w-a-l-k in y-e-t ! 



He'd been turned out o' mills in this country 
twice for goin' into a ten-hour strike ; once to 
Lawrence and once up to New Hampshire. He 'd 
given it up. It didn't pay. Since the old wo- 
man was laid up, he must get steady work or 
starve. 

He 'd been a factory operative * thirty-three 
years ; twenty-three years to home, and ten years 
to the United States, only one year as he was 
into the army ; he was forty-three years old. 
Why didn't he send that boy to school .' Why 
didn't he drive a span of grays ! He couldn't 
send the boy to school, nor none of the other boys 
to school, except as mayhap they took their turn 
occasional. He made it a point to send them 
till they was eight if he could ; he didn't like 
to put a young un to spoolin' before he was eight, 
if he could help it. The law .'' O yes, there was 
a law, and there was ways of getting round a law, 
bless you I Ways enough. There was parties 
as had it in their hands to make it none so easy, 
and again to make it none so hard. 

"What parties.?" 

" Mr. Mell's " testimony " may be found in the reports of the 
Massachusetts Bureau of Labor. 





Parties as had an interest in spoolin in
common with the parent. 

"The child's employers?" 

Mr. Mell suddenly upon his guard. Mr. Mell 
trusted to the good feelin' of a young lady as 
would have a heart for the necessities of poverty, 
and changed the subject. 

" But you cannot mean," persisted Perley, " that 
a healthy man like you, with his grown children 
earning, finds it impossible to support his family 
without the help of a poor baby like Bub over 
there?" 

Mr. Mell quite meant it. Didn't know what 
other folks could do ; he couldn't ; not since the 
rise in prices, and the old woman givin' out. 
Why, look at here. There was the gell, twenty 
year old ; she worked to weaving ; there was the 
boy as was seventeen, him reading the picture 
paper over to the table there, he draws and 
twists ; there was another gell of fifteen, you 
might say, bander at the harnesses into the 
dressing-room ; then there was Bub, and the 
babies. 

Counting in the old woman and the losses, 
he must have Bub. The old woman ate a powerful 
sight of meat. He went without himself whensoever 
he could ; but his work was hard ; it made 
him kind of deathly to the stomach if he went 
without his meat. 

What losses did he speak of .-' Losses enough. 
High water. Low water. Strikes. Machinery 
under repair. Besides the deathly feelin' to the 
stomach. He'd been out for sickness off and on, 
first and last, a deal ; though he looked a healthy 
man, as she said, and you wouldn't think it. 
Fact was, he 'd never worked but one whole 
month in six year ; nor he 'd never taken a 
week's vacation at a time, of his own will an' 
pleasure, for six year. Sometimes he lost two 
days and a half a week, right along, for lack of 
work.* Sometimes he give out just for the heat. 
He 'd often seen it from 110° to 116° Fahrenheit 
in the dressing-room. He wished he was back 
to England. He wouldn't deny but there was 
advantages here, but he wished he was back. 

(This man had worked in England from 6 a.m. 
to 8 o'clock p. M., with no time allowed for dinner ; 

* " We may here add that our inquiries will authorize us to 
say that three out of every five laboring men were out of 
employ." — Statistics of Labor. 




he paid threepence a week to an old woman who 
brought hot water into the mills at noon, with 
which she filled the tin pot in which he had 
brought tea and sugar from home. He had, be- 
sides, a piece of bread. He ate with one hand 
and worked with the other.) 

He warn't complainin' of nobody in particular, 
to nobody in particular, but he thought he had a 
kind of a fretful life. He hadn't been able to lay 
by a penny, not by this way nor that, considerin' 
his family of nine and the old woman, and the 
feelin' to the stomach. Now that made him fretful 
sometimes. He was a temperate man, he 'd 
like to have it borne in mind. He was a member 
of a ten-hour society, of the Odd Fellows, Good 
Templars, and Orthodox Church. 

Anything for him .? No ; he didn't know of 
anything she could do for him. He'd never 
taken charity from nobody's hands yet. He 
might, mayhap, come to it some day. He supposed 
it was fretful of him, but he 'd rather lay in 
his grave. The old woman she wouldn't never 
know nothing of that ; it was a kind of a comfort, 
that was. He was obliged to her for wishing 
him kindly. Sorry the old woman was so fret- 



ful to-night ; she was oncommon noisy ; and the 
childern. He 'd ask her to call again, if the old 
woman wasn't so fretful about strangers. Hold 
the door open for the lady, Bub. Put down your 
pipe, sir ! Haven't ye no more manners than to 
