place; and she had wages, and her man he 
had good wages ; and now the peas is all out 
o' the basket. And is there any use, buyin' 
more to put in ? The basket'll never be 
mended. It'll let out as fast as it takes in." 

" The basket, as you put it, is out of Sally's 
hands now," Miss Redwood. " She is one of 
the helpless ones. Don't you think it would 
be a good thing to make her life more com 
fortable? I think we had better take her 
some of this shortcake, Matilda. Miss Redwood, as for you, I shall expect to hear that 
you have lamed your arm doing something 
for her comfort, or half broken your back 



 

carrying a heavy basket to Lilac lane; or 
something of that sort; judging by what I 
know of you already." 

" I'm willin'," said the housekeeper. " But 
it ain't this child's business. She hain't no 
call to give all she's got to Sally Eldridge." 

" I suppose," said the minister, with a look 
at Matilda which both she and the house 
keeper read with their hearts, "I suppose 
she is thinking of the word that will be 
spoken one day ; ' Inasmuch as ye did it unto 
one of the least of these,' ' He that hath 
pity upon the poor, lendeth to the Lord ; 
and that which he hath given will he pay 
him again ' ! " 

" Then Mr. Richmond thinks it would be a 
good use of her money?" 

" There might possibly be better. But if 
it is the best she knows, that is all she can do. 
I have a great opinion of doing what our 
hands find to do, Miss Redwood ; if the 
Lord gives other work, he will send the 
means too." 



 

" There's a frame bedstead lyin' up in the 
loft," said the housekeeper. " 'Tain't no good 
to any one, and it only wants a new rope to 
cord it up; perhaps the minister would let 
Sally have that ; and it would save so much." 

" By all means, let her have that ; and any 
thing else we can spare. Now, Matilda, you 
and I will go and attend to our other business." 

They went back to the study, where the 
light was growing soft. Mr. Richmond drew 
up the blinds of the west window and let in 
the glow and colour from a rich sunset sky. 
He stood looking at it, with the glow upon 
his face ; and standing so, spoke, 

" What was it, Matilda ? " 

Matilda on her part sat down in a chair 
and with a face of childish grave meditation, 
peered into the great bunch of asparagus with 
which Miss Redwood had filled the minister's 
chimney. She sat in shadow all over, and 
answered as if taking out the very secret burden of her heart for her friend's inspection. 



 

" Mr. Richmond, I can't do Band work any 
more. I can't do anything. I can't do anything at all. You told us to buy up opportunities ; but I have no opportunities now 
even to buy." 

" Are you sure ? " 

" Yes, sir," said the child slowly. " I am 
quite sure. I cannot do any work at all. 
And I would like it so much." 

" Wait a bit," said the minister, still look 
ing at the evening glow ; " maybe you are too 
hasty." 

" No, sir. Aunt Candy will not let me go 
out, and I can see nobody." 

" Whose servant are you ? " 

" I am Christ's servant," said the child softly. 

" Well. Being his servant, do you want to 
do his will, or your own ? " 

" Why I want to do his will," Matilda 
answered, speaking a little slowly. 

" Isn't it his will just now that you should 
be without your old liberty, and unable to do 
these things you want to do ? " 




" Yes, sir," Matilda said rather unwillingly. 
" I suppose it is." 

" Are you willing his will should be done ? " 

Mr. Richmond had faced round from the 
window now, and Matilda met his look, and 
did not answer for a moment. 

" Is it his will, Mr. Richmond, that I should 
have no opportunity to do anything." 

" What do you think? If he had chosen 
to do it, he could have placed you in the 
midst of the fullest opportunity. He has 
placed you under the rule of your aunt. Are 
you willing his will should be done, and as 
long as he pleases ? " 

Matilda looked in her friend's face, but it 
put the question steadily ; and she faltered 
and burst into tears. 

" That is a great question, Tilly," said the 
minister kindly. "Is it yourself you want to 
please ? or the Lord Jesus ? He can have 
these outside things done by other people, 
even if you cannot help in them; but of you 
the first thing he wants is an obedient child. 




 

Will you be obedient? That is, will you 
agree to his will ? " 

" Mr. Richmond must I be willing to do 
nothing ? " Matilda asked without uncovering 
her face. 

" If the Lord bids you do nothing." 

" But I thought he bade me do so 
many things ? " 

" So he does ; and just now the very first 
and foremost of them is, that you should be 
content with his will." 

The daylight had faded sensibly when the 
next words were spoken, so many seconds 
went by before Matilda was ready to speak 
them. 

" Mr. Richmond," she said, after that pause 
of hidden struggle, " isn't it very hard ? " 

" It depends upon how much any one loves 
the Lord, my dear child. The more you love 
him, the less you want your own will. But 
you were never more mistaken in your life, 
than just now, when you thought he had 
taken all your opportunities away." 




" Why, what opportunities have I, Mr. 
Richmond ? " said Matilda lifting up her 
face. 

" This, for one. Opportunity to be obedient. The Bible says that Christ, coming here 
to stand in our place and save us, learned 
obedience by the things which he suffered; 
and I don't know but we must, too." 

Matilda looked very hard at her adviser ; 
it was not easy for her to get at this new 
thought. 

" Cannot you as truly obey, when God says 
you must be still, as when he says you must 
work ? " 

Yes, sir." 

" And in either case, obedience is in the 
heart not in the fingers or the tongue. Isn't 
it so ? 

" Yes, sir." 

" You see one opportunity, Matilda." 

" Yes, sir." The answers were very meek. 

" My dear child, is that the only one ? " 
. " I cannot go out, Mr. Richmond." 



 

" No, I understand. But in the house. 
Have you no opportunities to be patient, for 
instance ? " 

" Yes, sir ! " and a faint colour rose in Ma 
tilda's cheek. 

" My child, patience is something that 
when God's children shew, they always honour him." 

" How, Mr. Richmond ? " 

" It shews his grace and power in them ; 
for they cannot be truly patient without his 
help. And then others see it and acknowledge that there is reality in religion, and that 
God's will is beautiful." 

" I never thought of that," said Matilda. 

" Have you no opportunity to forgive injuries, or unkindness ? " 

" O yes, Mr. Richmond ! " The answer 
came from some deep place in Matilda's heart. 

" Do you use that opportunity well ? " 

" I don't think I have, Mr. Richmond," 
said Matilda, looking very sorrowful. " I 
think, instead, I have been hating my " 




" Yes. Shall that be at an end now ? " 

"But how can it?" said Matilda. "I get 
so vexed " And she wiped away a tear. 
" I get so vexed, Mr. Richmond! " 

" I am very sorry you have occasion. But 
you cannot forgive people unless you have 
occasion." 

How can I then ? " 

" By going to Jesus, just as the sick people 
went to him in the old time; and getting 
cured, as they did. ' If thou canst believe ; 
all things are possible to him that believeth.' " 

Matilda steadied her trembling little lips, 
and stood listening. 

" Haven't you opportunities to do kindnesses?" Mr. Richmond then said softly. 
Matilda looked up and bowed her head a 
little. Perhaps lips were not ready. 

" Do you use them well? " 

"I think not, Mr. Richmond lately." 

" You know, you can do kindness indoors 
as well as out of doors : and to disagreeable 
people as well as to nice people. We are 



 

commanded to be followers of God, as dear 
children." 

The tears gathered again. 

" See how much kindness you can do. No 
matter whether it is deserved or not. That 
is no part of the question. And have you 
not opportunity to learn something ? " 

" I am not going to school," said Matilda. 

" Nor learning anything at home ? " 

" Not much. Not much that is good for 
anything." 

" Never mind. You can do that for God." 

" O no, Mr. Richmond ; it is not useful 
enough." 

" You do not know how useful it may be." 

" Yes, sir, because it isn't that sort of thing. 
Aunt Candy is making me learn to mend 
lace. It is no use at all." 

" I'll tell you a secret," said Mr. Richmond. 
Matilda looked up with fresh eagerness into 
his face. 

" Whenever the Lord puts you in the way 
of learning anything, you may be sure he 




means you to learn it. He knows the use ; 
and if you neglect the chance, the next thing 
will be, you will find he will give you work 
to do which you cannot do, because you 
neglected to learn what he gave you to 
learn." 

" But mending lace ? " said Matilda. 

" I don't care what it is. Yes, mending 
lace. I don't know what use you will find 
for that accomplishment, and you don't ; all 
the same, you will know, when the time 
comes ; and then you will be very sorry and 
mortified to find yourself unable for the work 
given you, if you despised your opportunity 
of preparation. And then it will be too late 
to mend that, as well as the lace." 

" And is that true of all sorts of things, Mr. 
Richmond?" 

" Of all sorts of things. Whenever the 
Lord puts a chance of learning something in 
your way, you may be quite sure he has a 
use and a meaning in it. He has given it to 
you to do." 



 



" Then all my learning to cook, and do 
things about the house ? " 

"Yes,'' said Mr. Richmond smiling. " It is 
not difficult to see a use for that ; is it ? " 

" No, sir I suppose not," the child said 
thoughtfully. 

" Have you not opportunities for being 
thankful too, in the midst of all these other 
things ? " 

Yes, Mr. Richmond." 

But the child stood looking at him with a 
wistful, intent face, and wide-open, thoughtful 
eyes ; so sober and so eager and so pitiful, 
that it made an unconscious plea to the 
minister's heart. 

" Come," said he ; " we have so much to 
say to our Lord, let us say it." 

And they kneeled down, and Mr. Richmond 
put all Matilda's heart into a prayer for her, 
and some of his cwn. 

" I must go now, Mr. Richmond " Matilda said presently after. But she said it 
with a much more cheerful tone. 



 

 " I shall want to hear how you get on," 
said Mr. Richmond. " When will you take 
tea with me again ? " 

" O I don't know, sir. Aunt Candy is 
always at home." 

" And keeps you there ? " 

" Yes, sir. Lately. She didn't at first." 

" Well, I must see about that. I think you 
must be allowed to come and see me, at all 
events. Perhaps you do not know, Matilda, 
that your mother in almost the last hour of 
her life asked me to take care of you." 

" Did she ? " Matilda exclaimed, with a 
wonderful change of voice and manner. 

" Yes. She did. In your aunt's pres 
ence." 

" And you will, Mr. Richmond ? " said the 
child, a little timidly. 

" And I will while I live myself." 

" Then I can come and see you, Mr. Rich 
mond ? " 

" I think you can. I will see about it." 

Matilda gave her friend a good night which 



 

was almost joyous ; and then ran out to the 
kitchen. 

" Miss Redwood," she said, " did you 
change your mind again about Mrs. Eldridge ? 
I thought you agreed, and that you were 
going to do all that for me." 

" No, child ; I hain't changed my mind. I 
changed it oncet, you know, to come over to 
you. I never did go both ways, like a crab." 

" But you said at tea " 

" Well, I wished the minister'd tell you to 
keep your money to hum. 'Tain't your 
work, as I can see, to fit out Sally Eldridge 
with notions ; it's like enough it's mine, and 
I'm willin' to take it, and do it, and see to it. 
You put your money by, child, against a wet 
day. Maybe you'll want it yet." 

" Don't you remember, Miss Redwood, 
what Mr. Richmond repeated at tea? 'the 
Lord will pay it again ? ' 

" Well," said the housekeeper, "let the pay 
come to me, then." 

" No," said Matilda, that won't do. It's 




my business, Miss Redwood, and I asked you 
to do it for me ; and I'll give you the money. 
How much do you want ? " 

"I hain't bought the things yet; I don' 
know; and some of 'em won't have to be 
bought, with a little contrivance. . I'll spend 
the least I kin ; and then we'll talk about it." 

Matilda gave her an energetic kiss and 
hurried away. But I am afraid the house 
keeper's apron went up to her eyes again. 




CHAPTER VIII. 

MATILDA went home with new strength, 
and full of the will to do the very best 
she could in her hard circumstances. But 
the next morning's dousing and scrubbing and 
rubbing down seemed more fierce than ever. 
If Matilda ever ventured to say " O don't ! " 
Mrs. Candy was sure to give her more of 
what she did not like. She had learned to 
keep her tongue still between her teeth. She 
had learned to wince and be quiet. But this 
morning she could hardly be quiet. " Can I 
help hating aunt Candy ? " she thought to 
herself as she went downstairs. Then she 
found Maria full of work for which she 
wanted more fingers than her own ; and Ma 
tilda's were very busy till breakfast time, 
setting the table, hulling strawberries, sweeping the hall, making coffee, baking the bis 
cuit Both the girls busy, and Maria cross. 
Breakfast was not sociable ; and Matilda was 
summoned to go to her aunt's room as soon 
as the dishes were put away. 

" Can I help it ? " thought Matilda. And 
as she went up the stairs she prayed for a 
loving heart, and that this feeling, which was 
like a sickness, might be taken away from 
her. 

" What makes you look so meek ? " exclaimed Clarissa, as she entered the room. 
Mrs. Candy lifted her face to see. 

" I like to see children look meek," she 
said. " That's the way they should look. 
Matilda's cold bath is doing her good." 

" Mamma, you are very severe with your 
cold baths! " said the young lady. 

" They did you good once," said her 
mother. " You need not speak against them. 
Matilda is a different child since she has been 
in my bath. Here is your lace, Matilda. I 
am too busy to hear you read this morning. 




Take your seat over there, and see how well 
you can do this ; it's rather a difficult piece." 

It was a very difficult piece. Matilda's 
heart sank when she saw it ; besides that her 
aunt's words seemed to have taken away all 
the meekness she had, and to have stirred up 
anew all her worst feelings. She put her 
hand to her face to hide her eyes, while she 
prayed afresh for help and a sweeter spirit. 
She seemed to be all on edge. 

" What's the matter ? " said Mrs. Candy. 
" Begin your work, child ; you'll want all the 
time you have got, I warn you. Don't waste 
your time idling." 

Matilda tried to remember what Mr. Rich 
mond had said the night before, of the uses 
of things ; and tried to pray quietly while she 
was taking up threads in her lace. But 
remembering and praying made the tears 
come ; and then she could not see the threads, 
and that would not do. 

By and by she became interested in what 
her aunt and cousin were saying. 



 

They were unfolding their yesterday's purchases, and talking about what they were 
going to do with them. Gauzes, and muslins, and other stuffs new to Matilda, were 
laid open on the bed and hung about over 
the backs of chairs, and the room looked like 
a mercer's shop. Here was a delicate embroidered white muslin ; there a rosy gauze ; 
there a black tissue ; here something else of 
elegant pattern ; with ribbands, and laces, and 
rufflings, and a great variety of pretty articles. Matilda thought her aunt and cousin 
were having a great deal more amusing time 
than she had. 

"What are you doing, Matilda?" Mrs. 
Candy's voice said again. 

" Looking at cousin Issa's things, ma'am." 

" Mind your work, child. You will not 
have that done by dinner time." 

" Why I can't, aunt Candy." 

" You could if you had been industrious. 
You cannot now, very likely. But you must 
finish it before you leave this room." 



 

" It is no use ! " said Matilda, throwing the 
lace down ; " I can't near get it done for dinner. It is very hard, and it will take a great 
while!" 

Mrs. Candy waited a moment. 

" Pick up your work," she said, " and come 
here and stand before me and beg my pardon." 

Matilda felt as if it was impossible to do 
this. 

" Do it, and quickly," said Mrs. Candy ; 
" or your punishment will come to-morrow 
morning, child. Do not be foolish. I shall 
give you something hot as well as cold, I 
warn you." 

It seemed to Matilda that she could not 
humble herself to do as she was bidden ; and 
the struggle was terrible for a minute or two. 
It shook the child's whole nature. But the 
conciousness of the indignity awaiting her in 
case of refusal fought with the keen sense of 
indignity now ; and conquered in time. Matilda picked up her work, came before Mrs. 
Candy, and asked her pardon. 




" Very well," said that lady tapping her 
cheek carelessly ; " now go and sit down and 
behave yourself. The lace must be finished 
before you leave my room." 

It was a day of sharp trial to Matilda, all 
the more, perhaps, that it came after a time 
of so much relief and hope and help. Matilda was disappointed. She was not a 
passionate child ; but for some hours a storm 
of passion filled her heart which she could not 
control. Her lace needle went in and out, 
keeping time to the furious swayings of 
indignation and resentment and mortified 
pride and restless despair. She was in her 
aunt's hands ; completely in her power ; helpless to change anything; obliged even to 
swallow her feelings and hide her displeasure. 
For a while that morning, Matilda felt as if 
she would have given almost anything for 
the freedom to shew her aunt what she 
thought of her. She dared not do it, even so 
much as by a look. She was forced to keep 
a quiet face and sit obediently mending her 


 

difficult piece of lace ; and the child's heart 
was in great turmoil. With that, by and by, 
there began to mingle whispers of conscience; 
little whispers that anger and hatred and ill- 
will were not right, nor becoming her profession, nor agreeing at all with that " walking in love " which Mr. Richmond had spoken 
of the night before. And sorrow took its 
part too among the feelings that were sweeping over and through her heart; but Matilda 
could not manage them, nor rule herself, and 
she at last longed for the dinner bell to ring, 
when her aunt and cousin would leave her 
and she would be alone. Lace-mending got 
on very slowly; her eyes were often dim, and 
it hindered her ; though she would not let the 
tears fall. When the bell rang, and the door 
was locked upon her, Matilda's work dropped, 
and she too herself almost fell upon her knees 
in her eagerness to seek and get help. That 
was what she prayed for; not that her aunt 
might grow kind, nor that she might be somehow separated from her and taken from her 



 

rule ; but that she might have help to be 
right; a heart to love and bear and forgive 
and be gentle. Matilda prayed and prayed 
for that ; while her lace lay on the floor, and 
the dinner downstairs was gloomily going on. 

" What's the matter with Matilda to-day ? " 
Maria had inquired. 

" Only a little impatience of her duties," 
Mrs. Candy had replied quietly. 

" I don't see what duties she can have, to 
keep her shut up in your room," said Maria 
hotly. 

" No. My dear, there are a great many 
things you cannot see yet. And where you 
cannot see, it is rather wise not to give 
opinion." 

"I have a right to an opinion about my 
sister, though," said Maria ; " and she isn't 
getting any good with all your shutting her 
up." 

" There I think differently from you, Maria. 
Matilda can darn stockings now in a way I 
am not ashamed of; much better than you 



 

can, I assure you; and she is going on to 
learn lace-mending beautifully." 

" What use is that to her ? I should like to 
know!" said Maria scornfully. 

" It may be some use to me," said Mrs. 
Candy. 

" You are doing Matilda a great deal of 
mischief," said Maria. u She is not the same 
child she was." 

" No, she is not," said Clarissa. " She is a 
great deal better behaved." 

" Yes. I have taught her to know her 
place," said Mrs. Candy. " It is a pity that 
is what you never were taught, Maria. You 
are too old now. I couldn't take a switch to 
you, and that's the only way." 

" You never did to her ? " exclaimed Maria, 
blazing with fury. 

" I never did," said Mrs. Candy. " But 
Matilda knows I would, at a moment's notice, 
if necessity came. I may do it yet, but I 
rather think I shall have no occasion." 

" You are a horrid woman ! " exclaimed 




Maria. " Of use to you. Yes, that is just 
what you care about. You want Matilda for 
a little drudge, to mend your stockings, I 
suppose, and darn your lace. You are too 
mean to live. If mamma had only known " 

When people get so far as this in a burst 
of helpless rage, the next thing usually is 
tears; and Maria broke down accordingly. 
Mrs. Candy and Clarissa finished their dinner 
and went away. 

" One cannot stand much of this sort of 
thing, mamma," said Clarissa as they 
mounted the stairs. 

" I am not going to stand much of it," 
replied Mrs. Candy. " I am rather glad of 
this outburst. It gives me the opportunity I 
wanted." 

" What will you do, mamma ? " 

" I have been thinking for some time what 
I would do. This just gives me the opening. 
I will get rid of this girl." 

" And what will you do with her ? " 

" Let her go learn her sisters' trade ; or 



 

some other, if she likes. We do not suit each 
other, and I am tired of it." 

" Yes, and mamma, though it is so good of 
you to keep her in this way, do you know 
you get no thanks for it ? " 

" O I never looked for thanks," sakl Mrs. 
Candy. 

. " No, but I mean, people do not give you 
credit for it, mamma. I know they do not." 

" Like enough. Well I won't ask them." 

" And you will keep the little one ? " 

" She's manageable. Yes, I will keep her. 
I like the child. She's pretty, and clever too ; 
and she'll be very nice when she grows up. 
I'll keep her. I shall want her some day, 
when you get married." 

" Besides, I suppose people would say ill- 
natured things if you did not keep one of 
them," said Clarissa. " Matilda has a temper ; 
but she minds you, mamma." 

" I have got her in hand pretty well," said 
Mrs. Candy as she unlocked the door. "Well, 
is that lace done ? Not ? Let me see. You 



 

have not done a dozen stitches while I have 
been away ! " 

" I'll do it now," said Matilda; so quietly 
and with a voice so cleared of all roughness 
or ill-temper, that Mrs. Candy after looking at 
her, passed on to her seat and said nothing 
further. 

But it cost Matilda some hours yet of 
patient diligence, before her task was ended. 
Then she brought it to her aunt for approval. 
No fault was found with it, and she was 
free to go downstairs to Maria. Maria had 
got out of the weeping mood into dry fury 
again. 

" I am not going to stand it ! " she said. 

" What are you not going to stand ? " 

" This way of going on. I will not put up 
with it any longer." 

" What can you do, Maria? " 

"I'll go away. I will! I declare I will. I 
will not be aunt Candy's cook and waiter any 
longer. I am not going to stand it. She 
may get her own dinners or get a girl," 



 

" But where can we go, Maria ? It is no 
use to talk so. We haven't any place." 

" She may keep you," said Maria ; " but I'll 
go. I can't stand it. I don't know where. 
Somewhere ! Anywhere would be better than 
this." 

" I couldn't live here without you, Maria, 
you know," said the little one. " Don't talk 
so. What has made you angry to-day ? " 

" Why, the way you are served ; and the 
way I am talked to." . 

" Me ? " said Matilda. " Never mind. You 
and I have a good deal of time fco ourselves, 
Maria. I shall get along, and I shall not mind 
so much. Don't you mind." 

" I won't stay and see it," said Maria 
stoutly ; " nor I won't stay and bear my part 
of it." 

" I quite agree with you," said Mrs. Candy, 
walking in from the other room. The girls 
were in the kitchen. " I quite agree with you, 
Maria. It is as unpleasant for me as it is for 
you, and you are doing no good to Matilda. 



 

It will be much better for us to separate. I 
have been thinking so for some time. You 
may choose what you will do, and I will make 
arrangements. Either you may join Anne 
and Letitia in town and learn the business 
they are learning ; or if you like any other 
business better, I will try and arrange it for 
you. Let me know to-morrow morning what 
you decide upon, and I will finish up the 
matter at once. I am quite tired of the present state of things, as you say." 

Mrs. Candy finished her harangue and 
swept out by the other door. Nobody had 
interrupted her ; and when she was gone nobody spoke. The two girls looked at each 
other, Maria with a face of consternation, Matilda white with despair. You might have 
heard a pin fall in the kitchen, while Mrs. 
