were on a thieving raid, and stole some horses, and 
part of the garrison went out from the fort. Two 
of the Indians were killed, and one of our men 
wounded." 

" Rob had a mind to enlist in the regular army," 
said Bruce. 

" It is great fun." 

"For a summer vacation," replied Mr. Meredith. 
" If you had only brought Aunt Ruth home ! " 

" What would my father have done ? " and then 



 

Bruce blushed, while the rest laughed at his out- 
spoken honesty. 

"Dear me, how little and crowded everything 
looks ! " declared Rob. " It almost stifles you to get 
back to civilization again. And how are all the 
boys ? " 

Kathie was expected to keep the run of the boys, 
and all other matters that appeared of importance to 
Rob. So she gave a very clear statement. 

By this time they were home, and had the warm- 
est of welcomes from mamma. Jessie and Mr. Mere- 
dith must certainly stay to supper, so they went up 
stairs to wash the dust of travel off of their faces. 

"Ada, you look like a new being," said Jessie. 
" How delighted Dr. Markham will be ! And your 
papa sent ever so many loving messages. We almost 
persuaded him to come, but it was difficult for both 
to leave. He wished that he might answer your last 
letter in person." 

The tears made a quick rush to Ada's eyes, but she 
would not let them drop. Did he like it then, that 
tiny glimpse of her heart and some of the new pur- 
poses of her life ? O, if she could have strength and 
grace to realize any of them ! 



 

" Yes, Kathie has surely been feeding you on the 
elixir of health and roses," said her uncle, putting his 
arm around her, and going back to the old fancy he 
had for her as a child. " I wonder that Dr. Markham 
can approve of her at all, since she interferes with 
the regular business. It is opposition to imposition. 
I expect she will be studying medicine next, and 
setting up for a physician." 

" I think I will take patients when they are almost 
well, and have the credit,' she returned, gayly. 

They went down stairs to supper, a merry crowd 
indeed, and before they were through Mr. Langdon 
came over to see what had happened, while Dick 
heard at the station, and made a rush straight- 
way. Bob would certainly be the hero of the evening. 



Ada took a fancy to ride over with her aunt and 
uncle, and the rest disposed themselves on the piazza 
steps to discuss Western life. But presently Bruce 
begged Kathie to take a turn through the walks with 
him. " For I have so much to say about her, O 
Kathie, you don't know what it is to have been hun- 
gry all your life for a little mother-love, to see other 
boys going home to mothers and sisters, and under- 
stand that there was none for you. But it has come 
now." 



" I am so glad." She felt more than ever willing 
to give up her dear Aunt Euth. 

" When she came to West Point we had only time 
for the merest visit and talk, and it was so strange 
to think of her being father's wife, and sort of taking 
my place in his heart, and he being so occupied and 
satisfied with her, I was afraid it would be more lone- 
some than ever for me, and that I would not have the 
first right to anybody." 

" Oh ! "' Kathie exclaimed, with a touch of sudden 
pain. " I suppose that is where it seems so hard to 
have a step-mother." 

" If I had had one when I was a little chap but 
my father has loved me alone for years and years. 
And I was some jealous, I guess. You see, I am 
confessing all my badness to you, Kathie, for you 
and she are so much alike. I told her all about it 
afterward. I am so glad we went out, Eob and I. 
We were a bit strange at first. Father said long ago 
that he would not insist upon my calling her mother, 
but if I could cheerfully it would be a great pleasure 
to him. So I always did. What are you smiling 

about ? for T know you are, though I can hardly 

see"" 

The idea of Aunt Euth having such a big son. 

pi ise don't be vexed," the soft voice entreated. 
I could not be vexed with you anyway. Well, it 
one thing to write it in letters, but quite another 

Wday it. I think she understood my awkwardness, 

 

perhaps the other little feeling, for the very first 
ling we were alone she told me she wanted a good 

talk, and we had it just splendid. After it was 

through I don't believe I could have loved an own 

her any better. She explained it all to me so 

pitifully, that there was room enough in my 

P ^er's heart for both of us, and that I must love 

him J us  as we as "before, and never let any 

distrust creep between us. By degrees, she said, 

T would learn to love and trust her. As if I could 


be doing it there on the spot ! And then, you 
i w, we were the very best of friends, and have 
the sweetest time, isn't that what you girls 

? I believe I have never been so happy in my 
say 

life. I could not bear to come away, any more 

that Rob '' 

T am so thankful to have you love her as she 

de.se rves '" 



 

" It would be shameful if I did not, when she has 
been so good. I only wonder how you could bear to 
give her up." 

" I had mamma and Uncle Eobert, you know, but 
I did feel very lonesome at first. Only I guess I was 
not consulted about it," she continued, archly. 

" I suppose they did not need either of us in coun- 
cil beforehand," Brace said, laughingly. " And I am 
so glad that father is very happy. He is so thor- 
oughly good and noble. It is strange that he should 
have taken such a great fancy to you at the first." 

Kathie remembered. A simple, eager, happy coun- 
try child she was then. And, going farther back, was 
it not Aunt Euth who had helped her to correct her 
faults, and strive for the higher graces ? 

It seemed so odd just then that she had to tell 
Bruce about the giants, and they had a good laugh. 

" I believe I shall have to go to work and hunt 
some up, for the rascals lurk around always. It is 
such a great thing to have some one help you a little 
in the warfare." 

It was indeed. Kathie felt how much she owed, 
and the only way to pay was to assist others. 

" This is my last year at West Point. And you 



 

cannot guess, Kathie, what is coming afterward. O, 
I forgot " ; and he checked himself. 

" A happy home maybe." 

He drew her hand through his arm, and held the 
small fingers in an eager, boyish fashion, as if his 
secret was indeed hard to keep. 

" I promised not to tell, so I must not say a word, 
only I do wish it was next June. You must not be- 
tray me by admitting to any one that I roused your 
curiosity." 

Kathie laughed musically, not guessing that the 
secret in any way concerned her. 

" ' Upon my word and honor,' " she replied. " Will 
that do ? And now, when do Aunt Kuth and your 
father intend to return ? " 

" I don't know. There are always so many halts 
in government business. Still, he wants to be back 
before cold weather. After this year he means to 
retire from the army. But mother has enjoyed the 
Western trip very much. I believe she grows prettier 
and rosier all the time. And I am very glad that she 
likes boys." 

Kathie laughed over that. If she could be sweet 
and patient with such a boisterous fellow as Eob, 
surely she mi^ht be tender to Bruce. 



 

They walked up and down under the trees until 
all the strangeness wore off. Once, when she spoke 
of his father, he said, "Why don't you call him 
uncle ? I like to feel that he is something to you 
as well. And I am going to claim my right of cous- 
inship in every particular." 

" I have never had any cousins that I remember,' 
she answered, slowly. 

Eob was equally enthusiastic about Aunt Euth. 
"She is something of a stunner, after all," he de- 
clared in his impulsive way. " You ought to see the 
deference the men pay to her, quite as if she were a 
queen. They would any of them go ten miles to 
serve her. I often think of the time I knocked down 
Lu Simonds for his impudence about her. Our poor 
dear crippled Aunt Euth ! It is like a fairy story to 
think of her getting well and marrying such a great 



man.' 



" And very delightful, I am sure." 

Bruce had just four days to stay at Cedarwood. 
He made so many cousinly demands upon Kathie 
that she was afraid Ada would feel herself slighted. 
Eob went half crazy over the boys, as if, when he was 
once swallowed up inside of college walls, he would 

 



 

never see them again. There was a continual going 
and coming, and Hannah declared that any other 
woman beside Mrs. Alston would lose her senses. 

Then there was a sudden scattering of the forces. 
Bruce said a last lingering good-by one morning, after 
making Kathie promise a dozen times over to write, 
and then Mr. and Mrs. Meredith took their depar- 
ture, Jessie extorting a promise from Kathie that she 
would be sure to spend Christmas with them. 

Then began some more important preparations. 
Bob's college outfit was nearly ready. His uncle 
was to go with him to New Haven, stopping over 
one night in New York and making some purchases. 

" I am thankful that he will have Dick Grayson's 
companionship," Mrs. Alston said. " It seems to me 
that he is wilder and more impetuous than ever. I 
do not know as the Western trip was the best thing 
for him, after all. I thought he was getting quite 
calmed down." 

" He is a healthy, irrepressible boy, and we shall be 
able to make nothing else of him for some years 
to come ; but he does grow in wisdom and moral 
strength. Dick's influence will tend to preserve the 
balance, I hope." 



 

Bob, Dick, Fred, and Charlie had some royal good 
rambles and rowing-matches. Fred had pretty nearly 
recovered his strength, but the doctor declared that it 
would not do for him to work as hard another year. 

" He is real heroic," declared Eob. " Here we lazy 
fellows think it a great thing if we study when all the 
rest is done for us, but he works and studies both. 
Xow if he could have an uncle and a fortune drop 
from the clouds as ours did ! " 

" Oh ! " exclaimed Kathie. " I give thanks for it 
every day of my life. It has brought us so much 
happiness." 





CHAPTEE XI. 

FROM PLEASURE TO WORK. 

" GOOD by ! Good by ! " 

With that Rob was off again. Mrs. Alston wiped 
away a few tears. It seemed as if she had so little 
of her boy nowadays. Here was Freddy, to be sure, 
sweet and loving, and not half the trouble of head- 
strong, wayward Eob. And yet, how her heart went 
out to him continually ! He always thought of her 
when he said his prayers night and morning, if at no 
other time ; but she carried him in her heart always. 

Kathie and Ada waved a last adieu. The house 
seemed very quiet now that the raiders had all dis- 
persed. Indeed, they hardly knew what to do after 
so much excitement. 

" I shall have to be thinking about school myself," 
Kathie said. " This lovely, lazy life has been en- 
chanting." 

Ada made no reply. What was she to think 
about ? The season was still exceedingly warm, and 



 

Mrs. Meredith did not propose to return until it was 
cooler. Uncle Edward had asked her to come and 
spend a week or two with them, but Mr. Conover had 
insisted that she should stay and have the utmost 
benefit of the healthful country air. But would it 
not be pleasant for her father's sake ? 

Would she have the courage to take up the duties 
that lay so clearly in her path, to be an earnest, 
helpful daughter, a patient sister ? She had many 
old longings for society, admiration, and pretty dress- 
ing, but none of these would come much in her way 
for the present. Should she refuse the things she 
might have, the simple, inexpensive pleasures, the 
opportunity of making others happy, and sink back 
into her olden sloth and apathy ? 

She was beginning to understand, slowly and 
faintly, like one long blind, that however much the 
kingdom of this world might be from without, the 
kingdom of heaven was within the soul's province ; 
and this it was that added the grand satisfaction to 
life. But it was a strait and narrow path- Could 
she walk in it ? 



Mr. Langdon dropped in a little while at twilight. 
" Brookside will be inconsolable," he said. " It is 



 

about as bad as the war-times when every one went 
marching off. Fred goes in a day or two ; and Emma 
wanted me to ask you to conie over to tea to-morrow 
night. Fred thinks they have done all the visiting." 

" With pleasure,' returned Katliie. " Our time for 
dissipation is nearly ended. It has been a delight- 
ful summer." 

" A very happy one to me." 

There was something peculiar in Mr. Langdon's 
voice. Kathie had never heard it there before, she 
thought. 

" I am glad," she said, earnestly. " There isn't 
anything quite like happiness in this world, at 
least, not so sweet." 

" No. And you have not guessed what event has 
given me mine ? * 

They were out on the porch alone. Kathie raised 
her puzzled face, and a rift of color crossed his. And 
then something came into her mind. A few days ago 
Eob had said, " Mr. Langdon is pretty sweet on Emma 
Lauriston, isn't he ? " Was it anything 

" Emma wanted you to know, but she had not the 
courage to tell. It is not to be a long engagement, 
so we do not care to keep our secret. I can't help 



 

thinking that she is ever so much like you, and I 
believe that was what attracted me first." 

" Oh ! " Kathie exclaimed, in the utmost humility. 

" Yes. She told me all about the old school 
troubles, and how you first came to be such dear 
friends." 

" She was very brave and noble," Kathie rejoined, 
quickly. 

" And we thought it a little ungrateful not to ask 
you in to our feast,' he said, with a smile. " Are you 
not going to wish me all sorts of pleasant things ? 
though I suppose it is quite impossible for you to 
take as much interest in us as in the Merediths." 

" I am sure you have been verv kind to Eob, to us 



all. And I know you will be happy, so I wish you 
everything." 

" Thank you. Didn't you really suspect ? you 
innocent little girl ! I dare say your friend guessed 
it. Come over to-morrow, or Fred will feel that you 
have exhausted your sympathy over the other boys, 
and have none left for him." 

Kathie went up to the sitting-room thoughtfully 
Ada was on Aunt Faith's crimson lounge reading, so 
*he gave her the invitation. 



 

" And Mr. Langdon and Emma are " 

" Engaged ! ' Ada laughed a little. " It has grown 
rather transparent of late, so I supposed it would come 
out soon. It seems to me there has been a great deal 
of falling in love in this house." 

Kathie sat down by the open window to think. It 
seemed so strange. Yes, there had been Jessie and 
Mr. Meredith, Aunt Ruth and General Mackenzie ; 
but she could make them grown-up people in her 
mind, while Emma was almost like herself ; and she 
felt awed with the mystery. 

" She ought to be a very happy girl," Ada said 
presently, with a half-sigh, remembering her own 
foolishly ambitious dreams. " Mr. Langdon is a 
gentleman." 

" And good and noble and i^nerous." 

They had a quiet, pleasant visit, but the atmos- 
phere seemed to have something odd in it. Emma 
blushed if any one looked at her, and her voice was 
full of tremulous breaks. She and Kathie never said 
a word about the secret, but there was a very tender 
sympathy between them. 

" I never saw anything like it in my life," Sue 
Coleman said, a week afterward, on her return 



 

"Here we girls went off husband-hunting, and dis- 
pensed our sweetest smiles around, while Emma 
stayed at home and captured the hero. Why, I 
was keeping an eye on him myself ! I think he is 
fully as nice as your Mr. Meredith." 

Ada had proposed to her father that she should 
return home and get the house in a little order before 
her mother returned, and he gladly acceded. Jessie 
had heard of a neat woman who was willing to come 
and do the cleaning. 

"It shows that Ada has improved," Mrs. Alston 
said, much gratified. " Your summer's work has not 
all been in vain." 

" Everybody has helped me continually. And, 
mamma, I think I am beginning to love Ada 
truly." 

" She is showing herself more worthy of love. I 
used to feel a little afraid of her influence over you, 
lest you might fall into her foolish habits and beliefs." 

They had never been very inviting to a girl like 
Kathie, and the sweet home influence had possessed 
her soul from the first. 

Ada was very sorry to go, even after she had re- 
solved. " It will be so much harder for me at home," 



 

she said to Mrs. Alston. "Our habits of life an. I 
thought are so different. I shall have no one to help 
me in my many discouragements." 

" There is One who never fails, never forgets. You 
must call upon him for strength, my clear child. He 
will answer to the uttermost." 

" If I could believe, could only trust. But it seems 
as if God could not care very much for one, when 
there are so many in the world needing his pity and 
help." 

" Yet if he cares for the flowers of the field and the 
birds of the air, will he so easily forget us ? Only try 
him, Ada." 

" I dare say I shall wish myself back hundreds of 
times," she confessed to Kathie. " I don't wonder 
that everybody gets to loving Cedarwood." 

" And when you are tired out you can come back 
for a week or two to rest. Even if I am in school we 
shall have some time to visit." 

" I shall want to come often." 

It was a really sad parting at the last, and the 
house seemed very lonesome when they were ail 
gone. But school began the next week. 

None of the older girls came back. To make 



amends there were some new ones who were old 
friends of Kathie, Mary Cox and several others. 
'' But much of the charm is gone out of it," she told 
Uncle Eobert. 

" All the duty is left. I suppose ? " and there was a 
half-mirthful, half-grave twinkle in his eye. 

Eob confessed to being homesick the first fortnight. 
The course of study was hard, half of the fellows were 
prigs, and the " Sophs " he hated. He was not sure 
but that he would rather go into some kind of busi- 
ness, or out on the frontier. 

" He will soon get interested. It is only the natu- 
ral reaction." 

" I can understand it, for I feel a little so myself," 
Kathie said, with a smile. 

Ada, meanwhile, had more than satisfied her father 
with her improvement. He was looking thin and 
worn, and showing his age. She had never realized 
how much she might be to him as when he took her 
in his arms and kissed her with a sad tenderness. 
Ah, there had a great deal gone out of his life ! 

The woman made her appearance in a day or two, 
a strong, good-hearted German, willing to under- 
take anything. So they went over to the deserted 



 

house, let in the sunshine, and set about making 
the rooms presentable. 

After her chamber had a thorough sweeping and 
airing, Ada determined to put it in order herself. 
There was a good deal of work in going over closets 
and drawers, and clearing out useless garments, faded 
finery, and half-worn shoes. How had so much rub- 
bish collected ? 

" I am sure I don't know what to do with it," she 
said, hopelessly. 

" Miss Meredith, if there is anything you don't 
want, give it to me ! My sister is a widow, and bar 
five children to clothe, so any trifle comes in good." 

Here was a deed of kindness right in the way. It 
did not seem as if those old, soiled, rumpled garments 
could be of any service, but the widow with five chil- 
dren must be much poorer than she. And somehow 
her heart warmed with the thought of benefiting the 
needy, a new feeling for her. 

The day was almost gone when she finished her 
room. It seemed a very little work to spend so much 
time over, yet she felt tired enough to stop. Chris- 
tine had gone through her father's room and the 
nursery, putting the latter in complete order. 



 

"You may as well take the broken toys, if you 
care for them,' she said, glancing at the miscellane- 
ous pile. 

" thank you, thank you ! ' 

" What a grateful creature ! " she thought. 

Christine found a large basket, and packed them 
in. She would take the key, as she meant to come 
bright and early the next morning. Ada had 
smoothed her hair and changed her dress, and now 
bade the woman good by with thoughtful courtesy. 

Jessie was becoming rather worried about her, and 
welcomed her with a cordial kiss, putting her in the 
great easy-chair, and not allowing her to stir until 
the gentlemen came home. 

" Be a little careful, and do not wear yourself out," 
was Jessie's sage advice the next morning. 

" O, I don't do any of the real hard work. Chris- 
tine is so willing and ready. If we could only get a 
servant like her ! " 

" I do believe a pleasant mistress usually makes 
cheerful servants. They are human beings like our- 
selves, and can feel hurt with sharp words or cross 
looks." 

Ada smiled a little. "I am afraid if Mary lul 




wasted all day arranging my room and closets I 
should have found fault. I know mamma would. 
And yet I worked faithfully myself." 

" I dare say. The trouble is, until we do some of 
these things for ourselves, we do not realize how 
much time they take. We may sometimes scold a 
servant when she has been very faithful, and perhaps 
her only way of retaliating is next time to be care- 
less. We all need more wisdom and patience to make 
the race of mistresses perfect," Jessie said, with her 
bright look. 

Ada went at her work with renewed energy. Her 
mother's belongings she did not touch, but her fa- 
ther's clothes were brushed and put in order, the soiled 
ones being laid aside for the wash. The sitting-room 
needed very little overlooking, so they came to the 
parlors. Christine swept first, and while she washed 
paint and windows, Ada dusted. If they could only 
get through with that before night ! 

" Here is a carriage at the door," exclaimed Chris- 
tine, " and an old gentleman." 

Ada's face was scarlet. She thought in a moment 
of her tumbled hair and her disordered dress. She 
had just taken the music out of the rack and scattered 



 

it over the floor, and hoped sincerely it was no one to 
see her. Then she caught the voice, Dr. Mark- 
ham's. 

" Hey ! hey ! " he exclaimed, marching in. " This 
is a good thing for weak eyes, - - such a sight ! Why, 
child, you are as rosy as a peony, and improved - 
forty per cent ! I would not have believed it ! And 
actually making yourself useful ! ' 

Ada could have cried with a sense of mortification, 
and the apparent ridiculousness of the whole scene. 
But he strode over and seemed to pick her out of the 
ruins, and kissed her, a thing he had not done for years. 

" My child," he said, with deep feeling, " God knows 
how glad I am to find you improved in soul and body. 
I have been very anxious for your welfare, and when 
I heard from Mrs. Edward to-day, I could not resist 
dropping in. You had a pleasant time, and were 
neither bored nor homesick ? " 

" Very pleasant." Her voice quivered a little. 

" I hope it may be the beginning of a new life. 
You are so young that you can make it almost what 
you will. There is something better than vanity and 
frivolity. If our girls would only learn the truth, we 
might hope for a better race of women." 



 

Ada did not reply. Her knowledge was so new 
and uncertain, and she was learning that the deep 
undercurrents of feeling could not so easily be put 
into words. 

" I guess you have done enough for one day. The 
air is very fine, so you had better put on some of 
your fixings and take a drive with me. I want to 
hear all about Cedarwood, like any other old gossip." 

" But I am in such a plight," Ada said, deprecat- 
ingly. 

" O, you can remedy that in a few moments." 

" And I ought not to leave my work unfinished " ; 
with a smile. "You will lead me back into bad 
habits again." 

" Nonsense ! Eun and get ready." 

Ada went up stairs and sat down on the edge of 
her bed in despair. In ten minutes Dr. Markham's 
patience would be exhausted. What could she do ? 
There was her hair to arrange, her dress to change, 
and a little dust surely must be washed off. dear ! 

But she went at it in good earnest. No elaborate 
puffs and braids this time. She combed her hair, 
gave it a loose twist, and slipped a net over it ; and 
somehow everything went smoothly, so that she did 



 

not much exceed the ten minutes. But it was a very 
simple toilet, yet it was seldom indeed that she 
looked prettier. 

" You deserve a bright penny, latest issue, and I 
am sorry I haven't one. What is to be done with 
this woman ? for I doubt if I bring you back here. 
Can she shut up shop herself?" 

l( yes." Then she gave Christine a few direc- 
tions, and, nodding gayly, went out. 

" Kathie will need to look well to her laurels, I 
think. It would be barbarous for an old man like 
me to prove inconstant at the eleventh hour, but you 
have grown quite captivating, Miss Ada. I begin to 
have some misgivings." 

" O, you need not," she replied, laughingly, meet- 
ing the droll twinkle in his eye that always betrayed 
an unusually genial mood. 

" And now tell me what sort of a time you have 
had. Are the headaches gone, and can you sleep 
well ? Have you taken any walks, and how is the 
weakness in your limbs, and the fluttering pulses ? " 

" I believe I am thoroughly well." 

" A blessing to be most thankful for. Don't fritter 
it away again, but live as a reasonable human being 

 



 

should, who was sent into the world for some use a 
trifle above the sloth or the butterfly, though I dare 
say they serve their purpose better than many of us. 
How do you like real good honest earnest living ? " 

Ada turned a blushing and perplexed face towards 
him. 

" I jumble my questions together too much, do I ? 
Well, we will take them a little more moderately. 
Cedarwood was better than the seaside ? " 

" I think it was." 

" You wanted companionship of the right kind, and 
a chance to use your faculties. Too many people in 
this world get rusty and decrepit and helpless before 
they have found out what they can do. If it is true 
that we go to Skitzland when we die, and that what- 
ever powers we fail to use here are taken from us 
there, what a set of cripples we shall be, both men- 
tally and physically ! " 

" That is a new world," returned Ada, in amuse- 
ment. 

" Belonging to an old philosopher. He paid it a 
visit one day, and found people who could not walk, 
others who had lost the cunning of their right hand 
or their left, or the faculties of their mind and soul, 



 

a set of grinning, chattering idiots, I dare say. It 
behooves us to be careful, for fear it might be the 
intermediate sphere " ; and his grim lips relaxed 
mirthfully. 

" What of the boys ? ' ; he asked, after a few mo- 
ments' silence. 

So Ada detailed snatches of her visit. She had 
improved a good deal in health, and perhaps not a 
little in wisdom. The old troublesome self was not 
as obtrusive as formerly. She had been roused to 
take an interest in the things about her. Dr. Mark- 
ham rubbed his hands mentally, and gave Kathie bits 
of quiet praise just under his breath. 

One of the greatest improvements was that she had 
become capable of appreciating the Doctor's sterling 
good sense, even if he was a little brusque. She felt 
attracted to him as she never had been before, and 
when she realized her own weakness, she understood 
the necessity of drawing about her the strong, kind 


friends who would not disdain to aid in an emer- 
gency. 

By Friday Ada and Christine had the house in 
complete order, and it happened very fortunately, for 
Mr. Meredith brought home a letter from his wife, 




desiring him to come down and bring Ada, as she 
had made arrangements to return the first of the fol- 
lowing week. 

" Then we shall begin in earnest," the young girl 
thought. "Heaven give me grace and strength to 
try!" 



