"Don't any of you wish to go on shore?" he inquired.
"Not yet," replied Sanford. "If you wish to take a walk, I will push
off from the shore, and wait till you return," said Sanford, very
respectfully.
"What's up? You won't go on shore, and you wish me to do so!"
exclaimed the suspicious officer.
"Nothing, sir," protested Sanford. "We don't intend to run away. We
think that is played out."
"If you wanted to do so in this desolate country, I would let you do
it, if I were the principal. But you are up to some trick, I know."
"What trick, sir?" demanded the coxswain, innocently.
"I don't know, but it is your next move," replied De Forrest, as he
seated himself, and seemed confident of his ability to check any
mischief which might be in the minds of his crew. "Shove off, bowman!
Up oars! Let fall! Give way together!"
The oarsmen, rather vexed at the turn of events, obeyed the several
orders, and the boat was again cutting the still waters of the fjord.
All around them were rocks, with several large and small islands in
sight. In various places on the rocks were affixed iron rings, to
which vessels could make fast in warping out of the bay when the wind
was light or foul. A portion of the rock to which they were attached
was whitewashed, so that the rings could easily be found, even in the
night. To one of these rings, on a small island near Odderö, which
commanded a full view of the landing-place, De Forrest directed the
coxswain to steer the boat.
"Make fast to that ring," said the officer.
"Ay, ay, sir," replied the bowman.
"Perhaps you would like to land here," added the lieutenant, in a
jeering tone, as though he felt that he had checkmated his crew in any
evil purpose they entertained. "Whether you do or not, I think I shall
stretch my legs on these rocks."
De Forrest leaped from thwart to thwart, and then over the bow upon
the island, as though he felt nothing but contempt for the power of
the boat's crew to do mischief. He walked up the rough rocks to the
summit of the islet, where he paused, and for the first time glanced
at his companions, whom he suspected of harboring some design against
the peace and dignity of the ship. As he did so, he discovered a
steamer, which had just passed through the narrow opening between
Odderö and the main land, and whose course lay close to the point of
the island where the cutter was moored. He saw that the swash of the
steamer was likely to throw the boat on the rocks, and grind her
planking upon the sharp points of the island.
"In the boat!" he shouted, lustily. "Shove off!"
Sanford saw the danger which the lieutenant wished to avert, and
promptly obeyed the orders.
"Shove off, Stockwell!" he promptly shouted. "Up oars! Stern, all!
Give way!"
Stockwell gave a tremendously hard push when he shoved off, and the
cutter shot far out upon the still waters; in fact, so far that she
was forced directly into the way of the approaching steamer.
"Oars!" yelled the coxswain furiously, when he saw that he had
overdone the matter. "Hold water! Go ahead! Give way!"
The crew, even in this moment of deadly peril,--for it looked as
though, in another instant, they would all be under the wheels of the
steamer,--obeyed every command with their wonted precision. But it was
a second too late to take the back track. If the boat had continued to
back as at first, she would probably have escaped, for the steamer put
her helm a-starboard a little, in order to favor her manoeuvre. When
a collision seemed inevitable, the steamer's bell was rung to stop
her, and then to back her.
She struck the cutter; but as her progress had been powerfully
checked, the blow did not carry her under, though it stove in the side
of the boat. The water poured in through the broken broadside, and the
crew sprang for their lives. They leaped upon the guys and bob-stays
of the steamer, and were hauled in by the people on the bow.
"Come out of there, Ole," said Stockwell, as he pulled the boat's sail
from the extended form of the waif, who was concealed in the bottom of
the boat.
Ole lost not a moment in following the example of his companions. As
the steamer's headway had now been entirely checked, Stockwell held
the wrecked cutter in her position, while Rodman passed the
pea-jackets up to the forecastle of the steamer. Having done this,
they abandoned the boat, and followed the example of their companions.
No one was drowned, or even wet above his knees, for the steamer had
struck the boat just hard enough to stave in her side, without
carrying her under.
The Norwegians hooked up the boat's painter, and taking it in tow,
proceeded on her course; for the captain--as interpreted by
Ole--declared that his boat carried the mail, and he could not wait
for anything.
CHAPTER IV.
NORWAY IN THE PAST AND THE PRESENT.
"Clear away the first cutter!" shouted the first lieutenant of the
Young America, from whose deck the catastrophe to the second cutter
had been observed.
"All the first cutters!" piped the boatswain, with an energy inspired
by the stirring occasion.
"That was very carelessly done," said Mr. Lowington, whose attention
had been called to the scene.
"The steamer ran within a couple of rods of the island," added Captain
Cumberland. "I saw the fourth lieutenant order the boat to shove off;
I suppose he did it to prevent the swash of the steamer from grinding
the cutter on the rocks."
"What is he doing among those rocks?" asked the principal.
"I don't know, sir. He landed Mr. Mapps and the doctor, and was
ordered to wait for them. I don't see why he went over to that
island."
The second lieutenant was directed to take charge of the first cutter;
Peaks, the adult boatswain, and Bitts, the carpenter, were ordered to
go also, to render any assistance which might be required in succoring
the stove boat. The cutter shoved off, her twelve oars struck the
water together, and the crew gave way with an energy which caused
their oars to bend like twigs, while the barge leaped through the
water as though it was some monster of the deep goaded to his utmost
to escape the wrath of a more potent pursuer.
"With a will, my lads!" shouted the coxswain. "Steady! Keep the
stroke, but use your muscle!"
"There's a job for you, Bitts," said the boatswain, as the Norwegian
took the second cutter in tow.
"And a heavy job it will be, too," replied Bitts. "I wonder there is
anything left of the boat."
"The steamer stopped her wheels, and backed some time before she
struck, or there would not have been much left of the boat, or her
crew," added Peaks. "Thank God, the boys are all safe."
"It's a lucky escape for them."
"So it was; and we needn't say anything about the boat."
"The steamer is going ahead," said the carpenter.
"No matter for that, so long as the boys are all safe," replied Peaks.
The people in the steamer seemed to take no notice of the first
cutter, appearing not to understand that it had come out for the
wrecked crew. But as the boat pulled towards her, she cast off the
cutter in tow.
"Steamer, ahoy!" shouted Norwood, the second lieutenant, as he saw the
cutter cast adrift.
She made no reply, but hoisted a flag, on which appeared the word
"Post," with something else which none in the first cutter could
understand.
"She's a mail boat," said the boatswain; "and I suppose she intends to
say she is in a hurry."
"Does she mean to carry off the crew of that boat?" demanded the
second lieutenant, not a little vexed at the conduct of the
Norwegians.
"She will not carry them far," suggested Dunlap, the coxswain.
"She may take them to Bergen."
"I think not, sir. If she is a mail steamer, she stops at all the
ports on the coast. I don't think she will carry them far. Very likely
they will be sent back, on some other steamer, before night," added
Dunlap, who had studied the coast of Norway more carefully than the
lieutenant in command.
"First cutter, ahoy!" shouted De Forrest, on the island.
"On shore!" replied Norwood. "We can't catch the steamer--that is
certain; steer for the island, coxswain."
The first cutter ran up to the rocky island, and as soon as the bow
touched the rocks, De Forrest leaped into the fore-sheets. He was
nervous and excited, feeling, perhaps, that he had failed in his duty,
and was, therefore, responsible for the accident to the second cutter.
From feeling that he had circumvented his crew in carrying out some
unexplained trick, he realized that he had led them into a trap, from
which they had narrowly escaped with their lives.
"What are you doing on this island, De Forrest?" asked Norwood, as the
discomfited officer took his place in the stern-sheets, and the boat
shoved off again.
The second lieutenant declared that he had come over to the island to
prevent his crew from running away, or from carrying out some trick
whose existence he suspected, but whose nature he could not
comprehend.
"Sanford wanted I should go ashore at the town, and offered to look
out for the crew while I did so," he continued. "Of course I wouldn't
leave my crew; but I told them that half of them might go on shore and
take a walk. None of them wanted to go, and then I was satisfied they
were up to something. I went on the island for the sole purpose of
watching them. I wanted to know what their plan was."
"Well, what did you discover?"
"Nothing at all. I saw that steamer coming, and I ordered Sanford to
shove off, so that her swash should not damage the boat."
"I don't believe they intended to play any trick," added Norwood. "You
are too suspicious, De Forrest."
"Perhaps I am; but fellows that have been at sea for a month are
rather glad of a chance to stretch their legs on shore. They wouldn't
do so, when I told them they might; and I don't believe such a thing
was ever heard of before. Besides, they all looked as though they were
up to something, and just as though they had a big secret in their
heads."
"Perhaps you were right, but I don't believe you were," said Norwood,
too bluntly for good manners, and too bluntly for the harmony of the
officers' mess.
"I suppose I am responsible for the smashing of the second cutter, but
I was trying to do my duty," replied De Forrest, vexed at the implied
censure of his superior.
"If you had staid at the pier this could not have happened."
"But something else might have happened; and if my crew had run away,
I should have been blamed just as much," growled the second
lieutenant.
"You were too sharp for your own good--that is all. But I don't mean
to blame you, De Forrest," said Norwood, with a patronizing smile.
"Perhaps I should have done the same thing if I had been in your
place."
"Stand by to lay on your oars!" shouted the coxswain, as the boat
approached the water-logged second cutter. "Oars!"
The crew stopped pulling, and levelled their oars.
"In, bows! Stand by the boat-hooks!" continued the coxswain; and the
two forward oarsmen grasped the boat-hooks, and took their station in
the fore-sheets. "Hold water." And the ten oars dropped into the water
as one, checking the onward progress of the cutter.
The bowmen fastened to the second cutter, and recovering her painter,
passed it astern to the coxswain, who made it fast to a ring on the
stern-board. By this time the steamer, with the luckless crew of the
stove boat, had disappeared behind an island. The first cutter pulled
back to the ship, and De Forrest immediately reported to the first
lieutenant, and explained his conduct in presence of the principal and
the captain. He detailed his reasons for supposing his crew intended
to run away, or to play some trick upon him.
"I think you have done all that a careful and vigilant officer could,
De Forrest; and so far as I can see, you are free from blame," replied
Mr. Lowington.
The fourth lieutenant glanced at Norwood.
"Just what I said," added the latter, in a low tone.
"If you made any mistake, it was in leaving your boat at the island,"
continued the principal.
"Just exactly my sentiments," whispered Norwood. "I don't blame the
fourth lieutenant, but I shouldn't have done just as he did."
"Where is that steamer bound?" asked Mr. Lowington of the pilot, who
had not yet left the ship, and was really waiting to be invited to
supper.
"To Christiania, sir," replied the pilot, who, like all of his class
on the coast of Norway, spoke a little English.
"Where does she stop next?"
"At Lillesand."
"How far is that?"
"About two miles."
"Two miles! Why, it is farther than that to the sea," exclaimed Mr.
Lowington.
"He means Norwegian miles," suggested one of the instructors, who was
listening with interest to the conversation.
"True; I did not think of that. A Norwegian mile is about seven
English miles. It is fourteen miles, then, to Lillesand."
With the assistance of Professor Badois, who acted as interpreter, the
pilot explained that the steamer which had just left was several hours
late, and would go that night to Frederiksværn, where the steamers
from Bergen and Christiania made connections with the boat for
Gottenburg and Copenhagen. The Christiania steamer would reach
Christiansand the next evening, and the boys who had been carried
away could return in her.
"Why did she carry them off? It would not have taken five minutes to
land them," added the principal.
"She was very late, and her passengers for Gottenburg and Copenhagen
would lose the steamer at Frederiksværn if she does not arrive in
season," the pilot explained through Professor Badois.
But Mr. Lowington was so grateful that the crew of the second cutter
had all escaped with their lives, that he was not disposed to be very
critical over the conduct of the Norwegian steamer. The boys were
safe, and would return the next night at farthest. The accident was
talked about, during the rest of the day, on board of all the vessels
of the squadron. The officers and seamen on board of the ship had
witnessed the accident, and had seen all the crew of the second cutter
go over the bows of the steamer. They had not observed, in the
excitement of the moment, that ten, instead of nine, had left the
wrecked boat; and as Ole Amundsen was dressed precisely like the crew,
his presence in the cutter was not even suspected.
The first cutter was sent to the town for Dr. Winstock and Mr. Mapps,
and in an hour or two the excitement had entirely subsided. The
routine of the ship went on as before, and as there was little work to
be done, the absentees were hardly missed.
At half past eight the next morning, the signal, "All hands, attend
lecture," was flying on board of the Young America. The boats from
the Josephine and the Tritonia came alongside the ship, bringing all
the officers and crews of those vessels. Paul Kendall and lady, and
their friends, were brought off from the shore; Shuffles and his wife
also appeared, and a further delegation from each of the yachts asked
admission to the ship to hear the lecture, or rather to attend the
exercise in geography and history, for the occasion was even less
formal than on the first cruise of the ship. The steerage was crowded,
after the boatswain had piped the call, and Mr. Mapps was doubtless
duly flattered by the number of his audience. On the foremast hung a
large map of Sweden and Norway.
"If you please, young gentlemen, we will begin with Scandinavia," said
the professor, taking his place near the foremast, with the pointer in
his hand. "What was Scandinavia?"
"The ancient name of Norway, Sweden, and Denmark," replied one of the
students.
"The barbarous tribes from the northern part of Europe at different
times invaded the southern sections, conquering various other tribes,
occupying their territory, and thus mingling with all the people from
whom originated the present nations of Europe. Thus, in remote ages,
the Scandinavians, among others, by their conquests and their
emigration, have contributed largely to the modern elements of
society. With this explanation we will look at Scandinavia in detail,
beginning with Norway. Between what degrees of latitude does it lie?"
"Between forty and ninety," replied an enthusiastic youth.
"True--quite right; and a safe answer. If you had said between one and
ninety, the answer would have been just as good for any other country
as for Norway. I would like to have the jacket fit a little closer."
"Between fifty-eight and seventy-one, north," answered one who was
better posted.
"Exactly right; about the same latitude as Greenland, and our
newly-acquired Alaska. Our ship is anchored in the same parallel as
the northern part of Labrador, and one degree south of the southern
point of Greenland. But it is not as 'cold as Greenland, here,' the
temperature being some twelve degrees milder, because the warm waters
of the Gulf Stream are discharged upon its shores. You know its
boundaries. It is one thousand and eighty miles from the Naze to the
North Cape, and varies from forty to two hundred and seventy miles in
width. How many square miles has it?"
"One hundred and twenty-three thousand square miles."
"Or a little larger than the six New England States, New York, and New
Jersey united. The country is mountainous, and abounds in picturesque
scenery. Precipices, cataracts, and rushing torrents are very numerous
in the central and northern parts. The Vöringfos is a waterfall, and
the Rjukanfos, near the central part, are cataracts of about nine
hundred feet perpendicular descent; but of course the volume of water
is not very large. The highest mountains are between eight and nine
thousand feet high. Norway has an abundance of rivers, but none of
them are very long. The coast, as you have seen, is fringed with
islands, which, with the numerous indentations, form a vast number of
bays, straits, channels, and sounds, which are called fjords here.
One of the principal of these is Christiania Fjord, which you will
ascend in a few days. The country also abounds in lakes, which, as in
most mountainous regions, are very narrow, being simply the widenings
of the rivers. The largest of these is Miösen Lake, fifty-five miles
long, and from one to twelve wide.
"The soil is not very good, and the Norwegians are not progressive
farmers. They cling to the methods of their sires, and modern
improvements find but little favor among them. The winter is long, and
the summer short; but by a provision of provident nature, the crops
mature more rapidly than in some of the southern climes, as grain has
been reaped six weeks after it was sowed. The principal crops are the
grains; but the supply is not equal to the demand, and considerable
importations are received from Denmark and Russia. In the south the
farmers devote themselves to stock-raising, while in the north the
Lapps derive nearly all the comforts of life from the reindeer, the
care of which is their chief industry.
"The extensive product of pine and fir have created a vast trade in
lumber, which constitutes three fourths of the exports to the United
Kingdom, and a considerable portion of the inhabitants in the wooded
districts are employed in cutting, sawing, and sending to market the
wealth of the forests. Next in importance to this are the fisheries,
which yield about five million dollars a year. Cod, haddock, and
herring are cured for exportation, and are an important source of
revenue. Besides these, the roe of the cod is sent to France, Italy,
and Spain, as bait for sardines. Norway supplies London with lobsters.
Norway iron, as well as Swedish, is very celebrated; but the mines are
poorly managed, as are those of copper and silver.
"The kingdom of Norway is divided into eighteen provinces, which are
called Amts. Its population, in 1865, was one million seven hundred
thousand, showing an increase of about two hundred thousand in ten
years. The government is a constitutional monarchy."
"I thought it was a part of Sweden," said one of the students.
"Not at all. The King of Sweden is also the King of Norway; but each
country has its own independent and separate government. Each has its
own legislature, makes its own laws, and raises and expends its own
revenues. The king exercises his functions as ruler over both kingdoms
through a council of state, composed of an equal number of Swedes and
Norwegians, whose duty it is to advise the sovereign, and, in
accordance with a peculiar feature of monarchy, to take the
responsibility when any blunder is made; for "the king can do no
wrong." If anything is wrong, some one else did it. Having the same
king, who rules over each nation separately, is the only connection
between Norway and Sweden. The former pays about one hundred and
twenty thousand dollars of his civil list, and he is obliged to reside
in Norway during a small portion of each year.
"The constitution of Norway is one of the most democratic in Europe.
The legislative and part of the executive power is vested in the
Storthing, which means the 'great court,' composed of the
representatives of the people. The king has but little power, though
he has a limited veto upon the acts passed by the legislative body. He
can create no order of nobility, or grant any titles or dignities. The
members of the Storthing are elected indirectly by the people; and
when they assemble, they divide themselves into two houses,
corresponding to our Senate and House of Representatives. All acts
must pass both chambers, and in case of disagreement, the two bodies
come together, and discuss the subject.
"The religion of Norway is Lutheran, and few of any other sect are to
be found; formerly, no other was tolerated, but now religious freedom
prevails, though Jesuits and monks of any order are sternly excluded.
The clergy, who are generally very well educated, have an average
income of about a thousand dollars a year, and I think are better paid
than even in our own country. The people are well instructed, and one
who cannot read and write is seldom found.
"The early history of Norway is that of most of the countries of
Europe--a powerful chief subjugated his neighbors, and united the
tribes into a nation. Harold the Fair-haired, whose father had
conquered the southern part of the country, fell in love with Gyda,
the daughter of a petty king, who refused to wed him till he had
absolute sway over the entire country. Pleased with the lady's spirit,
he vowed never to cut or comb his hair till all Norway lay at his
feet. It appears that he eventually had occasion for his barber's
services, and wedded the lady. This was in the ninth century; and the
victories of Harold drove many of the Norsemen, or Northmen, to seek
their fortunes in other lands. They discovered and colonized Greenland
and Iceland, and even established settlements on the continental
portion of North America. Traces of them have been found on the Gulf
of St. Lawrence, and some claim that they founded settlements farther
south. They figure largely in the early history of England and
Scotland, and even carried their piratical arms into Russia, Flanders,
France, Italy, and other territories.
"A son of Harold, who had been educated in England, brought
Christianity into Norway; but, it was three centuries before the new
faith had established itself. Like the Hindoos, Greeks, and Romans,
the ancient Scandinavians had a mythology, upon which their religion
was based. They believed that in the beginning all was chaos, in which
was a fountain that sent forth twelve rivers. These streams flowed so
far from their source that the waters froze, and the ice, defying the
modern law of nature, sank till the fathomless deep was filled up. Far
south of the world of mist, in which this miracle was wrought, was a
world of fire and light, whence proceeded a hot wind that melted the
ice, from the drops of which came the ice-giant, whose name was Ymir,
and from whom proceeded a race of ice-giants. From the wedding of the
ice and heat of the two extremes of the world came a cow, from which
ran four streams of milk, the food of the ice-giants. While this
wonderful beast was licking the salt stones in the ice, which formed
her diet, a quantity of human hair grew out of them, and the next day
a human head was developed, and then appeared a whole man. Bör, the
son of this man, married a daughter of one of the ice-giants, and they
had three children, the oldest of whom was Odin, who became the rulers
of heaven and earth, because they were all good, while the children of
Ymir, the ice-giant, were evil. Then, as now, the Good and the Evil
were at war. Finally the ice-giant was slain, and being thrown into
space, the world was created from his body; his blood forming the sea
and the rivers; his flesh the earth; his hair the grass; his bones the
rocks; his teeth and broken jaws the stones; and of his head the
heavens, at the four ends of which were placed four dwarfs, called
North, South, East, and West. Of this giant's brains, thrown into the
air, they formed the clouds, while of the sparks from the land of fire
were made the stars.
"As the sons of Bör, who, you must remember, were the gods of heaven
and earth, were walking on the shore of the sea, they discovered two
blocks, whereof they created a man and a woman. Odin gave them life
and souls, while his brothers endowed them with other human faculties
and powers. Odin was the Jupiter, the chief, of the northern gods. He
is the god of song and of war, and was the inventor of the Runic
characters, or alphabet. He was the ruler of Valhalla, the home of
heroes slain in battle. There is much more that is curious and
interesting in the mythology of the Scandinavians, which I must ask
you to read for yourselves.
"Olaf II. propagated Christianity with fire and sword. He demolished
the temples of paganism, and founded Trondhjem, or Drontheim, as it is
called on our maps. His successor, St. Olaf, followed his example,
till his cruelty excited a rebellion, and Canute the Great, of
Denmark, landing in Norway, was elected king. Olaf fled into Sweden,
where he organized an army, and attempted to recover his throne; but
he was defeated and slain in a battle near Trondhjem. His body was
found, a few years later, in a perfect state of preservation, which
was regarded as a miracle, and Olaf was canonized as a saint. His
remains are said to have wrought many miracles, and up to the time of
the Reformation, thousands of pilgrims annually visited his shrine at
Trondhjem. Even in London churches were dedicated to this saint.
"Canute gave Norway to his son Sweyn, who, upon the death of his
father, was dispossessed of the throne by Magnus I., the son of St.
Olaf. He was succeeded by Harold III., a great warrior, who founded
Osloe, now Christiania. After Olaf III. and Magnus III. came Sigurd,
who, in 1107, made a pilgrimage of four years to Jerusalem, with a
fleet of sixty vessels, and distinguished himself in the holy wars.
His death was followed by civil dissensions, until Hako IV. obtained
the throne. He lost his life in an attempt to retain the Hebrides
Islands, claimed by Scotland. Then war with Denmark, the monopoly of
trade by the Hanse towns, and a fearful plague, which depopulated
whole sections, produced a decline in the national prosperity of
Norway. Hako VI., who died in 1380, had married the daughter of the
King of Denmark, and the crown of Norway descended to his son, Olaf
III., of Denmark, in whom the sovereignties of Norway and Denmark were
united. Olaf was succeeded by his mother Margaret, celebrated in
history as 'the Semiramis of the North.' She conquered Sweden, and
annexed it to her own dominions. By the 'Union of Calmar,' signed by
the principal nobles and prelates of the three Scandinavian kingdoms,
the three crowns were united in one person, the subjects of each to
have equal rights. This compact was disregarded, and Norway was
hopelessly oppressed by the ruler. The Union, however, continued till
1623; but Norway was subject to Denmark till 1814.
"When the allied powers of Europe, which were engaged in putting down
the first Napoleon, rearranged the map of Europe, the destiny of
Norway was changed. Russia wanted Finland, and she offered Norway in
compensation for it to Sweden, with the further condition that
Bernadotte should join the allies. He accepted the terms, and the King
of Denmark was compelled, by force of arms, to cede Norway to Sweden.
The Norwegians would not submit to the change, and declared their
independence. Prince Christian, of Denmark, who was then governor
general of Norway, called a convention of the people at Eidsvold, and
a new constitution was framed, and the prince elected King of Norway.
Bernadotte invaded Norway with a Swedish army, while the allies
blockaded the coast. Resistance was hopeless, and as Sweden offered
favorable terms, Christian abdicated, and an arrangement was
immediately effected. The constitution was accepted by the king, and
Norway became an independent nation, united to Sweden under one king.
Bernadotte became King of Sweden and Norway under the title of Charles
XIV., John. He refused the Norwegians a separate national flag; but
when he attempted to alter the constitution to suit his own views, the
Storthing resolutely and successfully resisted his interference. This
body abolished titles of nobility--an act which the king vetoed; but
three successive Storthings passed the law, and thus, by the
constitution, made it valid in spite of the veto. The Norwegians were
not to be intimidated even by the appearance of a military force, and
have ever been jealous to the last degree of their rights and
privileges as a nation.
"Bernadotte was succeeded by his son Oscar I., who gave the Norwegians
a separate national flag; and he flattered the vanity of the people by
allowing himself to be styled the 'King of Norway and Sweden' in all
public acts relating to Norway, instead of 'Sweden and Norway.' In
1859, Oscar was succeeded by his son Charles XV., who is now the King
of Sweden and Norway. In the history of Denmark and Sweden, more will
be said of this kingdom.
"In French, Norway is Norvège; in German, Norwegen; in Spanish,
Noruega; and Norge in the Scandinavian languages. Now, I dare say
you would like to visit the shore."
The professor closed his remarks, and the several boatswains piped
away their crews.
CHAPTER V.
MR. CLYDE BLACKLOCK AND MOTHER.
Belonging to the squadron were fourteen boats, ranging from the
twelve-oar barge down to the four-oar cutter. In the waters of
Brockway harbor, rowing had been the principal exercise of the
students, though the daily evolutions in seamanship were well
calculated to develop the muscles and harden the frame. They had been
carefully trained in the art, and, enjoying the amusement which it
afforded, they were apt scholars. As the safety of the squadron and
the saving of life at sea might often depend upon the skill with which
the boats were handled, the principal devoted a great deal of
attention to this branch of nautical education. To give an additional
zest to the exercise, he had occasionally offered prizes at the
boat-races which the students were encouraged to pull; and the first
cutter was now in possession of a beautiful silk flag, won by the
power of the crew in rowing.
Every boy in the squadron was a swimmer. In the summer season this
accomplishment had been taught as an art, an hour being devoted to the
lesson every day, if the weather was suitable. Cleats, the adult
boatswain of the Josephine, was the "professor" of the art, having
been selected for the responsible position on account of his
remarkable skill as a swimmer. The boys were trained in diving,
floating, swimming under water, and taught to perform various
evolutions. Not alone in the tranquil bay were they educated to the
life of the fishes, but also in the surf, and among the great waves.
They were taught to get into a boat from the water in a heavy sea. A
worn-out old longboat had done duty during the preceding summer as a
wreck, in order to familiarize the students with the possibilities of
their future experience. It was so prepared that a portion of its
planking could be suddenly knocked out, and the boat almost instantly
filled with water; and the problem was, to meet this emergency in the
best manner. Other boats were at hand in case of a real accident, or
if any naturally timid fellow lost his presence of mind. While the
"wreck," as the practice boat was called, was moving along over the
waves, pulled by half a dozen boys, Cleats, without warning or notice
of his intention, opened the aperture near her keel. Sometimes she was
loaded with stones, so that she went to the bottom like a rock, though
this part of the programme was always carried out on a beach, where
the receding tide would enable the professor to recover the boat. The
crew were then to save themselves by swimming ashore, or to another
boat. Sometimes, also, the "wreck" was loaded with broken spars,
pieces of board, and bits of rope; and the problem was for the crew
to construct a raft in the water, often in a rough sea. All these
exercises, and many others, were heartily enjoyed by the boys, and a
ringing cheer always announced the safety of a crew, either on the
shore, in a boat, or on the raft.
Many persons, and even those who are tolerable swimmers, have been
drowned simply by the loss of their presence of mind. The dashing of
the waves, or the great distance of the land or other place of safety,
intimidates them, and they are unable to use their powers. But the
students of the squadron were gradually and carefully accustomed to
the water, so that they could swim a reasonable distance without
wearing themselves out, could rest their limbs by floating, and were
taught to avail themselves of any expedient to secure their safety. If
a boat was stove on the rocks in a surf, or was run down by a vessel,
the fact of being in the water did not frighten them out of their
wits, for they had been trained to feel quite at home, as in their
native element. They were actually drilled to confront danger in
every imaginable form. But a gentle and timid boy was not pitched
into the water, even after he had learned to swim. His constitutional
shrinking was slowly and skilfully overcome, so that even the most
delicate--though but few such ever found their way into the ranks of
the squadron--took to the water as a pastime. Of course the degree of
proficiency in the art of swimming, and of the acquired ability to
meet danger in the water, differed very widely in different boys; but
all were accustomed to the waves, and, in a measure, to leading the
life of a duck or a fish.
The crews of the several boats piped over the side, and took their
places, the rest of the students being distributed in the barges and
cutters, till only the adult officers remained in the ship. Each one,
as it was loaded, pulled off, and took its station in the order in
which the boat squadron usually moved. The commodore's barge and the
ship's first cutter, each twelve oars, led the van, while the other
boats came in four ranks of three each. All the boats carried the
American flag at the stern, and each one had its number at the bow.
All the Young America's boats had their numbers on a white, the
Josephine's on a green, and the Tritonia's on a blue flag.
The tactics of the boat squadron were many and various, which had
been adopted more to give interest to the exercise than for any
inherent utility. These movements were regulated by signals from the
commodore's barge. Mr. Lowington had decided to make an excursion
among the islands in the Fjord before dinner, and visit the town in
the afternoon. A pilot was put in the commodore's barge, and Captain
Cumberland, as acting flag officer, was in command of the squadron.
The principal and Professor Badois were passengers in his barge.
The cutters were formed in their usual array, and the two boats
from the yachts brought up the rear. The signal officer, who was a
quartermaster from the ship, at the order of the captain, elevated the
white flag crossed with red, with which all the signals were made. The
coxswains of the several boats could see this flag, while the oarsmen
could not, being back to the barge, and not allowed to look behind
them.
"Oars!" said each coxswain, as soon as the signal appeared.
At this command the several crews, who had been laying on their oars,
prepared for the stroke. The signal officer dropped the flag to the
port side of the barge.
"Give way!" added each coxswain; and the boat squadron moved off.
In order to keep the lines full, the larger quarter boat of the Grace
had been borrowed and manned, and now took the place of the second
cutter, which had been stove, and upon which the three carpenters of
the squadron were now at work, making the necessary repairs. The fleet
made a splendid appearance, with the flags flying, and with the
officers and crews in their best uniforms. The people on the shore,
and on board of the various vessels in the harbor, gathered to see the
brilliant array. The crew of an English steamer cheered lustily, and
the lady passengers waved their handkerchiefs. Suddenly the signal on
the commodore's barge went up again.
"Stand by to toss!" said the several coxswains, as the fleet of boats
came abreast of the steamer, which was the Orlando, bound from Hull to
Christiania.
The signal went down to the port side.
"Toss!" continued the coxswains, only loud enough to be heard by the
crews, for they had been taught that the unnecessary screaming of
orders makes an officer seem ridiculous, and injures the effect of the
manoeuvre.
At the word every oar went up, and was held perpendicularly in the air
with the left hand. A bugle blast from the barge at this moment
brought every student to his feet, with his right hand to his cap.
"One!" said the coxswain of each boat, at a dip of the signal flag.
A rousing cheer, accompanied by a swing of the cap, followed, and
was twice repeated, making up the complement of the three cheers, in
return for the salutations of the steamer's people. Her crew returned
the compliment in like manner. At another blast of the bugle, the
crews were seated with their oars still up. Again the signal in the
barge was elevated.
"Stand by!" said the coxswains, which was only a warning to be ready.
The flag dropped to port.
"Let fall!" added the coxswain; and all the oars dropped into the
water together, while the flag was again elevated. "Give way!" and the
stroke was resumed.
The passengers of the Orlando clapped their hands vigorously, as they
witnessed the perfection of the movements. The fleet proceeded up
the bay towards the west front of the town, where a considerable
collection of people had assembled to witness the novel parade. The
barge led the way to the extreme west of the bay, where the signal
flag was again exhibited, and then swung first to the port and then to
the starboard. This was the signal for coming into single line, and
the coxswain of each boat gave the orders necessary to bring it into
range. It was so managed that each boat came into the new order as it
turned to pass in front of the town; so that they proceeded in a
single line before the people, but not more than twenty feet apart.
Once more the signal flag appeared, with a double motion upwards.
"Stand by to lay on your oars!" said the coxswains. "Oars!" they
continued, as the flag swung down to starboard. "Hold water!"
These orders soon brought the boats to a stand. The signal flag moved
in a horizontal circle.
"Pull, starboard; back, port. Give way!" continued the coxswains; and
the effect of this evolution was to turn the boats as on a pivot.
"Oars!" and the crew ceased pulling, with their oars all on a level,
and the blades feathered.
The boats had been turned half round, and each coxswain aligned his
own by the barge on the right. In this position three cheers were
given in compliment to the people on the shore, though the Norwegians
seemed to be too dull and heavy to comprehend the nature of the
movement. The boats swung again, and continued on their way, in single
line, through the narrow passage between Odderö and the main land.
Under the direction of the native pilot, the barge led the way among
the islands, affording the students an opportunity to see the shores.
When the fleet came into the broad channel, the order was resumed, as
at first, and after various manoeuvres, it was dismissed, each boat
returning to the vessel to which it belonged.
The appearance of the fleet, including the two beautiful yachts, and
the evolutions of the boats, had created a decided sensation on board
of the Orlando, which was crowded with passengers, most of them
tourists on their way to the interior of Norway. The crews of the
several vessels piped to dinner as soon as they returned from the
excursion; but the meal was hardly finished before visitors from the
steamer began to arrive, and the boatmen in the harbor made a good
harvest on the occasion. Among those who came to the ship was an
elegantly dressed lady, with her son and daughter, attended by a
servant man in livery. Mrs. Garberry Blacklock was duly presented to
the principal by one of the gentlemen who had introduced himself. She
was evidently a very fine lady; for she was "distinguished" in her
manners as well as in her dress. And her son, Clyde Blacklock, was as
evidently a very fine young gentleman, though he was only fourteen
years of age. It is doubtful whether Miss Celia Blacklock could be
regarded as a very fine young lady, for she appeared to be very
pretty, and very modest and retiring, with but a very moderate
estimate of her own importance.
For the tenth time Mr. Lowington briefly explained the nature of the
institution over which he presided; and the fine lady listened with
languishing ennui.
"But it is a very rough life for young gentlemen," suggested Mrs.
Blacklock. "I should fancy they would become very, very rude."
"Not necessarily," replied the principal. "We intend that the students
shall behave like gentlemen, and we think the discipline of the ship
has a tendency to promote good manners."
"They must live like sailors, and sailors are very, very rude."
"Not necessarily, madam. There is nothing in the occupation itself
that--"
"But I wish to know what the fellows do," interposed Mr. Clyde
Blacklock.
"There is nothing in the occupation itself that begets rudeness,"
added Mr. Lowington, giving no attention to the young gentleman, who
had so impolitely broken in upon the conversation of his elders. "I
see no reason why a young man cannot be a gentleman in a ship as well
as on shore."
"I dare say you have sailors to do the dirty work."
"No, madam; our students do all the work."
"Do they put their own fingers into the pitch and the tar?" inquired
the lady, with a curl of the lip which indicated her horror.
"Certainly; but we think pitch and tar are not half so defiling as
evil thoughts and bad manners."
"They are very, very disagreeable. The odor of tar and pitch is
intolerable."
"We do not find it so, for--"
"I say, I wish to know what the fellows do."
"We are accustomed to the odor of them," continued the principal. "To
some people the scent of musk, and even otto of roses, is not
pleasant; and, for my part, I rather enjoy that of tar and pitch."
"That is very, very singular. But Clyde desires to know what the
young gentlemen do," added the lady, glancing at her son, behind whom
stood the man in livery, as though he were the boy's exclusive
property.
"They have a regular routine of study," replied Mr. Lowington,
addressing the lady, and declining even to glance at the original
inquirer, for the rudeness of Mr. Clyde in interrupting the
conversation seemed to merit a rebuke. "They attend to the studies
usually pursued in the highest class of academies, including the
modern languages and navigation, the latter being a speciality in the
course."
"I don't care what they study," said Clyde. "What do they do in the
ship?"
"We prepare boys for college, and beyond that pursue a regular college
course, so far as our facilities will permit. Our students have the
advantage of travel; for, in the present cruise, we shall visit all
the principal nations of Europe."
"What do they do in the ship?"
"Clyde desires to know what the boys do in the ship," added the lady.
"They learn good manners, for the first thing, madam. There are
fifteen officers in this vessel, and nine in each of the others. They
are all students, who take their rank according to their merit. The
best scholar in each is the captain, and so on."
"Does the captain manage the ship?" asked Clyde.
"Certainly."
"I should like to be the captain," exclaimed the young gentleman.
"Do you think you could manage the ship?" asked his mother, with a
smile which expressed the pride she felt in the towering ambition of
her son.
"I could, if any fellow could."
"Clyde is very fond of the sea; indeed, he worries me sadly by his
adventurous spirit," said his mother.
"I think it would do him good to go to sea," added the principal,
rather dryly.
"The students made a beautiful appearance in their boats to-day,"
continued Mrs. Blacklock. "It was really very, very wonderful."
"They handle the boats very well indeed, but their skill was only
acquired by long and careful training. As we have a considerable
number of visitors on board, madam, we will show you a little
seamanship. Captain Cumberland," he added, turning to the young
commander, who had been making himself agreeable to Miss Celia
Blacklock.
The captain asked the young lady to excuse him, and stepping up to the
principal, bowed gracefully, and raised his cap.
"He's a regular swell," said Clyde to his man.
"He's a young gentleman as is highly polished, which these naval
officers is generally," replied Jeems.
Mr. Lowington directed the captain to call all hands, and go through
the evolutions of loosing and furling, for the gratification of the
guests of the ship. Captain Cumberland bowed and raised his cap again
as he retired, and the principal hoped that Clyde would take a lesson
in good manners from him.
"Will you walk to the quarter-deck, Miss Blacklock," said the captain,
touching his cap to the young lady, to whom he had been formally
introduced by the principal. "We are going to loose and furl, and you
can see better there than here."
"With pleasure," replied Miss Celia. "But what did you say you were
going to do?"
"Loose and furl the sails," replied the captain, as he conducted the
fair miss to the quarter-deck, where they were followed by Mr.
Lowington and the rest of the party.
"Mr. Judson," said the commander.
"Here, sir," replied the first lieutenant.
"Call all hands to loose and furl."
"All hands, sir," responded Judson, touching his cap to his superior,
as all on board were required to do.
"They are all swells," said Clyde to his man.
"All hands, loose sails!" shouted the boatswain, as he blew the proper
blast on his whistle.
In a few moments every officer and seaman was at his station for the
manoeuvre indicated by the call. The students, aware that they were
simply to "show off," were fully determined to astonish the wondering
crowd on the decks.
"Stand by to lay aloft, the ready-men!" shouted the first lieutenant,
as he received the order from the captain.
It was repeated by the second lieutenant on the forecastle, the third
in the waist, and the fourth on the quarter-deck.
"All ready, sir!" reported the several officers.
"Lay aloft!"
At the command those whose duty it was to prepare the sails and
rigging for the manoeuvre sprang up the rigging, and in three
minutes the midshipman aloft reported that all was ready.
"Lay aloft, sail-loosers!" continued the first lieutenant.
The seamen, who were arranged in proper order on deck, the royal
yard men first, then those who belonged on the top-gallant yards, the
topsail, and the lower yards, placed in succession, so that each could
reach his station without passing others, leaped into the rigging, and
went up like so many cats.
"Man the boom tricing-lines!"
These are ropes by which the studding-sail booms, which lie on the
yards, are hauled up out of the way.
"Trice up!"
The studding-sail booms were drawn up.
"Lay out! Loose sails!"
The hands jumped upon the foot-ropes, and worked themselves out to
their places on the yards, where they loosed the sails, overhauled the
rigging, and made everything ready for the final evolution. The
midshipman in the tops reported to the officers on deck when the
preparations were completed, and the lieutenants on deck, in their
turn, reported to the first lieutenant.
"Let fall!" said the executive officer; and all, as one, the sails
dropped from the yards.
The precision of the movement called forth a demonstration of applause
from the visitors. Mr. Clyde Blacklock stood with his mouth open,
looking up at the students on the yards, but occasionally glancing at
the "swellish" first lieutenant, who seemed to be the master-spirit of
the occasion, because he spoke in a loud voice, while the captain, who
really controlled the evolutions, could hardly be heard, except by the
executive officer, to whom alone his order was given.
"Lay in! Lay down from aloft!" said the first lieutenant; and in a
moment more all hands were on deck again.
"Do you ever man the yards, sir?" asked a gentleman of the principal.
"Occasionally, sir--not often. You are aware that it requires some
preparation, for we are obliged to extend life-lines over the yards,"
replied Mr. Lowington. "We are not in condition to do it now. If we
should happen to be visited by the king at Copenhagen or Stockholm,
and had previous notice, we should certainly do it."
The crew were then required to go through the manoeuvre of furling
sails, which was performed with the same precision as the first
evolution, and to the great satisfaction of the guests, who were then
invited to visit the cabins and steerage of the ship.
"Mother, I like this thing," said Mr. Clyde Blacklock.
"It's all very, very fine, Clyde," replied the tender mother.
"And the ship's going up the Baltic, and then up the Mediterranean."
"Yes, Clyde."
"And I want to go in her."
"You, Clyde!"
"Yes, that's what I say."
"And be a sailor?"
"I always told you I wanted to be a sailor. Didn't that head master,
or whatever he is, say it would do me good to go to sea?"
"Perhaps he did, but I can't go with you, my dear."
"I don't want you to go with me. I'm not a baby!" protested the
indignant youth.
"But you are my only son, dear."
"If you had forty only sons, it would be all the same to me. I say I
want to go in this ship, and be a sailor."
Mrs. Blacklock was appalled, and was sorely disturbed by the
announcement of her son. The young gentleman insisted that he should
be entered at once as a member of the ship's company. He suggested to
his anxious mother that she could travel by land while he went by sea,
and that she could see him every time the ship went into port. The
lady appeared to see no alternative, but evidently felt compelled to
yield to her son's demand. It was plain enough, even to a casual
observer, that Clyde was the head of the family. Mrs. Blacklock
promised to speak to the principal, but she hoped he would not be
able to take her son. Before she had an opportunity to make the
application, the Orlando's bell rang for her passengers to return. The
sound seemed to be a relief to the lady; but Mr. Clyde put his foot
down just there, and upset all her hopes.
"Come, Clyde; the Orlando is ready to go," said she.
"Let her go," replied the hopeful son.
"But we must go on board."
"You may go. I'm off to sea in this ship."
"Not now, my dear," pleaded Mrs. Blacklock.
"Now's the time. If you don't speak to that head master yourself, I
shall do so."
"Not now, my dearest boy. This ship is going to Christiania, and we
will speak to the gentleman on the subject when she arrives. Come,
Clyde; the boat is waiting for us, and all the other passengers have
gone."
"You can't fool me, mother. I'm going to sea now. I like this ship,
and I rather like those swells of officers."
Clyde positively refused to leave the ship, though his mother, almost
in tears, begged him to accompany her.
"My son won't go with me," said she, as Mr. Lowington came towards her
to ascertain the cause of their delay.
"If you desire, madam, the boatswain will put him into the boat for
you," replied the principal.
"Put me into the boat!" exclaimed the indignant youth. "I should be
glad to see him do it!"
"Should you? Peaks!"
"On deck, sir," replied the big boatswain, touching his cap to the
principal.
"Pray, don't, sir--don't!" begged the lady. "Clyde wants to go to sea
in your ship."
"O, does he, indeed!" exclaimed the principal. "We have a vacant
place, and he can be accommodated."
The fond mother's heart sank at this announcement. Mr. Lowington,
though his experience with students of this description had been far
from satisfactory, felt that his duty to humanity required him to take
this boy, who was evidently on the high road to ruin through the weak
indulgence of his mother.
CHAPTER VI.
A DAY AT CHRISTIANSAND.
"But, madam, your steamer seems to be on the point of starting,"
suggested Mr. Lowington, as the Orlando rang her bell, and whistled
violently.
"I cannot help it," replied the lady, apparently taking no notice of
the steamer. "I came over here on a pleasure excursion, and now I feel
as though I had lost my son."
"Lost him, madam! We intend to save him," laughed Mr. Lowington. "But
we have no claim upon him. If you desire to leave in the steamer, the
boatswain shall put the boy on board whether he is willing or not."
"No, no; that would be very, very harsh. Let the steamer go. This
