sun on his back, and hear the stir of the leaves 
and the birds beginning their housekeeping. 

A very pretty idea for Mandeville ; and I fear 
he is getting to have private thoughts about the 





Young Lady. Mandeville naturally likes the ro 
bustness and sparkle of winter, and it has been 
a little suspicious to hear him express the hope 
that we shall have an early spring. 

I wonder how many people there are in New 
England who know the glory and inspiration of a 
winter walk just before sunset, and that, too, not 
only on days of clear sky, when the west is aflame 
with a rosy color, which has no suggestion of lan 
guor or unsatisfied longing in it, but on dull days, 
when the sullen clouds hang about the horizon, 
full of threats of storm and the terrors of the 
gathering night. We are very busy with our own 
affairs, but there is always something going on 
out-doors worth looking at ; and there is seldom 
an hour before sunset that has not some special 
attraction. And, besides, it puts one in the mood 
for the cheer and conrfort of the open fire at 
home. 

Probably if the people of New England could 
have a plebiscitum on their weather, they would 
vote against it, especially against winter. Almost 
no one speaks well of winter. And this suggests 
the idea that most people here were either born 



 

in the wrong place, or do not know what is best 
for them. I doubt if these grumblers would be 
any better satisfied, or would turn out as well, 
in the tropics. Everybody knows our virtues, 
at least if they believe half we tell them, and 
for delicate beauty, that rare plant, I should look 
among the girls of the New England hills as 
confidently as anywhere, and I have travelled as 
far south as New Jersey, and west of the Genesee 
Valley. Indeed, it would be easy to show that 
the parents of the pretty girls in the West emi 
grated from New England. And yet such is 
the mystery of Providence no one would expect 
that one of the sweetest and most delicate flow 
ers that blooms, the trailing arbutus, would blos 
som in this inhospitable climate, and peep forth 
from the edge of a snow-bank at that. 

It seems unaccountable to a superficial observer 
that the thousands of people who are dissatisfied 
with their climate do not seek a more congenial 
one or stop grumbling. The world is so small, 
and all parts of it are so accessible, it has so 
many varieties of climate, that one could surely 
suit himself by searching ; and, then, is it worth 



 

while to waste our one short life in the midst of 
unpleasant surroundings and in a constant friction 
with that which is disagreeable? One would 
suppose that people set down on this little globe 
would seek places on it most agreeable to them 
selves. It must be that they are much more 
content with the climate and country upon which 
they happen, by the accident of their birth, than 
they pretend to be. 

III. 

HOME sympathies and charities are most active 
in the winter. Coming in from my late walk, 
in fact driven in by a hurrying north-wind that 
would brook no delay, a wind that brought 
snow that did not seem to fall out of a bounteous 
sky, but to be blown from polar fields, I find 
the Mistress returned from town, all in a glow 
of philanthropic excitement. 

There has been a meeting of a woman's asso 
ciation for Ameliorating the Condition of some 
body here at home. Any one can belong to 
it by paying a dollar, and for twenty dollars one 



 

can become a life Ameliorator, a sort of life 
assurance. The Mistress, at the meeting, I 
believe, " seconded the motion " several times, 
and is one of the Vice-Presidents ; and this fam 
ily honor makes me feel almost as if I were a 
president of something myself. These little dis 
tinctions are among the sweetest things in life, 
and to see one's name officially printed stimu 
lates his charity, and is almost as satisfactory as 
being the chairman of a committee or the mover 
of a resolution. It is, I think, fortunate, and not 
at all discreditable, that our little vanity, which 
is reckoned among our weaknesses, is thus made 
to contribute to the activity of our nobler powers. 
Whatever we may say, we all of us like distinc 
tion ; and probably there is no more subtle flat 
tery than that conveyed in the whisper, " That 's 
he," "That's she." 

There used to be a society for ameliorating 
the condition of the Jews ; but they were found 
to be so much more adept than other people in 
ameliorating their own condition that I suppose 
it was given up. Mandeville says that to his 
knowledge there are a great many people who 



Il 

get up ameliorating enterprises merely to be con 
spicuously busy in society, or to earn a little 
something in a good cause. They seem to think 
that the world owes them a living because they 
are philanthropists. In this Mandeville does not 
speak with his usual charity. It is evident that 
there are Jews, and some Gentiles, whose condi 
tion needs ameliorating, and if very little is really 
accomplished in the effort for them, it always 
remains true that the charitable reap a ben 
efit to themselves. It is one of the beautiful 
compensations of this life that no one can sin 
cerely try to help another without helping 
himself. 

OUR NEXT-DOOR NEIGHBOR. Why is it that 
almost all philanthropists and reformers are dis 
agreeable ? 

I ought to explain who our next-door neighbor 
is. He is the person who comes in without 
knocking, drops irr in the most natural way, as 
his wife does also, and not seldom in time to 
take the after-dinner cup of tea before the fire. 
Formal society begins as soon as you lock your 
doors, and only admit visitors through the media 



 

of bells and servants. It is lucky for us that our 
next-door neighbor is honest. 

THE PARSON. Why do you class reformers 
and philanthropists together ? Those usually 
called reformers are not philanthropists at all. 
They are agitators. Finding the world disagree 
able to themselves, they wish to make it as 
unpleasant to others as possible. 

MANDEVILLE. That 's a noble view of your 
fellow-men. 

OUR NEXT DOOR. Well, granting the distinc 
tion, why are both apt to be unpleasant people 
to live with ? 

THE PARSON. As if the unpleasant people 
who won't mind their own business were confined 
to the classes you mention ! Some of the best 
people I know are philanthropists, I mean the 
genuine ones, and not the uneasy busybodies 
seeking notoriety as a means of living. 

THE FIRE-TENDER. It is not altogether the 
not minding their own business. Nobody does 
that. The usual explanation is, that people with 
one idea are tedious. But that is not all of it. 
For few persons have more than one idea, 




ministers, doctors, lawyers, teachers, manufac 
turers, merchants, they all think the world 
they live in is the central one. 

MANDEVILLE. And you might add authors. 
To them nearly all the life of the world is in 
letters, and I suppose they would be astonished 
if they knew how little the thoughts of the 
majority of people are occupied with books, 
and with all that vast thought-circulation which 
is the vital current of the world to book-men. 
Newspapers have reached their present power by 
becoming unliterary, and reflecting all the inter 
ests of the world. 

THE MISTRESS. I have noticed one thing, that 
the most popular persons in society are those 
who take the world as it is, find the least fault, 
and have no hobbies. They are always wanted 
to dinner. 

THE YOUNG LADY. And the other kind 
always appear to me to want a dinner. 

THE FIRE-TENDER. It seems to me that the 
real reason why reformers and some philanthro 
pists are unpopular is, that they disturb our 
serenity and make us conscious of our own short- 



 

comings. It is only now and then that a whole 
people get a spasm of reformatory fervor, of 
investigation and regeneration. At other times 
they rather hate those who disturb their quiet. 

OUR NEXT DOOR. Professional reformers and 
philanthropists are insufferably conceited and 
intolerant. 

THE MISTRESS. Everything depends upon the 
spirit in which a reform or a scheme of philan 
thropy is conducted. 

MANDEVILLE. I attended a protracted con 
vention of reformers of a certain evil, once, and 
had the pleasure of taking dinner with a table 
ful of them. It was one of those country din 
ners accompanied with green tea. Every one 
disagreed with every one else, and you wouldn't 
wonder at it, if you had seen them. They were 
people with whom good food wouldn't agree. 
George Thompson was expected at the conven 
tion, and I remember that there was almost a 
cordiality in the talk about him, until one sallow 
brother casually mentioned that George took 
snuff, when a chorus of deprecatory groans 
went up from the table. One long-faced maiden 



in spectacles, with purple ribbons in her hair, 
who drank five cups of tea by my count, declared 
that she was perfectly disgusted, and didn't 
want to hear him speak. In the course of the 
meal the talk ran upon the discipline of children, 
and how to administer punishment. I was quite 
taken by the remark of a thin, dyspeptic man 
who summed up the matter by growling out in a 
harsh, deep bass voice, " Punish 'em in love ! " 
It sounded as if he had said, " Shoot 'em on the 
spot ! " 

THE PARSON. I supposed you would say that 
he was a minister. There is another thing about 
those people. I think they are working against 
the course of nature. Nature is entirely indif 
ferent to any reform. She perpetuates a fault as 
persistently as a virtue. There 's a split in my 
thumb-nail that has been scrupulously continued 
for many years, notwithstanding all my efforts 
to make the nail resume its old regularity. You 
see the same thing in trees whose bark is cut, 
and in melons that have had only one summer's 
intimacy with squashes. The bad traits in char 
acter are passed down from generation to genera- 



 

tion with as much care as the good ones. 
Nature, unaided, never reforms anything. 

MANDEVILLE. Is that the essence of Calvin 
ism ? 

THE PARSON. Calvinism hasn't any essence, 
it 's a fact. 

MANDEVILLE. When I was a boy, I always 
associated Calvinism and calomel together. I 
thought that homoeopathy stmitia, etc. had 
done away with both of them. 

OUR NEXT DOOR (rising). If you are going 
into theology, I 'm off. 



IV. 

I FEAR we are not getting on much with the 
joyousness of winter. In order to be exhilarating 
it must be real winter. I have noticed that the 
lower the thermometer sinks the more fiercely 
the north-wind rages, and the deeper the snow 
is the higher rise the spirits of flie community. 
The activity of the "elements" has a great effect 
upon country folk especially ; and 'it is a more 



 

wholesome excitement than that caused by a 
great conflagration. The abatement of a snow 
storm that grows to exceptional magnitude is 
regretted, for there is always the half-hope that 
this will be, since it has gone so far, the largest 
fall of snow ever known in the region, burying 
out of sight the great fall of 1868, the account 
of which is circumstantially and aggravatingly 
thrown in our way annually upon the least prov 
ocation. We all know how it reads : " Some 
said it began at daylight, others that it set 
in after sunrise ; but all agree that by eight 
o'clock Friday morning it was snowing in heavy 
masses that darkened the air." 

The morning after we settled the five or 
is it seven ? points of Calvinism, there began 
a very hopeful snow-storm, one of those wide- 
sweeping, careering storms that may not much 
affect the city, but which strongly impress the 
country imagination with a sense of the personal 
qualities of the weather, power, persistency, 
fierceness, and roaring exultation. Out-doors 
was terrible to those who looked out of windows, 
and heard the raging wind, and saw the commo- 



 

tion in all the high tree-tops and the writhing of 
the low evergreens, and could not summon reso 
lution to go forth and breast and conquer the 
bluster. The sky was dark with snow, which 
was not permitted to fall peacefully like a blessed 
mantle, as it sometimes does, but was blown and 
rent and tossed like the split canvas of a ship in 
a gale. The world was taken possession of by 
the demons of the air, who had their will of it. 
There is a sort of fascination in such a scene, 
equal to that of a tempest at sea, and without its 
attendant haunting sense of peril ; there is no 
fear that the house will founder or dash against 
your neighbor's cottage, which is dimly seen 
anchored across the field ; at every thundering 
onset there is no fear that the cook's galley will 
upset, or the screw break loose and smash 
through the side, and we are not in momently 
expectation of the tinkling of the little bell to 
" stop her." The snow rises in drifting waves, 
and the naked trees bend like strained masts ; 
but so long as the window-blinds remain fast, and 
the chimney-tops do not go, we preserve an 
equal mind. Nothing more serious can happen 



 

than the failure of the butcher's and the grocer's 
carts, unless, indeed, the little news-carrier should 
fail to board us with the world's daily bulletin, 
or our next-door neighbor should be deterred 
from coming to sit by the blazing, excited fire, 
and interchange the trifling, harmless gossip of 
the day. The feeling of seclusion on such a day 
is sweet, but the true friend who does brave the 
storm and come is welcomed with a sort of 
enthusiasm that his arrival in pleasant weather 
would never excite. The snow-bound in their 
Arctic hulk are glad to see even a wandering 
squimau. 

On such a day I recall the great snow-storms 
on the northern New England hills, which lasted 
for a week with no cessation, with no sunrise or 
sunset, and no observation at noon ; and the sky 
all the while dark with the driving snow, and the 
whole world full of the noise of the rioting Boreal 
forces ; until the roads were obliterated, the fences 
covered, and the snow was piled solidly above the 
first-story windows of the farm-house on one 
side, and drifted before the front door so high 
that egress could only be had by tunnelling the 
bank. 



 

After such a battle and siege, when the wind 
fell and the sun struggled out again, the pallid 
world lay subdued and tranquil, and the scattered 
dwellings were not unlike wrecks stranded by the 
tempest and half buried in sand. But when the 
blue sky again bent over all, the wide expanse of 
snow sparkled like diamond-fields, and the chim 
ney signal-smokes could be seen, how beautiful 
was the picture ! Then began the stir abroad, 
and the efforts to open up communication 
through roads, or fields, or wherever paths 
could be broken, and the ways to the meeting 
house first of all. Then from every house and 
hamlet the men turned out with shovels, with the 
patient, lumbering oxen yoked to the sleds, to 
break the roads, driving into the deepest drifts, 
shovelling and shouting as if the severe labor 
were a holiday frolic, the courage and the hilarity 
rising with the difficulties encountered ; and relief parties, meeting at length in the midst of the 
wide white desolation, hailed each other as chance 
explorers in new lands, and made the whole coun 
try-side ring with the noise of their congratula 
tions. There was as much excitement and healthy 



 

stirring of the blood in it as in the Fourth of July, 
and perhaps as much patriotism. The boy saw it 
in dumb show from the distant, low farm-house 
window, and wished he were a man. At night 
there were great stories of achievement told by 
the cavernous fireplace ; great latitude was per 
mitted in the estimation of the size of particular 
drifts, but never any agreement was reached as 
to the "depth on a level." I have observed since 
that people are quite as apt to agree upon the 
marvellous and the exceptional as upon simple 
facts. 



V. 



BY the firelight and the twilight, the Young 
Lady is finishing a letter to Herbert, writing 
it, literally, on her knees, transforming thus the 
simple deed into an act of devotion. Mandeville 
says that it is bad for her eyes, but the sight of it 
is worse for his eyes. He begins to doubt the 
wisdom of reliance upon that worn apothegm 
about absence conquering love. Memory has the 
singular characteristic of recalling in a friend 



 

absent, as in a journey long past, only that which 
is agreeable. Mandeville begins to wish he were 
in New South Wales. 

I did intend to insert here a. letter of Herbert's 
to the Young Lady, obtained, I need not say, 
honorably, as private letters which get into print 
always are, not to gratify a vulgar curiosity, 
but to show how the most unsentimental and 
cynical people are affected by the master passion. 
But I cannot bring myself to do it. Even in the 
interests of science one has no right to make 
an autopsy of two loving hearts, especially when 
they are suffering under a late attack of the one 
agreeable epidemic. All the world loves a lover, 
but it laughs at him none the less in his extrava 
gances. He loses his accustomed reticence ; he 
has something of the martyr's willingness for pub 
licity ; he would even like to show the sincerity of 
his devotion by some piece of open heroism. Why 
should he conceal a discovery which has trans 
formed the world to him, a secret which explains 
all the mysteries of nature and humanity ? He is 
in that ecstasy of mind which prompts those who 
were never orators before to rise in an experience- 



 

meeting and pour out a flood of feeling in the 
tritest language and the most conventional terms. 
I am not sure that Herbert, while in this glow, 
would be ashamed of his letter in print, but this 
is one of the cases where chancery would step in 
and protect one from himself by his next friend. 
This is really a delicate matter, and perhaps it is 
brutal to allude to it at all. 

In truth, the letter would hardly be interesting 
in print. Love has a marvellous power of vivify 
ing language and charging the simplest words 
with the most tender meaning, of restoring to 
them the power they had when first coined. They 
are words of fire to those two who know their 
secret, but not to others. It is generally admit 
ted that the best love-letters would not make very 
good literature. " Dearest," begins Herbert, in a 
burst of originality, felicitously selecting a word 
whose exclusiveness shuts out all the world but 
one, and which is a whole letter, poem, confes 
sion, and creed in one breath. What a weight 
of meaning it has to carry ! There may be 
beauty and wit and grace and naturalness and 
even the splendor of fortune elsewhere, but there 



 

is one woman in the world whose sweet presence 
would be compensation for the loss of all else. It 
is not to be reasoned about ; he wants that one ; 
it is her plume dancing down the sunny street 
that sets his heart beating ; he knows her form 
among a thousand, and follows her; he longs to 
run after her carriage, which the cruel coachman 
whirls out of his sight. It is marvellous to him 
that all the world does not want her too, and he 
is in a panic when he thinks of it. And what 
exquisite flattery is in that little word addressed 
to her, and with what sweet and meek triumph 
she repeats it to herself, with a feeling that is not 
altogether pity for those who still stand and wait. 
To be chosen out of all the available world it 
is almost as much bliss as it is to choose. "All 
that long, long stage-ride from Blim's to Portage 
I thought of you every moment, and wondered 
what you were doing and how you were looking 
just that moment, and I found the occupation so 
charming that I was almost sorry when the jour 
ney was ended." Not much in that ! But I have 
no doubt the Young Lady read it over and over, 
and dwelt also upon every moment, and found in 




it new proof of unshaken constancy, and had in 
that and the like things in the letter a sense of 
the sweetest communion. There is nothing in 
this letter that we need dwell on it, but I am 
convinced that the mail does not carry any other 
letters so valuable as this sort. 

I suppose that the appearance of Herbert in 
this new light unconsciously gave tone a little to 
the evening's talk ; not that anybody mentioned 
him, but Mandeville was evidently generalizing 
from the qualities that make one person admired 
by another to those that win the love of man 
kind. 

MANDEVILLE. There seems to be something 
in some persons that wins them liking, special or 
general, independent almost of what they do or 
say. 

THE MISTRESS. Why, everybody is liked by 
some one. 

MANDEVILLE. I 'm not sure of that. There 
are those who are friendless, and would be if 
they had endless acquaintances. But, to take 
the case away from ordinary examples, in which 
habit and a thousand circumstances influence 



 

liking, what is it that determines the world upon 
a personal regard for authors whom it has never 
seen ? 

THE FIRE-TENDER. Probably it is the spirit 
shown in their writings. 

THE MISTRESS. More likely it is a sort of tra 
dition ; I don't believe that the world has a feel 
ing of persona] regard for any author who was 
not loved by those who knew him most inti 
mately. 

THE FIRE-TENDER. Which comes to the same 
thing. The qualities, the spirit, that got him the 
love of his acquaintances he put into his books. 

MANDEVILLE. That doesn't seem to me suf 
ficient. Shakespeare has put everything into 
his plays and poems, swept the whole range of 
human sympathies and passions, and at times is 
inspired by the sweetest spirit that ever man 
had. 

THE YOUNG LADY. No one has better inter 
preted love. 

MANDEVILLE. Yet I apprehend that no per 
son living has any personal regard for Shake 
speare, or that his personality affects many, 



 

except they stand in Stratford church and feel a 
sort of awe at the thought that the bones of the 
greatest poet are so near them. 

THE PARSON. I don't think the world cares 
personally for any mere man or woman dead for 
centuries. 

MANDEVILLE. But there is a difference. I 
think there is still gather a warm feeling for 
Socrates the man, independent of what he said, 
which is little known. Homer's works are cer 
tainly better known, but no one cares person 
ally for Homer any more than for any other 
shade. 

OUR NEXT DOOR. Why not go back to Moses ? 
We 've got the evening before us for digging up 
people. 

MANDEVILLE. Moses is a very good illustra 
tion. No name of antiquity is better known, 
and yet I fancy he does not awaken the same 
kind of popular liking that Socrates does. 

OUR NEXT DOOR. Fudge ! You just get up 
in any lecture assembly and propose three cheers 
for Socrates, and see where you 'll be. Mande- 
ville ought to be a missionary, and read Robert 
Browning to the Fijis. 



 

THE FIRE-TENDER. How do you account for 
the alleged personal regard for Socrates ? 

THE PARSON. Because the world called Chris 
tian is still more than half heathen. 

MANDEVILLE. He was a plain man ; his sym 
pathies were with the people ; he had what is 
roughly known as "horse-sense," and he was 
homely. Franklin and Abraham Lincoln be 
long to his class. They were all philosophers 
of the shrewd sort, and they all had humor. 
It was fortunate for Lincoln that, with his 
other qualities, he was homely. That was the 
last touching recommendation to the popular 
heart. 

THE MISTRESS. Do you remember that ugly 
brown-stone statue of St. Antonino by the bridge 
in Sorrento ? He must have been a coarse saint, 
patron of pigs as he was, but I don't know any 
one anywhere, or the homely stone image of one, 
so loved by the people. 

OUR NEXT DOOR. Ugliness being trump, I 
wonder more people don't win. Mandeville, why 
don't you get up a "centenary" of Socrates, and 
put up his statue in the Central Park? It would 



 

make that one of Lincoln in Union Square look 
beautiful. 

THE PARSON. O, you 'll see that some day, 
when they have a museum there illustrating the 
" Science of Religion." 

THE FIRE-TENDER. Doubtless, to go back to 
what we were talking of, the world has a fond 
ness for some authors, and thinks of them with 
an affectionate and half-pitying familiarity ; and 
it may be that this grows out of something in 
their lives quite as much as anything in their 
writings. There seems to be more disposition 
of personal liking to Thackeray than to Dickens, 
now both are dead, a result that would hardly 
have been predicted when the world was cry 
ing over Little Nell, or agreeing to hate Becky 
Sharp. 

THE YOUNG LADY. What was that you were 
telling about Charles Lamb, the other day, Man- 
deville ? Is not the popular liking for him some 
what independent of his writings ? 

MANDEVILLE. He is a striking example of an 
author who is loved. Very likely the remem 
brance of his tribulations has still something to 



- 

do with the tenderness felt for him. He sup 
ported no dignity, and permitted a familiarity 
which indicated no self-appreciation of his real 
rank in the world of letters. I have heard ' that 
his acquaintances familiarly called him " Charley." 

OUR NEXT DOOR. It 's a relief to know that ! 
Do you happen to know what Socrates was 
called ? 

MANDEVILLE. I have seen people who knew 
Lamb very well. One of them told me, as illus 
trating his want of dignity, that as he was going 
home late one night through the nearly empty 
streets, he was met by a roystering party who 
were making a night of it from tavern to tavern. 
They fell upon Lamb, attracted by his odd figure 
and hesitating manner, and, hoisting him on their 
shoulders, carried him off, singing as they went. 
Lamb enjoyed the lark, and did not tell them 
who he was. When they were tired of lugging 
him, they lifted him, with much effort and diffi 
culty, to the top of a high wall, and left him there 
amid the broken bottles, utterly unable to get 
down. Lamb remained there philosophically in 
the enjoyment of his novel adventure, until a 







 



passing watchman rescued him from his ridicu 
lous situation. 

THE FIRE-TENDER. How did the story get 
out ? 

MANDEVILLE. O, Lamb told all about it next 
morning; and when asked afterwards why he did 
so, he replied that there was no fun in it unless 
he told it. 





HE King sat in the winter-house in 
the ninth month, and there was a 
<r fire on the hearth burning before 

him When Jehudi had read three or 

four leaves he cut it with the penknife. 

That seems to be a pleasant and home-like 
picture from a not very remote period. less 
than twenty-five hundred years ago, and many 
centuries after the fall of Troy. And that was 
not so very long ago, for Thebes, in the splendid 
streets of which Homer wandered and sang to 
the kings when Memphis, whose ruins are older 
than history, was its younger rival, was twelve 
centuries old when Paris ran away with Helen. 

I am sorry that the original and you can 



 

usually do anything with the "original" does 
not bear me out in saying that it was a pleasant 
picture. I should like to believe that Jehoiakim 
for that was the singular name of the gentleman who sat by his hearthstone had just received the Memphis " Palimpsest," fifteen days in 
advance of the date of its publication, and that 
his secretary was reading to him that monthly, 
and cutting its leaves as he read. I should like 
to have seen it in that year when Thales was 
learning astronomy in Memphis, and Necho was 
organizing his campaign against Carchemish. If 
Jehoiakim took the " Attic Quarterly," he might 
have read its comments on the banishment of the 
Alcmaeonidae, and its gibes at Solon for his pro 
hibitory laws, forbidding the sale of unguents, 
limiting the luxury of dress, and interfering with 
the sacred rights of mourners to passionately 
bewail the dead in the Asiatic manner ; the same 
number being enriched with contributions from 
two rising poets, a lyric of love by Sappho, 
and an ode sent by Anacreon from Teos, with 
an editorial note explaining that the MAGA was 
not responsible for the sentiments of the poem. 



 







But, in fact, the gentleman who sat before the 
backlog in his winter-house had other things to 
think of. For Nebuchadnezzar was coming that 
way with the chariots and horses of Babylon and 
a great crowd of marauders ; and the king had 
not even the poor choice whether he would be 
the vassal of the Chaldean or of the Egyptian. 
To us, this is only a ghostly show of monarchs 
and conquerors stalking across vast historic 
spaces. It was no doubt a vulgar enough scene 
of war and plunder. The great captains of that 
age went about to harry each other's territories 
and spoil each other's cities very much as we do 
nowadays, and for similar reasons.; Napoleon 
the- Great in Moscow, Napoleon the Small in 
Italy, Kaiser William in Paris, Great Scott in 
Mexico ! Men have not changed much. 

The Fire-Tender sat in his winter-garden in 
the third month ; there was a fire on the hearth 
burning before him. He cut the leaves of " Scrib- 
ner's Monthly" with his penknife, and thought of 
Jehoiakim. 

That seems as real as the other. In the gar 
den, which is a room of the house, the tall callas, 



 

rooted in the ground, stand about the fountain ; 
the sun, streaming through the glass, illumines 
the many-hued flowers. I wonder what Jehoia- 
kim did with the mealy-bug on his passion-vine, 
and if he had any way of removing the scale-bug 
from his African acacia ? One would like to 
know, too, how he treated the red-spider on the 
Le Marque rose. The record is silent. I do 
not doubt he had all these insects in his winter- 
garden, and the aphidae besides ; and he could 
not smoke them out with tobacco, for the world 
had not yet fallen into its second stage of the 
knowledge of good and evil by eating the for 
bidden tobacco-plant. 

I confess that this little picture of a fire on the 
hearth so many centuries ago helps to make real 
and interesting to me that somewhat misty past. 
No doubt the lotus and the acanthus from the 
Nile grew in that winter-house, and perhaps Je- 
hoiakim attempted the most difficult thing in 
the world the cultivation of the wild-flowers 
from Lebanon. Perhaps Jehoiakim was interested 
also, as I am through this ancient fireplace, 
which is a sort of domestic window into the an 



 

