"Never mind, mother. We shall get bail enough to keep a coaster afloat,"
interposed Bobtail. "If we can't do any better, I'll send for Colonel
Montague. He told me, if I ever wanted a friend, to send for him."

"Certainly he will help you, after what you have done to-day," smiled
the lawyer.

"But I don't want to have you to go away up to Belfast for him," said
Mrs. Taylor, who appeared now to be more troubled than ever.

"I don't think we need to do so, mother. Mr. Walker and two or three
other gentlemen said they would bail me out; and so I don't believe we
shall sink," laughed Little Bobtail.

"Now, Mr. Brooks, I don't think you need take the boy away from his
friends. I am sure he won't run away," added the squire.

"I am satisfied. Though this is the oddest case I have had anything to
do with for a long time. I am inclined to think Bobtail will come out
right, though for the life of me I can't see how," added the deputy
sheriff.

"I'll trust Bobtail anywhere. He goes to our Sunday school, and I know
he is an honest boy, however bad his case may look just now," continued
Mr. Simonton.

Mr. Brooks was entirely willing to trust the lion of the day out of his
custody; and he left the cottage with the lawyer.

"I s'pose I ain't o' no account here," said Ezekiel, as the door closed
behind the departing gentlemen.

"What do you mean by that?" asked Mrs. Taylor.

"I wan't to know sunthin' about this business. I s'pose I ain't the head
of this family."

"I don't think you are," replied the wife. "You haven't done much for it
the last seven years."

"You bring that boy of yourn up to steal. If he'll take my property,
he'll take other folks' property."

"It's no use to talk any more about that matter," said Mrs. Taylor,
impatiently.

"I believe the boy stole the letter and took the money out on't,"
muttered Ezekiel.

"A little while ago you believed I had money hid away, and took the five
hundred dollars from that."

"It was one way or t'other, and one ain't no wus 'n t'other. I hain't
been consulted in this business at all."

"You refused to be bail for me, and that's enough for one day," answered
Mrs. Taylor.

"I ain't a goin' to resk my property for a woman that keeps money hid
away from me, and won't tell no thin' about this business."

"Your property would have been all taken away from you long ago if I
hadn't paid the interest, and paid the mortgage, too."

"But where did you get the money to pay the mortgage with?"

"That will all be explained in due time."

Ezekiel went over the same ground again and again. He was angry, and
finally left the house. He felt that he was an abused man, because he
was ignored. He objected to giving bail for his wife simply to increase
his own importance, and a little importunity would have won his
consent. He was vexed because he had not even been asked a second time
to yield the point.

"Now, mother, we are alone," said Bobtail. "Can't you tell me where you
got that bill?"

"I can't tell anybody, Robert," replied his mother. "I am sure that all
will be explained in time."

"The case looks bad against me, mother."

"I know it does;" and the tears began to flow from her eyes again.

"I don't like to be accused of stealing, and have it proved, as it seems
to be in this case. I don't blame anybody for thinking I'm guilty, when
the very bill that was in the letter was handed to the squire by you,
and you won't tell where you got it. I shall be sent to the state prison
for two or three years."

"O, Robert, I shall be crazy! Do you think I stole the bill?"

"No, mother; nothing of that kind. I know you wouldn't steal. You know I
didn't give you that bill, and you are the only one that does know it
positively. I wonder that Squire Simonton don't give me the cold
shoulder, though he is my Sunday school teacher. I can't see what
difference it would make if you should tell where you got the bill."

"I can't say a word about it. I will try to have the whole matter
explained before Tuesday," said the poor woman, troubled as she had
never been troubled before.

"I think I shall call on Colonel Montague, if I get a chance. He told me
I should hear from him again," said Bobtail, as he put on his cap, for
he intended to sleep on board of the Skylark.

"I wouldn't bother him with the matter, Robert."

"Why not? He told me to send for him if I ever wanted a friend; and I
want one now, if ever I did."

"It will look as though you wanted to make too much of what you did for
him to-day."

"I don't think so, mother. He is a great man, and has influence. If I
can get a chance to run up to Belfast in the Skylark, I will do so."

"Don't tell him that I sent you, Robert," said Mrs. Taylor, actually
trembling with emotion.

"Of course I won't; but I don't see why you are so particular about not
calling on him. I know he would be glad to help me."

Mrs. Taylor made no reply, and her son, bidding her good night, left the
house. He went on board of the Skylark, and after he had told the
Darwinian the whole story of his misfortune, he turned in. He did not
sleep as well as usual. He could not help thinking half the night of his
troubles. They worried him, and he wondered if people were ever really
punished for crimes they did not commit.

Ezekiel Taylor left the cottage hardly less disturbed than his wife was.
He had a strong suspicion that he was not the head of the family; that
Mrs. Taylor had actually usurped his powers and prerogatives; that she
dared to think and act for herself and her son without much, if any,
regard to him. He felt belittled and degraded; not because he was a
drunkard, and neglected to provide for his family, but because he was
not in fact, as he was in name, the head of the house. He was thirsty
and hankering for rum, and this condition made him ugly. He had not a
cent in his pocket, and his credit at the saloon was not good even for a
single dram. But he went to the saloon, for it was possible that some
one might treat him. The first person he saw when he entered was Captain
Chinks.

Almost everybody seemed to be troubled that night, and Captain Chinks
was among the number. Things did not work to suit him; and every time he
viewed himself in the glass he saw that black eye which Bobtail had
given him, and every time he touched that eye there was a soreness there
to remind him of that affair in the cabin of the Skylark. He did not
love Little Bobtail, and the event of the day that had set everybody to
talking about and praising the boy made him feel ten times worse. It
would be hard to convict him of stealing the letter while almost
everybody was making a lion of him.

"Ah, Zeke!" exclaimed Captain Chinks, as the tippler entered the saloon.

"How d'y do, cap'n?" replied the nominal head of the family.

"I'm glad to see you, Zeke. I've been wanting to see you. Won't you take
something?"

"Thank ye; I don't care if I do take a little o' sunthin'. I don't feel
jest right to-night," answered Ezekiel, placing his hand upon his
diaphragm, to intimate that this was the seat of his ailing.

"We will go into this little room, if you like," added Captain Chinks,
as he led the way into a small apartment, where a party could dine or
sup in privacy. "Give us a bottle of that brandy," he continued,
addressing the keeper of the saloon.

Ezekiel smiled, for a private room indicated a free-and-easy time. A
bottle of brandy promised a succession of drams, enough to warm up that
disagreeable coldness at the diaphragm, and to lift his brain up to the
pitch of a tippler's highest enjoyment. Then "that brandy" suggested a
liquor of choice quality, something which his companion had tested, and
knew to be good. Ezekiel was happy, and for the moment he forgot that he
was not the actual head of the family; that his wife had kept money "hid
away from him;" and that her son had destroyed his property. But he
wondered what Captain Chinks could want of him, for that worthy did not
generally treat him with much consideration, whereas now he was polite,
generous, and ready to invest to the extent of a whole bottle of that
brandy, which must be very choice, and therefore expensive.

The bottle came, and the door of the little room was closed. Captain
Chinks seated himself on one side of the table, on which the bottle and
glasses were placed, and invited Ezekiel to occupy a chair on the other
side. The captain pushed the brandy and a glass towards his guest, who
needed no persuasion to induce him to partake of the choice liquor. He
poured out about half a tumbler of the stuff, but he kept his hand over
the glass,--he was a wily toper,--so that his host should not see how
much he took. He added a very little water to the fiery fluid, and then
held the glass in his trembling hand till the captain was ready to join
him. The man with a doubtful reputation did not cover his glass with his
hand; if he had thought it necessary, he would have done it in order to
conceal how small, rather than how large, a dram he took. He only
covered the bottom of the tumbler, and then deluged the liquor with
water. Captain Chinks was a cunning man, and he knew that brandy unfits
a man for business, impairs his judgment, and blunts his perception. He
took a small dram.

"Here's to you," said Ezekiel.

"Thank you; my respects," added Captain Chinks.

The toper drained his glass. The liquor was strong, and the tears
drowned his eyes as he swallowed the fiery fluid.

"That's good brandy!" exclaimed he, as soon as he could speak.

"First chop," replied Captain Chinks. "You couldn't buy that brandy in
Portland for three dollars a bottle. In my opinion that article never
paid tribute to Uncle Sam."

"'Tain't no wus for that," said Ezekiel, with a cheerful grin.

"That's so."

"'Tain't right to charge no duties on liquors. That's the reason we git
so much pizen stuff. You can hardly git a drop of good brandy for
sickness now, without you pay four or five dollars a bottle for it; and
I can't afford to pay no such prices," added Ezekiel, deeply moved at
this terrible grievance.

"Well, I reckon there's more of it comes in from the provinces without
paying any duties than most people think, though I don't know anything
about it myself."

Even Ezekiel Taylor had his doubts on this point, though he was not
disposed, under the present agreeable circumstances, to indulge in any
controversy on the point.



"The more they bring in, the better," said he, encouragingly.

"By the way, Zeke, that boy of yours is in luck to-day," continued
Captain Chinks, toying with his glass.

"He ain't no boy o' mine," said the toper, with no little indignation in
his tones. "He's my wife's boy."

"Well, it's all the same. He's a smart boy."

"He's smart enough; but he ain't the right sort of a boy. He's rather
too smart."

"That was a bad scrape he got into about that letter; but I can't
believe he opened it, and took the money out," added Captain Chinks,
still toying with the glass, and apparently without the least interest
in the conversation in which he was engaged.

"He ain't none too good to do sech a thing," muttered Ezekiel, as he
recalled the wickedness of the boy in destroying "his property."

"I thought he was a nice boy, went to Sunday school, and belonged to the
Band of Hope," continued the captain, who, however, judging from his
manner, did not care whether the boy was a saint or a demon.

"I don't care what he b'longs to, nor how many Sunday schools he goes
to: he stole sunthin' from me, and I cal'late he'd steal from other
folks, if he would from me."

"That's good logic, Zeke; but you mustn't be hard on the boy."

"I ain't hard on him."

"I reckon that folks generally think more of him than you seem to. By
the way, did he say anything to you about that boat he picked up over on
the other shore?"

"No; he never said nothin' to me about it."

"Didn't he?"

"No; he never says nothin' to me about anything."

"That's a fine boat," added Captain Chinks, who had taken a lead pencil
from his pocket, and was tapping the glass with it, as if to ascertain
the quality of the material of which it was composed.

"So I've hearn tell; but I hain't seen her only from the shore."

"It's strange no one comes after her," suggested the captain. "Zeke,
there's a mystery about that boat."

"Sho!"

"Of course I don't know anything about it; but I reckon the owner would
have been after her, if there hadn't been some reason for keeping in the
dark."

"You don't say so!"

"Well, you see I only guess at it. I don't know no more about it than
you do; perhaps not so much."

"I don't know nothin' at all about it," protested Ezekiel.

Captain Chinks tapped the glass, and did not seem to care about anything
in particular, least of all about that boat, which was the subject of
the conversation.

"What do you mean by a mystery, cap'n? I hain't hearn nothin' of no
mystery afore."

"I had some talk with your boy about the boat and her cargo."

"What cargo? I hain't hearn nothin' o' no cargo."

"Won't you take another nip of this brandy, Zeke?" added Captain Chinks,
pushing the bottle towards him.

"Don't care if I do. That's good brandy."

"But it isn't any better than a lot which was aboard that boat when your
boy picked her up."

"Sho! You don't say she had brandy in her?"

"No, I don't say so. I say again that I don't know anything at all about
the matter. I only had my suspicions, you know."

"I understand," replied Ezekiel, as he drank off his dram.

"I don't know, but in my judgment that boat was loaded with brandy, or
something that don't pay tribute to Uncle Sam."

"You don't say so!"

"No, I don't say so," replied Captain Chinks, sharply, for he was very
particular not to be regarded as affirming what he only suspected. "I
only guess so."

"Well, you don't say that you guess so! That's what I meant to say,"
explained the toper.

"The talk I had with your boy satisfied me I wasn't far from right. Now,
the brandy's worth more than the boat. I'm always up to a trade, you
know; and I didn't know but I might make something. I asked your boy if
he would give up the cargo and keep the boat, in case I could find the
owner."

"Sho! Did you know the owner, cap'n?"

"Of course I didn't. I haven't the least idea who he is. Your boy
wouldn't give up the cargo and keep the boat."

"That boy's a fool, and allus was."

"I thought, if I could get hold of the cargo, I could make something out
of it. Perhaps you and I can now;" and the captain looked sharply into
the toper's face.

"I'm ready," replied Ezekiel, who was now considerably "boozed."

"Bobtail must have landed that cargo somewhere, and concealed it;
perhaps on some island; may be in your house. I say, Zeke, can you keep
a quiet tongue in your head?"

"I cal'late I can."

Captain Chinks enlarged on this point, and the toper promised to be as
silent as the grave.

"Now, I reckon you can find this brandy. I suppose it was brandy, but I
don't know. If it was, it comes in cases."

"Yes, I know," added Ezekiel, eagerly; and he wished he might get hold
of that brandy; if he did, Captain Chinks would not get the whole of
it.

"If you keep an eye on the boy, you can easily find it. The boat was
seen at anchor early in the morning after he picked her up, and I'm
pretty sure he has hid the goods somewhere about your house. If you find
them, just let me know, and I'll give you a case of the brandy, and a
hundred dollars besides. Will you do it, Zeke?"

"If it don't b'long to you, I don't see why I should give it up to you."

This was a brilliant idea on the part of the toper, and Captain Chinks
could not help acknowledging the force of it.

"You can't do anything with it. The government will take it away from
you. You see, I mean to make a trade with the owner of the goods. It is
no more than fair that he should have his own property, if he will pay
you and me for our trouble. Take something, Zeke."

The toper drank again, and then Captain Chinks made him a present of
what was left in the bottle. Ezekiel agreed to do all that was required
of him, and his companion cautioned him not to say a word to Bobtail
about it, but only to watch him. They separated, and the inebriate
staggered to his home.




CHAPTER XIII.

THE EXAMINATION.


Mrs. Taylor did not sleep any better than her son. Her troubles kept her
awake, and not her worthless husband, who was so tipsy when he returned
from the saloon, that he dropped asleep as soon as he lay down. The poor
woman had done nothing to improve the situation, for she could not leave
the town until after the examination. At nine o'clock Mr. Brooks came to
the cottage with a warrant for her arrest, but he considerately begged
her not to disturb herself about the matter. All he required of her was
to appear at the office of Squire Norwood at ten o'clock, and no one
need ever know she was in custody before that hour.

Little Bobtail came on shore before the officer left the house, and
reported himself ready, in his own words, to "face the music." At the
appointed hour there was a considerable collection of people in the
office of Squire Norwood. Mr. Walker, who was quite a distinguished man,
the mayor of Bangor, Judge Hamblin, and several other notable gentlemen
of the state were present, all of them interested in the fate of the
brave youth who had behaved so well off Blank Island. They were members
of the Penobscot's party, and each of them was willing to do all that
Colonel Montague would do if present.

Mrs. Taylor and her son appeared, and they were warmly greeted by the
interested spectators. The business proceeded in due form, and Mr.
Simonton astonished Squire Gilfilian by asking for a postponement until
the next Tuesday. The reasons for this request were considered, and they
were deemed sufficient; but Squire Gilfilian stoutly objected, because a
certain witness would be obliged to remain in Camden three days. Judge
Hamblin consulted with Squire Simonton, and it was agreed to proceed
with the examination. Mrs. Taylor trembled and wept when this decision
was reached, and a smile of triumph played upon the lips of Squire
Gilfilian. Captain Chinks tried to be indifferent, but he was evidently
pleased with the result. The case was commenced, and Squire Gilfilian,
Captain Chinks, and the ill-visaged man gave their evidence as they had
stated it in the office of the lawyer. It appeared that Robert Taylor
had left the letter on the squire's desk. The five hundred dollar bill
was produced and identified by Mr. Slipwing, and it was shown that this
bill had been paid to the squire by Mrs. Taylor. No evidence was
introduced to show that the boy had returned to the office after Captain
Chinks left, but it seemed impossible to escape the conclusion that he
had done so. Mrs. Taylor now appeared as a defendant, and could not be
compelled to testify. At this point in the proceedings, Squire Simonton
renewed his request that the further examination of the defendants be
postponed till the next Tuesday, when he hoped to bring forward an
important witness in the case. Captain Chinks, in spite of his assumed
indifference, was uneasy at this statement. The request was granted; Mr.
Walker and the mayor of Bangor offered themselves as bail for the
defendants, and they were released from custody.

The case certainly looked very black for Mrs. Taylor and her son. The
kind friends who appeared to assist them were staggered at the evidence,
and feared it would be impossible to save him from conviction. They
could only hope for the best, and hope against what appeared to be an
absolute certainty. Judge Hamblin was confounded, but he was so averse
to believing the brave boy was guilty, that he suspected there was a
conspiracy. After the postponement of the examination, he asked Squire
Gilfilian to let him see the five hundred dollar bill.

"Mrs. Taylor, have you looked at this bill?" he asked, as he showed it
to the troubled woman.

"No, sir; I have not," she replied.

"Won't you look at it? Do you remember the bill you paid Mr. Gilfilian?"

"I didn't look at it much."

"How long did you have the bill in your possession?"

"Not long, sir."

"Did you examine it?"

"Not much; I looked it over a little."

Mrs. Taylor turned over the note in her hands, and examined it very
carefully.

"Does that one look like it?" asked the judge, anxiously.



"You don't suppose we have changed the bill--do you?" demanded Squire
Gilfilian, rather indignantly.

"Certainly not, Mr. Gilfilian," replied the judge. "At least I don't
suppose you have any knowledge of such a trick. But there may be some
mistake. The witness who identifies this bill is taking charge of the
defence of the Buckingham Bank robbers. Perhaps he is one of them
himself, and it is even possible that he sent you no money in the
letter."

"I have no desire to convict the boy, if he is not guilty," added Mr.
Gilfilian.

"Certainly not; I do not suppose the contrary, but I would like to hear
what the boy's mother says about this bill. Now, Mrs. Taylor," continued
the judge, turning to the troubled woman, "does that bill look like the
one you paid Mr. Gilfilian?"

"Yes, sir; very much like it," answered she, sadly.

"Do you think it is the one?"

"I think it is, sir."

"Look at it very carefully, if you please."

"I have looked at it; and I'm sure this is the one," said Mrs. Taylor.

Squire Gilfilian looked triumphantly at the judge, who was more amazed
than ever. He knew the workings of crime well enough to see the bearing
of poor Mrs. Taylor's present conduct. If guilty she would not have
acknowledged the identity of the bill. She would have encouraged the
lawyers to save herself and her son, by following out the suggestion
that the letter had contained no bill.

"Then where did you get this bill, Mrs. Taylor?" asked the judge.

"I can't tell at present, sir," replied the poor mother, as she glanced
at her son.

Mr. Simonton explained that, for some reason inexplicable to him, the
woman positively refused to explain where the bill came from. The judge
was still more confounded; though, after the straightforward and
damaging answers she had given in regard to the identity of the bill, he
could not believe she was guilty, even while it was impossible to see
how she could be innocent. The parties left the office, and everybody
talked about the examination for the rest of the day.

Ezekiel Taylor did not attend the examination, for he was engaged in an
examination on his own account. He improved the opportunity while
Bobtail and his mother were absent in searching for the contraband
merchandise. He had already consumed the bottle of brandy given him by
Captain Chinks, and was anxious to find the goods, in order to obtain
another. He ransacked the house from cellar to garret, without finding
anything which looked like a case of brandy. He was bitterly
disappointed, but he continued his search in the vicinity of the house,
and along the shore. He spent the whole day in this fruitless
occupation.

Judge Hamblin walked to the Bay View House, after the close of the
proceedings, and Little Bobtail went with him. The bewildered legal
gentleman questioned the boy closely, but his replies were always square
and prompt. He knew nothing whatever about the letter after he left it
on the desk in the office.

"Are you going to see Colonel Montague?" whispered Mrs. Taylor, who had
followed her son to the hotel.

"I should like to tell him about the case, but I don't see that he can
do anything for us. These folks have done everything," replied Bobtail,
gloomily.

"You said you were going, but I don't ask you to go."

"Two gentlemen here want the boat. They said they wished for a sail, and
didn't care about fishing. If they had just as lief go to Belfast as
anywhere else, I'll run up there. It's a tip-top breeze to go and come."

"Do as you think best, but don't tell him I sent you," added Mrs.
Taylor, as she walked towards home.

Bobtail thought she was over sensitive about calling upon her old
employer, but was willing to humor her, and promised to tell Colonel
Montague, if he saw him, that his mother had not sent him.

"Now, where's Captain Bobtail?" shouted a gentleman, coming out of the
hotel.

"Here I am, sir."

"You were to take us out to sail if you got out of that scrape, my boy."

"I'm not out of it, sir; but I can take you out to sail," replied the
skipper of the Skylark.

"We are all ready, and Mr. Philbrook has put up a basket of stores for
us; for we were going to take another boat if you couldn't go."

"The boat is all ready, sir. Where do you wish to go?"

"Don't care a fig where we go. All we want is a good sail."

"How long do you want to be out, sir?"

"O, till night."

"What do you say to a run up to Belfast?"

"Capital! But can you go as far as that in one day, or what is left of
the day?"

"I can run up there with this wind, and the tide in our favor, in about
three hours. It is blowing pretty fresh."

"I see it is."

"And the wind is west. The tide will turn about the time we get there,
and the wind is fair both ways, or nearly all the way. If the wind
holds, I can get you back before nine o'clock, and give you an hour or
two in Belfast."

"All right, my lad. We don't care whether we get back by nine o'clock or
not,--just as lief make a night of it as not," added the gentleman, who
spoke for both.

"You can sleep tip-top in the cabin; but I will get you back by nine, if
the wind don't die out. I can't warrant you against that."

"Belfast it is, my lad. Now, how much do you ask a day for your boat?"

"Seven dollars, sir, for the boat and crew; eight if we cook for you,"
replied Bobtail, who had decided to advance the price, as he stated, in
order to pay for the few groceries and other stores.

"Cook?" queried the gentleman.

"If you take a fish dinner and supper on board, I charge a dollar more.
I can give you tea and coffee, fried fish, and fried potatoes. If you
want meats, I must charge for them, too."

"Good, Captain Bobtail. We will have fish for dinner and supper, and pay
you eight dollars," laughed the gentleman, amused at the business-like
talk of the boy.

"But can we stop to catch fish?" asked his companion.

"We have time enough," answered the skipper.

"Then catch the fish by all means, for they are twice as good just out
of the water."

Little Bobtail procured a small can of milk, and a bucket of fresh clams
for bait. The yacht was amply supplied with water and stores, and the
party hastened to the steps at the Portland steamer wharf. A boy in a
boat pulled them off to the Skylark.

"Loose the mainsail, Monkey," shouted Bobtail, as the boat approached
the yacht.

"Ay, ay," replied the Darwinian, with enthusiasm; for he was glad to
vary the monotony of his situation as boat-keeper.

"Your crew is well named, Captain Bobtail," laughed one of the
gentlemen.

"Yes, sir. Monkey is a queer-looking fellow, but he is just as good as
they make them," replied Bobtail, as he leaped upon the deck of the
Skylark.

The gentlemen were delighted with the yacht, and explored her above and
below, while the skipper and his crew were hoisting the mainsail and
weighing the anchor. In a few moments Bobtail took his place at the
helm; the fresh breeze struck the mainsail as the skipper hauled in the
sheet, and the Skylark heeled over, gathered headway, and went off like
an arrow shot from a bow.

"See here, Captain Bobtail; you won't upset us--will you?" said one of
his passengers as the yacht heeled down, when she caught the breeze.

"O, no, sir. I mean to keep her right side up," replied the skipper.

"I have no doubt you mean to do so; but can you do it?"

"To be sure I can."

"She tipped pretty badly then."

"That was nothing. She will go over ever so much farther than that
without putting her scuppers under. She had not got her bearings then.
Now hoist the jib, Monkey," shouted Bobtail.

"Hold on, Captain Bobtail!" said one of the gentlemen. "Don't you think
you have sail enough on? It blows fresher than I thought it did."

"It's just a whole sail breeze. She will carry her jib without winking,
and go along as steady as a lady on the sidewalk," laughed Bobtail, who
concluded that his passengers were not accustomed to boats, especially
when the wind blew.

"We are going ten miles an hour now," suggested the second gentleman.

"Not seven, sir. We will try the jib; and if you don't like it, we can
take it in again."

Monkey had hoisted the jib, and it was flapping and pounding
furiously,--making a noise which was rather trying to the nerves of the
gentlemen. The skipper seized the lee sheet, and luffing up the boat,
flattened down the sail to its proper place, for he was obliged to run a
short distance to the northward in order to clear some vessels at
anchor. Having passed these, the sheets were started, and the Skylark
went off before the wind. The sea was not heavy so far in shore, but it
was exciting sailing, and the passengers kept silence, watching the
swift motion of the yacht. In a short time they were accustomed to the
situation, and began to talk, though in rather subdued tones at first.
They seemed to regard the skipper with a feeling of awe, and realized
that their lives were in his keeping. They knew little or nothing about
a boat, and did not feel quite at home with such lively sailing. The
confident manner of the young skipper, his perfect command of the
situation, his pleasant speech and laugh, reassured them. When the yacht
had passed North-east Point the course was changed to the north-east,
and the sheets hauled in, so that the Skylark had the wind a little
abaft the beam. This was her best point in sailing, and she soon
exhibited her best speed. She heeled over so that her scuppers often
went under. Bobtail kept her just far enough from the land to get the
full force of the wind, but not far enough to be shaken up by the waves,
which beat heavily on La Salle Island, east of them.

"This is lively--isn't it, Howe?" said one of the gentlemen.

"It is the smartest sailing I ever saw," replied Mr. Howe. "You seem to
know what you are about, Captain Bobtail."

"I think I do, sir," answered the skipper. "I have been in a boat ever
since I was born, and I can't remember the time when I couldn't sail
one."

"I would give a hundred dollar bill if I could sail a boat as well as
you can," said Mr. Jones.

"So would I," added Mr. Howe.

"I will tell you all I know about it for nothing," laughed the skipper.
"I don't pretend to know much, but somehow I always get along. Won't you
take the helm, sir, and try your hand at it?"

"No, not now; I should rather begin when it is not quite so lively,"
replied Mr. Jones.

"It is easy enough. She will almost steer herself. All you have to do is
to run for that point of land, about eight miles ahead."

"Eight miles--is it?" asked Mr. Howe, consulting his watch.

"About eight from here. It is just ten from the point astern of us."

"It is exactly twelve o'clock now. Let us see how long it takes us to go
eight miles."

"I can tell you now, sir," laughed Bobtail. "It will take us just
forty-eight minutes."

"Good, my lad! I will time you. If it takes forty-nine, you are no
prophet."

"I don't expect to tell within a minute; but I guess I'll steer myself,
if you are going to whittle me down as close as that."

Bobtail began to be very exact in his steering and sailing. He started
the sheets a couple of inches, and watched the point ahead very closely.
Ten miles an hour was fast sailing for a boat of the size of the
Skylark; but he knew she would do it if she was well handled. The two
gentlemen kept looking at their watches, and as the distance diminished
they declared she would make the point in half an hour; but distances
are very delusive on the water, and when half an hour had elapsed, they
thought that five minutes more would bring the boat up with the
headland. Bobtail watched his sails, and "steered small." In forty
minutes he found that he should make the point a little too soon, and he
let out the jib-sheet a little, so that the sail did not draw full.

"Forty-five minutes!" exclaimed Mr. Jones, "and we are off the point."

"But we are not up with it, sir," replied Bobtail, hauling in the
jib-sheet again.

"You are cutting it fine, Captain Bobtail," added Mr. Howe.

"Of course I meant abreast of the point, and when it lies just abeam, we
shall be up with it. Here we are, sir!"

"Forty-eight minutes to a second!" ejaculated Mr. Jones, as he showed
his watch to the skipper.

"Lower the jib, Monkey!" shouted Bobtail.

"I did not think you could hit it so closely as that," said Mr. Howe.

"Well, sir, I couldn't if you hadn't told me the time every few
minutes," laughed Bobtail. "I bamboozled you."

"How?"

"I should have made the point in three quarters of an hour if I hadn't
let out the jib-sheet. I lost the three minutes on purpose."

"But why do you lower the jib here?" asked Mr. Jones.

"We will try the fish here. Ready with the anchor, Monkey!"

"All ready," replied the Darwinian.

Bobtail threw the yacht up into the wind, and as soon as she had lost
her headway, he gave the order to let go the anchor. Monkey had got out
the fishing gear and opened the clams on the passage up, so that the
passengers threw over their lines immediately. They did not have a bite
for some time, and Monkey threw over a line. It had hardly run out
before he had a fish, and pulled in a good-sized cod.

"How's that?" said Mr. Howe. "I haven't had a nibble yet."

"Perhaps you don't fish right, sir," suggested Monkey, with one of his
apish grins, as he took the gentleman's line, and found that the sinker
was not within twenty feet of the bottom. "That's what's the matter,
sir. Drop the line down till the sinker touches bottom; then pull up
about a fathom."

The two passengers, following these instructions, began to pull in cod
and haddock very rapidly, and Monkey had all he could do to bait their
hooks, and take off their fish.




CHAPTER XIV.

THE DISCHARGE.


"Look here, Howe!" exclaimed Mr. Jones, tugging with all his might at
his line; "I'm pulling up the bottom of Penobscot Bay, as true as you
live!"

"Don't do that, sir," shouted Bobtail, merrily. "We shall get aground if
you do."

"What is it?" asked Mr. Howe.

"I don't know," replied Mr. Jones, still hauling away at his line, to
which some immense dead weight seemed to be attached. "It must be a
whale."

"No, sir; pull away," said Monkey, laughing; "you have got hold of your
grandmother."

"My grandmother!"

"Yes, sir; pull away, and you will see her in a minute."

After much tugging, for the fish was not at all "gamey," he hauled up
the strangest looking fish he had ever seen, though Bobtail and Monkey
were entirely familiar with the specimen. The hook, drawing upon his
mouth, so distended it, that its appearance was not unlike the face of
an old woman with a cap on. The fish was a large scate, not less than
three feet across the back. The gentlemen had never seen one before, and
he was hauled upon the deck to enable them to examine him.

Half an hour's fishing satisfied the passengers, as there was a tub full
of cod and haddock to show for their success. After the gentlemen had
fully satisfied their curiosity, the scate was thrown overboard. The
anchor was weighed, the jib hoisted, and the Skylark continued on her
voyage to Belfast. Monkey dressed a couple of the nicest cod, and then
washed down the deck. The Darwinian was then required to take the helm,
and Bobtail, sacrificing his dignity as the skipper of the craft, went
below and assumed the duties of cook and steward. He pared and sliced a
large quantity of potatoes, for Mr. Jones had declared that he was
already as hungry as a bear. These he fried, and put them in the oven to
keep them hot. The fish was cooked, and coffee made. The table had been
set at odd moments, and in less than an hour dinner was ready. Bobtail
was invited to dine with the passengers, and he was warmly commended for
his culinary skill.

"That's the best dinner I've eaten in the State of Maine," said Mr.
Jones, with enthusiasm.

"We can get up a pretty good dinner on board of the Skylark," added the
proud skipper. "The cook isn't much on puddings and pies, but on the
heavy grub he can do as well as the next man."

"I've drank worse coffee than yours at a first-class hotel in New York,"
said Mr. Howe.

"I can give you a chowder for supper, if you like," added the cook.

"I like the fried fish best."

"Perhaps we can give you something different."

The skipper and the passengers went on deck. Bobtail relieved the crew
at the helm, and sent him below to eat his dinner, and clear away the
dishes. The gentlemen lighted their cigars, and declared that they felt
perfectly happy. The Skylark was now going up Belfast Bay, close-hauled,
but still laying her course.

"Now, how long have we been?" asked Mr. Jones, taking out his watch.
"Just three hours."

"But we spent half an hour of it in fishing," suggested the skipper.

"Exactly so, and we have made the run in two hours and a half."

Monkey was called on deck, the jib taken in, and the Skylark ran
alongside a wharf, where she was secured. It was agreed to sail for
Camden on the return at six o'clock, and the passengers left the yacht
to explore the town. The skipper washed and "slicked up" as well as he
could. Putting on his bobtail coat, he went ashore, to call upon Colonel
Montague. After some inquiry he found the house; and it was easily
identified, for it was the finest one in the city. The visitor found the
owner of the Penobscot smoking his cigar under the shade of a tree,
where rustic chairs had been placed. He was alone, and gave the young
skipper a hearty greeting.
