and I confess that I like him much better than many 
grander saints, in stone, I have seen in more conspicuous 
places. If ever I am in rough water and foul weather, I 
hope he will not take amiss any thing I have here written 
about him. 

Sunday, and it happened to be St. Valentine's also, 
was the great fete-day of St. Antonino. Early in the 
morning there was a great clanging of bells ; and the 
ceremony of the blessing of the pigs took place, I heard, 
but I was not abroad early enough to see it, — a laziness 
for which I fancy I need not apologize, as the Catholic 
is known to be an earlier religion than the Protestant. 
When I did go out, the streets were thronged with peo- 
ple, the country-folk having come in from miles around. 
The church of the patron saint was the great centre of 
attraction. The blank walls of the little square in front, 
and of the narrow streets near, were hung with cheap and 
highly-colored lithographs of sacred subjects, for sale ; 
tables and booths were set up in every available space 
for the traffic in pre-Raphaelite gingerbread, molasses 
candy, strings of dried nuts, pine-cone and pumpkin seeds, 
scarfs, boots and shoes, and all sorts of trumpery. One 
dealer had pre-empted a large space on the pavement, 
where he had spread out an assortment of bits of old iron, 
nails, pieces of steel traps, and various fragments which 
might be useful to the peasants. The press was so great, 
that it was difficult to get through it ; but the crowd was 
a picturesque one, and in the highest good-humor. The 
occasion was a sort of Fourth of July, but without its 
worry and powder and flowing bars. 

The spectacle of the day was the procession, bearing 
the silver image of the saint through the streets. I 
think there could never be any thing finer or more impres- 
sive ; at least, I like these little fussy provincial displays, 
— these tag-rags and ends of grandeur, in which all the 
populace devoutly believe, and at which they are lost in 
wonder, — better than those imposing ceremonies at the 
capital, in which nobody believes. There was first a 


band of musicians, walking in more or less disorder, but 
blowing away with reat zeal, so that they could be heard 
amid the clangor of bells the peals of which reverberate 
so deafeningly between the high houses of these narrow 
streets. Then follow boys in white, and citizens in black 
and white robes, carrying huge silken banners, triangular 
like sea-pennants, and splendid silver crucifixes which 
flash- in the sun. Then come ecclesiastics, walking with 
stately step, and chanting in loud and pleasant unison. 
These are followed by nobles, among whom I recognize, 
with a certain satisfaction, two descendants of Tasso, 
whose glowing and bigoted soul may rejoice in the devo- 
tion of his posterity, who help to bear to-day the gilded 
platform upon which is the solid silver image of the saint. 
The good old bishop walks humbly in the rear, in full 
canonical rig, with crosier and mitre, his rich robes 
upborne by priestly attendants, his splendid footman at 
a respectful distance, and his roomy carriage not far 
behind. 

The procession is well spread out and long ; all its 
members carry lighted tapers, a good many of which are 
not lighted, having gone out in the wind. As I squeeze 
into a shallow doorway to let the corteqe pass, I am sony 
to say that several of the young fellows in white gowns 
tip me the wink, and even smile in a knowing fashion, 
as if it were a mere lark, after all, and that the saint must 
know it. But not so thinks the paternal bishop, who 
waves a blessing, which I catch in the flash of the enor- 
mous emerald on his right hand. The procession ends, 
where it started, in the patron's church ; and there his 
image is set up under a gorgeous canopy of crimson and 
gold, to hear high mass, and some of the choicest solos, 
choruses, and bravuras from the operas. 

In the public square I find a gaping and wondering 
crowd of rustics, collected about one of the mountebanks 
whose trade is not peculiar to any country. This one 
might be a clock-peddler from Connecticitt. He is 
mounted in a one-seat vettura, and his horse is quietly 




eating his dinner out of a bag tied to his nose. There 
is nothing unusual in the fellow's dress ; he wears a 
shiny silk hat, and has one of those grave faces which 
would be merry if their owner were not conscious of 
serious business on hand. On the driver's perch before 
him are arranged his attractions, — a box of notions, a 
grinning skull, Avith full teeth and jaws that work on 
hinges, some vials of red liquid, and a closed jar contain- 
ing a most disagreeable anatomical preparation. This 
latter he holds up and displays, turning it about occa- 
sionally in an admiring manner. He is discoursing, all the 
time, in the most voluble Italian. He has an ointment, 
wonderfully efficacious for rheumatism and every sort of 
bruise : he pulls up his sleeve, and anoints his arm with 
it, binding it up with a strip of paper ; for the simplest 
operation must be explained to these grown children. 
He also pulls teeth, with an ease and expedition hitherto 
unknown, and is in no want of patients among this open- 
mouthed crowd. One sufferer after another climbs up 
into the wagon, and goes through the operation in the 
public gaze. A stolid, good-natured hind mounts the seat. 
The dentist examines his mouth, and finds the offending 
tooth. He then turns to the crowd, and explains the 
case. He takes a little instrument that is neither forceps 
nor turnkey, stands upon the seat, seizes the man's nose, 
and jerks his head round between his knees, pulling 
his mouth open (there is nothing that opens the mouth 
quicker than a sharp upward jerk of the nose) with a 
rude jollity that sets the spectators in a roar. Down he 
goes into the cavern, and digs away for a quarter of a 
minute, the man the while as immovable as a stone 
image, when he holds up the bloody tooth. The patient 
still persists in sitting with his mouth stretched open to 
its widest limit, waiting for the operation to begin, and 
will only close the orifice when he is well shaken and 
shown the tooth. The dentist gives him some yellow 
liquid to hold in his mouth, which the man insists on 
swallowing, wets a handkerchief and washes his face, 




rougHy rubbing his nose the wrong way, and lets him 
go. Every step of the process is eagerly watched by 
the delighted spectators. 

He is succeeded by a woman, who is put through the 
same heroic treatment, and exhibits like fortitude. And 
so they come ; and the dentist after every operation 
waves the extracted trophy high in air, and jubilates 
as if he had won another victory, pointing to the stone 
statue yonder, and reminding them that this is the 
glorious day of St. Antonino. But this is not all that 
this man of science does. He has the genuine elixir 
d'amour, love-philters and powders which never fail in 
their effects. I see the bashful girls and the sheepish 
swains come slyly up to the side of the wagon, and ex- 
change their hard-earned francs for the hopeful prepara- 
tion. O my brown beauty, with those soft eyes and 
cheeks of smothered fire, you have no need of that red 
philter ! What a simple, childlike folk ! The shrewd 
fellow in the waggon is one of a race as old as Thebes and 
as new as Porkopolis ; his brazen face is older than the 
invention of bronze, but I think he never had to do with 
a more credulous crowd than this. The very cunning in 
the face of the peasants is that of the fox ; it is a sort of 
instinct, and not an intelligent suspicion. 

This is Sunday in Sorrento, under the blue sky. These 
peasants, who are fooled by the mountebank and at- 
tracted by the piles of adamantine gingerbread, do not 
forget to crowd the church of the saint at vespers, and 
kneel there in humble faith ; while the choir sings the 
Agnus Dei, and the priests drone the service. Are they 
so different, then, from other people? They have an 
idea on Capri that England is such another island, only 
not so pleasant ; that all Englishmen are rich, and con- 
stantly travel to escape the dreariness at home ; and 
that, if they are not absolutely mad, they are all a little 
queer. It was a fancy prevalent in Hamlet's day. We 
had the English service in the Villa Nardi in the even- 
ing. There are some Englishmen staying here, of the 



  

class one finds in all the sunny spots of Europe, ennuy€ 
and growling, in search of some elixir that shall bring 
back youth and enjoyment. They seem divided in mind 
between the attractions of the equable climate of this 
region, and the fear of the gout which lurks in the unfer- 
mented wine. One cannot be too grateful to the sturdy 
islanders for carrying their prayers, like their drum-beat, 
all round the globe ; and I was much edified that night, 
as the reading went on, by a row of rather battered men 
of the world, who stood in line on one side of the room, 
and took their prayers with a certain British fortitude, 
as if they were conscious of performing a constitutional 
duty, and helping by the act to uphold the majesty of 
English institutions. 



PUNTA BELLA CAMPANELLA. 

THERE is always a mild excitement about mount- 
ing donkeys in the morning here for an excursion 
among the hills. The warm sun pouring into the gar- 
den, the smell of oranges, the stimulating air, the general 
openness and freshness, promise a day of enjoyment. 
There is always a doubt as to who will go ; generally a 
donkey wanting ; somebody wishes to join the party at 
the last moment; there is no end of running up and 
down stairs, calling from balconies and terraces ; some 
never ready, and some waiting below in the sun; the 
whole house in a tumult, drivers in a worry, and the 
sleepy animals now and then joining in the clatter with 
a vocal performance that is neither a trumpet-call nor a 
steam-whistle, but an indescribable noise, that begins in 
agony, and abruptly breaks down in despair. It is diffi- 
cult to get the train in motion. The lady who ordered 
Succarina has got a strange donkey, and Macaroni has 
on the wrong saddle. Succarina is a f.ivorite, the kind- 
est, easiest, and surest-footed of beasts, — a diminutive 
animal, not bigger than a Friesland sheep ; old, in fact 
grizzly with years, and not unlike the aged, wizened 
little women who are so common here : for beauty in 
this region dries up ; and these handsome Sorrento girls, 
if they live, and almost everybody does live, have the 
prospect, in their old ae, of becoming mummies, with 
parchment skins. I have heard of climates that preserve 
female beauty ; this embalms it, only the beauty escapes 
in the process. As I was saying, Succarina is little, old, 
 





and grizzly ; but her head is large, and one might be 
contented to be as wise as she looks. 

The party is at length mounted, and clatters away 
through the narrow streets. Donkey-riding is very good 
for people who think they cannot walk. It looks very 
much like riding, to a spectator ; and it deceives the 
person undertaking it into an amount of exercise equal 
to walking. I have a great admiration for the donkey 
character. There never was such patience under wrong 
treatment, such return of devotion for injury. Their 
obstinacy, which is so much talked about, is only an 
exercise of the right of private judgment, and an intel- 
ligent exercise of it, no doubt, if we could take the don- 
key point of view, as so many of us are accused of doing 
in other things. I am certain of one thing : in  any 
large excursion party, there will be more obstinate 
people than obstinate donkeys ; and yet the poor brutes 
get all the thwacks and thumps. We are bound to-day 
for the Punta della Campanella, the extreme point of 
the promontory, and ten miles away. The path lies up 
the steps from the new Massa carriage-road, now on the 
backbone of the ridge, and now in the recesses of the 
broken country. What an animated picture is the don- 
keycade, as it mounts the steeps, winding along the zig- 
zags ! Hear the little bridle-bells jingling, the drivers 
groaning their "a-e-ugh, a-e-ugh," the riders making 
a merry din of laughter, and firing off a fusillade of 
ejaculations of dehglit and wonder. 

The road is between high walls; round the sweep of 
curved terraces which rise above and below us, bearing 
the glistening olive; through glens and guUies ; over 
and under arches, vine-grown, — how little we make use 
of the arch at home ! — round sunny dells where orange 
orchards gleam ; past shrines, little chapels perched on 
rocks, rude villas commanding most extensive sweeps 
of sea and shore. The almond trees are in full bloom, 
every twig a thickly-set spike of the pink and white 
blossoms ;°daisies and dandelions are out ; the purple 





crocuses sprinkle the ground, the petals exquisitely 
varied on the reverse side, and the stamens of bright sal- 
mon color ; the large double anemones have come forth, 
certain that it is spring ; on the higher crags by the 
wayside, the Mediterranean heather has shaken out its 
delicate flowers, which fill the air with a mild fragrance ; 
while blue violets, sweet of scent like the English, make 
our path a perfumed one. And this is winter. 

We have made a late start, owing to the fact that 
everybody is captain of the expedition, and to the 
Sorrento infirmity that no one is able to make up his 
mind about any thing. It is one o'clock when we reach 
a high transverse ridge, and find the headlands of the 
peninsula rising before us, grim hills of limestone, one 
of them with the ruins of a convent on top, and no 
road apparent thither, and Capri ahead of us in the sea, 
the only bit of land that catches any light ; for as we 
have journeyed, the sky has thickened, the clouds of the 
sirocco have come up from the south ; there has been 
first a mist, and then a fine rain ; the ruins on the peak 
of Santa Costanza are now hid in mist. We halt for 
consultation. Shall we go on and brave a wetting, or 
ignominiously retreat V There are many opinions, but 
few decided ones. The drivers declare that it will be 
a bad time. One gentleman, with an air of decision, 
suo-gests that it is best to go on, or go back, if we do not 
stand here and wait. The deaf lady, from near Dublin, 
being appealed to, says that, perhaps, if it is more 
prudent, we had better go back if it is going to rain. 
It does rain. Water-proofs are put on, umbrellas spread, 
backs turned to the wind ; and we look like a group 
of explorers under adverse circumstances, " silent on a 
peak in Darien," the donkeys especially downcast and 
dejected. Finally, as is usual in life, a compromise pre- 
vails. We decide to continue for half an hour longer, 
and see what the weather is. No sooner have we set 
forward over the brow of a hill than it grows lighter on 
the sea horizon in the south-west, the ruins on the peak 





become visible, Capri is in full sunlight. The clouds 
lift more and more, and still hanging overhead, but with 
no more rain, are like curtains gradually drawn up, 
opening to us a glorious vista of sunshine and promise, 
an illumined, sparkling, illimitable sea, and a bright 
foreground of slopes and picturesque rocks. Before the 
half-hour is up, there is not one of the party who does 
not claim to have been the person who insisted upon 
going forward. 

We halt for a moment to look at Capri,.that enormous, 
irregular rock, raising its huge back out of the sea, its 
back broken in the middle, with the little village for a 
saddle. On the farther summit, above Anacapri, a pre- 
cipice of two thousand feet sheer down to the water on 
the other side, hangs a light cloud. The east elevation, 
whence the playful Tiberius used to amuse his green old 
age by casting his prisoners eight hundred feet down 
into the sea, has the strong sunlight on it ; and below, 
the row of tooth-like rocks, which are the extreme eastern 
point, shine in a warm glow. We descend through a 
villagre, twisting about in its crooked streets. The in- 
habitants, who do not see strangers every day, make 
free to stare at and comment on us, and even laugh at 
something that seems very comical in our appearance ; 
which shows how ridiculous are the costumes of Paris 
and New York in some places. Stalwart girls, with 
only an apology for clothes, with bare legs, brown faces, 
and beautiful eyes, stop in their spinning, holding the 
distaff suspended, while they examine us at leisure. At 
our left, as we nrn from the church and its svLnny piazza, 
where old women sit and gabble, down the ravine, is a 
snug village under the mountain by the shore, with a 
great, square, mediaeval tower. On the right, upon 
rocky points, are remains of round towers, and temples 
perhaps. 

We sweep away to the left round the base of the hill, 
over a difficult and stony path. Soon the last dilapidated 
villa is passed, the last terrace and olive-tree are left be- 
 

hind ; and we emerge upon a wild, rocky slope, barren 
of vegetation, except little tufts of grass and a sort of 
lentil ; a wide sweep of limestone strata set on edge, 
and crumbling in the beat of centuries, rising to a con- 
siderable height on the left. Our path descends toward 
the sea, still creeping round the end of the promontory. 
Scattered here and there over the rocks, like conies, are 
peasants, tending a few lean cattle, and digging grasses 
from the crevices. The women and children are wild in 
attire and manner, and set up a clamor of begging as 
we pass. A group of old hags begin beating a poor 
child as we approach to excite our compassion for the 
abused little object, and draw out centimes. 

Walking ahead of the procession, which gets slowly 
down the rugged path, I lose sight of my companions, 
and have the solitude, the sun on the rocks, the glisten- 
ing sea, all to myself. Soon I espy a man below me, 
sauntering down among the rocks. He sees me and 
moves away, a solitary figure. I say solitary ; and so it 
is in efiect, although he is leading a little boy, and call- 
ing to his dog, which runs back to bark at me. Is this 
the brigand of whom I have read, and is he luring me 
to his haunt ? Probably. I follow. He throws his cloak 
about his shoulders, exactly as brigands do in the opera, 
and loiters on. At last there is the point in sight, a gray 
wall with blind arches. The man disappears through  
narrow archway, and I follow. Within is an enormous 
square tower. I think it was built in Spanish days, as 
an outlook for Barbary pirates. A bell hung in it, which 
was set clang-ing: when the white sails of the robbers 
appeared to the southward ; and the alarm was repeated 
up the coast, the towers were manned, and the brown- 
cheeked girls flew away to the hills, I doubt not, for the 
touch of the sirocco was not half so rnuch to be dreaded 
as the rough importunity of a Saracen lover. The bell 
is gone now, and no Moslem rovers were in sight. The 
maidens we had just passed would be safe if there were. 
My brigand disappears round the tower ; and I follow, 





down steps, by a white wall, and, lo ! a house, — a red, 
stucco, Egyptian-looking building, — on the very edge of 
the rocks. The man unlocks a door and goes in. I con- 
sider this an invitation, and enter. On one side of the 
passage a sleeping-room, on the other a kitchen, not 
sumptuous quarters ; and we come then upon a pretty 
circular terrace ; and there, in its glass case, is the lan- 
tern of the point. My brigand is a lighthouse keeper, 
and welcomes me in a quiet way, glad, evidently, to see 
the face of a civilized being. It is very solitary, he says. 
I should think so. It is the end of every thing. The 
Mediterranean waves beat with a dull thud on the worn 
crags below. The rocks rise up to the sky behind. 
There is nothing there but the sun, an occasional sail, 
and quiet, petrified Capri, three miles distant across the 
strait. It is an excellent place for a misanthrope to 
spend a week, and get cured. There must be a very 
dispiriting influence prevailing here ; the keeper refused 
to take any money, the solitary Italian we have seen so 
affected. 

We returned late. The young moon, lying in the lap 
of the old one, was superintending the brilliant sunset 
over Capri, as we passed the last point commanding it ; 
and the light, fading away, Jeft us stumbling over the 
rough path among the hills, darkened by the high walls. 
We were not sorry to emerge upon the crest above the 
Massa road. For there lay the sea, and the plain of 
Sorrento, with its darkening groves and hundreds of 
twinkling Ughts. As we went down the last descent, 
the bells of the town were all ringing, for it was the eve 
of the fete of St. Antonino. 



CAPRI. 

"/AP, signer? Good day for Grott." Thus spoke a 
\_J mariner, touching his Phrygian cap. The people 
here abbreviate all names. With them Massa is Mas, 
Meta is Met, Capri becomes Cap, the Grotta Azzurra is 
reduced familiarly to Grott, and they even curtail musical 
Sorrento into Serent. 

Shall we go to Capri ? Should we dare return to the 
great Republic, and own that we had not been into the 
Blue Grotto ? We like to climb the steeps here, espe- 
cially towards Massa, and look at Capri. I have read 
in some book that it used to be always visible from Sorr 
rento. But now the promontory has risen, the Capo di 
Sorrento has thrust out its rocky spur with its ancient 
Roman masonry, and the island itself has moved so far 
round to the south, that Sorrento, which fronts north, 
has lost sight of it. 

We never tire of watching it, thinking that it could 
not be spared from the landscape. It lies only three 
miles from the curving end of the promontory, and is 
about twenty miles due south of Naples. In this atmos- 
phere distances dwindle. The nearest land, to the north- 
west, is the larger island of Ischia, distant nearly as far 
as Naples ; yet Capri has the effect of being anchored off 
the bay to guard the entrance. It is really a rock, three 
miles and a half long, rising straight out of the water, 
eight hundred feet high at one end, and eighteen hun- 
dred feet at the other, with a depression between. If it 
had been chiselled by hand and set there, it could not 
 





be more sharply defined. So precipitous are its sides 
of rock, that there are only two fit boat-landings, — the 
marina on the north side, and a smaller place opposite. 
One of those light-haired and freckled Englishmen, 
whose pluck exceeds their discretion, rowed round the 
island alone in rough water, last summer, against the 
advice of the boatman, and unable to make a landing, 
and weary with the strife of the waves, was in consider- 
able peril. 

Sharp and clear as Capri is in outline, its contour is 
still most graceful and poetic. This wonderful atmos- 
phere softens even its ruggedness, and drapes it with 
hues of enchanting beauty. Sometimes the' haze plays 
fantastic tricks with it, — a cloud-cap hangs on Monte 
Solaro, or a mist obscures the base, and the massive 
summits of rock seem to float in the air, baseless fabrics 
of a vision that the rising wind will carry away perhaps. 
I know now what Homer means by " wandering islands." 
Shall we take a boat and sail over there, and so destroy 
forever another island of the imagination ? The bane of 
travel is thfe destruction of illusions. 

We like to talk about Capri, and to talk of going 
there. The Sorrento people have no end of gossip 
about the wild island ; and, simple and primitive as 
they are, Capri is still more out of the world. I do 
not know what enchantment there is on the island; 
but whoever sets foot there, they say, goes insane or 
dies a drunkard. I fancy the reason of this is found 
in the fact that the Capri girls are raving beauties. I 
am not sure but the monotony of being anchored off 
there in the bay, the monotony of rocks and precipices 
that goats alone can climb, the monotony of a tempera- 
ture that scarcely ever, winter and summer, is below 55° 
or above 75° Fahrenheit in-doors, might drive one into 
lunacy. But I incHne to think it is due to the hand- 
some Capri girls. 

There are beautiful girls in Sorrento, with a beauty 
more than skin deep, a glowing, hidden fire, a ripeness 






like that of the grape and the peach which grow in the 
soft air and the sun. And they wither, like grapes that 
hang upon the stem. I have never seen a handsome, 
scarcely a decent-looking, old woman here. They are 
lank and dry, and their bones are covered with parch- 
ment. One of these brown-cheeked girls, with large, 
longing eyes, gives the stranger a start, now and then, 
when he meets her in a narrow way with a basket of 
oranges on her head. I hope he has the grace to go 
right by. Let him meditate what this vision of beauty 
will be like in twenty years. 

The Capri girls are famed as magnificent beauties, 
but they fade like their mainland sisters. The Saracens 
used to descend on their island, and carry them off to 
their harems. The English, a very adventurous people, 
who have no harems, have followed the Saracens. The 
young lords and gentlemen have a great fondness for 
Capri. I hear gossip enough about elopements, and not 
seldom mamages, with the island girls, — bright girls, 
with the Greek mother-wit, and surpassingly handsome ; 
but they do not bear transportation to civilized life (any. 
more than some of the native wines do) : they accept no 
intellectual culture ; and they lose their beauty as they 
grow old. What then ? The young English blade, who 
was intoxicated by beauty into an injudicious match and 
might, as the proverb says, have gone insane if he could 
not have made it, takes to drink now, and so fulfils the , 
other alternative. Alas ! the fatal gift of beauty. 

But I do not think Capri is so dangerous as it is repre- 
sented. For (of course we went to Capri) neither at the 
marina, where a crowd of barelegged, vociferous maid- 
ens with donkeys assailed us, nor in the village above, 
did I see many girls for whom and one little isle a per- 
son would forswear the world. But I can believe that 
they grow here.  One of our donkey girls was a hand- 
some, dark-skinned, black-eyed girl ; but her little sis- 
ter, a mite of a being of six years, who could scarcely 
step over the small stones in the road, and was forced 





to lead the donkey by her sister in order to establish 
another lien on us for buona mano, was a dirty little 
angel in rags, and her great, soft, black eyes will look 
somebody into the asylum or the drunkard's grave in 
time, I have no doubt. There was a stout, manly, hand- 
some little fellow of five years, who established himself 
as the guide and friend of the tallest of our party. His 
hat was nearly gone ; he was sadly out of repair in the 
rear ; his short legs made the act of walking absurd ; but 
he trudged up the hill with a certain dignity. And there 
was nothing mercenary about his attachment : he and his 
friend got upon very cordial terms ; they exchanged gifts 
of shells and copper coin, but nothing was said about pay. 
Nearly all the inhabitants, young and old, joined us 
in lively procession, up the winding road of three-quar- 
ters of a mile, to the town. At the deep gate, entering 
between thick walls, we stopped to look at the sea. The 
crowd and clamor at our landing had been so great, that 
we enjoyed the sight of the quiet old woman sitting here 
in the sun, and the few beggars almost too lazy to stretch 
out their hands. Within the gate is a large paved square, 
with the government offices and the tobacco-shop on one 
side, and the church opposite ; between them, up a flight 
of broad stone steps, is the Hotel Tiberio. Our donkeys 
walk up them and into the hotel. The church and hotel 
are six hundred years old ; the hotel was a villa belong- 
ing to Joanna H. of Naples. We climb to the roof of 
the quaint old building, and sit there to drink in the 
strange Oriental scene. The landlord says it is like 
Jafi'a or Jerusalem. The landlady, an Irish woman 
from Devonshire, says it is six francs a day. In what 
friendly intercourse the neighbors can sit on these flat 
roofs I How sightly this is, and yet how sheltered ! _ To 
the east is the height where Augustus, and after him Tibe- 
rius, built palaces. To the west, up that vertical wall, 
by means of five hundred steps cut in the face of the 
rock, we go to reach the table-land of Anacapri, the 
primitive village of that name, hidden from view here ; 





the mediaeval castle of Barbarossa, which hangs over a 
frightful precipice; and the height of Monte Solaro. 
The island is everywhere strewn with Koman ruins, and 
with faint traces of the Greeks. 

Capri turns out not to be a barren rock. Broken and 
picturesque as it is, it is yet covered with vegetation. 
There is not a foot, one might say a point, of soil that 
does not bear something ; and there is not a niche in the 
rock, where a scrap of dirt will stay, that is not made 
useful. The whole island is terraced. The most won- 
derful thing about it, after all, is its masonry. You come 
to think, after a time, that the island is not natural rock, 
but a mass of masonry. If the labor that has been 
expended here, only to erect platforms for the soil to rest 
on, had been given to our country, it would have built 
hcilf a dozen Pacific railways, and cut a canal through 
the Isthmus. 

But the Blue Grotto ? Oh, yes ? Is it so blue ? That 
depends upon the time of day, the sun, the clouds, and 
something upon the person who enters it. It is fright- 
fully blue to some. We bend down in our row-boat, 
slide into the narrow opening which is three feet high, 
and, passing into the spacious cavern, remain there for 
half an hour. It is, to be sure, forty feet high, and a 
hundred by a hundred and fifty in extent, with an arched 
roof, and clear water for a floor. The water appears to 
be as deep as the roof is high, and is of a light, beautiful 
blue, in contrast with the deep blue of the bay. At the 
entrance the water is illuminated, and there is a pleasant, 
mild light within : one has there a novel subterranean 
sensation ; but it did not remind me of any thing I have 
seen in the " Arabian Nights." I have seen pictures of 
it that were much finer. 

As we rowed close to the precipice in returning, I saw 
many similar openings, not so deep, and perhaps only 
sham openings ; and the water-line was fretted to honey- 
comb by the eating waves. Beneath the water-line, and 
revealed here and there when the waves receded, was a 
line of bright red coral. 



THE STORY OF FIAMETTA. 

AT vespers on the fete of St. Antonino, and in his 
church, I saw the Signorina Fiametta. I stood 
leaning against a marble pillar near the altar-steps, 
during the service, when I saw the young girl kneeling 
on the pavement in act of prayer. Her black lace veil 
had fallen a little back from her head ; and there 
was something in her modest attitude and graceful 
figure, that made her conspicuous among all her kneel- 
ing companions, with their gay kerchiefs and bright 
gowns. When she rose and sat down, with folded hands 
and eyes downcast, there was something so pensive in 
her subdued mien, that I could not take my eyes from 
her. To say that she had the rich olive complexion, 
with the gold struggling through, large, lustrous black 
eyes, and harmonious features, is only to make a weak 
photograph, when I should paint a picture in colors, and 
infuse it with the sweet loveliness of a maiden on the way 
to sainthood. I was sure that I had seen her before, 
looking down from the balcony of a villa just beyond 
the Roman wall, for the face was not one that even the 
most unimpressible idler would forget. I was sure, that, 
young as she was, she had already a history ; had lived 
her life, and now walked amid these groves and old 
streets in a dream. The story which I heard is not long. 
In the drawing-room of the Villa Nardi, was shown, 
and offered for sale, an enormous counterpane, crocheted 
in white cotton. Loop by loop, it must have been an 
immense labor to knit it; for it was fashioned in pretty 

 

devices, and when spread out was rich and showy enough 
for the royal bed of a princess. It had been crocheted 
by Fiametta for her marriage, the only portion the poor 
child could bring to that sacrament. Alas ! the wedding 
was never to be ; and the rich work, into which her del- 
icate fingers had knit so many maiden dreams and hopes 
and fears, was offered for sale in the resort of strangers. 
It could not have been want only that induced her to put 
this piece of work in the market, but the feeling, also, 
that the time never again could return when she would 
have need of it. I had no desire to purchase such a mel- 
ancholy coverlet, but I could well enough fancy why she 
would wish to part with what must be rather a pall than 
a decoration in her little chamber. 

Fiametta lived with her mother in a little villa, the 
roof of which is in sight from my sunny terrace in the 
Villa Nardi, just to the left of the square old convent 
tower, rising there out of the silver olive-boughs, — a 
tumble-down sort of villa, with a flat roof and odd angles 
and parapets, in the midst of a thrifty but small grove of 
lemons and oranges. They were poor enough, or would 
be in any country where physical wants aregreater than 
here, and yet did not belong to that lowest class, the young 
girls of which are little more than beasts of burden, 
accustomed to act as porters, bearing about on their 
heads great loads of stone, wood, water, and baskets of 
oranges in the shipping season. She could not have been 
forced to such labor, or she never would have had the time 
to work that wonderful coverlet. 

Giuseppe was an honest and rather handsome young 
fellow of Sorrento, industrious and good-natured, who 
did not bother his head much about learning. He was, 
however, a skilful workman in the celebrated inlaid and 
mosaic wood-work of the place, and, it is said, had even 
invented some new figures for the inlaid pictures in col- 
ored woods. He had a little fancy for the sea as well, 
and liked to pull an oar over to Capri on occasion, by 
which he could earn a few francs easier than he could 





saw them out of the orange-wood. For the stupid fel- 
low, who could not read a word in his prayer-book, had 
an idea of thrift in his head, and already, I suspect, was 
laying up liras with an object. There are one or two 
dandies in Sorrento who attempt to dress as they do in 
Naples. Giuseppe was not one of these ; but there was 
not a gayer or handsomer gallant than he on Sunday, or 
one more looked at by the Sorrento girls, when he had 
on his clean suit and his fresh red Phrygian cap. At 
least the good Fiametta thought so, when she met hirn 
at church, though I feel sure she did not allow even his 
handsome figure to come between her and the Virgin. 
At any rate, there can be no doubt of her sentiments 
after church, when she and her mother used to walk with 
him, along the winding Massa road above the sea, and 
stroll down to the shore to sit on the greensward over the 
Temple of Hercules, or the Roman Baths, or the remains 
of the villa of C. Fulvius Cunctatus Codes, or whatever 
those ruins subterranean are, there on the Capo di Sor- 
rento. Of course, this is mere conjecture of mine. They 
may have gone on the hills behind the town instead, or 
they may have stood leaning over the garden-wall of her 
mother's little villa, looking at the passers-by in the deep 
lane, thinking about nothing in the world, and talking 
about it all the sunny afternoon, until Ischia was purple 
with the last light, and the olive terraces behind them 
bean to lose their gray bloom. All I do know is, that 



they were in love, blossoming out in it as the almond- 
trees do here in Feburary ; and that all the town knew 
it, and saw a wedding in the future, just as plain as you 
can see Capri from the heights above the town. 

It was at this time that the wonderful counterpane 
began to grow, to the continual astonishment of Giu- 
seppe, to whom it seemed a marvel of skill and patience, 
and who saw what love and sweet hope Fiametta was 
knitting into it with her deft fingers. I declare, as _ I 
think of it, the white cotton spread out on her knees, in 
such contrast to the rich olive of her complexion and 





her black shiny hair, while she knits away so merrily, 
glancing up occasionally with those liquid, laughing eyes 
to Giuseppe, who is watching her as if she were an angel 
right out of the blue sky, I am tempted not to tell this 
story further, but to leave the happy two there at the 
open gate of life, and to believe that they entered in. 

This was about the time of the change of government, 
after this region had come to be a part of the Kingdom 
of Italy. After the first excitement was over, and the 
simple people found they were not all made rich, nor 
raised to a condition in which they could live without 
work, there began to be some dissatisfaction. Why the 
convents need have been suppressed, and especially the 
poor nuns packed ofi*, they couldn't see ; and then the 
taxes were heavier than ever before ; instead of being 
supported by the Government, they had to support it ; 
and, worst of all, the able young fellows must still go for 
soldiers. Just as one was learning his trade, or perhaps 
had acquired it, and was ready to earn his living and 
begin to make a home for his wife, he must pass the 
three best years of his life in the army. The conscrip- 
tion was relentless. 

The time came to Giuseppe, as it did to the others. 
I never heard but he was brave enough ; there was no 
storm on the Mediterranean that he dare not face in his 
little boat ; and he would not have objected to a cam- 
paign with the red shirts of Garibaldi. But to be torn 
away from his occupations by which he was daily laying 
aside a little for himself and Fiametta, and to leave her 
for three years, — that seemed dreadful to him. Three 
years is a long time ; and though he had no doubt of the 
pretty Fiametta, yet women are women, said the shrewd 
fellow to himself, and who knows what might happen, if 
a gallant came along who could read and write, as Fi- 
ametta could, and, besides, could play the guitar ? 

The result was, that Giuseppe did not appear at the 
mustering-office on the day set ; and, when the file of 
soldiers came lor him, he was nowhere to be found. He 





had fled to the mountains. I scarcely know what his 
plan was, but he probably trusted to some good luck to 
escape the conscription altogether, if he could shun it 
now ; and, at least, I know that he had many comrades 
who did the same, so that at times the mountains were 
full of young fellows who were lurking in them to escape 
the soldiers. And they fared very roughly usually, and 
sometimes nearly perished from hunger ; for though the 
sympathies of the peasants were undoubtedly with the 
quasi outlaws rather than with the carbineers, yet the 
latter were at every hamlet in the hills, and liable to 
visit every hut, so that any relief extended to the fugi- 
tives was attended with great danger ; and, besides, the 
hunted men did not dare to venture from their retreats. 
Thus outlawed and driven to desperation by hunger, 
these fugitives, whom nobody can defend for running 
away from their duties as citizens, became brigands. A 
cynical German, who was taken by them some years ago 
on the road to Castellamare, a few miles above here, and 
held for ransom, declared that they were the most honest 
fellows he had seen in Italy ; but I never could see that 
he intended the remark as any compliment to them. It 
is certain that the inhabitants of all these towns held 
very loose ideas on the subject of brigandage : the poor 
fellows, they used to say, only robbed because they were 
hungry, and they must live somehow. 

What Fiametta thought, down in her heart, is not 
told : but I presume she shared the feelings of those 
about her concerning the brigands, and, when she heard 
that Giuseppe had joined them, was more anxious for the 
safety of his body than of his soul ; though I warrant she 
did not forget either, in her prayers to the Virgin and 
St. Antonino. And yet those must have been days, 
weeks, months, of terrible anxiety to the poor child ; and 
if she worked away at the counterpane, netting in that 
elaborate border, as I have no doubt she did, it must, 
have been with a sad heart and doubtful fingers.  I 
think that one of the psychological sensitives could dis- 


tinguish the parts of the bed-spread that were knit in the 
sunny days from those knit in the long hours of care and 
deepening anxiety. 

It was rarely that she received any message from him, 
and it was then only verbal and of the briefest ; he was 
in the mountains above Amalfi ; one day he had come 
so far round as the top of the Great St. Angelo, frcmi 
which he could look down upon the piano of Sorrento, 
where the little Fiametta was ; or he had been on the 
hills near Salerno, hunted and hungry ; or his company 
had descended upon some travellers going to Passtum, 
made a successful haul, and escaped into the steep 
mountains beyond. He didn't intend to become a regu- 
lar bandit, not at all. He hoped that something might 
happen so that he could steal back into Sorrento, un- 
marked by the Government ; or, at least, that he could 
escape away to some other country or island, where Fi- 
ametta could join him. Did she love him yet, as in the 
old, happy days ? As for him, she was now every thing 
to him ; and he would willingly serve three or thirty 
years in the army, if the Government could forget he had 
been a brigand, and permit him to have a little home 
with Fiametta at the end of the probation. There was 
not much comfort in all this, but the simple fellow could 
not send any thing more cheerful ; and I think it used 
to feed the little maiden's heart to hear from him, even 
in this downcast mood, for his love for her was a dear 
certainty, and his absence and wild life did not dim it. 

My informant does not know how long this painful 
life went on, nor does it matter much. There came a 
day when the Government was shamed into new vigor 
against the brigands. Some English people of conse- 
