confessed kept strictly to her word, though she found it 
an immense hardship. Jessie smiled to herself over the 
persistency. 

"Though I believe I would rather wash dishes and 
sweep the house," said Madge, laughingly. " A depraved 
taste, I am ready to admit." 

The letters from mamma were full of encouragement. 
Mr. Ashburton improved daily, began to take short walks, 
and could drive without being dependent on others. Mrs. 
Ashburton hailed all these promises of amendment with 
the most devout gratitude. 

One day a thick packet came for Madge. She had re- 
ceived one or two brief notes from Charlie Westlake, 
detailing his movements, as his mother had decided upon 
a somewhat extended summer tour. He would have 
given much for a few lines in return, but he had said that 
he would not ask the slightest favor until he had found an 
opportunity to explain all to her mother. 

The warm blood mantled Madge's face as she read. 
Charlie Westlake had paid them a visit, taking them very 
much by surprise. Of course they were delighted to see 
him, and to hear from him a glowing description of the 
small tea-party which he appeared to have enjoyed so much, 
although Madge had furnished them with an account also. 

And then came the important confession that he was to 
make for both. He had stated the case very frankly, 
admitting that in the beginning he might expect some 
opposition from his mother. He had pleaded his cause so 





eloquently that Mr. Ashburton, with whom he was a 
great favorite, felt inclined to listen, though he could not 
promise much for the present. Finally, it was decided 
that if in the course of the next year his feelings should 
not have changed, they would take the engagement into 
consideration. 

And then followed the tender counsel and loving care 
such as a mother only can give. She could not help but 
regret that this knowledge had come so early to Madge ; 
yet there might be some hidden grace in it that their eyes 
were slow to perceive. Her darling must not be hasty or 
imprudent, and try daily to fit herself for any sphere of 
life in which her duty seemed to be most apparent. 

" Dear mamma ! " Madge said with tearful eyes. " Was 
ever anybody so sweet, and wise, and good? Why, I 
don't feel a bit disappointed, and it's nothing to bear, since 
she has faith in Charlie. Why, I could wait seven years, 
I know, and be happy all the while, with her to comfort 
me." 

Philip looked a little grave over the decision, but made 
no comment. 

Eleanor wrote regularly to mamma, but less frequently 
to the girls. She seemed to be enjoying herself very well, 
and announced that aunt Waltham had accepted an invi- 
tation for a fortnight in Boston ; so she would not be 
home before the middle of September. 

Jessie made up her household accounts in great triumph 
the last of August. For two months there had been a 
noticeable decrease in expenses. But then the little hoard 
had been drawn upon pretty severely already. Philip had 
insisted on Eleanor being provided with enough to render 
herself tolerably independent in case of an emergency, 
and with all the demand, there were but four hundred dol- 
lars left. 

" Our coal is in," said Jessie, hopefully, " and some pro- 
visions for winter. Then there are no debts, and we have 



 

enough for our little trip." For Philip had a week's holi- 
day, and proposed to take the girls up to the Catskills 
when he went after their parents. 

Two months had been a long separation. Only the 
urgency of the case, or rather, as Jessie felt, their poverty, 
could have so prolonged the absence. She was learning 
many grave lessons that were to stand her in good stead 
during some dark days yet to come. 

The tour was delightful beyond description, for the two 
girls had never travelled very far from Home Nook. And 
then to be pressed to mamma's heart, to see papa looking 
much improved, if not quite like his olden self, and to 
feel that the fond family circle was united once more, 
though two dear faces were missed ! 

" God has been very good to us," Mrs. Ash burton said, 
as she stood in the twilight with the children. "Do we 
indeed realize what a friend we have in him ? " 

Jessie met her mother's eyes with a sweet smile. 

Madge was thoughtful a moment, then said, with a 
bright flush, " I begin to think poverty quite endurable, 
mamma. I wonder if brave and noble deeds are not made 
more plain by it." 







CHAPTER IX. 

ELEANOB. 

were very glad to be at home once more, but life 
was to be taken up in earnest. The sweet holiday of 
youth had ended for them all. 

" I feel as if I ought to be learning to do something 
useful," Madge said, impatiently. 

"You must go to school regularly for the next year," 
her mother answered. "If it should be necessary for you 
to help by and by, you might become a teacher." 

"Mamma, I never did and never can like that. I be- 
lieve I should go crazy. I love children in a certain way, 
but I would rather dress and amuse, and perhaps take care 
of them, than to teach them. That will always be my 
abomination." 

" But it is necessary to know a little more for yourself, if 
you are never called upon to impart it. You are hardly 
sixteen, and not as far advanced as Jessie. She proposes 
to study at home, and I think she will keep pace with 
you." 

So Madge made her entree at school quite different from 
the select classes at the Riverside Seminary. But Madge 
was democratic and social, and soon became a great favor- 
ite with the girls. 

The grief of the absent Clement at the loss of Home 
Nook had been deep indeed. He could not understand 
why this sorrow should come upon them at a time wheu 
they appeared so peculiarly helpless. 

U I would propose an immediate return," he wrote, "if 
[ could pee that it would be for the best. If I should 



 

have my health, prosperity is quite certain. In eight or 
ten years I may make a fortune, at least, enough to buy 
back Home Nook, and render the remainder of life com' 
fortable to you and my dear father. At home I should 
have to run the risk of getting established to my liking, 
and it would be at considerable present loss. In the 
mean while, remember that I shall always be ready to as- 
aist ; and do not therefore keep me in ignorance of any 
want. But I shall never rest until Home Nook is ours 
once more." 

" Dear Clement ! " Philip said, in a voice touched with 
emotion. " He will do so much, while I seem quite help- 
less." 

"No," returned Jessie; "if you take care of us now, it 
lifts that much of the burden from him." 

Philip sighed. The reality was so different from one's 
dreams ! and though it was possible for ant-hills and coral 
islands to be built grain by grain, a fortune was much 
more difficult to achieve. 

September had nearly waned when Eleanor returned. 
She took them somewhat by surprise one pleasant after- 
noon. Jessie started back in amaze as she answered the 
door-bell. There stood Nelly and aunt Waltham. 

"O, Nelly!" 

The stately girl bent down and kissed her fair sister. 

" My dear Jessie," exclaimed aunt Waltham graciously. 
" Are you all well ? Why, you look as fresh and bright 
as a daisy." 

Jessie ushered them into the simple parlor, and Mr. Ash- 
burton clasped his long-absent daughter to his heart. 

" Why, how much you have improved ! " said Mrs. 
Waltham, glancing at her brother, while she clasped her 
sister-in-law's hand with great cordiality. 

" I am glad to hear you say so ; " and a flush of pleasure 
crossed his delicate face. 

"I suppose you were hardly expecting us in this uncere 





monious manner. We reached New York this morning, 
but I had some business on hand which required my im- 
mediate attention, and then I thought you would hardly 
need word to prepare yourselves. Nelly is looking won- 
derfully well is she not?" 

Aunt Waltham uttered this in a rapid breath, and sank 
down on the sofa in a flutter of lace and ribbons. 

Eleanor colored under the scrutiny. One fond heart 
noted the change with a pang. She did look well, and 
there was not only a peculiar brightness about her, but 
something else as well. The simple, noble Eleanor had 
merged into a fashionable woman. There was a style and 
grace in every motion, a peculiar turn of the head, a soft 
accent of voice, and a power in the eyes, a kind of fire 
hardly veiled under the languor. What had worked this 
change contact with the world alone, or had it some 
subtle, underlying chord ? 

"Of course you will stay," said Jessie, with a half- 
nervous laugh. "Mamma, how negligent we are! The 
thought of our visitors has quite overwhelmed us ! Come 
up stairs and take off your bonnet, aunt Waltham 
Nelly." 

" If you take mine, Jessie, I shall be obliged. We shall 
favor you with our company at supper, but you must know 
that Nelly and I have set up housekeeping on our own ac- 
count. We went to see a house this morning, and liked 
it so well that we have decided upon keeping it for the 
present." 

Eleanor and Jessie went up to the chamber they had 
once said should be hers. Jessie stood a little in awe of 
ter elegant sister. 

"It seems as if you had grown taller," she said, merely 
to break the awkward pause. "And did you have a 
nice time ? " 

" O, delightful ! Aunt Waltham has been most kind and 
generous." 



 

"But about the house " 

" Aunt Waltham insisted upon it. A furnished house 
on Fifth Avenue, belonging to some friends of hers who 
have gone to Europe to-day, and they were anxious that 
she should take it." 

" How very grand you will be ! " 

"Aunt Waltham thinks it better under the circum- 
stances " 

Eleanor paused and flushed. 

"I shall be glad for you to have any happiness v 
pleasure," said the sweet, tremulous voice. 

Eleanor took off her stylish hat, with its long scarlet 
plume, and pulled out the glossy waves of her dark huir. 
There had been a time when she would have frowned on a 
proposal to call in the hair-dresser's art. But she had 
resigned herself to the hands of Pauline, her aunt's 
French maid. 

" So you think papa quite recovered?" she said, rather 
absently. And Philip " 

" He will be delighted to see you. Yes, the air at Cats- 
kill seemed to work wonders with papa. We can never 
be sufficiently thankful." 

" Still, I do not suppose he will ever be well enough to 
go into business again. And it will be so hard to make 
another start. What does Clement say ?" 

Clement's letter was in mamma's " box of treasures." 
Jessie brought it for Eleanor's perusal. 

" O, if he can be successful ! If we ever should hav 
Home Nook back again ! " 

"I hope so for papa's sake ;" and Jessie's lip quivered. 

" I hope so for all our sakes. You can hardly realize 
the difference it would make. When you and Madge 
grow into womanhood " 

"I do not think of that," returned Jessie, slowly. 

" The world will force you to, then. It makes a wider 
difference than you are aware of, Jessie. And unless one 





is quite willing to relinquish all, there must be many 
trials." 

" We shall see so little of the world !" 

Eleanor sighed. Jessie's fancies were ever a little 
wild. She had come to such plain, practical views, she 
thought. 

Down stairs the conversation progressed rapidly. 

"A house ! " Mr. Ashburton had said. " What fancy it 
this?" 

" I have taken a furnished house for a few months," Mrs. 
Waltham answered. " The exigencies of the case seemed 
to demand it." 

" If you mean that Eleanor ought to have a better home 
than this," began Mr. Ashburton, much excited, when his 
sister interrupted him with, 

"My dear brother, pray be calm. I have some explana- 
tions to make that will place the matter in a proper light. 
I should have written to you, but one can never do justice 
to such a subject in a brief letter. In short, Eleanor ia 
engaged, and I have resolved to do handsomely by the 
dear girl. I knew you would hardly want the excitement 
of a marriage here, and I have determined to take upon 
myself the attendant expenses. Indeed, you shall not say 
a word it will be a pleasure to me, I assure you." 

Mrs. Waltham uttered this in a rapid breath. 

"Engaged!" echoed Mrs. Ashburton, in consternation. 

"Why, is there anything so remarkable in that? El- 
eanor is a handsome and attractive girl, and quite old 
enough to marry." 

"I must see the man who thus lays claim to my 
daughter's hand," said Mr. Ashburton, almost sharply. 

"O, you will see him, of course. He is quite anxious 
to ask consent, and all that. I told Eleanor that I would 
smooth the way for them both. Why, you must remem- 
ber the Copelands ? An uncle of this Gerald Copeland 
njed to be in some importing house. His parents are 




dead, but he inherited quite a large fortune from them. 
It is a very nice match, I am sure, though Eleanor might 
easily have married a richer man." 

"I must see him before I can decide. I, for one, am not 
ready to barter away my children." 

"My dear brother, what a foolish fancy! When two 
young people have fallen in love with each other, and 
there is nothing, absolutely nothing, to be said against th 
gentleman, it will not take long to decide. Use your bot 
ter judgment, I beg of you. Here you are, still a long 
way from perfect health, with two more girls on your 
hands, and Philip barely able to keep the house going ! 
Girls do get married sooner or later, and you ought to be 
thankful to have her so well settled. I call it a very 
fortunate opportunity." 

"I must have a talk with Eleanor." 

" She is quite anxious, dear girl. She has been very 
charming this summer. But I always did say that 
Eleanor was the flower of the family ; and I am delighted 
that it is in my power to do so well for her. The Win- 
throps fairly besieged me to take their house, for they dis- 
like leaving it alone. Everything seemed to happen so 
nicely !" 

Mrs. Waltham appeared to be in a glow of delight. 
Her very amiability roused Mrs. Ashburton to something 
like distrust. Rising, she excused herself for a few mo- 
ments. 

Could it be true ? She went slowly up stairs, her heart 
in a strange tumult. How fast these events came upon 
uer ! 

"Jessie," she said, quietly, " since you are housekeeper 
will you see if anything is needed, and send Madge for it 
when she conies home?" 

Jessie obeyed the behest. 

"My darling child!" and Mrs. Ashburton clasped hel 
daughter to her heart. " Is it true your aunt's story ?" 





" About my my engagement ? " 

Although Eleanor hesitated, her voice was clear and un 
trembling, too steady for a girl in her first love-dream. 

"My child, I ought not to have trusted you this whole 
summer with aunt Waltham. Her powers of persuasion 
are strong ; her habits of looking at the world with most 
worldly eyes, and her sophistries are very dangerous to * 
young and inexperienced mind. As you know well, shb 
places the fact of what is called a good marriage far above 
esteem and confidence, and that noble truth, as well as 
trust, which should be the basis of all such agreements." 

" Mamma," Eleanor said, almost haughtily, " if I had not 
admired Gerald Copeland, I should not have allowed him 
the opportunity of speaking. I cannot see that the fact 
of his having some wealth should go against him. If we 
were back in the old place, we would hardly suspect an 
honorable young man of marrying me simply for a possi- 
ble fortune ; and have you not equal confidence in your 
own child ? " 

" I should have all confidence in you, Nelly, if I were 
convinced that you were following the dictates of your 
heart." 

Mrs. Ashburton tried to read her daughter's eyes, but 
they were studiously averted. 

" I never was an eager, romantic girl, as you well know. 
I am nearly twenty-one, and have not yet fallen in love, as 
the phrase goes. I have never met any man in whom I 
have become as deeply interested as Gerald Copeland. 
He is tender, chivalrous, delicate, and loves me truly. I 
told him the truth, that we had lost our fortune and 
were poor, and if I had cared little for him before, hii 
devotion then must have won me. When ycu see him, 
you will be able to judge better." 

While uttering the latter part of the sentence, Eleanor's 
voice had deepened to a certain enthusiasm, and a flush 
warmed her cheek. 



 

"My child, do you love him? Answer me that one 
question. For to marry without the highest and truest 
regard is a deep and deadly sin against one's soul. For- 
tunes may fail, sickness and trouble may come and think 
how bitter the burden must be without love, which makes 
the grace of patience and sacrifice." 

" I think it would be my nature to care much more foi 
my husband than my lover," said Eleanor, steadily. 

" And then are your tastes and beliefs, your thoughts 
and habits, likely to correspond ? How can you judge in 
this brief while ? " 

"We have seen a good deal of each other; and then 
Gerald seemed to take aunt Waltham into his confidence 
immediately." 

Or, had she attracted him ? Mrs. Ashburton had 
always held her sister-in-law's manoeuvring in extreme 
distrust. 

" When did you first meet him ? " 

In July." 

Eleanor was a little ashamed to say the very last of 
the month. 

"Hardly three months. What can you know of his 
principles, whether he is to be trusted with so sacred a 
thing as a woman's life ? " 

"He came well recommended. O mamma!" she went 
on with sudden earnestness, clasping her slender hands, 
" our old, quiet life gave us small knowledge of the world. 
Why, there were girls who envied me every look, every 
attention, who used their arts and fascinations and you 
can hardly believe how current, and almost necessary 
these are in society to win him from my side. Can you 
not be sure that I held myself above so degrading a strife ? 
He came to me in the face of all this, sought me out, loved 
mo, and why should I not make some return ? Is it so 
poor a thing to have a man's heart laid at your feet ? " 

She looked so beautiful, so purely proud, that hei 

mother could not help admitting the force of her attrao 
tions. 

" If, when you see him, you still doubt his affection, 
are unwilling to trust him, and I should feel convinced 
that my marriage would make you unhappy, I will relin- 
quish it; though Heaven knows that our future looki 
bleak enough ! " 

Eleanor shivered, as if a wintry blast had passed over 
her, in anticipation. 

"My darling, your happiness is all that any of us can 
desire." 

Mrs. Ashburton turned away to hide her tears. She 
began to realize how far her child had been estranged 
from her. Only a year ago, their thoughts and tastes had 
been in unison, though Eleanor's was not a demonstrative 
nature. Yet how many hours of sweet and unalloyed 
happiness they had shared during their pleasant tour of 
the summer before ! Now there was an impassable barrier, 
something more subtile than mere coldness. 

"Aunt Waltham will wonder what has become of us," 
said Eleanor. " And papa will fancy that we are hatching 
a conspiracy." 

" And I must see to my little housekeeper." 

There was no lingering word of tenderness between 
them, no clasp of the hand or fond glance of the eye. 
Eleanor turned in her stately fashion, and Mrs. Ashburton 
felt positively awed by this queenly daughter. 

Mrs. Waltham meanwhile had taken the opportunity of 
having a good plain talk, as she termed it, with her broth- 
er. She had made him feel his helplessness, the injury he 
had worked his family, and his utter inability to make any 
restoration. Not that she had been sharp or cross : there 
is a far more effective manner of carrying weight, of bruis- 
ing the wounded heart into silence. Then she portrayed 
the advantage of this connection for Eleanor. 

" The child is too shrinking and sensitive to brave the 



 

ills of poverty. They would wear upon her health and 
spirits until she sank into a decline; and then you 'would 
have another helpless, nervous invalid on your hands. I 
love her too well to see her wasting her young life in vain ; 
and since this fortunate chance has come to her, it would 
be folly to allow it to go by unimproved." 

There are many times in life when one yields without 
being convinced. Mr. Ashburton felt that he could make 
no headway against his sister's rapid arguments. They 
spoke to each other in unknown tongues, as it were. He 
had not the strength to combat her worldly beliefs and 
prejudices, and so she imagined that she had conquered 
him, and was glowing and gracious. 

The little supper might have been pronounced a success 
in truth. Jessie and her mother had made the best of 
their small means, and Madge cut the last of her darling 
flowers for bouquets. 

I am not sure but that aunt Waltham's good humor 
inspired them alL She praised Jessie, and listened with 
flattering attention to the details of housekeeping, and 
even had no fault to find with Madge, which was a 
wonder. 

Philip came in just before their departure. Aunt Wal- 
tham laughingly told him that she had laid claim to 
Eleanor, and that he must come and spend his first leisure 
evening with them. 

" After we are settled, and rested up a little, you will 
see us frequently," she said. 

They kissed Eleanor a fond good night, and saw he* 
atep into the waiting carriage. 

" What is the meaning of it all ? " asked Philip, in sur- 
prise. "And how Nelly has changed !" 

" Pm sure she is handsomer than ever," declared impul- 
sive Madge. 

" Yes but I don't know whether you noticed only 
it seems to me that the old home look has gone out of hef 





face. She is proud and elegant, and has the air of a 
queen. Perhaps it is the polish of society. But what aie 
they doing? Has aunt Waltham set up an establish- 
ment on her own account ? " 

"Come out and have some supper," said his mother, 
"and I will tell you. We had ours early on their ao 
count." 

She paused a moment by the side of the lounge on 
which Mr. Ashburton was lying, and smoothed the thin 
hair from his pule forehead. 

"I can spare you while I rest," he whispered. "We 
will have our talk afterwards." 

The three younger ones listened in astonishment. Mrs. 
Ashburton hardly knew whether it was wise to confide in 
them thus early, and yet they must soon know the whole 
story. 

" And so aunt Waltham means to marry Nelly in her 
own fashion, after the manner of society ! Our Nelly, 
who used to be so sternly upright and honest ! I used to 
think her like the pictures of some of the old saints, as 
pure and unswerving. Must it be, mother ?" 

"My dear Philip, there may be another side to the 
story. It is hardly fair to prejudge this Mr. Copeland, and 
it is possible that Eleanor may be strongly attracted 
towards him. I hardly believe she could resolve, upon a 
three months' acquaintance, to marry a man whom she did 
not like." 

" Mother, there are some very bitter "temptations to pov- 
erty, after all," said Philip, gravely, remembering Eleanor's 
shrinking distaste to their present surroundings. 

" I cannot think any child of mine would barter the 
birthright of truth and honor for a mess of pottage," she 
replied. 

"O, she must, she does love him," said Madge, warmly, 
for she experienced a strange, sudden thrill of sympathy 
with her elder sister. " Only, she is so so differentl " and 



 

Madge flushed. " She never did talk much about herself, 
you know." 

" But she has changed," persisted Philip. " She has the 
air of a haughty, fashionable woman ; and what if her heart 
has already grown cold ! For it seems to me that failing 
in any high and noble purpose, Eleanor will be very 
worldly indeed." 

"We can only trust her to God," Mrs. Ashburton said, 
tremulously. 

" And I wonder if we trust God enough," Jessie began, 
slowly. " I was thinking, while I was up at Hetty Bright's, 
that perhaps we were straying away. Nothing seems as it 
did at dear old Home Nook." 

Philip sighed, and pushed back his chair. 

" Of all bitter things in this world, the sin of marrying 
for money is the worst." 

"But as mamma says, we must not judge Nelly too 
soon," spoke up fond Madge. 

The two girls washed their dishes afterwards, and dis- 
cussed the supper. 

"I believe I really do like aunt Waltham," confessed 
Madge ; " and somehow I cannot see how Nelly ever would 
get along with poverty. She doesn't seem at all adapted 
to it." 

Mr. and Mrs. Ashburton had a long confidential talk in 
the quiet of their chamber. Yet could they stem the tide 
if Eleanor was resolved ? 

"If I could only read her heart," moaned the mother 
" If I could fathom her motives, and know that they were 
pure. Ah Heaven, why is it a sealed book to me ? " 

And thus we sometimes question God. 







CHAPTER X. 

DBHTING WITH THE TIDE. 

MBS. WALTHAM had resol'/ed that nothing should in 
terfere with her plans. It appeared to her so much more 
desirable that Eleanor should marry well before she was 
at all faded, or had lowered herself to any of the employ- 
ments suitable for women. 

She was a most skilful manager. At first she made 
Eleanor's sojourn at Newport simply delightful and free 
from embarrassment. That the young girl understood why 
she had been brought thither, and why she was treated 
with such consideration, was most true, though no word on 
the subject had passed mint Waltham's lips. 

For a month Eleanor's soul was in the wildest chaos, 
though no one would have suspected it. The beautiful face 
kept itself calm amid contending emotions, and the steady 
eyes never wavered, though the tides surged high within. 
Other women, as delicate and refined, looked upon matri- 
mony as the great resource of their otherwise fruitless 
lives. Here were brilliant and apparently contented women 
who had not idealized marriage, but taken the best that 
opportunity brought them, or that they could wrest from 
the hands of fate. And though Eleanor's soul revolted at 
the thought of a mere mercenary bargain, it also shrank from 
the other distasteful life poverty. Mrs. Waltham lost 
no chance of setting its ills before her. 

In this state she met Gerald Copeland, a young man of 
six and twenty, rather fine looking, well educated, agreeable, 
and possessing a certain winsomeness that made him ex- 
tremely entertaining to ladies. He liked Eleanor, and 



 

drifted into something that he called a flirtation. He 
could not exactly remember how he had come to "make 
love to her," but it was after a peculiar talk with Mrs, 
Waltham, in which she declared that Eleanor was like a 
 slighter to her; and after a brief mention of the family 
jiisfortunes as she was quite confident that he had heard 
of them she incidentally let slip the fact that all she pos- 
sessed would eventually go to Eleanor. 

Gerald Copeland considered seriously, and decided that 
he could not do better. So he glided on and on, Eleanor's 
reserve being very charming to him, until he had spoken. 

Eleanor Ashburton gave a great, frightened gasp at this. 
There was nothing about him that positively displeased 
her, and much that attracted. Perhaps she would never 
be desperately in love. 

" But I want you to know one thing," she said, hurriedly. 
" Our fortune has been swept away, and I am poor. If " 

Gerald Copeland would have been the last man to 
admit the faintest suspicion of fortune-hunting, though I 
doubt if he would have spoken but for Mrs. Waltham's 
assurance. 

He answered in a most tender and chivalrous speech. 
Eleanor took her duty upon her sacredly. She meant to 
love this man, to study his comfort and pleasure, to be 
worthy of his devotion. 

If she made a little sacrifice of herself, it was for the 
others, she said. She would have a pleasant home to 
which she could invite them ; she could restore Jessie 
and Madge to somewhat of their olden position, and pro- 
vide her father with many luxuries that he must necessarily 
miss in his narrow life. It would relieve Philip and 
Clement of a great burden in thus providing even partially 
for the rest. And so she exalted her deed to an act of 
heroism, thereby looking upon it with a peculiar compla- 
cency. 

There was a tendency to the strict letter of the law in 





Eleanor's nature rigid adherence to any mode of conduct 
that she determined in her own mind was right. And 
during the month of her engagement she fulfilled every 
duty so perfectly, that she convinced herself of a certain 
degree of affection. 

I do not think she could have brought herself to the 
point of marrying a man whom she did not esteem, and 
who was not agreeable to her. Feeling that Gerald's 
heart was warmly enlisted in his suit, she would have con- 
sidered it most dishonorable to draw back. And though 
she had dreaded the meeting with her parents, she felt, 
with aunt Waltham, that it could not take place too soon. 

She leaned back in the carriage languidly after she had 
uttered her farewell. 

" So that trouble is ended," exclaimed Mrs. Waltham. 
" You were over-sensitive about it, my dear Nelly. It is 
natural, to be sure, that parents should experience some 
hesitation at giving their children into the keeping of 
others ; but your father takes a very reasonable view of the 
matter. They will be quite charmed with Mr. Copeland, 
I know." 

Eleanor was not in a talkative mood. It rather jarred 
on her feelings to think that her lover must be apologized 
for by a third person. 

She found a lovely bouquet and a brief note awaiting 
her, and retired to her room quite convinced that she did 
love Gerald Copeland. 

Two days later, the carriage was sent for Mr. and Mrs. 
Ashburton. Mrs. Waltham and her niece had become 
quite domesticated in their new abode. Indeed, Eleanor 
felt much more at home amid this elegance than in the 
humble abode of her father. She was cheerful and at ease, 
and to Mr. Ashburton appeared really happy. 

Before supper, Mr. Copeland made his appearance and 
was duly presented a bright, genial fellow, who soon 
rendered himself agreeable to Mrs. Ashburton, and BUG- 



 

seeded in disarming her prejudices, for it must be admitted 
that she had some. 

However, Mrs. Waltham carried her away presently. 
"You like him," she began with a little exultation. "I 
knew you could not help it. His gayety is just what 
Eleanor needs, for she has a tendency to over-seriousness, 
lie spoke to me to-day about the marriage." 

"Not so soon ! Why, I understood Eleanor that they 
Lad been engaged barely a month," exclaimed Mrs. Ash- 
burton, in dismay. 

" He has all an ardent lover's impatience. It is better, 
of course, that she should be married here, as there is an 
abundance of room, and it is more convenient on many 
accounts. I think they will go to Europe." 

Was she to be shut out of her child's confidence in this 
matter of arrangements, to hear only at the last, when 
everything had been decided upon? 

" I shall give Eleanor her bridal outfit. I am sure that 
I would make any sacrifice, cheerfully, for the dear girl's 
sake." 

"I am not persuaded but that it would be better to have 
everything plainer and more in keeping with our station," 
suggested Mrs. Ashburton. 

" It would be folly, since she is going to marry quite 
out of your station;" with the least emphasis in the world. 
"You know so little of these things, Margaret ! Mr. Cope- 
land's friends move among the first circles, and I certainly 
should not want to mortify him at such a time." 

Mrs. Ashburton was silenced. She felt really broken in 
spirit, and there was still a slight misgiving concerning 
Eleanor, who accepted all the facts so calmly. 

" I suppose it will be about the last of November. That 
will give them time to get to Paris by the New Year. 
Nelly will be sure to create a sensation. I should like to 
witness her triumphs." 
And so Mrs. Waltham went on with her worldly com 




