" Will they be any the less annoying without 
His aid, dear ? " 
" They will be less annoying if people are 
rich, Aunt Faith." 
" Some of the most unhappy women I have 
ever known, have been rich, Sibyl." 
" But I would not be one of those, aunt.' I 
would be rich and happy at the same time." 
" If you could, my dear. But wealth brings 
with it its own troubles ; sometimes in the 
 
shape of the donor ; I trust you would not 
marry for money ? " 
"Not for money alone, aunt. But I see no 
reason why a rich man might not be loved for 
himself as well as a poor man. It does not 
follow that because a man is rich he must therefore be selfish or ill-tempered." 
' Certainly not, my dear ; but we will not 
discuss it any longer, at present. You are 
young, and I wish you to understand yourself 
thoroughly. Take no rash steps, and re- 
member that wealth is as nothing compared to a 
true heart, and that this world's best treasures 
are perishable, while religious faith abides with 
us through life and death into eternity." 
In the afternoon Mr. Leslie came again to the 
old stone house, and inquired for Mrs. Sheldon. 
" I have come to ask for your horses," he said, as 
Aunt Faith entered the parlor ; I have secured 
a large carriage that will take all the family, 
and now, if you will send Jonas down with the 
horses, we can hope to have Margaret safely 
established at Mr. Green's before night." 
 
" Certainly, Mr. Leslie. Is there nothing 
more I can do ? " 
" Not to-day, thank you. I shall go out with 
them myself." 
" How are the children ? " 
" Worse, I fear ; but I have large faith in 
country air." 
" I shall be anxious to know how they bear the 
ride." 
" I will stop on my way home as I must come 
back with the carriage," said the young clergy- 
man as he went away. 
" Was not that Mr. Leslie ? " asked Hugh, 
coming in from the dining-room a few moments 
afterward. 
" Yes," replied Aunt Faith ; " he came to see 
me on business." 
" Didn't he ask for Sibyl?" said Hugh. 
" No," replied Aunt Faith, with a warning 
look at her nephew, as Sibyl came in. But Hugh 
was not to be warned. " Sibyl," he said, 4t Mr. 
Leslie has been here and did not ask for you" 
 
" Is that so very surprising ? " said his sister 
coldly ; she had regained all her composure and 
her face was calm and quiet. 
" Of course it is surprising," said Hugh 
bluntly. " He has been in the habit of coming 
here to see you for months, and, let me tell you, 
Sibyl, he is one in a thousand ; he is a hero, 
every inch, and I heartily respect and like him." 
" I have said nothing to the contrary, Hugh." 
" Don't be a hypocrite, Sibyl," said Hugh 
with brotherly frankness. "I am not good at 
splitting hairs, but there is no more comparison 
between Mr. Leslie and Graham Marr, than 
there is between an eagle and a sickly chicken." 
" I have never thought of comparing them, 
Hugh. I do not like comparisons, and yours is 
entirely unjust. But even supposing it was cor- 
rect, /have no taste for standing on a mountain- 
peak, in the icy air of unknown heights, and gaz- 
ing at the sun all day as an eagle does," said 
Sibyl, as she crossed the hall into the parlor. In 
a few moments the Spring-Song sounded forth 
 
from the piano, and under cover of the music, 
Hugh said to Aunt Faith, " there is nothing 
wrong between them I hope ? " 
" There is nothing between them either right 
or wrong," replied Aunt Faith with a sigh. 
" Sibyl is not suited to Mr. Leslie." 
"Then it is her fault," said Hugh warmly. 
" There is no doubt in my mind that John Leslie 
is deeply interested in her, and I should be 
proud and glad to have him for a brother. He 
is the truest, most honest man I know." 
" That is because he is such a sincere^ earnest 
Christian." 
" I know it, aunt. He works hard, and he 
thoroughly believes in his work. He really 
thinks there is nothing in the city so vitally im- 
portant as that little chapel, and those work- 
men." f 
" He is right, Hugh. To him there should be 
nothing so important as their welfare." 
" Yes, I suppose so ; that is, if I could look at 
it with his eyes. But it is rare to see practice so 
consistent with theory in every-day life." 
 
" It is, as you say, rare indeed ; but he is a 
rare man, Hugh." 
" He is, truly. That is the reason why I feel 
Sibyl's manner. Can it be possible that she 
really prefers Graham Marr ? " 
" I do not know, Hugh. Graham will be rich 
some day." 
" That is the worst of it, aunt. Who would 
have thought Sibyl could be so mercenary ! " 
" Do not judge her harshly, dear. She has 
none of that impulse which you admire, but her 
heart has always been true, — at least so far," 
said Aunt Faith gently. Then, after a pause, 
she continued in a lower tone, " Hugh, if you 
like and admire Mr. Leslie so much, why are 
you not willing to follow his example ? " 
" What ! Become a clergyman, Aunt 
Faith ? " 
"Not that, unless you feel an inward call 
towards the blessed vocation," replied Aunt 
Faith reverently ; " but why do you delay to 
come forward and make your open profession of 
 
faith ? Is it honest, is it manly, to hang back- 
ward ? " 
" Oh, Aunt Faith, I am not good enough ! " 
said Hugh quickly. 
" Goodness is not required of any of us, Hugh ; 
only repentance, and an earnest endeavor to im- 
prove. My dear boy, I never see you come and 
go, without an aching desire to have you enrolled 
under His banner, to have you a soldier of the 
Cross, openly, before all men. Have you 
thought over our last conversation on this sub- 
ject?" 
" Yes, aunt, many times ; but I have such a 
high idea of a professing Christian. It seems to 
me that such an one ought to be like Mr. Leslie, 
working with all his might for the salvation of 
souls. ,, 
" It is not required that all professing Chris- 
tians should be ministers of the word, Hugh. 
There are many other spheres of action, and 
many qualifications, varied according to our 
varied temperaments and positions. The Bible 
 
makes that point very clear. You read it, I 
hope ? " 
" Yes ; but I always read the same part, the 
Gospel of St. John. I like it best of all. There 
are so many beautiful verses in it which are 
found nowhere else, so much love and warm 
faith ! For instance ; Let not your heart be 
troubled, neither let it be afraid.' And ' I will 
not leave you comfortless, I will come unto you.' 
And, 'woman, behold thy son; behold thy 
mother ; ' to me one of the most touching inci- 
dents in the Gospel. Then there is the story of 
Lazarus, and the verse ' Jesus wept.' He sor- 
rowed for the mourners, too ! Oh, I cannot un- 
derstand how true Christians can mourn so 
bitterly for their dead, when they believe that 
this loving Saviour cares for them.". 
" It is not always so much for their lost ones 
as for themselves, Hugh ; their own loneliness, 
their crushed hopes, and perhaps their remorse 
that in the lifetime of those they mourn they 
did not do more for their happiness." 
 
" You have lost many dear ones, Aunt Faith, ! ' 
said Hugh thoughtfully. 
" Yes ; my husband, my parents, and among 
my intimate friends, all my generation." 
" Do you often think of them, aunt ? " 
" Yes, Hugh, very often. At first with tears 
and sadness, but gradually with hope, and a 
certain looking forward instead of backward. 
At first I kept all my anniversaries sacred, the 
many clays hallowed by associations with my 
dear ones ; but gradually I tried to break up the 
habit, and now I only think of their heavenly 
birthdays, — the days when they left the earth, 
— and even these have come to be pleasant. I 
have always been fond of autumn. There is 
something that charms me in the hazy air and 
colored foliage. It is not sadness, — it is not 
joy, — but a sweet peace. Then, my dead 
always seem near to me. If you like, I will 
give you something I once wrote on the subject, 
expressing this feeling." 
"Do, aunt!" said Hugh, earnestly; for so 
 
seldom did Aunt Faith allude to her past lifo 
and its sorrows, that all the cousins held it in 
reverent respect, and although they often spoke 
of it among themselves, they never broke 
through the bounds of Aunt Faith's silence. 
In her own room hung the portrait of her hus- 
band, Lester Sheldon, a young man's face, with 
blue eyes, and thick golden hair, tossed carelessly 
back from the white forehead, while below, the 
firm mouth told of decision and self-control be- 
yond his years. Once, when Bessie was a child, 
she sat looking at this portrait for some time in 
silence. Then she said, " Aunt Faith, if that is 
your husband, what makes him so young when 
you are so old ? " 
" He died when he was a young man, little 
Bessie.' , 
" But he won't know you when you go to 
heaven, I'm afraid," continued the child, looking 
anxiously at her aunt's gray hair. 
" Oh, I shall be young then, too, Bessie. Here 
is a picture of me when I was eighteen,"' said 
 
Aunt* Faith, taking a box from her drawer, and 
drawing out a miniature. It was one of those 
lovely, old-fashioned ivory pictures, showing a 
fresh young face with dimples, and a sunny 
smile. 
" Oh, auntie, that isn't you ! " Bessie had ex- 
claimed, and the other children having come 
into the room, the picture was shown to them 
also. Since that clay they had never seen it, but 
Hugh retained a vivid remembrance of the pic- 
ture, and, as Aunt Faith looked through her 
desk to find the paper, something in her face re- 
called it to his mind, and there came across him, 
like a revelation, a vision of what she was at 
eighteen. Faith Warrington at eighteen ! Faith 
Warrington, who had long been Mrs. Sheldon with 
her gray hair and pale face. Going up to his 
room, Hugh seated himself by the window, and 
opening the paper, read the following lines : — 
" Far back within the cycles of the past, 
A train of centuries rolls, 
From out whose cloudy borders came the day 
 
Of memory for all souls. 
How long it seems, a thousand years ago ! 
How dark and weary, if we did not know 
A thousand years are but as yesterday within His 
sight, 
Seeing that it is past like one brief watch within the 
night I 
Could they have known, those men of childlike faith, 
Half ignorant, half sublime, 
The fitness of the souls' memorial day 
Falling within the time 
Of Nature's holy calm, her blest repose, — 
When all the land with loving fervor glows, 
And from the naked woods, the empty fields, through 
the soft haze, 
Her work well done, her garners full, she offers up 
her praise. 
A stillness fills the consecrated air, — 
The blustering winds that swept 
The red and yellow leaves in giddy rounds, 
By mighty hands are kept 
In their four corners, while the liquid gold 
And purple tints over the earth unrolled, 
And full of mystery and heavenly peace, as though 
the skies 
Had opened, and let out the atmosphere of Paradise. 
Departed souls I Their memory may come 
 
With grief in Spring's soft hours,— 
With weary, lonely sadness when our hands 
Are gathering summer flowers, — 
With wild despair in winter, when the graves 
Are white with drifted snow, and wildly raves 
The wind among the stones and monuments, in 
accents dread, 
Calling in vain the sculptured names of our beloved 
dead. 
But in this golden dream-time of the year, 
Our bitter murmurs cease; — 
We seem to feel the presence of the dead, 
Their shadowy touch of peace ; 
We seem to see their faces as we gaze 
Longingly forth into the purple haze, 
And hear the distant chorus of the happy souls at 
rest, — 
And catch the well-known accents of the voice we 
loved the best." 
All Souls' Day, November 2nd. 
In the evening, as Aunt Faith was sitting on 
the piazza with Bessie, Mr. Leslie came up the 
walk ; Sibyl was in the parlor playing soft chords 
on the piano, but she could hear his words as he 
spoke. Mr. Leslie's voice was deep, but clear, 
and his pronunciation perfectly distinct without 
 
any apparent effort. He did not obtrude the al- 
phabet unpleasantly upon his hearers ; he was 
not so anxious to show his correct pronunciation 
of " Been " as to force it to rhyme with " Seen ; " 
he was not so much concerned with " Institute," 
as to te-u-ute the last syllable into undue impor- 
tance ; neither did he bombard his hearers with 
the arrogance of rolling rrs. Although his voice 
was not loud, any one occupying even the last 
seat in the chapel could not only hear him, but 
was absolutely invited to listen by the pleasant 
distinctness of the words. 
" I am pleased to be able to tell you that Mar- 
garet and the children are safe in the farm-house, 
Mrs. Sheldon," he said, taking a seat on the 
piazza. " Poor girl, how glad she was to get 
there ! She sent her grateful thanks to you." 
" How did the children bear the ride ? " asked 
Aunt Faith. 
" Better than I expected. Indeed, the novel- 
ty, and perhaps the pleasant country air, seemed 
to revive them, and lessen the fever. They even 
 
walked about the garden when we arrived there, 
and began to make bouquets of flowers, but be- 
fore I left, the reaction had come and they looked 
very tired." 
" You look tired, also, Mr. Leslie," said Aunt 
Faith ; the light from the hall-lamp shone on the 
young clergyman's face and showed its pale weari- 
ness. 
" I am tired," he replied, " but a night's rest 
is all I need." Then he leaned back in his chair 
and sat talking pleasantly with Bessie and Aunt 
Faith. " This is a charming old house," he said, 
" it must have been built a long time ago." 
" Yes," replied Aunt Faith ; " for a western 
town it is quite venerable. The main portion 
was built in 1822, and the wings were added as 
the family increased, without much regard for 
architectural regularity. The stairs were origin- 
ally out-doors on the back piazza, but father fi- 
nally had them enclosed. You may have noticed 
that the west side has only two windows, and 
that those are singularly placed. It is amusing 
 
to think that so implicit was grandfather's belief 
in the growth of Westerton, then hardly more 
than a pioneer village, that he built up that side 
without any windows so as not to interfere with 
the blocks of dwellings which he was sure would 
press up against this house as the town grew 
into a city. It was only after many years that 
father was allowed to pierce the thick wall and 
with great difficulty insert those two windows." 
" That is something like my old home, a little 
village in the interior of New York," said Mr. 
Leslie. " One old man was so impressed by the 
growth of the town, that meeting my father he 
shook him by the hand and exclaimed, 4 how it 
do grow, Judge ! Please heaven, we'll make a 
seaport of it yet ! ' " 
They all laughed at this story. Then Aunt 
Faith said, " I should like to think that some of 
the children would occupy this old house after I 
am gone. But in America, and especially in the 
Western States that is hardly possible." 
" I will live here, if I can, Aunt Faith," said 
 
Bessie warmly. "I love every stone in the old 
house, and every old flower in the old garden." 
"Are flowers ever old, Miss Darrell?" said 
Mr. Leslie, smiling. 
" Oh, yes. Flowers grow old-fashioned and 
out of date just like people. We have a genuine 
old-fashioned garden here, and all the neighbors 
laugh at it in comparison with their smooth 
lawns and choice plants. We have bachelor's- 
buttons, lady-slippers, tiger-lilies, flower-de-luce, 
hollyhocks, and pinks, besides bushes of lilac and 
matrimony; then we have old cedars clipped 
into shape, and ever so many little paths and 
garden-beds edged with box. Oh, we are entire- 
ly behind the times ! But for all that, I love the 
old garden better than the smoothest trimmed 
lawn, and I can pick you a bunch of violets 
which you cannot match in Westerton ; real violets, 
too, not flaring pansies." 
" I too am fond of old-fashioned gardens, Miss 
Darrell," said Mr. Leslie. " My mother had 
one, not so large as this, but resembling it in gen- 
 
eral arrangement. I remember we had a little 
patch of trailing arbutus ; it grew wild, and I 
can distinctly recall its perfume as the snow mel- 
ted. I have never seen it in the West." 
"No, it does not grow here," replied Aunt 
Faith ; " our climate is too warm for it." 
" There is a great difference between the 
climate of the lake country and that of New 
England," said Mr. Leslie ; " there is so little 
snow here." 
" Snow ! " exclaimed Bessie. " I scarcely 
know what snow is ; and as for stories of 
drifts over the fences, and tunnels cut through 
them, I can scarcely believe anything of the 
kind. They are as much like legends to me as 
the fairy tale of little Kay and the Robber 
Maiden. Once at Featherton Hall the eastern 
girls were talking about sleigh-riding, and I told 
them that snow was so scarce in Westerton that 
when a few snow-flakes actually fell, they were 
immediately fenced in and guarded by the police, 
and then the whole population assembled in 
sleighs, cutters, and pungs, to ride over them in 
alphabetical order. Of course, as aunt's name 
began with S, there was not much left of the 
snow-flakes when our turn came." 
"You ridiculous child!" said Aunt Faith, 
laughing, " how can you invent such exaggera- 
tions?" 
" Oh, Bessie can invent anything ! " said 
Hugh, coming out from the sitting-room ; " if 
she had charge of even the Patent-Office Reports, 
she would gild them into veritable romances." 
Later in the evening, Graham Marr came up 
the garden walk. " Good-evening, Mrs. Shel- 
don! " he said ; "is Miss Warrington at home? " 
" Yes; she is in the parlor," said Aunt Faith. 
" Will you go in, Mr. Marr ? " 
" Thank you, yes. I came especially to see 
her," replied Graham, taking off his straw hat, 
and passing through the group on the piazza. 
"Excuse me, Miss Darrell. Is that you, 
Hugh ? Ah ! — Mr. Leslie, I believe. I did not 
observe you in the darkness. I hope you ex* 
 
perieneed no ill feeling after your exposure 
yesterday ? " 
" None at all, Mr. Marr. And you ? " 
" I took cold, as I expected ; but, so far, my 
head has given me no severe pain," said Graham, 
passing on into the parlor. 
" Is Mr. Marr subject to pain in his head ? " 
inquired Mr. Leslie, as Graham disappeared. 
" Chronic inflammation of the brain, produced 
by intense stucly and seething, poetical thoughts," 
said Hugh, in a dramatic whisper. 
Soon afterwards, Mr. Leslie rose to take leave. 
" I feel very tired, so I will say good-night," 
he said. " I will let you know the condition of 
the children some time to-morrow, Mrs. Sheldon." 
" Thank you. If it is quite convenient I 
shall be glad to know," replied Aunt Faith. 
Graham Marr stayed until a late hour, so late 
that, Bessie and Hugh had gone upstairs when 
he took leave, and Sibyl, coming in to the sitting- 
room, found Aunt Faith alone. 
" You look tired, my dear," said the elder lady 
kindlv. 
 
" I am tired, aunt. Graham talked a long 
time. He had something to tell me. His uncle 
is dead, and he has come into the fortune." 
" Ah ! — " said Aunt Faith. She made no 
other comment, but waited for her niece to 
speak. 
" Graham is going to Saratoga next week," 
continued Sibyl slowly. " He thinks of remov- 
ing to New York for a permanent home ; he likes 
city life, you know." 
" Yes," said Aunt Faith again ; but she said 
no more. 
Sibyl closed the windows, replaced the chairs, 
and fastened the front-door ; then, as she care- 
lessly turned the leaves of a book on the table, 
she said at last, " Mr. Leslie was here, I believe?" 
" Yes ; he came to tell me that Margaret 
Brown and the children were safely established 
in the farm-house." 
" Did he ask for me ? " said Sibyl, as she 
extinguished the hall lamps. 
"No, my dear," answered Aunt Faith, and 
Sibyl went to her room without another word. 
 
Two days came and went, and Mr. Leslie did 
not appear. 
" I say, you people ! " said Tom, bursting into 
the dining-room at tea-time. "Did you know 
that Mr. Leslie was sick ? Dangerously sick, 
Jim Morse says ; not expected to live, I believe." 
"Thomas!" said Aunt Faith with unusual 
severity, "what do you mean ? Tell the truth." 
" Well, he's sick, any way ; and Jim heard his 
mo! her say it was a dangerous fever. Hallo, 
Sibyl ! what's the matter ? How pale you are! " 
" No more pale than the rest of us," inter- 
rupted Bessie, with a quick glance at Sibyl; 
" we all like Mr. Leslie, don't we ? " 
" Of course w r e do. He's the best man in the 
world," said Gem fervently. 
" I shall go and see him immediately," said 
Hugh, rising. 
" Oh, Hugh, it is probably the same fever the 
Brown children have ! " said *Aunt Faith anx- 
iously. " You must not expose yourself need- 
lessly." 
 
"In this call I consider it necessary, Aunt 
Faith," said Hugh. " Mr. Leslie has no near 
relatives, and although he is loved by his congre- 
gation, dread of the fever will keep most of them 
away; besides, they cannot leave their work. 
He will be left to hired nurses and you know 
what Westerton nurses are ! " 
" Go, then, my boy, and may God be with 
you," said Aunt Faith, with tears in her eyes. 
The tea-table was soon deserted. Sibyl went 
to her room, Tom and Gem took refuge in the 
back garden with the three dogs to bear them 
company, but Aunt Faith and Bessie sat on the 
piazza waiting for Hugh's return. 
" After all," said Bessie, " we need not feel so 
anxious. The report has passed through several 
mouths ; no doubt it is exaggerated." 
" I hope so," replied Aunt Faith ; " and still 
I have a strong presentiment that Mr. Leslie is 
very ill. His faafe looked strangely worn and 
pallid as he sat there that last evening, and when 
fever attacks a man as strong and full of life as 
 
he is, the contest is far more severe than with a 
more feeble patient." 
Eight o'clock struck, but still Hugh did not re- 
turn. A step sounded up the walk in the dusky 
twilight, but it was not his; Graham Marr 
appeared, and again asked for Miss Warring- 
ton. 
" Go and tell Sibyl, my dear," said Aunt Faith 
to Bessie with an inward sigh. Then, as Bessie 
went into the house, she said, " Have you 
heard of Mr. Leslie's illness, Mr. Marr ?," 
" No," replied Graham, as he stood in the door- 
way carelessly twirling his hat in his hand ; " is 
he very ill ? " 
" We do not know ; we have heard only a ru- 
mor. Hugh has gone to find out the exact 
truth." 
" Ah — yes. If it is fever, no doubt he caught 
it in that unpleasant locality where his chapel 
stands," said Graham. I have often wondered 
how he could endure the life he leads, but I sup- 
pose he is not fastidious. His nature is not so 
 
finely wrought, or his nerves so delicately strung 
as those of some other organizations." 
"His nature is strong and manly," replied 
Aunt Faith, with a shade of indignation in her 
voice. 
" Ah, yes, exactly. A man in his position has 
need of strength," said Graham loftily. Then, 
after a pause, " You have heard of my good for- 
tune, Mrs. Sheldon ? " 
" I have heard that your uncle was dead, Mr. 
Marr." 
"Ah — yes. Poor old gentleman! I never 
knew him well ; we were not at all sympathetic. 
My grandfather's singular will has now been ful- 
filled, and the estate, which has rolled up to dou- 
ble its original value, will now be divided bejfcween 
my two Southern cousins and myself.' ' 
" I congratulate you, Mr. Marr." 
" Thank you. I think I shall not discredit my 
fortune ; I havafclong endeavored to cultivate the 
tastes which belong to wealth," said Graham 
with languid pride. 
 
At this moment Bessie returned. " Sibyl is in 
the parlor, Mr. Marr," she said; " will you walk 
in?" 
" Thanks, kind messenger,'' said Graham, bow- 
ing gracefully as he passed her ; " Hebe could not 
be fairer ! " 
" How ridiculous he is, Aunt Faith," she said, 
as the young man disappeared. " How can Sibyl 
like him ? I do not really think she does like 
him, but I cannot make her out. When I went 
to her room she was as pale as a ghost, but 
while she was smoothing her hair, the color rose, 
and she began to laugh and talk as gayly as pos- 
sible. Listen, now ; hear her laugh. How can 
she be so heartless ! " 
" Do not be too severe, Bessie. I suspect Sibyl 
is putting a great strain on herself to-night. She 
has so many good traits," said Aunt Faith with 
a sigh. " She has so much energy ! She only, 
needs to have the right direction given to it and 
she will accomplish a wonderful amount of good 
work if her life is spared." 
 
"But that right direction, Aunt Faith ; is Gra- 
ham Marr to give it ? " asked Bessie with a tinge 
of scorn in her voice. 
" I do not know, dear. But Sibyl has a true 
heart at bottom." 
" I do believe you are made of charity, aunt. 
Your name ought to be Faith, Hope, and Charity, 
instead of Faith alone," said Bessie warmly. 
" I have learned one lesson by the experience 
of a long life," replied Aunt Faith, smiling; "the 
lesson of patience." 
" How else could you have brought up such a 
troublesome set of nephews and nieces ? " ex- 
claimed Bessie. " We must have tried your 
patience severely, Aunt Faith. But we do love 
you dearly, every one of us." And the impul- 
sive girl threw her arms around her aunt and 
kissed her affectionately. 
About half-past nine they heard the sound of 
the gate, and recognized Hugh's step on the 
gravel walk. 
" How is he, Hugh ? " said Bessie, before he 
came in sight. 
 
" He is a very sick man," replied Hugh 
gravely, as he came up the steps. " The doctors 
are perplexed, for the case is not like ordinary 
fever. They think he will either be much better 
or much worse before morning." 
" Oh, Hugh ; you do not mean that he is in 
any danger ? " 
" Yes ; so the doctors say. There is trouble 
with the brain, threatenings of congestion, I be- 
lieve. As I said before, he will probably be out 
of danger before morning, or, — or, gone where 
he is fully prepared to go," said Hugh with 
emotion. 
" Then I shall go to see him now, — directly," 
said a strange, muffled voice behind them. 
" Sibyl ! " exclaimed Aunt Faith. 
" Yes, aunt," said Sibyl, stepping forward and 
speaking in .the same muffled voice. "I heard 
what Hugh said, and I wish to go directly to see 
Mr. Leslie ; you must go with me." 
They all looked at her as she stood in the 
lighted hall ; her face was deadly pale, and her 
 
eyes had a far-off look as though she saw some- 
thing terrible in the distance. Behind her was 
Graham Marr looking perplexed and angry ; he 
did not know what to do or say, and his usual 
graceful manner had given place to confused 
irritation. As Sibyl spoke he made an effort to 
regain his composure. 
"Ah!" he said, with studied carelessness, " so 
Leslie is sick, is he ? I must really send a nurse 
to take care of him. I will do what I can for 
him, poor fellow ! " 
" I shall be his nurse," said Sibyl, in the same 
strange, still voice. 
" You are joking, Miss Warrington. Of 
course you would not expose yourself so fool- 
ishly," said Graham angrily. 
"i" shall be his nurse. I shall go to-night," 
repeated Sibyl, without changing her atti- 
tude. 
Graham looked at her a moment as if about to 
continue the argument, but something in the 
set expression of her face convinced him of the 
 
hopelessness of the attempt. Curbing his annoy- 
ance under an appearance of amusement, he 
smiled and turned to Aunt Faith. " There is no 
use in combating a young lady, I suppose, Mrs. 
Sheldon. Really, — I had no idea it was so late. 
I must go. I will bid you good-night, ladies, 
and at the same time good-bye, as I shall soon 
leave Westerton for the summer." Then he 
turned again to Sibyl ; " I shall meet you in 
Saratoga next week, I trust, Miss Warring- 
ton ? " 
'' No," said Sibyl, with the same far-off look 
in her eyes. " Aunt Faith, are you ready to go 
with me ? " 
" Ah ! " said Graham lightly ; " you ladies 
change your minds so rapidly that it is difficult 
to follow you. But it is your privilege, I know. 
Farewell, then, Miss Warrington. Life is long, 
— we may meet again." 
"Good-bye, Mr. Marr," said Sibyl, hardly 
noticing his departure. 
As the young man disappeared, Aunt Faith 
 
spoke ; " Are you in earnest, Sibyl ? Do you 
really wish to visit Mr. Leslie to-night ? " 
" I am in earnest, and I must go, Aunt Faith. 
Do not try to prevent it." 
" But there may be danger for you, dear." 
" Hugh has seen him, aud am I to be kept 
back ? " cried Sibyl passionately. " I must go ! 
I will go ! Aunt Faith, do not desert me now ! " 
" I am not deserting you, poor child," said Aunt 
Faith, rising and putting her arms around her 
niece with motherly affection. " If you wish to 
see Mr. Leslie to-night, I will go with you. You 
approve of your sister's wish, Hugh ? " 
" Yes," said Hugh decidedly. " Sibyl, you are 
right at last." 
They found Mr. Leslie unconscious and 
breathing heavily ; two physicians were in at- 
tendance, and a nurse sat by the bedside. 
" He does not know me," whispered Sibyl, 
clinging convulsively to Aunt Faith, as the 
sufferer opened his eyes and looked blankly at 
them. 
 
" No, dear, he is unconscious," replied Aunt 
Faith, herself much moved at the sight of one 
whom she had so lately seen full of young life, 
stricken down almost to death. 
The doctors were watching their patient 
closely ; they expected a crisis before morning. 
" I shall stay," said Sibyl, quietly taking off 
her hat and sitting down on the sofa. 
Aunt Faith spoke a few words of objection, 
but the mute appeal of Sibyl's eyes silenced her ; 
she said no more, but sitting down by her niece, 
took her cold hand and held it in both her own. 
She had felt sorrow herself, and she could feel 
for others ; she knew that in Sibyl's heart the 
depths were broken up. 
Hugh went back to the old stone house and 
returned about midnight; from that time on, 
there was silence in the sick-chamber, and 
anxious eyes watched the unconscious face with 
painful interest. The night seemed endless ; 
only those who have watched by a sick bed can 
know how minutes can lengthen themselves ! 
 
As the gray twilight of dawn came into the 
room the sick man moved restlessly upon his 
pillow and moaned. Sibyl's heart throbbed ; 
any change seemed for the better. But one of 
the physicians after bending over the patient, 
shook his head gravely. 
" Let us pray," said Aunt Faith in a low tone, 
and, falling upon her knees, she bowed her head 
in silent prayer. Sibyl knelt beside her, and, 
after a moment, Hugh too joined them, and 
throwing his arm around his sister, drew her to 
his side. 
" Oh, Hugh, I cannot bear it! " she murmured ; 
"he will die, — he will never know, — and I 
— " here her voice was broken by stifled sobs 
and low moans of anguish, strangely touching in 
the proud, self-reliant Sibyl. 
Hugh held his sister in his arms, and soothed 
her as one would soothe a child. From that hour 
Sibyl's coldness left her never to return. 
" As the first sunbeams brightened the sky, 
Mr. Leslie again opened his eyes, the doctors 
Lent over him, and it seemed to Aunt Faith as 
if she could hear all the hearts in the room 
throbbing aloud in the intense anxiety of the 
moment. 
" The worst is over," whispered Doctor Gre- 
gory, stepping back and shaking hands with 
Aunt Faith ; "we shall bring him through, now, 
I think." 
Sibyl sat with her head hidden on Hugh's 
shoulder; she heard the doctor's words, but a 
sudden timidity had come over her. " Let us 
go," she whispered, turning towards the door. 
But Hugh had been watching the sick man. 
" He is conscious ; he knows us ! " he said sud- 
denly, and leading his sister forward, he left her 
at the bedside, pale and trembling with joyful 
emotion. 
" Sibyl," said Mr. Leslie in a faint voice, "is it 
you ? Have you come to me at last, dear ? " 
" Yes, John," said Sibyl, bending over him 
with tears in her eyes. " I have brought myself 
and my life to you, — if you care for them." 
"If?" said Mr. Leslie, with the ghost of a 
smile on his pale face; "as if there was any 
doubt » " but here the doctors interfered, and 
the rest of the sentence was postponed. 
CHAPTER IX. 
THE LAST DAY OF SUMMER. 
R. LESLIE improved slowly ; when he 
was able to leave his room most of his 
days of enforced idleness were spent in 
the shaded parlor of the old stone house, 
or riding through the narrow country lanes, 
sometimes with all the cousins, sometimes with 
Sibyl alone. A friend had come from the inte- 
rior of the State to take charge of the chapel du- 
ring July and August, for the physicians had for- 
bidden any active work during that time ; but, 
although Mr. Vinton preached and attended to 
 
the duties of the position, Mr. Leslie retained all 
his interest in the congregation, and his people 
felt that he was with them in spirit, hour by- 
hour, and day by day. They came to him also, 
— came in greater numbers and with more open 
affection than ever before ; they showed their 
interest in many different ways, — and the young 
pastor's heart was filled with joy at these evi- 
dences of love from the flock for which he had 
labored. 
" It takes sickness or affliction to bring hidden 
love and sympathy to the surface," he said, one 
afternoon, as he sat in the parlor with Aunt Faith, 
Hugh, Bessie, and Sibyl. "We do not see the 
rainbow until the storm comes ; and so people 
may live on for years in prosperity, and never 
know, save by intuition, the deep affection in each 
other's hearts. But when sorrow strikes them, 
then love comes to the surface, doubly precious 
and comforting in the hour of trial. " 
" But, Mr. Leslie," said Hugh, " would it nob 
be far better for the world if people were taught 
 
to express their love and sympathy at other times 
as, well as in the house of affliction and sickness ? 
Is there any reason why we should all go on 
through life in cold silence, living in the same 
house with those we love the best, and taking 
everything  for granted,' and leaving it 'for 
granted ' also ? Why ! people may live and die 
without ever knowing the great joy of express- 
ing how much they love, or of hearing in return 
how much they are loved, so hard is it to break 
down these barriers of reserve." 
" We are tongue-tied, here, Hugh. We do not 
know how to speak the language of the heavenly 
country, and our best efforts are but stammering, 
half-expressed utterances. It is a great mercy, 
however, that the touch of sickness, or affliction, 
seems for the moment to loosen the bonds, and 
allow us a few sentences of the heavenly love." 
"It is indeed," said Aunt Faith. "I remem- 
ber in the darkest hours pf my affliction, people 
with whom I had but slight acquaintance came 
to me with tender sympathy, and kind messages 
 
were sent from many whom I had always thought 
cold, and even disagreeable." 
" Still," said Hugh, " I think it would be bet- 
ter if people tried to express their love more 
freely, without waiting until the household is 
clouded with grief." 
" It would certainly be better, but it may not 
be possible," said Mr. Leslie ; the world has gone 
on in the same old way for many centuries, and 
I am inclined to think, Hugh, that this free ex- 
pression of love will only be given to us,, in 
another life. It will form one of the blessings of 
heaven." 
" What is heaven ? " said Hugh abruptly. 
" It is perfect peace," said Aunt Faith. 
" It is wonderful new life and hope," said Bes- 
sie. 
" It is love," said Sibyl. 
" It is all this and more," said Mr. Leslie rev- 
erently. " Speculations are useless, and our 
time should be too full of earnest labor to allow 
us to indulge in them. We should be content to 
leave it to our Maker, who has made even this 
world so beautiful, and this life, rightly used, so 
glorious." 
July gave place to August, and the family of 
cousins, into whose circle Mr. Leslie had been re- 
ceived, lived a happy life in the old stone house. 
The heat of the dog-clays was tempered by the 
lake breeze. At ten in the morning it came 
sweeping over the water from Canada, and men 
walking through the hot streets, felt its gentle 
coolness on their foreheads, and took off their 
straw hats with a sigh of relief. In the evening 
it came again, rustling through the trees with a 
refreshing sound as though the leaves were re- 
viving from their parched stillness ; people came 
out to meet it, the piazzas and door-steps were 
crowded, and all the closed blinds were thrown 
wide open to catch the blessed coolness which 
promised refreshing sleep. 
" You dwellers by the lake-shore know nothing 
of the real August heat in the lowlands," said 
Mr. Vinton, one evening as he sat among a group 
 
of visitors on the piazza of the old stone house. 
" Here the lake breeze is invariable, but a hun- 
dred miles south, days and nights pass with al- 
ternate blazing heat and close, lifeless darkness, 
the latter even more trying than the former. 
The country where I live is the richest agri- 
cultural land in the State ; it is a valley with a 
broad, slow river rolling through it, the very 
water dark and sluggish with the fertility of the 
soil. As long as the grain is growing, there is 
some vitality in the air in spite of the heat, but 
