their hearts were in it. Men who can organize and successfully conduct
great financial and industrial enterprises, who know how to control
the wealth and power of the country and lead the people almost at will,
would hardly be at fault in the adjustment of a matter like this.
What would be the money influence of ‘whisky rings’ and gambling
associations, set against the social and money influence of these
men? Nothing, sir, nothing! Do you think we should long have over six
thousand bars and nearly four hundred lottery-policy shops in our city
if the men to whom I refer were to take the matter in hand?”

“Are there so many policy-shops?” asked Mr. Dinneford, in surprise.

“There may be more. You will find them by scores in every locality
where poor and ignorant people are crowded together, sucking out
their substance, and in the neighborhood of all the market-houses and
manufactories, gathering in spoil. The harm they are doing is beyond
computation. The men who control this unlawful business are rich and
closely organized. They gather in their dishonest gains at the rate of
hundreds of thousands of dollars every year, and know how and where
to use this money for the protection of their agents in the work of
defrauding the people, and the people are helpless because our men
of wealth and influence have no time to give to public justice or the
suppression of great social wrongs. With them, as things now are, rests
the chief responsibility. They have the intelligence, the wealth and
the public confidence, and are fully equal to the task if they will put
their hands to the work. Let them but lift the standard and sound the
trumpet of reform, and the people will rally instantly at the call.
It must not be a mere spasmodic effort--a public meeting with wordy
resolutions and strong speeches only--but organized work based on true
principles of social order and the just rights of the people.”

“You are very much in earnest about this matter,” said Mr. Dinneford,
seeing how excited the missionary had grown.

“And so would you and every other good citizen become if, standing
face to face, as I do daily, with this awful debasement and crime and
suffering, you were able to comprehend something of its real character.
If I could get the influential citizens to whom I have referred to come
here and see for themselves, to look upon this pandemonium in their
midst and take in an adequate idea of its character, significance and
aggressive force, there would be some hope of making them see their
duty, of arousing them to action. But they stand aloof, busy with
personal and material interest, while thousands of men, women and
children are yearly destroyed, soul and body, through their indifference
to duty and ignorance of their fellows’ suffering.”

“It is easy to say such things,” answered Mr. Dinneford, who felt the
remarks of Mr. Paulding as almost personal.

“Yes, it is easy to say them,” returned the missionary, his voice
dropping to a lower key, “and it may be of little use to say them. I am
sometimes almost in despair, standing so nearly alone as I do with my
feet on the very brink of this devastating flood of evil, and getting
back only faint echoes to my calls for help. But when year after year
I see some sheaves coming in as the reward of my efforts and of the few
noble hearts that work with me, I thank God and take courage, and I lift
my voice and call more loudly for help, trusting that I may be heard by
some who, if they would only come up to the help of the Lord against the
mighty, would scatter his foes like chaff on the threshing-floor. But
I am holding you back from your purpose to visit the mayor; I think
you had better act promptly if you would get possession of the child.
I shall be interested in the result, and will take it as a favor if you
will call at the mission again.”




CHAPTER XV.



WHEN Mr. Dinneford and the policeman sent by the mayor at his
solicitation visited Grubb’s court, the baby was not to be found. The
room in which it had been seen by Mr. Paulding was vacant. Such a room
as it was!--low and narrow, with bare, blackened walls, the single
window having scarcely two whole panes of glass, the air loaded with the
foulness that exhaled from the filth-covered floor, the only furniture a
rough box and a dirty old straw bed lying in a corner.

As Mr. Dinneford stood at the door of this room and inhaled its fetid
air, he grew sick, almost faint. Stepping back, with a shocked and
disgusted look on his face, he said to the policeman,

“There must be a mistake. This cannot be the room.”

Two or three children and a coarse, half-clothed woman, seeing a
gentleman going into the house accompanied by a policeman, had followed
them closely up stairs.

“Who lives in this room?” asked the policeman, addressing the woman.

“Don’t know as anybody lives there now,” she replied, with evident
evasion.

“Who did live here?” demanded the policeman.

“Oh, lots!” returned the woman, curtly.

“I want to know who lived here last,” said the policeman, a little
sternly.

“Can’t say--never keep the run of ‘em,” answered the woman, with more
indifference than she felt. “Goin’ and comin’ all the while. Maybe it
was Poll Davis.”

“Had she a baby?”

The woman gave a vulgar laugh as she replied: “I rather think not.”

“It was Moll Fling,” said one of the children, “and she had a baby.”

“When was she here last?” inquired the policeman.

The woman, unseen by the latter, raised her fist and threatened the
child, who did not seem to be in the least afraid of her, for she
answered promptly:

“She went away about an hour ago.”

“And took the baby?”

“Yes. You see Mr. Paulding was here asking about the baby, and she got
scared.”

“Why should that scare her?”

“I don’t know, only it isn’t her baby.”

“How do you know that?”

“‘Cause it isn’t--I know it isn’t. She’s paid to take care of it.”

“Who by?”

“Pinky Swett.”

“Who’s Pinky Swett?”

“Don’t you know Pinky Swett?” and the child seemed half surprised.

“Where does Pinky Swett live?” asked the policeman.

“She did live next door for a while, but I don’t know where she’s gone.”

Nothing beyond this could be ascertained. But having learned the names
of the women who had possession of the child, the policeman said there
would be no difficulty about discovering them. It might take a little
time, but they could not escape the vigilance of the police.

With this assurance, Mr. Dinneford hastened from the polluted air of
Grubb’s court, and made his way to the mission in Briar street, in order
to have some further conference with Mr. Paulding.

“As I feared,” said the missionary, on learning that the baby could not
be found. “These creatures are as keen of scent as Indians, and know
the smallest sign of danger. It is very plain that there is something
wrong--that these women have no natural right to the child, and that
they are not using it to beg with.”

“Do you know a woman called Pinky Swett?” asked the policeman.

“I’ve heard of her, but do not know her by sight. She bears a hard
reputation even here, and adds to her many evil accomplishments the
special one of adroit robbery. A victim lured to her den rarely escapes
without loss of watch or pocket-book. And not one in a hundred dares to
give information, for this would expose him to the public, and so her
crimes are covered. Pinky Swett is not the one to bother herself about
a baby unless its parentage be known, and not then unless the knowledge
can be turned to advantage.”

“The first thing to be done, then, is to find this woman,” said the
policeman.

“That will not be very hard work. But finding the baby, if she thinks
you are after it, would not be so easy,” returned Mr. Paulding. “She’s
as cunning as a fox.”

“We shall see. If the chief of police undertakes to find the baby, it
won’t be out of sight long. You’d better confer with the mayor again,”
 added the policeman, addressing Mr. Dinneford.

“I will do so without delay,” returned that gentleman.

“I hope to see you here again soon,” said the missionary as Mr.
Dinneford was about going. “If I can help you in any way, I shall do so
gladly.”

“I have no doubt but that you can render good service.” Then, in half
apology, and to conceal the real concern at his heart, Mr. Dinneford
added, “Somehow, and strangely enough when I come to think of it, I have
allowed myself to get drawn into this thing, and once in, the natural
persistence of my character leads me to go on to the end. I am one of
those who cannot bear to give up or acknowledge a defeat; and so, having
set my hand to this work, I am going to see it through.”

When the little girl who had taken Edith to the mission-house in Briar
street got home and told her story, there was a ripple of excitement in
that part of Grubb’s court where she lived, and a new interest was felt
in the poor neglected baby. Mr. Paulding’s visit and inquiries added to
this interest. It had been several days since Pinky Swett’s last visit
to the child to see that it was safe. On the morning after Edith’s call
at the mission she came in about ten o’clock, and heard the news. In
less than twenty minutes the child and the woman who had charge of it
both disappeared from Grubb’s court. Pinky sent them to her own room,
not many squares distant, and then drew from the little girl who was in
Edith’s sewing-class all she knew about that young lady. It was not much
that the child could tell. She was very sweet and good and handsome, and
wore such beautiful clothes, was so kind and patient with the girls, but
she did not remember her name, thought it was Edith.

“Now, see here,” said Pinky, and she put some money into the child’s
hand; “I want you to find out for me what her name is and where she
lives. Mind, you must be very careful to remember.”

“What do you want to know for?” asked the little girl.

“That’s none of your business. Do what I tell you,” returned Pinky, with
impatience; “and if you do it right, I’ll give you a quarter more. When
do you go again?”

“Next week, on Thursday.”

“Not till next Thursday!” exclaimed Pinky, in a tone of disappointment.

“The school’s only once a week.”

Pinky chafed a good deal, but it was of no use; she must wait.

“You’ll be sure and go next Thursday?” she said.

“If Mother lets me,” replied the child.

“Oh, I’ll see to that; I’ll make her let you. What time does the school
go in?”

“At three o’clock.”

“Very well. You wait for me. I’ll come round here at half-past two, and
go with you. I want to see the young lady. They’ll let me come into the
school and learn to sew, won’t they?”

“I don’t know; you’re too big, and you don’t want to learn.”

“How do you know I don’t?”

“Because I do.”

Pinky laughed, and then said,

“You’ll wait for me?”

“Yes, if mother says so.”

“All right;” and Pinky hurried away to take measures for hiding the baby
from a search that she felt almost sure was about being made. The first
thing she did was to soundly abuse the woman in whose care she had
placed the hapless child for her neglect and ill treatment, both of
which were too manifest, and then to send her away under the new aspect
of affairs she did not mean to trust this woman, nor indeed to trust
anybody who knew anything of the inquiries which had been made about the
child. A new nurse must be found, and she must live as far away from the
old locality as possible. Pinky was not one inclined to put things off.
Thought and act were always close together. Scarcely had the woman been
gone ten minutes, before, bundling the baby in a shawl, she started off
to find a safer hiding-place. This time she was more careful about the
character and habits of the person selected for a nurse, and the baby’s
condition was greatly improved. The woman in whose charge she placed it
was poor, but neither drunken nor depraved. Pinky arranged with her to
take the care of it for two dollars a week, and supplied it with clean
and comfortable clothing. Even she, wicked and vile as she was, could
not help being touched by the change that appeared in the baby’s
shrunken face, and in its sad but beautiful eyes, after its wasted
little body had been cleansed and clothed in clean, warm garments and it
had taken its fill of nourishing food.

“It’s a shame, the way it has been abused,” said Pinky, speaking from an
impulse of kindness, such as rarely swelled in her evil heart.

“A crying shame,” answered the woman as she drew the baby close against
her bosom and gazed down upon its pitiful face, and into the large brown
eyes that were lifted to hers in mute appeal.

The real motherly tenderness that was in this woman’s heart was quickly
perceived by the child, who did not move its eyes from hers, but lay
perfectly still, gazing up at her in a kind of easeful rest such as it
had never before known. She spoke to it in loving tones, touched its
thin cheeks with her finger in playful caresses, kissed it on its lips
and forehead, hugged it to her bosom; and still the eyes were fixed on
hers in a strange baby-wonder, though not the faintest glinting of a
smile played on its lips or over its serious face. Had it never learned
to smile?

At last the poor thin lips curved a little, crushing out the lines of
suffering, and into the eyes there came a loving glance in place of the
fixed, wondering look that was almost a stare. A slight lifting of the
hands, a motion of the head, a thrill through the whole body came next,
and then a tender cooing sound.

“Did you ever see such beautiful eyes?” said the woman. “It will be a
splendid baby when it has picked up a little.”

“Let it pick up as fast as it can,” returned Pinky; “but mind what I
say: you are to be mum. Here’s your pay for the first week, and you
shall have it fair and square always. Call it your own baby, if you
will, or your grandson. Yes, that’s better. He’s the child of your dead
daughter, just sent to you from somewhere out of town. So take good
care of him, and keep your mouth shut. I’ll be round again in a little
while.”

And with this injunction Pinky went away. On the next Thursday she
visited the St. John’s mission sewing-school in company with the little
girl from Grubb’s court, but greatly to her disappointment, Edith did
not make her appearance. There were four or five ladies in attendance
on the school, which, under the superintendence of one of them, a woman
past middle life, with a pale, serious face and a voice clear and sweet,
was conducted with an order and decorum not often maintained among a
class of children such as were there gathered together.

It was a long time since Pinky had found herself so repressed and ill
at ease. There was a spiritual atmosphere in the place that did not
vitalize her blood. She felt a sense of constriction and suffocation.
She had taken her seat in the class taught usually by Edith, with the
intention of studying that young lady and finding out all she could
about her, not doubting her ability to act the part in hand with perfect
self-possession. But she had not been in the room a minute before
confidence began to die, and very soon she found herself ill at ease and
conscious of being out of her place. The bold, bad woman felt weak and
abashed. An unseen sphere of purity and Christian love surrounded and
touched her soul with as palpable an impression as outward things give
to the body. She had something of the inward distress and pain a devil
would feel if lifted into the pure air of heaven, and the same desire
to escape and plunge back into the dense and impure atmosphere in
which evil finds its life and enjoyment. If she had come with any good
purpose, it would have been different, but evil, and only evil, was in
her heart; and when this felt the sphere of love and purity, her breast
was constricted and life seemed going out of her.

It was little less than torture to Pinky for the short time she
remained. As soon as she was satisfied that Edith would not be there,
she threw down the garment on which she had been pretending to sew, and
almost ran from the room.

“Who is that girl?” asked the lady who was teaching the class, looking
in some surprise after the hurrying figure.

“It’s Pinky Swett,” answered the child from Grubb’s court. “She wanted
to see our teacher.”

“Who is your regular teacher?” was inquired.

“Don’t remember her name.”

“It’s Edith,” spoke up one of the girls. “Mrs. Martin called her that.”

“What did this Pinky Swett want to see her about?”

“Don’t know,” answered the child as she remembered the money Pinky had
given her and the promise of more.

The teacher questioned no further, but went on with her work in the
class.




CHAPTER XVI.



IT was past midday when Mr. Dinneford returned home after his
fruitless search. Edith, who had been waiting for hours in restless
suspense, heard his step in the hall, and ran down to meet him.

“Did you see the baby?”’ she asked, trying to keep her agitation down.

Mr. Dinneford only shook his head,

“Why, not, father?” Her voice choked.

“It could not be found.”

“You saw Mr. Paulding?”

“Yes.”

“Didn’t he find the baby?”

“Oh yes. But when I went to Grubb’s court this morning, it was not
there, and no one could or would give any information about it. As the
missionary feared, those having possession of the baby had taken alarm
and removed it to another place. But I have seen the mayor and some of
the police, and got them interested. It will not be possible to hide the
child for any length of time.”

“You said that Mr. Paulding saw it?”

“Yes.”

“What did he say?” Edith’s voice trembled as she asked the question.

“He thinks there is something wrong.”

“Did he tell you how the baby looked?”

“He said that it had large, beautiful brown eyes.”

Edith clasped her hands, and drew them tightly against her bosom.

“Oh, father! if it should be my baby!”

“My dear, dear child,” said Mr. Dinneford, putting his arms about Edith
and holding her tightly, “you torture yourself with a wild dream. The
thing is impossible.”

“It is somebody’s baby,” sobbed Edith, her face on her father’s breast,
“and it may be mine. Who knows?”

“We will do our best to find it,” returned Mr. Dinneford, “and then do
what Christian charity demands. I am in earnest so far, and will leave
nothing undone, you may rest assured. The police have the mayor’s
instructions to find the baby and give it into my care, and I do not
think we shall have long to wait.”

An ear they thought not of, heard all this. Mrs. Dinneford’s suspicions
had been aroused by many things in Edith’s manner and conduct of late,
and she had watched her every look and word and movement with a keenness
of observation that let nothing escape. Careful as her husband and
daughter were in their interviews, it was impossible to conceal anything
from eyes that never failed in watchfulness. An unguarded word here, a
look of mutual intelligence there, a sudden silence when she appeared,
an unusual soberness of demeanor and evident absorbed interest in
something they were careful to conceal, had the effect to quicken all
Mrs. Dinneford’s alarms and suspicions.

She had seen from the top of the stairs a brief but excited interview
pass between Edith and her father as the latter stood in the vestibule
that morning, and she had noticed the almost wild look on her daughter’s
face as she hastened back along the hall and ran up to her room. Here
she stayed alone for over an hour, and then came down to the parlor,
where she remained restless, moving about or standing by the window for
a greater part of the morning.

There was something more than usual on hand. Guilt in its guesses came
near the truth. What could all this mean, if it had not something to
do with the cast-off baby? Certainty at last came. She was in the
dining-room when Edith ran down to meet her father in the hall, and
slipped noiselessly and unobserved into one of the parlors, where,
concealed by a curtain, she heard everything that passed between her
husband and daughter.

Still as death she stood, holding down the strong pulses of her heart.
From the hall Edith and her father turned into one of the parlors--the
same in which Mrs. Dinneford was concealed behind the curtain--and sat
down.

“It had large brown eyes?” said Edith, a yearning tenderness in her
voice.

“Yes, and a finely-formed bead, showing good parentage,” returned the
father.

“Didn’t you find out who the women were--the two bad women the little
girl told me about? If we had their names, the police could find them.
The little girl’s mother must know who they are.”

“We have the name of one of them,” said Mr. Dinneford. “She is called
Pinky Swett, and it can’t be long before the police are on her track.
She is said to be a desperate character. Nothing more can be done now;
we must wait until the police work up the affair. I will call at the
mayor’s office in the morning and find out what has been done.”

Mrs. Dinneford heard no more. The bell rang, and her husband and
daughter left the parlor and went up stairs. The moment they were beyond
observation she glided noiselessly through the hall, and reached her
chamber without being noticed. Soon afterward she came down dressed for
visiting, and went out hastily, her veil closely drawn. Her manner was
hurried. Descending the steps, she stood for a single moment, as if
hesitating which way to go, and then moved off rapidly. Soon she had
passed out of the fashionable neighborhood in which she lived. After
this she walked more slowly, and with the air of one whose mind was
in doubt or hesitation. Once she stopped, and turning about, slowly
retraced her steps for the distance of a square. Then she wheeled
around, as if from some new and strong resolve, and went on again. At
last she paused before a respectable-looking house of moderate size in a
neighborhood remote from the busier and more thronged parts of the city.
The shutters were all bowed down to the parlor, and the house had a
quiet, unobtrusive look. Mrs. Dinneford gave a quick, anxious glance up
and down the street, and then hurriedly ascended the steps and rang the
bell.

“Is Mrs. Hoyt in?” she asked of a stupid-looking girl who came to the
door.

“Yes, ma’am,” was answered.

“Tell her a lady wants to see her;” and she passed into the
plainly-furnished parlor. There were no pictures on the walls nor
ornaments on the mantel-piece, nor any evidence of taste--nothing
home-like--in the shadowed room, the atmosphere of which was close and
heavy. She waited here for a few moments, when there was a rustle of
garments and the sound of light, quick feet on the stairs. A small,
dark-eyed, sallow-faced woman entered the parlor.

“Mrs. Bray--no, Mrs. Hoyt.”

“Mrs. Dinneford;” and the two women stood face to face for a few
moments, each regarding the other keenly.

“Mrs. Hoyt--don’t forget,” said the former, with a warning emphasis in
her voice. “Mrs. Bray is dead.”

In her heart Mrs. Dinneford wished that it were indeed so.

“Anything wrong?” asked the black-eyed little woman.

“Do you know a Pinky Swett?” asked Mrs. Dinneford, abruptly.

Mrs. Hoyt--so we must now call her--betrayed surprise at this
question, and was about answering “No,” but checked herself and gave a
half-hesitating “Yes,” adding the question, “What about her?”

Before Mrs. Dinneford could reply, however, Mrs. Hoyt took hold of her
arm and said, “Come up to my room. Walls have ears sometimes, and I will
not answer for these.”

Mrs. Dinneford went with her up stairs to a chamber in the rear part of
the building.

“We shall be out of earshot here,” said Mrs. Hoyt as she closed the
door, locking it at the same time. “And now tell me what’s up, and what
about Pinky Swett.”

“You know her?”

“Yes, slightly.”

“More than slightly, I guess.”

Mrs. Hoyt’s eyes flashed impatiently. Mrs. Dinneford saw it, and took
warning.

“She’s got that cursed baby.”

“How do you know?”

“No matter how I know. It’s enough that I know. Who is she?”

“That question may be hard to answer. About all I know of her is that
she came from the country a few years ago, and has been drifting about
here ever since.”

“What is she doing with that baby? and how did she get hold of it?”

“Questions more easily asked than answered.”

“Pshaw! I don’t want any beating about the bush, Mrs. Bray.”

“Mrs. Hoyt,” said the person addressed.

“Oh, well, Mrs. Hoyt, then. We ought to understand each other by this
time.”

“I guess we do;” and the little woman arched her brows.

“I don’t want any beating about the bush,” resumed Mrs. Dinneford. “I am
here on business.”

“Very well; let’s to business, then;” and Mrs. Hoyt leaned back in her
chair.

“Edith knows that this woman has the baby,” said Mrs. Dinneford.

“What!” and Mrs. Hoyt started to her feet.

“The mayor has been seen, and the police are after her.”

“How do you know?”

“Enough that I know. And now, Mrs. Hoyt, this thing must come to an
end, and there is not an instant to be lost. Has Pinky Swett, as she is
called, been told where the baby came from?”

“Not by me.”

“By anybody?”

“That is more than I can say.”

“What has become of the woman I gave it to?”

“She’s about somewhere.”

“When did you see her?”

Mrs. Hoyt pretended to think for some moments, and then replied:

“Not for a month or two.”

“Had she the baby then?”

“No; she was rid of it long before that.”

“Did she know this Pinky Swett?”

“Yes.”

“Curse the brat! If I’d thought all this trouble was to come, I’d have
smothered it before it was half an hour old.”

“Risky business,” remarked Mrs. Hoyt.

“Safer than to have let it live,” said Mrs. Dinneford, a hard, evil
expression settling around her mouth. “And now I want the thing done.
You understand. Find this Pinky Swett. The police are after her, and may
be ahead of you. I am desperate, you see. Anything but the discovery and
possession of this child by Edith. It must be got out of the way. If it
will not starve, it must drown.”

Mrs. Dinneford’s face was distorted by the strength of her evil
passions. Her eyes were full of fire, flashing now, and now glaring like
those of a wild animal.

“It might fall out of a window,” said Mrs. Hoyt, in a low, even voice,
and with a faint smile on her lips. “Children fall out of windows
sometimes.”

“But don’t always get killed,” answered Mrs. Dinneford, coldly.

“Or, it might drop from somebody’s arms into the river--off the deck of
a ferryboat, I mean,” added Mrs. Hoyt.

“That’s better. But I don’t care how it’s done, so it’s done.”

“Accidents are safer,” said Mrs. Hoyt.

“I guess you’re right about that. Let it be an accident, then.”

It was half an hour from the time Mrs. Dinneford entered this house
before she came away. As she passed from the door, closely veiled, a
gentleman whom she knew very well was going by on the opposite side
of the street. From something in his manner she felt sure that he
had recognized her, and that the recognition had caused him no little
surprise. Looking back two or three times as she hurried homeward, she
saw, to her consternation, that he was following her, evidently with the
purpose of making sure of her identity.

To throw this man off of her track was Mrs. Dinneford’s next concern.
This she did by taking a street-car that was going in a direction
opposite to the part of the town in which she lived, and riding for
a distance of over a mile. An hour afterward she came back to her own
neighborhood, but not without a feeling of uneasiness. Just as she
was passing up to the door of her residence a gentleman came hurriedly
around the nearest corner. She recognized him at a glance. It seemed as
if the servant would never answer her ring. On he came, until the sound
of his steps was in her ears. He was scarcely ten paces distant when the
door opened and she passed in. When she gained her room, she sat down
faint and trembling. Here was a new element in the danger and disgrace
that were digging her steps so closely.

As we have seen, Edith did not make her appearance at the mission
sewing-school on the following Thursday, nor did she go there for many
weeks afterward. The wild hope that had taken her to Briar street, the
nervous strain and agitation attendant on that visit, and the reaction
occasioned by her father’s failure to get possession of the baby, were
too much for her strength, and an utter prostration of mind and body was
the consequence. There was no fever nor sign of any active disease--only
weakness, Nature’s enforced quietude, that life and reason might be
saved.




CHAPTER XVII.



THE police were at fault. They found Pinky Swett, but were not able to
find the baby. Careful as they were in their surveillance, she managed
to keep them on the wrong track and to baffle every effort to discover
what had been done with the child.

In this uncertainty months went by. Edith came up slowly from her
prostrate condition, paler, sadder and quieter, living in a kind of
waking dream. Her father tried to hold her back from her mission work
among the poor, but she said, “I must go, father; I will die if I do
not.”

And so her life lost itself in charities. Now and then her mother
made an effort to draw her into society. She had not yet given up her
ambition, nor her hope of one day seeing her daughter take social rank
among the highest, or what she esteemed the highest. But her power over
Edith was entirely gone. She might as well have set herself to turn
the wind from its course as to influence her in anything. It was all in
vain. Edith had dropped out of society, and did not mean to go back. She
had no heart for anything outside of her home, except the Christian work
to which she had laid her hands.

The restless, watchful, suspicious manner exhibited for a long time by
Mrs. Dinneford, and particularly noticed by Edith, gradually wore off.
She grew externally more like her old self, but with something new in
the expression of her face when in repose, that gave a chill to the
heart of Edith whenever she saw its mysterious record, that seemed in
her eyes only an imperfect effort to conceal some guilty secret.

Thus the mother and daughter, though in daily personal contact, stood
far apart--were internally as distant from each other as the antipodes.

As for Mr. Dinneford, what he had seen and heard on his first visit to
Briar street had aroused him to a new and deeper sense of his duty as
a citizen. Against all the reluctance and protests of his natural
feelings, he had compelled himself to stand face to face with the
appalling degradation and crime that festered and rioted in that almost
Heaven-deserted region. He had heard and read much about its evil
condition; but when, under the protection of a policeman, he went from
house to house, from den to den, through cellar and garret and hovel,
comfortless and filthy as dog-kennels and pig-styes, and saw the sick
and suffering, the utterly vile and debauched, starving babes and
children with faces marred by crime, and the legion of harpies who were
among them as birds of prey, he went back to his home sick at heart, and
with a feeling of helplessness and hopelessness out of which he found it
almost impossible to rise.

We cannot stain our pages with a description of what he saw. It is so
vile and terrible, alas, so horrible, that few would credit it. The few
imperfect glimpses of life in that region which we have already given
are sad enough and painful enough, but they only hint at the real truth.

“What can be done?” asked Mr. Dinneford of the missionary, at their next
meeting, in a voice that revealed his utter despair of a remedy. “To me
it seems as if nothing but fire could purify this region.”

“The causes that have produced this would soon create another as bad,”
 was answered.

“What are the causes?”

“The primary cause,” said Mr. Paulding, “is the effort of hell to
establish itself on the earth for the destruction of human souls; the
secondary cause lies in the indifference and supineness of the people.
‘While the husband-men slept the enemy sowed tares.’ Thus it was of
old, and thus it is to-day. The people are sleeping or indifferent, the
churches are sleeping or indifferent, while the enemy goes on sowing
tares for the harvest of death.”

“Well may you say the harvest of death,” returned Mr. Dinneford,
gloomily.

“And hell,” added the missionary, with a stern emphasis. “Yes, sir, it
is the harvest of death and hell that is gathered here, and such a
full harvest! There is little joy in heaven over the sheaves that are
garnered in this accursed region. What hope is there in fire, or any
other purifying process, if the enemy be permitted to go on sowing his
evil seed at will?”

“How will you prevent it?” asked Mr. Dinneford.

“Not by standing afar off and leaving the enemy in undisputed
possession--not by sleeping while he sows and reaps and binds into
bundles for the fires, his harvests of human souls! We must be as alert
and wise and ready of hand as he; and God being our helper, we can drive
him from the field!”

“You have thought over this sad problem a great deal,” said Mr.
Dinneford. “You have stood face to face with the enemy for years, and
know his strength and his resources. Have you any well-grounded hope of
ever dislodging him from this stronghold?”

“I have just said it, Mr. Dinneford. But until the churches and the
people come up to the help of the Lord against the mighty, he cannot be
dislodged. I am standing here, sustained in my work by a small band of
earnest Christian men and women, like an almost barren rock in the midst
of a down-rushing river on whose turbulent surface thousands are being
swept to destruction. The few we are able to rescue are as a drop in
the bucket to the number who are lost. In weakness and sorrow, almost
in despair sometimes, we stand on our rock, with the cry of lost souls
mingling with the cry of fiends in our ears, and wonder at the churches
and the people, that they stand aloof--nay, worse, turn from us coldly
often--when we press the claims of this worse than heathen people who
are perishing at their very doors.

“Sir,” continued the missionary, warming on his theme, “I was in a
church last Sunday that cost its congregation over two hundred thousand
dollars. It was an anniversary occasion, and the collections for the day
were to be given to some foreign mission. How eloquently the preacher
pleaded for the heathen! What vivid pictures of their moral and
spiritual destitution he drew! How full of pathos he was, even to tears!
And the congregation responded in a contribution of over three thousand
dollars, to be sent somewhere, and to be disbursed by somebody of whom
not one in a hundred of the contributors knew anything or took the
trouble to inform themselves. I felt sick and oppressed at such a
waste of money and Christian sympathy, when heathen more destitute and
degraded than could be found in any foreign land were dying at home in
thousands every year, unthought of and uncared for. I gave no amens to
his prayers--I could not. They would have stuck in my throat. I said to
myself, in bitterness and anger, ‘How dare a watchman on the walls
of Zion point to an enemy afar off, of whose movements and power and
organization he knows but little, while the very gates of the city are
being stormed and its walls broken down?’ But you must excuse me, Mr.
Dinneford. I lose my calmness sometimes when these things crowd my
thoughts too strongly. I am human like the rest, and weak, and cannot
stand in the midst of this terrible wickedness and suffering year after
year without being stirred by it to the very inmost of my being. In my
intense absorption I can see nothing else sometimes.”

He paused for a little while, and then said, in a quiet, business way,

“In seeking a remedy for the condition of society found here, we must
let common sense and a knowledge of human nature go hand in hand with
Christian charity. To ignore any of these is to make failure certain. If
the whisky-and policy-shops were all closed, the task would be easy. In
a single month the transformation would be marvelous. But we cannot hope
for this, at least not for a long time to come--not until politics and
whisky are divorced, and not until associations of bad men cease to
be strong enough in our courts to set law and justice at defiance. Our
work, then, must be in the face of these baleful influences.”

“Is the evil of lottery-policies so great that you class it with the
curse of rum?” asked Mr. Dinneford.

“It is more concealed, but as all-pervading and almost as disastrous in
its effects. The policy-shops draw from the people, especially the poor
and ignorant, hundreds of thousands of dollars every year. There is no
more chance of thrift for one who indulges in this sort of gambling than
there is for one who indulges in drink. The vice in either case drags
its subject down to want, and in most cases to crime. I could point you
to women virtuous a year ago, but who now live abandoned lives; and they
would tell you, if you would question them, that their way downward
was through the policy-shops. To get the means of securing a hoped-for
prize--of getting a hundred or two hundred dollars for every single
one risked, and so rising above want or meeting some desperate
exigency--virtue was sacrificed in an evil moment.”

“The whisky-shops brutalize, benumb and debase or madden with cruel and
murderous passions; the policy-shops, more seductive and fascinating in
their allurements, lead on to as deep a gulf of moral ruin and hopeless
depravity. I have seen the poor garments of a dying child sold at a
pawn-shop for a mere trifle by its infatuated mother, and the money
thrown away in this kind of gambling. Women sell or pawn their clothing,
often sending their little children to dispose of these articles, while
they remain half clad at home to await the daily drawings and receive
the prize they fondly hope to obtain, but which rarely, if ever, comes.

“Children learn early to indulge this vice, and lie and steal in order
to obtain money to gratify it. You would be amazed to see the scores of
little boys and girls, white and black, who daily visit the policy-shops
in this neighborhood to put down the pennies they have begged or
received for stolen articles on some favorite numbers--quick-witted,
sharp, eager little wretches, who talk the lottery slang as glibly as
older customers. What hope is there in the future for these children?
Will their education in the shop of a policy-dealer fit them to become
honest, industrious citizens?”

All this was so new and dreadful to Mr. Dinneford that he was stunned
and disheartened; and when, after an interview with the missionary
that lasted over an hour, he went away, it was with a feeling of utter
discouragement. He saw little hope of making head against the flood of
evil that was devastating this accursed region.




CHAPTER XVIII.



MRS. HOYT, alias Bray, found Pinky Swett, but she did not find the
poor cast-off baby. Pinky had resolved to make it her own capital in
trade. She parleyed and trifled with Mrs. Hoyt week after week, and each
did her best to get down to the other’s secret, but in vain. Mutually
baffled, they parted at last in bitter anger.

One day, about two months after the interview between Mrs. Dinneford
and Mrs. Hoyt described in another chapter, the former received in an
envelope a paragraph cut from a newspaper. It read as follows:

“A CHILD DROWNED.--A sad accident occurred yesterday on board the
steamer Fawn as she was going down the river. A woman was standing with
a child in her arms near the railing on the lower deck forward. Suddenly
the child gave a spring, and was out of her arms in a moment. She caught
after it frantically, but in vain. Every effort was made to recover the
child, but all proved fruitless. It did not rise to the surface of the
water.”

Mrs. Dinneford read the paragraph twice, and then tore it into little
bits. Her mouth set itself sternly. A long sigh of relief came up from
her chest. After awhile the hard lines began slowly to disappear, giving
place to a look of satisfaction and comfort.

“Out of my way at last,” she staid, rising and beginning to move about
the room. But the expression of relief and confidence which had come
into her face soon died out. The evil counselors that lead the soul into
sin become its tormentors after the sin is committed, and torture it
with fears. So tortured they this guilty and wretched woman at every
opportunity. They led her on step by step to do evil, and then crowded
her mind with suggestions of perils and consequences the bare thought of
which filled her with terror.

It was only a few weeks after this that Mrs. Dinneford, while looking
over a morning paper, saw in the court record the name of Pinky
Swett. This girl had been tried for robbing a man of his pocket-book,
