"What has he to do with Donnacona, my dear?"
"Everything. You know he's stayed on our account, and I never heard of
anything so impolite, so inhospitable, as offering to read without him.
Go and call him, Richard, do."
"O, no," pleaded Kitty, "he won't care about it. Don't call him, Dick."
"Why, Kitty, I'm surprised at you! When you read so beautifully! Yon
needn't be ashamed, I'm sure."
"I'm not ashamed; but, at the same time, I don't want to read to him."
"Well, call him any way, colonel. He's in his room."
"If you do," said Kitty, with superfluous dignity, "I must go away."
"Very well, Kitty, just as you please. Only I want Richard to witness
that I'm not to blame if Mr. Arbuton thinks us unfeeling or neglectful."
"O, if he doesn't say what he thinks, it'll make no difference."
"It seems to me that this is a good deal of fuss to make about one human
being, a mere passing man and brother of a day, isn't it?" said the
colonel. "Go on with Donnacona, do."
There came a knock at the door. Kitty leaped nervously to her feet, and
fled out of the room. But it was only the little French serving-maid
upon some errand which she quickly despatched.
"Well, now what do you think?" asked Mrs. Ellison.
"Why, I think you've a surprising knowledge of French for one who
studied it at school. Do you suppose she understood you?"
"O, nonsense! You know I mean Kitty and her very queer behavior.
Richard, if you moon at me in that stupid way," she continued, "I shall
certainly end in an insane asylum. Can't you see what's under your very
nose?"
"Yes, I can, Fanny," answered the colonel, "if anything's there. But I
give you my word, I don't know any more than millions yet unborn what
you're driving at." The colonel took up the book which Kitty had thrown
down, and went to his room to try to read up Donnacona for himself,
while his wife penitently turned to a pamphlet in French, which he had
bought with the others. "After all," she thought, "men will be men"; and
seemed not to find the fact wholly wanting in consolation.
A few minutes after there was a murmur of voices in the entry without,
at a window looking upon the convent garden, where it happened to Mr.
Arbuton, descending from his attic chamber, to find Kitty standing, a
pretty shape against the reflected light of the convent roofs, and
amidst a little greenery of house-plants, tall geraniums, an overarching
ivy, some delicate roses. She had paused there, on her way from Fanny's
to her own room, and was looking into the garden, where a pair of silent
nuns were pacing up and down the paths, turning now their backs with the
heavy sable coiffure sweeping their black robes, and now their still,
mask-like faces, set in that stiff framework of white linen. Sometimes
they came so near that she could distinguish their features, and imagine
an expression that she should know if she saw them again; and while she
stood self-forgetfully feigning a character for each of them, Mr.
Arbuton spoke to her and took his place at her side.
"We're remarkably favored in having this bit of opera under our windows,
Miss Ellison," he said, and smiled as Kitty answered, "O, is it really
like an opera? I never saw one, but I could imagine it must be
beautiful," and they both looked on in silence a moment, while the nuns
moved, shadow-like, out of the garden, and left it empty.
Then Mr. Arbuton said something to which Kitty answered simply, "I'll
see if my cousin doesn't want me," and presently stood beside Mrs.
Ellison's sofa, a little conscious in color. "Fanny, Mr. Arbuton has
asked me to go and see the cathedral with him. Do you think it would be
right?"
Mrs. Ellison's triumphant heart rose to her lips. "Why, you dear,
particular, innocent little goose," she cried, flinging her arms about
Kitty, and kissing her till the young girl blushed again; "of course it
would! Go! You mustn't stay mewed up in here. I sha'n't be able to go
about with you; and if I can judge by the colonel's breathing, as he
calls it, from the room in there, he won't, at present. But the idea
of your having a question of propriety!" And indeed it was the first
time Kitty had ever had such a thing, and the remembrance of it put a
kind of constraint upon her, as she strolled demurely beside Mr. Arbuton
towards the cathedral.
"You must be guide," said he, "for this is my first day in Quebec, you
know, and you are an old inhabitant in comparison."
"I'll show the way," she answered, "if you'll interpret the sights. I
think I must be stranger to them than you, in spite of my long
residence. Sometimes I'm afraid that I do only fancy I enjoy these
things, as Mrs. March said, for I've no European experiences to contrast
them with. I know that it seems very delightful, though, and quite
like what I should expect in Europe."
"You'd expect very little of Europe, then, in most things; though
there's no disputing that it's a very pretty illusion of the Old World."
A few steps had brought them into the market-square in front of the
cathedral, where a little belated traffic still lingered in the few old
peasant-women hovering over baskets of such fruits and vegetables as had
long been out of season in the States, and the housekeepers and
serving-maids cheapening these wares. A sentry moved mechanically up and
down before the high portal of the Jesuit Barracks, over the arch of
which were still the letters I. H. S. carved long ago upon the keystone;
and the ancient edifice itself, with its yellow stucco front and its
grated windows, had every right to be a monastery turned barracks in
France or Italy. A row of quaint stone houses--inns and shops--formed
the upper side of the Square; while the modern buildings of the Rue
Fabrique on the lower side might serve very well for that show of
improvement which deepens the sentiment of the neighboring antiquity and
decay in Latin towns. As for the cathedral, which faced the convent from
across the Square, it was as cold and torpid a bit of Renaissance as
could be found in Rome itself. A red-coated soldier or two passed
through the Square; three or four neat little French policemen lounged
about in blue uniforms and flaring havelocks; some walnut-faced,
blue-eyed old citizens and peasants sat upon the thresholds of the row
of old houses, and gazed dreamily through the smoke of their pipes at
the slight stir and glitter of shopping about the fine stores of the Rue
Fabrique. An air of serene disoccupation pervaded the place, with which
the occasional riot of the drivers of the long row of calashes and
carriages in front of the cathedral did not discord. Whenever a stray
American wandered into the Square, there was a wild flight of these
drivers towards him, and his person was lost to sight amidst their
pantomime. They did not try to underbid each other, and they were
perfectly good-humored; as soon as he had made his choice, the rejected
multitude returned to their places on the curbstone, pursuing the
successful aspirant with inscrutable jokes as he drove off, while the
horses went on munching the contents of their leathern head-bags, and
tossing them into the air to shake down the lurking grains of corn.
"It is like Europe; your friends were right," said Mr. Arbuton as they
escaped into the cathedral from one of these friendly onsets. "It's
quite the atmosphere of foreign travel, and you ought to be able to
realize the feelings of a tourist."
A priest was saying mass at one of the side-altars, assisted by acolytes
in their every-day clothes; and outside of the railing a market-woman,
with a basket of choke-cherries, knelt among a few other poor people.
Presently a young English couple came in, he with a dashing India scarf
about his hat, and she very stylishly dressed, who also made their
genuflections with the rest, and then sat down and dropped their heads
in prayer.
"This is like enough Europe, too," murmured Mr. Arbuton. "It's very good
North Italy; or South, for the matter of that."
"O, is it?" answered Kitty, joyously. "I thought it must be!" And she
added, in that trustful way of hers: "It's all very familiar; but then
it seems to me on this journey that I've seen a great many things that I
know I've only read of before"; and so followed Mr. Arbuton in his tour
of the pictures.
She was as ignorant of art as any Roman or Florentine girl whose life
has been passed in the midst of it; and she believed these mighty fine
pictures, and was puzzled by Mr. Arbuton's behavior towards them, who
was too little imaginative or too conscientious to make merit for them
out of the things they suggested. He treated the poor altar-pieces of
the Quebec cathedral with the same harsh indifference he would have
shown to the second-rate paintings of a European gallery; doubted the
Vandyck, and cared nothing for the Conception, "in the style of Le
Brun," over the high-altar, though it had the historical interest of
having survived that bombardment of 1759 which destroyed the church.
Kitty innocently singled out the worst picture in the place as her
favorite, and then was piqued, and presently frightened, at his cold
reluctance about it. He made her feel that it was very bad, and that she
shared its inferiority, though he said nothing to that effect. She
learned the shame of not being a connoisseur in a connoisseur's company,
and she perceived more painfully than ever before that a Bostonian, who
had been much in Europe, might be very uncomfortable to the simple,
unravelled American. Yet, she reminded herself, the Marches had been in
Europe, and they were Bostonians also; and they did not go about putting
everything under foot; they seemed to care for everything they saw, and
to have a friendly jest, if not praises, for it. She liked that; she
would have been well enough pleased to have Mr. Arbuton laugh outright
at her picture, and she could have joined him in it. But the look,
however flattered into an air of polite question at last, which he had
bent upon her, seemed to outlaw her and condemn her taste in everything.
As they passed out of the cathedral, she would rather have gone home
than continued the walk as he begged her, if she were not tired, to do;
but this would have been flight, and she was not a coward. So they
sauntered down the Rue Fabrique, and turned into Palace Street. As they
went by the door of Hôtel Musty, her pleasant friends came again into
her mind, and she said, "This is where we stayed last week, with Mr. and
Mrs. March."
"Those Boston people?"
"Yes."
"Do you know where they live in Boston?"
"Why, we have their address; but I can't think of it. I believe
somewhere in the southern part of the city--"
"The South End?"
"O yes, that's it. Have you ever heard of them?"
"No."
"I thought perhaps you might have known Mr. March. He's in the insurance
business--"
"O no! No, I don't know him," said Mr. Arbuton, eagerly. Kitty wondered
if there could be anything wrong with the business repute of Mr. March,
but dismissed the thought as unworthy; and having perceived that her
friends were snubbed, she said bravely, that they were the most
delightful people she had ever seen, and she was sorry that they were
not still in Quebec. He shared her regret tacitly, if at all, and they
walked in silence to the gate, whence they strolled down the winding
street outside the wall into the Lower Town. But it was not a pleasant
ramble for Kitty: she was in a dim dread of hitherto unseen and
unimagined trespasses against good taste, not only in pictures and
people, but in all life, which, from having been a very smiling prospect
when she set out with Mr. Arbuton, had suddenly become a narrow pathway,
in which one must pick one's way with more regard to each step than any
general end. All this was as obscure and uncertain as the intimations
which had produced it, and which, in words, had really amounted to
nothing. But she felt more and more that in her companion there was
something wholly alien to the influences which had shaped her; and
though she could not know how much, she was sure of enough to make her
dreary in his presence.
They wandered through the quaintness and noiseless bustle of the Lower
Town thoroughfares, and came by and by to that old church, the oldest in
Quebec, which was built near two hundred years ago, in fulfilment of a
vow made at the repulse of Sir William Phipps's attack upon the city,
and further famed for the prophecy of a nun, that this church should be
ruined by the fire in which a successful attempt of the English was yet
to involve the Lower Town. A painting, which represented the vision of
the nun, perished in the conflagration which verified it, in 1759; but
the walls of the ancient structure remain to witness this singular piece
of history, which Kitty now glanced at furtively in one of the colonel's
guide-books; since her ill-fortune with the picture in the cathedral,
she had not openly cared for anything.
At one side of the church there was a booth for the sale of crockery and
tin ware; and there was an every-day cheerfulness of small business in
the shops and tented stands about the square on which the church faced,
and through which there was continual passing of heavy burdens from the
port, swift calashes, and slow, country-paced market-carts.
Mr. Arbuton made no motion to enter the church, and Kitty would not hint
the curiosity she felt to see the interior; and while they lingered a
moment, the door opened, and a peasant came out with a little coffin in
his arms. His eyes were dim and his face wet with weeping, and he bore
the little coffin tenderly, as if his caress might reach the dead child
within. Behind him she came who must be the mother, her face deeply
hidden in her veil. Beside the pavement waited a shabby calash, with a
driver half asleep on his perch; and the man, still clasping his
precious burden, clambered into the vehicle, and laid it upon his knees,
while the woman groped, through her tears and veil, for the step. Kitty
and her companion had moved reverently aside; but now Mr. Arbuton came
forward, and helped the woman to her place. She gave him a hoarse, sad
"Merci!" and spread a fold of her shawl fondly over the end of the
little coffin; the drowsy driver whipped up his beast, and the calash
jolted away.
Kitty cast a grateful glance upon Mr. Arbuton, as they now entered the
church, by a common impulse. On their way towards the high-altar they
passed the rude black bier, with the tallow candles yet smoking in their
black wooden candlesticks. A few worshippers were dropped here and there
in the vacant seats, and at a principal side-altar knelt a poor woman
praying before a wooden effigy of the dead Christ that lay in a glass
case under the altar. The image was of life-size, and was painted to
represent life, or rather death, with false hair and beard, and with the
muslin drapery managed to expose the stigmata: it was stretched upon a
bed strewn with artificial flowers; and it was dreadful. But the poor
soul at her devotions there prayed to it in an ecstasy of supplication,
flinging her arms asunder with imploring gesture, clasping her hands and
bowing her head upon them, while her person swayed from side to side in
the abandon of her prayer. Who could she be, and what was her mighty
need of blessing or forgiveness? As her wont was, Kitty threw her own
soul into the imagined case of the suppliant, the tragedy of her desire
or sorrow. Yet, like all who suffer sympathetically, she was not without
consolations unknown to the principal; and the waning afternoon, as it
lit up the conventional ugliness of the old church, and the
paraphernalia of its worship, relieved her emotional self-abandon with a
remote sense of content, so that it may have been a jealousy for the
integrity of her own revery, as well as a feeling for the poor woman,
that made her tremble lest Mr. Arbuton should in some way disparage the
spectacle. I suppose that her interest in it was more an aesthetic than
a spiritual one; it embodied to her sight many a scene of penitence that
had played before her fancy, and I do not know but she would have been
willing to have the suppliant guilty of some dreadful misdeed, rather
than eating meat last Friday, which was probably her sin. However it
was, the ancient crone before that ghastly idol was precious to her, and
it seemed too great a favor, when at last the suppliant wiped her eyes,
rose trembling from her knees, and approaching Kitty, stretched towards
her a shaking palm for charity.
It was a touch that transfigured all, and gave even Mr. Arbuton's
neutrality a light of ideal character. He bestowed the alms craved of
him in turn, he did not repulse the beldame's blessing; and Kitty, who
was already moved by his kindness to that poor mourner at the door,
forgot that the earlier part of their walk had been so miserable, and
climbed back to the Upper Town through the Prescott Gate in greater
gayety than she had yet known that day in his company. I think he had
not done much to make her cheerful; but it is one of the advantages of a
temperament like his, that very little is expected of it, and that it
can more easily than any other make the human heart glad; at the least
softening in it, the soul frolics with a craven lightsomeness. For this
reason Kitty was able to enjoy with novel satisfaction the
picturesqueness of Mountain Street, and they both admired the huge
shoulder of rock near the gate, with its poplars atop, and the battery
at the brink, with the muzzles of the guns thrust forward against the
sky. She could not move him to her pleasure in the grotesqueness of the
circus-bills plastered half-way up the rock; but he tolerated the levity
with which she commented on them, and her light sallies upon passing
things, and he said nothing to prevent her reaching home in serene
satisfaction.
"Well, Kitty," said the tenant of the sofa, as Kitty and the colonel
drew up to the table on which the tea was laid at the sofa-side, "you've
had a nice walk, haven't you?"
"O yes, very nice. That is, the first part of it wasn't very nice; but
after a while we reached an old church in the Lower Town,--which was
very interesting,--and then we appeared to cheer up and take a new
start."
"Well," asked the colonel, "what did you find so interesting at that old
church?"
"Why, there was a baby's funeral; and an old woman, perfectly crushed by
some trouble or other, praying before an altar, and--"
"It seems to take very little to cheer you up," said the colonel. "All
you ask of your fellow-beings is a heart-breaking bereavement and a
religious agony, and you are lively at once. Some people might require
human sacrifices, but you don't."
Kitty looked at her cousin a moment with vague amaze. The grossness of
the absurdity flashed upon her, and she felt as if another touch must
bring the tears. She said nothing; but Mrs. Ellison, who saw only that
she was cut off from her heart's desire of gossip, came to the rescue.
"Don't answer a word, Kitty, not a single word; I never heard anything
more insulting from one cousin to another; and I should say it, if I was
brought into a court of justice."
A sudden burst of laughter from Kitty, who hid her conscious face in her
hands, interrupted Mrs. Ellison's defence.
"Well," said Mrs. Ellison, piqued at her desertion, "I hope you
understand yourselves. I don't." This was Mrs. Ellison's attitude
towards her husband's whole family, who on their part never had been
able to account for the colonel's choice except as a joke, and sometimes
questioned if he had not perhaps carried the joke too far; though they
loved her too, for a kind of passionate generosity and sublime,
inconsequent unselfishness about her.
"What I want to know, now," said the colonel, as soon as Kitty would
let him, "and I'll try to put it as politely as I can, is simply this:
what made the first part of your walk so disagreeable? You didn't see a
wedding-party, or a child rescued from a horrible death, or a man saved
from drowning, or anything of that kind, did you?"
But the colonel would have done better not to say anything. His wife was
made peevish by his persistence, and the loss of the harmless pleasure
upon which she had counted in the history of Kitty's walk with Mr.
Arbuton. Kitty herself would not laugh again; in fact she grew serious
and thoughtful, and presently took up a book, and after that went to her
own room, where she stood awhile at her window, and looked out on the
garden of the Ursulines. The moon hung full orb in the stainless heaven,
and deepened the mystery of the paths and trees, and lit the silvery
roofs and chimneys of the convent with tender effulgence. A wandering
odor of leaf and flower stole up from the garden, but she perceived the
sweetness, like the splendor, with veiled senses. She was turning over
in her thought the incidents of her walk, and trying to make out if
anything had really happened, first to provoke her against Mr. Arbuton,
and then to reconcile her to him. Had he said or done anything about her
favorite painting (which she hated now), or the Marches, to offend her?
Or if it had been his tone and manner, was his after-conduct at the old
church sufficient penance? What was it he had done that common humanity
did not require? Was he so very superior to common humanity, that she
should meekly rejoice at his kindness to the afflicted mother? Why need
she have cared for his forbearance toward the rapt devotee? She became
aware that she was ridiculous. "Dick was right," she confessed, "and I
will not let myself be made a goose of"; and when the bugle at the
citadel called the soldiers to rest, and the harsh chapel-bell bade the
nuns go dream of heaven, she also fell asleep, a smile on her lips and a
light heart in her breast.
VI.
A LETTER OF KITTY'S.
    Quebec, August --, 1870.
    Dear Girls: Since the letter I wrote you a day or two after we got
    here, we have been going on very much as you might have expected. A
    whole week has passed, but we still bear our enforced leisure with
    fortitude; and, though Boston and New York are both fading into the
    improbable (as far as we are concerned), Quebec continues
    inexhaustible, and I don't begrudge a moment of the time we are
    giving it.
    Fanny still keeps her sofa; the first enthusiasm of her affliction
    has worn away, and she has nothing to sustain her now but planning
    our expeditions about the city. She has got the map and the history
    of Quebec by heart, and she holds us to the literal fulfilment of her
    instructions. On this account, she often has to send Dick and me out
    together when she would like to keep him with her, for she won't
    trust either of us alone, and when we come back she examines us
    separately to see whether we have skipped anything. This makes us
    faithful in the smallest things. She says she is determined that
    Uncle Jack shall have a full and circumstantial report from me of all
    that he wants to know about the celebrated places here, and I really
    think he will, if I go on, or am goaded on, in this way. It's pure
    devotion to the cause in Fanny, for you know she doesn't care for
    such things herself, and has no pleasure in it but carrying a point.
    Her chief consolation under her trial of keeping still is to see how
    I look in her different dresses. She sighs over me as I appear in a
    new garment, and says, O, if she only had the dressing of me! Then
    she gets up and limps and hops across the room to where I stand
    before the glass, and puts a pin here and a ribbon there, and gives
    my hair (which she has dressed herself) a little dab, to make it lie
    differently, and then scrambles back to her sofa, and knocks her lame
    ankle against something, and lies there groaning and enjoying herself
    like a martyr. On days when she thinks she is never going to get
    well, she says she doesn't know why she doesn't give me her things at
    once and be done with it; and on days when she thinks she is going to
    get well right away, she says she will have me one made something
    like whatever dress I have got on, as soon as she's home. Then up
    she'll jump again for the exact measure, and tell me the history of
    every stitch, and how she'll have it altered just the least grain,
    and differently trimmed to suit my complexion better; and ends by
    having promised to get me something not in the least like it. You
    have some idea already of what Fanny is; and all you have got to do
    is to multiply it by about fifty thousand. Her sprained ankle simply
    intensifies her whole character.
    Besides helping to compose Fanny's expeditionary corps, and really
    exerting himself in the cause of Uncle Jack, as he calls it, Dick is
    behaving beautifully. Every morning, after breakfast, he goes over to
    the hotel, and looks at the arrivals and reads the newspapers, and
    though we never get anything out of him afterwards, we somehow feel
    informed of all that is going on. He has taken to smoking a clay pipe
    in honor of the Canadian fashion, and he wears a gay, barbaric scarf
    of Indian muslin wound round his hat and flying out behind; because
    the Quebeckers protect themselves in that way against sunstroke when
    the thermometer gets up among the sixties. He has also bought a pair
    of snow-shoes to be prepared for the other extreme of weather, in
    case anything else should happen to Fanny, and detain us into the
    winter. When he has rested from his walk to the hotel, we usually go
    out together and explore, as we do also in the afternoon; and in the
    evening we walk on Durham Terrace,--a promenade overlooking the
    river, where the whole cramped and crooked city goes for exercise.
    It's a formal parade in the evening; but one morning I went there
    before breakfast, for a change, and found it the resort of careless
    ease; two or three idle boys were sunning themselves on the carriages
    of the big guns that stand on the Terrace, a little dog was barking
    at the chimneys of the Lower Town, and an old gentleman was walking
    up and down in his dressing-gown and slippers, just as if it were
    his own front porch. He looked something like Uncle Jack, and I
    wished it had been he,--to see the smoke curling softly up from the
    Lower Town, the bustle about the market-place, and the shipping in
    the river, and the haze hanging over the water a little way off, and
    the near hills all silver, and the distant ones blue.
    But if we are coming to the grand and the beautiful, why, there is no
    direction in which you can look about Quebec without seeing it; and
    it is always mixed up with something so familiar and homelike, that
    my heart warms to it. The Jesuit Barracks are just across the street
    from us in the foreground of the most magnificent landscape; the
    building is--think, you Eriecreekers of an hour!--two hundred years
    old, and it looks five hundred. The English took it away from the
    Jesuits in 1760, and have used it as barracks ever since; but it
    isn't in the least changed, so that a Jesuit missionary who visited
    it the other day said that it was as if his brother priests had been
    driven out of it the week before. Well, you might think so old and so
    historical a place would be putting on airs, but it takes as kindly
    to domestic life as a new frame-house, and I am never tired of
    looking over into the yard at the frowsy soldiers' wives hanging
    out clothes, and the unkempt children playing among the burdocks, and
    chickens and cats, and the soldiers themselves carrying about the
    officers' boots, or sawing wood and picking up chips to boil the
    teakettle. They are off dignity as well as off duty, then; but when
    they are on both, and in full dress, they make our volunteers (as I
    remember them) seem very shabby and slovenly.
    Over the belfry of the Barracks, our windows command a view of half
    Quebec, with its roofs and spires dropping down the slope to the
    Lower Town, where the masts of the ships in the river come tapering
    up among them, and then of the plain stretching from the river in the
    valley to a range of mountains against the horizon, with far-off
    white villages glimmering out of their purple folds. The whole plain
    is bright with houses and harvest-fields; and the distinctly divided
    farms--the owners cut them up every generation, and give each son a
    strip of the entire length--run back on either hand, from the
    straight roads bordered by poplars, while the highways near the city
    pass between lovely villas.
    But this landscape and the Jesuit Barracks, with all their merits,
    are nothing to the Ursuline Convent, just under our back windows,
    which I told you something about in my other letter. We have been
    reading up its history since, and we know about Madame de la Peltrie,
    the noble Norman lady who founded it in 1640. She was very rich and
    very beautiful, and a saint from the beginning, so that when her
    husband died, and her poor old father wanted her to marry again and
    not go into a nunnery, she didn't mind cheating him by a sham
    marriage with a devout gentleman; and she came to Canada as soon as
    her father was dead, with another saint, Marie de l'Incarnation, and
    founded this convent. The first building is standing yet, as strong
    as ever, though everything but the stone walls was burnt two
    centuries ago. Only a few years since an old ash-tree, under which
    the Ursulines first taught the Indian children, blew down, and now a
    large black cross marks its place. The modern nuns are in the garden
    nearly the whole morning long, and by night the ghosts of the former
    nuns haunt it; and in very bright moonlight I myself do a bit of
    Madame de la Peltrie there, and teach little Indian boys, who dwindle
    like those in the song, as the moon goes down. It is an enchanted
    place, and I wish we had it in the back yard at Eriecreek, though I
    don't think the neighbors would approve of the architecture. I have
    adopted two nuns for my own: one is tall and slender and pallid, and
    you can see at a glance that she broke the heart of a mortal lover,
    and knew it, when she became the bride of heaven; and the other is
    short and plain and plump, and looks as comfortable and commonplace
    as life-after-dinner. When the world is bright I revel in the
    statue-like sadness of the beautiful nun, who never laughs or plays
    with the little girl pupils; but when the world is dark--as the best
    of worlds will be at times for a minute or two--I take to the fat
    nun, and go in for a clumsy romp with the children; and then I fancy
    that I am wiser if not better than the fair slim Ursuline. But
    whichever I am, for the time being, I am vexed with the other; yet
    they always are together, as if they were counterparts. I think a
    nice story might be written about them.
    In Wolfe's siege of Quebec this Ursuline Garden of ours was
    everywhere torn up by the falling bombs, and the sisters were driven
    out into the world they had forsaken forever, as Fanny has been
    reading in a little French account of the events, written at the
    time, by a nun of the General Hospital. It was there the Ursulines
    took what refuge there was; going from their cloistered school-rooms
    and their innocent little ones to the wards of the hospital, filled
    with the wounded and dying of either side, and echoing with their
    dreadful groans. What a sad, evil, bewildering world they had a
    glimpse of! In the garden here, our poor Montcalm--I belong to the
    French side, please, in Quebec--was buried in a grave dug for him by
    a bursting shell. They have his skull now in the chaplain's room of
    the convent, where we saw it the other day. They have made it
    comfortable in a glass box, neatly bound with black, and covered with
    a white lace drapery, just as if it were a saint's. It was broken a
    little in taking it out of the grave; and a few years ago, some
    English officers borrowed it to look at, and were horrible enough to
    pull out some of the teeth. Tell Uncle Jack the head is very broad
    above the ears, but the forehead is small.
    The chaplain also showed us a copy of an old painting of the first
    convent, Indian lodges, Madame de la Peltrie's house, and Madame
    herself, very splendidly dressed, with an Indian chief before her,
    and some French cavaliers riding down an avenue towards her. Then he
    showed us some of the nuns' work in albums, painted and lettered in a
    way to give me an idea of old missals. By and by he went into the
    chapel with us, and it gave such a queer notion of his indoors life
    to have him put on an overcoat and india-rubbers to go a few rods
    through the open air to the chapel door: he had not been very well,
    he said. When he got in, he took off his hat, and put on an octagonal
    priest's cap, and showed us everything in the kindest way--and his
    manners were exquisite. There were beautiful paintings sent out from
    France at the time of the Revolution; and wood-carvings round the
    high-altar, done by Quebec artists in the beginning of the last
    century; for he said they had a school of arts then at St. Anne's,
    twenty miles below the city. Then there was an ivory crucifix, so
    life-like that you could scarcely bear to look at it. But what I most
    cared for was the tiny twinkle of a votive lamp which he pointed out
    to us in one corner of the nuns' chapel: it was lit a hundred and
    fifty years ago by two of our French officers when their sister took
    the veil, and has never been extinguished since, except during the
    siege of 1759. Of course, I think a story might be written about
    this; and the truth is, the possibilities of fiction in Quebec are
    overpowering; I go about in a perfect haze of romances, and meet
    people at every turn who have nothing to do but invite the passing
    novelist into their houses, and have their likenesses done at once
    for heroes and heroines. They needn't change a thing about them, but
    sit just as they are; and if this is in the present, only think how
    the whole past of Quebec must be crying out to be put into historical
    romances!
    I wish you could see the houses, and how substantial they are. I
    can only think of Eriecreek as an assemblage of huts and bark-lodges
    in contrast. Our boarding-house is comparatively slight, and has
    stone walls only a foot and a half thick, but the average is two
    feet and two and a half; and the other day Dick went through the
    Laval University,--he goes everywhere and gets acquainted with
    everybody,--and saw the foundation walls of the first building, which
    have stood all the sieges and conflagrations since the seventeenth
    century; and no wonder, for they are six feet thick, and form a
    series of low-vaulted corridors, as heavy, he says, as the casemates
    of a fortress. There is a beautiful old carved staircase there, of
    the same date; and he liked the president, a priest, ever so much;
    and we like the looks of all the priests we see; they are so handsome
    and polite, and they all speak English, with some funny little
    defect. The other day, we asked such a nice young priest about the
    way to Hare Point, where it is said the Recollet friars had their
    first mission on the marshy meadows: he didn't know of this bit of
    history, and we showed him our book. "Ah! you see, the book say
    'pro-bab-ly the site.' If it had said certainly, I should have
    known. But pro-bab-ly, pro-bab-ly, you see!" However, he showed
    us the way, and down we went through the Lower Town, and out past the
    General Hospital to this Pointe aux Lièvres, which is famous also
    because somewhere near it, on the St. Charles, Jacques Cartier
    wintered in 1536, and kidnapped the Indian king Donnacona, whom he
    carried to France. And it was here Montcalm's forces tried to rally
    after their defeat by Wolfe. (Please read this several times to Uncle
    Jack, so that he can have it impressed upon him how faithful I am in
    my historical researches.)
    It makes me dreadfully angry and sad to think the French should have
    been robbed of Quebec, after what they did to build it. But it is
    still quite a French city in everything, even to sympathy with France
    in this Prussian war, which you would hardly think they would care
    about. Our landlady says the very boys in the street know about the
    battles, and explain, every time the French are beaten, how they were
    outnumbered and betrayed,--something the way we used to do in the
    first of our war.
    I suppose you will think I am crazy; but I do wish Uncle Jack would
    wind up his practice at Eriecreek, and sell the house, and come to
    live at Quebec. I have been asking prices of things, and I find that
    everything is very cheap, even according to the Eriecreek standard;
    we could get a beautiful house on the St. Louis Road for two hundred
    a year; beef is ten or twelve cents a pound, and everything else in
    proportion. Then besides that, the washing is sent out into the
    country to be done by the peasant-women, and there isn't a crumb of
    bread baked in the house, but it all comes from the bakers; and only
    think, girls, what a relief that would be! Do get Uncle Jack to
    consider it seriously.
    Since I began this letter the afternoon has worn away--the light from
    the sunset on the mountains would glorify our supper-table without
    extra charge, if we lived here--and the twilight has passed, and the
    moon has come up over the gables and dormer-windows of the convent,
    and looks into the garden so invitingly that I can't help joining
    her. So I will put my writing by till to-morrow. The going-to-bed
    bell has rung, and the red lights have vanished one by one from the
    windows, and the nuns are asleep, and another set of ghosts is
    playing in the garden with the copper-colored phantoms of the Indian
    children of long ago. What! not Madame de la Peltrie? Oh! how do they
    like those little fibs of yours up in heaven?
    Sunday afternoon.--As we were at the French cathedral last Sunday,
    we went to the English to-day; and I could easily have imagined
    myself in some church of Old England, hearing the royal family prayed
    for, and listening to the pretty poor sermon delivered with such an
    English brogue. The people, too, had such Englishy faces and such
    queer little eccentricities of dress; the young lady that sang
    contralto in the choir wore a scarf like a man's on her hat. The
    cathedral isn't much, architecturally, I suppose, but it affected me
    very solemnly, and I couldn't help feeling that it was as much a part
    of British power and grandeur as the citadel itself. Over the
    bishop's seat drooped the flag of a Crimean regiment, tattered by
    time and battles, which was hung up here with great ceremonies, in
    1860, when the Prince of Wales presented them with new colors; and up
    in the gallery was a kind of glorified pew for royal highnesses and
    governor-generals and so forth, to sit in when they are here. There
    are tablets and monumental busts about the walls; and one to the
    memory of the Duke of Lenox, the governor-general who died in the
    middle of the last century from the bite of a fox; which seemed an
    odd fate for a duke, and somehow made me very sorry for him.
    Fanny, of course, couldn't go to church with me, and Dick got out of
    it by lingering too late over the newspapers at the hotel, and so I
    trudged off with our Bostonian, who is still with us here. I didn't
    dwell much upon him in my last letter, and I don't believe now I can
    make him quite clear to you. He has been a good deal abroad, and he
    is Europeanized enough not to think much of America, though I can't
    find that he quite approves of Europe, and his experience seems not
    to have left him any particular country in either hemisphere.
    He isn't the Bostonian of Uncle Jack's imagination, and I suspect he
    wouldn't like to be. He is rather too young, still, to have much of
    an antislavery record, and even if he had lived soon enough, I think
    that he would not have been a John Brown man. I am afraid that he
    believes in "vulgar and meretricious distinctions" of all sorts, and
    that he hasn't an atom of "magnanimous democracy" in him. In fact, I
    find, to my great astonishment, that some ideas which I thought were
    held only in England, and which I had never seriously thought of,
    seem actually a part of Mr. Arbuton's nature or education. He talks
    about the lower classes, and tradesmen, and the best people, and good
    families, as I supposed nobody in this country ever did,--in
    earnest. To be sure, I have always been reading of characters who had
    such opinions, but I thought they were just put into novels to eke
    out somebody's unhappiness,--to keep the high-born daughter from
    marrying beneath her for love, and so on; or else to be made fun of
    in the person of some silly old woman or some odious snob; and I
    could hardly believe at first that our Bostonian was serious in
    talking in that way. Such things sound so differently in real life;
    and I laughed at them till I found that he didn't know what to make
    of my laughing, and then I took leave to differ with him in some of
    his notions; but he never disputes anything I say, and so makes it
    seem rude to differ with him. I always feel, though he begins it,
    as if I had thrust my opinions upon him. But in spite of his
    weaknesses and disagreeabilities, there is something really high
    about him; he is so scrupulously true, so exactly just, that Uncle
    Jack himself couldn't be more so; though you can see that he respects
    his virtues as the peculiar result of some extraordinary system. Here
    at Quebec, though he goes round patronizing the landscape and the
    antiquities, and coldly smiling at my little enthusiasms, there is
    really a great deal that ought to be at least improving in him. I get
    to paying him the same respect that he pays himself, and imbues his
    very clothes with, till everything he has on appears to look like him
    and respect itself accordingly. I have often wondered what his hat,
    his honored hat, for instance, would do, if I should throw it out of
    the front window. It would make an earthquake, I believe.
    He is politely curious about us; and from time to time, in a
    shrinking, disgusted way, he asks some leading question about
    Eriecreek, which he doesn't seem able to form any idea of, as much
    as I explain it. He clings to his original notion, that it is in the
    heart of the Oil Regions, of which he has seen pictures in the
    illustrated papers; and when I assert myself against his opinions, he
    treats me very gingerly, as if I were an explosive sprite, or an
    inflammable naiad from a torpedoed well, and it wouldn't be quite
    safe to oppose me, or I would disappear with a flash and a bang.
    When Dick isn't able to go with me on Fanny's account, Mr. Arbuton
    takes his place in the expeditionary corps; and we have visited a
    good many points of interest together, and now and then he talks very
    entertainingly about his travels. But I don't think they have made
    him very cosmopolitan. It seems as if he went about with a little
    imaginary standard, and was chiefly interested in things, to see
    whether they fitted it or not. Trifling matters annoy him; and when
    he finds sublimity mixed up with absurdity, it almost makes him
    angry. One of the oddest and oldest-looking buildings in Quebec is a
    little one-story house on St. Louis Street, to which poor General
    Montgomery was taken after he was shot; and it is a pastry-cook's
    now, and the tarts and cakes in the window vexed Mr. Arbuton so
    much--not that he seemed to care for Montgomery--that I didn't dare
    to laugh.
    I live very little in the nineteenth century at present, and do not
    care much for people who do. Still I have a few grains of affection
    left for Uncle Jack, which I want you to give him.
    I suppose it will take about six stamps to pay this letter. I forgot
    to say that Dick goes to be barbered every day at the "Montcalm
    Shaving and Shampooing Saloon," so called because they say Montcalm
    held his last council of war there. It is a queer little steep-roofed
    house, with a flowering bean up the front, and a bit of garden, full
    of snap-dragons, before it.
    We shall be here a week or so yet, at any rate, and then, I think, we
    shall go straight home, Dick has lost so much time already.
    With a great deal of love,
    Your Kitty.
VII.
LOVE'S YOUNG DREAM.
With the two young people whose days now lapsed away together, it could
not be said that Monday varied much from Tuesday, or ten o'clock from
half past three; they were not always certain what day of the week it
was, and sometimes they fancied that a thing which happened in the
morning had taken place yesterday afternoon.
But whatever it was, and however uncertain in time and character their
slight adventure was to themselves, Mrs. Ellison secured all possible
knowledge of it from Kitty. Since it was her misfortune that promoted
it, she considered herself a martyr to Kitty's acquaintance with Mr.
Arbuton, and believed that she had the best claim to any gossip that
could come of it. She lounged upon her sofa, and listened with a
patience superior to the maiden caprice with which her inquisition was
sometimes met; for if that delayed her satisfaction it also employed her
arts, and the final triumph of getting everything out of Kitty afforded
her a delicate self-flattery. But commonly the young girl was ready
enough to speak, for she was glad to have the light of a worldlier mind
and a greater experience than her own on Mr. Arbuton's character: if
Mrs. Ellison was not the wisest head, still talking him over was at
least a relief from thinking him over; and then, at the end of the ends,
when were ever two women averse to talk of a man?
She commonly sought Fanny's sofa when she returned from her rambles
through the city, and gave a sufficiently strict account of what had
happened. This was done light-heartedly and with touches of burlesque
and extravagance at first; but the reports grew presently to have a more
serious tone, and latterly Kitty had been so absent at times that she
would fall into a puzzled silence in the midst of her narration; or else
she would meet a long procession of skilfully marshalled questions with
a flippancy that no one but a martyr could have suffered. But Mrs.
Ellison bore all and would have borne much more in that cause. Battled
at one point, she turned to another, and the sum of her researches was
often a clearer perception of Kitty's state of mind than the young girl
herself possessed. For her, indeed, the whole affair was full of mystery
and misgiving.
"Our acquaintance has the charm of novelty every time we meet," she said
once, when pressed hard by Mrs. Ellison. "We are growing better
strangers, Mr. Arbuton and I. By and by, some morning, we shall not know
each other by sight. I can barely recognize him now, though I thought I
knew him pretty well once. I want you to understand that I speak as an
unbiassed spectator, Fanny."
"O Kitty! how can you accuse me of trying to pry into your affairs!"
cries injured Mrs. Ellison, and settles herself in a more comfortable
posture for listening.
"I don't accuse you of anything. I'm sure you've a right to know
everything about me. Only, I want you really to know."
"Yes, dear," says the matron, with hypocritical meekness.
"Well," resumes Kitty, "there are things that puzzle me more and more
about him,--things that used to amuse me at first, because I didn't
actually believe that they could be, and that I felt like defying
afterwards. But now I can't bear up against them. They frighten me, and
seem to deny me the right to be what I believe I am."
"I don't understand you, Kitty."
"Why, you've seen how it is with us at home, and how Uncle Jack has
brought us up. We never had a rule for anything except to do what was
right, and to be careful of the rights of others."
"Well."
"Well, Mr. Arbuton seems to have lived in a world where everything is
regulated by some rigid law that it would be death to break. Then, you
know, at home we are always talking about people, and discussing them;
but we always talk of each person for what he is in himself, and I
always thought a person could refine himself if he tried, and was
sincere, and not conceited. But he seems to judge people according to
their origin and locality and calling, and to believe that all
refinement must come from just such training and circumstances as his
own. Without exactly saying so, he puts everything else quite out of the
question. He doesn't appear to dream that there can be any different
opinion. He tramples upon all that I have been taught to believe; and
though I cling the closer to my idols, I can't help, now and then,
trying myself by his criterions; and then I find myself wanting in every
civilized trait, and my whole life coarse and poor, and all my
associations hopelessly degraded. I think his ideas are hard and narrow,
and I believe that even my little experience would prove them false; but
then, they are his, and I can't reconcile them with what I see is good
in him."
Kitty spoke with half-averted face where she sat beside one of the front
windows, looking absently out on the distant line of violet hills beyond
Charlesbourg, and now and then lifting her glove from her lap and
letting it drop again.
"Kitty," said Mrs. Ellison in reply to her difficulties, "you oughtn't
to sit against a light like that. It makes your profile quite black to
any one back in the room."
"O well, Fanny, I'm not black in reality."
"Yes, but a young lady ought always to think how she is looking. Suppose
some one was to come in."
"Dick's the only one likely to come in just now, and he wouldn't mind
it. But if you like it better, I'll come and sit by you," said Kitty,
and took her place beside the sofa.
Her hat was in her hand, her sack on her arm; the fatigue of a recent
walk gave her a soft pallor, and languor of face and attitude. Mrs.
Ellison admired her pretty looks with a generous regret that they should
be wasted on herself, and then asked, "Where were you this afternoon?"
"O, we went to the Hôtel Dieu, for one thing, and afterwards we looked
into the court-yard of the convent; and there another of his pleasant
little traits came out,--a way he has of always putting you in the wrong
even when it's a matter of no consequence any way, and there needn't be
any right or wrong about it. I remembered the place because Mrs. March,
you know, showed us a rose that one of the nuns in the hospital gave
her, and I tried to tell Mr. Arbuton about it, and he graciously took it
as if poor Mrs. March had made an advance towards his acquaintance. I do
wish you could see what a lovely place that court-yard is, Fanny. It's
so strange that such a thing should be right there, in the heart of this
crowded city; but there it was, with its peasant cottage on one side,
and its long, low barns on the other, and those wide-horned Canadian
cows munching at the racks of hay outside, and pigeons and chickens all
about among their feet--"
"Yes, yes; never mind all that, Kitty. You know I hate nature. Go on
about Mr. Arbuton," said Mrs. Ellison, who did not mean a sarcasm.
"It looked like a farmyard in a picture, far out in the country
somewhere," resumed Kitty; "and Mr. Arbuton did it the honor to say it
was just like Normandy."
"Kitty!"
"He did, indeed, Fanny; and the cows didn't go down on their knees out
of gratitude, either. Well, off on the right were the hospital buildings
climbing up, you know, with their stone walls and steep roofs, and
windows dropped about over them, like our convent here; and there was an
artist there, sketching it all; he had such a brown, pleasant face, with
a little black mustache and imperial, and such gay black eyes that
nobody could help falling in love with him; and he was talking in such a
free-and-easy way with the lazy workmen and women overlooking him. He
jotted down a little image of the Virgin in a niche on the wall, and one
of the people called out,--Mr. Arbuton was translating,--'Look there!
with one touch he's made our Blessed Lady.' 'O,' says the painter,
'that's nothing; with three touches I can make the entire Holy Family.'
And they all laughed; and that little joke, you know, won my heart,--I
don't hear many jokes from Mr. Arbuton;--and so I said what a blessed
life a painter's must be, for it would give you a right to be a vagrant,
and you could wander through the world, seeing everything that was
lovely and funny, and nobody could blame you; and I wondered everybody
who had the chance didn't learn to sketch. Mr. Arbuton took it
seriously, and said people had to have something more than the chance to
learn before they could sketch, and that most of them were an affliction
with their sketchbooks, and he had seen too much of the sad effects of
drawing from casts. And he put me in the wrong, as he always does. Don't
you see? I didn't want to learn drawing; I wanted to be a painter, and
go about sketching beautiful old convents, and sit on camp-stools on
pleasant afternoons, and joke with people. Of course, he couldn't
understand that. But I know the artist could. O Fanny, if it had only
been the painter whose arm I took that first day on the boat, instead of
Mr. Arbuton! But the worst of it is, he is making a hypocrite of me, and
a cowardly, unnatural girl. I wanted to go nearer and look at the
painter's sketch; but I was ashamed to say I'd never seen a real
artist's sketch before, and I'm getting to be ashamed, or to seem
ashamed, of a great many innocent things. He has a way of not seeming to
think it possible that any one he associates with can differ from him.
And I do differ from him. I differ from him as much as my whole past
life differs from his; I know I'm just the kind of production that he
disapproves of, and that I'm altogether irregular and unauthorized and
unjustifiable; and though it's funny to have him talking to me as if I
must have the sympathy of a rich girl with his ideas, it's provoking,
too, and it's very bad for me. Up to the present moment, Fanny, if you
want to know, that's the principal effect of Mr. Arbuton on me. I'm
being gradually snubbed and scared into treasons, stratagems, and
spoils."
Mrs. Ellison did not find all this so very grievous, for she was one of
those women who like a snub from the superior sex, if it does not
involve a slight to their beauty or their power of pleasing. But she
thought it best not to enter into the question, and merely said, "But
surely, Kitty, there are a great many things in Mr. Arbuton that you
must respect."
"Respect? O, yes, indeed! But respect isn't just the thing for one who
seems to consider himself sacred. Say revere, Fanny; say revere!"
Kitty had risen from her chair, but Mrs. Ellison waved her again to her
seat with an imploring gesture. "Don't go, Kitty; I'm not half done with
you yet. You must tell me something more. You've stirred me up so,
now. I know you don't always have such disagreeable times. You've often
come home quite happy. What do you generally find to talk about? Do tell
me some particulars for once."
"Why, little topics come up, you know. But sometimes we don't talk at
all, because I don't like to say what I think or feel, for fear I should
be thinking or feeling something vulgar. Mr. Arbuton is rather a blight
upon conversation in that way. He makes you doubtful whether there isn't
something a little common in breathing and the circulation of the blood,
and whether it wouldn't be true refinement to stop them."
"Stuff, Kitty! He's very cultivated, isn't he? Don't you talk about
books? He's read everything, I suppose."
"O yes, he's read enough."
"What do you mean?"
"Nothing. Only sometimes it seems to me as if he hadn't read because he
loved it, but because he thought it due to himself. But maybe I'm
mistaken. I could imagine a delicate poem shutting up half its sweetness
from his cold, cold scrutiny,--if you will excuse the floweriness of the
idea."
"Why, Kitty! don't you think he's refined? I'm sure, I think he's a
very refined person."
"He's a very elaborated person. But I don't think it would make much
difference to him what our opinion of him was. His own good opinion
would be quite enough."
"Is he--is he--always agreeable?"
"I thought we were discussing his mind, Fanny. I don't know that I feel
like enlarging upon his manners," said Kitty, slyly.
"But surely, Kitty," said the matron, with an air of argument, "there's
some connection between his mind and his manners."
"Yes, I suppose so. I don't think there's much between his heart and his
manners. They seem to have been put on him instead of having come out of
him. He's very well trained, and nine times out of ten he's so
exquisitely polite that it's wonderful; but the tenth time he may say
something so rude that you can't believe it."
"Then you like him nine times out of ten."
"I didn't say that. But for the tenth time, it's certain, his training
doesn't hold out, and he seems to have nothing natural to fall back
upon. But you can believe that, if he knew he'd been disagreeable, he'd
be sorry for it."
"Why, then, Kitty, how can you say that there's no connection between
his heart and manners? This very thing proves that they come from his
heart. Don't be illogical, Kitty," said Mrs. Ellison, and her nerves
added, sotto voce, "if you are so abominably provoking!"
"O," responded the young girl, with the kind of laugh that meant it was,
after all, not such a laughing matter, "I didn't say he'd be sorry for
you! Perhaps he would; but he'd be certain to be sorry for himself.
It's with his politeness as it is with his reading; he seems to consider
it something that's due to himself as a gentleman to treat people well;
and it isn't in the least as if he cared for them. He wouldn't like to
fail in such a point."
"But, Kitty, isn't that to his credit?"
"Maybe. I don't say. If I knew more about the world, perhaps I should
admire it. But now, you see,"--and here Kitty's laugh grew more natural,
and she gave a subtle caricature of Mr. Arbuton's air and tone as she
spoke,--"I can't help feeling that it's a little--vulgar."
Mrs. Ellison could not quite make out how much Kitty really meant of
what she had said. She gasped once or twice for argument; then she sat
up, and beat the sofa-pillows vengefully in composing herself anew, and
finally, "Well, Kitty, I'm sure I don't know what to make of it all,"
she said with a sigh.
"Why, we're not obliged to make anything of it, Fanny, there's that
comfort," replied Kitty; and then there was a silence, while she brooded
