"What are you crying for, Granny?" she asked as she followed her into
the kitchen. "How ridiculous! Why, it is just as if I were going away
upon a visit; and you wouldn't be sorry then."
"It isn't because I'm sorry;--but--none of you have ever been away
afore"--
Florence knitted her brows. How foolish to make such a fuss!
"There are so many of us, that we're like bees in a hive. You ought to
be glad to have me go. And I dare say I shall ride over some day"--
"To be sure. But every one is missed."
Florence kissed the children all round, and was much mortified at the
bundle tied up in a newspaper.
"If I get any money, I mean to buy a travelling-bag," she commented
internally.
"Tate me too," exclaimed Dot, clinging to Florence's dress: luckily her
hands were clean.
"Oh! you can't go, Dotty: Charlie will show you the beautiful chickens."
Dot set up a fearful cry, and wriggled herself out of Charlie's arms,
and Granny took her. Florence hurried through her good-bys, and was
glad to leave the confusion behind.
Granny indulged in a little cry afterward, and then went to her
ironing. Of course they must all flit from the old hive some time.
She could hardly persuade herself that Florence was fifteen,--almost a
young lady.
Joe and Hal wanted to hear all the particulars that evening. Charlie
dilated grandly on the magnificence of the ladies.
"It's real odd," said Joe. "Flossy always wanted to be a lady; and
maybe this is a step towards it. I wonder if I shall ever get to sea!"
"Oh, don't!" exclaimed Granny in a pitiful voice.
When Mrs. Green heard the news, she had to come over.
"I don't suppose they'd ever thought on't, if it hadn't been for me,"
she exclaimed. "They stopped to my house while their wagon was bein'
mended, and the sickly lookin' one seemed to be terribly interested in
your folks; so, thinks I, if I can do a good turn for a neighbor it's
all right; and I spoke a word, now and then, for Florence,--though it's
a pity her name hadn't been Mary Jane. I never did approve of such
romantic names for children. And I hope Florence will be a good girl,
and suit; for the Lord knows that you have your hands full!"
Charlie ran wild, as usual, through vacation. In one of her long
rambles in the woods she found a hollow tree with a rock beside it,
and her fertile imagination at once suggested a cave. She worked very
industriously to get it in order; brought a great pile of leaves for
a bed, and armsful of brush to cook with, and then besought Kit to run
away and live in the woods.
Kit tried it for one day. They had some apples and berries, and a
piece of bread taken from the pantry when Granny wasn't around. They
undertook to fish, but could not catch any thing; though Charlie was
quite sure, that, if Joe would lend her his pistol, she could shoot a
bird.
"Anyhow, we'll have a fire, and roast our apples," said Charlie,
undaunted.
"But it's awful lonesome, I think. S'pose we don't stay all night:
Granny'll be worried."
"Pooh!" returned Charlie with supreme disdain.
So she lighted her fire. The twigs crackled and blazed, and the flame
ran along on the ground.
"Isn't it splendid!" she exclaimed, "Why, it's almost like fireworks!
Oh, see, Kit! that dead tree has caught. We'll have a gay old time now."
Alas! Charlie's "gay old time" came to an ignoble end. Some one rushed
through the woods shouting,--
"Hillo! What the mischief are you at? Don't you know any better than to
be setting the woods on fire?"
It was Mr. Trumbull, looking angry enough. He bent the burning tree
over, and stamped out the blaze; then poked the fire apart, and crushed
the burning fragments into the soft ground. A dense smoke filled the
little nook.
"Whose work is this? You youngsters deserve a good thrashing, and I've
half a mind to take your hide off."
With that he caught Kit by the arm.
"He didn't do it," spoke up courageous Charlie. "He never brought a
leaf nor a stick; and you sha'n't thrash him!"
"What's he here for, then?"
"I brought him."
"And did you kindle the fire?"
"Yes," said Charlie, hanging her head a little.
"What for? Didn't you know that you might burn the woods down, in such
a dry time? Why, I could shut you up in jail for it."
That frightened Charlie a good deal.
"I didn't mean to--do any harm: we thought--we'd have a little
fun"--came out Charlie's answer by jerks.
"Fine fun! Why, you're Granny Kenneth's youngsters! I guess I'll have
to march you off to jail."
"Oh, let Kit go home!" cried Charlie with a great lump in her throat.
"It wasn't his fault. He didn't even want to come."
Something in the child's air and frankness touched Mr. Trumbull's
heart, and caused him to smile. He had a houseful of children at home,
every one of whom possessed a wonderful faculty for mischief; but this
little girl's bravery disarmed his anger.
"I want to explain to you that a fire like this might burn down a
handsome piece of woodlands worth thousands of dollars. All these large
trees are sent to the sawmill, and made into boards and shingles and
various things. So it would be a great loss."
"I'm very sorry," returned Charlie. "I didn't know it would do any
harm."
"If I don't take you to jail this time, will you promise never to do it
again?"
Charlie shivered a little at her narrow escape.
"I surely wouldn't," she said very soberly.
By this time Mr. Trumbull had the fire pretty well out.
"Well, don't ever let me catch you at it again, or you will not get off
so easily. Now trot home as fast as you can."
Charlie paused a moment, tugging at the cape of her sun-bonnet.
"I'm glad you told me about burning up the woods," she said. "I didn't
think of that."
Mr. Trumbull laughed pleasantly.
So the two walked homeward, Charlie in a more serious frame of mind
than usual.
"I tell you, Kit," she began at length, "out West is the place to have
a cave, and fires, and all that Hal had a book about it. Sometimes
children are kidnapped by Indians, and live in their tents, and learn
how to make bead-bags and moccasins"--
"I don't want to go;" and Kit gave his slender shoulders a shrug. "They
scalp you too."
"But they wouldn't me. I should marry one of the chiefs." Then, after a
rather reflective pause, "I'm glad we didn't burn down Mr. Trumbull's
woods: only I guess he wasn't in earnest when he said he would put me
in jail."
But for all that she begged Kit not to relate their adventure to
Granny, and perplexed her youthful brain for a more feasible method of
running away.
The house seemed very odd without Florence. The children's small errors
passed unrebuked; and they revelled in dirt to their utmost content.
For what with working out a day now and then, getting meals, patching
old clothes, and sundry odd jobs, Granny had her poor old hands quite
full. But she never complained.
CHAPTER X.
  WHICH SHOULD SHE CHOOSE?
The reality at Seabury far exceeded Florence Kenneth's expectations.
The hotel was really finer than that at Salem. And then, instead
of being maid, she found here a woman who waited upon Mrs. Osgood,
arranged her hair, kept her dresses in order, and did the small
errands. What was she to do, then?
Not very much, it seemed. She read aloud, and Florence was an
undeniably good reader; she embroidered a little, went every day for a
ride, and absolutely sat in the parlor. It was rather embarrassing at
first.
"I have decided," Mrs. Osgood said to her sister, a few days afterward.
"The child has a very sweet temper, and a most affectionate nature;
and then she is so lovely. A perfect blonde beauty! In two years she
will be able to enter society. Mrs. Deering declared yesterday that her
voice was remarkable."
"I hope you will not spoil her completely. She has a good share of
vanity, I perceive."
"It is only proper pride: the child is well-born. I know her mother
must have been a lady, and Kenneth is not a common name."
"I am sure I hope your protégée will prove a comfort."
Then Mrs. Osgood announced her plans to Florence, who was literally
overwhelmed. To be adopted by so rich a lady, to have an elegant home,
and become skilled in all accomplishments--was it not a dream,--her
wild, improbable dream?
To Florence Mrs. Osgood was an angel. True, she had seen her rather
pettish, and sometimes she scolded Martha, and gave way to hysterical
spasms; but these were minor faults. She drew the child to her with the
sweet and not-forgotten arts of her faded girlhood, and was pleased
with the sincere homage that had in it so much of wonder. Florence
would love her like a daughter.
"I cannot promise to leave you a fortune," she said, "but while I live
you shall have every thing. I was treated very unjustly by Mr. Osgood's
will; though I know he was influenced by his relatives, who grudge me
every penny. They would be very glad to have some of their children
live at Roselawn: I christened the place myself on account of the
roses."
"How beautiful it must be!" exclaimed Florence, enchanted.
"It is a handsome place. You would have a governess, and be taught
music and French and drawing, and be introduced everywhere as my
daughter. If I had one, I fancy she would look something like you, for
I was called very pretty in my younger days;" and Mrs. Osgood sighed.
"I can never be grateful enough," said Florence.
"I shall want you to love me a great deal,--just as if I were your own
mother. And when you are grown you must make me your confidant. You
will marry brilliantly, of course; but you must promise that it will
not be without my consent."
"I shall never want to leave you!" declared Florence impulsively,
kissing the thin hands.
"It will be such a luxury to have your affection. My life has always
been so lonely. Very few people can understand my sensitive nature, but
I trust you will be able to."
There was some other points not so congenial. When they came to these,
Florence's heart shrank a little.
For, if she chose Mrs. Osgood, the group at home must drop out of her
life completely. There could be no visiting, no corresponding.
Poor Florence! This was a cloud upon her bright visions.
"I shall write to your grandmother occasionally to let her know that
you are well; but, as my daughter, you will be in such an entirely
different sphere, that the slightest intimacy would be unwise."
What should she do? Would Granny think her cruel and ungrateful?
Mrs. Osgood proposed to take her back to Madison to spend a few days in
which to decide. As for her, it hardly appeared possible to her that
the child could hesitate. And now that she had enjoyed this little
taste of luxury, poverty would seem all the more repulsive.
They drove over one morning. Luckily, Granny was in very tolerable
order; but, oh the difference! She was so glad to see Florence, that
she kissed and cried over her a little.
"I want to have a talk with your grandmother," Mrs. Osgood said; and
Florence betook herself to the kitchen. How dreadfully poor and mean
every thing looked!
Mrs. Osgood went straight about the business in hand. She described
her offer in the most glowing terms, and held out all its advantages.
It would relieve Mrs. Kenneth from much care and anxiety, give her one
less to struggle for; and then Florence would have the position for
which Nature had fitted her. Not one thing was forgotten.
Granny listened like one in a dream. Flossy to be a rich lady's
daughter,--to ride in a carriage, to have a piano, and be dressed in
silk! Could it be true?
"But oh! I can't give her up," moaned Granny. "She was poor Joe's
first-born, and such a sweet, pretty baby! There never was one on 'em
that I could spare."
"I wish you would take counsel with some friend. I think this
opportunity for Florence is too good to be thrown away."
"I don't know, I'm sure. You are very kind and generous. But to part
with my poor darling."
The lady rose at length.
"I shall leave Florence here for three days," she said. "In the mean
while consider the subject well, and do not stand in the way of the
child's welfare."
Florence was very sorry to part with Mrs. Osgood. She walked out to the
gate, and lingered there, clinging to the slender hand, and at last
being kissed tenderly.
"Think earnestly of my proposal. On Saturday I shall come for my
answer," said Mrs. Osgood.
The lady had not much fear. She knew that money was all-potent in this
world; and it was quite absurd to suppose that a pretty girl would
prefer toil and poverty in this hovel, to luxury and ease with handsome
surroundings.
"Oh dear!" and Granny's arms were around Flossy's neck. "I can't let
you go away forever. And I am sure you don't want to," scanning the
fair face with her fond and eager eyes.
"Granny, I don't know what to say. I should so like to have an
education, and to be--oh! don't cry so. If every one thinks I ought not
to go,"--and Flossy's lip quivered.
"I am a foolish old body," sobbed Granny. "I'm not worth minding, my
dear."
"Fossy tum home. What 'ou ky?" said Dot, tugging at Granny's dress.
"If we could see you once in a while."
Florence felt the last to be an impossibility. She had a keen
perception of the difference in station, and the nameless something
that Granny could not be brought to see.
"You would hear about me," she said softly.
Granny went back to her ironing. Florence offered to help, and arranged
her own light table. But it was uncomfortable this hot summer day, and
her tender hand felt as if it was blistered. She consoled herself by
relating the experiences of the past month, and inwardly sighing for
the luxurious life. Granny was not so stupid but that she could see the
direction of the child's desires.
"I don't wonder that you liked it; and she couldn't help loving you,
even if I do say it. Why, a queen might be proud of you! If we knew
some one to ask."
"There is Mr. Howard," Florence suggested.
"Sure enough. He would see all sides of it. We'll go over after the
work is done;" and Granny tried to smile a little lightness into her
sad face.
Charlie had gone to pull weeds for a neighbor, Hal was out also, so
there was only Kit to dinner. After that was out of the way, and Dot
had her nap, they made themselves ready for their call.
Florence tried her best to make a lady out of Granny. A queer little
old woman she was, and would be to the end of the chapter. Her bonnet
was dreadfully old-fashioned, and her gingham dress too short for
modern requirements. Her wrinkled hands were as brown as berries, and
she never would wear gloves in the summer. Then, after she was all
ready, she surreptitiously tied on her black alpaca apron; at which
Flossy gave a sigh of despair.
The parsonage was a pretty little nest, half-covered with vines, and
shaded by a great sycamore. Dolly and Fred Howard were playing on the
grass, and Dot started for the small group instantly.
"O Mrs. Kenneth! how do you do? What a stranger you are! And here is
Florence, fresh as a rose! I heard that you had run away, my child.
Come and sit in the shade here: it is cooler than within doors. Mary,
here are some visitors."
Mrs. Howard gave them a cordial welcome, and insisted that Granny
should lay aside her bonnet. She inquired if Florence had enjoyed her
month at Seabury, and if she was not glad to get back again.
Granny twisted her apron-strings, and glanced at the young girl
uneasily. Of course she must begin somehow, but there was a great
sinking at her heart.
"Flossy's had a chance," she began; and then the strings were untied.
"We thought we'd come and ask a little advice. It's hard tellin' what's
for the best;" and Granny looked as if she might break down into a cry.
"A chance for an education?" asked Mrs. Howard.
"No: it's--to go for good. Flossy, you tell. I am not much of a hand at
getting things straight," murmured Granny.
Florence told the story in a very ladylike fashion, giving it the air
of a romance.
"Why, Florence, that is quite an adventure. And she wants to adopt
you?" Mrs. Howard exclaimed, much interested.
"Do you know any thing about this Mrs. Osgood?" asked Mr. Howard.
Florence used her limited knowledge to its fullest extent.
"Oh! I believe I know something about Mrs. Duncan. Dr. Carew was
attending the boy. I have heard him speak of them all. Isn't Mrs.
Osgood something of an invalid,--rather full of whims?"
"She is not very strong," Florence admitted.
"But it is a remarkable offer," rejoined Mrs. Howard. "And to have one
of the family so well provided for, seems like an especial providence."
"But to have her go away," said Granny. "To give her up, and never see
her again!"
"That does seem unkind. Perhaps it would not be quite as bad as that."
Mr. Howard studied Florence attentively for a few moments. He had
always considered her rather above her station.
"It certainly is a generous proposal, granting every thing to be as
represented. Florence will receive a superior education, and be raised
above the care and drudgery of life. Yet she may have to devote many
of her best years to Mrs. Osgood; and ministering to an invalid is
wearisome work. It is taking her entirely away from her family, to be
sure; but, putting aside love, she might never be able to help along
much. Women are not extravagantly remunerated; and, if she went away to
teach school, she could not do much more than take care of herself. And
there would be a partial separation."
Florence gave Mr. Howard a look of relief and thankfulness.
"I don't want to keep her from doing whatever will be best," said
Granny tremulously.
"There are Joe and Hal to help along,--smart boys both. And though
your strong and tender arms have kept the little flock together these
many years, they will wear out by and by. And, if any accident befell
you, it would be well to have some of them provided for. The important
question seems to be whether what Florence can do at home will
compensate for what she must relinquish. The entire separation appears
to me rather unjust. You said that Mrs. Osgood proposed that you should
take counsel of some one: suppose I should go to Seabury, and talk the
matter over with her?"
"Oh, if you would!" said Florence beseechingly. She felt that Mr.
Howard was on her side, though she did not quite understand why.
"Yes," rejoined Granny, catching at a straw. "You could tell her how it
is,--poor Joe's children, every one on 'em so precious to me. I never
had much learnin'; but I love 'em for father and mother both, and I
can't bear to think of their going away. Ah, well! it's a world full of
trouble, though they've always been good to me, poor dears."
Mrs. Howard turned away her face to hide her tears, and presently left
them to get a slice of nice fresh cake and a glass of milk for her
guests. Her heart really ached for Granny.
So it was settled that Mr. Howard would go over to Seabury, and learn
all the particulars of the offer. Granny was very thankful indeed. Soon
after, they picked up Dot, and started homeward.
"You rather approve of it," Mrs. Howard said to her husband, watching
the retreating figures, and smiling at Dot, who pulled at every wayside
daisy-head.
"Florence has her heart set upon it, that is plain to see."
"And yet it seems ungrateful in her."
"It would be nobler for her to stay with Granny, and help rear the
others. Yet that is more than one can reasonably expect of pretty young
girlhood."
"She is industrious, and has many excellent points but she is a good
deal ashamed of the poverty."
"I wonder whether she would be any real assistance? She has a good deal
of vanity, and love of dress; and no doubt she would spend most of her
money upon herself. Then, in some mood of dissatisfaction, she might
marry unwisely, and perhaps be more trouble than comfort to Granny. If
Mrs. Osgood is in earnest, Florence would at least receive an education
that might fit her for a nice position in case Mrs. Osgood tired of
her."
"And the life at home is not a great delight to her," said Mr. Howard
with a smile. "But whether I would like to give up my brothers and
sisters"--
"Florence is peculiar. Ten years from this time she may love them
better than she does now."
There was a noisy time in the "Old Shoe" that night. They were all
so glad to have Flossy back again. Kit played on imaginary fiddles;
Charlie climbed on her chair, and once came tumbling over into her lap;
Hal watched her with delight, and thought her prettier than ever; Joe
whistled and sang, and told her all that had occurred in the store,
pointing his stories with an occasional somerset, or standing on his
head to Dot's great satisfaction.
"Well, that is really margaret-nificent," declared Joe, flourishing
Granny's old apron on the broomstick. "Flossy, you are in luck! It is
all due to your winning ways and curly hair."
"If I go"--with a sad little sigh.
"Go? why, of course you will! She'd be a great goose; would she not,
Granny?
    'Washing and ironing I daily have to do;
    Baking and brewing I must remember too;
    Three small children to maintain:
    Oh, how I wish I was single again!'"
sang Joe with irresistible drollery.
Granny laughed; but she winked her eyes hard, and something suspicious
shone in them.
"It would be splendid, and no mistake! To think of having a piano, and
learning French, and riding in a carriage--'A coach and four and a gold
galore!' And then pretty Peggy we should"--
Joe made a great pause, for something stuck in his throat.
"But couldn't we ever see you?" asked Charlie.
An awesome silence fell over the little group.
"If you could come and see us once in a while," said Hal softly. "We
would not so much mind not going there"--
"I'd run away and visit her," announced daring Charlie. "I'd hide about
in the woods until I saw her some day, and then"--
"They'd set the dog on you."
"Hum! As if I was afraid of a dog, Joe Kenneth! I'd snap my fingers in
his face, and ask him what he had for breakfast. Then I'd come back
home and tell you all about it."
"The breakfast, or the dog?"
"Joseph, I am afraid you are getting in your dotage," said Charlie with
a shake of the head. "But, if I started to, I know I'd find Florence."
"It is rather cruel," said Joe sturdily. "I don't see why she should
want to take you entirely away from us."
"We cannot look at it just as the lady does," said Hal's mild voice. "I
suppose she thinks, if she does so much for Flossy, that she ought to
have a good deal of love in return."
"She is ashamed of us because we are poor. But maybe if we managed to
get along, and grow up nicely--she wouldn't feel so--so particular
about it."
"I don't believe she would," exclaimed Florence. "You see, people
are so different; and--I'm sure I've always wanted you to have nice
manners."
"So you have, Flossy," declared Joe. "And you were meant for a lady."
Hal and Granny sat on the doorstep after the rest had gone to bed,
crying a little, and yet finding some comfort.
"It would be so nice for Florence!" Hal said in his pleading tone.
"She would always have to work here, and not learn music and all those
lovely things. And she has such a beautiful voice, you know, and such
pretty hands, and nice, dainty ways"--
"But never to see her again!" groaned Granny.
"I think we shall see her,--some time. Perhaps Mrs. Osgood might die:
she is not very well, and Flossy might come back to us. Oh, yes,
Granny, I do believe we shall see her again!"
"I've loved you all so much!"
"And we should always love you, even if we went to Japan. Then, if
Flossy should have to work hard, and be unhappy, we might be sorry that
we kept her out of any thing so nice."
"I do believe you are right, Hal; only it's so hard to think of not
seeing her again."
"I'll try to make it up, dear. You will always have me."
The soft young lips kissed those that quivered so piteously, and
smoothed the wet, wrinkled cheek.
"We'll pray about it, Granny. Somehow it seems as if God made these
things plain after a while; and it is in his hands. He hears the ravens
cry, poor, hungry little birdies; and he must care for us. He will
watch over Florence."
"O Hal, you talk like a minister! Maybe you will be one some day. And
it is so sweet to have you, dear boy!"
"I shall never be half good enough," he said solemnly.
He crept up to his room, but laid awake a long while, watching the
stars, and thinking.
Florence resolved the next day that she would not go, and braced
herself to martyr-like endurance. But oh, how mean and poor every thing
appeared by contrast! Charlie in rags,--you never could keep Charlie
in whole clothes; Dot playing in the dirt, for, though you washed
her twenty times an hour, she would not stay clean; the shabby, old
fashioned, tumble-down cottage,--no, Mrs. Osgood never would want any
of these wild Arabs visiting her.
So she shed many quiet tears. Perhaps it would be best to make the
sacrifice, hard as it was.
Granny saw it all. Her old eyes were not blind, and her heart smote her
for something akin to selfishness. Poor, aching heart.
"Flossy," she said, over her heart-break, "if Mr. Howard is satisfied,
I think you had better go."
"I have about decided to give it up. Perhaps it is my duty to stay."
Granny scanned the face eagerly, but found there no cheerful and sweet
self-denial.
"I've been thinking it over"--her voice broken and quavering. "Perhaps
it will be best. Though I don't like to part with you, for your poor
father"--and Granny's inconsequent speech ended in tears.
"I'll stay home then, and do what I can; only it seems as if there
were so many of us,--and the place so little, and I can't help being
different, and liking music and education, and a nice orderly house"--
"No, you can't help it. Poor Joe--your father I mean--liked 'em all
too. I've sometimes thought that maybe, if he'd gone away, he might
have been a gentleman. He'd a master voice to sing. And God will watch
over you there, and not let you come to harm. Oh, dear!"
Granny covered her face with her apron, and cried softly.
Mr. Howard called that evening. He had been quite favorably impressed
with Mrs. Osgood's proposal.
"Her connections are all reputable people," he said; "and I think
she means to treat Florence like a daughter. She can give her many
advantages, and she is strongly attached to her already. But she is
exclusive and aristocratic. She wants Florence all to herself. Still,
she has made one concession: she will allow her to write home once a
year."
"And then I could tell you every thing!" exclaimed Florence overjoyed.
"But she is resolved not to permit any visiting. To be sure, time may
soften this condition; yet, if Florence goes, she ought to abide by her
promise."
"Yes," answered the child meekly.
"It does seem a remarkable opportunity. I do not know as it would be
wise to refuse."
Ah, if one could know what was for the best! The days flew by
so rapidly, there was so much talking, but never any coming to a
conclusion. Joe was loudly on Florence's side. So was Hal, for
that matter; but from more thoughtful motives. And Granny was too
conscientious to stand in the way of the child's advancement, much as
she loved her, and longed to keep her.
Then, on Friday evening they sat on the old stone doorstep, a sad
group, going over the subject in low, sad tones, the pain of parting
already in their voices. Granny's vehemence had subsided. Hal had
Florence's soft hand in his, Kit's head was in her lap, and Charlie sat
at her feet.
Should she go? When all the mists and glamor of desire cleared away,
as they did now in the calm star-light, with God watching up above,
she felt that it would be nobler and truer to remain with them, and
share the poverty and the trials. For to have them ill, dying perhaps,
without looking upon their dear faces, with no last words or last
kisses to remember, was more than she could bear. Would it not seem
selfish to go off to luxury and indolence, when they must struggle on
with toil and care and poverty?
"Oh!" she exclaimed, going to Granny's arms, with a sob. "I believe
I cannot leave you when it comes to absolute parting. We have been
happy, in spite of the troubles and wants. I should miss you all so
much! And, if I could get to be a teacher, I might help a little."
Granny held her to her heart, and kissed the wet face again and again.
"My dear darling, God bless you!" she said brokenly.
Flossy thought herself a very heroic girl. There was a great lump
in her throat, and she could not utter another word. It was a born
princess turning her back on the palace.
Hal and Joe eyed each other inquisitively. It was the noblest thing she
could do, but would it be the wisest?
CHAPTER XI.
  OUT OF THE OLD HOME-NEST.
But then it all looked so different by daylight! The old rickety house,
the noisy children, the general shabbiness, and the life of hard work
and dissatisfaction, stretching out interminably. For, to the eyes
of fifteen, it seems a long way to fifty; and roses are so much more
tempting than thorns!
Hal found her out in the garden crying.
"Dear Flossy," he began tenderly, "I think you had better go, after
all. When the parting is over, Granny will be reconciled, and
understand that it is for the best."
"But I ought to stay at home and help," she sobbed. "If I could do
both"--
"That is not possible;" and Hal tried to smile away the tears in his
eyes.
"It looks so--so foolish not to be able to make up one's mind."
"It is a hard case, and there is so much on Mrs. Osgood's side."
"Hal, what would you do?" and Florence glanced up earnestly.
"My darling, I think you want to go, and that you would always be
unhappy and regretful if you staid. We can't help all our feelings and
wants and tastes; and it seems as if you were born for a lady. That is
natural too."
"But I do love you all, and dear Granny"--
"We shall never doubt that," he answered re-assuringly. "We shall often
sit on the old doorstep, and talk about you, and try to imagine you in
the beautiful house, with the pictures and the piano, and all the nice
things you will be learning. It will be just lovely for us too. Then
you can write every summer."
"And perhaps I shall come back when I am a woman!"
At this Florence brightened wonderfully, but after a moment said, "You
don't think it very selfish, Hal?"
"My dear, no," replied brave little Hal. "I am sure it would be a great
trial for me to give up any thing so splendid."
"If you would only tell Granny--again."
Hal nodded; for he couldn't say any more just then.
Granny wiped the tears out of her old eyes with the corner of her
checked apron, and trod upon the cat, stretched out upon the floor, who
added her pathetic howl to the fund of general sorrow.
So it came to pass, when Mrs. Osgood made her appearance, Florence was
quite elegant and composed. The lady was very, very gracious. She
expatiated on the great advantage this step would be to Florence, the
pleasure to her, and the relief to Granny to know that one of her
flock was provided for. Of course, she understood it was hard to part
with her; but they had so many left, that in a little while they would
hardly miss her. Then they would hear about her, and no doubt come to
rejoice in her good fortune.
Indeed, by the time Mr. Howard arrived, she had talked them into quite
a reasonable frame of mind. She promised to treat her like a daughter,
educate her handsomely; so that, in case of her death, Florence would
be able to take care of herself. If, at the end of the first year,
she should feel unwilling to remain, Mrs. Osgood would not oppose her
return.
Granny was calm, but very grave, while these preliminaries were being
discussed. Hal kept swallowing over great sobs that wrenched his heart
at every breath. The agreement was concluded and signed.
"Now, my dear, put on your hat," said Mrs. Osgood in her sweetest tone.
"Brief partings are the kindest; are they not, Mr. Howard? I am much
obliged for your assistance in this matter; and you must permit me to
offer you a small donation for your pretty little church."
Granny's tears streamed afresh; but Hal managed her with delicate
tenderness. Florence kissed them all many times. Dot wanted to go in
the "boofer wagon;" while Kit and Charlie looked on, with tearful,
wondering eyes, not half understanding the importance of the step.
Then--she was driving away. One last, long look. Was that the waving of
her pretty white hand? Their eyes were too dim to see.
"It seems to me that she will come back to the old house some time,"
said Hal, breaking the sad silence.
Granny turned away, and shut herself in the best room. For a long while
they heard nothing of her. But God was listening to the heart-broken
prayer, which he answered in his own time and his own way.
"So Flossy's gone!" exclaimed Joe soberly that night. "I can't make it
seem a bit real. Air-castles don't generally turn into the substantial.
After the king's ball I guess she will come home in glass slippers, and
we will have her giving us loads of good advice. It is so sure to be
true, Granny, that we can afford to take a little comfort meanwhile."
Granny did not laugh as usual. Kit chewed his thumb vigorously, and saw
piles of violins in the distance.
But they confessed to being very lonesome on Sunday. Charlie declined
wearing Flossy's second-best hat; for she insisted that she "felt it in
her bones" that Florence would return, which Joe declared was incipient
rheumatism, and that she must take a steam-bath over the spout of the
tea-kettle. Yet secretly in his heart he had greater faith in the
mythical sea-captain who was to take him off with flying colors.
About a month afterwards they received a letter from Mrs. Osgood. Joe
displayed the handsome monogram in great triumph, and begged Mr. Terry
to let him run home with it at noon. They all crowded round him with
eager eyes.
"It's Granny's letter," he said, handing it to her.
"Read it, Hal," she rejoined tremulously.
Mrs. Osgood gave a delightful account of Florence; declaring that she
already loved her as a mother, and, the homesickness being over, she
was studying industriously. There was no doubt but that she would make
a very fine musician; and it was extremely fortunate that such talent
could be rescued in time to make the most of it. Then Florence added
a few words, to say that she was very happy, and that it seemed like
fairy-land, every thing was so beautiful. She enclosed a gift for them
all, and said good-by until next year.
They felt then how surely they were divided; yet they all rejoiced in
Flossy's good fortune. Mr. and Mrs. Howard were very kind; but I think
Hal's tender love did more towards comforting Granny than all the rest.
She kept telling herself that it was foolish to grieve; yet there was
a dumb ache way down in the poor old heart, an empty corner where one
birdling had flown out of the home-nest.
The affair had created quite an excitement in Madison. Joe pictured
it in the most gorgeous style, and made Mrs. Osgood an actual fairy
godmother. Mrs. Van Wyck, who still held a little grudge against her,
insisted that it was not half as grand as the Kenneths represented it.
"Now, Mr. Howard," she said at one of the parsonage gatherings, "is it
really true? Did this woman adopt that flyaway Kenneth girl, or only
take her as a sort of servant? And is she so very rich?"
"Mrs. Osgood is a lady of means and position, and is connected with
some of the most reliable people in New York. She has legally adopted
Florence, and I was a witness to the agreement. It certainly was a
rather remarkable event."
"Well, she's nothing but a bunch of vanity, anyhow. She'll make one of
the high-flyers, without a grain of sense, and I dare say elope with
the coachman. I wish the woman joy of her bargain;" and Mrs. Van Wyck
set her cap-streamers in violent motion.
Autumn came on apace. Poor Granny was grievously perplexed when she
entered the clothing-campaign. Florence's fertile brain and handy
fingers were sorely missed. Granny did her best; but the tasty touches
the child was wont to add, that transformed the commonest garb into
certain prettiness, were lacking now. Still, Charlie thought it a
godsend to have so many clothes all at once, having fallen heir to
Flossy's discarded heritage.
"Granny!" exclaimed Hal, rushing in breathless one afternoon, "Mr.
Kinsey says he will take all my chickens to market! Isn't that
splendid? He is going on Friday, and again next Tuesday; and he showed
me how to make a crate to pack them in. Now is the very time, he says."
"But we'll have to kill 'em, Hal!" exclaimed Granny aghast.
"To be sure: that's the hard part of it, isn't it;" and Hal looked
sober.
"They seem a'most like human beings. They patter round after Dot, and
talk to her in their queer fashion, and eat out of her hand. But, then,
we couldn't keep them all through the winter."
"We shall save the pets. There are some that I could not spare. But you
must not grow chicken-hearted, Granny;" and he laughed softly at her.
"Deary me! Somehow I can't bear to part with any thing any more. What a
foolish old cretur!"
"The dearest old creature in the world!" and Hal kissed her. "I wouldn't
have you changed a mite, except, that, when you were almost a hundred,
I'd like to set you back so that we could keep you always."
"I sha'n't be worth it, Hal;" and she shook her head.
"I shall have to stay home from school on Tuesday. I am quite anxious
to know what our fortune will be, and whether it has paid."
For Hal had gone back to school, as there seemed no business opening
for him. Mr. Terry had raised Joe's wages; and, one way and another,
they managed to get along quite comfortably. Hal tried to make up for
the absence of Florence, and comforted Granny in many tender, girlish
ways. He would pull her cap straight, and find her glasses and her
thimble, two things that were forever going astray. Then he borrowed
books from one and another to read aloud evenings; and, though Granny
sat in the chimney-corner and nodded, she always declared that it was
the loveliest thing in the world, and that she didn't believe but Hal
would write a book some day himself, he was so powerful fond of them.
To Charlie and Kit this was a great enjoyment. Indeed, it seemed as
if in most things they listened more readily than they ever had to
Florence. Dear, sweet-souled Hal! Your uses and duties in the world
were manifold. And yet it tries our faith to see such fine gold dropped
into the crucible. Is it those whom the Lord loveth?
They had a great time on Thursday. Joe was up early in the morning, as
he thought there was some fun in making an onslaught upon the army of
chickens; so when Hal and Granny stepped over the threshold, they saw a
great pile of decapitated fowls.
"Why, Hal, you'll make a mint of money!" exclaimed Joe. "I suppose you
mean to put it in government bonds."
Hal only laughed.
But he and Granny were busy as bees all day. About four o'clock Mr.
Kinsey came over to see how the packing progressed.
"There are just two dozen," said Hal; "and I shall have two dozen again
next week."
"They're beauties too! Why, I believe they go ahead of mine. You've
plucked them nicely. Poultry's pretty high this year; retailing at
twenty-five and twenty-eight, I heard."
They weighed them, and then laid them snugly in the crate; plump and
yellow, looking almost good enough to eat without a pinch of salt, Mr.
Kinsey said.
"Now I shall send them all over to the station, and they'll go through
in the freight-train. Jim will soon be here with the wagon."
Joe and Hal counted up the possible profit that evening. They had
raised, with all their broods, sixty-five chickens. The actual outlay
for food had been seventeen dollars; and Hal had sold eggs to the value
of two dollars and a half.
"It's better than keeping store, I do believe!" ejaculated Joe. "Hal,
you have a genius for farming."
"Does raising chickens prove it?"
"If a hundred of corn-meal costs two fifty, what will the biggest
chanticleer in the lot come to? There's a question for you, Granny."
"Why, it would depend on--how much he weighed," said Granny cautiously.
"Oh, no! it would depend on how you cooked him. In my kitchen he'd come
to pot-pie, according to the double rule of a good hot fire."
"You won't sell 'em all, Hal?" said Charlie anxiously.
"No: we will have a little Thanksgiving for ourselves."
Granny sighed. They all knew of whom she was thinking,--a sweet,
fair face dropped out of the circle. Now that Flossy was gone, they
remembered only her pleasant qualities; and it seemed as if Joe did not
care half so much for making a noise when she was not here to be teased.
Mr. Kinsey did not return until Saturday, but he came over with a
smiling face.
"Royal luck for you, Hal!" he said in his hearty tone. "I've half a
mind to make you guess, and keep all that is over."
"But I might guess high;" and a bright smile brought sunshine into the
boy's face.
"Try it, then."
"Thirty dollars," ventured Hal, rather hesitatingly. "Though I don't
believe it is as much as that."
"Thirty-two dollars; and the same man has spoken for your next lot.
They were about the handsomest chickens in the market."
"Oh! isn't that splendid?" said Hal. "Why, I can hardly believe it!"
"There's the money. I've always observed that there's no eye-salve like
money;" and Mr. Kinsey laughed.
"You ought to have something for your trouble."
"No, my fine little fellow. I shall only take out the freight. I'm glad
to see you so energetic; and I do hope you will prosper as well in
every thing you undertake."
Hal thanked Mr. Kinsey again and again, and insisted that he should
come over and do some work for the farmer; but that gentleman only
laughed.
"Have your second lot ready on Tuesday evening," said he, as he wished
them good-day.
The next was still more of a success, for they netted thirty-four
dollars. Hal was overjoyed.
"That certainly is 'bully!' our dear Flossy to the contrary," declared
Joe. "Why, I'm so glad that I could stand on my head or the tip of my
little finger. What will you do with it all? Granny, was there ever
so much money in this old house? It's lucky that I have a pistol to
keep guard."
Granny smiled, but a tear crept to the corner of her eye.
"Now let us reckon it all up," said Hal. "Here is my book."
Every item had been put down in the most systematic manner. They made
a list of the expenses, and added the column, then subtracted it from
the whole sum.
"Forty-seven dollars!"
"All that clear!" asked Granny in amaze.
"Yes. Isn't it wonderful?"
Joe could hold in no longer; but took a tour over the chairs, as if
they had been a part of the flying trapeze. Hal's eyes were as large as
saucers,--small ones.
"I wouldn't a' believed it! But you've been very ekernomical, Hal, and
used every thing, and raised so much corn"--
"And the buckwheat-field was so nice for them! If we can only keep them
comfortable through the winter, and have them lay lots of eggs!"
"It's astonishing how contrary they are when eggs are scarce," said Joe
gravely. "What do you suppose is the reason, Charlie?"
"Forty-seven dollars!" said Charlie, loftily ignoring the last remark.
"Enough to buy me a fiddle," Kit remarked.
"It will have to buy a good many things," said Hal. "I am so very, very
thankful for it."
Granny insisted that Hal should have a suit of clothes, and finally
persuaded him into buying a complete outfit. That took twenty-three
dollars. Then some boots for Kit, shoes for Charley, a pretty dress
for Dot, a barrel of flour, and there was very little of it left.
"But it was really magnificent!" said Hal with a sigh of pleasure. "I
shall try it again next year, if you don't mind the trouble, Granny."
Granny said that she should not.
Their Christmas festival was quiet compared to the last one. Flossy had
helped make them gay then, and there had been the wonderful shoe. Would
any thing ever be quite as brilliant again?
"It almost seems as if Flossy was dead, doesn't it?" Hal said softly
to granny. "And yet I suppose she has had lots of presents, and
is--very--happy."
"God keep her safely," answered Granny.
Before spring some changes came to Madison. Grandmother Kinsey died,
having reached a good old age; and Mr. Kinsey resolved to put his pet
project into execution,--removing to the West, and farming on a large
scale. Everybody was very sorry to have them go. It seemed to Granny as
if she were losing her best friend. Ah! by and by the world would look
very wide and desolate.
But the Kenneths had a little recompense for their loss. In casting
about for a parting gift to Hal, fortune seemed to put an excellent one
right in his way. In having some dealings with Farmer Peters, he took
the small piece of land that Hal had made so profitable, and deeded it
to the boy.
"It is not much," he said; "but it may help along a little. I only wish
you were going out West with me. That's the place for boys!"
Hal almost wished that he could.
"But you will come and visit us some day, I know. You are a brave,
ambitious little chap, and deserve to prosper. I hope you will, indeed."
Hal was a good deal astonished, and wonderfully thankful for his gift.
To think of being actual owner of some land!
"You beat the Dutch for luck, Hal! I never did see any thing like it,"
was Joe's comment.
All Madison bewailed the Kinseys. They were some of the oldest
settlers, and it was like removing a landmark. Mrs. Kinsey did not
forget Granny, but sent her many useful articles in the way of old
clothes, and some furniture that would have brought but a trifle at
auction, yet served to quite renovate the little cottage. But when
Granny tried to thank her kind friend, Mrs. Kinsey said,--
"I've always been glad to do what I could; for when I thought of you at
your age, taking charge of all those little ones, it seemed as if every
one ought to stand by you. And they will be a comfort to you, I know.
God will not let you go without some reward."
Granny wiped the tears from her eyes, and answered brokenly. One and
another were dropping out of her world.
She had hardly recovered from this blow when one night Joe came home in
high glee.
"The luck's changed, Hal!" he said in his laughing, breezy voice. "Just
guess"--
"More wages?"
"No indeed! Better still, a great sight. If you have tears, please
wring out your pocket-handkerchers, and prepare to shed 'em! Slightly
altered from Shakspeare. I'm going to sea! Hip, hip, hurrah!"
Joe swung his old hat so hard that crown and brim parted, the crown
landing on the mantle-piece.
"Couldn't have done better if I'd tried. I'm a dead shot, for certain!"
"Going to sea?"
Granny came out at that.
"Yes. A cousin of Mr. Terry's has been visiting there; and we have
struck up a friendship and a bargain,--Cap'n Burton. He owns a sloop
that goes to Albany and around, and wants a boy who can keep books a
little, and all that. It's just as jolly as a lark!"
It was plain to be seen that Joe no longer stood in awe of Florence's
ladylike reprimands.
Granny's eyes grew larger and larger. She fairly clutched Joe's arm as
she gasped,--
"Going--to sea!"
"Yes, Granny. Don't get solemn new, as if you thought a shark would
devour me the first thing,--body and boots. You know it always was
my idea, and this is real splendid! And there's no more danger than
driving Mr. Terry's grocery-wagon."
"But you might get drownded," Granny said awesomely.
"Tell you what I'll do, Granny. Tie a rope to my leg, and fasten it
to the mast. Then you know, if I fall overboard, I can haul in. There
isn't a bit of danger. Why, Capt. Burton's been all his life. There,
don't cry. You are the dearest old grandmother that ever was; but we
can't stay under your wing forever."
"You have not made your bargain?" asked Hal, surprised that another
dream should come true.
"Well,--almost. He's coming down here in the morning to have a talk
with Granny. He will give me ten dollars a month and found, which mean,
tea and fish and baccy."
"Oh!" said Hal, "you won't chew tobacco?"
"Sailors always do. But ten dollars a month is better than eight, and
my board thrown in. I'm going, Granny."
Granny sighed. It was useless to endeavor to talk Joe out of his
project; and so she might as well keep silence.
Capt. Burton came the next morning. He had taken a wonderful fancy to
Joe, and was very anxious to engage him.
"He's just the kind of lad that I need," exclaimed the captain. "I
want some one who is handy, and quick in figgers; who can keep my
accounts for me, as my eyes are getting rather poor; and do arrants;
and I've taken a 'mazing liking to him. I'll keep a good watch over
him; and he can come home once in a while."
"How far do you go?" asked Granny.
"To Albany, mostly. Now and then I take a trip around Long Island, or
up the Sound. Your boy has taken a 'mazing fancy to the sea; and he
will never be satisfied until he's had a taste of salt water, in my
'pinion."
"No, that I won't!" declared Joe stoutly.
"We haul off in the winter 'bout three months; which'll give him a
holiday. Sence he hankers after it so, you better consent, I think.
Cousin Terry will tell you that I ain't a hard master."
What could Granny say? Nothing but cry a little, look up Joe's clothes,
and kiss him a hundred times, or more, after the fashion of Mrs. Malloy
and her dear Pat. Joe was so delighted, that he could hardly "hold in
his skin," as he said to Kit, who sagely advised him not to get into a
cast-iron sweat,--Kit's chronic fear on remarkable occasions.
There was not much time for consideration. In two days Joe was off, bag
and baggage, whistling, "The girl I left behind me."
And so the gay household thinned out. They missed Joe terribly. To be
sure, vacation commenced after a while; and Kit and Charlie were in
mischief continually, or in rags: Granny hardly knew which was worse.
They had some glowing letters from Joe, who didn't believe there was
any thing finer in Europe than New York and the Hudson River. Capt.
Burton was a "jolly old tar;" and nautical phrases were sprinkled about
thick as blackberries.
Mr. Terry offered the place in the store to Hal, who consulted awhile
with Granny.
"I think I could make as much money by working round, and raising
chickens, and all that; and then I could go to school. I believe I
should like it better; and there is so much that I want to learn!"
"But you know a master sight now, Hal," said Granny in admiration.
So the proposal was very kindly declined.
Charlie thought Fourth of July was "awful dull" this year. She lamented
Joe loudly.
"If she had only been a boy!" said Hal regretfully.
The latter part of July, Joe came home for a flying visit. It seemed
as if he had grown taller in this brief while. His curly hair had been
cropped close; and he was brown as an Indian. Charlie made herself a
perpetual interrogation-point; and Joe told her the most marvellous
yarns that ever were invented. She soon learned every thing about the
sloop, and wished that she could be a sailor, but finally comforted
herself by thinking that she might marry a sea-captain.
Then, to crown all, they had a letter from Florence. It was written on
tinted paper, and had a beautiful monogram in green and gold. She was
very well, very happy; had grown a little taller than Mrs. Osgood; and
was studying every thing. She could play quite well, and read French,
and went to dancing-school, besides lovely little parties. Then the
house was so elegant! She had never been homesick at all.
Perhaps she thought it would be wrong to wish to see them; for that was
never once expressed.
"But I am glad she is happy," said Granny, striving to be heroic.
CHAPTER XII.
  JOE'S FORTUNE.
Hal's chickens were a success again, though it cost more for him to
get them to market this fall. And, since eggs seemed to be a very
profitable speculation, they concluded to winter over quite a number,
mostly spring broods. Hal enlarged their house; as he had a wonderful
gift, Granny declared, for building. And a very nice place it was, I
