
"Good! Make quick work of it," added Mr. Carboy. "Here, steward, bear a
hand at this boat."

The passenger carefully deposited in the fore-sheets of the whale-boat
the heavy bundle he had brought up from the cabin, and seizing the axe,
he applied himself vigorously to the labor of cutting away the bulwark.

The mate and steward cleared away the boat, and swung it around so that
the stern was headed towards the opening. But while the passenger and
the seaman were delivering their blows with the axes as well as the
uneasy motion of the vessel would permit, the brig rose on the sea, and
came down with a most tremendous crash. Over went the mainmast,
shattered at the heel by the bolt of lightning. The planks and timbers
of the Waldo snapped and were ground into splinters as the hull pounded
upon the sharp rocks. The sea began to break over the deck, as the
vessel settled.

"Give me that axe, Burns," yelled the mate, as he sprang to the seaman,
and snatched the implement from his hands. "Clear away the wreck," he
added to the passenger.

Aided by the frequent flashes of lightning, the mate and Wallbridge cut
away the braces and other rigging which encumbered the waist, and
impeded the launching of the whale-boat. In a few moments it was all
clear. Harvey Barth, aware of his own weakness, had already seated
himself in the boat, which was ready, and almost floated on the deck
when the heavy seas rolled over it.

"Into the boat!" called the mate, as he stood at the bow of it. "Take an
oar, Mr. Wallbridge."

The passenger obeyed the order. Enough of the bulwarks had been cut away
to allow the passage of the boat. Mr. Carboy waited till a heavy billow
swept over the deck of the brig, and then pushed her off into the
boiling waves, leaping over the bow, as it cleared the vessel.

"Give way!" he shouted, as the whale-boat was swept away from the brig.
"Keep her right before it."

But the mate was not satisfied with the efforts of Burns, the seaman,
and took the oar from his hand.

Half buried in the whelming tide, the whale-boat dashed through the
waves towards the high cliffs of the rocky island. She had scarcely left
the brig before it broke in two in the middle; the foremast toppled over
into the water, and the after portion disappeared in the waves, as they
were lighted up by the repeated flashes from the dark clouds.

"We shall be dashed in pieces on the rocks!" exclaimed the mate, as he
turned his gaze from the remaining portion of the Waldo to the lofty
cliffs on the island.

"No; there is a beach under the rocks," replied Wallbridge. "I know the
place very well. Let her go ahead, and we must take our chances in the
surf."

"If there is a beach we shall do very well," replied the mate, pulling
vigorously at his oar to keep the boat before the wind; for he knew
that, if she fell off into the trough of the sea, she would be instantly
swamped.

But the distance was short between the ledge and the shore, and in a
moment more the boat struck heavily upon the gravelly beach, which was,
at this time of tide, not more than ten feet wide, and the waves already
rolled over it against the perpendicular rocks. With one consent, the
four men leaped from the boat into the surf. The mate carried the
painter on shore with him, and endeavored to swing around the boat,
which had come stern foremost to the beach. Burns imprudently moved out
into the surf to assist him, when the undertow from a heavy wave swept
him far out into the angry sea. In the mean time, Wallbridge and Harvey
Barth retreated towards the cliff. The tide was still rising, and the
beach afforded but partial shelter from the fury of the billows.

"This is no place for us," said Wallbridge, gloomily.

"I don't think it is," drawled Harvey. "We can't stand it here a great
while."

"But I will make sure of one thing," added the late passenger of the
Waldo. "I have twelve hundred dollars in gold in my hand, and it may be
the means of drowning me."

"Gold isn't of much use to us just now," sighed Harvey, indifferently,
as he glanced around him to ascertain if there were any means of escape
to the high rocks above; but no man could climb the steep cliff beside
him.

"I worked two years in Cuba for this money, and I don't like to lose
it," said Wallbridge. "But I don't mean to be drowned on account of it."

As he spoke he kneeled down on the beach, and scooped out of the sand
and gravel a hole about a foot deep, into which he dropped the bag of
gold.

"Under that overhanging rock," said he, fixing in his mind the locality
of his "hidden treasure;" "I shall be able to find it again when I want
it."

"I hope you will," answered Harvey Barth, looking up at the mark
indicated by his companion.

It was little he cared for gold then, and leaving the owner of the
treasure to consider more particularly the place where he had buried it,
he walked along under the cliff in search of some shelter from the
billows, which every moment drenched him in their spray. He moved on
some distance, till an angle in the cliff carried it out into the deep
water. He had come to the end of the beach, and he halted there in
despair. He felt that there was no alternative but to lie down and die
in the angry waves, for it was better to be drowned than to be dashed to
pieces on the jagged rocks. A bright flash of lightning, followed by a
fearful crash of thunder, as though the bolt had struck upon the land
near him, illuminated the scene for an instant. That flash, which might
have carried death and destruction in its path on the land, kindled a
new hope in the bosom of Harvey Barth, for it revealed to him an opening
in the angle of the rock. The cliff seemed to have been rent asunder,
and a torrent of fresh water was pouring down through it from the high
land above.

Harvey entered the opening, walking with difficulty over the large,
loose stones, rounded by the flow of the stream. The ascent was steep,
and the torrent of water that poured down through the ravine increased
the trials of its passage. But the wrecked wanderer felt that he was
safe from the fury of the savage waves. When he came to a flat rock,
only a few feet above the beach, upon which he could step out of the
little torrent, he paused to rest and recover his breath. Then he
thought of his companions in misery, exposed to the peril of the
sweeping billows and the more terrible rocks. He was not a selfish man,
and the thought caused him to retrace his steps to the entrance of the
ravine. Here he halted, and shouted with all his might to his shipmates;
but his voice was weak at the best, and no response came to his cries.
The dashing of the sea and the roaring of the tempest drowned the sound.

After finding a place of safety, he could not leave his companions to
perish. The tide was still rising, increased and hastened by the furious
hurricane which drove the waters in this direction. The beach was more
dangerous than when he had crossed it before, but the steward, in spite
of his weakness, reached the spot where the passenger had buried his
gold. Neither the mate nor Wallbridge was there; and the whale-boat had
also disappeared. With the greatest difficulty, Harvey succeeded in
regaining the opening in the rock. Several times he was knocked down by
the billows, and once he was thrown with considerable force against the
cliff. Bruised and exhausted, he seated himself on the flat rock again,
to recover his breath and the little strength he had left.

Wallbridge and the mate were appalled at the fate of Burns, though they
did not know that a broken spar from the wreck had struck him on the
head, and deprived him of the use of his powers. The whale-boat was
hauled around, head to the beach, but the waves swept it far up towards
the rocks, which threatened its destruction in a few moments more. Then
they missed Harvey, and both of them shouted his name with all the vigor
of their strong lungs; but the steward did not hear them.

"The sea has swept him away," said the mate, sadly.

"Or dashed him against the rocks," added Wallbridge. "It will be the
same with us in a short time. I didn't think the tide was up so far, or
I should have known better than to land here."

"I would rather take my chance on the wreck," continued Mr. Carboy, who
still held the painter of the boat. "I think it is moderating a
little."

"Not much; but do you think we can get off in the whale-boat?" asked
Wallbridge.

"We may but it is death to stay here ten minutes longer."

"That's true; for common tides rise to the foot of the rocks. We can't
stand up much longer."

"Now's our time!" exclaimed the mate. "The wind lulls a little. It can't
be any worse on the wreck than it is here."

The hurricane had certainly subsided a little, and with a vigorous
effort the two stout men shoved the whale-boat down the steep declivity
into the deep water. Keeping her head to the sea, with the oars in their
hands they leaped into the boat as a receding billow carried her far out
from the beach.

"Now, give way!" cried the mate; and with lusty strokes they pulled
against the advancing sea.

The boat was light, and the two rowers were powerful men, thoroughly
experienced in the handling of boats under the most trying
circumstances. They succeeded in getting clear of the beach, however,
only by the favoring lull of the tempest. They pulled dead to windward,
for Mr. Carboy dared not risk the boat in the trough of the sea, even
for a moment. This direction brought them, after a desperate pull, to
the wreck of the Waldo, only the forward part of which remained. This
portion appeared to the mate to be wedged in between a couple of rocks,
now hidden by the waves, for it did not rise and fall with the billows.
He stated his belief to Wallbridge, and they agreed that the wreck would
be the safest place for them. The passenger spoke of a good harbor but a
short distance to the northward, but Mr. Carboy declared that the
whale-boat would be swamped in the attempt to reach it.

Under the lee of the wreck, the sea was comparatively mild, and the mate
fastened the painter of the boat to the bobstay of the brig. Without
much difficulty, the two men climbed to the forecastle of the vessel,
which was still above the water. Doubtless Mr. Carboy was right in
regard to the position of the wreck on the rocks, but the sea dashed
furiously against the broken end of the hulk. The hurricane renewed its
violence, and as the tide rose, the waves swept over the two men. But
the rising sea did worse than this for them. It loosened the cargo,
consisting in part of hogsheads of molasses; and they rolled down into
the deep water. Relieved of this weight, the tide lifted the wreck from
between the rocks; the hulk rolled over and disappeared beneath the
white-crowned waves, dragging the whale-boat down with it. The movement
was so sudden that the mate and the passenger had no time to save
themselves, if there had been any means of doing so, and they went down
with the wreck. After a hard struggle for life, they perished.

Harvey Barth alone was spared, and he rested on the flat rock in the
ravine till his wasted breath and meagre strength were regained. Then he
continued his weary ascent till he reached the summit of the cliffs,
where he saw the boat made fast to the wreck, and the mate and passenger
clinging to the forestay. In the next glare of the lightning, with a
thrill of horror, he saw the hulk topple over and disappear in the mad
waves.

Harvey Barth, the sick man, was the only one of the dozen persons on
board of the Waldo who was left alive in half an hour after the
hurricane burst upon her; and she was not the only vessel that foundered
or was dashed upon the rocks in that terrific storm, nor the only one
from whose crew only a single life was spared. The tempest and the
lightning had done their work; and when it was done, the dark clouds
rolled away, the lightning glared no more, the winds subsided, and the
sea was calm again. Later in the night, the wind came cold and fresh
from the north-west, and swept away from the narrow beach the wounded
body of Burns, and nearly every vestige of the wreck. The rising sun of
the next morning revealed hardly a trace of the terrible disaster.




CHAPTER III.

"HARVEY BARTH, HIS DIARY."


Harvey Barth stood on the high cliff and wept; not in a poetical sense,
but cried like a little child, and the hot tears burned on his cold,
thin pale cheeks. Captain 'Siah had always used him well; the rough mate
had been kind to him; and the seamen, most of whom, like himself, were
farmers' sons, had been friendly during the three months they were
together. Even the passenger often seated himself in the galley to talk
with him, as he smoked his pipe. Now they were all gone. So far as
Harvey knew, every one of them, from the captain to the humblest seaman,
had perished, either by the bolt from the clouds or in the mad waters.
It was barely possible that the mate or passenger had escaped from the
wreck on which they had taken refuge, as they had the whale-boat with
them.

Harvey Barth, who had often told his shipmates that he had not much
longer to live, was the only one saved from the whole ship's company. It
seemed to him very strange that he should be spared while so many
stronger men had been suddenly swept away. He dared not believe that any
one else had been saved, and he could not but regard himself as a
monument of the mercy, as well as of the mysterious ways of Providence.
He thanked God from the depths of his heart that he was saved, and he
was almost willing to believe that he might yet escape the fate to which
his malady had doomed him.

The hurricane subsided almost as suddenly as it had commenced; the sea
abated its violence, and the booming thunder was heard only in the
distance. The black clouds rolled away from the westward, and the stars
sparkled in the blue sky. The steward was wet to the skin, and he
shivered with cold. Where he was he had not the least idea. On the
distant shore he could see the light-houses, but what points of land
they marked he did not know. He was on the solid land, and that was the
sum total of his information. He was well nigh worn out by the
exertions and the excitement of the evening, but, turning his back to
the treacherous ocean which had swallowed up all his friends, he walked
as rapidly as his strength would admit, in order to warm himself by the
exercise. From the cliffs the land sloped upward, but he soon reached
the top of the hill, on which he paused to take an observation. From the
point where he stood there was a much sharper descent before him than on
the side by which he had come up. At the foot of the hill he saw two
lights, then a sheet of water, and beyond a multitude of lights
indicating a considerable village.

The nearest light appeared not to be over half a mile distant, and the
pale moon came out from behind the piles of black clouds to guide his
steps. The cold north-west wind had begun to blow, and it chilled the
wanderer to his very bones. He quickened his steps down the declivity,
and soon reached a rude, one-story dwelling, at the door of which he
knocked. He saw the light in the house, but no one answered his summons,
and he repeated it more vigorously than before. Then a window was
cautiously thrown open a few inches.

"Who's there?" asked a woman.

"A stranger," replied Harvey, shivering with cold, so that he could
hardly utter the words.

"My husband's over to the village, and I can't let no strangers in at
this time of night," added the woman.

"I've been cast away on the coast, and I'm really suffering," drawled
the steward, in broken sentences.

"Cast away!" exclaimed the wife of the man who was over at the village,
as she dropped the sash.

The terrible storm which had spent its fury upon sea and land was enough
to convince her that men might have been shipwrecked; and this was not
the first time that those treacherous ledges off High Rock, as the cliff
was called, had shattered a good vessel. The woman hastened to the door,
and threw it wide open. The pale, shivering form of Harvey Barth, the
overcoat he wore still dripping with water, was enough to satisfy her
that the visitor had no evil intentions.

"Come in," said she; and when the steward saw the comfortable room in
the house, he required no second invitation. "Why, you are shivering
with cold!"

"Yes marm; I'm not very well, and getting wet don't agree with me,"
replied Harvey, his teeth still chattering.

The room to which he was shown was the parlor, sitting-room, and kitchen
of the cottage. On the hearth was a large cooking-stove, in which the
woman immediately lighted a fire. She piled on the dry wood till the
stove was full, and in a few moments the room was as hot as the oven of
the stove.

"It's no use," said the housekeeper, who had seated herself to rock the
cradle; "you are wet through to your skin; and you can't get warm till
you put on dry clothes."

She went to a closet and took out her husband's Sunday clothes a woolen
undershirt, and a pair of thick socks. Harvey thought of Paradise when
he saw them, for he was so chilled that to be warm again seemed to him
the climax of earthly joy. The woman laid them on the bed in an
adjoining chamber, and then begged him to put them on. He needed no
urging, and soon his trembling limbs were encased in the warm, dry
clothes. The coat and pants were much too short for him, but otherwise
they fitted very well. When he came out of the chamber, with his wet
clothes in his hands, he found a cup of hot tea on the table waiting for
him.

"Now drink this," said his kind host. "It will help to warm you up; and
I will put your things where they will dry."

Harvey drank the tea, and the effect was excellent. A short time before
the stove restored the warmth to his body, and he began to feel quite
comfortable.

"I feel good now," said he, with a sickly smile. "I'm really a new man."

"Now I wish you would tell me about the wreck," added the woman, as she
rocked the cradle till it was a heavy sea for the baby, which threatened
it with shipwreck.

"Certainly; I'll tell you all about it," replied Harvey.

He started his story at the West India Islands; but, with his drawl and
his hacking cough, he made slow progress. He had not reached the coast
of Maine when the woman's husband arrived. Of course he was astonished
to find a stranger so comfortably installed in his house; but when his
wife explained who the steward was, he became as hospitable and friendly
as his wife had been.

"This is my husband, John Carter," said the woman, as the man of the
house seated himself at the stove.

"My name is Harvey Barth," added the shipwrecked. "I was cook and
steward of the brig Waldo; but she is gone to pieces now."

"Sho! you don't say so!" exclaimed John Carter. "Why, I made a voyage to
Savannah myself in the Waldo, before I was married!"

"You will never make another in her. She broke into two pieces, which
rolled over and went to the bottom," added Harvey.

"You don't say so! Was Captain Barnwood in her?"

"Yes, he was. Cap'n 'Siah, as we all called him--"

"So did we," interposed John Carter, with a smile.

"Cap'n 'Siah was as nice a man as ever trod a quarter-deck."

"So he was."

"He's gone now," sighed Harvey.

"Was he lost?"

"Yes sir; he was knocked stiff by the lightning, with half a dozen
others."

"Sho! Was the brig struck by lightning?"

"She was. It came down the mainmast and knocked the wheel into a
thousand pieces. When the steering-gear gave out, we couldn't do
anything more. I'm the only one of twelve men and a passenger that was
saved."

Harvey Barth commenced his story anew, when the astonishment of John
Carter had abated a little, and gave all the particulars of the voyage
and the wreck and all the details of his personal history since he kept
school in "York State." It was midnight when he had finished, and the
details were discussed for an hour afterwards. Mrs. Carter had brought
on more hot tea, with pie and cheese, and other eatables, which the
steward had consumed in large quantities, for one of the features of his
malady was a ravenous appetite. John Carter, who had been detained at
the village by the violence of the storm, was as hospitable as any one
could be, and Harvey slept that night in the best bed in the house.

After breakfast the next morning he brought out the oil-cloth which
contained his diary. He had carefully concealed it when he changed his
clothes, and he was now anxious to know whether it had escaped serious
injury in the storm. He unfolded the oil-cloth before John Carter and
his wife. To his great satisfaction, he found it unharmed by the floods
of water which had drenched him. The water-proof covering had secured it
even from any dampness.

Harvey opened the book at a certain place, and exhibited between the
leaves a thin pile of bank notes--the whole of his worldly wealth, for,
as the Waldo was a total loss, the wages that were due him on account of
the voyage were gone forever. But there was fifty-two dollars between
the leaves of the diary. He had come from home with a good stock of
clothing, and had saved nearly all he had earned, including his advance
for the West India voyage. At Havana Mr. Carboy had the misfortune to
lose his watch overboard, and, as he needed one, Harvey had sold him
his--a very good silver one--for twenty-five dollars.

"Now Mr. Carter, I want to pay you for what I've had," drawled Harvey,
as he opened the diary, and exposed his worldly wealth.

"Pay me!" exclaimed John Carter, with something like horror in his tones
and expression; "take any money from a brother sailor who has been
wrecked! I don't know where you got such a bad opinion of me, but I
would starve to death, and then be hung and froze to death, before I'd
take a cent from you!"

"I am willing to pay for what I've had, and I shall be very much obliged
to you besides," added Harvey.

"Not a red. Put up your money. I don't feel right to have you offer it,
even," said the host, turning away his head.

"I've always paid my way so far; but I don't know how much longer I
shall be able to do so. I'm very thankful to you and Mrs. Carter for
what you've done, and I shall write it all down in my diary as soon as I
get a chance."

"You are welcome to all we've done; and we only wish it had been more,"
replied Mrs. Carter.

"I don't think I shall go to sea any more," added Harvey, gloomily. "I
have friends in York State, and I have money enough to get back there.
That's all I want now. If you will tell me how I can get to New York,
I'll be moving on now. I haven't got long to stay in this world, and I
mean to spend the rest of my days where I was born and brought up."

"A steamer comes over to the village about three times a week, and she
will be over to-day or to-morrow. I will row you over if you say so; but
I shall be glad to take care of you as long as you will stay here."

"I'm much obliged to you; but I think I had better go over this
forenoon."

Half an hour later the steward shook hands with Mrs. Carter and bade her
adieu. John pulled him across the river, as it was called,--though it
was more properly a narrow bay, into which a small stream flowed from
the high lands farther inland. The village was called Rockhaven, and was
a place of considerable importance. It had two thousand tons of fishing
vessels; but the granite quarries in the vicinity were the principal
sources of wealth to the place Latterly Rockhaven, which was
beautifully situated on high land overlooking the waters of the lower
bay, had begun to be a place of resort for summer visitors.

The western extremity of the village extended nearly to the high cliffs
on the sea-shore, and the situation was very romantic and picturesque.
The fishing was the best in the bay, and the rocks were very attractive
to people from the city. The harbor had deep water at any time of tide.
For a summer residence, the only disadvantage was the want of suitable
hotels or boarding-houses. Of the former there were two, of the most
homely and primitive character, and not many of the inhabitants who had
houses suitable for city people were willing to take boarders.

John Carter pulled his passenger across the harbor, and walked with him
to the Cliff House, near the headlong steeps which bounded the village
on the west. He introduced him to Peter Bennington, the landlord, and
told his story for him.

"I am sorry for you," said Mr. Bennington.

"O, I've got money enough to pay my bill," interposed Harvey Barth, who
had a sufficiency of honest pride, and asked nothing for charity's sake.

The landlord showed him to a room, after he had shaken hands with and
bidden adieu to John Carter, it was not the best room in the house, but
it was neat and comfortable. Harvey inquired about the steamer to
Rockland, and was told that she would probably come the next day, and
return in the afternoon. The steward made himself comfortable, and ate a
hearty dinner when it was ready. In the afternoon he borrowed a pen and
ink, and began to write out a full account of the wreck of the Waldo. He
wrote a large, round hand, which was enough to convince any one who saw
it that he was or had been a schoolmaster. He worked his pen slowly and
carefully, but he entered so minutely into the details of the disaster
that he had not half finished the narrative when the supper bell rang.

Harvey did not resume the task again that day; he was too weary to do
so. That night he was ill and feverish, and in the morning had an attack
of bleeding at the lungs. The landlord sent for the doctor, but the
patient was not able to leave in the steamer, which went in the
afternoon. The landlord's wife nursed him carefully and kindly, and in a
week he began to improve. He had no further attack of bleeding, and he
began to hope that he should live to get home. As soon as he was able to
sit up in the bed, he resumed the writing up of the diary.

But we must leave him in his chamber thus occupied, to introduce the
most important character of our story.

He was a rather tall and quite stout young fellow of sixteen. He was
dressed in homely attire, what there was of it, for he wore no coat, and
his shirt sleeves were rolled up above his elbows, in order, apparently,
to give his arms more freedom. He was as tawny as the sailors of the
Waldo had been, tanned by the hot suns of the West Indies. He had just
come down the river from the principal wharf, at the head of which was
the fish market--a very important institution, where the product of the
sea formed a considerable portion of the food of the people. The boat in
which he sailed was an old, black, dingy affair, which needed to be
baled out more than once a day to keep her afloat. The sail was almost
as black as the hull, and had been patched and darned in a hundred
places. The skipper and crew of this unsightly old craft was Leopold
Bennington, the only son of the landlord of the Cliff House, though he
had three daughters.

Leopold carried the anchor of his boat far up on the rocks above the
beach, and thrust one of the arms down into a crevice, where it would
hold the boat. Taking from the dingy boat a basket which was heavy
enough to give a considerable curve to his spine as he carried it, he
climbed up the rocks to the street which extended along the shore of the
river for half a mile. On the opposite side of it was the Cliff House.
His father stood on the piazza of the house as the young man crossed the
street.

"Well, Leopold, what luck had you to-day?" asked Mr. Bennington, as his
son approached.

"First rate, father," replied the young man, as his bronzed face lighted
up with enthusiasm.

"What did you get?" asked the landlord.

"Mackerel."

"Mackerel!" exclaimed mine host, his face in turn lighting up with
pleasure.

"Lots of them, father."

"We have hardly seen a mackerel this year yet. I never knew them to be
so scarce since I have been on this coast."

"There hasn't been any caught before these for a month, and then only a
few tinkers," added Leopold, as he removed the wet rock-weed with which
he had covered the fish to protect them from the sun. "They are handsome
ones, too."

"So they are--number ones every one of them, and some extra," said the
landlord, as he raised the fish with his hand so that he could see them.

"They were the handsomest lot of mackerel I ever saw," continued the
young fisherman, his face glowing with satisfaction. "I brought up three
dozen for you, and sold the rest. I made a good haul to-day."

"Three dozen will be all we can use in the house, as big as those are.
Two dozen would have been enough; we don't have many people here now.
But where did you get them?"

"Just off High Rock, where the Waldo was wrecked. I fished within a
cable's length of the Ledges. I don't know but the sugar and molasses
from the brig drew the mackerel around her," laughed Leopold, as he took
an old black wallet from his pocket.

"Were there any other boats near you?" asked the prudent landlord.

"Not another one; folks are tired of trying for mackerel, and have given
it up. I didn't expect to find any, but I happened to have my jigs in
the boat; and for an hour I worked three of them as lively as any fellow
ever did, I can tell you."

"Did they ask you at the fish market where you got them?"

"They did; but I didn't tell them," laughed the young man. "The mackerel
fetched a good price. I counted off three hundred and twenty-four at ten
cents apiece, and wouldn't take any less. They are scarce, and I saw
them selling the fish at twenty cents apiece; so they will make as much
as I do. Here is the money--thirty-two dollars and forty cents."



"Keep it yourself, my boy. You shall have all you make, as long as you
don't spend it for candy and nonsense. Now go up and see the sick man.
He may want something, and all the folks have been busy this afternoon."

The landlord took the basket of fish and put them on the ice, while
Leopold went up to Harvey Barth's chamber. The sick man did not want
anything. He was sitting up in the bed, with his diary and a pen in his
hands, while the inkstand stood on the little table with the medicine
bottles.

"There," said Harvey to Leopold, who had been a frequent attendant
during his sickness, "I have just finished writing up this date; and it
contains the whole story of the wreck of the Waldo, and all that
happened on board of her during the voyage."

"What is it? what are you writing, Mr. Barth?" asked the young man.

Harvey opened the book at the blank leaf in the beginning, and turned it
towards his visitor.

"Harvey Barth. His diary," Leopold read. "I see; you keep a diary."

"I do. I wouldn't take a hundred dollars for that book, poor as I am,"
added Harvey, as he closed the volume and laid the pen on the table.

"Shall I put it away for you?" asked Leopold.

"No; thank you; I'll take care of it myself," he replied as he proceeded
to fold the book in its oil-cloth cover.

When Leopold had left the room, Harvey Barth enclosed the book in an old
newspaper, and, getting out of bed, thrust the package up the flue of
the little fireplace in the room, placing it on some projecting shelf or
jamb which he had discovered there. He was very careful of the book, and
seemed to be afraid some one might open it while he was asleep.
Doubtless the diary contained secrets he was not willing others should
discover; and certainly no one would think of looking in the flue of the
fireplace for it.




CHAPTER IV.

STUMPY AND OTHERS.


Harvey Barth seemed to be exceedingly well satisfied with himself after
he had finished the writing of his diary up to date. Possibly the fact
that he had not completed his account of the wreck of the Waldo had
troubled him, as any work left unfinished troubles a progressive or
conscientious man. But whether or not he had been disturbed about his
diary, he was happier than usual after he had completed the task. His
physical condition had been greatly improved under the careful nursing
of Mrs. Bennington. In the course of the afternoon not less than half a
dozen persons called to see him, and remained from five minutes to half
an hour, one of whom was connected with a newspaper in a city on the
bay, who was anxious to obtain a full and correct account of the loss
of the brig, which Harvey had not yet been able to furnish, even
verbally; but he promised to write out a full narrative for the
applicant, in preference to giving it by word of mouth.

Others who called upon him were friends of those lost in the Waldo, and
desired to obtain further particulars in regard to the catastrophe. But
the majority of those who visited the steward came only from mere
curiosity, or at best from motives of sympathy.

Harvey Barth, as the only survivor of that terrible disaster, was quite
a hero in Rockhaven. He had been mentioned in all the newspapers on the
coast, in connection with the wreck, and many people had a curiosity to
see him, especially the visitors at Rockhaven, who had nothing to do but
to amuse themselves.

The wreck had been talked about for over a week, and for several days
after the disaster High Rock and its vicinity had been visited by a
great number of boats. Not a single body of those who perished in the
wreck was washed ashore, though diligent search had been made on all the
islands in the neighborhood.

The visit of the newspaper man had given Harvey Barth a new sensation,
for the steward was particularly pleased with the idea of writing an
account of the wreck of the Waldo for publication; and he thought over,
during the rest of the day, the satisfaction it would give him to carry
fifty or a hundred copies of the paper containing it to his native town
in "York State," and distribute them among his relatives and friends.
Indeed, the idea was so exciting, that, when night came, he could not
sleep till a late hour for thinking of it. And when he did go to sleep
he dreamed of it; and it seemed to him that a "printer's devil" came to
him in his chamber to ask for "more copy" of the important narrative.
The imp disturbed him, and he awoke to find a man in his room; but it
was only a half-tipsy "drummer" from the city, who had got into the
wrong chamber when he went to bed.

It took Harvey some time to convince the interloper that he had made a
mistake; and the stranger had some difficulty in finding his way out.
The invalid heard him groping about the chamber for a long time before
the door closed behind him. The steward quieted his excited nerves as
well as he was able, and in thinking over the great composition upon
which he intended to commence the next morning, he went to sleep again.

Leopold Bennington had slept at least five hours before the sick man was
finally "wrapt in slumber," as he intended to express himself in the
great composition; and in two hours more he had slept all he could
afford to sleep when number one mackerel were waiting to be caught. At
three o'clock in the morning he awoke and dressed himself, the latter
operation occupying not more than twenty seconds, for his toilet
consisted only in putting on his trousers, shoes and hat. He went down
stairs, and, as boys of his age are always hungry, his first objective
point was the pantry, between the dining-room and kitchen, where he
found and ate an abundance of cold roast beef, biscuits, and apple pie.
Being a provident youth, he transferred a considerable quantity of these
eatables to the large basket in which he had brought home his fish the
day before, so that he could "have a bite" himself, even if the
mackerel failed to favor him in this direction.

Though he stopped to fill himself with cold roast beef, biscuit, and
apple pie, and even to fill his basket after he had filled himself,
Leopold was very much excited in regard to the mackerel catch of that
day. He hoped to find the number ones where he had fallen in with them
the day before; and he could hardly expect to catch more than one more
fare before the fact that the mackerel were in the bay became generally
known. The mackerel fleet itself, consisting of between two and three
hundred sail, might be in the vicinity before the sun set again. He
realized the necessity of making hay while the sun shines. But mackerel
are very uncertain, so far as their location and inclination to bite are
concerned; so that there was not more than an even chance for him to
catch a single fish. The result was doubtful enough to make the game
exciting; and Leopold felt very much as an unprofessional gambler does
when he goes to the table to risk his money. It seemed to be altogether
a question of luck.

But Leopold was hopeful, and felt that the chances were rather in his
favor. He had been saving all the money he could earn for months for a
particular purpose; and he was not excited by the simple prospect of
obtaining the lucre for the purpose of hoarding it, so that he could
feel that he possessed a certain sum. He had been a little afraid that,
when his gains amounted to so large a sum as thirty-two dollars and
forty cents, his father would take possession of his receipts; but the
landlord of the Cliff House adhered to his policy of allowing his son to
retain the proceeds of his own labor. With a pea-jacket on his arm and
the basket in his hand, he left the hotel while the stars were still
shining in the few patches of blue sky that were not hidden by the
clouds. But he did not proceed immediately to the boat. He crossed the
street, and, concealing his basket in the bushes by the side of the path
which led down to the river, he hastened up the next street beyond the
hotel till he came to a small cottage, at the gate of which he halted,
and gave three prolonged whistles.

"Hallo, Le!" shouted a voice from the open window in the gable end of
the cottage.

Of course no sane boy of sixteen would think of pronouncing the three
syllables of the name of one of his cronies; and Leopold, in his
undignified intercourse with his companions, was known only by the
abbreviated name of "Le."

"Come, Stumpy, tumble out," replied Leopold. "Bear a hand, lively, and
don't wait for your breakfast. I have grub enough to keep us for a
week."

"I'm all ready," replied Stumpy; "I was up when you whistled."

Early as it was in the morning, Stumpy seemed to be very cheerful,
perhaps made so by the remark about "grub" which Leopold had used, for
the boy of the cottage knew by experience that the provender which came
from the hotel was superior to that of the larder of his own dwelling.

The two "early birds" walked rapidly towards the river, not because they
were in a hurry, but because they were excited. The excursion upon which
they had now embarked had been duly talked over the night before, and
Stumpy, though his interest in the venture was small compared with that
of his companion, was hardly less hopeful.

They descended the steep path on the bank of the river, and in a few
moments more the dingy old boat with the patched and ragged sail was
standing out towards the open bay. The wind in the river was very light,
and the old craft was a heavy sailor, so that her progress was very
slow; but the tongues of the two boys moved fast enough to make up for
the deficiencies of the boat. Their conversation was about the prospect
of catching a fare of mackerel, though Harvey Barth and his diary came
in for some comments.

Stumpy was Leopold's dearest friend and most intimate companion. The
friendship had commenced in school, which both of them continued to
attend in the winter. It had its origin in no especial event, for
neither had conferred any particular favor on the other. Like many
another intimacy, it grew out of the fancy of the friends. Both of them
were "good fellows," and they liked each other. This is all the
explanation which their friendship requires. Stumpy was the oldest son
of a widow, who managed with his assistance, to support her family of
three children. Socially there was no difference in their standing. If
the landlord of the Cliff House was a person of some consequence, on the
one hand, Stumpy's grandfather, on the other, was one of the wealthiest
and most distinguished citizens of Rockhaven, and the boy would probably
inherit a portion of his property when he died. But it ought to be added
that Stumpy did not hold his head any higher because of his family
connections. In fact, he hardly ever alluded to his relationship to the
wealthy and distinguished man. To use his own words, he, "did not take
much stock in his grandfather;" and in his confidential conversations
with Leopold he did not scruple to say that the old gentleman was the
meanest man in Rockhaven.

This grandfather was Moses Wormbury, Esq.; he was a Justice of the
peace, and had been a member of the legislature. It was said that he had
a mortgage on every other house in Rockhaven; but this was doubtless an
exaggeration, though he loaned out a great deal of money on good
security. Squire Wormbury had had two sons and several daughters, all
the latter being married and settled in Rockhaven or elsewhere. The
elder son, Joel, was the father of Stumpy. The younger son, Ethan, kept
the Island Hotel, a small establishment of not half the size even of the
Cliff House, which had less than twenty rooms. In some respects the two
hotels were rivals, though the Cliff House had all the better business.
Ethan Wormbury did his best to fill up his small house, and was not
always careful to be fair and honorable in his competition; but Mr.
Bennington was good-natured, and only laughed when bad stories about his
house came from the Island Hotel.

Connected with Joel Wormbury, the father of Stumpy, there was a sad leaf
of family history. At the age of twenty-three he had married a poor
girl, who became a most excellent woman. Before this event he had been
to sea, and had made several fishing trips to the Banks. After his
marriage, he worked at "coopering" when he could obtain this employment,
and went a fishing when he could not. When his first boy was born, he
named him after the master of a bark with whom he had made a voyage up
the Mediterranean, and who had been very kind to him during a severe
illness at Palermo. Joel's father, uncles, and brother had all received
Scripture names; and perhaps it would have been better if Joel himself
had been equally scriptural in choosing names for his offspring, for the
master of the bark was Captain Stumpfield, and the boy, Stumpfield
Wormbury, was doomed to be called Stumpy from the day he first went to
school till he lost it in the dignity of manhood, though, even then, the
unfortunate cognomen was applied to him by his old cronies.

Joel Wormbury was an industrious and prudent man, but his usual earnings
were no more than sufficient to enable him to support his family; for,
prudent as he was, it was impossible for him to be as mean as his
father, who always insisted that Joel was extravagant.

Seven years before we introduce his son to the reader, the father made a
trip to George's Bank. The vessel was lucky, and the "high liner's"
share--eight hundred and fifty odd dollars--came to Joel. But he had
been out of work for some time, and was in debt; yet he honestly paid
off every dollar he owed, and had over six hundred dollars left. With
this he felt rich, and his wife thought their home ought to be more
comfortably furnished. It was a hired house; and when two hundred
dollars had been expended in furniture, Squire Moses declared that Joel
had "lost his senses." But the tenement was made very comfortable and
pleasant; and still Joel had four hundred dollars in cash. While he was
thinking what he should do with this money, his father reproached him
for his extravagance, and told him he ought to have built a house,
instead of fooling away his money on "fancy tables and chairs," as he
insisted upon calling the plain articles which his son had purchased.

The idea made a strong impression upon Joel, and he immediately paid a
hundred dollars for half an acre of land in what was then an outskirt of
the village. He wanted to build at once, and his father was finally
induced to lend him seven hundred dollars, taking a mortgage on the land
and buildings for security. The house was built, and the new furniture
appeared to advantage in it. Joel was happy now, and did his best to
earn money to pay off the mortgage. He made two more trips to the
Georges, with only moderate success. All he could do for the next two
years was to pay his interest and support his family.

Unfortunately, about this time, Joel "took to drinking;" not in a
beastly way, though he was often "excited by liquor." He was not
regarded as a drunkard, for he attended to his work and took good care
of his family. There were, unhappily, several rum-shops in Rockhaven;
and in one of these, one night, after Joel had been imbibing rather more
freely than usual, he got into a dispute with Mike Manahan, an Irish
quarryman, who was also warmed up with whiskey. Mike was full of
Donnybrook pluck, and insisted upon settling the dispute with a fight,
and struck his opponent a heavy blow in the face. Joel was a peaceable
man, and perhaps, if he had been entirely sober, he would have been
killed by his belligerent foe. As it was, he defended himself with a
bottle from the counter of the saloon, which he smashed on the head of
his furious assailant.

The blow with the bottle, which was a long and heavy one, felled Mike to
the floor. He dropped senseless with the blood oozing from his head
upon the sanded boards. Joel was appalled at what he had done; but he
was sobered as well, and when some of the wounded man's friends attacked
him in revenge, he fled from the saloon. But he went for the doctor, and
sent him to Mike's aid. He was terribly alarmed as he considered the
probable consequences of his rash deed. He dared not go home, lest the
constable should be there to arrest him. Later in the evening he crept
cautiously to the doctor's office, to ascertain the condition of his
victim. The physician had caused Mike to be conveyed to his
boarding-place, and had done all he could for him. In reply to Joel's
anxious inquiries, he shook his head, and feared the patient would die.
He could not speak with confidence till the next day, but the worst was
to be anticipated. Joel was stunned by this intelligence. A charge for
murder or manslaughter would be preferred against him, and the penalty
for either was fearful to contemplate. He dared not go home to comfort
his wife--if there could be any comfort under such circumstances.

Stealing down to the river in the gloom of the night, he embarked in a
dory he owned, and before morning pulled twelve miles to a city on the
other side of the bay, from which he made his way to Gloucester, where
he obtained a lay in a fishing-vessel bound to the Georges. When he was
ready to sail, he wrote a long letter to his wife, explaining his
situation. She had money enough to supply the needs of the family for a
time for the purse had always been in her keeping. He asked her to write
him in regard to the fate of Mike Manahan, and to inform him of what
