Do you want a photograph of us ? I was 
past seventeen, not very tall, with a round sort 
of figure, and dimples everywhere in my face, 
where one could have been put by accident or 
design. My skin was fair, my hair- -that was 
my sore point. I may as well tell the truth ; 
it iv as red, a sort of deep mahogany red, and 
 
curled. My features were just passable. So, 
you see, I was not likely to set up for a beauty. 
Fan was sixteen, taller than I, slender, blonde, 
with saucy blue eyes and golden hair, and given 
to rather coquettish ways. Nelly was fourteen, 
almost as tall as I, with papa's gray eyes,' only 
hers had a violet tint, and mamma's dark hair. 
Daisy was next, eleven, and on the blonde order. 
Lily, whose name was Elizabeth, and Tim, aged 
seven. Her real cognomen was Gertrude ; but 
we began to call her Tiny Tim, and the name, 
somehow stuck to her. What a host of girls, 
to be sure ! 
"Papa," I said that evening, going to the 
study for a good night kiss, where he was writ- 
ing in the quiet, "papa, are you sorry to have 
so many girls ? ' 
I had been exercised on the subject all day, 
and I wanted to dispose of it before I slept. 
" Why, my dear ! no ; ' with a sweet gravity. 
"But, papa," and I stumbled a little, "it 
isn't likely that that we shall all get married''' 
I could not proceed any farther, and hid nay 
face on Ins shoulder. 
" Married ! What ever put such an absurd 
idea into your head, Rosalind ? A parcel of 
children married ! ' 
I knew papa was displeased, or he would never 
have called me Rosalind ? 
" O, dear papa, don't be angry ! ' I cried. 
" I was not thinking of being married, I'm sure. 
I don't believe any one will ever like me very 
much, because my hair is red, and I may be fat 
as Mrs. Downs. And if I should be an old 
maid, --and I know I shall, I want you to 
love me a little ; and if I'm queer and fussy, 
and all that, you must be patient with me. I will 
try to do my best always." 
" My dear darling ! what a foolish little thing 
you are ! Some of the old women have been 
talking to you, I know. I shall certainly have 
to turn the barrel upside down, and find the 
sermon on bridling the tongue. You are all 
little girls, and I will not have the bloom rudely 
rubbed off of my peaches. There don't cry about 
it ; ' and he kissed my wet face so tenderly that 
I did cry more than ever. 
" My little girl, I want us to have a good 
many years of happiness together," he said, with 
solemn tenderness. Put all these things out of 
your head, and love your mother and me, and do 
your duty in that state of life to which it shall 
please God to call 3on. I want you to be like 
Martin Luther's bird, who sat on the tree and 
sang, and let God think for him. And now, 
run to bed, for I wish to finish this sermon 
while I am in the humor." 
I kissed him many, many times. I was so 
sure of Ms sweet, never-failing love. And I
suppose fathers and mothers never do get tired 
of us! 
CHAPTER II. 
IT was a bright June morning. The windows 
were all open ; the birds were sing- 
ing, and the air was sweet with out-of-door 
smells. Waving grasses, hosts of flowers, rose 
and honeysuckle out on the porch in the very 
height of riotous living, each trying to outblooin 
the other. 
We were at breakfast. We never had this 
meal very early at the Rectory. On summer 
mornings papa loved to get up and take a stroll, 
and botanize a little. Mamma rose, looked after 
Becky, and took a quiet supervision of us all. 
I helped dress the three younger children, for 
Fan usually had some lessons on hand, as she 
was still in school. By the time we were ready 
papa would be back. Then we sang a verse or 
two of a hymn, said the Lord's prayer together, 
and papa pronounced the greater benediction 
 
over us. It was so short, simple, and enjoyable ! 
Somehow I do not think children take naturally 
to prayers, unless they are rendered very sweet 
and attractive. We were allowed sufficient time 
to get wide awake before coming to breakfast. 
Mamma was at the head of the table again, 
looking as sweet as a new pink. Papa's place 
was at the foot. Fan and I sat opposite each 
other, about half way down. She poured the 
water and the milk. I had the three younger 
children on my side, and spread their bread or 
biscuits for them. I used to think of Goethe's 
Charlotte, only she had brothers as well as sis- 
ters. 
It was nearly eight o'clock. Lemmy Collins 
came up with the mail. There had been a 
shower the evening before, and none of us had 
gone for it. 
 'Ah!' exclaimed papa, "we are bountifully 
supplied this morning. One for Nelly, two for 
mamma, and two for me." 
" O, what elegant writing ! ' said Nell, leaning 
over to look at papa's. 
" Yes ; ' slowly. " I cannot think ; ' and papa 
fell into a brown study. 
"Why don't you open it?' asked bright-eyed 
Daisy; "then vou won't have to think." 
 
"To be sure, little wisdom ! ' and papa 
smiled. "I will look over tins thin one first, 
though." 
That was only an invitation to a meeting with
the clergy. We were all watching to see him 
open the letter par excellence. He took out his 
penknife and cut round the seal, which he 
handed to Tim. 
"Why!' lengthening the word out in- 
definitely. "From Stephen Duncan ! ' Then he 
read on in thoughtful silence, now and then 
knitting his brows. 
Mamma's letters were from an aunt and a 
cousin, with some kindly messages for us all. 
"Girls," said father, with a sudden start, 
"would you like to have some, brothers lanre 
enough to keep their hands and faces clean, and 
strong enough to help you garden ? ' 
"Boys are a nuisance ! ' declared Nell. 
"Well, I have an offer of two. One is some- 
thing of an invalid, though. My wards, I sup- 
pose, for that matter ; though I have never con- 
sidered myself much of a guardian, since Stephen 
was old enough to look after the boys. Then I 
always thought their uncle, James Duncan, was 
annoyed at my being put in at all. It seems he 
 
died very suddenly, a month ago, in London. 
Stephen has to go over and settle his affairs, 
and he wants me to keep the boys. Rose, pass 
this letter up to your mother." 
" How old are they ? ' asked Fan. 
" Well, I can't say. Louis is ready to enter 
college, but has studied himself out, and will 
have to go to the country. Stuart is a boy, I 
suppose. I have not seen them since their father 
died." 
"Poor boys!' said mamma. "And Stephen 
is coming. Why, he will be here to-morrow 
afternoon. This letter has been delayed on its 
way ; ' and mamma glanced at the date and the 
postmark. 
The children were through, and we rose from 
the table. There was a perfect hubbub of ques- 
tions then. Lily swung on father's arm, while 
Tim took a leg, and they were all eagerness to 
know about the brothers. 
"Mamma will have to consider the subject," 
he said. "Come, let us go out and look at the 
flower-beds. I dare say the rain brought up a 
regiment of weeds last night." 
Fanny went to put her room in order ; Nelly 
had some buttons to sew on her school dress, 
and followed mamma to the nursery. Becky 
came in and helped take the dishes to the 
kitchen ; while I went to my chambers up stairs. 
I hurried a little, I must confess. Then I 
bundled the youngsters off to school, and ran 
into the nursery. Mamrna was washing and 
dressing baby. 
"What about the boys?" I asked. "Will 
they really come ? Should you like to have 
them ? " 
"Perhaps it would be as well for you to read 
the letter, Rose. You are old enough to be 
taken into family council. It seems so odd, too ! 
Only last evening papa and I were talking 
about - 
Mamma made so long a pause that I glanced 
up from the letter, having only read the preface, 
as one might say. There was a perplexed look 
on the sweet face. 
" What is it, mamma ? ' and I knelt beside 
her, kissing baby's fat cheek. 
"My dear, I resolved long ago never to bur- 
den my girls with cares and worries before their 
time. And yet, it would be so delightful to 
have you for a friend ! A clergyman's wife has 
to be doubly discreet on sonic points. Now, if 
 
I was to say to two or three good friends in 
the parish, 4 Our circumstances are somewhat 
straightened by the recent expenses,' they would, 
no doubt, seek to make it up in some way. 
But I have a horror of anything that looks like 
begging." 
"O, yes, mamma. Aunt Letty Perkins won- 
dered, the day after the baby was born, if there 
would not be a donation visit," 
Mamma's sweet face flushed. 
"We have managed so far," she said;' "and 
everything has gone very pleasantly. Papa is 
well loved, and we have a delightful home. 
This great old house and garden are worth a 
good deal. But I am wandering from my text 
into byways and highways. I feel that I should 
sometimes like to have a friend to talk to who 
would be a sort of second self ' 
" O, mamma take me ! ' I cried. 
"I have always wanted to be like an elder 
sister to my girls as they grew to womanhood." 
I wanted to cry, and I was resolved not to. 
Mamma's tone was so sweet that it went to my 
heart. But to stop myself, I laughed, and ex- 
claimed, 
"Fan would say that your hands would be 
 
pretty full if you were going to be a sister to 
each one of us. Or you would have to be 
divided into infinitesimal pieces." 
^'And fourteen girls might not be desirable, 
if their father was a clergyman," she answered, 
smilingly. 
" So, let us be the best of friends, mamma, 
dearest, and you shall tell me your troubles. It 
is being so poor, for one, I know." 
"Yes, dear. Poverty is not always a delight- 
ful guest. Last evening we were resolving ways 
and means, and papa proposed to give up the 
magazines, and be very careful about his jour- 
neys. But I cannot bear to have him pinch. 
And, you see, if we took these boys, the extra 
living would not cost us anything to speak of. 
Ten weeks would be two hundred dollars." 
" O, mamma ! ' 
" It is riiHit that I should consult you about 
the work. It will make your duties more ardu- 
ous. Then taking strangers into your family is 
never quite so pleasant. But go on with the 
letter. We will discuss it afterwards." 
I felt drawn so near to mamma by the talk 
in id the confidence, that at first I could hardly 
U;ke the sense of what I was reading. But I 
will tell you the story more briefly. 
 
Papa and Mr. Duncan had been very dear 
friends for many years ; in fact, I believe, since 
papa's boyhood. When Mr. Duncan died he left 
papa a small legacy, and some valuable books 
and pictures, besides associating him with his 
brother in the guardianship of his three boys. 
Mr. James Duncan, who was an exceedingly 
proud and exclusive man, seemed to resent this, 
and treated papa rather coolly. Their business 
was done in writing, and papa had never seen 
his wards since their father's funeral. 
Stephen had spent one summer at our house 
when he was quite a boy. It seemed now that 
he preserved the liveliest recollection of my moth- 
er's kindness and care, and desired very much 
to see my father. The taking of the boys he 
asked as a great favor, since he would have to 
spend all the summer in England ; and he ap- 
peared to feel the responsibility of his brothers 
very keenly. It was such a nice, kind, gentle- 
manly letter, evincing a good deal of thought- 
fulness, and respect for papa ; and even where 
he spoke of the terms, he did it with so much 
delicacy, as if he were fearful that it would not 
be sufficient compensation, and proposed to come 
and talk the matter over, as he should, no doubt* 
 
need a good deal of advice from papa in the 
course of the next few years. 
"What a good, sweet letter this is, mamma, ' 
I said. "It makes me think of papa." 
" Yes ; I liked it exceedingly. Papa is greatly 
interested with the plan. He thinks it will 
help us to straighten up matters, so that we can 
begin next fall quite easy in our minds. The 
only other thing he could do would be to take 
some boys to prepare for college. That is very 
wearing. In this we could all help." 
"I hope the boys will be nice," I said, with 
a little misgiving. 
"They will be out of doors a great deal, and 
certainly ought to behave like gentlemen, since 
they have been at the best of schools. You will 
have to keep their room in order ; there will be 
rather more in the way of cooking and deserts ; 
but Fanny must help a little during vacation. 
You see, baby is going to take up much of my 
time. But if I thought it would be uncomfortable 
for you girls " 
" O, mamma, it will only last such a little 
while, after all ! And the two hundred dol- 
lars" 
We must not be mercenary, little one. 
Before we had finished, papa came in again. 
We were all on the "boys' side, I could plainly 
see. 
The next morning I aired the large spare 
room, brought out fresh towels, and arranged 
some flowers in the vases. There was matting 
on the floor, a maple bureau, wash-stand, and 
bedstead. The curtains were thin white mus- 
lin, with green blinds outside, which gave the 
apartment a pretty, pale tint. 
I didn't mean to put the two boys in this 
room when they came. There was another, 
opposite, not quite so nice, plenty good enough 
for rollicking boys. 
Papa went over to the station for Stephen. 
Mr. Duncan, I mean. I wondered why I should 
have such an inclination to call him by his 
Christian name a perfect stranger, too. But 
when I saw him I was as formal as you please. 
As tall as papa, and somewhat stouter, with 
a grave and rather impressive air, eyes that 
could look you through, a firm mouth, that, 
somehow, seemed to me, might be very stern 
and pitiless. He had a broad forehead, with 
a good deal of fine, dark hair ; but, what I 
thought very singular, blue eyes, which reminded 
you of a lake in the shade. His side-whiskers 
and mustache gave him a very stylish look, and 
he was dressed elegantly. Poor papa looked 
shabby beside him. 
Mamma and the baby, Fanny and I, were on 
the wide porch, while the children were play- 
ing croquet on the grassy lawn, though I do so 
much like the old-fashioned name of "door- 
yard." Papa introduced him in his home-like, 
cordial fashion, and he shook hands in a kind 
of stately manner that didn't seem a bit like his 
letter. 
He came to me last. I knew he did not liko 
.me. I think you can always tell when any one 
is pleased with you. He studied me rather 
sharply, and almost frowned a little. I felt that 
it was my red hair. And then I colored all 
over, put out my hand awkwardly, and wished 
I was anywhere out of sight. 
"And all the small crowd out there," said 
papa, in so gay a voice that it quite restored 
me to composure. 
"Really, friend Endicott, I was not prepared 
for this. Why, Mrs. Endicott, how have you
kept your youth and bloom ? Why, I am sud- 
denly conscience-smitten that I have proposed to 
add to your cares. " 
" You will feel easy when you see the inside 
of the house. There is plenty of room, plen- 
ty ; ' and papa laughed. 
"You had only a small nest when I visited 
you before," Mr. Duncan said to mother. "But 
how very lovely the whole village is ! I am so 
glad to find such a place for Louis. I hope my 
boys will not worry you to death, Mrs. Endicott, 
for, somehow, I do not know as I can give up 
the idea of sending them here, especially as Mr. 
Endicott is their guardian. I think it will do 
them both good to be acquainted intimately with 
such a man." 
It was all settled then. 
"I have wished a great many times that we 
had a sister for Louis's sake. Oddly enough, 
my uncle James's children were all boys, and 
Louis is very peculiar in some respects. It is 
asking a great deal of you. I understand that 
>vell, and shall appreciate it." 
I knew that I ought to look after Becky and 
Vhe supper ; so I rose and slipped away. 
"Two boys," I said to myself. "I do not 
believe that I shall like them ; ' and I shook 
head solemnly. 
CHAPTER III. 
WENT out to the kitchen and advised a 
few moments with our maid of all work, 
and then began to arrange the supper table. 
The visitor must sit next to papa, of course, but 
not on my side of the table. I did not mean to 
have him any nearer than I could help ; for, if 
he disliked red hair, I would not flirt it under 
his eyes. Or, suppose I placed him next to 
Fan ! She was so carelessly good natured that 
he would not be likely to disturb her thoughts. 
Mamma took the baby to the nursery, and then 
came in to give an approving look. I placed 
the two tall vases of flowers on the table, and 
it did present a very pretty appearance. 
"We are all ready now," she said. "Call 
papa." . 
I rang the bell, and the children came troop- 
ing in, papa and Mr. Duncan bringing up the 
 
rear. Fan glanced at the places, and looked 
pleased, I thought. 
"Here Mr. Duncan," she said, with a pretty 
wave of her hand ; and he took the proffered 
seat, giving me a quick glance, that brought the 
warm blood to my cheeks. 
We had a merry time ; for, after all, stran- 
gers were no great rarity ; and we were always 
merry in our snug little nest. It was said 
through the parish that every one had a good 
tirna at our house ; and Mr. Duncan appeared 
to be no exception. When we were almost 
through, we began to say verses, each one re- 
peating a passage of Scripture commencing with 
the same letter. We caught Mr. Duncan right 
away. He commenced two or three before he 
could hit upon the right beginning. 
"You see, I am not very ready " with my 
wits," he said, laughingly. 
Lily, Daisy, and Tim always had a romp with 
papa afterwards ; but my duties were not ended 
until they were snugly tucked in bed. You see, 
we could not afford nurse-maids and all that on 
papa's salary. But then, frolicking with them 
in bed was such a delight that I never minded 
the knots in their shoestrings, and the loads of 
 
trash, that had to Le emptied out of their pock- 
ets, to say nothing of mischief and dwadling, 
and the heaps of dresses and skirts lying round 
in little pyramids. Now and then I would make 
some stringent rules : every child must hang up 
her clothes, take care of her shoes and stockings, 
and put her comb and hair-ribbon just where 
they could be found in the morning. But, some- 
how, the rules were never kept. I suppose I 
was a poor disciplinarian. 
I went clown stairs at length. Mr. Duncan 
was pacing the porch alone. Papa had been 
called to see a sick neighbor. Mamma was 
listening to poor old Mrs. Hairdsley's troubles, 
told over for the hundredth time, I am sure. 
She was a mild, inoffensive, weak-eyed old lady, 
living with rather a sharp-tempered daughter-in- 
law. Fan was out on an errand of mercy also. 
"What a busy little woman you are!' he 
said. "I am glad to see you at last ; and I hope 
no one will fall sick, or want broth, or be in 
trouble for the next fifteen minutes. I suppose 
clergymen's houses are always houses of mercy. 
I begin to feel conscience-smitten to think tlmf, 
I am adding to the general burden. What will 
you do with two boys ? ' 
 
"I cannot exactly tell," I answered slowly, at 
which he appeared a good deal amused, though 
I did not see anything particularly funny in it. 
I think I would like to come myself, if I were 
not going 'over the seas.' What would I be 
good for ? Could I do parish visiting ? ' 
" Yes ; and teach the Sunday school, and go 
around with a subscription list, and " 
" O, the subscription list finishes me. I should 
stop at every gate, and put down a certain 
amount, and pay it out of my own pocket. 
Begging I utterly abhor." 
"But if you had nothing in your pocket? if 
your neighbors were richer than you, and if you 
were trying to teach people that it was their 
duty to provide for the sick and the needy ? ' 
"Why, what a little preacher you are! Let 
us go out in the moonlight. What a lovely 
night ! Suppose we walk down to meet your 
father. He said he should not stay long." 
I could think of no good excuse to offer ; so 
we sauntered slowly through the little yard and 
out to the street, both keeping silent for some 
time. 
"Miss Endicott," he began presently, "I wish 
I could interest you in r^y brothers. You have 
such a quaint, elder-sister air, that I know you 
would have a good influence over them ; though 
they may not prove so very interesting," he 
went on, doubtfully. "Louis is nervous, and 
has been ill; and boys are well, different from 
girls." 
I was not such a great ignoramus. I suppose 
he thought, because we had a houseful of girls, 
we knew nothing whatever of boys ; so I answer- 
ed, warmly, 
"The parishioners sometimes come to tea with 
two or three boys, who think they ought to 
demolish the furniture as well as the supper. 
Then there are the Sunday schools, and the 
picnics, and the children's festivals- 
"So you do see boys in abundance." 
"They are no great rarity," I replied, drily. 
"And you do not like them very much?' 
"I do not exactly know." 
He laughed there. It vexed me, and I was 
silent. 
"I think it a mistake when the girls are put 
in one family and the boys in another. Sisters 
generally soften boys, tone them down, and give 
them a tender grace." 
"And what are the brothers' graces?' I 
asked. 
 
"Boys have numberless virtues, we must con- 
cede," lie returned laughingly. "I think they 
perfect your patience, broaden your ideas, and 
add a general symmetry. They keep you from 
getting too set in your ways." 
I saw him smile down into my face in the soft 
moonlight, and it did annoy me. Men are 
always thinking themselves so superior ! 
" Our mother died when Stuart was a baby. 
She was always an invalid. But the summer I 
spent with your mother is such a sunny little 
oasis in my life, that I wanted the boys to have 
at least one pleasant memory. I suppose I am 
selfish one of the strong points of the sex." 
"O," I said, "I thought you were all virtues." 
"We have just about enough faults to pre- 
serve ballast. But perhaps you do not like the 
idea of their coming." 
He studied my face intently for a moment, 
from my round chin up to my hair. I remem- 
bered, in great confusion, that red-haired people 
were suspected of being quick-tempered. 
"I am sorry. They will be an annoyance. I 
ought to have thought " 
"You misunderstood me, Mr. Duncan," I be- 
gan, with a tremble in my voice. I should not 
 
have objected to their coming, even if I con- 
sidered that I had a right. It will ease papa's 
burdens in another way, and I am quite ready 
to do my part." 
" Little girl, there are a good many things that 
money cannot buy," he said gravely. 
I had surely done it now ! How mercenary 
he would think us ! I could have cried with 
vexation. 
There was a silence of some minutes. I had 
an inward consciousness that we were not fore- 
ordained to get on nicely together. 
"It is of some of these things that I would 
like to speak," he began, slowly. "The boys 
have been to a good school, to be sure ; but 
they never have had a home, or home training. 
And on some of the higher points of morals, a 
woman's influence does more by its silent grace 
than hundreds of lectures. Will you be a little 
patient with their rough ways and want of con- 
sideration ? I am offering you a part of my 
burden, to be sure ; but then, with your father's 
permission, I am to share part of yours. I am 
to stand with you to-morrow at your little sis- 
ter's christening. Believe me, that I am very 
glad to be here." 
 
Papa had intended to ask Mr. Searle, his senior 
warden. I .was surprised at the change. 
"Do you not like that, either?' and there 
was a tinge of disappointment in his tone. 
"Excuse me. It was only the suddenness." 
"I like the claim it gives me upon all your 
remembrances. Then your interest need only last 
a little while, if you so elect, while mine stretches 
over a whole life." 
" There is papa ! ' I exclaimed, with a great 
breath of relief, and sprang towards him. He 
put his dear arm around me, and I felt as if my 
perplexities had come to a sudden end. 
On the porch we found Fanny and mamma, 
and the conversation became very bright and 
general. Indeed, we sat up past our usual hour. 
When Fan and I were up stairs she began 
at once. 
"Mr. Duncan is just splendid! I envied you 
your walk, and I came back so soon that I had 
half a mind to run after you." 
"I wish you had been in my place. We did 
not get on at all. I wonder if we shall like the 
boys." 
"I shall not worry about them until they 
come." 
 
"But a fortnight soon passes, and then good- 
by to our quiet house." 
"A quiet house, with seven children in it!" 
and Fan laughed merrily. 
"Well they are not " 
"Boys! of course. But then, boys grow to 
be men. And men like Stephen Duncan are 
charming. One can afford to have a little 
trouble." 
" O, Fan! how can you talk so?' 
"I wasn't born blind or dumb. I cannot ac- 
count for it in any other way. Now, I dare 
say, Miss Prim, you are thinking of the two 
hundred dollars at the end of the summer, and 
all that it is to buy." 
"It has to be earned first." 
"We will take Mrs. Green's cheerful view of 
boarders. 4 They are not much trouble in the 
summer, when you only eat 'em and sleep 
'em. ; 
I could not help smiling at the quotation. 
"I wish it were Stephen instead. And how 
he talks of running over to England ! not mak- 
ing as much of it as we should of going to Ncu 
York. It is just royal to be rich. Rose, I 
think I shall marry for money, and set a good 
 
example to the five girls coming after me ; 
my dear, I have a strong suspicion that you will 
be an old maid." 
"O, Fanny, to-morrow will be Sunday, and 
the baby's christening." 
"Dear little Tot! yes. And we must set her 
a pattern of sweetness, so that she may see the 
manifest duty of all women. So, good-night, 
Mother Hubbard of many troubles." 
Fan gave me two or three smothering kisses, 
and subsided. I tried to do a little serious 
thinking, but was too sleepy ; and, in spite of 
my efforts, I went off in a dream about her and 
Mr. Duncan walking up the church aisle to- 
gether, Fan in a trailing white dress. I awoke 
with the thought in my mind. But it was fool- 
ish, and I tried to get it out. 
Sunday was beautiful. The air was full of 
fragrance ; bloom of tree and shrub, pungent 
odors of growing evergreens, and the freshening 
breath of grassy fields. After a pleasant break- 
fast, the children were made ready for church. 
Sundays were always such enjoyable days with 
us ! I don't know quite what the charm was ; 
but they seemed restful, and full of tender talking 
and sweet singing. 
After Sunday school, in the afternoon, the 
children were catechized, and there was a short 
service. 
Very few knew of the baby's christening ; so 
the congregation w^as not larger than usual. 
After the lesson, we went forward, mamma, 
Mrs. Whitcomb, baby, Mr. Duncan, and I. A 
sweet solemn service it was, baby being very 
good and quiet. Edith Duncan. The second 
name had been agreed upon in the morning, at 
Stephen's request. 
The children crowded around papa afterwards. 
"I do not wonder that everybody loves him," 
Mr. Duncan said, as we walked homeward. 
" And I feel as if I had a small claim upon 
him myself. I am a sort of brother to you now, 
Nelly." 
"Are you?' answered Nelly, with a roguish 
laugh. "I did not think it was so near a re- 
lation as that." 
" Perhaps it may be a grandfather, then," was 
the grave reply. 
"O, that's splendid!" declared Tiny Tim, 
who had big ears. "For we never had a grand- 
father, you know, only " 
"Only what?" 
 
"Your hair is not very white," commented 
Tim, as if suspicious of so near a relationship 
with a young man. 
He. laughed gayly. 
"I mean to be adopted into the family, nev- 
ertheless. My hair may turn white some day." 
"There is no hurry," returned Fanny. I doubt 
if Tim would be the more cordial on that ac- 
count." 
"Perhaps not;' with a shrewd smile. "But 
you will have to give me a sort of elder broth- 
er's place." 
"Will you really be our brother?' asked 
Daisy. 
"I shall be delighted to, if every one will 
consent. Ask Miss Rose if I may." 
"You like him don't you, Rose?' Papa 
said 
"We will take him for a brother," I returned, 
gaspingly, my cheeks scarlet, for fear of some 
indiscreet revelation. 
"I have never had any sisters; so I am very 
glad to get you all. I hope you will treat me 
well, and bring me home something nice when 
you go abroad." 
"But we are not going," said Tim; "and I 
don't believe I could hem a handkerchief nicely 
enough for you." 
" Then it will have to be the other way. Let 
me see : seven sisters. Well, I shall not forget 
you while I am gone." 
Mr. Duncan went to church that evening 
with Fan and Nelly, and, after he came home, 
had a long talk with papa out on the porch. 
Papa had enjoyed his guest very much and I 
was glad of that. It had been quite a holiday 
time. 
After breakfast the next morning, Mr. Dun- 
can went away. lie took little Edith in his 
arms, and walked up and down the room with 
her. 
"I feel as if I did not want to go away," he 
said, turning to mamma. "I think you must spoil 
everybody in this house. I almost envy the 
boys their summer vacation. Ah, Miss Fanny, 
you see I am by no means perfect." 
Fan nodded her head rather approvingly. I 
am not sure but she liked a spice of wicked- 
ness. 
'I shall remember your promise," lie said to 
me, with his good-by. 
What had I promised? About the boys 
 
was it ? Well I would do my best. I should 
have done it without his asking. 
"And in three months or so I shall see you 
again. Good by, little flock." 
Ah, little did we guess then how many things 
were to happen before we saw him again ! 
But the house seemed quite lonesome without 
him. I made the children ready for school, and 
then went at my rooms. If the boys should be 
like Stephen, it would not be so very bad after 
all. . ' - 
There was a deal of work to be done in the 
next fortnight. Our maid, as usual, was called 
away, providentially, as Fan used to say of them 
at any new disappearance, and we succeeded in 
getting a middle-aged Irish woman, who could 
wash and iron excellently, but who knew very 
little about cooking. But mamma said there 
was always something lacking ; and, since she 
was good and strong, it would do. All these 
matters were barely settled, when a note came, 
saying that Louis and Stuart Duncan would be 
at the station on Friday at four. 
Nelly walked over with papa. I had relented 
a little, and made their apartment bright and 
sweet with flowers. I had a fancy that I should 
like Louis the better ; lie, being an invalid, was, 
doubtless, gentle ; and I wheeled the easy-chair 
to a view of the most enchanting prospect out 
of the south window. Then, as usual, I went 
back to the work of getting supper. There is 
always so much eating o-oino- on in this world, 
and you need so many dishes to 'eat it off of! 
We are not flowers of the field, or fairies, to 
sup on dew. 
"O, there they come in a carriage!' 
Tiny Tim clapped her hands at that, where- 
upon the baby crowed and laughed. 
A hack with two trunks. A bright, curly- 
haired boy sprang out, and assisted Nelly in the 
most approved style. Then papa, and a tall, 
slender young man, looking old for his eighteen 
years. 
It did not seem a prepossessing face to me. 
The lips were thin, the brow contracted with a 
fretful expression, the nose undeniably haughty, 
and the cheeks sunken and sallow. Stuart was 
so different ! red and white, with glittering chest- 
nut hair, and laughing eyes, that were hazel, 
with a kind of yellowish tint in them, that gave 
his whole face a sunny look. One warmed to 
him immediately. 
 
Mamma went to the hall, and we followed ; 
and the introductions took place there. 
"Take the trunks up to the room, Mat," said 
my father. 
The boys bowed, and followed, Stuart casting 
back a gay glance. Papa took off his hat, kissed 
the baby, and sat down. 
" I was quite shocked to see Louis," he said, 
in an anxious tone. " He looks very poorly in- 
deed. We must try our best to nurse him back 
to health and strength. Rose, there is some 
more work to do." 
The voices up stairs were raised quite high in 
dispute. Louis gave a tantalizing laugh. 
We never quarrelled. I do not know that we 
were so much more amiable by nature ; but our 
disputes were of small importance, and never 
reached any great height. So we all started 
rather nervously. 
"Boys!' said Fan, sententiously. " O, papa, 
dearest, I am so glad that you came into the 
world a full-grown, evenly-tempered man, and 
that we all could not help being sweet if we 
tried, seeing that we follow your example." 
"Do you?' returned papa, archly. "I hope 
you do not use it all up, and that there is a 
little left for the parish." 
"And the stranger within our gates." 
There seemed to be no cessation, in the dis- 
cussion up stairs ; so, presently, papa asked that 
the bell might be rung. Stuart answered the 
summons, coming down two steps at a bound, 
and shaking the house. 
"Louis begs you to excuse him," he said, 
with a graceful inclination. "He is knocked up 
completely. He made such a muff of himself at 
the examinations, that he has been cross as a 
bear ever since. He has a lovely temper." 
There was a droll light in his eyes as he ut- 
tered this. 
"Your brother said he was in poor health. 
So he -failed then?' and papa's voice dropped 
softly. 
"Yes. Steve did not want him to try. He 
said there was no hurry about his getting into 
college. I only wish somebody would coddle 
me up, and tell me that I needn't study. I 
think the whole world is in a conspiracy against 
me.' 
You seem to thrive on it," returned papa. 
"O, there is no use of worrying one's sell' 
into the grave, so far as I can see. I belie vo 
in enjoying everything that I can squeeze a bit 
of inn out of. So I laugh at Louis, and lie 
gets angry." 
"It is just possible that he may not see the 
fun," said papa, soberly. 
" That is his lookout." 
"Is he really ill?' asked mamma. 
"Not much, I guess. But he is as full of 
whims as any old granny ! He should have been 
a girl." 
"Keep him on your side of the House," re- 
torted Fan. "It is a good thing that boys do 
not monopolize all the virtues." 
He looked at her with a peculiar stare, then 
laughed. He did seem brimming over with mer- 
riment, and rather pleased that Fanny had shown 
her colors. So they had a little gay sparring. 
"Do you not think your brother would like 
a cup of tea ? ' asked mamma. 
"When he gets in a fit like this, he gener- 
ally sulks it out," returned Stuart carelessly, ris- 
ing and sauntering out on the porch. 
Mamma could not resist, and presently went 
up stairs, tapping lightly at the half-open door. 
"I wish you would go away," said a voice, 
crossly. 
"It is I," exclaimed mamma, in her soft, yet 
firm, tones, that always commanded respect. 
"O! excuse me;' and Louis half raised his 
head. 
" Will you not have a cup of tea ? ' 
"No, thank you;' rather ungraciously. 
"Can I not do something for you? Does 
your head ache ? ' 
"Yes. I do not want anything but quiet." 
"Very well; you shall have that," she said, 
softly. 
She came down stairs, with a little sigh. 
"Is the bear still on exhibition, Mrs. Endi- 
cott ? ' asked Stuart. 
"I am afraid you, in your perfect health, do 
not realize how hard some things are to endure 
she said, with a touch of reproof in her voice. 
"I am glad I have not such a fearful temper. 
Miss Endicott, you play croquet, of course. I 
challenge you to a game." 
Fanny tripped gayly down the path. But 
mamma, I noticed, looked very grave. 
 
CHAPTER JV. 
Nelly, and Stuart played croquet until 
it was fairly dusk. There were shouts 
of laughter, and much hurrying around, 
as if no time was to be lost. Mamma and I went 
quietly about our duties ; and when I had the 
children in bed, I came into the nursery and 
sat down to have a brief talk with her. By this 
time the click of the balls had ceased, and the 
three were strolling up and down the street. 
"How odd it seems!' I said. I wonder if 
we shall get along nicely." 
"Don't begin to fear thus early, Mr. Faint- 
heart," returned mamma, smilingly. "It will not 
be as nice as haying our house to ourselves ; 
but we are not doing it for pure enjoyment. 
"When we are tired, and worried, and discouraged 
we must think of all the nice things we shall 
buy in the fall, and be comforted. We shall 
have papa a new study carpet, and get his chair 
freshly covered." 
