whistle sharply. System,—by which we mean a sagacious and economical
apportionment of the duty to the hour and the minute; an avoidance of
needless waste of time; a courageous putting forth of the hand to the
plough, instead of talking over the work to be done while the cool
morning moments are flying,—“System,” then, is not a talent! I wish
I could write this in terms so strong and striking as to command the
attention, enforce the belief of those whom I would reach. It is not
a talent. Still less is it genius. It is a duty! and she who shirks
it does herself and others wrong. If you cannot order your household
according to this rule, the fault is yours, and the misfortune theirs.
“We are living too fast!” is the useless note of alarm sounded from
press, and pulpit, and lecture-room; echoed in a thousand homes, in
various accents of regret and dismay; most fearfully by the rattling
clods upon the coffin-lid, that hides forever the careworn face of wife
and mother, who has been trampled to death by the press of iron-footed
cares. Is not this haste begotten by waste?
Is there any good reason why, in our homes—yours and mine, my toiling
sister—and in those of our neighbors to the right and left of us,
should not reign such method as prevails in our husbands’ places of
business? Why, instead of meeting the morning with uplifted hands and
the already desponding cry, “I have so much to do I cannot decide what
to lay hold of first!” we should not behold our path already mapped
out by our provident study over-night—its certain duties; its probable
stumbling-blocks; recreation, devotion and rest—each in its proper
place? Why we should not be ready, “heart within and God o’erhead,”
to make the new day an event in our lives, a stepping-stone to higher
usefulness to our kind and toward heaven? Why we should not bring
to hindrance, as to duty, the resolute, hopeful purpose with which
the miner bends over his pickaxe, the gardener over his spade, the
book-keeper over his ledger? Why, in short, we should not magnify
our office—make of housewifery, and child-tending, and sewing a
profession—to be studied as diligently and pursued as steadily as are
the avocations of the other sex?
I should not dare ask these questions, were I not already convinced, by
years of patient examination of the subject, that it is feasible for a
clear-headed, conscientious woman to do all this, and more. Would not
“dare,” because I know by what a storm of indignant protest the queries
will be met, not only from those who pride themselves upon the amiable
foible of “having no system,” but on the part of deep-hearted women who
are really anxious to do their share of this world’s great work.
The pale-faced mother over the way will tell me of the clutch of
baby-fingers upon her garments whenever she essays to move steadily
onward, and how the pressure of the same holds her eyes waking through
the night-watches; how the weight of baby-lips upon the breast saps
strength and vitality together. Dear and precious cares she esteems
these; but they leave little time or energy for anything else. The
matron, whose younglings have outgrown childhood, is ready with her
story of the toils and distractions of a family of merry girls who
are “in society,” and inconsiderate, unpunctual “boys,” who look to
“mother” to supply, for the present, the place of the coming wife
to each of them. Martha, wedded and middle-aged, but childless, is
overpowered by cares, “put upon her by everybody,” she relates, with
an ever-renewed sense of injury wearing into her soul, “because it is
believed that women without children have nothing to do.”
One and all, they are eloquent upon the subject of unforeseen
vexations, the ever-hindering “happenings” that, like the knots tied
in wire-grass across the path by mischievous fairies, are continually
tripping them up.
“Moreover,” says Mrs. Practical, “there is little use in attempting to
be methodical and to save the scraps of time unless other people do.
We are liable to have our precious hoard stolen at any moment. If my
next-door neighbor persists in ‘dropping in’ whenever she feels lonely,
or wants a receipt, or has a morsel of news she cannot keep, and cannot
withdraw her unseasonable foot from my house under an hour at each
visit, of what avail are my watchfulness and diligence?”
With her accustomed shrewdness, Mrs. Practical has put her finger upon
the hardest knot of the tangle. Says that other model of sterling,
every-day sense, Miss Betsy Trotwood, touching Mr. Micawber’s
difficulties: “If he is going to be continually arrested, his friends
have got to be continually bailing him out—that is all!”
The family of Neverthinks (“may their tribe decrease!”) act upon the
reverse principle. If their acquaintances will be continually working
themselves into line with the flying hours, they—the Neverthinks—must
be zealous in pulling them to the rear. They are like an army of
mice scampering through the tidy cupboards of Mesdames Practical
and Notable. They claim, like Death, all seasons for their own.
Against such there is no recognized law, and no redress except in the
determined will and wise co-operation of their victims.
Dropping the fictitious personages, let us talk of this matter plainly,
as face-to-face, dear reader! Why have women, as a class, such an
imperfect conception of the value of time to themselves and to others?
To Mrs. Trollope belongs, I believe, the credit of bringing into
general use a word which, if not elegant, is so expressive that I
cannot do without it in this connection. Why do women dawdle away
seconds and minutes and hours in playing at work, or affecting to play?
A clever young girl was once showing me a set of chairs embroidered by
herself. Knowing that she was her mother’s efficient aid in the cares
entailed by a large family, I asked her how she had made the time for
the achievement.
“O! I did it in the betweenities!” she returned, gayly. “Between
prayers and breakfast; between the children’s lessons; between the
spring and fall sewing; between morning and evening calls, and in a
dozen other gaps. I had a piece of it always within reach, and every
stitch taken was a gain of one.”
We all need play—recreation, wholesome and hearty diversion. I would
guard this point carefully. God-willing, we will talk of it, more at
length, some time, but to make the day’s work even and close, our
life’s work rich and ample, we must look well after the “betweenities.”
Let me probe a little more deeply yet. Have not the prejudices and
gallantries of generations had their effect upon the formation of
feminine opinions on this head? begotten in many minds the impression
that we are unjustly dealt with in being obliged to take up and carry
forward as a life-long duty any business whatsoever? Is not the
unspoken thought of such persons one of impatient disappointment at
finding that earth is not a vast pleasure-ground and existence one
long, bright holiday? If men will speak of and treat women as pretty
playthings, they at least should not complain when the dainty toy
proves to be an unserviceable domestic machine. A man who acknowledges
that he dislikes the business by which he earns his living is looked
upon with instant distrust, as silly, indolent, or, at the best,
unphilosophical. If his auditor has occasion to avail himself of the
services of one of the craft to which the unwilling workman belongs,
he will assuredly seek a man who would be likely to do himself and
his employer more credit than can be given by his half-hearted labor.
But housewives confess freely that they loathe housekeeping and all
pertaining thereto. I speak that which I do know when I say that where
you find one who works con amore in her profession, there are two who
drudge on grumblingly, and consider themselves aggrieved because the
morning brings labor and the evening care. The fault begins very far
back.
“If girls knew when they were well off, they would never marry.”
“A butterfly before marriage—a grub afterward.”
“Let well enough alone.”
“She who weds may do well. She who remains single certainly does
better.”
These are specimens of the choice maxims shouted from the reefs
of matrimony to the pleasure-shallops gliding over the summer sea
beyond the breakers. By the time the boy begins to walk and talk, the
sagacious father studies his tastes and capacity in selecting a trade
for him; puts him fairly in training for the same so soon as he is well
embarked in his teens; sees for himself that his drill is thorough and
his progress satisfactory. Of the lad’s sisters their mother will tell
you, with tears in her eyes, that she “cannot bear to tie the dear
girls down to regular duties. Let them take their pleasure now, for
when they marry, trouble and responsibility must come.”
Not seeing that to the unskilled apprentice the practice of his art
must be cruelly hard; that her own loving hands are making tight the
lashings of the load which the tender shoulders must bear until death
cuts the sharp cords; that in her mistaken indulgence she is putting
darkness for light, and light for darkness; bitter for sweet, and sweet
for bitter.
MEATS, INCLUDING POULTRY AND GAME.
CALF’S LIVER à l’Anglaise. +
2 pounds fresh liver.
¼ pound fat salt pork.
2 table-spoonfuls of butter.
1 small shallot, minced very fine.
1 teaspoonful chopped parsley.
Cut the liver into slices half an inch thick. Lay these smoothly in a
saucepan in which the butter has already been melted, but not allowed
to get hot. Chop the pork into very small bits, and spread upon the
liver. Sprinkle over this the minced parsley and onion, and season
to your fancy with salt and pepper. Cover the saucepan closely, and
set it where it will heat so moderately that the juices will be drawn
out without simmering. Care must be taken to observe this direction
exactly, as both the tenderness and flavor of the liver are impaired by
stewing. At the end of an hour and a half increase the heat gradually
until the contents of the saucepan begin to bubble. Remove from the
fire; arrange the liver neatly upon a hot chafing-dish, and keep this
covered while you boil up and thicken with a little browned flour the
gravy left in the saucepan. Pour over the liver and serve.
This process renders calf’s liver tender and juicy to a degree that
would seem incredible to those who know the much-abused edible only
through the medium of the usual modes of cookery.
Try it, when you are at a loss for something new, yet not expensive.
CALF’S LIVER au Domino.
2 pounds liver.
½ pound fat salt pork.
2 table-spoonfuls of butter.
Seasoning of pepper, parsley and onion.
Cut the liver in pieces less than half an inch thick, and rather more
than an inch square. String these evenly upon a slender skewer (an old
knitting-needle will do) alternately with bits of fat pork of the same
shape and width. When the skewer is full, lay for ten minutes in the
melted butter, season with pepper (the pork salting it sufficiently),
minced onion, and parsley, then lay in a baking-pan, and cover with a
tin plate or shallow pan. Cook slowly in a moderate oven until the pork
begins to crisp. Remove to a hot dish, draw out the skewer carefully,
so as to leave the liver in the form in which it was cooked; add a
little hot water and butter to the gravy, thicken with browned flour,
boil up once, and pour over the dominoes of pork and liver.
OLLAPODRIDA OF LAMB. (Good.)
The sweetbreads, liver, heart, kidneys, and brains of a lamb. (Your
butcher can easily procure all with timely notice.)
Handful of bread-crumbs.
1 raw egg, beaten light.
One small, young onion, minced.
1 table-spoonful currant jelly.
Season with salt, pepper, and parsley.
1 cup good broth.
Parboil the sweetbreads for five minutes, then simmer for ten in the
gravy. Take them up, and set aside to cool, while you boil the brains
in the same broth. When both brains and sweetbreads are cold and firm,
slice, dip in the egg, then the crumbs, and fry in good dripping or
butter. After the brains are taken from the broth, put in the slices of
heart, and stew very gently for at least half an hour. Let them cool,
then fry with the minced liver in dripping seasoned with the onion,
minced fine. Slice the kidneys, and having strained the useful broth
from the liver, return it to the saucepan, and stew the kidneys in it
for five minutes. Next, fry these for two minutes—no more—in butter.
Arrange all in a hot dish; add to the fat left in the frying-pan the
broth, thicken with browned flour and the jelly, season to taste, and
pour over the sweetbreads, etc.
You can make a larger stew—or fry—of calf’s sweetbreads, liver, heart,
and brains, and by most people this would be relished more than the
lamb ollapodrida.
It is a good plan to stew the various articles the day before you mean
to eat them, and have them all cold to your hand, ready for frying.
CALF’S LIVER sauté. +
2 pounds calf’s liver, cut into slices half an inch thick.
2 small young onions, minced.
1 small glass of sherry.
1 table-spoonful mushroom or tomato catsup.
Salt, pepper, and parsley, with juice of a lemon.
Good dripping or butter for frying.
Slice the liver, when you have washed and soaked it well, and fry it,
turning often, to a light-brown. Drain and lay in a hot chafing-dish.
Mix with the dripping or butter the onions, seasoning, lemon-juice, and
browned flour for thickening. Boil up, put in the catsup and wine, heat
almost to boiling again, and pour over the liver.
FRICASSEE OF CALF’S LIVER. +
2 pounds liver, cut into strips more than half an inch thick, and as
long as your finger.
2 young onions, minced.
1 glass wine.
Pepper, salt and parsley.
Butter or dripping for frying.
½ cup good gravy.
Dredge the sliced liver with flour, and fry to a light-brown, quickly,
and turning often. Mince the onions and parsley, and heat them in the
gravy in a saucepan; put in the fried liver, let all stew together
gently for ten minutes, when pour in the wine, and as soon as this is
hot, serve—the liver piled neatly and the gravy poured over it.
CALF’S LIVER à la mode. +
1 fine liver, as fresh as you can get it.
½ pound fat salt pork, cut into lardoons.
3 table-spoonfuls of butter.
2 young onions.
1 table-spoonful Worcestershire or Harvey’s sauce.
2 table-spoonfuls vinegar and a glass of wine.
½ teaspoonful cloves.
½ teaspoonful allspice.
½ teaspoonful mace.
1 table-spoonful sweet herbs, cut fine.
Pepper and salt to taste—very little of the latter, as the pork should
salt it sufficiently.
Wash the liver in two waters and soak ten minutes in cold water,
slightly salted. Wipe dry, make incisions in it about half an inch
apart, and insert the lardoons, allowing them to project slightly on
each side. Have ready in a frying-pan the sliced onion, butter, sweet
herbs and spice. Put in the liver and fry to a good brown. Turn all
into a saucepan, add the vinegar and just enough water to cover the
liver. Cover closely, and simmer slowly an hour and a half. Take out
the liver and lay on a hot dish, add the wine and sauce to the gravy,
thicken with browned flour; let it boil up once, pour about the liver,
and send up the surplus in a boat.
This is good cold as well as hot, cut in thin slices.
RAGOÛT OF CALF’S HEAD, OR IMITATION TURTLE. +
Half of a cold boiled calf’s head.
1 cup good gravy.
4 hard-boiled eggs.
About a dozen force-meat balls made of minced veal with bread-crumbs
and bound with beaten egg, then rolled in flour.
1 teaspoonful sweet herbs, chopped fine.
A very little minced onion.
Browned flour for thickening; pepper and salt for seasoning.
1 glass brown sherry.
Cut the meat of the calf’s head evenly into slices of uniform size.
Heat the gravy almost to a boil, with the seasoning, herbs and onion.
Put in the meat, simmer, closely covered, for fifteen minutes; add the
force-meat balls, wine and the eggs sliced. Let all become smoking hot;
take up the meat; pile neatly on a hot dish, lay the eggs on it; the
force-meat balls at the base of the heap, and pour a cupful of gravy
over all, sending up the rest in a boat.
This ragoût is very nice, and easily provided for by setting aside
enough meat for it, on the day you have calf’s head soup, if the head
be large.
It is also a cheap dish, as even a large head seldom costs more than a
dollar, and half will make a good ragoût.
RAGOÛT OF CALF’S HEAD AND MUSHROOMS. +
Half a cold boiled calf’s head, sliced and free from bones, also the
tongue cut in round slices.
1 can French mushrooms (champignons).
1 onion sliced.
1 cup strong gravy—beef, veal, game or fowl.
Season with pepper, salt and sweet herbs.
Browned flour for thickening.
½ teaspoonful mixed allspice and mace.
Juice of a lemon.
1 glass wine—claret or sherry.
3 table-spoonfuls butter for frying, unless you have very nice dripping.
Drain the liquor from the mushrooms and slice them. Fry the slices
of meat five minutes in the hot butter or dripping. Take them out and
put into a tin pail or inner compartment of a farina kettle. Pour
warm, not boiling, water into the outer vessel, cover the inner and
set over the fire while you fry the mushrooms, then, the onion, in the
fat left in the frying-pan. Drain them and lay upon the meat in the
inner sauce-pan. Have ready in another the broth, spiced and seasoned,
and now pour this hot upon the meat and mushrooms. Cover closely and
simmer for fifteen minutes. Strain off the gravy into a saucepan,
thicken; let it boil up once; add wine and lemon-juice, and when it is
again smoking hot, pour over the meat and mushrooms in a deep dish.
Some strips of fried toast are an acceptable addition to this ragoût.
These should be laid on the heap of meat.
I have also varied it satisfactorily, by putting in sliced hard-boiled
eggs. It is a good entrée at dinner, and a capital luncheon or
breakfast-dish.
A MOULD OF CALF’S HEAD. +
A cold boiled calf’s head freed from bones and cut into thin slices—or
so much of it as you need for your mould.
6 hard-boiled eggs—also sliced.
Five or six slices of cold boiled ham—corned is better than smoked.
1 large cupful of the liquor in which the head was boiled, stewed down
to a rich gravy and well seasoned with pepper, salt, mace and minced
onion. Strain before using.
Line the bottom of a buttered mould with the slices of egg also
buttered on the outer side, that they may easily leave the mould.
Salt and pepper them, then fill the mould with alternate layers of
sliced calf’s head, ham, sliced eggs, seasoning, etc., pouring in the
gravy last. If you have no top for the mould, make a stiff paste of
flour and water to close it in and preserve flavor and juices.
When done, set it, still covered, in a cool place. When cold and firm,
slice for luncheon or tea.
Or,
You can chop both kinds of meat fine, also the eggs, and pack in
successive layers within your mould.
A little lemon-juice and minced parsley, with a touch of catsup, will
improve the gravy.
CALF’S BRAINS FRIED.
The brains, well washed, and scalded in boiling water for two
minutes, then laid in very cold.
2 eggs well beaten.
A little flour and butter.
Salt and pepper.
Beat the brains, when perfectly cold, into a paste; season, add
the eggs and enough flour to make a good batter, with less than a
teaspoonful of butter to prevent toughness. Have ready some good
dripping in the frying-pan, and when it is hissing hot, drop in the
batter in spoonfuls and fry.
Or—
You can fry on the griddle, like cakes.
They are very palatable either way when cooked quickly and freed of
every clinging drop of grease.
CALF’S BRAINS ON TOAST.
The brains.
3 eggs, beaten light.
Salt, pepper and parsley.
Six or eight rounds of fried bread.
2 table-spoonfuls butter.
Soak the brains fifteen minutes; free from skin and fibre; then drop
them into boiling water in which you have put a little salt and a
teaspoonful of vinegar. Boil hard for ten minutes, then throw the
brains into ice-cold water. When well cooled break them up with
a wooden or silver spoon; and stir into the beaten eggs with the
seasoning. Have ready the butter in a hot frying-pan, pour in the
mixture and stir rapidly for two minutes, or until it is a soft mass
like stirred eggs. Lay the toast upon a hot dish and heap the brains
upon it.
This dish is rendered yet more savory, if you will pour some good
well-seasoned gravy over the mounds of brains and the toast.
VEAL CUTLETS (Stewed). +
2 pounds veal cutlets, nicely trimmed.
1 small onion, sliced.
4 table-spoonfuls strained tomato sauce.
Enough butter or clear dripping to fry the cutlets.
Salt and pepper with a bunch of sweet herbs.
½ cup gravy.
Fry the cutlets to a light brown, but not crisp; take them out and put
into a covered saucepan. Have ready the gravy in another, with the
tomato sauce stirred into it. Fry the onion in the fat from which you
have taken the cutlets, and add with the fat to the gravy. Pour all
over the cutlets and simmer, covered, twenty minutes.
MOCK PIGEONS. +
3 or 4 fillets of veal.
Force-meat of bread-crumbs and minced pork, seasoned.
½ cup mushrooms and a little minced onion.
1 sweetbread.
A dozen oysters.
½ cup strong brown gravy.
1 glass of wine.
Take the bone, if there be any, out of the fillets (or cutlets, or
steaks) of veal; spread each thickly with the force-meat, and roll up
tightly, binding with packthread. Put into a baking-pan with enough
cold water to half-cover them; turn another pan over them and bake
from three-quarters of an hour to an hour in proportion to their size.
Meanwhile, boil the sweetbread fifteen minutes, blanch in cold water;
cut into dice, and put into a saucepan with the gravy, which let simmer
on the hob. Cut the mushrooms into small pieces and fry with the onion
in a little butter, then add to the heating gravy. In still another
vessel, when the veal is nearly done, heat the oysters, also chopped
fine, seasoning with salt and pepper. When the “pigeons” are tender
throughout, uncover, baste generously with butter, and brown. Transfer
to a hot flat dish; clip the packthread and gently withdraw it, not to
injure the shape of the rolled meat. Let the gravy in which they were
roasted come to a fast boil, thicken with browned flour and pour into
the saucepan containing the sauce, sweetbreads, etc. Boil up once, add
the wine; take from the fire and put in the chopped oysters. Stir all
together well in the saucepan, pour a dozen spoonfuls, or so, over the
“pigeons,” taking up the thickest part; send the rest to table in a
gravy tureen.
You can make a simpler sauce by leaving out the sweetbreads, etc., and
seasoning the gravy in the baking-pan with tomato sauce.
These “pigeons” will make an attractive variety in the home bill of
fare, and do well as the pièce de résistance of a family dinner.
A VEAL TURNOVER. +
Remains of roast veal—cold, minced fine, and seasoned.
2 or 3 eggs.
1 cup milk.
Flour to make a good batter—about 4 table-spoonfuls.
2 table-spoonfuls of butter.
Chopped parsley, pepper, and salt.
Heat the butter to a boil in the frying-pan. Mix the eggs, milk,
flour, parsley, pepper, and salt into a batter, and pour it into the
frying-pan. Lay in the middle, as soon as it begins to “form,” the
minced meat. Fry rather slowly, taking care that the batter does not
burn. When done on one side, fold the edges of the pancake over to the
middle, enclosing the meat, and turn with a cake spatula. When both
sides are of a delicate brown, put the cake “turner” under it, and slip
over to a hot dish.
Send around a little gravy in a boat.
MEAT AND POTATO PUFFS. +
Slices of cold roast beef or mutton, and as many of corned ham.
2 eggs.
1 cup milk.
Enough potatoes and flour to make a good paste.
Pepper, salt, and mustard, or catsup.
Mash the potatoes, mix with them the eggs, well beaten, and whip up to
a cream, adding the milk gradually. Add flour enough to enable you to
roll it out into a sheet. Cut into squares, and in the centre of each
lay a slice of beef or mutton, well seasoned with pepper and salt,
and spread with made mustard or catsup. Lay on this a slice of ham of
the same shape and size; fold the paste into a triangular “turnover,”
printing the edges deeply with a jagging-iron, and fry in butter or
beef-dripping to a nice brown. Take up so soon as they are done; lay on
white paper for a moment to absorb the grease, and serve hot.
SCALLOPED CHICKEN. +
Cold roast or boiled chicken—chiefly the white meat.
1 cup gravy.
1 table-spoonful butter, and 1 egg, well beaten.
1 cup of fine bread-crumbs.
Pepper and salt.
Rid the chicken of gristle and skin, and cut—not chop—into pieces
less than half an inch long. Have ready the gravy, or some rich drawn
butter, in a saucepan on the fire. Thicken it well, and stir in the
chicken, boil up once, take it off, and add the beaten egg. Cover the
bottom of a buttered dish with fine bread-crumbs, pour in the mixture,
and put another thick layer of crumbs on top, sticking bits of butter
all over it. Bake to a delicate brown in a quick oven.
Or—
Instead of the gravy make a white sauce, as follows:
1 cup cream or rich milk.
2 table-spoonfuls butter and 1 beaten egg.
1 table-spoonful corn-starch, wet in cold milk.
Pepper, salt and parsley.
Heat the cream to a boil, stir in the corn-starch until it thickens;
then the butter, seasoning and egg. Take at once from the fire, add the
minced chicken, and proceed as already directed.
Turkey may be used instead of chicken; also veal.
SCALLOPED BEEF (Very good). +
Some minced beef or lean mutton.
1 young onion, minced.
½ cup gravy.
Some mashed potato.
1 table-spoonful of butter to a cup of potato.
1 table-spoonful of cream to the same.
Pepper and salt.
Catsup, if mutton be used; made mustard for beef.
1 beaten egg for each cupful of potato.
Mash the potato while hot, beating very light with the butter and
cream—lastly, the egg. Too much attention cannot be paid to this part
of the work. Fill a buttered baking-dish, or scallop shells with the
minced meat, seasoned with onion, pepper, salt and mustard or catsup,
moisten with gravy, and cover with the mashed potato at least half an
inch thick if your dish be large. Smooth this over and bake to a light
brown. Just before you draw them from the oven glaze by putting a bit
of butter on the top of each scallop.
MINCE OF VEAL OR LAMB. +
1 cup gravy, well thickened.
The remains of cold roast meat—minced, but not very fine.
2 table-spoonfuls cream, or rich milk.
1 saltspoonful mace.
Pepper and salt to taste, with chopped parsley.
1 small onion.
1 table-spoonful butter.
3 eggs well whipped.
Heat the gravy to a boil, add the milk, butter, seasoning, onion,
lastly the eggs, and so soon as these are stirred in, the minced meat,
previously salted and peppered. Let it get smoking hot, but it must not
boil. Heap in the middle of a dish, and enclose with a fence of fried
potato or fried triangles of bread.
If well cooked and seasoned, this is a savory entrée.
WHITE FRICASSEE OF RABBIT. +
1 young rabbit.
1 pint weak broth.
¼ pound fat salt pork.
1 onion, sliced.
Chopped parsley, pepper and salt.
A very little mace.
1 cup of milk or cream.
1 table-spoonful corn-starch or rice flour.
1 table-spoonful butter.
Joint the rabbit neatly and cut the pork into strips. Put on the rabbit
to boil (when it has lain in salt-and-water half an hour) in the broth,
which should be cold. Put in the pork with it, and stew, closely
covered, and very gently, an hour, or, until tender, before adding the
onion, seasoning and parsley. When you do this, take out the pieces of
rabbit, put in a covered dish to keep warm and boil down the gravy very
fast, for fifteen minutes. Take out the pork, then strain the gravy
through your soup-strainer. Let it stand five or six minutes in a cold
place that the fat may rise. Skim this off; return the gravy to the
saucepan, and when it is almost on the boil, stir in the cream or milk
in which the corn-starch has been dissolved. Stir until it thickens,
put in the butter, then the pieces of rabbit and the pork. All must
simmer together five minutes, but not boil. When it is smoking hot, lay
the rabbit neatly on a dish, pour over the gravy, garnish with parsley
and sliced lemons and serve.
BROWN FRICASSEE OF RABBIT, or “JUGGED RABBIT.” +
1 young but full-grown rabbit, or hare.
½ pound fat salt pork, or ham.
1 cup good gravy.
Dripping or butter for frying.
1 onion, sliced.
Parsley, pepper, salt and browned flour.
1 glass of wine.
1 table-spoonful currant jelly.
Let the rabbit lie, after it is jointed, for half an hour in cold
salt-and-water. Wipe dry, and fry to a fine brown with the onion. Have
ready a tin pail, or the inner vessel of a farina-kettle; put in the
bottom a layer of fat salt pork, cut into thin strips; then, one of
rabbit, seasoning well with pepper, but scantily with salt. Sprinkle
the fried onion over the rabbit, and proceed in this order until your
meat is used up. Cover the vessel, and set in another of warm water.
Bring slowly to a boil, and let it stand where it will cook steadily,
but not fast, for three-quarters of an hour, if the rabbit be large.
Take out the meat, arrange it on a dish, add the jelly, beaten up with
the browned flour, to the gravy, then the wine. Boil up quickly and
pour over the rabbit.
Do not fail to give this a trial.
CURRIED RABBIT.
1 rabbit, jointed.
½ pound fat salt pork.
1 onion, sliced.
½ cup cream.
1 table-spoonful corn-starch.
Pepper, salt and parsley, and 2 eggs well beaten.
1 dessert spoonful good curry-powder.
Soak the jointed rabbit half an hour in cold salt-and-water, then put
into a saucepan with the pork cut into strips, the onion and parsley,
and stew steadily, not fast, in enough cold water to cover all, for
an hour, or until the rabbit is tender. Take out the meat and lay on
a covered chafing-dish to keep warm, while you boil the gravy five
minutes longer. Let it stand a few minutes for the fat to rise, skim it
and strain. Return to the fire; let it almost boil, when put in the
corn-starch. Stir to thickening, put in the curry-powder, the rabbit
and pork, and let all stand covered, in a vessel of boiling water,
fifteen minutes. Take up the meat, pile upon the chafing-dish; add to
the gravy the cream and eggs, and stir one minute before pouring over
the meat. All should stand, covered, in the hot-water chafing-dish
about five minutes before going to table.
No arbitrary rule can be given as to the length of time it is necessary
to cook game before it will be tender, since there are so many degrees
of toughness in the best of that recommended by your reliable provision
merchant as “just right.”
Hence, my oft-reiterated clause, “or, until tender.”
You can curry chicken in the same manner as rabbit.
DEVILLED RABBIT.
1 rabbit, jointed, as for fricassee.
3 table-spoonfuls butter.
A little cayenne, salt and mustard.
1 teaspoonful Worcestershire sauce, and 1 table-spoonful vinegar.
Parboil the rabbit, and let it get perfectly cold; then score to the
bone, the gashes about half an inch apart. Melt together in a saucepan
the butter and seasoning. Stir up well, and rub each piece of the
rabbit with the mixture, working it into the gashes. Broil over a clear
fire, turning as soon as they begin to drip. When they are brown lay
on a hot dish, and pour melted butter over them. Let them lie in this,
turning several times, for three or four minutes. Put the rest of the
mixture on them, if any be left, and serve.
DEVILLED FOWL.
Use only the legs and upper part of the wings of roasted or boiled
fowls. Treat precisely as you do the rabbit in the foregoing receipt.
SALMI OF GAME. +
An underdone roast duck, pheasant, or grouse.
1 great spoonful of butter.
2 onions, sliced and fried in butter.
1 large cup strong gravy.
Parsley, marjoram and savory.
Pepper and salt.
A pinch of cloves, and same of nutmeg.
Cut your game into neat joints and slices, taking all the skin off.
Put refuse bits, fat, skin, etc., into a saucepan with the gravy, the
fried onions, herbs, spice, pepper and salt. Boil gently one hour; let
it cool until the fat rises, when skim it off and strain the gravy.
Return it to the saucepan, and, when it heats, stir into it the butter
and thicken with browned flour. Boil up sharply for five minutes and
put in the pieces of duck. After this, the salmi must not boil.
Neglect of this rule ruins most of the so-called salmis one sees upon
private as well as upon hotel tables. Set the saucepan in a vessel of
boiling water, and heat it through, letting it stand thus ten minutes.
Arrange the meat upon a hot dish, and pour the gravy over it. Garnish
with triangles of fried bread, and serve a piece to each guest with the
salmi.
ROAST RABBITS. +
A pair rabbits.
½ pound fat salt pork, cut into thin slices.
2 table-spoonfuls butter, and 1 glass of wine.
Bread-crumbs, chopped pork, parsley, grated lemon-peel, salt and pepper
for the stuffing.
1 egg, beaten light, and 1 onion, sliced.
Skin and clean the rabbits (or hares), and lay in cold salt-and-water
half an hour. Prepare the dressing as above directed, binding with
the egg. Wipe the rabbits dry inside and out, stuff with the prepared
mixture, and sew them up closely. Cover the backs of the rabbits with
the sliced pork, binding it in place with packthread wound around and
around the bodies. Lay them in the baking-pan, backs uppermost; pour
into it about two cupfuls of cold water, cover closely, and steam for
an hour, raising the upper pan now and then to pour a few spoonfuls of
the boiling water about the rabbits over their backs, that the pork may
not crisp; then remove the cover, clip the packthread, and take off
the pork. Brown the rabbits, basting bountifully and frequently with
butter. Chop the pork, and crisp in a frying-pan with the sliced onion.
When the rabbits are done transfer to a hot dish; pour the gravy into
a saucepan with the pork and onion. Boil up once, and strain before
thickening with browned flour. Add the wine, give a final boil, and
pour over and about the rabbits, sending up the surplus in a tureen.
Pigeons and grouse are very fine roasted in this way, also partridges.
BRAISED WILD DUCK OR GROUSE. +
A pair of ducks or grouse.
1 onion, minced fine.
Bread-crumbs, pepper and salt, a pinch of sage, and a little chopped
pork for stuffing.
4 table-spoonfuls of butter, or good dripping.
1 cup gravy.
Browned flour.
Prepare and stuff the fowls as for roasting. Have ready the butter or
dripping hot in a large frying-pan, and fry first one fowl, then the
other in this, turning as it browns below. Then lay them in a large
sauce-pan and pour the gravy, previously heated, in with them. Cover
closely and stew gently for an hour, or until the game is tender.
Transfer the fowls to a hot dish and cover it, to keep in flavor and
warmth while you strain the gravy. Let it cool a little to throw up the
grease. Skim, thicken with browned flour, and boil up well for five
minutes. Skim again, put back the duck into the gravy, and let all
stand heating—not boiling—five minutes more, before dishing. Pour
a few spoonfuls of gravy over the ducks on the dish; the rest into a
tureen.
Send around green peas and currant jelly with them.
ROAST QUAILS. +
6 plump quails.
12 fine oysters.
3 table-spoonfuls butter.
Pepper and salt, and fried bread for serving.
Clean the quails and wash out very carefully with cold water in which
been dissolved a little soda. Cleanse finally with pure water and wipe
dry, inside and out. Place within the body of each bird a couple of
oysters or one very large one, sew it up and range all, side by side,
in a baking-pan. Pour a very little boiling water over them to harden
the outer skin and keep in the juices, and roast, covered, about half
an hour. Then uncover and baste frequently with butter while they are
browning. Serve upon rounds of fried bread, laid on a hot dish. Put a
spoonful of gravy upon each, and send up the rest in a boat, when you
have thickened and strained it.
If you like, you may add a glass of claret and a table-spoonful of
currant jelly to the gravy after the quails are taken up.
Be careful to sew up small game with fine cotton that will not tear the
meat when it is drawn out.
FRICASSEED CHICKEN à l’Italienne (Fine).
Pair of chickens.
½ pound fat salt pork, cut into strips.
2 sprigs of parsley.
1 sprig thyme.
1 bay leaf.
A dozen mushrooms.
1 small onion.
1 clove.
1 table-spoonful of butter.
1 table-spoonful of salad oil.
2 glasses wine—white, or pale sherry.
Cut the chickens into joints; put them with the pork into a saucepan
with a very little water, and stew, covered, until tender. Remove the
chicken to a hot-water chafing-dish and keep warm while you prepare
the gravy. Turn the liquor in which the chickens were cooked into a
frying-pan, thicken with browned flour; put into it the herbs, onion,
clove and the mushrooms chopped very fine. Boil up sharply; add the
butter and stew fast half an hour. Then add the wine and oil. Simmer a
few minutes, and strain through a coarse cullender over the chicken.
I have understated the merits of this admirable fricassee by styling
it “fine.” The dear friend upon whose table I first saw it, will, I am
sure, earn the thanks of many other housewives, with my own, by giving
the receipt.
MINCED CHICKEN AND EGGS. +
Remains of roast or boiled chicken.
Stuffing of the same.
1 onion cut fine.
½ cup of cream.
1 table-spoonful flour or corn-starch.
Parsley, salt, and pepper.
6 or 8 eggs.
½ cup gravy, and handful of bread-crumbs.
Cut the meat of the fowls into small, neat squares. Put the bones, fat,
and skin into a saucepan, with the onion and enough cold water to cover
them, and stew gently for an hour or more. Strain, let it stand for a
little while that the fat may rise, skim, and return to the saucepan.
When hot to boiling, add the cream and thickening, with the seasoning.
When it thickens, put in the chicken, after which it must not boil.
Butter a deep dish; cover the bottom with the stuffing of the fowls,
crumbled or mashed up; wet with gravy; pour in the mince; strew fine,
dry bread-crumbs over this, and break the eggs carefully upon the
surface. More, and if possible, finer crumbs should cover these; put a
bit of butter on each egg, pepper and salt, and bake in a quick oven
until the top begins to bubble and smoke. The whites of the eggs should
be well “set,” the yolks soft.
I can safely recommend this receipt. Few “pick-up” dishes are more
popular with those for whom it is my duty and delight to cater.
A mince of veal can be made in the same way, in which case a little ham
is an improvement, also two or three hard-boiled eggs, cut into dice,
and mixed with the meat.
QUENELLES. +
Some cold, white meat of fowls or veal.
1 cup fine bread-crumbs.
3 table-spoonfuls cream or milk.
2 table-spoonfuls melted butter.
1 egg, well beaten.
1 cup well-flavored gravy.
Pepper and salt.
Chop the meat very fine. Wet the crumbs with milk, and drain as dry as
you can. Work into this paste the meat and egg, seasoning well. Flour
your hands, and make the mixture into round balls, rolling these in
flour when formed. Have ready the gravy hot in a saucepan; drop in the
quenelles, and boil fast five minutes. Take them up and pile upon a hot
dish; thicken the gravy with browned flour; boil up once and pour over
them.
Or,
After making out the quenelles, roll them in beaten egg, then in
cracker-crumbs, and fry in good dripping seasoned with onion. Dry every
drop of grease from them by rolling them upon paper, and serve with the
gravy poured over them.
These quenelles are nice served up with fricasseed sweetbreads, or as a
garnish for them, or game.
RECHAUFFÉE OF VEAL AND HAM.
Cold veal (if underdone all the better) and ham.
2 eggs, beaten light.
Handful of very fine bread-crumbs.
A little tart jelly.
Dripping or butter for frying.
Pepper, salt, and made mustard, or catsup.
Cut the veal and ham into rather thick slices of exactly the same size.
Spread one side of a slice of veal with jelly, one side of the ham
with mustard or thick catsup. Press these firmly together, that they
may adhere closely, dip in the beaten egg, and roll in the bread (or
cracker) crumbs, which should be seasoned with pepper and salt. Fry
very quickly; dry off the grease by laying them on soft paper, and pile
upon a dish.
ROULADES OF BEEF.
Some slices of rare roast beef.
Some slices of boiled ham.
2 eggs, beaten light.
Butter or dripping for frying.
Pepper and mustard.
A little thick gravy.
Cut the beef into even, oblong slices, the ham rather thinner and
smaller. Spread one side of the beef with mustard, and pepper the ham.
Lay the ham upon the beef and roll up together as tightly as possible;
roll in the egg, then the cracker, and pierce with a slender steel, tin
or wooden skewer in such a manner as to keep the roll pinned together.
Put several on each skewer, but do not let them touch one another. Fry
brown; lay on a dish, and gently withdraw the skewers. Pour the gravy
boiling hot over them.
Small roulades are a convenient and toothsome garnish for game and
roast poultry.
ROULADES OF MUTTON.
Can be made in the same way, but leaving out the ham, and spreading the
inside of each slice with currant jelly.
FRIED CHICKEN. +
1 tender young chicken, cut into joints.
2 eggs, beaten light.
½ cup of cracker-crumbs.
Sweet lard, dripping, or the best salad-oil for frying.
Lay the chicken in salt-and-water fifteen minutes; wipe dry, pepper and
salt, dip in the egg, then in the cracker-crumbs, and fry slowly in
hot lard or dripping. Drain dry, pile on a hot dish, and lay sprigs of
parsley over it.
CHICKEN FRIED WHOLE.
1 young, tender chicken, trussed as for roasting, but not stuffed.
Butter or very nice dripping for frying.
Clean the chicken, wash out well, and dry, inside and out. Put it in
your steamer, or cover in a cullender over a pot of boiling water,
keeping it at a fast boil for fifteen or twenty minutes. Have ready the
boiling hot fat in a deep frying-pan, or cruller-kettle. It should half
cover the chicken, when having floured it all over, you put it in. When
one side is a light brown, turn it. When both are cooked, take up, put
into a covered kettle or tin pail, and set in a pot of hot water, which
keep at a slow boil, half an hour. If you like a delicate flavor of
onion, put a few slices in the bottom of the kettle before the chicken
goes in. Anoint the chicken plentifully, after laying it on a hot dish,
with melted butter in which you have stirred pepper and chopped parsley.
This is a new and attractive manner of preparing chickens for the
table. None but tender ones should be fried in any way.
“SMOTHERED” CHICKEN. +
2 tender chickens, roasting size, but not very large.
Pepper, salt and browned flour for gravy.
Clean and wash the chickens, and split down the back as for broiling.
Lay flat in a baking-pan, dash a cupful of boiling water upon them;
set in the oven, and invert another pan over them so as to cover
tightly. Roast at a steady, but moderate heat, about half an hour,
then lift the cover and baste freely with butter and a little of the
water in which the fowls are cooking. In ten minutes more, baste again
with gravy from the baking-pan. In five more, with melted butter and
abundantly, going all over the fowls, which should now begin to brown.
Increase the heat, still keeping the chickens covered. A few minutes
before dishing them, test with a fork to ascertain if they are tender.
When done they should be of a mellow brown hue all over the upper
part—a uniform and pleasing tint. Dish, salt and pepper them; thicken
the gravy left in the pan with browned flour, adding a little water, if
necessary, season with pepper, salt and parsley, and send up in a gravy
boat.
The flavor of “smothered” chicken—so named by the Virginia housewife of
the olden time—is peculiar, and to most palates delightful.
SMOTHERED CHICKEN WITH OYSTERS. +
1 fine, fat chicken.
1 pint of oysters, or enough to fill the chicken.
Dressing of chopped oysters, parsley and crumbs.
1 table-spoonful butter.
3 table-spoonfuls cream.
1 table-spoonful corn-starch.
Yolks of 3 hard-boiled eggs.
Pepper and salt to taste, with chopped parsley for sauce.
Clean the chicken, washing it out with two or three waters. Fill the
“craw” with the prepared stuffing, tying up the neck very securely.
Then, pack the main cavity of the body with oysters and sew up the
vent. Have ready a clean tin pail with a closely-fitting top. Put the
fowl, neatly trussed, into it, cover and set in a pot of cold water.
Bring to a boil, and cook slowly for more than an hour after the water
in the outer vessel begins to boil. If the fowl be not young, it may
be needful to keep it in two hours. Do not open the inner vessel in
less than an hour. Having ascertained that the chicken is tender
throughout, take it out and lay on a hot dish, covering immediately.
Turn the gravy into a saucepan, thicken with the corn-starch, add the
cream, parsley, seasoning and the boiled yolks chopped fine. Boil
up once; pour a little over the chicken, and serve the rest in a
sauce-boat.
FONDU OF CHICKEN OR OTHER WHITE MEAT.
Some cold chicken, veal, or turkey minced fine.
1 cupful bread-crumbs—baker’s bread is best.
1 cupful boiling milk.
1 table-spoonful butter.
1 slice cold boiled ham—minced.
½ onion boiled in, and then strained out of the milk.
2 eggs, beaten very light.
A pinch of soda, dissolved in the milk.
Pepper and salt to taste.
Soak the crumbs in the boiling milk, stir in the batter, and beat very
light. Let the mixture cool, while you mince the meat and whip the
eggs. Stir in the meat first when the bread is nearly cold, season,
and lastly put in the beaten eggs. Beat all up well and pour into a
well-greased baking-dish. Set in a brisk oven. When the fondu is a
light, delicately-browned puff, send at once to table in the dish in
which it was baked.
GALANTINE. +
“A sort of glorified head-cheese—isn’t it?” said a blunt collegian at
the height of his vacation-appetite, in passing his plate for a third
reinforcement from the dish in front of his hostess.
The phrase always recurs to me, when I taste or see a galantine, for
this was the foreign name of the spicy relish aptly characterized by
the youth. If spicy and appetizing, it is also a convenient stand-by
for the lunch or supper-table, since it keeps well and pleases most
people, even those who do not affect “head-cheese” proper.
A rind of fat salt pork, about six inches wide and eight long.
A little sausage, some minced ham, and odds and ends of game and
poultry, with giblets of all kinds, chopped up.
Salt, pepper, cloves, allspice, mace and cinnamon; sweet marjoram,
savory, thyme, a little grated lemon-peel; a pinch of cayenne.
1 small onion, minced very fine.
1 cup rich gravy, thick and savory.
A little butter and bits of fat meat cut into dice.
A pint of weak broth, seasoned with pepper, salt and onion.
Cut from a piece of fat salt pork (the loin or sides) the rind in one
piece, leaving on about a half-inch of fat. Soak in water over night
to make it more pliable. Spread, next day, upon a flat dish, and lay
on it layers of sausage (or, if you have it, potted ham or tongue),
game, poultry, giblets—minced meat of almost any kind, although
these named are most savory—well seasoned with the condiments above
enumerated, and sprinkled sparsely with onion. Moisten as you go on,
with the rich broth; put in occasional bits of butter and fat meat,
else it will be dry. Fold all up in the pork rind, joining the edges
neatly.
About the roll wrap a stout cloth, fitting closely and sew it up
on all sides. Bind, for further security, stout tape all about the
bundle. Put the weak broth into a pot, and while it is still cold,
drop the galantine into it, and boil slowly for five hours. The broth
should cover it entirely all the time. Let it get perfectly cold in
the liquor; then take it out, and without removing tape or cloth, put
it under heavy weights between two plates, and do not touch it for
twenty-four hours. At the end of that time, cut tape and threads,
remove the cloth carefully, trim the ragged edges of the galantine,
and send to table whole. Cut as it is asked for, with a keen knife, in
smooth, thin slices.
JELLIED TONGUE. +
1 large boiled tongue (cold).
2 ounces of gelatine dissolved in
