hill back of the town,—the remnant of more vigorous days,—brought no
disturbance.

In Lesbos we are at the source of lyric poetry, the Æolian spring
of Greece; here Alcæus was born. Here we come upon the footsteps of
Sappho. We must go back to a period when this and all the islands of
these heavenly seas were blooming masses of vegetation, the hills hung
with forests, the slopes purple with the vine, the valleys laughing with
flowers and fruit, and everywhere the primitive, joyful Greek life. No
doubt, manners were somewhat rude, and passions, love, and hate, and
revenge, were frankly exhibited; but in all the homely life ran a
certain culture, which seems to us beautiful even in the refinement
of this shamefaced age. The hardy youth of the islands sailed into far
seas, and in exchange for the bounty of their soil brought back foreign
fabrics of luxury. We know that Lesbos was no stranger to the Athenian
influence, its scholars had heard Plato and Aristotle, and the warriors
of Athens respected it both as a foe and an ally. Charakos, a brother
of Sappho, went to Egypt with a ship full of wine, and returned with the
beautiful slave Doricha, as part at least of the reward of his venture.

After the return of Sappho and her husband from their flight into
Sicily, the poet lived for many years at Mitylene; but she is supposed
to have been born in Eresso, on the southwestern point of the island,
where the ruins of the acropolis and remains of a sea-wall still mark
the site of the famous town. At any rate, she lived there, with her
husband Kerkylas, a landed proprietor and a person of consequence, like
a dame of noble birth and gentle breeding as she was; and in her verse
we have a glimpse of her walking upon the sandy shore, with her little
daughter, the beautiful child whom she would not give up for the kingdom
of Lydia, nor for heavenly Lesbos itself. That Sappho was beautiful as
her image on the ancient coins represents her, and that she was consumed
by passion for a handsome youth, the world likes to believe. But Maximus
of Tyre says that she was small and dark;—graces are not so plenty,
even in heaven, that genius and beauty can be lavished upon one person.
We are prone to insist that the poet who revels in imagination and
sounds the depth of passion is revealing his own heart, and that the
tale that seems so real must be a personal experience. The little
glimpse we have of Sappho’s life does not warrant us to find in it the
passionate tempest of her burning lyrics, nor is it consistent with her
social position that she should expose upon the market-place her passion
for the handsome Phaon, like a troubadour of the Middle Ages or a
Zingara of Bohemia. If that consuming fire was only quenched in the sea
at the foot of “Leucadia’s far-projecting rock of woe,” at least
our emotion may be tempered by the soothing knowledge that the leap must
have been taken when the enamored singer had passed her sixtieth year.

We did not see them at Mitylene, but travellers into the interior speak
of the beautiful women, the descendants of kings’ daughters, the
rewards of Grecian heroes; near old Eresso the women preserve the type
of that indestructible beauty, and in the large brown eyes, voluptuous
busts, and elastic gait one may deem that he sees the originals of the
antique statues.

Another famous woman flits for a moment before us at Lesbos. It is the
celebrated Empress Irene, whose cruelty was hardly needed to preserve a
name that her talent could have perpetuated. An Athenian virgin and an
orphan, at seventeen she became the wife of Leo IV. (a. d. 780), and at
length the ruler of the Eastern Empire. Left the guardian of the empire
and her son Constantine VI., she managed both, until the lad in his
maturity sent his mother into retirement. The restless woman conspired
against him; he fled, was captured and brought to the palace and lodged
in the porphyry chamber where he first had seen the light, and where he
last saw it; for his eyes were put out by the order of Irene. His very
existence was forgotten in the depths of the palace, and for several
years the ambitious mother reigned with brilliancy and the respect of
distant potentates, until a conspiracy of eunuchs overturned her power,
and she was banished to Lesbos. Here history, which delights in these
strokes of poetic justice, represents the empress earning her bread by
the use of her distaff.

As we came from Mitylene into the open sea, the view was surpassingly
lovely, islands green and poetic, a coast ever retreating and advancing,
as if in coquetry with the blue waves, purple robing the hills,—a
voyage for poets and lotus-eaters. We were coming at night to Tenedos,
to which the crafty Greeks withdrew their fleet when they pretended to
abandon the siege, and to old Troy, opposite; we should be able to feel
their presence in the darkness.

Our steamer, as we have intimated, was a study of nationalities and
languages, as well as of manners. We were English, American, Greek,
Italian, Turkish, Arab, Russian, French, Armenian, Egyptian, Jew,
Georgian, Abyssinian, Nubian, German, Koor-land, Persian, Kurd; one
might talk with a person just from Mecca or Medina, from Bagdad, from
Calcutta, from every Greek or Turkish island, and from most of the
capitals of Europe. A couple of Capuchins, tonsured, in brown serge
with hanging crosses, walked up and down amid the throng of Christians,
Moslems, and pagans, withdrawn from the world while in it, like beings
of a new sex. There was a couple opposite us at table whom we could
not make out,—either recently married or recently eloped, the man
apparently a Turkish officer, and his companion a tall, showy woman, you
might say a Frenchman’s idea of physical beauty, a little like a
wax Madonna, but with nothing holy about her; said by some to be a
Circassian, by others to be a French grisette on an Eastern tour; but
she spoke Italian, and might be one of the Continental countesses.

The square occupied by the emir and his suite—a sort of bazaar of
rugs and narghilehs—had music all day long; a soloist, on three
notes, singing, in the Arab drawl, an unending improvised ballad, and
accompanying himself on the mandolin. When we go to look at and listen
to him, the musician betrays neither self-consciousness nor pride,
unless you detect the latter in a superior smile that plays about
his lips, as he throws back his head and lets his voice break into a
falsetto. It probably does not even occur to his Oriental conceit
that he does well,—that his race have taken for granted a thousand
years,—and he could not be instructed by the orchestra of Von Bulow,
nor be astonished by the Lohengrin of Wagner.

Among the adventurers on board—we all had more or less the appearance
of experiments in that odd assembly—I particularly liked the French
prestidigitateur Caseneau, for his bold eye, utter self-possession, and
that indefinable varnish upon him, which belonged as much to his dress
as to his manner, and suggested the gentleman without concealing the
adventurer. He had a taste for antiquities, and wore some antique gems,
which had I know not what mysterious about them, as if he had inherited
them from an Ephesian magician or a Saracenic doctor of the black
art. At the table after dinner, surrounded by French and Italians,
the conjurer exhibited some tricks at cards. I dare say they were not
extraordinary, yet they pleased me just as well as the manifestations
of the spiritists. One of them I noted. The trickster was blindfolded. A
gentleman counted out a pack of cards, and while doing so mentally fixed
upon one of them by number. Caseneau took the pack, still blinded, and
threw out the card the gentleman had thought of. The experiment was
repeated by sceptics, who suspected a confederate, but the result was
always the same.

The Circassian beauty turned out to be a Jewess from Smyrna. I believe
the Jewesses of that luxurious city imitate all the kinds of beauty in
the world.

In the evening the Italians were grouped around the tables in the
saloon, upon which cards were cast about, matched, sorted, and
redistributed, and there were little piles of silver at the corners,
the occasional chinking of which appeared to add to the interest of the
amusement. On deck the English and Americans were singing the hymns
of the Protestant faith; and in the lull of the strains of “O mother
dear, Jerusalem,” you might hear the twang of strings and the whine of
some Arab improvisatore on the forward deck, and the chink of changing
silver below. We were making our way through a superb night,—a
thousand people packed so closely that you could not move without
stepping into a harem or a mass of Greek pilgrims,—singing hymns,
gambling, listening to a recital of the deeds of Antar, over silver
waves, under a flooding moon, and along the dim shores of Asia. That
mysterious continent lay in the obscurity of the past; here and there
solitary lights, from some shepherd’s hut in the hills or fortress
casemate by the shore, were the rents in the veil through which we saw
antiquity.




XXIII.—THROUGH THE DARDANELLES.

THE Achille, which has a nose for freight, but none for poetry, did not
stop at Tenedos, puffed steadily past the plain of Troy, turned into the
broad opening of the Dardanelles, and by daylight was anchored midway
between the Two Castles. On such a night, if ever, one might see the
evolution of shadowy armies upon the windy plain,—if, indeed, this
conspicuous site was anything more than the theatre of Homer’s
creations,—the spectators on the walls of Ilium, the Greeks hastily
embarking on their ships for Tenedos, the joyful procession that drew
the fatal gift into the impregnable walls.

There is a strong current southward through the Dardanelles, which swung
the vessel round as we came to anchor. The forts which, with their heavy
modern guns, completely command this strait, are something less than
a mile and a half apart, and near each is a large and handsome
town,—Khilid-bahri on the European shore and Chanak-Kalesi on the
Asiatic. The latter name signifies the pottery-castle, and is derived
from the chief manufactory of the place; the town of a couple of
thousand houses, gayly painted and decorated in lively colors, lies
upon a sandy flat and presents a very cheerful appearance. It is a great
Asiatic entrepôt for European products, and consular flags attest its
commercial importance.

When I came upon deck its enterprising traders had already boarded
the steamer, and encumbered it with their pottery, which found a ready
market with the pilgrims, for it is both cheap and ugly. Perhaps we
should rather say fantastic than ugly. You see specimens of it all over
the East, and in the bazaars of Cairo, Jerusalem, and Damascus it may be
offered you as something rare. Whatever the vessel is,—a pitcher, cup,
vase, jar, or cream-pot,—its form is either that of some impossible
animal, some griffin, or dragon, or dog of the underworld, or its spout
is the neck and head of some fantastic monster. The ware is painted
in the most startling reds, greens, yellows, and blacks, and sometimes
gilt, and then glazed. It is altogether hideous, and fascinating enough
to drive the majolica out of favor.

Above these two towns the strait expands into a sort of bay, formed on
the north by a promontory jutting out from the Asiatic shore, and upon
this promontory it is now agreed stood old Abydos; it is occupied by a
fort which grimly regards a corresponding one on the opposite shore, not
a mile distant. Here Leander swam to Hero, Byron to aquatic fame, and
here Xerxes laid his bridge. All this is plain to be seen; this is the
narrowest part of the passage; exactly opposite this sloping site of
Abydos is a depression between two high cliffs, the only point where the
Persian could have rested the European extremity of his bridge; and it
surely requires no stretch of the imagination to see Hero standing upon
this projecting point holding the torch for her lover.

The shore is very pretty each side, not bold, but quiet scenery; and yet
there is a contrast: on the Asiatic horizon are mountains, rising behind
each other, while the narrow peninsula, the Thracian Chersonesus of the
ancients, which forms the western bank of the Dardanelles, offers only
a range of moderate hills. What a beautiful stream, indeed, is this, and
how fond history has been of enacting its spectacles upon it! How the
civilizations of the East and West, in a continual flow and reflow, push
each other across it! With a sort of periodic regularity it is the scene
of a great movement, and from age to age the destinies of the race have
seemed to hang upon its possession; and from time to time the attention
of the world is concentrated upon this water-street between two
continents. Under whatever name, the Oriental civilization has been
a misfortune, and the Western a blessing to the border-land; and how
narrowly has Europe, more than once, from Xerxes to Chosroes, from Omar
to the Osmanlis, seemed to escape the torrent of Eastern slavery. Once
the culture of Greece passed these limits, and annexed all Asia Minor
and the territory as far as the Euphrates to the empire of intelligence.
Who shall say that the day is not at hand when the ancient movement of
free thought, if not of Grecian art and arms, is about to be renewed,
and Europe is not again to impose its laws and manners upon Little Asia?
The conquest, which one sees going on under his eyes, is not indeed
with the pomp of armies, but by the more powerful and enduring might of
commerce, intercourse, and the weight of a world’s opinion diffused by
travel and literature. The Osmanli sits supinely and watches the change;
the Greeks, the rajahs of all religions, establish schools, and the new
generation is getting ready for the revolution; the Turk does not care
for schools. That it may be his fate to abandon European Turkey and even
Constantinople, he admits. But it is plain that if he goes thus far he
must go farther; and that he must surrender a good part of the Roman
Eastern Empire. For any one can see that the Hellespont could not be
occupied by two powers, and that it is no more possible to divide the
control of the Bosphorus than it is that of the Hudson or the Thames.

The morning was cold, and the temperature as well as the sky admonished
us that we were passing out of the warm latitude. Twenty-five miles from
the Chang and Eng forts we passed near but did not call at Gallipoli,
an ancient city with few antiquities, but of great strategic importance.
Whoever holds it has the key to Constantinople and the Black Sea; it was
seized by the Moslems in the thirteenth century before they imposed the
religion of the Koran upon the city of Constantine, and it was early
occupied by the English and French, in 1854, in the war that secured
that city to the successor of the Prophet.

Entering upon the Sea of Marmora, the “vexed Propontis,” we had
fortunately smooth water but a cold north-wind. The Propontis has
enjoyed a nauseous reputation with all mariners, ancient and modern. I
don’t know that its form has anything to do with it, but if the reader
will take the trouble to consult a map, he will see how nearly this
hag of water, with its two ducts, the Bosphorus and the Hellespont,
resembles a human stomach. There is nothing to be seen in the voyage
from Gallipoli to Constantinople, except the island of Marmora, famous
for the quarries which furnish marbles for the palaces of the Bosphorus
and for Eyoub and Scutari, the two great cities of the dead. We passed
near enough to distinguish clearly its fine perpendicular cliffs.

It was dark before we saw the lights of Stamboul rise out of the water;
it is impossible, at night, to enter the Golden Horn through the mazes
of shipping, and we cast anchor outside. The mile or two of gas-lights
along the promontory of the old city and the gleams upon the coast of
ancient Chalcedon were impressive and exciting to the imagination, but,
owing to the lateness of our arrival, we lost all the emotions which
have, struck other travellers anything but dumb upon coming in sight of
the capital of the Moslem Empire.




XIV.—CONSTANTINOPLE.

THE capital which we know as Constantinople, lying in two continents,
presents itself as three cities. The long, hornshaped promontory,
between the Sea of Marmora and the Golden Horn, is the site of ancient
Byzantium, which Constantine baptized with his own name, and which the
Turks call Stamboul. The ancient city was on the eastern extremity, now
known as Seraglio Point; its important position was always recognized,
and it was sharply contended for by the Spartans, the Athenians, the
Macedonians, and the Persians. Like the city of Romulus, it occupies
seven hills, and its noble heights are conspicuous from afar by sea or
land.. In the fourth century it was surrounded by a wall, which followed
the water on three sides, and ran across the base of the promontory,
over four miles from the Seven Towers on the Propontis to the Cemetery
of Eyoub on the Golden Horn. The land-wall, which so many times saved
the effeminate city from the barbarians of the north and the Saracens
of Arabia, stands yet with its battered towers and score of crumbling
gates.

The second city, on a blunt promontory between the Golden Horn and the
Bosphorus, overlooks the ancient Byzantium, and is composed of three
districts,—Galata and Tophanna, on the water and climbing up the hill;
and Pera, which crowns the summit. Galata was a commercial settlement of
the thirteenth century; Pera is altogether modern.

The third city is Scutari, exactly opposite the mouth of the Golden
Horn, and a little north of ancient Chalcedon, which was for over a
thousand years the camp of successive besieging armies, Georgians,
Persians, Saracens, and Turks.

The city of the Crescent, like a veiled beauty of the harem, did not at
once disclose to us its charms. It was at six o’clock in the morning
on the eleventh day of blooming May, that we landed on the dirty quay of
Tophanna. The morning was cloudy, cold, misty, getting its weather
from the Black Sea, and during the day rain fell in a very Occidental
dreariness. Through the mist loomed the heights of Seraglio Point; and
a hundred minaret peaks and domes appeared to float in the air above the
veiled city. Along the floating lower bridge, across the Golden Horn,
poured an unceasing procession of spectres; caïques were shooting about
in every direction, steamers for the Bosphorus, for Scutari, for the
Islands, were momently arriving and departing from their stations
below the bridge, and the huge bulk of the Turkish ironclads could be
discerned at their anchorage before the palace of Beshiktash. The
scene was animated, but there was not visible as much shipping as I had
expected to see in this great port.

The customs’ official on the quay was of a very inquisitive turn of
mind, but we could excuse him on the ground of his age and ignorance,
for he was evidently endeavoring to repair the neglected opportunities
of his youth. Our large luggage had gone to the custom-house in charge
of Abd-el-Atti, who has a genius for free-trade, and only our small
parcels and hand-bags were at the mercy of the inspector on the quay.
But he insisted upon opening every bag and investigating every article
of the toilet and garment of the night; he even ripped open a feather
pillow which one of the ladies carried with her, and neither the rain on
the open dock nor our respectable appearance saved our effects from his
most searching attentions. The discoveries of General di Ces-nola and
the interest that Europeans take in antiquities have recently convinced
the Turks that these relics must have some value, and an order had been
issued to seize and confiscate all curiosities of this sort. I
trembled, therefore, when the inspector got his hands upon a baby’s
nursing-bottle, which I had brought from Cyprus, where it had been used
by some Phoenician baby probably three thousand years ago. The fellow
turned it round and regarded it with serious ignorance and doubt.

“What is that?” he asked Achmed.

“O, that’s nothing but a piece of pottery, something for a child
without his mother, I think,—it is nothing, not worth two paras.”

The confiscator of antiquities evidently had not the slightest knowledge
of his business; he hesitated, but Achmed’s perfect indifference of
manner determined him, and he slowly put the precious relic back into
the box. The inspector parted from us with regret, but we left him to
the enjoyment of a virtue unassailed by the least bribe,—an unusual,
and, I imagine, an unwelcome possession in this region.

Donkeys were not to be had, nor carriages, and we climbed on foot the
very steep hill to the hotel in Pera; ascending roughly paved, crooked
streets, lined with rickety houses, and occasionally mounting stairs
for a mile through a quarter that has the shabbiness but not the
picturesqueness of the Orient. A squad of porters seized our luggage
and bore it before us. The porters are the beasts of burden, and most of
them wear heavy saddles, upon which boxes and trunks can be strapped.
No drays were visible. Heavy burdens, hogsheads, barrels, and cases of
goods were borne between two long stout poles carried by four athletic
men; as they move along the street, staggering under the heavy load,
everybody is obliged, precipitately, to make way for them, for their
impetus is such that they cannot check their career. We see these
gigantic fellows at every street-corner, with their long poles, waiting
for a job. Sedan-chairs, which were formerly in much request, are
gradually disappearing, though there is nothing at present to exactly
take the place of these lumbering conveyances. Carriages increase every
year, but they are expensive, and they can only ascend the height of
Pera by a long circuit. The place of the sedan and the carriage is,
however, to some extent supplied by a railway in Galata, the cars of
which are drawn up by a stationary engine. And on each side of
the Golden Horn is a horse-railway, running wherever the ground is
practicable.

To one coming from the West, I suppose that Constantinople would present
a very mixed and bizarre appearance, and that he would be impressed by
the silence of the busiest streets, in which the noise of wheels and the
hum of a Western capital is wanting. But to one coming from the East,
Galata and Pera seem a rather vulgarized European town. The Frank dress
predominates, although it is relieved by the red fez, which the Turks
generally and many Europeans wear. Variety enough there is in costumes,
but the Grecian, the Bulgarian, the Albanian, etc., have taken the place
of the purely Oriental; and the traveller in the Turkish capital to-day
beholds not only the conflux of Asia and Europe, but the transition, in
buildings, in apparel, in manners, to modern fashions. Few veiled women
are seen, and they wear a white strip of gauze which conceals nothing.
The street hawkers, the sellers of sweets, of sponges, and of cakes, are
not more peculiar in their cries than those of London and Paris.

When we had climbed the hill, we came into the long main street of
Pera, the street of the chief shops, the hotels and foreign embassies,
a quarter of the city which has been burned over as often as San
Francisco, and is now built up substantially with stone and brick, and
contains very little to interest the seeker of novelty. After we had
secured rooms, and breakfasted, at the hotel Byzance, we descended
the hill again to the water, and crossed the long, floating bridge to
Stamboul. This bridge is a very good symbol of the Sultan’s Empire;
its wooden upper works are decayed, its whole structure is rickety,
the floats that support it are unevenly sunken, so that the bridge is a
succession of swells and hollows; it is crowded by opposing streams
of the most incongruous people, foot and horse jumbled together; it is
encumbered by venders of eatables and auctioneers of cheap Wares, and
one has to pay toll to cross it. But it is a microcosm of the world. In
an hour one may see pass there every nationality, adventurers from every
clime, traders, priests, sailors, soldiers, fortune-hunters of
Europe, rude peasants of the provinces, sleek merchants of the Orient,
darwishes, furtive-eyed Jews; here is a Circassian beauty seeking a
lover through the carriage window; here a Turkish grandee on a prancing,
richly caparisoned horse; here moves a squad of black soldiers, and now
the bridge shakes under the weight of a train of flying artillery.

The water is alive with the ticklish caïques. The caique is a long
narrow boat, on the model of the Indian birch-bark, canoe, and as thin
and light on the water; the passenger, if he accomplishes the feat of
getting into one without overturning it, sits upon the bottom, careful
not to wink and upset it; the oars have a heavy swell near the handle,
to counterbalance the weight of the long blade, and the craft skims the
water with swiftness and a most agreeable motion. The caïques are as
numerous on the water as the yellow, mangy dogs on shore, and the two
are the most characteristic things in Constantinople.

We spent a good part of the day in wandering about the bazaars of
Stamboul, and we need not repeat what has been heretofore said of these
peculiar shops. During our stay in the city we very thoroughly explored
them, and visited most of the great khans, where are to be found the
silks of Broussa, of Beyrout and Damascus, the rugs of Persia, the
carpets of Asia Minor, the arms and the cunning work in gold, silver,
and jewels gathered from every region between Ispahan and Darfour. We
found the bazaars extensive, well filled and dear, at least the asking
price was enormous, and we wanted the time and patience which are needed
for the slow siege of reducing the merchants to decent, terms. The
bazaars are solidly roofed arcades, at once more cleanly and less
picturesque than those of Cairo, and not so Oriental or attractive.
Book-stalls, which are infrequent in Cairo, abound here; and the long
arcades lined with cases of glittering gems, enormous pearls, sparkling
diamonds, emeralds fit for the Pope’s finger, and every gold and
silver temptation, exceed anything else in the East in magnificence.
And yet they have a certain modern air, and you do not expect to find
in them those quaint and fascinating antique patterns of goldsmiths’
work, the inherited skill of the smiths of the Pharaohs, which draw you
into the dingy recesses of the Copt artificers in the city of the Nile.

From the Valideh Khan we ascended to the public square, where stands the
Seraskier’s Eire-tower; a paved, open place, surrounded by government
buildings of considerable architectural pretensions, and dedicated, I
should say, to drumming, to the shifting about of squads of soldiers,
and the cantering hither and thither of Turkish beys. Near it is the
old mosque of Sultan Beyezid II., which, with its magnificent arabesque
gates, makes a fine external impression. The outer court is surrounded
by a cloister with columns of verd-antique and porphyry, enclosing a
fountain and three stately, venerable, trees. The trees and the arcades
are alive with doves, and, as we entered, more than a thousand flew
towards us in a cloud, with a great rustling and cooing. They are
protected as an almost sacred appendage of the mosque, and are said to
be bred from a single pair which the Sultan bought of a poor woman and
presented to the house he had built, three centuries and a half ago.
This mosque has also another claim to the gratitude of animals; for all
the dogs of Stamboul, none of whom have any home but the street, nor any
other owner than the Prophet, resort here every Friday, as regularly,
if not as piously, as the Sultan goes to pray, and receive their weekly
bread.

Near this mosque are lines of booths and open-air shops, which had a
fascination for me as long as I remained in the city. They extend from
the trees in the place of the mosque down through lanes to the bazaars.
The keepers of them were typical Orientals, honest Jews, honest Moslems,
withered and one-eyed waiters on Providence and a good bargain, suave,
gracious, patient, gowned and turbaned, sitting cross-legged behind
their trays and showcases. These are the dealers in stones, both
precious and common, in old and new ornaments, and the thousand cheap
adornments in glass and metal which the humbler classes love. Here are
heaps of blood-stones, of carnelians, of agates, of jasper, of onyx,
dishes of turquoise, strings of doubtful pearls, barbarous rings and
brooches, charms and amulets,—a feast of color for the eye, and a
sight to kindle the imagination. For these bawbles came out of the
recesses of the Orient, were gathered by wild tribes in remote deserts,
and transported by caravan to this common mart. These dealers buy of the
Persian merchants, and of adventurous Jew travellers who range all the
deserts from Teheran to Upper Nubia in search of these shining stones.
Some of the turquoises are rudely set in silver rings, but most of them
are merely glued to the end of little sticks; these generally are the
refuse of the trade, for the finer stones go to the great jewellers in
the bazaar, or to the Western markets. A large and perfect turquoise
of good color is very rare, and commands a large price; but the cunning
workmen of Persia have a method of at once concealing the defects of
a good-sized turquoise which has the true color, and at the same time
enhancing its value, by engraving upon it some sentence from the Koran,
or some word which is a charm against the evil eye; the skill of the
engraver is shown in fitting his letters and flourishes to the flaws
in the surface of the stone. To further hide any appearance of
imperfection, the engraved lines are often gilded. With a venerable
Moslem, who sat day after day under a sycamore-tree, I had great
content, and we both enjoyed the pleasure of endless bargaining without
cheating each other, for except in some trifles we never came to an
exact agreement. He was always promising me the most wonderful things
for the next day, which he would procure from a mysterious Jew friend
who carried on a clandestine commerce with some Bedawee in Arabia. When
I was seated, he would pull from his bosom a knotted silk handkerchief,
and, carefully untying it, produce a talisman, presenting it between his
thumb and finger, with a lift of the eyebrows and a cluck of the tongue
that expressed the rapture I would feel at the sight of it. To be sure,
I found it a turquoise set in rude silver, faded to a sickly green, and
not worth sixpence; but I handed it back with a sigh that such a jewel
was beyond my means, and intimated that something less costly, and of a
blue color, would suit me as well. We were neither of us deceived, while
we maintained the courtesies of commercial intercourse. Sometimes he
would produce from his bosom an emerald of real value or an opal of
lovely hues, and occasionally a stone in some peculiar setting which I
had admired the day before in the jewelry bazaar; for these trinkets,
upon which the eye of the traveller has been seen longingly to rest, are
shifted about among this mysterious fraternity to meet him again.

I suppose it was known all over Stamboul that a Prank had been looking
for a Persian amulet. As long as I sat with my friend, I never saw him
actually sell anything, but he seemed to be the centre of mysterious
transactions; furtive traders continually came to him to borrow or
return a jewel, or to exchange a handful of trumpery. Delusive old man!
I had no confidence in you, but I would go far to pass another day in
your tranquil society. How much more agreeable you were than the young
Nubian at an opposite stand, who repelled purchasers by his supreme
indifference, and met all my feeble advances with the toss of the head
and the cluck in the left cheek, which is the peremptory “no” in
Nubia.

In this quarter are workers in shell and ivory, the makers of spoons
of tortoise-shell with handles of ivory and coral, the fabricators of
combs, dealers in books, and a long street of little shops devoted to
the engraving of seals. To wander about among these craftsmen is one of
the chief pleasures of the traveller. Vast as Stamboul is, if you remove
from it the mosques and nests of bazaars, it would not be worth a visit.




XXV.—THE SERAGLIO AND ST. SOPHIA, HIPPODROME, etc.

HAVING procured a firman, we devoted a day to the old Seraglio and some
of the principal mosques of Stamboul. After an occupation of fifteen
centuries as a royal residence, the Seraglio has been disused for nearly
forty years, and fire, neglect, and decay have done their work on it,
so that it is but a melancholy reminiscence of its former splendor. It
occupies the ancient site of Byzantium, upon the Point, and is enclosed
by a crumbling wall three miles in circuit. No royal seat in the world
has a more lovely situation. Upon the summit of the promontory, half
concealed in cypresses, is the cluster of buildings, of all ages and
degrees of cheapness, in which are the imperial apartments and offices;
on the slopes towards the sea are gardens, terraces, kiosks, and
fountains.

We climbed up the hill on the side towards Pera, through a shabby field,
that had almost the appearance, of a city dumping-ground, and through
a neglected grove of cypresses, where some deer were feeding, and came
round to the main entrance, a big, ugly pavilion with eight openings
over the arched porte,—the gate which is known the world over as the
Sublime Porte. Through this we passed into a large court, and thence
to the small one into which the Sultan only is permitted to ride on
horseback. In the centre of this is a fountain where formerly pashas
foreordained to lose their heads lost them. On the right, a low range
of buildings covered with domes but no chimneys, are the royal kitchens;
there are nine of them,—one for the Sultan, one for the chief
sultanas, and so on down to the one devoted to the cooking of the food
for the servants. Hundreds of beasts, hecatombs, were slaughtered daily
and cooked here to feed the vast household. From this court open the
doors into the halls and divans and various apartments; one of them,
leading into the interior, is called the Gate of Felicity; in the old
times that could only be called a gate of felicity which let a person
out of this spider’s parlor. In none of these rooms is there anything
specially attractive; cheap magnificence in decay is only melancholy.

We were better pleased in the gardens, where we looked upon Galata and
Pera, upon the Golden Horn and the long bridges streaming with their
picturesque processions, upon the Bosphorus and its palaces, and
thousands of sails, steamers, and caïques, and the shining heights of
Scutari. Overhanging the slope is the kiosk or summer palace of Sultan
Moorad, a Saracenic octagonal structure, the interior walls lined with
Persian tiles, the ceilings painted in red arabesques and gilded
in mosaics, the gates of bronze inlaid with mother-of-pearl; a most
charming building, said to be in imitation of a kiosk of Bagdad. In it
we saw the Sultan’s private library, a hundred or two volumes in a
glass case, that had no appearance of having been read either by the
Sultan or his wife.

The apartment in the Seraglio which is the object of curiosity and
desire is the treasure-room. I suppose it is the richest in the world in
gems; it is certainly a most wearisome place, and gave me a contempt for
earthly treasure. In the centre stands a Persian throne,—a chair upon
a board platform, and both incrusted with rubies, pearls, emeralds,
diamonds; there are toilet-tables covered to the feet with diamonds,
pipe-stems glistening with huge diamonds, old armor thickly set with
precious stones, saddle-cloths and stirrups stiff with diamonds and
emeralds, robes embroidered with pearls. Nothing is so cheap as wealth
lavished in this manner; at first we were dazzled by the flashing
display, but after a time these heaps of gems seemed as common in our
eyes as pebbles in the street. I did not even covet an emerald as large
as my fist, nor a sword-hilt in which were fifteen diamonds, each as
large as the end of my thumb, nor a carpet sown with pearls, some of
which were of the size of pigeon’s eggs, nor aigrettes which were
blazing with internal fires, nor chairs of state, clocks and vases, the
whole surfaces of which were on fire with jewels. I have seen an
old oaken table, carved in the fifteenth century, which gave me more
pleasure than one of lapis lazuli, which is exhibited as the most costly
article in this collection; though it is inlaid with precious stones,
and the pillars that support the mirror are set with diamonds, and the
legs and claws are a mass of diamonds, rubies, carbuncles, emeralds,
topazes, etc., and huge diamond pendants ornament it, and the deep
fringe in front is altogether of diamonds. This is but a barbarous,
ostentatious, and tasteless use of the beautiful, and I suppose gives
one an idea of the inartistic magnificence of the Oriental courts in
centuries gone by.

This treasure-house has, I presume, nothing that belonged to the
Byzantine emperors before the Moslem conquest, some of whom exceeded
in their magnificence any of the Osmanli sultans. Arcadius, the first
Eastern emperor after the division of the Roman world, rivalled, in
the appointments of his palace (which stood upon this spot) and in
his dress, the magnificence of the Persian monarchs; and perhaps the
luxurious califs of Bagdad at a later day did not equal his splendor.
His robes were of purple, a color reserved exclusively for his sacred
person, and of silk, embroidered with gold dragons; his diadem was of
gold set with gems of inestimable worth; his throne was massy gold, and
when he went abroad he rode in a chariot of solid, pure gold, drawn by
two milk-white mules shining in harness and trappings of gold.

No spot on earth has been the scene of such luxury, cruelty, treachery,
murder, infidelity of women, and rapacity of men, as this site of
the old palace; and the long record of the Christian emperors—the
occasionally interrupted anarchy and usurpation of a thousand
years—loses nothing in these respects in comparison with the Turkish
occupation, although the world shudders at the unrevealed secrets of
the Seraglio. At least we may suppose that nobody’s conscience was
violated if a pretty woman was occasionally dropped into the Bosphorus,
and there was the authority of custom for the strangling of all the
children of the sisters of the Sultan, so that the succession might not
be embarrassed. In this court is the cage, a room accessible only by
a window, where the royal children were shut up to keep them from
conspiracy against the throne; and there Sultan Abdul Aziz spent some
years of his life.

We went from the treasure-room to the ancient and large Church of St.
Irene, which is now the arsenal of the Seraglio, and become, one might
say, a church militant. The nave and aisles are stacked with arms, the
walls, the holy apse, the pillars, are cased in guns, swords, pistols,
and armor, arranged in fanciful patterns, and with an ingenuity I have
seen nowhere else. Here are preserved battle-flags and famous trophies,
an armlet of Tamerlane, a sword of Scanderbeg, and other pieces of cold,
pliant steel that have a reputation for many murders. There is no way so
sure to universal celebrity as wholesale murder. Adjoining the arsenal
is a museum of Greek and Roman antiquities of the city, all in Turkish
disorder; the Cyprus Collections, sent by General di Cesnola, are
flung upon shelves or lie in heaps unarranged, and most of the cases
containing them had not been opened. Near this is an interesting museum
of Turkish costumes for the past five hundred years,—rows on rows of
ghastly wax figures clad in the garments of the dead. All of them are
ugly, many of them are comical in their exaggeration. The costumes of
the Janizaries attract most attention, perhaps from the dislike with
which we regard those cruel mercenaries, who deposed and decapitated
sultans at their will, and partly because many of the dresses seem more
fit for harlequins or eunuchs of the harem than for soldiers.

When the Church of Santa Sophia, the House of Divine Wisdom, was
finished, and Justinian entered it, accompanied only by the patriarch,
and ran from the porticos to the pulpit with outstretched arms,
crying, “Solomon, I have surpassed thee!” it was doubtless the most
magnificently decorated temple that had ever stood upon the earth. The
exterior was as far removed in simple grandeur as it was in time from
the still matchless Doric temples of Athens and of Pæstum, or from the
ornate and lordly piles of Ba’albek; but the interior surpassed in
splendor almost the conception of man. The pagan temples of antiquity
had been despoiled, the quarries of the known world had been ransacked
for marbles of various hues and textures to enrich it; and the gold, the
silver, the precious stones, employed in its decoration, surpassed in
measure the barbaric ostentation of the Temple at Jerusalem. Among its
forest of columns, one recognized the starred syenite from the First
Cataract of the Nile; the white marble of Phrygia, striped with
rose; the green of Laconia, and the blue of Libya; the black Celtic,
white-veined, and the white Bosphorus, black-veined; polished shafts
which had supported the roof of the Temple of the Delian Apollo, others
which had beheld the worship of Diana at Ephesus and of Pallas Athene
on the Acropolis, and, yet more ancient, those that had served in the
mysterious edifices of Osiris and Isis; while, more conspicuous
and beautiful than all, were the eight columns of porphyry, which,
transported by Aurelian from the Temple of the Sun at Heliopolis to
Home, the pious Marina had received as her dowry and dedicated to the
most magnificent building ever reared to the worship of the True God,
and fitly dominating the shores of Europe and Asia.

One reads of doors of cedar, amber, and ivory; of hundreds of sacred
vessels of pure gold, of exquisitely wrought golden candelabra, and
crosses of an hundred pounds’ weight each; of a score of books of the
Evangelists, the gold covers of which weighed twenty pounds; of golden
lilies and golden trumpets; of forty-two thousand chalice-cloths
embroidered with pearls and jewels; and of the great altar, for which
gold was too cheap a material, a mass of the most precious and costly
stones imbedded in gold and silver. We may recall also the arches and
the clear spaces of the walls inlaid with marbles and covered with
brilliant mosaics. It was Justinian’s wish to pave the floor with
plates of gold, but, restrained by the fear of the avarice of his
successors, he laid it in variegated marbles, which run in waving lines,
imitating the flowing of rivers from the four corners to the vestibules.
But the wonder of the edifice was the dome, one hundred and seven
feet in span, hanging in the air one hundred and eighty feet above the
pavement. The aerial lightness of its position is increased by the two
half-domes of equal span and the nine cupolas which surround it.

More than one volume has been exclusively devoted to a description of
the Mosque of St. Sophia, and less than a volume would not suffice. But
the traveller will not see the ancient glories. If he expects anything
approaching the exterior richness and grandeur of the cathedrals of
Europe, or the colossal proportions of St. Peter’s at Rome, or the
inexhaustible wealth of the interior of St. Mark’s at Venice, he will
be disappointed. The area of St. Peter’s exceeds that of the grand
Piazza of St. Mark, while St. Sophia is only two hundred and thirty-five
feet broad by three hundred and fifty feet long; and while the Church
of St. Mark has been accumulating spoils of plunder and of piety
for centuries, the Church of the Divine Wisdom has been ransacked by
repeated pillages and reduced to the puritan plainness of the Moslem
worship.

Exceedingly impressive, however, is the first view of the interior;
we stood silent with wonder and delight in the presence of the noble
columns, the bold soaring arches, the dome in the sky. The temple
is flooded with light, perhaps it is too bright; the old mosaics and
paintings must have softened it; and we found very offensive the Arabic
inscriptions on the four great arches, written in characters ten yards
long. They are the names of companions of the Prophet, but they look
like sign-boards. Another disagreeable impression is produced by
the position of the Mihrab, or prayer-niche; as this must be in the
direction of Mecca, it is placed at one side of the apse, and everything
in the mosque is forced to conform to it. Thus everything is askew; the
pulpits are set at hateful angles, and the stripes of the rugs on the
floor all run diagonally across. When one attempts to walk from the
entrance, pulled one way by the architectural plan, and the other by the
religious diversion of it, he has a sensation of being intoxicated.

Gone from this temple are the sacred relics which edified the believers
of former ages, such as the trumpets that blew down Jericho and planks
from the Ark of Noah, but the Moslems have prodigies to replace them.
The most curious of these is the sweating marble column, which emits a
dampness that cures diseases. I inserted my hand in a cavity which has
been dug in it, and certainly experienced a clammy sensation. It is said
to sweat most early in the morning. I had the curiosity to ascend the
gallery to see the seat of the courtesan and Empress Theodora,
daughter of the keeper of the bears of the circus,—a public and
venal pantomimist, who, after satisfying the immoral curiosity of her
contemporaries in many cities, illustrated the throne of the Cæsars by
her talents, her intrigues, and her devotion. The fondness of Justinian
has preserved her initials in the capitals of the columns, the imperial
eagle marks the screen that hid her seat, and the curious traveller may
see her name carved on the balustrade where she sat.

To the ancient building the Moslems have added the minarets at the four
corners and the enormous crescent on the dome, the gilding of which cost
fifty thousand ducats, and the shining of which, a golden moon in
the day, is visible at the distance of a hundred miles. The crescent,
adopted by the Osmanli upon the conquest of Jerusalem, was the emblem of
Byzantium before the Christian era. There is no spot in Constantinople
more flooded with historical associations, or more interesting to the
student of the history of the Eastern Empire, than the site of St.
Sophia. Here arose the church of the same name erected by Constantine;
it was twice burned, once by the party of St. John Chrysostom, and once
in a tumult of the factions of the Hippodrome. I should like to have
seen some of the pageants that took place here. After reposing in their
graves for three centuries, the bodies of St. Andrew, St. Luke, and St.
Timothy were transported hither. Fifty years after it was honored by
a still more illustrious presence; the ashes of the prophet Samuel,
deposited in a golden vase covered with a silken veil, left their
resting-place in Palestine for the banks of the Bosphorus. The highways
from the hills of Judæa to the gates of Constantinople were filled by
an uninterrupted procession, who testified their enthusiasm and joy, and
the Emperor Arcadius himself, attended by the most illustrious of the
clergy and the Senate, advanced to receive his illustrious guest, and
conducted the holy remains to this magnificent but insecure place of
repose. It was here that Gregory Nazianzen was by force installed upon
the Episcopal throne by Theodosius. The city was fanatically Arian.
Theodosius proclaimed the Nicene creed, and ordered the primate to
deliver the cathedral and all the churches to the orthodox, who were few
in number, but strong in the presence of Gregory. This extraordinary man
had set up an orthodox pulpit in a private house; he had been mobbed by
a motley crowd which issued from the Cathedral of St. Sophia, “common
beggars who had forfeited their claim to pity, monks who had the
appearance of goats or satyrs, and women more horrible than so many
Jezebels”; he had his triumph when Theodosius led him by the hand
through the streets—filled with a multitude crowding pavement,
roofs, and windows, and venting their rage, grief, astonishment, and
despair—into the church, which was held by soldiers, though the
prelate confessed that the city had the appearance of a town stormed by
barbarians. It was here that Eutropius, the eunuch, when his career of
rapacity exceeded even the toleration of Arcadius, sought sanctuary,
and was protected by John Chrysostom, archbishop, who owed his
ecclesiastical dignity to the late sexless favorite. And it was up this
very nave that Mohammed II., the conqueror, spurred his horse through a
crowd of fugitives, dismounted at the foot of the altar, cried, “There
is no God but God, and Mohammed is his prophet!” and let loose his
soldiery upon the priests, virgins, and promiscuous multitude who had
sought shelter here.

I should only weary you with unintelligible details in attempting a
description of other mosques which we visited. They are all somewhat
alike, though varying in degrees of splendor. There is that of Sultan
Ahmed, on the site of the Hippodrome, distinguished as the only one
in the empire that has six minarets,—the state mosque of the Sultan,
whence the Mecca pilgrimages proceed and where the great festivals are
held. From a distance it is one of the most conspicuous and poetically
beautiful objects in the city. And there is the Mosque of Suleiman
the Magnificent, a copy of St. Sophia and excelling it in harmonious
grandeur,—indeed, it is called the finest mosque in the empire. Its
forecourt measures a thousand paces, and the enclosure contains, besides
the mosque and the tomb of the founder, many foundations of charity and
of learning,—three schools for the young, besides one for the reading
of the Koran and one of medicine, four academies for the four Moslem
sects, a hospital, a kitchen for the poor, a library, a fountain, a
resting-place for travellers, and a house of refuge for strangers. From
it one enjoys a magnificent view of the Golden Horn, the Bosphorus,
and the piled-up city opposite. When we entered the mosque hundreds of
worshippers were at prayer, bowing their turbans towards Mecca in silent
unison. The throng soon broke up into groups of from ten to forty, which
seated themselves in circles on the floor for the reading of the Koran.
The shoes were heaped in the centre of each circle, the chief reader
squatted at a low desk on one side, and all read together in a loud
voice, creating an extraordinary vocal tumult. It was like a Sunday
school in fancy dress.

Stamboul is a very interesting place to those who have a taste for
gorgeous sepulchres, and I do not know any such pleasant residences
of the dead as the turbehs, or tombs of the imperial family. Usually
attached to the mosques, but sometimes standing apart, they are elegant
edifices, such as might be suitable for the living; in their airy,
light, and stately chambers the occupants are deprived of no splendor to
which they were accustomed in life. One of the most beautiful of these
turbehs, that of Sultan Mahmood II., I mistook for a fountain; it is a
domed, circular building of white marble, with Corinthian pilasters,
and lighted by seven large windows with gilded grating. Within, in a
cheerful, carpeted apartment, are the biers of the sultan, his valideh
sultana, and five daughters, covered with cloths of velvet, richly
embroidered, upon which are thrown the most superb India shawls; the
principal sarcophagi are surrounded by railings of mother-of-pearl;
massive silver candlesticks and Koran-stands, upon which are beautiful
manuscripts of the Koran, are disposed about the room, and at the head
of the Sultan’s bier is a fez with a plume and aigrette of diamonds.
In the court of Santa Sophia you may see the beautiful mausoleum of
Selim II., who reposes beside the Lady of Light; and not far from it the
turbeh containing the remains of Mohammed III., surrounded by the biers
of seventeen brothers whom he murdered. It is pleasant to see brothers
united and in peace at last. I found something pathetic in other like
apartments where families were gathered together, sultans and sultanas
in the midst of little span-long biers of sons and daughters, incipient
sultans and sultanas, who were never permitted by state policy, if I may
be allowed the expression, to hatch. Strangled in their golden cradles,
perhaps, these innocents! Worthless little bodies, mocked by the
splendor of their interments. One could not but feel a little respect
for what might have been a “Sublime Porte” or a Light of the
Seraglio.

The Imperial Palace, the Church of Santa Sophia, the Hippodrome,—these
are the triangle of Byzantine history, the trinity of tyranny, religion,
and faction. The Circus of Constantinople, like that on the banks of the
Tiber, was the arena for the exhibition of games, races, spectacles, and
triumphs; like that, it was the arena of a licentious democracy, but
the most disorderly mob of Rome never attained the power or equalled
the vices of the murderous and incendiary factions of Byzantium. The
harmless colors that at first only distinguished the ignoble drivers
in the chariot races became the badges of parties, which claimed the
protection and enjoyed the favor of emperors and prelates; and the blue
and the green factions not only more than once involved the city in
conflagration and blood, but carried discord and frenzy into all the
provinces. Although they respected no human or divine law, they
affected religious zeal for one or another Christian sect or dogma; the
“blues” long espoused the orthodox cause, and enjoyed the partiality
of Justinian. The dissolute youth of Constantinople, wearing the livery
of the factions, possessed the city at night, and abandoned themselves
to any deed of violence that fancy or revenge suggested; neither the
sanctity of the church, nor the peace of the private house, nor the
innocence of youth, nor the chastity of matron or maid, was safe
from these assassins and ravishers. It was in one of their seditious
outbreaks that the palace and Santa Sophia were delivered to the flames.

The oblong ground of the Hippodrome is still an open place, although
a portion of the ground is covered by the Mosque of Ahmed. But the
traveller will find there few relics of this historical arena; nothing
of the marble seats and galleries that surrounded it. The curious may
look at the Egyptian obelisk of syenite, at the crumbling pyramid which
was the turning goal of the chariots; and he may find more food for
reflection in the bronze spiral column, formed by the twinings of three
serpents whose heads have been knocked off. It deserves to be housed and
cared for. There is no doubt of its venerable antiquity; it was seen
by Thucydides and Herodotus in the Temple of Delphi, where its three
branching heads formed a tripod upon which rested the dish of gold
which the Greeks captured among the spoils of the battle of Platæa. The
column is not more than fifteen feet high; it has stood here since the
time of Constantine.

This is the most famous square of Constantinople, yet in its present
unromantic aspect it is difficult to reanimate its interest. It is
said that its statues of marble and bronze once excelled the living
population of the city. In its arena emperors, whose vices have alone
saved their names to a conspicuous contempt, sought the popular applause
by driving in the chariot races, or stripped themselves for the sports
with wild beasts, proud to remind the spectators of the exploits
of Caligula and Heliogabalus. Here, in the reign of Anastasius,
the “green” faction, entering the place with concealed daggers,
interrupted a solemn festival and assassinated three thousand of the
“blues.” This place was in the first quarter of this century the
exercise and parade ground of the Janizaries, until they were destroyed.
Let us do justice to the Turks. In two memorable instances they
exhibited a nerve which the Roman emperors lacked, who never had either
the firmness or the courage to extirpate the Prætorian Guards.
The Janizaries set up, deposed, murdered sultans, as the Guards did
Emperors; and the Mamelukes of Egypt imitated their predecessors at
