“Well, I suppose I am not wanted here, and I may as well go,” she said,
flouncing up, and aiming for the door.

“On the contrary, Mrs. Oliphant, we shall both be very glad to have you
come here as often and stay as long as you can,” I added.

“Yes, mother, my house shall be your house,” said Lilian, warmly and
with much feeling.

“It is easier to talk than to do,” persisted Mrs. Oliphant, who was
determined to be an abused person. “I’ll go home alone.”

“I will go with you, mother if you desire it.” interposed Lilian.

Mrs. Oliphant did desire it. It is quite possible she expected still to
conquer our united forces.

“Send the wagon for my trunks, Paley, as soon as you please,” whispered
Lilian, as she left the house with her mother.

I need not say that I lost no time in complying with these stealthy
instructions. I hastened for the job wagon, but it was an hour before
I reached Mr. Oliphant’s with it, for I could not readily find a team
at that hour. The clock struck six, and I lost my train to Springhaven;
but I hardly noticed the circumstance, so intent was I upon healing the
breach in my domestic affairs.

When I arrived at the house, I found Lilian in tears, and a little
inclined to yield again; but the appearance of the expressman seemed to
strengthen her again. She permitted the trunks to be carried down, and
the man departed with them.

“I cannot go, Paley,” said she, as she dropped into a chair.

“Why not, Lilian?”

“Mother is terribly incensed against me.”

“She will get over it in a few days. What does your father say?”

“Nothing,” said she, looking up at me, as though she thought I asked a
curious question.

“The sooner we go, Lilian, the better it will be for all of us,” I
suggested.

“I will go, Paley, but I am afraid I shall never be happy again,” said
she, rising.

“Yes, you will, my dear. Your mother will be the same as ever by
to-morrow.”

We went down stairs, and found Mrs. Oliphant in the parlor.

“Good-by, mother. I shall come to see you every day,” said Lilian,
trying to be cheerful.

“Good-by, Lilian,” replied Mrs. Oliphant, in a tone which indicated the
depth of her despair.

Lilian said good-by to her sisters, and hoped both of them would come
to the house in Needham Street every day, Sundays not excepted. Then
we went home. Blessed word! It meant more to me than ever before. I
need hardly add that we talked of nothing during the evening but the
exciting topic of the day, though I tried frequently to change the
subject.

Biddy was the happiest girl outside of Ireland, for though my wife was
very sad, she was still the “missus” in her own house. Lilian confessed
to me that she liked the house very much; that she would not have had
it any different if she had been consulted, but her mother was so
anxious to have us remain at her house that she could not think of such
a thing as leaving her. If her mother could only be satisfied with the
new arrangement, she should be as happy as any mortal in existence.

I hoped for the best. I did not count upon any continued opposition
from Mrs. Oliphant, as it was so obviously for her interest to keep
the peace now that the Rubicon had been passed. If I had not been so
busily occupied in smoothing the path for Lilian, I should have made
myself very miserable over my failure to visit Springhaven. I had four
hundred dollars to pay on Monday, with nothing on hand to meet the
demand. It was an ugly subject, and I avoided it as much as possible
in my meditations, though it would often flash upon me. I could not
disappoint Tom Flynn.

I took an early walk on Sunday morning, and invited Tom to drop in upon
us to dinner that day, which he did. He was delighted to see Lilian in
her new home, and congratulated me privately upon the happy issue of
the difficulty. In the afternoon Mr. Oliphant called. We showed him all
over the house, and the old gentleman appeared to be in raptures. Then
Bertha and Ellen came, and they visited every part of the new mansion,
expressing their entire satisfaction with all the arrangements.

After church, Tom called again, for he never staid away from service
for any reason, forenoon or afternoon. We sang psalm tunes till nine
o’clock in the evening, and truly home was home to me then, as it had
never been before. Bertha was a splendid singer, and I noticed that
Tom, who was very fond of music, appeared to be more interested in her
than I had ever before observed. He went home with her, and I ventured
to hope that my example would not be without its influence upon him.

When I went to the bank the next morning, Tom told me, in the most
careless manner in the world, that Bertha was a very pretty girl, and a
magnificent singer. Of course I agreed with him, but the sight of my
friend thrust upon me, more forcibly than any other consideration, the
ugly fact that I owed him four hundred dollars, due that day. I had not
the courage to ask him for further time. My honor, and more than that,
my pride, were involved. What could I do?

I might run down to Springhaven at night. No, I could not leave, for,
at church and elsewhere, we had invited all our friends to call upon
us, and I expected to see company every evening during the week. I must
be at home. The money must be paid. There was no possible way by which
I could honorably postpone it.

“What time to-day do you want that little matter of money I owe you,
Tom?” I asked of my friend.

“As soon after bank hours as convenient.”

“You shall have it at half-past two. I must go up the street for it,
and can’t leave very well before the bank closes.”

“All right; it will do at three,” added my obliging friend.

What odds would it make to me whether the time was fixed at two or
three? I was just as unable to pay it at one time as the other. A lucky
thought occurred to me. I could call upon my uncle, Captain Halliard,
who would no doubt be glad to redeem his credit with me by lending me
any reasonable sum I wanted. In a week or so I could find time to see
Aunt Rachel, and as I was her favorite, she would put me in funds.

The bank closed. I was in a tremor of anxiety. Before balancing my
cash, I hastened out to find my uncle. He was in the Insurance Office
as usual at this hour. I asked him a great many stupid questions about
indifferent matters, without daring to put the main question. He
actually appeared to have forgotten that he had insulted and offended
me. He was rather patronizing and stiff in his manner, and the result
of the interview was that I did not mention the matter nearest to
my heart. I was sure he would refuse if I did; and I could not be
humiliated for nothing.

I was in despair. My heart was in my throat. My pride revolted at the
thought of telling Tom Flynn that I could not pay him. I went back to
the bank and balanced my cash. I counted over an immense sum of money.
Four hundred dollars would make me happy. Mr. Bristlebach had entire
confidence in me. Why could I not borrow four hundred dollars of the
bank as conveniently as of Captain Halliard.

I trembled at the bare thought of such a thing. Thus far I had kept
myself honest before God and man. But then I did not mean to steal
this sum. I would even put a memorandum in the drawer, to the effect
that I was indebted to the bank for this amount. What harm? Who would
be wronged by it? I intended to pay every penny of it back in a few
days, as soon as I could visit my aunt. It was a little irregular, but
even the cashier had done a similar thing within my knowledge. No one
would ever know anything about it, and certainly no one would ever lose
anything.

Why should I be tortured for the want of four hundred dollars, when
thousands were lying idle in my drawer? Why should I humiliate myself
before Tom Flynn, when, without wronging any body, I could pay my debt,
make him happy, and be happy myself? I was certain that I could return
the four hundred dollars. My aunt would certainly let me have it. My
uncle even would lend it to me. I had property enough in my house to
pay it three times over.

Why should I linger here at the brink of the precipice over which I
had determined to leap? I thought, as hundreds of others have thought,
in the same trying situation. I comforted myself, as they have done,
with fallacious reasoning. I persuaded myself that, as I intended to
pay back what I borrowed, and convinced myself that I had the means to
do so, it was not dishonest for me to take the money. I assured myself
it was only a slight irregularity that I meditated; that, even in the
sight of God, it was only a trivial error of form. The Good Father
judges us more by our intentions than by our acts.

Perhaps I had prepared myself for this step, as every young man
does who permits himself to run in debt, who allows himself to be
continually subjected to a fearful temptation by the pressure of
obligations needlessly incurred. Certainly my experience in furnishing
my house had prepared me for this temptation. It came when I least
expected it. It was but a trivial form that I purposed to break
through; not the law of honesty, of moral rectitude.

I took four one hundred dollar bills from my drawer, and slipped
them into my vest-pocket. Everybody in the bank was minding his own
business. No one took any notice of me. I think I must have been as
pale as death when I did the deed, trivial as I chose to regard it.
I wrote the amount in figures, on a slip of paper, and put it under
the bills in the drawer. I convinced myself that this was a suitable
acknowledgement of what I had done, which fully relieved me of every
intention of doing anything wrong. It is astonishing how weak and silly
we are when we are trying to conceal our own errors from our own eyes.
The contents of my drawer were transferred to the vault, and I prepared
to go home.

“Tom, I haven’t had time to get that money yet, but I will meet you at
three o’clock, at the reading-room,” I remarked to my friend, as easily
as I could.

“O, don’t put yourself out, Paley,” said the generous fellow. “If it is
not convenient, let it go.”

“No, but it shall be paid. The money is all ready, only I have not had
time to go for it.”

“I hope the matter has not given you any trouble, Paley,” he added; and
perhaps I had not been entirely successful in concealing the anxiety
which disturbed me.

“O no, not a bit! You see my affairs at home took up my time, and I
neglected to attend to the matter on Saturday. Be at the reading-room
at three, and I shall have the money for you, without fail.”

“I will be there, Paley. But what makes you look so pale?” he inquired.

“I don’t know. I haven’t been very well, and my difficulty at home
has worn upon me. But I’m all right now,” I replied, assuming a very
cheerful face, as I left the bank.

At the appointed time Tom was at the reading-room, and I gave him
the four hundred dollars. The bills passed out of my hands, and it
was forever too late to undo what I had done. I had leaped over the
precipice beneath which lie dishonor, shame and disgrace. I was sorely
troubled. My irregularity vexed me, and I felt as one tormented by a
legion of devils.

The fact that Tom had noticed my altered appearance put me upon my
guard. I tried to be gay and even jovial. I laughed, cracked jokes,
rallied Tom on being in love with Bertha—any thing to banish from
my mind the corroding feeling that I was a defaulter. I tore up my
note which Tom handed to me. I invited him to come to my house in the
evening. I invited him to come every evening. I know that I must have
talked strangely. There seemed to be a twenty-four pound cannon shot
in the centre of my brain. I wanted something to elevate my spirits.
I went into a bar-room, and drank a glass of whiskey—a thing I had
never before done, though I had taken a glass of wine occasionally.

The liquor inspired me. I drank a second glass, at another bar-room,
and found myself capable of rising above my troubles. I went home.
Buckleton was there, waiting to see me.




CHAPTER XII.

A KEEPER IN THE HOUSE.


LILIAN opened the door, and kissed me as usual when I came home.

“Why, Paley, you have been drinking,” whispered she.

“I had a severe pain, and took a glass of whiskey. I feel fetter now,”
I replied.

“There’s a gentleman waiting for you in the sitting-room,” she added.

“Yes, I saw him. It is Buckleton, an old friend of mine. I may ask him
to dine with us.”

I think Lilian suspected something was wrong with me, though I am sure
she had not the remotest conception of the nature and extent of the
mischief which was gathering around us. Probably the smell of my breath
startled her, with the added fact that I was a little flighty in my
manner, for I believe that nothing can be more justly startling to a
woman than the possibility of her husband becoming a drunkard. She
knew nothing whatever of my financial affairs. I had never made her
my confidant; on the contrary, I had weakly and foolishly assumed to
be “full of money,” and behaved with a liberality and extravagance far
beyond my means.

Buckleton was waiting for me. I owed Buckleton eight hundred dollars,
for which he had no security. What did Buckleton want with me? It had
been his own proposition to give me, under a liberal interpretation of
his own words, unlimited credit as to time, if not amount. Why had he
come to my house? I had been at the bank all the forenoon, and that was
the proper place to meet a man in relation to business. Of course if I
had not owed him eight hundred dollars, I should not have troubled my
head about this particular visit of an old acquaintance.

However, I had drank two glasses of whiskey, and the circumstance of
his coming did not trouble me much. I still felt light-hearted, and was
not disposed to let anything trouble me much or long. I smoothed down
my hair, and after drinking a glass of ice-water in the dining-room,
which my parched tongue required, I entered the room where Buckleton
was waiting for me. He was as cordial as though he had come only as
an old friend. But exhilarated as I was, I could not fail to notice
a certain constraint on his part, as though his cordiality was in a
measure forced.

He was glad to see me. He had business at the South End, and thought
he would call in upon me as he was passing. The messenger at the bank
told me, the next day, he had been there to find me ten minutes after I
left. But his coming at this particular time, he labored to represent,
was purely an accident. He was glad to see me so well situated. He
hoped I should call on him at the West End with Mrs. Glasswood. He
had not had the pleasure of knowing my wife, but he hoped to make her
acquaintance. All these things he said with the utmost suavity, and
then rose from the sofa to take his leave; but he did not take it, and
I knew he did not intend to do so until he had said something about the
little matter of eight hundred dollars that I owed him. He had his hat
in his hand, and moved toward the door.

“Stay and dine with me, Buckleton,” I interposed. “Dinner is all ready,
and I should be delighted to have you.”

“Thank you! Thank you! I should be glad to do so, but I have to meet
a gentleman at the store in half an hour,” he replied, consulting his
watch.

“Let him wait; you needn’t be over half an hour behind time.”

“I can’t do that, for the fact is he owes me some money, and I am
desperately short just now.”

Bah! I had given him the opportunity to say that, and it was now an
easy step for him to dun me.

“Well, come up next Sunday, won’t you? And bring your wife with you. We
shall be delighted to see you,” I continued, hoping to throw him off
the track.

“I will, if possible; but I often find that Mrs. Buckleton has made
engagements for me, and, if I remember rightly, her father and mother
dine with us next Sunday. Besides, I have been so annoyed with business
matters for a week, that I have not felt much like going into company.
I expected a remittance of six thousand dollars from Havana, and
learned the other day that the party had stopped payment. I don’t know
what we shall do to meet our own notes. By the way, Glasswood, would it
be perfectly convenient for you to pay the amount you owe us in a few
days?”

“It would not be perfectly convenient,” I replied, squarely.

“I know very well that I proposed to wait for it, but, you see, this
confounded Cuban affair throws us all out of groove; and we are in hot
water up to the eyes. Isn’t it possible for you to pay it?”

“Perhaps it is possible, but it would be deused inconvenient. You know
I should not have bought so largely if you had not suggested that I
might pay for the goods in my own time.”

“We sold you, as you are aware, at the very lowest cash prices,” he
added.

I was not aware of it, but I did not deem it wise to open any
controversy on a subject so insignificant.

“I don’t see how I can do a thing for you, Buckleton, at present.”

“It would be a very great accommodation if you could. Half would be
better than nothing, though we want every dollar we can possibly raise.
I will discount five per cent. for cash.”

“That’s liberal, but it won’t help me much.”

“Think it over, and see what you can do for me, Glasswood. I am in a
tight place.”

“I am sorry for it, but I haven’t got quite settled yet. I shall be
able to pay you in a couple of months.”

“I may be in bankruptcy before that time,” said he, with a grim smile.
“I will call and see you to-morrow morning at the bank.”

He went away. I thought I was inclined to stretch the truth quite
enough in making out a case, but I could not equal him. He was in no
more danger of failing than our bank was. The Cuban matter was a myth.
I was satisfied that he had been examining into the condition of my
credit. It was more than probable that he had heard rumors of my little
difficulty at the bank, and had not heard of the triumphant conclusion
of the affair. Shaytop had been whispering in his ear. Very likely my
uncle had hinted that I was living too fast. Certainly some persons had
been busy with matters which, in my estimation, did not concern them.
I was indignant, and felt that I had been abused. Let me say to young
gentlemen that shrewd business men usually know us better than we know
ourselves, and see sooner than we which way we are going.

Lilian was waiting for me in the dining-room. Of course she wished to
know “what that man wanted;” and I turned off the affair as best I
could. I sat down, and for a sick man who found it necessary to take
medicine, I ate a very hearty dinner.

“Well, my dear, how do you like the house, and housekeeping?” I said,
in order to turn the subject from “that man.”

“Very much, indeed, Paley. The only draw-back is that mother feels so
badly about it.”

“O, well! she will get over it in a few days.”

“Do you know, Paley, that I have been thinking of something?” she
continued, looking up to me with that peculiar archness which indicated
that she had a plan to propose.

“Have you, indeed? Well, that is not very remarkable.”

“I don’t know that it is; but why don’t you ask me what I have been
thinking about?”

“Well, my dear, what have you been thinking about?”

“I’ll tell you, since you ask,” laughed she. “We haven’t had anything
like a house-warming yet.”

“We have not. That was a great oversight. We will invite our friends,
and have some nuts and raisins.”

“Nuts and raisins! And be called mean by everybody!”

“Well, what do you propose?” I inquired, though I was rather appalled
at the idea of paying the bills for a large party.

“I don’t know; but if we invite all our friends, we must not be mean
about it. Besides, I hope mother will come, and then we shall be able
to make it all up.”

“I hope she will.”

We proceeded to discuss the details of the house-warming. Lilian
thought it would be cheaper and more stylish to have Smith take charge
of the whole thing. He would provide all the eatables, and place a
cream-colored waiter in white cotton gloves in the hall to open the
door for the guests. She thought it would be more “re-church-y,” and,
of course, I could not stand up against this tremendous argument. As
I was busy at the bank, she would call and see Smith herself the next
forenoon.

She had just been restored to me, and I could not deny her anything. I
think it would have broken her heart to know that I was up to my ears
in debt; that I could not afford to pay Smith for even a moderate thing
in his line. I ought to have told her the truth, the whole truth, but
I had not the courage to do so. I knew very well that the life we had
been living at her mother’s was just as distasteful and disagreeable
to her as to me. She had consented to it for her mother’s sake, and
had been a martyr since the day we returned from our bridal tour. I
need not say that she was fond of style and show, and she had deprived
herself of all these luxuries for the benefit of her family. The chain
was broken, and the first thing was a party.

I could not help myself without being a tyrant. Smith’s bill at the
outside could not be over a hundred dollars, and that would not kill
me for once. It occurred to me that I would limit the expenses to one
hundred dollars, but I did not see how they could exceed this sum; so
I decided to let Lilian manage the whole affair to suit herself. I
have no doubt she would have done very well, and that the result would
have been satisfactory to me, but unfortunately my wife’s ideas were
different from mine. By an act of grace on the part of a very wealthy
gentleman to whom I had been able to render some service, we were
invited to a great birthday party of his daughter, shortly after our
marriage. Lilian’s pretty face and graceful figure made her a great
favorite among the gentlemen, and she made quite a sensation. Of course
I was proud of her and Lilian deemed it the most fortunate thing in the
world to obtain the entree of such company.

It never occurred to me that Lilian would attempt to imitate the style
of my wealthy friend, or to invite any of the acquaintances she had
made there. She knew that I was a bank-teller, on a salary of two
thousand dollars, and of course she could not think of competing with
a millionaire. I went to the bank the next day, and Lilian went to
Smith’s. While I was looking at the morning paper, Buckleton appeared.
He did not seem to have the same suavity which had distinguished him
at my house. On the contrary, he was rather stiff and decided in his
manner. I told him it was quite impossible for me to pay the bill at
present.

“Glasswood, I must be square about this business. Things were not
exactly as I supposed, when I sold you those goods. I must have the
money or security for the debt at once.”

I was mad. Some one had been talking to him about me, and he had
listened to the foe rather than to me.

“You seem to be putting a different face upon the affair. Yesterday
you were short; to-day you are afraid of losing the money,” I replied,
coldly.

“I only want to know what you are going to do.”

“You told me to pay for the goods when it was convenient. If you had
not said so, I should not have bought them.”

“Give me a mortgage on the furniture in your house, and I will wait any
reasonable time.”

“I won’t do it!” I replied, angrily.

“Very well; we needn’t talk any more about it.”

“You professed to be my friend, and were willing to accommodate me.”

“Circumstances alter cases. I have different information now.”

“What information have you?” I demanded.

“I am not at liberty to say. I never betray any man’s confidence. You
are living beyond your means. I am willing to do anything that’s fair,
but I must have the money or the security.”

“I’ll see you after bank hours to-day.”

“Perhaps you will,” said he, leaving the bank very abruptly.

Who had been talking to this man? I never knew, but I am forced to
acknowledge now, what I did not believe then, that his information
was correct. I was vexed and disconcerted, and as the forenoon wore
away, and my wrath abated, I concluded to give him the mortgage on my
household furniture. This matter was so absorbing that I hardly thought
of the four hundred dollars I owed the bank till the memorandum I had
put in the drawer attracted my attention. I do not know why I tore it
up and threw it into the waste-basket, but I did so.

Mr. Bristlebach was very gentle towards me; so was the cashier; and I
was confident that no one suspected my cash was four hundred short. The
late inquiry into the condition of my department, instead of securing
the bank, had opened the way for my first irregularity. I went on with
my duties until about one o’clock, when I was not a little astonished
to see Biddy come into the bank. My heart rose into my mouth. I was
afraid that something had happened to Lilian, and that she was dead or
very sick. But Biddy only handed me a note, instead of making the scene
I had anticipated.

The note appeared to have been very hastily written, and was not in
Lilian’s usually careful style. My name was scrawled hastily on the
envelope. It occurred to me that Smith might have disappointed her,
but I feared something worse than this. I tore open the note. The
letter covered two pages, and it was evidently written under great
excitement. I was alarmed, and hardly dared to read it, lest it should
inform me that one of her family was dead.

I did read it, and it went on to tell me that, while she was away at
Smith’s, a deputy sheriff had come to the house and attached all the
furniture, and left a man there who called himself a “keeper.” She
had talked with this man, and he had told her Mr. Buckleton was the
person who had caused the goods to be attached. These were the material
statements of the letter, to which Lilian added that the matter was
“horrid;” that she never felt so strangely before in her life. She
wanted to know if I really owed Mr. Buckleton a thousand dollars.

I was almost stunned by this heavy blow. Some observations I dropped in
regard to Buckleton were not complimentary to that individual. I could
not stop to think then. The first business was to quiet Lilian, and I
wrote her a note, saying that Buckleton had taken offence at something
I had said; that the affair was a mere trifle, and I would send the man
away with a flea in his ear when I went home to dinner. I sent Biddy
off with this note.

A keeper in my house! What could I do?




CHAPTER XIII.

THE SECOND STEP.


[Illustration]

“I TOLD you so!”

It was not easy for me to tell what to do. Eight hundred dollars and
all the expenses of the attachment. The keeper was in my house at that
moment and poor Lilian appeared to be frightened out of her wits. It
was easy enough for me to flourish and call it a small matter, but I
could not put my hand upon the money which was to lift the load from my
shoulders.

What a crash there would be if this keeper was not driven from the
house that very day! What a text it would afford for “dear ma!” How
she would declare that it was a judgment upon me for my wickedness in
turning Lilian from the maternal bosom! How poor Lilian would suffer
under this terrible infliction!

It was galling to me even to think of exposing myself to the fire of
Mrs. Oliphant, and I was willing to drown myself rather than suffer
the punishment she could inflict with her tongue. It was horrible
to anticipate her “I told you so!” It would be the sum total of all
miseries to be pitied and advised by her. I must either run away and
leave Lilian to her fate, or pay this debt; for I could not think of
breasting the storm which would follow an exposure of my financial
condition.

The cold sweat stood on my brow as I thought of the situation. But I
was naturally hopeful and sanguine. If I had not been so, I should
never have incurred the burden of debt which now weighed me down. I
began to devise expedients; and Aunt Rachel was always the foremost of
expedients with me. The venerable spinster had thirty thousand dollars
according to the calculations of Captain Halliard, which was one-third
more than I had ever supposed. It was currently reported, and currently
believed, that I was to be her heir. It was true that the old lady had
never expressed herself to this effect in so many words, but among our
friends and relations this theory was fully accepted.

It could make no difference to her if she advanced one or two thousand
dollars before she shuffled off her mortal coil. I had so easily
persuaded her to let me have a thousand dollars, that I was confident
the second thousand would come without much difficulty. If I could
only find time to see her, I was satisfied my powers of persuasion
would do the rest. I wanted twelve hundred dollars; but this sum
would barely cover my pressing liabilities, and I made up my mind
that fifteen hundred would come as easily as twelve hundred, and the
difference would enable me to meet the cost of the attachment, Lilian’s
house-warming, and other little matters which would appear before the
next pay-day.

I had entire confidence in my own powers. I could put my hand on my
heart, and say that I had always treated Aunt Rachel with kindness
and consideration. I had always been a favorite with her, and I was
positive that the old lady could not resist my eloquence. In fact, I
was as sure of the money as though it had already been in my pocket;
and as I considered the subject I became hopeful and happy. But I
could not go to Springhaven that night, and in a few hours more that
abominable keeper might reveal his presence in my house to the whole
neighborhood. Lilian did not understand the matter, and if any of her
dear friends called, she might relate to them the wretched story I had
written in my note.

The keeper must be sent out of the house as soon as I could get away
from the bank. His staying there any longer would certainly ruin me.
Whatever else was doubtful, this was plain. Tom Flynn stood near me.
He had money, though he had just invested all he had in stocks; but
I was sure, if I told him the whole truth, he would help me out of
the difficulty even if he had to sell his stocks, and sacrifice his
dividends. But it was too humiliating to think of telling him that I
had plunged into a sea of debt, and was already struggling for life in
the waves.

I did think of calling upon my uncle, but I rejected the suggestion on
the instant, for I could not listen to the storm of invectives he would
heap upon me; and, besides, he would tell my Aunt Rachel, and thus give
her a bad opinion of me. The old lady might disinherit me as a “fast
boy.”

Buckleton had offered to take a mortgage on my furniture for security.
This seemed to be the most practicable solution of the problem which
had yet presented itself. But what was the use of mortgaging the
property when I could pay the debt as soon as I had seen Aunt Rachel?
Besides, if there was a man on the face of the footstool whom I hated
with all my mind, heart and soul, that man was Buckleton. He had
induced me to purchase more extensively than I intended by holding out
to me the most liberal terms of credit. Now, in less than a month, he
was putting the twisters upon me. I regarded him as a treacherous and
unfeeling man; one without a soul; one who would sell his friend for
sixpence. I despised him from the deepest depths of my heart, and the
idea of asking a favor of him, or even of having a word to say to him,
was utterly repulsive to me. I could not see him; I could only treat
him with cold and dignified contempt.

Perhaps it was not becoming in one situated as I was to put on such
airs, or to attempt to save my dignity. I could not help it. I was
proud—I wish I had been too proud to do a wrong deed. There appeared
to be no resource to which I could turn for immediate relief. Of the
fifteen hundred dollars for which I had decided to ask my aunt, I was
perfectly sure. If the old lady hesitated, I could tell her that ruin
stared me in the face, that I should be compelled to run away, and
never show my face about Boston again, if I did not obtain this money.
I was satisfied this threat would bring the money, if nothing else did.
I could assure her it would be all the same with her. I would pay her
the highest rate of interest, and return the principal in a short time.
If she wished it, I could give her security on my furniture for the
amount.

I was sure of the money from her. Why should I be distressed for the
want of it during the few days that must elapse before I could see her?
There was no reason, in my estimation. I need not inform the reader
that by this time I meditated taking another loan from the bank funds
in my keeping. I could borrow eleven hundred more, thus making my total
indebtedness to the bank fifteen hundred. A few days, or even a week
hence, I should receive the loan from Aunt Rachel, and I could slip the
whole amount in the drawer. Then I should be square with the bank. Then
no one would have the power to distress me.

Two o’clock came, and the bank closed. With far less compunction than
I had experienced on the former occasion, I took eleven hundred dollars
from my drawer as I transferred the cash to the safe. I did not go
through with the idle formality of depositing a memorandum in my trunk
with the money. It was a loan for a few days, which Aunt Rachel would
enable me to pay. I will not say that I did not tremble—I did. I did
not persuade myself that the act was right, only that I intended no
wrong. I called the deed simply an “irregularity.” It was not stealing,
embezzlement, or any other ugly thing with a savage name. I had the
money in my pocket, and I think this fact was the basis of all the
arguments I used in persuading myself that I had not done a very wicked
act.

As soon as I had balanced my cash I left the bank and hastened home. I
need not say that Lilian was in a tempest of excitement, in spite of my
consoling note. The horrible keeper sat in the dining-room, reading the
morning paper, and apparently unconscious of the misery he had brought
to my house. He was polite and gentlemanly, and I was magnanimous
enough to treat him with consideration. I inquired into the particulars
of the case, and proposed to settle the claim at once. He had no
authority to settle it, and referred me to Messrs. Shiver & Sharp,
attorneys, in Court Street, who had procured the writ.

Dinner was nearly ready, and I invited the keeper to dine with me. He
was condescending enough to accept, and while we sat at the table I did
some large talking, in which I was particularly severe upon Buckleton,
and particularly complimentary to Glasswood, the latter of whom was
a highly honorable man, who had been grossly wronged by the former.
Buckleton had put on the attachment out of spite. Glasswood had always
paid his debts fairly and squarely, but would not be imposed upon.

After dinner I rushed down to the office of Messrs. Shiver & Sharp.
I was indignant and savage, but I was magnificent. I rolled out the
hundred-dollar bills with a perfect looseness. I did not even dispute
the costs. I paid all, to the utmost penny demanded. Then I talked
about the insult, the stain upon my honor, and dilated upon kindred
topics, but I fear I failed to make any strong impression upon the
astute Mr. Sharp, who conducted the business. He was polite, but he was
cold. He gave me a note to the keeper, which I delivered on my return
to Needham Street, and which caused his immediate departure, after he
had carefully examined the well-known signature of the legal firm.

“Such things are unpleasant, Lilian, but I suppose they have happened
to almost all men at one time or another,” I remarked, as soon as the
door had closed upon our unwelcome guest.

“I never was so frightened before in my life,” she replied with a deep
sigh, indicative of the relief she felt.

“It was a miserable trick! It was too mean for any decent man to be
guilty of.”

“But did you really owe this Buckleton?”

“I did really owe him about eight hundred dollars, but he told me at
the time I bought the furniture to pay him whenever it was convenient.
It was not convenient to pay him to-day, and he sued me. You know,
my dear, that when one has money comfortably invested, drawing large
interest, one does not like to disturb it, at least, just before
dividends are payable.”

“It’s too bad!” exclaimed Lilian, warmly, her pretty face beaming with
sympathy; and she actually believed that the indefinite pronoun I had
used in my description represented myself.

“Well, Lilian, what have you done about the party?” I inquired, rather
anxious to change the topic, lest she should desire to know more of my
financial affairs.

“I have seen Smith, and made all the arrangements for next Friday
evening. As it is to be a house-warming, we must not put it off too
long. But, dear me, when I came home, and found this awful man here, I
was so alarmed that I was on the point of countermanding the order I
had given.”

“It’s all right now. But you must hurry up your invitations.”

“There is time enough for them. We will prepare the list this evening.
But, Paley, what shall we do for a piano? It will be very awkward to be
without a piano on such an occasion. Besides, people will think we are
nobody if we don’t have one.”

“That’s very true, Lilian,” I replied, somewhat startled by the
proposition. “But I’m afraid we can hardly afford to buy one just yet.
Such a one as I want would cost five hundred dollars.”

“A cheaper one will do.”

“But it is bad economy to buy a cheap one. In the course of six months
or a year I shall be able to buy a good one.”

“We must have one for this party.”

“I will see what can be done before Friday.”

“And, Paley, you furnished the house beautifully, but there is just one
thing for the parlor that you forgot,” continued Lilian, bestowing upon
me her most winning smile.

“What is that?”

“An étagère. It would set off the parlor more than all the rest of
the furniture.”

“But it would cost about a hundred dollars.”

“I would rather do without many other things than not have an
étagère,” replied Lilian, beginning to look very sad.

“Will you go down town and look at some of them?” said I, looking as
amiable as though I had not borrowed fifteen hundred dollars of the
bank.

“Dear me! I can’t go this afternoon. I have everything to do. But your
taste is so good, Paley, that you can buy one just as well without me.”

I left the house for the purpose of obtaining a piano and an étagère.
Buckleton had showed me the latter article, and insisted that my house
would not be furnished without it. I had positively refused to buy it,
for two reasons. First, because I could not afford it; and, second,
because no one could pronounce the name of the thing. I confess that
it seemed to be a greater sin to place such a piece of furniture where
plain Yankees would be tempted to utter its name, than it was to
indulge in criminal extravagance. Lilian’s French had been neglected,
and she made a bad botch of the word, but I decided to instruct her in
the difficult task of pronouncing the word.

I went to a pianoforte house. The book-keeper made his deposits and
drew his checks over our counter. I knew him. He showed me a five
hundred dollar instrument. It suited me—the piano, not the price. A
lower-priced one did not meet my views. I proposed an arrangement with
the concern, that I would hire the instrument with the intention of
purchasing if it suited me. One of the firm was consulted. Perhaps he
knew that persons who once indulged in a luxury would not willingly
give it up. He consented to let it for three months, with the privilege
of purchasing at the end of that time. It was ordered to my house. The
piano was provided for at an expense of twenty-five dollars, if not
bought, for three months.

The étagère was a more difficult matter. I could not hire one, and
I did not like to pay a hundred dollars for such a useless piece of
furniture; but there was no alternative. Lilian had said she must have
one. I had nearly three hundred dollars in my pocket, but with this sum
I intended to pay Smith, and get rid of my “floating debt,” so that I
should owe no one but Aunt Rachel. But Smith’s bill could not be over a
hundred dollars, at the most extravagant figure, and I thought I could
spare enough for the étagère.

I went to a store near Buckleton’s. While I was looking at the
étagère my late creditor came into the store. I was just closing the
bargain at ninety-five dollars. Buckleton had heard from his lawyer,
and was glad to meet me. I was glad to have him see me purchase this
piece of furniture. He spoke to me. I did not answer him. He attempted
to apologize. I did not look at him. I closed my bargain, and asked for
the bill. Buckleton was evidently vexed, and felt as any man does when
he has lost a customer. I enjoyed it.

“I will sell you that same article for seventy-five dollars,” he
whispered in my ear, just before I closed the bargain.

“I would not take it, if you would give it to me,” I replied.

“I think I made a mistake to-day.”

“The mistake of your lifetime,” I retorted. “Don’t speak to me again. I
despise you.”

I stalked out of his reach, paid my bill, and went home. In the evening
Lilian and I made out the list of invitations. Of course I could not
overrule Lilian’s decisions, and not less than fifty were invited—all
our house would hold. It included my rich friend’s family, and I began
to tremble for the result.




CHAPTER XIV.

THE HOUSE-WARMING.


[Illustration]

THE next day the piano and the étagère came, and were duly disposed
of in our pretty parlor. I could not help agreeing with Lilian that
both of them were absolutely necessary to the proper appointment of the
room. After she had covered the étagère with a variety of articles,
most of which had to be purchased for the purpose, the effect was
pleasing.

The piano filled a waiting space; and really there seemed to be nothing
more to wish for in this world. Lilian played a few tunes on the new
instrument, and my home seemed to be invested with a new charm. Beyond
the party, I looked forward to pleasant hours when our friends should
gather in this room on Sunday evening to sing sacred music, for which
Tom Flynn had a decided partiality.

On Friday morning I went to the bank as usual. When I returned, Smith
had taken possession of the house, and was making his arrangements
for the grand occasion in the evening. I am bound to say that he made
but little fuss for so great an affair. When the evening came, a
colored gentleman in white cotton gloves was stationed at the door,
and more waiters were disposed of in other parts of the house. People
came—every body Lilian had invited, except those she wanted most, viz:
my wealthy friend from Beacon Street, with his family. They did not
come, and I had not supposed they would.

Mrs. Oliphant came, and certainly this was a triumph. Lilian felt that
she had outgeneralled her mother, and conquered a peace. I am afraid
it required a desperate struggle on the part of “dear ma” to yield the
point, and I could only guess at the consideration which induced her to
come down from the “high horse.” But she was stiff and magnificent at
first. She did not seem to enjoy the affair, and looked upon me as an
ogre who had defeated all her cherished plans.

Miss Bertha came, and so did Tom; and early in the evening I was not
a little surprised to hear the piano giving out the solemn notes of
Peterboro and Hebron, sung by a large portion of the company. The
instrument was pronounced excellent. Bertha sang like a nightingale,
and I am not sure that the piano did not cement a regard which
ultimately transformed the fair pianist into Mrs. Tom Flynn.

Everything went well, and at eleven o’clock Smith’s supper was
uncovered. When I saw the stores with which the table was loaded, I was
