
"Go up to that desk, Johnny," said the clerk, pointing to a desk about
midway of the store. A stout gentleman stood behind it, writing
something in a large book.

Ben went up, and repeated his inquiry. "Do you want a cash-boy?"

"How old are you?" asked the gentleman looking down at him.

"Ten years old."

"Have you ever been in a store?"

"No, sir."

"Do you live in the city?"

"Yes, sir."

"With your parents?"

"No, sir," said Ben, with hesitation.

"Who do you live with, then?"

"With nobody. I take care of myself."

"Humph!" The gentleman looked a little surprised, not at the idea of a
boy of ten looking out for himself, for such cases are common enough in
New York, but at the idea of such a well-dressed lad as Ben being in
that situation.

"How long have you been your own man?" he inquired.

"I've only just begun," Ben admitted.

"Are your parents dead?"

"No, sir; they're alive."

"Then I advise you to go back to them. We don't receive any boys into
our employment, who do not live with their parents."

The gentleman returned to his writing, and Ben saw that his case was
hopeless. His disappointment was greater than before, for he liked the
looks of the proprietor, if, as he judged, this was he. Besides, boys
were wanted, and his size would be no objection, judging from the
appearance of the other boys in the store. So he had been sanguine of
success. Now he saw that there was an objection which he could not
remove, and which would be very likely to stand in his way in other
places.




CHAPTER IV.

A RESTAURANT ON FULTON STREET.


Ben kept on his way, looking in at the shop windows as before. He had
not yet given up the idea of getting a place in a store, though he began
to see that his chances of success were rather small.

The next pause he came to was before a bookstore. Here, too, there was
posted on the window:--

  "BOY WANTED."

Ben entered. There were two or three persons behind the counter. The
oldest, a man of forty, Ben decided to be the proprietor. He walked up
to him, and said, "Do you want a boy?"

"Yes," said the gentleman. "We want a boy to run of errands, and deliver
papers to customers. How old are you?"

"Ten years old."

"That is rather young."

"I'm pretty strong of my age," said Ben, speaking the truth here, for
he was rather larger and stouter than most boys of ten.

"That is not important, as you will not have very heavy parcels to
carry. Are you well acquainted with the streets in this part of the
city?"

This question was a poser, Ben thought. He was at first tempted to say
yes, but decided to answer truthfully.

"No, sir," he answered.

"Do you live in the lower part of the city?"

"Yes, sir; that is, I'm going to live there."

"How long have you lived in the city?"

"I only arrived this morning," Ben confessed, reluctantly.

"Then I'm afraid you will not answer my purpose. We need a boy who is
well acquainted with the city streets."

He was another disqualification. Ben left the store a little
discouraged. He began to think that it would be harder work making a
living than he had supposed. He would apply in two or three more stores,
and, if unsuccessful, he must sell papers or black boots. Of the two he
preferred selling papers. Blacking boots would soil his hands and his
clothes, and, as it was possible that he might some day encounter some
one from his native village, he did not like to have the report carried
home that he had become a New York boot-black. He felt that his
education and bringing up fitted him for something better than that.
However, it was not necessary to decide this question until he had got
through applying for a situation in a store.

He tried his luck again, and once was on the point of being engaged at
three dollars per week, when a question as to his parents revealed the
fact that he was without a guardian, and this decided the question
against him.

"It's of no use," said Ben, despondently. "I might as well go back."

So he turned, and retraced his steps down Broadway. By the time he got
to the City Hall Park he was quite tired. Seeing some vacant seats
inside, he went in and sat down, resting his bundle on the seat beside
him. He saw quite a number of street boys within the inclosure, most of
them boot-blacks. As a rule, they bore the marks of their occupation
not only on their clothes, but on their faces and hands as well. Some,
who were a little more careful than the rest, were provided with a small
square strip of carpeting, on which they kneeled when engaged in
"shining up" a customer's boots. This formed a very good protection for
the knees of their pantaloons. Two were even more luxurious, having
chairs in which they seated their customers. Where this extra
accommodation was supplied, however, a fee of ten cents was demanded,
while the boot-blacks in general asked but five.

"Black your boots?" asked one boy of Ben, observing that our young
adventurer's shoes were soiled.

"Yes," said Ben, "if you'll do it for nothing."

"I'll black your eye for nothing," said the other.

"Thank you," said Ben, "I won't trouble you."

Ben was rather interested in a scene which he witnessed shortly
afterwards. A young man, whose appearance indicated that he was from the
country, was waylaid by the boys, and finally submitted his boots to an
operator.

"How much do you want?"

"Twenty-five cents," was the reply.

"Twenty-five cents!" exclaimed the customer, aghast. "You're jokin',
aint you?"

"Reg'lar price, mister," was the reply.

"Why, I saw a boy blackin' boots down by the museum for ten cents."

"Maybe you did; but this is the City Hall Park. We're employed by the
city, and we have to charge the reg'lar price."

"I wish I'd got my boots blacked down to the museum," said the victim,
in a tone of disappointment, producing twenty-five cents, which was
eagerly appropriated by the young extortioner.

"I say, Tommy, give us a treat, or we'll peach," said one of the boys.

Tom led the way to the ice-cream vender's establishment, where with
reckless extravagance he ordered a penny ice-cream all round for the
half-dozen boys in his company, even then making a handsome thing out of
the extra pay he had obtained from his rustic patron.

By this time it was half-past two o'clock. So Ben learned from the City
Hall clock. He was getting decidedly hungry. There were apple and cake
stands just outside the railings, on which he could have regaled
himself cheaply, but his appetite craved something more solid. There was
a faint feeling, which nothing but meat could satisfy.

Ben had no idea how much a plate of meat would cost at a restaurant. He
had but twenty-two cents, and whatever he got must come within that
limit. Still he hoped that something could be obtained for this sum.

Where to go,--that was the question.

"Can you tell me a good place to get some dinner?" he asked of a boy,
standing near him.

"Down on Nassau Street or Fulton Street," was the reply.

"Where is Fulton Street?" asked Ben, catching the last name.

"I'm goin' that way. You can go with me if you want to."

Ben readily accepted the companionship proffered, and was led past the
museum, the site of which, as I have said, is now occupied by the Herald
Building.

Turning down Fulton Street, Ben soon saw a restaurant, with bills of
fare displayed outside.

"That's a good place," said his guide.

"Thank you," said Ben.

He scanned the bill in advance, ascertaining to his satisfaction that he
could obtain a plate of roast beef for fifteen cents, and a cup of
coffee for five. This would make but twenty cents, leaving him a balance
of two cents.

He opened the door and entered.

There was a long table running through the centre of the apartment, from
the door to the rear. On each side, against the sides of the room, were
small tables intended for four persons each. There were but few eating,
as the busy time at down-town restaurants usually extends from twelve to
half-past one, or two o'clock, and it was now nearly three.

Ben entered and took a seat at one of the side tables, laying his bundle
on a chair beside him.

A colored waiter came up, and stood awaiting his orders.

"Give me a plate of roast beef," said Ben.

"Yes, sir. Coffee or tea?"

"Coffee."

The waiter went to the lower end of the dining-room, and called out,
"Roast beef."

After a brief delay, he returned with the article ordered, and a cup of
coffee.

There were two potatoes with the meat, and a small piece of bread on the
side of the plate. The coffee looked muddy, and not particularly
inviting.

Ben was not accustomed to the ways of restaurants, and supposed that, as
in shops, immediate payment was expected.

"Here's the money--twenty cents," he said, producing the sum named.

"Pay at the desk as you go out," said the waiter.

Ben looked up, and then for the first time noticed a man behind a
counter in the front part of the room.

At the same time the waiter produced a green ticket, bearing "20 cents"
printed upon it.

Ben now addressed himself with a hearty appetite to the dinner. The
plate was dingy, and the meat neither very abundant nor very tender.
Still it can hardly be expected that for fifteen cents a large plate of
sirloin can be furnished. Ben was not in a mood to be critical. At home
he would have turned up his nose at such a repast, but hunger is very
well adapted to cure one of fastidiousness. He ate rapidly, and felt
that he had seldom eaten anything so good. He was sorry there was no
more bread, the supply being exceedingly limited. As for the coffee he
was able to drink it, though he did not enjoy it so well. It tasted as
if there was not more than a teaspoonful of milk in the infusion, while
the flavor of the beverage differed strangely from the coffee he had
been accustomed to get at home.

"It isn't very good," thought Ben; and he could not help wishing he had
a cup of the good coffee his mother used to make at home.

"Have anything more?" asked the waiter, coming up to the table.

Ben looked over the bill of fare, not that he expected to get anything
for the two cents that still remained to him, but because he wanted to
notice the prices of different articles. His eye rested rather longingly
on "Apple Dumplings." He was very fond of this dish, and his appetite
was so far from being satisfied that he felt that he could have easily
disposed of a plate. But the price was ten cents, and of course it was
entirely beyond his means.

"Nothing more," said he, and rose from his seat.

He went up to the counter and settled his bill, and went out again into
the street. He felt more comfortable than he had done, as one is very
apt to feel after a good dinner, and Ben's dinner had been a good one,
his appetite making up for any deficiency in the quality.

Where should he go now?

He was still tired, and did not care to wander about the streets.
Besides, he had no particular place to go to. He therefore decided to
walk back to the City Hall Park, and sit down on one of the benches.
There would be something to see, and he was interested in watching the
street boys, whose ranks he felt that he should very soon be compelled
to join. His prospects did not look particularly bright, as he was not
provided with means sufficient to pay for another meal. But the time had
not yet come to trouble himself about that. When he got hungry again, he
would probably realize his position a little more keenly.




CHAPTER V.

A BEER-GARDEN IN THE BOWERY.


Ben sat down again in his old seat, and occupied himself once more in
looking about him. After a while he became sleepy. Besides having taken
a considerable walk, he had not slept much the night before. As no one
occupied the bench but himself, he thought he might as well make himself
comfortable. Accordingly he laid his bundle crosswise at one end, and
laid back, using it for a pillow. The visor of his cap he brought down
over his eyes, so as to shield them from the afternoon sun. The seat was
hard, to be sure, but his recumbent position rested him. He did not mean
to go to sleep, but gradually the sounds around him became an indistinct
hum; even the noise and bustle of busy Broadway, but a few feet distant,
failed to ward off sleep, and in a short time he was sleeping soundly.

Of course he could not sleep in so public a place without attracting
attention. Two ragged boys espied him, and held a low conference
together.

"What's he got in that bundle, Jim, do you think?" asked one.

"We'd better look and see."

They went up to the bench, and touched him, to make sure that he was
fast asleep. The touch did not rouse him to consciousness.

"Just lift up his head, Mike, and I'll take the bundle," said the larger
of the two boys.

This was done.

"Now, let him down softly."

So the bundle was removed, and poor Ben, wandering somewhere in the land
of dreams, was none the wiser. His head, deprived of its former support,
now rested on the hard bench. It was not so comfortable, but he was too
tired to awake. So he slept on.

Meanwhile Jim and Mike opened the bundle.

"It's a couple of shirts," said Jim.

"Is that all?" asked Mike, disappointed.

"Well, that's better than nothin'."

"Give me one of 'em."

"It's just about your size. 'Taint big enough for me."

"Then give me the two of 'em."

"What'll you give?"

"I aint got no stamps. I'll pay you a quarter when I get it."

"That don't go down," said Jim, whose confidence in his confederate's
honesty was not very great. Considering the transaction in which they
were now engaged, it is not surprising that there should have been a
mutual distrust. Being unable to make any bargain, Jim decided to take
his share of the booty round to a second-hand clothes-dealer in Chatham
Street. Here, after considerable higgling, he succeeded in selling the
shirt for sixteen cents, which was less than his companion had offered.
However, it was cash down, and so was immediately available,--an
important consideration in the present state of Jim's finances. "A bird
in the hand," as he considered, "was worth two in the bush."

Jim immediately purchased a cigar with a portion of his dishonest gains,
and, procuring a light, walked about in a state of high enjoyment,
puffing away as coolly as a man of twice his years.

Meanwhile Ben continued to sleep, happily unconscious of the loss of his
entire personal possessions. In his dreams he was at home once more,
playing with his school companions. Let him sleep! He will waken soon
enough to the hard realities of a street life, voluntarily undertaken,
it is true, but none the less likely to bear heavily upon him.

He slept a long time. When he awoke it was six o'clock.

He sat upon his seat, and rubbed his eyes in momentary bewilderment. In
his dreams he had been back again to his native village, and he could
not at once recall his change of circumstances. But it all came back to
him soon enough. He realized with a slight pang that he had a home no
longer; that he was a penniless vagrant, for whom the hospitality of the
streets alone was open. He did wish that he could sit down at the
plentiful home table, and eat the well-cooked supper which was always
provided; that is, if he could blot out one remembrance: when he thought
of the unjust punishment that had driven him forth, his pride rose, and
his determination became as stubborn as ever. I do not defend Ben in
this. He was clearly wrong. The best of parents may be unintentionally
unjust at times, and this is far from affording an adequate excuse for a
boy to leave home. But Ben had a great deal of pride, and I am only
telling you how he felt.

Our young adventurer did not at first realize the loss which he had
sustained. It was at least five minutes before he thought of his bundle
at all. At length, chancing to look at the seat beside him, he missed
it.

"Where can it be, I wonder?" he thought, perplexed.

He looked under the bench, thinking that perhaps it had rolled off. But
it need not be said that it was not to be seen.

Ben was rather disturbed. It was all he had brought from home, and
constituted his entire earthly possessions.

"It must have rolled off, and been picked up by somebody," he thought;
but the explanation was not calculated to bring any satisfaction. "I
did not think I should fall asleep."

It occurred to him that some of the boys near by might have seen it. So
he went up to a group of boot-blacks near by, one of whom was Jim, who
had actually been concerned in the robbery. The other boys knew nothing
of the affair.

"I say, boys," said Ben, "have you seen anything of my bundle?"

"What bundle, Johnny?" said Jim, who was now smoking his second cigar.

"I had a small bundle tied up in a newspaper," said Ben. "I put it under
my head, and then fell asleep. Now I can't find it."

"Do you think we stole it?" said Jim, defiantly.

"Of course I don't," said Ben; "but I thought it might have slipped out,
and you might have seen somebody pick it up."

"Haven't seen it, Johnny," said one of the other boys; "most likely it's
stole."

"Do you think so?" asked Ben, anxiously.

"In course, you might expect it would be."

"I didn't mean to go to sleep."

"What was there in it?"

"There was two shirts."

"You've got a shirt on, aint you?"

"Yes," said Ben.

"That's all right, then. What does a feller want of a thousand shirts?"

"There's some difference between two shirts and a thousand," said Ben.

"What's the odds? I haven't got but one shirt. That's all I want. When
it is wore out I'll buy a new one."

"What do you do when it gets dirty?" asked Ben, in some curiosity.

"Oh, I wash it once in two or three weeks," was the reply.

This was not exactly in accordance with Ben's ideas of neatness; but he
saw that no satisfaction was likely to be obtained in this quarter, so
he walked away rather depressed. It certainly hadn't been a lucky
day,--this first day in the city. He had been rejected in half-a-dozen
stores in his applications for employment, had spent nearly all his
money, and been robbed of all his clothing except what he wore.

Again Ben began to feel an appetite. He had eaten his dinner late, but
it had consisted of a plate of meat only. His funds being now reduced to
two cents, he was obliged to content himself with an apple, which did
something towards appeasing his appetite.

Next Ben began to consider anxiously how he was to pass the night.
Having no money to spend for lodging, there seemed nothing to do but to
sleep out of doors. It was warm weather, and plenty of street boys did
it. But to Ben it would be a new experience, and he regarded it with
some dread. He wished he could meet with Jerry Collins, his acquaintance
of the morning. From him he might obtain some information that would be
of service in his present strait.

Three or four hours must elapse before it would be time to go to bed.
Ben hardly knew how or where to pass them. He had become tired of the
park; besides, he had got over a part of his fatigue, and felt able to
walk about and explore the city. He turned at a venture up Chatham
Street, and was soon interested in the sights of this peculiar
thoroughfare,--the shops open to the street, with half their stock in
trade exposed on the sidewalk, the importunities of the traders, and the
appearance of the people whom he met. It seemed very lively and
picturesque to Ben, and drew away his attention from his own awkward
position.

He was asked to buy by some of the traders, being promised wonderful
bargains; but his penniless condition put him out of the reach of
temptation.

So he wandered on until he came to the Bowery, a broad avenue, wider
than Broadway, and lined by shops of a great variety, but of a grade
inferior to those of its more aristocratic neighbor.

Here, also, the goods are liberally displayed on the sidewalk, and are
generally labelled with low prices, which tempts many purchasers. The
purchaser, however, must look carefully to the quality of the goods
which he buys, or he will in many cases find the low price merely a
snare and a delusion, and regret that he had not paid more liberally and
bought a better article.

Later in the evening, on his return walk, Ben came to an establishment
brilliant with light, from which proceeded strains of music. Looking
in, he saw that it was filled with small tables, around which were
seated men, women, and children. They had glasses before them from which
they drank. This was a Lager Beer Hall or Garden,--an institution
transplanted from Germany, and chiefly patronized by those of German
birth or extraction. It seemed bright and cheerful, and our young
adventurer thought it would be pleasant to go in, and spend an hour or
two, listening to the music; but he was prevented by the consciousness
that he had no money to spend, and might be considered an intruder.

While he was looking in wistfully, he was struck on the back; and
turning, saw, to his surprise, the face of his only acquaintance in New
York, Jerry Collins, the boot-black.

"I am glad to see you," he said, eagerly offering his hand, without
considering that Jerry's hand, unwashed during the day, was stained with
blacking. He felt so glad to meet an acquaintance, however, that he
would not have minded this, even if it had occurred to him.

"The same to you," said Jerry. "Are you going in?"

"I haven't got any money," said Ben, a little ashamed of the confession.

"Well, I have, and that'll do just as well."

He took Ben by the arm, and they passed through a vestibule, and entered
the main apartment, which was of large size. On one side, about half way
down, was a large instrument some like an organ, from which the music
proceeded. The tables were very well filled, Germans largely
predominating among the guests.

"Sit down here," said Jerry.

They took seats at one of the tables. Opposite was a stout German and
his wife, the latter holding a baby. Both had glasses of lager before
them, and the baby was also offered a share by its mother; but, from the
contortions of its face, did not appear to relish it.

"Zwei Glass Lager," said Jerry, to a passing attendant.

"Can you speak German?" asked Ben, surprised.

"Yaw," said Jerry; "my father was an Irishman, and my mother was a
Dutchman."

Jerry's German, however, seemed to be limited, as he made no further
attempts to converse in that language.

The glasses were brought. Jerry drank his down at a draught, but Ben,
who had never before tasted lager, could not at once become reconciled
to its bitter taste.

"Don't you like it?" asked Jerry.

"Not very much," said Ben.

"Then I'll finish it for you;" and he suited the action to the word.

Besides the lager a few plain cakes were sold, but nothing more
substantial. Evidently the beer was the great attraction. Ben could not
help observing, with some surprise, that, though everybody was drinking,
there was not the slightest disturbance, or want of decorum, or
drunkenness. The music, which was furnished at intervals, was of very
good quality, and was listened to with attention.

"I was goin' to Tony Pastor's to-night," said Jerry, "if I hadn't met
you."

"What sort of a place is that?" asked Ben.

"Oh, it's a bully place--lots of fun. You must go there some time."

"I think I will," answered Ben, mentally adding, "if I ever have money
enough."

Here the music struck up, and they stopped to listen to it. When this
was over, Jerry proposed to go out. Ben would have been willing to stay
longer; but he saw that his companion did not care so much for the music
as himself, and he did not wish to lose sight of him. To be alone in a
great city, particularly under Ben's circumstances, is not very
pleasant, and our young adventurer determined to stick to his new
acquaintance, who, though rough in his manners, had yet seemed inclined
to be friendly, and Ben felt sadly in need of a friend.




CHAPTER VI.

THE BURNING BALES.


"Where are you going to sleep to-night?" asked Ben, introducing a
subject which had given him some anxiety.

"I don't know," said Jerry, carelessly. "I'll find a place somewhere."

"I'll go with you, if you'll let me," said Ben.

"In course I will."

"I haven't got any money."

"What's the odds? They don't charge nothin' at the hotel where I stop."

"What time do you go to bed?"

"Most any time. Do you feel sleepy?"

"Rather. I didn't sleep much last night."

"Well, we'll go and find a place now. How'd you like sleepin' on
cotton-bales?"

"I think that would be comfortable."

"There's a pile of bales down on the pier, where the New Orleans
steamers come in. Maybe we could get a chance there."

"All right. Where is it?"

"Pier 8, North River. It'll take us twenty minutes, or maybe half an
hour, to go there."

"Let us go," said Ben.

He felt relieved at the idea of so comfortable a bed as a cotton-bale,
and was anxious to get stowed away for the night.

The two boys struck across to Broadway, and followed that street down
past Trinity Church, turning down the first street beyond. Rector
Street, notwithstanding its clerical name, is far from an attractive
street. Just in the rear of the great church, and extending down to the
wharves, is a collection of miserable dwellings, occupied by tenants
upon whom the near presence of the sanctuary appears to produce little
impression of a salutary character. Ben looked about him in
ill-concealed disgust. He neither fancied the neighborhood, nor the
people whom he met. But the Island is very narrow just here, and he had
not far to walk to West Street, which runs along the edge of Manhattan
Island, and is lined with wharves. Jerry, of course, did not mind the
surroundings. He was too well used to them to care.

They brought out opposite the pier.

"There it is," said Jerry.

Ben saw a pile of cotton-bales heaped up on the wharf in front. Just
behind them was a gate, and over it the sign of the New Orleans Company.

"I should think somebody would steal the bales," said Ben. "Are they
left out here all night?"

"There's a watchman round here somewhere," said Jerry. "He stays here
all night to guard the bales."

"Will he let us sleep here?"

"I don't know," said Jerry. "We'll creep in, when he isn't looking."

The watchman was sitting down, leaning his back against one of the
bales. A short pipe was in his mouth, and he seemed to be enjoying his
smoke. This was contrary to orders, for the cotton being combustible
might easily catch fire; but this man, supposing that he would not be
detected, indulged himself in the forbidden luxury.

"Now creep along softly," said Jerry.

The latter, being barefooted, had an advantage over Ben, but our young
adventurer crept after him as softly as he could. Jerry found a bale
screened from observation by the higher piles on each side, where he
thought they could sleep unobserved. Following his lead, Ben stretched
himself out upon it.

The watchman was too busily occupied with his pipe to detect any noise.

"Aint it comfortable?" whispered Jerry.

"Yes," said Ben, in the same low tone.

"I wouldn't ask for nothin' better," said Jerry.

Ben was not so sure about that; but then he had not slept out hundreds
of nights, like Jerry, in old wagons, or on door-steps, or wherever else
he could; so he had a different standard of comparison.

He could not immediately go to sleep. He was tired, it was true, but his
mind was busy. It was only twelve hours since he had landed in the city,
but it had been an eventful twelve hours. He understood his position a
little better now, and how much he had undertaken, in boldly leaving
home at ten years of age, and taking upon himself the task of earning
his living.

If he had known what was before him, would he have left home at all?

Ben was not sure about this. He did own to himself, however, that he was
disappointed. The city had not proved the paradise he had expected.
Instead of finding shopkeepers eager to secure his services, he had
found himself uniformly rejected. He began to suspect that it was rather
early to begin the world at ten years of age. Then again, though he was
angry with his father, he had no cause of complaint against his mother.
She had been uniformly kind and gentle, and he found it hard to keep
back the tears when he thought how she would be distressed at his
running away. He had not thought of that in the heat of his first anger,
but he thought of it now. How would she feel if she knew where he was at
this moment, resting on a cotton-bale, on a city wharf, penniless and
without a friend in the great city, except the ragged boy who was
already asleep at his side? She would feel badly, Ben knew that, and he
half regretted having been so precipitate in his action. He could remedy
it all, and relieve his mother's heart by going back. But here Ben's
pride came in. To go back would be to acknowledge himself wrong; it
would be a virtual confession of failure, and, moreover, knowing his
father's sternness, he knew that he would be severely punished.
Unfortunately for Ben, his father had a stern, unforgiving disposition,
that never made allowances for the impulses of boyhood. He had never
condescended to study his own son, and the method of training he had
adopted with him was in some respects very pernicious. His system
hardened, instead of softening, and prejudiced Ben against what was
right, maddening him with a sense of injustice, and so preventing his
being influenced towards good. Of course, all this did not justify Ben
in running away from home. The thought of his mother ought to have been
sufficient to have kept him from any such step. But it was necessary to
be stated, in order that my readers might better understand what sort of
a boy Ben was.

So, in spite of his half relenting, Ben determined that he would not go
home at all events. Whatever hardships lay before him in the new life
which he had adopted, he resolved to stand them as well as he could.
Indeed, however much he might desire to retrace his steps, he had no
money to carry him back, nor could he obtain any unless he should write
home for it, and this again would be humiliating. Ben's last thought,
then, as he sank to sleep, was, that he would stick to New York, and get
his living somehow, even if he had to black boots for a living.

At the end of an hour, both boys were fast asleep. The watchman, after
smoking his pipe, got up, and paced up and down the wharf drowsily. He
did not happen to observe the young sleepers. If he had done so, he
would undoubtedly have shaken them roughly, and ordered them off. It was
rather fortunate that neither Ben nor his companion were in the habit of
snoring, as this would at once have betrayed their presence, even to the
negligent watchman.

After a while the watchman bethought himself again of his pipe, and,
filling the bowl with tobacco, lighted it. Then, with the most culpable
carelessness, he half reclined on one of the bales and "took comfort."
Not having prepared himself for the vigils of the night by repose during
the day, he began to feel uncommonly drowsy. The whiffs came less and
less frequently, until at last the pipe fell from his lips, and he fell
back fast asleep. The burning contents of the pipe fell on the bale, and
gradually worked their way down into the interior. Here the mischief
soon spread. What followed may easily be imagined.

Ben was aroused from his sleep by a confused outcry. He rubbed his eyes
to see what was the matter. There was something stifling and suffocating
in the atmosphere, which caused him to choke as he breathed. As he
became more awake, he realized that the cotton-bales, among which he had
taken refuge, were on fire. He became alarmed, and shook Jerry
energetically.

"What's up?" said Jerry, drowsily. "I aint done nothin'. You can't take
me up."

"Jerry, wake up; the bales are on fire," said Ben.

"I thought 'twas a copp," said Jerry, rousing, and at a glance
understanding the position of affairs. "Let's get out of this."

That was not quite so easy. There was fire on all sides, and they must
rush through it at some risk. However, it was every moment getting
worse, and there was no chance for delay.

"Foller me," said Jerry, and he dashed through, closely pursued by Ben.

By this time quite a crowd of men and boys had gathered around the
burning bales.

When the two boys rushed out, there was a general exclamation of
surprise. Then one burly man caught Jerry by the arm, and said, "Here's
the young villain that set the bales on fire."

"Let me alone, will you?" said Jerry. "Yer grandmother set it on fire,
more likely."

No sooner was Jerry seized, than another man caught hold of Ben, and
forcibly detained him.

"I've got the other," he said.

"Now, you young rascal, tell me how you did it," said the first. "Was
you smokin'?"

"No, I wasn't," said Jerry, shortly. "I was sleepin' along of this other
boy."

"What made you come here to sleep?"

"'Cause we hadn't no other bed."

"Are you sure you wasn't smoking?"

"Look here," said Jerry, contemptuously, "you must think I'm a fool, to
go and set my own bed on fire."

"That's true," said a bystander. "It wouldn't be very likely."

"Who did it, then?" asked the stout man, suspiciously.

"It's the watchman. I seed him smokin' when I turned in."

"Where is he now?"

Search was made for the watchman, but he had disappeared. Awaking to a
consciousness of what mischief he had caused through his carelessness,
he had slipped away in the confusion, and was not likely to return.

"The boy tells the truth," said one of the crowd. "I saw the watchman
smoking myself. No doubt the fire caught from his pipe. The boys are
innocent. Better let them go."

The two custodians of Jerry and Ben released their hold, and they gladly
availed themselves of the opportunity to remove themselves to a safer
distance from their late bedchamber.

Two fire-engines came thundering up, and streams of water were directed
effectively at the burning bales. The flames were extinguished, but not
till considerable damage had been done.

As the two boys watched the contest between the flames and the engines,
from a safe distance, they heard the sonorous clang of the bell in the
church-tower, ringing out twelve o'clock.




CHAPTER VII.

BEN'S TEMPTATION.


"Jest my luck!" complained Jerry. "Why couldn't the fire have waited
till mornin'?"

"We might have burned up," said Ben, who was considerably impressed by
his narrow escape.

"Only we didn't," said Jerry. "We'll have to try another hotel for the
rest of the night."

"Where shall we go?"

"We may find a hay-barge down to the pier at the foot of Franklin
Street."

"Is it far?"

"Not very."

"Let us go then."

So the boys walked along the street until they came to the pier referred
to. There was a barge loaded with hay, lying alongside the wharf. Jerry
speedily provided himself with a resting-place upon it, and Ben followed
his example. It proved to be quite as comfortable, if not more so, than
their former bed, and both boys were soon asleep. How long he slept Ben
did not know, but he was roused to consciousness by a rude shake.

"Wake up there!" said a voice.

Ben opened his eyes, and saw a laboring man bending over him.

"Is it time to get up?" he inquired, hardly conscious where he was.

"I should think it was, particularly as you haven't paid for your
lodging."

"Where's Jerry?" asked Ben, missing the boot-black.

The fact was, that Jerry, whose business required him to be astir early,
had been gone over an hour. He had not felt it necessary to wake up Ben,
knowing that the latter had nothing in particular to call him up.

"I don't know anything about Jerry. You'd better be going home, young
'un. Take my advice, and don't stay out another night."

He evidently thought that Ben was a truant from home, as his dress
would hardly class him among the homeless boys who slept out from
necessity.

Ben scrambled upon the pier, and took a cross street up towards
Broadway. He had slept off his fatigue, and the natural appetite of a
healthy boy began to assert itself. It was rather uncomfortable to
reflect that he was penniless, and had no means of buying a breakfast.
He had meant to ask Jerry's advice, as to some occupation by which he
could earn a little money, and felt disappointed that his companion had
