there was no damage done beside the fractured arm and 
a few bruises. He had not complained much until 
within an hour, though he had refused utterly to be taken 
up stairs. 

" I must wait a day or two before I decide," the doctor 
said as he returned to Nelly, who was holding the child's 
hand. " And now, my dear girl, had you not better 





make some preparation for retiring? It is nearly eleven. 
I shall roll the other lounge in here, though I do not 
think I will have to watch absolutely." 

" Oh, let me stay with you ! " she pleaded. 

" There is no need ; and I would rather have you get a 
good night's sleep." 

" I am so glad I came ! " 

"Why, you must have had a presentiment. Thank 
heaven you are here!" he said fervently, kissing the 
bright cheek. 

But Bertie would not so easily relinquish his hold. 
Scarlet flushes were succeeding the deadty pallor ; and he 
moved his head uneasily, crying out now and then with 
pain, and insisting on Nelly's keeping close beside him. 
"Don't let her take me away!" he would exclaim 
vehemently. 

" I had better stay for a while," she said in a quiet 
tone. Then she hushed him, singing some childish hymn 
in her low soothing voice. The fever was coming on 
rapidly, and with it delirium. Dr. Kinnard sat grave 
and thoughtful. He had never seen his own children 
seriously ill. To a man of his theorizing and speculative 
turn of mind, Nelly presented an entertaining study as 
she lingered there in the dim light, watching the child, a 
bit of faded flower in her dark hair, that Gertrude had 
placed in it before dinner, the ruff of soft, wraith-like 
illusion around her shapely neck, the fair and slender 
hands, untiring it seemed to him. How different women 
were ! He had seen many mothers, fond, tender, indul 
gent ; wise and foolish mothers, careless and indifferent 
ones, and others who seemed to take their children as a 
special grievance. He remembered well one who had 
done so. From their birth, they had been banished to the 
nursery. He generally found them crying or asleep in his 
brief visits. And he had never been, made very welcome 
there. She could not endure to have him bestow any 





attention on the children ; indeed, she took every courtesy 
proffered to any one else as a personal affront. Yet 
people outside had often found her very charming. 

True, he might have grown fond of them afterward ; 
but well, he had not cared. It brought a flush to his 
cheek as he remembered it. Aunt Adelaide was peculiar 
too. Authority was the one thing she did not desire to 
share. She had her own ideas, her own plans, her own 
waj's, matured, she fancied, after much thought and ex 
perience. But how much of the vaunted experience of this 
life is simply a determination to carry out one's will, to 
have one's own way, and bend others to it ! And so she 
wanted people to be good and happy after her set plan. 
No bed of Procrustes was ever more rigid. She lopped 
off mercilessly. She compressed, flattened, stretched 
out, when there was really nothing to stretch. With 
Maud she had succeeded very well. The child was 
ladylike and high bred, as she considered high breeding. 
She knew more than most girls of her age : she had no 
foolish passion for dolls, or fairy-stories, or rude boisterous 
plays. Already she was a miniature woman, could de 
tect imitation laces from real, and was quite a judge of 
silks and velvets, and very free to criticise the attire of 
any one in which there was any make-believe. But what 
of the poor starved little soul that never even knew the 
divine hungering for love? 

Dr. Kinnard had not been blind to all this, it was 
true. Still he had a great respect for Aunt Adelaide's 
love. He had seen the working of stepmothers in 
more than one family ; and his mind had in it the breadth 
of patience that can respect another's prejudices. He 
would not hurry her faith in Nelly's capacities ; neither 
would he burthen Nelly with so much in the beginning. 
There was a little selfishness in that. He wanted her 
time, her attention, and sweetness for the present. No 
one had ever ministered to him in this delightful fashion. 





Ah, Nelly ! you never guessed how miser like he treasured 
up every smile, every caress, and called himself an old 
idiot for so doing. 

But, as he. watched her there, he did not grudge the 
kisses. Something seemed awakening within him, tardi 
ly, as if after a long sleep. Had he ever felt the rapture 
over his children that he had seen men indulge in ? And 
why? He would suffer physical pain for them, hunger, 
cold, labor, if need were. He would gladly take Bertie's 
place, and endure courageously the few weeks' suffering : 
why not that deep, exquisite emotion, that thrill of 
fatherhood? And Nelly there was playing at imaginary 
motherhood. He could see the soft flushes rise in her 
face, the struggle of girlish bashfulness, the fear of taking 
too much of another woman's child. If her own were 
in her arms, her own as entrancingly lovely as that 
cherub of Mrs. Duncan's. 

He rose to give Bertie some fever-drops. " Don't take 
me away! " the child screamed, clinging to her: so she 
held the spoon, and persuaded him. 

Somewhere toward morning the stupor gained ground ; 
and though Bertie moaned, and cried out occasionally, he 
could no longer distinguish between them. 

"Now you must go to bed, Nelly," the doctor said, 
taking her in his arms, and kissing the tired face fondly. 
"There will be nursing enough after to-night; for I am 
afraid the poor little chap is not to get off so easily. If 
he is very restless, I promise to call you. Can you not 
trust him to me? " 

Something in his voice caused her to glance up. Was 
there a new tenderness in his shady eyes? He flushed at 
her unspoken question. 

"Yes," he said, "I may have been too well satisfied 
to have them crowded out. How did your heart fill with 
this tender, bounteous love, my darling ? You shower it 
broadcast, as if there never could be any lack." 




"There cannot be, since it is of God, who giveth 
liberally." 

They stood in silence for many minutes, then she 
kissed him good-night softly, and went away. 

Like a dim dream, some sentence heard in an idle hour 
floated back to him, "A new creature in Christ Jesus." 
What was this abounding faith of Nelly's? 
 



CHAPTER XIV. 

" Life counts not hours by joys or pangs, 
But just by duties done." 

DR. KINNARD'S words proved too sadly true. There 
was nursing enough in store for Nelly. By the next 
morning the fever had gained rapid headway. Dr. 
Searles came over, and found there had been not a little 
congestion from the force of the fall. That there was 
something besides, was painfully evident. Even at the 
height of delirium and apparent unconsciousness, he 
would scream if moved from certain positions. 

The "den" was speedily turned into a sick-room. It 
made less going up and down stairs, and was a very 
quiet place at this season of the year ; there being fewer 
office-callers for pleasure. Nelly had the kitchen at her 
command, and chance visitors also ; and the doctor found 
it more convenient than an upstairs room. 

Thus passed a fortnight in anxious suspense. Aunt 
Adelaide affected to disbelieve in the danger, and felt still 
more offended when piano practice was interdicted. 
Under other circumstances, no doubt but that she would 
have compelled the house to bow down to the illness of 
one of my " poor sister's children ; " but now her injured 
dignity was paramount. 

Mother Kinnard was quite frightened. Deaths and 
funerals filled her with nervous apprehension and dread. 
Something in Nelly's devotion touched her ; and, in her 
secret heart, she admitted the child's own mother would 
not so have spent herself. 

 





"Why should she not?" said Aunt Adelaide tartly. 
" Before she came in the house, Herbert never thought of 
disobeying me. It was the result of her foolish indul 
gence ; and she ought to suffer for it." 

"Stepmothers haven't the name of being indulgent 
usualy," returned Mrs. Kinnard rather dryly. 

" Any one can see that it is done for effect. When 
she comes to have children, ' my dear Bertie ' will be 
pushed aside quickly enough," was the scornful re 
joinder. 

" Barton," she said one morning, stopping her brother- 
in-law in the hall, " there is one subject on which I want 
to speak. If Herbert should die, I believe you are his 
natural heir ; but I think his portion ought to go to 
Maud. It was my ' poor dear sister's ' money." 

" Hang the money !" he flung out angrily. "Do you 
suppose I would touch a penny of it if I was starving ? 
I wish there had never been a dollar ! Never mention 
it to me again." 

But Bertie did not die. He seemed to go to the very 
verge of the grave. There was one night when his father 
sat by him, administering stimulants, and counting the 
faint pulsation. His child ! How strange it seemed ! 

He inherited his father's constitution ; and the freedom 
of the j'ear, with active exercise, had strengthened it 
greatly, for it had been somewhat injured by an injudi 
cious childhood. So he came feebly back to life, lay wan 
and white for many days, dependent as a baby on Nelly's 
motherly care. She fed him, she bathed the shrunken 
limbs, read to him, or sang, watching every change in 
the pale face, so little now, so spiritualized, until she 
began to think him absolutely prett} r : at least, he had 
his father's fine eyes, all the more noticeable now that the 
stupid look had gone out of them. There came into 
Nelly's heart an earnest sympathy, a tender love, a desire 
to fill a mother's place truly, and train the neglected 



 

heart to better uses than the repressed and chilling years 
had known. 

And the worst had not yet been confessed. For a while 
Dr. Kinnard had feared it ; and, taking Dr. Searles into 
counsel, they had made a painful examination to find 
that the joint of the hip had been injured by striking hard 
upon it. 

"And my poor boy will be lame for life!" he ex 
claimed with passionate regret. " O Bertie ! if you had 
not been " and then he checked himself. 

That evening he confessed to Nelly the certainty. 

' ' Oh ! are you sure ? Can nothing be done ? Lame 
for life ! " 

Dr. Kinnard walked up and down the office with his 
hands clasped behind him, his brain in a chaos of unrea 
son. Why should this be sent upon him? All his life, 
so far, there had been something, a thorn in the flesh to 
wound him. 

Nelly slipped one hand within his, and leaned her head 
upon his shoulder. 

" Barton," she said softly, "it is verj^, very hard for 
you to bear, I know. And yet there is some wisdom 
in it that will be shown us after a while. I think you 
have begun to love him better ; and this very love will 
bring with it a grace." 

He took the fair face in both hands, kissed brow and 
lips, and she saw there were tears in his eyes. 

" Let me comfort you," she cried. "Perhaps God 
gave me to you for this purpose. For the next few years 
he will sorely need a mother's affection and patience ; 
and so I have found my work, my duty." 

" And j'ou welcome it? O Nelly! you have reached a 
height quite beyond me. I can only see the wearisome, 
disappointing present. Bertie was not a dull scholar ; 
Mr. Herrick said so. I thought to take a pride in him as 
he grew older, to send him to college, to give him a 





profession, or establish him in business, to make a man 
of him ; and Heaven knows there is sore enough need of 
true, strong men in- this world. How can I endure " 

"It may not be so bad. Bertie" is a child yet; and 
there is a hope of his outgrowing it." 

"Hardly, if this should be a confirmed case of hip- 
disease. And, Nelly, it is weak, wicked perhaps ; but I 
have a shrinking from all kinds of deformity and lame 
ness. I pity any one profoundly ; but I am always 
thankful that it is not mine. And now it has come to 
me. If I had listened, and let you take him home " 

Nelly had thought of it many times. It had been on 
her lips that first evening ; but it seemed too much of a 
reproach to utter. 

"You shall not blame yourself," she cried. "I am 
not quite sure that I wanted to take him. And we must 
not hurry God's meanings, or distrust them, but feel that 
there is something in this for us to study or work out for 
a new satisfaction. It is the part for to-day that concerns 
us : next year will bring its own strength. We have to 
do with Bertie's childhood now ; and the man he will 
make will be such as pleases God, I hope." 

"My darling! " 

" Perhaps it will not be so bad. Is there no more 
experienced authority to consult? " 

' ' I think I will go to the city. If any thing can be 
done ! " 

" Poor child, poor baby! for he seems that now, with 
his wan little face. What suffering it would be, and yet 
much better, I suppose, than " 

" Oh ! I can't have him lame, and to go limping about 
all his life ! Yes, I must go to New York. There are 
two physicians in whom I place great confidence. If an 
operation is possible, it shall be attended to without 
delay." 

Nelly shivered. 
 

"Little tender heart! Ah, at least I did one good 
thing, even in my own selfishness. I have given him a 
mother such as " 

Nelly placed her soft fingers over her husband's lips. 
She knew the rest of the sentence would have been, " such 
as he never had." But, in her sweet and bounteous 
nature, there was no such thing as grudging another any 
due or praise, or gaining herself by that other's dispar 
agement. And, somehow, she felt tender and pitiful to 
tho woman in her grave, knowing now how she had 
missed establishing herself in her husband's heart; ever 
plucking fruit that turned to ashes, and hewing out broken 
cisterns, when the bread and wine of love's own sacrament 
was within her reach. 

" You are right," he said humbly. 

A week afterward he went to the city, and returned 
with one of his old preceptors, now an eminent and expe 
rienced physician. If he had ever such a lingering hope 
of a mistake in his own diagnosis, it was dispelled. 
There was an exceeding faint chance of tha child's out 
growing it, with a trifling lameness. There was a later 
operation, when he had more strength and maturity ; but 
the disease would also have gained greater headway. 
There was the present operation with all its risk. 

" The most important thing will be the care afterward. 
I should advise his being sent to a hospital, like St. 
Luke's for instance. Then he would have experienced 
nursing," said Dr. Francis. 

This opinion was imparted to Nelly. 

" Could you not be as watchful of the case as the best 
nurse there? " she asked of her husband. 

" Of course. But there are a hundred and one little 
things ; and it will be a very heavy tax on you." 

" If I were the child's own mother, I hardly know how 
I should decide ; but I think then, I should keep him, 
and try my best. As the case stands, I ask you as a 





favor not to send him away. He will be nearer to us 
both, if we go with him every step of the sad way. If 
you have confidence in me ' ' 

" I would trust my own life in your hands," was his 
vehement answer. " Confidence ! " 

" Then let us keep him. I should be sorry to have the 
world, or Aunt Adelaide," and she smiled with tears in 
her eyes, "think that I was glad to escape the solemn 
duties I took upon myself. And, if any thing should go 
wrong, we will not look back upon our decision regret 
fully." 

" How generous you are, Nelly!" and he studied her 
in amaze. "Honestly, I would rather keep him under 
my own eye ; but it is a great deal to ask of one young 
as you are. It may be a year or two ; and here is your 
own life ' ' 

i-'Xarn young enough surely to give away a little of it. 
Shall I not have you and your love to comfort and sus 
tain? " 

" God bless j-ou, my darling ! " 

There was coming into his soul a solemn reverence for 
womanhood. True, he had seen it under many phases ; 
but it is one thing to look at a flower in your neighbor's 
garden, without knowing all the particulars of soil and 
culture, and quite another to have it under your very eye, 
growing thriftily through shine and shade, dispensing 
fragrance and beauty da} r by day in the most bounteous 
manner. Nothing under his hand had ever so bloomed be 
fore. He had believed that nearness dispelled the charm ; 
that daily using brushed off the pink of peach, and purple 
of grape ; that household virtues throve oftener in books 
than in daily life. Nelly's strength and sweetness touched 
him with a dim amaze ; and he hardly dared place full 
faith in it, lest it should vanish. 

For herself, she had become quite strongly attached to 
Bertie. She could see how much his training had injured 





him. With a sort of moral cowardice he united great 
persistencj" ; so that, when he had once told what was not 
true, he was very apt to keep to the story, and impress it 
upon his hearers. His sense of injustice was very keen ; 
and the s} r stem of depriving him of every possible pleasure, 
of being always on the lookout for faults and naughti 
ness, of showing that he never, for a moment, was 
trusted, had worked much evil in the child's nature. 
There was another point in which Aunt Adelaide did con 
stant battle. Bertie had a vein of humor and drollery that 
his aunt could not understand. She never made jokes, 
and never saw the point of them ; and repartee, she con 
sidered, for the most part, ill bred. All this she called 
impertinence, and punished it severely ; until the child, 
between ignorance and fear, had come to have a sort of 
half-stupid hesitation. 

It was such a strange, new thing for him to be caressed, 
that at first he took it with a wondering, half-funny 
complacency. Miss Grove thought all such matters 
simply foolish, and declared that she always mistrusted 
people who were eager to make such a parade, besides the 
fact of its being under-bred. Her idea of manliness 
seemed to be stoicism. Unemotional herself, and living 
according to a code of formal rules that she had gathered 
from her very small world, she fancied, like many narrow- 
minded people, that it was adapted to age and infancy 
alike, to any kind of circumstances and position. Maud 
had never troubled her by any excess of feeling ; but she 
had been fighting the tendency in Bertie ever since his 
birth. It was her pride that the children had never been 
ill, and that they knew more than any children of their 
age. So that they behaved properly, what more w r as 
needed ? 

Nelly had touched the deadened chords of the child's 
soul. It was so nice to be made much of; to have his 
face and hands bathed, sometimes with cologne at that ; 



 

to have his hair brushed, and Nelly had trained quite a 
curly crop around his white temples ; to have dainty little 
meals served in the sick-room, just for mamma and him 
self ; to be shown pictures ; to be read stories ; to talk in 
that changeful, discursive style so natural to children, 
without having to go over a sentence, apd pick out all its 
needless words. 

Not that the child had been transformed into an angel. 
He was fretful and impatient at times, and had restless 
moods, when nothing seemed to suit. Once, when he 
was much better, he proved exceedingly troublesome in 
this respect ; and Nelly, finding herself tired, and with 
a tendency to speak sharply, bethought herself a moment. 

" Bertie," she said in a quiet tone, " I believe you are 
tired of me ; for what I do fails to please you. Now I am 
going out of the room for half an hour : look at the clock. 
You will be much better alone : so good-bj- for a little 
while." And she went away with a cheerful smile, shutting 
the door softly behind her. 

Bertie thought he did not care. He was pillowed in a 
corner of the wide lounge ; and for several moments he 
studied the fire in the grate, then his book of engrav 
ings, after that the solitaire-board ; and, to his amaze, 
only fifteen minutes were gone. The clock ticked so 
solemnly, the cat would sleep on the rug ; and there was 
absolutely nothing more to do. But then mamma would 
come in ten minutes. Oh, how long they were ! He 
tried to count the seconds, and was quite sure there were 
more than sixty. 

Through it all ran an undercurrent of conscience. 
There was no purely physical punishment or deprivation, 
but something that stirred his deeper feelings. 

The door opened presently. " Do you want me now, 
Beftie? " asked the soft voice. 

" I do, mamma, please." 

She entered with some sewing, and drew her chair close 





beside the lounge, saying cheerfully, " What shall we 
talk about, Bertie? You must have thought of a great 
many things." 

" No: never mind about talking, mamma. I want to 
lie here and look at you a little while." Then, after a 
silence, " How pretty you are, mamma ! " 

She blushed, and gave a little embarrassed laugh. 

" And you are very good to me, mamma. I thought 
at least, people say" (hesitatingly) "that step 
mothers never are good." 

' ' What do you think of it, Bertie ? ' ' and she raised her 
grave, sweet eyes. 

"It isn't true. I'll fight any boy at school who ever 
says it again; and I'll" But what could he do to 
Aunt Adelaide ? 

"No, my child: you can do better than that, love 
me ; love papa, and obey him." 

" I used to feel so afraid of papa," he went on in a 
half-musing tone. " And I am not afraid any more. His 
arms are so strong when he lifts me. And he does care 
about me, doesn't he? They all said that he wouldn't 
love Maud and me any after j*ou came." 

" Which was not true, as you have found out by this 
time," was her quiet comment. 

" Yes. Do you believe he would buy me a pony ? And 
will I ever get well? I asked him this morning." 

"What did he say?" demanded Nelly with sudden 
earnestness. 

" That he hoped so. But why does my back keep so 
weak and stiff? " 

He was to know ere long. They had decided upon 
the operation, as his general health was quite restored. 
However, nothing was said to him about it until the last 
morning. Ether was to be given. Dr. Francis and I)r. 
Searles came ; and Nelly kissed her boy with a face that 
was braver than her heart. 





"It's dreadful ! " said Mother Kinnard, who had soft 
ened unconsciously to Nelly; "and I am afraid it will 
not do a bit of good. I doubt if the child lives, anyhow. 
Tf he could only have minded his aunt ! Children were not 
so disobedient in my day. I don't believe Adelaide will 
ever get over it. No, do not go away : I am too nervous 
to stay alone. I feel as if we should hear, every moment, 
that he had died under the operation." 

It appeared to Nelly as if the inconsequent and unceas 
ing chatter would kill her. How she endured it those 
two mortal hours, she never knew. Dr. Kinnard entered 
the room at last, very pale, and with lips that had not 
yet lost the force of their compression. 

"It is through with, and was very successful," he 
announced rather huskily. ' ' Nelly y will you see to 
having a little luncheon? " 

She went about it immediately, but did not question 
him any further. Dr. Francis afterwards gave her some 
hints and suggestions, ending with, " He may be deli 
cate for a year or two ; but I think he will recover 
entirely." 

And now began another siege of nursing. They tried 
to take care of Nelly, on whom so much depended. Dr. 
Kinnard insisted on her taking frequent rides, and having 
cheerful society. Daisy came *to stay with her ; and little 
Katy Berkman was found very useful. And thus Nelly 
Kinnard reached the first anniversary of her wedding- 
day, a quiet but pleasant time with the home-folks, and 
Mr. Dudley, who was getting to be a great favorite with 
the doctor. Aunt Adelaide condescended to be quite 
gracious ; and Mrs. Kinnard said afterward, 

" What a really delightful person your mother is, Nelty ! 
I have a fancy, that, when she was young, she looked a 
great deal as you do now." 

Nelly smiled at the commendation. 

" My dear," said Dr. Kinnard that night, " I have had a 





queer notion in ray head all day. I believe I shall turn 
match-maker. I think Dudley is really taken with your 
sister. And what a charming clergyman's wife she would 
make ! Though he is not very rich in this world's goods ; 
but then your father is, without doubt, the very happiest 
man I have ever known. So it is not riches." 

" I cannot have you mapping out Daisy's life," she 
said rather confusedty. 

"But, since I have found a treasure, I am anxious to 
point out to my brethren the wonderful mine," he 
returned laughingly. 



CHAPTER XV. 

" The ordinary use of acquaintance is the sharing of talk, news, 
and mirth together ; but sorrow is the right of a friend, as a thing 
nearer the heart, and to be delivered with it." BISHOP SELDEX. 

THERE had been quite a commotion in the house with 
shopping and dressmakers, and plans for a summer tour. 
Aunt Adelaide and Maud were to go to Niagara and the 
Lakes and Canada, and wherever else their fancy led them. 
The large trunk was packed at last, and brought down to 
the hall, and beside it stood the smaller travelling-satchel 
for present emergencies. Maud was shooting up into a 
tall girl, and gave herself the airs of a young lady. Her 
father disapproved of it ; but what could he do at present 
with Bertie still a burthen on their hands? In truth, 
Nelly was losing her bloom somewhat with this close 
attendance. 

They said their good-bys at length, and were off. 
Then Dr. Kinnard bethought himself of what must be 
done for the others. Bertie had gone on well for a while ; 
but it was evident that he, too, needed a change. 

" I should try seaside,'' said Dr. Searles. " And Mrs. 
Kinnakl needs it also. The child's limb is doing as 
well as can be expected ; but five or six months of this 
would pull down any little chap, or large one either, for 
that matter. He must get his strength up again." 

To send them away ! To part with Nelly ! Why, she 
had become stay and comfort and pleasure to him. How 
had he ever done without her? How could he do with 
out her now ? 

 

" Bertie, you are an unconscious rival," he said to 
himself in a half-petulant mood. 

" The whole house must be rendered subservient to 
that child ! ' ' complained Grandmother Kiunard. ' ' I 
don't see any sense in it." 

" But it is his health, and perhaps his life," pleaded 
Nelly. " There will be so many after-years with us." 

"Will there?" and a quaint little pucker came into 
the doctor's face. 

The neighbors came in, and said their say. Here and 
there was recommended and discussed. 

Mrs. Glyndon settled it. She had taken a wonderful 
liking to the doctor' s young wife from the first ; and she 
was one of those women with progressive, restless, gener 
ous natures, who wanted to bring all the lights from under 
the bushels, and set them on hills. She had no children, 
plenty of money, plenty of time, servants, and a hus 
band who was indulgent, though he laughed at her a 
good deal, and was much occupied with various inven 
tions, alwaj-s having some poor fellow in hand. And 
then every thing came right in Mrs. Glyndon' s way. 
There are some people fairly inundated by streams of 
good fortune, while others are left dry and barren. 

An intimate friend said to her, 

"We are going to Europe this summer. Do you not 
want to take our cottage at Severn Point? There is a 
garden and stable, and plenty of room everywhere ; and 
the house is well furnished. It is just a step to the 
beach, with excellent bathing and fishing." 

She had been to the mountains and the springs, and 
was just wondering what there was to amuse her this 
summer. 

A week after she had taken her cottage, while she wag 
considering what guests or friends she would ask, she 
met Dr. Kinnard driving rather soberly through the town, 
and stopped him. How Avas the boy progressing ? Would 
he ever get well? And how was Mrs. Kinnard? 



 

" How fortunate ! " when the doctor had mentioned the 
seaside plan. ' ' You are just the people I was in search 
of! I shall drive straight out to the house, and when you 
come home to dinner it will be all settled. There, don't 
ask a question, but go industriously about your busi 
ness." 

She entered the house in her usual breezy fashion, hav 
ing sent her horse down to the barn ; and by dinner 
time the plan was well digested. They should go to 
Severn Point with her. It was on the Sound, and easy 
of access by rail. They would keep house together, 
she taking two servants ; and if Miss Endicott would go 
it was so pleasant to have a young girl in the family ! 
They would each take a horse and carriage. 

Dr. Kinnard could pick no flaws for once. He could 
run down now and then, and spend a day or two, or 
Sunday ; and Mr. Glyndon would be dropping in occa 
sionally. Providence seemed to have thrown it right in 
their way. 

" I shall like it so much better than either hotel or 
boarding-house ! " said Nelly. And Bertie was quite 
elated with the idea of something different from the place 
where he had passed so much of his life. Mother Kiu- 
nard was equally delighted with the opportunity of man 
aging the house, and taking care of her son. 

"Is it any thing of a fashionable resort ? ' ' Nelly had 
asked. 

" I really can't say, my dear. I was there five years 
ago, when the Randolphs first bought, their place. It 
was not very remarkable then, as to style ; but I have 
heard, now and then, of its improvements. There is a 
rather rocky point stretching out into the sound, and 
then a delightful strip of beach, without the usual glare 
and sterility of seasides ; for right back of the point are 
some pretty farms, and a range of hills, which makes 
very entertaining driving. You cannot fail to like it." 





So the second party made ready. Dr. Kinnard took 
them down ; and Mrs. Glyndon was there beforehand, to 
welcome them. Bertie was tired with his journey, and 
fretful ; and Nelly was looking quite worn. They were 
so glad to add Daisy Endicott's cheerful good-nature as 
a kind of mental balance ! 

But there was the broad Sound, with the monotone of 
the sea, and the bracing, salty, suggestive flavor, the 
ripples and swells crested with spray. The house stood 
on a little. elevation ; and you had the hills at the back ; 
farms, and gardens, and waving trees westward ; to the 
south, the long, level beach with cottages and hotels ; to 
the east, the rocky point, that spread itself out to twi 
light purple in the distance ; and in front of them the 
miniature ocean, dotted with vessels of various kinds. 
Besides the railroad accommodation, there was a steam 
boat landing ; and, indeed, it seemed quite a thriving 
watering-place. 

"I hope it will give you all some color," said the 
doctor. " I do think you ought to have some one to help 
with Bertie. Daisy, will you promise to keep watch and 
ward, and send me word if she doesn't improve in a 
week? Every day you must go out driving. And Bertie, 
my son, you must not depend so entirely upon mamma. 
I am afraid you are spoiling him, Nelly : you are over 
conscientious." 

Nelly smiled a little. All along she had understood 
how much more than mere physical care was needed. 

They soon settled themselves in their new abode. It 
was indeed roomy ; a great hall through the middle, that 
reminded her of home. Two rooms on one side were to 
be devoted to her ; for, though Bertie could get about on 
a crutch, it was not deemed advisable to have him go up 
stairs. Opposite were reception and dining rooms, and 
large airy chambers above. Daisy took the one at the 
head of the stairs, so as to be within call. Mrs. Glyndon 



 

had brought a man and two maids ; so that there really 
was nothing for. Nelly to add in that respect. 

Bertie was delighted with the drive on the beach the 
next morning. Daisy took him out, while Nelly unpacked, 
and put her house in order. She admitted to herself that 
she did feel very languid. Six months of wear and 
anxiety told their story. Where was the blooming girl- 
face of a year ago ? 

Did she regret the service that had taken its roundness 
and color ? No : she was glad to give it, to win the child's 
soul and the child's love, to awaken the chilled pulses into 
new life, to give him back to his father in glad surprise 
as something different and richer than before. 

But she was thankful to have a little rest for a few 
days. . There were so many objects of interest, that Daisy 
quite sufficed the invalid for the present. 

Mrs. Glyndon returned one afternoon, especially impor 
tant, her face radiant with pleasure and success. 

" My dear," she began, " do you mean to get rested 
up, and ever have that pretty peach-bloom again ? I want 
to see you bright and sparkling once more ; for we are 
going to have just the nicest summer imaginable. I am 
so glad we came to Severn Point ! I declare, it has all 
come around like a novel ! " 

" What has? " asked Nelly smilingly. 

" Well, events and people," with a little pause 
between. " Why, I have found a whole settlement of 
old friends ! When I was in New York last winter, I just 
happened upon a charming clique, two or three artists, 
some literary people, and some shall I say strong-minded 
women? Not of the ultra type, though one of them is 
studying medicine, I believe ; and another has a sort of 
professorship or higher teachership in a college at the 
moon, or among the planets. They are cultured and 
refined people, and up in all charming society ways. So, 
just as soon as you are in the humor, I want to give a 

 

little tea, rather Frenchy and enjoyable, with the best 
of it in talk. I hate crowds where people do nothing 
but stuff themselves." 

"You need not wait on my account," returned Nelly. 
" I think I shall not care very much for society." 

"Nonsense! at one and twenty too. You need a 
good mental shaking up and rousing. I should think 
you would have grown rusty and dull ; though, with that 
stiff Aunt Adelaide, and old Mrs. Kinnard, to say noth 
ing of troublesome Bertie No, don't hold up j-ourhand 
in that threatening fashion : it is a pretty white hand, 
and I noticed it long ago. You do not know that Dr. 
Kinnard gave you over into my power, and begged me to 
keep you from getting dull. You must la}^ in a stock of 
roses and ideas for next winter. Perhaps Miss Grove 
will fall and break her back, (who knows ?) and you may 
see a good opening to heap coals of fire upon her head, 
though be careful of her hair. It is growing rather thin, 
I noticed." 
