no such thing as turning back, you comprehend. 
From Cairo to Ej,ton Rouge, when the river is 
over its banks, you have no particular trouble in 
the night, for the thousand-mile wall of dense forest 
that guards the two banks all the way is only gap- 
ped with a farm or wood-yard opening at intervals, 
and so you can't " get out of the river " much easier 
than you could get out of a fenced lane ; but from 
Baton Rouge to New Orleans it is a different matter. 
The river is more than a mile wide, and very deep 
— as much as two hundred feet, in places. Both 
banks, for a good deal over a hundred miles, are 
shorn ot their timber and bordered by continuous 
sugar plantations, with only here and there a scatter- 
ing sapling or row of ornamental China-trees. The 
timber is shorn off clear to the rear of the plantations, 
from two to four miles. When the first frost threat- 
ens to come, the planters snatch off their crops in a 
hurry. When they have finished grinding the cane, 
they form the refuse of the stalks (which they call 
bagasse) into great piles and set fire to them, though 
in other sugar countries the bagasse is used for fuel 
6in the furnaces of the sugar mills. Now the piles 
of damp bagasse bum slowly, and smoke like Satan's 
own kitchen. 
An embankment ten or fifteen feet high guards 
both banks of the Mississippi all the way down that 
lower end of the river, and this embankment is' set 
back from the edge of the shore from ten to perhaps 
a hundred feet, according to circumstances; say 
thirty or forty feet, as a general thing. Fill that 
whole region with an impenetrable gloom of smoke 
from a hundred miles of burning bagasse piles, when 
the river is over the banks, and turn a steamboat 
loose along there at midnight and see how she will 
feel. And see how you will feel too ! You find 
yourself away out in the midst of a vague dim sea 
that is shoreless, that fades out and looses itself in 
the murky distances ; for you cannot discern the 
thin rim of embankment, and you are always 
imagining you see a straggling tree when you don't. 
The plantations themselves are transformed by the 
smoke and look like a part of the sea. All through 
your watch you are tortured with the exquisite 
misery of uncertainty. You hope you are keeping 
in the river, but you do not know. All that you 
are sure about is that you are likely to be within 
six feet of the bank and destruction, when you think 
you are a good half mile from shore. And you are 
sure, also, that if you chance suddenly to fetch up 
against the embankment and topple your chimneys 
overboard, you will have the small' comfort of knowing 
that it is about what you were expecting to do. 
One ol the great Vicksburg packets darted out into 
a sugar plantation one night, at such a time, and had 
to stay there a week. But there was no novelty 
about it ; it had often been done before. 
I thought I had finished this number, but I wish 
to add a curious thing while it is in my mind. It 
is only relevant in that it is connected with pilot- 
ing. There used to be an excellent pilot on the river, 
a Mr. X., who was a somnambulist. It was said that 
if his mind was troubled about a bad piece of river, 
he was pretty sure to get up and walk in his sleep 
and do strange things. He was once lellow-pilot 
for a trip or two with George E , on a great New 
Orleans passenger packet. During a considerable 
part of the first trip George was uneasy, but got over 
it by and by, as X. seemed content to stay in his bed 
when asleep. Late one night the boat was approach- 
ing Helena, Arkansas ; the water was low, and the 
crossings above the town in a very blind and tangled 
condition. X. had seen the crossing since E 
had, and as the night was particularly drizzly, sullen, 
and dark, E was considering whether he 
had not better have X. called to assist in running 
the place, when the door opened and X. walked . in. 
Now on very dark nights, light is a deadly enemy 
to piloting ; you are aware that if you stand in a 
lighted room, on such a night, you cannot see things 
in the street to any purpose ; but if you put out 
the lights and stand in the gloom you can make out 
objects in the street pretty well. So, on very dark 
nights, pilots do not smoke ; they allow no fire in 
the pilot-house stove if there is a crack which can 
allow the least ray to escape ; they order the furna- 
ces to be curtained with huge tarpaulins and the sky- 
lights to be closely blinded. Then no light what- 
ever "uej f 'om the boat. The undefinable shape 
that ir dp tered the pilot-house had Mr. X.*s voice. 
This sa. . — 
" Let me take her, Mr. E : I we seen this place 
since you have, and it is so crooked that I reckon I 
can run it myself easier than I could tell you how 
to do it." 
" It is kind of you, and I swear I am willing. I 
haven 't got another drop of perspiration left in me. 
T hae been spinning around and around the wheel 
like a squirrel. It is so dark I can 't tell which way 
she is swinging till she is coming around like a 
whirligig." 
So E took a seat on the bench, panting and 
breathless. The black phantom assumed the wheel, 
without saying anything, steadied the waltzing 
steamer with a turn or two, and then stood at ease, 
coaxing her a little to this side and then to that, as 
gently and as sweetly as if the time had been noon- 
day. When E observed this marvel of steering, 
he wished he had not confessed ! He stared, and 
wondered, and finally said, — 
" Well, I thought I knew how to steer a steam- 
boat, but that was another mistake of mine." 
X. said nothing, but went serenely on with his 
work. He rang tor the leads; he rang to slow down 
the steam ; he worked the boat earofully and neatly 
into invisible marks, then stood at the centre of the 
wheel and peered blandly out into the blackness, 
fore and aft, to verify his position ; as the leads shoal- 
ed more and more, he stopped the engines entire- 
ly, and the dead silence and suspense of " drifting " 
followed ; when the shoalest water was struck, he 
cracked on the steam, carried her \andsomely over, 
and then began to work her wanly nto the next 
system of shoal marks : the san.e patient, heedful 
use of leads and engines followed, the boat slipped 
through without touching bofom, and entered upon 
the third and last intricacy oi ihe crossing : imper- 
ceptibly she moved through the gloom, crept by 
inches into her marks, drifted tediously till the 
shoalest water was cried, and then, under a tremen- 
dous head of steam, went swinging over the reef 
and away into deep water and safety ! 
E let his long-pent breath pour out in a great, 
relieving sigh, and said : 
"That's the sweetest piece of piloting that was 
ever done on the Mississippi River ! I wouldn't be- 
lieved it could be done, if I hadn't seen it." 
There was no reply, and he added : — 
" Just hold her five minutes longer, partner, and 
let me run down and get a cup of cofi'ee." 
A minute later E was biting into a pie, down 
in the " texas," and comforting himself with coffee. 
Just then the night watchman happened in, and was 
about to happen out again, when he noticed E 
and exclaimed, — 
"Who is at the wheel sir?" 
" X." 
"Dart for the pilot-house, quicker than lightning!" 
The next moment both men were aying up the 
pilot-house companion way, three steps at a jump ! 
Nobody there ! The great steamer was whistling 
down the middle of the river at her own sweet will ! 
The watchman shot out of the place again ; E 
seized the wheel, set an engine back with power, and 
held his breath while the boat reluctantly swung 
away from a " towhead " which she was about to 
knock into the middle of the Gulf of Mexico ! 
By and by the watchman came back and said, — 
" Didn't that lunatic tell you he was asleep, when 
he first came up here ? " 
" No." 
" Well, he was. I found him walking along on 
top of the railings, just as unconcerned as another 
man would walk a pavement ; and I put him to 
bed ; now just this minute there he was again, away 
astern, going through that sort of tight-rope deviltry 
the same as before " 
" Well, I think I 'll stay by, next time he has one 
of those fits. But I hope he 'll have them often. 
You just ought to have seen him take this boat 
through Helena crossing.  never saw anything 
so gaudy before. And if he can do such gold -leaf, 
kid-glove, diamond-breasfcpin piloting when he is 
sound asleep, what could iit he do if he was dead !" 
CHAPTER V. 
"SOUNDING." FACULTIES PECUr.IARLY NECES- 
SARY TO A PILOT. 
When the river is very low, and one's steamboat 
is " drawing all the water " there is in the channel, 
— or a few inches more, as was often the case in 
the old times, — one must be painfully circumspect 
in his piloting. We used to have to " sound " a 
number of particularly bad places almost every 
trip when the river was at a very low stage. 
Sounding is done in this way. The boat ties up 
at the shore, just above the shoal crossing; the 
pilot not on watch takes his " cub " or steersman 
and a picked crew of men (sometimes an officer 
also), and goes out in the yawl — provided the boat 
has not that rare and sumi)tuous luxury, a regularly- 
devised " sou.nding-boat " — and proceeds to hunt for 
the best water, the pilot on duty watching his 
movements through a spy-glass, meantime, and in 
some instances assisting by signals of the boat's 
whistle, signifying " try liigher up " or " try lower 
down ;" for the surface of the water, lilce an oil- 
painting, is more exproasive and intelligible when 
inspected from a little distance than very close at 
hand. The whistle signals are seldom necessary, 
however ; never, perhaps, except when the wind 
confuses the significant ripples upon the water's 
surface. When the yawl has reached the shoal 
place, the speed is slackened, the pilot begins to 
sound the depth with a pole ten or twelve feet long, 
and the steersman at the tiller obeys the order to 
" hold her up to starboard ;" or "let her fall to lar- 
board ;"' or " steady — steady as you go." 
When the measurements indicate that the yawl 
is approaching the shoalest part of the reef, the 
command is given to " ease all !" Then the men 
stop rowing and the yawl drifts with the current. 
The next order is, " Stand by with the buoy !" 
The moment the shallowest point is reached 
the pilot delivers the order, " Let go the buoy !" 
and over she goes. If the pilot is not satis- 
fied, he sounds the place again ; if he finds better 
water higher up or lower down, he removes the 
buoy to that place. Being finally satisfied, he 
gives the order, and all the men stand their oars 
straight up in the air, in line ; a blast from the 
boat's whistle indicates that the signal has been 
seen ; then the men " give way " on their oars and 
lay the yawl alongside the buoy ; the steamer comes 
creeping carefully down, is pointed straight at the 
buoy, husbands her power for the coining struggle, 
and presently, at the critical moment, turns on all 
her steam and goes grinding and wallowing over 
the buoy and the sand, and gains the deep water 
beyond. Or maybe she doesn't ; maybe she 
" strikes and swings." Then she has to while away 
several hours (or days) sparring herself otf. 
Sometimes a buoy is not laid at all, but the yawl 
goes ahead, hunting the best water, and the steamer 
follows along in its wake. Often there is a deal of 
fun and excitement about sounding, especially if it 
is a glorious summer day, or a blusturing night. 
But in winter the cold and the peril take most of 
the fun out of it. 
A buoy is nothing but a board four or five feet 
long, with one end turned up ; it is a reversed boot- 
jack. It is anchored on the shoalest part of the 
reef by a rope with a heavy stone made fast to the 
end of it. But for the resistance of the turned-up 
end, the current would pull the buoy under water 
At night a paper lantern with a candle in it is fast- 
ened on top of the buoy, and this can be seen a mile 
or more, a little glimmering spark in the waste of 
blackness. 
Nothing delights a cub so much as an oppor- 
tunity to go out sounding. There is such an air 
of adventure about it ; often there is danger ; it is 
so gaudy and man-of-war-like to sit up in the 
stern-sheets and steer a swift yawl ; there is something
fine about the exultant spring of the b at 
when an experienced old sailor crew throw their 
souls into the oars ; it is lovely to see the white 
foam stream away from the bows ; there is music 
in the rush of the water ; it is deliciously exhilarat- 
ing, in summer, to go speeding over the breezy 
expanses of the river when the world of vravlets 
is dancing in the sun. It is such grandeur, too, 
to the cub, to get a chance to give an order ; for 
often the pilot will simply say, " Let her go about !" 
and leave the rest to the cub, who instantly cries, 
in his sternest tone of command, " Ease starboard ! 
Strong on the larboard ! Starboard give way ! With 
a will, men !" The cub enjoys sounding for the 
further reason that the eyes of the passengers are 
watching all the yawl's movements with absorbing 
interest, if the time be daylight ; and if it be night 
he knows that those same wondering eyes are fast- 
ened upon the yawl's lantern as it glides out into 
the gloom and fades away in the remote distance. 
One trip a pretty girl of sixteen spent her time 
in our pilot-house with her uncle and aunt, every 
day and all day long. I fell in love ith her. So 
did Mr. T 's cub, Tom G . Tom and I had 
been bosom friends until this time ; but now a cool- 
ness began to arise. I told the girl a good many of 
my river adventures, and made myself out a good 
deal of a hero; Tom tried to make himself appear to be 
a hero, too, and succeeded to some extent, but then 
he always had a way of embroidering. However, 
virtue is its own reward, so I was !a barely perceptible 
trifle ahead in the contest. About this time 
something happened which promised handsomely 
ijr me : the pilots decided to sound the crossing at 
the head of 21. This would occur at nine or ten 
o'clock at night, when the passengers would bu 
still up; it would be Mr. T 's watch, therefore 
my chief would have to do the sounding. We had 
a perfect love of a sounding-boat — long, trim, grace- 
ful, and as fleet as a greyhound ; her thwarts were 
cushioned ; she carried twelve oarsmen ; one of the 
mates was always sent in her to transmit orders to 
her crew, for ours was a steamer where no end of 
" style " was put on. 
We tied up at the shore above 21, and got ready. 
It was a foul night, and the river was so wide, 
there, that a landsman's uneducated eyes could dis- 
cern no opposite shore through such a gloom. The 
passengers were alert and interested ; everything 
was satisfactory. As I hurried through the engine- 
room, picturesquely gotten up in storm toggery, I 
met Tom, and could not forbear delivering myself 
of a mean speech  — 
" Aint you glad yow don't have to go out sound- 
ing? 
Tom was passing on, but he quickly turned, and 
said, — 
" Now just for that, you can go and get the 
sounding-pole yourself I was going after it, but 
I 'd see you in Halifax, now, before I 'd do it." 
" Who wants you to get it ?  dont. It 's in 
the sounding-boat." 
" It ain't, either. Its been new-painted ; and 
it's been up on the lady's-cabin guards two days, 
drying." 
I flew back, and shortly arrived among the 
crowd of watching and wondering ladies just in 
time to hear the command ; 
" Give way, men ! " 
I looked over, and there was the gallant sound- 
ing-boat booming away, the unprincipled Tom pre- 
siding at the tiller, and my chief sitting by him 
with the sounding-pole which I had been sent on a 
fool's errand to fetch. Then that young girl said 
to me, — 
" Oh, how awful to have to go out in that lit- 
tle boat on such a night ! Do you think there is 
any danger ? " 
I would rather have been stabbed. I went off 
full of venom, to help in the pilot-house. By and 
by the boat's lantern disappeared, and after an in- 
terval a wee spark glimmered upon the face of the 
water a mile away. Mr. T blew the whistle, 
in acknowledgment, backed the steamer out, and 
made for it. We flew along for awhile, then slack- 
ened steam and went cautiously gliding toward the 
spark. Presently Mr. T exclaimed, — 
'* Hello, the buoy-lantern's out ! " 
He stopped the engines. A moment or two 
later he said — 
" Why, there it is again ! " 
So he came a head on the engines once more, and 
rang for the leads. Gradually the water- shoaled 
up, and then began to deepen again I Mr. T — 
muttered : 
" Well, I don't understand this. I believe that 
buoy has drifted off the reef Seems to be a little 
too far to the left. No matter, it is safest to run 
over it, anyhow.'' 
So, in that solid world of darkness, we went 
creeping down on the li_nht. Just as our bows 
were in the act of plowing over it, Mi*. T seized 
the bell-ropes, rang a startling peal, and exclaim- 
ed, — 
" My soul, it's the sounding-boat ! " 
A sudden chorus of wild alarms burst out far 
below — a pause — and then a sound of grinding and 
crashing followed. Mr. T exclaimed, — 
" There ! the paddle-wheel has ground the sound- 
ing-boat to lucifer matches ! Run ! See who is 
killed ! " 
I was on the main deck in the twinkling of an 
eye. My chief and the third mate and nearly all 
the men were safe. They had discovered their 
danger when it was too late to pull out of the way ; 
then, when the great guards overshadowed them a 
moment later, they were prepared and knew what 
to do ; at my chief's order they sprang at the right 
instant, seized the guard, and were hauled aboard. 
The next moment the sounding yawl swept aft to 
the wheel and was struck and splintered to atoms. 
Two of the men and the cub Tom, were missing — 
a lact which spread like wild-fire over the boat. 
The passengers came flocking to the forward gang- 
way, ladies and all, anxious-eyed, white-faced, and 
talked in awed voices of the dreadiai thing. And 
often and again I heard them say, " Poor fellows ! 
poor boy, poor boy ! " 
By this time the boat's yawl was manned and 
away, to search for the missing. Nov a faint call 
was heard, off to the left. The yawl had disap- 
peared in the other direction. Half the people 
rushed to one side to encourage the swimmer with 
their shouts ; the f ther half rushed the other way 
to shriek to the yawl to turn about. By the call- 
ings, the swimmer was approaching, but soiixci said 
the sound showed failing strength. The crowd 
massed themselves against the boiler-deck railings, 
leaning over and staring into the gloom : and every 
faint and fainter cry wrung from them sisci words 
as " Ah, poor fellow, poor fellow ! is there no way 
to save him ? " 
But still t\o cries h, ' ' but, rnd drew nearer, and 
presently the voice said piuckily, — 
" I can make it ! Stand by with a rope ! " 
What a rousing cheer they gave him ! The 
chief mate took his stand in the glare of a torch- 
basket, a coil of rope in his hand, and his men 
grouped about him. The next moment the svim- 
mer's face appeared in the circle of light, and in an- 
other one the owner of it was hauled aboard, limp 
and drenched, while cheer on cheer went up. It 
was that devil Tom. 
The yawl crew searchea everywhere, but found 
no sign of the two men, They probably failed to 
catch the guard, tumbled back, and were struck by 
the wheel and killed. Tom had never jumped for 
the guard at all, but had phmged head-tirst into 
the river and dived under the wheel. It was no- 
thing ; I could have done it easy enough, and I 
said so ; but every body went on just the same, 
making a wonderful to-do over that ass, as if ho 
had done something great. That girl couldn't 
seem to have enough of that pitiful " hero " the 
rest of the trip ; but little I cared ; I loathed her, 
any way. 
The way we came to mistake the sounding- 
boat's lantern for the buoy-light was this. My 
chief said that after laying the buoy he fell away 
and watched it till it seemed to be secure ; then he 
took up a position a hundred yards below it and a 
little to one side of the steamer's course, headed tie 
sounding-boat up-stream, and waited. Havir i;0 
wait some time, he and the officer got to talkuifr ; 
he looked up when he judged that the steamer was 
about on the reef; saw that th( buoy was g<y*.e> 
but supposed that the steamei- had already run 
over it ; he went on with his talk ; he noticed that 
the steamer was getting very close down on him, 
but that was the correct thing , it was her business 
to shave him closely, for convenience in taking him 
aboard ; he was expecting her to sheer off, until the 
last moment ; then it Hashed upon him that she 
was trying to run him down, mistaking his lantern 
for the buoy-light ; so he sang out, " Stand by to 
spring for the guard, men ! " and in the next in- 
stant the jump was made. 
But I am wandering from what I was intending 
to do, that is, make plainer than perhaps appears 
in my previous papers, some of the peculiar require- 
ments of the science of piloting. First of all, there 
is one faculty which a pilot must incessantly culti- 
vate until he has brought it to absolute perfection. 
Nothing short of perfection will do. That faculty 
is memory. He cannot stop with merely thinking 
a thing is so and so ; he must know it ; for this is 
eminently one of the " exact " sciences. With 
what scorn a pilot was looked upon, in the old 
times, if he ever ventured to deal in that feeble 
phrase " I think," instead of the vigorous one " I 
know ! " One cannot easily realize what a tremen- 
dous thing it is to know every trivial detail of 
twelve hundred miles of river and know it with 
absolute exactness. If you will take the longest 
street in New York., and travel up and down it, 
comii ng its features patiently until you know every 
house and window and door and lamp-post and big 
and iittle sign by at, and know them so accurately 
that yoi' can instantly name the one you are abreast 
of wh ,n you are set down at random in that street 
in the middle of an inky black night, you will then 
have a tolerable notion of the ampunt and the exactness 
of a pilot's knowledge who carries the Mississippi River
in his head. And then if you will 
go on until you know every street crossing, the 
character, size, and position of the crossing stones, 
and the varying depth of mud in each of those 
numberless places, you will have some idea of what 
the pilot must know in order to keep a Mississippi 
steamer out of trouble. Next, if you will take half 
of the signs in that long street, and change their 
places once a month, and still manage to know 
their new positions accurately on dark nights, and 
keep up with these repeated changes without mak- 
ing any mistakes, you will understand what is re- 
quired of a pilot's peerless memory by the fickle 
Mississippi. 
I think a pilot's memory is about the most 
wonderful thing in the world. To know the Old 
and New Testaments by heart, and be able to 
recite them glibly, forward or backward, or begin 
at random anywhere in the book and recite both 
ways and never trip or make a mistake, is no 
extravagant mass of knowledge, and nu marvelous 
facility, compared to a pilot's massed knowledge of 
the Mississippi and his marvelous facility in the 
handling of it. I make this comparison deliberately, 
and I believe I am not expanding the truth when 
I do it. Many will think m}' figure too strong, 
but pilots will not. 
And how easily and comfortably the pilot's 
memory does its work ; how placidly effortless is 
its vay ! how wncoiiscwudy it lays up its vast 
stores, hour by hour, day by day, and never loses 
or niislayg a single valuable package of them all ! 
Take an instance. Lot a leadsman cry, " Half 
twain ! half twain ! half twain ! half twain ! half 
twain !" until it becomes as monotonous as the 
ticking of a clock ; let conversation be going on all 
the time, and the pilot be doing his share of the 
talking, and no longer listening to the leadsman ; 
and in the midst of this endless string: of ha,lf twains 
let a single " quarter twain !" be interjected, with- 
out emphasis, and then the half twain cry go on 
again, just as before : two or three weeks later that 
pilot can describe with precision the boats position 
in the river when that quarter twain was uttered, 
and give you such a lot of head marks, stern- 
marks, and side-marks to guide you, that you 
ought to be able to take the boat there and put her 
in that same spot again yourself! The cry of 
quarter twain did not really take his mind from 
his talk, Tut his trained faculties instantly photo- 
graphed the bearings, noted the change of depth 
and laid up the important details for future refer- 
ence without requiring any assistance from him in 
the matter. If you were walking and talking with 
a friend, and another friend at your side kept up a 
monotonous repetition of the vowl sound A, for a 
couple of blocks, and then in the midst interjected 
an E,, thus. A, A, A, A, A, R, A, A, A, etc., and 
<;avo the R no emphasis, you would not be able to 
state, two or three weeks afterwards, that the R 
had been put in, nor be able to tell what objects 
you were passing at the moment it was done. But 
you C(Mild if your memory had been patiently and 
laboriously tranied to do that sort of thing mechan- 
ically. 
Give a man a tolerably fair memory to start 
with, and piloting will develop) it into a very 
colossus of oapability. But oil in the matters 
it is daily drilled in. A time would come when 
the man's faculties could not help noticing land- 
marks and soundings, and his memory could not 
help holding on to them with the grip of a vice ; 
but if you asked that same man at noon what he 
had for breakfast, it would be ten chances to one 
that he could not tell you. Astonishing things 
can be done with the human memory if you will 
devote it faithfully to one particular line of business. 
At the time that wages soared so high on the 
Missouri River, my chief, Mr. B , went up 
there and learned more than a thousand miles of 
that stream with an ease and rapidity that were 
astonishing. When he had seen each division otce 
in the daytime and once at night, his education 
was so nearly complete that he took out a " day- 
light license , a few trips later he took out a full 
license, and went to piloting day and night — and 
he ranked A 1, too. 
Mr. B placed me as steersman for a while 
under a pilot whose feats of memory were a con- 
stant marvel to me. However, his memory was 
born in him, I think, not built. For instance, 
somebody would mention a name. Instantly Mr. 
J would break in : — 
"Oh, I knew him. Sallow-faced, red-headed 
fellow, with a little scar on the side of his throat 
like a splinter under the ttesh. He was only in the 
Southern trade six months. That was thirteen 
years ago. I made a trip with him. There was 
five feet in the upper river then ; the Honry Blake 
grounded at the foot of Tower Island, drawing four 
and a half ; the George Elliott unshipped her 
rudder on the wreck of the Sunflower " — 
" Why, the Sunflower did'nt sink until " — 
"  know wlien she sunk ; it was three years 
before that, on the 2d of December; Asa Hardy 
was captain of her, and his brother John was first 
clerk; and it was his first trip in her, too; Tom 
Jones told me these things a week afterward in 
New Orleans ; he was first mate of the Sunflower. 
Captain Hardy stuck a nail in his foot the 6th of 
July of the next year, and died of the lock; aw on 
the 15th. His brother John died two years after, — 
3d of March, — erysipelas. I never saw either of the 
Hardys, — they were Alleghany River men, — but 
people who knew them told me all these things. 
And they said Captain Hardy wore yarn socks 
winter and summer just the same, and his first 
wife's name was Jane Shook, — she was from New 
England, — and his second one die in a lunatic 
asylum. It was in the blood. She was from Lexington, 
Kentucky. Name was Horton before she was married." 
And HO on, by the hour, the man's tongue would 
go. He could not forget anything. It was simply 
impossible. The most trivial details remained as 
distinct and luminous in his head, after they had 
lain there for years, as the most memorable 
events. His was not simply a pilot's memory ; its 
grasp was universal. If he were talking about a 
trifling letter he had received seven years before, 
he was pretty sure to deliver you the entire screed 
from memory. And then, witliout observing that 
he was departing from the true line of his talk, he 
was more than likely to hurl in a long-drawn par- 
enthetical biography ol the writer of that letter ; 
and you were lucky indeed if he did not take up 
that writer's relatives, one by one, and give you 
their biographies, too. 
Such a memory as that is a gi'eat misfortune. To 
it, all occurrences are ol the same size. Its posses- 
sor cannot distinguish an interesting circumstance 
from an uninteresting one. As a talker, he is bound 
to clog his narrative with tiresome details and make 
himself an insufferable bore. Moreover, he cannot 
stick to his subject. He picks up every little grain 
of memory he discerns in his way, and so is led 
aside. Mr. J would start out with the honest 
intention of telling you a vastly funny anecdote 
about a dog. He would be " so full of laugh" that 
he could hardly begin ; then his memory would 
start with the dog's breed and personal appearance; 
drift into a history of his owner; of his owner's 
family, with descriptions of weddings and burials 
that had occurred in it, together with recitals of 
congratulatory verses and obituary poetry provoked 
by the same; then this memory would recollect 
that one of these events occurred during the cele- 
brated " hard winter " of such and such a year, and 
a minute description of that winter would follow, 
along with the names of people who were frozen to 
death, and statistics showing the high figures which 
pork and hay went up to. Pork and hay would 
suggest com and fodder; com and fodder would 
suggest cows and horses ; the latter would suggest 
the circus and certain celebrated bare-back riders ; 
the transition from the circus to the menagerie was 
easy and natural ; from the elephant to equatorial 
Africa was but a step ; then of course the heathen 
savages would suggest religion ; and at the end of 
three or four hours' tedious jaw, the watch would 
change and J would go out of the pilot-house 
muttering extracts from sermons he had heard years 
before about the efficacy of prayer as a means of 
grace. And the original first mention would be all 
you had learned about that dog, after all this wait- 
ing and hungering. 
A pilot must have a memory ; but there are two 
higher qualities which he must also have. He must 
have good and quick judgment and decision, and a 
cool, calm courage that no peril can shake. Give a 
man the merest trifle of pluck to start with, and by 
the time ho has become a pilot he cannot be unman- 
ned by any danger a steamboat can get into; but one 
cannot quite say the same for judgment. Judg- 
ment is a matter of brains, and a man must start 
with a good stock of that article or he will never 
succeed as a pilot. 
The growth of courage in the pilot-house is 
steady all the time, but it does not reach a high 
and satisfactory condition until some time after the 
young pilot has been " standing his own watch," 
alone and under the staggering weight of all the 
responsibilities connected with the position. When 
an apprentice has become pretty thoroughly acquain- 
ted with the river, he goes clattering along so fear- 
lessly with his steamboat, night or day, that he 
presently begins to imagine that it is his courage 
that animates him ; but the fii-st time the pilot 
steps out and leaves him to his own devices he finds 
out it was the other man's. He discovers that the 
article has been left out of his own cargo altogether. 
The whole river is bristling with exigencies in a 
moment ; he is not prepared for them ; he does not 
know how to meet them ; all his knowledge for- 
sakes him ; and within fifteen minutes he is as 
white as a sheet and scared almost to death. There- 
fore pilots wisely train these cubs by various strat- 
egic tricks to look danger in the face a little more 
calmly. A favorite way of theirs is to play a 
friendly bwindle upon the candidate. 
Mr. B served me in this fashion once, and for 
years afterwards I used to blush even in my sleep 
when I thought of it. I had become a good steers 
man ; so good, indeed, that I had all the work to 
do on our watch, night or day ; Mr. B seldom 
made a suggestion to me ; all he ever did was to 
take the wheel on particularly bad nights or in par- 
ticularly bad crossings, land the boat when she 
needed to be landed, play gentleman of leisure nine 
tenths of the watch, and collect the wages. The 
lower river was about bank-full, and if anybody 
had questioned my ability to run any crossing be- 
tween Cairo and New Orleans without help or in- 
struction, I should have felt irreparably hurt. The 
idea of being afraid of any crossing in the lot, in 
the day-time, was a thing too preposterous for con- 
templation. Well, one matchless summer's day I 
was bowling down the bend above island 66, 
brim full of self-conceit and carrying my nose as 
high as a giraffe's, when Mr. B said, — 
"I am going below a while. I suppose you 
know the next crossing ? " 
This was almost an aflfront. It was about the 
plainest and simplest crossing in the whole river. 
One couldn't come to any harm, whether he ran it 
right or not ; and as for depth, there never had 
been any bottom there. I knew all this, perfectly 
well. 
Know how to run it ? Why, I can run it with 
my eyes shut." 
" How much water is there in it ? " 
" Well, that is an odd question. I couldn't get 
bottom there with a church steeple." 
. "You think so, do you?" 
The very tone of the question shook my confi- 
dence. That was what Mr. B was expecting. 
He left, without saying anything more. I began 
to imagine all sorts of things. Mr. B , unknown 
to me, of course, sent somebody down to the fore- 
castle with some mysterious instruction to the 
leadsmen, another messenger was sent to whisper 
among the officers, and then Mr. B went into 
hiding behind a smoke-stack where he could ob- 
serve results. Presently the captain stepped out on 
the hurricane dock ; next the chief mate appeared ; 
then a clerk. Every moment or two a straggler 
was added to my audience ; and before I got to the 
head of the island I had fifteen or twenty people 
assembled down there under my nose. I began to 
wonder what the trouble was. As I started across 
the captain glanced aloft at me and said, with a 
sham uneasiness in his voice, — 
"Where is Mr. B V* 
" Gone below, sir." 
But that did the business for me. My imagina- 
tion began to construct dangers out of nothing, and 
they multiplied faster than I could keep the run of 
them. All at once I imagined I saw shoal water 
ahead! The wave of coward agony that surged 
through me then came near dislocating every 
joint in me. All my confidence in that crossing 
vanished. I seized the bell-rope ; dropped it, 
ashamed ; seized it again ; dropped it once more ; 
clutched it tremblingly once again, and pulled it so 
feebly that I could hardly hear the stroke myself. 
Captain and mate sang out instantly, and both to- 
gether, — 
" Starboard lead there ! and quick about it ! '' 
This was another shock. I began to climb the 
wheel like a squirrel ; but I would hardly get the 
boat started to port before I would see new dangers 
on that side, and away I would spin to the other ; 
only to find perils accumulating to starboard, and 
be crazy to get to port again. Then came the 
leadsman's sepulchral cry : — 
" D-ee-p four ! " 
Deep four in a bottomless crossing ! The terror 
of it took my breath away. 
" M-a-r-k three ! M-a-r k three ! Quarter less 
three ! Half twain ! " 
This was frightful ! I seized the bell-ropes and 
stopped the engines. 
" Quarter twain ! Quarter twain ! Mark twain !" 
I was helpless. I did not know what in the 
world to do. I was quaking from head to foot, and 
I could have hung my hat on my eyes, they stuck 
out so far. 
" Quarter less twain ! Nine and a half ! " 
We were drawing nine! My hands were in a 
nerveless flutter. I could not ring a bell intelligible
with them. I flew to the speak into- tube and 
shouted to the engineer, — 
" Oh, Ben, if you love me, hack her ! Quick 
Ben ! Oh, back the immortal soul out of her ! " 
I heard the door close gently. I looked around 
and the'e stood Mr. B , smiling a bland, sweet 
smile. ThcE the audience on the hurricane deck 
sent uj- Si out of humiliating laughter. I saw it 
all, now, and I felt meaner than the meanest man 
in human history. I laid in the lead, set the boat 
in her marks, came ahead on the engines, and said, — 
" It was a fine trick to play on an orphan u'osn't 
it ? I suppose I 'll never hear the last of how I was 
ass enough to heave the lead at the head of G6." 
" Well, no, you won't, maybe. In fact I hope you 
won't ; for I want you to learn something by that 
experience. Didn't you Icriow there was no bot- 
tom in that crossing ? " 
" Yes, sir, I did." 
" Ver well, then. You shouldn't have allowed 
me or anybody else to shake your confidence in 
that knowledge. Try to remember that. And 
another thing : when you get into a dangerous 
place, don't turn coward. That isn't going to help 
matters any." 
It was a good enough lesson, but pretty hardly 
learned. Yet about the hardest part of it was that 
for months I so often had to hear a phrase which 
I had conceived a particular distaste for. It was, 
" Oh, Ben, if you love me, back her ! " 
CHAPTER VI. 
OFFICIAL RANK AND DIGNITY OF A PILOT. THE 
RISE AND DECADENCE OF THE PILOTS' ASSOCL 
ATION. 
In my preceding articles I have trie&, by going 
into the minutiae of the science of piloting, to carry 
the reader step by step to a comprehension of what 
the science consists of; and at the same time I 
have tried to show him that it is a very curious 
and wonderful science, too, and very worthy of his 
attention. If I have seemed to love my subject, it 
is no surprising thing, for I loved the profession 
far better than any I have followed since, and I 
took a measureless pride in it. The reason is 
plain : a pilot in those days, was the only un- 
fettered and entirely independent huiuan being 
that lived in the earth. Kings are but the ham- 
pered servants of parliament and people ; parlia 
ments sit in chains forged by their constituency ; 
the editor of a newspaper cannot be independent, 
but must work with one hand tied behind him by 
party and patrons, and be content to utter only 
half or two-thirdn of his mind ; no clergyman is a 
free man and may speak the whole truth, regard- 
less of his parish's opinions ; writers of all kinds 
are manacled servants of the public. We write 
frankly and fearlessly, but then we *' modify " 
before we print. In truth, ever man and woman 
and child has a master, and worries and frets in 
servitude ; but in the day I write of, the Missis- 
sippi pilot had 7ione. The captain could stand 
upon the hurricane deck, in the pomp of a very 
brief authority, and give him five or six orders, 
while the vessel backed into the stream, and then 
that skipper's reign was over. The moment that 
the boat was under way in the river, she was under 
the sole and unquestioned control of the pilot. He 
could do with her exactly as he pleased, run her 
when and whither he chose, and tie her up to the 
bank whenever his judgment said that that course 
was best. His movements were entirely free ; he 
consulted no one, he received commands from 
nobody, he promptly resented even the merest 
suggestions. Indeed, the law of the United States 
forbade him to listen to commands or suggestions, 
rightly considering that the pilot necessarily knew 
better how to handle the boat than anybody oould 
tell him. So here was the novelty of a king with- 
out a keeper, an absolute monarch who was 
absolute in sober truth and not by a fiction of 
words. I have seen a boy of eighteen taking a 
great steamer serenely i'to what seemed almost 
certain destruction, and the agod captain standing 
mutely by, filled with apprehension but powerless 
to interfere. His interference, in that particular 
instance, might have been an excellent thing, but 
to permit it would have been to establish a most 
pernicious precedent. It will easily be guessed, 
considering the pilot's boundless authority, that 
he was a great personage in the old steamboating 
days. He was treated with marked courtesy by 
the captain and with marked deference by all the 
officers and servants ; and this deferential spirit 
was quickly communicated to the passengers, too. 
I think pilots were about the only people I ever 
knew who failed to show, in some degree, em- 
barrassment in the presence of traveling foreign 
princes. But then, people in one's own grade of life 
are not usually embarrassing objects. 
By long habit, pilots came to put all their wishes 
in the form of commands. It " gravels " me, to 
this day, to put my will in the weak shape of a 
request, instead of launching it in the crisp lan- 
guage of an order. 
In those old days, to load a steamboat at St. 
Louis, take her to New Orleans and back, and dis- 
chLTge cargo, consumed about twenty-five days, on 
an average. Seven or eight of thtse days the boat 
spent at the wharves of St. Louis and New Orleans, 
and every soul on board was hard at work, except 
the two pilots ; they did nothing but play gentle- 
man, up town, and receive the same wages for it 
as if they had been on duty. The moment the 
boat touched the wharf at citlior city, they wore 
ashore ; and they were not likely to bo seen again 
till the last boll wns ringing and everything in 
readiness for another voyage. 
When a captain got hold of a pilot of particularly 
high reputation, he took pains to keep him. When 
wages were four hundred dollars a month on the 
Upper Mississippi, I have known a captain to 
keep such a pilot in idleness, under full pay, three 
months at a time, while the river was frozen up. 
And one must remember that in those cheap times 
four hundred dollars was a salary of almost in- 
conceivable splendor. Few men on shore got such 
pay as that, and when they did they were mightly 
looked up to. When pilots from either end of the 
river waii lered into our small Missouri village, 
they were ght by the best and the fairest, and 
treated w ''alted respect. Lying in port under 
wages was a thing which many pilots greatly en- 
joyed and appreciated ; especially if they belonged 
in the Missouri River in the heyday of that trade 
(Kansas times), and got nine hundred dollars a 
