professions, there was a way of making her effective; she might help
him to get at the old woman and the marquis. “They are coming back
soon--your companions?” he said. “You are waiting for them?”

“They will hear the mass out; there is nothing to keep them longer.
Claire has refused to see them.”

“I want to speak to them,” said Newman; “and you can help me, you can do
me a favor. Delay your return for five minutes and give me a chance at
them. I will wait for them here.”

Madame de Bellegarde clasped her hands with a tender grimace. “My poor
friend, what do you want to do to them? To beg them to come back to you?
It will be wasted words. They will never come back!”

“I want to speak to them, all the same. Pray do what I ask you. Stay
away and leave them to me for five minutes; you needn’t be afraid; I
shall not be violent; I am very quiet.”

“Yes, you look very quiet! If they had le cœur tendre you would move
them. But they haven’t! However, I will do better for you than what you
propose. The understanding is not that I shall come back for them. I am
going into the Parc Monceau with my little girl to give her a walk, and
my mother-in-law, who comes so rarely into this quarter, is to profit
by the same opportunity to take the air. We are to wait for her in the
park, where my husband is to bring her to us. Follow me now; just within
the gates I shall get out of my carriage. Sit down on a chair in some
quiet corner and I will bring them near you. There’s devotion for you!
Le reste vous regarde.”

This proposal seemed to Newman extremely felicitous; it revived his
drooping spirit, and he reflected that Madame Urbain was not such a
goose as she seemed. He promised immediately to overtake her, and the
carriage drove away.

The Parc Monceau is a very pretty piece of landscape-gardening, but
Newman, passing into it, bestowed little attention upon its elegant
vegetation, which was full of the freshness of spring. He found Madame
de Bellegarde promptly, seated in one of the quiet corners of which she
had spoken, while before her, in the alley, her little girl, attended by
the footman and the lap-dog, walked up and down as if she were taking a
lesson in deportment. Newman sat down beside the mamma, and she talked
a great deal, apparently with the design of convincing him that--if
he would only see it--poor dear Claire did not belong to the most
fascinating type of woman. She was too tall and thin, too stiff and
cold; her mouth was too wide and her nose too narrow. She had no dimples
anywhere. And then she was eccentric, eccentric in cold blood; she was
an Anglaise, after all. Newman was very impatient; he was counting the
minutes until his victims should reappear. He sat silent, leaning upon
his cane, looking absently and insensibly at the little marquise. At
length Madame de Bellegarde said she would walk toward the gate of the
park and meet her companions; but before she went she dropped her eyes,
and, after playing a moment with the lace of her sleeve, looked up again
at Newman.

“Do you remember,” she asked, “the promise you made me three weeks
ago?” And then, as Newman, vainly consulting his memory, was obliged to
confess that the promise had escaped it, she declared that he had made
her, at the time, a very queer answer--an answer at which, viewing it
in the light of the sequel, she had fair ground for taking offense.
“You promised to take me to Bullier’s after your marriage. After your
marriage--you made a great point of that. Three days after that your
marriage was broken off. Do you know, when I heard the news, the
first thing I said to myself? ‘Oh heaven, now he won’t go with me to
Bullier’s!’ And I really began to wonder if you had not been expecting
the rupture.”

“Oh, my dear lady,” murmured Newman, looking down the path to see if the
others were not coming.

“I shall be good-natured,” said Madame de Bellegarde. “One must not ask
too much of a gentleman who is in love with a cloistered nun. Besides,
I can’t go to Bullier’s while we are in mourning. But I haven’t given
it up for that. The partie is arranged; I have my cavalier. Lord
Deepmere, if you please! He has gone back to his dear Dublin; but a
few months hence I am to name any evening and he will come over from
Ireland, on purpose. That’s what I call gallantry!”

Shortly after this Madame de Bellegarde walked away with her little
girl. Newman sat in his place; the time seemed terribly long. He felt
how fiercely his quarter of an hour in the convent chapel had raked
over the glowing coals of his resentment. Madame de Bellegarde kept him
waiting, but she proved as good as her word. At last she reappeared at
the end of the path, with her little girl and her footman; beside her
slowly walked her husband, with his mother on his arm. They were a long
time advancing, during which Newman sat unmoved. Tingling as he was
with passion, it was extremely characteristic of him that he was able
to moderate his expression of it, as he would have turned down a flaring
gas-burner. His native coolness, shrewdness, and deliberateness, his
life-long submissiveness to the sentiment that words were acts and acts
were steps in life, and that in this matter of taking steps
curveting and prancing were exclusively reserved for quadrupeds
and foreigners--all this admonished him that rightful wrath had no
connection with being a fool and indulging in spectacular violence. So
as he rose, when old Madame de Bellegarde and her son were close to
him, he only felt very tall and light. He had been sitting beside some
shrubbery, in such a way as not to be noticeable at a distance; but M.
de Bellegarde had evidently already perceived him. His mother and he
were holding their course, but Newman stepped in front of them, and they
were obliged to pause. He lifted his hat slightly, and looked at them
for a moment; they were pale with amazement and disgust.

“Excuse me for stopping you,” he said in a low tone, “but I must profit
by the occasion. I have ten words to say to you. Will you listen to
them?”

The marquis glared at him and then turned to his mother. “Can Mr. Newman
possibly have anything to say that is worth our listening to?”

“I assure you I have something,” said Newman, “besides, it is my duty to
say it. It’s a notification--a warning.”

“Your duty?” said old Madame de Bellegarde, her thin lips curving like
scorched paper. “That is your affair, not ours.”

Madame Urbain meanwhile had seized her little girl by the hand, with a
gesture of surprise and impatience which struck Newman, intent as he was
upon his own words, with its dramatic effectiveness. “If Mr. Newman is
going to make a scene in public,” she exclaimed, “I will take my poor
child out of the mêlée. She is too young to see such naughtiness!” and
she instantly resumed her walk.

“You had much better listen to me,” Newman went on. “Whether you do or
not, things will be disagreeable for you; but at any rate you will be
prepared.”

“We have already heard something of your threats,” said the marquis,
“and you know what we think of them.”

“You think a good deal more than you admit. A moment,” Newman added in
reply to an exclamation of the old lady. “I remember perfectly that we
are in a public place, and you see I am very quiet. I am not going to
tell your secret to the passers-by; I shall keep it, to begin with, for
certain picked listeners. Anyone who observes us will think that we are
having a friendly chat, and that I am complimenting you, madam, on your
venerable virtues.”

The marquis gave three short sharp raps on the ground with his stick. “I
demand of you to step out of our path!” he hissed.

Newman instantly complied, and M. de Bellegarde stepped forward with his
mother. Then Newman said, “Half an hour hence Madame de Bellegarde will
regret that she didn’t learn exactly what I mean.”

The marquise had taken a few steps, but at these words she paused,
looking at Newman with eyes like two scintillating globules of ice. “You
are like a peddler with something to sell,” she said, with a little cold
laugh which only partially concealed the tremor in her voice.

“Oh, no, not to sell,” Newman rejoined; “I give it to you for nothing.”
 And he approached nearer to her, looking her straight in the eyes. “You
killed your husband,” he said, almost in a whisper. “That is, you tried
once and failed, and then, without trying, you succeeded.”

Madame de Bellegarde closed her eyes and gave a little cough, which, as
a piece of dissimulation, struck Newman as really heroic. “Dear mother,”
 said the marquis, “does this stuff amuse you so much?”

“The rest is more amusing,” said Newman. “You had better not lose it.”

Madame de Bellegarde opened her eyes; the scintillations had gone out of
them; they were fixed and dead. But she smiled superbly with her narrow
little lips, and repeated Newman’s word. “Amusing? Have I killed someone
else?”

“I don’t count your daughter,” said Newman, “though I might! Your
husband knew what you were doing. I have a proof of it whose existence
you have never suspected.” And he turned to the marquis, who was
terribly white--whiter than Newman had ever seen anyone out of a
picture. “A paper written by the hand, and signed with the name, of
Henri-Urbain de Bellegarde. Written after you, madam, had left him for
dead, and while you, sir, had gone--not very fast--for the doctor.”

The marquis looked at his mother; she turned away, looking vaguely round
her. “I must sit down,” she said in a low tone, going toward the bench
on which Newman had been sitting.

“Couldn’t you have spoken to me alone?” said the marquis to Newman, with
a strange look.

“Well, yes, if I could have been sure of speaking to your mother alone,
too,” Newman answered. “But I have had to take you as I could get you.”

Madame de Bellegarde, with a movement very eloquent of what he would
have called her “grit,” her steel-cold pluck and her instinctive appeal
to her own personal resources, drew her hand out of her son’s arm and
went and seated herself upon the bench. There she remained, with her
hands folded in her lap, looking straight at Newman. The expression of
her face was such that he fancied at first that she was smiling; but he
went and stood in front of her and saw that her elegant features were
distorted by agitation. He saw, however, equally, that she was resisting
her agitation with all the rigor of her inflexible will, and there was
nothing like either fear or submission in her stony stare. She had been
startled, but she was not terrified. Newman had an exasperating feeling
that she would get the better of him still; he would not have believed
it possible that he could so utterly fail to be touched by the sight of
a woman (criminal or other) in so tight a place. Madame de Bellegarde
gave a glance at her son which seemed tantamount to an injunction to be
silent and leave her to her own devices. The marquis stood beside her,
with his hands behind him, looking at Newman.

“What paper is this you speak of?” asked the old lady, with an imitation
of tranquillity which would have been applauded in a veteran actress.

“Exactly what I have told you,” said Newman. “A paper written by your
husband after you had left him for dead, and during the couple of hours
before you returned. You see he had the time; you shouldn’t have stayed
away so long. It declares distinctly his wife’s murderous intent.”

“I should like to see it,” Madame de Bellegarde observed.

“I thought you might,” said Newman, “and I have taken a copy.” And he
drew from his waistcoat pocket a small, folded sheet.

“Give it to my son,” said Madame de Bellegarde. Newman handed it to the
marquis, whose mother, glancing at him, said simply, “Look at it.” M. de
Bellegarde’s eyes had a pale eagerness which it was useless for him to
try to dissimulate; he took the paper in his light-gloved fingers and
opened it. There was a silence, during which he read it. He had more
than time to read it, but still he said nothing; he stood staring at it.
“Where is the original?” asked Madame de Bellegarde, in a voice which
was really a consummate negation of impatience.

“In a very safe place. Of course I can’t show you that,” said Newman.
“You might want to take hold of it,” he added with conscious quaintness.
“But that’s a very correct copy--except, of course, the handwriting. I
am keeping the original to show someone else.”

M. de Bellegarde at last looked up, and his eyes were still very eager.
“To whom do you mean to show it?”

“Well, I’m thinking of beginning with the duchess,” said Newman; “that
stout lady I saw at your ball. She asked me to come and see her, you
know. I thought at the moment I shouldn’t have much to say to her; but
my little document will give us something to talk about.”

“You had better keep it, my son,” said Madame de Bellegarde.

“By all means,” said Newman; “keep it and show it to your mother when
you get home.”

“And after showing it to the duchess?”--asked the marquis, folding the
paper and putting it away.

“Well, I’ll take up the dukes,” said Newman. “Then the counts and the
barons--all the people you had the cruelty to introduce me to in a
character of which you meant immediately to deprive me. I have made out
a list.”

For a moment neither Madame de Bellegarde nor her son said a word; the
old lady sat with her eyes upon the ground; M. de Bellegarde’s blanched
pupils were fixed upon her face. Then, looking at Newman, “Is that all
you have to say?” she asked.

“No, I want to say a few words more. I want to say that I hope you
quite understand what I’m about. This is my revenge, you know. You have
treated me before the world--convened for the express purpose--as if I
were not good enough for you. I mean to show the world that, however bad
I may be, you are not quite the people to say it.”

Madame de Bellegarde was silent again, and then she broke her silence.
Her self-possession continued to be extraordinary. “I needn’t ask you
who has been your accomplice. Mrs. Bread told me that you had purchased
her services.”

“Don’t accuse Mrs. Bread of venality,” said Newman. “She has kept your
secret all these years. She has given you a long respite. It was beneath
her eyes your husband wrote that paper; he put it into her hands with
a solemn injunction that she was to make it public. She was too
good-hearted to make use of it.”

The old lady appeared for an instant to hesitate, and then, “She was my
husband’s mistress,” she said, softly. This was the only concession to
self-defense that she condescended to make.

“I doubt that,” said Newman.

Madame de Bellegarde got up from her bench. “It was not to your opinions
I undertook to listen, and if you have nothing left but them to tell
me I think this remarkable interview may terminate.” And turning to the
marquis she took his arm again. “My son,” she said, “say something!”

M. de Bellegarde looked down at his mother, passing his hand over his
forehead, and then, tenderly, caressingly, “What shall I say?” he asked.

“There is only one thing to say,” said the Marquise. “That it was really
not worth while to have interrupted our walk.”

But the marquis thought he could improve this. “Your paper’s a forgery,”
 he said to Newman.

Newman shook his head a little, with a tranquil smile. “M. de
Bellegarde,” he said, “your mother does better. She has done better all
along, from the first of my knowing you. You’re a mighty plucky woman,
madam,” he continued. “It’s a great pity you have made me your enemy. I
should have been one of your greatest admirers.”

“Mon pauvre ami,” said Madame de Bellegarde to her son in French, and
as if she had not heard these words, “you must take me immediately to my
carriage.”

Newman stepped back and let them leave him; he watched them a moment and
saw Madame Urbain, with her little girl, come out of a by-path to meet
them. The old lady stooped and kissed her grandchild. “Damn it, she is
plucky!” said Newman, and he walked home with a slight sense of being
balked. She was so inexpressively defiant! But on reflection he decided
that what he had witnessed was no real sense of security, still less a
real innocence. It was only a very superior style of brazen assurance.
“Wait till she reads the paper!” he said to himself; and he concluded
that he should hear from her soon.

He heard sooner than he expected. The next morning, before midday,
when he was about to give orders for his breakfast to be served, M. de
Bellegarde’s card was brought to him. “She has read the paper and she
has passed a bad night,” said Newman. He instantly admitted his visitor,
who came in with the air of the ambassador of a great power meeting the
delegate of a barbarous tribe whom an absurd accident had enabled for
the moment to be abominably annoying. The ambassador, at all events, had
passed a bad night, and his faultlessly careful toilet only threw
into relief the frigid rancor in his eyes and the mottled tones of his
refined complexion. He stood before Newman a moment, breathing quickly
and softly, and shaking his forefinger curtly as his host pointed to a
chair.

“What I have come to say is soon said,” he declared “and can only be
said without ceremony.”

“I am good for as much or for as little as you desire,” said Newman.

The marquis looked round the room a moment, and then, “On what terms
will you part with your scrap of paper?”

“On none!” And while Newman, with his head on one side and his hands
behind him sounded the marquis’s turbid gaze with his own, he added,
“Certainly, that is not worth sitting down about.”

M. de Bellegarde meditated a moment, as if he had not heard Newman’s
refusal. “My mother and I, last evening,” he said, “talked over your
story. You will be surprised to learn that we think your little document
is--a”--and he held back his word a moment--“is genuine.”

“You forget that with you I am used to surprises!” exclaimed Newman,
with a laugh.

“The very smallest amount of respect that we owe to my father’s memory,”
 the marquis continued, “makes us desire that he should not be held up to
the world as the author of so--so infernal an attack upon the reputation
of a wife whose only fault was that she had been submissive to
accumulated injury.”

“Oh, I see,” said Newman. “It’s for your father’s sake.” And he laughed
the laugh in which he indulged when he was most amused--a noiseless
laugh, with his lips closed.

But M. de Bellegarde’s gravity held good. “There are a few of my
father’s particular friends for whom the knowledge of so--so unfortunate
an--inspiration--would be a real grief. Even say we firmly established
by medical evidence the presumption of a mind disordered by fever, il
en resterait quelque chose. At the best it would look ill in him. Very
ill!”

“Don’t try medical evidence,” said Newman. “Don’t touch the doctors and
they won’t touch you. I don’t mind your knowing that I have not written
to them.”

Newman fancied that he saw signs in M. de Bellegarde’s discolored mask
that this information was extremely pertinent. But it may have been
merely fancy; for the marquis remained majestically argumentative. “For
instance, Madame d’Outreville,” he said, “of whom you spoke yesterday. I
can imagine nothing that would shock her more.”

“Oh, I am quite prepared to shock Madame d’Outreville, you know. That’s
on the cards. I expect to shock a great many people.”

M. de Bellegarde examined for a moment the stitching on the back of one
of his gloves. Then, without looking up, “We don’t offer you money,” he
said. “That we supposed to be useless.”

Newman, turning away, took a few turns about the room and then came
back. “What do you offer me? By what I can make out, the generosity is
all to be on my side.”

The marquis dropped his arms at his side and held his head a little
higher. “What we offer you is a chance--a chance that a gentleman should
appreciate. A chance to abstain from inflicting a terrible blot upon the
memory of a man who certainly had his faults, but who, personally, had
done you no wrong.”

“There are two things to say to that,” said Newman. “The first is,
as regards appreciating your ‘chance,’ that you don’t consider me a
gentleman. That’s your great point you know. It’s a poor rule that won’t
work both ways. The second is that--well, in a word, you are talking
great nonsense!”

Newman, who in the midst of his bitterness had, as I have said, kept
well before his eyes a certain ideal of saying nothing rude, was
immediately somewhat regretfully conscious of the sharpness of these
words. But he speedily observed that the marquis took them more quietly
than might have been expected. M. de Bellegarde, like the stately
ambassador that he was, continued the policy of ignoring what was
disagreeable in his adversary’s replies. He gazed at the gilded
arabesques on the opposite wall, and then presently transferred his
glance to Newman, as if he too were a large grotesque in a rather
vulgar system of chamber-decoration. “I suppose you know that as regards
yourself it won’t do at all.”

“How do you mean it won’t do?”

“Why, of course you damn yourself. But I suppose that’s in your
programme. You propose to throw mud at us; you believe, you hope, that
some of it may stick. We know, of course, it can’t,” explained the
marquis in a tone of conscious lucidity; “but you take the chance, and
are willing at any rate to show that you yourself have dirty hands.”

“That’s a good comparison; at least half of it is,” said Newman. “I
take the chance of something sticking. But as regards my hands, they are
clean. I have taken the matter up with my finger-tips.”

M. de Bellegarde looked a moment into his hat. “All our friends are
quite with us,” he said. “They would have done exactly as we have done.”

“I shall believe that when I hear them say it. Meanwhile I shall think
better of human nature.”

The marquis looked into his hat again. “Madame de Cintré was extremely
fond of her father. If she knew of the existence of the few written
words of which you propose to make this scandalous use, she would demand
of you proudly for his sake to give it up to her, and she would destroy
it without reading it.”

“Very possibly,” Newman rejoined. “But she will not know. I was in that
convent yesterday and I know what she is doing. Lord deliver us! You
can guess whether it made me feel forgiving!”

M. de Bellegarde appeared to have nothing more to suggest; but he
continued to stand there, rigid and elegant, as a man who believed that
his mere personal presence had an argumentative value. Newman
watched him, and, without yielding an inch on the main issue, felt an
incongruously good-natured impulse to help him to retreat in good order.

“Your visit’s a failure, you see,” he said. “You offer too little.”

“Propose something yourself,” said the marquis.

“Give me back Madame de Cintré in the same state in which you took her
from me.”

M. de Bellegarde threw back his head and his pale face flushed. “Never!”
 he said.

“You can’t!”

“We wouldn’t if we could! In the sentiment which led us to deprecate her
marriage nothing is changed.”

“‘Deprecate’ is good!” cried Newman. “It was hardly worth while to come
here only to tell me that you are not ashamed of yourselves. I could
have guessed that!”

The marquis slowly walked toward the door, and Newman, following, opened
it for him. “What you propose to do will be very disagreeable,” M. de
Bellegarde said. “That is very evident. But it will be nothing more.”

“As I understand it,” Newman answered, “that will be quite enough!”

M. de Bellegarde stood for a moment looking on the ground, as if he
were ransacking his ingenuity to see what else he could do to save his
father’s reputation. Then, with a little cold sigh, he seemed to signify
that he regretfully surrendered the late marquis to the penalty of his
turpitude. He gave a hardly perceptible shrug, took his neat umbrella
from the servant in the vestibule, and, with his gentlemanly walk,
passed out. Newman stood listening till he heard the door close; then he
slowly exclaimed, “Well, I ought to begin to be satisfied now!”



CHAPTER XXV

Newman called upon the comical duchess and found her at home. An old
gentleman with a high nose and a gold-headed cane was just taking leave
of her; he made Newman a protracted obeisance as he retired, and our
hero supposed that he was one of the mysterious grandees with whom he
had shaken hands at Madame de Bellegarde’s ball. The duchess, in her
armchair, from which she did not move, with a great flower-pot on one
side of her, a pile of pink-covered novels on the other, and a large
piece of tapestry depending from her lap, presented an expansive and
imposing front; but her aspect was in the highest degree gracious, and
there was nothing in her manner to check the effusion of his confidence.
She talked to him about flowers and books, getting launched with
marvelous promptitude; about the theatres, about the peculiar
institutions of his native country, about the humidity of Paris about
the pretty complexions of the American ladies, about his impressions
of France and his opinion of its female inhabitants. All this was a
brilliant monologue on the part of the duchess, who, like many of
her country-women, was a person of an affirmative rather than an
interrogative cast of mind, who made mots and put them herself into
circulation, and who was apt to offer you a present of a convenient
little opinion, neatly enveloped in the gilt paper of a happy Gallicism.
Newman had come to her with a grievance, but he found himself in an
atmosphere in which apparently no cognizance was taken of grievance; an
atmosphere into which the chill of discomfort had never penetrated,
and which seemed exclusively made up of mild, sweet, stale intellectual
perfumes. The feeling with which he had watched Madame d’Outreville at
the treacherous festival of the Bellegardes came back to him; she struck
him as a wonderful old lady in a comedy, particularly well up in her
part. He observed before long that she asked him no questions about
their common friends; she made no allusion to the circumstances under
which he had been presented to her. She neither feigned ignorance of a
change in these circumstances nor pretended to condole with him upon it;
but she smiled and discoursed and compared the tender-tinted wools of
her tapestry, as if the Bellegardes and their wickedness were not of
this world. “She is fighting shy!” said Newman to himself; and, having
made the observation, he was prompted to observe, farther, how the
duchess would carry off her indifference. She did so in a masterly
manner. There was not a gleam of disguised consciousness in those
small, clear, demonstrative eyes which constituted her nearest claim to
personal loveliness, there was not a symptom of apprehension that Newman
would trench upon the ground she proposed to avoid. “Upon my word,
she does it very well,” he tacitly commented. “They all hold together
bravely, and, whether anyone else can trust them or not, they can
certainly trust each other.”

Newman, at this juncture, fell to admiring the duchess for her fine
manners. He felt, most accurately, that she was not a grain less urbane
than she would have been if his marriage were still in prospect; but
he felt also that she was not a particle more urbane. He had come,
so reasoned the duchess--Heaven knew why he had come, after what had
happened; and for the half hour, therefore, she would be charmante.
But she would never see him again. Finding no ready-made opportunity to
tell his story, Newman pondered these things more dispassionately than
might have been expected; he stretched his legs, as usual, and even
chuckled a little, appreciatively and noiselessly. And then as the
duchess went on relating a mot with which her mother had snubbed the
great Napoleon, it occurred to Newman that her evasion of a chapter of
French history more interesting to himself might possibly be the result
of an extreme consideration for his feelings. Perhaps it was delicacy on
the duchess’s part--not policy. He was on the point of saying something
himself, to make the chance which he had determined to give her still
better, when the servant announced another visitor. The duchess, on
hearing the name--it was that of an Italian prince--gave a little
imperceptible pout, and said to Newman, rapidly: “I beg you to remain;
I desire this visit to be short.” Newman said to himself, at this, that
Madame d’Outreville intended, after all, that they should discuss the
Bellegardes together.

The prince was a short, stout man, with a head disproportionately large.
He had a dusky complexion and a bushy eyebrow, beneath which his
eye wore a fixed and somewhat defiant expression; he seemed to be
challenging you to insinuate that he was top-heavy. The duchess, judging
from her charge to Newman, regarded him as a bore; but this was not
apparent from the unchecked flow of her conversation. She made a
fresh series of mots, characterized with great felicity the Italian
intellect and the taste of the figs at Sorrento, predicted the ultimate
future of the Italian kingdom (disgust with the brutal Sardinian rule
and complete reversion, throughout the peninsula, to the sacred sway of
the Holy Father), and, finally, gave a history of the love affairs of
the Princess X----. This narrative provoked some rectifications on the
part of the prince, who, as he said, pretended to know something about
that matter; and having satisfied himself that Newman was in no laughing
mood, either with regard to the size of his head or anything else, he
entered into the controversy with an animation for which the duchess,
when she set him down as a bore, could not have been prepared. The
sentimental vicissitudes of the Princess X---- led to a discussion of
the heart history of Florentine nobility in general; the duchess had
spent five weeks in Florence and had gathered much information on the
subject. This was merged, in turn, in an examination of the Italian
heart per se. The duchess took a brilliantly heterodox view--thought
it the least susceptible organ of its kind that she had ever
encountered, related examples of its want of susceptibility, and at
last declared that for her the Italians were a people of ice. The prince
became flame to refute her, and his visit really proved charming. Newman
was naturally out of the conversation; he sat with his head a little
on one side, watching the interlocutors. The duchess, as she talked,
frequently looked at him with a smile, as if to intimate, in the
charming manner of her nation, that it lay only with him to say
something very much to the point. But he said nothing at all, and at
last his thoughts began to wander. A singular feeling came over him--a
sudden sense of the folly of his errand. What under the sun had he to
say to the duchess, after all? Wherein would it profit him to tell
her that the Bellegardes were traitors and that the old lady, into the
bargain was a murderess? He seemed morally to have turned a sort of
somersault, and to find things looking differently in consequence. He
felt a sudden stiffening of his will and quickening of his reserve. What
in the world had he been thinking of when he fancied the duchess could
help him, and that it would conduce to his comfort to make her think ill
of the Bellegardes? What did her opinion of the Bellegardes matter to
him? It was only a shade more important than the opinion the Bellegardes
entertained of her. The duchess help him--that cold, stout, soft,
artificial woman help him?--she who in the last twenty minutes had built
up between them a wall of polite conversation in which she evidently
flattered herself that he would never find a gate. Had it come to
that--that he was asking favors of conceited people, and appealing for
sympathy where he had no sympathy to give? He rested his arms on his
knees, and sat for some minutes staring into his hat. As he did so his
ears tingled--he had come very near being an ass. Whether or no the
duchess would hear his story, he wouldn’t tell it. Was he to sit
there another half hour for the sake of exposing the Bellegardes? The
Bellegardes be hanged! He got up abruptly, and advanced to shake hands
with his hostess.

“You can’t stay longer?” she asked very graciously.

“I am afraid not,” he said.

She hesitated a moment, and then, “I had an idea you had something
particular to say to me,” she declared.

Newman looked at her; he felt a little dizzy; for the moment he seemed
to be turning his somersault again. The little Italian prince came to
his help: “Ah, madam, who has not that?” he softly sighed.

“Don’t teach Mr. Newman to say fadaises,” said the duchess. “It is his
merit that he doesn’t know how.”

“Yes, I don’t know how to say fadaises,” said Newman, “and I don’t
want to say anything unpleasant.”

“I am sure you are very considerate,” said the duchess with a smile; and
she gave him a little nod for good-bye with which he took his departure.

Once in the street, he stood for some time on the pavement, wondering
whether, after all, he was not an ass not to have discharged his pistol.
And then again he decided that to talk to anyone whomsoever about
the Bellegardes would be extremely disagreeable to him. The least
disagreeable thing, under the circumstances, was to banish them from his
mind, and never think of them again. Indecision had not hitherto
been one of Newman’s weaknesses, and in this case it was not of long
duration. For three days after this he did not, or at least he tried not
to, think of the Bellegardes. He dined with Mrs. Tristram, and on her
mentioning their name, he begged her almost severely to desist. This
gave Tom Tristram a much-coveted opportunity to offer his condolences.

He leaned forward, laying his hand on Newman’s arm compressing his lips
and shaking his head. “The fact is my dear fellow, you see, that you
ought never to have gone into it. It was not your doing, I know--it was
all my wife. If you want to come down on her, I’ll stand off; I give you
leave to hit her as hard as you like. You know she has never had a word
of reproach from me in her life, and I think she is in need of something
of the kind. Why didn’t you listen to me? You know I didn’t believe in
the thing. I thought it at the best an amiable delusion. I don’t profess
to be a Don Juan or a gay Lothario,--that class of man, you know; but I
do pretend to know something about the harder sex. I have never disliked
a woman in my life that she has not turned out badly. I was not at all
deceived in Lizzie, for instance; I always had my doubts about her.
Whatever you may think of my present situation, I must at least admit
that I got into it with my eyes open. Now suppose you had got into
something like this box with Madame de Cintré. You may depend upon it
she would have turned out a stiff one. And upon my word I don’t see
where you could have found your comfort. Not from the marquis, my dear
Newman; he wasn’t a man you could go and talk things over with in a
sociable, common-sense way. Did he ever seem to want to have you on the
premises--did he ever try to see you alone? Did he ever ask you to come
and smoke a cigar with him of an evening, or step in, when you had been
calling on the ladies, and take something? I don’t think you would have
got much encouragement out of him. And as for the old lady, she struck
one as an uncommonly strong dose. They have a great expression here, you
know; they call it ‘sympathetic.’ Everything is sympathetic--or ought
to be. Now Madame de Bellegarde is about as sympathetic as that
mustard-pot. They’re a d--d cold-blooded lot, any way; I felt it awfully
at that ball of theirs. I felt as if I were walking up and down in the
Armory, in the Tower of London! My dear boy, don’t think me a vulgar
brute for hinting at it, but you may depend upon it, all they wanted
was your money. I know something about that; I can tell when people
want one’s money! Why they stopped wanting yours I don’t know; I suppose
because they could get someone else’s without working so hard for it. It
isn’t worth finding out. It may be that it was not Madame de Cintré that
backed out first, very likely the old woman put her up to it. I suspect
she and her mother are really as thick as thieves, eh? You are well out
of it, my boy; make up your mind to that. If I express myself strongly
it is all because I love you so much; and from that point of view I may
say I should as soon have thought of making up to that piece of pale
high-mightiness as I should have thought of making up to the Obelisk in
the Place de la Concorde.”

Newman sat gazing at Tristram during this harangue with a lack-lustre
eye; never yet had he seemed to himself to have outgrown so completely
the phase of equal comradeship with Tom Tristram. Mrs. Tristram’s glance
at her husband had more of a spark; she turned to Newman with a slightly
lurid smile. “You must at least do justice,” she said, “to the felicity
with which Mr. Tristram repairs the indiscretions of a too zealous
wife.”

But even without the aid of Tom Tristram’s conversational felicities,
Newman would have begun to think of the Bellegardes again. He could
cease to think of them only when he ceased to think of his loss and
privation, and the days had as yet but scantily lightened the weight
of this incommodity. In vain Mrs. Tristram begged him to cheer up; she
assured him that the sight of his countenance made her miserable.

“How can I help it?” he demanded with a trembling voice. “I feel like
a widower--and a widower who has not even the consolation of going to
stand beside the grave of his wife--who has not the right to wear so
much mourning as a weed on his hat. I feel,” he added in a moment “as if
my wife had been murdered and her assassins were still at large.”

Mrs. Tristram made no immediate rejoinder, but at last she said, with
a smile which, in so far as it was a forced one, was less successfully
simulated than such smiles, on her lips, usually were; “Are you very
sure that you would have been happy?”

Newman stared a moment, and then shook his head. “That’s weak,” he said;
“that won’t do.”

“Well,” said Mrs. Tristram with a more triumphant bravery, “I don’t
believe you would have been happy.”

Newman gave a little laugh. “Say I should have been miserable, then;
it’s a misery I should have preferred to any happiness.”

Mrs. Tristram began to muse. “I should have been curious to see; it
would have been very strange.”

“Was it from curiosity that you urged me to try and marry her?”

“A little,” said Mrs. Tristram, growing still more audacious. Newman
gave her the one angry look he had been destined ever to give her,
turned away and took up his hat. She watched him a moment, and then
she said, “That sounds very cruel, but it is less so than it sounds.
Curiosity has a share in almost everything I do. I wanted very much to
see, first, whether such a marriage could actually take place; second,
what would happen if it should take place.”

“So you didn’t believe,” said Newman, resentfully.

“Yes, I believed--I believed that it would take place, and that you
would be happy. Otherwise I should have been, among my speculations,
a very heartless creature. But,” she continued, laying her hand upon
Newman’s arm and hazarding a grave smile, “it was the highest flight
ever taken by a tolerably bold imagination!”

Shortly after this she recommended him to leave Paris and travel for
three months. Change of scene would do him good, and he would forget his
misfortune sooner in absence from the objects which had witnessed it. “I
really feel,” Newman rejoined, “as if to leave you, at least, would
do me good--and cost me very little effort. You are growing cynical, you
shock me and pain me.”

“Very good,” said Mrs. Tristram, good-naturedly or cynically, as may be
thought most probable. “I shall certainly see you again.”

Newman was very willing to get away from Paris; the brilliant streets he
had walked through in his happier hours, and which then seemed to wear
a higher brilliancy in honor of his happiness, appeared now to be in
the secret of his defeat and to look down upon it in shining mockery. He
would go somewhere; he cared little where; and he made his preparations.
Then, one morning, at haphazard, he drove to the train that would
transport him to Boulogne and dispatch him thence to the shores of
Britain. As he rolled along in the train he asked himself what had
become of his revenge, and he was able to say that it was provisionally
pigeon-holed in a very safe place; it would keep till called for.

He arrived in London in the midst of what is called “the season,” and
it seemed to him at first that he might here put himself in the way
of being diverted from his heavy-heartedness. He knew no one in all
England, but the spectacle of the mighty metropolis roused him somewhat
from his apathy. Anything that was enormous usually found favor with
Newman, and the multitudinous energies and industries of England stirred
within him a dull vivacity of contemplation. It is on record that the
weather, at that moment, was of the finest English quality; he took
long walks and explored London in every direction; he sat by the hour in
Kensington Gardens and beside the adjoining Drive, watching the people
and the horses and the carriages; the rosy English beauties, the
wonderful English dandies, and the splendid flunkies. He went to the
opera and found it better than in Paris; he went to the theatre and
found a surprising charm in listening to dialogue the finest points
of which came within the range of his comprehension. He made several
excursions into the country, recommended by the waiter at his hotel,
with whom, on this and similar points, he had established confidential
relations. He watched the deer in Windsor Forest and admired the Thames
from Richmond Hill; he ate white-bait and brown-bread and butter
at Greenwich, and strolled in the grassy shadow of the cathedral of
Canterbury. He also visited the Tower of London and Madame Tussaud’s
exhibition. One day he thought he would go to Sheffield, and then,
thinking again, he gave it up. Why should he go to Sheffield? He had
a feeling that the link which bound him to a possible interest in the
manufacture of cutlery was broken. He had no desire for an “inside view”
 of any successful enterprise whatever, and he would not have given the
smallest sum for the privilege of talking over the details of the most
“splendid” business with the shrewdest of overseers.

One afternoon he had walked into Hyde Park, and was slowly threading
his way through the human maze which edges the Drive. The stream of
carriages was no less dense, and Newman, as usual, marveled at the
strange, dingy figures which he saw taking the air in some of the
stateliest vehicles. They reminded him of what he had read of eastern
and southern countries, in which grotesque idols and fetiches were
sometimes taken out of their temples and carried abroad in golden
chariots to be displayed to the multitude. He saw a great many pretty
cheeks beneath high-plumed hats as he squeezed his way through serried
waves of crumpled muslin; and sitting on little chairs at the base of
the great serious English trees, he observed a number of quiet-eyed
maidens who seemed only to remind him afresh that the magic of beauty
had gone out of the world with Madame de Cintré: to say nothing of other
damsels, whose eyes were not quiet, and who struck him still more as a
satire on possible consolation. He had been walking for some time, when,
directly in front of him, borne back by the summer breeze, he heard a
few words uttered in that bright Parisian idiom from which his ears had
begun to alienate themselves. The voice in which the words were spoken
made them seem even more like a thing with which he had once been
familiar, and as he bent his eyes it lent an identity to the commonplace
elegance of the back hair and shoulders of a young lady walking in the
same direction as himself. Mademoiselle Nioche, apparently, had come to
seek a more rapid advancement in London, and another glance led Newman
to suppose that she had found it. A gentleman was strolling beside her,
lending a most attentive ear to her conversation and too entranced to
open his lips. Newman did not hear his voice, but perceived that
he presented the dorsal expression of a well-dressed Englishman.
Mademoiselle Nioche was attracting attention: the ladies who passed her
turned round to survey the Parisian perfection of her toilet. A great
cataract of flounces rolled down from the young lady’s waist to Newman’s
feet; he had to step aside to avoid treading upon them. He stepped
aside, indeed, with a decision of movement which the occasion scarcely
demanded; for even this imperfect glimpse of Miss Noémie had excited
his displeasure. She seemed an odious blot upon the face of nature;
he wanted to put her out of his sight. He thought of Valentin de
Bellegarde, still green in the earth of his burial--his young life
clipped by this flourishing impudence. The perfume of the young lady’s
finery sickened him; he turned his head and tried to deflect his course;
but the pressure of the crowd kept him near her a few minutes longer, so
that he heard what she was saying.

“Ah, I am sure he will miss me,” she murmured. “It was very cruel in me
to leave him; I am afraid you will think me a very heartless creature.
He might perfectly well have come with us. I don’t think he is very
well,” she added; “it seemed to me to-day that he was not very gay.”

Newman wondered whom she was talking about, but just then an opening
among his neighbors enabled him to turn away, and he said to himself
that she was probably paying a tribute to British propriety and playing
at tender solicitude about her papa. Was that miserable old man still
treading the path of vice in her train? Was he still giving her the
benefit of his experience of affairs, and had he crossed the sea to
serve as her interpreter? Newman walked some distance farther, and then
began to retrace his steps taking care not to traverse again the orbit
of Mademoiselle Nioche. At last he looked for a chair under the trees,
but he had some difficulty in finding an empty one. He was about to give
up the search when he saw a gentleman rise from the seat he had been
occupying, leaving Newman to take it without looking at his neighbors.
He sat there for some time without heeding them; his attention was lost
in the irritation and bitterness produced by his recent glimpse of Miss
Noémie’s iniquitous vitality. But at the end of a quarter of an hour,
dropping his eyes, he perceived a small pug-dog squatted upon the path
near his feet--a diminutive but very perfect specimen of its interesting
species. The pug was sniffing at the fashionable world, as it passed
him, with his little black muzzle, and was kept from extending his
investigation by a large blue ribbon attached to his collar with an
enormous rosette and held in the hand of a person seated next to
Newman. To this person Newman transferred his attention, and immediately
perceived that he was the object of all that of his neighbor, who was
staring up at him from a pair of little fixed white eyes. These eyes
Newman instantly recognized; he had been sitting for the last quarter of
an hour beside M. Nioche. He had vaguely felt that someone was staring
at him. M. Nioche continued to stare; he appeared afraid to move, even
to the extent of evading Newman’s glance.

“Dear me,” said Newman; “are you here, too?” And he looked at his
neighbor’s helplessness more grimly than he knew. M. Nioche had a new
hat and a pair of kid gloves; his clothes, too, seemed to belong to a
more recent antiquity than of yore. Over his arm was suspended a lady’s
mantilla--a light and brilliant tissue, fringed with white lace--which
had apparently been committed to his keeping; and the little dog’s blue
ribbon was wound tightly round his hand. There was no expression of
recognition in his face--or of anything indeed save a sort of feeble,
fascinated dread; Newman looked at the pug and the lace mantilla, and
then he met the old man’s eyes again. “You know me, I see,” he pursued.
“You might have spoken to me before.” M. Nioche still said nothing,
but it seemed to Newman that his eyes began faintly to water. “I didn’t
expect,” our hero went on, “to meet you so far from--from the Café de la
Patrie.” The old man remained silent, but decidedly Newman had touched
the source of tears. His neighbor sat staring and Newman added, “What’s
the matter, M. Nioche? You used to talk--to talk very prettily. Don’t
you remember you even gave lessons in conversation?”

At this M. Nioche decided to change his attitude. He stooped and picked
up the pug, lifted it to his face and wiped his eyes on its little soft
back. “I’m afraid to speak to you,” he presently said, looking over the
puppy’s shoulder. “I hoped you wouldn’t notice me. I should have moved
away, but I was afraid that if I moved you would notice me. So I sat
very still.”

“I suspect you have a bad conscience, sir,” said Newman.

The old man put down the little dog and held it carefully in his lap.
Then he shook his head, with his eyes still fixed upon his interlocutor.
“No, Mr. Newman, I have a good conscience,” he murmured.

“Then why should you want to slink away from me?”

“Because--because you don’t understand my position.”

“Oh, I think you once explained it to me,” said Newman. “But it seems
improved.”

“Improved!” exclaimed M. Nioche, under his breath. “Do you call this
improvement?” And he glanced at the treasures in his arms.

“Why, you are on your travels,” Newman rejoined. “A visit to London in
the season is certainly a sign of prosperity.”

M. Nioche, in answer to this cruel piece of irony, lifted the puppy up
