and pleasantness that seemed natural to him, of things that 
could not help interesting the others ; even Diana in her 
deadness of heart, even Mrs. Starling in her perversity, 
pricked up their ears and listened. I don't believe either 
he even found it a difficult effort ; nothing ever seemed difficult to Mr. Masters that he had to do ; it was always done 
so graciously and as if he were enjoying it himself. So no 
doubt he was. Certainly this evening ; though Mrs. Starling did not speak many words and Diana spoke none. So 
supper was finished and the mistress and her guest moved 
their chairs to the fire, while Diana busied herself in putting up the things, going in and out from the pantry. 
'You'll have to keep me to-night, Mrs. Starling,' said 
the minister. 
 
' I knew that when I saw you come in,' responded the 
lady, not over graciously. 
' I am not going to receive hospitality under false pretences,' though said the minister. ' If I rob, I won't steal. 
Mrs. Starling, Diana and I have come to an agreement.' 
' I knew that too,' returned the lady defiantly. 
'According to which agreement,' pursued the other 
without change of a hair, ' I am coming again some other 
time, to take her away, out of your care into mine.' 
'There go two words to that bargain,' said Mrs. 
Starling after a half minute's pause. 
' Two words have been spoken ; mine and her's. Now 
we want yours.' 
' Diana's got to take care of me.' 
' Does that mean that she is never to marry?' 
' It don't mean anything ridiculous,' said Mrs. Starling ; ' so it don't mean that.' 
' I should not like to say anything ridiculous. Then, 
if she may marry, it only remains that she and you should 
be suited. Do you object to me as a son-in-law ? ' 
It is impossible to convey the impression of the manner, winning, half humourous, half dry, supremely careless 
and confident, in which all this was said on the minister's 
part. It was something almost impossible at the moment 
to withstand, and it fidgetted Mrs. Starling to be under 
the power of it. Her grudge against the minister was 
even increased by it, and yet she could not give vent to the 
feeling. 
' I'm not called upon to make objections against you 
in any way,' she answered rather vaguely. 
' That means, of course, that you have no objections to 
make ? ' 
' I don't make any,' said Mrs. Starling shortly. 
 
' I must be content with that,' said Mr. Masters smiling. 
' Diana, your mother makes no objections.' And rising, 
he went and gravely kissed her. 
I do not know what tied Mrs. Starling's tongue. She 
sat before the fire with her hands in her lap, in an inward 
fury of dull displeasure ; she had untold objections to this 
arrangement ; and yet, though she knew she must speak 
now or never, she could not speak. Whether it were the 
spell of the minister's manner, which, as I said, worked its 
charm upon her as it did upon others ; whether it were the 
prick of conscience, warning her that she had interfered 
once too often already in her daughter's life affairs ; or 
whether finally she had an instinctive sense that things 
were gone too far for her hindering hand ; she fumed in 
secret, and did nothing. She was a woman of sense ; she 
knew that if a man like Mr. Masters loved her daughter, 
and had got her daughter's good-will, it would be an ill 
waste of strength on her part to try to break the arrangement. It might be done ; but it would not be worth the 
scandal and the confusion. And she was not sure that it 
could be done. 
So she sat chewing the cud of her mortification and 
ire, giving little heed to what words passed between the 
others. It had come to this ! She had schemed, she had 
put a violent hand upon Diana's fate, to turn it her own 
way, and now this was the way it had gone ! All her wrong 
deeds for nothing ! She had purposed, as she said, that 
Diana should take care of her ; therefore Diana should not 
marry any poor and proud young officer, nor . any officer 
at all, to carry her away beyond reach and into a sphere 
beyond and above the sphere of her mother. No, Diana 
must marry a rich young farmer ; Will Flandih would just 
do ; a man who would not dislike or be anywise averse to 
 
receive such a mother-in-law into his house, but reckon it 
an added advantage. Then her home would be secure, 
and her continued rule ; and ruling was as necessary to 
Mrs. Starling as eating. She would have a larger house 
and business to manage, and withal need not do herself 
more than. she chose ; having Diana, she would be sure of 
everything else she wanted. Now she had lost Diana. 
And only to a poor parson when all was done. Would it 
have been better to let her marry the officer ? For Mrs. 
Starling had a shrewd guess that such would have been the 
issue of things if she had let them alone. Diana could 
not so have been more out of her power or out of 
her sphere ; for Mrs. Starling had a certain assured consciousness that she would not ' fit ' in the minister's family, 
and that, gentle as he was, he would rule his house and 
his wife himself. She sat brooding, hardly hearing what 
was said by either of the others : and indeed the discourse 
was not very lively ; till Mr. Masters rose and bade them 
good night. And then Mrs. Starling still went on musing. 
Why had she not interfered at the right moment, to put a 
stop to this affair ? She had let the moment go, and the 
thought vexed her ; and her mood was not at all sweetened 
by the lurking doubt whether she could have stopped it if 
she had tried. Mrs. Starling could not abide to meet with 
her match, and sorely hated her match when she found it. 
What if she were to tell Diana of those letters of Evan ? 
But then Diana would be off to the ends of the earth with 
him. Better keep her in the village perhaps. Mrs. Starling grew more and more impatient. 
' Diana, you are a big fool ! ' she burst out. 
Diana at that moment thought not. She did not answer. 
Both were sitting before the wide fireplace, and Diana had 
not moved since Mr. Masters left them. 
 
' What sort of a life do you expect you are going to 
have ? ' 
' I don't know, mother.' 
' You, who might marry the richest man in town ! And 
live in plenty, and have just your own way, and everything 
you want ! You are a fool I Do you know what it means, to 
be a poor minister's wife ? ' 
' I shall know, I suppose. That is, if Mr. Masters is 
poor. I don't know whether he is or not.' 
' He is of course ! They all are.' 
'Well, mother. You have taught me how to keep 
house on a little.' 
' Yes, you and me ; that's one thing. It's another thing 
when you have a shiftless man hanging round, and a dozen 
children or so, and expected to be civil to all the world. 
They always have a house full of children, and they are all 
shiftless.' 
' Who, mother ? ' 
' Poor ministers.' 
' Father hadn't and wasn't.' 
' He was as shiftless a man as ever wore shoe-leather ; 
he wasn't a bit of help to a woman. All he cared for was 
to lose his time in his books ; and that's the way this man 
'll do, and leave you to take the brunt of everything. Your 
time'll go in cookin' and mendin' and washin' up ; and 
you'll have to be at everybody's beck and call at the end o' 
that. If there's" anything I hate, it's to be in the kitchen 
and parlour both at the same time.' 
Diana was silent. 
' You might have lived like a queen.' 
' I don't want to live like a queen.' 
' You might have had your own way, Diana.' 
' I don't care about having my own way.' 
 
' I wish you would care, then, or had a speck of spirit. 
What's life good for ? ' 
' I wish I knew ' said Diana wearily, as she rose and 
set back her chair. 
' You never will know, in that man's house. I do think, 
ministers are the meanest lot o' folks there is ; and that 
you should go and take one of them ! ' 
' It is the other way, mother ; he has taken me,' said 
Diana, half laughing at what seemed to her the dispropor- 
tion between her mother's passion and the occasion for it. 
' You were a fool to let him.' 
' I don't think so.' 
' You'll be sorry yet.' 
' Why ? ' 
'They're a shiftless lot,' said Mrs. Starling, rather 
evasively, ' the whole of 'em. And this one has a way of 
holding his own in other folks' houses, that is intolerable 
to me ! I never liked him, not from the very first.' 
' I always liked him,' said Diana simply; and she went 
off to her room. She had not expected that her mother 
would favour the arrangement ; on the contrary ; and it 
had all been settled much more easily than she had looked 
for. 
CHAPTER XXI. 
UNSETTLED. 
So things were settled, and Mrs. Starling made no attempt to unsettle them ; on the other hand she fell into a 
condition of permanent unrest which I do not know how to 
characterize. It was not ill humour exactly ; it was not 
displeasure ; or if so, it was displeasure at herself, but it was 
contrary to all Mrs. Starling's principles to admit that, and 
she never admitted it. Her farm servant, Josh, described 
her as being always now in an ' aggravated ' state ; and 
Diana found her society very uncomfortable. There was 
never a word spoken pleasantly, by any chance, about anything ; good was not commended and ill was not deplored; 
but both, good and ill, were taken up in the same sharp, 
acrid,cynical tone, or treated with the like restless mockery. 
Mrs. Starling found no fault with Diana, other than by 
this bitter manner of handling every subject that came up ; 
at the same time she made the little house where they 
lived together a place of thunderous atmosphere where it 
was impossible to draw breath freely and peacefully. They 
were very much shut up to one another, too. That Sunday 
storm in December had been followed by successive falls 
of snow, so deep that the ways were encumbered, and 
travelling more difficult than usual in Pleasant Valley even 
in winter. There was very little getting about between 
the neighbours' houses ; and the people let their social 
qualities wait for spring and summer to develope themselves. Diana and her mother scarcely saw anybody. Nick 
Boddington at rare intervals looked in. Joe Bartlett once 
or twice came with a message from his mother ; once Diana 
had gone down to see her. Even Mr. Masters made his 
appearance at the little brown farmhouse less frequently 
than might have been supposed ; for in truth Mrs. Starling's presence made his visits rather unsatisfactory ; and 
beside the two kitchen fires, there was none other in the 
house to which Diana and he could withdraw and see each 
other alone. So he came only now and then, and generally 
did not stay very long. 
To Diana, all this while, the coming or the going, the 
solitude or the company, even the good or ill humours of 
her mother, seemed to be of little importance. She lived 
her own shut-up, deadened, secret life through it all, and 
had no nerves of sensation near enough to the surface to 
be affected much by what went on outside of her. What 
though her mother was all the while in a rasped sort of 
state ? it could not rasp Diana ; she seemed to wear a coat 
of mail. Neighbours ? no neighbours were anything to her 
one way or another ; if she could be said to like anything, 
it was to be quite alone and see and hear nobody. Her 
marriage she looked at in the same dull way; with a thought, 
so far as she gave it a thought, that in the minister's house 
her life would be more quiet, and peace and goodwill would 
replace the eager disquiet around her which, without 
minding it, Diana yet perceived. More quiet and better, 
she hoped her life would be ; her life and herself ; she 
thought the minister was getting a bad bargain of it, but 
since it was his pleasure she thought it was a good thing 
for her ; every time she met the gentle kind eyes and felt 
the warm clasp of his hand, Diana repeated the assurance 
to herself. The girl had sunk again into mental torpor ; 
she did not see nor hear nor feel ; she lived along a mechanical sort of life, having relapsed into her former 
stunned condition. Not crushed ; there was too much of 
Diana's nature for one blow or perhaps many blows to effect that ; not beaten down, like some other characters ; she 
went on her way upright, alert and strong, doing and expecting to do the work of life to its utmost measure ; all 
the same, walking as a ghost might walk through the scenes 
of his former existence ; with no longer any natural conditions to put her at one with them, and only conscious of 
her dead heart. This state of things had given way in the 
fall to a few months of incessant and very live pain ; with 
her betrothal to the minister Diana had sunk again into the 
dulness of apathy. But with a constitution mental and 
physical like her's, so full of sound life-blood, so true and 
strong, in the nature of things this state of apathetic sleep 
could not last for ever. And the time of final waking 
came. 
The winter had dragged its length away. Spring had 
come, with its renewal of all the farm and household 
activities. Diana stood up to her work and did it, day by 
day, with faultless accuracy, with blameless diligence. She 
was too useful a helper not to be missed unwillingly from 
any household that had once known her ; and Mrs. Starling's temper did not improve. It had been arranged that 
Diana's marriage should take place about the first of June. 
Spring work over, and summer going on its orderly way, 
she could be easiest spared then, she thought ; and Mrs. 
Starling, seeing it must be, made no particular objection. 
Beyond the time, nothing had been talked of yet concerning 
the occasion. So it was a hitherto untouched question, 
when Mrs. Starling asked her daughter one day, ' What 
sort of a wedding are you calculatin' to have ? ' 
 
' What sort of a wedding ? I don't know,' said Diana. 
' What do you mean by a wedding ? ' 
' The thing is, what you mean by it. Don't be a baby, 
Diana Starling ! Do you mean to ask your friends to see 
you married ? ' 
' I don't want anybody, I am sure,' said Diana. ' And 
I am sure Mr. Masters does not care.' 
' Are you going to be married in a black gown ? ' 
' Black ! No ; but I do not care what kind of a gown 
it is, further than that. 
' I don't think you care much about the whole thing,' 
said Mrs. Starling looking at her. ' If I was you, I wouldn't 
be married just to please somebody else, without it pleased 
myself too. That's what I think.' 
Poor Diana thought of Mr. Masters' face as she had 
seen it the last time ; and it seemed to her good to give 
somebody else pleasure, even if pleasure were gone and 
out of the question for her. This view of the question, 
naturally, she did not make public. 
' What are you going to marry this man for ? ' said Mrs. 
Starling, standing straight up (she had been bending over 
some work) and looking hard at her daughter. 
' I hope he'll make a good woman of me,' Diana said 
soberly. 
' If you had a little more spunk, you might make a good 
man of him ; but you aren't the woman to do it. He wants 
his pride taken down a bit.' 
' But what about the day, mother ? ' said Diana, who 
preferred not to discuss this subject. 
' Well, if you haven't thought of it, I have ; and I'm 
going to ask all the folks there are ; and we've got to make 
a spread for em, Diana Starling, so we may as well be 
about it.' 
' Already ! ' said Diana. ' It's weeks yet.' 
' They'll run away, you'll find ; and the cake'll be better 
for keepin'. You may go about stonin' the fruit as soon 
as you're a mind to.' 
Diana said no more, but stoned her raisins and picked 
over her currants and sliced her citron, with the same apathetic want of realization which lately she had brought to 
everything. It might have been cake for anybody else's 
wedding that she was getting ready, so little did her fingers 
recognize the relation of the things with herself. The 
cake was made and baked and iced and ornamented. And 
then Mrs. Starling's activities went on to other items of 
preparation. Seeing Diana would be married, she meant 
it should be done in a way the countryside would not forget ; neither should Mrs. Flandin make mental compari- 
sons, pityingly, of the wedding that was with the wedding 
that would have been with her son for the bridegroom. 
Baking and boiling and roasting and jellying went on in 
quantity, for Mrs. Starling was a great cook, and could do 
things in style when she chose. The house was put in 
order ; fresh curtains hung up, and the handsomest linen 
laid out, and greens and flowers employed to cover and 
deck the severely plain walls and furniture. One thing 
more Mrs. Starling wished for which she was not likely to 
have ; the presence of one of the Elmfield family on the 
occasion. She would have liked some one of them to be 
there, in order that sure news of the whole might go to 
Evan and beyond possibility of doubt ; for a lurking fear 
of his sudden appearing some time had long hidden in 
Mrs. Starling's mind. I do not know what she feared in 
such a case. Of the two, Evan was hardly-more distasteful 
to her as a son-in-law than the minister was ; though it is 
true that her action in the matter of burning the letters 
 
had made her hate the man she had injured. This feeling was counterbalanced, I confess by another feeling of 
the delight it would be to see Mr. Masters nonplussed ; but 
on the whole she preferred that Evan should keep at a 
distance. 
All the work and confusion of these last few weeks 
claimed Diana's full time and strength, as well as her 
mother's, she had scarcely a minute to think ; and that 
was one reason no doubt, why she went through them with 
such unchanged composure. They were all behind her at 
last. Everything was in order and readiness, down to the 
smallest particular, and it was with a dull sense of this 
that Diana went up to her room the last night before her 
wedding day. It was all done, and the time was all gone. 
She went in slowly went to the window, opened it and 
sat down before it. June had come again ; one day of 
June was passed, and to-morrow would be the second. 
Through the bustle of May, Diana had hardly given a look 
to the weather or a thought to the time of year ; it greeted 
her now at her window like a dear old friend that she had 
been forgetting. The moon about an hour high gave a 
gentle illumination through the dewy air, revealing plainly 
enough the level meadows, and the hills which made their 
distant bordering. The scent of roses and honeysuckles 
was abroad ; just under Diana's window there was a honey- 
suckle vine in full blossom, and the rich, peculiar fragrance 
came in heavily laden puffs of air ; the softest of breezes 
brought them, stirring the little leaves lazily, and just 
touched Diana's face, sweet and tender, reminding, caress- 
ing. Reminding of what ? For it began to stir vaguely 
and uneasily in Diana's heart. Things not thought of be- 
fore put in a claim to be looked at. This her home and 
sanctuary for so many years, it was to be hers no longer 
This was the last night at her window, by her honeysuckle 
vine. She would not have another evening the enjoyment 
of her wonted favourite view over the fields and hills ; she 
had done with all that. Other scenes, another home, 
would claim her ; and then slowly rose the thought that 
her freedom was gone ; this was the last time she would 
belong to herself. Oddly enough, nothing of all this had 
come under consideration before. Diana had been stunned ; 
she had believed for a long time that she was dead, mentally ; she had been as it were in a slumber, partly of hopelessness, partly of preoccupation ; now the time of waking 
had come ; and the hidden life in her stirred and rose 
and shivered with the consciousness that it was alive and in 
its full strength, and what it meant for it to be alive now. As 
I said, Diana's nature was too sound and well balanced and 
strong for anything to crush it or even any part of it ; and 
now she knew that the nerves of feeling she thought Evan 
had killed for ever, were all astir and quivering and would 
never be fooled into slumbering again. I cannot tell how 
all this dawned and broke to her consciousness. She had 
sat down at her window a calm, weary-hearted girl, placid, 
and with even a dull sort of content upon her ; so she had 
sat and dreamed awhile ; and then, June and moonlight, 
and her honeysuckle, and the roses, and the memory of 
her free childish days, and the image of her lost lover, and 
the thought of where she was standing, by degrees how 
gently they did it, too, roused her and pricked her up to 
the consciousness of what she going to do. What was she 
going to do ? Marry a man who had no real place in her 
heart. She had thought it did not matter ; she had thought 
she was dead ; now all at once she knew that she was 
alive in every fibre, and that it mattered fearfully. The 
idea of Mr. Masters stung her, not as novel writers say 
' almost to madness,' for there was no such irregularity 
in Diana's round, sound, healthy nature, but to pain that 
seemed unbearable. No confusion in her brain, and no 
dulness now ; on the contrary, an intense consciousness 
of all that her position involved. She had made a mistake, 
like many another ; unlike many, she had found it out early. 
She was going to marry a man to whom she had no love to 
give ; and she knew now that the life she must thenceforth 
lead would be daily torture. Almost the worse because she 
had for Mr. Masters so deep a respect and so true an appre- 
ciation. And he loved her ; of that there was no question ; 
the whole affection of the best man she had ever known, 
was bestowed upon her, and in his hopes he saw doubtless a 
future when she would have learnt to return his love. 
'And I never shall,' thought Diana. ' Never, as long as I live. 
I wonder if I shall get to hate him, because I am obliged 
to live with him ? All the heart I have is Evan's, and will 
be Evan's ; it don't make any difference that he was not 
worthy of me, as I suppose he wasn't ; I have given, and I 
cannot take back. And now I must live with this other 
man ! ' Diana shuddered already. 
She shed no tears. Happy are they whose grief can 
flow ; part of the oppression at least flows off with tears, if 
not part of the pain. Eyes wide open, staring out into the 
moonlight ; a rigid face, from which the colour gradually 
ebbed and ebbed away, more and more ; so Diana kept the 
watch of her bridal eve. As the moon got higher, and the 
world lay clearer revealed under its light, shadows grew 
more defined and objects more recognizable, it seemed as 
if in due proportion the life before Diana's mental vision 
opened and displayed itself, plainer and clearer ; as she 
saw one she saw the other. If Diana had been a woman 
of the world, her strength of character would have availed 
to do what many a woman of the world has not the force 
for ; she would have drawn back at the last minute and 
declined to fulfil her engagement. But in the sphere of 
Diana's experience, such a thing was unheard of. All the 
proprieties, all the conditions of the social life that was 
known to her, forbade even the thought ; and the thought 
never came to her. She felt just as much bound, that is, 
as irrecoverably, as she would be twenty-four hours later. 
But she was like a caged wild animal. The view of the 
sweet moonlit country became unbearable at last, and she 
walked up and down her floor ; she had a vague idea of 
tiring herself so that she could sleep. She did get tired 
of walking, but no sleep came ; and at last she sat down 
again before her window to watch another change that was 
coming over the landscape. The moon was down, and a 
cool grey light, very unlike her soft glamour, was stealing 
into the sky and upon the world. Yes, the day was coming ; 
the clear light of a matter-of-fact, work-a-day creation. It was 
coming, and she must meet it, and march on in the procession of life, which would leave no one out. If she could go 
alone ! But she must walk by another's side now. And to 
that other, the light of this grey dawn, if he saw it, brought 
only thoughts of joy. Could she help his being disappointed ? Would she be able to help his finding out what a dreadful mistake he had made, and she ? ' I must,' thought Diana, 
and set her teeth mentally ; ' he must not know how I feel ; 
he does not deserve that. He deserves nothing but good, 
of me or of anybody. I will give him all I can, and he shall 
not know how I do it.' 
With a recoil in every fibre of her nature, Diana turned 
to take up her life burden. She felt as if she had had none 
till now. 
CHAPTER XXII. 
NEW LIFE. 
THE first week of Diana's marriage was always a blank 
in her memory. The one, continual, intense strain of effort 
to hide from her husband what she was thinking and feeling swallowed up everything else. Mr. Masters had pro- 
cured a comfortable little light rockaway, and avoiding all 
public thoroughfares and conveyances, had driven off with 
Diana among the leafy wildernesses of the White mountains ; 
going where they liked and stopping where they liked. It 
was more endurable to Diana than any other way of spending those days could have been ; the constant change and 
activity, and the variety of new things always claiming 
attention and admiration, gave her all the help circumstances 
could give. They offered abundance of subjects for Mr. 
Masters to talk about ; and Diana could listen and with a 
word or two now and then get along quite passably. But 
of all the beauty they went through, of all the glory of those 
June days, of all the hours of conversation that went on, 
Diana kept in her memory but the one fact of continual 
striving to hinder Mr. Masters from seeing her heart. She 
supposed she succeeded ; she never could tell. For one 
other thing forced itself upon her consciousness as the days 
went on ; a growing appreciation of this man whom she 
did not love. His gentleness of manner, his tender care 
and consideration for her, the even sweetness of temper 
 
which nothing disturbed and which would let nothing 
disturb her, playing with inconveniences which he could 
not remove ; and then, beneath all that, a strength of 
character and steady force of will which commanded her 
utmost respect and drew forth her fullest confidence. It 
hurt Diana's conscience terribly that she had given this 
man a wife who, as she said to herself, was utterly unworthy 
of him ; to make this loss good, so far as any possible 
service or life-work could, she would have done anything 
or submitted to anything. It was the one wish left her. 
' What do you think of going home ? ' Mr. Masters 
asked suddenly one evening. They had come back from a 
glorious ramble over the nearest mountain and were sitting 
after supper in front of the small farmhouse where they had 
found lodging, looldng out upon the view. Twilight was 
settling down upon the green hills. Diana started and 
repeated his word. 
' Home ? ' 
' Yes. I mean, Pleasant Valley,' said the minister 
smiling. ' Not the house where I first saw you. There are 
one or two sick people, from whom I do not feel that I can 
be long away.' 
' You always think of other people first ! ' said Diana, 
almost with a sigh. 
' So do you.' 
' No, I do not. I do not think I do. It seems to me I 
have always thought most of myself.' 
' You can begin now then to do better.' 
' In thinking of you first, you mean ? O yes, I do. I 
will. But you think of people you do not care for.' 
' No, I don't. Never. You cannot think of people you 
do not care for, in the way you mean. They will not come 
into your head.' 
 
' How can one do then, Basil ? How do you do ? ' 
' Obviously, the only way is to care for them.' 
' Who is sick in Pleasant Valley ? ' 
' Nobody you know. One is an old man who lives back 
on the mountain ; the other is a woman near Blackberry hill.' 
' Blackberry hill ? do you go there ? ' 
' Now and then.' 
' But those are dreadful people there.' 
' Well ? ' said the minister. ' They want help so much 
the more.' 
' Help to live, do you mean ? They do stealing enough 
for that.' 
' Nobody lives by stealing,' said the minister. ' It is 
one of the ways of death ; and help to live is just what 
they want. But "how shall they believe on him of whom 
they have not heard ? and how shall they hear without a 
preacher " ? ' 
' And do you preach to them in that place ? ' 
' I try.' 
' But there is no church there ? ' 
' When you have got anything to do,' said the minister 
with a dry sort of humourousness which belonged to him 
' it is best not be stopped by trifles.' 
' Where do you preach then, Basil ? ' 
' Wherever I can find a man or a woman to listen to 
me.' 
' In the houses ! ' exclaimed Diana. 
' Why not ? ' 
' Well, we never had a minister in Pleasant Valley like 
you before.' 
' Didn't you ? ' 
' I don't believe anybody ever went to those people to 
preach to them, until you went.' 
 
' They had a good deal of that appearance,' Mr. Masters assented. 
' But,' Diana began again after a short pause, ' to go 
back ; Basil, you do not care for those people ? ' 
' I think I do,' said the minister very quietly. 
' I suppose you do ! ' said Diana in a sort of admiration. ' But how can you ? ' 
' Easy to tell,' was the answer. ' God made them, and 
God loves them ; I love all that my Father loves. And 
Christ died for them ; and I seek the lost whom my Master came to save. And there is not one of them but has 
in him the possibility of glory ; and I see that possibility, 
and when I see it, Diana, it seems to me a small thing to 
give my life, if need be, that it may be realized.' 
' I am not good enough to be your wife ! ' said Diana, 
sinking her head. And her secret self-abasement was 
very deep. 
' Does that mean, that you object to the cutting short 
of our holiday ? ' the minister asked, in his former tone of 
dry humourous suggestion. 
' I ?' said Diana looking up and meeting his eyes. 
' No, certainly. I am ready for whatever you wish, and 
whenever you wish.' 
' I don't wish it at all,' said the minister, giving a 
somewhat longing look at the green wilderness before 
them, of which the lovely hilly outlines were all that the 
gathering twilight left distinct. ' But the thing is, Di, I 
cannot play when I ought to be working.' 
It made little difference to Diana. Indeed she had a 
hope that in her new home she would find, as she always 
had found in her old home, engrossing duties that would 
make her part easier to get through, and in some measure 
put a check to the rush of thought and feeling. So with 
 
her full consent the very next day they set out upon their 
journey home. It was not a great journey indeed ; a long 
day's drive would do it ; their horse was fresh, and they 
had time for a comfortable rest and dinner at mid-day. 
The afternoon was very fair, and as they began to get 
among the hills overlooking Pleasant Valley, something in 
air or light reminded Diana of the time, two years ago, 
when she had gone up the brook with Evan. She began 
to talk to get rid of her thoughts. 
' What a nice, comfortable little carriage this is, Basil. 
Where did it come from ? ' 
' From Boston.' 
' From Boston ! I thought there was nothing like it in 
Pleasant Valley, that ever I saw. But how did you get it 
from Boston ? ' 
' Where's the difficulty ? ' said the minister, sitting at 
ease sideways on the front seat and looking in at her. 
He had put Diana on the back seat that she might take a 
more resting position than there was room for beside 
him. 
' Why, it's so far.' 
' Railway comes to Manchester. I received it there, 
and that is only ten miles. I rode Saladin over a few 
days ago, and drove him back. I had ordered the set of 
harness sent with the rockaway. Ecco ! 
' Echo ? ' said Diana. Where ? ' 
' A very sweet echo,' said the minister smiling. ' Didn't 
you hear it ? ' 
' No. But Basil, do you mean that this carriage is yours ?' 
'No ; it is yours.' 
' Mine ! then you have bought it ! Didn't it cost a 
great deal ? ' 
 
' I thought not. If you like it, certainly not.' 
' O Basil, you are very good ! ' said Diana humbly. ' But 
indeed I do not want you to go to any expense, ever, for 
me.' 
' I am not a poor man, Diana.' 
' Aren't you ? I thought you were.' 
' What right had you to think anything about it ? ' 
' I thought ministers were always poor.' 
' I am an exception, then.' 
' And, Basil, you never acted like a rich man.' 
' I am not going to, Di. Do you want to act like a rich 
woman ? ' 
Spite of her desperate downheartedness, Diana could 
not help laughing a little at his manner. 
' I do not wish anything different from you,' she answered. 
' It is best for every reason, if you would use money to 
advantage in a place like this, not to make a show of it. 
And in other places, if you would use it to advantage, you 
cannot make a show of it. So it comes to the same thing. But 
short of that, Di, we can do what we like.' 
' I know what you like, ' she said. 
' I shall find out what you like. In the first place, where 
do you think you are going ? ' 
' Where ? I never thought about it. I suppose to Mrs. 
Persimmon's.' - 
' I don't think you would like that. The place was not 
exactly pleasant ; and the house accommodations did very 
well for me, but would not have been comfortable for you. 
So I have set up housekeeping in another locality. Do you 
know where a woman named Cophetua lives ? ' 
'I never heard of her.' 
' Out of your beat. She lives a little off the road to the 
 
Blackberry hill. I have taken her house, and put a woman 
in it to do whatever you want done.' 
' I ? But we never kept help, since I can remember, 
Basil ; npt house help.' 
' Well ? That proves nothing.' 
' But I don't need anybody I can do all that we want' 
' You will find enough to do.' 
Mr. Masters quickened the pace of his horse, and Diana 
sat back in the carriage, half dismayed. She longed to 
lose herself in work, and she wished for nothing less than 
eyes to watch her. 
It was almost evening when they got home. The place 
was, as Mr. Masters had said, out of what had been Diana's 
way hitherto ; in a part of Pleasant Valley which was at 
one side of the high road. The situation was very pretty, 
overlooking a wide sweep of the valley bottom with its rich 
cultivation and its encircling border of green wooded hills. 
As to the house, it was not distinguished in any way beyond 
its compeers. It was rather low ; it was as brown as Mrs. 
Starling's house ; it had no giant elms to hang over it and 
veil its uncomelinesses. But just behind it rose a green hill ; 
the house indeed stood on the lower slope of the hill, which 
fell off more gently towards the bottom ; behind the house 
it lifted up a very steep rocky wall, yet not so steep but 
that it was grown with beautiful forest trees. Set off 
against its background of wood and hill, the house looked 
rather cosy. It had been put in nice order, and even the 
little plot of ground in front had been cleared of thistles 
and hollyhocks, which had held a divided reign, and trimmed into neatness, though there had not been time yet for 
grass or flowers to grow. 
Within the house about this time, at one of the two 
lower front windows, a little woman stood looking out and 
 
speculating on the extreme solitariness of the situation. 
She had nobody to communicate her sentiments to, or she 
could have been eloquent on the subject. The golden glow 
and shimmer of the setting sun all over the wide landscape, it may be said with truth, she did not see ; to her it 
was nothing but " sunshine," a natural and necessary acces- 
sory of the sun's presence, when clouds did not happen to 
come over the sky. I think she really saw nothing but 
the extreme emptiness of the picture before her ; just that 
one fact, that there was nothing to see. Therefore it was 
on various accounts an event, when the rockaway hove in 
sight and the grey horse stopped before the gate. It did 
not occur to Miss Collins then to go out to the carriage to 
receive bundles or baskets or render help generally ; she 
had got something to look at, and she looked. Only when 
the minister, having tied Saladin's head, came leading the 
way through the little courtyard to the front door, did it 
occur to his ' help ' to open the same. There she stood, 
smiling the blankest of smiles, which made Diana want to 
get rid of her on the instant. 
' Well of all things ! ' was her salutation uttered in a 
high key. ' If it ain't you ! I never was so beat. Why I 
didn't look for ye this long spell yet.' 
' Won't you let us come in, Miss Collins, seeing we 
are here ? ' 
' La ! I'm glad to see ye, fust-rate,' was the answer as 
she stepped back; and stepping further back as Mr. Masters 
advanced, at last she pushed open the door of her kitchen, 
which was the front room on that side, and backed in, followed by the minister and, at a little interval, by his wife. 
Miss Collins went on talking. ' How do, Mis' Masters ? 
I speck I can't be under no mistake as to the personality, 
though I hain't had the pleasure o' a introduction. But 
I thought honeymoon folks allays make it last as long as 
they could ? ' she went on, turning her eyes from Diana to 
the minister again ; ' and you hain't been no time at all.' 
' What have you got in the house, Miss Collins ? anything for supper ? I am hungry,' said the latter. 
' Wall happiness makes some folks hungry, and some, 
they say, it feeds 'em,' Miss Collins returned. ' Folks is so 
unlike ! But if you're hungry, Mr. Masters, you'll have to 
have sun'thin.' 
Leaving her to prepare it, with a laughing twinkle in 
his eye the minister led Diana out of that room and along 
a short passage to another door. The passage was very 
narrow, the ceiling was low, the walls whitewashed, the 
wainscotting blue ; and yet the room which they entered, 
though sharing in all the items of this description, was 
homely and comfortable. It was furnished in a way that 
made It seem elegant to Diana. A warm coloured dark 
carpet on the floor ; two or three easy chairs, a wide lounge 
covered with chintz, and chintz curtains at the windows. 
On the walls here and there single shelves of dark wood 
put up for books, and filled with them ; a pretty lamp on 
the little leaf table, and a wide fireplace with bright brass 
andirons. The windows looked out upon the wooded 
mountain side. Diana uttered an exclamation of surprise 
and admiration. 
' This is your room, Di,' said the minister. ' The kitchen has the view ; I did think of changing about and making 
the kitchen here : but the other room has so long been 
used in that way, I was afraid it would be a bad exchange. 
However, we will do it yet, if you like.' 
' Change ? why this room is beautiful ! ' cried Diana. 
' Looks out into the hill. ' 
' O I like that.' 
' Don't make it a principle to like everything I do,' said 
he smiling. 
' But I do like it, Basil ; I like it better than the other 
side,' said Diana. ' I just love the trees and the rocks. 
And you can hear the birds sing. And the room is most 
beautiful.' 
Mr. Masters had opened the windows, and there came 
in a spicy breath from the woods, together with the wild 
warble of a wood thrush. It was so wild and sweet, they 
both were still to listen. The notes almost broke Diana's 
heart, but she would not shew that. 
' What do you think that bird is saying? ' she asked. 
' I don't know what it may be to his mind ; I know what 
it to mine. Pray, what does it say to yours ? ' 
'It is too plaintive for the bird to know what it means,' 
said Diana. 
' Probably. I have no doubt the ancients were right when 
they felt certain animals to be types of good and others of 
evil. I think it is true, in detail and variety. I have the same 
feeling. And in like manner, carrying out the principle, I 
hear one bird say one thing and another another, in their 
countless varieties of song.' 
' Did the ancients think that ? ' 
' Don't you remember the distinction between clean 
beasts and unclean ? ' 
' I thought that was ordered.' 
' It was ordered to be observed. The distinction was 
felt before.' 
They were again silent a moment, while the thrush's song 
filled the air with liquid rejoicing. 
' That bird,' said Diana slowly, ' sings as if he had got 
somewhere above all the sins and troubles and fights of life 
I mean, as if he were a human being who had got there.' 
' That will do,' said the minister. 
' But that's impossible ; so why should he sing it ? ' 
' Take it the other way,' said the minister smiling. 
' You mean ' said Diana looking up, for she had sat 
down before the open window and he stood by her side ; 
' you mean, he would not sing a false note ? ' 
' Nor God make a promise he would not fulfil. Come 
up stairs.' 
' But Basil ! how could the bird's song be a promise 
from God ? ' 
' Think ; he gave the song, Diana. As has been said 
of visible things in nature, so it may be said of audible 
things, every one of them is the expression of a thought of 
God: 
He did not wait for an answer, and Diana's mind was 
too full to give one. Up stairs they went. The room over 
Diana's was arranged to be Mr. Masters' study ; the other, 
above the kitchen, looked out upon a glorious view of the 
rich valley and its encompassing hills ; both were exceedingly neat and pretty in their furniture and arrangements, 
in all of which Diana's comfort had been sedulously cared 
for. Her husband shewed her the closet for her boxes and 
opened the huge press prepared for her clothes ; and taking off her bonnet, welcomed her tenderly home. But it 
seemed to Diana as if everything stifled her, and she would 
have liked to flee to the hills, like the wHd creatures that 
had their home there. Her outward demeanour, for all that, 
was dignified and sweet. Whatever she felt, she would 
not give pain. 
' You are too good to me,' she murmured. ' I will be 
as good as I can, Basil, to you.' 
' I know it,' said he. 
' And I think I had better begin,' she presently added 
more lightly, ' by going down and seeing how Miss Collins 
and supper are getting on.' 
 
' I dare say they will get on to some sort of consumma-tion.' 
' It will be a better consummation, if you let me go.' 
Perhaps he divined something of her feeling, for he 
made no objection, and Diana escaped ; with a sense that 
her only refuge was in action. To do something, no matter what, and stop thinking. Yet when she went down 
stairs she went first to the back room and to the open window, to see if she could catch the note of the thrush once 
more. It came to her like a voice from the other world. 
He was still singing ; somewhere up amid the cool shades 
of the hemlocks and oaks on the hill, from out the dusky 
twilight of their tops ; sending his tremulous trills of 
triumph down the hillside, he was undoubtedly having a 
good time. Diana listened a minute ; and then went to 
the kitchen. Miss Collins was standing in front of the 
fire contemplating it, or the kettle she had hung over it. 
' Where is Mr. Masters' supper ? ' Diana began. 
' Don't you take none ? ' was the rejoinder. 
' I mean, what can we have ? ' 
' You can have all there is. And there ain't nothin' in 
the house but what's no 'count. If I'd ha' knowed honey- 
moon folks wants sun'thin' tip-top, been livin' on the fat o' 
the land, I expect ; and now ye're come home to pork ; and 
that's the hull on't.' 
' Pork will do,' said Diana, ' if it is good. Have you 
no ham ? ' 
' Lots. That's pork, ain't it.' 
'Eggs?' . 
' Yes, there's eggs.' 
' Potatoes ? ' 
' La, I didn't expect ye'd want potatoes at this time o' 
day.' 
Diana informed herself of the places of things, and set 
herself and Miss Collins vigorously to work. The hand- 
maid looked on somewhat ungraciously at the quiet, compe- 
tent energy of her superior, the smile on her broad mouth 
gradually fading. ' 
' Reckon you don't know me,' she remarked presently. 
' Yes, I do,' said Diana ; ' you are Jemima Collins, that 
used to live at the post office. How came you here ? ' 
' Wall, there's nothin' but changes in the world, I expect ; 
that's my life. Mis' Reems, to the post office, had her 
mother come home to live with her ; owin' to her father 
gettin' his arm took off in some 'chinery, which was the 
death o' him ; so the mother come home to her daughter, 
and then they made it out as they two was equal to all 
there was to do ; and I don't say they warn't ; but that 
was reason enough why they didn't want me no longer. 
And then I staid with Miss Gunn a spell, helpin' her get 
her house cleaned ; and then the minister made out as he 
wanted a real 'sponsible person for to take care o' his 
house, and Miss Gunn she told him what she knowed about 
me ; and so I moved in. La, it's a change from the post 
office ! It was sort o' lively there ; allays comin' and goin', 
and lots o' news.' 
Diana made no answer. The very mention of the post 
office gave her a sort of pang ; about that spot her hopes 
had hovered for so long, and with such bitter disillusionizing. She sent Miss Collins to set the table in the other 
room, and presently, having finished her cookery, followed 
with it herself. 
CHAPTER XXIII. 
SUPPER AT HOME. 
THE windows were open still and the dusky air without 
was full of cool freshness. In the wide fireplace the minister had kindled a fire ; and in a little blue teapot he was 
just making the tea ; the kettle stood on the hearth. It 
was as pretty and cheerful a home view as any bride need 
wish to see for the first evening in her new house. Diana 
knew it and took the effect, which possibly was only heightened by the consciousness that she wished herself five 
hundred miles away. What the picture was to her husband, 
she had no idea, nor that the crowning feature of it was her 
own beautiful, sweet presence. Miss Collins brought in 
the prepared dishes, and left the two alone. 
' I see I have fallen into new hands,' the minister 
remarked presently. ' Mrs. Persimmon never cooked these 
eggs.' 
' You must have been tired of living in that way, I 
should think.' 
' No, I never get tired of anything.' 
' Not of bad things ? ' 
' No. I get rid of them.' 
' But how can you ? ' 
' Different ways.' 
- ' Can you do everything you want to, Basil ? ' his wife 
asked with an incredulous sort of admiration. 
' I'll do everything you want me to do.' 
' You have already, and more,' she said with a sigh. 
' How will your helpmeet in the other room answer the 
purpose ? ' 
' I have never been used to have anybody, you know, 
Basil ; and I do not need any one. I can do all easily 
myself.' 
' I know you can. I do not wish you should.' 
' Then what will you give me to do ? ' 
' Plenty.' 
' I don't care what if I can only be busy. I cannot 
bear to be idle. What shall I do, Basil ? ' 
' Is there nothing you would like to study, that you 
have never had a chance to learn ? ' 
' Learn ? ' said Diana, a whole vista of possible new 
activities opening all at once before her mind's eye ; ' O 
yes ! I would like to learn to study. What, Basil ? ' 
' What would you like to take hold of ? ' 
' I would like Latin.' 
' Latin ! ' cried the minister. ' That's an excellent 
choice. Greek too ? ' 
' I would like to learn Greek, very much. But I suppose I must begin with one at once.' 
How about modern languages ? ' 
' You know,' said Diana shyly, ' I can have no teacher 
but you.' 
' And you stand in doubt as to my qualifications ? 
