now, whether it is right in God’s sight to let this pure, 
sweet dream be thrust aside, or bear with a broken 
promise ? I think you could love me when nothing stood 
between. So far, I have refrained from any word, any 
act. I have never even kissed your sweet red hps, though 
sometimes I have been tempted almost beyond endurance, 
and have had to struggle hard with the giant of desire.” 
“ She is rich,” I said quietly. 
“Yes. Do you suppose that would weigh a moment 
with me, little girl? ” 
My heart gave a great thrill. 
“ But she loves you. Hers is not merely a cold, pas- 
sive, friendly regard.” 
“ I will be honest. I think she does love me. If it 
were merely an engagement of convenience or worldly 
interest, I should not hesitate a moment. mother is 
very fond of her ; and Chrissie — can you explain this to 
nie ? — I seem to love her just as well to-night as I ever 
did ; but oh ! my love for you appears like heaven itself. 
What shall I do ? ” 
“ If you told her ” — 
“ She would relinquish me at once. She and my 
mother would live on there together.’’ 
A pang seemed to rend my very soul as I saw the 
picture in a blinding flash, like lightning. His mother 
would alway's look upon me as an interloper, a marplot : 
there would be none of that precious love and s}Tupathy 
that had hallowed mamma’s life. 
“ Chrissie, I had no right to say one word until I told 
you this. Weak I may be, disloyal perhaps, but not de- 
ceitful. And now, think for me, help me. I want you.’" 
“ Oh ! ” I cried with a great gasp, “ let me consider a 
little, a day or two — I am so bewildered ! ” 
“ Perhaps we had both better think it over. I have 
said heretofore that all such promises were sacred, to be 
kept at any cost ; yet I feel now that I would not like a 
woman to marry me from a sense of duty, while her heart 
was another’s. But it is such a solemn matter.” 
I turned around to wallt back. Oh, if I could die just 
there at his feet, if he could take me up and kiss my cold 
lips, cross my limp white hands, and bury me without 
another soul to look at me ! 
“ Have I killed you, crushed you, my poor stricken 
lamb? ” and his cry pierced me. 
I wonder what our lives would have been, if I had 
turned then and there, following out a wild impulse, and 
accepted him as my lover. Is not duty a relative thing ? 
Is not conscience swayed a good deal by conflicting emo- 
tions ? Do we not think until we are confused and mor- 
bid? 
We reached home, and said a quiet good-night on the 
 
little porch. It was Wednesday now ; next Monday even- 
ing we would settle it for weal or woe. 
I did not take my trouble to mother. I felt, sweet and 
s}Tnpathizing as she was, that she might condemn him : I 
held him guiltless. A sad mistake — was it 'that? Did 
God mean that we should come to this blessed nearness 
and sympathy, see all these things in each other, and 
then wrench out the vision? Would it make a tree 
stronger thus to tear out its best branches? He had 
never acted dishonorably lover-like. Should I then be 
ashamed of loving? 
One sentence ran through my mind : “ As ye mete out, 
it shall be meted unto you again.” If I took this woman’s 
lover from her, would a swift judgment interpose some 
time, and snatch away the thing I most desired ? 
CHAPTER XI. 
“ Are you good men and true ? ” 
Much Ado about Nothing. 
I WENT to school the next morning with a strange feel- 
ing. I seemed to have lived so long already ; and yet 
stretching out before me were years and years of school- 
teaching. These girls would grow up and marry, and 
their children might be in my class. I was so tired, so 
puzzled with the tangle, so afraid to stretch out my hand 
and take what might be forbidden fruit. How could I 
tell? 
Thursday, Friday, Saturday, with its morning of 
sweeping and dusting, and little helpful things. Father 
came home, and began to plan about his journey. Uncle 
Robert thought it such an excellent idea ! Two or three 
young friends dropped in with their girlish gossip of new 
gowns, beaux, engagements. It seemed to me that I must 
be two distinct persons ; that, after this, I should always 
live two lives, — the one that was, the other that might 
have been. I think now it was curious that I should 
take giving up Horace Sargent so for granted. 
It would be better for him to marry her, — this large, 
gracious, intellectual woman, with her position and her 
wealth, and his mother’s love. It would be a long while 
before I could help him climb any such heights. There 
would be my own family, poor, and in trouble maybe ; 
and I should want to share somewhat with them, bring my 
burthen to him, ask his kindly attention. 
 
Then it would flash over me like an electric thrill, that 
if I could only see her and judge ; if I could go to her, 
and say honestly and frankly, “I love this man too: 
let us compare our affection, and then decide who shall 
give him up.” It was absurd, of course. No two human 
beings ever would do so. 
Do you say it should have been whichever he loved the 
better? On her side was all the old friendship, the thorough 
knowledge of her character, the desire of his mother, 
so many things that were sure : on mine, the newness, the 
half fear he might be dazzled with something that was 
not pure gold. I could understand him as well as myself. 
And the dread of beginning life, and love, dishonored by 
a broken promise ! 
If he had been of the impulsive kind, and settled it all 
before that eventful Monday evening, and told me then 
and there that I must marry him, since he had given up 
every thing for me, I should have done it unhesitatingly. 
It may be that I secretly wished he would. A younger 
man might have ; a less scrupulous one would. 
I kept some children in after school. I wondered if 
this tense strain was beginning to tell on my temper. 
Theo was bright and well to-night, and hurried around 
with supper. Father and mother went put afterward to 
make a few calls. I walked quietly up stairs and lighted 
the gas, took out some pretty wool crocheting I was so 
fond of. The door-bell rang. 
Oh that awful, choking, constricted sensation ! My 
hands grew cold, my limbs numb. 
Theo’s gay laugh, and a voice that was not Horace 
Sargent’s. I had a reprieve. 
Eight o’clock. Long after, — it seemed an hour ; but 
it was only fifteen minutes, — the bell rang again. 
This time Theo comes flying up stairs. 
“ Chris, Mr. Sargent is here, and wants you to put on 
youi' hat and take a walk. He will not come in. And 
Mr. Ross is down stairs.” 
“ Yes,” I say calmly, rising, and putting away my 
work. 
Why should I stop to tie a pretty ribbon around my 
throat, and take out my fleecy white Shetland shawl? 
There is no moon ; and, in this matter of life and death, 
will he see ? 
I go down slowly. I put my hand in the one out- 
stretched. It is cold : so is mine. Then he draws me 
out. I shut the door, and we are walking up the street. 
Presently we begin in calm, dispassionate voices. We 
have both, it seems, thought so much of honor, of truth, 
of beginning life rightly, of making no wilful blot or mar 
that may rise up in after-years a grim ghost to haunt us. 
Yet he feels more than inchned to give up all for love’s 
sake. I tremble and thrill, I am so near happiness ; and 
yet I put it away reverently, as one buries the dead. 
“ Oh, I can’t, Chrissie ! ” he cries, “ I can’t ! ” Then, 
in the next breath, “ But you are right.” 
Right. It is a magical word. No man shall tell me in 
after-years that I tempted him to wrong. 
Yet I think now, after all these years, that one way 
was as right as the other. 
It is all over presently. Have I turned into stone, that 
I have no more feeling about it ? 
“ Take me home,” I say wearily. 
He is talking of some future time when we may be 
friends again. Why, we could be friends now, to-morrow, 
any time. We have tried ; and we can neither of us step 
over this wide river, named duty, that the world or pro- 
priety settles for us. 
We open the gate, step up on the little porch. His arm 
is around me then. 
“ Oh, my brave, sweet darling! ” he cries in a trans- 
port of love and grief, “kiss me just once. Heaven 
knows there can be no sin in it. It is like kissing the 
dead.” 
 
Do dead lips ever have in them such rapture ? Shall I 
clasp my arm around his neck, and tell him that I cannot 
give him up ? 
“ Good-by, my sweet, sweet little love." 
I go through the hall. Dick and Dell are having a dis- 
pute about a problem in algebra, that I decide. Then moth- 
er and father come in. The parlor-door is shut : so Theo is 
still engaged. I go up stairs, thinking how many old-maid 
school-teachers there are, and wonder if each has had her 
love-dream. I even laugh a little hysterically. 
I hurry into bed, and am safely sheltered by the pillow, 
when Theo comes flying up, two steps at a bound, and 
pants breathlessly. 
“ The queerest, queerest thing, Chris ! I have had an 
offer of marriage.” 
“ Not from Mr. Ross ! " 
“ Of course not. He was in the parlor ; but the offer 
came down the chimney, or through the keyhole. Well, 
we are both too astonished to tell the truth.” 
“It is odd," I say. “I didn’t fancy him a marrying 
man.” 
“ Nor I. I thought I had come across a nice, fatherly 
friend. I found him so good to stop off Fred ! And I 
haven’t treated him the least bit like a lover. I’ve gone 
where I liked, and — yes, flirted, to show him that I wasn’t 
in earnest. He asked me, in a sort of formal way, to keep 
company. I really could not think at first what he was 
driving at ; and then it all came out.” 
“ What have you done, — not engaged yourself? ” 
“ Ah, bah ! no. What do I want of a husband? Chris, 
it would be positively ridiculous, unless he were a million- 
naire. And yet, when I was over the first surprise, and 
had had my laugh, like the Irishman, I did feel very 
sorry. He seemed to love me so ! O Chris ! why do 
they ? I’m such a foolish, flighty little thing, never going 
into sentiment and all that, but spring out all the funny 
incidents in this queer world, and laughing at them. I
do not beheve I have a bit of love for any one outside of 
the family. Why, I have never even had a girl-friend. 
Girls seem a little afraid of my moral and instructive 
comments.” 
“ But they do like you. Remember last summer.” 
“Oh! those were women, — most of them. Real old 
women and little children think I’m enchanting.” 
“ And now this has come to an end.” 
“Well, not exactly,” says Theo gravely. “He pro- 
poses to be considered in the light of a friend by all of us : 
especially now that papa is likely to be away, he thinks 
he might prove useful to us. And he gave me two letters 
of recommendation for papa. Why, it’s quite like Mr. 
Beguillan over again. And he is so gentlemanly I yet 
there is something curious about him.” 
“ I thought you attracted him from the very first.” 
“Did you?” and Theo seems to go ofl* in a brown 
study. “I wonder why he doesn’t like Miss Hudson. 
Report says she would be ready enough to marry.” 
“We all seem to be like the Scotch lassie: those we 
would have don’t want us, and those we want won’t have 
us.” 
“ I don’t know. I have not wanted any one very much 
as yet,” in an indifferent tone. 
With that she comes to bed. 
The last of that week, papa went away. 
“Three months,” said the doctor: “don’t venture 
home a day sooner.” 
We laid our plans. We would be so very, very eco- 
nomical. All the cleaning should be done by degrees and 
on Saturday ; so that we would not need to hire any one. 
Every garment that could be made over should do duty 
again. We would give up desserts, except on Sundays, or 
when there were visitors. 
I was glad to be so busy. That Mr. Sargent should 
stay away a week was nothing. • No one observed it. 
 
Two notes had come from papa. He had made a little 
halt at Niagara, another at Chicago. When we next heard 
from him, he would be at uncle’s. 
When we did hear, the news was sad enough. Uncle 
James had died very suddenly, of apoplexy, the day before 
father reached his house. He was stout and rosy, and 
had been out horseback-riding, after a hearty dinner. So 
the house was one of mourning. 
He remained a fortnight with them, and then came back, 
little improved. Uncle James was a very rich man, doubt- 
less ; but his affairs were in great confusion. There were 
two daughters by the first mamage, one of whom was 
married herself ; and, by the second, five, — enough to take 
all the money 
“I suppose he was happy, and enjoyed all the bustle 
and planning and journeying about,” said father. “He 
had never been ill a week in his life. It seems as if he 
ought to have lived to reap the fruit of his labors, and had 
a hale old age, with his sons and daughters growing up 
around him.” 
Father had hoped that there might be some business- 
opening at the West, or, perhaps, within uncle James’s 
knowledge ; so that he could try living in an entirely new 
place. That vision came to a sudden end. 
He kept so weak all the time. He said he felt as if he 
should never be rested again. 
Then he and mother went to Medford for a fortnight, 
and he decided to stay. 
Miss Newby and Miss Wilbur called one evening. In 
the course of the conversation Mr. Sargent happened to 
be mentioned. He had gone to his old home in Central 
New York to spend a few weeks. 
“ It is said — I heard it from some of his connections 
— that he has a lady-love there. I suppose we will hear 
of a Mrs. Sargent presently.” 
“I hope she will be as charming as he is,” I made 
answer. 
“ Miss Gertrude Sargent, or rather Mrs. Brooke, called 
there on her return bridal-tour,” said Miss Wilbur. Miss 
Sargent had been her pupil, “ It seems this Miss Adams 
is living with Mrs. Sargent, — a really magnificent-looking 
woman, somewhere about his age, and quite a fortune in 
her own right.” 
“ I always wondered, Chris,” said Theo, after they had 
gone, “ what made Mr, Sargent so careful. And he liked 
you a great deal, I know. But you could tell by looking at 
his face, that he was 103ml and honorable to the last degree. 
I suppose,” with a ridiculous little sigh, “ that he wouldn’t 
have thought of marrying either of us. But he is the kind 
of man any woman might be proud to marry.” 
So my secret was safe. 
Miss Wilbur had asked Theo about the singing-lessons ; 
and she replied that she should not take any through the 
summer, it tired her so to practise in warm weather. I 
knew that poverty stood in the way also. 
Mr. Sargent returned. Theo and I met him in the 
street one evening ; and he walked a short distance with 
us, and put us in the car. She wondered why he had not 
called. 
There was a momentary detention. “ Can I come?” 
he whispered ; and I said “ Yes,” with bated breath. 
‘ ‘ Give my regards to your mother, and tell her I shat 
be up soon.” 
Was it right? Now that I had suffered the agony of 
renunciation, I did not mean to run into a new evil, or 
any needless pain. 
He kept his word. We had a crowd of gay young 
compaiiy in the parlor : so he insisted upon going into the 
dining-room, and sitting with mother. 
“ Girls,” she began the next morning, at the breakfast- 
table, “ I was quite honored last evening by Mr. Sargent’s 
confidence. He is reaily engaged, and expects to be 
married in October. His mother adores her daughter-ln- 
 
law elect, who has been living with her quite a long while. 
How nice it is for them to be such friends ! I couldn’t 
help but think of your grandmother and I.” 
“ Oh, dear ! I wish he could have married Chris,” said 
Theo, in her pretty, half-petulant way. 
After that he came several times ; but fate decreed that 
I should not see him alone, and I had no heart to interfere 
with fate. We kept our way on the different sides of the 
river. 
Then vacation commenced. Uncle Robert had taken a 
cottage for the summer, a little below West Point, on the 
Hudson. Aunt came over in person, and imdted Theo 
and myself most cordially to spend a fortnight with her. 
“ That will be all the summering we can afford, Theo,” 
I said ; “ and we must have inspirations on the subject of 
getting gowns out of nothing.” 
“ I am thankful to dear grandmother’s spirit daily for 
my watch and chain. We never should have been rich 
enough to buy one.” 
I was devoutly grateful as well. 
Papa began to improve a little. He worked on the 
farm when he felt strong enough, and quite enjoyed it. 
Twice he had driven down with a great lot of fresh vege- 
tables and fruit, and really" it was a treat. 
“ I almost wish I had a farm,” he said. 
We had some pleasures, — a few picnics and excursions, 
and a little going out for the day. But we sewed industri- 
ously. The thing I coveted most of all w as a new silk 
dress for myself and Theo ; but silks w'ere high, and I could 
not compass it : so we altered and retrimmed our black 
silks, made pretty gray travelling-dresses, and had a new 
white organdie, with most exquisite bordered flounces. 
We met uncle Robert in New York, and he escorted us. 
The cottage was very fair, roomy, but the furniture rather 
shabby : it had been of the show\y kind, and the wear and 
tear made it appear common. But the gromids were 
lovely. Here and there such groups of stately old trees, 
and a terraced lawn that overlooked the river ! The horses 
had been sent up. There were three servants, and much 
coming and going. 
Aunt Clara’s eldest daughter was grown, and had a 
lover. A rather affected piece of vanity was Miss Rose 
Dinsmore ; but she took to Theo, oddly enough ; and she 
was too obtuse to see the point of Theo’s speeches ; so she 
onty thought them funny. 
“Chris,” said Theo, the next morning after we came, 
“I have something to show you, — in a little box.” 
I looked. A ring, with a very handsome opal set round 
with small diamonds. 
‘ ‘ Theo Durant ! ’ ’ 
“ Well, don’t scold,” began Theo in a half-crying tone. 
“It is not an engagement-ring, I would not consent. But 
he made me take it.” 
“Mr. Ross?” He had called the evening before we 
left home. 
“I don’t know what to do. He loves me so much! 
He asked me again to marry him. Chris, I wish you had 
loved some one, and could tell me all about it.” 
W ould it have made any difference if I had ? After all 
our pretended wisdom, are we not the sport of circum- 
stances ? 
I could not drag my heart out for her inspection 
There was in my sad secret no knowledge for her to 
glean. 
“ How do you feel about him? ” 
“First, that it is ridiculous for any man to want to 
marry me. Why should he, when I do not particularly 
want him, and there are so many nice people in the world 
who do want to be married? Then I like him, because 
he is so much older than I, and has some little ways of 
authority that I don’t mind a bit to his face, and laugh 
at, but that a wife would have to respect. And there’s a 
 
weird and peculiar fascination that seems to get wrapped 
round me some way : I can’t quite explain it to myself. 
His very love teases me, and makes me cross ; and then 
I am sorry for being cross ; and the least little touch of 
penitence makes him love me more than ever again. I 
wish he would flirt with somebody, or stay away from me 
ever so long, that I might see what I thought of that. 
If I really wanted him back, I should fancy that I might 
come to love him in time. Oh, dear ! why are there such 
tangles in the world? Chris dear, if I was a rich woman, 
I would not marry any of them. I’d flirt a little, respect- 
ably and discreetly, not breaking any hearts ; and then 
I would retire to my old maid’s hall, just as Mr. Jarndyce 
used to his growlery.” 
I couldn’t help laughing. 
“ But about the ring? ” 
She took it out of the box, put it on her fore-flnger, 
and twirled it around. 
“He asked me to marry him. I said that I did not 
think I ever could marry a foreigner of any kind, espe- 
cially an Englishman. Then I animadverted severely on 
their course from the beginning of the war. It was abom- 
inable ! — as if he could help or hinder in any way. If I 
had been in his place, I should have jumped up, mad as a 
hornet, and said, ‘Good-evening, Miss Durant.’ But he 
didn’t. Then I said I was very sure that I did not love 
him: we never should agree; I loved to flirt, and he 
had a tendency toward jealousy. He insisted that it was 
only because he loved me so much, and did not feel sure 
of me. And — oh! I can’t remember it all; but I did 
Anally promise to think of it, with a most sublime indiffer- 
ence to consequences. And then he made me take the 
ring. I could throw it away, he said. He had bought 
it for me ; and no other woman should have it. And, O 
Chris ! do you suppose it is true that he has never loved 
any one? That makes me stop and think. He is thirty 
now ; and love, like measles, seems to be harder for peo- 
ple, the older they grow.” 
“ How ridiculous you are, Theo ! ” 
“I know it.” And her comically-demure air of peni- 
tence was laughable. 
Why did he love her? Was it a man’s earnest, entire 
passion, or partly pique, and a desire to conquer, because 
she was so subtly elusive ? I looked her all over as she 
stood there in her daring prettiness, — a bright, bewitch- 
ing butterfly. I could imagine a husband for her ; but it 
was not Mr. Ross. 
Was not the husband of my imagining quite out of 
Theo’s reach? If aunt Clara had no children, and wanted 
her for companionship and society — 
“ There, Chris ! ” she exclaimed suddenly, “ I am not 
going to give it another thought this whole day. Rose 
asked me to go out riding with her ; and I must get ready. 
Oh to be rich and gi’eat and free! But if you cannot 
have it of your own, and your neighbors ask you in to tea, 
you may look at their silver, I suppose. Don’t worry 
now. You will get a little crease in your forehead, and 
look old before your time.” 
She put on her hat, kissed the tips of her fingers, and 
sped away. 
CHAPTER XII. 
You may partake of any thing we say : 
We speak no treason.”— Richaud Third. 
That evening Miss Dinsmore’s lover made his appear- 
ance, — a Mr. Goiiverneur Van Kort, called, by his sweet- 
heart and all his friends, “ Van,” without further cere- 
mony. He was not much taller than she, very fair, with 
pale eyes and pale hair, and a dainty mustache, which I 
suspect was dyed a little, as it was of quite a commenda- 
ble brown, and improved his general appearance vastly. 
His features were small, his hands and feet exquisite. 
For gloves he wore ladies’ sevens, and w'as duly proud. 
He belonged to one of the first families. His sister had 
married a Roman count. His father was to settle on him, 
or on them when they were married, five thousand a year, 
and they were to go abroad immediately. 
Mr. Van Kort had no ?’’s and an aristocratic drawl. 
Then he always said “ that pehson,” if an individual was 
not sufficiently high in position to be indulged with a 
name. Aunt Clara treated him like a foolish little boy, 
which he really appeared to like. The new partner in the 
firm was a Van Kort, a cousin it seemed ; but, if this was 
a specimen of the family, I thought they could not be 
worth much in the way of business. 
Rose seemed to adore him, although she privately con- 
fided to Theo that she had been engaged twice before ; 
but neither of the lovers was as rich as Van ; and she 
must go to Paris, dear Paris, on her bridal tour. 
 
“A mild, beaming young idiot, utterly free from such 
an ordinaiy endowment as common sense,” declared Theo. 
“ Chris, it makes me blush all over to think such people 
go abroad, and are taken for typical Americans. How can 
aunt Clara tolerate him ? and how did she come to have 
such a foolish daughter as Rose ? ’ ’ 
Rose was of the gushing, fluffy, infantile tye, who 
look up, and smile blandly in your face. Oddly enough, 
her sister, who was not quite sixteen, was so differ- 
ent. Miss Blanche was taller, thin, and rather sour- 
looklng, and set up for a genius. She read histories, and 
frowned on novels : she stumbled over German, and ab- 
horred French, “which mamma insisted upon her study- 
ing ; but it was too trifling for any strong, intellectual mind. 
Give her those profound German thinkers ! ” Water-color- 
ing, and dabbing with a pencil as she contemptuously 
termed sketching, did very well for children ; but hers were 
all studies from cartoons of the old masters. A leg, with 
a foot out of all proportion, and some enormous toes, or a 
wily hand with spider-like fingers outstretched, a bit of 
arm wdth a great bundle of muscles, and ugly faces that 
were caricatures, she displayed as her interpretations of 
true art. She insisted that she was near-sighted, and wore 
glasses ; but aunt Clara would not allow them in a general 
way. She was not out of course, and kept ostentatiously 
close to her ‘ ‘ study  ’ 
But it was gay and delightful. Military men were 
coming and going, with their picturesque uniforms, their 
proud and elegant carriage. I used to think of our poor 
private digging in trenches, marching through swamps, 
and fighting his country’s battles. God saw him, and 
took note of the otherwise unseen heroism ; but sometimes 
I was jealous for his sake. 
We had spent a week of our stay. Theo and I had 
talked her matters over, and she had decided to give up 
Mr. Ross. She could do it much better by letter, she 
 
thought. The missive certainly was a very sensible one ; 
and she enclosed the ring. 
“ Free once more ! ” she declared with a laugh. 
Strange to say, Theo did not flirt half as much as Rose, 
with her lover at her very elbow. Even here, in her sim- 
ple dresses, Theo was very attractive ; and every evening 
there was a group of young men around her. She laughed 
and talked with that merry audacity so far removed from 
sentimentalism. Her slender, dimpled hands were no 
more to be kissed than her cheek. She seemed to keep 
the instinct of self-possession before her always : it sur- 
rounded her with a fine, almost invisible wall, until some 
one attempted to scale it. 
We were in the sitting-room one morning. Rose and 
Van had gone out in the pony phaeton; and Theo was 
altering a pretty lace fichu for aunt Clara, who said her 
taste was equal to that of a French woman. 
“Oh, bother! some callers,” she said, as Jane entered 
with cards. 
“ Only Miss Henderson and her brother ; and she said, 
wouldn’t you let her come right in? ” repeated Jane. 
“ Why, yes. — Girls, do not lose your hearts,” with a 
laughing nod to us. 
She greeted the new-comers with a certain degree of 
cordiality : she had different shades of society style for 
different people. 
“My nieces, the Misses Durant, — Miss Henderson, 
Mr Henderson.” 
Mr. Henderson might have been twenty-six, — a hand- 
some, sGdish fellow, with violet-blue eyes, elegant silken 
blond beard, fair skin, and light wavy hair. His clothes, 
a summer neglige suit, hung about him with the grace of 
Greek drapeiy. I am aware that is extravagant, but it is 
the truth. Once in a great while you see a man who 
seems to idealize the prosaic male habiliments of the nine- 
teenth century ; and Mr. Henderson did this. The ridicu- 
lous wonder entered my mind, if men ever asked him the 
name of his tailor. 
Miss Henderson was plain, irregular, mismatched, but 
very jolly-looking. The celestial tendency to her nose 
was piquant ; her wide mouth shut with a great laughing 
dimple in the corner ; and the middle of her under lip had 
a saucy pout. Her eyes were a funny brown, — one a 
little deeper than the other ; her hair a red brown ; her 
complexion rather fair and freckled ; her teeth small, white, 
and baby-like. I think it must have taken more than the 
usual number to fill the spacious mouth. 
“ My dear Mrs. Durant, how thankful I am that you 
admitted me without any ceremony ! We’re just on the 
fly, Reggy and I ; but I wanted to stop a minute. He’s 
to go off somewhere to make sketches ; and I’m to write 
up gayeties, nonsense, and bon-mots. We have army corre- 
spondence by the bushel ; but the thing was getting heavy, 
you see, and we must have a little mental champagne to 
keep up our spirits until this cruel war is over. ‘ So,’ says 
Mr. Bailey, ‘ here’s an opportunity for you, Mollie, to 
distinguish yourself. Give us something bright, if you 
have to manufacture every word of it.’ — ‘ That I can do, 
and glad of the chance,’ says I ; and off we started. We are 
to take a bird’s-eye view of West Point, and go on as far 
as Lake George. Reggy is to do sketching for ‘ The 
Illustrated Star : ’ I’m to write up descriptions, and 
somehow concoct old Revolutionary soul-stirring scenes. 
And here you are, lilies of the field, arrayed every night 
gorgeously, with no end of Solomons to behold your 
glory, I suppose.” 
She uttered it all in a breath. It seemed to me I had 
never heard so rapid a talker. Her voice, too, was like 
herself, round, mellow, with just the touch of absurdity 
that makes you laugh, whether the utterance is especially 
mirth-provoking or not. 
Aunt Clara asked her to talie off her hat, and stay to 
 
luncheon. It was an invitation that was meant. And 
would she not go up stairs ? They were rather circum- 
scribed here ; but still they could offer a little comfort, if 
not elegance. 
“Yes, I might go up, and pull myself together. We 
started off in a hurry. But then I always do.” 
She looked as if she might be continually pulling her- 
self together, and as continually falling ai:>art. Her favor- 
ite panacea for all ills that attire is heir to was sticking 
in a pin, as I afterward learned. The pins dropped out. 
Panaceas are very apt to have a weak side. 
Still she appeared fresher and cleaner when she came 
down, and in a moment it seemed as if we were all laugh- 
ing and talking. She was undeniably bright, and not 
merely superficial. She rattled off facts, incidents, 
seemed to know everybody and every thing. 
Rose came in just as we were about to sit down. I knew 
in a moment that Reggy Henderson had been one of her 
admirers. Then and there I gave up my girlish enthusi- 
asm for the name of Reginald. I knew Theo had an incli- 
nation to rhyme it to sedgy and hedgy 
Shortly after lunch, they took up their march with a 
small Russia leather satchel, which had been very hand- 
some in its day. We were in\dted most cordially to call 
upon them. Indeed, I was oddly interested in Miss Hen- 
derson. She had seen so many notable people ! 
“ They are very peculiar,” said aunt Clara, “and are 
really on the borders of Bohemia ; yet the girls go in a 
great deal of nice society. Their mother is very elegant 
(she was a Fairfax of Virginia) : and Mr. Henderson’s 
father left him a handsome fortune ; but he seems to have 
run through with it all, except the house in which they live, 
and that I have understood he cannot touch. The girls 
somehow manage to support the family.” 
“ But the young man? ” and I looked up in surprise. 
“ He and his father are simply ornamental. He has a 
studio, which is quite an attractive place of resort, danger- 
ously so to foolish young women. Perhaps by hard work 
he might become an artist, — I don’t know ; but he is too 
indolent for any real exertion. I dare say his sister will 
do all his sketches. One sister has a fine voice ; and — 
well, they live some way, and do manage to give charming 
entertainments . ’ ’ 
Rose finished up the character-sketching. 
“ Isn’t he just too handsome for any thing? ” she said 
that night as we were going to bed. Our rooms connected 
with a door that stood open most of the time for the circu- 
lation of air ; and she ran back and forth incessantly. 
“ He did love me, and he makes love like an angel. I 
have cut out stacks of girls ” (Miss Rose was off of her 
society pedestal, and out of her mother’s hearing now) ; 
“and it’s such fun! Of course I knew from the very 
beginning, it would not do ; for he has nothing at all and, 
as mamma says, ‘must marry some rich woman.’ But I 
don’t think there is any need of his marrying at all, for 
the present. He’s such an immense favorite ! and, oh, an 
elegant dancer ! Doesn’t he dress divinely? Really, of 
all my lovers, I believe I shall regret him the longest. If 
I were a great heiress, no other woman should have him ; 
but I cannot think of taking poverty with any man.” 
I looked intently at the small edition of worldly wis- 
dom. Did it make no difference to her whom she married ? 
Theo spoke of it afterward. 
“ It is so queer I I can imagine Mr. Henderson’s love- 
making might be fascinating, if he could once get roused 
and animated. And then to take up with that little, 
drawling, insignificant Van! Yet aunt Clara is real sen- 
sible about it. They are excellently matched. Only it 
puzzles me to see her yield her preference in that serene 
and amiable manner, as if it were gloves, for instance, and 
she took the cream, because they were stitched with black.” 
We were to throw the next bomb-shell into the camp. 
 
Rose came flying up stairs. We were dressing to go 
out in state, in the large carriage. 
“You naughty, deceitful Theo ! ” she cried vehe- 
mently. “ Here I’ve told you all about my lovers, and 
you never said a word. And there’s the most elegant 
man down stairs, with wild, sad black eyes, that are 
enough to break any one’s heart. Oh ! you need not turn 
pale : I shall flirt with him all the same — or is it 
because I’ve found you out? And it was such a funny 
blunder ! Jane didn’t suppose a gentleman could call on 
any one else : so she summoned me. And there he stood 
by' the table, tall and splendid ; and I didn’t know him 
from Adam. But I supposed I must have met him some- 
where, and I went quite up ; but he glanced at me so — 
so — I suppose he was surprised. And then he asked if 
he could see Miss Durant ; and I wanted to know which 
Miss Durant ; and he said, ‘ Miss Theo ; ’ and he looked, 
oh, so unutterable ! ” — 
“What nonsense. Rose !” broke in Theo in a vexed 
tone. “If it is any one for me, I hope he had the polite- 
ness to send up his name.” 
“ He did. Miss Durant. First he said, ‘ an old friend : ’ 
so you see that was a tacit admission that the affair had 
been going on for some time. Then he said, ‘ Mr. Ross.’ ” 
Theo was trying hard to keep the scarlet out of her 
face. I could see she was very much annoyed. She 
finished her dressing, and went down without another 
word. 
“Tell me all about it,” cried Rose, appealing to me. 
“ I do think Theo can be the crossest, without saying a 
word.” 
“ There is nothing much to tell. Mr. Ross is — well, 
we met him at a party last winter ; and he has visited us 
since ’ ’ — 
“ It’s Theo : you cannot deceive me.” 
“Well, he asked Theo to marry him; and she de- 
clined,” I answered impatiently. 
“ Oh ! I knew there was something, he looked so 
romantically sad. And now he has come to make her 
marry him, whether or no. They always do so in 
stories.’’ 
“ Rose, do not be so foolish ! ” I said sharply. 
“Is he rich ? ’ ’ 
Ah ! Then my ill-humor vanished, and I felt like 
laughing, albeit I was still provoked. 
“ He is not rich.” 
Aunt Clara entered at that instant. Rose blurted out 
the whole matter in a moment. 
“We will wait a little while,” she announced pleas- 
antly. “Lulu, can’t you find Willie, and send him out to 
Mike ? Tell him to wait fifteen minutes.” 
I hunted up my hat and gloves. Aunt Clara asked me 
a few polite questions concerning Mr. Ross. 
“Look out, Chrissie,” she said good-naturedly, “or 
she will go off the first.” 
I fiushed a little, but made no reply. 
The fifteen minutes elapsed. The carriage came slowly 
around. 
Theo made her appearance, looking flushed and dis 
concerted. 
“Aunt Clara,” she began in her frank, ladylike man- 
ner, “ there is a friend of mine down stairs, who came 
very unexpectedly.” 
“ And you would like me to see him? ” with a smile. 
“ Will you come down, please? ” and there was relief 
in Theo’s tone. 
“ Oh, I do so hope he will stay ! ” cried Rose. 
It ended by his going out with us : so Rose had her 
chance to see him, and made herself vastly agreeable, in 
her own estimation. I think, in his heart, Mr. Ross set 
her down for a little simpleton. I really wondered how 
a woman with such good sense and judgment could have 
reared a daughter in such an utterly useless and vapid 
 
manner. Tlieo sat there, elegant, stately, reserved. Ido 
believe aunt Clara admired her very much. 
Mr. Ross remained to dinner, spent the evening, went 
to a hotel and staid all night, and devoted the next day 
to us. He had resolved to win Theo. He showed his 
love, not obtrusively, but with the indefinable little touches 
of old-world politeness. 
“ I have made him a promise,*’ said Theo when he was 
gone, “ or I do not know but he might have staid for- 
ever. I am to be engaged for a month, and to try to 
like him. Then, if I can’t, he will relinquish me to my 
own old-maid devices.” 
There was a weary look in her face, that I did not Hke. 
I noticed, too, that she wore the ring. 
“ Oh! ” said Rose, espying it. “An opal is very un- 
lucky. Did you not know that? I should be afraid the 
engagement might — well, be broken, you know. And I 
would not have taken any thing less than a solitaire 
diamond.” 
“Well, I rather like an opal,” returned Theo: “it is 
so different from the stereotyped diamonds and pearls.” 
Rose confided to me, that Mr. Ross “looked lik e a 
hero out of a book, and was awfully fond of Theo ; but 
she thought him something of a stick.” 
Our stay drew to a close. Some other visitors were to 
replace us. 
“We shall go on a little jaunt early in September, but 
return home by the middle of the month, I think. You 
and Theo must come and make us a \dsit,” said aunt 
Clara warmly. “ Come over some Friday, if you can do 
no better, and remain until Monday morning.” 
Then we kissed good-by, and set out for North wood. 
It had been a gala time, — carriage-riding every day, din- 
ners, parties in the evening, and two hops, all the glo- 
ries of West Point right at our elbow. 
How delightful it was to have an abundance of this 
world’s goods ! Why couldn’t papa have been prospered, 
I used to ask. He was so kind, so honest, and upright, 
using his little money and position so wisely ! And it 
really seemed as if uncle Robert, pleasant as he was, did 
not care for much beside his own advancement. 
It would soon be time for school again. A bit of good 
fortune befell me in this respect. A ne-w grammar school 
had been built in our part of the city, and I had applied 
for a position. I learned that I had been appointed, with 
a salary of four hundred. I should save considerable in 
car-fare. 
Out of our five hundred dollars, papa had spent nearly 
a hundred in his journeying ; and two hundred had been 
laid by for interest, taxes, and insurance. Six months’ 
household expenses had come out of the other. Mother 
had managed Tvonderfully, on twenty-five dollars a month. 
Our coal was put in ; but she had only paid little more 
than half the bill, and we had just twenty dollars to begin 
September with. Our winter vegetables and butter were 
provided for, as father had taken them in exchange for 
labor. Were we coming to absolute poverty? 
Eight dollars a week, — how large it looked to me ! 
We would not starve, anyhow. I could stand in the 
'breach. 
“ Shall I enforce thy love ? I could. Shall I entreat thy love ? I 
will.” — Love’s Labor Lost. 
“I AM not going to school any more,’ announced 
Della the very last day of vacation. I shall be sixteen 
in three months. And, mother and Chris, — if you would 
but consent to my plans ! ” 
We both glanced up at our third daughter. She was 
quite tall, a fair, nice-looking girl, but not with Theo’s 
bewitching prettiness. 
“You know I spent the day with Mrs. Palmer last 
week? ” 
“Yes.” I can guess what is coming ; but mother looks 
puzzled. 
“We talked it over. I am not much of a student. I 
could enter the high school ; but there would be three or 
four years : and all this time I must be clothed, without 
earning a penny. Mrs. Palmer said she would take me in 
the store and teach me millinery, and I could do fancy- 
work. She will pay me three dollars a week all winter, 
and give me four next spring. Her niece has gone to 
Philadelphia as a hospital nurse, you know. I think it’s 
just a fortunate chance : I must do something.” 
“And I?” says Theo, springing up from the sofa, and 
uttering a strange, pathetic cry, — “am I never to do 
any thing but just hang, a millstone round every one’s 
neck ? ’ ’ 
 
“ O Theo ! ” That is mamma’s soft, deprecating voice, 
expressing so much ! 
“You are so good at home, Theo ! ” replies Dell, in a 
patronizing way that is rather funny from the little girl in 
the family. “You can cook and sew and — I’m sure 
you are never idle. But I like business. And we all think 
Mrs. Palmer so nice ! ” 
It was true enough. Mrs. Palmer was a “ war widow,” 
had been one of the earliest. With her little money she 
had opened a store, as her young girl business had been 
milUnery. She did a good deal of elegant fancy-work, 
and machine-sewing beside, and had gained quite a posi- 
tion already. 
Dell had firmly made up her mind. We offered a little 
w’eak opposition at first, then consented. She would 
have to join the army of workers. AYe could afford to 
keep only one girl at home. 
Mother went to see Mrs. Palmer, and the bargain was 
concluded. She was very fond of Dell. 
Father returned, looking quite well, and really hand- 
some. If he could only find emplo}Tuent ! He tried for 
a fortnight, and then took some collecting. 
I lilied my new school very much. Being near home, it 
gave me more time. 
We discussed the project of going on a farm. Father 
had an opportunity to trade the house for a small farm ; 
and it seemed now, as prices were going higher all the 
time, that farming would really pay. 
Our house was considered "worth five thousand. 
Whether it would bring that in these depressed times was 
a question. The country-house was old, considerably out 
of repair, two-story, with eight rooms, no furnace, no 
gas, no paved walks, but an abundance of fruit and a 
shackly old barn. 
“ A woman’s farm-work is pretty hard,” said mother. 
“ AYe should keep one or two cows, and there would be 
 
milking night and morning, churning, poultry" to care for, 
and a good deal of gardening. Chrissie could not teach 
there, and could she earn four hundred dollars? Then 
Dell would have to help me, and must have her clothes 
somehow. I don’t believe we should make as much actu- 
al money, and we would not have as many comforts. To 
be sure, there would be the long delightful summers in the 
country.” 
“ I do not believe it would be practicable,” confessed 
papa with a sigh. 
We girls decided that we did not want to go. 
“ And, when Archie comes home, he can help a little,” 
said mother brightly. “We wdll economize; and you 
must not go into any very hard work until you are quite 
strong again. 
Mr. Sargent was married, and brought his wife to 
Northwood. Miss Wilbur pronounced her an elegant and 
superior woman. I took some pains to keep out of their 
way. For a while they boarded at the Mansion House, 
as our best family hotel was called. 
Meanwhile what of Theo and Mr. Ross? He still came. 
Sometimes Theo wore her ring, but she was oftener with- 
out. Now and then she broke out into a tempest of gayety 
and flirtation, then she was demure as a nun. Mr. Ross 
was so patient, so generous, that I began to feel sorry for 
him when Theo was in her wilful moods. One evening he 
tried to restrain her a little, and incidental referred to 
something he could or would do, with an air of authority. 
‘ ‘ I will tell you what you can do ; ” and Theo gave a 
light, bitter laugh. “You can leave the house, and never 
come into it again. You worry my life out with your love 
and your care, and every thing. It stifles me ; it kills me ! 
A lifetime of it would set me cmzy. Go! ” And she 
stamped her foot, while her eyes fairly blazed. 
He rose slowly, said good-evening in the quietest of 
tones, and went out. 
“There, it is all over! Chris, am I a termagant, a 
sharp, ungrateful vixen? Why do people love and care 
for me? When they stay at a distance, I like them pretty 
