some jilted girl nearer home, Cummings, if you 
want me to go round sickening and sorrowing in 
secret. I don't believe you can find any. Women 



 

are much tougher about the pericardium than we 
give them credit for, my dear fellow, much. I 
don't see why it should hurt a woman more than a 
man to be jilted. We shall never truly philoso- 
phize this important matter till we regard women 
with something of the fine penetration arid impar- 
tiality with which they regard each other. Look at 
the stabs they give and take they would kill 
men ! And the graceful ferocity with which they 
dispatch any of their number who happens to be 
down is quite unexampled in natural history. How 
much do you suppose her lady friends have left of 
that poor girl whose case wrings your foolish bosom 
all the way from Paris ? I don't believe so much 
as a boot-button. Why, even your correspondent 
a very lively woman, by the way can't conceal 
under all her indignation her little satisfaction that 
so proud a girl as Miss What's-her-name should 
have been jilted. Of course, she doesn't say it." 

Cummings, hotly : " No, she doesn't say it, and 
it 's not to your credit to imagine it." 

Bartlett, with a laugh : " Oh, I don't ask any 
praise for the discovery. You deserve praise for 



 

not making it. It does honor to your good heart. 
Well, don't be vexed, old fellow. And in trying to 
improve me on this little point a weak point, 
I'll allow, with me do me the justice to re- 
member that I didn't flaunt my misanthropy, as 
you call it, in your face ; I didn't force my confi- 
dence upon you." 

Cummings, with compunction : " I didn't mean 
to hurt your feelings, Bartlett." 

Bartlett : " Well, you haven't. It 's all right." 

Cummings, with anxious concern : " I wish I 
could think so." 

Bartlett, dryly : " You have my leave my re- 
quest, in fact." He takes a turn about the room, 
thrusting his fingers through the hair on his fore- 
head, and letting it fall in a heavy tangle, and then 
pulling at either side of his parted beard. In 
facing away from one of the sofas at the end of 
the room, he looks back over his shoulder at it, 
falters, wheels about, and picks up from it a lady's 
shawl and hat. " Hallo ! " He lets the shawl fall 
again into picturesque folds on the sofa. " This is 
the spoil of no local beauty, Cummings. Look 






 

here ; I don't understand this. There has been 
an arrival." 

Gumming *s, joining his friend in contemplation of 
the hat and shawl : " Yes ; it 's an arrival beyond 
all question. Those are a lady's things. I should 
think that was a Paris hat." They remain look- 
ing at the things some moments in silence. 

Bartlett : " How should a Paris hat get here ? 
I know the landlord wasn't expecting it. But it 
can't be going to stay ; it 's here through some 
caprice. It may be a transient of quality, but it 's 
a transient. I suppose we shall see the young 
woman belonging to it at dinner." He sets the hat 
on his fist, and holds it at arm's length from him. 
" What a curious thing it is about clothes " 
Cummings : " Don't, Bartlett, don't ! " 
Bartlett: "Why?" 

Cummings : " I don't know. It makes me feel 
as if you were offering an indignity to the young 
lady herself." 

Bartlett : " You express my idea exactly. This 
frippery has not only the girl's personality but her 
very spirit in it. This hat looks like her; you 



 

can infer the whole woman from it, body and soul. 
It has a conscious air, and so has the shawl, as if 
they had been eavesdropping and had understood 
everything we were saying. They know all about 
my heart-break, and so will she as soon as she puts 
them on ; she will be interested in me. The hat 's 
in good taste, isn't it ? " 

CummingS) with sensitive reverence for the mil- 
linery which his friend handles so daringly : " Ex- 
quisite, it seems to me; but I don't know about 
such things." 

Bartlett : " Neither do I ; but I feel about them. 
Besides, a painter and glazier sees some things 
that are hidden from even a progressive minister. 
Let us interpret the lovely being from her hat. 
This knot of pale-blue flowers betrays her a 
blonde ; this lace, this mass of silky, fluffy, cob- 
webby what-do-you-call-it, and this delicate straw 
fabric show that she is slight; a stout woman 
would kill it, or die in the attempt. And I fancy 
here pure inspiration comes to my aid that 
she is tallish. I 'm afraid of her ! No wait ! 
The shawl has something to say." He takes it up 



 

and catches it across his arm, where he scans it 
critically. " I don't know that I understand the 
shawl, exactly. It proves her of a good height, 
a short woman wouldn't, or had better not, wear a 
shawl, but this black color : should you think it 
was mourning ? Have we a lovely young widow 
among us ? " 

Cummings : " I don't see how it could go with 
the hat, if it were." 

Bartlett : " True ; the hat is very pensive in 
tone, but it isn't mourning. This shawl 's very 
light, it 's very warm ; I construct from it a pretty 
invalid." He lets the shawl slip down his arm to 
his hand, and flings it back upon the sofa. " We 
return from the young lady's heart to her brain 
where she carries her sentiments. She has a nice 
taste in perfumes, Cummings : faintest violet ; 
that goes with the blue. Of what religion is a 
young lady who uses violet, my reverend friend ? " 

Cummings : " Bartlett, you 're outrageous. Put 
down that hat ! " 

Bartlett : " No, seriously. What is her little 
aesthetic specialty ? Does she sketch ? Does she 



 

scribble ? Tell me, thou wicked hat, does she 
flirt ? Come ; out with the vows that you have 
heard poured into the shelly ear under this knot 
of pale-blue flowers ! Where be her gibes now, 
her gambols, her flashes of merriment ? Now get 
you to my lady's chamber, and tell her, let her 
paint an inch thick, to this favor she must come ; 
make her laugh at that. Dost thou think, Horatio 
Cummings, Cleopatra looked o' this fashion ? And 
smelt so ? " he presses the knot of artificial flow- 
ers to his mustache " Pah ! " He tosses the hat 
on the sofa and walks away. 

Cummings : " Bartlett, this is atrocious. I pro- 
test " 

Bartlett : " Well, give me up, I tell you." He 
returns, and takes his friend by the shoulders, as 
before, and laughs. " I 'm not worth your refined 
pains. I might be good, at a pinch, but I never 
could be truly lady-like." 

Cummings : " You like to speak an infinite deal 
of nothing, don't you ? " 

Bartlett : " It 's the only thing that makes con- 
versation." As he releases Cummings, and turns 



 

away from him, in the doorway he confronts an 
elderly gentleman, whose white hair and white 
mustache give distinction to his handsome florid 
face. There is something military in his port, as 
he stands immovably erect upon the threshold, his 
left hand lodged in the breast of his frock-coat, arid 
his head carried with an officer-like air of com- 
mand. His visage grows momently redder and 
redder, and his blue eyes blaze upon Bartlett with 
a fascinated glare that briefly preludes the burst of 
fury with which he advances toward him. 



 

General Wyatt : " You infernal scoundrel ! 
What are you doing here ? " He raises his stick 
at Bartlett, who remains motionlessly frowning in 
wrathful bewilderment, his strong hand knotting 
itself into a fist where it hangs at his side, while 
Cummings starts toward them in dismay, with his 
hand raised to interpose. " Didn't I tell you if 
I ever set eyes on you again, you villain didn't 
I warn you that if you ever crossed my path, 
you" He stops with a violent self-arrest, and 
lets his stick drop as he throws up both his hands 
in amaze. " Good Heavens ! It 's a mistake ! I 
beg your pardon, sir ; I do, indeed." He lets fall 
his hands, and stands staring into Bartlett's face 
with his illusion apparently not fully dispelled. " A 
mistake, sir, a mistake. I was misled, sir, by the 



 

most prodigious resemblance " At the sound of 
voices in the corridor without, he turns from Bart- 
lett, and starts back toward the door. 

A Voice, very sweet and weak, without : " I left 
them in here, I think." 

Another Voice : " You must sit down, Con- 
stance, and let me look." 

The First Voice : Oh, they 'll be here." 

General Wyatt, in a loud and anxious tone : 
" Margaret, Margaret ! Don't bring Constance in 
here ! Go away ! " At the moment he reaches 
the door by which he came in, two ladies in black 
enter the parlor by the other door, the younger 
leaning weakly on the arm of the elder, and with a 
languidly drooping head letting her eyes rove list- 
lessly about over the chairs and sofas. With an 
abrupt start at sight of Bartlett, who has mechan- 
ically turned toward them, the elder lady arrests 
their movement. 



III. 

MRS. WYATT, CONSTANCE, and the others. 

Mrs. Wyatt: "Oh, in mercy's name!" The 
young lady wearily lifts her eyes ; they fall upon 
Bartlett's face, and a low cry parts her lips as she 
approaches a pace or two nearer, releasing her arm 
from her mother's. 

Constance: " Ah ! " She stops ; her thin hands 
waver before her face, as if to clear or to obstruct 
her vision, and all at once she sinks forward into a 
little slender heap upon the floor, almost at Bart- 
lett's feet. He instantly drops upon his knees be- 
side her, and stoops over her to lift her up. 

Mrs. Wyatt : " Don't touch her, you cruel wretch ! 
Your touch is poison ; the sight of you is murder ! " 
Kneeling on .the other side of her daughter, she 
sets both her hands against his breast and pushes 
him back. 



 

General Wyatt : " Margaret, stop ! Look ! Look 
at him again ! It isn't he ! " 

Mrs. Wyatt: "Not he? Don't tell me ! What?" 
She clutches Bartlett's arm, and scans his face with 
dilating eyes. " Oh ! it isn't, it isn't ! But go 
away, go away, all the same ! You may be an 
innocent man, but she would perish in your pres- 
ence. Keep your hands from her, sir ! If your 
wicked heart is not yet satisfied with your wicked 
work Excuse me; I don't know what I'm say- 
ing ! But if you have any pity in your faithless 
soul I oh, speak for me, James, and send him 
implore him to go away ! " She bows her face 
over her daughter's pale visage, and sobs. 

General Wyatt : " Sir, you must pardon us, and 
have the great goodness to be patient. You have 
a right to feel yourself aggrieved by what has hap- 
ened, but no wrong is meant, no offense. You 
must be so kind as to go away. I will make you 
all the needed apologies and explanations." He 
stoops over his daughter, as Bartlett, in a sort of 
daze, rises from his knees and retires a few steps. 
" I beg your pardon, sir," addressing himself to 



 

Cummings, " will you help me a moment ? " 
Cummings, with delicate sympathy and tenderness, 
lifts the arms of the insensible girl to her father's 
neck, and assists the General to rise with his bur- 
den. " Thanks ! She 's hardly heavier, poor child, 
than a ghost." The tears stand in his eyes, as he 
gathers her closer to him and kisses her wan cheek. 
" Sir," as he moves away he speaks to Ba rtlett, 
"do me the favor to remain here till I can re- 
turn to offer you reparation." He makes a stately 
effort to bow to Bartlett in leaving the room, while 
his wife, who follows with the young lady's hat and 
shawl, looks back at the painter with open abhor- 
rence. 



IV. 
BARTLETT and CUMMINGS. 

JBartlett, turning to his friend from the retreat- 
ing group on which he has kept his eyes steadfastly 
fixed : " Where are their keepers ? " He is pale 
with suppressed rage. 

Cummings : u Their keepers? " 

Bartlett) savagely : " Yes ! Have they escaped 
from them, or is it one of the new ideas to let 
lunatics go about the country alone ? If that old 
fool hadn't dropped his stick, I 'd have knocked 
him over that table in another instant. And that 
other old maniac, what did she mean by push- 
ing me back in that way ? How do you account 
for this thing, Cummings ? What do you make 
of it?" 

Cummings : " I don't know, upon my word. 
There seems to be some mystery, some painful 



 

mystery. But the gentleman will be back directly, 
I suppose, and " 

Bartlett) crushing his hat over his eyes : " I 'll 
leave you to receive him and his mystery. I've 
had enough of both." He moves toward the 
door. 

Cummings, detaining him : " Bartlett, you 're 
surely not going away ? " 

Bartlett: "Yes, lam!" 

Cummings : " But he 'll be here in a moment. 
He said he would come back and satisfy the claim 
which you certainly have to an explanation." 

Bartlett, furiously : " Claim ? I 've a perfect Ala- 
bama Claim to an explanation. He can't satisfy 
it ; he shall not try. It 's a little too much to 
expect me to be satisfied with anything he can say 
after what 's passed. Get out of the way, Cum- 
mings, or I 'll put you on top of the piano." 

Cummings: "You may throw me out of the 
window, if you like, but not till I 've done my best 
to keep you here. It 's a shame, it 's a crime to go 
away. You talk about lunatics : you 're a raving 
madman, yourself. Have one glimmer of reason, 



 

do; and see what you're about. It's a mistake ; 
it 's a misunderstanding. It 's his right, it 's your 
duty, to have it cleared up. Come, you've a con- 
science, Bartlett, and a clean one. Don't give 
way to your abominable temper. What? You 
won't stay? Bartlett, I blush for you!" 

Bartlett: "Blush unseen, then!" He thrusts 
Cummings aside and pushes furiously from the 
room. Cummings looks into the corridor after 
him, and then returns, panting, to the piano, and 
mechanically rearranges the things at its feet; he 
walks nervously away, and takes some turns up 
and down the room, looking utterly bewildered, 
and apparently uncertain whether to go or stay. 
But he has decided upon the only course really 
open to him by sinking down into one of the 
arm-chairs, when General Wyatt appears at the 
threshold of the door on the right of the piano. 
Cummings rises and comes forward in great em- 
barrassment to meet him. 



V. 

CUMMINGS and GENERAL WYATT. 

General Wyatt, with a look of surprise at not 
seeing Bartlett: " The other gentleman" 

Cummings: "My friend has gone out. I hope 
he will return soon. He has I hardly know 
what to say to you, sir. He has done himself 
great injustice ; but it was natural that under the 
circumstances " 

General Wyatt, with hurt pride: "Perfectly. 
I should have lost my temper, too ; but I think I 
should have waited at the request the prayer of 
an older man. I don't mind his temper ; the other 
villain had no temper. Sir, am I right in address- 
ing you as the Rev. Arthur Cummings ? " 

Cummings: "My name is Arthur Cummings. 
I am a minister." 

General Wyatt : " I thought I was not mistaken 



 

this time. I heard you preach last Sunday in Bos- 
ton ; and I know your cousin, Major Cummings of 
the 34th Artillery. I am General Wyatt." 

Cummings, with a start of painful surprise and 
sympathy : " General Wyatt ? " 

General Wyatt, keenly : " Your cousin has men- 
tioned me to you ? " 

Cummings : " Yes, oh yes, certainly ; certainly, 
very often, General Wyatt. But" endeavoring 
to recover himself "your name is known to us 
all, and honored. I I am glad to see you back ; 
I understood you were in Paris." 

General Wyatt, with fierce defiance : " I was in 
Paris three weeks ago." Some moments of awk- 
ward silence ensue, during which General Wyatt 
does not relax his angry attitude. 

Gumming s, finally : " I am sorry my friend is 
not here to meet you. I ought to say, in justice to 
him, that his hasty temper does great wrong to his 
heart and judgment." 

General Wyatt : " Why, yes, sir ; so does mine, 
so does mine." 

Cummings, with a respectful smile lost upon the 



 

General : " And I know that he will certainly be 
grieved in this instance to have yielded to it." 

General Wyatt, with sudden meekness : " I hope 
so, sir. But I am not altogether sorry that he has 
done it. I have not only an explanation but a request to make, a very great and strange favor to 
ask, and I am not sure that I should be able to 
treat him civilly enough throughout an entire interview to ask it properly." Cummings listens 
with an air of attentive respect, but makes, to this 
strange statement, no response other than a look 
of question, while the General pokes about on the 
carpet at his feet with the point of his stick for a 
moment before he brings it resolutely down upon 
the floor with a thump, and resumes, fiercely again : 
" Sir, your friend is the victim of an extraordinary 
resemblance, which is so much more painful to us 
than we could have made it to him that I have to 
struggle with my reason to believe that the apology 
should not come from his side rather than mine. 
He may feel that we have outraged him, but every 
look of his, every movement, every tone of his 
voice, is a mortal wound, a deadly insult to us. 



 

He should not live, sir, in the same solar system ! " 
The General deals the floor another stab with his 
cane, while his eyes burn vindictively upon the 
mild brown orbs of Cummings, wide open with as- 
tonishment. He falters, with returning conscious- 
ness of his attitude : "I I beg your pardon, sir ; 
I am ridiculous." He closes his lips pathetically, 
and lets fall his head. When he lifts it again, it is 
to address Cummings with a singular gentleness : 
" I know that I speak to a gentleman." 

Cummings : "I try to be a good man." 

General Wyatt : " I had formed that idea of you, 
sir, in the pulpit. Will you do me the great kindness to answer a question, personal to myself, which 
I must ask ? " 

Cummings : " By all means." 

General Wyatt : " You spoke of supposing me 
still in Paris. Are you aware of any circumstances painful circumstances connected with my 
presence there ? Pardon my asking ; I wouldn't 
press you if I could help." 

Cummings, with reluctance : " I had just heard 
something about a letter from a friend " 




 

General Wyatt, bitterly : " The news has traveled 
fast. Well, sir, a curious chance a pitiless caprice of destiny connects your friend with that miserable story." At Cummings's look of amaze : 
"Through no fault of his, sir ; through no fault of 
his. Sir, I shall not seem to obtrude my trouble 
unjustifiably upon you when I tell you how ; you 
will see that it was necessary for me to speak. I 
am glad you already know something of the affair, 
and I am sure that you will regard what I have to 
say with the right feeling of a gentleman, of, as 
you say, a good man." 

Gumming : " Whatever you think necessary to 
say to me shall be sacred. But I hope you won't 
feel that it is necessary to say anything more. I 
am confident that when my friend has your assur- 
ance from me that what has happened is the result 
of a distressing association " 

General Wyatt : " I thank you, sir. But some- 
thing more is due to him ; how much more you 
shall judge. Something more is due to us : I 
wish to preserve the appearance of sanity, in his 
eyes and your own. Nevertheless " the Gener- 



 

al's tone and bearing perceptibly stiffen " if you 
are reluctant " 

(Jammings, with reverent cordiality : " General 
Wyatt, I shall feel deeply honored by whatever 
confidence you repose in me. I need not say how 
dear your fame is to us all." General Wyatt, 
visibly moved, bows to the young minister. " It 
was only on your account that I hesitated." 

General Wyatt : " Thanks. I understand. I 
will be explicit, but I will try to be brief. Your 
friend bears this striking, this painful resemblance 
to the man who has brought this blight upon us 
all; yes, sir," at Cummings's look of depreca- 
tion, "to a scoundrel whom I hardly know 
how to characterize aright in the presence of 
a clergyman. Two years ago doubtless your 
correspondent has written my wife and daughter 
(they were then abroad without me) met him in 
Paris ; and he won the poor child's affection. 
My wife's judgment was also swayed in his favor, 
against her first impulse of distrust ; but when 
I saw him, I could not endure him. Yet I was 
helpless : my giiTs happiness was bound up in 



 

him ; all that I could do was to insist upon delay. 
He was an American, well related, unobjectionable by all the tests which society can apply, and 
f might have had to wait long for the proofs that 
an accident gave me against him. The man's 
whole soul was rotten ; at the time he had wound 
himself into my poor girl's innocent heart, a 
woman was living who had the just and perhaps 
the legal claim of a wife upon him ; he was a 
felon besides, a felon shielded through pity for 
his friends by the man whose name he had forged ; 
he was of course a liar and a coward : I beat him 
with my stick, sir. Ah! I made him confess his 
infamy under his own hand, and then " the General advances defiantly upon Cummings, who un- 
consciously retires a pace " and then I compelled 
him to break with my daughter. Do you think I 
did right?" 

Cummings: " I don't exactly understand." 

General Wyatt: "Why, sir, it happens often 

enough in this shabby world that a man gains a 

poor girl's love, and then jilts her. I chose what 

I thought the less terrible sorrow for my child. I 



 

could not tell her how filthily unworthy he was 
without bringing to her pure heart a sense of 
intolerable contamination ; I could not endure to 
speak of it even to my wife. It seemed better 
that they should both suffer such wrong as a bro- 
ken engagement might bring them than that 
they should know what I knew. He was mas- 
ter of the part, and played it well ; he showed 
himself to them simply a heartless scoundrel, and 
he remains in my power, an outcast now and a 
convict whenever I will. My story, as it seems 
to be, is well known in Paris ; but the worst is 
unknown. I choose still that it shall be thought 
my girl was the victim of a dastardly slight, and I 
bear with her and her mother the insolent pity 
with which the world visits such sorrow." He 
pauses, and then brokenly resumes : " The affair 
has not turned out as I hoped, in the little I 
could hope from it. My trust that the blow, 
which must sink so deeply into her heart, would 
touch her pride, and that this would help her to 
react against it, was mistaken. In such things it 
appears a woman has no pride; I did not know 



 

it; we men are different. The blow crushed her ; 
that was all. Sometimes I am afraid that I must 
yet try the effect of the whole truth upon her ; that 
I must try if the knowledge of all his baseness can- 
not restore to her the self-respect which the wrong 
done herself seems to have robbed her of. And 
yet I tremble lest the sense of his fouler shame 
I may be fatally temporizing ; but in her 
present state, I dread any new shock for her ; 
it may be death I " He pauses again, and 
sets his lips firmly ; all at once he breaks into a 
sob. "I I beg your pardon, sir." 

Cummings : u Don't ! You wrong yourself and 
me. I have seen Miss Wyatt ; but I hope" 

General Wyatt: "You have seen* her ghost. 
You have not seen the radiant creature that was 
once alive. Well, sir ; enough of this. There is 
little left to trouble you with. We landed eight 
days ago, and I have since been looking about 
for some place in which my daughter could hide 
herself; I can't otherwise suggest her morbid sen- 
sitiveness, her terror of people. This region was 
highly commended to me for its heal thfuln ess ; but 



 

I have come upon this house by chance. I un- 
derstood that it was empty, and I thought it more 
than probable that we might pass the autumn 
months here unmolested by the presence of any 
one belonging to our world, if not in entire se- 
clusion. At the best, my daughter would hardly 
have been able to endure another change at once ; 
so far as anything could give her pleasure, the 
beauty and the wild quiet of the region had pleased 
her, but she is now quite prostrated, sir, " 

Cummings, definitively : "My friend will go 
away at once. There is nothing else for it." 

General Wyatt : " That is too much to ask." 

Cummings : " I won't conceal my belief that he 
will think so. But there can be no question with 
him when " 

General Wyatt : " When you tell him our 
story ? " After a moment : u Yes, he has a right 
to know it as the rest of the world knows it. 
You must tell him, sir." 

Cummings, gently : " No, he need know nothing 
beyond the fact of this resemblance to some one 
painfully associated with your past lives. He is 



 

a man whose real tenderness of heart would revolt 
from knowledge that could inflict further sorrow 
upon you." 

General Wyatt : " Sir, will you convey to this 
friend of yours an old man's very humble apology, 
and sincere prayer for his forgiveness ? " 

Cummings : " He will not exact anything of 
that sort. The evidence of misunderstanding will 
be clear to Mm at a word from me." 

General Wyatt : " But he has a right to this ex- 
planation from my own lips, and Sir, I am 
culpably weak. But now that I have missed see- 
ing him here, I confess that I would willingly 
avoid meeting him. The mere sound of his voice, 
as I heard it before I saw him, in first coming upon 
you, was enough to madden me. Can you excuse 
my senseless dereliction to him ?" 

Cummings : " I will answer for him." 

General Wyatt : " Thanks. It seems monstrous 
that I should be asking and accepting these great 
favors. But you are doing a deed of charity to a 
helpless man utterly beggared in pride." He 
chokes with emotion, and does not speak for a mo- 



 

merit. " Your friend is also he is not also a 
clergyman ? " 

Cummings, smiling : " No. He is a painter." 

General Wyatt : " Is he a man of note ? Succes- 
ful in his profession ? " 

Cummings : " Not yet. But that is certain to 
come." 

General Wyatt : " He is poor ? " 

Cammings : " He is a young painter." 

General Wyatt : " Sir, excuse me. Had he 
planned to remain here some time, yet ? " 

Cummings, reluctantly : " He has been sketch- 
ing here. He had expected to stay through Octo- 
ber." 

General Wyatt: "You make the sacrifice hard 
to accept I beg your pardon ! But I must ac- 
cept it. I am bound hand and foot." 

Cummings : " I am sorry to have been obliged to 
tell you this." 

General Wyatt : " I obliged you, sir ; I obliged 
you. Give me your advice, sir; you know your 
friend. What shall I do ? I am not rich. I don't 
belong to a branch of the government service in 



 

which people enrich themselves. But I have my 
pay ; and if your friend could sell me the pictures 
he 's been painting here " 

Gummings : " That 's quite impossible. There 
is no form in which I could propose such a thing to 
a man of his generous pride." 

General Wyatt : " Well, then, sir, I must satisfy 
myself as I can to remain his debtor. Will you 
kindly undertake to tell him ? " 

An Elderly Serving- Woman, who appears timidly 
and anxiously at the right-hand door : " General 
Wyatt." 

General Wyatt, with a start: "Yes, Mary! 
Well?" 

Mary, in vanishing: "Mrs. Wyatt wishes to 
speak with you." 

General Wyatt, going up to Cummings : " I 
must go, sir. I leave unsaid what I cannot even 
try to say." He offers his hand. 

Cummings, grasping the proffered hand: "Every- 
thing is understood." But as Mr. Cummings re- 
turns from following General Wyatt to the door, 
his face does not confirm the entire security of his 



 

words. He looks anxious and perturbed, and 
when he has taken up his hat and stick, he stands 
pondering absent-mindedly. At last he puts on his 
hat and starts briskly toward the door. Before 
he reaches it, he encounters Bartlett, who advances 
abruptly into the room. "Oh! I was going to 
look for you." 



VI. 

CUMMINGS and BARTLETT. 

Bartlett, sulkily: "Were you?" He walks, 
without looking at Cummings, to where his paint- 
er's paraphernalia are lying, and begins to pick 
them up. 

Cummings: "Yes." In great embarrassment: 
" Bartlett, General Wyatt has been here." 

Bartlett, without looking round : " Who is Gen- 
eral Wyatt?" 

Cummings: "I mean the gentleman who 
whom you wouldn't wait to see." 

Bartlett: "Urn!" He has gathered the things 
into his arms, and is about to leave the room. 

Cummings, in great distress: "Bartlett, Bart- 
lett! Don't go! I implore you, if you have any 
regard for me whatever, to hear what I have to 
say. It's boyish, it's cruel, it's cowardly to be- 
have as you 're doing ! " 



 

Bartktt : "Anything more, Mr. Cummings? I 
give you benefit of clergy." 

Cummings: "I take it to denounce your pro- 
ceeding as something that you 'll always be sorry 
for and ashamed of." 

Bartlett: "Oh! Then, if you have quite freed 
your mind, I think I may go." 

Cummings : " No, no ! You mustn't go. Don't 
go, my dear fellow. Forgive me ! I know how in- 
sulted you feel, but upon my soul it 's all a mistake, 
it is, indeed. General Wyatt " Bartlett fal- 
ters a moment and stands as if irresolute whether 
to stay and listen or push on out of the room 
" the young lady I don't know how to begin ! " 

Bartlett, relenting a little : " Well ? I 'm sorry 
for you, Cummings. I left a very awkward busi- 
ness to you, and it wasn't yours, either. As for 
General Wyatt, as he chooses to call himself" 

Cummings, in amaze : " Call himself ? It 's his 
name ! " 

Bartlett : " Oh, very likely ! So is King David 
his name, when he happens to be in a Scriptural 
craze. What explanation have you been com- 
