" Two lives !" said I, as I sat musing alone in 
the still watches of the night that followed. 
" Two lives and two forms of life an outer and 
an inner life ; the seen and the unseen. Two bodies ; a natural and a spiritual body each substantial, and capable of receiving and retaining 
impressions. How full of meaning is all this! 
How much does it involve! And can it be 
true ?" 
The longer I pondered the subject, the more 
truth seemed involved in the proposition. It was 
plain to me that the unseen body, the spiritual 
man, must be as complete in every part as the natural body, which was but as its outer garment, 
 
or, ratner, its means of action in the lower and 
less perfect world of matter. 
"And if all this be so," said I, one thought 
evolving another, " how wonderful in perfection 
must that body be, organized, as it is, of spiritual 
substances ; and how perfectly must the spiritual 
countenance express the passions and emotions of 
the soul ! Ah ! how different will all be when we 
come to lay aside this body of flesh and blood 
this mass of inertia, now infilled with the life of 
the spirit, which it is ever bearing down, and 
whose powers it is ever limiting ! In that unseen world, there will be no veil of matter to hide 
the moral quality. All eyes will see us in our 
true characters in our true spiritual forms." 
I paused. The last words were the plane for a 
new influx of ideas. 
"What is a spiritual form?" I asked myself. 
I pondered long. 
" What is spiritual"?" 
I'm used still further. 
" It is thought and affection. A spiritual form, 
 
then, is a form of affection ; or, in other words, an 
affection clothed in its proper thought ; for it is 
by thought that affection comes into manifest perception, and shows us its quality. Can this be 
so? How much, undreamed of before, is in 
volved ! Will evil affections give a lovely 
form ?" " No !" was my involuntary answer. 
My thoughts turned toward a beautiful young 
lady whom I had met during the day, who was 
greatly admired for her personal charms. In 
form and face she was almost faultless. I now 
remembered that, in conversing, she had exhibited 
a feeling of malice toward another ; and had also 
displayed a large share of vanity. 
"The seen body is beautiful," said I, still 
musing; "but, is it so with the unseen body? 
Can an evil affection clothe itself in a form of 
loveliness ?" 
I pondered this question until there came a 
great change. I was no longer in my chamber, 
musing upon different questions-, but among a 
company of people who sat in the porch of a 
 
large building, the architecture of which was 
more perfect than anything I had ever beheld. 
Before us spread out a beautiful landscape. 
" This is a new country to me," said I to one 
who was near me ; and, as I spoke, I tried to recollect the way by which I had come. " What 
is its name?" 
"This is the World of Spirits," replied the 
person to whom I had addressed the inquiry. 
"The World of Spirits!" A thrill went 
through me. Was I then dead ? 
"Not dead," said my companion, who per 
ceived my thoughts, " but truly alive. You 
have laid aside the body of flesh, and arisen in 
the true spiritual body." 
" But these are flesh !" said I, holding up my 
hands ; " I can touch one against the other. 
Moreover, I can touch your body, and it is firm, 
like my own." 
"And yet all is spiritual," was replied. "Your 
body and my body, and the bodies of all around 
us, are spiritual in their substance. Our senses 
 
likewise are spiritual. What made us men ou 
earth ? Our flesh and blood ? Mere dead matter? Far from it. We were men, because we 
were spiritually organized, and, in the human 
form, made after the likeness and in the image of 
God. Does the laying aside of the natural body 
make us less men less human ? No ! And can 
we be men, without having bodily form and 
senses ?" 
As he spoke, there approached one whom I 
had known in the world, and who had departed 
thence a year before. She had many questions to 
ask about friends she had left behind, all of which 
I answered. As she left me, after a time, I 
turned to the one with whom I had spoken, and 
said to him 
" How is this ? In the other life this person 
had a beautiful body ; but now she is deformed 
and repulsive." 
" It is because her aifections are evil, and not 
good," replied my companion. " In this world, 
all are seen according to their quality. Good affections 
give beautiful forms, and evil affections 
repulsive forms." 
My thoughts instantly turned toward one who, 
while living in the world, had a sickly and de 
formed body, but who had a pure and loving spi 
rit, and whose chief delight appeared to be to do 
good ; and, as I thought of her, I saw her ap 
proaching. She drew near, and joined the com 
pany. Oh, what a change ! The bent body was 
straight and graceful, and the severe angles of her 
suffering countenance had given place to a surpassing beauty. My heart was touched with ad 
miring wonder, as I looked upon her. 
Another whom I had known appeared. He 
was a man who, while living in the world, had 
been covetous, but who loved a good reputa 
tion, and, therefore, concealed his real character 
under assumed forms of benevolence and liberality. While in the natural body he was fair in 
person, but now there was a hideousness about 
his countenance, that made me turn from him with 
a shudder; and I understood the quality of his life 
 
from the form and expression of his person and 
face, as clearly as if " Covetousness" had been 
written upon his forehead. 
" This man was of goodly appearance in the 
world," said I, turning to my companion. 
" His seen body was fair to look upon," was 
replied ; " but his evil affections were daily and 
slowly destroying, in the unseen body, every trace 
of beauty. Come with me, and I will show you 
some of those who have become so changed from 
the human form, through evil lives, as to appear 
more like beasts than men." 
My companion took me to a valley, before con 
cealed from view by a dense forest, through which 
led a winding path. In this valley were companies of men and women, engaged in various pursuits that seemed to occupy their earnest attention. 
" Look from this point," said my companion, 
as we gained a little eminence, "and you will see 
them in their true forms." 
I looked for a moment, and then turned away, 
sick with the sight. 
 
" What did you see ?" asked my companion. 
"Men and women so changed as to appear 
more like evil and filthy beasts, than forms of 
human intelligence." 
"As you saw them, so are they. While in the 
natural body, many of them had beautiful forms, 
for which they were loved and admired. But, in 
their life in the world, they marred the form and 
features of their spiritual bodies by evil and 
beastly affections. One had the cunning of the 
fox; another the cruelty of the wolf; and another 
the filthy sensuality of the swine. All this was 
hid from the natural sight it was the unseen. 
But the veil of flesh is removed, and what was 
unseen has become the seen. They are now be 
fore you in the forms that correspond to their true 
affections. 
" Oh, if men knew this !" I exclaimed. 
"Return and give utterance to the truth. 
Publish what your eyes have seen and your ears 
heard." 
" But they will not believe," said I. 
 
" Tell it, nevertheless." 
At this moment, I saw approaching one whom 
I had once loved with a deep affection, and whose 
loss I had mourned with unavailing sorrow. She 
had observed me, and was hurrying forward. As 
she came near, I perceived that she was no longer 
beautiful as before. Every fair feature was dis 
torted, and there was an expression of evil in her 
countenance, that shocked me like an electric current. Oh, she was hideous! I turned to flee; 
but she threw her arms around me, and uttered 
words of endearment ; and her voice, instead of 
being flute-like in its tones, croaked like the voice 
of a raven. In fear and sorrow I awoke. 
Long did I lie pondering the strange vision. 
" Dreams are, for the most part, fantastic," said 
I ; " but they often come in similitudes of truth. 
There is truth veiled here ; I feel it, I know it. 
An evil life must distort the features of our inner 
man, and change them from beauty to deformity. 
We know that the soul receives impressions, and 
retains them. Warp the soul in childhood, 
 
and it ever after retains the unpleasing form, 
which is ever manifesting itself by means of the 
outer body. If we could see, by a spiritual vision, this soul or inner body itself, we would see 
the distortion as plainly as we perceive an un 
sightly crook in a favorite tree." 
And if all this be so, and who will make bold 
to deny it? each one of us is, day after day, 
either marring and deforming the unseen body, 
or rendering it more beautiful. Every evil and 
selfish affection, every unholy passion, every in 
dulgence in wrong feelings or actions, deforms 
the spirit; while every good and generous emotion, and every act that springs from a purified 
and all-embracing love of our neighbor, is render 
ing it more and more beautiful, and, if continued 
to the end of life, the unseen body, when it rises 
into the light of the spiritual world, will appear 
lovely as the form of an angel. 
Reader, lay this up in your heart, and ponder 
well the words of the stranger. They are not 
idle sounds, like tones from the passing wind. 
II. 
OUR CHANGING STATES. 
HE weather is not more variable than our 
states of mind. To-day the atmosphere is se 
rene, the sky unclouded ; to-morrow, an unquiet 
thrill runs pulsing through all the air, and our 
heavens are overcast. We are shadowed and 
troubled. 
These changes in our mental condition result 
often from unapparent causes ; and often from disturbances 
of so light a character, that we look 
back at them in wonder, and question with our 
selves whether something more serious, which we 
vainly endeavor to recall, does not exist. It is 
only an appearance that the primary cause of 
these sudden, and almost uncontrollable changes, 
comes from without, jarring us from our tranquil 
self-possession. The elements of disquietude are 
 
all within, though the touch by which they are 
awakened, may reach us from the outside. If 
there was nothing within to be disturbed, the 
hand of discord might feel about our heart-strings 
in vain. The light step of a child will shake the 
uncertain bog ; but the stamp of a giant moves 
not the solid earth. 
Our states of mind are always affected by those 
with whom we come in contact. We cannot pass 
an hour, or even the tenth part of an hour, with 
any one, and not experience some change in our 
feelings. Sometimes the change is pleasant, 
sometimes disagreeable. A visitor drops in. 
We happen to be feeling dull. Something hae 
gone wrong we are under a cloud. But, sun 
shine comes in with our visitor, and at the very 
sound of his voice, the heart beats strong again. 
His conversation soothes us into tranquil peace, 
or lifts our thought into the world of pure ideas, 
beyond life 's petty discords. He leaves us, and 
our mind is calmer for the day. Again we are 
in a peaceful state. Not a cloud flecks the sky. 
 
To live is enjoyment. An acquaintance calls, 
and almost immediately an uneasy motion is felt. 
His sphere touches us unpleasantly, and we are 
instinctively on our guard. In less than ten minutes we feel a sense of disquietude. Evil and 
disturbing elements become active. Every word 
he utters comes as a challenge to some bad pas 
sion, or hurts some tender spot. He probes our 
sore places with the cool precision of a surgeon, 
and goes away, at length, leaving us miserable for 
the day. 
As there is no gratuitous evil, the class of 
which this last-mentioned individual is a representative, has, no doubt, its use no credit to the 
class, of course. It must needs be that offences 
come ; but woe to him by whom they come. All 
disturbing elements that exist in our minds are 
evil elements, and as really hurtful to the spirit as 
morbific things are to the body; and it is just as 
important that we be advised of their existence, 
as of corresponding things in the lower plane of 
animal life. But, while quiescent, their existence 
 
is not perceived. Stealthily their evil work may 
be going on. Like spiders in dark corners and 
shut chambers, these evil things are silently cast 
ing fibre after fibre, and loop after loop, around 
our souls, until threads of gossamer are spun into 
bonds no strength of ours, may sunder. It is well 
for us, then, that some hand open a window occasionally, and let in the light upon these dark cor 
ners and shut chambers, disturbing the spiders at 
their work. There will be, of course, a sudden 
stir, a shaking along the filmy lines, a sense of 
bondage as the spirit rises to an easy movement. 
From repose and self-enjoyment from false security, there will be an awakening into painful 
disquietude. We are offended, perhaps, because 
of this meddling with our individual life. We 
blame the officious hand that flung open a shut 
window we call him a disturber of our peace 
who frightened the spiders at their evil work, and 
made us aware of their presence. And he may 
have intended to disturb us, not that he might 
help us to cast out these evil things, but that he 
 
might enjoy our pain and humiliation. But, let 
us remember, that if there be no unclean, no vile 
and hurtful things, in our minds, the opening of 
a window, and flashing in of light, cannot touch 
our tranquil states. If the chambers of our souls 
are always swept and garnished, sunbeams can 
only reveal order and beauty. 
And so, if miserable for the day, after such a 
visitation, good must follow with those who 
aspire after good with those who, once made 
conscious of disease, turn to the great Physician. 
We may not be able to think well of him who dis 
covered to us how weak, vain, selfish or mean- 
spirited we were, because he only sought to 
wound and humiliate. Nay, we will hold our 
selves guarded at the next interview, lest he reveal to us other spider-filled corners, and humble 
us in his presence again. 
Salutary as the influence of these disturbers of 
our peace may be, through the revelations they 
give us of ourselves, they only help us to disco 
ver evil, which they scent as the crow scents car- 
rion. They are not physicians ; have no oint 
ment for the sores they uncover; no balm for the 
wounds made in sharp thrusts into our tender 
sides. They hurt us, and then go on their way 
rejoicing that they left us in pain. With us, if 
we are indeed of those who are striving to ascend 
to the higher regions of spiritual life, where the 
sky is clear, and the air serene, they leave, in 
their departure, the difficult but essential duty of 
forgiveness. Let us see to it that our hurt in the 
contact is less than was intended ; nay, that good 
come, where evil was designed. 
Of that other class to which we have referred, 
the individuals come to us as angels come, search 
ing for good. They are those who say to evil, be 
far from me. In their company the bad in us 
hides itself still farther away, or skulks to the 
dim exteriors of our conscious life, shorn for the 
time of strength. All that is generous and no 
ble ; all that is self-denying ; all that gives us 
sympathy with our fellow-man; all that invests 
goodness with beauty, is made alive and active in 
 
our souls. They come to us in light they come 
to us in love making truth clearer, and affection 
warmer. The peace that dwells with them, per 
vading their atmosphere like the odorous sphere 
surrounding a flower, and penetrating to our life, 
is no slumbrous calm. The sun is shining; the air 
is clear and vital ; good seeds in the ground have 
sprung up in thrifty stalks, and the harvest nods 
hopefully in the swelling grain. And we feel, 
while with them, our own earth drinking the sun, 
and thank God for the signs of fruitfulness in our 
souls. All is not a barren waste, as we some 
times feared. They have made us more in love 
with goodness ; strengthened our better purposes ; 
taught us lessons of forgiveness, and shown us how 
to walk with him, who, when upon earth, went 
about doing good. Blessings on all such! Theii 
lives are in heaven. In the Golden Age, angels 
walked with men ; not in natural bodies, but in 
bodies of spiritual substance, made visible to the 
spiritual eyes of celestial men, living in primal 
innocence. Sin closed the inner senses, and 
though 
" Myriads of spiritual beings walk the earth unseen, 
Whether we sleep or wake," 
our darkened vision perceives them not. And 
yet, in God 's inercy, angels still walk and talk 
with us, leading our thoughts upward, and these 
are they of whom we have just spoken. Their 
lives are in heaven ; but they dwell in natural bo 
dies, and talk with us face to face. Blessings on 
them, we repeat. 
Our changes of state are all dependent on 
things within us. Disturbing influences may 
come from without ; but, if there is nothing to 
disturb, the pressure is vain. The wind that 
lashes the sea into fury, sweeps scarcely heeded 
over the level earth. What a lesson in this ! 
what a revelation ! Every touch from the out 
side meets some response within, or dies unheeded. 
If to an evil allurement an evil desire starts up, 
what will you say? That the allurement created 
 
the desire? Not so. The magnet revealed the 
iron. The evil was there. And so of any and 
all responses made by the soul. Thus, our 
changes of state are our instructors. They show 
us the quality of our lives ; admonish us of hid 
den diseases ; and encourage us by revelations of 
progress in the right way, or triumphs in the 
good fight. 
III. 
THE SWEET FOUNTAIN. 
cup is too bitter," said the lady "Too, 
too bitter ! I cannot drink of it." And a 
shudder ran through her frame. Her face was 
wan and troubled ; her eyes red from a night of 
weeping. 
" But at last, it shall be sweet to the taste." 
"You mock me!" the lady exclaimed, with a 
sudden throb of almost indignant rejection in her 
voice. 
" Not so, my dear Mrs. Lea," was calmly, al 
most tenderly answered. " We are in God 's 
hand, and all his ways are in mercy. If he per 
mit sorrow or trouble, misfortune or bereavement, 
to darken our homes, it is that he may open the 
way for brighter sunbeams to enter. In the bittcrest cup 
placed to our lips, will be found sweet 
ness at last." 
"There can be no sweetness in my cup. I 
shall find the draft grow bitterer and bitterer 
even to the dregs." 
"And yet I say, dear friend! it was dipped 
from a sweet fountain." 
The face of the lady who thus answered was 
serene; and yet, no one could look into it without 
seeing the old marks of pain, of care, of endu 
rance and long suffering. The lines were not 
now sharply cut; but rounded and softened by the 
verdure which heavenly sunshine and refreshing 
dew had wakened into life. 
" It was dipped from a sweet fountain," she repeated, " and the water is sweet." 
" Sweet ! Why will you mock me ?" And 
Mrs. Lea, with a half offended air, shut her eyes, 
and leaned back among the cushions amid which 
she languidly reposed. Her face was very, very 
sad. 
" The bitterness lies in your taste. But, when 
 
that is refined and made perceptive in a higher 
degree, then will this cup of offence, as it now 
seems, be found to contain heavenly nectar. I 
amnot speaking with a vague idealism no, 
no but from life-experience. What we have 
lived we comprehend. Time was, when the cup 
God placed to my lips was as gall and worm 
wood. Often and often since, have I drank from 
the same cup, and found it honey to my taste. 
Have you been very happy in the time past, my 
friend?" 
Mrs. Lea did not answer this abruptly-put 
question, and a period of silence followed. As 
her friend looked into her troubled countenance 
the eyes were still shut she saw thought begin 
ning to obliterate many of the lines that expressed 
only rebellion and suffering. 
" In the time past," she resumed, " the abun 
dance of this world has been gathered to your 
door. You have enjoyed wealth and position. 
But, has your soul, in dwelling with these, found 
unalloyed pleasure ? Did they bring satisfactions, 
 
delights, tranquilities ? Was there no reaching 
of the soul beyond ? No yearnings for a higher 
life ? Have you not grown weary, and restless, 
often, under a sense of inadequacy in all around 
you to minister to crying wants ? Like a caged 
bird, have you not fluttered as in a prison, pant 
ing for a wider range and purer atmosphere? 
Yes, my friend ; it has been even so. You need 
not answer. We have stood, in past years, very 
near together, and I have seen it all. You have 
not been happy !" 
"My own fault," answered Mrs. Lea, with 
slight impatience of manner. " I had everything 
to make me happy. Now, I lose everything on 
which my soul can rest." 
" So far from that," said the friend, " you will 
lose nothing on which true happiness is based. 
* Riches and honors have no power, in themselves, 
to give blessing. That is a state of the soul, and 
comes from right activities. The will acts in 
useful ends, and gives delight according to its 
quality of love to God and man, without reference 
 
to external conditions. So the way to happiness 
is set before the humblest and the poorest, even 
as it is set before the rich and great. If the rich 
will not, in their riches, find the way that leads 
to true enjoyment, and it is possible to lead them 
to right paths through the vale of poverty, God, 
wlrt) is infinite in his love, will, from love, take 
them down into this valley, and in it show them 
the paths of peace,, leading up to the mountains 
of delight. He will put a cup to their lips which 
may prove exceedingly bitter to the taste ; but, in 
the end, they will find that its waters came from 
a sweet fountain. In these sad times, He is lead 
ing many thousands down into dark and difficult 
ways, and they shrink, and tremble, and shudder 
as they descend. But, He knows what is in 
them, and will see that no good is lost, and no 
true source of happiness destroyed. If they will 
be patient, submissive, and self-denying, he will 
surely make their sun to shine in an unclouded 
sky, and their peace to flow as a river. Not, it 
may be, through any restoration of former things 
 
but in a new life, to which shall be given, for 
nourishment, celestial food. The difference of 
this life from the former life, will be as that be 
tween the chrysalis and the butterfly. O my 
friend, seek for this life ! As you go down in the 
ways of misfortune that must be trodden, do it 
with a brave heart and with trust in God. He is 
very near to all ; but especially and intimately 
near to those who, in suffering and sorrow, turn 
to him in tearful hope, and prayerful confidence. 
He will make what looks so rough in the dis 
tance, smooth and soft as grassy meadows. Down 
amid those gloomy shadows that appal your soul, 
rays of divine light will come. Angel hands 
shall lead you, and angel voices speak words of 
consolation and hope." 
And it came, in time, to be even so. There 
was good in Mrs. Lea. Potent in her heart were 
all the elements of a true woman, ind these found 
life and development in a lower plane of social 
activity from the one in which she had moved in 
a spirit of proud self-seeking, or idle indulgence. 
 
Her fall, like that of many others, was rapid. 
In the concussion, she was stunned and bewil 
dered; and for a brief time lay as one in whom 
all useful life was extinguished. But, Mrs. Lea 
was a wife and mother. Her husband was dear 
to her, and so were her children. Yet, had she 
not filled out the measure of her obligations as 
wife and mother for all the love in her heart. 
Wealth had placed her in a false relation to com 
mon duties ; and brought her within the sphere 
of false ideas. Because she was rich, and could, 
for hire, command the services of others, she had 
permitted herself to accept the hurtful fallacy, 
that in useful employments there was something 
degrading. And so accepting the ease and idle 
ness which were offered, she had delegated her 
most sacred obligations, and left even her tender 
babes to the exclusive care of those who worked 
for hire. 
But so sweeping was the disaster that fell upon 
her husband, that every vestige of fortune disap 
peared, and, at the age of forty, he found himself 
 
just on the level from which he started nearly 
twenty years before. 
Six months after the period of wreck, let us 
look in upon Mrs. Lea. The cup of misfortune 
has been, for all this time, at her lips ; let us see 
whether she has found any sweetness in the 
draught. The home in which we find her is 
very humble compared with the one out of which 
she passed, not long before, with hardly restrained 
tears. She is sitting with two children by her 
side, one a girl of seven years, and the other a 
boy of nine. The boy has his arm around her 
neck, and is looking upon a book that she is 
holding. The little girl stands in front, with her 
large eyes, full of light and happiness, fixed in 
tently on her mother 's face. Mrs. Lea is reading 
aloud. There is no sadness in her voice ; but, on 
the contrary, a firm cheerfulness. Every now 
and then she pauses, and talks to the children 
about what she is reading. They listen with the 
deepest interest. Now, in one of these pausas. 
 
and just as the mother raises the book to resume 
her reading, the boy says, 
" I like this home best, don 't you, Florence ?" 
"Yes, indeed I do;" the little girl answers, 
with a quiver of delight in her voice. 
" How comes that ? This home is not so large, 
nor so handsome, and we are poor." Mrs. Lea 
gazes curiously, and not without manifest surprise 
at her children. 
There is a deepening of color on the boy 's face, 
and a slight hesitation of manner. He looks up 
at his mother with eyes so full of love that it is 
brimming them with tears. 
" Why, my son ? Why do you like this home 
the best ?" 
"Because " The flush on his face is 
warmer. 
"Say it, dear." And Mrs. Lea draws the 
answer. 
" Because you are always with us now !" The 
tears will not hold back. There comes a half 
hindered sob, and the boy 's face goes down upon 
his mother 's breast. 
Was any joy in all that mother 's experience so 
deep and pure as the joy which now rewards her 
whole being, giving delight even to the very bo 
dily sensations ; and there is no power in misfor 
tune to cast a shadow over it. 
" You love to have mother with you ?" 
"Don 't we, Florence?" The boy lifts his 
head, not ashamed of the tears, that shine like 
dew-beads on his cheeks, and smiles upon his 
sister. 
" Indeed we do," answers bright eyes, with a 
fuller meaning in her tones than she can. express 
in words ; " and I hope we ll always be poor, and 
never have a nursery any more, to be shut up in, 
with cross, ugly nurses." 
A world of new thoughts come pressing in 
upon the mind of Mrs. Lea. Scales drop from 
her eyes. She sees how the true woman in her 
had been overlaid by fashionable observances. 
How the mere possession of wealth had deceived 
 
her into the false idea that a mother could trans 
fer to a hireling the most sacred of all duties. 
"Is the cup so very bitter?" Mrs. Lea is 
talking with herself, as she sits sewing upon a 
garment for one of her children. They have left 
her side, and are at play with themselves. " My 
friend was right; there is a sweet taste in the 
water it contains. The bitterness was in me." 
A few hours later, coming in from the small 
chamber, where she has, after hearing their prayers, 
given her children to the arms of sleep, Mrs. 
Lea stands by her husband, and lays her hand 
upon him. He looks up into her face. His own 
had worn a shadow when he came in, not long 
before ; but it is not shadowed now. 
" We have not lost all," he says. 
"JS"o, not all. Much is left much that is 
priceless in value." 
" Love is left and duty and God 's kingdom, 
into which we may enter by love and duty." 
The voice of Mr. Lea trembles a little with its 
burden of feeling, in this new utterance for him. 
 
He has been listening to the clear, yet reverent, 
voices of his children, going up in their evening 
prayer, and from the chamber in which they 
kneeled by their mother he has gone back 
through nearly forty years to another chamber 
and another mother. The treasure-house of good 
affections and pious thoughts, stored in infancy 
and childhood, is unlocked now. He has gone in 
among its precious things, and comprehending 
their value, he says " Love is left and duty 
and God 's kingdom, into which we may enter by 
love and duty." It was by misfortune that the 
key came into his hands. And so in the loss of 
worldly treasure, he has found the way to a store 
house of celestial riches. 
" When this cup touched my lips." It is still 
later in the evening, and there has been long and 
earnest communion with the past, the present, and 
the future. "When this cup touched my lips," 
Mrs. Lea is speaking " its bitterness made me 
shudder ; yet, now I can see that it brought me 
water from a sweet fountain. I am happier to- 
 
night than I was one year ago, when no dread of 
the storm that has swept over us sent a chill to 
my heart. There is a foundation, dear husband, 
on which we may build and rest secure, though 
the floods beat, and the tempests rage." 
" Let us build thereon," is answered in low, 
earnest tones, " a building that shall endure for 
ever." 
 
IV. 
COMFORTED. 
drawn curtains stillness; such deep 
^ surrounding stillness that breathing was audi 
ble. In this dimness and silence sat, through 
the long days, refusing to be comforted, a mother 
who had lost her child : Not a child in the in 
nocence of infancy, but in the fragrance and pu 
rity of young womanhood. 
A sorrow like this is hard to bear. It touches 
the very springs of life, and dashes their waters 
with bitterness. It weighs down the heart with a 
burden that makes every pulsation weak and 
painful. Clouds envelop the sun and the earth 
is in shadow. 
" If I could only see her in my dreams," said 
Mrs. Ellsworth to a friend, who had left the out 
side cheerful world, and come into the gloomy 
 
apartment where the bereaved one sat nursing her 
sorrow. " If I could only see her in my dreams, 
it would be something. But since the day her 
face was shut from me by the coffin lid, neither 
to outward sight nor inward vision has it again 
been visible. Through how many hours of the 
night have I kept awake, hoping that I'm ight see 
her in the darkness. I was not afraid. Dear, 
dear child ! She has gone from me as completely 
as if I were sailing over an ocean, and she had 
dropped down into its fathomless depths. Is 
there no return of our beloved? My faith begins 
to fail. I had not thought of the spiritual world 
as very distant. T had believed the separating 
veil but thin. Thought gives presence, and love 
conjunction, as to the spirit, whether we be in the 
body or out of the body ; so I had said, and so I 
had believed. But now I sit and think of Mar 
garet for hours, yet do not perceive her presence." 
The friend made no attempt to meet the state 
of Mrs. Ellsworth by theory or doctrine. She 
understood her case, and knew that there was no 
 
comfort in words. So after sitting silent for a. 
little while, she said 
" You knew Mrs. Garland ?" 
"Yes." 
" Have you heard about her ?" 
" No ! what about her ?" 
" Not that her husband was killed at Gettys 
burg?" 
" Why, no ! Killed at Gettysburg !" 
"Yes; and what makes the case sadder, his 
body could not be found. She will never know 
the place of his burial !" 
" Have you seen her ?" asked Mrs. Ellsworth. 
"No; my acquaintance was too slight to war 
rant intrusion. But you were an intimate friend, 
I think." 
"We have been quite intimate. Poor Mrs. 
Garland ! How does she bear this terrible afflic 
tion ?" 
"I have not happened to meet with any one 
who has visited her." 
Mi s. Ellsworth, who had been sitting in a Ian- 
 
guid attitude, almost too spiritless to move, loft 
her chair, and began walking about the room. A 
new interest had been awakened in her mind. 
The grief of a friend had for the moment over 
shadowed her own. 
"You will go and see her?" suggested the 
visitor. 
Mrs. Ellsworth stood still. She had not been 
out of her house scarcely out of her chamber 
since her daughter 's death. 
" The words of a very near friend give comfort 
in sorrow. The heart is sustained by sympathy," 
" We are near and dear friends ; her affliction 
is heavier than mine; I will go to her," said Mrs. 
Ellsworth. 
Temperaments are different, and so are the 
principles on which character is based. No two 
minds bear sorrow alike. The heart of Mrs. 
Ellsworth failed her as she crossed the threshold 
of her friend 's dwelling. She had come to offer 
the comfort of her presence not to deal in fruit 
less words and now she felt that even her pre- 
 
sence could only add gloom to the darkness in 
which Mrs. Garland was enshrouded. A few 
moments of waiting, and then a servant invited 
her up stairs. The chamber in which she found 
her friend was not in twilight shadows, but cheer 
ful with tempered light. As she entered, she met 
a pale, suffering face, and eyes running over. 
The face hid itself on her bosom. Tears mingled 
with tears, and sobs answered to sobs. 
" It was so kind in you to come," said Mrs. 
Garland, as they sat down together. "I have 
thought of you so many times, and wished to see 
you." 
A baby sat on the floor a baby ten months 
old. His nurse had gone down stairs. He was 
half alarmed at the presence of a stranger, and 
put up his hands to be taken. His mother lifted 
him into her arms, and he nestled his head close 
down against her bosom, but with his eyes on 
Mrs. Ellsworth 's face. 
" Dear baby !" said Mrs. Ellsworth, the mois 
ture glistening in her eyes. 
 
"Margaret loved him so! I never look at 
him that I do not think of Margaret," returned 
Mrs. Garland. "And he was so fond of her 
dear girl that she was ! I dreamed of her last 
night. She was standing in this very room, with 
Eddy in her arms. How plainly I can se 
her!" 
" Oh, I would give all I have in the world for 
just such a dream ! to see her, even in my sleep. 
Oh, yes, she loved Eddy. Come, darling." And 
Mrs. Ellsworth, in whose heart was born at that 
instant a tender yearning towards the child, held 
out her hands. The baby felt the new-born love, 
and responded by leaping into Mrs. Ellsworth 's 
arms, and laying his head down sweetly on her 
bosom. 
"Just so he would spring into Margaret 's 
arms," said the mother. 
"She loved all little children. A baby was 
her delight." And something of that very de 
light transfused itself through the soul of Mrs. 
Ellsworth. Since her own little ones lay on her 
 
breast, she had never perceived such beauty in a 
baby. 
And Margaret had loved this very baby so ten 
derly ! had so often held him in her arms, and 
fell his head against her bosom as she felt it now ! 
A thrill of strange pleasure ran along her nerves. 
She had an intimation of Margaret 's presence 
such as had not been given since the veil of death 
dropped down between them. 
" She so tenderly loved little children while in 
this world," said Mrs. Garland, "that, I doubt 
not, God has placed her in the midst of them. 
Their pure spirits are going upwards daily and 
hourly. Angels are gathering them, like fra 
grant harvests, from thousands of earthly homes, 
and garnering them in heaven. I have often pic 
tured Margaret to my thought, surrounded by ba 
bies and little children, in ministering to whom 
she found a purer and more unfailing delight 
than she ever knew upon the earth." 
The countenance of Mrs. Ellsworth lightened. 
Her eyes glanced upwards ; the close compression 
her quivering lips gave way to something like 
a smile. 
" While my thought has dwelt too often with 
the body in the grave," she answered, "even 
when it followed her across the dividing river, it 
realized no actual condition of life saw her in no 
congenial associations realized nothing. Dear 
friend ! you have put stones beneath my sinking 
feet. It may not be just as you have imagined ; 
but, one thing is plain to me now the pure and 
innocent loves of her heart will not flow forth to 
be lost like water in sand." 
" No, no," said Mrs. Garland. " Defect, im 
pediment, hindrance are of this world. They are 
born of evil. But, in heaven, every pure de 
sire every tender love is gratified. Let our 
souls take up their rest in this ; let us find some 
relief to pain in the sure faith that it is well with 
our departed ones ; and that, if they come to us 
in spirit, they will be able to draw nearer if our 
souls are calm and resigned to God 's will, than if 
 
they were shrouded in despair, and turbulent 
with complaint." 
"Yes, yes. It must be so," returned Mrs. 
Ellsworth. "A new suggestion comes to me. 
Have I not so hidden my spirit away amid pall 
and cloud, that my child could not find me? 
Her love is still the same. Her thought could 
not have turned itself from me. Why have I 
had no sign of her presence ?" 
Mrs. Garland reached her hands for the child, 
who was still in Mrs. Ellsworth 's arms; but Mrs. 
Ellsworth drew him closer, saying : 
" Let him remain dear baby ! I have hardly 
acknowledged it to myself, but since he has been 
lying here, Margaret has seemed almost in bodily 
presence beside me. I came to grieve with you, 
dear friend, in your deeper sorrow, and lo, my 
heart has been comforted !" 
" I have been hiding away from my darling," 
said Mrs. Ellsworth, talking with herself as she 
went homeward. " I have so darkened all the 
chambers in which my soul dwelt, that she could 
not find me. I'm ust open the windows ; I'm ust 
let in the light ; I'm ust clothe my spirits with 
fairer garments. I'm ust no longer think of my 
loss, but of her gain. As God 's kingdom in the 
heavens into which she has been born is a king 
dom of mutual love and service, my life must 
dwell amid useful things if I would be in associa 
tion with angels and she is an angel." 
That night she had a dream of Margaret. She 
came to her in spotless garments, holding little 
Eddy in her arms, and smiling down upon him 
with looks of ineffable sweetness. How real it 
all was ! 
"Take him, dear mother!" She held him 
forth, and he sprang to the arms of Mrs. Ells 
worth. 
The smile on Margaret 's face grew tenderer, as 
she said : 
" Of such is the kingdom of heaven." 
The dream passed. Morning came. But a 
sense of Margaret 's presence remained. If she 
thought of her sadly ; if she repined at her loss ; 
 
if she sat down with folded hands, gathering 
gloomy states around her, this sense of presence 
began to fade. The departed one seemed to 
move afar off. But, in all cheerful work, in all 
self-forgetfulness, in all service for another, she 
felt her very near. Sometimes she could say : 
" Margaret has been with me all day long." 
And so she was comforted. In an almost con 
strained effort to leave her own sorrow, and try 
to soften the pain that lay close and hard upon 
another spirit, she had found the way of consola 
tion. 
" IF I had leisure, quiet, repose ! If I codld 
escape from this fret and fever of life from 
this daily contact with things that chafe and 
worry ; that hurt and agitate. Ah, my friend ! 
There is something wrong. Something out of 
