amid the slippery leaves and catching roots, and 
hurried on. And I kept to the left. It even occurred 
to me that I was turning to the left so much, that I 
might come back to the river again. It grew more 
dusky, and rained more violently ; but there was 
nothing alarming in the situation, since I knew exactly 
where I was. It was a little mortifying that I had 
miscalculated the distance : yet, so far was I from 
feeling any uneasiness about this, that I quickened my 
pace again, and, before I knew it, was in a full run ; 
that is, as full a run as a person can indulge in in the 
dusk, with so many trees in the way* No nervousness, 
but simply a reasonable desire to get there. I desired 
to look upon myself as the person " not lost, but gone 
before." As time passed, and darkness fell, and no 
clearing or road appeared, I ran a little faster. It 
didn't seem possible that the people had moved, or 
the road been changed ; and yet I was sure of my 
direction. I went on with an energy increased by the 
ridiculousness of the situation, the danger that an 



LOST IN THE WOODS 

experienced woodsman was in of getting home late 
for supper ; the lateness of the meal being nothing to 
the gibes of the unlost. How long I kept this course, 
and how far I went on, I do not know ; but suddenly 
I stumbled against an ill-placed tree, and sat down on 
the soaked ground, a trifle out of breath. It then 
occurred to me that I had better verify my course by 
the compass. There was scarcely light enough to dis- 
tinguish the black end of the needle. To my amaze- 
ment, the compass, which was made near Greenwich, 
was wrong. Allowing for the natural variation of the 
needle, it was absurdly wrong. It made out that I 
was going south when I was going north. It inti- 
mated, that, instead of turning to the left, I had been 
making a circuit to the right. According to the com- 
pass, the Lord only knew where I was. 

The inclination of persons in the woods to travel in 
a circle is unexplained. I suppose it arises from the 
sympathy of the legs with the brain. Most people 
reason in a circle : their minds go round and round, 
always in the same track. For the last half-hour I 
had been saying over a sentence that started itself : 
" I wonder where that road is ! " I had said it over 
till it had lost all meaning. I kept going round on it ; 
and yet I could not believe that my body had been 
travelling in a circle. Not being able to recognize 
any tracks, I have no evidence that I had so travelled, 
except the general testimony of lost men. 

The compass annoyed me. I 've known experi- 
enced guides utterly discredit it. It couldn't be that 
I was to turn about, and go the way I had come. 
Nevertheless, I said to myself, '' You 'd better keep 
a cool head, my boy, or you are in for a night of 
it. Better listen • to science than to spunk," And I 





resolved to heed the impartial needle. I was a little 
weary of the rough tramping : but it was necessary to 
be moving ; for, with wet clothes and the night air, 
I was decidedly chilly. I turned towards the north, 
and slipped and stumbled along. A more uninviting 
forest to pass the night in I never saw. Everything 
was soaked. If I became exhausted, it would be 
necessary to build a fire ; and, as I walked on, I 
couldn't find a dry bit of wood. Even if a little punk 
were discovered in a rotten log, I had no hatchet to 
cut fuel. I thought it all over calmly. I had the 
usual three matches in my pocket. I knew exactly 
what would happen if I tried to build a fire. The 
first match would prove to be wet. The second match, 
when struck, would shine and smell, and fizz a little 
and then go out. There would be only one match 
left. Death would ensue if it failed. I should get 
close to the log, crawl under my hat, strike the match, 
see it catch, flicker, almost go out (the reader pain- 
fully excited by this time), blaze up, nearly expire, 
and finally fire the punk, — thank God ! And I said 
to myseK, " The public don't want any more of this 
thing : it is played out. Either have a box of matches, 
or let the first one catch fire." 

In this gloomy mood I plunged along. The pros- 
pect was cheerless ; for, apart from the comfort that 
a fire would give, it is necessary, at night, to keep off 
the wild beasts. I fancied I could hear the tread of 
the stealthy brutes following their prey. But there 
was one source of profound satisfaction, — the cata- 
mount had been killed. Mr. Colvin, the triangulating 
surveyor of the Adirondacks, killed him in his last 
official report to the State. Whether he despatched 
him with a theodolite or a baromeier does not matter : 



LOST IN THE WOODS 

lie is officially dead, and none of the travellers can 
kill him any more. Yet he has served them a good 
turn. 

I knew that catamount well. One night when we 
lay in the bogs of the South Beaver Meadow, under a 
canopy of mosquitoes, the serene midnight was parted 
by a wild and human-like cry from a neighboring 
mountain. " That 's a cat," said the guide. I felt in 
a moment that it was the voice of '' modern cultchah." 
" Modern culture," says Mr. Joseph Cook in a most 
impressive period, — ^' modern culture is a child cry- 
ing in the wilderness, and with no voice but a cry." 
That describes the catamount exactly. The next day, 
when we ascended the mountain, we came upon the 
traces of this brute, — a spot where he had stood and 
cried in the night ; and I confess that my hair rose 
with the consciousness of his recent presence, as it is 
said to do when a spirit passes by. 

Whatever consolation the absence of catamount in 
a dark, drenched, and howling wilderness can impart, 
that I experienced ; but I thought what a satire upon 
my present condition was modern culture, with its 
plain thinking and high living ! It was impossible to 
get much satisfaction out of the real and the ideal, — 
the me and the not-me. At this time what impressed 
me most was the absurdity of my position looked at in 
the light of modern civilization and all my advantages 
and acquirements. It seemed pitiful that society 
could do absolutely nothing for me. It was, in fact, 
humiliating to reflect that it would now be profit- 
able to exchange all my possessions for the woods in- 
stinct of the most unlettered guide. I began to doubt 
the value of the " culture " that blunts the natural 
instincts. 





It began to be a question whether I could hold out 
to walk all night ; for I must travel, or perish. And 
now I imagined that a spectre was walking by my 
side. This was Famine. To be sure, I had only 
recently eaten a hearty luncheon : but the pangs of 
hunger got hold on me when I thought that I should 
have no supper, no breakfast ; and, as the procession 
of unattainable meals stretched before me, I grew 
hungrier and hungrier. I could feel that I was be- 
coming gaunt, and wasting away : already I seemed 
to be emaciated. It is astonishing how speedily a 
jocund, well-conditioned human being can be trans- 
formed into a spectacle of poverty and want. Lose 
a man in the woods, drench him, tear his pantaloons, 
get his imagination running on his lost supper and 
the cheerful fireside that is expecting him, and he will 
become haggard in an hour. I am not dwelling upon 
these things to excite the reader's sympathy, but only 
to advise him, if he contemplates an adventure of this 
kind, to provide himself with matches, kindling-wood, 
something more to eat than one raw trout, and not to 
select a rainy night for it. 

Nature is so pitiless, so unresponsive, to a person in 
trouble ! I had read of the soothing companionship 
of the forest, the pleasure of the pathless woods. But 
I thought, as I stumbled along in the dismal actuality, 
that if I ever got out of it I would write a letter to 
the newspapers, exposing the whole thing. There is 
an impassive, stolid brutality about the woods that 
has never been enough insisted on. I tried to keep 
my mind fixed upon the fact of man's superiority to 
Nature ; his ability to dominate and outwit her. My 
situation was an amusing satire on this theory. I 
fancied that I could feel a sneer in the woods at my 



LOST IN THE WOODS 

detected conceit. There was something personal in 
it. The downpour of the rain and the slipperiness of 
the ground were elements of discomfort ; but there 
was, besides these, a kind of terror in the very charac- 
ter of the forest itself. I think this arose not more 
from its immensity than from the kind of stolidity to 
which I have alluded. It seemed to me that it would 
be a sort of relief to kick the trees. I don't wonder 
that the bears fall to, occasionally, and scratch the 
bark off the great pines and maples, tearing it angrily 
away. One must have some vent to his feelings. It 
is a common experience of people lost in the woods to 
lose their heads ; and even the woodsmen themselves 
are not free from this panic when some accident has 
thrown them out of their reckoning. Fright unsettles 
the judgment : the oppressive silence of the woods is 
a vacuum in which the mind goes astray. It 's a 
hollow sham, this pantheism, I said ; being '' one with 
Nature " is all humbug : I should like to see some- 
body. Man, to be sure, is of very little account, and 
soon gets beyond his depth ; but the society of the 
least human being is better than this gigantic indiffer- 
ence. The " rapture on the lonely shore " is agree- 
able only when you know you can at any moment go 
home. 

I had now given up all expectation of finding the 
road, and was steering my way as well as I could 
northward towards the valley. In my haste I made 
slow progress. Probably the distance I travelled was 
short, and the time consumed not long ; but I seemed 
to be adding mile to mile, and hour to hour. I had 
time to review the incidents of the Russo-Turkish 
war, and to forecast the entire Eastern question ; I 
outlined the characters of all my companions left in 





camp, and sketched in a sort of comedy the sym- 
pathetic and disparaging observations they would 
make on my adventure ; I repeated something like a 
thousand times, without contradiction, " What a fool 
you were to leave the river ! " I stopped twenty times, 
thinking I heard its loud roar, always deceived by the 
wind in the tree tops ; I began to entertain serious 
doubts about the compass, — when suddenly I became 
aware that I was no longer on level ground ; I was 
descending a slope ; I was actually in a ravine. In a 
moment more I was in a brook newly formed by the 
rain. " Thank Heaven ! " I cried : " this I shall follow 
whatever conscience or the compass says." In this 
region, all streams go, sooner or later, into the val- 
ley. This ravine, this stream, no doubt, led to the 
river. I splashed and tumbled along down it in 
mud and water. Down hill we went together, the fall 
showing that I must have wandered to high ground. 
When I guessed that I must be close to the river, I 
suddenly stepped into mud up to my ankles. It was 
the road, — running, of course, the wrong way, but 
still the blessed road. It was a mere canal of liquid 
mud ; but man had made it, and it would take me 
home. I was at least three miles from the point 
where I supposed I was near at sunset, and I had be- 
fore me a toilsome walk of six or seven miles, most of 
the way in a ditch ; but it is truth to say I enjoyed 
every step of it. I was safe ; I knew where I was ; 
and I could have walked till morning. The mind 
had again got the upper hand of the body, and began 
to plume itself on its superiority : it was even disposed 
to doubt whether it had been " lost " at all. 



A FIGHT WITH A TROUT 



Tkout-fishing in the Adirondacks would be a more 
attractive pastime than it is, but for the popular notion 
of its danger. The trout is a retiring and harmless ani- 
mal, except when he is aroused, and forced into a com- 
bat ; and then his agility, fierceness, and vindictiveness 
become apparent. No one who has studied the excel- 
lent pictures representing men in an open boat, exposed 
to the assaults of long, enraged trout flying at them 
through the open air with open mouth, ever ventures 
with his rod upon the lonely lakes of the forest without 
a certain terror, or ever reads of the exploits of daring 
fishermen without a feeling of admiration for their 
heroism. Most of their adventures are thrilling, and 
all of them are, in narration, more or less unjust to 
the trout : in fact, the object of them seems to be to 
exhibit, at the expense of the trout, the shrewdness, the 
skill, and the muscular power of the sportsman. My 
own simple story has few of these recommendations. 

We had built our bark camp one summer, and were 
staying on one of the popular lakes of the Saranac re- 
gion. It would be a very pretty region if it were not 
so flat, if the margins of the lakes had not been flooded 
by dams at the outlets, — which have killed the trees, 
and left a rim of ghastly dead-wood like the swamps of 
the under- world pictured by Dore's bizarre pencil, — 
and if the pianos at the hotels were in tune. It would 





be an excellent sporting-region also (for there is water 
enough) if the fish commissioners would stock the 
waters, and if previous hunters had not pulled all the 
hair and skin off from the deer's tails. Formerly sports- 
men had a habit of catching the deer by the tails, and 
of being dragged in mere wantonness round and round 
the shores. It is well known, that, if you seize a deer 
by this '' holt," the skin will slip off like the peel from 
a banana. This reprehensible practice was carried so 
far, that the traveller is now hourly pained by the sight 
of peeled-tail deer mournfully sneaking about the wood. 

We had been hearing, for weeks, of a small lake 
in the heart of the virgin forest, some ten miles from 
our camp, which was alive with trout, unsophisticated, 
hungry trout : the inlet to it was described as stiff "with 
them. In my imagination I saw them lying there in 
ranks and rows, each a foot long, three tiers deep, a 
solid mass. The lake had never been visited, except 
by stray sable-hunters in the winter, and was known 
as the Unknown Pond. I determined to explore it ; 
fully expecting, however, that it would prove to be a 
delusion, as such mysterious haunts of the trout usually 
are. Confiding my purpose to Luke, we secretly made 
our preparations, and stole away from the shanty one 
morning at daybreak. Each of us carried a boat, a pair 
of blankets, a sack of bread, pork, and maple-sugar ; 
while I had my case of rods, creel, and book of flies, 
and Luke had an axe and the kitchen utensils. We 
think nothing of loads of this sort in the woods. 

Five miles through a tamarack-swamp brought us to 
the inlet of Unknown Pond, upon which we embarked 
our fleet, and paddled down its vagrant waters. They 
were at first sluggish, winding among triste fir-trees, 
but gradually developed a strong current. At the end 



A FIGHT WITH A TROUT 

of three miles a loud roar ahead warned us that we were 
approaching rapids, falls, and cascades. We paused. 
The danger was unknown. We had our choice of 
shouldering our loads and making a detour through 
the woods, or of '' shooting the rapids." Naturally we 
chose the more dangerous course. Shooting the rapids 
has often been described, and I will not repeat the 
description here. It is needless to say that I drove 
my frail bark through the boiling rapids, over the suc- 
cessive water-falls, amid rocks and vicious eddies, and 
landed half a mile below with whitened hair and a 
boat half full of water ; and that the guide was upset, 
and boat, contents, and man were strewn along the 
shore. 

After this common experience we went quickly on 
our journey, and, a couple of hours before sundown, 
reached the lake. If I live to my dying day, I never 
shall forget its appearance. The lake is almost an 
exact circle, about a quarter of a mile in diameter. 
The forest about it was untouched by axe, and unkilled 
by artificial flooding. The azure water had a perfect 
setting of evergreens, in which all the shades of the 
fir, the balsam, the pine, and the spruce, were perfectly 
blended ; and at intervals on the shore, in the emerald 
rim, blazed the ruby of the cardinal-flower. It was at 
once evident that the unruffled waters had never been 
vexed by the keel of a boat. But what chiefly attracted 
my attention, and amused me, was the boiling of the 
water, the bubbling and breaking, as if the lake were 
a vast kettle, with a fire underneath. A tyro would 
have been astonished at this common phenomenon ; 
but sportsmen will at once understand me when I say 
that the water boiled with the breaking trout. I studied 
the surface for some time to see upon what sort of 





flies they were feeding, in order to suit my cast to 
their appetites ; but they seemed to be at play rather 
than feeding, leaping high in the air in graceful curves, 
and tumbling about each other as we see them in the 
Adirondack pictures. 

It is well known that no person who regards his 
reputation will ever kill a trout with anything but a 
fly. It requires some training on the part of the trout 
to take to this method. The uncultivated, unsophisti- 
cated trout in unfrequented waters prefers the bait ; 
and the rural people, whose sole object in going a-fish- 
ing appears to be to catch fish, indulge them in their 
primitive taste for the worm. No sportsman, however, 
will use anything but a fly, except he happens to be 
alone. 

While Luke launched my boat, and arranged his 
seat in the stern, I prepared my rod and line. The 
rod is a bamboo, weighing seven ounces, which has to 
be spliced with a winding of silk thread every time it 
is used. This is a tedious process ; but, by fastening 
the joints in this way, a uniform spring is secured in 
the rod. No one devoted to high art would think of 
using a socket joint. My line was forty yards of un- 
twisted silk upon a multiplying reel. The " leader " — 
X am very particular about my leaders — had been made 
to order from a domestic animal with which I had been 
acquainted. The fisherman requires as good a catgut 
as the violinist. The interior of the house-cat, it is 
well known, is exceedingly sensitive ; but it may not be 
so well known that the reason why some cats leave the 
room in distress when a piano-forte is played is because 
the two instruments are not in the same key, and the 
vibrations of the chords of the one are in discord with 
the catgut of the other. On six feet of this superior 



A FIGHT WITH A TROUT 

article I fixed three artificial flies, — a simple brown 
hackle, a gray body with scarlet wings, and one of my 
own invention, which I thought would be new to the 
most experienced fly-catcher. The trout-fly does not 
resemble any known species of insect. It is a " conven- 
tionalized " creation, as we say of ornamentation. The 
theory is, that, fly-fishing being a high art, the fly must 
not be a tame imitation of nature, but an artistic sug- 
gestion of it. It requires an artist to construct one ; 
and not every bungler can take a bit of red flannel, a 
peacock's feather, a flash of tinsel thread, a cock's 
plume, a section of a hen's wing, and fabricate a tiny 
object that will not look like any fly, but still will sug- 
gest the universal conventional fly. 

I took my stand in the centre of the tipsy boat ; and 
Luke shoved off, and slowly paddled towards some 
lily-pads, while I began casting, unlimbering my tools, 
as it were. The fish had all disappeared. I got out, 
perhaps, fifty feet of line, with no response, and grad- 
ually increased it to one hundred. It is not difficult 
to learn to cast ; but it is difficult to learn not to snap 
off the flies at every throw. Of this, however, we will 
not speak. I continued casting for some moments, un- 
til I became satisfied that there had been a miscalcu- 
lation. Either the trout were too green to know what 
I was at, or they were dissatisfied with my offers. I 
reeled in, and changed the flies (that is, the fly that 
was not snapped off). After studying the color of the 
sky, of the water, and of the foliage, and the moderated 
light of the afternoon, I put on a series of beguilers, 
all of a subdued brilliancy, in harmony with the ap- 
proach of evening. At the second cast, which was a 
short one, I saw a splash where the leader fell, and 
gave an excited jerk. The next instant I perceived 



^ 

the game, and did not need the unfeigned " dam " of 
Luke to convince me that I had snatched his felt hat 
from his head, and deposited it among the lilies. Dis- 
couraged by this, we whirled about, and paddled over 
to the inlet, where a little ripple was visible in the 
tinted light. At the very first cast I saw that the hour 
had come. Three trout leaped into the air. The 
danger of this manoeuvre all fishermen understand. It 
is one of the commonest in the woods : three heavy 
trout taking hold at once, rushing in different direc- 
tions, smash the tackle into flinders. I evaded this 
catch, and threw again. I recall the moment. A her- 
mit thrush, on the tip of a balsam, uttered his long, 
liquid evening note. Happening to look over my 
shoulder, I saw the peak of Marcy gleam rosy in the 
sky (I can't help it that Marcy is fifty miles off, and 
cannot be seen from this region : these incidental 
touches are always used). The hundred feet of silk 
swished through the air, and the tail-fly fell as lightly 
on the water as a three-cent piece, which no slamming 
will give the weight of a ten, drops upon the contri- 
bution plate. Instantly there was a rush, a swirl. I 
struck, and " Got him, by — ! " Never mind what 
Luke said I got him by. " Out on a fly ! " continued 
that irreverent guide ; but I told him to back water, 
and make for the centre of the lake. The trout, as 
soon as he felt the prick of the hook, was off like a 
shot, and took out the whole of the line with a rapid- 
ity that made it smoke. " Give him the butt ! '' 
shouted Luke. It is the usual remark in such an 
emergency. I gave him the butt ; and, recognizing the 
fact and my spirit, the trout at once sank to the bot- 
tom, and sulked. It is the most dangerous mood of a 
trout ; for you cannot tell what he will do next. We 



A FIGHT WITH A TROUT 

reeled up a little, and waited five minutes for him to 
reflect. A tightening of the line enraged him, and 
he soon developed his tactics. Coming to the surface, 
he made straight for the boat faster than I could reel 
in, and evidently with hostile intentions. " Look out 
for him ! " cried Luke as he came flying in the air. 
I evaded him by dropping flat in the bottom of the 
boat ; and, when I picked my traps up, he was spin- 
ning across the lake as if he had a new idea ; but the 
line was still fast. He did not run far. I gave him 
the butt again ; a thing he seemed to hate, even as a 
gift. In a moment the evil-minded fish, lashing the 
water in his rage, was coming back again, making 
straight for the boat as before. Luke, who was used 
to these encounters, having read of them in the writ- 
ings of travellers he had accompanied, raised his pad- 
dle in self-defence. The trout left the water about ten 
feet from the boat, and came directly at me with fiery 
eyes, his speckled sides flashing like a meteor. I 
dodged as he whisked by with a vicious slap of his 
bifurcated tail, and nearly upset the boat. The line 
was of course slack ; and the danger was that he would 
entangle it about me, and carry away a leg. This 
was evidently his game ; but I untangled it, and only 
lost a breast-button or two by the swiftly-moving string. 
The trout plunged into the water with a hissing sound, 
and went away again with all the line on the reel. 
More butt ; more indignation on the part of the cap- 
tive. The contest had now been going on for half an 
hour, and I was getting exhausted. We had been back 
and forth across the lake, and round and round the 
lake. What I feared was, that the trout would start 
up the inlet, and wreck us in the bushes. But he had 
a new fancy, and began the execution of a manoeuvre 





which I had never read of. Instead of coming straight 
towards me, he took a large circle, swimming rapidly, 
and gradually contracting his orhit» I reeled in, and 
kept my eye on him. Round and round he went, nar- 
rowing his circle. I began to suspect the game ; 
which was, to twist my head off. When he had re- 
duced the radius of his circle to about twenty-five feet, 
he struck a tremendous pace through the water. It 
would be false modesty in a sportsman to say that I 
was not equal to the occasion. Instead of turning 
round vdth him, as he expected, I stepped to the bow, 
braced myself, and let the boat swing. Eound went 
the fish, and round we went like a top. I saw a line 
of Mount Marcys all round the horizon ; the rosy tint 
in the west made a broad band of pink along the sky 
above the tree-tops ; the evening star was a perfect 
circle of light, a hoop of gold in the heavens. We 
whirled and reeled, and reeled and whirled. I was 
willing to give the malicious beast butt and line, and 
all, if he would only go the other way for a change. 

When I came to myself, Luke was gaffing the trout 
at the boat-side. After we had got him in and dressed 
him, he weighed three-quarters of a pound. Fish 
always lose by being " got in and dressed." It is best 
to weigh them while they are in the water. The only 
really large one I ever caught got away with my 
leader when I first struck him. He weighed ten pounds. 



A-HUNTING OF THE DEER 



If civilization owes a debt of gratitude to the self- 
sacrificing sportsmen who have cleared the Adiron- 
dack regions of catamounts and savage trout, what 
shall be said of the army which has so nobly relieved 
them of the terror of the deer ? The deer-slayers have 
somewhat celebrated their exploits in print ; but I 
think that justice has never been done them. 

The American deer in the wilderness, left to him- 
self, leads a comparatively harmless but rather stupid 
life, with only such excitement as his own timid 
fancy raises. It was very seldom that one of his tribe 
was eaten by the North American tiger. For a wild 
animal he is very domestic, simple in his tastes, reg- 
ular in his habits, affectionate in his family. Unfor- 
tunately for his^ repose, his haunch is as tender as 
his heart. Of all wild creatures he is one of the 
most graceful in action, and he poses with the skill 
of an experienced model. I have seen the goats on 
Mount Pentelicus scatter at the approach of a stran- 
ger, climb to the sharp points of projecting rocks, and 
attitudinize in the most self-conscious manner, strik- 
ing at once those picturesque postures against the sky 
with which Oriental pictures have made us and them 
familiar. But the whole proceeding was theatrical. 
Greece is the home of art, and it is rare to find any- 
thing there natural and unstudied. I presume that 



A'-HUNTING OF THE DEER 

these goats have no nonsense about them when they 
are alone with the goat-herds, any more than the goat- 
herds have, except when they come to pose in the stu- 
dio ; but the long ages of culture, the presence always 
to the eye o£ the best models and the forms of im- 
mortal beauty, the heroic friezes of the Temple of 
Theseus, the marble processions of sacrificial animals, 
have had a steady moulding, educating influence 
equal to a society of decorative art upon the people 
and the animals who have dwelt in this artistic atmos- 
phere. The Attic goat has become an artificially ar- 
tistic being ; though of course he is not now what he 
was, as a poser, in the days of Polycletus. There is 
opportunity for a very instructive essay by Mr. E. A. 
Freeman on the decadence of the Attic goat imder 
the influence of the Ottoman Turk. 

The American deer, in the free atmosphere of our 
country, and as yet untouched by our decorative art, 
is without self-consciousness, and all his attitudes are 
free and unstudied. The favorite position cl the 
deer — his fore-feet in the shallow margin of the lake, 
among the lily-pads, his antlers thrown back an "* his 
nose in the air at the moment he hears the stealthy 
breaking of a twig in the forest — is still spirited and 
graceful, and wholly unaffected by the pictures of him 
which the artists have put upon canvas. 

Wherever you go in the Northern forest, you will 
find deer-paths. So plainly marked and well-trodden 
are they, that it is easy to mistake them for trails 
made by hunters ; but he who follows one of them is 
soon in difficulties. He may find himself climbing 
through cedar-thickets an almost inaccessible cliff, or 
immersed in the intricacies of a marsh. The " run," 
in one direction, will lead to water ; but, in the other, 



A-HUNTING OF THE DEER 

it climbs the highest hills, to which the deer retires, 
for safety and repose, in impenetrable thickets. The 
hunters, in winter, find them congregated in '' yards," 
where they can be surrounded and shot as easily as 
our troops shoot Comanche women and children in 
their winter villages. These little paths are full of 
pitfalls among the roots and stones ; and, nimble as 
the deer is, he sometimes breaks one of his slender 
legs in them. Yet he knows how to treat himself 
without a surgeon. I knew of a tame deer in a settle- 
ment in the edge of the forest who had the misfortune 
to break her leg. She immediately disappeared with 
a delicacy rare in an invalid, and was not seen for two 
weeks. Her friends had given her up, supposing that 
she had dragged herself away into the depths of the 
woods, and died of starvation ; when one day she re- 
turned, cured of lameness, but thin as a virgin shadow. 
She had the sense to shun the doctor ; to lie down 
in some safe place, and patiently wait for her leg 
to heal. I have observed in many of the more re- 
fined animals this sort of shyness and reluctance to 
give trouble which excite our admiration when noticed 
in mankind. 

The deer is called a timid animal, and taunted with 
possessing courage only when he is " at bay ; " the 
stag will fight when he can no longer flee ; and the 
doe will defend her young in the face of murderous 
enemies. The deer gets little credit for this eleventh- 
hour bravery. But I think that in any truly Chris- 
tian condition of society the deer would not be con- 
spicuous for cowardice. I suppose that if the Amer- 
ican girl, even as she is described in foreign romances, 
were pursued by bull-dogs, and fired at from behind 
fences every time she ventured out-doors, she would 





become timid, and reluctant to go abroad. When 
that golden era comes which the poets think is behind 
us, and the prophets declare is about to be ushered in 
by the opening of the '' vials," and the killing of every- 
body who does not believe as those nations believe 
which have the most cannon ; when we all live in real 
concord, — perhaps the gentle-hearted deer will be re- 
spected, and will find that men are not more savage to 
the weak than are the cougars and panthers. If the 
little spotted fawn can think, it must seem to her a 
queer world in which the advent of innocence is hailed 
by the baying of fierce hounds and the "ping " of the 
rifle. 

Hunting the deer in the Adirondacks is conducted 
in the most manly fashion. There are several meth- 
ods, and in none of them is a fair chance to the deer 
considered. A favorite method with the natives is 
practised in winter, and is called by them " still hunt- 
ing." My idea of still hunting is for one man to go 
alone into the forest, look about for a deer, put his 
wits fairly against the wits of the keen-scented animal, 
and kill his deer, or get lost in the attempt. There 
seems to be a sort of fairness about this. It is private 
assassination, tempered with a little uncertainty about 
finding your man. The still hunting of the natives 
has all the romance and danger attending the slaugh- 
ter of sheep in an abattoir. As the snow gets deep, 
many deer congregate in the depths of the forest, and 
keep a place trodden down, which grows larger as 
they tramp down the snow in search of food. In time 
this refuge becomes a sort of " yard," surrounded by 
unbroken snow-banks. The hunters then make their 
way to this retreat on snow-shoes, and from the top of 
the banks pick off the deer at leisure with their rifles, 



A-HUNTING OF THE DEER 

and haul them away to market, until the enclosure is 
pretty much emptied. This is one of the surest meth- 
ods of exterminating the deer ; it is also one of the 
most merciful; and, being the plan adopted by our 
government for civilizing the Indian, it ought to be 
popular. The only people who object to it are the 
summer sportsmen. They naturally want some pleas- 
ure out of the death of the deer. 

Some of our best sportsmen, who desire to protract 
the pleasure of- slaying deer through as many seasons 
as possible, object to the practice of the hunters, who 
make it their chief business to slaughter as many deer 
in a camping-season as they can. Their own rule, 
they say, is to kill a deer only when they need venison 
to eat. Their excuse is specious. What right have 
these sophists to put themselves into a desert place, 
out of the reach of provisions, and then ground a 
right to slay deer on their own improvidence ? If it 
is necessary for these people to have anything to eat, 
which I doubt, it is not necessary that they should 
have the luxury of venison. 

One of the most picturesque methods of hunting 
the poor deer is called '' floating." The person, with 
murder in his heart, chooses a cloudy night, seats him- 
self, rifle in hand, in a canoe, which is noiselessly pad- 
dled by the guide, and explores the shore of the lake 
or the dark inlet. In the bow of the boat is a light 
in a "jack," the rays of which are shielded from the 
boat and its occupants. A deer comes down to feed 
upon the lily-pads. The boat approaches him. He 
looks up, and stands a moment, terrified or fascinated 
by the bright flames. In that moment the sportsman 
is supposed to shoot the deer. As an historical fact, 
his hand usually shakes, so that he misses the animal, 





or only wounds him ; and the stag limps away to die 
after days of suffering. Usually, however, the hunt- 
ers remain out all night, get stiff from cold and the 
cramped position in the boat, and, when they return 
in the morning to camp, cloud their future existence 
by the assertion that they '' heard a big buck " mov- 
ing along the shore, but the people in camp made so 
much noise that he was frightened off. 

By all odds, the favorite and prevalent mode is 
hunting with dogs. The dogs do the hunting, the 
men the killing. The hounds are sent into the forest 
to rouse the deer, and drive him from his cover. 
They climb the mountains, strike the trails, and go 
baying and yelping on the track of the poor beast. 
The deer have their established run-ways, as I said ; 
and, when they are disturbed in their retreat, they 
are certain to attempt to escape by following one 
which invariably leads to some lake or stream. All 
that the hunter has to do is to seat himself by one of 
these run-ways, or sit in a boat on the lake, and wait 
the coming of the pursued deer. The frightened 
beast, fleeing from the unreasoning brutality of the 
hounds, will often seek the open country, with a mis- 
taken confidence in the humanity of man. To kill a 
deer when he suddenly passes one on a run-way de- 
mands presence of mind, and quickness of aim : to 
shoot him from the boat, after he has plunged panting 
into the lake, requires the rare ability to hit a moving 
object the size of a deer's head a few rods distant. 
Either exploit is sufficient to make a hero of a com- 
mon man. To paddle up to the swimming deer, and 
cut his throat, is a sure means of getting venison, and 
has its charms for some. Even women, and doctors 
of divinity, have enjoyed this exquisite pleasure. It 



A-HUNTING OF THE DEER 

cannot be denied that we are so constituted by a wise 
Creator as to feel a delight in killing a wild animal 
which we do not experience in killing a tame one. 

The pleasurable excitement of a deer-hunt has 
never, I believe, been regarded from the deer's point 
of view. I happen to be in a position by reason of 
a lucky Adirondack experience, to present it in that 
light. I am sorry if this introduction to my little 
story has seemed long to the reader: it is too late 
now to skip it ; but he can recoup himself by omitting 
the story. 

Early on the morning of the 23d of August, 1877, 
a doe was feeding on Basin Mountain. The night 
had been warm and showery, and the morning opened 
in an undecided way. The wind was southerly : it is 
what the deer call a dog-wind, having come to know 
quite well the meaning of " a southerly wind and a 
cloudy sky." The sole companion of the doe was her 
only child, a charming little fawn, whose brown coat 
was just beginning to be mottled with the beautiful 
spots which make this young creature as lovely as the 
gazelle. The buck, its father, had been that night on 
a long tramp across the mountain to Clear Pond, and 
had not yet returned : he went ostensibly to feed on 
the succulent lily-pads there. " He feedeth among the 
lilies until the day break and the shadows flee away, 
and he should be here by this hour ; but he cometh 
not," she said, '' leaping upon the mountains, skipping 
upon the hills." Clear Pond was too far off for the 
young mother to go with her fawn for a night's pleas- 
ure. It was a fashionable watering-place at this sea- 
son among the deer ; and the doe may have remem- 
bered, not without uneasiness, the moonlight meetings 
of a frivolous society there. But the buck did not 





come : he was very likely sleeping under one of the 
ledges on Tight Nippin. Was he alone ? ''I charge 
you, by the roes and by the hinds of the field, that 
ye stir not nor awake my love till he please." 

The doe was feeding, daintily cropping the tender 
leaves of the young shoots, and turning from time to 
time to regard her offspring. The fawn had taken his 
morning meal, and now lay curled up on a bed of 
moss, watching contentedly, with his large, soft brown 
eyes, every movement of his mother. The great eyes 
followed her with an alert entreaty; and, if the 
mother stepped a pace or two farther away in feed- 
ing, the fawn made a half -movement, as if to rise and 
follow her. You see, she was his sole dependence in 
all the world. But he was quickly* reassured when 
she turned her gaze on him ; and if, in alarm, he ut- 
tered a plaintive cry, she bounded to him at once, 
and, with every demonstration of affection, licked his 
mottled skin till it shone again. 

It was a pretty picture, — maternal love on the one 
part, and happy trust on the other. The doe was 
a beauty, and would have been so considered any- 
where, as graceful and winning a creature as the sun 
that day shone on, — slender limbs, not too heavy 
flanks, round body, and aristocratic head, with small 
ears, and luminous, intelligent, affectionate eyes. 
How alert, supple, free, she was ! What untaught 
grace in every movement ! What a charming pose 
when she lifted her head, and turned it to regard her 
child ! You would have had a companion-picture, if 
you had seen, as I saw that morning, a baby kicking 
about among the dry pine-needles on a ledge above 
the Ausable, in the valley below, while its young 
mother sat near, with an easel before her touching in 



A-HUNTING OF THE DEER 

the color of a reluctant landscape, giving a quick look 
at the sky and the outline of the Twin Mountains, 
and bestowing every third glance upon the laughing 
boy, — art in its infancy. 

The doe lifted her head a little with a quick motion, 
and turned her ear to the south. Had she heard 
something ? Probably it was only the south winds in 
the balsams. There was silence all about in the for- 
est. If the doe had heard anything it was one of the 
distant noises of the world. There are in the woods 
