"O Fred," she said, "how could you stay away so, when you know how
worried I get? You have been drinking, too."

"This is my friend, Frank Kavanagh," hiccoughed Fred.

"Shall I go up and help put him to bed?" asked Frank.

"Does he require help?" asked Mrs. Vivian, sorrowfully.

"He has been drinking a good deal."

"Yes, you may go up. I will lead the way to his chamber. Afterwards I
want to speak to you."

"All right."

"Where did you find him?" asked Mrs. Vivian, when Frank with some
difficulty had prepared his charge for bed.

"In the billiard-saloon to which you directed me. He was upstairs
playing cards for money. They were cheating him in the most outrageous
manner."

"I suppose they got all his money."

"Not all; but they would soon have done so. Here is his pocket-book,
which I just took from his pocket."

"There are twenty dollars left," said 'Mrs. Vivian, after an
examination. "They must have secured the rest. O my poor boy! Would that
I could shield you from these dangerous companions!"

"I don't think they will trouble him again, Mrs. Vivian."

"Why not? You do not know them."

"I told them that, if they came near him, hereafter, you would have them
arrested for swindling your son out of money belonging to you."

"Will that have any effect upon them?"

"Yes, because they know that I am ready to appear as a witness against
them."

"Did Fred show any unwillingness to come with you?"

"No; I made him think I was an old acquaintance of his. Besides, he was
feeling sleepy."

"You have acted with great judgment for so young a lad," said Mrs.
Vivian. "I wish Fred had a companion like you to influence him for good.
Where do you live?"

"At the Newsboys Lodging-House. I cannot afford to hire a room."

Mrs. Vivian looked thoughtful.

"Give me your name and address," she said.

These she noted down.

"I won't keep you any longer to-night," she said, "for you must be
tired. You will hear from me again."

"Oh," said Frank, "I nearly forgot. Here is the balance of the money you
handed me for expenses."

"Keep it for yourself," said Mrs. Vivian, "and accept my thanks
besides."

Though Frank had paid for the cab, there was a balance of nearly two
dollars in his hands which he was very glad to keep.




CHAPTER XIV.

FRANK MAKES AN EVENING CALL.


The next day Frank chanced to meet Mrs. Vivian in the street. She
recognized him at once.

"I see you are kept busy," she said, pleasantly.

"Yes," answered Frank. "Our business is pretty good just now. How is
your son?"

"He slept well, and woke much refreshed this morning. He is a good boy
naturally, but unable to withstand temptation. I have decided to send
him to the country for a few weeks, to visit a cousin of about his own
age. There he will be secure from temptation, and will have a chance to
ride. I would have sent him away before, but that it would leave me
alone in the house. You told me last evening that you had no
boarding-place."

"My only home is at the lodging-house," said Frank.

"How would you like to occupy a room at my house while my son is away?"

"Very much," said Frank, promptly.

"I shall find it convenient to have you in the house, and shall feel
safer."

"I am afraid I shouldn't be a match for an able-bodied burglar," said
Frank, smiling.

"Perhaps not; but you could summon a policeman. When can you come and
see me about this arrangement?"

"I am off duty to-night."

"Very well; I will expect you. Fred will not go away till to-morrow, and
you will have a chance to see him under more favorable circumstances
than last evening."

"Thank you very much for your kind invitation," said Frank, politely.

Mrs. Vivian bade him good-morning, very favorably impressed with his
manners and deportment.

Frank looked upon the proposal made him by Mrs. Vivian as a piece of
great good-fortune. In his new position, excellent as were the beds at
the lodging-house, he found it inconvenient to go there to sleep. Once
or twice, on account of the late hour at which he was released from
duty, he was unable to secure admittance, and had to pay fifty cents for
a bed at a hotel on the European system. He had for some time been
thinking seriously of hiring a room; but the probable expense deterred
him. At Mrs. Vivian's he would have nothing to pay.

In the evening he changed his uniform for the neat suit given him by Mr.
Bowen, and about eight o'clock rang the bell of the house in
Thirty-eighth street.

He was at once ushered into the presence of Mrs. Vivian and her son.

"I am glad to see you, my young friend," said Mrs. Vivian, glancing with
approval at the neat appearance of her young visitor. "Fred, this is the
young man who brought you home last night."

"I am much obliged to you," said Fred Vivian, offering his hand to
Frank. "I am ashamed of having been found in such a place."

"I don't think the young men with you were very much your friends," said
Frank; "I detected one in cheating you."

"You mean at cards?"

"I don't mean that, though I presume they did; but you handed a
ten-dollar bill to one of them, and he took it as a five."

"Are you sure of that?" asked Fred, his face flushing with indignation.

"Yes, I saw the number of the bill, though he put it away very quickly."

"And I had been treating that fellow all the afternoon! I gave him a
good dinner, too."

"Are you surprised at such treatment from such a person?" asked his
mother. "I should have expected it."

"I will never notice the fellow again as long as I live," said Fred, who
seemed a good deal impressed by his companion's treachery. "Why, it's
nothing better than robbery."

"You have given it the right name, Fred," said his mother, quietly.

"He ought to give the money back," said Fred.

"Let it go, my son. I am willing to lose it, if it severs all
acquaintance between you and your unworthy companions."

"Have I ever met you before?" asked Fred, turning to Frank.

"Not before last evening."

"I thought you spoke of yourself as an old acquaintance."

"That was to induce you to come with me," explained Frank. "I hope you
will excuse the deception."

"Certainly I will. I had been drinking so much that it was quite
necessary to treat me as a child; but I don't mean to be caught in such
a scrape again."

"May you keep that resolution, Fred!" said his mother, earnestly.

"I will try to, mother."

"My mother tells me that you are going to take my place while I am in
the country," said Fred, turning to Frank.

"I shall be very glad to do so," said our hero. "I never had such a good
home before."

"You are a telegraph boy, are you not?" asked Fred.

"Yes," answered Frank.

"Tell me about it. Is it hard work?"

"Not hard, but sometimes when I have been kept pretty busy, I get tired
towards night."

"I should think it would be rather good fun," said Fred.

"Do you think you would like it?" asked his mother, with a smile.

"I might like it for about half a day, but all day would be too much for
me. However, I am too old for such a position."

Fred had no false pride, and though he knew that Frank was in a social
position considerably below his own, he treated him as an equal. Those
who are secure of their own position are much more likely to avoid
"putting on airs" than those who have recently been elevated in the
social scale. Frank was destined that same evening to see the contrast
between true and false gentility.

It so happened that Victor Dupont, already mentioned, was an
acquaintance and former school-fellow of Fred Vivian. It also chanced
that he selected this evening for a call, as the Vivians stood very high
socially, being an old family. Victor was rather proud of his
acquaintance with them, and took occasion to call frequently.

As he was ushered into the room he did not at first recognize Frank in
his new clothes.

"Victor, this is a friend of mine, Frank Kavanagh," said Fred,
introducing his two visitors. "Frank, let me introduce my old
school-fellow Victor Dupont."

"We are already acquainted," said Frank. "Good-evening, Victor."

Victor stared in amusing astonishment at Frank.

"How do you happen to be here?" asked Victor, brusquely.

"By Mrs. Vivian's kind invitation," said Frank, quite at ease.

"How do you two happen to know each other?" asked Fred.

"We met in the country last summer," said Frank, finding Victor did not
answer.

"I suppose you had a very good time together," said Mrs. Vivian.

"Our acquaintance was very slight," said Victor superciliously.

"We must have gone fishing together at least a dozen times," said Frank,
quietly.

"How in the world did the fellow thrust himself in here?" said Victor to
himself. "They can't know his low position."

In the amiable desire of enlightening the Vivians Victor took an early
opportunity to draw Fred aside.

"Have you known Frank Kavanagh long?" he asked.

"Not very long."

"Do you know that he is a telegraph boy?"

"Oh, yes," answered Fred, smiling.

"He used to be a newsboy, and sell papers in the lower part of the
city."

"I didn't know that," said Fred indifferently.

"I must say that I am rather surprised to see him here."

"Why?" asked Fred, with provoking calmness.

"Oh, you know, he is much below us in a social point of view."

"I know that he is a poor boy; but some of our most prominent men were
once poor boys."

"I don't believe in mixing up different ranks."

"You didn't think so in the country last summer."

"Oh, well, a fellow must have some company, and there was no better to
be had."

"You will probably be surprised to hear that your old acquaintance is to
live here while I am in the country. I am going away to-morrow to spend
a few weeks with my cousin."

"Is it possible!" exclaimed Victor, in surprise and annoyance. "Perhaps
he is to be here as an errand boy?" he suggested, evidently relieved by
the idea.

"Oh, no; he will be treated in all respects as one of the family."

"Hadn't you better tell your mother that he was once a newsboy? She
might recall the invitation."

"It would make no difference with her. It seems to me, Victor, you are
prejudiced against Frank."

"No, I am not; but I like to see newsboys and telegraph messengers keep
their place."

"So do I. I hope Frank will keep his place till he can find a better
one."

"That isn't what I meant. How can you associate with such a boy on an
equality?"

"Because he seems well-bred and gentlemanly."

"I don't believe he gets more than three or four dollars a week," said
Victor, contemptuously.

"Then I really hope his wages will soon be increased."

Victor saw that he could do Frank no harm, and was forced, out of
policy, to treat our hero with more politeness than he wished.

When Frank rose to go, Mrs. Vivian desired him to send round his trunk,
and take possession of his room the next day.

"She doesn't suspect that I never owned a trunk," thought Frank. "I will
buy one to-morrow, though I haven't got much to put in it."




CHAPTER XV.

AT WALLACK'S THEATRE.


The next day Frank devoted what small leisure he had to the purchase of
a trunk, in which he stored his small supply of clothing, leaving out,
however, the clothes in which he made his first appearance in the city.
These he gave to his friend, Dick Rafferty, to whom they were a welcome
gift, being considerably better than those he usually wore. Dick might,
out of his earnings, have dressed better, but when he had any extra
money it went for some kind of amusement. He was one of the steadiest
patrons of the Old Bowery, and was often to be seen in the gallery of
other places of amusement. He was surprised to hear of Frank's intended
removal from the lodging-house.

"I say, Frank," he said, "you're gettin' on fast. Here you are, goin' to
live in a tip-top house up-town. You'll be a reg'lar swell."

"I hope not, Dick. I don't like swells very much."

"You won't notice your old friends bimeby."

"That shows you don't know me, Dick. I shall be glad to notice you
whenever we meet."

"I don't see why I can't be in luck too," said Dick. "I wish I could
find some rich lady to give me a room in her house."

"You'll have to get some new clothes first, Dick."

"I know I aint got a genteel look," said Dick, surveying his well-worn
clothes, soiled and ragged; "but it wouldn't be no use if I was to dress
in velvet."

"Unless you kept your face clean," suggested Frank.

"A feller can't be washin' his face all the time," said Dick.

"It's the fashion to have a clean face in good society," said Frank,
smiling.

"It must be a good deal of trouble," said Dick. "Is my face very dirty?"

"Not very. There's a black spot on each cheek, and one on the side of
your nose, and your chin looks a little shady."

"A feller can't keep very clean in my business."

"I suppose it is rather hard," Frank admitted; "but you won't be a
boot-black always, I hope."

"I'd just as lieves give it up for bankin', or cashier of a
savings-bank," said Dick. "Them's light, genteel kinds of business, and
don't dirty the hands."

"Well, Dick, if I hear of an opening in either line I'll let you know.
Now I must go and buy a trunk."

"I never expect to get as far as a trunk," said Dick. "I shall feel like
a gentleman when I can set up one. It wouldn't be no use to me now. I'd
have to stuff it with rocks to make a show."

"Poor Dick!" thought Frank as he left his friend. "He takes the world
too easy. He hasn't any ambition, or he wouldn't be content to keep on
blacking boots when there are so many better ways of making a living. If
I ever get a chance to give him a lift I will. He aint much to look at,
but he's a good-hearted boy, and would put himself to a good deal of
trouble to do me a favor."

It was not much trouble to pack his trunk. Indeed, he had scarcely
enough clothing to fill it one-third full.

"I may have to adopt Dick's plan, and fill it with rocks," said Frank to
himself. "Some day I shall be better supplied. I can't expect to get on
too fast."

The room assigned to Frank was a small one; but it was neatly furnished,
and provided with a closet. The bed, with its clean white spread, looked
very tempting, and Frank enjoyed the prospect of the privacy he would
have in a room devoted to his sole use. At the lodging-house, though his
bed was comfortable, there were sixty to eighty boys who slept in the
same room, and of course he had no more rights than any other.

"I hope you like your room, Frank," said Mrs. Vivian.

"It is the best I ever had," he replied.

"How early are you obliged to be on duty?" she asked.

"At eight o'clock."

"I do not breakfast till that hour; but I will direct the cook to have a
cup of coffee and some breakfast ready for you at seven."

"Am I to take my meals here?" asked Frank, in surprise.

"Certainly. Did you think I was going to send you out to a restaurant?"
inquired Mrs. Vivian, smiling.

"I am very much obliged to you; but I am afraid it will inconvenience
the cook to get me an early breakfast."

"I am glad to see you so considerate of others. I can answer for Mary,
however, who is very obliging. You can get lunch outside, as I suppose
it will be inconvenient for you to leave your duties to come so far as
Thirty-eighth street."

"You are very kind to me, Mrs. Vivian," said Frank, gratefully.

"I shall claim an occasional service of you in return," said Mrs.
Vivian.

"I hope you will," said Frank, promptly.

Two days after he had taken up his residence in his new quarters Frank
was called upon to render a very agreeable service.

"I have two tickets for Wallack's theatre for this evening," said Mrs.
Vivian. "Will it be agreeable for you to accompany me?"

"I should like it very much."

"Then you shall be my escort. When Fred is at home he goes with me; but
now I must depend on you. Have you a pair of kid gloves?"

Frank was obliged to confess that he had not. In fact he had never owned
a pair in his life.

"I will give you a pair of mine. Probably there is little difference in
the size of our hands."

This proved to be true.

Somehow Frank in his new life seemed always running across Victor
Dupont. That young gentleman and his sister sat in the row behind Mrs.
Vivian and her youthful escort, but did not immediately become aware of
it.

"Why, Victor," said his sister, who had been looking about her, "there
is Mrs. Vivian in the next row. Who is that nice-looking boy with her?
It can't be Fred, for he is larger."

Victor turned his glance in the direction of Mrs. Vivian. His surprise
and disgust were about equal when he saw the country-boy he had looked
down upon, faultlessly attired, with neat-fitting gloves, and a rose in
his button-hole and looking like a gentleman.

"I never saw such cheek!" he exclaimed, in disgust.

"What do you mean, Victor?" asked his sister, looking puzzled.

"Do you want to know who that boy is with Mrs. Vivian?"

"Yes; he is very nice-looking."

"Then you can marry him if you like. That boy is a telegraph messenger.
I used to know him in the country. A few weeks ago he was selling papers
in front of the Astor House."

"You don't say so!" ejaculated Flora Dupont, "Aren't you mistaken?"

"I guess not. I know him as well as I know you."

"He is a good-looking boy, at any rate," said Flora, who was less
snobbish than her brother.

"I can't see it," said Victor, annoyed. "He looks to me very common and
vulgar. I don't see how Mrs. Vivian can be willing to appear with him at
a fashionable theatre like this."

"It's a pity he is a telegraph boy, he is so nice-looking."

Just then Frank, turning, recognized Victor and bowed. Victor could not
afford not to recognize Mrs. Vivian's escort, and bowed in return.

But Victor was not the only one of Frank's acquaintances who recognized
him that evening. In the upper gallery sat Dick Rafferty and Micky Shea,
late fellow-boarders at the lodging-house. It was not often that these
young gentlemen patronized Wallack's, for even a gallery ticket there
was high-priced; but both wanted to see the popular play of "Ours," and
had managed to scrape together fifty cents each.

"Dick," said Micky, suddenly, "there's Frank Kavanagh down near the
stage, in an orchestra seat."

"So he is," said Dick. "Aint he dressed splendid though, wid kid gloves
on and a flower in his button-hole, and an elegant lady beside him? See,
she's whisperin' to him now. Who'd think he used to kape company wid the
likes of us?"

"Frank's up in the world. He's a reg'lar swell now."

"And it's I that am glad of it. He's a good fellow, Frank is, and he
won't turn his back on us."

This was proved later in the evening, for, as Frank left the theatre
with Mrs. Vivian, he espied his two old friends standing outside, and
bowed with a pleasant smile, much to the gratification of the two street
boys, who were disposed to look upon their old friend as one of the
aristocracy.




CHAPTER XVI.

FRANK AS A DETECTIVE.


Of course Frank's daily duties were far the most part of a commonplace
character. They were more varied, to be sure, than those of an
errand-boy, or shop-boy, but even a telegraph messenger does not have an
adventure every day. Twice in the next three weeks our hero was summoned
by Mrs. Leroy to give her pet dog an airing. It was not hard work, but
Frank did not fancy it, though he never failed to receive a handsome fee
from the mistress of Fido.

One day Frank was summoned to a fashionable boarding-house in a side
street above the Fifth-avenue hotel. On presenting himself, the servant
said, "It's one of the boarders wants you. Stay here, and I'll let him
know you've come."

"All right!" said Frank.

"Come right up," said the girl, directly after, speaking from the upper
landing.

Frank ascended the stairs, and entered a room on the second floor. A
gentleman, partially bald, with a rim of red hair around the bare
central spot, sat in a chair by the window, reading a morning paper.

"So you're the telegraph boy, are you?" he said.

"Yes, sir."

"You are honest, eh?"

"I hope so, sir."

"Because I am going to trust you with a considerable sum of money."

"It will be safe, sir."

"I want you to do some shopping for me. Are you ever employed in that
way?"

"I was once, sir."

"Let me see,--I want some linen handkerchiefs and some collars. Are you
a judge of those articles?"

"Not particularly."

"However, I suppose you know a collar from a pair of cuffs, and a
handkerchief from a towel," said the stranger, petulantly.

"I rather think I can tell them apart," said Frank.

"Now let me see how many I want," said the stranger, reflectively. "I
think half-a-dozen handkerchiefs will do."

"How high shall I go?" asked Frank.

"You ought to get them for fifty cents apiece, I should think."

"Yes, sir, I can get them for that."

"And the collars--well, half-a-dozen will do. Get them of good quality,
size 15, and pay whatever is asked."

"Yes, sir; do you want anything more?"

"I think not, this morning. I have a headache, or I would go out
myself," explained the stranger. "I live up the Hudson, and I must go
home this afternoon by the boat."

"Do you want me to buy the articles at any particular store?" inquired
Frank.

"No; I leave that to your judgment. A large store is likely to have a
better assortment, I suppose."

"Very well, sir."

"Come back as soon as you can, that's all."

"You haven't given me the money yet, sir," said Frank.

"Oh, I beg pardon! That is an important omission."

The stranger drew out a pocket-book, which appeared to be well filled,
and extracted two bills of twenty dollars each, which he passed to
Frank.

"This is too much, sir," said the telegraph boy. "One of these bills
will be much more than sufficient."

"Never mind. I should like to have them both changed. You can buy the
articles at different places, as this will give you a chance to get
change for both."

"I can get them changed at a bank, sir."

"No," said the stranger, hastily, "I would rather you would pay them for
goods. Shopkeepers are bound to change bills for a customer."

"I don't see what difference it makes to you as long as they are
changed," thought Frank. However it was not his business to question his
employer's decision.

Sixth avenue was not far distant, and as Frank was left to his own
choice he betook himself hither on his shopping tour. Entering a large
retail store, he inquired for gentleman's linen handkerchiefs.

"Large or small?" asked the girl in attendance.

"Large, I should think."

He was shown some of good quality, at fifty cents.

"I think they will do," said Frank, after examination. "I will take
half-a-dozen."

So saying he drew out one of the twenty-dollar bills.

"Cash!" called the saleswoman, tapping on the counter with her pencil.

Several small boys were flitting about the store in the service of
customers. One of them made his appearance.

"Have you nothing smaller?" asked the girl, noticing the denomination of
the bill.

"No," answered Frank.

She put the bill between the leaves of a small blank book, and handed
both that and the goods to the boy.

Frank sat down on a stool by the counter to wait.

Presently the cash-boy came back, and the proprietor of the store with
him. He was a portly man, with a loud voice and an air of authority. To
him the cash-boy pointed out Frank.

"Are you the purchaser of these handkerchiefs?" he asked.

"Yes, sir," answered Frank, rather surprised at the question.

"And did you offer this twenty-dollar bill in payment?"

"Yes, sir."

"Where did you get it? Think well," said the trader, sternly.

"What is the matter? Isn't the bill a good one?" asked Frank.

"You have not answered my question. However, I will answer yours. The
bill is a counterfeit."

Frank looked surprised, and he understood at a flash why he had been
trusted with two of these bills when one would answer.

"I have nothing to do with that," said the telegraph boy. "I was sent
out to buy some articles, and this money was given me to pay for them."

"Have you got any other money of this description?" asked the trader,
suspiciously.

"Yes," answered Frank, readily. "I have another twenty."

"Let me see it."

"Certainly. I should like to know whether that is bad too."

The other twenty proved to be a fac-simile of the first.

"I must know where you got this money," said the merchant. "You may be
in the service of counterfeiters."

"You might know, from my uniform, that I am not," said Frank,
indignantly. "I once lost a place because I would not pass counterfeit
money."

"I have a detective here. You must lead him to the man who supplied you
with the money."

"I am quite willing to do it," said our hero. "He wanted to make a tool
of me. If I can put him into the hands of the law, I will."

"That boy is all right," said a gentleman standing by. "The rogue was
quite ingenious in trying to work off his bad money through a telegraph
messenger."

"What is the appearance of this man?" asked the detective as they walked
along.

"Rather a reddish face, and partly bald."

"What is the color of the hair he has?"

"Red."

"Very good. It ought to be easy to know him by that description."

"I should know him at once," said Frank, promptly.

"If he has not changed his appearance. It is easy to do that, and these
fellows understand it well."

Reaching the house, Frank rang the bell, the detective sauntering along
on the opposite side of the street.

"Is Mr. Stanley at home?" asked Frank.

"I will see."

The girl came down directly, with the information that Mr. Stanley had
gone out.

"That is queer," said Frank. "He told me to come right back. He said he
had a headache, too, and did not want to go out."

As he spoke, his glance rested on a man who was lounging at the corner.
This man had black hair, and a full black beard. By chance, Frank's eye
fell upon his right hand, and with a start he recognized a large ring
with a sparkling diamond, real or imitation. This ring he had last seen
on Mr. Stanley's hand. He crossed the street in a quiet, indifferent
manner, and imparted his suspicions to the detective.

"Good!" said the latter; "you are a smart boy."

He approached the man alluded to, who, confident in his disguise, did
not budge, and, placing his hand on his shoulder, said, "Mr. Stanley, I
believe."

"You are mistaken," said the man, shrugging his shoulders in a
nonchalant way, with a foreign accent, "I am M. Lavalette. I do not know
your M. Stanley."

"I am afraid you are forgetful, monsieur. I beg pardon, but do you wear
a wig?" and with a quick movement he removed the stranger's hat, and,
dislodging his black wig, displayed the rim of red hair.

"This is an outrage!" said the rogue, angrily; "I will have you
arrested, monsieur."

"I will give you a chance, for here is an officer," said the detective.

"I give this man in charge for passing counterfeit money," said the
detective. "The next time, Mr. Stanley, don't select so smart a
telegraph boy. He recognized you, in spite of your disguise, by the ring
upon your finger."

The rogue angrily drew the ring from his finger, and threw it on the
sidewalk.

"Curse the ring!" he said. "It has betrayed me."

It only remains to add that Stanley was convicted through Frank's
testimony. He proved to be an old offender, and the chief of a gang of
counterfeiters.




CHAPTER XVII.

FRANK MEETS AN OLD ACQUAINTANCE.


Frank was more fortunate than the generality of the telegraph boys in
obtaining fees from those who employed him. He was not allowed to
solicit gifts, but was at liberty to accept them when offered. In one
way or another he found his weekly receipts came to about seven dollars.
Out of this sum he would have been able to save money, even if he had
been obliged to pay all his expenses, that is by the exercise of strict
economy. But, as we know, he was at no expense for room or board, with
the exception of a light lunch in the middle of the day. Making a little
calculation, he found that he could save about four dollars a week. As
it had only been proposed to him to stay at Mrs. Vivian's while Fred was
in the country, it seemed prudent to Frank to "make hay while the sun
shone," and save up a little fund from which he could hereafter draw, in
case it were necessary.

So when he had saved ten dollars he presented himself at the counter of
the Dime Savings-Bank, then located in Canal street, and deposited it,
receiving a bank-book, which he regarded with great pride.

"I begin to feel like a capitalist," he said to himself. "I am rather
better off now than I was when I led round old Mills, the blind man. I
wonder how he is getting along."

As Frank entered Broadway from Canal street, by a strange coincidence he
caught sight of the man of whom he had been thinking. Mills, with the
same querulous, irritable expression he knew well, was making his way up
Broadway, led by a boy younger than Frank.

"Pity a poor blind man!" he muttered from time to time in a whining
voice.

"Look out, you young rascal, or you will have me off the sidewalk,"
Frank heard the blind man say; "I'll have a reckoning with you when I
get home."

The boy, who was pale and slight, looked frightened.

"I couldn't help it, Mr. Mills," he said. "It was the crowd."

"You are getting careless, that's what's the matter," said Mills,
harshly. "You are looking in at the shop windows, and neglect me."

"No, I am not," said the boy, in meek remonstrance.

"Don't you contradict me!" exclaimed the blind man, grasping his stick
significantly. "Pity a poor blind man!"

"What an old brute he is!" thought Frank; "I will speak to him."

"How do you do, Mr. Mills?" he said, halting before the blind man.

"Who are you?" demanded Mills, quickly.

"You ought to know me; I am Frank Kavanagh, who used to go round with
you."

"I have had so many boys--most of them good for nothing--that I don't
remember you."

"I am the boy who wouldn't pass counterfeit money for you."

"Hush!" said the blind man apprehensively, lest some one should hear
Frank. "There was some mistake about that. I remember you now. Do you
want to come back? This boy doesn't attend to his business."

Frank laughed. Situated as he was now, the proposal seemed to him an
excellent joke, and he was disposed to treat it as such.

"Why, the fact is, Mr. Mills, you fed me on such rich food that I
shouldn't dare to go back for fear of dyspepsia."

"Or starvation," he added to himself.

"I live better now," said Mills. "I haven't had any boy since, that
suited me as well as you."

"Thank you; but I am afraid it would be a long time before I got rich on
the wages you would give me."

"I'll give you fifty cents a week," said Mills, "and more if I do well.
You can come to-day, if you like."

"You are very kind, but I am doing better than that," said Frank.

"What are you doing,--selling papers?"

"No; I have given that up. I am a telegraph boy."

"How much do you make?"

"Seven dollars last week."

"Why, you will be rich," said the blind man, enviously. "I don't think I
get as much as that myself, and I have to pay a boy out of it."

His poor guide did not have the appearance of being very liberally paid.

"Then you won't come back?" said Mills, querulously.
