took time to consider his answer. 
" Well, I don know," said he. " Sometimes, 
when harvests are bad, I think I'd like a change ; 
and then agin, years when all goes right, I don't 
keer so much about it." 
" But things cannot go any way but right, for 
the Lord's people," I said. 
 
"Looks drefful onlike it, sometimes," he remarked, 
his eyes going off to the distant hills. 
"That is only looks," said I. "They can't go 
wrong." 
" You kin keep hold o that confidence, kin you, 
allays ? " 
" I know it, always." 
" Knowledge ain't feelin ." 
" Well, I feel it, Deacon Parsons. I am content 
and sure about it. The dear Lord, he makes no 
mistakes." 
And yet, as I said it, I don't know how, the tears 
sprung to my eyes ; and I was obliged to put my 
head down and cry in good earnest. 
Ay, ay ! " said the good deacon softly. " I 
knowed it, you'd feel kind o drear, now she's 
gone. And that's what I come to see you about, 
Desire. "What be you thinkin to do ? " 
" Nothing " said I, drying my eyes. 
"You hain't had time to bestow no thoughts on 
your arrangements yet ? " 
" I have no arrangements to make," I said. I 
dare say I said it sadly. 
"Well, that's jes what I come to speak about. 
My wife and I, we've been talkin it over. She sets
a lot by you, Desire." 
"Does she? I am glad she does," I said. 
" We've been a talkin . You see, there warn't 
nothin to lionder our talkin ; and we've spent all 
the time, a most, since ah, well, all these last days, 
talkin about it, and about you. My wife can't git 
her mind easy about you, nor I can't nother; and 
we've been spekilatin . You see, Desire, we don't 
want to lose you, and Chesterfield don t; and the 
question is, how to keep you ? I don't know how it 
is you hain't got married before now; but anyhow, 
here you are, and I'm glad on't. Now you've had a 
home all these years, and money enough to keep 
you; and the money you'll have to be sure, the 
same as ever, and more of it, for there'll be fewer 
to keep; but what be you goin to do for a home? 
And my wife and I were thinkin could you put 
up with our ways, and come and make your home 
along with us ? She'd be glad ; and so would I be." 
He made pauses here and there, pauses of con 
sideration either for himself or for me ; but now he 
stopped, and took the straw out of his mouth, and 
turned to me. I was greatly touched. This was 
not much after the fashion of Chesterfield, which 
in general likes to attend to its own affairs and 
grants other people liberty to do the same. I be 
gan with some expressions of warm gratitude and 
acknowledgement. He forgot to put the straw in 
his mouth again. 
"That's all very well," said he; "but will you 
come?" 
"Dear Mr. Parsons," I said, "I do not know 
what I shall do. I do not see now anything but 
to live on here, as I have been doing." 
" Too lonesome " said he. 
"I do not know. I shall find out, I suppose, 
whether I can bear it." 
 
"They'll try to git you in Philadelphy." 
" I shall not go there. I shall stay in Chester- 
field." 
" Think so, sure ? " 
" I am quite sure. I shall not go to Philadelphia." 
" Mebbe you'll change your mind when the let 
ters come." 
"They have come," I answered. 
"And you wrote back you wouldn't?" 
" I wrote back I could not." 
"I'm main glad o that! " said the good old man 
striking his knee. "I'm as glad as if I'd found 
somethin . And I hev . Well, we'll talk furder 
about that other plan. Chesterfield couldn't git 
along without you, no sort o how!" 
With which he went. 
I thought it all over the next morning as I was 
taking my solitary breakfast. That was nothing 
new; I had been accustomed to it for some time. 
For Arethusa loves to lie late in the morning; and 
by degrees it grew to be a rule, that she came 
down to breakfast after grandma and I had had 
ours. So she did after grandma began to take her 
breakfast in bed ; I eat mine alone. Finding that 
this was the rule, of course I had no one but my 
self to please in my breakfast hour, and I liked to 
have it very early. This morning it was very 
early. We are not long past the longest days, so 
the sun was up, but only just up. I had good kindling, and my kettle boiled soon; and when my 
tea was ready I set a small table in the porch and 
 
carried my breakfast there. For the house was 
too close for me; I could not bear it; and the 
morning was extremely warm. Not a breath was 
stirring; but out in the open air the night had left 
a little freshness behind her, which the day would 
soon burn up. As yet, how lovely it was! The 
sun was casting a coppery glow upon the hill tops 
and sides, where he could look at them; down in 
the lower grounds the dewy sweetness of grass 
and corn and flowers, and trees and mosses, was 
not "floating" or "wafted," for there was as I said, 
no stir; only it was there, and filled the valley. I
sat in the porch, and drank in a great deal along 
with my tea, and fed on much beside bread and 
butter. The sky was blue and cloudless; the out 
line of the hills less sharply drawn upon it than 
sometimes, because of that misty incense the trail 
of summer's night garments had left behind it. All 
the valley was still yet ; in one or two spots I could 
see a column of thin smoke going up from somebody's chimney; going straight up into the air; a 
thin, curling, straight ascending pillar of smoke. 
Is anything prettier ? and the thought came to me 
of the comparison in the Song of Solomon, which 
always seemed to me so lovely, ever since I comprehended it. 
" Who is this that cometh out of the wilderness like pillars of smoke, perfumed with myrrh 
and frankincense, with all powders of the merchant ? " 
For grace, and stateliness, and royalty, could 
 
there be a fairer image ? Ah how glad I am know 
that Royal One. And next to knowing him my 
self, what is better than to tell of him to others ? 
How can I do that best ? So I came round to Deacon Parsons proposition, which I had meant to consider; and then again the beauty of the time led 
me off. A new breath of honeysuckles and roses 
came to me. How rich the summer is ! how full of 
delights ; and they are yet only an image and testimony of the other and larger riches God has in 
his hand for them that love him. And even with 
that, the tears came into my eyes with the thought 
that I was alone; they dropped into my lap; all the 
sunlight could not dry them; and at last I pushed 
my bread and butter away, and leaning my head 
against the edge of the table had a good fit of cry 
ing, more thorough and hearty than I had known be 
fore since grandma left me. I felt so utterly alone. 
The world would be so lovely if I had somebody to 
love and to love me ! And that line of hilly horizon seemed to say the world was wide and empty 
The emptiness pressed on me. Then, after a little, 
the thought stole in, that I had some one to love, 
and to love me; even Christ my Lord. Not far 
away, leaving that line of hilly horizon so eloquent of emptiness, but nigh and here ; with me ; 
knowing and caring about all that concerned me; 
not thoughtless of my loneliness, nor meaning me 
to lead a loveless life, but offering and giving Himself to supply all my wants and fill all my desires. 
Yes, I knew it, and tears flowed softer, and through 
 
the shower and on the cloud came the bow of 
promise, brightening till its colours were reflected 
from all nature. Yes; "Jesus only," will do for 
a lonely heart; if so be it only has him, and not 
a mere idea of him. My tears ceased, dried by 
his own hand, I think; and with a quiet heart I 
turned now to consider the question, what he would 
have me to do? The.. morning was incomparably 
sweet, and seemed to smile encouragement at me. 
I do-think, when anybody's heart is right with God 
and in peace, nature does bring messages from him, 
which no other ear, perhaps, can hear. Everything 
brought them to me this merning. There was 
nothing to interrupt my thoughts or confuse nature's 
messages, it was so early yet; all lay still under 
its Creator's hand, " full of his riches." Light and 
shadow changing upon the hills, as slowly light 
was banishing shadow; corn fields ripening; hay 
fields yielding their crop to the scythe; the fragrance of the hay mingling with the perfume of 
honeysuckles and roses, mignonette and heliotrope 
and lavender, and wild things from the hills. "The 
earth, Lord, is full of thy riches." So was one 
poor human heart; and I sat there, and looked, and 
thought, how best I could do my Lord's work in 
the world. 
I considered Mr. Parsons offer. Certainly I 
should be less alone in their house than in my 
own. In one way. But, perhaps I should not be 
enough alone. Could I do my work there as un 
hindered as here? What would become of Arethusa ? they would not take her in. What would 
become of the Teachers meeting? Mrs. Parsons 
would not think, probably, that she could bear the 
trouble of having it at her house ; indeed I knew 
she would not. How would it be with other ministries ? when I wanted to carry supplies to some 
body in want, or to cook food for somebody sick, 
would I not be hindered by finding myself in an 
other person's kitchen and having none but another 
person's storeroom to go to ? I had felt as if the solitude in my emptied house would be unendurable; 
now I began to take a different view. Finally an 
idea started up in my head which settled the question. I broached it to Are thusa as soon as she was 
fairly seated at her breakfast. 
"What do you think of my inviting Mrs. Quick 
to come and make her home with us ? " 
Arethusa dropped knife and fork, ejaculating, 
"Mrs. Quick!" 
" She is utterly alone now, you know. Her son 
has gone to Concord to get work." 
"You know best," said Arethusa; "of course; I 
have no right to speak. And I do not know Mrs. 
Quick, except by hearsay. But, from what I hear, 
I judge she could not pay you much. She is very 
poor, ain't she?" 
" Yes. That is one reason in favour of my proposal." 
" Can you afford to take her in for nothing, as 
you do me ? " 
"We should be no more in the family than we 
 
have been and we have always had enough to be 
comfortable." 
"Are you sure that it would be pleasant?" said 
Arethusa, with another look at me. 
"No. That is not the question." 
" It seems to me, that is the question." 
"No, cousin. The first thing in lite is not to 
please oneself." 
" You are very good," said Arethusa, in a tone 
of voice which was not flattering however; "but I 
confess I think a good deal, in such a matter, of 
how it would work along every day." 
"So do I," was my answer. I did not tell Arethusa what images started up before my mind's 
eye ; of the rest and peace such a plan would bring 
to the poor woman we were thinking of. 
It was very well I had had my morning's meditation and made up my mind. For in the course 
of the afternoon I had another call. I was surprised to see Mr. Chandler's handsome head coming up the walk. He had never made a visit here 
before. I made him welcome, and wondered mean 
while as to what his errand could be. I saw he had 
one. But the revelation of it seemed to be difficult 
to the good man. He sat and stared about him. 
" You've got a smart house here," said he. We 
were in the parlour, where it was coolest. " A real 
smart house ! I didn't know you had fixed it "up 
so elegant." 
"That was done long ago," said I. "The ele 
gance is rather faded." 
 
Looks to me first-rate. Books, hey ? I's pose 
you're a great reader. What's here ? The Cathedral Why you ain't a bit of an Episcopal in your 
tastes, be you ? I never thought it of you." 
"No, Mr. Chandler. That is a beautiful book of 
poetry, about a cathedral, and other things." 
" I've read of cathedrals," said Chandler, turning 
his fine, open, intelligent face towards me; "but I 
never could get a good idea of em. Have you 
seen any of em, perhaps, in Philadelphy ? " 
" No. Nothing like what you have read of, Mr. 
Chandler. Those are mostly belonging to the old 
world. I can shew you something, though. This 
is a bit of Westminster Abbey the interior." 
I put a good photograph in the stereoscope as I
spoke and handed it to him, making him stand so 
as to get a good light. This was a gift which had 
come to me lately from Olive, with a box of good 
photographs, to help me, as she wrote, with my 
Teachers meeting. Whose idea that was I need 
ed nobody to tell me. Olive would never have 
thought of such a thing. I had hitherto kept my 
treasure to myself, not having received it long before 
grandma became too ill for me to attend the meetings. Now I was struck and amused to see the effect 
on our Chesterfield blacksmith. He looked almost 
awestruck. I had expected" an outburst of excla 
mation ; but instead of that he was absolutely still. 
" Is that what they call a cathedral ? " he said at 
last, in a tone which whether it were admiration 
or disappointment I could not tell. 
 
" Only a little piece of one," I answered. " That 
is a bit of the interior; what is called the Poets 
Corner, because so many of the poets have monuments there. That is one way the English honour 
famous people ; they give them monuments in West 
minster Abbey." 
"I see! But ain't it a church? This don't look 
much like it." 
" Part of it is a church. Here is another view 
which will shew you the pulpit." 
"That ere little basket of a thing? Why, it ain't 
at the end, Desire?" 
" No, in cathedrals they never have the pulpit at 
one end; the space is too large; it is put more 
central." 
"It does look mighty big!" he assented, with his 
eye immoveably held to the glass. 
"Let me shew you this outside view of another 
cathedral, and you may judge of its size. But indeed Westminster is not a cathedral, though it 
would shew you what the building of a cathedral 
is like. This is the Dom at Cologne." 
"I should say, there warn't no sort o use in havin 
a church as big as that ef it's as big as it looks. 
Why, a man'd want a trumpet, to make himself 
heard from one end to the other." 
I endeavoured to explain the aim and arrangements of a cathedral of the Middle Ages. 
"You do know a sight o things!" said Chandler, 
still staring at Cologne. " And I didn't come to talk 
about the Middle Ages, nother. I'll be shot ef I 
know how to tell you what I did come to talk about ! 
I reckon it's as good a way as any, to dash right into 
it." And therewith he let fall his stereoscope and 
Cologne cathedral. "Desire, suppos n you come 
and live along of us? then we could talk up the 
cathedrals, and everything else in creation. Hey? 
Ain't that a first-rate plan, now ? " 
I was so astonished, I could not speak, but gazed 
at him as he had stared at Cologne. He went on 
presently. 
" We've been talkin of it, my wife and I, off and 
on, for days and days. You see, you couldn't make 
your home here now, alone ; that wouldn't be good 
for you. And we've arranged to fix up the south 
east spare room for you two rooms, for that matter, ef you want em ; and you kin put in em what 
you like of your own, to make yourself feel com 
fortable, and you shall do jest what you like, and 
when you like, and as you like ; and nobody ask 
when you go out or come in. We kin find a ten 
ant for the old house here, easy; and that'll bring 
you in so much more; and for the pleasure o havin 
you we ask only the pay o liaviri you and think 
it's a good bargain, as fur as we're concerned. 
Come, Desire ! say it's a bargain ! My wife'll be 
real delighted, and so will I be." 
It was not too easy to say no, and to make Mr. 
Chandler understand that "no" it must be. He 
went away very much disappointed, and left me a 
little sore. But I had not got through yet. 
I had hardly put up my photographs and my 
 
stereoscope, when another figure was seen coming 
up from the gate. Farmer Binnacle. He rarely 
went so far from home to make a visit, and I was 
grateful to him. His kind face looked grave. He 
came in and sat down and looked around him; 
something as Chandler had done. 
"Desire, how do you do?" 
I said, very w r ell. 
"Yes, and you mean it," said he, his eye coming 
back from the wall to my face. "Some women 
have the pluck o ten men ! " 
" It is not pluck in me, Mr. Binnacle." 
"You've got it, though. What is it, then?" 
"That makes me feel very well ? Nothing but 
Christ; the knowing and the loving him, and 
what he gives me." 
"Your religion ain't the common sort," said he, 
still looking at me consideringly. 
"It's a good sort " said I smiling at him. 
" I believe my old mother was one o your kind. 
I remember her. Prayer was better n supper to her, 
any day, and between the Bible and her dinner 
there warn't no sort o comparison. But how come 
you to be such an old-fashioned sort of a saint, Desire? that's what I'd like to know." 
"Why is not every one such? that's the better 
form of the question." 
" I don know about that. Likely, it's because 
they don't foller your ways. What be they, Desire? how come you to be different from the rest 
of us?" 
 
"Am I different?" 
" Seems to me, you're one o them fragrant plants 
in the Lord's garden, that the Bible talks about; 
and the most of us are as dry as sticks. What's 
made you different, child? you ain't a child now, 
but you was once, and you've always been the 
same; unlike other folks." 
"I suppose the Lord must have taught me." 
"Ay, and why don't he teach other folks? Well, 
well! he gives no account of his matters." 
"Of some of them, no; but of this he has, Mr. 
Binnacle. He has declared that he will have all 
men to be saved, and to come to a knowledge of 
the truth ; and he has bade us go into all the world 
and make disciples of every creature. " 
" Well, they ain't all made disciples of." 
"Because they won't." 
" Well, they ain't all heerd the invitation." 
" Because the church has not carried it, as she 
was told to do." 
"Well, anyhow, Desire, it ain't every disciple 
that knows so much o the Lord's goodness as 
you do." 
"Because they do not want it, Mr. Binnacle." 
" Eh ? How ? What is that ? A Christian, and 
not want it?" 
"Yes. If they wanted it, they would seek for it; 
and the Lord said, Seek, and ye shall find. But 
they must seek it as hid treasure and you know 
how that is; and they must want it so much that 
they cannot do without; and then they will get it." 
 
" I'll make a note o that," said the farmer. " It'll 
do first-rate for next prayermeetin. I won't tell 
em where I got it, though. How come you to 
be so much wiser than other folks, Desire ? that's 
what I'd like to be told." 
" It's all in the Bible, Mr. Binnacle." 
"Fact; and with that an awful reproach to the 
rest of us," said the farmer. " Desire, I believe I'd 
be a better man, if you lived in our house." 
" I don't think you would," said I smiling again. 
"And my wife, she thinks she'd be a better 
woman. Now you like to do folks good; suppose 
you come to our house. You'll do two people good 
all the time; and then you can always see what 
more there is can be done out o doors." 
To my astonishment, I saw that he too was in 
earnest. He too ! Three friends were willing, and 
eager, to receive me into their homes and famthe's, 
for the remainder of my natural life. Mr. Binnacle 
pressed it. He said I should be just as a daughter 
in the household. Finding my refusal was not to 
be overcome, he also gave utterance to the fear 
that I might be tempted to leave Chesterfield and 
go to my sisters. I told him there was no danger. 
"They will want you," said he. "They will try. 
And they will do it." 
" They have tried, and they may try again ; but 
they will not do it. I shall stay here, in my old 
home, the rest of my life I expect." 
" Ah, you'll get married one of these days," said 
the farmer rising ; " but that needn't necessarily take 
 
you away. Well, that ain't to-day nor to-morrow. 
any way ; and I'll go home." 
And as I watched him, passing through the little 
courtyard garden and down the road, I thought 
to myself, Desire, your question is settled. Here 
is your place. Where three fathers are ready to 
adopt you, there is a stock of love and a field of 
influence which it would not be wise to barter for 
another. You could hardly hope for more. Live 
here and work. And there will come a harvest 
time also for you, when the Master of the vineyard 
appears to take account of his servants. 
Jan. 5, 18 . 
FIVE years, almost four and a half since my 
last page was written. I did not mean to 
let them go by without any record. However, the 
time has been unmarked by anything, more than 
the little daily changes, the ups and downs of all 
life and of village life in particular. The relative 
positions of people and things have remained absolutely the same. Arethusa and I have lived on to 
gether, rather helped than hindered by Mrs. Quick. 
She, poor woman, was very glad to accept my invitation; it saved her from distressing loneliness; and 
a more inoffensive member of a family could not be. 
Arethusa complains that her persistent melancholy 
gives her the blues; it has no such effect, happily, 
upon my nerves. Nothing does. I never have the 
 
blues. The days are gray sometimes. I cannot help 
that. There is a certain want of colour in them; 
and happy as I am, and busy, I cannot help know 
ing that, as a woman, a large part of my mental 
nature is like an unused room in a house; locked up 
and empty. I do not think such locked doors are. 
ever pleasant to pass; still less is it pleasant to turn 
the key and go in, and see the coldness and silence 
of the place; and of no sort of use to speculate how 
it would be if furnished and lighted and warmed. 
I suppose really my not writing, all these years, 
has been due mainly to my consciousness of such a 
closed door, which with my pen in my hand I was 
terribly tempted to open, and take a peep in. Not 
good; not best; and so I eschewed writing about 
myself; for even if I did not peep in, there would 
come an echo from the emptiness there. And I 
have been so busy and so happy, that truly I had 
no need to spend my time in opening closed doors. 
The open doors gave me access to room and life 
enough. 
There have been no changes anywhere else either, 
to chronicle. In the village everything has gone 
on its way, though it seems to me with a gain in 
some quarters. More life, and more love astir, I 
think, in the common relations of people, and the 
church, and the Sunday school. With my sisters 
things have not changed; except that Caroline's 
family grows larger. Olive has no children. I 
have never been tempted to make another visit 
to either of them, though both of them have tried 
 
hard to get me. But it was not best. I knew it 
was not best. I could not bear it. 
Now however the time has come that I must go 
there again. Olive has written an almost despair 
ing cry for me, and Mr. Iredell has written too. 
She is not well ; that she has said for years; but now 
she says she is dying, and that I must come to her. 
Mr. Iredell adds his most earnest request that I 
will, and admits that Olive's condition is critical. 
So I have made my few arrangements, and set off 
this evening. 
" I am glad you are going," said Mrs. Quick. 
" We shall miss you dreadfully ; but you want a 
little play, dear. You never do have any." 
"Don't I? My life is all play," I answered; 
" but it will not be play just now. My sister is 
very ill. That is why I am going." 
" She will get well when you come," said Aretlmsa; "and then they won't let you go again. I 
know how it will be. I am afraid I shall never be 
able to manage that cream." 
"You must manage it, because Mrs. Quick is not 
strong enough to churn," I said. " Keep the cream 
where it will be tolerably warm, and stir it every 
now and then, and you will have no trouble." 
" You were churning two hours, the last time," 
said Arethusa " My patience would never hold 
out." 
" It must," said I, " or you will have to go with 
out butter on your cakes. Kemember that. And 
Mrs. Quick, you are not to help her. You are not 
 
fit for it, I have given you the bread and Arethusa the butter to manage; and I wish you good 
success, both." 
I was not sorry what a mixture of inconsistencies we are ! and yet they must be consistent, I suppose In the midst of various anxieties 
that possessed me, and with a hundred weightier 
thoughts in my mind, I was conscious as the train 
moved off with me, that I was not sorry to leave 
Chesterfield and its bread and its butter, yes, and 
Mrs. Quick and Arethusa, for a time out of sight. 
I believe the nature of us, human creatures, demands change; and it seemed to me as if every 
nerve in my body welcomed it. The car was a 
pleasant place; the motion was pleasant; the various human beings by whom I was surrounded were a study of the most novel and interesting 
kind. Really they were of the same race as the 
Chesterfieldians, to whom I was so accustomed; 
nevertheless, these were varieties to which I was 
not accustomed. One or two school boys, going 
back to school after the holidays, I supposed, interested me mightily. One of them had an honest 
fresh face; the other, older, looked neither honest 
nor fresh; rather as if the world's ways were al 
ready old in that young head of his, and the head 
itself grown prematurely old in consequence; and 
I could see how he imposed upon his younger companion; was imposing to him, I mean. The young 
frank eyes were constantly lifted in admiring merriment to this boy's; which looked evil and supe- 
 
nor down, while his mouth was busy pouring out 
teaching which I could guess was alluring and 
knew very surely was not good. My heart ached. 
Could I do anything? I feared not; for I had no 
chance to speak and had no book in my pocket. 
One ought always to have a book in one's pocket; I 
mean, hand-bag. From these boys, when I could 
turn my eyes away, I gladly looked to a pair of 
country women on a seat opposite; yet the view 
was not altogether satisfactory there either. One 
was young and the other was old; mother and 
daughter evidently; and the mother was one of 
those simple, gentle, honest folk, unlearned in the 
world; wise enough in her own sphere maybe, 
but very innocent there. So she was innocently 
amused, curious, wondering, ready to be enquiring. 
While the daughter pranked in what she supposed 
to be fashionable attire, and held herself superior 
in what she supposed to be elegant demeanour. I 
think she was a little bit scandalised at her old 
mother, and tried to make her hold her peace. 
Sometimes, in the pauses at stopping places, the 
old lady turned round and put questions or ad 
dressed remarks to me; and once she had nearly 
driven me beyond the bounds of all propriety. She 
remarked innocently that she " was glad to see so 
many females in the car; they had told her this 
was a male train." 
" She thinks folks had ought to sit separate, as 
if they was in meetin ," the daughter added. "But 
I survived them both, with difficulty ; and was sorry 
 
when they left the train, or the train left them, by 
the way. Then my eyes studied the various forms 
of men of business, men and boys, in the car; I 
speculated as to their ways of life, surroundings, 
and character. That was not an enlivening speculation. I came back ever and again to the thought, 
what are the Lord's people doing on the earth, 
that one sees so little trace of their working ? and 
to the wish that the day of the Lord's own appearance would speedily come. " Lord Jesus, come 
quickly." Who prays that prayer? I rarely hear 
it. But this night my heart joined the cry many 
times, which truly is not new to it. 
I travelled all night. For a long time I was 
not sleepy, excited by many things besides novelty, which I did not want to look at. Partly for 
that cause, perhaps, I was so willingly busy with 
every trifle which crossed the retina of my vision. 
I yielded at last to advancing night and increasing 
drowsiness ; made a pillow of my shawl bundle and 
slept; and knew little more until I awaked in the 
gray of the morning to find myself in New York. 
It was too early for any restaurant to be open, 
and I did not know where to go, if it had been later. 
For this I was provided ; and took my breakfast in 
the great waiting room of the Grand Central. This 
was a strange experience too. I had not travelled 
at all for so many years, that I was like some one 
coming back to the world after a long absence. 
My eyes looked eagerly at every new thing. Truly, 
the great world is a very different place from Chesterfield, and the ways of life upon this earth are 
divers. Anybody would say, the waiting room of 
a railway station in the gray of the early morning 
is a dull place; it was not at all dull to rne. I was 
hungry, .and enjoyed my sandwiches and cold 
coffee; and while I was taking my breakfast I 
noted detail after detail, which every one had interest and suggestion for me. There was the po 
liceman on duty ; what a life ! Here desolately 
keeping watch over his fellow creatures, to see 
that one did no harm to another. His mental fac 
ulties brought to a focus upon wickedness and 
nothing else ! There came in a newsboy with papers under his arm ; they must have been evening 
papers, I think, for it was too early for the morning issue. He came a few steps into the room, 
and seeing nothing of prospect for him, went away 
again. It was a little boy. Ah, little fellow, what 
sort of a home have you got? Have you a mother 
there waiting for you? and what sort of a mother? 
or perhaps have you none, and nobody, and nothing else in the wide, wide world ? I would have 
liked to ask him; but I had no opportunity, and 
perhaps my courage would have failed. 
At last the day came on, shining in at the windows, and I could set out for the Desbrosses Street 
ferry. It was most beautiful, crossing the river. 
For so long I had not seen more water than Hows 
in a mountain brook; the broad, mighty tide, com 
ing down from miles above with its great flood, 
was majestic and imposing to me, and withal most 
 
lovely; for the rising sun was colouring the clouds 
with deep purplish red, growing brighter each moment, and the reflection of those tints on every in 
dividual wave and wavelet was delicate and varied 
and rich in the extreme. I watched it, for every 
moment brought a change, until gold took the place 
of crimson; and then we were at Jersey City and 
I must seek my place in the cars. But I noticed 
that my mental nature, having been kept on one 
sort of fare for so very long, had a kind of hunger 
and thirst for new food. All sorts of even small 
things were a pleasure to me. 
I suppose I was willing to stave off thought of 
another kind. I know I watched the low roof 
and small domiciles of Jersey City, as we passed 
through, with an attention wholly disproportioned 
to their claims; and when we were clear of the 
place, and the wide level fields of New Jersey were 
around me, and we went flying along over them, 
it suddenly came home upon my heart, as some 
thing I could put off no longer, that I was going 
to Philadelphia and would very soon be there. 
And the questions trooped after. So many years 
had gone by since I left it last, so many, was I 
changed? Were they changed? I had seen Caro 
line once, with two of her children; not Olive nor 
Mr. Iredell. And now I was a woman of almost 
thirty; not the girl Desire anymore. Would the 
woman of thirty have forgotten the feelings and 
follies often years before? would the beautiful old 
house in that quiet old street be to me what it was 
 
once, a place of bewitchment? I hardly thought 
it. Ten years ought to have sobered me ; had 
sobered me; but what then? and what has being 
sobered to do with it? And what meant this 
growing weight at my heart, pressing heavier and 
heavier? Then Olive; she was always complain 
ing and fancying evil about herself; was this a 
different case from the ordinary? The call had 
been different from the ordinary; so different, that 
while I had uniformly negatived those, I had yielded obedience immediately to this. What if Oliver
were really very ill ? 
I could not look at that supposition. I put it 
away, and tried now not to think at all. Which 
makes this difference; that instead of looking at 
one thing at once, the whole troop of things come 
and look at you together. I believe I was half glad 
of a detention which occurred about a dozen miles 
from Philadelphia. We had a break-down; not 
dangerous, only delaying ; and so it happened that 
it was a long while past the usual time when we 
rolled into the station. 
The first person I saw was Mr. Iredell, who 
grasped my hand and in the same breath gathered 
up my belongings; and in two minutes more I was 
seated in the carriage and he beside me, and the 
rumble of the car wheels was exchanged for the 
soft rattling over paving stones. Mr. Iredell enquired after the cause of the delay; and told me 
Olive was no worse. He was not changed a hair, 
I saw. I thought he looked at me once or twice to 
 
see if I was. Or to see how much I was; how 
could I tell? Little else was said between us till 
we reached the house; only we agreed how cold it 
was. It was a very cold day. The absence of snow 
in the streets made it none the less wintry; indeed 
I think in cold weather snow is comforting. When 
Mr. Iredell had handed me into the hall, I was 
about to withdraw my arm from his and run up 
stairs, but he held rne fast. 
" Where are you going? " 
" To Olive, of course, at once. She wants me." 
" She shall have you, since you have been so 
good as to come ; but I want you first. Now, Har 
ry, we are ready." 
As he spoke he had led me into the dining room, 
where the fire and the table spoke a mute welcome ; 
mute and bright; and now he began to take off my 
fur and my hat. 
" Mr. Iredell, I don't want anything. I will 
go up and see Olive, if you will let me." 
" I will not let you, just yet," said he gently. 
"There, sit down ami get warm. At what hour 
did you have breakfast this morning ? " 
About I suppose it was half past five." 
"And what was your breakfast?" 
" Some very good sandwiches and coffee. Cold 
coffee. I had brought it from home." 
" And it is now look what o'clock. Do you think 
I shall let you go up stairs fasting? You are not fit 
to see Olive nor to talk to her. You must be amen 
able to reason. You were always that in old times." 
I was under a kind of spell, and could but do 
as he bade me. Harry brought a luxurious meal 
for my refreshment, and I was fain to take it and 
be glad of it; Mr. Iredell taking his luncheon at 
the same time, and serving me with the kindest 
care. Like "old times." The spell upon me grew 
more and more spell-like; and a strange, subtle, 
keen pleasure, that was twin brother to pain of like 
quality, began to fill my heart and creep through 
all my nerves. The old presence that was wont to 
be so fascinating to me ; there it was again, just the 
same, after all these years of interval ; the tones of 
voice that I knew so well, I heard them with my 
bodily ears. The wise, keen, watchful eyes were 
upon me; I hardly dared meet them; the sweet, 
grave smile, so sweet and so gracious, gave me 
again an intense inward delight. It is a strange, 
peculiar feeling, to know that somebody is so very 
much to you, to whom yet you are, and wish to be, 
nothing. It crossed my mind as I sat there, that I 
had done well to stay all these years in Chester 
field; I could not endure much of this sort of expe 
rience; nevertheless, now that I was here and had 
it and for the moment must have it, there was 
something like a paradisaical sense of comfort and 
pleasure that stole over me, albeit mixed with that 
pain. Meanwhile, what odd compositions we are, 
of mind and body ! I was eating sweetbreads and 
drinking coffee and finding myself very hungry 
and exhausted and the process of supply correspondingly agreeable. 
 
"You are a naughty child, Desire, to have kept 
away from us so perseveringly," Mr. Iredell was 
saying. * How many years is it ? " 
" Ten." 
" That was very wrong of you." 
"No; it was just right." 
" What have you been doing ? " 
"Following the Bible rule," said I lightly; "doing what my hands found to do." 
"You are happy if you can," he returned. "My 
hands find a hundred-fold more to do than they 
can manage." 
"That is because so many other hands are idle, 
which ought to be busy. Isn't it a strange thing, 
that so few people know the joy of work? this 
work, I mean." 
"And how is it with yourself, Desire?" he went 
on presently. "Work for others is not the only 
thing. How has it been with your own soul life 
and growth, all these years ? " 
Nobody in my life had ever asked me that question before. It gave me an inexpressible pleasure 
that Mr. Iredell should ask it; so right, and fitting, 
and good, I felt it to be. 
" I think I have grown " I said after a moment's 
pause. 
" How ? " he asked quickly. 
"How can I tell?" 
"Just as you can tell in other cases. By what 
tokens do you know that a plant is growing, or 
has grown ? You cannot sec it grow." 
 
" I do not know " I said doubtfully. 
" Yes, you do. You notice that there is something there which there was not a little while ago. 
There is a tiny bud upstarting, where last week no 
bud was visible. There are streaks of red colour 
shewing themselves in a larger bud which last 
week was all green. Here a leaf has unfolded; 
there a spray has grown longer ; do you see ? " 
" Yes," I said now. " I see. I know." 
"Tried by that rule, Desire?" 
" I have grown ! " I said with my heart swelling. 
" I have learnt something, in all these ten years." 
"Go on, won't you," he said as I stopped. And 
I wanted to go on now. 
"I have learned, Mr. Iredell, that when Jesus 
said I am the Bread of life ; he that cometh to me 
shall never hunger, he did not mean a loss of appetite; but instead of that, he meant that to further and greater longings he would constantly give 
greater and richer satisfaction; so that life comes 
to be a continual feeding on him, and so that the 
more one wants, the more one has; and I don't see 
any end of it ! " 
Mr. Iredell's eyes lightened and shone. 
" Have you learned that? " he said. " I may be 
content about you; for growth is known only by 
growing. Now I will let you go up and see Olive. 
She has been exceedingly eager for your coming, 
even restlessly eager; and I judged that she might 
not soon let you go when once she got hold of you. 
Are you rested and ready ? " 
 
I said quite, and went up stairs. In the passage 
however I met Olive's woman. She also expressed 
her gladness that I was come; Mrs. Iredell said, 
she reported, that she " could not die without see 
ing me " ; but her mistress was sleeping now, and 
as she had passed a miserable night she thought 
it would be advisable to let her sleep her sleep out. 
With which judgment I fully agreed, and so went 
on to my own room. The same I used to have; 
my dear old room ; a fine fire burning for me, every 
preparation made for my comfort, and even a particular easy chair of Olive's, very easy, had been 
moved up here for my benefit. So the woman said; 
Mrs. Iredell had insisted on it; and I let myself sink 
into its soft depths, and looked into the fire, and  meditated. The woman's words had startled me ; 
" Mrs. Iredell said she could not die without seeing 
you, ma 'am." Did Olive feel herself really so ill ? 
But she was apt to talk despondingly about herself, 
I knew from her letters. I was glad to be here. I 
might give her some comfort. But no longer than 
for her comfort would I stay. On that I was de 
termined. I meditated till I was tired of that, and 
took to writing. 
Jan. 7. 
THE afternoon was waning when Benson came 
to call me, and I hurried down. Olive's room 
was in dim light already; the curtains so shaded 
 
the windows, and the windows look to the east. 
Olive was propped up on pillows, dainty as usual 
with white ruffling and embroidery and lace ; but 
in the twilight I could not well see how she looked. 
She received me with a kind of a cry 
"0 Desire! Desire! Desire!" 
so plaintive, and glad, and pitiful, at once, 
that I did not know what to make of it, nor how 
to understand it, nor how to answer it. There was 
fulfilled longing, but there was besides what sounded 
like a longing unfulfilled; or I could not tell what. 
I took her in my arms and kissed her, as quietly as 
I could, for I thought she was excited. And she 
was excited, very much. After kissing me and 
receiving my kisses she held me back to look 
at me. 
"Desire, Desire!" she repeated. "You are not 
changed." 
"I must be," said I lightly; "after so many 
years." 
"No, you are not changed unless for the better," said she, looking at me and holding me back 
still. " So many years ! I have grown old; and you 
0, Desire, Desire!" 
She took her hands from my shoulders and put 
them over her face. It was a tone of longing and 
sorrow. 
" Well, I am here now," I said as gently as pos 
sible. "How do you do, Olive?" 
"Why would you never come before?" 
"I could not. I thought it not best. My work 
 
and my place were there, I thought. There was 
nothing to hinder your coming to Chesterfield, 
though." 
" Yes, there was." 
"Naturally, I could not see it." 
" I did not want ever to be in Chesterfield again." 
" So it seemed to me, Olive. But I did not see 
why." 
"I am going to tell you." 
"Never mind now," said I, seeing her flushed 
and exhausted. "Tell me what ails you; and what 
are you doing for yourself?" 
"What ails me? I don't know. Sometimes I 
think it is half mental. And that's as bad as any 
thing; worse, to manage." 
" Why should it be mental, dear ? " 
" I don't know. Sometimes I think, if things 
had been different, maybe I should have been a 
different woman, in body as well as in mind. I 
don't know ! " 
" If what things had been different ? What could 
you have wished for, Olive, that you have not 
had?" 
"Just what you have had, Desire." 
" I ? " She spoke riddles to me. What a turn 
ing of tables was this. I asked her softly, what I 
had had, that she had wanted ? 
" I am going to tell you, if I can. Before you 
came, I thought I would tell you as soon as I saw 
you; now I find it is not so easy." 
She sighed, and turned on her pillow wearily. 
 
"Wait, Olive," I said. Wait, my dear, till you 
feel like it. There is no hurry." 
"Till I feel like it " she repeated slowly. 
The door opened at this moment and Benson 
appeared with t the announcement, "The doctor, 
