should starve, or be separated, and have to live on charity. 
And though there are some girls that one wouldn't want 
to associate with, there are others who seem so kind and gen- 
erous, and who are working bravely to take care of families, 
and it seems to me as if such people just glorified their work. 
When you are there, with the lights, and the wonderful 
music, and the applause, why, you feel as if there had never 
been anything so beautiful, and you could dance on and 
on. And I always come straight home. I don't wait for 





the little suppers, and Madame Denzil is so good. She 
manages that I shall not see the people who crowd in the 
irreeu-room for introductions. If only Mam'selle Zelie, 
out iheri it might be too nice." 

" Well, I can't say, to be sure. My poor, dear fathel 
would have thought you on the high road to perdition if 
you went to a theatre. But you're just as near an angel 
as can be, there now." 

The thorn in Queenie's life was Mam'selle Zelie. When 
she found this little girl, unknown and unheralded, was 
dancing her way so rapidly into public favor, she hated 
her bitterly. The gay, careless part of the troop did not 
so much mind so long as Queenie refused herself to all 
admirers. True, they sneered a little about it, said she 
set up for a saint, and called her Miss Hightoned Morality ; 
but it mattered little so long as she did not hear it. Miss 
Fay would gladly have drawn her into her gay circle, and, 
indeed, did one day inveigle her into a dainty lunch at her 
own house. There were but two gentlemen, Mr. Danforth, 
Miss Fay's present admirer, and a Mr. Harry Grenville, a 
handsome young southerner, who, after besieging every- 
body, right and left, was fortunate enough to persuade 
Miss Fay to promise him the coveted introduction. 

Mr. Danforth, Queenie had met some time previous, and 
she recognized in the stranger a persistent habitue of the 
green-room. The half-terrified, half-upbraiding, look she 
gave Miss Fay only provoked a laugh. 

"I have trapped you, my shy little bird," she whispered, 
mischievously, but Mr. Grenville plead so hard, and Fred 
took pains to find out all about him, and he is really unex- 
ceptionable. Now don't be cross. I would do anything 
in the world for you." 

Queenie's nature was so fresh and sweet that it would 
not have been possible to assume coldness, or appear ungra- 
cious. Miss Fay set herself about conquering the light 
frost of reserve, and she did it successfully. Her small 





parlor looked its prettiest, adorned with flowers. Miss 
Fay possessed a French woman's art of adornment. The 
curtains were plain Swiss, but beautifully draped, and a 
basket of colored foliage hanging at each window. The 
somewhat worn furniture had pretty delicate covers, rather 
as drapery than the stiff excuse for neatness. A few well- 
chosen pictures, some brackets and vases, the open piano, 
and a general air of comfort, indolence, and pleasure, per- 
vaded the apartment. Being rather long, the table was 
daintily set at the rear end. After the first strangeness 
of introductions was over, Mrs. Keep came in quietly, re- 
moved the cover, added a few dishes, and the quartette 
took their places. 

They were young, gay, and bright, and had a merry 
time, as refined as that in many a more stately mansion. 
The jests they told were wholesome, the experiences they 
compared were those of youth. Harry Grenville could 
have paid no greater respect to the visitors in his proud 
southern home, under the eyes of parents and grandpa- 
rents. Indeed, the stately old Mrs. Grenville was a great 
stickler for the courteous etiquette of a past generation, 
and this, her favorite grandson, had been raised not only 
in the elegances of refinement, but with the strength and 
manliness of true chivalry, that gracious word so fast 
falling into disrepute through the various shams that have 
overlaid it. 

Queenie could not resist the kindly atmosphere. She 
was at home in it, of course ; indeed, it seemed like a bit 
of her past life floating over to her again. She warmed 
and brightened, grew lovelier with every word, every 
smile, and Miss Fay gave wise little nods to Danforth. 

Grenville was under a spell, certainly. He had indulged 
in a few mild flirtations at home, but this was wine to that 
flavorless water. And he said to himself that he had 
never seen so beautiful a girl. What witchery ~>y in those 
large brown, velvety eyes, shaded by the long ^shes of a 





more golden hue. The fine, clear skin, flushing at a 
thought, the dainty chin, the curved lips, with the tint, 
softness, and fragrance of a rose, the cloud of golden hair, 
the exquisite grace of every movement, ah, what a pity 
she was only a stage dancer !

They lingered over their lunch with entertaining conver- 
sation, and had just risen from the table when a coupe with 
two stylish gray horses drove up to the door. 

" Now we are to finish with a drive in the park," an- 
nounced Danforth. " It is just the day, and we shall have 
the best of the sun. Ladies, put on your wraps, for though 
it is May, it is not quite summer." 

Queenie demurred a little. They would be troubled at 
her long stay from home. 

Miss Fay overruled. Mrs. Keep should run in and tell 
them. There could be no real objection, and surely she 
had not the heart to spoil their day's pleasure. The vacant 
space would throw a chill over the party. 

Then Miss Fay brought out a ravishing white felt hat, 
with a pale-blue plume, and insisted upon Queenie's wear- 
ing it. The child looked like some high-bred princess. 
As they drove through the winding avenues more than 
one person turned to glance at her. The homage ernbar 
rassed her. And then she laughed softly to herself. Over 
yonder she had trundled the twins in a baby wagon, with 
Cissy clinging to her skirt, and Pug anxious to get into a 
fight with any boy of his size. 

It was a glorious day ; too early in the season for nature 
to don her witcheries of bud and leaf, but there was a stir- 
ring fragrance from the evergreens, and the long sweeps of 
gr;iss had stolen softly into emerald brightness. How glad 
the world was ! How many happy faces looked into hers, 
and she was happy, tool The dark winter that had so 
crushed her seemed ages agone. She was coming to some- 
thing wonderful, intangible, and yet full of happiness. She 
felt it in every bounding pulse, in every breath she drew 





Why, it was delightful just to live ! Ah, how she should 
dance to-night, after having had this entrancing day. 

It was almost dusk when they reached home. Queenie 
ran up-stairs to change her hat. 

" If I wasn't the best-natured girl in the world I should 
be jealous," laughed Florence, gayly. " Every one has 
stared at you as if you were a new specimen of woman- 
kind, and I don't wonder. You are as lovely as a picture ! 
If I had your beauty " 

She had heard it nearly all her life. Even simple and 
strait-laced Miss Madeira paid homage to it with fear and 
trembling. It was so plain a fact that it touched her no 
more than if any one had said, " Your eyes are brown," or 
"your hair is gold." 

" Well, what then ? " she questioned, eagerly. 

" Why, I'd make as great a stir in the world as some of 
those famous women of history, or legend, or society. 
Why, you could set yourself up as a little queen, not tak- 
ing in the rank and file as Mam'selle Zelie," and Miss Fay 
gave a scornful smile, " but the higher class. You could 
have rides and suppers and little fetes, and make yourself 
of so much importance that managers would be bidding for 
you. I'd not stay out of sight, as a modest daisy. And 
you can see for yourself that Grenville is quite gone over 
the bay, lost his head. He's been badgering every one for 
a chance to see you. Denzil is a capital dragon, though I 
wonder she hasn't insisted on your coming to her. And 
ehe has no end of fun; but she's older, and married, and 
has more license. And I'm on the lookout for a good 
chance to marry, or I should sail in." 

"I must go !" and Queenie ran away with glowing cheeks. 
Why should there be any such thing as love and marriage, 
while the world was so fresh and sweet? And why 
should one think of selfish gifts and gains, and value 
.friends for what they brought? 

The children clung around her with a clamor that would 
 





have been deafening to any one else, and surely startle^ 
fastidious Harry Grenville. Where had she staid all the 
long afternoon ? Cissy would never like Miss Fay again, 
never ; not even if she brought her loads and loads of 
candy, and a splendid wax doll with real hair I For she 
had no business to keep Queenie so long, and Queenie 
never staid home with them now, and 

But Queenie was telling Miss Madeira about the lovely 
drive, when Moppet cried out, 

" Oh, I saw you ! I saw you ! And you had on Miss Fay's 
beautiful white hat, and you looked magnificent ! I was out 
on the avenue buying a spool of silk for auntie Madeira, and 
you flashed by. I knew Miss Fay, but oh, wasn't it funny that 
I didn't know you ? Dear Queenie, won't you buy a white 
hat with blue velvet and a beautiful blue feather, and " 

" Let me eat a little mouthful of supper, and then I must 
be off Have you all been good children, and not worried 
auntie Madeira ? Yes, Polly, I won't forget to kiss you, 
and you shall have the wagon some day "when the 
debts are all paid, she was about to add, but checked her- 
self. 

It seemed as if the little crew would never get done 
kissing her. She was seldom impatient with them, though 
sometimes their caresses had to be shortened. Tip was 
never home early enough to see her to the theatre, but she 
often went with Miss Fay, as she had engaged to, this 
evening. 

The children had been rendered wildly happy by the in- 
dulgence of a matinee, and now Cissy's great ambition was 
to have a lovely dress, and dance on the stage, just like 
Queenie. Miss Madeira shook her head gravely. 

Were they all to go on, and be dependent upon Queen- 
ie's exertions for their chief support ? She often thought 
it over. Would she dare begin dress-making in a great 
city, where style and fashion overwhelmed one ? And the 
pittance she could earn, even with Queenie's assistance, 





would be so small. There was her little cottage in the 
country, but if they went thither Tip must be left alone to 
struggle with the temptations that beset homeless youths. 
Could she even take care of the others, then ? and the poor 
woman would shake her head slowly. 

Tip and she used to talk it over sometimes. The big 
boy was getting to be such a comfort to her, so thoughtful 
and sensible. He had improved so much that his employ- 
ers had raised his wages a dollar a week ; but what was 
eight dollars to that great crowd ! And so they went on, 
trying to be hopeful. 

There had been some talk of changing the play, but the 
house was still crowded, and the manager making money. 
But Queenie knew, in any event, she would not want for 
an engagement. She did not trouble herself about the fu- 
ture, but just lived in her art and in the present. 

Queenie found, in making that one exception to her 
strict seclusion, she had opened the door to numerous invi- 
tations. 

"Though I really don't see why you should make such a 
nun of yourself," said Dolly Denzil. " If you adopt the 
stage as a profession, and you can make money no other 
way as easily, you can hardly help coming in contact with 
your fellow-creatures. Your youth and inexperience 
shield you a good deal here, but it is bad in another way. 
It makes enemies for you. Women begin to hate the 
one who seems to stand on a higher pedestal of goodness 
than the others. Not that I should want you to go down 
to Zelie's level," with a scornful shrug. " And yet, in her 
world, she is a success. She lives elegantly, has a carriage 
at her command, shines in jewels and satins, and will, no 
doubt, lay up a snug sum of money for old age, unless mat- 
rimony overtakes her. She is shrewd and keen under that 
loud, lawless exterior." 

Queenie shivered a little. She had felt the stings of 
enmity. 





" She won't ask you to join her circle, never fear. Such 
women cannot tolerate a rival in society, nor in their 
pleasures," laughed Madame Denzil. " And the farther 
you keep away from them the better it will be for you. 
But you might come to me now and then without a fear. 
I should have the same care for you that a mother would. 
And some of my friends are dying to see you, as well. Let 
me see ; I think you must come to my next little supper. 
You may be sure of meeting none but nice people. And 
Pet makes love to you, laugh at him. He has an idea 
that his destiny in the world is to be continually making 
love to some woman." 

A few evenings later Madame Denzil announced that 
Queenie was to go home with her immediately after the 
play. 

" You had better remain all night with me, I think, un- 
less you would much prefer returning home," she said. 

" Oh, I should, dear Madame Denzil ! They would all 
feel worried, I know. And my brother will come for 
me." 

" Don't call that great stupid boy your brother, when 
you know he isn't ! No, I shall send you home in a hack. 
Don't look so frightened, as if you were going to be hung ! 
You really must get this bashfulness rubbed out of you a 
Jittle. It's odd that you shouldn't mind a great theatre 
full, and that one or two people can put you in a tremor." 

Madame Denzil laughed gaily, and pinched the rosy 
cheek, so exquisitely soft and clear. 

" But the crowd is always so far oflj" she made answer. 
" You seem safe from them." 

" And yet the people near by seldom eat you up. They 
like pates and meringues better. What have you in the way 
of dress ? Nothing, I'll be bound. How funny that you 
should be working for people who are no kin to you ! " 

" But Miss Madeira was so good to me," was the grate- 
ful reply. " And they need me." 





" Pooh, child ! I would have been as good again if you 
foad fallen into my hands. Queenie, I wish now that I could 
adopt you, and order all your ways. I would be better to 
you than that fool of a Madame Barretti. Come. Why 
not leave this raft of poverty-stricken young ones " 

"Oh, Madame Denzil, I couldn't, indeed I couldn't," 
and Queenie's eyes filled with tears. 

" There, you little goose, do not cry about it ! But you 
know there are other people in the world who would be 
glad to have you. I sometimes wish for a daughter of my 
own, never a son, men are such humbugs ! If it wasn't 
for the troublesome, idiotic babyhood, and the risk of not 
having her handsome. So, Queenie dear, you'll know 
where to find your next mother when you want one." 

Queenie kissed her tenderly. 

" And now about the dress. A pretty, light-blue silk, 
for you are a young lady, although it seems difficult for 
you to believe the fact. And I can't have you giving up 
every penny and going in hodden gray." 

Queenie trembled at the expense. Her new month's 
pay would take them all out of debt except the rent, get 
the children some clothes, refill the barrel of flour, and re- 
plenish the coal. How could she take so much for herself! 

" I had something in my mind," Madame Denzil ex- 
plained, a day or two after. " I have a friend who is going 
in mourning, and who will dispose of her wardrobe for a 
mere song. There is just the dress you want, and it will 
not need much alteration. No, I won't hear a word. You 
are to come and spend the day with me, and have it done." 

It would be ungracious to refuse, and it certainly would 
be unwise to vex so good a friend. So she yielded to 
Madame DenziPs imperious sway, and acquiesced in her 
arrangements for the supper. And that, Queenie was 
forced to confess, was absolutely charming. There were 
but a dozen guests. The drawing-room was a study in 
itself, quaint and Bohemianish, with luxurious chairs, pic- 





tares, statuettes, bits of old china and bric-a-brac. And 
the supper-room was just perfect with its glass and silver, 
its flowers and lights. There was a refinement and ele- 
gance, and also a brightness of wit and intellect, that had 
been quite beyond Kate Bridget's reach, something that 
money rarely buys. 

It was a glimpse of the life that Queenie was fitted to 
enjoy with a very thorough zest. How had it come ? 
she asked herself. She listened to the gay repartees, the 
bits of wit and wisdom, saw the play of the lights and 
the dazzle of the silver, and breathed the fragrance of the 
flowers. It was like poems she had read. Or had she 
seen it all in some pre-existent state ? And she wondered 
now about her parents ; had they been poor, or was there 
something in that early life that left its impress ? 

Mr. Grenville had succeeded in obtaining an invitation, 
and was devoted to the beautiful girl. Indeed his infatu- 
ation was no secret at Palace Garden. But she managed 
to dispense her attention with such a gracious equality 
that no one could feel hurt. However, Mr. Grenville had 
the delight of attending her home, which made amends for 
the smiles bestowed upon others, and was to him the most 
exquisite pleasure. 

" Read this ! " exclaimed Madame Denzil the next even- 
ing. " L is considered a very elegant theatrical critic, 

and this must be pure admiration. I wanted him to see 
you, but I had hardly dreamed of such a result." 

Queenie read it with glowing eyes. A most delicate 
tribute to the charms of Mademoiselle Zanfretti, to her 
marvellous stage-power, the exquisite perfection of her art, 
her modesty and childlike innocence, and predicting a bril- 
liant future for her. 

Madame Denzil nodded her head confidently. 

" You are making a reputation rapidly," she began. " I
do not suppose this ' Enchanted Princess ' will last forever, 
though Ritchie means to finish out the season with it. 





Then you will want a new engagement, and every little 
thing helps. Are you going to be just absurd enough to 
cling to these Mullins people all your life ? " 

" How can I leave them, now " 

" You have the most ridiculous conscience that I ever 
saw, child ! I hope some day they will all be able to take 
care of themselves, though if you are going to waste your 
youth this way I hope some handsome young fellow suc- 
ceeds in captivating you. Anyhow, I mean you shall have 
a fair chance." 

It was a perilous path that opened before Queenie. Her 
youth, her capacity for enjoyment, her strange, changeful 
past that, in the nature of events, could erect no barrier 
save the purity of her own soul, the violent sundering of 
ties, and their arbitrary replacement, were illy calculated 
to develop a symmetrical character. 

Could she even stem the treacherous tide? What if 
her little bark grounded on the bars and shallows of the 
shining stream, or, striking some rock, should go down 
suddenly? 

Yet her aim gave her a high and noble courage. For 
them she was to strive. For them she was to shun dan- 
gers and allurements, lest she might bring disgrace on her 
good work. A household strangely stricken, yet, through 
her endeavors, scarcely feeling their loss. 




CHAPTER XXX. 

THISTLES THAT BEOUGHT FORTH GRAPES. 

IT was the last week of the " Enchanted Princess." Lent 
had fallen earlier than usual, and it seemed as if, after 
Easter, the city had taken a new lease of gayeties. Hotels 
had been thronged with people coming and going, suites 
of rooms had been kept until the very commencement of 
summer, a late opera season had flourished, a remarkable 
tragedienne had been presented, but through it all the gor- 
geous scenes and fascinating ballet had held its own. 

It is true there had been some difficulties of manage- 
ment. Once, indeed, Mam'selle Zelie had stirred up such 
a disaffection that the play actually quivered in the balance. 
The real cause had been Queenie's appointment to sing a 
little song, that was rapturously encored. Some one dis- 
covered her beautiful voice, and Ritchie was glad to make 
the most of it. 

Party spirit ran high, and party lines were sharply drawn. 
Matters were compromised somewhat by a promise of ben- 
efits, that were wisely appointed for the last week. 

Queenie had declined making any engagement for the 
summer, partly by Madame Denzil's advice, and partly on 
account of Miss Madeira's pleading. They were out of 
debt, and had a little money, and Queenie was beginning 
to show her work. There had been more dissipation lat- 
terly, invitations that she hardly dared refuse, though, with 
the utmost carefulness, she had made enemies by her very 
exclusiveness, and none more bitter than Mnm'selle Zelie. 

Among the habitues of the green-room Queenie had onn 





evening recognized Archibald Winstead, with extreme ter- 
ror. Fortunately all remembrance of his mother's little 
handmaiden had passed from his mind. Two events had 
recently befallen him of much greater importance than 
any old memory. He had been expelled from college, to 
the great grief of his mother, and he had come in pos- 
session of a fortune, bestowed upon him by an unwise 
maiden aunt, who might better have left it to his sister. 
Mrs. Winstead had aspired to the management of it, but 
the young man shook her off coolly, and went his way 
after the fashion of prodigals. Mademoiselle Zelie tol- 
erated him, and accepted his presents, of which he was 
rather lavish, while Queenie repulsed the slightest over- 
tures for an acquaintance. Indeed, she confined herself 
so closely to Madame Denzil's dressing-room, which being 
small was left mostly to that personage, that very few 
were able to gain a moment's chat with her. Then she 
had a trick of slipping out so quietly, under Tip's pro- 
tection, that she was often gone before Miss Fay was 
aware. Indeed, they seldom went home together, for Miss 
Fay delighted in little suppers and a crowd of admirers. 

Monday evening proved quite an ovation. Queenie dis- 
appeared in the midst of the confusion, and with faithful 
Tip wended her way homeward. Miss Madeira was wait- 
ing for her, and kissed the tender, flushed face. Queenie 
threw herself on the sofa with a tired air. 

" I am so glad you are going to have a little rest," said 
Miss Madeira. " You ought to go to the country. Mrs. 
Wardlow and Hetty would be so glad to take you in, and 
there's Mrs. Burgess ; but I should miss you so, and yet I 
wouldn't be selfish." 

"The idea of auntie Madeira being selfish ! " laughed 
Queenie. 

" You are as good as gold, that's what you are ! " de- 
clared Tip, enthusiastically. "You and Queenie might 
just have stepped out of a story-book." 





Hark, what is that !" 

The sound of a carriage stopping, and an authoritative 
ring at the door. Tip answered it. 

" Here's a note for you, Queenie, and the man is to wait 
for an answer. He asked for Miss Barretti," said Tip. 

Queenie opened it wonderingly, and glanced over its 
contents. 

"Why, how odd," she began. tt lt is from Madame 
Denzil, and she wants me to come immediately to a lit- 
tle party. The carriage is to take me, and will bring me 
home, and I am to wear my prettiest dress : ' come in full 
dress,' she says, ' and make myself look as pretty as pos- 
sible.' I wonder why she did not tell me? It must have 
been an afterthought." 

" But you won't go," observed Miss Madeira. 

" It must be something especial for her to send in this 
manner. I am too tired, really, but I should be sorry to 
disappoint her. And the carriage was to. wait ! " 

"Why, I would go," said Tip. "Why shouldn't you 
have your share in the nice things ? She must want you 
very much or she would not have sent." 

" And she has been so kind ! " Queenie gave a little 
sigh from fatigue, then she roused herself immediately. It 
would not take her swift fingers long to change her attire 
and brush out her beautiful hair. 

" Yes," she continued, " I had better go." 

The slight languor enhanced her beauty. She was in- 
nocently proud of herself in her pretty blue silk, with its 
soft laces, the Pompadour neck displaying her lovely white 
throat. Taking some white roses out of a bouquet, she 
caught up part of her golden hair and fastened in the clus- 
ter. Ah, what a picture of radiant, entrancing girlhood ! 

" Had I better go with you ? " asked Tip. 

" It is hardly worth while," she said, after a moment's 
consideration. "You would have the long walk home 
alone. Good-night, auntie Madeira. Go straight to bed." 





"I'll take a doze on the sofa until you come back. Ob, 
Queenie, bow beautiful you are ! I hate to let you go. I 
envy those people who can look at you and talk to you." 

She stooped and gave him a kiss, and then fluttered out 
to the carnage. The clocks and bells were striking for 
midnight. She stepped in, the door was snapped with a 
click, the driver sprang on his seat, and rattled away. 
Then she thought how very strange it was. But they 
clattered through the deserted streets, and the jolting vehi- 
cle seemed to scatter her thoughts. Indeed, they were all 
chaos when she was handed out, and led to the foot of a 
strange, broad stair-case. 

" Madame Denzil ? " she questioned, anxiously, surprised 
at the unfamiliar aspect. 

A waiter in a white jacket escorted her np-stairs to a 
dressing-room, where a sleepy looking French maid sat in 
attendance. Queenie threw of her wrappings, drew on her 
gloves, wondering as she followed the waiter across a hall. 
As be opened the door a glare of light dazzled her. 

" Miss Barretti," he announced. 

She stood motionless, breathless. The great chandelier 
over the table showed a group of strange faces the first 
instant. Four women among them, as many again of the 
opposite sex. There was Mademoiselle Zelie resplendent 
in garnet velvet and diamonds, her white bare shoulders 
gleaming, and her round, bare arms loaded with bracelets. 
And there was Rose De Luce, about whom a scandal was 
openly circulated. Where was Madame Denzil ! 

All eyes were turned toward the lovely apparition. She 
was so transfixed with a slow, dawning sense of mistake, 
and a terror creeping over her made her lips seem dry and 
constricted, her tongue dumb. 

Mam'selle Zelie gave a loud laugh, and let her great, 
cruel black eyes wander around the table. 

" Gentlemen," she said, mockingly, " to which one of 
you are we indebted for this surprise? Miss Barretti's 


exclusiveness is too well known to suppose for a moment 
that she appears here at midnight, unattended, an unin- 
vited guest." 

The young girl's face was crimson, and every limb trem- 
bled as if she would have fallen. 

" Madame Denzil " she stammered. 

" Madame Denzil would hardly be likely to attend a. petit 
souper given in my honor," was the reply, with a scornful 
laugh. "Neither would she be invited, I am happy to 
say." 

The soft eyes dilated with apprehension, and the pale 
lips quivered without a sound. Then with a great effort 
she cried, wildly 

"There is some mistake! I was sent for by Madame 
Denzil. The driver brought me here " and she paused 
in a strange whirl, confused beyond belief. 

One of the guests rose courteously : 

" Since you are here you will be persuaded to remain 
and grace our banquet with your presence. Mam'selle 
Zelie, come to my aid with your eloquence." 

" Of course she will remain," was the mocking answer. 
" Midnight revels are pretty much the same, and you can 
imagine it at your Madame Denzil's. Gentlemen, make 
room for the pretty prude of the ballet, who assumes the 
shyness of the violet, but in whom you will no doubt find 
the ripeness of the peach, the richness of the rose." 

There was a dainty burst of applause, mingled with con- 
fusion. Several gentlemen sprang up, and now the young 
girl saw one face that was not quite a stranger, yet so hate- 
fi jly familiar that she drew back in desperate terror, and 
springing frantically to the door, fled to the dressing-room. 

Archie Winstead followed her, and remained standing 
at the door. 

What had happened Queenie could not understand or 
make plain in any degree. That she had gone wrong 
some way yet the hack-driver had not shown th 





slightest hesitation, the waiter had seemed to be expecting 
her oh, what was it ? How had it come about ? 

She hurried on her wrappings with trembling hands, and 
bounded to the door like a frightened fawn. Her face was 
ashen pale, her soft eyes wild and startling. 

" You will not go home alone this time of night unat- 
tended, surely ? It is a very singular rencontre, but your 
friend will no doubt be able to explain it all. Allow me " 

Whom could she trust ? She tried to collect her shocked 
and scattered senses. Every thought shrank in repulsion 
from this young man. Yet she was in a desperate strait. 

"Could you find a hack?" and her voice was strained 
and hoarse with alarm. 

" I might yes. Remain here a moment. Nay, do not 
be alarmed. You look as if you would faint." 

"I shall not faint," she replied haughtily, drawing away 
her hand. u Will you see, or shall I apply to a police- 
man?" 

He disappeared, and she stood just within the door, her 
heart beating in great frightened bounds. Past midnight 
worse than alone, for she knew not whom to trust, nor 
what lay before her. Where was she ? Would it be of 
any avail to ask the stupid maid ? Oh, if dear Tip were 
but here, with his rough, boyish bravery. 

She heard the laughter from the room opposite, and her 
cheek burned with unwonted shame. Was she the subject 
of their jest? Ah, it was well she did not hear the cruel, 
shameful insinuations of Mam'selle Zelie, that it might be 
but a cunningly devised plot between Winstead and the 
pretty dancer, springing from pique and jealousy on her 
part. Little did she, or even they, guess that Mam'selle had 
been playing into Winstead's hands, with a touch of her 
own secret malice. 

" I have found a carriage," was the announcement barely 
whispered in Queenie's ear. "Allow me to conduct you 
to it." 





She went hesitatingly down-stairs. There stood a ve- 
hicle. 

"lam much obliged," she faltered. "Believe that thia 
has been some terrible mistake, and accept my warmest 
thanks. Good-night." 

She sprang in thinking she had dismissed him. He said 
a word or two to the driver, and then, before he was fairly 
in, they had started. 

Her former terror returned a hundred fold. Her first 
impulse was to utter a wild scream, but she restrained her- 
self with a great effort. 

" It was not worth while for you to leave your party," 
she exclaimed coldly. 

He had been drinking freely ; indeed, Archie Winstead 
had been leading a most irregular and lawless life for the 
past three months. He had fancied, and still did for that 
matter, that money was the great motive power in pleasure, 
at least. It had brought him the smiles and society of 
pretty girls. He had been a good deal piqued by the stu- 
dious coldness of this one, but now he had a fair field, and 
meant to take advantage of it. 

" My adorable girl," he made answer," do you suppose 
anything could be a substitute for your society ? You are 
so coy and shy " and he grasped her small hand, while 
his hot breath seemed to scorch her. 

" How dai m e you ! " she cried angrily. 

" Don't be so tempestuous, my pretty one ! After watch- 
ing and waiting so long, kindly fate has at last thrown this 
opportunity in my way. I should be a fool to let it slip ! " 

In his estimation a dancer was public property, and a fair 
prey at all times. Some other would clasp this pretty, 
slender, shrinking form to his breast, some other would kiss 
the fragrant lips. Nay, had not Zelie sneered at the 
purity of this lovely girl as a convenient masque, to be put 
off and on as the whim seized one! 

An unutterable loathing and horror sped through her 





ftignt frame, and her small hand clinched itself, as if but 
waiting to strike a blow. She felt his breath warm upon 
her cheek, with its lingering fragrance of wine ; she saw 
his dull eyes aglow with fierce, selfish desires. She was 
alone here with him. Was there no escape ? Better the 
street and the tender mercy of some stranger, if no police- 
man were at hand. 

Suddenly every sense woke to a startling acuteness. 
She pushed away the face so heated with revelry, and the 
madness of what he would have profaned by love's name; 
she shrank into the corner, while outside she slipped her 
arm, unseen by his eyes. 

Where was the knob of the carriage-door? and she felt 
with frantic eagerness. 

He leaned over with hateful words, ready to seize and 
half stifle her if she dared to scream, longing, yet hardly 
daring to snatch a kiss from the quivering lips. 

A sudden wrench, with almost superhuman strength, and 
the carriage-door flew open. They were passing a dimly 
lighted, quiet hotel, and the driver half turned to avoid 
another venicle. She would have sprung out at full speed, 
so wrought up was every nerve, but this moment's halt 
was auspicious. Out she flew with a wild cry, half stum- 
bling at the feet of the other midnight traveller. 

" Good Heavens ! " 

She righted herself, gathered up her robes, and turned 
toward him her beautiful, imploring face. 

"Do you know if I could find an officer " 

Winstead was beside her, his hand upon her arm. 

"This lady is " 

"I know the lady very well;" and Harry Grenville's 
voice rang out clear and sharp. " She is entitled to my 
utmost courtesy and assistance. What! Winstead " 

Archie Winstead slunk away muttering an oath, but he 
could have murdered his rival. 

"Oh, Mr. Grenville!" Queenie cried, "did God send 





you to me in my peril ? It is all so strange. Mr. Wiiv 
stead has been drinking, and " 

" The dastardly scoundrel ! You should not have trusted 
yourself to him an instant. But fool and braggart as he 
is I hardly thought him capable of such disrespect to a 
lady. And now will you allow me to escort you home ? " 

"I shall be so thankful," she returned, tremulously. 

"Will you take my coach? I had just returned from a 
dinner-party." 

"Is it far? Where are we? I think I would rather 
walk ; " and she shuddered at the sight of the coach. 

'' No, not very far. Are you clad warmly enough. Yes, 
you had better ride in this attire, too. If you would 
rather, I will send you alone ; but it would be a sore dis- 
appointment to me." 

" If it is not too much trouble, " she said, hesitatingly, 
"if, indeed, you would not mind going." 

"Mind it! You could not give me a greater pleasure;" 
and the frank, earnest face glowed with delight. 

Then he assisted her in, and they drove through the 
deserted streets. 

"I ought to make some explanation." she began. 

"You need not, to me, unless you desire it. The fact of 
Winstead's behaving so like a scoundrel is sufficient apol- 
ogy for your preferring a stranger instead. But it was not 
a stranger, thank Heaven. Oh, Queenie!" he cried, sud- 
denly, with a change of voice that terrified her again "if 
you would only give me the right to watch over you and 
