over there, they looked so well against the blue;” and Frank proudly
pointed out some queer orange-colored fowls, looking as if they were
having fits in the air, but very effective, nevertheless.

“Your mother said you might call this the Bird Room. We caught a
scarlet-tanager for you to begin with, didn’t we, Jack?” and Ralph threw
a bon-bon at Jill, who looked very like a bright little bird in a warm
nest.

“Good for you! Yes, and we are going to keep her in this pretty cage
till we can both fly off together. I say, Jill, where shall we be in our
classes when we do get back?” and Jack’s merry face fell at the thought.

“At the foot, if we don’t study and keep up. Doctor said I might study
sometimes, if I’d lie still as long as he thought best, and Molly
brought home my books, and Merry says she will come in every day and
tell me where the lessons are. I don’t mean to fall behind, if my
backbone is cracked,” said Jill, with a decided nod that made several
black rings fly out of the net to dance on her forehead.

“Frank said he’d pull me along in my Latin, but I’ve been lazy and
haven’t done a thing. Let’s go at it and start fair for New Year,”
 proposed Jack, who did not love study as the bright girl did, but was
ashamed to fall behind her in anything.

“All right. They’ve been reviewing, so we can keep up when they begin,
if we work next week, while the rest have a holiday. Oh, dear, I do miss
school dreadfully;” and Jill sighed for the old desk, every blot and
notch of which was dear to her.

“There come our things, and pretty nice they look, too,” said Jack; and
his mother began to dress the tree, hanging up the gay horns, the gilded
nuts, red and yellow apples and oranges, and festooning long strings
of pop-corn and scarlet cranberries from bough to bough, with the
glittering necklaces hung where the light would show their colors best.

“I never saw such a splendid tree before. I’m glad we could help, though
we were ill. Is it all done now?” asked Jill, when the last parcel was
tied on and everybody stood back to admire the pretty sight.

“One thing more. Hand me that box, Frank, and be very careful that you
fasten this up firmly, Ralph,” answered Mrs. Minot, as she took from its
wrappings the waxen figure of a little child. The rosy limbs were very
life-like, so was the smiling face under the locks of shining hair. Both
plump arms were outspread as if to scatter blessings over all, and downy
wings seemed to flutter from the dimpled shoulders, making an angel of
the baby.

“Is it St. Nicholas?” asked Jill, who had never seen that famous
personage, and knew but little of Christmas festivities.

“It is the Christ-child, whose birthday we are celebrating. I got the
best I could find, for I like the idea better than old Santa Claus;
though we may have him, too,” said Mamma, holding the little image so
that both could see it well.

“It looks like a real baby;” and Jack touched the rosy foot with the tip
of his finger, as if expecting a crow from the half-open lips.

“It reminds me of the saints in the chapel of the Sacred Heart in
Montreal. One little St. John looked like this, only he had a lamb
instead of wings,” said Jill, stroking the flaxen hair, and wishing she
dared ask for it to play with.

“He is the children’s saint to pray to, love, and imitate, for he never
forgot them, but blessed and healed and taught them all his life. This
is only a poor image of the holiest baby ever born, but I hope it will
keep his memory in your minds all day, because this is the day for good
resolutions, happy thoughts, and humble prayers, as well as play and
gifts and feasting.”

While she spoke, Mrs. Minot, touching the little figure as tenderly as
if it were alive, had tied a broad white ribbon round it, and, handing
it to Ralph, bade him fasten it to the hook above the tree-top, where it
seemed to float as if the downy wings supported it.

Jack and Jill lay silently watching, with a sweet sort of soberness in
their young faces, and for a moment the room was very still as all eyes
looked up at the Blessed Child. The sunshine seemed to grow more
golden as it flickered on the little head, the flames glanced about
the glittering tree as if trying to climb and kiss the baby feet, and,
without, a chime of bells rang sweetly, calling people to hear again the
lovely story of the life begun on Christmas Day.

Only a minute, but it did them good, and presently, when the pleasant
work was over, and the workers gone, the boys to church, and Mamma to
see about lunch for the invalids, Jack said, gravely, to Jill,--

“I think we ought to be extra good, every one is so kind to us, and we
are getting well, and going to have such capital times. Don’t see how we
can do anything else to show we are grateful.”

“It isn’t easy to be good when one is sick,” said Jill, thoughtfully.
“I fret dreadfully, I get so tired of being still. I want to scream
sometimes, but I don’t, because it would scare Mammy, so I cry. Do you
cry, Jack?”

“Men never do. I want to tramp round when things bother me; but I can’t,
so I kick and say, ‘Hang it!’ and when I get very bad I pitch into
Frank, and he lets me. I tell you, Jill, he’s a good brother!” and Jack
privately resolved then and there to invite Frank to take it out of him
in any form he pleased as soon as health would permit.

“I rather think we shall grow good in this pretty place, for I don’t
see how we can be bad if we want to, it is all so nice and sort of pious
here,” said Jill, with her eyes on the angel over the tree.

“A fellow can be awfully hungry, I know that. I didn’t half eat
breakfast, I was in such a hurry to see you, and know all about the
secrets. Frank kept saying I couldn’t guess, that you had come, and I
never would be ready, till finally I got mad and fired an egg at him,
and made no end of a mess.”

Jack and Jill went off into a gale of laughter at the idea of dignified
Frank dodging the egg that smashed on the wall, leaving an indelible
mark of Jack’s besetting sin, impatience.

Just then Mrs. Minot came in, well pleased to hear such pleasant sounds,
and to see two merry faces, where usually one listless one met her
anxious eyes.

“The new medicine works well, neighbor,” she said to Mrs. Pecq, who
followed with the lunch tray.

“Indeed it does, mem. I feel as if I’d taken a sup myself, I’m that easy
in my mind.”

And she looked so, too, for she seemed to have left all her cares in the
little house when she locked the door behind her, and now stood smiling
with a clean apron on, so fresh and cheerful, that Jill hardly knew her
own mother.

“Things taste better when you have someone to eat with you,” observed
Jack, as they devoured sandwiches, and drank milk out of little mugs
with rosebuds on them.

“Don’t eat too much, or you won’t be ready for the next surprise,” said
his mother, when the plates were empty, and the last drop gone down
throats dry with much chatter.

“More surprises! Oh, what fun!” cried Jill. And all the rest of the
morning, in the intervals of talk and play, they tried to guess what it
could be.

At two o’clock they found out, for dinner was served in the Bird Room,
and the children revelled in the simple feast prepared for them. The
two mothers kept the little bed-tables well supplied, and fed their
nurslings like maternal birds, while Frank presided over the feast with
great dignity, and ate a dinner which would have astonished Mamma, if
she had not been too busy to observe how fast the mince pie vanished.

“The girls said Christmas was spoiled because of us; but I don’t think
so, and they won’t either, when they see this splendid place and know
all about our nice plans,” said Jill, luxuriously eating the nut-meats
Jack picked out for her, as they lay in Eastern style at the festive
board.

“I call this broken bones made easy. I never had a better Christmas.
Have a raisin? Here’s a good fat one.” And Jack made a long arm to
Jill’s mouth, which began to sing “Little Jack Horner” as an appropriate
return.

“It would have been a lonesome one to all of us, I’m thinking, but
for your mother, boys. My duty and hearty thanks to you, mem,” put in
grateful Mrs. Pecq, bowing over her coffee-cup as she had seen ladies
bow over their wine-glasses at dinner parties in Old England.

“I rise to propose a health, Our Mothers.” And Frank stood up with a
goblet of water, for not even at Christmas time was wine seen on that
table.

“Hip, hip, hurrah!” called Jack, baptizing himself with a good sprinkle,
as he waved his glass and drank the toast with a look that made his
mother’s eyes fill with happy tears.

Jill threw her mother a kiss, feeling very grown up and elegant to be
dining out in such style. Then they drank every one’s health with much
merriment, till Frank declared that Jack would float off on the deluge
of water he splashed about in his enthusiasm, and Mamma proposed a rest
after the merry-making.

“Now the best fun is coming, and we have not long to wait,” said the
boy, when naps and rides about the room had whiled away the brief
interval between dinner and dusk, for the evening entertainment was to
be an early one, to suit the invalids’ bedtime.

“I hope the girls will like their things. I helped to choose them, and
each has a nice present. I don’t know mine, though, and I’m in a twitter
to see it,” said Jill, as they lay waiting for the fun to begin.

“I do; I chose it, so I know you will like one of them, any way.”

“Have I got more than one?”

“I guess you’ll think so when they are handed down. The bell was going
all day yesterday, and the girls kept bringing in bundles for you; I
see seven now,” and Jack rolled his eyes from one mysterious parcel to
another hanging on the laden boughs.

“I know something, too. That square bundle is what you want ever so
much. I told Frank, and he got it for his present. It is all red and
gold outside, and every sort of color inside; you’ll hurrah when you see
it. That roundish one is yours too; I made them,” cried Jill, pointing
to a flat package tied to the stem of the tree, and a neat little roll
in which were the blue mittens that she had knit for him.

“I can wait;” but the boy’s eyes shone with eagerness, and he could not
resist firing two or three pop-corns at it to see whether it was hard or
soft.

“That barking dog is for Boo, and the little yellow sled, so Molly can
drag him to school, he always tumbles down so when it is slippery,”
 continued Jill, proud of her superior knowledge, as she showed a small
spotted animal hanging by its tail, with a red tongue displayed as if
about to taste the sweeties in the horn below.

“Don’t talk about sleds, for mercy’s sake! I never want to see another,
and you wouldn’t, either, if you had to lie with a flat-iron tied to
your ankle, as I do,” said Jack, with a kick of the well leg and an
ireful glance at the weight attached to the other that it might not
contract while healing.

“Well, I think plasters, and liniment, and rubbing, as bad as flat-irons
any day. I don’t believe you have ached half so much as I have, though
it sounds worse to break legs than to sprain your back,” protested Jill,
eager to prove herself the greater sufferer, as invalids are apt to be.

“I guess you wouldn’t think so if you’d been pulled round as I was when
they set my leg. Caesar, how it did hurt!” and Jack squirmed at the
recollection of it.

“You didn’t faint away as I did when the doctor was finding out if my
vertebrums were hurt, so now!” cried Jill, bound to carry her point,
though not at all clear what vertebrae were.

“Pooh! Girls always faint. Men are braver, and I didn’t faint a bit in
spite of all that horrid agony.”

“You howled; Frank told me so. Doctor said I was a brave girl, so
you needn’t brag, for you’ll have to go on a crutch for a while. I know
that.”

“You may have to use two of them for years, may be. I heard the doctor
tell my mother so. I shall be up and about long before you will. Now
then!”

Both children were getting excited, for the various pleasures of the
day had been rather too much for them, and there is no knowing but they
would have added the sad surprise of a quarrel to the pleasant ones of
the day, if a cheerful whistle had not been heard, as Ralph came in to
light the candles and give the last artistic touches to the room.

“Well, young folks, how goes it? Had a merry time so far?” he asked, as
he fixed the steps and ran up with a lighted match in his hand.

“Very nice, thank you,” answered a prim little voice from the dusk
below, for only the glow of the fire filled the room just then.

Jack said nothing, and two red sulky faces were hidden in the dark,
watching candle after candle sputter, brighten, and twinkle, till the
trembling shadows began to flit away like imps afraid of the light.

“Now he will see my face, and I know it is cross,” thought Jill, as
Ralph went round the last circle, leaving another line of sparks among
the hemlock boughs.

Jack thought the same, and had just got the frown smoothed out of his
forehead, when Frank brought a fresh log, and a glorious blaze sprung
up, filling every corner of the room, and dancing over the figures in
the long chairs till they had to brighten whether they liked it or not.
Presently the bell began to ring and gay voices to sound below: then
Jill smiled in spite of herself as Molly Loo’s usual cry of “Oh, dear,
where is that child?” reached her, and Jack could not help keeping
time to the march Ed played, while Frank and Gus marshalled the
procession.

“Ready!” cried Mrs. Minot, at last, and up came the troop of eager lads
and lasses, brave in holiday suits, with faces to match. A unanimous “O,
o, o!” burst from twenty tongues, as the full splendor of the tree, the
room, and its inmates, dawned upon them; for not only did the pretty
Christ-child hover above, but Santa Claus himself stood below, fur-clad,
white-bearded, and powdered with snow from the dredging-box.

Ralph was a good actor, and, when the first raptures were over he
distributed the presents with such droll speeches, jokes, and gambols,
that the room rang with merriment, and passers-by paused to listen, sure
that here, at least, Christmas was merry. It would be impossible to
tell about all the gifts or the joy of the receivers, but every one
was satisfied, and the king and queen of the revels so overwhelmed with
little tokens of good-will, that their beds looked like booths at a
fair. Jack beamed over the handsome postage-stamp book which had long
been the desire of his heart, and Jill felt like a millionaire, with a
silver fruit-knife, a pretty work-basket, and oh!--coals of fire on her
head!--a ring from Jack.

A simple little thing enough, with one tiny turquoise forget-me-not, but
something like a dew-drop fell on it when no one was looking, and she
longed to say, “I’m sorry I was cross; forgive me, Jack.” But it could
not be done then, so she turned to admire Merry’s bed-shoes, the pots of
pansies, hyacinths, and geranium which Gus and his sisters sent for her
window garden, Molly’s queer Christmas pie, and the zither Ed promised
to teach her how to play upon.

The tree was soon stripped, and pop-corns strewed the floor as the
children stood about picking them off the red threads when candy gave
out, with an occasional cranberry by way of relish. Boo insisted on
trying the new sled at once, and enlivened the trip by the squeaking
of the spotted dog, the toot of a tin trumpet, and shouts of joy at the
splendor of the turn-out.

The girls all put on their necklaces, and danced about like fine ladies
at a ball. The boys fell to comparing skates, balls, and cuff-buttons
on the spot, while the little ones devoted all their energies to eating
everything eatable they could lay their hands on.

Games were played till nine o’clock, and then the party broke up, after
they had taken hands round the tree and sung a song written by one whom
you all know,--so faithfully and beautifully does she love and labor for
children the world over.

THE BLESSED DAY

  “What shall little children bring
    On Christmas Day, on Christmas Day?
  What shall little children bring
    On Christmas Day in the morning?
  This shall little children bring
    On Christmas Day, on Christmas Day;
  Love and joy to Christ their king,
    On Christmas Day in the morning!

  “What shall little children sing
    On Christmas Day, on Christmas Day?
  What shall little children sing
    On Christmas Day in the morning?
  The grand old carols shall they sing
    On Christmas Day, on Christmas Day;
  With all their hearts, their offerings bring
    On Christmas Day in the morning.”

Jack was carried off to bed in such haste that he had only time to call
out, “Good-night!” before he was rolled away, gaping as he went. Jill
soon found herself tucked up in the great white bed she was to share
with her mother, and lay looking about the pleasant chamber, while Mrs.
Pecq ran home for a minute to see that all was safe there for the night.

After the merry din the house seemed very still, with only a light
step now and then, the murmur of voices not far away, or the jingle of
sleigh-bells from without, and the little girl rested easily among the
pillows, thinking over the pleasures of the day, too wide-awake for
sleep. There was no lamp in the chamber, but she could look into the
pretty Bird Room, where the fire-light still shone on flowery walls,
deserted tree, and Christ-child floating above the green. Jill’s eyes
wandered there and lingered till they were full of regretful tears,
because the sight of the little angel recalled the words spoken when it
was hung up, the good resolution she had taken then, and how soon it was
broken.

“I said I couldn’t be bad in that lovely place, and I was a cross,
ungrateful girl after all they’ve done for Mammy and me. Poor Jack was
hurt the worst, and he was brave, though he did scream. I wish I could
go and tell him so, and hear him say, ‘All right.’ Oh, me, I’ve spoiled
the day!”

A great sob choked more words, and Jill was about to have a comfortable
cry, when someone entered the other room, and she saw Frank doing
something with a long cord and a thing that looked like a tiny drum.
Quiet as a bright-eyed mouse, Jill peeped out wondering what it was, and
suspecting mischief, for the boy was laughing to himself as he stretched
the cord, and now and then bent over the little object in his hand,
touching it with great care.

“May be it’s a torpedo to blow up and scare me; Jack likes to play
tricks. Well, I’ll scream loud when it goes off, so he will be satisfied
that I’m dreadfully frightened,” thought Jill, little dreaming what the
last surprise of the day was to be.

Presently a voice whispered,--

“I say! Are you awake?”

“Yes.”

“Any one there but you?”

“No.”

“Catch this, then. Hold it to your ear and see what you’ll get.”

The little drum came flying in, and, catching it, Jill, with some
hesitation, obeyed Frank’s order. Judge of her amazement when she caught
in broken whispers these touching words:--

“Sorry I was cross. Forgive and forget. Start fair to-morrow. All right.
Jack.”

Jill was so delighted with this handsome apology, that she could not
reply for a moment, then steadied her voice, and answered back in her
sweetest tone,--

“I’m sorry, too. Never, never, will again. Feel much better now.
Good-night, you dear old thing.”

Satisfied with the success of his telephone, Frank twitched back the
drum and vanished, leaving Jill to lay her cheek upon the hand that
wore the little ring and fall asleep, saying to herself, with a farewell
glance at the children’s saint, dimly seen in the soft gloom, “I will
not forget. I will be good!”




Chapter VII. Jill’s Mission


The good times began immediately, and very little studying was done that
week in spite of the virtuous resolutions made by certain young persons
on Christmas Day. But, dear me, how was it possible to settle down to
lessons in the delightful Bird Room, with not only its own charms to
distract one, but all the new gifts to enjoy, and a dozen calls a day to
occupy one’s time?

“I guess we’d better wait till the others are at school, and just go in
for fun this week,” said Jack, who was in great spirits at the prospect
of getting up, for the splints were off, and he hoped to be promoted to
crutches very soon.

“I shall keep my Speller by me and take a look at it every day, for
that is what I’m most backward in. But I intend to devote myself to you,
Jack, and be real kind and useful. I’ve made a plan to do it, and I
mean to carry it out, any way,” answered Jill, who had begun to be a
missionary, and felt that this was a field of labor where she could
distinguish herself.

“Here’s a home mission all ready for you, and you can be paying your
debts beside doing yourself good,” Mrs. Pecq said to her in private,
having found plenty to do herself.

Now Jill made one great mistake at the outset--she forgot that she was
the one to be converted to good manners and gentleness, and devoted
her efforts to looking after Jack, finding it much easier to cure other
people’s faults than her own. Jack was a most engaging heathen, and
needed very little instruction; therefore Jill thought her task would
be an easy one. But three or four weeks of petting and play had rather
demoralized both children, so Jill’s Speller, though tucked under the
sofa pillow every day, was seldom looked at, and Jack shirked his Latin
shamefully. Both read all the story-books they could get, held daily
levees in the Bird Room, and all their spare minutes were spent in
teaching Snowdrop, the great Angora cat, to bring the ball when they
dropped it in their game. So Saturday came, and both were rather the
worse for so much idleness, since daily duties and studies are the
wholesome bread which feeds the mind better than the dyspeptic plum-cake
of sensational reading, or the unsubstantial bon-bons of frivolous
amusement.

It was a stormy day, so they had few callers, and devoted themselves to
arranging the album; for these books were all the rage just then, and
boys met to compare, discuss, buy, sell, and “swap” stamps with as much
interest as men on ‘Change gamble in stocks. Jack had a nice little
collection, and had been saving up pocket-money to buy a book in which
to preserve his treasures. Now, thanks to Jill’s timely suggestion,
Frank had given him a fine one, and several friends had contributed a
number of rare stamps to grace the large, inviting pages. Jill wielded
the gum-brush and fitted on the little flaps, as her fingers were
skilful at this nice work, and Jack put each stamp in its proper place
with great rustling of leaves and comparing of marks. Returning, after a
brief absence, Mrs. Minot beheld the countenances of the workers adorned
with gay stamps, giving them a very curious appearance.

“My dears! what new play have you got now? Are you wild Indians?
or letters that have gone round the world before finding the right
address?” she asked, laughing at the ridiculous sight, for both were as
sober as judges and deeply absorbed in some doubtful specimen.

“Oh, we just stuck them there to keep them safe; they get lost if we
leave them lying round. It’s very handy, for I can see in a minute what
I want on Jill’s face and she on mine, and put our fingers on the
right chap at once,” answered Jack, adding, with an anxious gaze at his
friend’s variegated countenance, “Where the dickens is my New Granada?
It’s rare, and I wouldn’t lose it for a dollar.”

“Why, there it is on your own nose. Don’t you remember you put it there
because you said mine was not big enough to hold it?” laughed Jill,
tweaking a large orange square off the round nose of her neighbor,
causing it to wrinkle up in a droll way, as the gum made the operation
slightly painful.

“So I did, and gave you Little Bolivar on yours. Now I’ll have Alsace
and Lorraine, 1870. There are seven of them, so hold still and see how
you like it,” returned Jack, picking the large, pale stamps one by one
from Jill’s forehead, which they crossed like a band.

She bore it without flinching, saying to herself with a secret smile, as
she glanced at the hot fire, which scorched her if she kept near enough
to Jack to help him, “This really is being like a missionary, with a
tattooed savage to look after. I have to suffer a little, as the good
folks did who got speared and roasted sometimes; but I won’t complain a
bit, though my forehead smarts, my arms are tired, and one cheek is as
red as fire.”

“The Roman States make a handsome page, don’t they?” asked Jack, little
dreaming of the part he was playing in Jill’s mind. “Oh, I say, isn’t
Corea a beauty? I’m ever so proud of that;” and he gazed fondly on a big
blue stamp, the sole ornament of one page.

“I don’t see why the Cape of Good Hope has pyramids. They ought to go in
Egypt. The Sandwich Islands are all right, with heads of the black kings
and queens on them,” said Jill, feeling that they were very appropriate
to her private play.

“Turkey has crescents, Australia swans, and Spain women’s heads, with
black bars across them. Frank says it is because they keep women shut
up so; but that was only his fun. I’d rather have a good, honest green
United States, with Washington on it, or a blue one-center with old
Franklin, than all their eagles and lions and kings and queens put
together,” added the democratic boy, with a disrespectful slap on a
crowned head as he settled Heligoland in its place.

“Why does Austria have Mercury on the stamp, I wonder? Do they wear
helmets like that?” asked Jill, with the brush-handle in her mouth as
she cut a fresh batch of flaps.

“May be he was postman to the gods, so he is put on stamps now. The
Prussians wear helmets, but they have spikes like the old Roman fellows.
I like Prussians ever so much; they fight splendidly, and always beat.
Austrians have a handsome uniform, though.”

“Talking of Romans reminds me that I have not heard your Latin for two
days. Come, lazybones, brace up, and let us have it now. I’ve done my
compo, and shall have just time before I go out for a tramp with Gus,”
 said Frank, putting by a neat page to dry, for he studied every day like
a conscientious lad as he was.

“Don’t know it. Not going to try till next week. Grind away over your
old Greek as much as you like, but don’t bother me,” answered Jack,
frowning at the mere thought of the detested lesson.

But Frank adored his Xenophon, and would not see his old friend,
Caesar, neglected without an effort to defend him; so he confiscated the
gum-pot, and effectually stopped the stamp business by whisking away at
one fell swoop all that lay on Jill’s table.

“Now then, young man, you will quit this sort of nonsense and do your
lesson, or you won’t see these fellows again in a hurry. You asked me to
hear you, and I’m going to do it; here’s the book.”

Frank’s tone was the dictatorial one, which Jack hated and always found
hard to obey, especially when he knew he ought to do it. Usually, when
his patience was tried, he strode about the room, or ran off for a race
round the garden, coming back breathless, but good-tempered. Now both
these vents for irritation were denied him, and he had fallen into
the way of throwing things about in a pet. He longed to send Caesar
to perpetual banishment in the fire blazing close by, but resisted the
temptation, and answered honestly, though gruffly: “I know I did, but I
don’t see any use in pouncing on a fellow when he isn’t ready. I haven’t
got my lesson, and don’t mean to worry about it; so you may just give me
back my things and go about your business.”

“I’ll give you back a stamp for every perfect lesson you get, and you
won’t see them on any other terms;” and, thrusting the treasures into
his pocket, Frank caught up his rubber boots, and went off swinging them
like a pair of clubs, feeling that he would give a trifle to be able to
use them on his lazy brother.

At this high-handed proceeding, and the threat which accompanied it,
Jack’s patience gave out, and catching up Caesar, as he thought, sent
him flying after the retreating tyrant with the defiant declaration,--

“Keep them, then, and your old book, too! I won’t look at it till you
give all my stamps back and say you are sorry. So now!”

It was all over before Mamma could interfere, or Jill do more than
clutch and cling to the gum-brush. Frank vanished unharmed, but the poor
book dashed against the wall to fall half open on the floor, its gay
cover loosened, and its smooth leaves crushed by the blow.

“It’s the album! O Jack, how could you?” cried Jill, dismayed at sight
of the precious book so maltreated by the owner.

“Thought it was the other. Guess it isn’t hurt much. Didn’t mean to
hit him, any way. He does provoke me so,” muttered Jack, very red and
shamefaced as his mother picked up the book and laid it silently on
the table before him. He did not know what to do with himself, and was
thankful for the stamps still left him, finding great relief in making
faces as he plucked them one by one from his mortified countenance. Jill
looked on, half glad, half sorry that her savage showed such signs of
unconverted ferocity, and Mrs. Minot went on writing letters, wearing
the grave look her sons found harder to bear than another person’s
scolding. No one spoke for a moment, and the silence was becoming
awkward when Gus appeared in a rubber suit, bringing a book to Jack from
Laura and a note to Jill from Lotty.

“Look here, you just trundle me into my den, please, I’m going to have a
nap, it’s so dull to-day I don’t feel like doing much,” said Jack, when
Gus had done his errands, trying to look as if he knew nothing about the
fracas.

Jack folded his arms and departed like a warrior borne from the
battle-field, to be chaffed unmercifully for a “pepper-pot,” while Gus
made him comfortable in his own room.

“I heard once of a boy who threw a fork at his brother and put his eye
out. But he didn’t mean to, and the brother forgave him, and he never
did so any more,” observed Jill, in a pensive tone, wishing to show that
she felt all the dangers of impatience, but was sorry for the culprit.

“Did the boy ever forgive himself?” asked Mrs. Minot.

“No, ‘m; I suppose not. But Jack didn’t hit Frank, and feels real sorry,
I know.”

“He might have, and hurt him very much. Our actions are in our own
hands, but the consequences of them are not. Remember that, my dear, and
think twice before you do anything.”

“Yes, ‘m, I will;” and Jill composed herself to consider what
missionaries usually did when the natives hurled tomahawks and
boomerangs at one another, and defied the rulers of the land.

Mrs. Minot wrote one page of a new letter, then stopped, pushed her
papers about, thought a little, and finally got up, saying, as if she
found it impossible to resist the yearning of her heart for the naughty
boy,--

“I am going to see if Jack is covered up, he is so helpless, and liable
to take cold. Don’t stir till I come back.”

“No, ‘m, I won’t.”

Away went the tender parent to find her son studying Caesar for dear
life, and all the more amiable for the little gust which had blown away
the temporary irritability. The brothers were often called “Thunder
and Lightning,” because Frank lowered and growled and was a good while
clearing up, while Jack’s temper came and went like a flash, and the air
was all the clearer for the escape of dangerous electricity. Of course
Mamma had to stop and deliver a little lecture, illustrated by sad tales
of petulant boys, and punctuated with kisses which took off the edge of
these afflicting narratives.

Jill meantime meditated morally on the superiority of her own good
temper over the hasty one of her dear playmate, and just when she was
feeling unusually uplifted and secure, alas! like so many of us, she
fell, in the most deplorable manner.

Glancing about the room for something to do, she saw a sheet of paper
lying exactly out of reach, where it had fluttered from the table
unperceived. At first her eye rested on it as carelessly as it did on
the stray stamp Frank had dropped; then, as if one thing suggested the
other, she took it into her head that the paper was Frank’s composition,
or, better still, a note to Annette, for the two corresponded when
absence or weather prevented the daily meeting at school.

“Wouldn’t it be fun to keep it till he gives back Jack’s stamps? It
would plague him so if it was a note, and I do believe it is, for
compo’s don’t begin with two words on one side. I’ll get it, and Jack
and I will plan some way to pay him off, cross thing!”

Forgetting her promise not to stir, also how dishonorable it was to read
other people’s letters, Jill caught up the long-handled hook, often in
use now, and tried to pull the paper nearer. It would not come at once,
for a seam in the carpet held it, and Jill feared to tear or crumple it
if she was not very careful. The hook was rather heavy and long for
her to manage, and Jack usually did the fishing, so she was not very
skilful; and just as she was giving a particularly quick jerk, she lost
her balance, fell off the sofa, and dropped the pole with a bang.

“Oh, my back!” was all she could think or say as she felt the jar all
through her little body, and a corresponding fear in her guilty little
mind that someone would come and find out the double mischief she had
been at. For a moment she lay quite still to recover from the shock,
then as the pain passed she began to wonder how she should get back, and
looked about her to see if she could do it alone. She thought she could,
as the sofa was near and she had improved so much that she could sit
up a little if the doctor would have let her. She was gathering herself
together for the effort, when, within arm’s reach now, she saw the
tempting paper, and seized it with glee, for in spite of her predicament
she did want to tease Frank. A glance showed that it was not the
composition nor a note, but the beginning of a letter from Mrs. Minot to
her sister, and Jill was about to lay it down when her own name caught
her eye, and she could not resist reading it. Hard words to write of one
so young, doubly hard to read, and impossible to forget.

“Dear Lizzie,--Jack continues to do very well, and will soon be up
again. But we begin to fear that the little girl is permanently injured
in the back. She is here, and we do our best for her; but I never
look at her without thinking of Lucinda Snow, who, you remember, was
bedridden for twenty years, owing to a fall at fifteen. Poor little
Janey does not know yet, and I hope”--There it ended, and “poor little
Janey’s” punishment for disobedience began that instant. She thought she
was getting well because she did not suffer all the time, and every one
spoke cheerfully about “by and by.” Now she knew the truth, and shut her
eyes with a shiver as she said, low, to herself,--

“Twenty years! I couldn’t bear it; oh, I couldn’t bear it!”

A very miserable Jill lay on the floor, and for a while did not care who
came and found her; then the last words of the letter--“I hope”--seemed
to shine across the blackness of the dreadful “twenty years” and cheer
her up a bit, for despair never lives long in young hearts, and Jill was
a brave child.

“That is why Mammy sighs so when she dresses me, and every one is so
good to me. Perhaps Mrs. Minot doesn’t really know, after all. She was
dreadfully scared about Jack, and he is getting well. I’d like to ask
Doctor, but he might find out about the letter. Oh, dear, why didn’t I
keep still and let the horrid thing alone!”

As she thought that, Jill pushed the paper away, pulled herself up, and
with much painful effort managed to get back to her sofa, where she laid
herself down with a groan, feeling as if the twenty years had already
passed over her since she tumbled off.

“I’ve told a lie, for I said I wouldn’t stir. I’ve hurt my back, I’ve
done a mean thing, and I’ve got paid for it. A nice missionary I am;
I’d better begin at home, as Mammy told me to;” and Jill groaned again,
remembering her mother’s words. “Now I’ve got another secret to keep all
alone, for I’d be ashamed to tell the girls. I guess I’ll turn round and
study my spelling; then no one will see my face.”

Jill looked the picture of a good, industrious child as she lay with her
back to the large table, her book held so that nothing was to be seen
but one cheek and a pair of lips moving busily. Fortunately, it is
difficult for little sinners to act a part, and, even if the face is
hidden, something in the body seems to betray the internal remorse and
shame. Usually, Jill lay flat and still; now her back was bent in a
peculiar way as she leaned over her book, and one foot wagged nervously,
while on the visible cheek was a Spanish stamp with a woman’s face
looking through the black bars, very suggestively, if she had known it.
How long the minutes seemed till some one came, and what a queer little
jump her heart gave when Mrs. Minot’s voice said, cheerfully, “Jack
is all right, and, I declare, so is Jill. I really believe there is a
telegraph still working somewhere between you two, and each knows what
the other is about without words.”

“I didn’t have any other book handy, so I thought I’d study awhile,”
 answered Jill, feeling that she deserved no praise for her seeming
industry.

She cast a sidelong glance as she spoke, and seeing that Mrs. Minot was
looking for the letter, hid her face and lay so still she could hear the
rustle of the paper as it was taken from the floor. It was well she did
not also see the quick look the lady gave her as she turned the letter
and found a red stamp sticking to the under side, for this unlucky
little witness told the story.

Mrs. Minot remembered having seen the stamp lying close to the sofa when
she left the room, for she had had half a mind to take it to Jack, but
did not, thinking Frank’s plan had some advantages. She also recollected
that a paper flew off the table, but being in haste she had not stopped
to see what it was. Now, the stamp and the letter could hardly have come
together without hands, for they lay a yard apart, and here, also, on
the unwritten portion of the page, was the mark of a small green thumb.
Jill had been winding wool for a stripe in her new afghan, and the green
ball lay on her sofa. These signs suggested and confirmed what Mrs.
Minot did not want to believe; so did the voice, attitude, and air of
Jill, all very unlike her usual open, alert ways.

The kind lady could easily forgive the reading of her letter since the
girl had found such sad news there, but the dangers of disobedience were
serious in her case, and a glance showed that she was suffering either
in mind or body--perhaps both.

“I will wait for her to tell me. She is an honest child, and the truth
will soon come out,” thought Mrs. Minot, as she took a clean sheet, and
Jill tried to study.

“Shall I hear your lesson, dear? Jack means to recite his like a good
boy, so suppose you follow his example,” she said, presently.

“I don’t know as I can say it, but I’ll try.”

Jill did try, and got on bravely till she came to the word “permanent;”
 there she hesitated, remembering where she saw it last.

“Do you know what that means?” asked her teacher, thinking to help her
on by defining the word.

“Always--for a great while--or something like that; doesn’t it?”
 faltered Jill, with a tight feeling in her throat, and the color coming
up, as she tried to speak easily, yet felt so shame-stricken she could
not.

“Are you in pain, my child? Never mind the lesson; tell me, and I’ll do
something for you.”

The kind words, the soft hand on her hot cheek, and the pity in the eyes
that looked at her, were too much for Jill. A sob came first, and then
the truth, told with hidden face and tears that washed the blush away,
and set free the honest little soul that could not hide its fault from
such a friend.

“I knew it all before, and was sure you would tell me, else you would
not be the child I love and like to help so well.”

Then, while she soothed Jill’s trouble, Mrs. Minot told her story and
showed the letter, wishing to lessen, if possible, some part of the pain
it had given.

“Sly old stamp! To go and tell on me when I meant to own up, and get
some credit if I could, after being so mean and bad,” said Jill, smiling
through her tears when she saw the tell-tale witnesses against her.

“You had better stick it in your book to remind you of the bad
consequences of disobedience, then perhaps this lesson will leave a
‘permanent’ impression on your mind and memory,” answered Mrs. Minot,
glad to see her natural gayety coming back, and hoping that she had
forgotten the contents of the unfortunate letter. But she had not; and
presently, when the sad affair had been talked over and forgiven, Jill
asked, slowly, as she tried to put on a brave look,--

“Please tell me about Lucinda Snow. If I am to be like her, I might as
well know how she managed to bear it so long.”

“I’m sorry you ever heard of her, and yet perhaps it may help you to
bear your trial, dear, which I hope will never be as heavy a one as
hers. This Lucinda I knew for years, and though at first I thought her
fate the saddest that could be, I came at last to see how happy she was
in spite of her affliction, how good and useful and beloved.”

“Why, how could she be? What did she do?” cried Jill, forgetting her own
troubles to look up with an open, eager face again.

“She was so patient, other people were ashamed to complain of their
small worries; so cheerful, that her own great one grew lighter; so
industrious, that she made both money and friends by pretty things she
worked and sold to her many visitors. And, best of all, so wise and
sweet that she seemed to get good out of everything, and make her poor
room a sort of chapel where people went for comfort, counsel, and an
example of a pious life. So, you see, Lucinda was not so very miserable
after all.”

“Well, if I could not be as I was, I’d like to be a woman like that.
Only, I hope I shall not!” answered Jill, thoughtfully at first, then
coming out so decidedly with the last words that it was evident the life
of a bedridden saint was not at all to her mind.

“So do I; and I mean to believe that you will not. Meantime, we can try
to make the waiting as useful and pleasant as possible. This painful
little back will be a sort of conscience to remind you of what you ought
to do and leave undone, and so you can be learning obedience. Then,
when the body is strong, it will have formed a good habit to make duty
easier; and my Lucinda can be a sweet example, even while lying here, if
she chooses.”

“Can I?” and Jill’s eyes were full of softer tears as the comfortable,
cheering words sank into her heart, to blossom slowly by and by into her
life, for this was to be a long lesson, hard to learn, but very useful
in the years to come.

When the boys returned, after the Latin was recited and peace restored,
Jack showed her a recovered stamp promptly paid by Frank, who was as
just as he was severe, and Jill asked for the old red one, though
she did not tell why she wanted it, nor show it put away in the
spelling-book, a little seal upon a promise made to be kept.




Chapter VIII. Merry and Molly


Now let us see how the other missionaries got on with their tasks.

Farmer Grant was a thrifty, well-to-do man, anxious to give his children
greater advantages than he had enjoyed, and to improve the fine place
of which he was justly proud. Mrs. Grant was a notable housewife, as
ambitious and industrious as her husband, but too busy to spend any time
on the elegancies of life, though always ready to help the poor and sick
like a good neighbor and Christian woman. The three sons--Tom, Dick,
and Harry--were big fellows of seventeen, nineteen, and twenty-one;
the first two on the farm, and the elder in a store just setting up for
himself. Kind-hearted but rough-mannered youths, who loved Merry very
much, but teased her sadly about her “fine lady airs,” as they called
her dainty ways and love of beauty.

Merry was a thoughtful girl, full of innocent fancies, refined tastes,
and romantic dreams, in which no one sympathized at home, though she was
the pet of the family. It did seem, to an outsider, as if the delicate
little creature had got there by mistake, for she looked very like a
tea-rose in a field of clover and dandelions, whose highest aim in life
was to feed cows and help make root beer.

When the girls talked over the new society, it pleased Merry very much,
and she decided not only to try and love work better, but to convert
her family to a liking for pretty things, as she called her own more
cultivated tastes.

“I will begin at once, and show them that I don’t mean to shirk my duty,
though I do want to be nice,” thought she, as she sat at supper one
night and looked about her, planning her first move.

Not a very cheering prospect for a lover of the beautiful, certainly,
for the big kitchen, though as neat as wax, had nothing lovely in it,
except a red geranium blooming at the window. Nor were the people all
that could be desired, in some respects, as they sat about the table
shovelling in pork and beans with their knives, drinking tea from their
saucers, and laughing out with a hearty “Haw, haw,” when anything amused
them. Yet the boys were handsome, strong specimens, the farmer a hale,
benevolent-looking man, the housewife a pleasant, sharp-eyed matron, who
seemed to find comfort in looking often at the bright face at her elbow,
