    2 quarts of vinegar, or enough to cover the cabbage.
    2 lbs. brown sugar.
    2 tablespoonfuls ground mustard.
    2 tablespoonfuls black pepper.
    2 tablespoonfuls cinnamon.
    2 tablespoonfuls turmeric.
    2 tablespoonfuls celery-seed.
    1 tablespoonful allspice.
    1 tablespoonful mace.
    1 tablespoonful alum, pulverized.
Pack the cabbage and onions in alternate layers, with a little salt
between them. Let them stand until next day. Then scald the vinegar,
sugar, and spices together, and pour over the cabbage and onion. Do
this three mornings in succession. On the fourth, put all together over
the fire and heat to a boil. Let them boil five minutes. When cold,
pack in small jars.
It is fit for use as soon as cool, but keeps well.
DRINKS.
COFFEE.
Never buy the ground coffee put up in packages, if you can get any
other. The mere fact that after they have gone to the expense of the
machinery and labor requisite for grinding it, the manufacturers can
sell it cheaper per pound than grocers can the whole grains, roasted or
raw, should convince every sensible person that it is adulterated with
other and less expensive substances. Be that as it may, coffee loses
its aroma so rapidly after it is ground that it is worth your while to
buy it whole, either in small quantities freshly roasted, or raw, and
roast it yourself; or stand by and see your respectable grocer grind
what you have just bought. You can roast in a pan in the oven, stirring
every few minutes, or in the same upon the top of the range. Stir often
and roast quickly to a bright brown—not a dull black. While still hot,
beat up the white of an egg with a tablespoonful of melted butter and
stir up well with it. This will tend to preserve the flavor. Grind just
enough at a time for a single making.
TO MAKE COFFEE (boiled.)
    1 full coffee-cup (½ pint) of ground coffee.
    1 quart of boiling water.
    White of an egg, and crushed shell of same.
    ½ cup of cold water to settle it.
Stir up the eggshell and the white (beaten) with the coffee, and a very
little cold water, and mix gradually with the boiling water in the
coffee-boiler. Stir from the sides and top as it boils up. Boil pretty
fast twelve minutes; pour in the cold water and take from the fire,
setting gently upon the hearth to settle. In five minutes, pour it
off carefully into your silver, china, or Britannia coffee-pot, which
should be previously well scalded.
Send to table hot.
TO MAKE COFFEE WITHOUT BOILING.
There are so many patent coffee-pots for this purpose, and the
directions sold with these are so minute, that I need give only a few
general rules here. Allow rather more coffee to a given quantity of
water than if it were to be boiled, and have it ground very fine. Put
the coffee in the uppermost compartment, pour on the water very slowly
until the fine coffee is saturated, then more rapidly. The water should
be boiling. Shut down the top, and the coffee ought to be ready when it
has gone through the double or treble set of strainers. Should it not
be strong enough, run it through again.
CAFÉ AU LAIT.
    1 pint very strong made coffee—fresh and hot.
    1 pint boiling milk.
The coffee should be poured off the grounds through a fine strainer
(thin muslin is the best material) into the table coffee-pot. Add the
milk, and set the pot where it will keep hot for five minutes before
pouring it out.
TEA.
    2 teaspoonfuls of tea to one large cupful of boiling water.
Scald the teapot well, put in the tea, and, covering close, set it on
the stove or range one minute to warm; pour on enough boiling water to
cover it well, and let it stand ten minutes to “draw.” Keep the lid of
the pot shut, and set in a warm place, but do not let it boil. Fill up
with as much boiling water as you will need, and send hot to the table,
after pouring into a heated china or silver pot.
The bane of tea in many households is unboiled water. It can never
extract the flavor as it should, although it steep for hours. The
kettle should not only steam, but bubble and puff in a hard boil before
you add water from it to the tea-leaves.
Boiling after the tea is made, injures the flavor either by deadening
or making it rank and “herby.”
The English custom of making tea upon the breakfast or tea-table is
fast gaining ground in America. It is at once the best and prettiest
way of preparing the beverage.
CHOCOLATE. 
    6 tablespoonfuls grated chocolate to each pint of water.
    As much milk as you have water.
    Sweeten to taste.
Put on the water boiling hot. Rub the chocolate smooth in a little cold
water, and stir into the boiling water. Boil twenty minutes; add the
milk and boil ten minutes more, stirring frequently. You can sweeten
upon the fire or in the cups.
COCOA NIBS, OR SHELLS. 
    1 quart of boiling water.
    2 ozs. of cocoa nibs.
    1 quart fresh milk.
Wet the shells or nibs up with a little cold water; add to the boiling,
and cook one hour and a half; strain, put in the milk, let it heat
almost to boiling, and take from the fire.
This is excellent for invalids.
PREPARED COCOA. 
    1 quart of water, boiling.
    2 ozs. prepared cocoa—Baker’s is best.
    1 quart of milk.
Make as you do chocolate—only boil nearly an hour before you add the
milk, afterward heating almost to boiling. Sweeten to taste.
MILK TEA (FOR CHILDREN.)
1 pint fresh milk and the same of boiling water. Sweeten to taste.
RASPBERRY ROYAL. 
    4 quarts ripe berries.
    1 quart best cider vinegar.
    1 lb. white sugar.
    1 pint fine brandy.
Put the berries in a stone jar, pour the vinegar over them, add the
sugar, and pound the berries to a paste with a wooden pestle, or mash
with a spoon. Let them stand in the sun four hours; strain and squeeze
out all the juice, and put in the brandy. Seal up in bottles; lay them
on their sides in the cellar, and cover with sawdust.
Stir two tablespoonfuls into a tumbler of ice-water when you wish to
use it.
RASPBERRY VINEGAR. 
Put the raspberries into a stone vessel and mash them to a pulp. Add
cider-vinegar—no specious imitation, but the genuine article—enough
to cover it well. Stand in the sun twelve hours, and all night in the
cellar. Stir up well occasionally during this time. Strain, and put
as many fresh berries in the jar as you took out; pour the strained
vinegar over them; mash and set in the sun all day. Strain a second
time next day. To each quart of this juice allow
    1 pint of water.
    5 lbs. of sugar (best white) for every 3 pints of this liquid,
        juice and water mingled.
Place over a gentle fire and stir until the sugar is dissolved. Heat
slowly to boiling, skimming off the scum, and as soon as it fairly
boils take off and strain. Bottle while warm, and seal the corks with
sealing wax, or bees’-wax and rosin.
A most refreshing and pleasant drink.
BLACKBERRY VINEGAR
Is made in the same manner as raspberry, allowing 5½ lbs. sugar to 3
pints of juice and water.
BLACKBERRY CORDIAL.
    1 quart of blackberry juice.
    1 lb. white sugar.
    ½ oz. grated nutmeg.
    ½ oz. powdered cinnamon.
    ¼ oz. allspice.
    ¼ oz. cloves.
    1 pint best brandy.
Tie the spices in thin muslin bags; boil juice, sugar, and spices
together fifteen minutes, skimming well; add the brandy; set aside in
a closely covered vessel to cool. When perfectly cold, strain out the
spices, and bottle, sealing the corks.
ELDERBERRY WINE.
    8 quarts of berries.
    4 quarts of boiling water poured over the berries.
Let it stand twelve hours, stirring now and then. Strain well, pressing
out all the juice. Add
    3 lbs. of sugar to 4 quarts of juice.
    1 oz. powdered cinnamon.
    ½ oz. powdered cloves.
Boil five minutes, and set away to ferment in a stone jar, with a
cloth thrown lightly over it. When it has done fermenting, rack it off
carefully, not to disturb the lees. Bottle and cork down well.
CRANBERRY WINE.
    Mash ripe berries to a pulp; put into a stone jar.
    Add 1 quart of water to 2 quarts of berries.
Stir well and let it stand two days. Strain through a double flannel
bag; mash a second supply of berries, equal in quantity to the first,
and cover with this liquid. Steep two days more; strain; add
    1 lb. sugar for 3 quarts of liquor,
and boil five minutes. Let it ferment in lightly covered jars; rack off
and bottle.
This is said to be very good for scrofula.
STRAWBERRY WINE.
3 quarts of strawberries, mashed and strained. To the juice (there
should be about a quart, if the berries are ripe and fresh) add
    1 quart of water.
    1 lb. of sugar.
Stir up well and ferment in a clean, sweet cask, leaving the bung out.
When the working subsides close tightly, or rack off into bottles.
This is said by those who have tasted it to be very good.
CURRANT WINE.
Pick, stem, mash, and strain the currants, which should be very ripe.
    To 1 quart of juice add
       ¾ lb. white sugar.
       ½ pint of water.
Stir all together long and well; put into a clean cask, leaving out the
bung, and covering the whole with a bit of lace or mosquito net. Let it
ferment about four weeks—rack off when it is quite still, and bottle.
JAMAICA GINGER-BEER.
    1 bottle Jamaica Ginger Extract.
    1 oz. cream-tartar.
    6 quarts water.
    1 lb. sugar.
Stir until the sugar is melted, then put in the grated peel of a lemon,
and heat until blood-warm. Add a tablespoonful of brewers’ yeast; stir
well and bottle, wiring down the corks. It will be fit for use in four
days.
This is a refreshing and healthful beverage mixed with pounded ice in
hot weather.
RAISIN WINE.
    1 lb. white sugar.
    2 lbs. raisins, seeded and chopped.
    1 lemon—all the juice and half the grated peel.
    2 gallons boiling water.
Put all into a stone jar, and stir every day for a week. Strain, then,
and bottle it. It will be fit for use in ten days.
LEMONADE OR SHERBET.
    3 lemons to a quart of water.
    6 tablespoonfuls of sugar.
Pare the yellow peel from the lemons, and, unless you mean to use the
Sherbet immediately, leave it out. It gives a bitter taste to the sugar
if left long in it. Slice and squeeze the lemons upon the sugar, add
a very little water, and let them stand fifteen minutes. Then fill up
with water; ice well, stir, and pour out.
ORANGEADE
Is made in the same manner, substituting oranges for lemons.
STRAWBERRY SHERBET. (Delicious.) 
    1 quart of strawberries.
    3 pints of water.
    1 lemon—the juice only.
    1 tablespoonful orange-flower water.
    ¾ lb. white sugar.
The strawberries should be fresh and ripe. Crush to a smooth paste; add
the rest of the ingredients (except the sugar), and let it stand three
hours. Strain over the sugar, squeezing the cloth hard; stir until the
sugar is dissolved; strain again and set in ice for two hours or more
before you use it.
REGENT’S PUNCH. (Fine.)
    1 lb. loaf-sugar or rock candy.
    1 large cup strong black tea—(made).
    3 wineglasses of brandy.
    3 wineglasses of rum.
    1 bottle champagne.
    2 oranges—juice only.
    3 lemons—juice only.
    1 large lump of ice.
This receipt was given me by a gentleman of the old school, a
connoisseur in the matter of beverages as of cookery. “Tell your
readers,” he writes, “that better punch was never brewed.” I give
receipt and message together.
ROMAN PUNCH.
    3 coffee cups of lemonade—(strong and sweet.)
    1 glass champagne.
    1 glass rum.
    2 oranges—juice only.
    2 eggs—whites only—well whipped.
    ½ lb. powdered sugar, beaten into the stiffened whites.
You must ice abundantly—or, if you prefer, freeze.
SHERRY COBBLER.
    Several slices of pineapple, cut in quarters.
    A lemon, sliced thin.
    An orange, sliced thin.
    ½ cup of powdered sugar.
    1 tumbler of Sherry wine.
    Ice-water.
    Pounded ice.
Take a wide-mouthed quart pitcher and lay the sliced fruit in order at
the bottom, sprinkling sugar and pounded ice between the layers. Cover
with sugar and ice, and let all stand together five minutes. Add then
two tumblers of water and all the sugar, and stir well to dissolve
this. Fill the pitcher nearly full of pounded ice, pour in the wine,
and stir up from the bottom until the ingredients are thoroughly mixed.
In pouring it out put a slice of each kind of fruit in each goblet
before adding the liquid.
It is best sucked through a straw or glass tube.
NECTAR. 
Make as above, substituting a little rose-water for the pineapple, and
squeezing out the juice of the orange and lemon, instead of putting in
the slices. Sprinkle nutmeg on the top.
This forms a delicious and refreshing drink for invalids.
CLARET PUNCH. 
    1 bottle of claret.
    ¼ the quantity of ice-water.
    2 lemons, sliced.
    ½ cup powdered sugar.
Cover the sliced lemon with sugar and let it stand ten minutes. Add the
water; stir hard for a whole minute, and pour in the wine. Put pounded
ice in each glass before filling with the mixture.
EGG NOGG. 
    6 eggs—whites and yolks beaten separately and very stiff.
    1 quart rich milk.
    ½ cup of sugar.
    ½ pint best brandy.
    Flavor with nutmeg.
Stir the yolks into the milk with the sugar, which should first be
beaten with the yolks. Next comes the brandy. Lastly whip in the whites
of three eggs.
CHERRY BOUNCE.
    4 lbs. of sour and the same quantity of sweet cherries.
    2½ lbs. white sugar.
    1 gallon best whiskey.
Crush the cherries to pieces by pounding in a deep wooden vessel with
a smooth billet of wood. Beat hard enough to crack all the stones.
Put into a deep stone jar, mix in the sugar well, and cover with the
whiskey. Shake around briskly and turn into a demijohn. Cork tightly
and let it stand a month, shaking it every day, and another month
without touching it. Then strain off and bottle.
It is better a year than six months old.
If the Maltese cross appears but seldom in the section devoted
to drinks, it is because most of my information respecting their
manufacture is second-hand. In my own family they are so little used,
except in sickness, that I should not dare to teach others, upon my own
authority, how to prepare them. Indeed, the temptation I felt to omit
many of them reminded me of a remark made, introductory of preserves,
by one of the “Complete Housewives,” who, all five together, drove me
to the verge of an attack of congestion of the brain, before I had
been a housekeeper for a week. Said this judicious lady:—“Preserves
of all kinds are expensive and indigestible, and therefore poisonous.
Therefore”—again—“I shall not give directions for their manufacture,
except to remark that barberries stewed in molasses are economical, and
a degree less hurtful than most others of that class of compounds.”
Then I reflected that I might, upon the same principle, exclude all
receipts in which cocoanut is used, because it is rank poison to me;
while a dear friend of mine would as soon touch arsenic as an egg. A
large majority of the beverages I have named are highly medicinal, and
deserve a place in the housekeeper’s calendar on that account. Many, so
far from being hurtful, are beneficial to a weak stomach or a system
suffering under general debility. None which contain alcohol in any
shape should be used daily, much less semi- or tri-daily by a well
person.
This principle reduced to practice would prove the preventive ounce
which would cure, all over the land, the need for Temperance Societies
and Inebriate Asylums.
THE SICK-ROOM.
The sick-chamber should be the most quiet and cheerful in the house—a
sacred isle past which the waves of domestic toil and solicitude glide
silently. This is not an easy rule to obey. Whoever the invalid may
be, whether the mother, father, or the sweet youngling of the flock,
the foundations of the household seem thrown out of course while the
sickness lasts. You may have good servants and kind friends to aid
you, but the hitch in the machinery is not to be smoothed out by their
efforts. The irregularity does not annoy you: you do not notice it if
the attack be severe or dangerous. All other thoughts are swallowed
up in the all-absorbing, ever-present alarm. You count nothing an
inconvenience that can bring present relief, or possible healing to the
beloved one; disdain for yourself rest or ease while the shadow hangs
above the pillow crushed by the helpless head. But when it passes,
when the first transport of thankfulness has subsided into an abiding
sense of safety, the mind swings back to the accustomed pivot, and
your eyes seem to be suddenly unbound. You find, with dismay, that
the children have run wild, and the comfort of the whole family been
neglected during your confinement to the post of most urgent duty; with
displeasure, that the servants have, as you consider, taken advantage
of your situation to omit this task, and to slur over that;—in fine,
that nothing has been done well, and so many things left altogether
undone, that you are “worried out of your senses”—a phrase that too
often signifies, out of your temper.
And it is just at this juncture—when you are called to fifty points of
attention and labor at once, and are on the verge of despair at the
conglomeration worse conglomerated arising before you; fidgetting to
pick up dropped stitches in the web you were wont to keep so even—that
the invalid becomes most exacting. “Unreasonable,” you name it to
yourself, even though it be John himself who calls upon you every third
minute for some little office of loving-kindness; who wants to be
amused and fed and petted, and made generally comfortable as if he were
a six-months-old baby; who never remembers that you must be wearied out
with watching and anxiety, and that everything below-stairs is going to
destruction for the want of a balance-wheel. The better he loves you
the more apt is he to fancy that nobody but you can do anything for
him; the more certain to crave something which no one else knows how
to prepare. And when you have strained muscle and patience a little
further to get it ready, and with prudent foresight made enough to
last for several meals, it is more than probable that his fickle taste
will suggest something entirely different for “next time.” “Just for a
change, you know, dear. One gets so tired of eating the same thing so
often!”
He might be more considerate—less childish—you think, turning away that
he may not see your change of countenance. When you have taken so much
pains to suit him exactly! It is harder yet when he refuses to do more
than taste the delicacy you hoped would tempt him.
“It is very nice, I suppose, my love,” says the poor fellow, with the
air of a martyr. “But it does not taste right, somehow. Maybe the
children can dispose of it. If I had a lemon ice, or some wine jelly
such as my mother used to make, I am sure I could relish it. I always
did detest sick peoples’ diet!”
If he is very much shaken as to nerves, he will be likely to say,
“messes.”
“I am fairly wild!” said a loving wife and mother, and thrifty
housekeeper, to me one day, when I called to see her.
She had just nursed her husband and three children through the
influenza. All had been down with it at once. That form of demoniacal
possession is generally conducted upon the wholesale principle. One of
her servants had left in disgust at the increased pressure of work; the
weather was rainy, blowy, raw; the streets were muddy, and there was no
such thing as keeping steps and halls clean, while the four invalids
were cross as only toothache or influenza can make human beings.
“I am fairly wild!” said the worthy creature, with tears in her eyes.
“I cannot snatch a minute, from morning until night, to put things
straight, and yet I am almost tired to death! I was saying to myself
as you came in, that I wouldn’t try any longer. I would just sit still
until the dirt was piled up to my chin, and then I would get upon the
table!”
How often I have thought of her odd speech since! sometimes with a
smile—more frequently with a sigh. But with all my pity for the nurse
and housekeeper, I cannot conceal from myself—I would not forget,
or let you forget for a moment—the truth that the sick one is the
greater sufferer. It is never pleasant to be laid upon the shelf. The
resting-place—falsely so-called—is hard and narrow and uneven enough,
even when the tramp of the outer world does not jar the sore and
jaded frame; when there is no apparent need for the sick person to be
upon his feet, and for aught that others can see, or he can say, he
might just as well stay where he is for a month or two. But when, the
rack of pain having been removed, the dulled perceptions of the mind
re-awaken to sensitiveness, and there comes to his ear the bugle-call
of duty—sharp, imperative;—when every idle moment speaks to him of a
slain opportunity, and the no longer strong man shakes his fetters
with piteous cries against fate, do not despise, or be impatient
with him. He is feverish and inconsiderate and capricious because he
is not himself. You see only the poor wreck left by the demon as he
tore his way out of him at the Divine command. Gather it up lovingly
in your arms, and nurse it back to strength and comeliness. The sick
should always be the chief object of thought and care with all in the
household.’ If need be, let the dirt lie chin-deep everywhere else, so
long as it is kept out of that one room. There be jealous in your care
that nothing offends sight and smell.
There should be no smell in a sick-chamber. To avoid this, let in
the air freely and often. Cologne-water will not dispel a foul odor,
while disinfectants are noisome in themselves. Bathe the patient as
frequently and thoroughly as prudence will allow, and change his
clothing, with the bed-linen, every day. Do not keep the medicines
where he can see them, nor ever let him witness the mixing of that
which he is to swallow. So soon as his meals are over, remove every
vestige of them from the room. Even a soiled spoon, lying on table or
bureau, may offend his fastidious appetite. Cover the stand or waiter
from which he eats with a spotless napkin, and serve his food in your
daintiest ware.
My heart softens almost to tearfulness when I recall the hours, days,
weeks, I have myself spent in the chamber of languishing, and the
ingenuity of tenderness that, from my babyhood, has striven to cheat
the imprisonment of weariness, and make me forget pain and uselessness.
The pretty surprises daily invented for my entertainment; the exceeding
nicety with which they were set out before me; the loving words that
nourished my spirit when the body was faint unto death,—these are
events, not slight incidents, in the book of memory. When I cease to be
grateful for them, or to learn from them how to minister unto others of
the like consolation, may my heart forget to beat, my right hand lose
her cunning!
Do not ask your charge what he would like to eat to-day. He will, of a
surety, sicken with the effort at selection, and say, “Nothing!” But
watch attentively for the slightest intimation of a desire for any
particular delicacy, and if you are assured that it cannot hurt him,
procure it, if you can, without letting him guess at your intention.
Feed him lightly and often, never bringing more into his sight than he
may safely eat. A big bowl of broth or jelly will either tempt him to
imprudence, or discourage him. “Am I to be burdened with all that?”
cries the affrighted stomach, and will have none of it. While he is
very weak, feed him with your own hand, playfully, as you would a
child, talking cheerily of something besides his food, and coaxing him
into taking the needed nutriment as only a wife and mother can, or as
nobody but John could beguile you to effort in the same direction.
Study all pleasant and soothing arts to while away the time, and keep
worry of every kind away from him. A trifle at which you can laugh will
be a burden to the enfeebled mind and body, and he has nothing to do
but lie still and roll it over until it swells into a mountain. When
he can be removed without danger, let him have his meals in another
room, changing the air of each when he is not in it. Every one who has
suffered from long sickness knows the peculiar loathing attendant upon
the idea that all food is tainted with the atmosphere of the chamber
in which it is served, and if eaten in bed, tastes of the mattress and
pillows. The room and all in it may be clean, fresh, and sweet, but the
fancy cannot be dismissed. And it is wiser to humor than to reason with
most sick fancies.
A hired nurse is a useful, often a necessary thing, but while you are
upon your feet, and mistress of your own house, delegate to no one
the precious task of catering for the dear sufferer. It is an art in
itself. I hope a practical knowledge of it will be taught in Women’s
Medical Colleges, when they are an established “institution” with us.
I wish it were proper to record here the name of one of the kindest
and best family physicians I ever knew, who had charge of my not very
firm health during my girlhood. He owed much—I suppose no one ever knew
really how much—of his success in his practice to his tact and skill in
devising palatable and suitable nourishment for his patients. I well
remember the childish pleasure with which I would hear him say when the
violence of the attack had passed—“Now, my dear child, we must begin
with kitchen physic!” and the glow of amused expectation with which I
used to watch him, as, with an arch show of mystery, he would beckon my
mother from the room to receive his “prescription;” the impatience with
which I awaited the result of the conference, and the zest with which I
ate whatever he ordered.
If I could have persuaded him to manage this department of my work,
it would win for me the degree of M.D. with a new meaning—Mistress of
Dietetics.
THE SICK-ROOM.
BEEF TEA. 
    1 lb. lean beef, cut into small pieces.
Put into a jar without a drop of water; cover tightly, and set in a pot
of cold water. Heat gradually to a boil, and continue this steadily
for three or four hours, until the meat is like white rags, and the
juice all drawn out. Season with salt to taste, and when cold, skim.
The patient will often prefer this ice-cold to hot. Serve with Albert
biscuit or thin “wafers,” unleavened, made by a receipt given under the
head of BREAD.
MUTTON BROTH. 
    1 lb. lean mutton or lamb, cut small.
    1 quart water—cold.
    1 tablespoonful rice, or barley, soaked in a very little warm water.
    4 tablespoonfuls milk.
    Salt and pepper, with a little chopped parsley.
Boil the meat, unsalted, in the water, keeping it closely covered,
until it falls to pieces. Strain it out, skim, add the soaked barley or
rice; simmer half an hour, stirring often; stir in the seasoning and
the milk, and simmer five minutes after it heats up well, taking care
it does not burn.
Serve hot with cream crackers.
CHICKEN BROTH. 
Is excellent made in the same manner as mutton, cracking the bones well
before you put in the fowl.
VEAL AND SAGO BROTH.
    2 lbs. knuckle of veal, cracked all to pieces.
    2 quarts of cold water.
    3 tablespoonfuls best pearl sago, soaked in a cup of cold water.
    1 cup cream, heated to boiling.
    Yolks of two eggs, beaten light.
Boil the veal and water in a covered saucepan very slowly until reduced
to one quart of liquid; strain, skim, season with salt, and stir in the
soaked sago (having previously warmed it by setting for half an hour in
a saucepan of boiling water, and stirring from time to time.) Simmer
half an hour, taking care it does not burn; beat in the cream and eggs;
give one good boil up, and turn out.
This is excellent for consumptives.
BEEF AND SAGO BROTH.
    2 lbs. of beef—cut up small.
    2 quarts of water.
    1 cup of sago, soaked soft in a little lukewarm water.
    Yolks of three eggs.
    Salt to taste.
Stew the beef until it falls to pieces; strain it out, salt the liquid
and stir in the sago. Simmer gently one hour, stirring often. Add the
beaten yolks: boil up once and serve.
This is a strengthening and nice soup. Eat with dry toast.
ARROWROOT JELLY (Plain.) 
    1 cup boiling water.
    2 heaping teaspoonfuls of best Bermuda arrowroot.
    1 teaspoonful lemon juice.
    2 teaspoonfuls of white sugar.
Wet the arrowroot in a little cold water, and rub smooth. Then stir
into the hot, which should be on the fire and actually boiling at the
time, with the sugar already melted in it. Stir until clear, boiling
steadily all the while, and add the lemon. Wet a cup in cold water, and
pour in the jelly to form. Eat cold with sugar and cream flavored with
rose-water.
An invaluable preparation in cases where wine is forbidden.
ARROWROOT WINE JELLY. 
    1 cup boiling water.
    2 heaping teaspoonfuls arrowroot.
    2 heaping white sugar.
    1 tablespoonful brandy or 3 tablespoonfuls of wine.
An excellent corrective to weak bowels.
ARROWROOT BLANC MANGE. 
    1 cupful boiling milk.
    2 dessertspoonfuls best arrowroot, rubbed smooth in cold water.
    2 teaspoonfuls white sugar.
    Vanilla or other essence.
Boil until it thickens well, stirring all the while. Eat cold with
cream, flavored with rose-water, and sweetened to taste.
SAGO
May be substituted for arrowroot in any of the foregoing receipts,
when you have soaked it an hour in water poured over it cold, and
gradually warmed by setting the cup containing it in hot water. Boil
rather longer than you do the arrowroot.
SAGO GRUEL. 
    2 cups water.
    2 tablespoonfuls sago.
    3 teaspoonfuls white sugar.
    1 glass of wine.
    1 tablespoonful lemon juice.
    Nutmeg to taste, and a pinch of salt.
Put the sago in the water while cold, and warm by setting in a saucepan
of boiling water. Stir often, and let it soften and heat for one
hour. Then boil ten minutes, stirring all the while; add the sugar,
wine, and lemon, and pour into a bowl or mould to cool. Eat warm, if
preferred. The wine and nutmeg should be omitted if the patient be
feverish.
INDIAN MEAL GRUEL. 
    2 quarts of boiling water.
    1 cup of Indian meal, and
    1 tablespoonful flour, wet up with cold water.
    Salt to taste—and, if you like, sugar and nutmeg.
Wet the meal and flour to a smooth paste, and stir into the water while
it is actually boiling. Boil slowly one hour, stirring up well from
the bottom. Season with salt to taste. Some sweeten it, but I like it
better with a little pepper added to the salt.
If a cathartic is desired, omit the wheat flour altogether.
OATMEAL GRUEL
Is made in the same way.
MILK AND RICE GRUEL.
    1 quart boiling milk.
    2 tablespoonfuls (heaping) of ground rice, wet with cold milk.
    1 saltspoonful of salt.
Stir in the rice-paste and boil ten minutes, stirring all the while.
Season with sugar and nutmeg, and eat warm with cream.
You may use Indian meal instead of rice-flour, which is an astringent.
In this case, boil an hour.
DRIED FLOUR FOR TEETHING CHILDREN.
    1 cup of flour, tied in a stout muslin bag and dropped into cold
        water, then set over the fire.
Boil three hours steadily. Turn out the flour ball and dry in the hot
sun all day; or, if you need it at once, dry in a moderate oven without
shutting the door.
To use it—
Grate a tablespoonful for a cupful of boiling milk and water (half and
half). Wet up the flour with a very little cold water, stir in and boil
five minutes. Put in a little salt.
TAPIOCA JELLY.  (Very good.)
    1 cup of tapioca.
    3 cups of cold water.
    Juice of a lemon, and a pinch of the grated peel.
    Sweeten to taste.
Soak the tapioca in the water four hours. Set within a saucepan of
boiling water; pour more lukewarm water over the tapioca if it has
absorbed too much of the liquid, and heat, stirring frequently. If too
thick after it begins to clear, put in a very little boiling water.
When quite clear, put in the sugar and lemon. Pour into moulds. Eat
cold, with cream flavored with rose-water and sweetened.
TAPIOCA BLANC-MANGE. 
    1 cup of tapioca soaked in two cups cold water.
    3 cups boiling milk.
    3 tablespoonfuls white sugar.
    Rose-water or vanilla.
Soak the tapioca four hours, and stir, with the water in which it was
soaked, into the boiling milk. Sweeten and boil slowly, stirring all
the while, fifteen minutes. Take off, flavor and pour into moulds.
Eat cold with cream. Wash tapioca well before soaking.
ARROWROOT CUSTARD. (Nice.)
    2 cups of boiling milk.
    3 heaping teaspoonfuls arrowroot, wet up with a little cold milk.
    2 tablespoonfuls white sugar, beaten with the egg.
    1 egg very well beaten.
Mix the arrowroot paste with the boiling milk; stir three minutes; take
from the fire and whip in the egg and sugar. Boil two minutes longer,
flavor with vanilla or rose-water, and pour into moulds.
RICE-FLOUR MILK.
    2 cups of milk, boiling.
    2 tablespoonfuls rice-flour, wet up with cold milk.
    2 tablespoonfuls white sugar.
Boil ten minutes, stirring all the while, and flavor to taste. Eat warm
with cream.
SAGO MILK. 
    3 tablespoonfuls sago, soaked in a large cup cold water one hour.
    3 cups boiling milk.
    Sweeten and flavor to taste.
Simmer slowly half an hour. Eat warm.
TAPIOCA MILK
Is made in the same way.
BOILED RICE. 
    ½ cup whole rice, boiled in just enough water to cover it.
    1 cup of milk.
    A little salt.
    1 egg, beaten light.
When the rice is nearly done, turn off the water, add the milk and
simmer—taking care it does not scorch—until the milk boils up well.
Salt, and beat in the egg.
Eat warm with cream, sugar, and nutmeg.
PANADA. 
    6 Boston crackers, split.
    2 tablespoonfuls white sugar.
    A good pinch of salt, and a little nutmeg.
    Enough boiling water to cover them well.
Split the crackers, and pile in a bowl in layers, salt and sugar
scattered among them. Cover with boiling water and set on the hearth,
with a close top over the bowl, for at least one hour. The crackers
should be almost clear and soft as jelly, but not broken.
Eat from the bowl, with more sugar sprinkled in if you wish it. If
properly made, this panada is very nice.
BREAD PANADA, OR JELLY. 
Pare some slices of stale baker’s bread and toast nicely, without
burning. Pile in a bowl, sprinkling sugar and a very little salt
between; cover well with boiling water, and set, with a tight lid
upon the top, in a pan of boiling water. Simmer gently, until the
contents of the bowl are like jelly. Eat warm with powdered sugar and
nutmeg.
CHICKEN JELLY. (Very nourishing.) 
    Half a raw chicken, pounded with a mallet, bones and meat together.
    Plenty of cold water to cover it well—about a quart.
Heat slowly in a covered vessel, and let it simmer until the meat is
in white rags and the liquid reduced one half. Strain and press, first
through a cullender, then through a coarse cloth. Salt to taste, and
pepper, if you think best; return to the fire, and simmer five minutes
longer. Skim when cool. Give to the patient cold—just from the ice—with
unleavened wafers. Keep on the ice. You can make into sandwiches by
putting the jelly between thin slices of bread spread lightly with
butter.
CALVES’ FEET BROTH.
    2 calves’ feet.
    2 quarts cold water.
    1 egg, beaten up with two tablespoonfuls milk for each cupful
        of broth.
    Pepper and salt.
Boil the feet to shreds; strain the liquor through a double muslin
bag; season to taste, and set by for use, as you need it. Warm by
the small quantity, allowing to each cupful a beaten egg and two
tablespoonfuls of milk. Give a good boil up to cook these, and serve
“with thin, crisp toast. If the patient can take it, a dash of
lemon-juice improves the broth.
TOAST WATER. 
    Slices of toast, nicely browned, without a symptom of burning.
    Enough boiling water to cover them.
Cover closely, and let them steep until cold. Strain the water, sweeten
to taste, and put a piece of ice in each glassful. If the physician
thinks it safe, add a little lemon-juice.
APPLE WATER. 
    1 large juicy pippin, the most finely-flavored you can get.
    3 cups of cold water—1 quart if the apple is very large.
Pare and quarter the apple, but do not core it. Put it on the fire in
a tin or porcelain saucepan with the water, and boil, closely covered,
until the apple stews to pieces. Strain the liquor at once, pressing
the apple hard in the cloth. Strain this again through a finer bag, and
set away to cool. Sweeten with white sugar, and ice for drinking.
It is a refreshing and palatable drink.
JELLY WATER. 
    1 large teaspoonful currant or cranberry jelly.
    1 goblet ice-water.
Beat up well for a fever-patient.
Wild cherry or blackberry jelly is excellent, prepared in like manner
for those suffering with summer complaint.
FLAX-SEED LEMONADE. 
    4 tablespoonfuls flax-seed (whole.)
    1 quart boiling water poured upon the flax-seed.
    Juice of two lemons, leaving out the peel.
    Sweeten to taste.
Steep three hours in a covered pitcher. If too thick, put in cold water
with the lemon-juice and sugar. Ice for drinking.
It is admirable for colds.
SLIPPERY-ELM BARK TEA.
Break the bark into bits, pour boiling water over it, cover and let it
infuse until cold. Sweeten, ice, and take for summer disorders, or add
lemon-juice and drink for a bad cold.
APPLE TODDY. 
Boil a large juicy pippin in a quart of water, and when it has broken
to pieces strain off the water. While it is still boiling-hot, add a
glass of fine old whiskey, a little lemon-juice, and sweeten to taste.
Take hot at bed-time for influenza.
MILK PUNCH. 
    1 tumbler of milk, well sweetened.
    2 tablespoonfuls best brandy, well stirred in.
I have known very sick patients to be kept alive for days at a time by
this mixture, and nothing else, until Nature could rally her forces.
Give very cold with ice.
EGG AND MILK PUNCH 
Is made by the preceding receipt, with an egg beaten very light with
the sugar, and stirred in before the brandy is added.
ICELAND OR IRISH MOSS LEMONADE. 
    1 handful Irish or Iceland moss, washed in five waters.
    2 quarts boiling water, poured upon the moss, and left until cold.
    2 lemons, peeled and sliced, leaving out the peel.
    Sweeten very well and ice.
Do not strain, and if it thicken too much, add cold water.
Excellent for feverish colds and all pulmonary troubles.
ICELAND OR IRISH MOSS JELLY. 
    1 handful moss, washed in five waters, and soaked an hour.
    1 quart boiling water.
    2 lemons—the juice only.
    1 glass of wine.
    ¼ teaspoonful cinnamon. (Measure scantily.)
Soak the washed moss in a very little cold water; stir into the
boiling, and simmer until it is dissolved. Sweeten, flavor, and strain
into moulds. You may use two glasses of cider instead of one of wine
for a fever-patient, putting in a little less water.
Good for colds, and very nourishing.
SEA-MOSS BLANC-MANGE
Is made in the same way, using boiling milk instead of water, and
leaving out the lemons and wine. Flavor with vanilla or rose-water.
DRY TOAST.
Pare off the crust from stale light bread; slice half an inch thick and
toast quickly. Graham bread is very nice toasted.
Butter lightly if the patient can eat butter.
MILK TOAST. 
Toast as just directed; dip each slice, as it comes from the toaster,
in boiling water; butter, salt slightly, and lay in a deep covered
dish. Have ready in a saucepan enough boiling milk to cover all well.
When your slices are packed, salt this very slightly; melt in it a
bit of butter and pour over them. Cover closely and let it stand five
minutes before using it. It is excellent when made of Graham bread.
This is a good dish for a family tea as well as for invalids.
UNLEAVENED BISCUIT, OR WAFERS. 
Mix good, dry flour to a stiff dough with milk; salt, and roll out
thin. Cut into round cakes and roll these again almost as thin as
letter-paper. Bake very quickly.
They may also be mixed with water. These are very simple and palatable,
and go well with all kinds of broth, especially oyster-soup.
DRIED RUSK. (See Bread.)
BEEF STEAK AND MUTTON CHOPS.
Choose the tenderest cuts and broil over a clear hot fire with your
wisest skill. Let the steak be rare—the chops well-done. Salt and
pepper, lay between two hot plates three minutes, and serve to your
patient. If he is very weak, do not let him swallow anything except
the juice, when he has chewed the meat well.
The essence of rare beef—roast or broiled—thus expressed, is considered
by some physicians to be more strengthening than beef-tea, prepared in
the usual manner.
SANGAREE OR PORTEREE.
One-third wine or porter mixed with two-thirds cold water. Sweeten,
grate nutmeg on the top, and ice.
Serve dry toast with it. Taken hot, it is good for a sudden cold.
WINE WHEY.
    1 pint boiling milk.
1 large glass pale wine, poured in when the milk is scalding hot. Boil
up once, remove from the fire and let it cool. Do not stir it after the
wine is put in. When the curd forms, draw off the whey and sweeten.
HERB TEAS
Are made by infusing the dried or green leaves and stalks in boiling
water, and letting them stand until cold. Sweeten to taste.
Sage tea, sweetened with honey, is good for a sore throat, used as a
gargle, with a small bit of alum dissolved in it.
Catnip tea is the best panacea for infant ills, in the way of cold and
colic, known to nurses.
Pennyroyal tea will often avert the unpleasant consequences of a sudden
check of perspiration, or the evils induced by ladies’ thin shoes.
Chamomile and gentian teas are excellent tonics taken either cold or
hot.
The tea made from blackberry-root is said to be good for summer
disorders. That from green strawberry leaves is an admirable and
soothing wash for a cankered mouth.
Tea of parsley-root scraped and steeped in boiling water, taken warm,
will often cure strangury and kindred affections, as will that made
from dried pumpkin-seed.
Tansy and rue teas are useful in cases of colic, as are fennel seeds
steeped in brandy.
A tea of damask-rose leaves, dry or fresh, will usually subdue any
simple case of summer complaint in infants.
Mint tea, made from the green leaves, crushed in cold or hot water and
sweetened, is palatable and healing to the stomach and bowels.
MINT JULEP. 
Some sprigs of green mint, slightly bruised in a tumbler with a
teaspoon. Put in a generous teaspoonful of white sugar; add gradually,
stirring and rubbing lightly, enough water to fill the glass
three-quarters of the way to the top. Fill up with pounded ice; stir
hard; pour into a larger glass that you may shake up well, and put in
two tablespoonfuls fine brandy.
This is called a “hail-storm julep.”
EAU SUCRÉ. 
Dissolve three or four lumps of loaf sugar in a glass of ice-water, and
take a teaspoonful every few minutes for a “tickling in the throat,” or
a hacking cough. Keep it ice-cold.
A simple, but often an efficacious remedy.
THE NURSERY.
All food intended for infants should be very thoroughly cooked. The
numerous varieties of farinaceous substances—biscotine, farina,
rice-flour, arrowroot, etc., however nourishing may be their properties
when rightly prepared, are harsh and drastic when underdone. Unless you
have a nurse whom you know for yourself to be faithful and experienced,
always superintend the cooking of baby’s food. It can do no harm—it may
prevent much—if you examine it every day to see that it is right as
to quality and quantity. Do not aim at variety in this branch of your
profession. Confine a child under three years of age to a very limited
bill of fare. His stomach is too delicate an organ to be tampered with.
Let milk—scalded or boiled, as a rule—be the staple, mixed with farina,
barley, or something of the sort. Let him munch Graham bread and light
crackers freely. Remove far from him hot bread and griddle-cakes. When
he has cut his carnivorous teeth, Nature says—“This creature wants
meat.” And Nature’s supply is seldom in advance of the demand. If he
did not need what the teeth are designed to chew, you may be sure they
would not be given him. Grant him the novel food sparingly and with
discretion as to kind. Rare beef and well-boiled mutton, tender roast
or boiled chicken and turkey are safe. Withhold fried meats of every
description. Do not let him touch veal or pork in any shape. Mince
the meat very finely to save his digestive apparatus all unnecessary
work. Mealy old potatoes—never new or waxy—young onions, boiled in
two waters; fresh asparagus, green peas, and dry sweet potatoes should
suffice for vegetables, with, of course, rice and hominy. For dessert,
once in a while, a simple custard, a taste of home-made ice-cream,
rice and farina puddings, Graham hasty pudding; the inner part of a
well-roasted apple, and, in their season, ripe peaches and apples, will
not harm him, taken in moderation, if he be well and strong.
Pare the fruit always. The skin of an apple is as bad for him as a
bit of your kid gloves would be; that of a grape more indigestible than
sole-leather. Raisins—“skins and all”—are unfit for anybody to eat.
Pulp and pits, they are poisonous for baby. Ditto, pickles, pastry, and
preserves. Ditto, most kinds of cake and all sorts of fruit puddings.
Give him light suppers, and put him to bed early in a dark room. He
will not grow better in a glare of artificial light than will your
camellias and azalias.
Always see for yourself that his last waking thoughts are pleasant;
that he shuts his eyes at peace with the world and in love with you;
that his feet are warm, his stomach easy, and his body not overloaded
with blankets and quilts; also, that the nursery is clean and freshly
aired. These are better prescriptions for sound slumber than all the
old wives’ fables of the excellent properties of that pernicious
drug—Soothing Syrup.
FARINA. 
    1 cup boiling water.
    1 cup fresh milk.
    1 large tablespoonful Hecker’s Farina, wet up with cold water.
    2 teaspoonfuls white sugar.
    A pinch of salt.
Stir the farina into the boiling water (slightly salted) in the
farina kettle (i. e., one boiler set within another, the latter
filled with hot water). Boil fifteen minutes, stirring constantly until
it is well-thickened. Then add the milk, stirring it in gradually, and
boil fifteen minutes longer. Sweeten, and give to the child so soon as
it is cool enough.
You may make enough in the morning to last all day; warming it up with
a little hot milk as you want it. Keep in a cold place. Some of the
finest children I have ever seen were reared upon this diet. Do not get
it too sweet, and cook it well. Be sure the farina is sweet and dry.
BARLEY.
It sometimes happens that milk disagrees with a delicate infant so
seriously that it is necessary to substitute some other article of diet
for a few days. I have known barley water to be used, in such cases,
with great success.
    2 cups boiling water.
    2 tablespoonfuls pearl barley—picked over and washed.
    A pinch of salt.
