with the reflection of her smile in his face. Gordon 
was watching him ; Gordon was -dying to know what 
he thought of her. It was a curious mania of Gor- 
don's, this wanting to know what one thought of the 
women he loved; but Bernard just now felt abun- 
dantly able to humor it. He was so pleased at seeing 
him tightly married. 

" She 's a delightful creature," Bernard said, with 
cordial vagueness, shaking hands with his friend again. 

Gordon glanced at him a moment, and then, color- 
ing a little, looked straight out of the window; 
whereupon Bernard remembered that these were just 
the terms in which, at Baden, after his companion's 
absence, he had attempted to qualify Angela Vivian. 
Gordon was conscious — he was conscious of the 
oddity of his situation. 





" Of course it surprised you," lie said, in a moment, 
still looking out of the window. 

" What, my dear fellow ? " 

" My marriage." 

" Well, you know," said Bernard, " everything sur- 
prises me. I am of a veiy conjectural habit of mind. 
All sorts of ideas come into my head, and yet when 
the simplest things happen I am always rather startled. 
I live in a reverie, and I am perpetually waked up by 
people doing things." 

Gordon transferred his eyes from the windoAV to 
Bernard's face — to his whole person. 

" You are waked up ? But you fall asleep again ! " 

" I fall asleep very easily," said Bernard. 

Gordon looked at him from head to foot, smiling 
and shaking his head. 

"You are not changed," he said. "You have 
travelled in unknown lands; you have had, I sup- 
pose, all sorts of adventures ; but you are the same 
man I used to know." 

" I am sorry for that ! " 

" You have the same way of representing — of mis- 
representing, yourself." 

" Well, if I am not changed," said Bernard, " I can 
ill afford to lose so valuable an art." 

"Taking you altogether, I am glad you are the 
same," Gordon answered, simply; "but you must 
come into my part of the housa" 





XVII. 

Yes, he was conscious — he was very conscious; 
so Bernard reflected during the two or three first days 
of his visit to his friend. Gordon knew it must seem 
strange to so irreverent a critic that a man who had 
once aspired to the hand of so intelligent a girl — 
putting other things aside — as Angela Vivian should, 
as the Ghost in " Hamlet " says, have "declined upon" 
a young lady who, in force of understanding, was so 
very much Miss Vivian's inferior ; and this knowledge 
kept him ill at his ease and gave him a certain piti- 
able awkwardness. Bernard's sense of the anomaly 
grew rapidly less acute; he made various observa- 
tions which helped it to seem natural. Blanche was 
wonderfully pretty ; she was very graceful, innocent, 
amusing. Since Gordon had determined to marry a 
little goose, he had chosen the animal with extreme 
discernment. It had quite the plumage of a swan, 
and it sailed along the stream of life with an ex- 
traordinary lightness of motion. He asked himself 
indeed at times whether Blanche were really so silly 
as she seemed ; he doubted whether any woman could 
be so silly as Blanche seemed. He had a suspicion 





at times that, for ends of her own, she was playing a 
part — the suspicion arising from the fact that, as 
usually happens in such cases, she over-played it. 
Her empty chatter, her futility, her childish coquetry 
and frivolity — such light wares could hardly be the 
whole substance of any woman's being; there was 
something beneath them which Blanche was keeping 
out of sight. She had a scrap of a mind somewhere, 
and even a little particle of a heart. If one looked 
long enough one might catch- a glimpse of these pos- 
sessions. But why should she keep them out of 
sight, and what were the ends that she proposed to 
serve by this uncomfortable perversity ? Bernard 
wondered whether she were fond of her husband, 
and he heard it intimated by several good people in 
New York who had had some observation of the 
courtship, that she had married him for his money. 
He was very sorry to find that this was taken for 
granted, and he determined, on the whole, not to be- 
lieve it. He was disgusted with the idea of such a 
want of gratitude ; for, if Gordon Wright had loved 
Miss Evers for herself, the young lady might certainly 
have discovered the intrinsic value of so disinterested 
a suitor. Her mother had the credit of having made 
the match. Gordon was known to be looking for a 
wife ; Mrs. Evers had put her little feather-head of 
a daughter very much forward, and Gordon was as 
easily captivated as a child by the sound of a rattle. 





Blanche had an affection for him now, however ; Ber- 
nard saw no reason to doubt that, and certainly she 
would have been a very flimsy creature indeed if she 
had not been touched by liis inexhaustible kindness. 
She had every conceivable indulgence, and if she 
married him for his money, at least she had got what 
she wanted. She led the most agreeable life conceiv- 
able, and she ought to be in high good-humor. It 
was impossible to have a prettier house, a prettier 
carriage, more jewels and laces for the adornment of 
a plump little person. It was impossible to go to 
more parties, to give better dinners, to have fewer 
privations or annoyances. Bernard was so much 
struck with all this that, advancing rapidly in the 
intimacy of his gracious hostess, he ventured to call 
her attention to her blessings. She answered that 
she was perfectly aware of them, and there was no 
pretty speech she was not prepared to make about 
Gordon. 

" I know what yon want to say," she went on ; 
" you want to say that he spoils me, and I don't see 
why you should hesitate. You generally say every- 
thing you want, and you needn 't be afraid of me. 
He doesn 't spoil me, simply because I am so .bad 
I can't be spoiled ; but that 's of no consequence. I 
was spoiled ages ago ; every one spoiled me — every 
one except Mrs. Vivian. I was always fond of having 
everything I want, and I generally managed to get it, 





I always had lovely clothes; mamma thought that 
was a kind of a duty. If it was a duty, I don't sup- 
pose it counts as a part of the spoiling. But I was 
very much indulged, and I know I have everything 
now. Gordon is a perfect husband ; I believe if I 
were to ask him for a present of his nose, he would 
cut it off and give it to me. I think I will ask him 
for a small piece of it some day ; it will rather im- 
prove him to have an inch or two less. I don't say 
he 's handsome ; but he 's just as good as he can be. 
Some people say that if you are very fond of a person 
you always think them handsome ; but I don't agree 
with that at all. I am very fond of Gordon, and yet 
I am not blinded by affection, as regards his personal 
appearance. He 's too light for my taste, and too red. 
And because you think people handsome, it doesn 't 
follow that you are fond of them. I used to have a 
friend who was awfully handsome — the handsomest 
man I ever saw — and I was perfectly conscious of 
his defects. But I 'm not conscious of Gordon's, and 
I don't believe he has got any. He 's so intensely 
kind ; it 's quite pathetic. One would think he had 
done me an injury in marrying me, and that he 
wanted to make up for it. If he has done me an 
injury I haven 't discovered it yet, and I don't believe 
I ever shall. I certainly shall not as long as he lets 
me order all the clothes I want. I have ordered five 
dresses this week, and I mean to order two more. 





When I told Gordon, what do you think he did ? He 
simply kissed me. Well, if that 's not expressive, I 
don't know what he could have done. He kisses me 
about seventeen times a day. I suppose it's very 
improper for a woman to tell any one how often her 
husband kisses Jier ; but, as you happen to have seen 
him do it, I don't suppose you will be scandalized. 
I know you are not easily scandalized; I am not 
afraid of you. You are scandalized at my getting so 
many dresses ? Well, I told you I was spoiled — I 
freely acknowledge it. That 's why I was afraid to 
tell Gordon — because when I was married I had such 
a lot of things ; I was supposed to have dresses enough 
to last for a year. But Gordon hadn 't to pay for them, 
so there was no harm in my letting him feel that he 
has a wife. If he thinks I am extravagant, he can 
easily stop kissing me. You don't think it would be 
easy to stop ? It 's very well, then, for those that have 
never begun ! " 

Bernard had a good deal of conversation with 
Blanche, of which, so far as she was concerned, the 
foregoing remarks may serve as a specimen. Gordon 
was away from home during much of the day ; he had 
a chemical laboratory in which he was greatly inter- 
ested, and which he took Bernard to see ; it was fitted 
up with the latest contrivances for the pursuit of 
experimental science, and was the resort of needy 
young students, who enjoyed, at Gordon's expense, the 





opportunity for pushing their researches. The place 
did great honor to Gordon's liberality and to his in- 
genuity ; but Blanche, who had also paid it a visit, 
could never speak of it without a pretty little shudder. 
" Nothing would induce me to go there again," she 
declared, " and I consider myself very fortunate to 
have escaped from it with my life. It 's filled with 
all sorts of horrible things, that fizzle up and go off, 
or that make you turn some dreadful color if you 
look at them. I expect to hear a great clap some 
day, and half an hour afterward to see Gordon brought 
home in several hundred small pieces, put up in a 
dozen little bottles. I got a horrid little stain in the 
middle of my dress that one of the young men — 
the young savants — was so good as to drop there. 
Did you see the young savants who work under Gor- 
don's orders ? I thought they were too forloi-n ; 
there isn 't one of them you would look at. If you 
can believe it, there wasn 't one of them that looked 
at me ; they took no more notice of me than if I had 
been the charwoman. They might have shown me 
some attention, at least, as the wife of the proprietor. 
What is it that Gordon 's called — isn 't there some 
other name ? If you say ' proprietor,' it sounds as if 
he kept an hotel. I certainly don't want to pass for 
the wife of an hotel-keeper. What does he call him- 
self? He must have some name. I hate telling 
people he 's a chemist ; it sounds just as if he kept a 





shop. That 's what they call the druggists in Eng- 
land, and I formed the habit while I was there. It 
makes me feel as if he were some dreadful little 
man, with big green bottles in the window and 
' night-bell ' painted outside. He doesn't call himself 
anything . Well, that 's exactly like Gordon ! I 
wonder he consents to have a name at all. When I 
was telling some one about the young men who work 
under his orders — the young savants — he said I 
must not say that — I must not speak of their work- 
ing ' under his orders.' I don't know what he would 
like me to say ! Under his inspiration ! " 

During the hours of Gordon's absence, Bernard 
had frequent colloquies with his friend's wife, whose 
irresponsible prattle amused him, and in whom he 
tried to discover some faculty, some quality, which 
might be a positive guarantee of Gordon's future 
felicity. But often, of course, Gordon was an auditor 
as well ; I say an auditor, because it seemed to Ber- 
nard that he had grown to be less of a talker than of 
yore. Doubtless, when a man finds himself united 
to a garrulous wife, he naturally learns to hold his 
tongue; but sometimes, at the close of one of 
Blanche's discursive monologues, on glancing at her 
husband just to see how he took it, and seeing him 
sit perfectly silent, with a fixed, inexpressive smile, 
Bernard said to himself that Gordon found the les- 
son of listening attended with some embarrassments. 





Gordon, as the years went by, was growing a little 
inscrutable; but this, too, in certain circumstances, 
was a usual tendency. The operations of the mind, 
with deepening experience, became more complex, 
and people were less apt to emit immature reflections 
at forty than they had been in their earlier days. 
Bernard felt a great kindness in these days for his old 
friend ; he never yet had seemed to him such a good 
fellow, nor appealed so strongly to the benevolence 
of his disposition. Sometimes, of old, Gordon used 
to irritate him ; but this danger appeared completely 
to have passed away. Bernard prolonged his visit ; 
it gave him pleasure to be able to testify in this 
manner to his good will. Gordon was the kindest of 
hosts, and if in conversation, when his wife was 
present, he gave precedence to her superior powers, 
he had at other times a good deal of pleasant bachelor- 
talk with his guest. He seemed very happy ; he had 
plenty of occupation and plenty of practical inteij- 
tions. The season went on, and Bernard enjoyed his 
life. He enjoyed the keen and brilliant American 
winter, and he found it very pleasant to be treated as 
a distinguished stranger in his own land — a situation 
to which his long and repeated absences had relegated 
him. The hospitality of New York was profuse; 
the charm of its daughters extreme ; the radiance of 
its Skies superb. Bernard was the restless and pro- 
fessionless mortal that, we know, wandering in life 





from one vague experiment to another, constantly 
gratified and never satisfied, to whom no imperious 
finality had as yet presented itself; and, nevertheless, 
for a time he contrived to limit his horizon to the 
passing hour, and to make a good many hours pass 
in the drawing-room of a demonstrative flirt. 

For Mrs. Gordon was a flirt ; that had become tol- 
erably obvious. Bernard had known of old that 
Blanche Evers was one, and two or three months' 
observation of his friend's wife assured him that she 
did not judge a certain ethereal coquetry to be incon- 
sistent with the conjugal character. Blanche flirted, 
in fact, more or less with all men, but her opportunity 
for playing her harmless batteries upon Bernard were 
of course exceptionally large. The poor fellow was 
perpetually under fire, and it was inevitable that he 
should reply with some precision of aim. It seemed 
to him all child's play, and it is certain that when his 
back was turned to his pretty hostess he never found 
himself thinking of her. He had not the least reason 
to suppose that she thought of him — excessive con- 
centration of mind was the last vice of which he 
accused her. But before the winter was over, he dis- 
covered that Mrs. Gordon Wright was being talked 
about, and that his own name was, as the newspapers 
say, mentioned in connection with that of his friend's 
wife. The discovery greatly disgusted him ; Bernard 
Longueville'e chronicler must do him the justice to 





say that it failed to yield him an even transient thrill 
of pleasure. He thought it very improbable that 
this vulgar rumor had reached Gordon's ears ; but he 
nevertheless — very naturally — instantly made up 
his mind to leave the house. He lost no time in 
saying to Gordon that he had suddenly determined 
to go to California, and that he was sure he must be 
glad to get rid of him. Gordon expressed no surprise 
and.no regret. He simply laid his hand on his 
shoulder and said, very quietly, looking at him in the 
eyes — 

" Very well ; the pleasantest things must come to 
an end." 

It was not till an hour afterwards that Bernard 
said to himself that his friend's manner of receiving 
the announcement of his departure had been rather 
odd. He had neither said a word about his staying 
longer nor urged him to come back again, and there 
had been (it now seemed to Bernard) an audible 
undertone of relief in the single sentence with which 
he assented to his visitor's withdrawal. Could it be 
possible that poor Gordon was jealous of him, that 
he had heard this loathsome gossip, or that his own 
observation had given him an alarm ? He had cer- 
tainly never betrayed the smallest sense of injury ; 
but it was to be remembered that even if he were 
uneasy, Gordon was quite capable, with his charac- 
teristic habit of weighing everything, his own honor 





included, in scrupulously adjusted scales, of denying 
himself the luxury of active suspicion. He would 
never have let a half suspicion make a difference in 
his conduct, and he would not have dissimulated ; he 
would simply have resisted belief. His hospitality 
had been without a flaw, and if he had really been 
wishing Bernard out of his house, he had behaved 
with admirable self-control. Bernard, however, fol- 
lowed this train of thought a very short distance. It 
was odious to him to believe that he could have 
appeared to Gordon, however guiltlessly, to have in- 
vaded even in imagination the mystic line of the 
marital monopoly ; not to say that, moreover, if one 
came to that, he really cared about as much for poor 
little Blanche as for the weather-cock on the nearest 
steeple. He simply hurried his preparations for de- 
parture, and he told Blanche that he should have to 
bid her farewell on the following day. He had found 
her in the drawing-room, waiting for dinner. She 
was expecting company to dine, and Gordon had not 
yet come down. 

She was sitting in the vague glow of the fire-light, 
in a wonderful blue dress, with two little blue feet 
crossed on the rug and pointed at the hearth. She 
received Bernard's announcement with small satisfac- 
tion, and expended a great deal of familiar ridicule 
on his project of a journey to California. Then, sud- 
denly getting up and looking at him a moment — 





" I know why you are going," she said. 

" I am glad to hear my explanations have not been 
lost." 

"Your explanations are all nonsense. You are 
going for another reason." 

" Well," said Bernard, " if you insist upon it, it 's 
because you are too sharp with me." 

" It 's because of me. So much as that is true." 
Bernard wondered what she was going to say — if 
she were going to be silly enough to allude to the 
most impudent of fictions ; then, as she stood open- 
ing and closing her blue fan and smiling at him in 
the fire-light, he felt that she was silly enough for 
anything. " It 's because of all the talk — it 's be- 
cause of Gordon. You needn 't be afraid of Gordon." 

" Afraid of him ? I don't know what you mean," 
said Bernard, gravely. 

Blanche gave a little laugh. 

"You have discovered that people are talking 
about us — about you and me. I must say I wonder 
you care. I don't care, and if it 's because of Gordon, 
you might as well know that he doesn 't care. If he 
doesn't care, I don't see why I should; and if I 
don't, I don't see why you should ! " 

" You pay too much attention to such insipid drivel 
in even mentioning it." 

"Well, if I have the credit of saying what I 
shouldn 't — to you or to any one else — I don't see 





why I shouldn 't have the advantage too. Gordon 
doesn 't care — he doesn 't care what I do or say. 
He doesn 't care a pin for me ! " 

She spoke in her usual rattling, rambling voice, 
and brought out this declaration with a curious 
absence of resentment. 

"You talk about advantage," said Bernard. "I 
don't see what advantage it is to you to say that." 

" I want to — I must — I will ! That 's the advan- 
tage ! " This came out with a sudden sharpness 
of tone ; she spoke more excitedly. " He doesn 't 
care a button for me, and he never did ! I don't 
know what he married me for. He cares for some- 
thing else — he thinks of something else. I don't 
know what it is — I suppose it 's chemistry ! " 

These words gave Bernard a certain shock, but he 
had his intelligence sufficiently in hand to contradict 
them with energy. 

"You labor under a monstrous delusion," he ex- 
claimed. " Your husband thinks you fascinating." 

This epithet, pronounced with a fine distinctness, 
was ringing in the air when the door opened and 
Gordon came in. He looked for a moment from Ber- 
nard to his wife, and then, approaching the latter, he 
said, softly — 

"Do you know that he leaves us to-morrow ? " 



XVIII. 

Bernard left then and went to California; but 
when he arrived there he asked himself why he had 
come, and was unable to mention any other reason 
than that he had announced it. He began to feel 
restless again, and to drift back to that chronic 
chagrin which had accompanied him through his 
long journey in the East. He succeeded, however, 
in keeping these unreasonable feelings at , bay for 
some time, and he strove to occupy himself, to take 
an interest in Californian problems. Bernard, how- 
ever, was neither an economist nor a cattle-fancier, 
and he found that, as the phrase is, there, was not a 
great deal to take hold of. He wandered about, ad- 
mired the climate and the big peaches, thought a 
while of going to Japan, and ended by going to 
Mexico. In this way he passed several months, and 
justified, in the eyes of other people at least, his long 
journey across the Continent. At last he made it 
again, in the opposite sense. He went back to New 
York, where the summer had already begun, and 
here he invented a solution for the difficulty pre- 
sented by life to a culpably unoccupied and ill-regu- 





lated man. The solution was not in the least original, 
and I am almost ashamed to mention so stale and 
conventional a device. Bernard simply hit upon the 
plan of returning to Europe. Such as it was, how- 
ever, he carried it out with an audacity worthy of a 
better cause, and was sensibly happier since he had 
made up his mind to it. Gordon Wright and his 
wife were out of town, but Bernard went into the 
country, as boldly as you please, to inform them of 
his little project and take a long leave of them. He 
had made his arrangements to sail immediately, and, 
as at such short notice it was impossible to find good 
quarters on one of the English vessels, he had en- 
gaged a berth on a French steamer, which would 
convey him to Havre. On going down to Gordon's 
house in the country, he was conscious of a good deal 
of eagerness to know what had become of that latent 
irritation of which Blanche had given him a speci- 
men. Apparently it had quite subsided; Blanche 
was wreathed in smiles ; she was living in a bower 
of roses. Bernard, indeed, had no opportunity for 
investigating her state of mind, for he found several 
people in the house, and Blanche, who had an exalted 
standard of the duties of a hostess, was occupied in 
making life agreeable to her guests, most of whom 
were gentlemen. She had in this way that great 
remedy for dissatisfaction which Bernard lacked — 
something interesting to do. Bernard felt a good 
deal of genuine sadness in taking leave of Gordon, 
to whom he contrived to feel even more kindly than 
in earlier days. He had quite forgotten that Gordon 
was jealous of him — which he was not, as Bernard 
said. Certainly, Gordon showed nothing of it now, 
and nothing could have been more friendly than their 
parting. Gordon, also, for a man who was never 
boisterous, seemed very contented. He was fond of 
exercising hospitality, and he confessed to Bernard 
that he was just now in the humor for having his 
house full of people. Fortune continued to gratify 
this generous taste ; for just as Bernard was coming 
away another guest made his appearance. The new- 
comer was none other than the Honourable Augustus 
Lovelock, who had just arrived in New York, and 
who, as he added, had long desired to visit the United 
States. Bernard merely witnessed his arrival, and 
was struck with the fact that as he presented himself 
— it seemed quite a surprise — Blanche really stopped 
chattering. 





XIX. 

I HAVE called it a stale expedient on Bernard 
Longueville's part to " go to Europe " again, like the 
most commonplace American ; and it is certain that, 
as our young man stood and looked out of the win- 
dow of his inn at Havre, an hour after his arrival at 
that sea-port, his adventure did not strike him as 
having any great freshness. He had no plans nor 
intentions ; he had not even any very definite desires. 
He had felt the impulse to come back to Europe, and 
he had obeyed it ; but now that he had arrived, his 
impulse seemed to have little more to say to him. 
He perceived it, indeed — mentally — in the attitude 
of a small street-boy playing upon his nose with that 
vulgar gesture which is supposed to represent the 
elation of successful fraud. There was a large blank 
wall before his window, painted a dirty yellow and 
much discolored by the weather; a broad patch of 
summer sunlight rested upon it and brought out the 
full vulgarity of its complexion. Bernard stared a 
while at this blank wall, which struck him in some 
degree as a symbol of his own present moral pros- 
pect. Then suddenly he turned away, with the 
declaration that, whatever truth there might be in 
symbolism, he, at any rate, had not come to Eiirope 
to spend the precious remnant of his youth in a 
malodorous Norman sea-port. The weather was very 
hot, and neither the hotel nor the town at large 
appeared to form an attractive sejour for persons of 
an irritable nostril. To go to Paris, however, was 
hardly more attractive than to remain at Havre, for 
Bernard had a lively vision of the heated bitumen 
and the glaring frontages of the French capital. But 
if a Norman town was close and dull, the Norman 
country was notoriously fresh and entertaining, and 
the next morning Bernard got into a caliche, with 
his luggage, and bade its proprietor drive him along 
the coast. Once he had begun to rumble through 
this charming landscape, he was in much better 
humor with his situation ; the air was freshened by a 
breeze from the sea ; the blooming country, without 
walls or fences, lay open to the traveller's eye ; the 
grain-fields and copses were shimmering in the sum- 
mer wind; the pink-faced cottages peeped through 
the ripening orchard-boughs, and the gray towers of 
the old churches were silvered by the morning-light 
of France. 

At the end of some three hours, Bernard arrived at 
a little watering-place which lay close upon the 
shore, in the embrace of a pair of white-armed cliffs. 
It had a quaint and primitive' aspect and a natural 
picturesqueness which commended it to Bernard's 
taste. There was evidently a great deal of nature 
about it, and at this moment, nature, embodied in the 
clear, gay sunshine, in the blue and quiet sea, in the 
daisied grass of the high-shouldered downs, had an 
air of inviting the intelligent observer to postpone 
his difficulties. Blanquais-les-Galets, as Bernard 
learned the name of this unfashionable resort to be, 
was twenty miles from a railway, and the place wore 
an expression of unaffected rusticity. Bernard 
stopped at an inn for his noonday breakfast, and 
then, with his appreciation quickened by the homely 
felicity of this repast, determined to go no further. 
He engaged a room at the inn, dismissed his vehicle, 
and gave himself up to the contemplation of French 
sea-side manners. These were chiefly to be observed 
upon a pebbly strand which lay along the front of 
the village and served as the gathering-point of its 
idler inhabitants. Bathing in the sea was the chief 
occupation of these good people, including, as it did, 
prolonged spectatorship of the process and infinite 
conversation upon its mysteries. The little world of 
Blanquais appeared to form a large family party, of 
highly developed amphibious habits, which sat gossip- 
ing all day upon the warm pebbles, occasionally 
dipping into the sea and drying itself in the sun, 
without any relaxation of personal intimacy. All 
this was very amusing to Bernard, who' in the course 
of the day took a bath with the rest. The ocean 
was, after all, very large, and when one took one's 
plunge one seemed to have it quite to one's self 
When he had dressed himself again, Bernard stretched 
himself on the beach, feeling happier than he had 
done in a long time, and pulled his hat over his eyes. 
The feeling of happiness was an odd one; it had 
come over him suddenly, without visible cause ; but, 
such as it was, our hero made the most of it. As he 
lay there it seemed to deepen; his immersion and 
his exercise in the salt water had given him an agree- 
able languor. This presently became a drowsiness 
which was not less agreeable, and Bernard felt him- 
self going to sleep. There were sounds in the air 
above his head — sounds of the crunching and rattling 
of the loose, smooth stones as his neighbors moved 
about on them; of high-pitched French voices ex- 
changing colloquial cries ; of the plash of the bathers 
in the distant water, and the short, soft breaking of 
the waves. But these things came to his ears more 
vaguely and remotely, and at last they faded away. 
Bernard enjoyed half an hour of that light and easy 
slumber which is apt to overtake idle people in re- 
cumbent attitudes in the open air on August after- 
noons. It brought with it an exquisite sense of 
rest, and the rest was not spoiled by the fact that it 
was animated by a charming dream. .Dreams are 
vague things, and this one had the defects of its 
species ; tut it was somehow concerned with the 
image of a young lady whom Bernard had formerly 
known, and who had beautiful eyes, into which — 
in the dream — he found himself looking. He waked 
up to find himself looking into the crown of his hat, 
which had been resting on the bridge of his nose. 
He removed it, and half raised himself, resting on his 
elbow and preparing to taste, in another position, of 
a little more of that exquisite rest of which mention 
has just been made. The world about him was still 
amusing and charming; the chatter of his com- 
panions, losing itself in the large sea-presence, the 
plash of the divers and swimmers, the deep blue of 
the ocean and the silvery white of the cliff, had that 
striking air of indifference to the fact that his mind 
had been absent from them which we are apt to find 
in mundane things on emerging from a nap. The 
same people were sitting near him on the beach — 
the same, and yet not quite the same. He found 
himself noticing a person whom he ,had not noticed 
before — a young lady, who was seated in a low 
portable chair, some dozen yards off, with her eyes 
bent upon a book. Her head was in shade ; her large 
parasol made, indeed, an awning for her whole per- 
son, which in this way, in the quiet attitude of peru- 
sal, seemed to abstract itself from the glare and 
murmur of the beach. The clear shadow of her um- 
brella — it was lined with blue — was deep upon her 
face ; but it was not deep enough to prevent Bernard 
from recognizing a profile that he knew. He sud- 
denly sat upright, with an intensely quickened vis- 
ion. Was he dreaming still, or had he waked? 
In a moment he felt that he was acutely awake ; he 
heard her, across the interval, turn the page of her 
book. For a single instant, as she did so, she looked 
with level brows at the glittering ocean ; then, lower- 
ing her eyes, she went on with her reading. In this 
barely perceptible movement he saw Angela Vivian ; 
it was wonderful how well he remembered her. She 
was evidently reading very seriously ; she was much 
interested in her book. She was alone ; Bernard 
looked about for her mother, but Mrs. Vivian was not 
in sight. By this time Bernard had become aware 
that he was agitated ; the exquisite rest of a few mo- 
ments before had passed away. His agitation struck 
him as unreasonable ; in a few minutes he made up his 
mind that it was absurd. He had done her an injury 
— yes ; but as she sat there losing herself in a French 
novel — Bernard could see it was a French novel — 
he could not make out that she was the worse for it. 
It had not affected her appearance ; Miss Vivian was 
still a handsome girl. Bernard hoped she would not 
look toward him or recognize him; he wished to 
look at her at his ease ; to think it over ; to make up 
his mind. The idea of meeting Angela Vivian again 
had often come into his thoughts ; I may, indeed, say 





that it was a tolerably familiar presence there ; but 
the fact, nevertheless, now presented itself with all 
the violence of an accident for which he was totally 
unprepared. He had often asked (himself what he 
should say to her, how he should carry himself, and 
how he should probably find the young lady; but, 
with whatever ingenuity he might at the momeut 
have answered these questions, his intelligence at 
present felt decidedly overtaxed. She was a very 
pretty girl to whom he had done a wrong ; this was 
the final attitude into which, with a good deal of 
preliminary shifting and wavering, she had settled in 
his recollection. The wrong was a right, doubtless, 
from certain points of view ; but from the girl's own 
it could only seem an injury to which its having been 
inflicted by a clever young man with whom she had 
been on agreeable terms, necessarily added a touch 
of baseness. 

In every disadvantage that a woman suffers at the 
hands of a man, there is inevitably, in what concerns 
the man, an element of cowardice. When I say 
"inevitably," I mean that this is what the woman 
sees in it. This is what Bernard believed that 
Angela Vivian saw in the fact that by giving his 
friend a bad account of her he had prevented her 
making an opulent marriage. At first he had said 
to himself that, whether he had held his tongue or 
spoken, she had already lost her chance ; but with 
time, somehow, this reflection had lost its weight in the 
scale. It conveyed little re-assurauce to his irritated- 
conscience — it had become imponderable and imper- 
tinent. At the moment of which I speak it entirely 
failed to present itself, even Jor form's sake ; and as he 
sat looking at this superior creature who came back to 
him out of an episode of his past, he thought of her 
simply as an unprotected woman toward whom he 
had been indelicate. It is not an agreeable thing for 
a delicate man like Bernard Longueville to have to 
accommodate himself to such an accident, but this is 
nevertheless what it seemed needful that he should 
do. If she bore him a grudge he must think it 
natural ; if she had vowed him a hatred he must 
allow her the comfort of it. He had done the only 
thing possible, but that made it no better for her. 
He had wronged her. The circumstances mattered 
nothing, and as he could not make it up to her, the 
only reasonable thing was to keep out of her way. 
He had stepped into her path now, and the proper 
thing was to step out of it. If it could give her no 
pleasure to see him again, it could certainly do him 
no good to see her. He had seen her by this time 
pretty well — as far as mere seeing went, and as yet, 
apparently, he was none the worse for that ; but his 
hope that he should himself escape unperceived had 
now become acute. It is singular that this hope 
should not have led him instantly to turn his back 
and move away ; but the explanation of his imprudent 
delay is simply that he wished to see a little 
more of Miss Vivian. He was unable to bring him- 
self to the point. Those clever things that he might 
have said to her quite faded away. The only good 
taste was to take himself off, and spare her the trouble 
of inventing civilities that she could not feel. And 
yet he continued to sit there from moment to moment, 
arrested, detained, fascinated, by the accident of her 
not looking round — of her having let him watch 
her so long. She turned another page, and another, 
and her reading absorbed her still. He was so near 
lier that he could have touched her dress with the 
point of his umbrella. At last she raised her eyes 
and rested them a while on the blue horizon, straight 
in front of her, but as yet without turning them aside. 
This, however, augmented the danger of her doing so, 
and Bernard, with a good deal of an effort, rose to Jiis 
feet. The effort, doubtless, kept the movement from 
being either as light or as swift as it might have been, 
and it vaguely attracted his neighbor's attention. 
She turned her head and glanced at him, with a 
glance that evidently expected but to touch him and 
pass. It touched him, and it was on the point of 
passing; then it suddenly checked itself; she had 
recognized him. She looked at him, straight and 
open-eyed, out of the shadow of her parasol, and 
Bernard stood there — motionless now- 
her gaze. How long it lasted need not be narrated. 
It was probably a macter of a few seconds, but to 
Bernard it seemed a little eternity. He met her eyes, 
he looked straight into her face ; now that she had 
seen him he could do nothing else. Bernard's little 
eternity, however, came to an end ; Miss Vivian 
dropped her eyes upon her book again. She let them 
rest upon it only a moment ; then she closed it and 
slowly rose from her chair, turning away from Ber- 
nard. He still stood looking at her — stupidly, fool- 
ishly, helplessly enough, as it seemed to him ; no 
sign of recognition had been exchanged. Angela 
Vivian hesitated a minute; she now had her back 
turned to him, and 'he fancied her light, flexible 
figure was agitated by her indecision. She looked 
along the sunny beach which stretched its shallow 
curve to where the little bay ended and the white 
wall of the cliffs began! She looked down toward 
the sea, and up toward the little Casino which was 
perched on a low embankment, communicating with 
the beach at two or three points by a short flight of 
steps. Bernard saw — or supposed he saw — that 
she was asking herself whither she had best turn to 
avoid him. He had not blushed when she looked at 
him — he had rather turned a little pale ; but he 
blushed now, for it really seemed odious to have 
literally driven the poor girl to bay. Miss Vivian 
decided to take refuge in the Casino, and she passed 





along one of the little pathways of planks that were 
laid here and there across the beach, and directed her- 
self to the nearest flight of steps. Before she had 
gone two paces a complete change came over Ber- 
nard's feeling ; his only wish now was to speak to 
hsr — to explain — to tell her he would go away. 
There was another row of steps at a short distance 
behind him ; he rapidly ascended them and reached 
the little terrace of the Casino. Miss Vivian stood 
there; she was apparently hesitating again which 
way to turn. Bernard came straight up to her, with 
a gallant smile and a greeting. The comparison is a 
coarse one, but he felt that he was taking the bull by 
the horns. Angela Vivian stood watching him arrive. 

" You didn' t recognize me," he said, " and your 
not recognizing me made me — made me hesitate." 

