"'The Lord maketh poor and maketh rich,'"--Mrs. Carpenter answered. 

"Why does he?" 

"Sometimes, I think, he wishes to teach his children to depend on him." 

"Couldn't they do it if they were rich?" 

"There is great danger they would not." 

"You would, mother." 

"Perhaps not. But I have always enough, Rotha." 

"Enough!" echoed Rotha. "Enough! when you haven't had a good dinner 
since-- Mother, there he is again, I do believe!" 

And she had hardly time to remove the empty tea cup and, alas! empty 
plates, which testified to their meagre fare, when the knock came and Mr. 
Digby shewed himself. He explained that he had been out of town; made 
careful inquiries as to Mrs. Carpenter's health; paid for the shirts; and 
finally turned to Rotha. 

"How is my friend here doing?" 

"We always go on just the same way," said Rotha. But he could see that 
the girl was thin, and pale; and that just at an age when she was growing 
fast and needing abundant food, she was not getting it. 

"Ask Mr. Digby your question, Rotha," her mother said. 

"I do not want to ask him any questions," the girl answered defiantly. 
But Mrs. Carpenter went on. 

"Rotha wants to know what a gentleman is; and I was not able to discuss 
the point satisfactorily with her. I told her to ask you." 

Rotha did not ask, however, and there was silence. 

"Rotha is fond of asking questions," Mr. Digby observed. 

"What makes you think so?" she retorted. 

He smiled. "It is a very good habit--provided of course that the 
questions are properly put." 

"I like to ask mother questions," Rotha said, drawing in a little. 

"I have no doubt you would like to ask me questions, if you once got into 
the way of it. Habit is everything." 

"Not quite everything, in this," said Rotha. "There must be something 
before the habit." 

"Yes. There must be a beginning." 

"I meant something else." 

"Did you? May I ask, what did you mean?" 

"I mean a good deal," said Rotha. "Before one could get a habit like 
that, one must know that the person could answer the questions; and 
besides, that he would like to have them asked." 

"In my case I will pledge myself for the second qualification; about the 
first you must learn by experience. Suppose you try." 

His manner was so pleasant and well bred, and Rotha felt that she had 
gone so near the edge of politeness, she found it best for this time to 
comply. 

"I asked mother one day what is the meaning of a 'gentleman'; and I 
suppose she was too tired to talk to me, for she said I had better ask 
you." 

"O he did me honour." 

"Well, what is it then, Mr. Digby." 

"I should say, it is the counterpart to a 'lady.'" 

"But isn't everybody that is grown up, a 'lady'?--every woman, I mean?" 

"No more than every grown up man is a gentleman." 

Rotha stood looking at him, and the young man on his part regarded her 
with more attention than usual. He was suddenly touched with compassion 
for the girl. She stood, half doubtful, half proud, dimly conscious of 
her enormous ignorance, and with an inward monition of a whole world of 
knowledge to be acquired, yet beyond her reach; at the same time her look 
shewed capacity enough both to understand and to feel. Rotha was now 
nearly fourteen, with mental powers just opening and personal gifts just 
beginning to dawn. The child's complexion told of poor feeding and want 
of air and exercise; it was sallow, and her features were sharp; but her 
hair was beautiful in its lustrous, dark abundance; the eyes shewed the 
fire of native passion and intelligence; the mouth was finely cut and 
expressed half a dozen things in as many minutes. "Poor child!" thought 
the visiter; "what is to become of her, with all this latent power and 
possibility?" 

"A gentleman, Rotha," he said aloud, "may be defined as a person who in 
all manner of little things keeps the golden rule--does to everybody as 
he would be done by; and knows how." 

"In little things? Not in great things?" 

"One may do it in great things, and not be a gentleman in manner; though 
certainly in heart." 

"Then it is manner?" 

"Very much." 

"And a lady the same way?" 

"Of course." 

"What sort of little things?" said Rotha curiously. 

"A lady in the first place will be always careful and delicate about her 
own person and dress; it does not depend upon what she wears, but how she 
wears it; a lady might wear patches, but never could be untidy. Then, in 
all her moving, speaking, and acting, she will be gentle, quiet, and 
polite. And in her behaviour to others, she will give everybody the 
respect that is due, and never put herself forward. 'In honour preferring 
one another,' is the Bible rule, and it is the law of good breeding. And 
the Bible says, 'Honour all men;' and, 'Be courteous.'--Have I spoken 
according to your mind, Mrs. Carpenter?" 

"Beautifully," said the silent, pale seamstress, never stopping her 
needle. "Better than I could have done it. Now you know, Rotha." 

Rotha stood considering, uneasy. 

"What is the next question?" said Mr. Digby smiling. 

"I was thinking--" said Rotha. "Mustn't one know a good deal, to do all 
that?" 

"To do what, for instance?" 

"To give everybody the respect that is due; it is not the same to 
everybody, is it?" 

"No, certainly." 

"How can one know?" 

"There is a good deal to be learned in this world, before one can hold 
the balance scales to weigh out to each one exactly what belongs to him," 
Mr. Digby admitted. 

"That is one of my troubles," said Mrs. Carpenter looking up. "I cannot 
give my child an education. I do a little at home; it is better than 
nothing; but I feel that my power grows less and less; and Rotha's needs 
are more and more." 

"What do you know, Rotha?" said Mr. Digby. 

"I don't know much of anything!" said the girl, an eloquent flush coming 
into her pale face. It touched him. 

"A little of what, then?" said their visiter kindly. 

"You would not say it was anything." 

"She knows a little history," Mrs. Carpenter put in. 

"Have you any acquaintance with Alexander of Macedon, Rotha?" 

"The Great?  asked Rotha. 

"He is called so." 

"Yes, I know about him." 

"Think he deserved the title?" 

"Yes, I suppose he did." 

"What for?" 

"He was such a clever man." 

"Well, I have no doubt he was," Mr. Digby returned, keeping a perfectly 
grave face with some difficulty; "a clever man; but how did he shew it?" 

Rotha paused, and a faint tinge, of excitement this time, rose again in 
her cheeks, and her eye waked up with the mental stir. "He had such grand 
plans," she answered. 

"Ah? yes. Which do you mean?" 

"For civilizing people; for bringing the different nations to know each 
other and be friends with each other; so that trade could be carried on, 
and knowledge and arts and civilization could spread to all; that his 
empire could be one great whole." 

"On the whole you approve of Alexander. After all, what use was he to the 
world?" 

"Why a good deal," said Rotha. "Don't you think so? His successors 
carried on his plans; at least some of them did; and the Greek language 
was spread through Asia, and the Jews encouraged to settle in Egyptian 
and Greek cities; and so the way was prepared for the spread of the 
gospel when it came." 

"Mrs. Carpenter," said Mr. Digby, "your manner of teaching history is 
very satisfactory!" 

"I have done what I could," said the mother, "but we had very few books 
to work with." 

"We had none," said Rotha, "except Rollin's Ancient History, and 
Plutarch's Lives." 

"One good book, well used, is worth a hundred under other circumstances. 
Then you do not know much of modern history, Rotha?" 

"Nothing at all; except what mother has told me." 

"How about grammar?" 

"I have taught her grammar," said Mrs. Carpenter; "and geography. She 
knows both pretty well. But I found, with my work, I could not teach her 
arithmetic; and I had not a good book for it. Rotha can do nothing with 
numbers." 

Mr. Digby gave the girl a simple question in mental arithmetic; and then 
another, and another. Rotha's brow grew intent; the colour in her cheeks 
brightened; she was grappling, it was plain, with the difficulties 
suggested to her, wrestling with them, conquering them, with the sort of 
zeal which conquers all difficulties not insurmountable. 

"May I give Rotha lessons in Latin?" Mr. Digby asked, turning quietly to 
Rotha's mother. 

"Latin!" Mrs. Carpenter exclaimed, and her cheeks too flushed slightly. 

"I should enjoy it. It is likely that important business will bring me 
frequently into this part of the city; so I could do it as well as not." 

"But it would be so much trouble--unless you are fond of teaching--" 

"I am fond of teaching--when I find somebody that can learn." 

"You are very kind!--I should be very glad--Poor Rotha, I have been 
unable to do for her what I wished--" 

"I think you have done admirably, from the slight specimen I have had. 
How much time can she give to study?" 

"O she has time enough. She is much more idle than I like to have her." 

"Then that is arranged. I am going to send you a few raw oysters, Mrs. 
Carpenter; and I wish you would eat them at all times of day, whenever 
you feel like it. I knew a very slender lady once, who grew to very ample 
proportions by following such a regimen. Try what they will do for you." 

A grateful, silent look thanked him, and he took his departure. Rotha, 
who had been standing silent and cloudy, now burst forth. 

"Mother!--I do not want him to teach me!" 

"Why not, my child? I think he is very kind.' 

"Kind! I don't want to be taught out of kindness; and I don't want 
him to teach me, mother!" 

"What's the matter?" for Rotha was flushed and fierce. 

"I can learn without him. It is none of his business, whether I learn or 
not. And if I shouldn't say something just right, and he should find 
fault, I should be so angry I shouldn't know what to do!" 

"You talk as if you were angry now." 

"Well I am! Why did you say yes, mother?" 

"Would you have had me say no?" 

"Yes! I don't want to learn Latin anyhow. What's the use of my learning 
Latin? And of him,--O mother, mother!" 

And Rotha burst into impatient and impotent tears. 

"Why not of Mr. Digby?" said her mother soothingly. 

"O he is so--I can't tell!--he's so uppish." 

"He is not uppish at all. I am ashamed of you, Rotha." 

"Well, nothing puts him out. He is just always the same; and he thinks 
everything must be as he says. I don't like him to come here teaching 
me." 

"What folly is this? He is a gentleman, that's all. Do you dislike him 
for being a gentleman?" 

"I'm not a lady"--sobbed Rotha. 

"What has that to do with it?" 

"Mother, I wish I could be a lady!" 

"My child, Mr. Digby told you how." 

"No, he didn't. He told me what it was; he didn't tell me how I could  
get all that." 

"You can follow the Bible roles, at any rate, Rotha; and they go a good 
way." 

"No, I can't, mother. I could if I were a Christian, I suppose; but I am 
not I can't 'honour all men'; I don't know how; and I can't prefer others 
before myself I prefer myself But if I could, that wouldn't make me a 
lady." 

Mrs. Carpenter did not know what to do with this passion, the cause of 
which she was at a loss to understand. It was very real; Rotha sobbed; 
and her mother was at a loss how to comfort her. What dim, far-off 
recognition was this, of powers and possibilities in life--or in herself
--of which the girl had hitherto no experience and no knowledge? It was 
quite just Mrs. Carpenter, herself refined and essentially lady-like, 
knew very well that her little girl was not growing up to be a lady; she 
had laid that off, along with several other subjects of care, as beyond 
her reach to deal with; but Rotha's appeal smote a tender spot in her 
heart, and she was puzzled how to answer her. Perhaps it was just as well 
that she took refuge in her usual silence and did not try any further. 

As Mr. Digby was going through the little passage way to the front door, 
another door opened and Mrs. Marble's head was put out. 

"Good morning!" she said. "You're a friend of those folks up stairs, aint 
you?" 

"Yes, certainly." 

"Well, what do you think of her?" she said, lowering her voice. 

"I think you are a happy woman, to have such lodgers, Mrs. Marble." 

"I guess I know as much as that," said the mantua-maker, with her 
pleasant, arch smile. "I meant something else. I think, she's a sick 
woman." 

Mr. Digby did not commit himself.

"I'm worried to death about her," Mrs. Marble went on. "Her cough's bad, 
and it's growin' worse; and she aint fit to be workin' this minute. And 
what's goin' to become of her?" 

"The Lord takes care of his children; and she is one." 

"If there is such a thing!" said the mantua-maker, a quick tear dimming 
her eye. "But you see, I have my own work, and I can't leave it to do 
much for her; and she won't let me, neither; and I am thinkin' about it 
day and night. She aint fit to work, this minute. And there's the child; 
and they haven't a living soul to care for them, as I see, in all the 
world. They never have a letter, and they never get a visit, except 
your'n." 

"Rent paid?" asked the gentleman low. 

"Always! never miss. But I'm thinkin'--how do they live? That child's 
grown thin--she's like a piece o' wiggin'; she'll hold up when there's 
nothin' to her." 

Mr. Digby could not help laughing. 

"I thought, if you can't help, nobody can. What's to become of them if 
she gets worse? That child can't do for her." 

"Thank you, Mrs. Marble; you are but touching what I have thought of 
myself. I will see what can be done." 

"And don't be long about it," said the mantua-maker with a nod of her 
head as she closed the door. 

Perhaps it was owing to Mrs. Marble's suggestions that Mr. Digby made his 
next visit the day but one next after; perhaps they were the cause that 
he did not come sooner! At any rate, in two days he came again; and 
brought with him not only a Latin grammar, but a paper of grapes for Mrs. 
Carpenter. At the grammar Rotha's soul rebelled; but what displeasure 
could stand against those beautiful grapes and the sight of her mother 
eating them? They were not very good, Mr. Digby said; he would bring 
better next time; though to the sick woman they were ambrosia, and to 
Rotha an unknown, most exquisite dainty. Seeing her delighted, wondering 
eyes, Mr. Digby with a smile broke off part of a bunch and gave to her. 

"It shall not rob your mother," he said observing that she hesitated. "I 
will bring her some more." 

Rotha tasted. 

"O mother!" she exclaimed in ecstasy,--"I should think these would make 
you well right off!" 

Mr. Digby opened the Latin grammar. I think he wanted an excuse for 
veiling his eyes just then. And Rotha, mollified, when she had finished 
her grapes, submitted patiently to receive her first lesson and to be 
told what her teacher expected her to do before he came again. 

"By the way," said he as he was about going,--"have you any more room 
than you need, Mrs. Carpenter?" 

"Room? no. We have this floor--" said Mrs. Carpenter bewilderedly. 

"You have not one room that you could let? I know a very respectable 
person, an elderly woman, who I think would be comfortable here, if you 
would allow her to come. She could pay well for the accommodation." 

"What would be 'well'?" said Mrs. Carpenter, looking up. 

"According to the arrangement, of course. For a room without a fire, she 
would pay four dollars a month; with fire, I should say, twelve." 

"That would be a great help to me," said Mrs. Carpenter, considering. 

"I know the person, I have known her a great while. I think I can promise 
that she would not in any way annoy you." 

"She brings her own furniture?" 

"Of course." 

After a little more turning the matter over in her mind, Mrs. Carpenter 
gave an unqualified assent to the proposal; and her visiter took his 
leave. 

"Mother," said Rotha, "what room are you going to give her?" 

"There is but one; our bed-room." 

"Then where shall we sleep?" 

"Here." 

"Here! Where we do everything!--" 

"It is not so pleasant; but it will pay our rent, Rotha. And I should 
like a little more warmth at night, now the weather is so severe." 

"O mother, mother! We have got down to two rooms, and now we are come 
down to one!" 

"Hush, my child. I am thankful." 

"Thankful!" 

"Yes, for the means to pay my rent." 

"You might have had means to pay your rent, and kept your two rooms," 
said Rotha; thinking, like a great many other people, that she could 
improve upon Providence. 

"How do you like Latin?" 

"If you mean, how I like Sermo Sermonis, I don't like it at all. And it 
is just ridiculous for Mr. Digby to be giving me lessons." 

The new lodger moved in the very next week. She was a portly, 
comfortable-looking, kindly-natured woman, whom Mrs. Carpenter liked from 
the first. She established herself quietly in her quarters and almost as 
soon began to shew herself neighbourly and helpful. One day Mrs. 
Carpenter's cough was particularly troublesome. Mrs. Cord came in and 
suggested a palliative which she had known often to work comfortingly. 
She procured it and prepared it herself, and then administered it, and 
begged permission to cook Mrs. Carpenter's dinner; and shook up the 
pillow at her back, and set the rocking chair at an inclined angle which 
gave support and relief. When she had done all she could, she went away; 
but she came in again as soon as there was fresh occasion for her 
services, and rendered them with a hearty good will which made them 
doubly acceptable, and with a ready skill and power of resources which 
would have roused in any sophisticated mind the suspicion that Mrs. Cord 
was a trained nurse. Mrs. Carpenter suspected no such thing; she only 
felt the blessed benefit, and told Mr. Digby what a boon the new lodger 
had become to her. 

So the winter, the latter part of it, passed in rather more comfort to 
the invalid. She did not work quite so steadily, and in good truth she 
would have been unable; she was free of anxieties about debt, for the 
rent was sure; and of other things they bought only what they could pay 
for. The fare might so have been meagre sometimes; were it not that 
supplies seemed to come in, irregularly but opportunely, in such very 
pertinent and apt ways that all sorts of gaps in the housekeeping were 
filled up. Mr. Digby kept their larder stocked with oysters, for one 
thing. Then he would bring a bit of particularly nice salmon he had 
found; or fresh eggs that he got from an old woman down town near one of 
the ferries, whom he said he could trust. Or he brought some new tea for 
Mrs. Carpenter to try; sometimes a sweetbread, or a fresh lobster, from 
the market. Then it was remarkable how often Mr. Digby was tempted by the 
sight of game; and came with prairie chickens, quails, partridges and 
ducks, to tempt, as he said, Mrs. Carpenter's appetite. And at last he 
brought her wine. There had grown up between the two, by this time, a 
relation of great kindness and even affection. Ever since one day Mrs. 
Carpenter had been attacked by a terrible fit of coughing when he was 
there; and the young man had waited upon her and ministered to her in a 
way that Rotha had neither strength for nor skill, and also with a 
tenderness which she could not have surpassed. And Rotha could be tender 
where her mother was concerned. Ever since that day Mr. Digby had 
assumed, and been allowed, something like a son's place in the little 
family; and Mrs. Carpenter only smiled at him when he appeared with new 
tokens of his thoughtfulness and care. 

Rotha did not accept him quite so easily. She was somewhat jealous of his 
favour and of the authority he exercised; for without making the fact in 
any way obtrusive, a fact it was, that Mr. Digby did what he pleased. It 
pleased Mrs. Carpenter too; it did not quite please Rotha. 

Yet in the matter of the lessons it was as much a fact as anywhere else. 
Mr. Digby had it quite his own way. To Mrs. Carpenter this 'way' seemed a 
marvel of kindness, and her gratitude was unbounded. A feeling which 
Rotha's heart did not at all share. She got her lessons, it is true; she 
did what was required of her; it soon amused Mrs. Carpenter to see with 
what punctilious care she did it; for in the abstract Rotha was not fond 
of application. She was one of those who love to walk in at the doors of 
knowledge, but do not at all enjoy forging the keys with which the locks 
must be opened. And forging keys was the work at which she was now kept 
busy. Rotha always knew her tasks, but she came to her recitations with a 
sort of reserved coldness, as if inwardly resenting or rebelling, which 
there is no doubt she did. 

"Mr. Digby, what is the good of my knowing Latin?" she ventured to ask 
one day. 

"You know a little about farming, do you not, Rotha?" was the counter 
question. 

"More than a little bit, I guess." 

"Do you? Then you know perhaps what is the use of ploughing the ground?" 

"To make it soft. What ground are you ploughing with Latin, Mr. Digby?" 

"The ground of your mind; to get it into working order." 

This intimation incensed Rotha. She was too vexed to speak. All this 
trouble just to get her mind into working order? 

"Is that all Latin is good for?" she asked at length. 

"By no means. But if it were--that is no small benefit. Not only to get 
the ground in working order, but to develope the good qualities of it; as 
for instance, the power of concentration, the power of attention, the 
power of discernment." 

"I can concentrate my attention when I have a mind to," said Rotha. 

"That is well. I am going to give you something else to do which will 
practise you in that." 

"What, Mr. Digby?" With all her impatience Rotha was careful to observe 
the forms of politeness with her teacher. He silently handed her an 
arithmetic. 

"Oh!--" said the girl, drawing out the word"--I have done sums, Mr. 
Digby." 

"How far?" 

It turned out that Rotha's progress in that walk of learning had been 
limited to a very few steps. And even in those few steps, Mr. Digby's 
tests and questions gave her a half hour of sharp work; so sharp as to 
bar other thoughts for the time. Rotha shewed in this half hour 
uumistakeable capacity for the science of numbers; nevertheless, when her 
teacher went away leaving her a good lesson in arithmetic to study along 
with her Latin grammar, Rotha spoke herself dissatisfied. 

"Am I to learn just whatever Mr. Digby chooses to give me?" she asked. 

"I thought you liked learning, Rotha?" 

"Yes, mother; so I do. I like learning well enough; I don't like him to 
say what I shall learn." 

"Why not? Mr. Digby is very kind, Rotha!" 

"He may mean it for kindness. I don't know what he means it for." 

"It is nothing but pure goodness," said the mother with a grateful sigh. 

"Well, is he to give me everything to learn that he takes into his head?" 

"Rotha, a teacher could not be kinder or more patient than Mr. Digby is 
with you." 

"I don't try his patience, mother." 

It was true enough; she did not. She had often tried her mother's; with 
Mr. Digby Rotha was punctual, thorough, prompt and docile. Whether it 
were pride or a mingling of something better,--and Rotha did love 
learning,--she never gave occasion for a point of blame. It was not 
certainly that Mr. Digby was harsh or stern, or used a manner calculated 
to make anybody fear him; unless indeed it were the perfectness of good 
breeding which he always shewed, here in the poor sempstress's room, and 
in his lessons to the sempstress's child. Rotha had never seen the like 
in anybody before; and that more than ought else probably wrought in her 
such a practical awe of him. Mrs. Carpenter was even half amused to 
observe how Rotha unconsciously in his presence was adopting certain 
points of his manner; she was quiet; she moved with moderate steps; she 
spoke in low tones; she did not fly out in impatient or angular words or 
gestures, as was her way often enough at other times. Yet her mother 
knew, and wondered why, Rotha rebelled in secret against the whole thing. 
For herself, she was growing into a love for Mr. Digby which was almost 
like that of a mother for a son; as indeed his manner towards her was 
much like that of a son towards his mother. It was not the benefits 
conferred and received; it was a closer bond which drew them together, 
and a deeper relation. They looked into each other's faces, and saw 
there, each in the other, what each recognized as the signature of a 
handwriting that they loved; the stamp of a likeness that was to them 
both the fairest of all earthly things. Then came the good offices 
rendered and accepted; the frequent familiar intercourse; the purely 
human conditions of acquaintanceship and friendship; and it was no matter 
of surprise if by and by the care on the one part and the dependence on 
the other grew to be a thing most natural and most sweet. 

So it came about, that by degrees the look of things changed in Mrs. 
Carpenter's small dwelling place. As the cold of the winter began to give 
way to the harshness of spring, and March winds blew high, the gaseous 
fumes from the little anthracite coal stove provoked Mrs. Carpenter's 
cough sadly. "She was coughing all day," Mrs. Cord told their friend in 
private; "whenever the wind blew and the gas came into the room." Mr. 
Digby took his measures. The little cooking stove was removed; a little 
disused grate behind it was opened; and presently a gentle fire of 
Liverpool coal was burning there. The atmosphere of the room as well as 
the physiognomy of it was entirely changed; and Mrs. Carpenter hung over 
the fire and spread out her hands to it with an expression of delight on 
her wasted face which it was touching to see. Mr. Digby saw it, and 
perhaps to divert the feeling which rose in him, began to find fault with 
something else. 

"That's a very uncomfortable chair you are sitting in!" he said with a 
strong expression of disapproval. 

"O it does very well indeed," answered Mrs. Carpenter. "I want nothing, I 
think, having this delightful fire." 

"How do you rest when you are tired?" 

"I lean back. Or I lie down sometimes." 

"Humph! Beds are very well at night. I do not think they are at all 
satisfactory by day." 

"Why what would you have?" said Mrs. Carpenter, smiling at him. 

"I'll see." 

It was the next day only after this that Rotha, having finished her work 
for her teacher and nothing else at the moment calling for attention, was 
standing at the window looking out into the narrow street. The region was 
poor, but not squalid; nevertheless it greatly stirred Rotha's disgust. 
If New York is ever specially disagreeable, it finds the occasion in a 
certain description of March weather; and this was such an occasion. It 
was very cold; the fire in the grate was well made up and burning 
beautifully and the room was pleasant enough; but outside there were 
gusts that were almost little whirlwinds coursing up and down every 
street, carrying with them columns and clouds of dust. The dust 
accordingly lay piled up on one side of the way, swept off from the rest 
of the street; not lying there peacefully, but caught up again from time 
to time, whirled through the air, shaken out upon everybody and 
everything in its way, and finally swept to one side and deposited again. 

"It's the most horrid weather, mother, you can think of!" Rotha reported 
from her post of observation. "I shouldn't think anybody would be out; 
but I suppose they can't help it. A good many people are going about, 
anyhow. Some of them are so poorly dressed, mother! there was a woman 
went by just now, carrying a basket; I should say she had very little on 
indeed under her gown; the wind just took it and wrapped it round her, 
and she looked as slim as a post." 

"Poor creature!" said Mrs. Carpenter. 

"Mother, we never saw people like that in Medwayville." 

"No." 

"Why are they here, and not there?" 

"You must ask Mr. Digby." 

"I don't want to ask Mr. Digby!--There are two boys; ragged;--and 
barefooted. I don't know what they are out for; they have nothing to do; 
they are just playing round an ash-barrel. I should think they'd be at 
home." 

"Such people's home is often worse than the streets." 

"But you don't know how it blows to-day. I should think, mother," said 
Rotha slowly, "New York must want a great many good people in it." 

"There are a great many good people in it." 

"What are they doing, then?" 

"Looking out for Number One, mostly," Mrs. Cord answered, who happened to 
be in the room. 

"But it wants people rich enough to look out for Number One, and for 
Number Two as well." 

Mrs. Carpenter sighed. She knew there were more sides to the problem than 
the simple "one and two" which appeared to Rotha. 

"There comes a coal cart, mother; that has to go, I suppose, for somebody 
wants it. I should hate to drive a coal cart! Mother, who wants it here? 
It is backing down upon our sidewalk." 

"Mrs. Marble, I suppose." 

"No, she don't; she has got her coal all in; and this isn't her coal at 
all; it is in big lumps some of it, like what came for the grate, and it 
isn't shiny like the stove coal. It must be for you, I guess." 

Rotha ran down to see, and came back with the receipt for her mother to 
sign. Mrs. Carpenter signed with a trembling hand, and Rotha flew away 
again. 

"It is a whole cart-load, mother," she said coming back. 

"There is one good rich man in New York," said Mrs. Carpenter 
tremulously. 

"Do you think he is rich?" 

"I fancy so." 

"He hasn't spent so very much on us, has he?" asked Rotha consideringly. 

"It seems much to me. More than our share, I am afraid." 

"Our share of what?" 

"His kindness." 

"Who has the other shares?" 

"I cannot tell. Other people he knows, that are in need of it." 

"Mother, we are not in need of it, are we? We could get along without 
oysters, I suppose. But what I am thinking of is, if he gives other 
people as good a share of his time as he gives us, he cannot live at home 
much. Where does Mr. Digby live, Mrs. Cord?" 

"I don't know as I can say, Rotha. It is a hotel somewheres, I believe." 

"I should not think anybody would live in a hotel," said Rotha, 
remembering her own and her mother's experience of the "North River." 
"Now here comes another cart the carts have to go in all sorts of times; 
but O how the dust blows about! This cart is carrying something--I can't 
see what it's all wrapped up." 

"My dear Rotha," said her mother, "I am not interested to know what the 
carts in the street are doing. Are you?" 

"This one is stopping, mother. It is stopping here!" 

"Well, my dear, what if it is. It is no business of ours." 

"The other cart was our business, though; how do you know, mother? It has 
stopped here, and the man is taking the thing off." 

Mrs. Cord came to the window to look, and then went down stairs. Rotha, 
seeing that the object of her interest, whatever it were, had disappeared 
within doors, presently followed her. In the little bit of a hall below 
stood a large something which completely filled it up; and on one side 
and on the other, Mrs. Marble and Mrs. Cord were taking off the wrappings 
in which it was enfolded. 

"Well, I declare!" said the former, when they had done. "Aint that 
elegant!" 

"Just like him," said Mrs. Cord. "I guessed this was coming, or something 
like it." 

"What is it?" asked Rotha. 

"How much does a thing like that cost, now?" Mrs. Marble went on. "Oh see 
the dust on it! There's a half bushel or less. Here--wait till I get my 
brush.--How is it ever to go up stairs? that's what I'm lookin' at." 

Help had to be called in; and meantime Rotha rushed up stairs and 
informed her mother that a chair was come for her that was like nothing 
she had ever seen in her life; "soft all over," as Rotha expressed it; 
"back and sides and all soft as a pillow, and yet harder than a pillow; 
like as if it were on springs everywhere;" which was no doubt the truth 
of the case. "It's like getting into a nest, mother; I sat down in it; 
there's no hard place anywhere; there's no wood to it, that you can see." 

When a little later the chair made its appearance, and Mrs. Carpenter 
sank down into its springy depths, it is a pity that Mr. Digby could not 
have heard the low long-drawn 'Oh!--' of satisfaction and relief and 
wonder together, which came from her lips. Rotha stood and looked at her. 
Mrs. Carpenter was resting, in a very abandonment of rest; but in the 
abandonment of the moment shewing, as she did not use to shew it, the 
great enervation and prostration of her system. Her head, leaning back on 
the soft support it found, her hands laid exhaustedly on one side and on 
the other, the motionless pose of her whole person, struck Rotha with 
some strange new consciousness. 

"Is it good?" she asked shortly. 

"Very!" The word was almost a sigh. 

"What makes you so weak to-day?" 

"I am not weaker than usual." 

"You don't always look like that." 

"She's never had anything like that to rest in before," Mrs. Cord 
suggested. "A bed aint like one o' them chairs, for supportin' one 
everywhere alike. You let her rest, Rotha. Will you have an oyster, 
dear?" 

Rotha sat down at the corner of the fireplace and stared at her mother; 
taking the oyster, and yet not relinquishing that air of helpless 
lassitude. She was not sewing either; and had not been sewing, Rotha 
remembered, except by snatches, for several days past. Rotha sat and 
gazed at her, an anxious shadow falling upon her features. 

"You needn't look like that at her," said the good woman who was 
preparing Mrs. Carpenter's glass of wine; "she'll be rested now in a 
little, and feel nicely. She's been a wantin' this, or something o' this 
sort; but there aint nothing better than one o' them spring chairs, for 
resting your back and your head and every inch of you at once. Now she's 
got her oyster and somethin' else, and she'll pick up, you'll see." 

"How good it is you came to live here," said the sick woman. "I do not 
know what we should do without you. You seem to understand just how 
everything ought to be done." 

"Mother," said Rotha, "do you think I couldn't take care of you just as 
well? Didn't I, before Mrs. Cord came?" 

"You haven't had quite so much experience, you see," put in the latter. 

"Didn't I, mother?" the girl said passionately. 

Mrs. Carpenter answered only by opening her arms; and Rotha coming into 
them, sat down lightly upon her mother's lap and hid her head on her 
bosom. A shadow of, she knew not what, had fallen across her, and she was 
very still. Mrs. Carpenter folded her arms close about her child; and so 
they sat for a good while. Mother and daughter, each had her own 
thoughts; but those of the one were dim and confused as ever thoughts 
could be. The other's were sharp and clear. Rotha had an uneasy sense 
that her mother's strength was not gaining but losing; an uneasy 
impatience of her lassitude and powerlessness, which yet she could not at 
all read. Mrs. Carpenter read it well. 

She knew of a surety that her days were numbered; and not only so, but 
that the number of them was running out. Many cares she had not, in view 
of this fact; but one importunate, overwhelming, intolerable, were it not 
that the mother's faith was fixed where faith is never disappointed. Even 
so, she was human; and the question, what would be the fate of her little 
daughter when she herself was gone, pressed hard and pressed constantly, 
and found no solution. So the two were sitting, in each other's arms, 
mute and thoughtful, when Mr. Digby came in. 

Rotha did not stir, and he came up to them, bent down by the side of the 
chair and took Mrs. Carpenter's hand. If he put the usual question, Mrs. 
Carpenter did not answer it; her eyes met his silently. There was a power 
of grateful love and also of grave foreboding in her quiet face; one of 
those looks which from an habitually self-contained spirit come with so 
much power on any one capable of understanding them. The young man's eyes 
fell from her to Rotha; the two faces were very near each other; and for 
the first time Rotha's defiance gave place to a little bit of liking. She 
had not seen her mother's look; but she had watched Mr. Digby's eyes as 
they answered it, in their ear nest, intent expression, and then as the 
eyes came to her she felt the warm ray of kindness and sympathy which 
beamed from them. A moment it was, but Rotha was Mr. Digby's opponent no 
more from that time. 

"You seem to be having a pleasant rest," he remarked in his usual calm 
way. "I hope you have got all your work done for me?" 

"I never do rest till my work is done," said the girl. 

"That is a very good plan. Will you prove the fact on the present 
occasion?" 

Rotha unwillingly left her place. 

"Mr. Digby, what sort of a chair is this?" 

"A spring chair." 

"It is a very good thing." 

"I am glad it meets your approbation." 

"It meets mother's too. Do you see how she rests in it?" 

"Does she rest?" asked the young man, rather of Mrs. Carpenter than of 
her daughter. 

"All the body can," she answered with a faint smile. 

"'Underneath are the everlasting arms'--" he said. 
