that these were owing to his absence. The savages, we read in his
narration, no sooner knew he was gone than they all revolted and spoiled
and murdered all they encountered.

The day before Captain Smith sailed, Captain Davis arrived in a small
pinnace with sixteen men. These, with a company from the fort under
Captain Ratcliffe, were sent down to Point Comfort. Captain West and
Captain Martin, having lost their boats and half their men among the
savages at the Falls, returned to Jamestown. The colony now lived upon
what Smith had provided, “and now they had presidents with all their
appurtenances.” President Percy was so sick he could neither go nor
stand. Provisions getting short, West and Ratcliffe went abroad to
trade, and Ratcliffe and twenty-eight of his men were slain by an ambush
of Powhatan’s, as before related in the narrative of Henry Spelman.
Powhatan cut off their boats, and refused to trade, so that Captain West
set sail for England. What ensued cannot be more vividly told than in
the “General Historie”:

“Now we all found the losse of Capt. Smith, yea his greatest maligners
could now curse his losse; as for corne provision and contribution from
the salvages, we had nothing but mortall wounds, with clubs and
arrowes; as for our hogs, hens, goats, sheep, horse, or what lived,
our commanders, officers and salvages daily consumed them, some small
proportions sometimes we tasted, till all was devoured; then swords,
arms, pieces or anything was traded with the salvages, whose cruell
fingers were so oft imbrued in our blouds, that what by their crueltie,
our Governor’s indiscretion, and the losse of our ships, of five hundred
within six months after Capt. Smith’s departure, there remained not past
sixty men, women and children, most miserable and poore creatures;
and those were preserved for the most part, by roots, herbes, acorns,
walnuts, berries, now and then a little fish; they that had starch in
these extremities made no small use of it, yea, even the very skinnes
of our horses. Nay, so great was our famine, that a salvage we slew and
buried, the poorer sort took him up again and eat him, and so did divers
one another boyled, and stewed with roots and herbs. And one amongst the
rest did kill his wife, poudered her and had eaten part of her before it
was knowne, for which he was executed, as he well deserved; now whether
she was better roasted, boyled, or carbonaded, I know not, but of such a
dish as powdered wife I never heard of. This was that time, which still
to this day we called the starving time; it were too vile to say and
scarce to be believed what we endured; but the occasion was our owne,
for want of providence, industrie and government, and not the barreness
and defect of the country as is generally supposed.”

This playful allusion to powdered wife, and speculation as to how she
was best cooked, is the first instance we have been able to find of what
is called “American humor,” and Captain Smith has the honor of being the
first of the “American humorists” who have handled subjects of this kind
with such pleasing gayety.

It is to be noticed that this horrible story of cannibalism and
wife-eating appears in Smith’s “General Historie” of 1624, without a
word of contradiction or explanation, although the company as early as
1610 had taken pains to get at the facts, and Smith must have seen their
“Declaration,” which supposes the story was started by enemies of the
colony. Some reported they saw it, some that Captain Smith said so, and
some that one Beadle, the lieutenant of Captain Davis, did relate it. In
“A True Declaration of the State of the Colonie in Virginia,” published
by the advice and direction of the Council of Virginia, London, 1610, we
read:

“But to clear all doubt, Sir Thomas Yates thus relateth the tragedie:

“There was one of the company who mortally hated his wife, and therefore
secretly killed her, then cut her in pieces and hid her in divers parts
of his house: when the woman was missing, the man suspected, his house
searched, and parts of her mangled body were discovered, to excuse
himself he said that his wife died, that he hid her to satisfie his
hunger, and that he fed daily upon her. Upon this his house was again
searched, when they found a good quantitie of meale, oatmeale, beanes
and pease. Hee therefore was arraigned, confessed the murder, and was
burned for his horrible villainy.”

This same “True Declaration,” which singularly enough does not mention
the name of Captain Smith, who was so prominent an actor in Virginia
during the period to which it relates, confirms all that Smith said
as to the character of the colonists, especially the new supply which
landed in the eight vessels with Ratcliffe and Archer. “Every
man overvalueing his own strength would be a commander; every man
underprizing another’s value, denied to be commanded.” They were
negligent and improvident. “Every man sharked for his present bootie,
but was altogether careless of succeeding penurie.” To idleness and
faction was joined treason. About thirty “unhallowed creatures,” in the
winter of 1610, some five months before the arrival of Captain Gates,
seized upon the ship Swallow, which had been prepared to trade with the
Indians, and having obtained corn conspired together and made a league
to become pirates, dreaming of mountains of gold and happy robberies. By
this desertion they weakened the colony, which waited for their return
with the provisions, and they made implacable enemies of the Indians by
their violence. “These are that scum of men,” which, after roving the
seas and failing in their piracy, joined themselves to other pirates
they found on the sea, or returned to England, bound by a mutual oath to
discredit the land, and swore they were drawn away by famine. “These are
they that roared at the tragicall historie of the man eating up his dead
wife in Virginia”--“scandalous reports of a viperous generation.”

If further evidence were wanting, we have it in “The New Life of
Virginia,” published by authority of the Council, London, 1612. This is
the second part of the “Nova Britannia,” published in London, 1609. Both
are prefaced by an epistle to Sir Thomas Smith, one of the Council and
treasurer, signed “R. I.” Neither document contains any allusion to
Captain John Smith, or the part he played in Virginia. The “New Life of
Virginia,” after speaking of the tempest which drove Sir Thomas Gates
on Bermuda, and the landing of the eight ships at Jamestown, says:
“By which means the body of the plantation was now augmented with such
numbers of irregular persons that it soon became as so many members
without a head, who as they were bad and evil affected for the most part
before they went hence; so now being landed and wanting restraint, they
displayed their condition in all kinds of looseness, those chief and
wisest guides among them (whereof there were not many) did nothing but
bitterly contend who should be first to command the rest, the common
sort, as is ever seen in such cases grew factious and disordered out
of measure, in so much as the poor colony seemed (like the Colledge of
English fugitives in Rome) as a hostile camp within itself; in which
distemper that envious man stept in, sowing plentiful tares in the
hearts of all, which grew to such speedy confusion, that in few months
ambition, sloth and idleness had devoured the fruit of former labours,
planting and sowing were clean given over, the houses decayed, the
church fell to ruin, the store was spent, the cattle consumed, our
people starved, and the Indians by wrongs and injuries made our
enemies.... As for those wicked Impes that put themselves a shipboard,
not knowing otherwise how to live in England; or those ungratious sons
that daily vexed their fathers hearts at home, and were therefore thrust
upon the voyage, which either writing thence, or being returned back to
cover their own leudnes, do fill mens ears with false reports of their
miserable and perilous life in Virginia, let the imputation of misery
be to their idleness, and the blood that was spilt upon their own heads
that caused it.”

Sir Thomas Gates affirmed that after his first coming there he had seen
some of them eat their fish raw rather than go a stone’s cast to fetch
wood and dress it.

The colony was in such extremity in May, 1610, that it would have been
extinct in ten days but for the arrival of Sir Thomas Gates and Sir
George Somers and Captain Newport from the Bermudas. These gallant
gentlemen, with one hundred and fifty souls, had been wrecked on the
Bermudas in the Sea Venture in the preceding July. The terrors of the
hurricane which dispersed the fleet, and this shipwreck, were much
dwelt upon by the writers of the time, and the Bermudas became a sort of
enchanted islands, or realms of the imagination. For three nights,
and three days that were as black as the nights, the water logged Sea
Venture was scarcely kept afloat by bailing. We have a vivid picture of
the stanch Somers sitting upon the poop of the ship, where he sat three
days and three nights together, without much meat and little or no
sleep, conning the ship to keep her as upright as he could, until he
happily descried land. The ship went ashore and was wedged into the
rocks so fast that it held together till all were got ashore, and a good
part of the goods and provisions, and the tackling and iron of the ship
necessary for the building and furnishing of a new ship.

This good fortune and the subsequent prosperous life on the island and
final deliverance was due to the noble Somers, or Sommers, after whom
the Bermudas were long called “Sommers Isles,” which was gradually
corrupted into “The Summer Isles.” These islands of Bermuda had ever
been accounted an enchanted pile of rocks and a desert inhabitation for
devils, which the navigator and mariner avoided as Scylla and Charybdis,
or the devil himself. But this shipwrecked company found it the most
delightful country in the world, the climate was enchanting, delicious
fruits abounded, the waters swarmed with fish, some of them big enough
to nearly drag the fishers into the sea, while whales could be heard
spouting and nosing about the rocks at night; birds fat and tame and
willing to be eaten covered all the bushes, and such droves of wild hogs
covered the island that the slaughter of them for months seemed not to
diminish their number. The friendly disposition of the birds seemed
most to impress the writer of the “True Declaration of Virginia.” He
remembers how the ravens fed Elias in the brook Cedron; “so God provided
for our disconsolate people in the midst of the sea by foules; but with
an admirable difference; unto Elias the ravens brought meat, unto our
men the foules brought (themselves) for meate: for when they whistled,
or made any strange noyse, the foules would come and sit on their
shoulders, they would suffer themselves to be taken and weighed by our
men, who would make choice of the fairest and fattest and let flie the
leane and lightest, an accident [the chronicler exclaims], I take it
[and everybody will take it], that cannot be paralleled by any Historie,
except when God sent abundance of Quayles to feed his Israel in the
barren wilderness.”

The rescued voyagers built themselves comfortable houses on the island,
and dwelt there nine months in good health and plentifully fed. Sunday
was carefully observed, with sermons by Mr. Buck, the chaplain, an
Oxford man, who was assisted in the services by Stephen Hopkins, one of
the Puritans who were in the company. A marriage was celebrated between
Thomas Powell, the cook of Sir George Somers, and Elizabeth Persons,
the servant of Mrs. Horlow. Two children were also born, a boy who was
christened Bermudas and a girl Bermuda. The girl was the child of Mr.
John Rolfe and wife, the Rolfe who was shortly afterward to become
famous by another marriage. In order that nothing should be wanting to
the ordinary course of a civilized community, a murder was committed. In
the company were two Indians, Machumps and Namontack, whose acquaintance
we have before made, returning from England, whither they had been sent
by Captain Smith. Falling out about something, Machumps slew Namontack,
and having made a hole to bury him, because it was too short he cut off
his legs and laid them by him. This proceeding Machumps concealed till
he was in Virginia.

Somers and Gates were busy building two cedar ships, the Deliverer,
of eighty tons, and a pinnace called the Patience. When these were
completed, the whole company, except two scamps who remained behind and
had adventures enough for a three-volume novel, embarked, and on the
16th of May sailed for Jamestown, where they arrived on the 23d or 24th,
and found the colony in the pitiable condition before described. A few
famished settlers watched their coming. The church bell was rung in
the shaky edifice, and the emaciated colonists assembled and heard the
“zealous and sorrowful prayer” of Chaplain Buck. The commission of Sir
Thomas Gates was read, and Mr. Percy retired from the governorship.

The town was empty and unfurnished, and seemed like the ruin of some
ancient fortification rather than the habitation of living men. The
palisades were down; the ports open; the gates unhinged; the church
ruined and unfrequented; the houses empty, torn to pieces or burnt;
the people not able to step into the woods to gather fire-wood; and the
Indians killing as fast without as famine and pestilence within.
William Strachey was among the new-comers, and this is the story that he
despatched as Lord Delaware’s report to England in July. On taking stock
of provisions there was found only scant rations for sixteen days, and
Gates and Somers determined to abandon the plantation, and, taking all
on board their own ships, to make their way to Newfoundland, in the hope
of falling in with English vessels. Accordingly, on the 7th of June they
got on board and dropped down the James.

Meantime the news of the disasters to the colony, and the supposed loss
of the Sea Venture, had created a great excitement in London, and a
panic and stoppage of subscriptions in the company. Lord Delaware, a man
of the highest reputation for courage and principle, determined to go
himself, as Captain-General, to Virginia, in the hope of saving the
fortunes of the colony. With three ships and one hundred and fifty
persons, mostly artificers, he embarked on the 1st of April, 1610, and
reached the Chesapeake Bay on the 5th of June, just in time to meet the
forlorn company of Gates and Somers putting out to sea.

They turned back and ascended to Jamestown, when landing on Sunday, the
10th, after a sermon by Mr. Buck, the commission of Lord Delaware was
read, and Gates turned over his authority to the new Governor. He swore
in as Council, Sir Thomas Gates, Lieutenant-General; Sir George Somers,
Admiral; Captain George Percy; Sir Ferdinando Wenman, Marshal; Captain
Christopher Newport, and William Strachey, Esq., Secretary and Recorder.

On the 19th of June the brave old sailor, Sir George Somers, volunteered
to return to the Bermudas in his pinnace to procure hogs and other
supplies for the colony. He was accompanied by Captain Argall in the
ship Discovery. After a rough voyage this noble old knight reached the
Bermudas. But his strength was not equal to the memorable courage of his
mind. At a place called Saint George he died, and his men, confounded at
the death of him who was the life of them all, embalmed his body and
set sail for England. Captain Argall, after parting with his consort,
without reaching the Bermudas, and much beating about the coast, was
compelled to return to Jamestown.

Captain Gates was sent to England with despatches and to procure more
settlers and more supplies. Lord Delaware remained with the colony less
than a year; his health failing, he went in pursuit of it, in March,
1611, to the West Indies. In June of that year Gates sailed again, with
six vessels, three hundred men, one hundred cows, besides other cattle,
and provisions of all sorts. With him went his wife, who died on the
passage, and his daughters. His expedition reached the James in August.
The colony now numbered seven hundred persons. Gates seated himself at
Hampton, a “delicate and necessary site for a city.”

Percy commanded at Jamestown, and Sir Thomas Dale went up the river to
lay the foundations of Henrico.

We have no occasion to follow further the fortunes of the Virginia
colony, except to relate the story of Pocahontas under her different
names of Amonate, Matoaka, Mrs. Rolfe, and Lady Rebecca.






XV. NEW ENGLAND ADVENTURES

Captain John Smith returned to England in the autumn of 1609, wounded
in body and loaded with accusations of misconduct, concocted by his
factious companions in Virginia. There is no record that these charges
were ever considered by the London Company. Indeed, we cannot find
that the company in those days ever took any action on the charges made
against any of its servants in Virginia. Men came home in disgrace and
appeared to receive neither vindication nor condemnation. Some sunk into
private life, and others more pushing and brazen, like Ratcliffe, the
enemy of Smith, got employment again after a time. The affairs of the
company seem to have been conducted with little order or justice.

Whatever may have been the justice of the charges against Smith, he had
evidently forfeited the good opinion of the company as a desirable man
to employ. They might esteem his energy and profit by his advice and
experience, but they did not want his services. And in time he came to
be considered an enemy of the company.

Unfortunately for biographical purposes, Smith’s life is pretty much a
blank from 1609 to 1614. When he ceases to write about himself he passes
out of sight. There are scarcely any contemporary allusions to his
existence at this time. We may assume, however, from our knowledge of
his restlessness, ambition, and love of adventure, that he was not idle.
We may assume that he besieged the company with his plans for the proper
conduct of the settlement of Virginia; that he talked at large in all
companies of his discoveries, his exploits, which grew by the relating,
and of the prospective greatness of the new Britain beyond the Atlantic.
That he wearied the Council by his importunity and his acquaintances
by his hobby, we can also surmise. No doubt also he was considered a
fanatic by those who failed to comprehend the greatness of his schemes,
and to realize, as he did, the importance of securing the new empire to
the English before it was occupied by the Spanish and the French. His
conceit, his boasting, and his overbearing manner, which no doubt was
one of the causes why he was unable to act in harmony with the other
adventurers of that day, all told against him. He was that most
uncomfortable person, a man conscious of his own importance, and out of
favor and out of money.

Yet Smith had friends, and followers, and men who believed in him. This
is shown by the remarkable eulogies in verse from many pens, which he
prefixes to the various editions of his many works. They seem to have
been written after reading the manuscripts, and prepared to accompany
the printed volumes and tracts. They all allude to the envy and
detraction to which he was subject, and which must have amounted to
a storm of abuse and perhaps ridicule; and they all tax the English
vocabulary to extol Smith, his deeds, and his works. In putting forward
these tributes of admiration and affection, as well as in his constant
allusion to the ill requital of his services, we see a man fighting for
his reputation, and conscious of the necessity of doing so. He is ever
turning back, in whatever he writes, to rehearse his exploits and to
defend his motives.

The London to which Smith returned was the London of Shakespeare’s day;
a city dirty, with ill-paved streets unlighted at night, no sidewalks,
foul gutters, wooden houses, gable ends to the street, set thickly with
small windows from which slops and refuse were at any moment of the day
or night liable to be emptied upon the heads of the passers by; petty
little shops in which were beginning to be displayed the silks and
luxuries of the continent; a city crowded and growing rapidly, subject
to pestilences and liable to sweeping conflagrations. The Thames had no
bridges, and hundreds of boats plied between London side and Southwark,
where were most of the theatres, the bull-baitings, the bear-fighting,
the public gardens, the residences of the hussies, and other amusements
that Bankside, the resort of all classes bent on pleasure, furnished
high or low. At no time before or since was there such fantastical
fashion in dress, both in cut and gay colors, nor more sumptuousness in
costume or luxury in display among the upper classes, and such squalor
in low life. The press teemed with tracts and pamphlets, written in
language “as plain as a pikestaff,” against the immoralities of the
theatres, those “seminaries of vice,” and calling down the judgment of
God upon the cost and the monstrosities of the dress of both men
and women; while the town roared on its way, warned by sermons, and
instructed in its chosen path by such plays and masques as Ben Jonson’s
“Pleasure reconciled to Virtue.”

The town swarmed with idlers, and with gallants who wanted advancement
but were unwilling to adventure their ease to obtain it. There was much
lounging in apothecaries’ shops to smoke tobacco, gossip, and hear the
news. We may be sure that Smith found many auditors for his adventures
and his complaints. There was a good deal of interest in the New World,
but mainly still as a place where gold and other wealth might be got
without much labor, and as a possible short cut to the South Sea and
Cathay. The vast number of Londoners whose names appear in the second
Virginia charter shows the readiness of traders to seek profit in
adventure. The stir for wider freedom in religion and government
increased with the activity of exploration and colonization, and one
reason why James finally annulled the Virginia, charter was because
he regarded the meetings of the London Company as opportunities of
sedition.

Smith is altogether silent about his existence at this time. We do not
hear of him till 1612, when his “Map of Virginia” with his description
of the country was published at Oxford. The map had been published
before: it was sent home with at least a portion of the description
of Virginia. In an appendix appeared (as has been said) a series of
narrations of Smith’s exploits, covering the rime he was in Virginia,
written by his companions, edited by his friend Dr. Symonds, and
carefully overlooked by himself.

Failing to obtain employment by the Virginia company, Smith turned his
attention to New England, but neither did the Plymouth company avail
themselves of his service. At last in 1614 he persuaded some London
merchants to fit him out for a private trading adventure to the coast
of New England. Accordingly with two ships, at the charge of Captain
Marmaduke Roydon, Captain George Langam, Mr. John Buley, and William
Skelton, merchants, he sailed from the Downs on the 3d of March, 1614,
and in the latter part of April “chanced to arrive in New England,
a part of America at the Isle of Monahiggan in 43 1/2 of Northerly
latitude.” This was within the territory appropriated to the second (the
Plymouth) colony by the patent of 1606, which gave leave of settlement
between the 38th and 44th parallels.

Smith’s connection with New England is very slight, and mainly that of
an author, one who labored for many years to excite interest in it by
his writings. He named several points, and made a map of such portion
of the coast as he saw, which was changed from time to time by other
observations. He had a remarkable eye for topography, as is especially
evident by his map of Virginia. This New England coast is roughly
indicated in Venazzani’s Plot Of 1524, and better on Mercator’s of a few
years later, and in Ortelius’s “Theatrum Orbis Terarum” of 1570; but
in Smith’s map we have for the first time a fair approach to the real
contour.

Of Smith’s English predecessors on this coast there is no room here
to speak. Gosnold had described Elizabeth’s Isles, explorations and
settlements had been made on the coast of Maine by Popham and Weymouth,
but Smith claims the credit of not only drawing the first fair map of
the coast, but of giving the name “New England” to what had passed under
the general names of Virginia, Canada, Norumbaga, etc.

Smith published his description of New England June 18, 1616, and it is
in that we must follow his career. It is dedicated to the “high, hopeful
Charles, Prince of Great Britain,” and is prefaced by an address to
the King’s Council for all the plantations, and another to all the
adventurers into New England. The addresses, as usual, call attention
to his own merits. “Little honey [he writes] hath that hive, where there
are more drones than bees; and miserable is that land where more
are idle than are well employed. If the endeavors of these vermin be
acceptable, I hope mine may be excusable: though I confess it were more
proper for me to be doing what I say than writing what I know. Had I
returned rich I could not have erred; now having only such food as came
to my net, I must be taxed. But, I would my taxers were as ready to
adventure their purses as I, purse, life, and all I have; or as diligent
to permit the charge, as I know they are vigilant to reap the fruits of
my labors.” The value of the fisheries he had demonstrated by his catch;
and he says, looking, as usual, to large results, “but because I speak
so much of fishing, if any mistake me for such a devote fisher, as I
dream of nought else, they mistake me. I know a ring of gold from a
grain of barley as well as a goldsmith; and nothing is there to be had
which fishing doth hinder, but further us to obtain.”

John Smith first appears on the New England coast as a whale fisher.
The only reference to his being in America in Josselyn’s “Chronological
Observations of America” is under the wrong year, 1608: “Capt. John
Smith fished now for whales at Monhiggen.” He says: “Our plot there was
to take whales, and made tryall of a Myne of gold and copper;” these
failing they were to get fish and furs. Of gold there had been little
expectation, and (he goes on) “we found this whale fishing a costly
conclusion; we saw many, and spent much time in chasing them; but could
not kill any; they being a kind of Jubartes, and not the whale that
yeeldes finnes and oyle as we expected.” They then turned their
attention to smaller fish, but owing to their late arrival and “long
lingering about the whale”--chasing a whale that they could not kill
because it was not the right kind--the best season for fishing was
passed. Nevertheless, they secured some 40,000 cod--the figure is
naturally raised to 60,000 when Smith retells the story fifteen years
afterwards.

But our hero was a born explorer, and could not be content with not
examining the strange coast upon which he found himself. Leaving his
sailors to catch cod, he took eight or nine men in a small boat, and
cruised along the coast, trading wherever he could for furs, of which
he obtained above a thousand beaver skins; but his chance to trade was
limited by the French settlements in the east, by the presence of one of
Popham’s ships opposite Monhegan, on the main, and by a couple of French
vessels to the westward. Having examined the coast from Penobscot to
Cape Cod, and gathered a profitable harvest from the sea, Smith returned
in his vessel, reaching the Downs within six months after his departure.
This was his whole experience in New England, which ever afterwards
he regarded as particularly his discovery, and spoke of as one of his
children, Virginia being the other.

With the other vessel Smith had trouble. He accuses its master, Thomas
Hunt, of attempting to rob him of his plots and observations, and to
leave him “alone on a desolate isle, to the fury of famine, And all
other extremities.” After Smith’s departure the rascally Hunt decoyed
twenty-seven unsuspecting savages on board his ship and carried them off
to Spain, where he sold them as slaves. Hunt sold his furs at a great
profit. Smith’s cargo also paid well: in his letter to Lord Bacon in
1618 he says that with forty-five men he had cleared L 1,500 in less
than three months on a cargo of dried fish and beaver skins--a pound at
that date had five times the purchasing power of a pound now.

The explorer first landed on Monhegan, a small island in sight of which
in the war of 1812 occurred the lively little seafight of the American
Wasp and the British Frolic, in which the Wasp was the victor, but
directly after, with her prize, fell into the hands of an English
seventy-four.

He made certainly a most remarkable voyage in his open boat. Between
Penobscot and Cape Cod (which he called Cape James) he says he saw forty
several habitations, and sounded about twenty-five excellent harbors.
Although Smith accepted the geographical notion of his time, and thought
that Florida adjoined India, he declared that Virginia was not an
island, but part of a great continent, and he comprehended something
of the vastness of the country he was coasting along, “dominions which
stretch themselves into the main, God doth know how many thousand miles,
of which one could no more guess the extent and products than a stranger
sailing betwixt England and France could tell what was in Spain, Italy,
Germany, Bohemia, Hungary, and the rest.” And he had the prophetic
vision, which he more than once refers to, of one of the greatest
empires of the world that would one day arise here. Contrary to the
opinion that prevailed then and for years after, he declared also that
New England was not an island.

Smith describes with considerable particularity the coast, giving the
names of the Indian tribes, and cataloguing the native productions,
vegetable and animal. He bestows his favorite names liberally upon
points and islands--few of which were accepted. Cape Ann he called from
his charming Turkish benefactor, “Cape Tragabigzanda”; the three islands
in front of it, the “Three Turks’ Heads”; and the Isles of Shoals he
simply describes: “Smyth’s Isles are a heape together, none neare them,
against Acconimticus.” Cape Cod, which appears upon all the maps before
Smith’s visit as “Sandy” cape, he says “is only a headland of high hills
of sand, overgrown with shrubbie pines, hurts [whorts, whortleberries]
and such trash; but an excellent harbor for all weathers. This Cape is
made by the maine Sea on the one side, and a great bay on the other in
the form of a sickle.”

A large portion of this treatise on New England is devoted to an
argument to induce the English to found a permanent colony there, of
which Smith shows that he would be the proper leader. The main staple
for the present would be fish, and he shows how Holland has become
powerful by her fisheries and the training of hardy sailors. The fishery
would support a colony until it had obtained a good foothold, and
control of these fisheries would bring more profit to England than any
other occupation. There are other reasons than gain that should induce
in England the large ambition of founding a great state, reasons of
religion and humanity, erecting towns, peopling countries, informing the
ignorant, reforming things unjust, teaching virtue, finding employment
for the idle, and giving to the mother country a kingdom to attend her.
But he does not expect the English to indulge in such noble ambitions
unless he can show a profit in them.

“I have not [he says] been so ill bred but I have tasted of plenty and
pleasure, as well as want and misery; nor doth a necessity yet, nor
occasion of discontent, force me to these endeavors; nor am I ignorant
that small thank I shall have for my pains; or that many would have the
world imagine them to be of great judgment, that can but blemish these
my designs, by their witty objections and detractions; yet (I hope) my
reasons and my deeds will so prevail with some, that I shall not
want employment in these affairs to make the most blind see his own
senselessness and incredulity; hoping that gain will make them affect
that which religion, charity and the common good cannot.... For I am
not so simple to think that ever any other motive than wealth will ever
erect there a Commonwealth; or draw company from their ease and humours
at home, to stay in New England to effect any purpose.”

But lest the toils of the new settlement should affright his readers,
our author draws an idyllic picture of the simple pleasures which nature
and liberty afford here freely, but which cost so dearly in England.
Those who seek vain pleasure in England take more pains to enjoy it than
they would spend in New England to gain wealth, and yet have not half
such sweet content. What pleasure can be more, he exclaims, when men are
tired of planting vines and fruits and ordering gardens, orchards and
building to their mind, than “to recreate themselves before their owne
doore, in their owne boates upon the Sea, where man, woman and child,
with a small hooke and line, by angling, may take divers sorts of
excellent fish at their pleasures? And is it not pretty sport, to pull
up two pence, six pence, and twelve pence as fast as you can hale and
veere a line?... And what sport doth yield more pleasing content, and
less hurt or charge than angling with a hooke, and crossing the sweet
ayre from Isle to Isle, over the silent streams of a calme Sea? wherein
the most curious may finde pleasure, profit and content.”

Smith made a most attractive picture of the fertility of the soil
and the fruitfulness of the country. Nothing was too trivial to be
mentioned. “There are certain red berries called Alkermes which is worth
ten shillings a pound, but of these hath been sold for thirty or forty
shillings the pound, may yearly be gathered a good quantity.” John
Josselyn, who was much of the time in New England from 1638 to 1671 and
saw more marvels there than anybody else ever imagined, says, “I have
sought for this berry he speaks of, as a man should for a needle in
a bottle of hay, but could never light upon it; unless that kind of
Solomon’s seal called by the English treacle-berry should be it.”

Towards the last of August, 1614, Smith was back at Plymouth. He had
now a project of a colony which he imparted to his friend Sir Ferdinand
Gorges. It is difficult from Smith’s various accounts to say exactly
what happened to him next. It would appear that he declined to go with
an expedition of four ship which the Virginia company despatched in
1615, and incurred their ill-will by refusing, but he considered himself
attached to the western or Plymouth company. Still he experienced many
delays from them: they promised four ships to be ready at Plymouth;
on his arrival “he found no such matter,” and at last he embarked in
a private expedition, to found a colony at the expense of Gorges, Dr.
Sutliffe, Bishop o Exeter, and a few gentlemen in London. In January
1615, he sailed from Plymouth with a ship Of 20 tons, and another of 50.
His intention was, after the fishing was over, to remain in New England
with only fifteen men and begin a colony.

These hopes were frustrated. When only one hundred and twenty leagues
out all the masts of his vessels were carried away in a storm, and it
was only by diligent pumping that he was able to keep his craft afloat
and put back to Plymouth. Thence on the 24th of June he made another
start in a vessel of sixty tons with thirty men. But ill-luck still
attended him. He had a queer adventure with pirates. Lest the envious
world should not believe his own story, Smith had Baker, his steward,
and several of his crew examined before a magistrate at Plymouth,
December 8, 1615, who support his story by their testimony up to a
certain point.

It appears that he was chased two days by one Fry, an English pirate,
in a greatly superior vessel, heavily armed and manned. By reason of the
foul weather the pirate could not board Smith, and his master, mate,
and pilot, Chambers, Minter, and Digby, importuned him to surrender,
and that he should send a boat to the pirate, as Fry had no boat.
This singular proposal Smith accepted on condition Fry would not take
anything that would cripple his voyage, or send more men aboard
(Smith furnishing the boat) than he allowed. Baker confessed that
the quartermaster and Chambers received gold of the pirates, for what
purpose it does not appear. They came on board, but Smith would not come
out of his cabin to entertain them, “although a great many of them had
been his sailors, and for his love would have wafted us to the Isle of
Flowers.”

Having got rid of the pirate Fry by this singular manner of receiving
gold from him, Smith’s vessel was next chased by two French pirates at
Fayal. Chambers, Minter, and Digby again desired Smith to yield, but he
threatened to blow up his ship if they did not stand to the defense; and
so they got clear of the French pirates. But more were to come.

At “Flowers” they were chased by four French men-of-war. Again Chambers,
Minter, and Digby importuned Smith to yield, and upon the consideration
that he could speak French, and that they were Protestants of Rochelle
and had the King’s commission to take Spaniards, Portuguese, and
pirates, Smith, with some of his company, went on board one of the
French ships. The next day the French plundered Smith’s vessel and
distributed his crew among their ships, and for a week employed his boat
in chasing all the ships that came in sight. At the end of this bout
they surrendered her again to her crew, with victuals but no weapons.
Smith exhorted his officers to proceed on their voyage for fish, either
to New England or Newfoundland. This the officers declined to do at
first, but the soldiers on board compelled them, and thereupon Captain
Smith busied himself in collecting from the French fleet and sending on
board his bark various commodities that belonged to her--powder,
match, books, instruments, his sword and dagger, bedding, aquavite, his
commission, apparel, and many other things. These articles Chambers and
the others divided among themselves, leaving Smith, who was still on
board the Frenchman, only his waistcoat and breeches. The next day, the
weather being foul, they ran so near the Frenchman as to endanger their
yards, and Chambers called to Captain Smith to come aboard or he would
leave him. Smith ordered him to send a boat; Chambers replied that
his boat was split, which was a lie, and told him to come off in the
Frenchman’s boat. Smith said he could not command that, and so they
parted. The English bark returned to Plymouth, and Smith was left on
board the French man-of-war.

Smith himself says that Chambers had persuaded the French admiral that
if Smith was let to go on his boat he would revenge himself on the
French fisheries on the Banks.

For over two months, according to his narration, Smith was kept on board
the Frenchman, cruising about for prizes, “to manage their fight against
the Spaniards, and be in a prison when they took any English.” One of
their prizes was a sugar caraval from Brazil; another was a West Indian
worth two hundred thousand crowns, which had on board fourteen coffers
of wedges of silver, eight thousand royals of eight, and six coffers of
the King of Spain’s treasure, besides the pillage and rich coffers of
many rich passengers. The French captain, breaking his promise to put
Smith ashore at Fayal, at length sent him towards France on the sugar
caravel. When near the coast, in a night of terrible storm, Smith seized
a boat and escaped. It was a tempest that wrecked all the vessels on the
coast, and for twelve hours Smith was drifting about in his open boat,
in momentary expectation of sinking, until he was cast upon the oozy
isle of “Charowne,” where the fowlers picked him up half dead with
water, cold, and hunger, and he got to Rochelle, where he made complaint
to the Judge of Admiralty. Here he learned that the rich prize had been
wrecked in the storm and the captain and half the crew drowned. But
from the wreck of this great prize thirty-six thousand crowns’ worth of
jewels came ashore. For his share in this Smith put in his claim with
the English ambassador at Bordeaux. The Captain was hospitably treated
by the Frenchmen. He met there his old friend Master Crampton, and he
says: “I was more beholden to the Frenchmen that escaped drowning in
the man-of-war, Madam Chanoyes of Rotchell, and the lawyers of Burdeaux,
than all the rest of my countrymen I met in France.” While he was
waiting there to get justice, he saw the “arrival of the King’s great
marriage brought from Spain.” This is all his reference to the arrival
of Anne of Austria, eldest daughter of Philip III., who had been
betrothed to Louis XIII. in 1612, one of the double Spanish marriages
which made such a commotion in France.

Leaving his business in France unsettled (forever), Smith returned to
Plymouth, to find his reputation covered with infamy and his clothes,
books, and arms divided among the mutineers of his boat. The chiefest
of these he “laid by the heels,” as usual, and the others confessed and
told the singular tale we have outlined. It needs no comment, except
that Smith had a facility for unlucky adventures unequaled among the
uneasy spirits of his age. Yet he was as buoyant as a cork, and emerged
from every disaster with more enthusiasm for himself and for new
ventures. Among the many glowing tributes to himself in verse that Smith
prints with this description is one signed by a soldier, Edw. Robinson,
which begins:

   “Oft thou hast led, when I brought up the Rere,
    In bloody wars where thousands have been slaine.”

This common soldier, who cannot help breaking out in poetry when he
thinks of Smith, is made to say that Smith was his captain “in the
fierce wars of Transylvania,” and he apostrophizes him:

   “Thou that to passe the worlds foure parts dost deeme
    No more, than ewere to goe to bed or drinke,
    And all thou yet hast done thou dost esteeme
    As nothing.

   “For mee: I not commend but much admire
    Thy England yet unknown to passers by-her,
    For it will praise itselfe in spight of me:
    Thou, it, it, thou, to all posteritie.”




XVI. NEW ENGLAND’S TRIALS

Smith was not cast down by his reverses. No sooner had he laid his
latest betrayers by the heels than he set himself resolutely to obtain
money and means for establishing a colony in New England, and to this
project and the cultivation in England of interest in New England he
devoted the rest of his life.

His Map and Description of New England was published in 1616, and he
became a colporteur of this, beseeching everywhere a hearing for his
noble scheme. It might have been in 1617, while Pocahontas was about
to sail for Virginia, or perhaps after her death, that he was again
in Plymouth, provided with three good ships, but windbound for three
months, so that the season being past, his design was frustrated, and
his vessels, without him, made a fishing expedition to Newfoundland.

It must have been in the summer of this year that he was at Plymouth
with divers of his personal friends, and only a hundred pounds among
them all. He had acquainted the nobility with his projects, and was
afraid to see the Prince Royal before he had accomplished anything, “but
their great promises were nothing but air to prepare the voyage against
the next year.” He spent that summer in the west of England, visiting
“Bristol, Exeter, Bastable? Bodman, Perin, Foy, Milborow, Saltash,
Dartmouth, Absom, Pattnesse, and the most of the gentry in Cornwall and
Devonshire, giving them books and maps,” and inciting them to help his
enterprise.

So well did he succeed, he says, that they promised him twenty sail of
ships to go with him the next year, and to pay him for his pains and
former losses. The western commissioners, in behalf of the company,
contracted with him, under indented articles, “to be admiral of that
country during my life, and in the renewing of the letters-patent so to
be nominated”; half the profits of the enterprise to be theirs, and half
to go to Smith and his companions.

Nothing seems to have come out of this promising induction except the
title of “Admiral of New England,” which Smith straightway assumed and
wore all his life, styling himself on the title-page of everything he
printed, “Sometime Governor of Virginia and Admiral of New England.”
 As the generous Captain had before this time assumed this title, the
failure of the contract could not much annoy him. He had about as good
right to take the sounding name of Admiral as merchants of the west of
England had to propose to give it to him.

The years wore away, and Smith was beseeching aid, republishing his
works, which grew into new forms with each issue, and no doubt making
himself a bore wherever he was known. The first edition of “New
England’s Trials”--by which he meant the various trials and attempts
to settle New England was published in 1620. It was to some extent a
repetition of his “Description” of 1616. In it he made no reference to
Pocahontas. But in the edition of 1622, which is dedicated to Charles,
Prince of Wales, and considerably enlarged, he drops into this
remark about his experience at Jamestown: “It Is true in our greatest
extremitie they shot me, slue three of my men, and by the folly of them
that fled tooke me prisoner; yet God made Pocahontas the king’s
daughter the meanes to deliver me: and thereby taught me to know their
treacheries to preserve the rest. [This is evidently an allusion to the
warning Pocahontas gave him at Werowocomoco.] It was also my chance in
single combat to take the king of Paspahegh prisoner, and by keeping
him, forced his subjects to work in chains till I made all the country
pay contribution having little else whereon to live.”

This was written after he had heard of the horrible massacre of 1622
at Jamestown, and he cannot resist the temptation to draw a contrast
between the present and his own management. He explains that the Indians
did not kill the English because they were Christians, but to get their
weapons and commodities. How different it was when he was in Virginia.
“I kept that country with but 38, and had not to eat but what we had
from the savages. When I had ten men able to go abroad, our commonwealth
was very strong: with such a number I ranged that unknown country 14
weeks: I had but 18 to subdue them all.” This is better than Sir John
Falstaff. But he goes on: “When I first went to those desperate designes
it cost me many a forgotten pound to hire men to go, and procrastination
caused more run away than went.” “Twise in that time I was President.”
 [It will be remembered that about the close of his first year he gave up
the command, for form’s sake, to Capt. Martin, for three hours, and then
took it again.] “To range this country of New England in like manner,
I had but eight, as is said, and amongst their bruite conditions I met
many of their silly encounters, and without any hurt, God be thanked.”
 The valiant Captain had come by this time to regard himself as the
inventor and discoverer of Virginia and New England, which were explored
and settled at the cost of his private pocket, and which he is not
ashamed to say cannot fare well in his absence. Smith, with all his good
opinion of himself, could not have imagined how delicious his character
would be to readers in after-times. As he goes on he warms up: “Thus you
may see plainly the yearly success from New England by Virginia, which
hath been so costly to this kingdom and so dear to me.

“By that acquaintance I have with them I may call them my children [he
spent between two and three months on the New England coast] for they
have been my wife, my hawks, my hounds, my cards, my dice, and total my
best content, as indifferent to my heart as my left hand to my right....
Were there not one Englishman remaining I would yet begin again as I
did at the first; not that I have any secret encouragement for any I
protest, more than lamentable experiences; for all their discoveries I
can yet hear of are but pigs of my sowe: nor more strange to me than to
hear one tell me he hath gone from Billingate and discovered Greenwich!”

As to the charge that he was unfortunate, which we should think might
have become current from the Captain’s own narratives, he tells his
maligners that if they had spent their time as he had done, they would
rather believe in God than in their own calculations, and peradventure
might have had to give as bad an account of their actions. It is strange
they should tax him before they have tried what he tried in Asia,
Europe, and America, where he never needed to importune for a reward,
nor ever could learn to beg: “These sixteen years I have spared neither
pains nor money, according to my ability, first to procure his majesty’s
letters patent, and a Company here to be the means to raise a company to
go with me to Virginia [this is the expedition of 1606 in which he was
without command] as is said: which beginning here and there cost me near
five years work, and more than 500 pounds of my own estate, besides all
the dangers, miseries and encumbrances I endured gratis, where I stayed
till I left 500 better provided than ever I was: from which blessed
Virgin (ere I returned) sprung the fortunate habitation of Somer Isles.”
 “Ere I returned” is in Smith’s best vein. The casual reader would
certainly conclude that the Somers Isles were somehow due to the
providence of John Smith, when in fact he never even heard that Gates
and Smith were shipwrecked there till he had returned to England, sent
home from Virginia. Neill says that Smith ventured L 9 in the Virginia
company! But he does not say where he got the money.

New England, he affirms, hath been nearly as chargeable to him and his
friends: he never got a shilling but it cost him a pound. And now, when
New England is prosperous and a certainty, “what think you I undertook
when nothing was known, but that there was a vast land.” These are
some of the considerations by which he urges the company to fit out an
expedition for him: “thus betwixt the spur of desire and the bridle of
reason I am near ridden to death in a ring of despair; the reins are in
your hands, therefore I entreat you to ease me.”

The Admiral of New England, who since he enjoyed the title had had
neither ship, nor sailor, nor rod of land, nor cubic yard of salt water
under his command, was not successful in his several “Trials.” And in
the hodge-podge compilation from himself and others, which he had
put together shortly after,--the “General Historie,” he pathetically
exclaims: “Now all these proofs and this relation, I now called New
England’s Trials. I caused two or three thousand of them to be printed,
one thousand with a great many maps both of Virginia and New England,
I presented to thirty of the chief companies in London at their Halls,
desiring either generally or particularly (them that would) to imbrace
it and by the use of a stock of five thousand pounds to ease them of the
superfluity of most of their companies that had but strength and health
to labor; near a year I spent to understand their resolutions, which was
to me a greater toil and torment, than to have been in New England about
my business but with bread and water, and what I could get by my labor;
but in conclusion, seeing nothing would be effected I was contented as
well with this loss of time and change as all the rest.”

In his “Advertisements” he says that at his own labor, cost, and loss
he had “divulged more than seven thousand books and maps,” in order to
influence the companies, merchants and gentlemen to make a plantation,
but “all availed no more than to hew Rocks with Oister-shels.”

His suggestions about colonizing were always sensible. But we can
imagine the group of merchants in Cheapside gradually dissolving as
Smith hove in sight with his maps and demonstrations.

In 1618, Smith addressed a letter directly to Lord Bacon, to which there
seems to have been no answer. The body of it was a condensation of
what he had repeatedly written about New England, and the advantage to
England of occupying the fisheries. “This nineteen years,” he writes, “I
have encountered no few dangers to learn what here I write in these few
leaves:... their fruits I am certain may bring both wealth and honor for
a crown and a kingdom to his majesty’s posterity.” With 5,000, pounds
he will undertake to establish a colony, and he asks of his Majesty a
pinnace to lodge his men and defend the coast for a few months, until
the colony gets settled. Notwithstanding his disappointments and losses,
he is still patriotic, and offers his experience to his country: “Should
I present it to the Biskayners, French and Hollanders, they have made
me large offers. But nature doth bind me thus to beg at home, whom
strangers have pleased to create a commander abroad.... Though I can
promise no mines of gold, the Hollanders are an example of my project,
whose endeavors by fishing cannot be suppressed by all the King of
Spain’s golden powers. Worth is more than wealth, and industrious
subjects are more to a kingdom than gold. And this is so certain a
course to get both as I think was never propounded to any state for
so small a charge, seeing I can prove it, both by example, reason and
experience.”

Smith’s maxims were excellent, his notions of settling New England were
sound and sensible, and if writing could have put him in command of New
England, there would have been no room for the Puritans. He addressed
letter after letter to the companies of Virginia and Plymouth, giving
them distinctly to understand that they were losing time by not availing
themselves of his services and his project. After the Virginia massacre,
he offered to undertake to drive the savages out of their country with
a hundred soldiers and thirty sailors. He heard that most of the company
liked exceedingly well the notion, but no reply came to his overture.

He laments the imbecility in the conduct of the new plantations. At
first, he says, it was feared the Spaniards would invade the plantations
or the English Papists dissolve them: but neither the councils of
Spain nor the Papists could have desired a better course to ruin the
plantations than have been pursued; “It seems God is angry to see
Virginia in hands so strange where nothing but murder and indiscretion
contends for the victory.”

In his letters to the company and to the King’s commissions for the
reformation of Virginia, Smith invariably reproduces his own exploits,
until we can imagine every person in London, who could read, was sick
of the story. He reminds them of his unrequited services: “in neither
of those two countries have I one foot of land, nor the very house I
builded, nor the ground I digged with my own hands, nor ever any content
or satisfaction at all, and though I see ordinarily those two countries
