
“I heard of Mrs. Maynard’s being here, and I thought I should find him,
too. I came over yesterday to get him to go into the woods with us.”

Grace decided that this was mere effrontery. “It is a pity that he is
not here,” she said; and though it ought to have been possible for her
to go on and rebuke the young fellow for bestowing upon Mrs. Maynard the
comradeship intended for her husband, it was not so. She could only look
severely at him, and trust that he might conceive the intention which
she could not express. She rebelled against the convention and against
her own weakness, which would not let her boldly interfere in what she
believed a wrong; she had defied society, in the mass, but here, with
this man, whom as an atom of the mass she would have despised, she was
powerless.

“Have you ever seen him?” Libby asked, perhaps clinging to Maynard
because he was a topic of conversation in default of which there might
be nothing to say.

“No,” answered Grace.

“He ‘s funny. He’s got lots of that Western humor, and he tells a story
better than any man I ever saw. There was one story of his”--

“I have no sense of humor,” interrupted Grace impatiently. “Mr. Libby,”
 she broke out, “I ‘m sorry that you’ve asked Mrs. Maynard to take a sail
with you. The sea air”--she reddened with the shame of not being able to
proceed without this wretched subterfuge--“won’t do her any good.”

“Then,” said the young man, “you must n’t let her go.”

“I don’t choose to forbid her,” Grace began.

“I beg your pardon,” he broke in. “I’ll be back in a moment.”

He turned, and ran to the edge of the cliff, over which he vanished, and
he did not reappear till Mrs. Maynard had rejoined Grace on the piazza.

“I hope you won’t mind its being a little rough, Mrs. Maynard,” he said,
breathing quickly. “Adams thinks we’re going to have it pretty fresh
before we get back.”

“Indeed, I don’t want to go, then!” cried Mrs. Maynard, in petulant
disappointment, letting her wraps fall upon a chair.

Mr. Libby looked at Grace, who haughtily rejected a part in the
conspiracy. “I wish you to go, Louise,” she declared indignantly.
“I will take the risk of all the harm that comes to you from the bad
weather.” She picked up the shawls, and handed them to Mr. Libby, on
whom her eyes blazed their contempt and wonder. It cost a great deal of
persuasion and insistence now to make Mrs. Maynard go, and he left all
this to Grace, not uttering a word till he gave Mrs. Maynard his hand to
help her down the steps. Then he said, “Well, I wonder what Miss Breen
does want.”

“I ‘m sure I don’t know,” said the other. “At first she did n’t want me
to go, this morning, and now she makes me. I do hope it is n’t going to
be a storm.”

“I don’t believe it is. A little fresh, perhaps. I thought you might be
seasick.”

“Don’t you remember? I’m never seasick! That’s one of the worst signs.”

“Oh, yes.”

“If I could be thoroughly seasick once, it would be the best thing I
could do.”

“Is she capricious?” asked Mr. Libby.

“Grace?” cried Mrs. Maynard, releasing her hand half-way down the steps,
in order to enjoy her astonishment without limitation of any sort.
“Grace capricious!”

“Yes,” said Mr. Libby, “that’s what I thought. Better take my hand
again,” and he secured that of Mrs. Maynard, who continued her descent.
“I suppose I don’t understand her exactly. Perhaps she did n’t like
my not calling her Doctor. I did n’t call her anything. I suppose she
thought I was dodging it. I was. I should have had to call her Miss
Breen, if I called her anything.”

“She wouldn’t have cared. She is n’t a doctor for the name of it.”

“I suppose you think it’s a pity?” he asked.

“What?”

“Her being a doctor.”

“I’ll tell her you say so.”

“No, don’t. But don’t you?”

“Well, I would n’t want to be one,” said Mrs. Mayward candidly.

“I suppose it’s all right, if she does it from a sense of duty, as you
say,” he suggested.

“Oh, yes, she’s all right. And she’s just as much of a girl as anybody;
though she don’t know it,” Mrs. Maynard added astutely. “Why would n’t
she come with us? Were you afraid to ask her?”

“She said she was n’t a good sailor. Perhaps she thought we were too
young. She must be older than you.”

“Yes, and you, too!” cried Mrs. Maynard, with good-natured derision.

“She doesn’t look old,” returned Mr. Libby.

“She’s twenty-eight. How old are you?”

“I promised the census-taker not to tell till his report came out.”

“What is the color of her hair?”

“Brown.”

“And her eyes?”

“I don’t know!”

“You had better look out, Mr. Libby!” said Mrs. Maynard, putting her
foot on the ground at last.

They walked across the beach to where his dory lay, and Grace saw him
pulling out to the sail boat before she went in from the piazza. Then
she went to her mother’s room. The elderly lady was keeping indoors,
upon a theory that the dew was on, and that it was not wholesome to go
out till it was off. She asked, according to her habit when she met her
daughter alone, “Where is Mrs. Maynard?”

“Why do you always ask that, mother?” retorted Grace, with her growing
irritation in regard to her patient intensified by the recent interview.
“I can’t be with her the whole time.”

“I wish you could,” said Mrs. Breen, with noncommittal suggestion.

Grace could not keep herself from demanding, “Why?” as her mother
expected, though she knew why too well.

“Because she wouldn’t be in mischief then,” returned Mrs. Breen.

“She’s in mischief now!” cried the girl vehemently; “and it’s my fault!
I did it. I sent her off to sail with that ridiculous Mr. Libby!”

“Why?” asked Mrs. Breen, in her turn, with unbroken tranquillity.

“Because I am a fool, and I couldn’t help him lie out of his engagement
with her.”

“Did n’t he want to go?”

“I don’t know. Yes. They both wanted me to go with them. Simpletons!
And while she had gone up-stairs for her wraps I managed to make him
understand that I did n’t wish her to go, either; and he ran down to his
boat, and came back with a story about its going to be rough, and looked
at me perfectly delighted, as if I should be pleased. Of course, then, I
made him take her.”

“And is n’t it going to be rough?” asked Mrs. Green.

“Why, mother, the sea’s like glass.”

Mrs. Breen turned the subject. “You would have done better, Grace,
to begin as you had planned. Your going to Fall River, and beginning
practice there among those factory children, was the only thing that I
ever entirely liked in your taking up medicine. There was sense in that.
You had studied specially for it. You could have done good there.”

“Oh, yes,” sighed the girl, “I know. But what was I to do, when she came
to us, sick and poor? I couldn’t turn my back on her, especially after
always befriending her, as I used to, at school, and getting her to
depend on me.”

“I don’t see how you ever liked her,” said Mrs. Breen.

“I never did like her. I pitied her. I always thought her a poor, flimsy
little thing. But that ought n’t to make any difference, if she was in
trouble.”

“No,” Mrs. Breen conceded, and in compensation Grace admitted something
more on her side: “She’s worse than she used to be,--sillier. I don’t
suppose she has a wrong thought; but she’s as light as foam.”

“Oh, it is n’t the wicked people who, do the harm,” said Mrs. Green.

“I was sure that this air would be everything for her; and so it would,
with any ordinary case. But a child would take better care of itself. I
have to watch her every minute, like a child; and I never know what she
will do next.”

“Yes; it’s a burden,” said Mrs. Breen, with a sympathy which she had
not expressed before. “And you’re a good girl, Grace,” she added in very
unwonted recognition.

The grateful tears stole into the daughter’s eyes, but she kept a firm
face, even after they began to follow one another down her cheeks. “And
if Louise had n’t come, you know, mother, that I was anxious to have
some older person with me when I went to Fall River. I was glad to have
this respite; it gives me a chance to think. I felt a little timid about
beginning alone.”

“A man would n’t,” Mrs. Breen remarked.

“No. I am not a man. I have accepted that; with all the rest. I don’t
rebel against being a woman. If I had been a man, I should n’t have
studied medicine. You know that. I wished to be a physician because I
was a woman, and because--because--I had failed where--other women’s
hopes are.” She said it out firmly, and her mother softened to her in
proportion to the girl’s own strength. “I might have been just a nurse.
You know I should have been willing to be that, but I thought I could be
something more. But it’s no use talking.” She added, after an interval,
in which her mother rocked to and fro with a gentle motion that searched
the joints of her chair, and brought out its most plaintive squeak
in pathetic iteration, and watched Grace, as she sat looking seaward
through the open window, “I think it’s rather hard, mother, that you
should be always talking as if I wished to take my calling mannishly.
All that I intend is not to take it womanishly; but as for not being a
woman about it, or about anything, that’s simply impossible. A woman is
reminded of her insufficiency to herself every hour of the day. And it’s
always a man that comes to her help. I dropped some things out of my lap
down there, and by the time I had gathered them up I was wound round and
round with linen thread so that I could n’t move a step, and Mr. Libby
cut me loose. I could have done it myself, but it seemed right and
natural that he should do it. I dare say he plumed himself upon his
service to me,--that would be natural, too. I have things enough to keep
me meek, mother!”

She did not look round at Mrs. Breen, who said, “I think you are morbid
about it.”

“Yes. And I have the satisfaction of knowing that whatever people think
of Louise’s giddiness, I’m, a great deal more scandalous to them than
she is simply because I wish to do some good in the world, in a way that
women have n’t done it, usually.”

“Now you are morbid.”

“Oh, yes! Talk about men being obstacles! It’s other women! There isn’t
a woman in the house that would n’t sooner trust herself in the hands of
the stupidest boy that got his diploma with me than she would in mine.
Louise knows it, and she feels that she has a claim upon me in being my
patient. And I ‘ve no influence with her about her conduct because she
understands perfectly well that they all consider me much worse. She
prides herself on doing me justice. She patronizes me. She tells me that
I’m just as nice as, if I hadn’t ‘been through all that.’” Grace rose,
and a laugh, which was half a sob, broke from her.

Mrs. Breen could not feel the humor of the predicament. “She puts you in
a false position.”

“I must go and see where that poor little wretch of a child is,” said
Grace, going out of the room. She returned in an hour, and asked her
mother for the arnica. “Bella has had a bump,” she explained.

“Why, have you been all this time looking for her?

“No, I couldn’t find her, and I’ve been reading. Barlow has just brought
her in. HE could find her. She fell out of a tree, and she’s frightfully
bruised.”

She was making search on a closet shelf as she talked. When she
reappeared with the bottle in her hand, her mother asked, “Is n’t it
very hot and close?”

“Very,” said Grace.

“I should certainly think they would perish,” said Mrs. Breen, hazarding
the pronoun, with a woman’s confidence that her interlocutor would apply
it correctly.

When Grace had seen Bella properly bathed and brown-papered, and in
the way to forgetfulness of her wounds in sleep, she came down to the
piazza, and stood looking out to sea. The ladies appeared one by one
over the edge of the cliff, and came up, languidly stringing their
shawls after them, or clasping their novels to their bosoms.

“There isn’t a breath down there,” they said, one after another. The
last one added, “Barlow says it’s the hottest day he’s ever seen here.”

In a minute Barlow himself appeared at the head of the steps with the
ladies’ remaining wraps, and confirmed their report in person. “I tell
you,” he said, wiping his forehead, “it’s a ripper.”

“It must be an awful day in town,” said one of the ladies, fanning
herself with a newspaper.

“Is that to-day’s Advertiser, Mrs. Alger?” asked another.

“Oh, dear, no! yesterday’s. We sha’n’t have today’s till this afternoon.
It shows what a new arrival you are, Mrs. Scott--your asking.”

“To be sure. But it’s such a comfort being where you can see the
Advertiser the same morning. I always look at the Weather Report the
first thing. I like to know what the weather is going to be.”

“You can’t at Jocelyn’s. You can only know what it’s been.”

“Well,” Barlow interposed, jealous for Jocelyn’s, “you can most al’ays
tell by the look o’ things.”

“Yes,” said one of the ladies; “but I’d rather trust the Weather Report.
It’s wonderful how it comes true. I don’t think there ‘s anything that
you miss more in Europe than our American Weather Report.”

“I’m sure you miss the oysters,” said another.

“Yes,” the first admitted, “you do miss the oysters. It was the last of
the R months when we landed in New York; and do you know what we did the
first thing--? We drove to Fulton Market, and had one of those Fulton
Market broils! My husband said we should have had it if it had been
July. He used to dream of the American oysters when we were in Europe.
Gentlemen are so fond of them.”

Barlow, from scanning the heavens, turned round and faced the company,
which had drooped in several attitudes of exhaustion on the benching of
the piazza. “Well, I can most al’ays tell about Jocelyn’s as good as the
Weather Report. I told Mrs. Maynard here this mornin’ that the fog was
goin’ to burn off.”

“Burn off?” cried Mrs. Alger. “I should think it had!” The other ladies
laughed.

“And you’ll see,” added Barlow, “that the wind ‘ll change at noon, and
we’ll have it cooler.”

“If it’s as hot on the water as it is here,” said Mrs. Scott, “I should
think those people would get a sunstroke.”

“Well, so should I, Mrs. Scott,” cordially exclaimed a little fat
lady, as if here at last were an opinion in which all might rejoice to
sympathize.

“It’s never so hot on the water, Mrs. Merritt,” said Mrs. Alger, with
the instructiveness of an old habitude.

“Well, not at Jocelyn’s,” suggested Barlow. Mrs. Alger stopped fanning
herself with her newspaper, and looked at him. Upon her motion, the
other ladies looked at Barlow. Doubtless he felt that his social
acceptability had ceased with his immediate usefulness. But he appeared
resolved to carry it off easily. “Well,” he said, “I suppose I must go
and pick my peas.”

No one said anything to this. When the factotum had disappeared round
the corner of the house, Mrs. Alger turned her head’ aside, and glanced
downward with an air of fatigue. In this manner Barlow was dismissed
from the ladies’ minds.

“I presume,” said young Mrs. Scott, with a deferential glance at Grace,
“that the sun is good for a person with lung-difficulty.”

Grace silently refused to consider herself appealed to, and Mrs. Merritt
said, “Better than the moon, I should think.”

Some of the others tittered, but Grace looked up at Mrs. Merritt and
said, “I don’t think Mrs. Maynard’s case is so bad that she need be
afraid of either.”

“Oh, I am so glad to hear it!” replied the other. She looked round, but
was unable to form a party. By twos or threes they might have liked to
take Mrs. Maynard to pieces; but no one cares to make unkind remarks
before a whole company of people. Some of the ladies even began to say
pleasant things about Mr. Libby, as if he were Grace’s friend.

“I always like to see these fair men when they get tanned,” said Mrs.
Alger. “Their blue eyes look so very blue. And the backs of their
necks--just like my boys!”

“Do you admire such a VERY fighting-clip as Mr. Libby has on?” asked
Mrs. Scott.

“It must be nice for summer,” returned the elder lady.

“Yes, it certainly must,” admitted the younger.

“Really,” said another, “I wish I could go in the fighting-clip. One
does n’t know what to do with one’s hair at the sea-side; it’s always in
the way.”

“Your hair would be a public loss, Mrs. Frost,” said Mrs. Alger. The
others looked at her hair, as if they had seen it now for the first
time.

“Oh, I don’t think so,” said Mrs. Frost, in a sort of flattered coo.

“Oh, don’t have it cut off!” pleaded a young girl, coming up and taking
the beautiful mane, hanging loose after the bath, into her hand. Mrs.
Frost put her arm round the girl’s waist, and pulled her down against
her shoulder. Upon reflection she also kissed her.

Through a superstition, handed down from mother to daughter, that it
is uncivil and even unkind not to keep saying something, they went on
talking vapidities, where the same number of men, equally vacuous,
would have remained silent; and some of them complained that the nervous
strain of conversation took away all the good their bath had done them.
Miss Gleason, who did not bathe, was also not a talker. She kept a
bright-eyed reticence, but was apt to break out in rather enigmatical
flashes, which resolved the matter in hand into an abstraction, and left
the others with the feeling that she was a person of advanced ideas, but
that, while rejecting historical Christianity, she believed in a God of
Love. This Deity was said, upon closer analysis, to have proved to be
a God of Sentiment, and Miss Gleason was herself a hero-worshiper, or,
more strictly speaking, a heroine-worshiper. At present Dr. Breen was
her cult, and she was apt to lie in wait for her idol, to beam upon
it with her suggestive eyes, and evidently to expect it to say or do
something remarkable, but not to suffer anything like disillusion or
disappointment in any event. She would sometimes offer it suddenly a
muddled depth of sympathy in such phrases as, “Too bad!” or, “I don’t
see how you keep-up?” and darkly insinuate that she appreciated all
that Grace was doing. She seemed to rejoice in keeping herself at a
respectful distance, to which she breathlessly retired, as she did now,
after waylaying her at the top of the stairs, and confidentially darting
at her the words, “I’m so glad you don’t like scandal!”




III.

After dinner the ladies tried to get a nap, but such of them as
re-appeared on the piazza later agreed that it was perfectly useless.
They tested every corner for a breeze, but the wind had fallen dead, and
the vast sweep of sea seemed to smoulder under the sun. “This is what
Mr. Barlow calls having it cooler,” said Mrs. Alger.

“There are some clouds that look like thunderheads in the west,” said
Mrs. Frost, returning from an excursion to the part of the piazza
commanding that quarter.

“Oh, it won’t rain to-day,” Mrs. Alger decided.

“I thought there was always a breeze at Jocelyn’s,” Mrs. Scott observed,
in the critical spirit of a recent arrival.

“There always is,” the other explained, “except the first week you’re
here.”

A little breath, scarcely more than a sentiment of breeze, made itself
felt. “I do believe the wind has changed,” said Mrs. Frost. “It’s east.”
 The others owned one by one that it was so, and she enjoyed the merit
of a discoverer; but her discovery was rapidly superseded. The clouds
mounted in the west, and there came a time when the ladies disputed
whether they had heard thunder or not: a faction contended for the
bowling alley, and another faction held for a wagon passing over the
bridge just before you reached Jocelyn’s. But those who were faithful to
the theory of thunder carried the day by a sudden crash that broke over
the forest, and, dying slowly away among the low hills, left them deeply
silent.

“Some one,” said Mrs. Alger, “ought to go for those children.” On
this it appeared that there were two minds as to where the children
were,--whether on the beach or in the woods.

“Was n’t that thunder, Grace?” asked Mrs. Breen, with the accent by
which she implicated her daughter in whatever happened.

“Yes,” said Grace, from where she sat at her window, looking seaward,
and waiting tremulously for her mother’s next question.

“Where is Mrs. Maynard?”

“She is n’t back, yet.”

“Then,” said Mrs. Breen, “he really did expect rough weather.”

“He must,” returned Grace, in a guilty whisper.

“It’s a pity,” remarked her mother, “that you made them go.”

“Yes.” She rose, and, stretching herself far out of the window, searched
the inexorable expanse of sea. It had already darkened at the verge, and
the sails of some fishing-craft flecked a livid wall with their white,
but there was no small boat in sight.

“If anything happened to them,” her mother continued, “I should feel
terribly for you.”

“I should feel terribly for myself,” Grace responded, with her eyes
still seaward.

“Where do you think they went?”

“I did n’t ask,” said the girl. “I wouldn’t,” she added, in devotion to
the whole truth.

“Well, it is all of the same piece,” said Mrs. Breen. Grace did not ask
what the piece was. She remained staring at the dark wall across the
sea, and spiritually confronting her own responsibility, no atom of
which she rejected. She held herself in every way responsible,--for
doubting that poor young fellow’s word, and then for forcing that
reluctant creature to go with him, and forbidding by her fierce
insistence any attempt of his at explanation; she condemned herself
to perpetual remorse with even greater zeal than her mother would have
sentenced her, and she would not permit herself any respite when a
little sail, which she knew for theirs, blew round the point. It seemed
to fly along just on the hither side of that mural darkness, skilfully
tacking to reach the end of the-reef before the wall pushed it on the
rocks. Suddenly, the long low stretch of the reef broke into white
foam, and then passed from sight under the black wall, against which
the little sail still flickered. The girl fetched a long, silent breath.
They were inside the reef, in comparatively smooth water, and to her
ignorance they were safe. But the rain would be coming in another
moment, and Mrs. Maynard would be drenched; and Grace would be to blame
for her death. She ran to the closet, and pulled down her mother’s
India-rubber cloak and her own, and fled out-of-doors, to be ready on
the beach with the wrap, against their landing. She met the other ladies
on the stairs and in the hall, and they clamored at her; but she glided
through them like something in a dream, and then she heard a shouting in
her ear, and felt herself caught and held up against the wind.

“Where in land be you goin’, Miss Breen?”

Barlow, in a long, yellow oil-skin coat and sou’wester hat, kept pushing
her forward to the edge of the cliff, as he asked.

“I’m going down to meet them!” she screamed.

“Well, I hope you WILL meet ‘em. But I guess you better go back to the
house. Hey? WUNT? Well; come along, then, if they ain’t past doctorin’
by the time they git ashore! Pretty well wrapped up, any way!” he
roared; and she perceived that she had put on her waterproof and drawn
the hood over her head.

Those steps to the beach had made her giddy when she descended with
leisure for such dismay; but now, with the tempest flattening her
against the stair-case, and her gossamer clutching and clinging to every
surface, and again twisting itself about her limbs, she clambered down
as swiftly and recklessly as Barlow himself, and followed over the beach
beside the men who were pulling a boat down the sand at a run.

“Let me get in!” she screamed. “I wish to go with you!”

“Take hold of the girl, Barlow!” shouted one of the men. “She’s crazy.”

He tumbled himself with four others into the boat, and they all struck
out together through the froth and swirl of the waves. She tried to free
herself from Barlow, so as to fling the waterproof into the boat. “Take
this, then. She’ll be soaked through!”

Barlow broke into a grim laugh. “She won’t need it, except for a
windin’-sheet!” he roared. “Don’t you see the boat’s drivin’ right on t’
the sand? She’ll be kindlin’ wood in a minute.”

“But they’re inside the reef! They can come to anchor!” she shrieked in
reply. He answered her with a despairing grin and a shake of the head.
“They can’t. What has your boat gone out for, then?”

“To pick ‘em up out the sea. But they’ll never git ‘em alive. Look how
she slaps her boom int’ the water! Well! He DOES know how to handle a
boat!”

It was Libby at the helm, as she could dimly see, but what it was in
his management that moved Barlow’s praise she could not divine. The boat
seemed to be aimed for the shore, and to be rushing, head on, upon the
beach; her broad sail was blown straight out over her bow, and flapped
there like a banner, while the heavy boom hammered the water as she
rose and fell. A jagged line of red seamed the breast of the dark wall
behind; a rending crash came, and as if fired upon, the boat flung up
her sail, as a wild fowl flings up its wing when shot, and lay tossing
keel up, on the top of the waves. It all looked scarcely a stone’s cast
away, though it was vastly farther. A figure was seen to drag itself up
out of the sea, and fall over into the boat, hovering and pitching
in the surrounding welter, and struggling to get at two other figures
clinging to the wreck. Suddenly the men in the boat pulled away, and
Grace uttered a cry of despair and reproach: “Why, they’re leaving it,
they’re leaving it!”

“Don’t expect ‘em to tow the wreck ashore in this weather, do ye?”
 shouted Barlow. “They’ve got the folks all safe enough. I tell ye I see
‘em!” he cried, at a wild look of doubt in her eyes. “Run to the house,
there, and get everything in apple-pie order. There’s goin’ to be a
chance for some of your doctor’n’ now, if ye know how to fetch folks
to.”

It was the little house on the beach, which the children were always
prying and peering into, trying the lock, and wondering what the boat
was like, which Grace had seen launched. Now the door yielded to her,
and within she found a fire kindled in the stove, blankets laid in
order, and flasks of brandy in readiness in the cupboard. She put
the blankets to heat for instant use, and prepared for the work of
resuscitation. When she could turn from them to the door, she met there
a procession that approached with difficulty, heads down and hustled by
the furious blast through which the rain now hissed and shot. Barlow and
one of the boat’s crew were carrying Mrs. Maynard, and bringing up the
rear of the huddling oil-skins and sou’westers came Libby, soaked, and
dripping as he walked. His eyes and Grace’s encountered with a mutual
avoidance; but whatever was their sense of blame, their victim had no
reproaches to make herself. She was not in need of restoration. She was
perfectly alive, and apparently stimulated by her escape from deadly
peril to a vivid conception of the wrong that had been done her. If the
adventure had passed off prosperously, she was the sort of woman to have
owned to her friend that she ought not to have thought of going. But
the event had obliterated these scruples, and she realized herself as a
hapless creature who had been thrust on to dangers from which she would
have shrunk. “Well, Grace!” she began, with a voice and look before
which the other quailed, “I hope you are satisfied! All the time I was
clinging to that wretched boat. I was wondering how you would feel. Yes,
my last thoughts were of you. I pitied you. I did n’t see how you could
ever have peace again.”

“Hold on, Mrs. Maynard!” cried Libby. “There’s no, time for that, now.
What had best be done, Miss Green? Had n’t she better be got up to the
house?”

“Yes, by all means,” answered Grace.

“You might as well let me die here,” Mrs. Maynard protested, as Grace
wrapped the blankets round her dripping dress. “I ‘m as wet as I can be,
now.”

Libby began to laugh at these inconsequences, to which he was probably
well used. “You would n’t have time to die here. And we want to give
this hydropathic treatment a fair trial. You’ve tried the douche, and
now you’re to have the pack.” He summoned two of the boatmen, who had
been considerately dripping outside, in order to leave the interior to
the shipwrecked company, and they lifted Mrs. Maynard, finally wrapped
in, Grace’s India-rubber cloak, and looking like some sort of strange,
huge chrysalis, and carried her out into the storm and up the steps.

Grace followed last with Mr. Libby, very heavyhearted and reckless. She
had not only that sore self-accusal; but the degradation of the affair,
its grotesqueness, its spiritual squalor, its utter gracelessness, its
entire want of dignity, were bitter as death in her proud soul. It was
not in this shameful guise that she had foreseen the good she was to do.
And it had all come through her own wilfulness and self-righteousness.
The tears could mix unseen with the rain that drenched her face, but
they blinded her, and half-way up the steps she stumbled on her skirt,
and would have fallen, if the young man had not caught her. After that,
from time to time he put his arm about her, and stayed her against the
gusts.

Before they reached the top he said, “Miss Breen, I’m awfully sorry for
all this. Mrs. Maynard will be ashamed of what she said. Confound it! If
Maynard were only here!”

“Why should she be ashamed?” demanded Grace. “If she had been drowned,
I should have murdered her, and I’m responsible if anything happens to
her,--I am to blame.” She escaped from him, and ran into the house. He
slunk round the piazza to the kitchen door, under the eyes of the ladies
watching at the parlor windows.

“I wonder he let the others carry her up,” said Miss Gleason. “Of
course, he will marry her now,--when she gets her divorce.” She spoke
of Mrs. Maynard, whom her universal toleration not only included in the
mercy which the opinions of the other ladies denied her, but round
whom her romance cast a halo of pretty possibilities as innocently
sentimental as the hopes of a young girl.




IV.

The next morning Grace was sitting beside her patient, with whom she
had spent the night. It was possibly Mrs. Maynard’s spiritual toughness
which availed her, for she did not seem much the worse for her
adventure: she had a little fever, and she was slightly hoarser; but she
had died none of the deaths that she projected during the watches of the
night, and for which she had chastened the spirit of her physician
by the repeated assurance that she forgave her everything, and George
Maynard everything, and hoped that they would be good to her poor little
Bella. She had the child brought from its crib to her own bed, and
moaned over it; but with the return of day and the duties of life she
appeared to feel that she had carried her forgiveness far enough, and
was again remembering her injuries against Grace, as she lay in her
morning gown on the lounge which had been brought in for her from the
parlor.

“Yes, Grace, I shall always say if I had died and I may die yet--that I
did not wish to go out with Mr. Libby, and that I went purely to please
you. You forced me to go. I can’t understand why you did it; for I don’t
suppose you wanted to kill us, whatever you did.”

Grace could not lift her head. She bowed it over the little girl whom
she had on her knee, and who was playing with the pin at her throat,
in apparent unconsciousness of all that was said. But she had really
followed it, with glimpses of intelligence, as children do, and now at
this negative accusal she lifted her hand, and suddenly struck Grace a
stinging blow on the cheek.

Mrs. Maynard sprang from her lounge. “Why, Bella! you worthless little
wretch!” She caught her from Grace’s knee, and shook her violently.
Then, casting the culprit from her at random, she flung herself
down again in a fit of coughing, while the child fled to Grace for
consolation, and, wildly sobbing, buried her face in the lap of her
injured friend.

“I don’t know what I shall do about that child!” cried Mrs. Maynard.
“She has George Maynard’s temper right over again. I feel dreadfully,
Grace!”

“Oh, never mind it,” said Grace, fondling the child, and half addressing
it. “I suppose Bella thought I had been unkind to her mother.”

“That’s just it!” exclaimed Louise. “When you’ve been kindness itself!
Don’t I owe everything to you? I should n’t be alive at this moment if
it were not for your treatment. Oh, Grace!” She began to cough again;
the paroxysm increased in vehemence. She caught her handkerchief
from her lips; it was spotted with blood. She sprang to her feet, and
regarded it with impersonal sternness. “Now,” she said, “I am sick, and
I want a doctor!”

“A doctor,” Grace meekly echoed.

“Yes. I can’t be trifled with any longer. I want a man doctor!”

Grace had looked at the handkerchief. “Very well,” she said, with
coldness. “I shall not stand in your way of calling another physician.
But if it will console you, I can tell you that the blood on your
handkerchief means nothing worth speaking of. Whom shall I send for?”
 she asked, turning to go out of the roam. “I wish to be your friend
still, and I will do anything I can to help you.”

“Oh, Grace Breen! Is that the way you talk to me?” whimpered Mrs.
Maynard. “You know that I don’t mean to give you up. I’m not a stone;
I have some feeling. I did n’t intend to dismiss you, but I thought
perhaps you would like to have a consultation about it. I should think
it was time to have a consultation, should n’t you? Of course, I’m
not alarmed, but I know it’s getting serious, and I’m afraid that your
medicine is n’t active enough. That’s it; it’s perfectly good medicine,
but it is n’t active. They’ve all been saying that I ought to have
something active. Why not try the whiskey with the white-pine chips in
it? I’m sure it’s indicated.” In her long course of medication she had
picked up certain professional phrases, which she used with amusing
seriousness. “It would be active, at any rate.”

Grace did not reply. As she stood smoothing the head of the little girl,
who had followed her to the door, and now leaned against her, hiding
her tearful face in Grace’s dress, she said, “I don’t know of any
homoeopathic physician in this neighborhood. I don’t believe there’s one
nearer than Boston, and I should make myself ridiculous in calling one
so far for a consultation. But I’m quite willing you should call one,
and I will send for you at once.”

“And wouldn’t you consult with him, after he came?”

“Certainly not. It would be absurd.”

“I shouldn’t like to have a doctor come all the way from Boston,” mused
Mrs. Maynard, sinking on the lounge again. “There must be a doctor in
the neighborhood. It can’t be so healthy as that!”

“There’s an allopathic physician at Corbitant,” said Grace passively. “A
very good one, I believe,” she added.

“Oh, well, then!” cried Mrs. Maynard, with immense relief. “Consult with
him!”

“I’ve told you, Louise, that I would not consult with anybody. And I
certainly wouldn’t consult with a physician whose ideas and principles I
knew nothing about.”

“Why but, Grace,” Mrs. Maynard expostulated. “Is n’t that rather
prejudiced?” She began to take an impartial interest in Grace’s
position, and fell into an argumentative tone. “If two heads are
better than one,--and everybody says they are,--I don’t see how you can
consistently refuse to talk with another physician.”

“I can’t explain to you, Louise,” said Grace. “But you can call Dr.
Mulbridge, if you wish. That will be the right way for you to do, if you
have lost confidence in me.”

“I have n’t lost confidence in you, Grace. I don’t see how you can talk
so. You can give me bread pills, if you like, or air pills, and I will
take them gladly. I believe in you perfectly. But I do think that in a
matter of this kind, where my health, and perhaps my life, is
concerned, I ought to have a little say. I don’t ask you to give up your
principles, and I don’t dream of giving you up, and yet you won’t just
to please me!--exchange a few words with another doctor about my case,
merely because he’s allopathic. I should call it bigotry, and I don’t
see how you can call it anything else.” There was a sound of voices at
the door outside, and she called cheerily, “Come in, Mr. Libby,--come
in! There’s nobody but Grace here,” she added, as the young man
tentatively opened the door, and looked in. He wore an evening dress,
even to the white cravat, and he carried in his hand a crush hat:
there was something anomalous in his appearance, beyond the phenomenal
character of his costume, and he blushed consciously as he bowed to
Grace, and then at her motion shook hands with her. Mrs. Maynard did not
give herself the fatigue of rising; she stretched her hand to him from
the lounge, and he took it without the joy which he had shown when Grace
made him the same advance. “How very swell you look. Going to an evening
party this morning?” she cried; and after she had given him a second
glance of greater intensity, “Why, what in the world has come over’
you?” It was the dress which Mr. Libby wore. He was a young fellow
far too well made, and carried himself too alertly, to look as if any
clothes misfitted him; his person gave their good cut elegance, but he
had the effect of having fallen away in them. “Why, you look as if you
had been sick a month!” Mrs. Maynard interpreted.

The young man surveyed himself with a downward glance. “They’re
Johnson’s,” he explained. “He had them down for a hop at the Long Beach
House, and sent over for them. I had nothing but my camping flannels,
and they have n’t been got into shape yet, since yesterday. I wanted to
come over and see how you were.”

“Poor fellow!” exclaimed Mrs. Maynard. “I never thought of you! How in
the world did you get to your camp?”

“I walked.”

“In all that rain?”

“Well, I had been pretty well sprinkled, already. It was n’t a question
of wet and dry; it was a question of wet and wet. I was going off
bareheaded, I lost my hat in the water, you know,--but your man, here,
hailed me round the corner of the kitchen, and lent me one. I’ve been
taking up collections of clothes ever since.”

Mr. Libby spoke lightly, and with a cry of “Barlow’s hat!” Mrs. Maynard
went off in a shriek of laughter; but a deep distress kept Grace silent.
It seemed to her that she had been lacking not only in thoughtfulness,
but in common humanity, in suffering him to walk away several miles in
the rain, without making an offer to keep him and have him provided for
in the house. She remembered now her bewildered impression that he was
without a hat when he climbed the stairs and helped her to the house;
she recalled the fact that she had thrust him on to the danger he had
escaped, and her heart was melted with grief and shame. “Mr. Libby”--she
began, going up to him, and drooping before him in an attitude which
simply and frankly expressed the contrition she felt; but she could not
continue. Mrs. Maynard’s laugh broke into the usual cough, and as soon
as she could speak she seized the word.

“Well, there, now; we can leave it to Mr. Libby. It’s the principle of
the thing that I look at. And I want to see how it strikes him. I want
to know, Mr. Libby, if you were a doctor,”--he looked at Grace, and
flushed,--“and a person was very sick, and wanted you to consult with
another doctor, whether you would let the mere fact that you had n’t
been introduced have any weight with you?” The young man silently
appealed to Grace, who darkened angrily, and before he could speak Mrs.
Maynard interposed. “No, no, you sha’n’t ask her. I want your opinion.
It’s just an abstract question.” She accounted for this fib with a wink
at Grace.

“Really,” he said, “it’s rather formidable. I’ve never been a doctor of
any kind.”

“Oh, yes, we know that!” said Mrs. Maynard. “But you are now, and now
would you do it?”

“If the other fellow knew more, I would.”

“But if you thought he did n’t?”

“Then I wouldn’t. What are you trying to get at, Mrs. Maynard? I’m not
going to answer any more of your questions.”

“Yes,--one more. Don’t you think it’s a doctor’s place to get his
patient well any way he can?”

“Why, of course!”

“There, Grace! It’s just exactly the same case. And ninety-nine out of a
hundred would decide against you every time.”

Libby turned towards Grace in confusion. “Miss Breen--I did n’t
understand--I don’t presume to meddle in anything--You’re not fair, Mrs.
Maynard! I have n’t any opinion on the subject, Miss Breen; I haven’t,
indeed!”

“Oh, you can’t back out, now!” exclaimed Mrs. Maynard joyously. “You’ve
said it.”

“And you’re quite right, Mr. Libby,” said Grace haughtily. She bade him
good-morning; but he followed her from the room, and left Mrs. Maynard
to her triumph.

“Miss Breen--Do let me speak to you, please! Upon my word and honor,
I didn’t know what she was driving at; I did n’t, indeed! It’s pretty
rough on me, for I never dreamt of setting myself up as a judge of your
affairs. I know you’re right, whatever you think; and I take it all
back; it was got out of me by fraud, any way. And I beg your pardon for
not calling you Doctor--if you want me to do it. The other comes more
natural; but I wish to recognize you in the way you prefer, for I do
feel most respectul--reverent--”

He was so very earnest and so really troubled, and he stumbled about
so for the right word, and hit upon the wrong one with such unfailing
disaster, that she must have been superhuman not to laugh. Her laughing
seemed to relieve him even more than her hearty speech. “Call me how you
like, Mr. Libby. I don’t insist upon anything with you; but I believe I
prefer Miss Breen.”

“You’re very kind! Miss Breen it is, then. And you’ll, forgive my siding
against you?” he demanded radiantly.

“Don’t speak of that again, please. I’ve nothing to forgive you.”

They walked down-stairs and out on the piazza. Barlow stood before the
steps, holding by the bit a fine bay mare, who twitched her head round
a little at the sound of Libby’s voice, and gave him a look. He passed
without noticing the horse. “I’m glad to find Mrs. Maynard so well. With
that cold of hers, hanging on so long, I didn’t know but she’d be in an
awful state this morning.”

“Yes,” said Grace, “it’s a miraculous escape.”

“The fact is I sent over to New Leyden for my team yesterday. I did n’t
know how things might turn out, and you’re so far from a lemon here,
that I thought I might be useful in going errands.”
