"At whose expense?"

"O, there is a fund there for them. Some of the better-off people take
care of that."

"I should think that would be quite too simple," said Mrs. Wishart,
"and extremely liable to abuse."

"It is never abused, though. Some of the people, those poor ones, will
come as near as possible to starving before they will apply for
anything."

Mrs. Wishart remarked that Shampuashuh was altogether unlike all other
places she ever had heard of.

"Things at Shampuashuh are as they ought to be," Mr. Dillwyn said.

"Now, Mr. Dillwyn," cried Madge, "I will forgive you for taking my
queen, if you will answer a question for me. What is 'art criticism'?"

"Why, Madge, you know!" said Lois from her sofa corner.

"I do not admire ignorance so much as to pretend to it," Madge
rejoined. "What is art criticism, Mr. Dillwyn?"

"What is art?"

"That is what I do not know!" said Madge, laughing. "I understand
criticism. It is the art that bothers me. I only know that it is
something as far from nature as possible."

"O Madge, Madge!" said Lois again; and Mr. Dillwyn laughed a little.

"On the contrary, Miss Madge. Your learning must be unlearnt. Art is
really so near to nature--Check!--that it consists in giving again the
facts and effects of nature in human language."

"Human language? That is, letters and words?"

"Those are the symbols of one language."

"What other is there?"

"Music--painting--architecture---- I am afraid, Miss Madge, that is
check-mate?"

"You said you had seen and heard something, Mr. Dillwyn," Mrs. Wishart
now began. "Do tell us what. I have neither seen nor heard anything in
an age."

Mr. Dillwyn was setting the chessmen again.

"What I saw," he said, "was a silk necktie--or scarf--such as we wear.
What I heard, was the price paid for making it."

"Was there anything remarkable about the scarf?"

"Nothing whatever; except the aforesaid price."

"What was the price paid for making it?"

"Two cents."

"Who told you?"

"A friend of mine, who took me in on purpose that I might see and hear,
what I have reported."

"Two cents, did you say? But that's no price!"

"So I thought."

"How many could a woman make in a day, Madge, of those silk scarfs?"

"I don't know--I suppose, a dozen."

"A dozen, I was told, is a fair day's work," Mr. Dillwyn said. "They do
more, but it is by working on into the night."

"Good patience! Twenty-five cents for a hard day's work!" said Mrs.
Wishart. "A dollar and a half a week! Where is bread to come from, to
keep them alive to do it?"

"Better die at once, I should say," echoed Madge.

"Many a one would be glad of that alternative, I doubt not," Mr.
Dillwyn went on. "But there is perhaps an old mother to be taken care
of, or a child or two to feed and bring up."

"Don't talk about it!" said Mrs. Wishart. "It makes me feel blue."

"I must risk that. I want you to think about it. Where is help to come
from? These are the people I was thinking of, when I asked you what was
to be done with our poor."

"I don't know why you ask me. I can do nothing. It is not my
business."

"Will it do to assume that as quite certain?"

"Why yes. What can I do with a set of master tailors?"

"You can cry down the cheap shops; and say why."

"Are the dear shops any better?"

Mr. Dillwyn laughed. "Presumably! But talking--even your talking--will
not do all. I want you to think about it."

"I don't want to think about it," answered the lady. "It's beyond me.
Poverty is people's own fault. Industrious and honest people can always
get along."

"If sickness does not set in, or some father, or husband, or son does
not take to bad ways."

"How can I help all that?" asked the lady somewhat pettishly. "I never
knew you were in the benevolent and reformatory line before, Mr.
Dillwyn. What has put all this in your head?"

"Those scarfs, for one thing. Another thing was a visit I had lately
occasion to make. It was near midday. I found a room as bare as a room
could be, of all that we call comfort; in the floor a small pine table
set with three plates, bread, cold herrings, and cheese. That was the
dinner for a little boy, whom I found setting the table, and his father
and mother. The parents work in a factory hard by, from early to late;
they have had sickness in the family this autumn, and are too poor to
afford a fire to eat their dinner by, or to make it warm, so the other
child, a little girl, has been sent away for the winter. It was
frostily cold the day I was there. The boy goes to school in the
afternoon, and comes home in time to light up a fire for his father and
mother to warm themselves by at evening. And the mother has all her
housework to do after she comes home."

"That's better than the other case," said Mrs. Wishart.

"But what could be done, Mr. Dillwyn?" said Lois from her corner. "It
seems as if something was wrong. But how could it be mended?"

"I want Mrs. Wishart to consider of that."

"I can't consider it!" said the lady. "I suppose it is intended that
there should be poor people always, to give us something to do."

"Then let us do it."

"How?"

"I am not certain; but I make a suggestion. Suppose all the ladies of
this city devoted their diamonds to this purpose. Then any number of
dwelling-houses could be put up; separate, but so arranged as to be
warmed by steam from a general centre, at a merely nominal cost for
each one; well ventilated and comfortable; so putting an end to the
enormity of tenement houses. Then a commission might be established to
look after the rights of the poor; to see that they got proper wages,
were not cheated, and that all should have work who wanted it. So much
might be done."

"With no end of money."

"I proposed to take the diamonds of the city, you know."

"And why just the diamonds?" inquired Mrs. Wishart. "Why don't you
speak of some of the indulgences of the men? Take the horses--or the
wines--"

"I am speaking to a lady," said Dillwyn, smiling. "When I have a man to
apply to, I will make my application accordingly."

"Ask him for his tobacco?" said Mrs. Wishart.

"Certainly for his tobacco. There is as much money spent in this city
for tobacco as there is for bread."

Madge exclaimed in incredulous astonishment; and Lois asked if the
diamonds of the city would amount to very much.

"Yes, Miss Lois. American ladies are very fond of diamonds; and it is a
common thing for one of them to have from ten thousand to twenty
thousand or thirty thousand dollars' worth of them as part of the
adornment of her pretty person at one time."

"Twenty thousand dollars' worth of diamonds on at once!" cried Madge.
"I call that wicked!"

"Why?" asked Mr. Dillwyn, smiling.

"There's no wickedness in it," said Mrs. Wishart. "How should it be
wicked? You put on a flower; and another, who can afford it, puts on a
diamond. What's the difference?"

"My flower does not cost anybody anything," said Madge.

"What do my diamonds cost anybody?" returned Mrs. Wishart.

Madge was silent, though not because she had nothing to say; and at
this precise moment the door opened, and visitors were ushered in.



CHAPTER XLI.



CHESS.



There entered upon the scene, that is, a little lady of very gay and
airy manner; whose airiness, however, was thoroughly well bred. She was
accompanied by a tall, pleasant-looking man, of somewhat dreamy aspect;
and they were named to Lois and Madge as Mrs. and Mr. Burrage. To Mr.
Dillwyn they were not named; and the greet ing in that quarter was
familiar; the lady giving him a nod, and the gentleman an easy "Good
evening." The lady's attention came round to him again as soon as she
was seated.

"Why, Philip, I did not expect to find you. What are you doing here?"

"I was making toast a little while ago."

"I did not know that was one of your accomplishments."

"They said I did it well. I have picked up a good deal of cooking in
the course of my travels."

"In what part of the world did you learn to make toast?" asked the
lady, while a pair of lively eyes seemed to take note rapidly of all
that was in the room; rapidly but carefully, Lois thought. She was glad
she herself was hidden in the shadowy sofa corner.

"I believe that is always learned in a cold country, where people have
fire," Mr. Dillwyn answered the question.

"These people who travel all over get to be insufferable!" the little
lady went on, turning to Mrs. Wishart; "they think they know
everything; and they are not a bit wiser than the rest of us. You were
not at the De Large's luncheon,--what a pity! I know; your cold shut
you up. You must take care of that cold. Well, you lost something. This
is the seventh entertainment that has been given to that English party;
and every one of them has exceeded the others. There is nothing left
for the eighth. Nobody will dare give an eighth. One is fairly tired
with the struggle of magnificence. It's the battle of the giants over
again, with a difference."

"It is not a battle with attempt to destroy," said her husband.

"Yes, it is--to destroy competition. I have been at every one of the
seven but one--and I am absolutely tired with splendour. But there is
really nothing left for any one else to do. I don't see how one is to
go any further--without the lamp of Aladdin."

"A return to simplicity would be grateful," remarked Mrs. Wishart. "And
as new as anything else could be."

"Simplicity! O, my dear Mrs. Wishart!--don't talk of simplicity. We
don't want simplicity. We have got past that. Simplicity is the dream
of children and country folks; and it means, eating your meat with your
fingers."

"It's the sweetest way of all," said Dillwyn.

"Where did you discover that? It must have been among savages.
Children--country folks--and savages, I ought to have said."

"Orientals are not savages. On the contrary, very far exceeding in
politeness any western nation I know of."

"You would set a table, then, with napkins and fingers! Or are the
napkins not essential?"

"C'est selon," said Dillwyn. "In a strawberry bed, or under a cherry
tree, I should vote them a nuisance. At an Asiatic grandee's table you
would have them embroidered and perfumed; and one for your lap and
another for your lips."

"Evidently they are long past the stage of simplicity. Talking of
napkins we had them embroidered--and exquisitely--Japanese work; at the
De Larges'. Mine had a peacock in one corner; or I don't know if it was
a peacock; it was a gay-feathered bird--"




"A peacock has a tail," suggested Mr. Dillwyn.

"Well, I don't know whether it had a tail, but it was most exquisite;
in blue and red and gold; I never saw anything prettier. And at every
plate were such exquisite gifts! really elegant, you know. Flowers are
all very well; but when it comes to jewellery, I think it is a little
beyond good taste. Everybody can't do it, you know; and it is rather
embarrassing to nous autres."

"Simplicity has its advantages," observed Mr. Dillwyn.

"Nonsense, Philip! You are as artificial a man as any one I know."

"In what sense?" asked Mr. Dillwyn calmly. "You are bound to explain,
for the sake of my character, that I do not wear false heels to my
boots."

"Don't be ridiculous! You have no need to wear false heels. Art need
not be false, need it?"

"True art never is," said Mr. Dillwyn, amid some laughter.

"Well, artifice, then?"

"Artifice, I am afraid, is of another family, and not allied to truth."

"Well, everybody that knows you knows you are true; but they know, too,
that if ever there was a fastidious man, it is you; and a man that
wants everything at its last pitch of refinement."

"Which desirable stage I should say the luncheon you were describing
had not reached."

"You don't know. I had not told you the half. Fancy!--the ice floated
in our glasses in the form of pond lilies; as pretty as possible, with
broad leaves and buds."

"How did they get it in such shapes?" asked Madge, with her eyes a
trifle wider open than was usual with them.

"O, froze it in moulds, of course. But you might have fancied the
fairies had carved it. Then, Mrs. Wishart, there was an arrangement of
glasses over the gas burners, which produced the most silver sounds of
music you ever heard; no chime, you know, of course; but a most
peculiar, sweet, mysterious succession of musical breathings. Add to
that, by means of some invisible vaporizers, the whole air was filled
with sweetness; now it was orange flowers, and now it was roses, and
then again it would be heliotrope or violets; I never saw anything so
refined and so exquisite in my life. Waves of sweetness, rising and
falling, coming and going, and changing; it was perfect."

The little lady delivered herself of this description with much
animation, accompanying the latter part of it with a soft waving of her
hand; which altogether overcame Philip's gravity, and he burst into a
laugh, in which Mr. Burrage presently joined him; and Lois and Madge
found it impossible not to follow.

"What's the matter, Philip?" the lady asked.

"I am reminded of an old gentleman I once saw at Gratz; he was copying
the Madonna della Seggia in a mosaic made with the different-coloured
wax heads of matches."

"He must have been out of his head."

"That was the conclusion I came to."

"Pray what brought him to your remembrance just then?"

"I was thinking of the different ways people take in the search after
happiness."

"And one worth as much as another, I suppose you mean? That is a matter
of taste. Mrs. Wishart, I see your happiness is cared for, in having
such charming friends with you. O, by the way!--talking of
seeing,--have you seen Dulles & Grant's new Persian rugs and carpets?"

"I have been hardly anywhere. I wanted to take Madge to see Brett's
Collection of Paintings; but I have been unequal to any exertion."

"Well, the first time you go anywhere, go to Dulles & Grant's. Take her
to see those. Pictures are common; but these Turkish rugs and things
are not. They are the most exquisite, the most odd, the most delicious
things you ever saw. I have been wanting to ruin myself with them ever
since I saw them. It's high art, really. Those Orientals are wonderful
people! There is one rug--it is as large as this floor, nearly,--well,
it is covered with medallions in old gold, set in a wild, irregular
design of all sorts of Cashmere shawl colours--thrown about anyhow; and
yet the effect is rich beyond description; simple, too. Another,--O,
that is very rare; it is a rare Keelum carpet; let me see if I can
describe it. The ground is a full bright red. Over this run palm leaves
and little bits of ruby and maroon and gold mosaic; and between the
palm leaves come great ovals of olive mixed with black, blue, and
yellow; shading off into them. I never saw anything I wanted so much."

"What price?"

"O, they are all prices. The Keelum carpet is only fifteen hundred--but
my husband says it is too much. Then another Persian carpet has a
centre of red and white. Round this a border of palm leaves. Round
these another border of deliciously mixed up warm colours; warm and
rich. Then another border of palms; and then the rest of the carpet is
in blended shades of dark dull red and pink, with olive flowers thrown
over it. O, I can't tell you the half. You must go and see. They have
immensely wide borders, all of them; and great thick, soft piles."

"Have you been to Brett's Collection?"

"Yes."

"What is there?"

"The usual thing. O, but I haven't told you what I have come here for
to-night."

"I thought it was, to see me."

"Yes, but not for pleasure, this time," said the lively lady, laughing.
"I had business--I really do have business sometimes. I came this
evening, because I wanted to see you when I could have a chance to
explain myself. Mrs. Wishart, I want you to take my place. They have
made me first directress of the Forlorn Children's Home."

"Does the epithet apply to the place? or to the children?" Mr. Dillwyn
asked.

"Now I cannot undertake the office," Mrs. Burrage went on without
heeding him. "My hands are as full as they can hold, and my head
fuller. You must take it, Mrs. Wishart. You are just the person."

"I?" said Mrs. Wishart, with no delighted expression. "What are the
duties?"

"O, just oversight, you know; keeping things straight. Everybody needs
to be kept up to the mark. I cannot, for our Reading Club meets just at
the time when I ought to be up at the Home."

The ladies went into a closer discussion of the subject in its various
bearings; and Mr. Dillwyn and Madge returned to their chess play. Lois
lay watching and thinking. Mr. Burrage looked on at the chess-board,
and made remarks on the game languidly. By and by the talk of the two
ladies ceased, and the head of Mrs. Burrage came round, and she also
studied the chess-players. Her face was observant and critical, Lois
thought; oddly observant and thoughtful.

"Where did you get such charming friends to stay with you, Mrs.
Wishart? You are to be envied."

Mrs. Wishart explained, how Lois had been ill, and had come to get well
under her care.

"You must bring them to see me. Will you? Are they fond of music? Bring
them to my next musical evening."

And then she rose; but before taking leave she tripped across to Lois's
couch and came and stood quite close to her, looking at her for a
moment in what seemed to the girl rather an odd silence.

"You aren't equal to playing chess yet?" was her equally odd abrupt
question. Lois's smile showed some amusement.

"My brother is such an idle fellow, he has got nothing better to do
than to amuse sick people. It's charity to employ him. And when you are
able to come out, if you'll come to me, you shall hear some good music.
Good-bye!"

Her brother! thought Lois as she went off. Mr. Dillwyn, her brother!
I don't believe she likes Madge and me to know him.

Meanwhile Mr. and Mrs. Chauncey Burrage drove away in silence for a few
minutes; then the lady broke out.

"There's mischief there, Chauncey!"

"What mischief?" the gentleman asked innocently.

"Those girls."

"Very handsome girls. At least the one that was visible."

"The other's worse. I saw her. The one you saw is handsome; but the
other is peculiar. She is rare. Maybe not just so handsome, but more
refined; and peculiar. I don't know just what it is in her; but she
fascinated me. Masses of auburn hair--not just auburn--more of a golden
tint than brown--with a gold reflet, you know, that is so lovely; and
a face--"

"Well, what sort of a face?" asked Mr. Burrage, as his spouse paused.

"Something between a baby and an angel, and yet with a sort of sybil
look of wisdom. I believe she put one of Domenichino's sybils into my
head; there's that kind of complexion--"

"My dear," said the gentleman, laughing, "you could not tell what
complexion she was of. She was in a shady corner."

"I was quite near her. Now that sort of thing might just catch Philip."

"Well," said the gentleman, "you cannot help that."

"I don't know if I can or no!"

"Why should you want to help it, after all?"

"Why? I don't want Philip to make a mis-match."

"Why should it be a mis-match?"

"Philip has got too much money to marry a girl with nothing."

Mr. Burrage laughed. His wife demanded to know what he was laughing at?
and he said "the logic of her arithmetic."

"You men have no more logic in action, than we women have in
speculation. I am logical the other way."

"That is too involved for me to follow. But it occurs to me to ask, Why
should there be any match in the case here?"

"That's so like a man! Why shouldn't there? Take a man like my brother,
who don't know what to do with himself; a man whose eye and ear are
refined till he judges everything according to a standard of
beauty;--and give him a girl like that to look at! I said she reminded
me of one of Domenichino's sybils--but it isn't that. I'll tell you
what it is. She is like one of Fra Angelico's angels. Fancy Philip set
down opposite to one of Fra Angelico's angels in flesh and blood!"

"Can a man do better than marry an angel?"

"Yes! so long as he is not an angel himself, and don't live in
Paradise."

"They do not marry in Paradise," said Mr. Burrage dryly. "But why a
fellow may not get as near a paradisaical condition as he can, with the
drawback of marriage, and in this mundane sphere,--I do not see."

"Men never see anything till afterwards. I don't know anything about
this girl, Chauncey, except her face. But it is just the way with men,
to fall in love with a face. I do not know what she is, only she is
nobody; and Philip ought to marry somebody. I know where they are from.
She has no money, and she has no family; she has of course no breeding;
she has probably no education, to fit her for being his wife. Philip
ought to have the very reverse of all that. Or else he ought not to
marry at all, and let his money come to little Phil Chauncey."

"What are you going to do about it?" asked the gentleman, seeming
amused.

But Mrs. Burrage made no answer, and the rest of the drive, long as it
was, was rather stupid.



CHAPTER XLII.



RULES.



The next day Mr. Dillwyn came to take Madge to see Brett's Collection
of Paintings. Mrs. Wishart declared herself not yet up to it. Madge
came home in a great state of delight.

"It was so nice!" she explained to her sister; "just as nice as it
could be. Mr. Dillwyn was so pleasant; and told me everything and about
everything; about the pictures, and the masters; I shouldn't have known
what anything meant, but he explained it all. And it was such fun to
see the people."

"The people!" said Lois.

"Yes. There were a great many people; almost a crowd; and it did
amuse me to watch them."

"I thought you went to see the paintings."

"Well, I saw the paintings; and I heard more about them than I can ever
remember."

"What was there?"

"O, I can't tell you. Landscapes and landscapes; and then Holy
Families; and saints in misery, of one sort or another; and
battle-pieces, but those were such confusion that all I could make out
was horses on their hind-legs; and portraits. I think it is nonsense
for people to try to paint battles; they can't do it; and, besides, as
far as the fighting goes, one fight is just like another. Mr. Dillwyn
told me of a travelling showman, in Germany, who travelled about with
the panorama of a battle; and every year he gave it a new name, the
name of the last battle that was in men's mouths; and all he had to do
was to change the uniforms, he said. He had a pot of green paint for
the Prussians, and red for the English, and blue, I believe, for the
French, and so on; and it did just as well."

"What did you see that you liked best?"

"I'll tell you. It was a little picture of kittens, in and out of a
basket. Mr. Dillwyn didn't care about it; but I thought it was the
prettiest thing there. Mrs. Burrage was there."

"Was she?"

"And Mr. Dillwyn does know more than ever anybody else in the world, I
think. O, he was so nice, Lois! so nice and kind. I wouldn't have given
a pin to be there, if it hadn't been for him. He wouldn't let me get
tired; and he made everything amusing; and O, I could have sat there
till now and watched the people."

"The people! If the pictures were good, I don't see how you could have
eyes for the people."

"'The proper study of mankind is man,' my dear; and I like them alive
better than painted. It was fun to see the dresses; and then the ways.
How some people tried to be interested--"

"Like you?"

"What do you mean? I was interested; and some talked and flirted, and
some stared. I watched every new set that came in. Mr. DilIwyn says he
will come and take us to the Philarmonic, as soon as the performances
begin."

"Madge, it is better for us to go with Mrs. Wishart."

"She may go too, if she likes."

"And it is better for us not to go with Mr. DilIwyn, more than we can
help."

"I won't," said Madge. "I can't help going with him whenever he asks
me, and I am not going any other time."

"What did Mrs. Burrage say to you?"

"Hm!-- Not much. I caught her looking at me more than once. She said
she would have a musical party next week, and we must come; and she
asked if you would be well enough."

"I hope I shall not."

"That's nonsense. Mr. Dillwyn wants us to go, I know."

"That is not a reason for going."

"I think it is. He is just as good as he can be, and I like him more
than anybody else I ever saw in my life. I'd like to see the thing he'd
ask me, that I wouldn't do."

"Madge, Madge!"

"Hush, Lois; that's nonsense."

"Madge you trouble me very much."

"And that's nonsense too."

Madge was beginning to get over the first sense of novelty and
strangeness in all about her; and, as she overcame that, a feeling of
delight replaced it, and grew and grew. Madge was revelling in
enjoyment. She went out with Mrs. Wishart, for drives in the Park and
for shopping expeditions in the city, and once or twice to make visits.
She went out with Mr. Dillwyn, too, as we have seen, who took her to
drive, and conducted her to galleries of pictures and museums of
curiosities; and finally, and with Mrs. Wishart, to a Philharmonic
rehearsal. Madge came home in a great state of exultation; though Lois
was almost indignant to find that the place and the people had rivalled
the performance in producing it. Lois herself was almost well enough to
go, though delicate enough still to allow her the choice of staying at
home. She was looking like herself again; yet a little paler in colour
and more deliberate in action than her old wont; both the tokens of a
want of strength which continued to be very manifest. One day Madge
came home from going with Mrs. Wishart to Dulles & Grant's. I may
remark that the evening at Mrs. Burrage's had not yet come off, owing
to a great storm the night of the music party; but another was looming
up in the distance.

"Lois," Madge delivered herself as she was taking off her wrappings,
"it is a great thing to be rich!"

"One needs to be sick to know how true that is," responded Lois. "If
you could guess what I would have given last summer and fall for a few
crumbs of the comfort with which this house is stacked full--like hay
in a barn!"

"But I am not thinking of comfort."

"I am. How I wanted everything for the sick people at Esterbrooke.
Think of not being able to change their bed linen properly, nor
anything like properly!"

"Of course," said Madge, "poor people do not have plenty of things. But
I was not thinking of comfort, when I spoke."

"Comfort is the best thing."

"Don't you like pretty things?"

"Too well, I am afraid."

"You cannot like them too well. Pretty things were meant to be liked.
What else were they made for? And of all pretty things--O, those
carpets and rugs! Lois, I never saw or dreamed of anything so
magnificent. I should like to be rich, for once!"

"To buy a Persian carpet?"

"Yes. That and other things. Why not?"

"Madge, don't you know this was what grandmother was afraid of, when we
were learning to know Mr. Dillwyn?"

"What?" said Madge defiantly.

"That we would be bewitched--or dazzled--and lose sight of better
things; I think 'bewitched' is the word; all these beautiful things and
this luxurious comfort--it is bewitching; and so are the fine manners
and the cultivation and the delightful talk. I confess it. I feel it as
much as you do; but this is just what dear grandmother wanted to
protect us from."

"What did she want to protect us from?" repeated Madge vehemently.
"Not Persian carpets, nor luxury; we are not likely to be tempted by
either of them in Shampuashuh."

"We might here."

"Be tempted? To what? I shall hardly be likely to go and buy a
fifteen-hundred-dollar carpet. And it was cheap at that, Lois! I can
live without it, besides. I haven't got so far that I can't stand on
the floor, without any carpet at all, if I must. You needn't think it."

"I do not think it. Only, do not be tempted to fancy, darling, that
there is any way open to you to get such things; that is all."

"Any way open to me? You mean, I might marry a rich man some day?"

"You might think you might."

"Why shouldn't I?"

"Because, dear Madge, you will not be asked. I told you why. And if you
were,--Madge, you would not, you could not, marry a man that was not
a Christian? Grandmother made me promise I never would."

"She did not make me promise it. Lois, don't be ridiculous. I don't
want to marry anybody at present; but I like Persian carpets, and
nothing will make me say I don't. And I like silver and gold; and
servants, and silk dresses, and ice-cream, and pictures, and big
houses, and big mirrors, and all the rest of it."

"You can find it all in the eighteenth chapter of Revelation, in the
description of the city Babylon; which means the world."

"I thought Babylon was Rome."

"Read for yourself."

I think Madge did not read it for herself, however; and the days went
on after the accustomed fashion, till the one arrived which was fixed
for Mrs. Chauncey Burrage's second musical party. The three ladies were
all invited. Mrs. Wishart supposed they were all going; but when the
day came Lois begged off. She did not feel like going, she said; it
would be far pleasanter to her if she could stay at home quietly; it
would be better for her. Mrs. Wishart demurred; the invitation had been
very urgent; Mrs. Burrage would be disappointed; and, besides, she was
a little proud herself of her handsome young relations, and wanted the
glory of producing them together. However, Lois was earnest in her wish
to be left at home; quietly earnest, which is the more difficult to
deal with; and, knowing her passionate love for music, Mrs. Wishart
decided that it must be her lingering weakness and languor which
indisposed her for going. Lois was indeed looking well again; but both
her friends had noticed that she was not come back to her old lively
energy, whether of speaking or doing. Strength comes back so slowly,
they said, after one of those fevers. Yet Madge was not satisfied with
this reasoning, and pondered, as she and Mrs. Wishart drove away, what
else might be the cause of Lois's refusal to go with them.

Meanwhile Lois, having seen them off and heard the house door close
upon them, drew up her chair before the fire and sat down. She was in
the back drawing-room, the windows of which looked out to the river and
the opposite shore; but the shutters were closed and the curtains
drawn, and only the interior view to be had now. So, or any way, Lois
loved the place. It was large, roomy, old-fashioned, with none of the
stiffness of new things about it; elegant, with the many tokens of home
life, and of a long habit of culture and comfort. In a big chimney a
big wood fire was burning quietly; the room was softly warm; a
brilliant lamp behind Lois banished even imaginary gloom, and a faint
red shine came from the burning hickory logs. Only this last
illumination fell on Lois's face, and in it Lois's face showed grave
and troubled. She was more like a sybil at this moment, looking into
confused earthly things, than like one of Fra Angelico's angels
rejoicing in the clear light of heaven.

Lois pulled her chair nearer to the fire, and bent down, leaning
towards it; not for warmth, for she was not in the least cold; but for
company, or for counsel. Who has not taken counsel of a fire? And Lois
was in perplexity of some sort, and trying to think hard and to examine
into herself. She half wished she had gone to the party at Mrs.
Burrage's. And why had she not gone? She did not want, she did not
think it was best, to meet Mr. Dillwyn there. And why not, seeing that
she met him constantly where she was? Well, that she could not help;
this would be voluntary; put ting herself in his way, and in his
sister's way. Better not, Lois said to herself. But why, better not? It
would surely be a pleasant gathering at Mrs. Burrage's, a pleasant
party; her parties always were pleasant, Mrs. Wishart said; there would
be none but the best sort of people there, good talking and good music;
Lois would have liked it. What if Mr. Dillwyn were there too? Must she
keep out of sight of him? Why should she keep out of sight of him? Lois
put the question sharply to her conscience. And she found that the
answer, if given truly, would be that she fancied Mr. Dillwyn liked her
sister's society better than her own. But what then? The blood began to
rush over Lois's cheeks and brow and to burn in her pulses. Then, it
must be that she herself liked his society--liked him--yes, a little
too well; else what harm in his preferring Madge? O, could it be? Lois
hid her face in her hands for a while, greatly disturbed; she was very
much afraid the case was even so.

But suppose it so; still, what of it? What did it signify, whom Mr.
Dillwyn liked? to Lois he could never be anything. Only a pleasant
acquain'tance. He and she were in two different lines of life, lines
that never cross. Her promise was passed to her grandmother; she could
never marry a man who was not a Christian. Happily Mr. Dillwyn did not
want to marry her; no such question was coming up for decision. Then
what was it to her if he liked Madge? Something, because it was not
liking that would end in anything; it was impossible a man in his
position and circumstances should choose for a wife one in hers. If he
could make such a choice, it would be Madge's duty, as much as it would
be her own, to refuse him. Would Madge refuse? Lois believed not.
Indeed, she thought no one could refuse him, that had not unconquerable
reasons of conscience; and Madge, she knew, did not share those which
were so strong in her own mind. Ought Madge to share them? Was it
indeed an absolute command that justified and necessitated the promise
made to her grandmother? or was it a less stringent thing, that might
possibly be passed over by one not so bound? Lois's mind was in a
turmoil of thoughts most unusual, and most foreign to her nature and
habit; thoughts seemed to go round in a whirl. And in the midst of the
whirl there would come before her mind's eye, not now Tom Caruthers'
face, but the vision of a pair of pleasant grey eyes at once keen and
gentle; or of a close head of hair with a white hand roving amid the
thick locks of it; or the outlines of a figure manly and lithe; or some
little thing done with that ease of manner which was so winning.
Sometimes she saw them as in Mrs. Wishart's drawing-room, and sometimes
at the table in the dear old house in Shampuashuh, and sometimes under
the drip of an umbrella in a pouring rain, and sometimes in the old
schoolhouse. Manly and kind, and full of intelligence, filled with
knowledge, well-bred, and noble; so Lois thought of him. Yet he was not
a Christian, therefore no fit partner for Madge or for any one else who
was a Christian. Could that be the absolute fact? Must it be? Was such
the inevitable and universal conclusion? On what did the logic of it
rest? Some words in the Bible bore the brunt of it, she knew; Lois had
read them and talked them over with her grandmother; and now an
irresistible desire took possession of her to read them again, and more
critically. She jumped up and ran up-stairs for her Bible.

The fire was down in her own room; the gas was not lit; so she went
back to the bright drawing-room, which to-night she had all to herself.
She laid her book on the table and opened it, and then was suddenly
checked by the question--what did all this matter to her, that she
should be so fiercely eager about it? Dismay struck her anew. What was
any un-Christian man to her, that her heart should beat so at
considering possible relations between them? No such relations were
desired by any such person; what ailed Lois even to take up the
subject? If Mr. Dillwyn liked either of the sisters particularly, it
was Madge. Probably his liking, if it existed, was no more than Tom
Caruthers', of which Lois thought with great scorn. Still, she argued,
did it not concern her to know with certain'ty what Madge ought to do,
in the event of Mr. Dillwyn being not precisely like Tom Caruthers?



CHAPTER XLIII.



ABOUT WORK.



The sound of the opening door made her start up. She would not have
even a servant surprise her so; kneeling on the floor with her face
buried in her hands on the table. She started up hurriedly; and then
was confounded to see entering--Mr. Dillwyn himself. She had heard no
ring of the door-bell; that must have been when she was up-stairs
getting her Bible. Lois found her feet, in the midst of a terrible
confusion of thoughts; but the very inward confusion admonished her to
be outwardly calm. She was not a woman of the world, and she had not
had very much experience in the difficult art of hiding her feelings,
or acting in any way; nevertheless she was a true woman, and woman's
blessed--or cursed?--instinct of self-command came to her aid. She met
Mr. Dillwyn with a face and manner perfectly composed; she knew she
did; and cried to herself privately some thing very like a sea
captain's order to his helmsman--"Steady! keep her so." Mr. Dillwyn saw
that her face was flushed; but he saw, too, that he had disturbed her
and startled her; that must be the reason. She looked so far from being
delighted, that he could draw no other conclusion. So they shook hands.
She thought he did not look delighted either. Of course, she thought,
Madge was not there. And Mr. Dillwyn, whatever his mood when he came,
recognized immediately the decided reserve and coolness of Lois's
manner, and, to use another nautical phrase, laid his course
accordingly.

"How do you do, this evening?"

"I think, quite well. There is nobody at home but me, Mr. Dillwyn."

"So I have been told. But it is a great deal pleasanter here, even with
only one-third of the family, than it is in my solitary rooms at the
hotel."

At that Lois sat down, and so did he. She could not seem to bid him go
away. However, she said--

"Mrs. Wishart has taken Madge to your sister's. It is the night of her
music party."
