breakwater, he rang to stop her. The second officer, prompted by the
captain, had the anchor all ready to let go. The pilot gave the order
when he was ready.

“Let go the anchor!” shouted Will Orwell.

Splash it went into the water: the Sylph swung around, and all hands
were called. Captain Gildrock made a little speech to the boys,
praised them for what they had done during the forenoon, and then gave
them two hours’ liberty to go on shore. He expected them to behave
like gentlemen, and not disgrace the uniform they wore. They were to
be on the wharf at three o’clock, in readiness to return to the
steamer.

The dummy exercise of lowering the boats was made real; and, with the
exception of Jepson and Bates, all hands went on shore. No restraint
was put upon them as to where they should go. Dory thought he would
call upon some of his old friends in the place; and he started for the
town, which is about three-quarters of a mile from the lake-shore.
After he had passed the railroad-station, Oscar Chester suddenly
presented himself before him. He had evidently been lying in wait for
him.

“Dory Dornwood, we meet now on an equal footing; and I think I can
keep my feet on the solid land as well as you can,” said the second
pilot savagely. “I promised to get even with you, and my time has
come.”

“If your time has come, Oscar Chester, my time has not gone,” replied
Dory calmly; and therein he had the advantage of the rebel. “I don’t
want to quarrel with you, and I won’t if I can help it. I should like
to talk the matter over with you, for I think you will be fair when
you look on both sides of the question.”

“I don’t want to talk it over. You insulted me last night, and then
you caused me to be tumbled into the lake. I am going to have
satisfaction; for I never forgive an insult,” added Oscar, waxing
fierce as his anger boiled within him.

“I did not intend to insult you; and I only did what any skipper would
have done under the same circumstances,” continued Dory.

“No more talk. I intend to thrash you here and now, till you say you
have had enough of it, and are willing to beg my pardon,” stormed
Oscar, as he threw off his uniform sack, and tossed his badged cap
upon the grass at the side of the road.

By this time a party of the ship’s company came up. The second officer
was in it; and, as soon as he understood what was going on, he
hastened to the scene. He spoke to Oscar, and tried to induce him not
to meddle with Dory. The others were not disposed to interfere with
such a fellow as the second pilot. Will Orwell was his crony; and he
persisted, taking his friend by the arm, and trying to lead him away.

“Don’t talk to me, Will Orwell! You are half a traitor to me,” said
Oscar, shaking off his crony.

Without waiting for another word, the rebel leaped upon Dory. An
instant later Oscar went over backwards, with the blood spurting from
his nose. He sprang to his feet, and renewed the attack. In two
minutes more he lay upon the ground, unable to rise.




CHAPTER XIX.

SOMETHING THAT HAPPENED ON SHORE.


Oscar Chester was not killed, or even very seriously injured. The last
blow of Dory had been planted in a sensitive place, and he had been
stunned by it. His companions gathered around him, lifted him up, and
procured some water from the Fouquet Hotel, with which they washed his
head. In a few minutes his senses came back to him, and he was able to
comprehend the situation.

Dory had been hit several times; but he was a tough youngster, and
seemed to be none the worse for the battle. As he viewed the matter,
he had simply defended himself, according to the first law of nature.
He had done his best beforehand to avoid the fight, and had proposed
to talk the matter over in order to ascertain who was to blame.

“That was an awful crack you gave him at the end,” said Fireman
Bolingbroke Millweed, joining Dory, who stood alone on the grass. “I
didn’t know that you were such a hard hitter.”

“I did not know it myself,” replied Dory, wiping the perspiration from
his brow. “I am not a fighting character, and I never struck a blow in
my life except in self-defence.”

“I think Chester has got enough of it,” added the fireman.

“I don’t know about that. He acts to me as though he was crazy. It
would be just like him to pitch into me again as soon as he feels able
to do so. I am sure I don’t want to quarrel with him, especially as he
is to be in the pilot-house with me. If I have done any thing out of
the way, I am willing to beg his pardon; but he wouldn’t even talk
with me about his grudge against me.”

“I saw the whole of it, and heard all that was said. I am sure you are
not to blame,” added Bolingbroke. “But I was glad to see you knock him
out after he was so unreasonable.”

“You were in the boat last night when the trouble began, and I hope
you will be able to remember what passed between Oscar and me; for,
after this, my uncle will be very likely to investigate the case.”

“I remember all about it. Oscar wanted to steer the boat, and you
objected. When he got up from his seat,--to take the helm, I
suppose,--you told him to sit down; and you spoke rather sharply. Then
the boat gave a lurch, and he went overboard. If it hadn’t been for
you, Dory, he would have been drowned as sure as fate,” replied
Bolingbroke, rehearsing the facts precisely as they were.

“I am ready to face the music, and if I have done any thing wrong I
shall be glad to apologize for it. In this fight, I only defended
myself, as I think every fellow ought to do.”

“How are you, Dory?”

The pilot looked around, and saw Mr. Peppers, a constable of
Plattsburgh, who sometimes did detective work. He had sailed down the
lake with Dory in the Goldwing a few weeks before, and Peppers had a
strong regard for the skipper.

“I am glad to see you, Mr. Peppers,” replied Dory, shaking hands with
the detective.

“You have settled that fellow so that he won’t want any more of your
love-pats,” replied Peppers, laughing. “I saw the whole of it, and it
was handsomely done.”

“I merely defended myself. He pitched into me, and I could not help
myself,” answered the pilot in the language and tone of apology; for
he did not want any one to think that he ever engaged in a voluntary
fight.

“I know it: I saw the whole of it. You were trying to talk with him
when he rushed upon you,” added Peppers.

By this time Oscar Chester appeared to have recovered from the heavy
blows of his brother pilot. He and Will Orwell walked up the street
towards the town. The excitement was all over, and the other pupils
scattered. Peppers followed Chester. Dory was doubtful what to do. At
first he thought of going on board of the Sylph, and reporting the
battle to his uncle.

After a little consideration, and some talk with Bolingbroke about it,
he decided not to do so. He was ready to answer to any charge that
might be brought against him, and it would be time enough to defend
himself when he was accused. He called at the Witherill House, had a
chat with the landlord and the clerk, and then returned to the wharf.
By this time most of the boys had seen all they wanted to of the town,
and were ready to go on board. Captain Gildrock had come on shore, and
had just gone on board with the two Plattsburgh boys who were to join
the school.

Bates was in charge of the boats; and, as soon as the crew of one of
them appeared, he sent one load on board. The principal was
instructing the two new hands, who had already put on the uniform. One
was a steward, and the other belonged to the port watch.

At a little after three o’clock the other boat came off, and the
students rushed up the accommodation steps as though they enjoyed the
steamer and the lake more than the town. George Duane, the new
steward, was handed over to Bob Swanton, after a proper introduction;
and they retired to the forward cabin.

“Have all hands come on board?” asked Captain Gildrock.

The boys looked about them, as though they were unable to answer the
question.

“You don’t know: well, we can soon ascertain by calling the roll,”
added the principal, as he took the list of students from his pocket.
“Mr. Glovering.”

“Here sir,” replied the first officer in the midst of the laughter of
the boys when they heard the handle applied to his name.

“Mr. Orwell.”

“Here, sir.”

“Mr. Dornwood.”

“Here, sir.”

“Mr. Chester.”

There was no response to this name, and it was repeated. There was no
answer.

“Is the second pilot on board?” asked Captain Gildrock; and Dory
wondered if he knew any thing about the second battle of Plattsburgh.

The first and second officers looked about the deck and into the
cabins for the missing pilot, but he could not be found. A more
thorough search was made by all hands, and it was soon evident that
“Mr. Chester” was not on board. The captain finished the call of the
roll, and made no remark in regard to the disappearance of the second
pilot. He directed the first officer to get up the anchor.

It looked as though Oscar Chester had absconded, notwithstanding his
good conduct during the forenoon. Possibly some of the boys,
especially Will Orwell, knew something about the matter; but they did
not volunteer to give any information, and the principal did not ask
for any. He said nothing at all, in fact, about the missing student.
The captain did not appear to be in the least degree disturbed by the
absence of the refractory pupil.

Captain Gildrock looked on while the crew walked around the capstan.
The officers had learned their lesson well; and, for a first trial,
the operation of getting up the anchor was handsomely done.

The first pilot was at his post; and, as soon as “anchor aweigh” was
reported to him, he rang the gong. Mr. Jepson stood on deck, near the
door of the engine-room, having stationed his first assistant at the
machine. He opened the valve slowly, and the thumping of the screw was
immediately heard.

Captain Gildrock had gone to the hurricane deck, where he could see
all that was done in the pilot-house and on the forecastle. He cast
occasional glances at the wharf, and he directed Dory to run in that
direction. Then he called the first officer, and told him to get ready
to make a landing.

Dory ran the Sylph up to the wharf, where she was secured by the
enthusiastic crew. The portion of the bulwark at the starboard gangway
was removed, and the plank run out. While Mr. Glovering was wondering
who was going on shore, Oscar Chester stepped out of the building on
the wharf, and walked on board as coolly as though nothing had
happened to disturb his equanimity.

“Haul in the plank!” called the captain. “Cast off, Dory.”

The pilot on duty blew a sharp whistle, which was the signal to cast
off the fasts; and the officers below attended to this duty. The Sylph
backed out from the wharf, and then went ahead, the engine being
wholly managed by Corny Minkfield. Oscar Chester went directly to the
hurricane deck, and was about to enter the pilot-house, when he was
confronted by Captain Gildrock.

“You are late, Mr. Chester,” said the principal.

“I came on board against my will, sir. In fact, I was brought down to
the wharf,” replied Oscar.

“Indeed? Who brought you to the wharf?” asked the captain with a
half-suppressed chuckle.

“I wasn’t introduced to him, but he said he was a constable.”

“You ought to have been introduced to him,” laughed the captain. “I
can’t go through the ceremony now, because the constable is not here;
but his name is Peppers. Dory knows him, and he will introduce you if
I don’t happen to be present when you meet again. Am I to understand
from what you say that you did not intend to return to the steamer?”

“I did not intend to return: on the contrary, I meant to run away; for
I suppose that is what you would call it,” replied Oscar.

“If I remember rightly, you promised this morning to behave as well as
you knew how, if I released you from the brig,” added the captain.

“I meant what I said at the time, and intended to keep my promise; but
something happened on shore that prevented me from doing so,” replied
Oscar rather sheepishly for him.

“What is the matter with your face, Mr. Chester? Your nose is swelled,
and you have a mouse under each eye. I should say that both of your
eyes would be in mourning for the next week,” added Captain Gildrock.

“The black eyes are in consequence of something that happened on shore,”
answered the second pilot.

“What was that?”

“Excuse me, sir: if you will ask Dory, he can tell the story better
than I can,” replied Oscar, glancing at the pilot at the wheel.

This conversation took place at the door of the pilot-house, and Dory
could not help hearing all that was said; and if he looked behind him
he could see the parties.

“I prefer that you should tell your own story,” added the principal
rather sternly. “My business just now is with you and not with Dory.”

“To make a short story of it, sir, I attempted to thrash Dory, and I
got thrashed myself,” answered the culprit.

“Served you right!” exclaimed the captain. “Have you settled the
matter finally?”

“It seems to have settled itself, sir. I had no doubt I could whip
Dory as easily as I could turn my hand. I never met one of these
proper fellows before that I could not whip, and without the least
difficulty. I am satisfied now that he can whip me every time, and
that settles the matter.”

“I should say that you judge yourself and Dory by a very mean and
cowardly standard. But if you are satisfied, nobody else need complain
this time. Return to your duty, Mr. Chester.”

Oscar went to the wheel, and did not seem to have any delicacy about
meeting Dory.




CHAPTER XX.

THE NEW HEAD OF THE MILLWEED FAMILY.


Captain Gildrock judged, from the appearance of Oscar Chester’s face,
that he had been severely punished for his assault upon his superior
officer. He had not heard a word about the second battle at
Plattsburg. Though Bates knew all about it, he never meddled with what
did not concern him.

He walked away from the pilot-house, satisfied that Dory could take
care of himself if the second pilot wanted any thing more of him. Mr.
Jepson had divided the firemen into watches, and two of them were now
off duty. The principal saw Bolingbroke walking the hurricane deck,
and called him. In answer to his question, Bolingbroke told him all
the particulars of the fight on shore. Of course the statement was
highly favorable to Dory.

If no one else knew it, the principal did, that Will Orwell was a
crony of the second pilot. From him he could get the other side of the
story, if there was any other side to it; and he called the second
officer. Orwell’s story did not differ materially from that of the
fireman, and the captain was satisfied that the assault upon his
nephew had been entirely unprovoked. He knew all about the difficulty
in the boat, and on board of the steamer the night before.

The captain was satisfied that Chester had been sufficiently punished,
especially when he considered what a shock the pride of the wilful boy
had received in his failure to thrash Dory. Doubtless his attempt to
run away had been caused by his defeat. He was humiliated and
mortified at the result.

Of course Peppers did not act without instructions. The principal
expected a demonstration on the part of the rebel. He had written to
the officer the day before, requesting him to be on the wharf when the
Sylph arrived, and instructing him to watch Oscar all the time the
latter was on shore. He was to bring him off if he attempted to run
away.

Peppers soon ascertained which of the boys he was to “shadow,” and
followed him wherever he went. Orwell remained in his company till it
was time to return to the wharf. Oscar declared that he would not go
on board again, and tried to induce his crony to join him in his
flight into the country.

Orwell was second officer, and was delighted with his experience in
the Beech-Hill Industrial School so far. It was better than a play to
him, and nothing could have induced him to run away from the agreeable
life which had just opened upon him. He had reasoned with his friend
very earnestly, and even had the pluck to tell him flatly that Dory
was altogether in the right, and he was altogether in the wrong.

Oscar admitted that he was pleased with the school, but he could not
endure the humiliation of playing “second fiddle” to Dory after what
had happened. They parted, and Orwell went on board with the other
pupils; and he was utterly astonished when he saw his crony come on
board at the wharf.

“If you wish to steer, I will give you the wheel, Oscar Chester,” said
Dory, when the second pilot had been in the room a few minutes. “It is
not a new thing to me; and I am not anxious to steer, though I like to
do it well enough.”

“Thank you, Dory Dornwood: you are very kind. You can whip me every
time; and, of course, you can bully me if you have a mind to do so,”
replied Oscar, beginning very stiffly.

“I have no wish to bully you or any other fellow. I don’t want to
quarrel with any person; and, as we are to be in the pilot-house
together, I hope we shall be able to agree,” added Dory in the most
conciliatory tones.

“We shall agree after this,” said Oscar, letting himself down a few
pegs. “You can whip me, and that is enough. I can’t quarrel with you
without getting the worst of it. I must submit, and I may as well make
the best of it.”

“I don’t believe in fighting, and I don’t care a straw who is the best
man. I don’t mean to bully even the weakest fellow in the school. I
know I speak quick sometimes, but I don’t mean any thing by it. I am
told that I spoke rather sharply to you in the boat last night. I am
sorry for it, and I beg your pardon,” said Dory.

“You don’t owe me any apology after you have whipped me; and you are
generous to let me down as easily as you can,” added Oscar.

“It was since we came on board, after the affair, that I was told I
spoke sharply to you. If you had told me so before hitting me, I
should have begged your pardon. I mean to do the right thing.”

“Your hand, Dory!” exclaimed Oscar, extending his own. “You are a good
fellow, even if you are so frightfully proper.”

Dory gave the rebel his right hand, and his companion shook it
heartily. There was some good left in Oscar Chester.

“I always thrashed every fellow in the school that didn’t fag to me,
and I suppose I have been spoiled. But I will try to do better. If I
don’t do well, you must thrash me again, Dory,” added the second
pilot, smiling blandly. “I hope we shall be friends; and I will take
the wheel now, if you will show me how to handle it.”

“You handle it very well already, though there are a great many things
you will have to learn, as every wheelman must,” replied Dory
cordially, and without putting on any airs.

There was peace in the pilot-house now, as there was in every part of
the steamer. Captain Gildrock looked into the room after a while, and
found that the two pilots were apparently excellent friends. He did
not say any thing, or even enter the apartment; for he thought the
boys would get along better without any help.

The Sylph went up the lake as far as Ticonderoga. The instruction was
continued in all the departments; and as the students were required to
do the work themselves, as well as listen to the theory, they made
rapid progress, and enjoyed themselves to the end of the trip. They
were sorry when it was finished.

The steamer was secured at the temporary wharf in Beech Lake. Supper
had been served on board as arranged in the morning; and the cooks and
stewards had to put things in order before they went on shore. The
engineers and firemen were taught in what shape to leave the engine
and boilers. The first and second officers put the decks in order. But
the pilots had nothing to do when the boat touched the wharf.

“Is Captain Gildrock on board?” asked Mr. Millweed, who was on the
wharf when Dory landed.

“He is in the after cabin,” replied the first pilot; and he would have
been very glad to hear what passed between the principal and the
farmer.

But he had been taught to mind his own business; and he walked up to
the dormitory with Oscar, who had not yet visited the room
appropriated to his use. Mr. Millweed went on board of the Sylph, and
found the captain at the desk in his room.

“I will wait till you are ready to see me, Captain Gildrock,” said he.

“I am ready to see you now, and anxious to hear what you have to say,”
replied the principal, as he led the way out of the state-room into
the main cabin. “Both of the boys came on board before nine, and have
done well. Pemberton is first cook, and Bolingbroke is third fireman.”

“I suppose they don’t like these places,” added Farmer Millweed.

“Both of them seem to be very well satisfied. Pemberton is an
excellent cook,” answered the captain. “He thinks his position is not
particularly genteel, but he will get over that in a short time. Did
Mrs. Millweed consent to their joining the school?”

“She did not: she objected with all her might. But I saw that the boys
were inclined to go to the school. We had a regular row, but I stuck to
my text; and finally I told the boys I could not support them another
day in idleness.

“My wife cried; but I told her it was no use, for we should all be
turned out of the house, and all that I had would be sold to pay my
debts. I told the boys to hurry down here before the boat started; and
they minded me, in spite of the screams of my wife. It made me feel
bad, but I couldn’t help it.”

“I am sorry you had any trouble, but I think you have done right,”
added Captain Gildrock.

“When the boys had gone, I had a talk with the girls. I told them the
plain truth, and insisted that they should go to work. Both of them
said they were willing; but their mother declared they should not go
into a store or factory, or any thing of that sort, to work. They had
been finely educated, and were fit to adorn the drawing-room of a rich
man.”

“Very likely they are; but the next thing is to find the
drawing-room,” suggested the captain.

“That is the very thing I said to Matilda--that’s my wife. I told the
girls I would try to find places, and they both said they would take
any places I could get for them. Matilda said they should not. I told
them I had not money enough to buy a meal of victuals, and the
storekeepers and the butchers won’t trust me. I found a place in a
store for Elinora myself; and she went to it, after dinner, to-day.”

“Excellent! You are doing bravely!” exclaimed the captain. “I will see
what can be done for the other girl as soon as I go ashore. By the
way, I was thinking of getting a young man to keep the records of the
school, and do some of my writing for me. A woman will do just as
well. I will give your other daughter five dollars a week, and raise
her wages as fast as she learns to do the work.”

“God bless you, Captain Gildrock!” ejaculated the discouraged father.
“If the children can support themselves, I can take care of my wife
after we have lost the farm and every thing else. I can get work at
day wages.”

“I hope you won’t lose your farm,” added the captain.

“There is no help for it. The mortgage note will be due in a short
time; and I can’t pay the interest, let alone any part of the
principal.”

Farmer Millweed groaned in spirit, when he thought of the final blow
that was about to fall upon him. He had been an honest, temperate,
hard-working man all his life, though he was a person of but little
force of character. His wife’s aspirations after gentility had
actually ruined him. As things were going on the day before, the
family were only a few steps from the poorhouse.

“I think you are an honest man, and I am very sorry to see you brought
to the verge of ruin in this way,” said Captain Gildrock after a few
minutes’ reflection. “I will let you have the money to pay your
interest when it is due, and I will take the mortgage on your place
myself.”

“I did not expect any thing of this sort from you, captain; and I am
sure”--

“Never mind that, Mr. Millweed. If any of your creditors trouble you,
come to me. You have got rid of the principal trouble; and there is no
reason why you should not do well,--pay all your debts, and clear off
the mortgage on your farm.”

The farmer was profuse in his expressions of gratitude; but the
captain cut them short by inquiring still further into his affairs,
and giving him much good advice. Mr. Millweed went home with hope in
his soul. There was a new head to the Millweed family.




CHAPTER XXI.

CAPTAIN GILDROCK ARGUES AGAINST HIGH-SCHOOLS.


The next day was Sunday; and Captain Gildrock insisted that all the
students should attend church, and refrain from all work and play.
Those who lived in Genverres were allowed to spend the day at home. No
excursions on the river or the lake were permitted, and no scholar was
allowed even to get into any of the boats.

On Monday morning the actual work of the school was begun. The
study-hours were from nine till twelve in the forenoon. The two
gentlemen who were to teach in the scholastic department had arrived,
and promptly at the hour the school was called to order.

“Now, my lads, we are ready for work,” said the captain on the
platform. “I am told that you can all read, write, and cipher. You
have some knowledge of geography and history. I dare say, some of you
have studied Greek, Latin, French, and German, which are all very well
in their place; but we shall have nothing to do with them here. We are
to make good mechanics of you, and not good scholars.”

“Can’t good scholars be good mechanics?” asked Bolingbroke Millweed.

“Certainly they can: I don’t object to any amount of scholarship,”
replied Captain Gildrock rather warmly. “You have been to the
high-school, Bolingbroke; but all that you have learned will not
prevent you from becoming a first-class mechanic. On the contrary,
your education will be a great help to you.”

“That is just what I thought,” added the graduate of the high-school.

“For two or three years an exciting question has been under discussion
here in Genverres,” continued the principal, turning to the two
instructors. “I have taken the practical side of the subject, and I
don’t believe in sending all the boys and girls to the high-school.
When our fathers here in New England planted the schoolhouse by the
side of the church, I don’t believe they meant a high-school.”

“Of course not: such an institution was unknown in their day,--at
least, as we understand it,” replied Mr. Bentnick. “They simply meant
an ordinary common-school education, as we call it now.”

“That must be all they meant; but there has been progress in
education, as in every thing else, since their time,” added Mr.
Darlingby.

“I rejoice in the progress as much as any one can,” retorted the
captain vigorously. “But I believe there is intemperance in the matter
of education as well as in eating and drinking. The first business of
life, in an enlightened or a savage state, is bread and butter. In
other words, a man must get his living before he does any thing beyond
that; and the greater part of our population can do nothing more than
get a living. Do you believe that, boys?”

The boys did believe it, though none of them had ever given much
attention to social and political economy. It was plain enough that
the first duty of existence for every person was to support himself.

“But some are born rich,” suggested Corny Minkfield.

“Then their means of support are provided, but this is not the case
with one in a hundred. The great body of our people have to earn their
own living. The only real objections I have to the high-school are,
first, that it unfits boys and girls for the humble labors of life;
and, second, that it uses up so many of the years of the young in
learning what does not directly help them in earning their own
livelihood,” continued the captain.

“But what they learn in the high-school is a direct help to them in
all the business of life,” suggested Mr. Darlingby.

“Boys and girls spend their time from fourteen or sixteen years of
age, till they are eighteen or twenty, in learning Latin, French,
German, literature, the higher mathematics, and such branches, when
they might learn a trade, or obtain a knowledge of business. When they
graduate, they don’t want to learn a trade, work on a farm, or do
manual labor of any kind. They look down upon such occupations. They
want to be clerks, if they are boys, or marry wealthy men, if they are
girls. They must do something, if any thing at all, that is genteel.”

“There is a great deal of truth in that statement,” added Mr.
Bentnick. “Boys don’t stay in the country, and work on the farm, now
as they did fifty years ago.”

“I had a curiosity, when I was in New York last spring, to inquire
into the salaries paid to clerks and salesmen in dry-goods stores,”
continued the captain. “So far as I could obtain the information, the
average was not above ten dollars a week. Of course, some got two or
three thousand dollars a year, or even double these sums; but I found
that a great many young men worked for five or six dollars a week, and
some for even less. Good mechanics earned from ten to thirty dollars a
week.

“Why, a common laborer got from six to twelve dollars a week. While
mechanics and laborers were in demand, there were multitudes of
counter-jumpers, and other persons who wanted what they called genteel
occupations, who could get nothing to do. In a word, our institutions
of learning have fitted too many for the so-called higher grades of
employment.”

“But sometimes the mechanics and laborers are out of work?” said
Bolingbroke.

“They are, for it sometimes happens that overproduction shuts up the
shops and manufactories. But these men have been taught to work with
their hands, and their bodies have been fitted for such service. When
they can’t get work at their trades, they do something else. Thousands
upon thousands of them go to the great West, and become farmers. They
can always get a living out of the earth, if they can’t any other way.
But I did not intend to argue this question; though I desire every
young man to think for himself, and form his own opinions. You can
think as you please; and if you believe that high-schools, as managed
at the present time, promote the best interests of the whole people,
you are entirely welcome to your opinion.”

“My father don’t believe in high-schools, and would not send me to
one,” said Phil Gawner.

“Never mind what your father believes: make up your mind yourself, and
have your own opinions, my lad. Now, boys, the studies you are to
pursue here are those which will fit you to become good mechanics. But
I hope you will read and study as long as you live. What I intend to
do is to fit you out with a business that will enable you to earn your
own living.”

Miss Fatima Millweed was present with the record-books with which she
had been provided; and the name, age, and residence of each pupil were
taken. The average age of the scholars was found to be fourteen and a
half. A few were only twelve, but several were eighteen and nineteen.
All of them were graduates of grammar-schools, and some had attended
high-schools and academies. Of course, the schools they had attended
did not fairly gauge their attainments; for some of the oldest, who
had been to the higher schools of learning, were weak in knowledge and
mental power when compared with the ones who had only been to the
lower grades of schools.

“Now, my lads, a few words more, and I shall leave you to your
instructors. The studies you will pursue are all practical ones,” said
the captain, taking the platform again. “The principal branches will
be drawing, natural philosophy, chemistry, geometry, and book-keeping.
Geography, history, arithmetic, and grammar will be taught
incidentally. Before you graduate, there will be a course in botany,
geology, and zoölogy. At one o’clock you will all assemble in the
shop, and make a beginning in the mechanical part of your education.”

The captain left the platform, and left the schoolroom. Mr. Bentnick
was the chief instructor, Mr. Darlingby being his assistant. He
proceeded to organize the classes in the studies the principal had
mentioned. He made such rules as he considered necessary, but they
were not very stringent.

The boys were divided into two classes, according to their
attainments. Ten were found who had made considerable progress in the
four principal studies, and these were the first class. Mr. Bentnick
proceeded to give them a lecture in chemistry. It was conversational,
and the instructor soon found where to make a beginning in the
science.

At the same time Mr. Darlingby began with the rudiments in the second
class. The pupils were provided with text-books, and lessons assigned
for the next day. A start was made in geometry in the same manner, and
by that time it was noon. At quarter past twelve the dinner-bell rang;
and all hands, including the family, the instructors, the pupils, and
Miss Millweed, seated themselves at the long table. It was a sociable
meal; and no one seemed to be under any restraint, though the boys
behaved very well.

Mr. Darlingby had something more to say in favor of high-schools, in
which he had been a teacher for several years. He wanted to know if
Captain Gildrock believed that the higher branches should be taught at
the public expense.

“I think the expense is the least important part of the subject,”
replied the principal; “but I will answer the question. I do not
believe that high-schools should be supported, as a rule, out of the
public taxes.”

“You are very radical in your opinions, Captain Gildrock,” added the
instructor.

“Let us look at it a moment. There are two thousand scholars of all
ages in the public schools of Genverres. Not more than one in five of
them will ever reach the highest class in the grammar-school. The
other four will leave school, and go to work: their parents need them,
or what they can earn. But the parents of all those who fall out of
the schools by the way are tax-payers. Some are only poll-taxes, but a
few of them pay on their little lots of land and houses. It costs
about five times as much to educate a pupil in the high-school as in
the elementary schools. The parents of four-fifths of the scholars
can’t afford even to send their children through the grammar-school
course, to say nothing of the high-school; but they have to pay their
share of the expenses of the high-school, which I contend is not
just.”

“But the safety of our institutions depends upon the education of the
people,” replied Mr. Darlingby.

“Does it depend upon a college education? Why not insist that every
person should be a graduate of a college, and that no person could be
moral and upright without having a college degree?” added the
principal.

“There is reason in all things.”

“You draw the line after the high-school, and I before: that is the
only difference. It would be as just to support the colleges at the
public expense as the high-schools. The education that preserves the
State is not French and German, Latin and Greek, chemistry and
physics; but it is the education that distinguishes the immigrant who
cannot read and write from the farmers and mechanics of this country.
It does not include a high-school training.”

“Then, if a poor man’s son or daughter, with a taste for learning,
wants an education, he shall not have it because his father cannot
pay for it,” added Mr. Darlingby warmly and indignantly.

“You have struck the weak point of my argument, sir,” replied the
principal. “I would have scholarships provided by the State for such
pupils.”

Dinner was over, and the company left the table.




CHAPTER XXII.

THE CHAMPLAIN MECHANICS IN THE SHOP.


The boys had listened with interest to the discussion at the
dinner-table; and, when they gathered in front of the shop, they were
talking about the subject themselves. But they were hardly ready to
settle their opinions in the matter. The principal’s views sounded
very much like heresy to some of them, who had been taught that it was
the most praiseworthy thing in the world to attend the high-school.
They were in doubt; and, in this respect, they were like thousands of
full-grown women and men.

When Mr. Jepson unlocked the doors of the shop, there was a general
rush for the inside of it. High-school education was forgotten, and
everybody’s curiosity was excited to know what the mechanical school
was to be.

The master-carpenter and the engineer, assisted by Bates and other men
who worked on the estate, had placed all the boxes of carpenter’s
tools in the shop; but not one of them had yet been opened. The
benches were all that looked like furniture. Of these there were half
a dozen for wood-work, and a dozen for iron. Overhead were the shafts,
drums, and pulleys by which various machines were to be operated.

“Here we are again, my lads,” said Captain Gildrock, standing upon one
of the boxes. “The first thing to be done is to put the shop in order.
Your instructors are here; and you must heed what they say, and obey
their orders. Like the session of the forenoon, the afternoon will
last three hours. At four o’clock you will be dismissed for the rest
of the day. The time will be your own then, but you must learn the
lessons which have been assigned. Now, Mr. Brookbine and Mr. Jepson, I
turn the pupils over to you. They have already been divided into
classes. Mr. Jepson will take the first, and Mr. Brookbine the
second.”

Captain Gildrock stepped down from the box, and seated himself on one
of the benches to witness the proceedings. He was quite as much
interested as any of the pupils.

“I am to teach you the use of carpenter’s tools,” said Mr. Brookbine.
“It will be an easy and pleasant job if you give attention and try to
do the best you can. The tools we have here are of the latest fashion,
and some of them are quite different from those with which I learned
my trade.

“Let me say, that every one of them must be handled with the utmost
care, and be kept in good order. You will be shown how to grind upon
the grindstone, and sharpen on the oil-stone, the chisels and
plane-irons. None but a bad workman ever uses dull tools. It is easier
to avoid running your tools against a nail than it is to grind out the
gaps the nail will make.”

“But where are the tools? I don’t see any,” asked Tom Ridley.

“They are in these boxes, and we will now open them. I will put two of
you to each box, for there are just six of these large boxes. Dory and
Thad Glovering may begin with the first one: the others will look on,
and see how it is done. You may learn how to do it, or how not to do
it.”

The carpenter handed Dory and Thad a wooden mallet, a chisel, and a
hatchet. Thad was full of enthusiasm. He thought he knew just how to
do it. He had the hatchet and chisel in his hands. Inserting the
latter under the lid of the box at one end, he struck the handle of
the chisel with the hatchet.

“Stop there, if you please,” interposed Mr. Brookbine.

Thad looked at the carpenter with astonishment, for he had no
suspicion that there was any thing wrong in what he had done.

“What I say to Thad I say to the whole class,” continued the
carpenter. “He has done just what most of you would if you had been in
his place. What is that mallet for, Thad?”

“To hit with, just as your fist is,” replied the amateur workman,
laughing.

“To strike with, and that is just what your fist is not for. You are
never to strike a wooden tool, or the wooden handle of a tool, with a
hammer or a hatchet. Can you all remember that, my lads?”

“Yes, sir!” shouted all the boys.

“Don’t do it, then. A mallet is used in striking a chisel.”

Thad took the mallet, and hit the chisel a tremendous crack with it.
The tool happened to be in a rather loose place in the opening, and it
went in to the handle. Thad tried to draw it out. He pulled and tugged
and wrenched at the chisel, but it was in firm enough to resist all
his efforts. He was so much in earnest, that his attempts amused the
rest of the boys; and they were soon laughing with all their might.
The machinists at the other end of the shop were interested, and some
of them went over to see what the excitement was. But they were called
back by Mr. Jepson before they could see inside of the ring that
surrounded Thad.

“Pull away, my lad,” laughed the master-carpenter. “But when you get
tired of the work, let me know, if you please.”

“I can’t get it out,” replied Thad, when he discovered that he was the
laughing-stock of the class.

“Perhaps you can, if you keep on wrenching for a day or two longer.”

“I have done my best, and it won’t come out.”

“I don’t think it will under any such treatment,” added Mr. Brookbine.
“You laugh, boys, because it is funny; but I doubt if the majority of
you would have done any better. Here is a lesson to learn. Skill is
better than strength, but skill and strength win the battle.”

“Good!” shouted Steve Baxter. “I will remember that as long as I live:
skill and strength win the battle.”

“I hope you will all remember it, for it is just the motto for a
carpenter. The ‘improvement,’ as the minister would say, upon the
text, is this: When things don’t work right, and won’t do as you want
and expect them to do, don’t yank, twist, jerk, and wrench at them.
Something is the matter, and you must see what it is. That chisel
would not come out. Why not?”

“It is in too tight,” replied Dick Short.

“Right, Dick: what is to be done?”

“Loosen it, if you can.”

“Dory, you may try your hand at it, taking the chisel as you find it.”

