
"Why in the world does he not go after her and 
insist on being noticed?" he asked. 



 

Oh, he 's very proud ! " said the Cavaliere. 

" That 's all very well, but a gentleman who cultivates 
a passion for that young lady must be prepared to make 
sacrifices." 

"He thinks he has already made a great many. He 
comes of a very great family a race of princes who for 
six hundred years have married none but the daughters 
of princes. But he is seriously in love, and he would 
marry her to-morrow." 

" And she will not have him ? 

"Ah, she is very proud too!" The Cavaliere was 
silent a moment, as if he were measuring the propriety 
of frankness. He seemed to have formed a high opinion 
of Rowland 's discretion, for he presently continued " It 
would be a great match, for she brings him neither a 
name nor a fortune nothing but her beauty. But the 
signorina will receive no favours ; I know her well ! 
She would rather have her beauty blasted than seem to 
care about the marriage, and if she ever accepts the 
Prince it will be only after he has implored her on his 
knees!" 

"But she does care about it," said Rowland, "and to 
bring him to his knees she is working upon his jealousy 
by pretending to be interested in my friend Hudson. If 
you said more you would say that, eh?" 

The Cavaliere 's shrewdness exchanged a glance with 
Rowland s. "By no means. Christina is a singular 
girl ; she has many romantic ideas. She would be quite 
capable of interesting herself seriously in a remarkable 
young man like your friend, and doing her utmost to 
discourage a splendid suitor like the Prince. She would 
act sincerely, and she would go very far. But it would 
be unfortunate for the remarkable young man," he added, 
after a pause, " for at the last she would go back !" 

" A singular girl indeed ! " 

"She would accept the more brilliant parti. I can 
answer for it. " 



 

" And what would be her motive ? " 

"She would be forced. There would be circum 
stances ... I can't tell you more." 

" But this implies that the rejected suitor would come 
back to her. He might grow tired of waiting." 

"Oh, this one is good ! Look at him now." Row 
land looked, and saw that the Prince had left his place 
by Mrs. Light, and was marching restlessly to and fro 
between the villa and the parapet of the terrace. Every 
now and then he looked at his watch. " In this country, 
you know," said the Cavaliere, "a young lady never 
goes walking alone with a handsome young man. It 
seems to him very strange." 

"It must seem to him monstrous, and if he overlooks 
it he must be very much in love." 

"Oh, he will overlook it. He is far gone." 

" Who is this exemplary lover, then ; what is he?" 

"A Neapolitan; one of the oldest houses in Italy. 
He is a prince in your English sense of the word, for he 
has a princely fortune. He is very young ; he is only 
just of age ; he saw the signorina last winter in Naples. 
He fell in love with her from the first, but his family 
interfered, and an old uncle, an ecclesiastic, Monsignor 

B , hurried up to Naples, seized him and locked him 

up. Meantime he has passed his majority, and he can 
dispose of himself. His relations are moving heaven 
and earth to prevent his mariying Miss Light, and they 
have sent us word that he forfeits his property if he takes 
his wife out of a certain line. I have investigated the 
question, and I find this is but a fiction to frighten us. 
He is perfectly free ; but the estates are such, that it is 
no wonder they wish to keep thea in their own hands. 
For Italy, it is an extraordinary case of unencumbered 
property. The Prince has been an orphan from his 
third year ; he has therefore had a long minority, and 
made no inroads upon his fortune. Besides, he is veiy 
prudent and orderly ; I am only afraid that some day he 



 

will pull the purse-strings too tight. All these years his 

affairs have been in the hands of Monsignor B , who 

has managed them to perfection paid off mortgages, 
planted forests, opened up mines. It is now a magnifi 
cent fortune ; such a fortune as with his name would 
justify the young man in pretending to any alliance what 
soever. And he lays it all at the feet of that young girl 
who is wandering in yonder boschetto with a penniless 
artist." 

" He is certainly a phoenix of princes ! The signora 
must be in a state of bliss. " 

The Cavaliere looked imperturbably grave. "The 
signora has a high esteem for his character." 

" His character, by the way," rejoined Rowland, with 
a smile ; " what sort of a character is it ? " 

" Eh, Prince Casamassima is a veritable prince ! He 
is a very good young man. He is not brilliant nor witty, 
but he will not let himself be made a fool of. He is a 
faithful son of the Church though he does propose to 
marry a Protestant. He will handle that point after 
marriage. He 's as you see him there : a young man 
without many ideas, but with a very firm grasp of a 
single one the conviction that Prince Casamassima is a 
very great person, that he greatly honours any young lady 
by asking for her hand, and that things are going very 
strangely when the young lady turns her back upon him. 
The poor young man is terribly puzzled. But I whisper 
to him every day, Pazienza, Signer Principe ! " 

" So you firmly believe," said Rowland, in conclusion, 
" that Miss Light will accept him just in time not to lose 
him?" 

" I count upon it. She would make too perfect a 
princess to miss her destiny. " 

" And you hold that nevertheless in the meanwhile in 
listening to, say, my friend Hudson, she will have been 
acting in good faith ?" 

The Cavaliere lifted his shoulders a trifle, and gave an 



 

inscrutable smile. "Eh, dear signore, the Christina is 
very romantic ! " 

" So much so, you intimate, that she will eventually 
pivot round in consequence not of a change of sentiment, 
but of a mysterious outward pressure?" 

" If everything else fails, there is that resource. But it 
is mysterious, as you say, and you needn't try to guess 
it. You will never know." 

"The poor signorina, then, will suffer !" 

"Not too much, I hope." 

"And the remarkable young man? You maintain 
that there is nothing but disappointment in store for the 
infatuated youth who loses his heart to her." 

The Cavaliere hesitated. "He had better," he said 
in a moment, "go and pursue his studies in Florence. 
There are very fine antiques in the Uffizi !" 

Rowland presently joined Mrs. Light, to whom her 
restless portege had not yet returned. "That 's right," 
she said ; "sit down here j I have something serious to 
say to you. I am going to talk to you as a friend. I 
want your assistance. In fact, you must help me ; it 's 
your duty. Look at that unhappy young man." 

"Yes," said Rowland, "he seems unhappy." 

" He is just come of age, he bears one of the greatest 
names in Italy, and owns one of the greatest properties, 
and he is pining away with love for my daughter." 

"So the Cavaliere tells me." 

" The Cavaliere shouldn't gossip," said Mrs. Light, 
drily. " Such information should come from me. The 
Prince is pining, as I say ; he 's consumed, he 's devoured. 
It 's a real Italian passion ; I know what that means !" 
And the lady gave a speaking glance, which seemed to 
coquet for a moment with retrospect. " Meanwhile, if 
you please, my daughter is hiding in the woods with your 
dear friend Mr. Hudson. I could cry with rage ! " 

"If things are as bad as that," said Rowland, "it 
seems to me that you should find nothing easier than 



 

to despatch the Cavaliere to bring the guilty couple 
back." 

" Never in the world ! My hands are tied. Do you 
know what Christina would do? She would tell the 
Cavaliere to go about his business Heaven forgive her ! 
and send me word that if she had a mind to she would 
walk in the woods till midnight. Fancy the Cavaliere 
coming back and delivering such a message as that before 
the Prince ! Think of a girl wantonly making light of 
such a chance as hers ! He would marry her to-morrow 
at six o clock in the morning." 

" It is certainly very sad," said Rowland. 

"That costs you little to say ! If you had left your 
precious young meddler to vegetate in his native village 
you would have saved me a world of bother ! " 

"Ah, you marched into the jaws of danger," said 
Rowland. "You came and knocked at poor Hudson 's 
door. " 

"In an evil hour ! I wish to Heaven you would talk 
with him." 

" I have done my best." 

" I wish, then, you would take him away. You have 
plenty of money. Do me a favour. Take him to travel. 
Go to the East go to Timbuctoo. Then, when 
Christina is Princess Casamassima," Mrs. Light added 
in a moment, " he may come back if he chooses ! " 

" Does she really care for him ?" Rowland asked, 
abruptly. 

" She thinks she does, possibly. She is a living riddle. 
She must needs follow out every idea that comes into her 
head. Fortunately most of them don't last long j but 
this one may last long enough to give the Prince a fit of 
disgust. If that were to happen, I don't know what I 
should do ! I should be the most miserable of women. 
It would be too cruel, after all I have suffered to make 
her what she is, to see the labour of years blighted by a 
caprice. For I can assure you, sir," Mrs. Light went 



on, " that if my daughter is the greatest beauty in the 
world some of the credit is mine." 

Rowland promptly remarked that this was obvious. 
He saw that the lady 's irritated nerves demanded comfort 
from flattering reminiscence, and he assumed designedly 
the attitude of a zealous auditor. She began to tell the 
story of her efforts, her hopes, her dreams, her presenti 
ments, her disappointments, in this exalted cause of 
catching a great husband for her daughter. It was a 
wonderful rigmarole of strange confidences, and while it 
went on the Prince continued to pass to and fro, stiffly 
and solemnly, like a pendulum marking the time allowed 
for the young lady to come to her senses. Mrs. Light 
evidently at an early period had gathered her maternal 
hopes into a sacred parcel, to which she said her prayers 
and burnt incense which she treated generally as a sort 
of fetish. These things had been her religion ; she had 
none other, and she performed her devotions bravely and 
cheerily, in the light of day. The poor old fetish had 
been so caressed and manipulated, so thrust in and out 
of its niche, so passed from hand to hand, so dressed and 
undressed, so mumbled and fumbled over, that it had lost 
by this time much of its early freshness, and seemed a 
rather battered and disfeatured divinity. But it was still 
brought forth in moments of trouble, to have its tinselled 
petticoat twisted about and be set up on its altar. Row 
land observed that Mrs. Light had a real maternal con 
science ; she considered that she had been performing a 
pious duty in bringing up Christina to set her cap for a 
prince ; and when the future looked dark she found con 
solation in thinking that destiny could never have the 
heart to deal a blow at so deserving a person. This 
conscience upside down presented to Rowland 's fancy a 
sort of physical image ; he was on the point half a dozen 
times of laughing out. 

" I don't know whether you believe in presentiments," 
said Mrs. Light, "and I don't care! I have had one 



 

for the last fifteen years. People have laughed at it, but 
they have not laughed me out of it. It has been every 
thing to me ; I couldn't have lived without it. One 
must believe in something ! It came to me in a flash, 
when Christina was five years old. I remember the day 
and the place, as if it were yesterday. She was a very 
ugly baby ; for the first two years I could hardly bear to 
look at her, and I used to spoil my own looks with 
crying about her. She had an Italian nurse who was 
very fond of her, and insisted that she would grow up 
pretty. I couldn't believe her, I used to contradict her, 
and we were for ever squabbling. I was just a little 
silly in those days surely I may say it now and I was 
very fond of being amused. If my daughter was ugly, 
it was not that she resembled her mamma ; I had no 
lack of amusement. People accused me, I believe, of 
neglecting my little girl ; if I ever did, I have made up 
for it since. One day I went to drive on the Pincio I 
was in very low spirits. A certain person I needn't 
name him had trifled with my generous confidence. 
While I was there he passed me in a carriage, driving 
with a horrible woman who had made trouble between 
us. I got out of my carriage to walk about, and at last 
sat down on a bench. I can show you the spot at this 
hour. While I sat there a child came wandering along 
the path a little girl of four or five, very fantastically 
dressed, in all the colours of the rainbow. She stopped 
in front of me and stared at me, and I stared at her 
queer little dress, which was a cheap imitation of the 
costume of one of these contadine. At last I looked up 
at her face and said to myself, Bless me, what a beauti 
ful child ! what a splendid pair of eyes, what a magnifi 
cent head of hair ! If my poor little Christina were only 
like that ! The child turned away slowly, but looking 
back with its eyes fixed on me. All of a sudden I gave 
a cry, pounced on it, pressed it in my arms, covered it 
with kisses. It was Christina, my own precious child, 




so disguised by the ridiculous dress which the nurse had 
amused herself in making for her that her own mother 
had not recognised her ! She knew me, but she said 
afterwards that she had not spoken to me because I 
looked so angry. Of course, my face was sad ! I 
rushed with my child to the carriage, drove home post 
haste, pulled off her rags, and, as I may say, wrapped 
her up in cotton. I had been blind, I had been insane ; 
she was a creature in ten millions, she was to be a beauty 
of beauties, a priceless treasure ! Every day after that 
the certainty grew. From that time I lived only for my 
daughter. I watched her, I fondled her from morning 
till night, I worshipped her. I went to see doctors 
about her. I took every sort of advice. I was deter 
mined she should be perfection. The things that have 
been done for that girl, sir you wouldn't believe them ; 
they would make you smile ! Nothing was spared ; if I 
had been told that she must have a bath eveiy morning 
of molten pearls, I would have found means to give it to 
her. She never raised a finger for herself, she breathed 
nothing but perfumes, she walked upon velvet. She 
never was out of my sight, and from that day to this I 
have never said a sharp word to her. By the time she 
was ten years old she was beautiful as an angel, and so 
noticed, wherever we went, that I had to make her 
wear a veil like a woman of twenty. Her hair reached 
down to her feet ; her hands were the hands of an 
empress. Then I saw that she was as clever as she was 
beautiful, and that she had only to play her cards. She 
had masters, professors, every educational advantage. 
They told me she was a little prodigy. She speaks French, 
Italian, German, better than most natives. She has a 
wonderful genius for music, and might make her fortune 
as a pianist if it were not made for her otherwise ! I 
travelled all over Europe, every one told me she was a 
marvel. The director of the opera in Paris saw her 
dance at a child 's party at Spa, and offered me an 



 

enormous sum if I would give her up to him and let him 
have her educated for the ballet. I said, No, I thank 
you, sir ; she is meant to be something finer than a 
princesse de theatre. I had a passionate belief that she 
might marry absolutely whom she chose, that she might 
be a princess out and out. I have never given it up, 
and I can assure you that it has sustained me in many 
embarrassments. Financial, some of them ; I don't 
mind confessing it ! I have raised money on that girl 's 
face ! I have taken her to the Jews and bidden her put 
up her veil, and asked if the mother of that young lady 
was not safe ! She, of course, was too young to under 
stand me. And yet, as a child, you would have said 
she knew what was in store for her ; before she could 
read she had the manners, the tastes, the instincts of a 
little aristocrat. She would have nothing to do with 
shabby things or shabby people ; if she stained one of her 
frocks she was seized with a kind of frenzy she would 
tear it to pieces. At Nice, at Baden, at Brighton, 
wherever we stayed, she used to be sent for by all the 
great people to play with their children. She has 
played at kissing-games with people who now stand on 
the steps of thrones ! I have gone so far as to think at 
times that those childish kisses were a sign a symbol 
a pledge ! You may laugh at me if you like, but haven't 
such things happened again and again without half so 
good a cause, and doesn't history notoriously repeat 
itself? There was a little Spanish girl at a second-rate 
English boarding-school thirty years ago ! . . . The 
Empress, certainly, is a pretty woman ; but what is my 
Christina, pray ? I have dreamt of it sometimes, every 
night for a month. I won't tell you I have been to con 
sult those old women who advertise in the newspapers ; 
you ll call me an old imbecile. Imbecile, if you please ! I 
have refused magnificent offers because I believed that 
somehow or other if wars and revolutions were needed 
to bring it about we should have nothing less than that. 



There might be another coup'd etat somewhere, and 
another brilliant young sovereign looking out for a wife ! 
At last, however," Mrs. Light proceeded with incompar 
able gravity, "since the overturning of the poor king of 
Naples and that charming queen, and the expulsion of 
all those dear little old-fashioned Italian grand-dukes, 
and the dreadful radical talk that is going on all over 
the world, it has come to seem to me that with Christina 
in such a position I should be really very nervous. Even 
in such a position she would hold her head very high, 
and if anything should happen to her she would make 
no concessions to the popular fury. The best thing, if 
one would be prudent, seems to be a nobleman of the 
highest possible rank short of belonging to a reigning 
stock. There you see one striding up and down looking 
at his watch and counting the minutes till my daughter 
reappears !" 

Rowland listened to all this with a large compassion 
for the heroine of the tale. What an education, what a 
history, what a school of character and of morals ! He 
looked at the Prince and wondered whether he too had 
heard Mrs. Light 's story. If he had he was a brave 
man. " I certainly hope you will nail him," he said to 
Mrs. Light. "You have played a dangerous game 
with your daughter ; it would be a pity not to win ! 
But there is hope for you yet ; here she comes at last ! " 

Christina reappeared as he spoke these words, strolling 
beside her companion with the same indifferent tread with 
which she had departed. Rowland imagined that there 
was a faint pink flush in her cheek which she had not 
carried away with her, and there was certainly a light in 
Roderick 's eyes which he had not seen there for a week. 

" Bless my soul, how they are all looking at us !" she 
cried as they advanced. " One would think we were 
prisoners of the Inquisition !" And she paused and 
glanced from the Prince to her mother, and from Row 
land to the Cavaliere, and then threw back her head and 



 

burst into far-ringing laughter. "What is it, pray? 
Have I been very improper ? Am I ruined for ever ? 
Dear Prince, you are looking at me as if I had committed 
the unpardonable sin ! " 

"I myself," said the Prince, "would never have ven 
tured to ask you to walk with me alone in the country 
for an hour !" 

"The more fool you, dear Prince, as the vulgar say ! 
Our walk has been charming. I hope you, on your side, 
have enjoyed each other 's society." 

" My dear daughter," said Mrs. Light, taking the arm 
of her predestined son-in-law, " I shall have something 
serious to say to you when we reach home. We will go 
back to the carriage. " 

" Something serious ! Decidedly, it is the Inquisition. 
Mr. Hudson, stand firm, and let us agree to make no 
confessions without conferring previously with each 
other ! They may put us on the rack first. Mr. Mallet 
I see also," Christina added, "has something serious to 
say to me !" 

Rowland had been looking at her with the shadow of 
his lately-stirred pity in his eyes. "Possibly," he said. 
" But it must be for some other time." 

"I am at your service. I see our good humour is 
gone. And I only wanted to be amiable ! It is very 
discouraging. Cavaliere, you alone look as if you had 
a little of the milk of human kindness left ; from your 
dear old stupid face, at least, there is no telling what 
you think. Give me your arm and take me away ! " 

The party took its course back to the carriage, which 
was waiting in the grounds of the villa, and Rowland 
and Roderick bade their friends farewell. Christina 
threw herself back in her seat and closed her eyes ; a 
manoeuvre for which Rowland imagined the Prince 
was grateful, as it enabled him to look at her without 
seeming to depart from his attitude of distinguished 
disapproval. 



Rowland found himself aroused from sleep early the 
next morning to see Roderick standing before him, 
dressed for departure, with his bag in his hand. " I am 
off," he said. "I am back to work. I have an idea. 
I must strike while the iron is hot ! Farewell !" And 
he departed by the first train. Rowland went alone by 
the next. 



XIII. 

ROWLAND went very often to the Coliseum ; he was 
never tired of inspecting this monument. One morning, 
about a month after his return from Frascati, as he was 
strolling across the vast arena, he observed a young 
woman seated on one of the fragments of stone which 
are ranged along the line of the ancient parapet. It 
seemed to him that he had seen her before, but he was 
unable to localise her face. Passing her again he per 
ceived that one of the little red-legged French soldiers 
who were at that time on guard there had approached 
her and was gallantly making himself agreeable. She 
smiled brilliantly, and Rowland recognised the smile (it 
had always pleased him) of a certain comely Assunta 
who sometimes opened the door for Mrs. Light 's visitors. 
He wondered what she was doing alone in the Coliseum, 
and conjectured that Assunta had admirers as well as her 
young mistress, but that being without the same domi 
ciliary conveniences she was using this massive heritage 
of her Latin ancestors as a boudoir. In other words, 
she had an appointment with her lover, who would do 
well from present appearances to be punctual. It was a 
long time since Rowland had ascended to the ruinous 
upper tiers of the great circus, and as the day was radiant 
and the distant views promised to be particularly clear, 
he determined to give himself this pleasure. The cus- 



 

todian unlocked the great wooden wicket, and he climbed 
through the winding shafts where the eager Roman 
crowds had billowed and trampled, not pausing till he 
reached the highest accessible point of the ruin. The 
views were as fine as he had supposed ; the lights on the 
Sabine mountains had never been more lovely. He 
gazed to his satisfaction, and retraced his steps. In a 
moment he paused again on an abutment somewhat 
lower, from which the glance dropped dizzily into the 
interior. There are accidents of ruggedness in the upper 
portions of the Coliseum which offer a very fair imitation 
of the mighty excrescences in the face of an Alpine cliff. 
In those days a multitude of delicate flowers and sprays 
of wild herbage had found a friendly soil in the hoary 
crevices, and they bloomed and nodded amid the antique 
masonry as naturally as if it were the boulders of a 
mountain. Rowland was turning away when he heard 
a sound of voices rising up from below. He had but to 
step slightly forward to find himself overlooking two 
persons who had seated themselves on a narrow ledge in 
a sunny corner. They had apparently an eye to extreme 
privacy, but they had not observed that their position 
was commanded by the abutment on which Rowland 
stood. One of these airy adventurers was a lady, thickly 
veiled, so that even if he had not been placed directly 
above her Rowland could not have seen her face. The 
other was a young man whose face was also invisible, 
but who presently gave a toss of his clustering locks 
which was equivalent to a master 's signature. A mo 
ment 's reflection satisfied him of the identity of the lady. 
He had been unjust to poor Assunta, sitting patient in 
the gloomy arena ; she had not come on her own errand. 
Rowland 's discoveries made him hesitate. Should he 
retire as noiselessly as possible, or should he call out a 
friendly good morning? While he was debating the 
question he found himself hearing his friend 's words. 
They were of such a nature as to make him unwilling to 




 

retreat, and yet to make it awkward to be discovered in 
a position where it would be apparent that he had been 
an auditor. 

" If what you say is true," said Christina, with her 
usual soft deliberateness it made her words rise with 
peculiar distinctness to Rowland 's ear "you are simply 
weak. I am sorry ! I hoped I really believed you 
were not." 

" No, I am not weak," answered Roderick with vehe 
mence ; " I maintain that I am not weak ! I am incom 
plete, perhaps ; but I can't help that. Weakness is a 
man 's own fault !" 

"Incomplete then!" said Christina, with a laugh. 
"It 's the same thing, so long as it keeps you from 
splendid achievement. Is it written, then, that I shall 
really never know what I have so often dreamed of?" 

"What have you dreamed of?" 

"A man whom I can perfectly respect," cried the 
young girl, with a sudden flame. "A man whom I can 
unrestrictedly admire ! I meet one, as I have met more 
than one before, whom I fondly believe to be cast in a 
larger mould than most of the vulgar human breed to 
be large in character, great in talent, strong in will ! In 
such a man as that, I say, one 's weary imagination at 
last may rest ; or it may wander if it will, yet never need 
to wander far from the deeps where one 's heart is anchored. 
When I first knew you I gave no sign, but you had struck 
me. I observed you as women observe, and I fancied 
you had the sacred fire." 

" Before Heaven I believe I have !" cried Roderick. 

"Ah, but so little! It flickers and trembles and 
sputters ; it goes out, you tell me, for whole weeks to 
gether. From your own account it 's highly probable that 
you are a failure." 

" I say those things sometimes myself, but when I hear 
you say them they make me feel as if I could do all sorts 
of great things." 



 

" Ah, the man who is strong with what I call strength," 
Christina replied, " would neither rise nor fall by any 
thing I could say ! I am a poor weak woman ; I have 
no strength myself, and I can give no strength. I am a 
miserable medley of vanity and folly. I am silly, I am 
ignorant, I am affected, I am false. I am the fruit of a 
horrible education sown on a worthless soil. I am all 
that, and yet I believe I have one merit ! I should know 
a great character when I saw it, and I should delight in 
it with a generosity which would do something towards 
the remission of my sins. For a man who should really 
give me a certain feeling I have never had it, but I 
should know it when it came I would send Prince Casa- 
massima and his millions to perdition. I don't know 
what you think of me for saying all this ; I suppose we 
have not climbed up here under the skies to play pro 
priety. Why have you been at such pains to assure me, 
after all, that you are a little man and not a great one, 
a weak one and not a strong ? I innocently imagined 
that your eyes declared you were strong. But your voice 
condemns you ; I always wondered at it ; it 's not the 
voice of a conqueror ! " 

" Give me something to conquer," cried Roderick, 
"and when I say that I thank you from my soul, 
my voice, whatever you think of it, shall speak the 
truth !" 

Christina for a moment said nothing. Rowland was 
too interested to think of moving. You pretend to 
such devotion," she went on, " and yet I am sure you 
have never really chosen between me and that person in 
America." 

" Do me the favour not to speak of her," said Rode 
rick, imploringly. 

" Why not ? I say no ill of her, and I think all kinds 
of good. I am certain she is a far better girl than I, and 
far more likely to make you happy." 

" This is happiness, this present palpable moment," 


said Roderick ; " though you have such a genius for say 
ing the things that torture me ! " 

" It 's greater happiness than you deserve, then ! You 
have never chosen, I say ; you have been afraid to choose. 
You have never really looked in the face the fact that 
you are false, that you have broken your faith. You 
have never looked at it and seen that it was hideous, and 
yet said, No matter, I will brave the penalty, I will 
bear the shame ! You have closed your eyes ; you 
have tried to stifle remembrance, to persuade yourself 
that you were not behaving so badly as you seemed to 
be, that there would be some way, after all, of doing what 
you liked and yet escaping trouble. You have faltered 
and drifted, you have gone on from accident to accident, 
and I am sure that at this present moment you can't tell 
what it is you really desire !" 

Roderick was sitting with his krtees drawn up and 
bent, and his hands clasped round his legs. He bent his 
head and rested his forehead on his knees. 

Christina went on with a sort of infernal calmness. 
"I believe that really you don't greatly care for your 
friend in America any more than you do for me ! You 
are one of the men who care only for themselves and for 
what they can make of themselves. That 's very well 
when they can make something great, and I could interest 
myself in a man of extraordinary power who should wish 
to turn all his passions to account. But if the power 
should turn out to be, after all, rather ordinary ? Fancy 
feeling one 's self ground in the mill of a third-rate talent ! 
If you have doubts about yourself I can't reassure you ; I 
have too many doubts myself about everything in this 
weary world. You have gone up like a rocket in your 
profession, they tell me ; are you going to come down 
like the stick? I don't pretend to know ; I repeat 
frankly what I have said before that all modern sculp 
ture seems to me vulgar, and that the only things I care 
for are some of the most battered of the antiques of the 



 

Vatican. No, no, I can't reassure you ; and when you 
tell me with a confidence in my discretion of which 
certainly I am duly sensible that at times you feel 
terribly small, why, I can only answer, Ah then, my 
poor friend, I am afraid you are small ! The language 
I should like to hear, from a certain person, would be the 
language of absolute decision." 

Roderick raised his head, but he said nothing ; he 
seemed to be exchanging a long glance with his com 
panion. The result of it was to make him fling himself 
back with an inarticulate murmur. Rowland, admonished 
by the silence, was on the point of turning away, but he 
was arrested by a gesture of the young girl. She pointed 
for a moment into the blue air. Roderick followed the 
direction of her gesture. 

" Is that little flower we see outlined against that dark 
niche," she asked, "as intensely blue as it looks through 
my veil?" She spoke apparently with the amiable 
design of directing the conversation into a less painful 
channel. 

Rowland, from where he stood, could see the flower 
she meant a delicate plant of radiant hue, which sprouted 
from the top of an immense fragment of wall some twenty 
feet from Christina 's place. 

Roderick turned his head and looked at it without 
answering. At last glancing round, " Put up your veil !" 
he said. Christina complied. "Does it look as blue 
now?" he asked. 

"Ah, what a lovely colour !" she murmured, leaning 
her head on one side. 

" Should you like to have it?" 

She stared a moment, and then broke into a loud laugh. 

" Should you like to have it ?" he repeated in a ring 
ing voice. 

" Don't look as if you would eat me up," she answered. 
" It 's harmless if I say yes !" 

Roderick rose to his feet and stood looking at the little 



 

flower. It was separated from the ledge on which he 
stood by a rugged surface of vertical wall, which dropped 
straight into the dusky vaults behind the arena. Suddenly 
he took off his hat and flung it behind him. Christina 
then sprang to her feet. 

" I will bring it to you," he said. 

She seized his arm. "Are you crazy? Do you mean 
to kill yourself?" 

" I shall not kill myself. Sit down !" 

" Excuse me. Not till you do !" and she grasped his 
arm with both hands. 

Roderick shook her off and pointed with a violent 
gesture to her former place. " Go there ! " he cried, 
fiercely. 

" You can never, never ! " she murmured, beseechingly, 
clasping her hands. "I implore you !" 

Roderick turned and looked at her, and then in a 
voice which Rowland had never heard him use, a voice 
almost thunderous, a voice which awakened the echoes 
of the mighty ruin, he repeated, " Sit down !" She 
hesitated a moment, and then she dropped on the ground 
and buried her face in her hands. 

Rowland had seen all this, and he saw what followed. 
He saw Roderick clasp in his left arm the jagged corner 
of the vertical partition on Avhich he proposed to try his 
experiment, then stretch out his leg and feel for a rest 
ing-place for his foot. Rowland had measured with a 
glance the possibility of his holding on, and pronounced 
it uncommonly small. The wall was garnished with a 
series of narrow projections, the remains apparently of a 
brick cornice supporting the arch of a vault which had 
long since collapsed. It was by lodging his toes on these 
loose brackets, and grasping with his hands at certain 
mouldering protuberances on a level with his head, that 
Roderick intended to proceed. The relics of the cornice 
were utterly worthless as a support. Rowland had ob 
served this, and yet for a moment he had hesitated. If 



 

the thing were possible he felt a sudden admiring glee 
at the thought of Roderick 's doing it. It would be 
finely done, it would be gallant, it would have a sort of 
masculine eloquence as an answer to Christina 's sinister 
persiflage. But it was not possible ! Rowland left his 
place with a bound and scrambled down some neighbour 
ing steps, and the next moment a stronger pair of hands 
than Christina 's were laid upon Roderick 's shoulder. 

He turned, staring, pale and angry. Christina rose, 
pale and staring too, but beautiful in her wonder and 
alarm. "My dear Roderick," said Rowland, "I am 
only preventing you from doing a very foolish thing. 
That 's an exploit for spiders, not for young sculptors of 
promise." 

Roderick wiped his forehead, looked back at the wall, 
and then closed his eyes, as if with a spasm of retarded 
dizziness. " I won't resist you," he said. " But I have 
made you obey," he added, turning to Christina. "Am 
I weak now?" 

She had recovered her composure ; she looked straight 
past him and addressed Rowland. "Be so good as to 
show me the way out of this horrible place ! " 

He helped her back into the corridor ; Roderick 
followed after a short interval. Of course, as they were 
decending the steps, came questions for Rowland to 
answer, and more or less surprise. Where had he come 
from? how happened he to have appeared at just that 
moment ? Rowland answered that he had been ram 
bling overhead, and that, looking out of an aperture, he 
had seen a gentleman preparing to undertake a prepos 
terous gymnastic feat, and a lady swooning away in con 
sequence. Interference seemed justifiable, and he had 
made it as prompt as possible. Roderick was far from 
hanging his head like a man who has been caught in the 
perpetration of an extravagant folly ; but if he held it 
more erect than usual Rowland believed that this was 
much less because he had made a show of personal daring 



 

than because he had triumphantly proved to Christina 
that, like a certain person she had dreamed of, he too 
could speak the language of decision. Christina de 
scended to the arena in silence, apparently occupied 
with her own thoughts. She betrayed no sense of the 
