baroness, trying to remove Hedwig's veil and hat, 
somewhat against the girl's inclination. " Yes, you 
see how it is. I know a little of singing, but I can 
not pronounce, not in the least. Ah, these Italian 
vowels will be the death of me ! But if there is any 
one who can teach a poor dilettante to pronounce 
them," she added, laying the hat away on a chair, and 
pushing a footstool to Hedwig's feet, " that some one 
is Sign or Cardegna." 

By this time Nino had recognised the propriety of 
temporising; that is to say, of letting the baroness's 
fib pass for what it was worth, lest the discussion of 
the subject should further offend Hedwig, whose 
eyes wandered irresolutely toward him, as though 
she would say something if he addressed her. 

"I hope, signorina," he said, "that it is not quite 
as the baroness says. I trust our lessons are not at 
an end?" He knew very well that they were. 

"I think, Signor Cardegna," said Hedwig, with 
more courage than was to have been expected from 
such a mere child, she is twenty, but Northern 
people are not grown up till they are thirty, at least, 
"I think it would have been more obliging if, 
when I asked you so much about your cousin, you had 
acknowledged that you had no cousin, and that the 
singer was none other than yourself." She blushed, 
perhaps, but the curtain of the window hid it. 



 

"Alas, signorina," answered Nino, still standing 
before her, "such a confession would have deprived 
me of the pleasure of the honour of giving you 
lessons." 

"And pray, Signora Cardegna," put in the baron 
ess, "what are a few paltry lessons, compared with 
the pleasure you ought to have experienced in satisfying the Contessina di Lira's curiosity? Really, 
you have little courtesy." 

Nino shrank into himself, as though he were hurt, 
and he gave the baroness a look which said worlds. 
She smiled at him, in joy of her small triumph, for 
Hedwig was looking at the floor again, and could not 
see. But the young girl had strength in her, for 
all her cold looks and white cheek. 

"You can atone, Signer Cardegna," she said. 
Nino's face brightened. 

"How, signorina?" he asked. 

"By singing to us now," said Hedwig. The bar 
oness looked grave, for she well knew what a power 
Nino wielded with his music. 

"Do not ask him," she protested. "He must be 
tired, tired to death, with all he went through last 
night." 

"Tired?" ejaculated Nino, with some surprise. 
"I tired? I was never tired in my life, of singing. 
I will sing as long as you will listen." 

He went to the piano. As he turned, the baron 
ess laid her hand on Hedwig's, affectionately, as 
though sympathising with something she supposed 
to be passing in the girl's mind. But Hedwig was 
passive, unless a little shudder at the first touch of 



 

the baroness's fingers might pass for a manifestation 
of feeling. Hedwig had hitherto liked the baroness, 
finding in her a woman of a certain artistic sense, 
combined with a certain originality. The girl was 
mi absolute contrast to the woman, and admired in 
her the qualities she thought lacking in herself, 
though she possessed too much self-respect to attempt 
to acquire them by imitation. Hedwig sat like a 
Scandinavian fairy princess on the summit of a glass 
hill ; her friend roamed through life like a beautiful 
soft-footed wild animal, rejoicing in the sense of 
being, and sometimes indulging in a little playful 
destruction by the way. The girl had heard a voice 
in the dark, singing, and ever since then she had 
dreamed of the singer; but it had never entered her 
mind to confide to the baroness her strange fancies. 
An undisciplined imagination, securely shielded 
from all outward disturbing causes, will do much 
with a voice in the dark, a great deal more than 
such a woman as the baroness might imagine. 

I do not know enough about these blue-eyed Ger 
man girls to say whether or not Hedwig had ever 
before thought of her unknown singer as an unknown 
lover. But the emotions of the previous night had 
shaken her nerves a little, and had she been older 
than she was she would have known that she loved 
her singer, in a distant and maidenly fashion, as 
soon as she heard the baroness speak of him as having been her property. And now she was angry with 
herself, and ashamed of feeling any interest in a man 
who was evidently tied to another woman by some 
intrigue she could not comprehend. Her coming to 



 

visit the baroness had been as unpremeditated as it 
was unexpected, that morning, and she bitterly repented it; but being of good blood and heart, she 
acted as boldly as she could, and showed no little 
tact in making Nino sing, and thus cutting short a 
painful conversation. Only when the baroness tried 
to caress her and stroke her hand she shrank away, 
and the blood mantled up to her cheeks. Add to all 
this the womanly indignation she felt at having been 
so long deceived by Nino, and you will see that she 
was in a very vacillating frame of mind. 

The baroness was a subtle woman, reckless and 
diplomatic by turns, and she was not blind to the 
sudden repulse she met with from Hedwig, unspoken 
though it was. But she merely withdrew her hand, 
and sat thinking over the situation. What she 
thought, no one knows; or, at least, we can only 
guess it from what she did afterwards. As for me, 
I have never blamed her at all, for she is the kind of 
woman I should have loved. In the mean time Nino 
caroled out one love song after another. He saw, 
however, that the situation was untenable, and after 
a while he rose to go. Strange to say, although the 
baroness had asked Nino to breakfast, and the hour 
was now at hand, she made no effort to retain him. 
But she gave him her hand, and said many flattering 
and pleasing things, which, however, neither flat 
tered nor pleased him. As for Hedwig, she bent her 
head a little, but said nothing, as he bowed before 
her. Nino therefore went home with a heavy heart, 
longing to explain to Hedwig why he had been tied 
to the baroness, that it was the price of her silence 



 

and of the privilege he had enjoyed of giving lessons 
to thecontessina; but knowing, also, that all explanation was out of the question for the present. When 
he was gone, Hedwig and the baroness were left 
together. 

"It must have been a great surprise to you, my 
dear," said the elder lady kindly. 

"What?" 

" That your little professor should turn out a great 
artist in disguise. It was a surprise to me, too, 
ah, another illusion destroyed. Dear child! You 
have still so many illusions, beautiful, pure illusions. Dieu ! how I envy you ! " They generally 
talked French together, though the baroness knows 
German. Hedwig laughed bravely. 

"I was certainly astonished," she said. "Poor 
man! I suppose he did it to support himself. He 
never told me he gave you lessons, too." The baroness smiled, but it was from genuine satisfaction 
this time. 

" I wonder at that, since he knew we were intimate, 
or, at least, that we were acquainted. Of course I 
would not speak of it last night, because I saw your 
father was angry." 

"Yes, he was angry. I suppose it was natural," 
said Hedwig. 

" Perfectly natural. And you, my dear, were you 
not angry too, just a little ? " 

"I? No. Why should I be angry? He was a 
very good teacher, for he knows whole volumes by 
heart; and he understands them, too." 

Soon they talked of other things, and the baroness 



 

was very affectionate. But though Hedwig saw that 
her friend was kind and most friendly, she could not 
forget the words that were in the air when she 
chanced to enter, nor could she quite accept the 
plausible explanation of them which the baroness had 
so readily invented. For jealousy is the forerunner 
of love, and sometimes its awakener. She felt a 
rival and an enemy, and all the hereditary combativeness of her Northern blood was roused. 

Nino, who was in no small perplexity, reflected. 
He was not old enough nor observant enough to have 
seen the breach that was about to be created between 
the baroness and Hedwig. His only thought was to 
clear himself in Hedwig's eyes from the imputation of 
having been tied to the dark woman in any way save 
for his love's sake. He at once began to hate the 
baroness with all the ferocity of which his heart was 
capable, and with all the calm his bold, square face 
outwardly expressed. But he was forced to take 
some action at once, and he could think of nothing 
better to do than to consult De Pretis. 

To the maestro he poured out his woes and his 
plans. He exhibited to him his position toward the 
baroness and toward Hedwig in the clearest light. 
He conjured him to go to Hedwig, and explain that 
the baroness had threatened to unmask him, and thus 
deprive him of his means of support, he dared not 
put it otherwise, unless he consented to sing for her 
and come to her as often as she pleased. To explain, 
to propitiate, to smooth, in a word, to reinstate 
Nino in her good opinion. 

"Death of a dog!" exclaimed De Pretis; "you 



do not ask much! After you have allowed your 
lady-love, your inamorata, to catch you saying you 
are bound body and soul to another woman, and 
such a woman ! ye saints, what a beauty ! you ask 
me to go and set matters right! What the diavolo 
did you want to go and poke your nose into such a 
mousetrap for? Via! I am a fool to have helped 
you at all." 

"Very likely," said Nino calmly. "But mean 
while there are two of us, and perhaps I am the 
greater. You will do what I ask, maestro ; is it not 
true? And it was not I who said it; it was the 
baroness." 

"The baroness yes and may the maledictions 
of the inferno overtake her," said De Pretis, casting 
up his eyes and feeling in his coat-tail pockets for 
his snuff-box. Once, when Nino was younger, he 
filled Ercole's snuff-box with soot and pepper, so 
that the maestro had a black nose and sneezed all 
day. 

What could Ercole do ? It was true that he had 
hitherto helped Nino. Was he not bound to continue that assistance? I suppose so; but if the whole 
affair had ended then, and this story with it, I should 
not have cared a button. Do you suppose it amuses 
me to tell you this tale ? Or that if it were not for 
Nino's good name I would ever have turned myself 
into a common story-teller? Bah! you do not know 
me. A page of quaternions gives me more pleasure 
than all this rubbish put together, though I am not 
averse to a little gossip now and then, of an evening, 
if people will listen to my details and fancies. But 



 

those are just the things people will not listen to. 
Everybody wants sensation nowadays. What is a 
sensation compared with a thought? What is the 
convulsive gesticulation of a dead frog's leg compared with the intellect of the man who invented the 
galvanic battery, and thus gave fictitious sensation 
to all the countless generations of dead frogs legs 
that have since been the objects of experiment? Or 
if you come down to so poor a thing as mere feeling, 
what are your feelings in reading about Nino's deeds 
compared with what he felt in doing them? I am 
not taking all this trouble to please you, but only 
for Nino's sake, who is my dear boy. You are of no 
more interest or importance to me than if you were 
so many dead frogs ; and if I galvanise your sensa 
tions, as you call them, into an activity sufficient to 
make you cry or laugh, that is my own affair. You 
need not say "thank you " to me. I do not want it. 
Ercole will thank you, and perhaps Nino will thank 
me, but that is different. 

I will not tell you about the interview which 
Ercole had with Hedwig, nor how skillfully he rolled 
up his eyes and looked pathetic when he spoke of 
Nino's poverty, and of the fine part he had played in 
the whole business. Hedwig is a woman, and the 
principal satisfaction she gathered from Ercole's 
explanation was the knowledge that her friend the 
baroness had lied to her in explaining those strange 
words she had overheard. She knew it, of course, 
by instinct; but it was a great relief to be told the 
fact by some one else, as it always is, even when one 
is not a woman. 



 



CHAPTER VIII. 

SEVERAL days passed after the de*but without giving Nino an opportunity of speaking to Hedwig. 
He probably saw her, for he mingled in the crowd of 
dandies in the Piazza Colonna of an afternoon, hoping she would pass in her carriage and give him a 
look. Perhaps she did; he said nothing about it, 
but looked calm when he was silent and savage when 
he spoke, after the manner of passionate people. His 
face aged and grew stern in those few days, so that 
he seemed to change on a sudden from boy to man. 
But he went about his business, and sang at the 
theatre when he was obliged to ; gathering courage 
to do his best and to display his powers from the constant success he had. The papers were full of his 
praises, saying that he was absolutely without rival 
from the very first night he sang, matchless and 
supreme from the moment he first opened his mouth, 
and all that sort of nonsense. I dare say he is now, 
but he could not have been really the greatest singer 
living, so soon. However, he used to bring me the 
newspapers that had notices of him, though he never 
appeared to care much for them, nor did he ever keep 
them himself. He said he hankered for an ideal to 
which he would never attain ; and I told him that if 
he was never to attain to it he had better abandon 



 

the pursuit of it at once. But he represented to me 
that the ideal was confined to his imagination, 
whereas the reality had a great financial importance, 
since he daily received offers from foreign managers 
to sing for them, at large advantage to himself, and 
was hesitating only in order to choose the most con 
venient. This seemed sensible, and I was silent. 
Soon afterwards he presented me with a box of cigars 
and a very pretty amber mouthpiece. The cigars 
were real Havanas, such as I had not smoked for 
years, and must have cost a great deal. 

"You may not be aware, Sor Cornelio," he said 
one evening, as he mixed the oil and vinegar with 
the salad, at supper, "that I am now a rich man, 
or soon shall be. An agent from the London opera 
has offered me twenty thousand francs for the season 
in London, this spring." 

" Twenty thousand francs ! " I cried in amazement. 
" You must be dreaming, Nino. That is just about 
seven times what I earn in a year with my professor 
ship and my writing." 

"No dreams, caro mio. I have the offer in my 
pocket. " 

He apparently cared no more about it than if he 
had carried twenty thousand roasted chestnuts in his 
pocket. 

" When do you leave us ? " I asked, when I was 
somewhat recovered. 

"I am not sure that I shall go," he answered, 
sprinkling some pepper on his lettuce. 

" Not sure ! Body of Diana, what a fool you are ! " 

"Perhaps," said he, and he passed me the dish. 



 

Just then, Mariuccia came in with a bottle of wine, 
and we said no more about it ; for Mariuccia is indiscreet. 

Nino thought nothing about his riches, because 
he was racking his brains for some good expedient 
whereby he might see the contessina and speak with 
her. He had ascertained from De Pretis that the 
count was not so angry as he had expected, and that 
Hedwig was quite satisfied with the explanations of 
the maestro. The day after the foregoing conversation he wrote a note to her, wherein he said that if 
the Contessina di Lira would deign to be awake at 
midnight that evening she should have a serenade 
from a voice she was said to admire. He bid Mariuc 
cia carry the letter to the Palazzo Carmandola. 

At half past eleven, at least two hours after supper, Nino wrapped himself in my old cloak, and took 
the guitar under his arm. Rome is not a very safe 
place for midnight pranks, and so I made him take a 
good knife in his waist-belt; for he had confided to 
me where he was going. I tried to dissuade him 
from the plan, saying he might catch cold; but he 
laughed at me. 

A serenade is an every-day affair, and in the street 
one voice sounds about as well as another. He 
reached the palace, and his heart sank when he saw 
Hedwig's window dark and gloomy. He did not 
know that she was seated behind it in a deep chair, 
wrapped in white things, and listening for him 
against the beatings of her heart. The large moon 
seemed to be spiked on the sharp spire of the church 
that is near her house, and the black shadows cut the 



 

white light as clean as with a knife. Nino had 
tuned his guitar in the other street, and stood ready, 
waiting for the clocks to strike. Presently they 
clanged out wildly, as though they had been waked 
from their midnight sleep, and were angry; one clock 
answering the other, and one convent bell following 
another in the call to prayers. For two full minutes 
the whole air was crazy with ringing, and then it was 
all still. Nino struck a single chord. Hedwig al 
most thought he might hear her heart beating all the 
way down in the street. 

"Ah, del mio dolce ardor bramato ogetto," he 
sang, an old air in one of Gluck's operas, that our 
Italian musicians say was composed by Alessandro 
Stradella, the poor murdered singer. It must be a 
very good air, for it pleases me ; and I am not easily 
pleased with music of any sort. As for Hedwig, 
she pressed her ear to the glass of the window that 
she might not lose any note. But she would not 
open nor give any sign. Nino was not so easily discouraged, for he remembered that she had once opened 
her window for a few bars he had begun to sing. He
played a few chords, and breathed out the "Salve, 
dimora casta e pura," from Faust, high and soft and 
clear. There is a point in that song, near to the 
end, where the words say, "Reveal to me the 
maiden," and where the music goes away to the 
highest note that any one can possibly sing. It al 
ways appears quite easy for Nino, and he does not 
squeak like a dying pig, as all the other tenors do 
on that note. He was looking up as he sang it, wondering whether it would have any effect. Apparently Hedwig lost her head completely, for she gently 
opened the casement and looked out at the moonlight 
opposite over the carved stone mullions of her window. The song ended, he hesitated whether to 
go or to sing again. She was evidently looking 
towards him; but he was in the light, for the moon 
had risen higher, and she, on the other side of the 
street, was in the dark. 

" Signorina ! " he called softly. No answer. " Signorina!" he said again, coming across the empty 
street and standing under the window, which might 
have been thirty feet from the ground. 

"Hush! " came a whisper from above. 

" I thank you with all my soul for listening to me," 
he said in a low voice. " I am innocent of that of 
which you suspect me. I love you, ah, I love you ! " 
But at this she left the window very quickly. She 
did not close it, however, and Nino stood long, 
straining his eyes for a glimpse of the white face 
that had been there. He sighed, and striking a 
chord sang out boldly the old air from the Trovatore, 
"Ah, che la morte ognora tarda nel venir." Every 
blind fiddler in the streets plays it, though he would 
be sufficiently scared if death came any the quicker 
for his fiddling. But old and worn as it is, it has a 
strain of passion in it, and Nino threw more fire and 
voice into the ring of it than ever did famous old 
Boccarde, when he sang it at the first performance of 
the opera, thirty and odd years ago. As he played 
the chords after the first strophe, the voice from above 
whispered again : 

" Hush, for Heaven's sake I " Just that, and some- 



 

thing fell at his feet, with a soft little padded sound 
on the pavement. He stooped to pick it up, and 
found a single rose ; and at that instant the window 
closed sharply. Therefore he kissed the rose and hid 
it, and presently he strode down the street, finishing 
his song as he went, but only humming it, for the 
joy had taken his voice away. I heard him let himself in and go to bed, and he told me about it in the 
morning. That is how I know. 

Since the day after the de*but Nino had not seen 
the baroness. He did not speak of her, and I am 
sure he wished she were at the very bottom of the 
Tiber. But on the morning after the serenade he 
received a note from her, which was so full of protestations of friendship and so delicately couched that 
he looked grave, and reflected that it was his duty to 
be courteous, and to answer such a call as that. She 
begged him earnestly to come at one o clock; she 
was suffering from headache, she said, and was very 
weak. Had Nino loved Hedwig a whit the less, he 
would not have gone. But he felt himself strong 
enough to face anything and everything, and there 
fore he determined to go. 

He found her, indeed, with the manner of a person 
who is ill, but not with the appearance. She was 
lying on a huge couch, pushed to the fireside, and 
there were furs about her. A striped scarf of rich 
Eastern silk was round her throat, and she held in 
her hand a new novel, of which she carelessly cut the 
pages with a broad-hafted Persian knife. But there 
was colour in her dark cheek, and a sort of angry fire 
in her eyes. Nino thought the clean steel in her 



hand looked as though it might be used .for something 
besides cutting leaves, if the fancy took her. 

"So at last you have honoured me with a visit, 
signore," she said, not desisting from her occupation. 
Nino came to her, and she put out her hand. He 
touched it, but could not bear to hold it, for it burned 
him. 

"You used to honour my hand differently from 
that, she half whispered. Nino sat himself down 
a little way from her, blushing slightly. It was not 
at what she had said, but at the thought that he 
should ever have kissed her fingers. 

"Signora," he replied, "there are customs, chiv 
alrous and gentle in themselves, and worthy for all 
men to practice. But from the moment a custom 
begins to mean what it should not, it ought to be 
abandoned. You will forgive me if I no longer kiss 
your hand." 

" How cold you are ! how formal ! What should 
it mean ? " 

"It is better to say too little than too much," he 
answered. 

"Bah!" she cried, with a bitter little laugh. 
" Words are silver, but silence is very often nothing but silver-plated brass. Put a little more wood 
on the fire; you make me cold." Nino obeyed. 

" How literal you are ! " said the baroness petulantly. "There is fire enough, on the hearth." 

" Apparently, signora, you are pleased to be enigmatical," said Nino. 

"I will be pleased to be anything I please," she 
answered, and looked at him rather fiercely. "I 



 

wanted you to drive away my headache, and you 
only make it worse." 

"I am sorry, signora. I will leave you at once. 
Permit me to wish you a very good-morning." 

He took his hat and went towards the door. Be 
fore he reached the heavy curtain, she was at his side 
with a rush like a falcon on the wing, her eyes burn 
ing darkly between anger and love. 

" Nino ! " She laid hold of his arm, and looked 
into his face. 

"Signora," he protested coldly, and drew back. 

"You will not leave me so?" 

"As you wish, signora. I desire to oblige you." 

" Oh, how cold you are ! " she cried, leaving his 
arm, and sinking into a chair by the door, while he 
stood with his hand on the curtain. She hid her 
eyes. "Nino, Nino I You will break my heart! " she 
sobbed; and a tear, perhaps more of anger than of 
sorrow, burst through her fingers, and coursed down 
her cheek. 

Few men can bear to see a woman shed tears. 
Nino's nature rose up in his throat, and bade him 
console her. But between him and her was a fair, 
bright image that forbade him to move hand or 
foot. 

"Signora," he said, with all the calm he could 
command, " if I were conscious of having by word or 
deed of mine given you cause to speak thus, I would 
humbly implore your forgiveness. But my heart 
does not accuse me. I beg you to allow me to take 
leave of you. I will go away, and you shall have no 
further cause to think of me." 



 

He moved again, and lifted the curtain. But she 
was like a panther, so quick and beautiful. Ah, 
how I could have loved that woman ! She held him, 
and would not let him go, her smooth fingers fasten 
ing round his wrists like springs. 

"Please to let me go," he said between his teeth, 
with rising anger. 

" No ! I will not let you ! " she cried fiercely, 
tightening her grasp on him. Then the angry fire in 
her tearful eyes seemed suddenly to melt into a soft 
flame, and the colour came faster to her cheeks. " Ah, 
how can you let me so disgrace myself! how can you 
see me fallen so low as to use the strength of my 
hands, and yet have no pity! Nino, Nino, do not 
kill me!" 

"Indeed, it would be the better for you if I 
should," he answered bitterly, but without attempting to free his wrists from her strong, soft grip. 

"But you will," she murmured passionately. 
" You are killing me by leaving me. Can you not 
see it?" 

Her voice melted away in the tearful cadence. 
But Nino stood gazing at her as stonily as though 
he were the Sphinx. How could he have the heart? 
I cannot tell. Long she looked into his eyes, silently ; 
but she might as well have tried to animate a piece 
of iron, so stern and hard he was. Suddenly, with 
a strong, convulsive movement, she flung his hands 
from her. 

" Go ! " she cried hoarsely. " Go to that wax doll 
you love, and see whether she will love you, or care 
whether you leave her or not ! Go, go, go ! Go to 



 

her! " She had sprung far back from him, and now 
pointed to the door, drawn to her full height and 
blazing in her wrath. 

" I would advise you, madam, to speak with proper 
respect of any lady with whom you choose to couple 
my name." 

His lips opened and shut mechanically, and he 
trembled from head to foot. 

" Respect ! " She laughed wildly. " Respect for a 
mere child whom you happen to fancy! Respect, 
indeed, for anything you choose to do !  I respect Hedwig von Lira? Ha! ha!" And she rested 
her hand on the table behind her, as she laughed. 

"Be silent, madam," said Nino, and he moved a 
step nearer, and stood with folded arms. 

"Ah! You would silence me now, would you? 
You would rather not hear me speak of your mid 
night serenades, and your sweet letters dropped from 
the window of her room, at your feet?" But her rage overturned itself, and with a strange cry she 
fell into a deep chair, and wept bitterly, burying her 
face in her two hands. "Miserable woman that I 
am! " she sobbed, and her whole lithe body was convulsed. 

"You are indeed," said Nino, and he turned once 
more to go. But as he turned, the servant threw 
back the curtain. 

"The Signor Conte di Lira," he announced in dis 
tinct tones. For a moment there was a dead silence, 
during which, in spite of his astonishment at the 
sudden appearance of the count, Nino had time 
to reflect that the baroness had caused him to be 



 

watched during the previous night. It might well 
be, and the mistake she made in supposing the thing 
Hedwig had dropped to be a letter told him that 
her spy had not ventured very near. 

The tall count came forward under the raised cur 
tains, limping and helping himself with his stick. 
His face was as grey and wooden as ever, but his 
moustaches had an irritated, crimped look, that Nino 
did not like. The count barely nodded to the young 
man, as he stood aside to let the old gentleman pass ; 
his eyes turned mechanically to where the baroness 
sat. She was a woman who had no need to stimulate 
passion in any shape, and it must have cost her a terrible effort to control the paroxysm of anger and 
shame and grief that had overcome her. There was 
something unnatural and terrifying in her sudden 
calm, as she forced herself to rise and greet her visitor. 

"I fear I come out of season," he said, apologeti 
cally, as he bent over her hand. 

"On the contrary," she answered; "but forgive 
me if I speak one word to Professor Cardegna." She 
went to where Nino was standing. 

" Go into that room," she said, in a very low voice, 
glancing towards a curtained door opposite the windows, "and wait till he goes. You may listen if 
you choose." She spoke authoritatively. 

"I will not," answered Nino, in a determined 
whisper. 

"You will not?" Her eyes flashed again. He 
shook his head. 

"Count von Lira," she said aloud, turning to 
him, " do you know this young man ? " 



 

She spoke in Italian, and Von Lira answered in 
the same language; but as what he said was not 
exactly humorous, I will spare you the strange construction of his sentences. 

"Perfectly," he answered. "It is precisely concerning this young man that I desire to speak with 
you." The count remained standing because the 
baroness had not told him to be seated. 

"That is fortunate," replied the baroness, "for I 
wish to inform you that he is a villain, a wretch, a 
miserable fellow! " 

Her anger was rising again, but she struggled to 
control it. When Nino realised what she said, he 
came forward, and stood near the count, facing the 
baroness, his arms folded on his breast, as though 
to challenge accusation. The count raised his eye 
brows. 

"I am aware that he concealed his real profession 
so long as he gave my daughter lessons. That, how 
ever, has been satisfactorily explained, though I 
regret it. Pray inform me why you designate him 
as a villain." Nino felt a thrill of sympathy for this 
man whom he had so long deceived. 

"This man, sir," said she in measured tones, "this 
low-born singer, who has palmed himself off on us 
as a respectable instructor in language, has the audacity to love your daughter. For the sake of press 
ing his odious suit, he has wormed himself into 
your house, as into mine ; he has sung beneath your 
daughter's window, and she has dropped letters to 
him, love-letters, do you understand? And now," 
her voice rose more shrill and uncontrollable at 



 

every word, as she saw Lira's face turn white, and 
her anger gave desperate utterance to the lie, 
" and now he has the effrontery to come to me to 
me to me of all women and to confess his abom 
inable passion for that pure angel, imploring me to 
assist him in bringing destruction upon her and you. 
Oh, it is execrable, it is vile, it is hellish! " 

She pressed her hands to her temples as she stood, 
and glared at the two men. The count was a strong 
man, easily petulant, but hard to move to real anger. 
Though his face was white and his right hand clutched 
his crutch-stick, he still kept the mastery of himself. 

"Is what you tell me true, madam?" he asked in 
a strange voice. 

"Before God, it is true! " she cried desperately. 

The old man looked at her for one moment, and 
then, as though he had been twenty years younger, 
he made at Nino, brandishing his stick to strike. 
But Nino is strong and young, and he is almost a 
Roman. He foresaw the count's action, and his 
right hand stole to the table, and grasped the clean, 
murderous knife; the baroness had used it so innocently to cut the leaves of her book, half an hour 
before. With one wrench he had disarmed the elder 
man, forced him back upon a lounge, and set the 
razor edge of his weapon against the count's throat. 

" If you speak one word, or try to strike me, I will 
cut off your head," he said quietly, bringing his 
cold, marble face close down to the old man's eyes. 
There was something so deathly in his voice, in spite 
of its quiet sound, that the count thought his hour 
was come, brave man as he was. The baroness tottered back against the opposite wall, and stood star 
ing at the two, disheveled and horrified. 

"This woman," said Nino, still holding the cold 
thing against the flesh, "lies in part, and in part 
tells the truth. I love your daughter, it is true." 
The poor old man quivered beneath Nino's weight, 
and his eyes rolled wildly, searching for some means 
of escape. But it was of no use. "I love her, and 
have sung beneath her window; but I never had a 
written word from her in my life, and I neither told 
this woman of my love nor asked her assistance. 
She guessed it at the first; she guessed the reason 
of my disguise, and she herself offered to help me. 
You may speak now. Ask her." 

Nino relaxed his hold, and stood off, still grasping the knife. The old count breathed, shook him 
self and passed his handkerchief over his face before 
he spoke. The baroness stood as though she were 
petrified. 

" Thunder-weather, you are a devilish young man ! " 
said Von Lira, still panting. Then he suddenly recovered his dignity. " You have caused me to assault 
this young man, by what you told me," he said, struggling to his feet. " He defended himself, and might 
have killed me, had he chosen. Be good enough to 
tell me whether he has spoken the truth, or you." 

"He has spoken the truth," answered the baron 
ess, staring vacantly about her. Her fright had 
taken from her even the faculty of lying. Her voice 
was low, but she articulated the words distinctly. 
Then, suddenly, she threw up her hands, with a 
short, quick scream, and fell forward, senseless, on 



 

the floor. Nino looked at the count, and dropped 
his knife on a table. The count looked at Nino. 

"Sir," said the old gentleman, "I forgive you for 
resisting my assault. I do not forgive you for presuming to love my daughter, and I will find means 
to remind you of the scandal you have brought on 
my house." He drew himself up to his full height. 
Nino handed him his crutch-stick civilly. 

"Signor Conte," he said, simply, but with all his 
natural courtesy, " I am sorry for this affair, to which 
you forced me, or rather the Signora Baronessa 
forced us both. I have acted foolishly, perhaps, but 
I am in love. And permit me to assure you, sir, that 
I will yet marry the Signorina di Lira, if she consents to marry me." 

"By the name of Heaven," swore the old count, 
"if she wants to marry a singer, she shall." 

He limped to the door in sullen anger, and went 
out. Nino turned to the prostrate figure of the poor 
baroness. The continued strain on her nerves had 
broken her down, and she lay on the floor in a dead 
faint. Nino put a cushion from the lounge under 
her head, and rang the bell. The servant appeared 
instantly. 

"Bring water quickly! " he cried. "The signora 
has fainted." He stood looking at the senseless figure 
of the woman, as she lay across the rich Persian rugs 
that covered the floor. 

" Why did you not bring salts, cologne, her maid 
run, I tell you! " he said to the man, who brought 
the glass of water on a gilded tray. 

He had forgotten that the fellow could not be expected to have any sense. When her people came at 
last, he had sprinkled her face, and she had unconsciously swallowed enough of the water to have some 
effect in reviving her. She began to open her eyes, 
and her fingers moved nervously. Nino found his 
hat, and, casting one glance round the room that had 
just witnessed such strange doings, passed through 
the door and went out. The baroness was left with 
her servants. Poor woman! She did very wrong, 
perhaps, but anybody would have loved her except 
Nino. She must have been terribly shaken, one 
would have thought, and she ought to have gone to 
lie down, and should have sent for the doctor to bleed 
