balancing and holding on.

"I thought there were more of you," he began, addressing Lady Victoria.
"You seem to be having quite a nice time here."

"Yes."

"I wish I had come up sooner; the atmosphere downstairs is very
oppressive."

"I thought you had neuralgia," said Lady Victoria.

"So I had. But that kind of neuralgia comes and goes very suddenly.
Where is the giant of the North?"

"Dr. Claudius? He went down with Miss Skeat, and when he came up again
he said he would go forward," answered she, giving the nautical
pronunciation to the latter word.

"Oh, I see him," cried Barker, "there he is, just going up the bridge.
By Jove! what a height he looks."

"Yes," put in the Duke, "he is rather oversparred for a nor'-easter, eh?
Rather be your size, Barker, for reefing tawpsels;" and the Englishman
laughed.

"Well," said Barker, "when I first knew him he used to wear a balustrade
round his neck to keep from being dizzy. I wouldn't care to have to do
that. I think I will go and have a look too." And leaving his companions
to laugh at his joke, Mr. Barker glided easily from the rail, and began
his journey to the bridge, which he accomplished without any apparent
difficulty. When he had climbed the little ladder he waved his hand to
the Duke and his sister, who screamed something complimentary in reply;
and then he spoke to Claudius who was standing by the skipper, his legs
far apart, and both his hands on the railing.

"Is that you, Barker?" asked Claudius; "you are well disguised this
morning."

"Claudius," said the other, "what on earth is the row?" The captain was
on the other side of the Doctor, and could not hear in the wind.

"What row?" asked Claudius. Barker knew enough of his friend by this
time to be aware that roundabout methods of extracting information were
less likely to be successful than a point-blank question.

"Don't pretend ignorance," said he. "You look like a ghost, you are so
pale, and when you put your head through the curtains a quarter of an
hour ago, I thought you were one. And you have not been near the
Countess this morning, though you have never been away from her before
since we weighed anchor. Now, something has happened, and if I can do
anything, tell me, and I will do it, right away." It is a good old plan,
that one of trying to satisfy one's curiosity under pretence of offering
assistance. But Claudius did not trouble himself about such things; he
wanted no help from any one, and never had; and if he meant to tell,
nothing would prevent him, and if he did not mean to tell, no power
would make him.

"Since you have found it out, Barker, something has happened, as you
say; and thanks for your offer of help, but I cannot tell you anything
more about it."

"I think you are unwise."

"Perhaps."

"I might help you a great deal, for I have some natural tact."

"Yes."

"Besides, you know I am as secret as the grave."

"Quite so."

"I introduced you to the Countess, too."

"I know it."

"And I should be very sorry indeed to think that my action should have
had any evil consequences."

"I am sure you would."

"Then, my dear fellow, you must really take me a little more into your
confidence, and let me help you," said Barker, in the tone of an injured
man.

"Perhaps I ought," said Claudius.

"Then why will you not tell me what has happened now?"

"Because I won't," said Claudius, turning sharply on Barker, and
speaking in a voice that seemed to make the railings shake. He was
evidently on the point of losing his temper, and Barker repented him
too late of his attempt to extract the required information. Now he
changed his tone.

"Excuse me, Claudius, I did not mean to offend you."

"You did not offend me at all, Barker. But please--do not ask me any
more questions about it." Claudius was perfectly calm again.

"No indeed, my dear fellow, I would not think of it;--and I don't seem
to think that I should advise anybody else to," he added mentally. He
made up his mind that it must be something very serious, or Claudius,
who was so rarely excited, would hardly have behaved as he had done. He
made a few remarks about the weather, which had certainly not improved
since morning; and then, resolving that he would find out what was the
matter before he was much older, he glided down the ladder and went aft.
Lady Victoria had disappeared, and her brother was trying to light a
short black pipe.

"Duke," Barker began, "what the deuce is the matter with Claudius this
morning?"

"Don't know, I'm sure. My sister thinks it is very odd."

"Well, if you don't know, I don't either, but I can make a pretty good
guess."

The Duke's vesuvian was sputtering in the spray and wind, and he got a
good light before he answered.

"I'll take six to four he marries her, at all events."

"I don't go in for playing it as low down as that on my friends," said
Barker virtuously, "or I would take you in hundreds. You must be crazy.
Can't you see he has shown up and is sold? Bah! it's all over, as sure
as you're born."

"Think that's it?" said the other, much interested. "You may be right.
Glad you would not bet, anyhow."

"Of course that's it. The idiot has proposed to her here, on board, and
she has refused him, and now he has to face the fury of the elements to
keep out of her way."

"Upon my soul, it looks like it," said the Duke. "He won't stay on the
bridge much longer if this lasts, though."

"You had best ask your sister," answered Barker. "Women always know
those things first. What do you say to a game? It is beastly dirty
weather to be on the deck watch." And so they pushed forward to the
smoking-room, just before the bridge, and settled themselves for the day
with a pack of cards and a box of cigars.

As Margaret had not put in an appearance at breakfast, which was a late
and solid meal on board, and as there was no other regular congregation
of the party until dinner, for each one lunched as he or she pleased, it
was clear that the Countess and Claudius would not be brought together
until the evening. Margaret was glad of this for various reasons, some
definable and others vague. She felt that she must have misjudged
Claudius a little, and she was glad to see that her exhibition of
displeasure on the previous night had been sufficient to keep him away.
Had he been as tactless as she had at first thought, he would surely
have sought an early opportunity of speaking to her alone, and the rest
of the party were so much used to seeing them spend their mornings
together that such an opportunity would not have been lacking, had he
wished it. And if he had misunderstood her words and manner--well, if
he had not thought they were meant as a decisive check, he would have
followed her there and then, last night, when she left him. She felt a
little nervous about his future conduct, but for the present she was
satisfied, and prepared herself for the inevitable meeting at dinner
with a certain feeling of assurance. "For," said she, "I do not love him
in the least, and why should I be embarrassed?"

Not so poor Claudius, who felt the blood leave his face and rush wildly
to his heart, as he entered the saloon where the party were sitting down
to dinner. The vessel was rolling heavily, for the sea was running high
under the north-easter, and dinner would be no easy matter. He knew he
must sit next to her and help her under all the difficulties that arise
under the circumstances. It would have been easy, too, for them both to
see that the eyes of the other four were upon them, had either of them
suspected it. Claudius held himself up to the full of his great height
and steadied every nerve of his body for the meeting. Margaret belonged
to the people who do not change colour easily, and when she spoke, even
the alert ear of Mr. Barker opposite could hardly detect the faintest
change of tone. And yet she bore the burden of it, for she spoke first.

"How do you do, Dr. Claudius?"

"Thank you, well. I was sorry to hear you had a headache to-day. I hope
you are better."

"Thanks, yes; much better." They all sat down, and it was over.

The conversation was at first very disjointed, and was inclined to turn
on small jokes about the difficulty of dining at an angle of forty-five
degrees. The weather was certainly much heavier than it had been in the
morning, and the Duke feared they would have a longer passage than they
had expected, but added that they would be better able to judge
to-morrow at twelve. Claudius and Margaret exchanged a few sentences,
with tolerable tact and indifference; but, for some occult reason, Mr.
Barker undertook to be especially lively and amusing, and after the
dinner was somewhat advanced he launched out into a series of stories
and anecdotes which served very well to pass the time and to attract
notice to himself. As Mr. Barker was generally not very talkative at
table, though frequently epigrammatic, his sudden eloquence was
calculated to engage the attention of the party. Claudius and Margaret
were glad of the rattling talk that delivered them from the burden of
saying anything especial, and they both laughed quite naturally at
Barker's odd wit. They were grateful to him for what he did, and
Claudius entertained some faint hope that he might go on in the same
strain for the rest of the voyage. But Margaret pondered these things.
She saw quickly that Barker had perceived that some embarrassment
existed, and was spending his best strength in trying to make the meal a
particularly gay one. But she could not understand how Barker could have
found out that there was any difficulty. Had Claudius been making
confidences? It would have been very foolish for him to do so, and
besides, Claudius was not the man to make confidences. He was reticent
and cold as a rule, and Barker had more than once confessed to the
Countess that he knew very little of Claudius's previous history,
because the latter "never talked," and would not always answer
questions. So she came to the conclusion that Barker only suspected
something, because the Doctor had not been with her during the day. And
so she laughed, and Claudius laughed, and they were well satisfied to
pay their social obolus in a little well-bred and well-assumed hilarity.

So the dinner progressed, in spite of the rolling and pitching; for
there was a good deal of both, as the sea ran diagonally to the course,
breaking on the starboard quarter. They had reached the dessert, and two
at least of the party were congratulating themselves on the happy
termination of the meal, when, just as the Duke was speaking, there was
a heavy lurch, and a tremendous sea broke over their heads. Then came a
fearful whirring sound that shook through every plate and timber and
bulkhead, like the sudden running down of mammoth clock-work, lasting
some twenty seconds; then everything was quiet again save the sea, and
the yacht rolled heavily to and fro.

Every one knew that there had been a serious accident, but no one moved
from the table. The Duke sat like a rock in his place and finished what
he was saying, though no one noticed it. Miss Skeat clutched her silver
fruit-knife till her knuckles shone again, and she set her teeth. Mr.
Barker, who had a glass of wine in the "fiddle" before him, took it out
when the sea struck and held it up steadily to save it from being
spilled; and Lady Victoria, who was not the least ashamed of being
startled, cried out--

"Goodness gracious!" and then sat holding to the table and looking at
her brother.

Margaret and Claudius were sitting next each other on one side of the
table. By one of those strange, sympathetic instincts, that only
manifest themselves in moments of great danger, they did the same thing
at the same moment. Claudius put out his left hand and Margaret her
right, and those two hands met just below the table and clasped each
other, and in that instant each turned round to the other and looked the
other in the face. What that look told man knoweth not, but for one
instant there was nothing in the world for Margaret but Claudius. As for
him, poor man, he had long known that she was the whole world to him,
his life and his death.

It was very short, and Margaret quickly withdrew her hand and looked
away. The Duke was the first to speak.

"I do not think it is anything very serious," said he. "If you will all
sit still, I will go and see what is the matter." He rose and left the
saloon.

"I don't fancy there is any cause for anxiety," said Barker. "There has
probably been some slight accident to the machinery, and we shall be off
again in an hour. I think we ought to compliment the ladies on the
courage they have shown; it is perfectly wonderful." And Mr. Barker
smiled gently round the table. Lady Victoria was palpably scared and
Miss Skeat was silent. As for Margaret, she was confused and troubled.
The accident of her seizing Claudius's hand, as she had done, was a
thousand times more serious than any accident to the ship. The Doctor
could not help stealing a glance at her, but he chimed in with Barker in
praising the coolness of all three ladies. Presently the Duke came back.
He had been forward by a passage that led between decks to the
engine-room, where he had met the captain. The party felt reassured as
the ruddy face of their host appeared in the doorway.

"There is nothing to fear," he said cheerfully. "But it is a horrid
nuisance, all the same."

"Tell us all about it," said Lady Victoria.

"Well--we have lost our means of locomotion. We have carried away our
propeller."

"What are you going to do about it?" asked Barker.

"Do? There is nothing to be done. We must sail for it. I am dreadfully
sorry."

"It is not your fault," said Claudius.

"Well, I suppose not. It happens even to big steamers."

"And shall we sail all the way to New York?" asked his sister, who was
completely reassured. "I think it will be lovely." Miss Skeat also
thought sailing much more poetic than steaming.

"I think we must hold a council of war," said the master. "Let us put it
to the vote. Shall we make for Bermuda, which is actually nearer, but
which is four or five days' from New York, or shall we go straight and
take our chance of a fair wind?"

"If you are equally willing to do both, why not let the ladies decide?"
suggested Barker.

"Oh no," broke in the Countess, "it will be much more amusing to vote.
We will write on slips of paper and put them in a bag."

"As there are five of you I will not vote," said the Duke, "for we might
be three on a side, you know."

So they voted, and there were three votes for New York and two for
Bermuda.

"New York has it," said the Duke, who counted, "and I am glad, on the
whole, for it is Sturleson's advice." Barker had voted for New York, and
he wondered who the two could have been who wanted to go to Bermuda.
Probably Miss Skeat and Lady Victoria. Had the Countess suspected that
those two would choose the longer journey and out-vote her, if the
decision were left to the ladies?

Meanwhile there had been heavy tramping of feet on the deck, as the men
trimmed the sails. She could only go under double-reefed trysails and
fore-staysail for the present, and it was no joke to keep her head up
while the reefs were taken in. It was blowing considerably more than
half a gale of wind, and the sea was very heavy. Soon, however, the
effect of the sails made itself felt; the yacht was a good sea-boat, and
when she fairly heeled over on the port-tack and began to cut the waves
again, the ladies downstairs agreed that sailing was much pleasanter and
steadier than steam, and that the next time they crossed in a yacht they
would like to sail all the way. But in spite of their courage, and
notwithstanding that they were greatly reassured by the explanations of
Mr. Barker, who made the nature of the accident quite clear to them,
they had been badly shaken, and soon retired to their respective
staterooms. In the small confusion of getting to their feet to leave the
cabin it chanced that Claudius found himself helping Margaret to the
door. The recollection of her touch and look when the accident happened
was strong in him yet and gave him courage.

"Good-night, Countess," he said; "shall I have the pleasure of reading
with you to-morrow?"

"Perhaps," she answered; "if it is very fine. Fate has decreed that we
should have plenty of time." He tried to catch a glance as she left his
arm, but she would not, and they were parted for the night. Barker had
gone into the engine-room, now quiet and strange; the useless machinery
stood still as it had been stopped when the loss of the propeller,
relieving the opposition to the motor-force, allowed it to make its
last frantic revolutions. The Duke and Claudius were left alone in the
main cabin.

"Well," said the Duke, "we are in for it this time, at all events."

"We are indeed," said Claudius; "I hope the delay will not cause you any
serious inconvenience, for I suppose we shall not reach New York for a
fortnight at least."

"It will not inconvenience me at all. But I am sorry for you--for you
all, I mean," he added, fearing he had been awkward in thus addressing
Claudius directly, "because it will be so very disagreeable, such an
awful bore for you to be at sea so long."

"I have no doubt we shall survive," said the other, with a smile. "What
do you say to going on deck and having a chat with Sturleson, now that
all is quiet?"

"And a pipe?" said the Duke, "I am with you." So on deck they went, and
clambered along the lee to the smoking-room, without getting very wet.
Sturleson was sent for, and they reviewed together the situation. The
result of the inquiry was that things looked much brighter to all three.
They were in a good sea-boat, well manned and provisioned, with nothing
to fear from the weather, and if they were lucky they might make Sandy
Hook in a week. On the other hand, they might not; but it is always well
to take a cheerful view of things. People who cross the Atlantic in
yachts are very different from the regular crowds that go backwards and
forwards in the great lines. They are seldom in a hurry, and have
generally made a good many voyages before. Perhaps the Duke himself, in
his quality of host, was the most uncomfortable man on board. He did
not see how the Countess and the Doctor could possibly survive being
shut up together in a small vessel, for he was convinced that Barker
knew all about their difficulty. If he had not liked Claudius so much,
he would have been angry at him for daring to propose to this beautiful
young friend of his. But then Claudius was Claudius, and even the Duke
saw something in him besides his wealth which gave him a right to aspire
to the highest.

"I can't make out," the Duke once said to Barker, "where Claudius got
his manners. He never does anything the least odd; and he always seems
at his ease."

"I only know he came to Heidelberg ten years ago, and that he is about
thirty. He got his manners somewhere when he was a boy."

"Of course, there are lots of good people in Sweden," said the Duke;
"but they all have titles, just as they do in Germany. And Claudius has
no title."

"No," said Barker pensively, "I never heard him say he had a title."

"I don't know anything about it," answered the Duke. "But I have been a
good deal about Sweden, and he is not in the least like a respectable
Swedish burgher. Did you not tell me that his uncle, who left him all
that money, was your father's partner in business?"

"Yes, I remember once or twice hearing the old gentleman say he had a
nephew. But he was a silent man, though he piled up the dollars."

"Claudius is a silent man too," said the Duke.

"And he has sailed into the dollars ready piled."

But this was before the eventful day just described; and the Duke had
forgotten the conversation, though he had repeated the reflections to
himself, and found them true. To tell the truth, Claudius looked more
like a duke than his host, for the sea air had blown away the
professorial cobwebs; and, after all, it did not seem so very
incongruous in the Englishman's eyes that his handsome guest should fall
in love with the Countess Margaret. Only, it was very uncomfortable; and
he did not know exactly what he should do with them for the next ten
days. Perhaps he ought to devote himself to the Countess, and thus
effectually prevent any approaches that Claudius might meditate.
Yes--that was probably his duty. He wished he might ask counsel of his
sister; but then she did not know, and it seemed unfair, and altogether
rather a betrayal of confidence or something--at all events, it was not
right, and he would not do it. Barker might be wrong too. And so the
poor Duke, muddle-headed and weary with this storm in his tea-cup, and
with having his tea-cup come to grief in a real storm into the bargain,
turned into his deck-cabin to "sleep on it," thinking the morning would
bring counsel.

Claudius had many things to think of too; but he was weary, for he had
slept little of late, and not at all the night before; so he lay down
and went over the scenes of the evening; but soon he fell asleep, and
dreamed of her all the night long.

But the good yacht Streak held on her course bravely, quivering in the
joy of her new-spread wings. For what hulk is so dull and pitifully
modern as not to feel how much gladder a thing it is to bound along with
straining shrouds and singing sails and lifting keel to the fierce music
of the wind than to be ever conscious of a burning sullenly-thudding
power, put in her bosom by the unartistic beast, man, to make her grind
her breathless way whither he would, and whither she would not? Not the
meanest mud-scow or harbour tug but would rather have a little mast and
a bit of canvas in the fresh salt breeze than all the hundreds of
land-born horse-powers and fire-driven cranks and rods that a
haste-loving generation can cram into the belly of the poor craft. How
much more, then, must the beautiful clean-built Streak have rejoiced
on that night when she felt the throbbing, gnashing pain of the engines
stop suddenly in her breast, and was allowed to spread her beautiful
wings out to be kissed and caressed all over by her old lover, the
north-east wind?

And the grand crested waves came creeping up, curling over their dark
heads till they bristled with phosphorescent foam; and some of them
broke angrily upward, jealous that the wind alone might touch those
gleaming sails. But the wind roared at them in his wrath and drove them
away, so that they sank back, afraid to fight with him; and he took the
ship in his strong arms, and bore her fast and far that night, through
many a heaving billow, and past many a breaking crest--far over the
untrodden paths, where footsteps are not, neither the defiling hand of
man.

But within were beating hearts and the breathings of life. The strong
man stretched to his full length on his couch, mighty to see in his
hard-earned sleep. And the beautiful woman, with parted lips and wild
tossing black hair; dark cheeks flushed with soft resting; hands laid
together lovingly, as though, in the quiet night, the left hand would
learn at last what good work the right hand has wrought; the fringe of
long eyelashes drooping with the lids, to fold and keep the glorious
light safe within, and--ah yes, it is there!--the single tear still
clinging to its birthplace--mortal impress of immortal suffering. Is it
not always there, the jewelled sign-manual of grief?

But the good yacht Streak held on her course bravely; and the
north-easter laughed and sang as he buffeted the waves from the path of
his love.




CHAPTER IX.


The Duke was the first to be astir in the morning, and as soon as he
opened his eyes he made up his mind that the weather was improving. The
sea was still running high, but there was no sound of water breaking
over the bulwarks. He emerged from his deck-cabin, and took a sniff of
the morning air. A reef had been shaken out of the trysails, and the
fore-topsail and jib were set. He went aft, and found the mate just
heaving the patent log.

"Nine and a half, your Grace," said the officer with a chuckle, for he
was an old sailor, and hated steamers.

"That's very fair," remarked the owner, skating off with his bare feet
over the wet deck. Then he went back to his cabin to dress.

Presently Mr. Barker's neat person emerged from the cuddy. He looked
about to see if any one were out yet, but only a party of red-capped
tars were visible, swabbing the forward deck with their pendulum-like
brooms, and working their way aft in a regular, serried rank. The
phalanx moved with an even stroke, and each bare foot advanced just so
many inches at every third sweep of the broom, while the yellow-haired
Norse 'prentice played the hose in front of them. Mr. Barker perceived
that they would overtake him before long, and he determined on flight,
not forward or aft, but aloft; and he leisurely lifted himself into the
main-shrouds, and climbing half-way, hooked his feet through the
ratlines. In this position he took out a cigar, lighted it with a
vesuvian, and, regardless of the increased motion imparted to him at his
greater elevation, he began to smoke. The atmosphere below must have
been very oppressive indeed to induce Mr. Barker to come up before
breakfast--in fact, before eight o'clock--for the sake of smoking a
solitary cigar up there by the catharpings. Mr. Barker wanted to think,
for an idea had struck him during the night.

In ten minutes the parade of deck-swabbers had passed, and Claudius also
appeared on deck, looking haggard and pale. He did not see Barker, for
he turned, seaman-like, to the weatherside, and the try-sail hid his
friend from his sight. Presently he too thought he would go aloft, for
he felt cramped and weary, and fancied a climb would stretch his limbs.
He went right up to the crosstrees before he espied Barker, a few feet
below him on the other side. He stopped a moment in astonishment, for
this sort of diversion was the last thing he had given the American
credit for. Besides, as Barker was to leeward, the rigging where he was
perched stood almost perpendicular, and his position must have been a
very uncomfortable one. Claudius was not given to jocularity as a rule,
but he could not resist such a chance for astonishing a man who imagined
himself to be enjoying an airy solitude between sky and water. So he
gently swung himself into the lee rigging and, leaning far down,
cautiously lifted Mr. Barker's cap from his head by the woollen button
in the middle. Mr. Barker knocked the ash from his cigar with his free
hand, and returned it to his mouth; he then conveyed the same hand to
the top of his head, to assure himself that the cap was gone. He knew
perfectly well that in his present position he could not look up to see
who had played him the trick.

"I don't know who you are," he sang out, "but I may as well tell you my
life is insured. If I catch cold, the company will make it hot for
you--and no error."

A roar of laughter from below saluted this sally, for the Duke and
Sturleson had met, and had watched together the progress of the joke.

"I will take the risk," replied Claudius, who had retired again to the
crosstrees. "I am going to put it on the topmast-head, so that you may
have a good look at it."

"You can't do it," said Barker, turning himself round, and lying flat
against the ratlines, so that he could look up at his friend.

"What's that?" bawled the Duke from below.

"Says he will decorate the maintruck with my hat, and I say he can't do
it," Barker shouted back.

"I'll back Claudius, level money," answered the Duke in stentorian
tones.

"I'll take three to two," said Barker.

"No, I won't. Level money."

"Done for a hundred, then," answered the American.

It was an unlikely thing to bet on, and Barker thought he might have
given the Duke odds, instead of asking them, as he had done. But he
liked to get all he could in a fair way. Having arranged his bet, he
told Claudius he might climb to the mast-head if he liked, but that he,
Barker, was going down so as to have a better view; and he forthwith
descended. All three stood leaning back against the weather bulwarks,
craning their necks to see the better. Claudius was a very large man, as
has been said, and Barker did not believe it possible that he could drag
his gigantic frame up the smooth mast beyond the shrouds. If it were
possible, he was quite willing to pay his money to see him do it.

Claudius put the woollen cap in his pocket, and began the ascent. The
steamer, as has been said, was schooner-rigged, with topsail yards on
the foremast, but there were no ratlines in the main topmast shrouds,
which were set about ten feet below the mast-head. To this point
Claudius climbed easily enough, using his arms and legs against the
stiffened ropes. A shout from the Duke hailed his arrival.

"Now comes the tug of war," said the Duke.

"He can never do it," said Barker confidently.

But Barker had underrated the extraordinary strength of the man against
whom he was betting, and he did not know how often, when a boy, Claudius
had climbed higher masts than those of the Streak. The Doctor was one
of those natural athletes whose strength does not diminish for lack of
exercise, and large as he was, and tall, he was not so heavy as Barker
thought. Now he pulled the cap out of his pocket and held it between his
teeth, as he gripped the smooth wood between his arms and hands and
legs, and with firm and even motion he began to swarm up the bare pole.

"There--I told you so," said Barker. Claudius had slipped nearly a foot
back.

"He will do it yet," said the Duke, as the climber clasped his mighty
hands to the mast. He would not slip again, for his blood was up, and he
could almost fancy his iron grip pressed deep into the wood. Slowly,
slowly those last three feet were conquered, inch by inch, and the broad
hand stole stealthily over the small wooden truck at the topmast-head
till it had a firm hold--then the other, and with the two he raised and
pushed his body up till the truck was opposite his breast.

"Skal to the Viking!" yelled old Sturleson, the Swedish captain, his
sunburnt face glowing red with triumph as Claudius clapped the woollen
cap over the mast-head.

"Well done, indeed, man!" bawled the Duke.

"Well," said Barker, "it was worth the money, anyhow."

There was a faint exclamation from the door of the after-cabin; but none
of the three men heard it, nor did they see a horror-struck face, stony
and wide-eyed, staring up at the mast-head, where the Doctor's athletic
figure swayed far out over the water with the motion of the yacht. Time
had flown, and the bright sunlight streaming down into the ladies' cabin
had made Margaret long for a breath of fresh air; so that when Lady
Victoria appeared, in all sorts of jersies and blue garments, fresh and
ready for anything, the two had made common cause and ventured up the
companion without any manly assistance. It chanced that they came out on
the deck at the very moment when Claudius was accomplishing his feat,
and seeing the three men looking intently at something aloft, Margaret
looked too, and was horrified at what she saw. Lady Victoria caught her
and held her tightly, or she would have lost her footing with the lurch
of the vessel. Lady Victoria raised her eyes also, and took in the
situation at a glance.

"Don't be afraid," she said, "he can take care of himself, no doubt. My
brother used to be able to do it before he grew so big."

Claudius descended rapidly, but almost lost his hold when he saw
Margaret leaning against the taffrail. He would not have had her see him
for worlds, and there she was, and she had evidently witnessed the whole
affair. Before he had reached the deck, the Duke had seen her too, and
hastened to her side. She was evidently much agitated.

"How can you allow such things?" she said indignantly, her dark eyes
flashing at him.

"I had nothing to say about it, Countess. But he did it magnificently."

Claudius had reached the deck, and eluding the compliments of Barker and
Sturleson, hastened to the cuddy door, bowing to the ladies as he
passed. He meant to beat a retreat to his cabin. But Margaret was
determined to call him to account for having given her such a fright.

"Dr. Claudius," said the voice that he loved and feared.

"Yes, Countess," said he, steadying himself by the door as the vessel
lurched.

"Will you please come here? I want to speak to you." He moved to her
side, waiting his chance between two seas. "Do you think you have a
right to risk your life in such follies?" she asked, when he was close
to her. The Duke and Lady Victoria were near by.

"I do not think I have risked my life, Countess. I have often done it
before."

"Do you think, then, that you have a right to do such things in the
sight of nervous women?"

"No, Countess, I pretend to no such brutality, and I am very sincerely
sorry that you should have unexpectedly seen me. I apologise most
humbly to you and to Lady Victoria for having startled you;" he bowed to
the Duke's sister as he spoke, and moved to go away. He had already
turned when Margaret's face softened.

"Dr. Claudius," she called again. He was at her side in a moment.
"Please do not do it again--even if I am not there." She looked at him;
he thought it strange. But he was annoyed at the whole business, and
really angry with himself. She had spoken in a low tone so that the
others had not heard her.

"Countess," said he in a voice decidedly sarcastic, "I pledge myself
never in future to ascend to the mast-head of any vessel or vessels
without your express permission."

"Very well," said she coldly; "I shall keep you to your word." But
Claudius had seen his mistake, and there was no trace of irony in his
voice as he looked her steadfastly in the eyes and answered.

"Believe me, I will keep any promise I make to you," he said earnestly,
and went away. Lady Victoria, who was not without tact, and had guessed
that Margaret had something to say to the Doctor, managed meanwhile to
keep her brother occupied by asking him questions about the exploit, and
he, falling into the trap, had begun to tell the story from the
beginning, speaking loud, by way of showing Claudius his appreciation.
But Claudius, recking little of his laurels, went and sat in his cabin,
pondering deeply. Barker, from a distance, had witnessed the
conversation between Margaret and the Doctor. He came up murmuring to
himself that the plot was thickening. "If Claudius makes a corner in
mast-heads, there will be a bull market," he reflected, and he also
remembered that just now he was a bear. "In that case," he continued
his train of thought, "no more mast-heads."

"Good morning, Countess; Lady Victoria, good morning," he said, bowing.
"I would take off my hat if I could, but the Doctor has set the cap of
liberty on high." Lady Victoria and the Duke laughed, but Margaret said
"Good morning" without a smile. Barker immediately abandoned the subject
and talked about the weather, which is a grand topic when there is
enough of it. It was clear by this time that they had passed through a
violent storm, which had gone away to southward. The sea was heavy of
course, but the wind had moderated, and by twelve o'clock the yacht was
running between nine and ten knots, with a stiff breeze on her quarter
and all sails set.

The Duke was extremely attentive to Margaret all that day, rarely
leaving her side, whether she was below or on deck; bringing her books
and rugs, and adjusting her chair, and altogether performing the offices
of a faithful slave and attendant. Whenever Claudius came within hail
the Duke would make desperate efforts to be animated, lengthening his
sentences with all the vigorous superlatives and sledge-hammer adverbs
he could think of, not to mention any number of "you knows." His efforts
to be agreeable, especially when there appeared to be any likelihood of
Claudius coming into the conversation, were so palpable that Margaret
could not but see there was a reason for the expenditure of so much
energy. She could not help being amused, but at the same time she was
annoyed at what she considered a bit of unnecessary officiousness on the
part of her host. However, he was such an old friend that she forgave
him. But woman's nature is impatient of control. Left to herself she
would have avoided Claudius; forcibly separated from him she discovered
that she wanted to speak to him. As the day wore on and the Duke's
attentions never relaxed, she grew nervous, and tried to think how she
could send him away. It was no easy matter. If she asked for anything,
he flew to get it and returned breathless, and of course at that very
moment Claudius was just out of range. Then she called Miss Skeat, but
the Duke's eloquence redoubled, and he talked to them both at once; and
at last she gave it up in despair, and said she would lie down for a
while. Once safe in her stateroom, the Duke drew a long breath, and went
in search of Mr. Barker. Now Mr. Barker, in consequence of the idea that
had unfolded itself to his fertile brain in the darkness of night, had
been making efforts to amuse Claudius all day long, with as much
determination as the Duke had shown in devoting himself to the Countess,
but with greater success; for Barker could be very amusing when he
chose, whereas the Duke was generally most amusing when he did not wish
to be so. He found them in the smoking cabin, Claudius stretched at full
length with a cigarette in his teeth, and Barker seated apparently on
the table, the chair, and the transom, by a clever distribution of the
various parts of his body, spinning yarns of a high Western flavour
about death's-head editors and mosquitoes with brass ribs.

The Duke was exhausted with his efforts, and refreshed himself with beer
before he challenged Barker to a game.

"To tell the truth, Duke," he answered, "I don't seem to think I feel
like winning your money to-day. I will go and talk to the ladies, and
Claudius will play with you."

"You won't make much headway there," said the Duke. "The Countess is
gone to bed, and Miss Skeat and my sister are reading English history."

"Besides," put in Claudius, "you know I never play."

"Well," said Barker, with a sigh, "then I will play with you, and
Claudius can go to sleep where he is." They cut and dealt. But Claudius
did not feel at all sleepy. When the game was well started he rose and
went out, making to himself the same reflection that Margaret had made,
"Why is my friend so anxious to amuse me to-day?" He seldom paid any
attention to such things, but his strong, clear mind was not long in
unravelling the situation, now that he was roused to thinking about it.
Barker had guessed the truth, or very near it, and the Duke and he had
agreed to keep Claudius and Margaret apart as long as they could.

He went aft, and descended to the cabin. There sat Miss Skeat and Lady
Victoria reading aloud, just as the Duke had said. He went through the
passage and met the steward, or butler, whom he despatched to see if the
Countess were in the ladies' cabin. The rosy-cheeked, gray-haired priest
of Silenus said her ladyship was there, "alone," he added with a little
emphasis. Claudius walked in, and was not disappointed. There she sat at
the side of the table in her accustomed place, dark and beautiful, and
his heart beat fast. She did not look up.

"Countess," he began timidly.

"Oh, Doctor Claudius, is that you? Sit down." He sat down on the
transom, so that he could see the evening light fall through the
port-hole above him on her side face, and as the vessel rose and fell
the rays of the setting sun played strangely on her heavy hair.

"I have not seen you all day," she said.

"No, Countess." He did not know what to say to her.

"I trust you are none the worse for your foolish performance this
morning?" Her voice was even and unmodulated, not too friendly and not
too cold.

"I am, and I am not. I am unspeakably the worse in that I displeased
you. Will you forgive me?"

"I will forgive you," in the same tone.

"Do you mean it? Do you mean you will forgive me what I said to you
that--the other night?"

"I did not say that," she answered, a little weariness sounding with the
words. Claudius's face fell.

"I am sorry," he said very simply.

"So am I. I am disappointed in you more than I can say. You are just
like all the others, and I thought you were different. Do you not
understand me?"

"Not entirely, though I will try to. Will you not tell me just what you
mean to say?"

"I think I will," she answered, looking up, but not towards Claudius.
She hesitated a moment and then continued, "We are not children, Dr.
Claudius; let us speak plainly, and not misunderstand each other." She
glanced round the cabin as if to see if they were alone. Apparently she
was not satisfied. "Move my chair nearer to the sofa, please," she
added; and he rose and did her bidding.

"I have not much to say," she went on, "but I do not want to say it
before the whole ship's company. It is this: I thought I had found in
you a friend, a man who would be to me what no one has ever been--a
friend; and I am disappointed, for you want to be something else. That
is all, except that it must not be thought of, and you must go."

An Englishman would have reproached her with having given him
encouragement; an Italian would have broken out into a passionate
expression of his love, seeking to kindle her with his own fire. But the
great, calm Northman clasped his hands together firmly on his knee and
sat silent.

"You must go--" she repeated.

"I cannot go," he said honestly.

"That is all the more reason why you should go at once," was the
feminine argument with which she replied.

"Let us go back to two days ago, and be as we were before. Will you not
forget it?"

"We cannot--you cannot, and I cannot. You are not able to take back your
words or to deny them."

"May God forbid!" said he very earnestly. "But if you will let me be
your friend, I will promise to obey you, and I will not say anything
that will displease you."

"You cannot," she repeated; and she smiled bitterly.

"But I can, and I will, if you will let me. I am very strong, and I will
keep my word;" and indeed he looked the incarnation of strength as he
sat with folded hands and earnest face, awaiting her reply. His words
were not eloquent, but they were plain and true, and he meant them.
Something in the suppressed power of his tone drove away the smile from
Margaret's face, and she looked toward him.

"Could you?" she asked. But the door opened, and Lady Victoria entered
with her book.

"Oh!" said Lady Victoria.

"I must go and dress," said Claudius.

"We will go on with the book to-morrow," said the Countess. And he bore
away a light heart.

On the following day the Duke began to take care of the Countess, as he
had done yesterday, and Barker turned on the fireworks of his
conversation for the amusement of Claudius. Claudius sat quite still for
an hour or more, perhaps enjoying the surprise he was going to give the
Duke and Barker. As the latter finished a brilliant tale, for the
veracity of which he vouched in every particular, Claudius calmly rose
and threw away his cigarette.

"That is a very good story," he said. "Good-bye for the present. I am
going to read with the Countess." Barker was nearly "taken off his
feet."

"Why--" he began, but stopped short. "Oh, very well. She is on deck. I
saw the Duke bring up her rugs and things." His heavy moustache seemed
to uncurl itself nervously, and his jaw dropped slowly, as he watched
Claudius leave the deck-cabin.

"I wonder when they got a chance," he said to himself.

But Barker was not nearly so much astonished as the Duke. The latter was
sitting by Margaret's side, near the wheel, making conversation. He was
telling her such a good story about a mutual friend--the son of a great
chancellor of the great empire of Kakotopia--who had gambled away his
wife at cards with another mutual friend.

"And the point of the story," said the Duke, "is that the lady did not
object in the least. Just fancy, you know, we all knew her, and now she
is married again to--" At this point Claudius strode up, and Margaret,
who did not care to hear any more, interrupted the Duke.

"Dr. Claudius, I have our book here. Shall we read?" The Doctor's face
flushed with pleasure. The Duke stared.

"I will get a chair," he said; and his long legs made short work of it.

"Well, if you will believe it," said the Duke, who meant to finish his
story, "it was not even the man who won her at cards that she married
