another day would see them in Dinan, they hoped; but the lads had
consented to pause for the girl's sake, for she was worn out with their
rapid flight. They were talking of their adventures in high spirits,
when Gaston laid his hand on Hoël's mouth and pointed to a green slope
before them. An early moon gave light enough to show them a dark form
moving quickly into the coppice, and something like the antlers of a
stag showed above the tall brakes before they vanished. "Slip around and
drive him this way. I never miss my aim, and we will sup royally
to-night," whispered Gaston, glad to use the arms with which they had
provided themselves.
Hoël slipped away, and presently a rustle in the wood betrayed the
cautious approach of the deer. But he was off before a shot could be
fired, and the disappointed hunters followed long and far, resolved not
to go back empty-handed. They had to give it up, however, and were
partially consoled by a rabbit, which Hoël flung over his shoulder,
while Gaston, forgetting caution, began to sing an old song the women of
Brittany love so well:--
  "Quand vous étiez, captif, Bertrand, fils de Bretagne,
  Tous les fuseaux tournaient aussi dans la campagne."
He got no further, for the stanza was finished by a voice that had often
joined in the ballad, when Dame Gillian sang it to the children, as she
spun:--
  "Chaque femme apporte son écheveau de lin;
  Ce fut votre rançon, Messire du Guesclin."
Both paused, thinking that some spirit of the wood mocked them; but a
loud laugh, and a familiar "Holo! holo!" made Hoël cry, "The forester!"
while Gaston dashed headlong into the thicket whence the sound came,
there to find the jolly forester, indeed, with a slain deer by his side,
waiting to receive them with open arms.
"I taught you to stalk the deer, and spear the boar, not to hunt your
fellow-creatures, my lord. But I forgive you, for it was well done, and
I had a hard run to escape," he said, still laughing.
"But how came you here?" cried both the youths, in great excitement; for
the good man was supposed to be dead, with his old master.
"A long tale, for which I have a short and happy answer. Come home to
supper with me, and I'll show you a sight that will gladden hearts and
eyes," he answered, shouldering his load and leading the way to a
deserted hermitage, which had served many a fugitive for a shelter. As
they went, Gaston poured out his story, and told how Yvonne was waiting
for them in the wood.
"Brave lads! and here is your reward," answered the forester, pushing
open the door and pointing to the figure of a man, with a pale face and
bandaged head, lying asleep beside the fire.
It was the count, sorely wounded, but alive, thanks to his devoted
follower, who had saved him when the fight was over; and after weeks of
concealment, suffering, and anxiety, had brought him so far toward
home.
No need to tell of the happy meeting that night, nor of the glad return;
for, though the chateau was in ruins and lives were still in danger,
they all were together, and the trials they had passed through only made
the ties of love and loyalty between high and low more true and tender.
Good Dame Gillian housed them all, and nursed her master back to health.
Yvonne and Hoël had a gay wedding in the course of time, and Gaston went
to the wars again. A new chateau rose on the ruins of the old, and when
the young lord took possession, he replaced the banner that was lost
with one of fair linen, spun and woven by the two women who had been so
faithful to him and his, but added a white dove above the clasped hands
and golden legend, never so true as now,--
                         "En tout chemin loyauté."
[Illustration]
JERSEYS OR THE GIRLS' GHOST:
"Well, what do you think of her? She has only been here a day, but it
doesn't take us long to make up our minds," said Nelly Blake, the
leader of the school, as a party of girls stood chatting round the
register one cold November morning.
"I like her, she looks so fresh and pleasant, and so strong. I just
wanted to go and lean up against her, when my back ached yesterday,"
answered Maud, a pale girl wrapped in a shawl.
"I'm afraid she's very energetic, and I do hate to be hurried," sighed
plump Cordelia, lounging in an easy chair.
"I know she is, for Biddy says she asked for a pail of cold water at six
this morning, and she's out walking now. Just think how horrid," cried
Kitty with a shiver.
"I wonder what she does for her complexion. Never saw such a lovely
color. Real roses and cream," said Julia, shutting one eye to survey the
freckles on her nose, with a gloomy frown.
"I longed to ask what sort of braces she wears, to keep her so straight.
I mean to by and by; she looks as if she wouldn't snub a body;" and
Sally vainly tried to square her own round shoulders, bent with much
poring over books, for she was the bright girl of the school.
"She wears French corsets, of course. Nothing else gives one such a fine
figure," answered Maud, dropping the shawl to look with pride at her own
wasp-like waist and stiff back.
"Couldn't move about so easily and gracefully if she wore a
strait-jacket like you. She's not a bit of a fashion plate, but a
splendid woman, just natural and hearty and sweet. I feel as if I
shouldn't slouch and poke so much if I had her to brace me up," cried
Sally, in her enthusiastic way.
"I know one thing, girls, and that is, she can wear a jersey and have
it set elegantly, and we can't," said Kitty, laboring with her own,
which would wrinkle and twist, in spite of many hidden pins.
"Yes, I looked at it all breakfast time, and forgot my second cup of
coffee, so my head aches as if it would split. Never saw anything fit so
splendidly in my life," answered Nelly, turning to the mirror, which
reflected a fine assortment of many colored jerseys; for all the girls
were out in their fall suits, and not one of the new jackets set like
Miss Orne's, the teacher who had arrived to take Madame's place while
that excellent old lady was laid up with a rheumatic fever.
"They are pretty and convenient, but I'm afraid they will be a trial to
some of us. Maud and Nelly look the best, but they have to keep stiff
and still, or the wrinkles come. Kit has no peace in hers, and poor
Cordy looks more like a meal bag than ever, while I am a perfect
spectacle, with my round shoulders and long thin arms. 'A jersey on a
bean-pole' describes me; but let us be in the fashion or die," laughed
Sally, exaggerating her own defects by poking her head forward and
blinking through her glasses in a funny way.
There was a laugh and then a pause, broken in a moment by Maud, who
said, in a tone of apprehension:
"I do hope Miss Orne isn't full of the new notions about clothes and
food and exercise and rights and rubbish of that sort. Mamma hates such
ideas, and so do I."
"I hope she is full of good, wise notions about health and work and
study. It is just what we need in this school. Madame is old and lets
things go, and the other teachers only care to get through and have an
easy time. We ought to be a great deal better, brisker, and wiser than
we are, and I'm ready for a good stirring up if any one will give it to
us," declared Sally, who was a very independent girl and had read as
well as studied much.
"You Massachusetts girls are always raving about self-culture, and ready
for queer new ways. I'm contented with the old ones, and want to be let
alone and finished off easily," said Nelly, the pretty New Yorker.
"Well, I go with Sally, and want to get all I can in the way of health,
learning, and manners while I'm here; and I'm real glad Miss Orne has
come, for Madame's old-fashioned, niminy priminy ways did fret me
dreadfully. Miss Orne is more like our folks out West,--spry and strong
and smart, see if she isn't," said Julia, with a decided nod of her
auburn head.
"There she is now! Girls, she's running! actually trotting up the
avenue--not like a hen, but a boy--with her elbows down and her head up.
Do come and see!" cried Kitty, dancing about at the window as if she
longed to go and do likewise.
All ran in time to see a tall young lady come up the wide path at a good
pace, looking as fresh and blithe as the goddess of health, as she
smiled and nodded at them, so like a girl that all returned her salute
with equal cordiality.
"She gives a new sort of interest to the old treadmill, doesn't she?"
said Nelly, as they scattered to their places at the stroke of nine,
feeling unusually anxious to appear well before the new teacher.
While they pull down their jerseys and take up their books, we will
briefly state that Madame Stein's select boarding-school had for many
years received six girls at a time, and finished them off in the old
style. Plenty of French, German, music, painting, dancing, and
deportment turned out well-bred, accomplished, and amiable young ladies,
ready for fashionable society, easy lives, and entire dependence on
other people. Dainty and delicate creatures usually, for, as in most
schools of this sort, minds and manners were much cultivated, but bodies
rather neglected. Heads and backs ached, dyspepsia was a common ailment,
and poorlies of all sorts afflicted the dear girls, who ought not to
have known what "nerves" meant, and should have had no bottles in their
closets holding wine and iron, cough mixtures, soothing drops and
cod-liver oil for weak lungs. Gymnastics had once flourished, but the
fashion had gone by, and a short walk each day was all the exercise they
took, though they might have had glorious romps in the old coach-house
and bowling-alley in bad weather, and lovely rambles about the spacious
grounds; for the house was in the suburbs, and had once been a fine
country mansion. Some of the liveliest girls did race down the avenue
now and then, when Madame was away, and one irrepressible creature had
actually slid down the wide balusters, to the horror of the entire
household.
In cold weather all grew lazy and cuddled under blankets and around
registers, like so many warmth-loving pussies,--poor Madame's rheumatism
making her enjoy a hot-house temperature and indulge the girls in
luxurious habits. Now she had been obliged to give up entirely and take
to her bed, saying, with the resignation of an indolent nature:--
"If Anna Orne takes charge of the school I shall feel no anxiety. She
is equal to anything."
She certainly looked so as she came into the school-room ready for her
day's work, with lungs full of fresh air, brain stimulated by sound
sleep, wholesome exercise, and a simple breakfast, and a mind much
interested in the task before her. The girls' eyes followed her as she
took her place, involuntarily attracted by the unusual spectacle of a
robust woman. Everything about her seemed so fresh, harmonious, and
happy, that it was a pleasure to see the brilliant color in her cheeks,
the thick coils of glossy hair on her spirited head, the flash of white
teeth as she spoke, and the clear, bright glance of eyes both keen and
kind. But the most admiring glances were on the dark-blue jersey that
showed such fine curves of the broad shoulders, round waist, and plump
arms, without a wrinkle to mar its smooth perfection.
Girls are quick to see what is genuine, to respect what is strong, and
to love what is beautiful; so before that day was over, Miss Orne had
charmed them all; for they felt that she was not only able to teach but
to help and amuse them.
After tea the other teachers went to their rooms, glad to be free from
the chatter of half a dozen lively tongues; but Miss Orne remained in
the drawing-room, and set the girls to dancing till they were tired,
then gathered them round the long table to do what they liked till
prayer-time. Some had novels, others did fancy-work or lounged, and all
wondered what the new teacher would do next.
Six pairs of curious eyes were fixed upon her, as she sat sewing on some
queer bits of crash, and six lively fancies vainly tried to guess what
the articles were, for no one was rude enough to ask. Presently she
tried on a pair of mittens, and surveyed them with satisfaction, saying
as she caught Kitty staring with uncontrollable interest:--
"These are my beautifiers, and I never like to be without them."
"Are they to keep your hands white?" asked Maud, who spent a good deal
of time in caring for her own. "I wear old kid gloves at night after
cold-creaming mine."
"I wear these for five minutes night and morning, for a good rub, after
dipping them in cold water. Thanks to these rough friends, I seldom feel
the cold, get a good color, and keep well," answered Miss Orne,
polishing up her smooth cheek till it looked like a rosy apple.
"I'd like the color, but not the crash. Must it be so rough, and with
cold water?" asked Maud, who often privately rubbed her pale face with
a bit of red flannel, rouge being forbidden except for theatricals.
"Best so; but there are other ways to get a color. Run up and down the
avenue three or four times a day, eat no pastry, and go to bed early,"
said Miss Orne, whose sharp eye had spied out the little weaknesses of
the girls, and whose kind heart longed to help them at once.
"It makes my back ache to run, and Madame says we are too old now."
"Never too old to care for one's health, my dear. Better run now than
lie on a sofa by and by, with a back that never stops aching."
"Do you cure your headaches in that way?" asked Nelly, rubbing her
forehead wearily.
"I never have them;" and Miss Orne's bright eyes were full of pity for
all pain.
"What do you do to help it?" cried Nelly, who firmly believed that it
was inevitable.
"I give my brain plenty of rest, air, and good food. I never know I have
any nerves, except in the enjoyment they give me, for I have learned how
to use them. I was not brought up to believe that I was born an
invalid, and was taught to understand the beautiful machinery God gave
me, and to keep it religiously in order."
Miss Orne spoke so seriously that there was a brief pause in which the
girls were wishing that some one had taught them this lesson and made
them as strong and lovely as their new teacher.
"If crash mittens would make my jersey set like yours I'd have a pair at
once," said Cordy, sadly eyeing the buttons on her own, which seemed in
danger of flying off if their plump wearer moved too quickly.
"Brisk runs are what you want, and less confectionery, sleep, and
lounging in easy chairs;" began Miss Orne, all ready to prescribe for
these poor girls, the most important part of whose education had been so
neglected.
"Why, how did you know?" said Cordy, blushing, as she bounced out of her
luxurious seat and whisked into her pocket the paper of chocolate creams
she was seldom without.
Her round eyes and artless surprise set the others to laughing, and gave
Sally courage to ask what she wanted, then and there.
"Miss Orne, I wish you would show us how to be strong and hearty, for I
do think girls are a feeble set now-a-days. We certainly need stirring
up, and I hope you will kindly do it. Please begin with me, then the
others will see that I mean what I say."
Miss Orne looked up at the tall, overgrown girl who stood before her,
with broad forehead, near-sighted eyes, and narrow chest of a student;
not at all what a girl of seventeen should be, physically, though a
clear mind and a brave spirit shone in her clever face and sounded in
her resolute voice.
"I shall very gladly do what I can for you, my dear. It is very simple,
and I am sure that a few months of my sort of training will help you
much; for you are just the kind of girl who should have a strong body,
to keep pace with a very active brain," answered Miss Orne, taking
Sally's thin, inky fingers in her own, with a friendly pressure that
showed her good will.
"Madame says violent exercise is not good for girls, so we gave up
gymnastics long ago," said Maud, in her languid voice, wishing that
Sally would not suggest disagreeable things.
"One does not need clubs, dumb bells, and bars for my style of exercise.
Let me show you;" and rising, Miss Orne went through a series of
energetic but graceful evolutions, which put every muscle in play
without great exertion.
"That looks easy enough," began Nelly.
"Try it," answered Miss Orne, with a sparkle of fun in her blue eyes.
They did try,--to the great astonishment of the solemn portraits on the
wall, unused to seeing such antics in that dignified apartment. But some
of the girls were out of breath in five minutes; others could not lift
their arms over their heads; Maud and Nelly broke several bones in their
corsets, trying to stoop; and Kitty tumbled down, in her efforts to
touch her toes without bending her knees. Sally got on the best of all,
being long of limb, easy in her clothes, and full of enthusiasm.
"Pretty well for beginners," said Miss Orne, as they paused at last,
flushed and merry. "Do that regularly every day, and you will soon gain
a few inches across the chest and fill out the new jerseys with firm,
elastic figures."
"Like yours," added Sally, with a face full of such honest admiration
that it could not offend.
Seeing that she had made one convert, and knowing that girls, like
sheep, are sure to follow a leader, Miss Orne said no more then, but
waited for the leaven to work. The others called it one of Sally's
notions, but were interested to see how she would get on, and had great
fun, when they went to bed, watching her faithful efforts to imitate her
teacher's rapid and effective motions.
"The wind-mill is going!" cried Kitty, as several of them sat on the
bed, laughing at the long arms swinging about.
"That is the hygienic elbow-exercise, and that the Orne Quickstep, a
mixture of the grasshopper's skip and the water-bug's slide," added
Julia, humming a tune in time to the stamp of the other's foot.
"We will call these the Jersey Jymnastics, and spell the last with a J,
my dear," said Nelly; and the name was received with as much applause as
the young ladies dared to give it at that hour.
"Laugh on, but see if you don't all follow my example sooner or later,
when I become a model of grace, strength, and beauty," retorted Sally,
as she turned them out and went to bed, tingling all over with a
delicious glow that sent the blood from her hot head to warm her cold
feet, and bring her the sound, refreshing sleep she so much needed.
This was the beginning of a new order of things, for Miss Orne carried
her energy into other matters besides gymnastics, and no one dared
oppose her when Madame shut her ears to all complaints, saying, "Obey
her in everything, and don't trouble me."
Pitchers of fresh milk took the place of tea and coffee; cake and pie
were rarely seen, but better bread, plain puddings, and plenty of fruit.
Rooms were cooled off, feather beds sent up garret, and thick curtains
abolished. Sun and air streamed in, and great cans of water appeared
suggestively at doors in the morning. Earlier hours were kept, and brisk
walks taken by nearly all the girls; for Miss Orne baited her hook
cleverly, and always had some pleasant project to make the wintry
expeditions inviting. There were games in the parlor instead of novels,
and fancy-work in the evening; shorter lessons, and longer talks on the
many useful subjects that are best learned from the lips of a true
teacher. A cooking class was started, not to make fancy dishes, but the
plain, substantial ones all housewives should understand. Several girls
swept their own rooms, and liked it after they saw Miss Orne do hers in
a becoming dust-cap; and these same pioneers, headed by Sally, boldly
coasted on the hill, swung clubs in the coach-house, and played tag in
the bowling-alley rainy days.
It took time to work these much-needed changes, but young people like
novelty; the old routine had grown tiresome, and Miss Orne made things
so lively and pleasant it was impossible to resist her wishes. Sally did
begin to straighten up, after a month or two of regular training; Maud
outgrew both corsets and backache; Nelly got a fresh color; Kitty found
her thin arms developing visible muscles; and Julia considered herself a
Von Hillern, after walking ten miles without fatigue.
But dear, fat Cordy was the most successful of all; and rejoiced greatly
over the loss of a few pounds when she gave up over-eating, long naps,
and lazy habits. Exercise became a sort of mania with her, and she was
continually trudging off for a constitutional, or trotting up and down
the halls when bad weather prevented the daily tramp. It was the desire
of her soul to grow thin, and such was her ardor that Miss Orne had to
check her sometimes, lest she should overdo the matter.
"All this is easy and pleasant now, because it is new," she said, "and
there is no one to criticise our simple, sensible ways; but when you go
away I am afraid you will undo the good I have tried to do you. People
will ridicule you, fashion will condemn, and frivolous pleasures make
our wholesome ones seem hard. Can you be steadfast, and keep on?"
"We will!" cried all the girls; but the older ones looked a little
anxious, as they thought of going home to introduce the new ways alone.
Miss Orne shook her head, earnestly wishing that she could impress the
important lesson indelibly upon them; and very soon something happened
which had that effect.
April came, and the snowdrops and crocuses were up in the garden beds.
Madame was able to sit at her window, peering out like a dormouse waking
from its winter sleep; and much did the good lady wonder at the blooming
faces turned up to nod and smile at her, the lively steps that tripped
about the house, and the amazing spectacle of her young ladies racing
round the lawn as if they liked it. No one knew how Miss Orne reconciled
her to this new style of deportment; but she made no complaint,--only
shook her impressive cap when the girls came beaming in to pay little
visits, full of happy chat about their affairs. They seemed to take a
real interest in their studies now, to be very happy; and all looked so
well that the wise old lady said to herself:--
"Looks are everything with women, and I have never been able to show
such a bouquet of blooming creatures at my breaking up as I shall this
year. I will let well enough alone, and if fault is found, dear Anna's
shoulders are broad enough to bear it."
Things were in this promising state, and all were busily preparing for
the May fête, at which time this class of girls would graduate, when the
mysterious events occurred to which we have alluded.
They were gathered--the girls, not the events--round the table one
night, discussing, with the deep interest befitting such an important
topic, what they should wear on examination day.
"I think white silk jerseys and pink or blue skirts would be lovely;
so pretty and so appropriate for the J. J. Club, and so nice for us to
do our exercises in. Miss Orne wants us to show how well we go together,
and of course we want to please her;" said Nelly taking the lead as
usual in matters of taste.
"Of course!" cried all the girls, with an alacrity which plainly showed
how entirely the new friend had won their hearts.
"I wouldn't have believed that six months could make such a difference
in one's figure and feelings," said Maud, surveying her waist with calm
satisfaction, though it was no longer slender, but in perfect proportion
to the rest of her youthful shape.
"I've had to let out every dress, and it's a mercy I'm going home, for I
shouldn't be decent if I kept on at this rate;" and Julia took a long
breath, proud of her broad chest, expanded by plenty of exercise, and
loose clothing.
"I take mine in, and don't have to worry about my buttons flying off, à
la Clara Peggotty. I'm so pleased I want to be training all the time,
for I'm not half thin enough yet," said Cordy, jumping up for a trot
round the room, that not a moment might be lost.
"Come, Sally, you ought to join in the jubilee, for you have done
wonders, and will be as straight as a ramrod in a little while. Why so
sober to-night? Is it because our dear Miss Orne leaves us to sit with
Madame?" asked Nelly, missing the gayest voice of the six, and observing
her friend's troubled face.
"I'm making up my mind whether I'd better tell you something or not.
Don't want to scare the servants, trouble Madame, or vex Miss Orne; for
I know she wouldn't believe a word of it, though I saw it with my own
eyes," answered Sally, in such a mysterious tone that the girls with one
voice cried,--
"Tell us, this minute!"
"I will; and perhaps some of you can explain the matter."
As she spoke, Sally rose and stood on the rug with her hands behind her,
looking rather wild and queer; for her short hair was in a toss, her
eyes shone large behind her round glasses, and her voice sank to a
whisper as she made this startling announcement:--
"I've seen a ghost!"
A general shiver pervaded the listeners, and Cordy poked her head under
the sofa pillows with a faint cry, while the rest involuntarily drew
nearer to one another.
"Where?" demanded Julia, the bravest of the party.
"On the top of the house."
"Good gracious! When, Sally?" "What did it look like?" "Don't scare us
for fun,"--cried the girls, undecided whether to take this startling
story in jest or earnest.
"Listen, and I'll tell you all about it," answered Sally, holding up her
finger impressively.
"Night before last I sat till eleven, studying. Against the rules, I
know; but I forgot, and when I was through I opened my window to air the
room. It was bright moonlight, so I took a stroll along the top of the
piazza, and coming back with my eyes on the sky I naturally saw the roof
of the main house from my wing. I couldn't have been asleep, could I?
yet, I solemnly declare I saw a white figure with a veil over its head
roaming to and fro as quietly as a shadow. I looked and looked, then I
called softly, but it never answered, and suddenly it was gone."
"What did you do? quavered Cordy, in a smothered voice from under the
pillow.
"Went straight in, took my lamp and marched up to the cupola. Not a sign
of any one, all locked and the floor dusty, for we never go there now,
you know. I didn't like it, but just said, 'Sally, go to bed; it's an
optical illusion and serves you right for studying against the rule.'
That was the first time."
"Mercy on us! Did you see it again?" cried Maud, getting hold of Julia's
strong arm for protection.
"Yes, in the bowling-alley at midnight," whispered Sally.
"Do shut the door, Kit, and don't keep clutching at me in that scary
way; it's very unpleasant," said Nelly, glancing nervously over her
shoulder as the six pairs of wide-opened eyes were fixed on Sally.
"I got up to shut my window last night, and saw a light in the alley. A
dim one, but bright enough to show me the same white thing going up and
down, with the veil as before. I'll confess I was nervous then, for you
know there is a story that in old times the man who lived here
wouldn't let his daughter marry the lover she wanted, and she pined away
and died, and said she'd haunt the cruel father, and she did. Old Mrs.
Foster told me all about it when I first came, and Madame asked me not
to repeat it, so I never did. I don't believe in ghosts, mind you, but
what on earth is it, trailing about in that ridiculous way?"
Sally spoke nervously and looked excited, for in spite of courage and
common sense she was worried to account for the apparition.
"How long did it stay?" asked Julia, with her arm round Maud, who was
trembling and pale.
"A good fifteen minutes by my watch, then vanished, light and all, as
suddenly as before. I didn't go to look after it that time, but if I see
it again I'll hunt till I find out what it is. Who will go with me?"
No one volunteered, and Cordy emerged long enough to say imploringly:--
"Do tell Miss Orne, or get the police;" then dived out of sight again,
and lay quaking like an ostrich with its head in the sand.
"I won't! Miss Orne would think I was a fool, and the police don't
arrest ghosts. I'll do it myself, and Julia will help me, I know. She is
the bravest of you, and hasn't developed her biceps for nothing," said
Sally, bent on keeping all the glory of the capture to themselves if
possible.
Flattered by the compliment to her arms, Julia did not decline the
invitation, but made a very sensible suggestion, which was a great
relief to the timid, till Sally added a new fancy to haunt them.
"Perhaps it is one of the servants moon-struck or love-lorn. Myra looks
sentimental, and is always singing:--
  "I'm waiting, waiting, darling,
  Morning, night, and noon;
  Oh, meet me by the river
  When softly shines the moon."
"It's not Myra; I asked her, and she turned pale at the mere idea of
going anywhere alone after dark, and said cook had seen a banshee
gliding down the Lady's Walk one night, when she got up for camphor,
having the face-ache. I said no more, not wanting to scare them;
ignorant people are so superstitious."
Sally paused, and the girls all tried not to look "scared" or
"superstitious," but did not succeed very well.
"What are you going to do?" asked Nelly, in a respectful tone, as Julia
and Sally stood side by side, like Horatius and Herminius waiting for a
Spurius Lartius to join them.
"Watch, like cats for a mouse, and pounce as soon as possible. All
promise to say nothing; then we can't be laughed at if it turns out some
silly thing, as it probably will," answered Sally.
"We promise!" solemnly answered the girls, feeling deeply impressed with
the thrilling interest of the moment.
"Very well; now don't talk about it or think about it till we report, or
no one will sleep a wink," said Sally, walking off with her ally as
coolly as if, after frightening them out of their wits, they could
forget the matter at word of command.
The oath of silence was well kept, but lessons suffered, and so did
sleep, for the excitement was great, especially in the morning, when the
watchers reported the events of the night, and in the evening, when they
took turns to go on guard. There was much whisking of dressing-gowns up
and down the corridor of the west wing, where our six roomed, as the
girls flew to ask questions early each day, or scurried to bed, glancing
behind them for the banshee as they went.
Miss Orne observed the whispers, nods, and eager confabulations, but
said nothing, for Madame had confided to her that the young ladies were
planning a farewell gift for her. So she was blind and deaf, and smiled
at the important airs of her girlish admirers.
Three or four days passed, and no sign of the ghost appeared. The
boldest openly scoffed at the false alarm, and the most timid began to
recover from their fright.
Sally and Julia looked rather foolish as they answered, "no news,"
morning after morning, to the inquiries which were rapidly losing the
breathless eagerness so flattering to the watchers.
"You dreamed it, Sally. Go to sleep, and don't do it again," said Nelly,
on the fifth day, as she made her evening call and found the girls
yawning and cross for want of rest.
"She has exercised too much, and produced a morbid state of the brain,"
laughed Maud.
"I just wish she wouldn't scare me out of my senses for nothing,"
grumbled Cordy; "I used to sleep like a dormouse, and now I dream
dreadfully and wake up tired out. Come along, Kit, and let the old
ghosts carry off these silly creatures."
"My regards to the Woman in White when you see her again, dear," added
Kitty, as the four went off to laugh at the whole thing, though they
carefully locked their doors and took a peep out of window before going
to sleep.
"We may as well give it up and have a good rest. I'm worn out, and so
are you, if you'd own it," said Julia, throwing herself down for a nap
before midnight.
"I shall not give it up till I'm satisfied. Sleep away, I'll read
awhile and call you if anything comes," answered Sally, bound to prove
the truth of her story if she waited all summer.
Julia was soon off, and the lonely watcher sat reading till past eleven;
then put out her light and went to take a turn on the flat roof of the
piazza that ran round the house, for the night was mild and the stars
companionable. As she turned to come back, her sharp eye caught sight of
something moving on the house-top as before, and soon, clear against the
soft gloom of the sky, appeared the white figure flitting to and fro.
A long look, and then Sally made a rush at Julia, shaking her violently
as she said in an excited whisper:
"Come! she is there. Quick! upstairs to the cupola; I have the candle
and the key."
Carried away by the other's vehemence Julia mutely obeyed, trembling,
but afraid to resist; and noiseless as two shadows, they crept up the
stairs, arriving just in time to see the ghost vanish over the edge of
the roof, as if it had dissolved into thin air. Julia dropped down in a
heap, desperately frightened, but Sally pulled her up and led her back
to their room, saying, when she got there, with grim satisfaction, "Did
I dream it all? Now I hope they will believe me."
"What was it? Oh, what could it be?" whimpered Julia, quite demoralized
by the spectacle.
"I begin to believe in ghosts, for no human being could fly off in that
way, with nothing to walk on. I shall speak to Miss Orne to-morrow; I've
had enough of this sort of fun," said Sally, going to the window, with a
strong desire to shut and lock it.
But she paused with her hand raised, as if turned to stone, for as she
spoke the white figure went slowly by. Julia dived into the closet, with
one spring. Sally, however, was on her mettle now, and, holding her
breath, leaned out to watch. With soundless steps the veiled thing went
along the roof, and paused at the further end.
Never waiting for her comrade, Sally quietly stepped out and followed,
leaving Julia to quake with fear and listen for an alarm.
None came, and in a few minutes, that seemed like hours, Sally returned,
looking much excited; but was sternly silent, and, to all the other's
eager questions she would only give this mysterious reply:--
"I know all, but cannot tell till morning. Go to sleep."
Believing her friend offended at her base desertion at the crisis of the
affair, Julia curbed her curiosity and soon forgot it in sleep. Sally
slept also, feeling like a hero reposing after a hard-won battle.
She was up betimes and ready to receive her early visitors with an air
of triumph, which silenced every jeer and convinced the most skeptical
that she had something sensational to tell at last.
When the girls had perched themselves on any available article of
furniture, they waited with respectful eagerness, while Sally retired to
the hall for a moment, and Julia rolled her eyes, with her finger on her
lips, looking as if she could tell much if she dared.
Sally returned somewhat flushed, but very sober, and in a few dramatic
words related the adventures of the night, up to the point where she
left Julia quivering ignominiously in the closet, and, like Horatius,
faced the foe alone.
"I followed till the ghost entered a window."
"Which?" demanded five awestruck voices at once.
"The last."
"Ours?" whispered Kitty, pale as her collar, while Cordy, her room-mate,
sat aghast.
"As it turned to shut the window the veil fell back and I saw the face."
Sally spoke in a whisper and added, with a sudden start, "I see it now!"
Every girl sprang or tumbled off her perch as if an electric shock had
moved them, and stared about them as Nelly cried wildly, "Where? oh,
where?"
"There!" and Sally pointed at the palest face in the room, while her own
reddened with the mirth she was vainly trying to suppress.
"Cordy?"
A general shriek of amazement and incredulity followed the question,
while Sally laughed till the tears ran down her cheeks at the dumb
dismay of the innocent ghost.
As soon as she could be heard she quickly explained: "Yes, it was Cordy,
walking in her sleep. She wore her white flannel wrapper, and a cloud
round her head, and took her exercise over the roofs at midnight, so
that no time might be lost. I don't wonder she is tired in the morning,
after such dangerous gymnastics as these."
"But she couldn't vanish in that strange way off the house-top without
breaking her neck," said Julia, much relieved, but still mystified.
"She didn't fly nor fall, but went down the ladder left by the painters.
Look at the soles of her felt slippers, if you doubt me, and see the red
paint from the roof. We couldn't open the cupola windows, you remember,
but this morning I took a stroll and looked up and saw how she did it
asleep, though she never would dare to do it awake. Somnambulists do
dreadfully dangerous things, you know," said Sally, as if her experience
of those peculiar people had been vast and varied.
"How could I? It's horrid to think of. Why did you let me, Kit?" cried
Cordy, uncertain whether to be proud or ashamed of her exploit.
"Never dreamed of your doing such a silly thing, and never waked up.
Sleep-walkers are always quiet, and if I had seen you I'd have been too
scared to know you. I'll tie you to the bed-post after this, and not
let you scare the whole house," answered Kitty, regarding it all as a
fine joke.
"What did I do when I got in?" asked Cordy, curiously.
"Took off your things and went to bed as if glad to get back. I didn't
dare to wake you, and kept the fun all to myself till this morning.
Thought I ought to have a good laugh for my pains since I did all the
work," answered Sally, in high glee at the success of her efforts.
"I did want to get as thin as I could before I went home, the boys
plague me so; and I suppose it wore upon me and set me to walking at
night. I'm very sorry, and I never will again if I can help it. Please
forgive me, and don't tell any one but Miss Orne; it was so silly,"
begged poor Cordy, tearfully.
All promised and comforted her, and praised Sally, and plagued Julia,
and had a delightfully noisy and exciting half hour before the breakfast
bell rang.
Miss Orne wondered what made the young faces so gay and the laughter so
frequent, as mysterious hints and significant nods went on around the
table; but as soon as possible she was borne into the school-room and
told the thrilling tale.
Her interest and surprise were very flattering, and when the subject had
been well discussed she promised to prevent any further escapades of
this sort, and advised Cordy to try the Banting method for the few
remaining weeks of her stay.
"I'll try anything that will keep me from acting ghost and making every
one afraid of me," said Cordy, secretly wondering why she had not
broken her neck in her nocturnal gymnastics.
"Do you believe in ghosts, Miss Orne?" asked Maud,--who did, in spite of
the comic explanation of this one.
"Not the old-fashioned sort, but there is a modern kind that we are all
afraid of more or less," answered Miss Orne, with a half-playful,
half-serious look at the girls around her.
"Do tell about them, please," begged Kitty, while the rest looked both
surprised and interested.
"There is one which I am very anxious to keep you from fearing. Women
are especially haunted by it, and it prevents them from doing, being,
and thinking all that they might and ought. 'What will people say?' is
the name of this formidable ghost; and it does much harm, for few of us
have the courage to live up to what we know to be right in all things.
You are soon to go away to begin your lives in earnest, and I do hope
that whatever I have been able to teach you about the care of minds and
bodies will not be forgotten or neglected because it may not be the
fashion outside our little world."
"I never will forget, or be afraid of that ghost, Miss Orne," cried
Sally, quick to understand and accept the warning so opportunely given.
"I have great faith in you, dear, because you have proved yourself so
brave in facing phantoms more easily laid. But this is a hard one to
meet and vanquish; so watch well, stand firm, and let these jerseys that
you are so fond of cover not only healthy young bodies but happy
hearts, both helping you to be sweet, wise, and useful women in the
years to come. Dear girls, promise me this, and I shall feel that our
winter has not been wasted, and that our spring is full of lovely
promise for a splendid summer."
As she spoke, with her own beautiful face bright with hope and
tenderness, Miss Orne opened her arms and gathered them all in, to seal
their promise with grateful kisses more eloquent than words.
Long after their school days were over, the six girls kept the white
jerseys they wore at the breaking-up festival, as relics of the J. J.;
and long after they were scattered far apart, they remembered the
lessons which helped them to be what their good friend hoped--healthy,
happy, and useful women.
[Illustration]
[Illustration]
The Little House In The Garden
"I think we little ones ought to have a story all to ourselves now,"
said one of the smaller lads, as they gathered round the fire with
unabated interest.
"So do I, and I've got a little tale that will just suit you, I fancy.
The older boys and girls can go and play games if they don't care to
hear," answered Aunt Elinor, producing the well-worn portfolio.
"Thanks, we will try a bit, and if it is very namby pamby we can run,"
said Geoff, catching sight of the name of the first chapter. Aunt Elinor
smiled and began to read about
                    THE LITTLE HOUSE IN THE GARDEN.
                              I. BEARS.
A brown bear was the first tenant; in fact, it was built for him, and
this is the way it happened:--
A man and his wife were driving through the woods up among the
mountains, and hearing a queer sound looked about them till they spied
two baby bears in a tree.
"Those must be the cubs of the old bear that was killed last week," said
Mr. Hitchcock, much interested all at once.
"Poor little things! how will they get on without their mother? They
look half scared to death, and cry like real babies," said the kind
woman.
"They will starve if we don't take care of them. I'll shake them down;
you catch them in your shawl and we'll see what we can do for them."
So Mr. Hitchcock climbed up the tree, to the great dismay of the two
orphans, who growled funny little growls and crept as far out on the
branch as they dared.
"Shake easy, John, or they will fall and be killed," cried the wife,
holding out her shawl for this new kind of fruit to fall into.
Down they came, one after the other, and at first were too frightened to
fight; so Mr. Hitchcock got them into the wagon safely bundled up, and
Mrs. Hitchcock soothed their alarm by gentle pattings and motherly
words, till they ceased to struggle, and cuddled down to sleep like two
confiding puppies, for they were not much bigger.
Mr. Hitchcock kept the hotel that stood at the foot of the king of the
mountains, and in summer the house was full of people; so he was glad of
any new attraction, and the little bears were the delight of many
children. At first, Tom and Jerry trotted and tumbled about like
frolicsome puppies, and led easy lives,--petted, fed and admired, till
they grew so big and bold that, like other young creatures, their pranks
made mischief as well as fun.
Tom would steal all the good things he could lay his paws on in kitchen
or dining-room, and cook declared she couldn't have the rascal loose;
for whole pans of milk vanished, sheets of ginger-bread were found in
his den under the back steps, and nearly every day he was seen
scrambling off with booty of some sort, while the fat cook waddled
after, scolding and shaking the poker at him, to the great amusement of
the boarders on the piazza. People bore with him a long time; but when
he took a lively trot down the middle of the long dinner-table one day,
after eating all he liked, and smashing right and left as he scampered
off, with a terrible clatter of silver, glass, and china, his angry
master declared he wouldn't have such doings, and chained him to a post
on the lawn. Here he tugged and growled dismally, while good little
Jerry frisked gayly about, trying to understand what it all meant.
But presently his besetting sin got him into trouble likewise. He
loved to climb, and was never happier than when scrambling up the rough
posts of the back piazza to bask in the sun on the roof above, peeping
down with his sharp little eyes at the children, who could not follow.
He roosted in trees like a fat brown bird, and came tumbling down
unexpectedly on lovers who sought quiet nooks to be romantic in. He
explored the chimneys and threw into them any trifle he happened to
find,--being a rogue, and fond of stealing hats, balls, dolls, or any
small article that came in his way. But the fun he liked best was to
climb in at the chamber windows and doze on the soft beds; for Jerry
was a luxurious fellow and scorned the straw of his own den. This habit
annoyed people much, and the poor bear often came bundling out of
windows, with old gentlemen whacking him with canes, or ladies throwing
water after him.
One evening, when there was a dance and every one was busy down stairs,
Jerry took a walk on the roof, and being sleepy, looked about for a
cosey bed to take a nap in. Two brothers occupied one of these rooms,
and both were Jerry's good friends, especially the younger. Georgie was
fast asleep, as his dancing days had not yet begun, and Charlie was
waltzing away down stairs; so Jerry crept into bed and nestled down
beside his playmate, who was too sleepy to do anything but roll over,
thinking the big brother had come to bed.
By and by Charlie did come up, late and tired, and having forgotten a
lamp, undressed in the moonlight, observing nothing till about to step
into bed; then, finding something rolled up in the clothes, thought it a
joke of the other boys, caught up a racket and began to bang away at the
suspicious bundle. A scene of wild confusion followed, for Jerry growled
and clawed and couldn't get out; Georgie woke, and thinking his
bed-fellow was his brother being abused by some frolicsome mate, held on
to Jerry, defending him bravely, till a rent in the sheet allowed a
shaggy head to appear, so close to his own that the poor child was
painfully reminded of Red Riding Hood's false grandmother. Charlie was
speechless with laughter at this discovery, and while Jerry bounced
about the bed snarling and hugging pillows as he tried to get free,
terrified Georgie rushed down the hall screaming, "The wolf! the wolf!"
till he took refuge in his mother's room.
Out popped night-capped heads, anxious voices cried, "Is it fire?" and
in a moment the house was astir. The panic might have been serious if
Jerry had not come galloping down stairs, hotly pursued by Charlie in
his night-gown, still belaboring the poor beast, and howling, "He was in
my bed! He scared George! I'll thrash him!"
Then the alarmed ladies and gentlemen laughed and grew calm, while the
boys all turned out and hunted Jerry up stairs and down, till he was
captured and ignominiously lugged away to be tied in the barn.
That prank sealed his fate, and he went to join his brother in
captivity. Here they lived for a year, and went to housekeeping in a den
in the bank, with a trough for their food, and a high, knotted pole to
climb on. They had many visitors, and learned a few tricks, but were not
happy bears; for they longed to be free, and the older they grew, the
more they sighed for the great forest where they were born.
The second summer something happened that parted them forever. Among the
children that year were Fred and Fan Howard, two jolly young persons of
twelve and fourteen. Of course the bears were very interesting, and Fred
tried their tempers by tormenting them, while Fan won their hearts with
cake and nuts, candy and caresses. Tom was Fred's favorite, and Jerry
was Fan's. Tom was very intelligent, and covered himself with glory by
various exploits. One was taking off the boards which roofed the den, so
that the sun should dry the dampness after a rain; and he carefully
replaced them at night. Any dog who approached the trough got his ears
smartly boxed, and meddlesome boys were hugged till they howled for
mercy. He danced in a way to convulse the soberest, and Fred taught him
to shoulder arms in such a funny imitation of a stout old soldier of the
town that the children rolled on the grass in fits of laughter when the
cap was on, and the wooden gun flourished at word of command by the
clumsy hero.
Jerry had no accomplishments, but his sweet temper made many friends. He
let the doves eat with him, the kittens frolic all over his broad back,
and was never rough with the small people who timidly offered the buns
he took so gently from their little hands. But he pined in captivity,
refused his food, and lay in his den all day, or climbed to the top of
the pole and sat there looking off to the cool, dark forest, with such a
pensive air that Fan said it made her heart ache to see him. Just before
the season ended, Jerry disappeared. No one could imagine how the chain
broke, but gone he was, and never came back, to Fan's satisfaction and
Tom's great sorrow. He mourned for his brother, and Mr. Hitchcock began
to talk of killing him; for it would not do to let two bears loose in
the neighborhood, as they sometimes killed sheep and did much harm.
"I wish my father would buy him," said Fred, "I've always wanted a
menagerie, and a tame bear would be a capital beginning."
"I'll ask him, for I hate to have the poor old fellow killed," answered
Fan. She not only begged papa to buy Tom, but confessed that she filed
Jerry's chain and helped him to escape.
"I know it was wrong, but I couldn't see him suffer," she said. "Now if
you buy Tom I'll give you my five dollars to help, and Mr. Hitchcock
will forgive me and be glad to get rid of both the bears."
After some consultation Tom was bought, and orders were sent to have a
house built for him in a sunny corner of the garden, with strong rings
to chain him to, and a good lock on the door to keep him in. When he was
settled in these new quarters he held daily receptions for some weeks.
Young and old came to see him, and Fred showed off his menagerie with
the pride of a budding Barnum. A bare spot was soon worn on the grass
where Tom's parade ground was, and at all hours the poor fellow might be
seen dancing and drilling, or sitting at his door, thoughtfully
surveying the curious crowd, and privately wishing he never had been
born.
Here he lived for another year, getting so big that he could hardly turn
round in his house, and so cross that Fred began to be a little afraid
of him after several hugs much too close to be safe or agreeable. One
morning the door of the house was found broken off, and Tom gone. Fred
was rather relieved; but his father was anxious, and ordered out the
boys of the neighborhood to find the runaway, lest he should alarm
people or do some harm. It was an easy matter to trace him, for more
than one terrified woman had seen the big, brown beast sniffing round
her back premises after food; a whole schoolful of children had been
startled out of their wits by a bear's head at the window; and one old
farmer was in a towering rage over the damage done to his bee-hives and
garden patch by "the pesky critter, afore he took to the woods."
After a long tramp poor Tom was found rolled up in a sunny nook, resting
after a glorious frolic. He went home without much reluctance, but from
that time it was hard to keep him. Bolts and bars, chains and ropes were
of little use; for when the longing came, off he went, on one occasion
carrying the house on his back, like a snail, till he tipped it over and
broke loose. Fred was quite worn out with his pranks, and tried to sell
or give him away; but nobody would buy or accept such a troublesome pet.
Even tender hearted Fan gave him up, when he frightened a little child
into a fit and killed some sheep, in his last holiday.
It was decided that he must be killed, and a party of men, armed with
guns, set out to carry the sentence into effect. Fred went also to see
that all was properly done, and Fanny called after him with tears in her
eyes:--
"Say good by for me, and kill him as kindly as you can."
This time Tom had been gone a week and had evidently made up his mind to
be a free bear; for he had wandered far into the deepest wood and made
a den for himself among the rocks. Here they found him, but could not
persuade him to come out, and no bold Putnam was in the troop, to creep
in and conquer him there.
"Bullets will reach him if we can't, so blaze away, boys, and finish him
off. We have fooled away time enough, and I want to get home to supper,"
said the leader of the hunt, after many attempts had been made to lure
or drive Tom from his shelter.
So they "blazed away," and growls of pain proved that some of the
bullets had hit. But Tom would not budge, and having used up their
ammunition, the disappointed hunters went home resolving to bring dogs
next day and finish the job. They were spared the trouble, however, for
when Fred looked from his window in the morning he saw that Tom had
returned, and ran down to welcome the rebel back. But one look at the
poor beast showed him that he had only come home to die; for he was
covered with wounds and lay moaning on his bed of straw, looking as
pathetic as a bear could, his shaggy coat full of burrs, his head and
breast full of shot, and one paw apparently broken.
Fanny cried over him, and Fred was quite bowed down with remorse; but
nothing could be done, and soon, with a vain effort to lick the hands
that stroked him, poor Tom lifted his great paw for a farewell shake,
and died, with his great head on his master's knee, in token of
forgiveness. As if to atone for their seeming cruelty, Fanny hung the
little house with black while Tom lay in state, and Fred, resisting all
temptations to keep his fine skin, buried him like a warrior "with his
martial cloak around him," in the green woods he loved so well.
                              II. BOYS.
The next tenants of the little house were three riotous lads,--for
Fred's family moved away,--and the new comers took possession one fine
spring day with great rejoicing over this ready-made plaything. They
were queer fellows, of eleven, twelve, and fourteen; for, having read
the "Boys' Froissart" and other warlike works, they were quite carried
away by these stirring tales, and each boy was a hero. Harry, the
eldest, was Henry of Navarre, and wore a white plume on every occasion.
Ned was the Black Prince, and clanked in tin armor, while little Billy
was William Tell and William Wallace by turns.
Tom's deserted mansion underwent astonishing changes about this time.
Bows and arrows hung on its walls; battle-axes, lances, and guns stood
in the corners; helmets, shields, and all manner of strange weapons
adorned the rafters; cannon peeped from its port-holes; a drawbridge
swung over the moat that soon surrounded it; the flags of all nations
waved from its roof, and the small house was by turns an armory, a fort,
a castle, a robber's cave, a warrior's tomb, a wigwam, and the Bastile.
The neighbors were both amused and scandalized by the pranks of these
dramatic young persons; for they enacted with much spirit and skill all
the historical events which pleased their fancy, and speedily enlisted
other boys to join in the new plays. At one time, painted and
be-feathered Indians whooped about the garden, tomahawking the unhappy
settlers in the most dreadful manner. At another, Achilles, radiant in a
tin helmet and boiler-cover shield, dragged Hector at the tail of his
chariot (the wheel-barrow), drawn by two antic and antique steeds, who
upset both victor and vanquished before the fun was over. Tell shot
bushels of apples off the head of the stuffed suit of clothes that acted
his son, Coeur de Leon and Saladin hacked blocks and cut cushions à la
Walter Scott, and tournaments of great splendor were held on the grass,
in which knights from all ages, climes, and races, tilted gallantly,
while fair dames of tender years sat upon the wood-pile to play Queens
of Beauty and award the prize of valor.
Nor were more modern heroes forgotten. Napoleon crossed the Alps (a muck
heap, high fence, and prickly hedge), with intrepid courage. Wellington
won many a Waterloo in the melon patch, and Washington glorified every
corner of the garden by his heroic exploits. Grant smoked sweet-fern
cigars at the fall of Richmond; Sherman marched victoriously to Georgia
through the corn and round the tomato bed, and Phil Sheridan electrified
the neighborhood by tearing down the road on a much-enduring donkey,
stung to unusual agility by matches tied to his tail.
