
" Well both," said Mrs. Dallas, again applying 
her knitting needle under her cap. 

The younger lady was silent a few minutes; go 
ing on with her embroidery. 

"This is getting to be very interesting " she 
remarked. 

" It is very interesting to me," replied the mother, 
with a thoughtful look. " For, as I told you, Pitt 
is a very fast friend, and persistent in all his likings 
and dislikings. Here he had none but the company 
of dissenters; and I did not want him to get in 
with people of that persuasion." 

"Is there much society about here? I fancied 
not." 

" No society, for him. Country people farmers 
people of that stamp. Nothing else." 

"I should have thought, dear Mrs. Dallas, that 
you would have been quite a sufficient counteraction to temptation from such a source ? " 

Mrs. Dallas hesitated. " Boys will be boys," she 
said. 

" But he is not a boy now? " 

"He is twenty four." 

" Not a boy, certainly. But do you know, that 
is an age when men are very hard to manage ? It 
is easier earlier, or later." 





" Not difficult to you at any time," said the other 
flatteringly. 

The conversation dropped there; at least there 
came an interval of quiet working on the young 
lady's part, and of rather listless knitting on the 
part of the mother, whose eyes went wistfully to 
the window without seeing anything. And this 
lasted till a step was heard at the front door. Mrs. 
Dallas let fall her needles and her yarn and rose 
hurriedly, crying out " That is not Mr. Dallas ! " 
and so speaking, rushed into the hall. 

There was a little bustle, a smothered word or 
two, and then a significant silence; which lasted 
long enough to let the watcher left behind in the 
drawing room conclude on the very deep relations 
subsisting between mother and son. Steps were 
heard moving at length, but they moved and 
stopped; there was lingering, and slow progress; 
and words were spoken, broken questions from 
Mrs. Dallas and brief responses in a stronger voice 
that was low-pitched and pleasant. The figures 
appeared in the doorway at last, but even there 
lingered still, the mother and son were looking into 
one another's faces and speaking those absorbed 
little utterances of first meeting which are insignificant enough, if they were not weighted with 
such a burden of feeling. Miss Betty sitting at 
her embroidery cast successive rapid glances of 
curiosity and interest at the new comer. His voice 
had already made her pulses quicken a little, for 
the tone of it touched her fancy. The first glance 



 

shewed him tall and straight; the second caught a 
smile which was both merry and sweet; a third 
saw that the level brows expressed character; and 
then the two people turned their faces towards her 
and came into the room, and Mrs. Dallas presented 
her son. 

The young lady rose and made a reverence, according to the more stately, and more elegant, 
fashion of the day. The gentleman's obeisance 
was profound in its demonstration of respect. Immediately after, however, he turned to his mother 
again ; a look of affectionate joy shining upon her 
out of his eyes and smile. 

" Two years ! " she was exclaiming. " Pitt, how 
you have changed ! " 

" Have I ? I think not much." 

" No, in one way not much. I see you are your 
old self. But two years have made you older." 

"So they should." 

"Somehow I had not expected it," said the 
mother, passing her hand across her eyes with a 
gesture a little as if there were tears in them. " I 
thought I should see my boy again and he is 
gone." 

" Not at all ! " said Pitt laughing. " Mistaken, 
mother. There is all of him here that there ever 
was. The difference is, that now there is some 
thing more." 

"What?" she asked. 

" A little more experience a little more knowledge let us hope, a little more wisdom." 





" There is more than that," said the mother looking at him fondly. 

"What?" 

" It is the difference I might have looked for," 
she said, "only, somehow, I had not looked for 
it." And the swift passage of her hand across her 
eyes gave again the same testimony of a few 
minutes before. Her son rose hereupon and proposed to withdraw to his room ; and as his mother 
accompanied him, Miss Betty noticed how his arm 
was thrown round her and he was bending to her 
and talking to her as they went. Miss Betty 
stitched "away busily, thoughts keeping time with 
her needle, for some time thereafter. Yet she did 
not quite know what she was thinking of. There 
was a little stir in her mind, which was so unaccustomed that it was delightful ; it was also vague, and 
its provoking elements were not clearly discernible. 
The young lady was conscious of a certain pleasant thrill in the view of the task to which she had 
been invited. It promised her possible difficulty, 
for even in the few short minutes just passed she 
had gained an inkling that Mrs. Dallas's words 
might be true, and Pitt not precisely a man that 
you could turn over your finger. It threatened 
her possible danger, which she did not admit; 
nevertheless the stinging sense of it made itself 
felt and pricked the pleasure into livelier existence. 
This was something out of the ordinary. This was 
a- man not just cut after the common work-a-day 
pattern. Miss Betty recalled involuntarily one 



 

trait after another that had fastened on her memory. Eyes of bright intelligence and hidden power, 
a very frank smile, and especially with all that, 
the great tenderness which had been shewn in 
every word and look to his mother. The good 
breeding and ease of manner Miss Betty had seen 
before; this other trait was something new; and 
perhaps she was conscious of a little pull it gave 
at her heartstrings. This was not the manner she 
had seen at home, where her father had treated 
her mother as a sort of queen consort certainly; 
co-regent of the house; but where they had lived 
upon terms of mutual diplomatic respect; and her 
brothers, if they cared much for anybody but Number one, gave small proof of the fact. What a 
brother this man would be ! what a something 
else! Miss Betty sheered off a little from just 
this idea; not that she was averse to it, or that 
she had not often entertained it; indeed she had 
entertained it not two hours ago about Pitt himself; 
but the presence of the man and the recognition 
of what was in him had stirred in her a kindred 
delicacy which was innate, as in every true woman, 
although her way of life and some of her associates 
had not fostered it. Betty Frere was a true woman, 
originally; alas, she was also now a woman of the 
world; also, she was poor, and to make a good 
marriage she had known for some years was very 
desirable for her. What a very good marriage this 
would be! Poor girl, she could not help the 
thought now, and she must not be judged hardly 





for it. It was in the air she breathed and that all 
her associates breathed. Betty had not been in a 
hurry to get married, having small doubt of her 
power to do it in any case that pleased her; now, 
somehow, she was suddenly confronted by a doubt 
of her power. 

I am pulling out the threads of what was to 
Betty only a web of very confused pattern; she 
did not try to unravel it. Her consciousness of 
just two things was clear; the pleasant stimulus 
of the task set before her, and a little sharp premonition of its danger. She dismissed that. She 
could perform the task and detach Pitt from any 
imaginary ties that his mother was afraid of, with 
out herself thereby becoming entangled. It would 
be a game of uncommon interest and entertain 
ment, and a piece of benevolence too. But Betty's 
pulses, as I said, were quickened a little 



CHAPTER XXXIV. 
HOLIDAYS. 

SHE did not see her new acquaintance again till 
they met at the supper table. She behaved 
herself then in an extremely well-bred way; was 
dignified and reserved and quiet; hardly said anything, as with a nice recognition that her words 
were not wanted; scarce ever seemed to look at 
the new arrival, of whom nevertheless not a word 
nor a look escaped her; and was simply an elegant 
quiet figure at the table, so lovely to look at that 
words from her seemed to be superfluous. Whether 
the stranger saw it, or whether he missed anything, 
there was no sign. He seemed to be provokingly 
and exclusively occupied with his father and mother ; 
hardly, she thought, giving to herself all the at 
tention which is due from a gentleman to a lady. 
Yet he fulfilled his duties in that regard, albeit only 
as one does it to whom they are a matter of course. 
Betty listened attentively to everything that was 
said, while she was to all appearance indifferently 
busied with her supper. 

But the conversation ran, as it is wont to run 

at such times, when hearts long absent have found 





each other again, and fling trifles about, knowing 
that their stores of treasure must wait for a quieter 
time to be unpacked. They talked of weather and 
crops and Pitt's voyage, and the neighbours, and 
the changes in the village, and the improvements 
about the place ; not as if any of these things were 
much cared for; they were bubbles floating on 
their cups of joy. Questions asked and questions 
answered, as if in the pleasure of speaking to one 
another again the subject of their words did not 
matter; or as if the supreme content of the mo 
ment could spare a little benevolence even for 
these outside things. At last a question was asked 
which made Betty prick up her ears; this must 
have been due to something indefinable in the 
tone of the speakers, for the words were nothing. 

" Have you heard anything of the Gainsboroughs?" 

" No." 

It was the elder Dallas who answered. 

" What has become of them ? " 

" I am not in condition to tell." 

" Have you written to them?" 

No, not since the last time ; and that was a 
good while ago." 

"Then you do not know how things are with 
them, of course. I do not see how you have let 
them drop out of knowledge so. They were not 
exactly people to lose sight of." 

" Why not ? when they went out of sight." 

" You do not even know, sir, whether Col. Gainsborough is still living?" 



 

" How should I ? But he was as likely to live 
as any other rnan." 

" He did not think so." 

" For which very reason he would probably live 
longer than many other men. There is nothing 
like a hypochondriack for tough holding out." 

" Well, I must search New York for them this 
time, until I find them." 

"What possible occasion, Pitt?" said his mother, 
with a tone of uneasiness which Betty noted. 

"Duty, mamma, and also pleasure. But duty 
is imperative." 

" I do not see the duty. You tried to look them 
up the last time you were here, and failed." 

"I shall not fail this time." 

" If it depended on your will," remarked his 
father coolly. " But I think the probability is that 
they have gone back to England, and are conse 
quently no longer in New York." 

" What are the grounds of that probability ? " 

"When last I heard from the colonel, he was 
proposing the question of reconciliation with his 
family. And as I have heard no more from him 
since then, I think the likeliest thing is that he 
has made up his quarrel and gone home." 

" I can easily determine that question by look 
ing over the shipping lists." 

" Perhaps not," said Mr. Dallas rubbing his chin. 
" If he has gone, I think it will have been under 
another name. The one he bore here was, I suspect, assumed." 





" What for ?" demanded Pitt somewhat sharply. 

" Reasons of family pride, no doubt. That is 
enough to make men do foolisher things." 

"It would be difficult to find a foolisher thing 
to do," replied his son. But then the conversation 
turned. It had given Miss Betty something to 
think of. She drew her own conclusions without 
asking anybody. And in some indefinite, inscrutable way it stimulated and confirmed her desire 
for the game Mrs. Dallas had begged her to play. 
Human hearts are certainly strange things. What 
were the Gainsboroughs to Miss Betty Frere? Nothing in the world, half an hour before; now? Now 
there was a vague suspicion of an enemy some 
where; a scent of rivalry in the air; an immediate 
rising of partisanship. Were these the people of 
whom Mrs. Dallas was afraid ? against whom she 
craved help ? She should have help. Was it not 
even a meritorious thing, to withdraw a young 
man from untoward influences, and keep him in 
the path marked out by his mother ? 

Miss Frere scented a battle like Job's war horse. 
In spirit, that is ; outwardly, nothing could shew less 
signs of war. She was equal to Pitt, in her seem 
ing careless apartness ; the difference was, that with 
her it was seeming, and with him reality. She lost 
not a word ; she failed not to observe and regard 
every movement; she knew, without being seen to 
look, just what his play of feature and various expressions were; all the while she was calmly em 
broidering, or idly gazing out of the window, or 



 

skilfully playing chess with Mr. Dallas, whom she 
inevitably beat. 

Pitt, the while, his mother thought, (and so 
thought the young lady herself) was provokingly 
careless of her attractions. He was going hither 
and thither ; over the farm with his father ; about 
the village, to see the changes and look up his old 
acquaintances; often, too, busy in his room where 
he had been wont to spend so many hours in the 
old time. He was graver than he used to be ; with 
the manner of a man, and a thoughtful one; he 
shewed not the least inclination to amuse himself 
with his mother's elegant visiter. Mrs. Dallas 
became as nearly fidgety as it was in her nature 
to be. 

"What do you think of my young friend?" she 
asked Pitt when he had been a day or two at home. 

" The lady ? She is a very satisfactory person, 
to the eye." 

"To the eye!" 

" It is only my eyes, you will remember, mother, 
that know anything about her." 

"That is your fault. Why do you let it be 
true ? " 

" Very naturally, I have had something else to 
think of." 

" But she is a guest in the house, and you really 
seem to forget it, Pitt. Can't you take her for a 
drive?" 

"Where shall I take her?" 

" Where? There is all the country to choose 





from. What a question! You never used to be 
at a loss, as I remember, in old times, when you 
went driving about with that little protegee Of 
yours." 

It was very imprudent of Mrs. Dallas, and she 
knew it immediately, and was beyond measure 
vexed with herself. But the subject was started. 

" Poor Esther ! " said Pitt thoughtfully. " Mamma, I can't understand how you and my father 
should have lost sight of those people so." 

" They went out of our way." 

" But you sometimes- go to New York." 

" Passing through, to Washington. I could not 
have time to search for people whose address I did 
not know." 

" I cannot understand why you did not know it. 
They were not the sort of people to be left to them 
selves. A hypochondriack father, who thought he 
was dying, and a young girl just growing up to 
need a kind mother's care, which she had not. I 
would give, more than I can tell you, to find her 
again ! " 

"What could you possibly do for her, Pitt? 
You, reading law and living in chambers in the 
Temple, in London, and she a grown young 
woman by this time, and living in New York. No 
doubt her father is quite equal to taking care of 
her." 

Pitt made no reply. His mother repeated her 
question. " What could you do for her ? " 

She was looking at him keenly, and did not at all 



 

like a faint smile which hovered for a second upon 
his lips. 

" That is a secondary question," he said. " The 
primary is, Where is she? I must go and find 
out." 

"Your father thinks they have gone back to 
England. It would just be lost labour, Pitt." 

" Not if I found that was true." 

" What could you do for them, if you could dis 
cover them ? " 

" Mother, that would depend on what condition 
they were in. I made a promise once to Col. 
Gainsborough to look after his daughter." 

"A very extraordinary promise, for him to ask 
or for you to give ! seeing you were but a boy at 
the time." 

"Somewhat extraordinary, perhaps. However, 
that is nothing to the matter." 

There was a little vexed pause ; and then Mrs. 
Dallas said, 

" In the mean while, instead of busying yourself 
with far-away claims which are no claims, what do 
you think of paying a little attention to a guest in 
your own house ? " 

Pitt lifted his head and seemed to prick up his 
ears. 

"Miss Frere? You wish me to take her to 
drive? I am willing, mamma." 

" Insensible boy ! You ought to be very glad 
of the privilege." 

" I would rather take you, mother." 





The drive accordingly was proposed that very 
day; did not however come off. It was too hot, 
Miss Frere said. 

She was sitting in the broad verandah at the 
back of the house, which looked out over the garden. It was an orderly wilderness of cherry trees 
and apple trees and plum trees, raspberry vines 
and gooseberry bushes; with marigolds and four 
o clocks and love-in-a-puzzle and hollyhocks and 
daisies and larkspur, and a great many more sweet 
and homely growths that nobody makes any account 
of now-a-days. Sunlight just now lay glowing upon 
it, and made the shade of the verandah doubly pleasant ; the verandah being further shaded by honey 
suckle and trumpet creeper which wreathed round 
the pillars and stretched up to the eaves ; and the 
scent of the honeysuckle was mingled with the smell 
of roses which came up from the garden. In this 
sweet and bowery place Miss Frere was sitting 
when she declared it was too hot to drive. She 
was in an India garden chair, and had her embroidery as usual in her hand. She always had 
something in her hand. Pitt lingered, languidly 
contemplating the picture she made. 

" It is hot," he assented. 

" When it is hot, I keep myself quiet," she went 
on. "You seem to be of another mind." 

" I make no difference for the weather." 

" Don't you ! What energy. Then you are always at work ? " 

"Who said so?" 



 

"I said so, as an inference. When the weather 
has been cool enough to allow me to take notice, I 
have noticed that you were busy about something. 
You tell me now that weather makes no difference." 

" Life is too short to allow weather to cut it 
shorter," said Pitt, throwing himself down on a mat. 
" I think I have observed that you too always have 
some work in hand, whenever I have seen you." 

" My work amounts to nothing," said the young 
lady. " At least, you would say so, I presume." 

"What is it?" 

Miss Betty displayed her roll of muslin, on the 
free portion of which an elegant line of embroidery 
was slowly growing, multiplying and reproducing 
its white buds and leaves and twining shoots. Pitt 
regarded it with an unenlightened eye. 

" I am as wise as I was before," he said. 

" Why look here," said the young lady, with a 
slight movement of her little foot calling his attention to the edge of her skirt, wnere a somewhat 
similar line of embroidery was visible. " I am 
making a border for another gown." 

Pitt's eye went from the one embroidery to the 
other; he said nothing. 

"You are not complimentary," said Miss Frere. 

" I am not yet sure that there is anything to 
compliment." 

The young lady gave him a full view of her fine 
eyes for half a second ; or perhaps it was only that 
they took a good look at him. 

" Don't you see," she said, " that it is economy, 





and thrift, and all the household virtues? Not 
having the money to buy trimming, I am manufacturing it." 

" And the gown must be trimmed ? " 

" Unquestionably ! You would not like it so well 
if it were not." 

" That is possible. The question remains " 

" What question ? " 

" Whether Life is not worth more than a bit of 
trimming." 

" Life ! " echoed the young lady a little scornfully. " An hour now and then is not Life." 

"It is the stuff of which Life is made." 

" What is Life good for ? " 

"That is precisely the weightiest question that 
can occupy the mind of a philosopher ! " 

" Are you a philosopher, Mr. Dallas ? " 

"In so far as a philosopher means a lover of 
knowledge. A philosopher who has attained unto 
knowledge, I am not; that sort of knowledge." 

"You have been studying it?" 

" I have been studying it for years." 

"What Life is good for?" said the young lady, 
with again a lift of her eyes which expressed a 
little disdain and a little impatience. But she 
saw Pitt's face with a thoughtful earnestness upon 
it; he was not watching her eyes, as he ought to 
have been. Her somewhat petulant words he an 
swered simply. 

"What question of more moment can there be? 
I am here, a human creature with such and such 



 

powers and capacities; I am here for so many years, 
not numerous ; what is the best thing I can do with 
them and myself ? " 

"Get all the good out of them you can." 

" Certainly ! but you observe that is no answer 
to my question of how. " 

"Good is pleasure, isn't it ? " 

"Is it?" 

" I think so." 

"Make pleasure lasting, and perhaps I should 
agree with you. But how can you do that ? " 

" You cannot do it, that ever I heard. It is not 
in the nature of things." 

" Then what is the good of pleasure when it is 
over, and you have given your Life for it ? " 

" Well, if Pleasure won't do, take Greatness then." 

" What sort of Greatness ? " Pitt asked in the 
same tone. It was the tone of one who had gone 
over the ground. 

"Any sort will do, I suppose," said Miss Frere 
with half a laugh. "The thing is, I believe, to be 
great, no matter how. I never had that ambition 
myself; but that is the idea, isn't it? " 

" What is it worth, supposing it gained ? " 

" People seem to think it is worth a good deal, 
by the efforts they make and the things they undergo for it." 

" Yes," said Pitt thoughtfully, "they pay a great 
price, and they have their reward. And I say, 
what is it worth ? " 

" Why, Mr. Dallas," said the young lady throwing up her head, "it is worth a great deal; all it 
costs. To be noble, to be distinguished, to be great 
and remembered in the world, what is a worthy 
ambition if that is not ? " 

"That is the general opinion ; but what is it worth, 
when all is done ? Name any great man you think 
of as specially great " 

"Napoleon Buonaparte," said the young lady 
immediately. 

" Do not name him" said Pitt. " He wore a 
brilliant crown, but he got it out of the dirt of low 
passions and cold-hearted selfishness. His name 
will be remembered, but as a splendid example of 
wickedness. Name some other." 

" Name one yourself," said Betty. " I have succeeded so ill." 

"Name them all," said Pitt. "Take all the conquerors, from Rameses the great down to our time; 
take all the statesmen, from Moses and onward. 
Take Apelles at the head of a long list of wonderful 
painters; philosophers, from Socrates to Francis 
Bacon; discoverers and inventors, from the man 
who first made musical instruments, in the lifetime 
of Adam our forefather, to Watt and the steam en 
gine. Take any or all of them ; ive are very glad 
they lived and worked, we are the better for remembering them ; but I ask you, what are they the bet 
ter for it?" 

This appeal, which was evidently meant in deep 
earnest, moved the mind of the young lady with so 
great astonishment that she looked at Pitt as at a 



 

lusus natures. But he was quite serious and simply 
matter-of-fact in his way of putting things. He 
looked at her, waiting for an answer, but got none. 

" We speak of Alexander, and praise him to the 
skies ; him of Macedon, I mean. What is that, do 
you think, to Alexander now ? " 

" If it is nothing to him, then what is the use of 
being great ? " said Miss Frere in her bewilderment. 

" You are coming back to my question." 

There ensued a pause, during which the stitches 
of embroidery were taken slowly. 

"What do you intend to do with your life, Mr. 
Dallas, since pleasure and fame are ruled out ? " the 
young lady asked. 

"You see, that decision waits on the previous 
question," he answered. 

" But it has got to be decided," said Miss Frere, 
" or you will be " 

" Nothing. Yes, I am aware of that." 

There was again a pause. 

"Miss Frere," Pitt then began again, "did you 
ever see a person whose happiness rested on a last 
ing foundation ? " 

The young lady looked at her companion anew 
as if he were to her a very odd character. 

" What do you mean ? " she said. 

" I mean, a person who was thoroughly happy, 
not because of circumstances but in spite of them ?" 

" To begin with, I never saw anybody that was 
thoroughly happy. I do not believe in the experience." 




" I am obliged to believe in it. I have known a 
person, who seemed to be clean lifted up out of the 
mud and mire of troublesome circumstances, and 
to have got up to a region of permanent clear air 
md sunshine. I have been envying that person 
ever since." 

" May I ask, was it a man or a woman ? " 

"Neither; it was a young girl." 

" It is easy to be happy at that age." 

"Not for her. She had been very unhappy." 

" And got over it." 

" Yes, but not by virtue of her youth or childish 
ness, as you suppose. She was one of those natures 
that are born with a great capacity for suffering, 
and she had begun to find it out early; and it was 
from the depths of unhappiness that she came out 
into clear and peaceful sunshine; with nothing to 
help her either in her external surroundings." 

"Couldn't you follow her steps and attain her 
experience ? " asked Miss Frere mockingly. 

Pitt rose up from the mat where he had been 
lying, laughed, and shook himself. 

" As you will not go to drive," he said, " I believe 
I will go alone." 

But he went on horseback, and rode hard. 



CHAPTER XXXV. 

ANTIQUITIES. 

AS Pitt went off, Mrs. Dallas came on the verandah. 
" You would not go to drive ? " she said to 
Betty. 

" It is so hot, dear Mrs. Dallas ! I had what was 
much better than a drive a good long talk." 

" What do you think of my boy ? " asked the mother, with an accent of happy confidence in which 
there was also a vibration of pride. 

"He puzzles me. Has he not some peculiar 
opinions V " 

" Have you found that out already ? " said Mrs. 
Dallas with a change of tone. "That shews he 
must Like you very much, Betty; my son is not 
given to letting himself out on those subjects. 
Even to me he very seldom speaks of them." 

" What subjects do you mean, dear Mrs. Dallas? " 
inquired the young lady softly. 

" I mean," said Mrs. Dallas uneasily and hesita 
ting, "some sort of religious questions. I told 
you, he had had to do at one time with dissenting 

people, and I think their influence has been bad 



for him. I hoped, in England he would forget all 
that, and become a true Churchman. What did he 
say?" 

"Nothing about the Church, or about religion. 
I do not believe it would be easy for any one to 
influence him, Mrs. Dallas." 

" You can do it, Betty, if any one. I am hoping 
in you." 

The young lady, as I have intimated, was not 
averse to the task, all the rather that it promised 
some difficulty. All the rather, too, that she was 
stimulated by the idea of counter influence. She 
recalled more than once what Pitt had said of that 
"young girl," and tried to make out what had been 
in his tone at the time. No passion certainly; he 
had spoken easily and frankly; too easily to favour 
the supposition of any very deep feeling; and yet, 
not without a certain cadence of tenderness, and 
undoubtedly with the confidence of intimate knowledge. Undoubtedly also, the influence of that 
young person, whatever its nature, had not died 
out. Miss Betty had little question in her own 
mind that she must have been one of the persons 
referred to and dreaded by Mrs. Dallas as dissenters; and the young lady determined to do what 
she could in the case. She had a definite point of 
resistance now, and felt stronger for the fray. 

The fray, however, could not be immediately entered upon. Pitt departed to New York, avowedly 
to look up the Gainsboroughs. And there, as two 
years before, he spent unwearied pains in pursuit 



 

of his object; also as then, in vain. He returned 
after more than a week of absence, a baffled man. 
His arrival was just in time to allow him to sit 
down to dinner with the family; so that Betty 
heard his report. 

" Have you found the Gainsboroughs ? " his 
father asked. 

"No sir." 

" Where did you look ? " 

"Everywhere." 

" What have you done ? " his mother asked. 

" Everything." 

" I told yon, I thought they were gone back to 
