
CHAPTER XIV.

THE PURSUIT IN THE GOLDWING.


It was easier to decide that something should be done than it was to
determine what to do. Mr. Jepson suggested the Sylph, but it would take
some time to get up steam, and Dory thought she would not be the most
convenient craft in a conflict with the barges. He was decidedly in
favor of pursuing the marauders in the Goldwing.

In the smashing breeze on the lake she would sail nearly as fast as the
steamer, and he could have her under way in five minutes. The schooner
could follow the boats into shoal water, while the Sylph must have eight
or nine feet, and if Tom Topover was smart, she might not be able to go
within a mile of the barges.

"I am more afraid the rascals will smash the boats than that we shall
not get them again," said Matt Randolph. "They are reckless fellows, and
will run them on the rocks or shoals."

"We must look out for that," replied Dory. "If they go out on the lake
they are more likely to swamp them than they are to smash them. But we
are losing time, and I should like to catch the villains before they are
out of the river, for I think they won't hurry after they get out of
sight of Beech Hill."

"Goldwing it is!" exclaimed Luke Bennington.

"So say we all of us!" shouted the others, beginning to be somewhat
excited at the prospect of a lively time with the Topovers.

"Dory shall command the expedition," added Thad Glovering.

"Matt is a better skipper than I am," modestly added Dory.

"No, I am not," protested Matt. "And Dory is better acquainted with the
Goldwing than I am, and he shall conduct the affair."

"But you can't all go in the Goldwing," interposed Mr. Jepson. "There
are eighteen of you, and you will be so crowded that you will knock one
another overboard."

"Although the schooner will carry eighteen well enough, we can do
nothing on board with so many, and nine or ten are all we need," added
Dory.

"But there are fourteen of the ruffians," suggested Thad Glovering.
"They are used to fighting, and we want as many fellows as they have."

"I don't believe there will be much fighting," replied Dory, laughing;
"but if there should be, we can do better with ten than we can with
twice that number. With eighteen we should be in one another's way."

"Ten only will go," said Mr. Jepson decidedly.

"But who shall they be?" demanded Luke Bennington. "Every fellow wants
to go and have a hand in the fun."

"There is where the difficulty comes in," added Matt. "I think Dory had
better select his own crew; and for one, if I am elected to stay at
home, I won't complain."

"You know very well that you will be elected to go, Matt," said Will
Orwell.

"I don't like to select a crew; I wish all could go, and I shall be
satisfied with any nine," interposed Dory.

"Under these circumstances the best thing a fellow can do is to
volunteer to stay behind; and I volunteer not to go," said Oscar
Chester. "I should like to go as well as the next one, and I don't want
any fellow to think I am chickenish."

"We know you are not, Oscar," added Dave Windsor; and all the students
began to clap their hands at the self-sacrifice of the first volunteer.

Bolingbroke Millweed followed Oscar's example; then came Matt Randolph
and Luke Bennington. It was the unselfish and brave thing to volunteer
to stay at home, and no one was willing to stay behind in doing a good
deed. In a moment more the whole seventeen had volunteered to remain at
Beech Hill.

"I don't like to be alone, and I will join the crowd," exclaimed Dory,
greatly amused at the situation. "We are just as badly off as we were in
the beginning, and the Topovers are pulling down the river all the time.
I will tell you how to settle the matter so that it shall be fair for
all."

"All right, Dory: propel!" exclaimed Dave Winslow.

"Matt Randolph is the coxswain of the Gildrock, and he must go anyhow.
For the other eight you must draw lots. Mr. Jepson will attend to the
matter, and Matt and I will get the Goldwing ready," said Dory,
beginning to be impatient at the delay.

All of them clapped their hands in token of their approval of the plan.
The master machinist took out his pencil and wrote the numbers from one
to sixteen on the back of a letter. Around eight of them, taken at
random, he drew a square. Calling Miss Millweed from the schoolroom, he
gave the paper to her.

"Now, Luke, select a number less than seventeen," continued Mr. Jepson.

"Forty-two," said Luke, laughing.

"I shall have to turn you over to Mr. Darlingby for further instruction
in arithmetic," replied Mr. Jepson.

"Twelve," shouted Luke.

"Is that number enclosed in a square, Miss Millweed?" asked the
machinist.

"It is not," replied the lady clerk.

"Then you are blackballed, Luke," added Mr. Jepson.

"Of course I am; I knew I should be."

"But with the eight who are elected not to go we will go down the river
in the two four-oar boats; and we may be able to assist in the capture
of the barges," said the machinist.

All hands applauded this announcement, and the lot proceeded. Oscar
Chester, the first to volunteer to remain behind, was one of the first
who selected a squared number. This result was heartily applauded. From
being the worst bully in the crowd he had come to be a very gentlemanly
and unselfish fellow. The discipline of Captain Gildrock had done
wonders for him.

By the time the last of Dory's crew had been drawn, the schooner was
under way, and standing in towards the wharf. The eight who had been
"blackballed," as the machinist called it, were directed to man the two
four-oar boats, and put the others on board of the yacht.

"Now we are all right, and under way at last," said Matt Randolph.

"But the Topovers have a start of all of an hour ahead of us, and if
they have been using their oars they must be well out in the lake by
this time," added Dory.

"I don't believe they will go a great way out into the lake," replied
Matt. "There must be a smart sea at the mouth of the river, for the wind
is a good deal heavier than it was yesterday."

"The rest of the fellows are coming down the river in the four-oar
boats," said Oscar. "I suppose they are going to help us, and we ought
to make short work of this affair."

"Are you going to lay them aboard, Dory?" asked Matt, who was rather
inclined to quiz his fellow coxswain.

"I haven't the least idea how we shall manage the business," replied
the skipper of the Goldwing.

"But you ought to have a plan," suggested the New York boatman.

"How can you make a plan before you know what the Topovers intend to do,
and before you ascertain the situation of the boats?" asked the skipper.
"It's no use to try to cross the river before you get to it."

"Of course not; but do you mean to board the barges and fight it out, or
to manoeuvre them out of the game as you did the Chesterfields?"
continued Matt, rather disappointed to find that Dory did not lean upon
him as much as he desired and expected.

"I am ready to do either or both, as the circumstances happen to favor,"
replied the skipper. "If you will take the tiller, Matt, I will go
forward and 'clear ship for action.'"

The schooner was going at great speed, with the wind on the beam, and
the outlet was very narrow. Dory went forward, and proceeded to arrange
certain rigging on the forward deck. He did not explain what he was
doing, but he worked as though he had some idea of his possible action
in the encounter with the Topovers.

While he was busy with the lines, the centreboard of the Goldwing
suddenly flew up, and a moment later the bottom of the yacht was
scraping on the sand. Dory suspended his work, and looked up.

"Here we are!" he exclaimed, as he looked around him, and then at the
helmsman.

"I thought there was water enough here for her," said Matt, greatly
chagrined to find that he had run the schooner aground when they were in
such a hurry.

"So there is if you only keep in it," replied Dory laughing, for he did
not wish to hurt the feelings of his fellow coxswain. "I have done that
same thing myself, Matt, and I did it as handsomely as you have done
it."

"We have to haul her up into the wind here, and I was afraid she would
go ashore on the other side," pleaded Matt. "But here we are with the
centreboard up in the air, and the planks rasping the sand on the
bottom."

The disaster occurred at the bend in the outlet, which Dory called the
"V point." The current, which was quite strong at high water, deposited
a great deal of sand at the apex of the point, while its force made a
clear channel near the shore on the other side. When the wind was
northwest it was necessary to hug the point as closely as possible.

The two oars and the boathook were at once brought into use, but it was
impossible to move the hull in this way. Dory sent a couple of the crew
ashore in the tender with a line, which they made fast to a tree near
the deep water. The anchor was taken on deck, and the other end of the
line passed through the block on the bowsprit. All on board manned this
line, and the bow was hauled off almost in the twinkling of an eye. Matt
insisted that Dory should take the helm, when the tender had returned
with the line.

It was not an easy thing to get under way again in that bad place and
Matt was very much mortified at the mishap. The skipper said all he
could to comfort him, and gave him the helm again as soon as the
schooner was in Beaver River. He arranged his lines as he had before,
and by the time he had done this the Goldwing was approaching the mouth
of the river. But a bend prevented them from seeing out into the lake.

"There they are!" shouted Dory at the heel of the bowsprit, where he
could get the first view of the white-capped waves. "They are doing the
very thing I was afraid they would do."

"What's that, Dory?" asked Matt, starting the sheets as the course of
the yacht was changed.

"They are standing across the lake, and in a short time, if they make
any headway, they will be in smooth water," replied the skipper.

Matt did not ask any questions, and possibly he suspected that Dory was
his superior in the management of a boat. If he did, it was only because
he was mortified at the accident at V Point. The Goldwing went out into
the lake, and began to dance on the billows. The two barges appeared to
be doing very well, in spite of the inefficient crew at the oars. Both
of them were pitching smartly, and were not taking in water except in
the form of spray.

In a few minutes the Goldwing was within hailing distance of the barges.
Dory declined to take the helm when Matt suggested, and was again busy
with his lines on the forward deck.




CHAPTER XV.

THE SKIPPER USES A NAUTICAL LASSO.


"What's that?" called George Duane, while Dory was still busy on the
forward deck.

This question was called forth by what sounded like a volley of cheers
from the New York side of the lake; but nothing could be seen to
indicate the source from which the noise came.

"There it is again," added John Brattle, as three distinct cheers came
over the waves. "There is some sort of a party up that little cove."

There was an inlet just to the south of the barges, from which it was
now evident that the sounds came. But parties from the surrounding
country frequently had frolics on the shores of the lake, and the
students concluded that the cheers came from one of these gatherings.

The Topovers continued on their course, and seemed to be laboring to
increase their speed, which was certainly moderate enough. They pulled
but six oars in each barge, and against the wind and the heavy sea they
could make but little progress. The Goldwing was making three miles to
their one, and the moment for action was near.

Though the Goldwing was close-hauled, she leaped over the waves like a
bird, and Matt was running directly for the barges, one of which was
following the other, the Winooski being ahead. The skipper finished
arranging the lines on the forward deck. Getting on his feet he made a
careful survey of the situation.

"Matt, can you go to windward of the barges?" he called to the helmsman.

"I might, possibly, but it would be a close squeeze," replied Matt.

"Then we must work more to windward: tack, if you please," added Dory;
and it was evident that he had prepared his plan of attack.

Matt came about and headed the Goldwing to the north. Dory kept his eye
on the barges, but he gave no hint of his method of operations. Probably
Matt thought he was entitled to be informed in regard to the plan, but
the accident in the river for which he was responsible had humbled him,
and he asked no questions.

When the schooner had made about a quarter of a mile of northing, the
skipper gave the order to tack again. Matt was directed to steer for a
certain point on the shore, which would carry the yacht a little
distance to windward of the barges, allowing for the headway they would
make before she could reach them. In that lively breeze even the width
of the lake at Beaver River was only a run of a few minutes for the
Goldwing, and she was very soon abreast of the Gildrock. The Winooski
was about a hundred fathoms ahead of her.

"Now, Matt, we have some sharp work to do, and every thing must be done
on the instant," said Dory, when the Goldwing had passed the Gildrock
and was up with the Winooski.

"Perhaps you had better take the helm, then?" suggested the coxswain of
the Gildrock.

"I can't, for I have a job to do here on the forward deck. We shall go
about, and run for the Gildrock in a moment," replied Dory. "I want you
to make for her stem just as though you meant to run her down."

"All right, Dory; I will obey orders to the letter," returned the
helmsman.

"I would rather you would obey them in spirit; so if I make a blunder,
and get knocked out, I want you to correct it," added Dory lightly.

"I don't know what you are going to do, and I can only obey orders to
the letter," said Matt.

"I could not settle on any plan until I had seen how the barges lay; and
it is too late to explain now. Ready about!"

Matt promptly obeyed the orders given him, and the schooner came
entirely around. It would have been a shorter way to jibe her, but the
skipper never ventured upon this manoeuvre when the wind was at all
fresh; for he was not one of those venturesome boatmen who think they
are not smart unless they incur needless risks.

Dory saw that Matt was carrying out his orders to the letter, and it was
clear that Nim Splugger, the acting coxswain of the Gildrock, was
getting nervous as he saw the Goldwing dashing down upon his craft.

"What are you about? You will run over us!" yelled Nim, when he saw the
schooner within twenty feet of him.

The oarsmen were inclined to desert their posts, and kept looking behind
them at the Goldwing. But both barges had been in the trough of the sea,
and those in charge of them had found by actual trial that the only way
they could go was directly across the lake, against the wind. This was
the reason why the barges were nearly over to the New York shore, and
not because they were following a plan of their own.

"Keep to your oars, fellers!" shouted Nim Splugger, when he saw several
of his crew cease rowing. "Never mind that boat! She won't run into us."

But Nim had his doubts on this point, for the Goldwing did not budge an
inch from her course. Dory had looked over his lines, and was watching
the course of the schooner and the position of the Gildrock. When the
schooner was within ten feet of the barge, Nim gave a frantic yell, and
all the rowers gave up in despair.

"Keep her away a little, Matt!" called Dory, who was now on his feet
with a line in each hand.

The Topovers in the Gildrock gave a desperate yell, satisfied that they
should be floundering in the angry waters the next instant. The Goldwing
fell off a trifle at this moment, in obedience to the helm. Dory had
fixed the line in his left hand on the spur of the light boathook, which
he extended as far as he could reach. As he did so, one of the covers
from the cook-stove, which he had secured to the bight between his
hands, dropped into the water.

Thus arranged, the line formed a snare in the shape of a triangle, the
stove-cover sinking the lower angle a couple of feet under water. As the
skipper held the snare, the Gildrock ran her bow directly into it. The
bight of the line was a slip-noose, and as the schooner drove ahead, it
tightened up.

As the Goldwing went ahead, Dory paid out the line rapidly, for a single
jerk would have upset the barge. The Topovers in the boat were so
terrified that they did not comprehend what Dory was about.

"Hard down your helm, Matt!" shouted Dory, with tremendous energy, when
half his line had run out, and the bow of the schooner was abreast of
the stern of the Gildrock.

Oscar Chester had been stationed at the mainsheet, and the instant Matt
put the helm down he hauled in the sheet with all his might. The effect
of these orders, as they were sharply executed, was to cause the
Goldwing to circle around the stern of the barge, and come up
close-hauled on her starboard side.

"Now we are all right! It's a success!" cried Dory, with all the
enthusiasm of a person who has won a great victory.

But even his own crew did not understand what he was about, and had not
the least idea of the working of his plan. All that had been done had
been accomplished in a few seconds, and the rapid working of the
schooner absorbed all their attention.

When the Goldwing came about under the stern of the barge, Dory rushed
aft with the end of his line in his hand, and made it fast to a cleat.
The rope had sunk in the water, and passed under the keel of the
Gildrock.

"Touch her up, Matt! Lively, if you please!" said Dory, as he secured
the line in his hand.

But the schooner had not yet got under full speed since she came about,
and when the mainsail shook she had lost about all her headway. But she
was not permitted to come to. Dory took the helm now, which Matt was
very willing to have him do.

"Go aft, every one of you!" shouted Dory to the Topovers in the barge.
"If you don't you will be overboard in a moment!"

The six oarsmen had been stationed in the middle of the boat, leaving
the vacant places forward and aft. Without waiting for orders from Nim
Splugger, the rowers all hurried aft as fast as the uneasy motion of the
craft would permit. This change in her burden caused the bow of the
Gildrock to be lifted out of the water, which was precisely what Dory
desired. Putting the helm of Goldwing up he allowed the yacht to gather
headway by slow degrees. He had lassoed the barge, but he was not
certain of the effect when he should attempt to tow her. The slip-noose
had come home so that the knot was nearly in line with the stem.

"I see now what you are about," said Matt, while Dory was experimenting
with the process of towing the barge. "But those fellows will cut the
line as soon as they get a little used to the movement of the boat and
understand what you are doing."

"If any one of them attempts to go forward, we can pitch him into the
lake as quick as we can shift the helm of the Goldwing," replied Dory
confidently.

"I see!" exclaimed Matt, laughing. "A pull sideways would heel the barge
over so that the water would go over her gunwale."

"The two four-oar boats are coming!" shouted Dick Short, "Mr. Jepson is
in one of them."

"Good! We may want some of those fellows before we get through with
this business," replied the skipper.

"But what are you going to do with your game now that you have snared
it, Dory?" asked Matt.

"I am going to put the Topovers ashore over here, and send the Gildrock
home at once," answered Dory. "I should have told you about my plan,
Matt, but I didn't believe in it myself until the last minute. I was
sure you would laugh at it; and if I did not succeed in carrying it out
I did not want you to have to bear any of the responsibility of its
failure."

"I think I should have laughed at it; and I can't help doing so now,"
added Matt, suiting the action to the words.

With the whole length of the line out, the Gildrock towed better than
Dory had expected she would. But the barge both pitched and rolled as it
was dragged at an angle over the waves, and the Topovers in her had to
hold on with both hands. With only half her usual crew, and these all in
the stern sheets, the tow-line did not force her bow under, and she kept
very nearly in her proper trim.

Finding that she went along very well, Dory headed the Goldwing for the
little cove from which the cheers had come. By this time the Winooski
had got into the smooth water, comparatively, under the lee of the
shore. If Commodore Tom Topover wanted to do anything to assist his
companions in the other boat, he was as fearful of coming about as he
had been in the middle of the lake. As soon as he was under the shelter
of the shore, he headed his craft to the south. But he might as well
have chased the lightning as the Goldwing.

As the schooner approached the mouth of the cove she was saluted by a
volley of noisy cheers. At the same time the bows of two boats came in
sight.

"The Chesterfields! We are in for it now!" shouted Ben Ludlow.




CHAPTER XVI.

COMMODORE TOM TOPOVER VISITS THE GOLDWING.


The cheers the Beech Hill students had heard before had evidently been
given by the Chesterfields, and not by a picnic party. Dory was not
pleased to see them after the experience of the day before; and their
last words had been threats of vengeance. The fresh paint could be seen
on the bow of the Dasher where the injury done by the Winooski had been
repaired.

The Dasher appeared to be the leading boat, and Mad Twinker had changed
from the other barge, and became her coxswain. Wash Barker was not in
either craft, and his place in the Racer was filled by Jeff Monroe, who
had been active in the affair of the day before.

As soon as the Goldwing appeared off the point, dragging the Gildrock
after her, the Chesterfields set up a yell, and it was plain that they
identified the Beech Hill students who had so thoroughly humiliated them
on the day before. Their lusty cheers indicated that they were ready to
take the vengeance they had promised to obtain. Mad Twinker headed the
Dasher for the Goldwing, and the Racer followed.

It seemed to be a holiday at the Chesterfield Collegiate Institute, and
the boats' crews had evidently been practising in the cove all the
morning. There was a marked improvement in their rowing; they had
observed the excellent discipline that prevailed on board of the
Winooski, and they had doubtless learned a lesson from what they had
seen. After the Chesterfields had given the three cheers, which did not
appear to mean anything, unless they were cheering their enemy, there
was no whooping or yelling as at the former meeting of the boats.

"Those fellows promised to get even with us when we parted last night,"
said Dory, after they had observed the movements of the Chesterfields
for a few minutes. "I suppose they are ready to begin now."

"If they do begin now they will have a nice time of it," added Matt.

"They will never forgive us for compelling them to give up our clothes
before they were ready to do so," continued the skipper. "They are in
better discipline, and behave better this morning than they did
yesterday. But they don't seem to know anything at all about a boat, and
they think they can overhaul the Goldwing without any difficulty."

"If we run up this cove they will have us on the hips," replied Matt.
"There are twenty-six of them, while we are only nine, and if they catch
us they can have it all their own way."

"You are right, Matt, and we will not go up the cove. We will go up to
Rock Harbor, and we can land the Topovers long before they can pull that
distance."

The skipper let off the sheets, and headed the schooner to the south.
She was almost before the wind, and the yacht flew like a locomotive on
her course. In a few minutes the barges were a mile astern of her. At
the mouth of Rock Harbor the wind had a fair sweep, and the sea was
almost as rough as it had been in the middle of the lake.

As the Goldwing approached the south side of the inlet, Dory rounded to
very carefully, so as not to swamp the Gildrock, though the terrified
Topovers were well shaken up in the manoeuvre. Running into the cove
just far enough to escape the heaviest of the waves, Dory directed his
crew to haul on the tow-line, and bring the Gildrock within talking
distance. Spilling the sail, he allowed the yacht to drift towards the
shore.

"We intend to put you on shore here," shouted Dory to the occupants of
the Gildrock.

"We can never get home from here," yelled Nim Splugger.

"That's your look out. You must go ashore, or we will spill you all out
into the water by the beach," replied the skipper.

Nim made no reply, for he saw that his captors were in earnest. Dory
directed Matt and Oscar to land them three or four at a time in the
tender. He explained what he meant to do to the prisoners, and
threatened them with a ducking if they resisted. They did not resist,
for they felt that the skipper could have his own way with them. Matt
landed them in two trips; but Nim Splugger showed fight when they were
all on the beach. He attempted to hold on to the tender, but Oscar
pitched him out of the boat into the water. The moment he was out of it,
Matt shoved it from the shore, and they pulled back to the Goldwing.

It had taken some time to land the Topovers, and by the time the
Gildrock had been properly rigged for towing, the two barges of the
Chesterfields, which had followed the schooner, were within a quarter
of a mile of the point where the marauders had been put on shore. They
made a sweep into the harbor, so as to avoid the rough water.

"Help! help!" yelled the Topovers on the land, when they saw the barges
approaching them.

It was not probable that the Chesterfields knew anything about the
Topovers; but they could not help seeing that they had been at war with
the Beach Hill students, and had been defeated. For this reason,
doubtless they sympathized with the ruffians; at any rate they were the
enemies of the Beech Hillers, and this fact made them allies.

Dory headed the Goldwing out into the lake. The skipper and the crew
watched the movements of the Chesterfields with interest. Possibly the
curiosity of the latter was excited by the scene they had witnessed, and
they wished to inquire into its meaning. At any rate they pulled for the
point where the Topovers had been landed, and the heavy sea prevented
them from following the schooner out into the lake.

The Chesterfield barges made a landing farther up the harbor, and three
of the marauders were taken into one boat, and four into the other.
They did not remain at the shore a moment after they had picked up their
passengers, but followed the yacht by the inside route. The crews of the
Dasher and Racer had not seen the capture of the Gildrock with the
lasso, and could not have known that the Winooski was making for the New
York shore, a mile or more to the north of them. Their passengers told
them their story, and no doubt they were anxious to see the battle for
the other boat, if not to take a hand in it.

The presence of the Chesterfields had considerably disturbed the
arrangements of Dory, who had intended to tackle the marauders in the
other barge as soon as he could get rid of the prisoners. It had taken
some time to dispose of them, and it was possible that Tom Topover had
reached the shore by this time.

"There are the two four-oar boats," said Matt, when they were off the
point north of Rock Harbor.

"I am glad to see them, for the coming of the Chesterfields at just this
time has mixed things," replied Dory. "We must get rid of the Gildrock,
for we can't do anything dragging her after us. We may have a lively
time of it yet."

"We can't turn her adrift," added Matt.

"Of course not; but we can put four of our fellows into her and send
her home," said Dory.

It was promptly decided to dispose of her in this manner, and Dory
selected the three members of the old Goldwing club who were on board,
making Thad Glovering the temporary coxswain. Ben Ludlow was added to
the number. They objected to leaving the Goldwing just as the battle was
coming on.

"There will be no fight if I can avoid one," argued the skipper.
"Probably we shall pick up the Winooski in about the same way we did the
Gildrock. You need not hurry home, and you can see from the boat all
there is to be seen. But we must be in a hurry, for the job must be done
before the Chesterfields can get down here to meddle with the affair."

The objections were overcome, and the four oarsmen were to take the
Gildrock as soon as the Winooski could be seen. Tom Topover had got his
craft into the smooth water, as compared with the open lake, of one of
the numerous inlets when the Gildrock was captured. When last seen, his
crew were laying on their oars watching the operations of the Goldwing.

The schooner was now approaching this inlet, and the next minute or two
would inform the skipper where she was. About half an hour had elapsed
since she lost her consort. Tom Topover might have gone to the aid of
the rest of his party, and it was strange that he had not done so. The
fact was that he had been jawing with Kidd Digfield more than half the
time in regard to what they should do. The crew did not like the idea of
going out into the rough water again.

"There's the Winooski!" shouted Thad Glovering, who was lying on the
half deck at the heel of the bowsprit.

Dory instantly threw the schooner up into the wind, and Matt hauled in
the Gildrock. Thad and his crew were hurried into her, and the Goldwing
filled away again. The Winooski was coming out of the cove, and was just
striking into the rough water. Dory gave the tiller to Matt, and went
forward himself. He had the lasso ready, but he had his doubts about
being able to use it again.

The skipper directed Matt to tack at the proper moment, and the Goldwing
rushed on her course in a direction to intercept the Winooski. When Tom
Topover saw the schooner approaching, he called Kidd Digfield to the
tiller-lines, and, taking a boathook in his hand, went forward himself.

"That fellow means fight," said Oscar Chester.

"No doubt of it; he means it every time, and for that reason you had
better have a boathook in your hand, and be on the forward deck with
me," answered Dory, as he picked up his lasso. "Keep her off a little
more, if you please, Matt."

The oarsmen of the Winooski showed a disposition to abandon their oars,
for a collision seemed to be inevitable to them. Tom stood in the bow of
the barge with his boathook poised ready to strike. Dory saw that it
would be impossible for him to lasso the boat, and he removed the stove
cover from his line.

"Luff a little, Matt," called Dory; and the schooner rounded in upon the
barge. This movement seemed to be too much for Tom's nerves, and instead
of striking with the boathook, he used it to fend off. The moment he
bent over, Dory threw his line, not at the stem of the boat, but at the
body of the Topover. The noose went over his head, and dropped down upon
his shoulders.

"Keep her off!" shouted Dory.

The instant Tom felt the rope, he dropped the boathook and tried to
seize hold of the bow of the barge. The Goldwing fell off, and dashed
ahead on her course. Dory let off his line a few feet, and then took a
turn with it over a cleat. Tom Topover suddenly felt a smart jerk, which
was irresistible, and he was twitched out of the boat as a fish is
twitched out of the water.

[Illustration: "Tom Topover suddenly felt a smart jerk, which was
irresistible."--Page 168.]

With Oscar's help, he was dragged alongside, and pulled on board of the
yacht. It was found that he had the painter of the Winooski in his
hands, which he had grasped in his effort to save himself. Matt had
thrown the schooner up into the wind, and the painter was secured and
made fast. The Winooski brought up at the stern of the Goldwing,
captured by the aid of Tom Topover.




CHAPTER XVII.

THE CHESTERFIELDS AND THEIR ALLIES RENEW THE BATTLE.


Commodore Topover was bewildered by the sharp practice of the skipper of
the Goldwing. While he was expecting an assault in another direction, he
had been suddenly dragged out of the Winooski into the water, and then
on board of the schooner. The painter of the barge was made fast astern,
and Dory relieved the prisoner from the noose with which he had been
captured.

Kidd Digfield and his companions in the boat seemed to be almost as much
astonished as the commodore. They were paralyzed by the unexpected
onslaught, and the successor of Tom needed a little time to enable him
to determine what to do. Both craft had come to a standstill, the sails
of the Goldwing shaking in the wind.

Tom Topover was the first to recover his wits. He had been thoroughly
ducked, but he had not been injured in the operation of taking him out
of the Winooski. He looked about him, and it did not require much time
to enable him to take in the situation. He was a prisoner in the hands
of the students. He was in the same boat with Dory, who had knocked him
over with a single blow of his fist; and the remembrance of this fact
was the first idea that came to him.

Before Kidd had decided to do anything the wind had driven the barge
astern of the schooner, and whirled her about. In this position there
were only two things Tom's successor could do; one was to haul the boat
alongside the yacht by the painter, board her, and fight it out; and the
other was to cut the painter, and thus recover possession of the barge.
But Tom Topover considered himself as still the commodore of the fleet,
even in the misfortunes which had befallen it, and he proceeded to use
his authority.

"Kidd Digfield!" called Tom, as soon as he comprehended the situation.
"Haul in on the painter, and fetch her alongside!"

"I think your fellows had better not try to do that," interposed Dory.

"I give you two minutes to put me back in that boat," replied Tom, with
a savage glance at the skipper.

"What if I don't do it?" asked Dory, laughing.

"I'll give you the biggest licking you ever had in your life. I'll pound
you till you can't see out of your eyes," blustered Tom.

"You needn't wait two minutes before you begin, for I shall not put you
into the boat," replied the skipper lightly. "Fill away, Matt, if you
please."

Dory had seated himself in the standing-room opposite the place where he
had deposited Tom when he hauled him on board. As Matt put the helm up,
Tom made a spring at the skipper; but Dory was on his feet in an
instant, warded off the blow of the Topover, and hit him square in the
face. The yacht heeled over at this moment under the pressure of the
wind, and Tom fell back into his seat.

"We won't have any fight in the boat," said Dory, picking up a reef
pendant. "We will tie his hands behind him, and keep him quiet till we
get rid of him."

"No you won't tie my hands behind me!" yelled Tom, boiling over with
wrath.

Oscar Chester sprang upon him, and in spite of his struggles bore him
down upon his back. Dory then assisted him, and between them they had
no difficulty in putting the commodore in a position of
non-interference.

"The fellows in the boat are hauling in on the painter," said Matt, when
Dory and Oscar had disposed of the obstreperous prisoner.

"Let them haul on it," replied the skipper laughing. "They will have a
nice time of it. Keep her away a little more, if you please."

Kidd had got hold of the painter, and Pell Sankland was trying to help
him; but the former could not haul in enough of the line to afford him a
chance to assist. The schooner had got under full headway, and there was
considerable strain on the rope. Three of the Topovers had repaired to
the bow while the other three were about in the middle of the barge. She
was loaded by the head, and as soon as the Goldwing began to force her
through the water at her own pace, the craft scooped up about half a
barrel of water.

Kidd was sailor enough to see what the matter was, and he hastily
retreated to the stern of the boat, followed by his companions. Not more
than one of them at a time could get hold of the painter, and there was
no danger that the marauders would haul the boat alongside the schooner.
But Kidd soon went forward again, after he had stationed his crew as
far aft as he could get them, and began to saw away with his knife at
the painter.

Matt let off the sheets, and kept the Goldwing away several points at
once. As he did so, Dory slacked off the painter as much as its length
would permit. When the schooner straightened the line again, she did it
with a violent jerk, at an angle with the length of the barge. The
effect was to tip the boat until her gunwale at the bow went under, and
she shipped another half barrel of water.

Kidd's nerves were not strong enough to stand this kind of treatment,
and he dreaded what might come next. He retreated to the stern; but not
till he had found that it would have taken him half an hour at least to
saw off the painter with his dull jack-knife. He realized that there was
nothing more he could do.

The four-oar boats were now within a short distance of the scene of the
strife. The crews had laid upon their oars most of the time, watching
the progress of the action. The Winooski had been taken, and the battle
was finished. It only remained to dispose of the prisoners. Dory had
given the order to head the schooner to the nearest land. The four-oar
boats reached the point off which the yacht had just come up into the
wind. Tom was handed into the boat with Mr. Jepson, who was greatly
amused at the exploits of the boys. He was put ashore, but the reef
pendant was removed from his arms only when he was safe on the beach.

The tender and the other four-oar boat landed the prisoners from the
Winooski, who had concluded not to make any resistance. As the boats
left the discomfited ruffians on the shore, Tom cast a large stone at
one of them, and the rest proceeded to follow his example. But no harm
was done, and the boats were soon out of the way of their missiles.

"Homeward bound!" shouted Dory, as soon as he had taken his crew from
the tender on board.

Two oarsmen were taken from each of the small boats, for the remaining
two could easily pull them across the lake with the wind, and
transferred to the Winooski. Thad Glovering in the Gildrock was close
by, for his party had no idea of leaving the scene while there was any
fun in prospect. The whole squadron, consisting of the Goldwing and the
four row-boats, were within talking distance of each other. The battle
had been fought and won, and there was nothing to do but go home. The
Gildrock was farthest out on the lake, and she led the way. All the
fleet were in the smoother water of the cove.

"The Chesterfields!" shouted Oscar Chester, when the Goldwing was fairly
under way. "They are just coming around the point; and they have half
the Topovers on board."

"We need not bother our heads any more about the Chesterfields or the
Topovers," replied Dory. "We have got our boats, and that was all I
wanted."

"All right," added Oscar, as he settled himself in his seat.

But the skipper soon came to the conclusions that it was not all right.
The Chesterfield barges had changed their course, and were headed for
the four Beech Hill boats which had just started for home. The Dasher
and the Racer were fully manned, while the Gildrock and Winooski had
each only one-third of a crew.

"That's bad," said Dory, who began to be very anxious for the safety of
the recaptured barges.

"I thought it might be," replied Oscar. "But I think we can give them
enough of it to satisfy them in a very few minutes."

"Do you mean a fight?" asked the skipper.

"Not a hand-to-hand fight, but if either of those barges attempts to
meddle with the Gildrock or the Winooski, I should run her down,"
answered Oscar, with a good deal of vim in his tones.

"I don't like to do anything of that kind," replied Dory, seriously.
"When we smashed the Dasher yesterday, I did not intend to give her such
a rap."

"I should say it would be for the Chesterfields and their new allies to
elect whether you smash them or not. But they are making for the
Gildrock, and of course they can easily take her from the four fellows
in charge of her."

"Of course I don't mean to let them take her from our fellows," added
Dory. "Keep her away; run for the Gildrock, if you please, Matt."

Thad Glovering pulled the stroke oar of the Gildrock, and he had already
discovered the danger that menaced him in the approach of the
Chesterfield barges. He was making his crew do their utmost; but the
barge had been headed off by the enemy, who were not seen until they
came around the point of land.

The improvement in the rowing of the Chesterfields was not very
manifest. They had evidently being practising since they obtained their
smashed barge from the builder who had repaired it, and it was just as
plain that they had adopted the stroke of the Beach Hill barges.

"The Topovers are helping them," said Oscar, who watched the Dasher with
the closest attention.

"I see they are," replied Dory; "and they are making very good headway."

A Topover had been placed on the thwart with each student as far as
their number would permit. Mad Twinker was in charge of the head boat,
and he was driving his crew to the limit of their power. But the
Goldwing, even in the higher wind near the weather shore, could make two
miles to the Dasher's one. Matt was directed to run close to the quarter
of the Gildrock; and the schooner came up with her not a moment too
soon, for in spite of Thad's best efforts, the Dasher was all ready to
pounce upon her intended victim. The Racer had continued on her former
course, and was making for the Winooski. It was clear that they intended
to capture both boats. When they had done this probably the
Chesterfields would be satisfied that they had got even with the
Beech-Hillers for the humiliation of the day before.

The Goldwing was almost before the wind, and she was surging down upon
the Dasher with tremendous speed and power. The Chesterfields did not
look behind them, and they could not have failed to take notice of the
