— the life in which she should have been enfolded and 
kept from harm ; the life that he should have made one 
long summer day ; the children he would have loved and 
caressed, and been proud of with a father's noble pride ; 
the wife he could have loved in all integrity and honor. 
He saw it like some radiant vision ; he knew now all that 
would be forever lost out of both lives. 
" I cannot mar it by any inadvertence ! " The words 
rang through his brain like the last strains of music to 
Sir Galahad. Oh, noble, knightly soul shrined in woman's 
form, how had she missed the higher work she might do.. 
He took her hand and bowed over it in deepest rever- 
ence. 
" You are right," he said, with a delicate impression of 
something in his voice that might suggest regret for the 
deprivation, but not for the principle underlying it. " And 
you will remember that in any stress of fate or fortune 
I am your unalterable friend." 
She walked down the street with her firm, free car- 
riage, yet her heart was seething within her. Of the many 
things she had forgiven in Thomas Marshall, sins of omis- 
 
sion and commission, she found this the hardest, — to be 
thrust out of her birthright, with no chance of regaining it ; 
to have a curious, nameless impression attached to her, 
that would always bind her hand and foot. For many 
minutes she almost resolved to fly to the law for free- 
dom ; to, at least, partially right herself in the eyes of 
the world. Then the tempest subsided and left her weak 
and cold. Celia wondered why she should be so grave 
on her return. 
Daisy and Celia enjoyed planning the new order of 
things. The front-room was to be parlor par excellence. 
One corner of the back-room was to be curtained off with 
various devices for Bertie's sleeping chamber, and the 
rest Celia was to have for a studio. Down stairs they 
would use the middle room for a kind of evening parlor. 
" And all we want to make it complete is a piano and 
a servant," declared Daisy. " I hate to confess to the 
girls at school that we do our own work. Almost every- 
body has a Bridget." 
" I should not discuss my home-living with girls at 
school," said Celia gravely, " There are plenty of other 
subjects." 
" But when they ask you, and when they are telling of 
all the trouble their mothers have," pursued Daisy in an 
aggrieved tone. "The servant at Mary Carson's came 
home so dreadfully drunk, mamma — " 
" Hush ! " her mother commanded. " We can be glad 
that we have nothing so wretched and disagreeable. And, 
Daisy, you must learn a little wisdom. No well-bred or 
refined girl will gossip about her family affairs ; the great 
lesson of life is to extract happiness from the surroundings 
you have. There are much harder trials than doing with- 
out a servant." 
Celia's painting lessons had gone on once a week in 
•Mr. Archer's little den, but she was glad to have a place 
of her very own to indulge in dreams and fancies. How 
impatient she felt of school and its tasks, no one, not even 
her mother, guessed. Her self-restraint was strong and 
steady. She looked at the long years to come when she 
should confine herself mostly to her art, when she could 
indulge in the passionate devotion that permeated and 
thrilled every fibre of her being. She studied her moth- 
er's wants and wishes ; there was a most exquisite sym- 
pathy between them. This one precious love would be 
the mother's solace if all else failed. 
Paul Thierry used to watch them with a peculiar in- 
terest. They were so like and yet unlike. The same 
firm, high, resolute denial of self, the courage, the subtle 
sweetness. They seemed never to be out of temper, as 
if, indeed, they respected their own individuality too 
truly to lower it to any base use. Yet with the most 
perfect and thorough appreciation of art, Mrs. Marshall 
lacked the divine inspiration. Celia it was who flushed 
and trembled, whose soul was suffused with an inward 
sense, a passionate worship, that spoke in keener accent 
and deeper, fuller tone, and that subtile, delicate, irradia- 
tion of the eye. He loved to watch her, to answer her 
unspoken questions. Mrs. Marshall wondered a little 
why he, an artist of note, should choose to spend his 
time upon so young a pupil ; but as little would she have 
understood his deeper delight, as the overwhelming pas- 
sion itself, — a lovely gem serene that he meant pres- 
ently to flash upon the world. But how could he manage 
it? No nun ever kept closer to cloister shelter than 
she to her mother's side. And why should not the mother 
have her chance again ? Must she suffer continually for a 
man's brutal selfishness and its results. 
He was pacing Mrs. Van Cleve's pretty library one 
evening, as she sat half reclining on a sofa. His wife had 
proposed meeting him here as he came up from the city, 
and he was rather early, she somewhat late ; so the two 
had fallen into one of the discussions that Mrs. Thierry 
always pronounced endless. This had been some nict 
point of social ethics. 
"I wonder how much courage you women really have," 
he had said in a bantering tone. " You are all so afraid 
of stepping beyond a certain line that tradition has marked 
out for you, your mothers, and grandmothers, centuries 
ago. So you let the Philistines and the fast people come 
in and possess the ground, while you are lifted above com- 
mon humanity in some serene conjunction of wealth, 
refinement, culture, and a high polish that disdains ordi- 
nary uses and using. Do you really fear contamination?" 
"My dear Paul, what is all this tirade about?" She 
rises a trifle, and the firelight makes a tender radiance like 
a halo about her face. Then she smiles a little ; it is such 
a calm, gracious smile. These two people — indeed the 
Van Oleves and the Thierrys — are like brothers and sis- 
ters, and they pair off with each other. Mr. Van Cleve 
is very proud, and fond of the pretty aristocratic Mnu 
Thierry, whose strongly conservative ideas so chime in 
with his own ; while Paul's speculations, that fail to inter- 
est his wife, amuse and entertain Mrs. Van Cleve exceedingly. 
They sometimes hit a latent spark of philanthropy 
in her own soul, and there is a quick, answering flash. 
Then too, her brother, Percival Chantrey, who had 
grown up in the larger world, — a man's world, — leaned 
suspiciously towards Thierry's side. Thierry wished he 
were at home now instead of being off at St. Petersburg, 
studying up Nihilism. He could give him a pleasanter 
subject. 
" It is a tirade ? Pardon me," but his tone had a tint 
of vexation in it. 
" You accuse us of generalizing too much, of being im- 
practicable. I feel like using one of Percival's words, 
' specify.' Specify this particular wrong, and I shall know 
just where to begin my defence, for I suppose I am to 
defend?" 
" How odd ! I was thinking of Percy, too. Is he never 
coming home again ? " 
" He will be home this summer. Meanwhile, — " 
"Oh, it is nothing very new. Well, yes, here is an 
illustration close at hand. What person in our set would 
open his or her drawing-room doors to Mrs. Marshall? 
Here is a woman who has not come up from the ranks, 
but who has been thrust down by a weak, rascally hus- 
band. Yet all you women say, ' keep her down, keep her 
down.' Her white hands have been soiled by labor, her 
queenly carriage has shadowed a store counter, she has 
discussed ribbons and laces, not in the large, aesthetic view, 
but with a question of profit, and with an eye to the main- 
tenance of her children. You punish her for her hus- 
band's sins. And see here, if Marshall could return with 
a fortune, which I grant is impossible, and was to enter 
society again under his sister's auspices, the world would 
gracefully condone his sin, but would it ever forgive his 
wife for no sin at all ? That is where men are broader after 
all. Our hero worship is more for work, we have less 
tender sentiment for sin." 
" Oh, you are unfair, Paul," and her tone rises a trifle, 
while a flush stains her cheek. " I never could tolerate 
such a man as Thomas Marshall must be, though his sister 
is undeniably elegant, and his mother one of the loveliest 
of old ladies. Of course I cannot judge of the merits of 
the case ; you know we lived in Washington when I was 
first married, and then went abroad. Meanwhile, she had 
fallen out of society. I don't think I ever knew rightly 
what did happen. Mrs. Vanduyne blames her greatly, 
and puts her present position down to love of notoriety, 
but I have never remarked any of that in her. Neither 
is she shrinking or timid. Shall I confess to you that she 
always reminds me of an intrepid soldier, too brave ever 
to be foolhardy. And, mb rosa^ I like her." 
 
a You do, really ! " He came closer and looked in the 
calm, clear eyes that did not waver, but rather smiled. 
" Yes, you need not have gone so fiercely at me." 
" No, I ought not, for you are gentle loveliness person- 
ified, and sometimes strong truth." 
• 
" Never falsehood, I hope. I do try to keep my soul 
clean and clear." 
"No, for when you cannot speak honorably you keep 
silent. Now, liking her, knowing her to be a refined and 
cultured gentlewoman, — I like that old term, — why do 
you not ask her to your house ? " 
"Whom shall I ask to meet her? Answer me that, 
wise, generous-hearted Paul." 
He laughed with a scornful flavor, then he said: "You 
could ask me. When Percy comes home you can ask 
him. And we two might find a third. Isn't it a shame 
that noble souls should be so scarce in the world ? " 
She sat up straight and resolute now. "Paul," she 
asked quietly, " do you go there much ? " 
"Well, I have dropped in several evenings with Archer. 
I give Miss Celia a lesson every Saturday morning in 
Archer's coloring room, with one or two people present." 
"O Paul, be careful!" and an expression almost of 
distress crossed her face. 
" O Paul, I mean to be very careful," and his tone was 
so exact an imitation of hers that both laughed. 
" You do not realize — " 
"Yes, I do realize. Owen Meredith was not the first 
one who discovered, — 
' A woman is too slight a thing 
To trample the world without feeling its sting.' 
but if I were indifferent to remark, she would not be. I 
never saw a daughter more carefully guarded than Celia, 
and never one so willing to be guarded. It seems an in- 
tuitive perception on both sides. And Mrs. Marshall has 
the fine pride of — I can't liken her to anyone bat your- 
self. You two women ought to be perfect friends. I do 
not believe you have a sister with whom you could be in 
suoh entire sympathy. I want to tell you ; I gave Celia 
eight lessons last July. I did not mean to charge for 
them, for, after all, they were mere preliminaries. She 
found out from Mrs. Archer that my terms were three 
dollars a lesson, and on the last day she came up stairs 
with that lovely, gracious interest, you could not have 
done it better yourself, and said in an ordinary cordial 
tone, c Mr. Thierry, as you are going away, I prefer to 
pay you for Celia's lessons now,' and placed twenty-four 
dollars in my hand, her eyes shining with that proud, feaiv 
less consciousness of perfect right, perfect honor, that I 
could no more have refused it than to have uttered a 
profane word in her presence. I wrote out a bill and re- 
ceipted it, and she thanked me for all my trouble. Then- 
I said, ' When I return, Mrs. Marshall, I shall be glad to 
resume the lessons every Saturday morning. Your daugh- 
ter is so promising a pupil that my terms to her will be 
twenty-four dollars for twelve lessons.' Celia glanced up 
so entreatingly that her mother consented. They talk 
with their eyes, and both have lovely orbs, Mrs. Marshall's 
are much the darker. I can't imagine a man being even 
rude to such a woman, for, like the wedding guest, she 
would ' hold him with her eye.' I know what you mean, 
that a woman separated from her husband is more an 
object of suspicion and censure, but no true gentleman 
would ever place her in an equivocal position. But how 
funny things are in this world ! Here I can drop in and 
talk to you by the hours." 
"But the world knows I am a happy wife," she an- 
swered proudly. 
" And it punishes Mrs. Marshall by suspicion because 
she has been an unhappy wife. Zounds ! what sort of a 
fellow could Marshall have been. I hear that he hung on 
 
her for years, doing nothing but just drink ram and lounge 
about. Faugh! the very thought is disgraceful. And 
do you suppose a woman of her stamp would not better 
enjoy a clean, purified atmosphere in her home than the 
poisonous breath of a sot ? " 
im It must have been terrible for her ! " and Mrs. Van 
Cleve covered her face with her hands to shut out the 
awful vision. 
" And now, here is my dilemma. The girl to a genius, 
pure and simple. She has the truth, the vim, the perse- 
verance of a high, sweet soul, and she must have a chance. 
Somewhere society shall be compelled to open its doors, if 
I have to present her myself in New York. But I wish 
some other high, sweet soul would take up both her and 
her mother. There need be no hurry." 
Mrs. Van Cleve was silent some minutes, then she said : 
" Paul, let me make a confession. I like her very much, 
as I have said. I could ask her here to visit we, but — do 
not laugh — her high, fine, intangible pride holds me, An- 
astasia Van Cleve, at arm's length, I have never had the 
courage ; I have never found an opportunity. It is my 
most mortifying defeat." 
" Oh, peerless woman ! to acknowledge that your 
milliner 'shines you down.' If I were that hardened 
criminal, a bank defaulter, and she my wife, I should 
pack my satchel and go off without a good-by. I never 
could look her in the face. Ah, there comes Marguerite, 
bringing you a houseful of company, her excuse for being 
so late." 
They crossed to the exquisite drawing-room, and were 
soon in full tide of conversation with half a dozen 
friends who had gathered incidentally at the Thierrys'. 
Mrs. Van Cleve ordered a dainty supper, which the guests 
enlivened with wit and merriment. She found a moment 
to say to the artist, — 
"I shall really try, but I am not sanguine of success." 
Mrs. Van Cleve kept her word. One doll day in Feb- 
ruary she dismounted from her carriage and walked 
leisurely into the store, taking a seat. Mrs. Marshall left 
her little workroom and came out with a cordial smile. A 
bit of lace to match was the ostensible errand. 
Mrs. Marshall looked over the box. "It is Venice 
point," she said, in her clear, low tone, " and I am much 
afraid the last of it went into Miss Lily Fairchild's wed- 
ding trousseau. It is some we have had on hand quite a 
while." 
Mrs. Van Cleve had purchased it of Miss Caruth, but 
she did not consider the avowal necessary. 
" I might match it for you, possibly." 
" No, I will not trouble you ; I can select some new." 
" Our stock of choice laces has been thinned out latterly. 
Lace is so much in vogue again, and nothing can be more 
beautiful for some women." 
"Then you make a distinction! " and Mrs. Van Cleve 
smiled. 
"Perhaps it is a fancy of mine, but frail, lovely laces al- 
ways seem to belong to delicate, high-bred women. Certain 
kinds of Spanish best adorn a brilliant coquette, with large 
languishing eyes. Malta looks so pure, so chaste, yet 
withal brave, and tinged with romance, and seems appro- 
priate for a nun-like girl." 
"What kind shall I wear?" Mrs. Van Cleve glanced 
up with an expression that brought a flush to the quiet, 
restrained face, then she placed her white hand, sparkling 
with one costly diamond, on Mrs. Marshall's. " Can we not 
make friends over this suggestive lace ? " and her voice 
had a peculiarly sweet intonation. " I think even the love 
for lace might be a point of assimilation, and I am sure 
there are many others, if we will both frankly admit them 
to ourselves." 
Mrs. Marshall took the hand in hers, more used to every- 
day purposes, yet not less true or trusty. But she stood 
 
quite still. Did some glowing possibility flash over her 
and fade? 
"I think we might be friends," Mrs. Van Cleve contin- 
ued in her quiet tone. " May not some of the pleasure 
gone out of your life be brought back into it — " 
"Not the pleasures," — in an even tone, that betrayed 
the latent firmness. " Life has changed too much." 
" Surely, you are not required to shut out everything?" 
"No; I have my children ^and their welfare, their 
love to guard and keep, their lives to shape. My dear 
Mrs. Van Cleve," — and her voice trembled with a vague 
tenderness, — "how generous this is in you, and how truly 
I thank you, I shall not attempt to put into words. But 
our ways lie so far apart — " 
" Can you not come over into the sunshine of mine oc- 
casionally, and may not the shade of yours temper the too 
vivid brightness? Losses may happen to all of us, — I 
wonder if I could bear them as bravely as you. I fear 
not." 
" God grant that you may never be tried," she breathed 
fervently. 
" But — must the way be made more barren ? " 
Mrs. Marshall glanced up with her brave, sweet look, 
though tears gleamed in her lovely deep eyes. 
"I respect the gulf," she returned. " We may rail at 
society's arbitrary rules and usages, but a woman in my 
position has no right to accept a friendship such as you 
would honor me with. I have no time to render myself 
gracious and entertaining. The mornings you spend over 
new books, music, pictures, and all the delightful sources 
that enrich your mind and make you companionable, I 
must devote to toil. The ease, the lovely luxuriance 
that shapes and adds a hundred charms cannot be mine, 
so I must stand at a disadvantage. And you know 
that, although you may feel willing to receive me, you 
could not present me to your friends. My position 
bans me out. I shall not struggle uselessly against the 
stream and bear witness to my own defeat, but hold by 
my safe covert on the shore, and gather the few treasures 
within my reach." 
"But you might come to me some quiet evening when 
I sent the carriage." 
" Do not send, please. I should be sorry to give you 
the slightest pain, believe me. I am too busy at present 
to enjoy idleness. Oh, if there should come a time when 
I could accept your generous proffer, will you not trust me 
to do so ? Meanwhile — I have nothing to offer you ! " 
she cried despairingly. 
"You have all that I have asked." 
"Let me think it over. I cannot promise now. And 
oh, believe me, you are unwise to risk the strictures of 
society. I am different from other merely poor women. 
I am in a shadow that cannot be lifted. Why should I 
darken any other life?" 
"But you will not darken mine." 
" Oh, friend, do not make me pain you with cruel per- 
sistence," she entreated. 
"No, I will not," and Mrs. Van Cleve rose. "I think 
you know now that if you were in want of a friend you 
could come to me in any perplexity, any sorrow." 
" Thank God for such knowledge," Mrs. Marshall said, 
with tremulous devoutness. 
Mrs. Van Cleve went her way. She would gain in time, 
and Paul Thierry had said there was no haste. Then she 
remembered with dismay that she could not even ask the 
artist to meet Mrs. Marshall at her house. Society had 
bound her about with bands after all, and this one was 
Mrs. Thierry's prejudice. 
The dull day ended with a snow-storm that continued 
the next twenty-four hours, when the sky cleared fault- 
lessly. To Westwater it brought a perfect carnival of 
gayety. The streets and avenues were filled with sleighs 
 
of every description, and ail night, even, was beard the 
merry echoing bells and the gay voices of revellers. 
The afternoon of the second day brought Mrs. Van 
Clove's handsome sleigh, with its robes and its spirited 
horses. The driver fastened them a moment and went in 
with a note for Mrs. Marshall, in which she so delicately 
placed the equipage at her disposal, begging that, as a 
pleasure to herself, the children and their mother would 
accept it for the remainder of the afternoon. It would 
be ungracious to refuse, and yet Mrs. Marshall dreaded to 
venture into the old world of enchantment. Twice she 
read the note before she could resolve to consent. 
The children were wild with joy. Celia and Daisy oo- 
cupied one seat, Mrs. Marshall and Bertie the other, 
Daisy leaned back as if born to the purple. Celia studied 
the brilliant panorama with intense interest, and Bertie 
longed to be beside the driver. 
How vividly this recalled the old, glad youth to Mrs. 
Marshall. Up and down the streets she had skimmed 
with lover and husband, a happy care-free girl, a proud 
and satisfied woman. Here were old companions with 
their daughters at their side. Could time have flown so 
fast ? Some stared at her in a curious way, as if not at 
all certain who she might be, others passed her by with 
perfect indifference, and a few nodded. Once there was 
a little halt. An elegant sleigh coming up contained Mrs. 
Mountjoy and her two daughters, both a little older than 
Mrs. Marshall's, and a son, the eldest of the flock. 
" That never was Aunt Eleanor ! " exclaimed Violet. 
"Mrs. Marshall, if you please," corrected her mother. 
"Well, if we do not mean to have her any relation, 
why couldn't we go there for our bonnets ? The Brockle- 
hurst girls have the prettiest hats and bonnets of anyone 
I know ; and she 's handsome herself." 
"I never was so astonished," declared Mrs. Mountjoy 
to her mother the next day. " It was wretched taste for 
Eleanor to make herself so conspicuous with her whole 
tribe. The boy looks wonderfully like Tom, but the 
girls are very plain. You do not suppose Mrs. Van 
Cleve means to take them up, do you? She never can 
do such an ill-bred thing." 
" I should think not. The Van Cleves and the Chantreys 
have always been so very fastidious, and the people who 
go there really would not notice Eleanor. Of course it 
would be too ridiculous to meet your own milliner. I 
dare say tile children have all begged for a sleigh-ride, 
and Mrs. Van Cleve can afford to do an eccentric kind- 
ness. But Eleanor will get mightily snubbed if she 
attempts to foist herself upon society. They say she is 
doing very well, — making money. I would like to know 
who was foolish enough to lend her six hundred dollars 
in the first instance.' 
"Well, I do hope she will keep herself and her children 
within bounds, though Daisy sung at some festivals and 
was fulsomely praised, and it is said Celia is being edu- 
cated for a teacher. She had better set them both at 
making bonnets if it is so profitable. I only wish they 
could retire quite out of Westwater." 
CHAPTER XI. 
At the end of three years Eleanor Marshall felt that 
success and prosperity greater than she had dared to 
dream of had crowned her desperate effort. Without 
some pecuniary aid she could not have accomplished so 
much, she well knew, and her heart swelled with grati- 
tude to the one noble friend, who had not only responded 
to her call, but with rare delicacy shielded her from any 
embarrassment. How could she ever show her pure re- 
gard ? Even between them there was the inevitable gulf 
of social usage and propriety. Some other woman might 
accept from him a brother's tenderness and regard, — she 
could not. 
This year, though free from debt, had been full of stren- 
uous effort. Her furnishing, albeit simple, was rarely 
pretty, but another question had demanded much consid- 
eration, — the groundwork of Daisy's future life. The 
child's voice grew stronger and richer ; it would never be 
that of a prima donna, but it might be made of service 
in some of the less ambitious rounds, as church singing, 
and perhaps teaching. Music she studied with a relish ; 
other tasks were hardships. She had already made such 
progress that to give up now would be a sacrifice, so the 
piano was added in great part through the insistence of 
Mrs. Archer, and Daisy began her life work in earnest. 
No one ever had to suggest practising to her. Often 
amid scales and exercises she would break out into some 
forbidden waltz or galop that would shake out a storm of 
melody. 
" I must have a little breathing space," she would say 
laughingly when chidden. 
She was growing tall rapidly, and would inherit the 
fine grace of her mother in more rapid, dazzling combina- 
tions. Her hazel eyes always laughed, not boldly, but 
with a certain piquant indifference that verged to coque- 
try. Her soft, peachy complexion, her vivid color that 
came and went, and the mobile, ever-changing mouth with 
its ready smiles, gave her all the frank and seductive 
allurements of youth, and a something that might pass 
for beauty presently, though her features lacked the pure 
regularity of Celia's. Indeed not one of them was purely 
pretty ; it was the bewitching combination that dazzled. 
She had been made twice happy, the second blessing 
the advent of a small handmaiden, who could run of 
errands, wash dishes, and do numerous small, distasteful 
things that had fallen to her share. Daisy Marshall 
would never glorify labor in any manner, and only do it 
upon compulsion. She was tender and affectionate, would 
be won to tears in a moment, but the capability of heroic 
self-sacrifice, such as seemed to be ingrained in Celia, was 
quite lacking. 
Business had been exceedingly prosperous. Mrs. Mar- 
shall used to wonder sometimes at the lavishness with 
which women ordered costly laces; plumes that seemed fit 
for a monarch's diadem; flowers that vied with eastern 
gardens in richness, and needed but fragrance to make 
them real ; yards of delicate ribbons to be worn a few 
times, soiled, and thrown aside. There appeared no lack 
of money for personal adornment. She did not quarrel 
with this, but she sometimes glanced at the other side 
and thought of the poor women who toiled daily for a 
mere pittance. All the plainer part of labor seemed to 
be ground down to the lowest point of remuneration; 
that which appealed to personal adornment, to show, to 
self, was seldom haggled over ; in fact, with her reputfr- 
 
tion, she found very little trouble. True at first some few 
had complained of bills and fancied there must be a mis- 
take, but they seldom did it a second time. 
She felt now that the drain upon her would be less 
severe. She might even, in the course of years, come to 
save up a little money. Celia's industry had provided 
wholly for her own art work, but the mother felt that 
after she had graduated there must be a respite from 
such arduous labor ; yet it did not appear to have worn 
her. The higher love had brought patience and strength, 
and now that all thought of teaching was given up, she 
did not strain every nerve in this respect. 
The "entering wedge," as the artist termed it, had 
brought about some small results. Celia had gone to 
Mrs. Van Cleve's and been enchanted, but Mrs. Mar- 
shall had held aloof from reasons that she could not fully 
analyze, even to herself. She had not the leisure to enjoy 
it; this was one of the cruel exactions of poverty and 
business. An hour snatched now and then, a plunge 
amid the roses of the old life, would bear a pang of pain 
rather than pleasure. Then, too, Mrs. Van Cleve had 
been away most of the winter. She had gone to Cuba 
with a sister in delicate health, spent a month or two in 
New Orleans, and then met a delightful party of Thierry's 
selecting in Florida. 
For the last six weeks Celia had been painting alone, 
embodying a thought that had shaped itself in her brain 
and grown to be a tender actuality, pleasing herself, as 
she said. 
"Well, gentlefolk," said a bright voice one evening, 
and Paul Thierry marched through into the sitting-room. 
It was nearing nine o'clock, and lessons as well as sewing 
had been laid aside. Bertie was asleep on the lounge, 
looking like a rosy Cupid ; Celia sat leaning her arm on 
her mother's knee ; Daisy was upstairs improvising "wild 
and wondrous " melodies. 
" Oh — Mr. Thierry!" Celia rose and gave him her 
hand. She was seventeen now, not as tall as her mother, 
in fact she looked smaller by the contrast. The prond 
poise of the head here seemed to carry with it the exalted 
Greek unconsciousness rather than the fine, fearless dignity 
of her mother; but she had the steadfast persistence, the 
innate purity. The fine dividing line was the greater 
intellectual force, the spiritual loveliness, the fervor of an 
inward sight richly endowed. In society's world the 
mother would still "shine the daughter down," but 
Thierry understood the subtile charm she possessed. 
Yet, given them all as free agents, on an equality, and he 
would have loved the mother first. 
"Yes, home again, and delighted to be here, though 
work has piled up mountains high in my absence. It 
would be a positive insult to ask if you are well. Mrs. 
Marshall, how comes it that you never seem worked out 
or fagged out? You always bring to mind an old poem 
that was in one of my early reading-books, which had no 
real merit that I remember, — only an exceeding freshness 
in the first line, — 
• The rose had been washed, lately washed in a shower,' 
and when I read it, I could always smell the freshness of 
the rose." 
" I have been enjoying a rather lazy time these two 
dull months," and she smiled. " It will doubtless surprise 
you that I have found time to pick up some of my old 
music, and actually paint a handful of flowers, to Celia's 
great amusement." 
"And what has Celia been doing? " 
" I am so glad you have come," she began eagerly, "I 
have painted a picture — you told me I might exercise 
myself in composition, and now that I have done it, I am 
afraid the subject is too hackneyed." 
" But the treatment is not," interposed Mrs. Marshall. 
 
" Fair penitent, I wonder if I shall be able to shrive you," 
and he laughed. " Is it roses, or lilacs, or a ruined mill ? " 
" Neither." There was such a demure prettiness in her 
eyes that for an instant she seemed almost coquettish. 
" It must be quite original if I have not guessed it in 
three guesses. Tou have roused my curiosity. Is it 
presentable?" 
" Let us go up stairs, mamma," Celia proposed ; and 
they wended their way thither. 
" I have been pleasing myself," commenced Celia. " It 
has been a kind of rest from the harder duties and realis- 
tic views. I have not decided whether to offer it for 
criticism, any more than one would bring out a dream to 
be shorn of all its fanciful concomitants." 
A panel of medium size stood on the easel. Thierry 
placed the lamp on a little side table where the light 
would fall properly upon it. A winding bit of stream 
leading to a background of meadow-land in a roseate haze 
that appeared at the first glance as sunrise, but on second 
view you discerned a shape, a faint yet perfect figure of a 
young girl, whose golden tresses fell far below her waist 
and were filleted with some dainty woodland blooms 
gathered from their mossy beds. One arm held clustering 
grasses and growths of earliest spring ; with the other she 
was scattering trailing arbutus. The glimpse of meadow 
lay in the suggestive tints that indicated rather than 
declared the advent of the season. At her feet the rill 
sparkled over a few pebbly stones; but at every half inch 
of space it grew colder, and out in the foreground beside 
the leafless shrubbery in brown and gray stems, the stones 
with their dried moss, there were fragments of thin, shelly 
ice. In a wavering diagonal across the corner on the 
brownish turf she had written, in fine antique lettering, 
the legend, — 
"The spring comes slowly up this way. " 
Thierry studied it in amaze. The delicate coloring, the 
soft, suggestive, tender, yet positive life she had managed 
to throw into it, the perfect perspective, the distance from 
the gleam of ice to the coining greenness of the meadow, 
with its slow, lovely gradations, was wonderful. You 
waited for spring to come, in a kind of hushed, breathless 
way ; you could feel the tender promise, the richness of 
the scattered arbutus blooms. 
"You certainly have done your teacher great credit," he 
said, more moved than he cared to show. u Who is it says 
there are not any new things or ideas in the world — it is 
only our freshly dressing up the old ones ? You certainly 
have attired your legend with both freshness and beauty. 
I must see it by daylight. Celia, will you sell this ? " 
" Oh, Mr. Thierry, you are going to buy it out of pure 
generosity, or else induce Mrs. Van Cleve to do so. What 
if I — refuse  " with a little timid archness that had in it 
a suggestion of Daisy. 
" You have missed in both suspicions, Miss Marshall ; " 
and he laughed lightly for the sense of relief it afforded 
him, while he bowed low in mock deference. "I was 
thinking of a perfect stranger, — to you at least, — a man 
who makes nothing of running over to Paris to look at half 
a dozen new pictures whenever he lists. If you will em- 
power me to offer it — " 
" Oh, I am afraid," with a pathetic little cry. " Mr. 
Thierry, mamma and I both feel that it is better to wait 
until I can do something really worthy, than accept a 
kindly but not genuine and lasting appreciation. It is to 
be life-work, you know," with a gesture of high humility. 
" It is not anything undertaken from girlish vanity for the 
mere praise of to-day. Sometimes I fear you have been too 
indulgent." 
" I shall be strict enough in the future to compensate for 
it all. You will find me turning positively savage in my 
criticisms, presently. My dear child," and his tone dropped 
from the bantering humor to one of fervent tenderness, 
 
" if I did not think you had the soul of a true artist, and 
the capabilities of an honest, painstaking, efficient worker, 
I should not encourage you to go on. The world is 
crowded now with half-fledged artists who starve. Even 
your simplest work has been well done — I will give you 
that credit. You have succeeded here beyond any dream 
of mine. I want you to take up art boldly as a profes- 
sion, and to do that you must have a standing-place. I 
think I can dispose of this picture so that it will not only 
remunerate you, but bring you just this opportunity." 
She turned her eyes full upon him with that wonderful 
childlike directness, the apotheosis of perfect faith, and 
they thanked him as no mere words could have done. 
"And now let me see Daisy in her kingdom, and I 
must say good-night. I ran away from Mrs. Van Cleve's, 
where my wife is spending the evening. I will be in again 
to-morrow morning." 
Daisy played him a gay little rondeau that broke the 
tense strain of the interview, and the artist went away 
in his olden insouciant manner. 
" We had better not talk about it to-night," wisely said 
Mrs. Marshall. " Any great hope is almost as wearing as 
a great sorrow." 
"Oh no, mamma,. there is the joy." 
" Yes, if you are sure the joy will come." 
The artist reappeared the next morning and studied 
Celia's picture critically. There were a few crude points 
that demanded finer work, a little false coloring, but its 
strength and tone surprised him. 
" I shall be in on Saturday, when I want her to finish 
it," he said to Mrs. Marshall, as he left her on his way to 
the city. 
Celia could hardly guess at the impatience he re- 
strained. He fancied he had found a clue that would 
conduct her out of the social labyrinth that required 
such nice treading. 
After turning his study from order to disorder and back 
again, rendering himself dissatisfied with half a dozen 
attempts begun before the Florida excursion, putting him- 
self out of humor with a sitter, a thing Paul Thierry 
rarely allowed himself to do, he turned away from it all 
in disgust, went to Delmonico's for a lunch, and then saun- 
tered downtown, bowing on the right hand and the left to 
gracious nods from pretty women, rather red and cold in 
the deceptive April wind and sunshine. 
Quite down Broadway a friend leaned out of a couple
with a cordial nod and smile. Thierry signalled him with 
a slight gesture of the hand. The other reined up to the 
sidewalk. 
" Will you not get in ? " he asked. "It is early yet, and 
Mrs. Thierry will forgive you if you do not keep dinner 
waiting." 
" I was about to beg you to take me up. To tell the truth, 
Howarth, I have been thinking of you until I am crosser 
than the proverbial two sticks." 
" I was not aware that I had such an utterly demoraliz- 
ing influence upon my friends. Have you been gambling 
in stocks, Thierry, against my advice, and feel yourself a 
guilty man?" 
Thierry laughed, his own mellow, genuine laugh. 
"A wrong guess. I am not that deeply-dyed criminal. 
It was only that I wanted to see you about an interesting 
matter, and I was afraid I might ' dim the grace ' by undue 
impatience. Whether to capture you by a grand coup 
d'etat, or to amble up gently, tickle your vanity, pat your 
good taste and discernment, and lead you gradually up to 
a point of commitment — " 
"What may this dread conspiracy be? You see I am 
forewarned now," and a gleam of humor shone in his eyes. 
"Seriously, my dear friend, I want your help. The 
first step, I will admit, is for you to purchase a picture." 
" One of your own ? " 
 
" Oh, I am not in the market this time," with an inci- 
sive sort of smile. "But — I have & protegee, a pupil, — 
let me confess my crime in its fullest enormity, — a 
young girl who will make her mark on something more than 
shifting sand, since it is my care to see that she isn't 
pushed quite off solid ground. She has painted a pic- 
ture that will capture the hearts of two women ; one is 
Anastasia Van Cleve, the other Mrs. Howarth. For va- 
rious reasons I incline to Mrs. Howarth." 
"Ah ! " Howarth's eyes studied his friend tentatively 
for a moment. 
" You know, of course," continued Thierry, with a se- 
rious air, "that I shouldn't offer you or her any mere daub. 
This is a painting of such unusual excellence in a new be- 
ginner, that five years hence you will feel proud of owning 
the first of her work that was really offered for sale. If it 
were not for her advancement I should take it myself, and 
double my money on it in the course of time." 
"What is it? " asked Howarth. 
"A panel of medium size. As to the subject, I might 
spoil it by a description. I should have waited and brought 
it to you ; and it was between the Scylla of delay and the 
Charybdis of impatience that I lost my serenity. I was 
going home to put myself out of temptation's way, when 
I met you. Being the very omen I wanted, I accepted it. 
Ah, you need not fancy that I have some sentimental 
young lady who only works for pastime — I am not in 
the habit of fathering such, and I should not foist them 
upon you, in any event." 
"Pardon my incredulity, if indeed I expressed that. 
Consider your picture purchased. Am I allowed to in- 
quire the price beforehand ? " 
Thierry mused a moment. " Seventy-five dollars," he 
returned, with something of a business air. 
" Seventy-five ? Why not make it an even hundred if 
you want to encourage your friend ? " 
"My friend is too clear-eyed not to apprehend generos- 
ity. I should be willing to give that for the picture 
myself. As I said, it is something more than merely 
buying a picture. I want to interest Mrs. Howarth in 
her." 
" Does she reside at Westwater ? " 
" She is one of the girls who has a story, or rather is 
shadowed by her mother's story ; one of the bravest, purest, 
and best women I know. Unfortunately, she has been 
compelled to care for a family, to enter business ; and why 
it should ban a woman out of so much I cannot see. 
But in Westwater, lines are closely drawn, and social 
distinctions hard to overcome. This girl is of good birth, 
and how proud we are of that in our republican land ! " 
— with a touch of irony. " By one of the hard twists of 
fate they were reduced from affluence to poverty; the hus- 
band lacked the courage and manliness to strike out again 
with a determined will, so the wife has done it. She is 
educating her children nobly. Now, when we praise a 
man for such an effort, why do we not think it admirable 
in a woman?" 
" I have always maintained that it was," and sincerity 
spoke in his tone. 
"And the daughter is a genius. She had painted some 
before I knew her, girl's work, but she had made it very 
good training. Archer brought her to me, and I knew 
then her level, serene eyes were artist's eyes, formed to 
translate hidden meanings. I was not mistaken. I have 
given her lessons. As I have said, I want her to have a 
secure standing-place. If it were a young fellow I should 
take him to some artist reunion and introduce him, talk 
him up at the club, exhibit his picture, and if he at all 
resembled her, he could work out the remainder of the 
problem himself ; or if it were some other girl, I should 
take her at once to Valerie Adrian and let her win her 
way through those Bohemian ranks, that, after all, have 
 
shaped up many capital people ; or, if the lovely goddess 
were not so hedged about with aristocratic tendencies and 
beliefs and fancies, I should introduce her at home. Mrs. 
Van Cleve would do it, but in Westwater it would fall 
far short of the desired purpose. If you could see her, 
Howarth ; if you could know the mother ! " 
A curious fancy was struggling through the listener's 
brain. Surely if it were Eleanor's child she would not 
have kept so sweet a knowledge from his sympathy and 
interest. 
"What is the name?" he asked with all the indiffer- 
ence he could assume. " I spent the years of my young 
manhood in Westwater, and knew many of its residents." 
"Marshall; they are very well connected people. 
Howarth, do you know them ? " for a gleam of unwonted 
interest in the other's face betrayed him. 
" I know an Eleanor Marshall," — he could not bring 
himself to call her by her husband's name. " She was mar- 
ried while I resided in Westwater — " 
"Did you know her husband? You may not have 
heard that he was a miserable, drunken wretch in later 
years, and that she left him. One cannot decide the 
merits of such a case unless one has known both parties, 
it is commonly supposed ; but a man is more easily won 
to the feminine side. Perhaps he understands what a 
brute beast rum can make of a man, better than Ihe 
women who pity him for his weakness, and relegate all 
the virtues and duties to his wife. Mrs. Marshall has 
made herself a success in a business way, and is educat- 
ing her children admirably. Socially she is — well, if she 
asked bread of society, the cultured and elegant society in 
which she is fitted to shine, I am afraid the stone would 
be given with no great gentleness. She doesn't ask it. 
She has refused Mrs. Van Cleve's overtures as only a high 
and fine woman can refuse. Heaven knows, I for one 
wish that fate had been kinder to her. I am sorry such a 
woman was compelled to take this step. We talk a 
great deal about the dignity of labor, of glorifying our 
work, and all that, but womanhood seems best glorified 
with silken gowns and helpless lily hands, guiltless of 
labor. We have enlarged upon the decalogue until, for 
woman, the whole week is taken in. There are some very- 
noble theories about it, but in practice it amounts to just 
that. So you see my little heroine is shadowed by the 
noblest mother in the world, doing her duty nobly. Why 
should the daughter of a milliner be a genius ? Let her 
make bonnets, not paint pictures. Let her keep in her 
proper sphere." 
" But — the world is wider outside of Westwater." 
" Truly it is," with a humorously ironical smile. " If 
it were not, the millennium would be set back a million or 
so years." 
" And — what would you like to have me do ? " 
" Buy the picture and hang it in your house. Thank 
heaven Mrs. Howarth will not be afraid. Some time you 
can tell her the story. Celia Marshall is but seventeen, 
and it shall go hard indeed with me, if I cannot outwit 
circumstances in the next five years. Or suppose you 
come over some day, — let me see — next week, and see 
for yourself." 
Some indication of a feeling unconfessed shadowed 
Howarth's face for an instant. Then he spoke in a tone 
so curiously calm that it roused Thierry's attention. Had 
there been a romance years agone ? Was he bespeaking 
interest for a child who might have been Howarth's very 
own? 
"I should like to see your little artist," Howarth an- 
swered slowly, "but I would rather take the picture first. 
Will you have the check to-day?" 
" No, not until I deliver it, which may not even be next 
week, but as soon as possible." 
" Here," he said, reining up before the handsome and 
 
substantial brown-stone residence, " you will come in to 
dinner?" 
"Indeed I cannot. Thanks for the kindness ;" and 
Thierry would have sprung out, but his host restrained 
him. 
" Let me send you down to the ferry," he exclaimed ; 
"and remember that the picture is to come as soon as 
possible. I am curious to see it. You will find me any 
morning at my office." 
The driver took his seat, and the artist whirled away 
in a musing mood. Leonard Howarth walked slowly up 
to his dressing-room. How deeply he had been wounded, 
even Eleanor never wholly knew ; for when he might have 
told the story the sting was past. Had she so little con- 
fidence in him that she could better trust a stranger with 
her child ? — a fascinating man too, but, thank heaven, an 
honorable one. And that this man should bespeak his 
interest for the child, when he would so freely and gladly 
have given it to the mother ! 
Thierry spent nearly all of Saturday morning with 
Celia. The picture was given its finishing touches, and 
his keen eyes saw all the faint blemishes that one less 
thoroughly trained might have missed. Celia worked 
with the most charming patience. He said nothing about 
its sale until it was finished, and then only in an incidental 
business way, as if it were a sort of probability. 
But he took it to New York as he had promised. 
