' I didn't mean to keep any thing from you, Grand- 
mother," said Elizabeth, honestly, trying to make her 
voice even. ' I knew you wouldn't like our taking 
any one unless you had it explained to you, and I 
didn't want to do that in a letter. I thought it was 
better to wait." 

" Did you mean to tell the whole of it, then ? " 
asked Madam Nye, watching her narrowly. ' Susan 
had a deal more to say about your walking on the 
beach and round the pastures, with the man. She said 
she guessed you thought you might get him." 

'' Grandmother, you're going too far," said Eliza- 
beth, her face flushing scarlet. 

" I'm older than you are, Elizabeth," said Grand- 
mother, stiffening slightly. ' In this house I guess 
nobody can stop me from saying what I've a mind to. 
After all my telling you, did you forget that man's 
father had cheated you ? Don't you know that's the 
reason you haven't got a cent to call your own, except 
what I give you ? " 

' It is a foolish thing to remember that," said Eliza- 
beth, steadily, passing over the last reminder. ' Mr. 
Craig is finer than any body I know. I should be 
proud of his friendship, if I knew his father was a 
thief." 

' He seems to be a good principled young man," 
put in Mrs. Nye, feebly, hoping to stem the tide, and 



 

listening for Philip's step with apprehension. If he 
should come in and add the blaze of his inflammable 
temper to Elizabeth's suddenly developed fire, she 
trembled for the result. 

"You'd better explain about his fineness," said 
Grandmother, coldly, taking out her knitting and un- 
rolling the yarn. " That might be some excuse for 
the neighbors' saying you were after him." 

" Grandmother, you do wrong to listen to gossip 
and repeat it for the truth. I can tell you how he was 
fine. He cared for beautiful things, pictures and books 
and flowers ; he was kind, he " 

"Perhaps," said Grandmother, looking up suddenly, 
and fixing her eyes on Elizabeth. ' Perhaps, now 
you're so willing to talk about him, you won't deny 
you're in love with him." 

There are moments when the greatness of an action 
seems measured by its foolhardiness. Elizabeth felt a 
quick impulse to contrast her courage with her Grand- 
mother's suspicion. " I don't wish to deny it," she 
said, lifting her head with pride. " I'm perfectly will- 
ing to tell you I made a mistake when I denied it to 
him." 

If she had been gifted with a stronger sense of the 
ludicrous she must have laughed, even at the moment, 
at the effect of her bombshell. Grandmother had very 
evidently received a check from an entirely unimag- 
ined turn of affairs, while Mrs. Nye sat quite dazed 
by a development as unheard of as a summer fall of 
snow. 



CHAPTER XVI. 

AN accomplished victory or defeat is liable to induce 
in the parties concerned a broader view of what 
preceded it, perhaps a less zealous partisanship. Before 
the next day, Elizabeth became aware that she had ex- 
posed a flaw in her armor and that she was liable to 
suffer gnat stings for the rest of her life, or at least 
while the memory of her unlucky admission was still 
green. She had astonished her mother beyond all 
precedent, and though Mrs. Nye did not refer to the 
conversation of the day before, her face did not once 
lose its disturbed expression. There are, unfortunately, 
some mothers who have learned non-interference in 
their daughters' affairs through long experience of the 
advisability of such a course ; but Mrs. Nye's for- 
bearance had no such origin. There was a large sur- 
face of real delicacy beneath her usual show of hesita- 
tion, and this counseled her to wait for Elizabeth to 
speak. And then, too, interviewing her daughter on 
the subject of love would have been an ordeal she 
would not willingly have accepted. Elizabeth could 
see that Grandmother considered her to have fallen 
into a disgraceful and unholy frame of mind. As to 
Philip, he was too absorbed in his own thoughts to 
spend much time over the change in the family atmos- 
phere ; of course it was to be ascribed, as usual, to 



 

Grandmother. She had greeted him coolly on her re- 
turn, but that was to be expected. 

" Mother," he burst out suddenly at breakfast, l did 
Mr. Craig say he might come back here ? " 

" Yes, not to stay, but to get his trunk," said Mrs. 
Nye, praying in her heart that something might turn 
the conversation away from the unlucky subject. 

" Oh, I didn't think of the trunk. But won't he 
stay? Won't he, Elizabeth?" 

" I think not," she said, coldly, conscious that 
Grandmother was watching her. 

" I should like to talk to him," said Madam Nye, with 
ponderous emphasis. "Perhaps he'd like to know just 
how much his father cheated, here and there. I should 
like to tell him what I know about it." 

" Grandmother," said Philip, audaciously, ' I can't 
see, if my father owed his father some money, why 
Mr. Craig hadn't the right to take the land to pay it. 

I don't see ' 

" Be quiet, Philip," said Grandmother, with more of 
a flash than usual. " When you can do something more 
than talk about money, it will be time enough for you 
to put your oar in. In my day you would have waited 
till you were spoken to." 

" Si is bringing home the ax, Philip," said Eliza- 
beth. " Hadn't you better go out and take it ? )! Which 
had the effect of ending the encounter, though the boy 
went with flashing eyes and lips trembling. The 
growing manhood in him was almost at the point of 
rebellion. 

Elizabeth had not the very natural instinct which 
makes one, gratuitously presented with a bad reputa- 



 

tion, wish to deserve it. Innate sincerity vetoed her 
assuming a bravado she did not feel. By nature, as well 
as training, she was obedient to authority, and having 
defied precedent, she had an attendant fear of being 
in the wrong. It was a very confused state of mind 
which she carried about, and it became every day more 
burdensome. Was it any wonder that her thoughts 
turned to Oswald as the bright spot in the midst of 
her perplexities ? The very looks of the people at 
home questioned and wearied her ; the thought of him 
offered a vision of some one who had been always cheer- 
ful, at times radiantly so, who evidently understood her 
inmost self ; for had he not known her mind, when 
she herself was ignorant of it ? It was a relief to 
reach the conclusion that he was right and she loved 
him. There are minds to which uncertainty is more 
harassing than acceptance of the hardest facts. Put- 
ting a peg here and there, comforts them. To fix on 
one central fact, simplified Elizabeth's war of emotion. 
So she caught rather eagerly at the suggestion that she 
had made an irrevocable mistake in sending him away; 
and bearing the consequences became easier, when 
she could refer them to a fault distinctly her own. 

There was more general discomfort than ever at 
home. Grandmother assumed a dictatorial sway 
which she evidently thought necessitated by the 
anarchy that had prevailed during her absence, and 
Elizabeth felt the galling misery of a money depend- 
ence without love. A wild desire of escape grew up 
m her, and culminated in the idea of earning money. 
There was but one way of doing it, that open to the 
average American woman who cannot or will not work 



 

with her hands school-teaching. Without much 
thought of the chances involved, and telling no one 
her purpose, she walked to the Centre, one afternoon, 
and asked if 'she might teach in her own district, the 
next term. 

" Never knew you thought o' such a thing. Allers 
wondered why th' old ma'am didn't put you t' it, she's 
so nigh," said Cyrus Pearson, with admirable candor. 
" But the school's engaged. Hannah Blake asked for 
it a fortnight ago. Spoke for any o' the other dees- 
tricks ? " 

" No," said Elizabeth, unreasonably disappointed. 
" I haven't been thinking of it long." 

Walking home, she took a longer road than was 
necessary, in order to go down to the beach on the 
way. 

She had not been there since the night when Oswald 
had forced upon her the most exciting scene of her 
life. The sky was not yet clear of clouds, and the sea 
still showed traces of the storm, but there was a wind 
from the west which promised to blow in fair weather. 
Elizabeth had not gone there for sentimental reflections; 
she stood looking at the sea absently, not thinking 
connectedly of the last few days with their discom- 
forts, but vaguely conscious of trouble somewhere. 
Some one was stepping over the round stones of the 
rocky beach behind her. It was Oswald. Hat in 
hand as soon as she turned, his face flushed and hair 
matted and 'damp in the moist wind, he was a picture 
of eager gladness. Elizabeth was not surprised, only 
at once most thankful, as if a delivering angel had 
come to smooth the way out of her difficulties. 


' Are you glad to see me ? " he cried, reaching her in 
a second more. ' Why don't you give me your hand ? " 

A fit of uncontrollable shyness had overtaken her, 
but she was conscious that her face was brimming over 
with delight. His eyes still sought hers with a merry 
question in them. 

"Are you glad? Tell me." 

"Yes." 

' Then don't be in such a hurry to pull away your 
hand. It's so cold, too poor little fingers ! There, 
I didn't mean to do that. I won't again, till you tell 
me I may." After he had kissed them. 

Elizabeth jealously covered the fingers, released at 
last, with those of the other hand. It was impossible 
to help a great throb of delight at this proof that he 
had not forgotten. 

' Why don't you ask me why I came back ? ' said 
Oswald. 

' I knew that is I thought it was to get your 
trunk ! ' Seizing on the explanation with triumph. 

" You didn't think any thing of the kind. You dis- 
appoint me, Elizabeth. I thought you were clear as 
crystal, above a subterfuge." 

The girl was too used to seriousness to take the 
badinage for what it was worth, and fell into the trap. 
' No, it wasn't true," she said with a fine honesty in 
which there was no trace of shyness, though she did 
not lift her eyes. '' I thought you wanted to see me 
again. I had wanted to see you." 

"Why?" 

' Because oh, it is not generous to make me tell it 
alone ! " 



 

" No, sweetheart. Shall I help you ? You found 
you did love me. No, don't answer, look at me." 

The brown eyes were obedient. The steadfast look 
told Oswald more than he had expected of their 
capacity for speech. 

Mingled with the love there was what he did not see, 
an appeal to the noblest part of his nature to sustain 
and strengthen hers. As, after the advent of a bless- 
ing, a devout heart feels the instinctive desire of sacri- 
ficing to some god, so the sacrament of love is seldom 
touched by lips which feel its holiness, without causing 
them to owe devotion to an ideal purpose. As much 
in Elizabeth's heart at that moment as could be trans- 
lated ran : " I will be good. Help me, and be my 
best." 

" You are chilly. Let us go home," said Oswald, 
drawing her hand under his arm. " And on the way I 
shall catechise you." 

" Oh, but Grandmother has come ! " exclaimed Eliz- 
abeth, stopping short. 

" Well, what of that ? She seemed to be a very 
amiable old lady when I saw her. last winter, in spite of 
being somewhat unapproachable," said Oswald, with a 
laugh at the recollection. " I dare say she'll fall easy 
prey to my graces of manner." 

" No, you don't know Grandmother. The more you 
tried to please her, the more she'd despise you for not 
being above politeness and liveliness. And if you were 
stiff, she might not like you either. I wish you were 
a minister." Looking up at him with a satisfied pride. 

" No, you don't, little girl. I know better. You've 
had enough of the ministerial -view of life. That's 





why my general lightness and worthlessness are not 
quite distasteful to you." 

' But it isn't because you are not serious," said 

Elizabeth, wrinkling her brow with extreme earnestness. 

'Yes, I might as well tell you ; but do be charitable 

in thinking about it, won't you ? Grandmother thinks 

she has a particular reason for not liking you." 

' In the name of mystery, what ? She never heard 
of me before last winter, and the story of my misdeeds 
can't have traveled here this summer." 

' No, not that ; I'll tell you. Let's walk back across 
the beach to keep warm. You know your father had 
the land and house, down here, from my father. He 
took it to pay a debt. My great-aunt Susan had left 
it to father, so he could do what he pleased with it, in 
spite of Grandmother." 

'' I didn't know who owned the old shell, originally, 
and I never thought myself very lucky to inherit it. 
Though it seems it's brought me luck after ail. Little 
maid, you do love me, don't you ? ' : 

' I love you very much," said Elizabeth, quietly, 
but with a thrill in her voice. ' But I want to hurry 
over this. It's so hard to tell ! Grandmother can't 
bear to remember that my father lost his money in 
speculating, and, from knowing your father advised 
him, she thinks he drew him into it and ruined him. 
She thinks it wasn't honest." Her voice choked here. 
It seemed a cruelly indelicate thing to breathe such a 
suspicion ; she was prepared for his indignation. But 
Oswald only whistled. ' I see, an old feud. Well, I 
confess I don't know any thing about my father's busi- 
ness transactions. Thev ftiiorht not have been further 



 

above board than any other man's, though he had a 
good name when he died. That's all I can tell her." 

It seemed a fine justice and integrity to say no more. 
Elizabeth admired him for it. ' So you see she won't 
treat you very pleasantly," she went on. ' If I 
didn't know Grandmother so well I should think she 
couldn't help liking you. But I know she could." 

" See, here's our programme," said Oswald, after a 
minute's thought. "I'll goto the Sea View to-night. 
If you think best, I won't even walk home with you, 
and to-morrow I'll come round and lay siege to the 
Grandmother's heart. Will that do ? "' 

" Yes, I think so, better than any thing. And don't 
come any further with me, please. We are so near 
home." 

There were minutes of whispered words and fond 
looks. Elizabeth's hair curled in rings about her face; 
her cheeks were flushed, and her eyes alive from sur- 
face to depth. Oswald confided to himself, as he 
turned away, that she was an exceptional girl of rare 
possibilities, and that he was very much in love with 
her. 

There is no doubt that he was, and that circum- 
stances had conspired to make him realize the fact. 
He had put out from Scone with the fishermen, but, 
warned by the persistent rain, they had come back to 
port the same day. Oswald took a room at the little 
hotel there, and spent his days over the fire, reading a 
week-old paper and the almanac, waiting for fair 
weather. It seemed easier to do that than to make 
the exertion necessary for reaching another place, in 
the storm. 





The summer stir of life had not begun there. Only 
two boarders were at the hotel, an old lady and her 
niece, who came early every year and staid late. 
They and Oswald had the house very much to them- 
selves, and as they were not disposed to enter his field 
of vision, he found not the slightest difficulty in the 
way of becoming desperately bored. With plenty of 
time for thought, Elizabeth's charm for him was not 
broken by absence. It grew as, in the lack of other 
employment, he endeavored to analyze it, until he 
found it impossible to wait for fair weather before go- 
ing back to her. And now, this finding her willing to 
own she loved him had all the sweetness anticipation 
had promised, which was, for him, something remark- 
able. 

The next morning, with the pleasant sense of a vic- 
tory to be won, he went to make his call on Madam 
Nye. She was alone, and knitting. Elizabeth had 
told her mother how it had happened, and Mrs. Nye, 
with the true maternal gladness of a woman who had 
been happy in her own married life, showed a deeper 
tenderness than Elizabeth had ever seen in her. She 
had no thought yet of that .sweet selfishness which will 
not let a mother give up her child without a pang. 

' If he's coming to-morrow, we'd better keep out of 
the way," she said. " I should rather he'd see Grand- 
mother alone. I'm sure I can't imagine what she'll say ! " 

But Elizabeth, quite at rest now that Oswald had 
come back, did not care. A great love seemed omnipo- 
tent, its shelter second only to that of the heavenly 
powers. So, while her mother was pale and nervous, 
she felt only a proud joyousness. 



 

Oswald's manner showed a quiet gravity when he 
came in at the open door, and, without knocking, enter- 
ed the sitting-room. 

' I hoped to find you alone, Madam Nye," he began, 
with not too great an effusion of cordiality. " My call 
was intended for you, in fact." 

Grandmother, who was apparently quite unconscious 
of his entrance, anwound some yarn from her ball, and 
put her needle in, before looking up. 

Well, what is it ? " she asked monotonously. 
' You remember me, perhaps ? " said Oswald, ventur- 
ing to take a chair, and drawing it near her. " I had 
the pleasure of seeing you last winter." 

Madam Nye would waste no time in vague plati- 
tudes ; they were always frivolous, and, from Oswald 
especially, not to be borne. 

' Did you say you wanted to see me ? " she asked, 
the click of her needles growing more steady, "If it's 
about your clothes, I believe they're where you left 
'em. Philip 'll help you fetch the trunk down stairs." 

Oswald realized that a circuitous mode of attack 
would not do. ' No, it is not my trunk. I came to ask 
your consent to my marrying your granddaughter." 
Then, indeed, Grandmother laid down her work. 

'' I've no time to talk nonsense," she said. '' Eliza- 
beth never will marry a man like you. What have you 
got to support her on ? Where did the money come 
from ? " 

Oswald went on, with unmoved fluency. " I can't 
give you the precise figure of my income, at such short 
notice, but I assure you it is a comfortable one. As 
for the cleanness of the money, my father gave it to me 



unconditionally and without explanation. Can I say 
more than that ? ' 

"Yes," said Grandmother, a faint flush appearing 
high on her cheeks. ' You can tell me whether you've 
got the name of an honest man to offer. Like father, 
like son. I wouldn't have trusted your father, and I 
won't see you Elizabeth's husband." 

The most successful diplomacy sometimes demands 
a bold push. 

' Elizabeth has promised to marry me," said Oswald, 
in his quietest voice. '' I know she wont break her 
word. If you think there's any thing questionable 
about my right to the house opposite, I shall be very 
glad to give my wife the deed of it." 

With such great issues at stake, the offer seemed 
lightening the load of her aversion by a straw's weight 
only, and yet, she felt that it was not a bad thing to 
say. But she loved Elizabeth with all the hidden 
strength of her heart ; better, now, than any thing 
except the memory of her dead son. She could not 
see her sacrificed in a marriage founded on wrong. 

' Elizabeth, come here," she called, hearing a step 
in the kitchen, and as the girl appeared, she cried with 
real feeling, " Elizabeth, you'll do what I tell you, wont 
you ? I know what will be best. You can't marry him." 
But she noted with a sinking heart how, when Elizabeth 
turned to her lover, a flush rose in her face, and the 
tenderest of slight smiles came. The two did not 
speak, but Oswald rose and kept her hand while she 
answered: 'I told you I cared for him, Grandmother. 
I do care very much. It is best for me to do what he 
says." Oswald flashed such a glad smile at her that 


 

Elizabeth could not remember to be troubled at having 
disappointed some one else. Madam Nye took up her 
knitting. 

That's all, then," in her ordinary, even voice, which 
held, moreover, a trace of bitterness. " You've taken 
your own road. Do as you please." 

' But do say something pleasant, Grandmother," 
going forward and standing close by her chair, made 
bold by the childish longing to see every body happy 
because she was. 

' I haven't got any thing to say that would be heeded. 
Take care, you'll snarl my yarn." 

And Elizabeth, disappointed in her turn, left the 
room with Oswald. 

But, in spite of such a beginning, the days of court- 
ship were not unhappy. Elizabeth went about in 
such a dream of contentment that she hardly knew 
whether Grandmother was angry or not. She was 
particularly gentle both to her and to Mrs. Nye ; her 
own happiness made it seem impossible to be any thing 
but kind. Grandmother had neither eyes nor ears for 
conciliatory measures. She never spoke to Oswald, 
beyond returning his good-morning or good-by. He 
spent a part of every day there, but never came to the 
table, though Mrs. Nye courageously invited him. At 
first, it seemed rather an entertaining campaign to win 
the regard of such a belligerent old lady, but, after 
some days, the monotony of the warfare became 
tedious, and he preferred giving his whole time to 
watching the woman develop from Elizabeth's crude 
girlhood. It was such an absolutely new thing for her 
to be sure some one cared whether she wore daisies or 





blue ribbon at her throat, cared because her hands 
were white and supple and her hair full of bewitching 
golden lights at the temple, that she began to take 
a curious and delighted sort of interest in herself. 
First love is a mirror such as the first clear pool might 
have been for the newly born Eve. " Am I really 
all this ? ' asks the maiden of her glass. " But if I 
am this to him, it is quite enough." Elizabeth was 
conscious that she had begun to live. 

Philip took it all with an exultation not to be con- 
cealed. ' And now you will let me go to Boston and 
visit you, wont you, Mr. Oswald ? ' he said. " Eliza- 
beth can't say a word, can she ? because she'll have to 
do what you tell her, and you'll take me to the theater 
and concerts oh, I thirlk it was beautiful of you to 
fall in love with Betty ! ' at which the others could 
not help laughing, though Elizabeth, in her heart, was 
conscious of echoing the boy's unwise frankness. 

' But perhaps I sha'n't be there, this winter," said 
Oswald, letting a stream of sand run through his 
fingers on Elizabeth's lap. " I shall have to be down 
here a great deal if Elsie doesn't make up her mind 
to go back with me." 

' Why, of course she will, wont you, Betty ? She'll 
be glad enough to do it, and I'll coax her. There's 
Si coming in with the lobsters. I'm going down to 
see him." 

' Well, sweetheart," said Oswald, covering her 
hand with his, and looking at her with the smile that 
had not lost its power of bringing a blush. " Shall it 
be ? Am I to have my wife this fall ? " 

" Oh no," said Elizabeth hurriedly. " That is, if you 



 

please not ; we're so happy, and there's no need of 
changing." 

' No need of being happier ? Dearest, come." 

' I haven't had time to think of it ; a woman ought 
to make up her mind before such a great step." 

'You can have all your life to reflect on it after- 
wards and as to making up your mind, aren't you quite 
sure you want to be my wife ? " But Elizabeth shook 
her head with a sweet willfulness that was quite unusual 
and made her all the more charming, so that Oswald 
vowed even the denial to have been worth the pleading. 
Circumstances did what he could not. 

' I've been thinking what we're going to do with 
Philip," said Grandmother, when she and Mrs. Nye 
sat alone one morning, paring apples. ' He seems to 
have his mind all made up not to go to school." 

' It's only his thinking he hadn't ought to be a 
minister," said the mother, hoping to make some 
impression. ' He does want to go to school ; no boy 
ever wanted learning more." 

'' That means he's willing to be supported all his 
life, and read foolish novels. That never'll be done 
with my money, so you needn't mention it again. I've 
always meant to do something for him, nobody else 
will, if I don't and I've made up my mind he'd better 
go into a store, at Stowe." Mrs. Nye's heart sank. 
She knew how Philip would receive the news. 

' Do you mean for a clerk ? " 

: Yes, to tend behind the counter. If he's got any 
smartness, it'll come out there, and if he hasn't, I 
don't know what will become of him. You know he's 
got no strength to work on the farm, if he wanted to. 

He's always been pindling." Mrs. Nye said no more, 

but took occasion to break the news carefully to 
Philip, that, it not being entirely unexpected, he might 
bear it the more coolly from Grandmother. His pas- 
sion of grief astonished her. 

' O Elizabeth, you are to blame ! " he cried. " Mr. 
Oswald says you are, for if you'd go to Boston with him 
this winter, he'd surely invite me to stay with you. 
And if I've got to be sent to Stowe, I might as well 
give up." 

'But, Philip, think, there's mother," said Elizabeth, 
distressed. 'You wouldn't have me leave her, this 
winter, if she isn't to have me again, would you ? 
Think how lonesome she'll be." 

' You mustn't think about me," said Mrs. Nye. " If 
I knew you and Philip were comfortable, I should be 
twice as well off. And this can't last forever." It was 
the first time a relief from the burden had been men- 
tioned, and Elizabeth realized how grievous the trial 

must have been, to bring her mother to such a pass. 
'You see something ought to be done for Philip," said 

Mrs. Nye, " and if .Mr. Craig will do it, I think you 

ought to let him." 

Such an outside pressure had its effect on Elizabeth, 

and, when Oswald came, she told him the state of things. 
' I wish you would tell me what to do. You know I 

didn't say I wanted to stay away from you this winter 

because I wasn't willing to come. But now when other 

people are concerned, it almost seems as if I cared for 

their sakes and not yours." 

" Is that true ? " asked Oswald, holding her at arm's 

length and looking at her till the inevitable blush 



 

came. " Dear little Puritan, always trying to do 
things with a moral end in view, be a little more sel- 
fish and a little less anxious. Shall I settle things for 
you ? " 

" Yes, I'm tired of deciding." 

" Then we shall be married the last day of August, 
go immediately to the mountains for a breath of 
wonderful air, stay for a glimpse of gorgeous color, 
go to our own home in November, and invite Philip 
up for the winter." 

And so it was. The marriage was a quiet one with 
no guests indeed, there were none to have and 
though Grandmother's face showed a swift shadow of 
feeling when she said good-by, Elizabeth felt sure she 
had not forgiven them. 



CHAPTER XVII. 

PROFESSOR GRIMWALD began to tell me about 
hearing the Seventh Symphony, in New York," 
said Elizabeth, turning from the glass to Oswald, who 
lay luxuriously, with pillows crushed beneath him. 

' How did you receive the dissertation ? ' 

' I said I never had heard a symphony. I didn't 
know what it was." 

' Was he petrified, or voluble ? ' said Oswald, with 
a low laugh of enjoyment. 

'' He looked at me. I think he was very much 
shocked. What shall I do ? People will find out 
how ignorant I am. Do you want me to keep quiet 
and learn things to say, to patch up with?' The. 
tone was a laughing one, but it held an anxious mean- 
ing. Elizabeth seated herself on the arm of the sofa 
and passed her fingers through her husband's hair, a 
stroking he liked well. 

' Never that, Priscilla. Your charm lies in your 
wild-flower nature. Really, Elizabeth, if you should 
take on the air of know-nothing comment, if you 
dabbled in colors and .practiced scales weakly, I'm 
afraid you'd be insupportable." .Elizabeth laughed, 
and looked critically at the effect of laying her finger 
in a brown wave of hair. " But I should like to know 
something, Oswald. It makes me feel so insignificant, 



 

like a country school-girl and that's just what I am, 
you know ! to hear those people talk. It's a comfort 
to think you are willing to be ashamed of me ; or do 
you only say so to make me happy ? ' 

" No, child ; when you've been here longer you'll see 
what I mean. Though I pray you wont get to analyz- 
ing people enough to find out the difference between 
you and them ! See, Elsie, you are precisely what these 
cultivated people try to seem. They talk about char- 
acter, and sincerity, and what not, but they're not even 
sincere in the talking. You have the flavor they adore 
but can't assume, pine, resinous, with a touch of 
sweetness. I'm very much in love with you, sweet- 
heart ! " 

Elizabeth sank quickly on her knees, and kissed him 
with an impetuosity she was just learning. After the 
kiss, she blushed ; the girl had not been quite trans- 
formed into the wife, yet. 

" There is a difference in life, isn't there ?" said Os- 
wald, taking her hands and holding her when she 
would have risen. " You thought you loved me before. 
You thought we were going to have pleasant, friendly 
living together, but you didn't even guess how much 
happiness there could be in life. Isn't it so ? ' 

"Yes," said Elizabeth, her eyes dwelling on 
him fondly. " I certainly didn't have a happy life, 
and I begin to believe I never dreamt of one." 

It was true, her fancy had never suggested this. 
How could it, from an outlook on the same sky and 
sea, an interest in no wilder emotions than the storms 
and ocean-upheavals ? ' 

Set down at once in the midst of luxury and beauty, 



 

absolutely unacquainted with music and other art ex- 
cept by hearsay, she was bewildered, awed, but not 
overwhelmed, because her mind had not yet expanded 
enough to take in the wonder of it all. So far, Eliza- 
beth was rubbing her eyes awake. Pictures were little 
more than canvas and color, and the winter's music 
had not begun. 

Oswald could not love by halves. He kept her rooms 
smothered in flowers ; he made her feel her every mo- 
tion to be a charm. Elizabeth sometimes paused in 
her toilet, to wonder at herself. Was this the staid and 
quiet girl who had cared only to have her gowns whole 
and her collars fresh, who had pinned arbutus at her 
throat because it was sweet, and not for approval, 
and who had now become the center of interest to 
one who might be poet, painter or musician, if he 
chose ? 

'Your clothes are an inspiration," said Oswald, as 
she came to him, ready for dinner, one night. " Now 
that soft fabric, I'll warrant it doesn't cost much a 
yard, but it hangs in miraculous folds. I dare say 
you'll set a fashion, and all the pillow and bolster 
women will be trying to look like you." 

'It is cashmere," said Elizabeth, demurely, stroking 
the gathers with one hand, as if rather grateful to them 
for being praiseworthy, but not quite understanding 
how they had managed it. " Grandmother gave it to 
me, and said I must have the skirt made full and gath- 
ered, to keep from cutting up the cloth. I felt dread- 
fully about it, but when you came in as we were sewing 
on it, and told me to put puffs on the sleeves, I was so 
relieved ; it seemed as if it couldn't be wholly bad, or 



I So STRA TFORD-B Y- THE-SEA. 

you'd have told me to throw it away and get another. 
Are you sure it's all right ? " 

" Sure. You are all I could wish you," kissing 
her hand. Oswald liked to worship, perhaps from an 
instinct that no one phase of passion would last long. 
But his eyes were not deceived in Elizabeth. In her 
plain black dress, with the white ruffle and amber at 
her throat, and her heavy hair, she was a woman to 
be looked at twice. Perhaps she really would set a 
fashion. No one could tell. Her reception by Os- 
wald's friends had in it something of the ridiculous. 
He had coolly surveyed beauty and passed her by, 
and mockingly given coquetry the attention for which 
she angled. But now he had married. \Vho was she ? 
A fisherman's daughter, a lighthouse keeper's, a girl 
who had lived on the coast all her life and written most 
wonderful poetry; which, would shortly be published ; 
indeed, it was now in press. The rumors were vari- 
ous, and in the midst of them, Elizabeth came. It was 
easy to see that she was not of their manner of life, 
though her simple unconsciousness kept ^her from be- 
ing too much abashed by their frequent discussion of 
the world's affairs. And whatever was plainly unusual 
in her they pieced out with the remarkable qualities 
Oswald must surely have demanded in a wife, giving 
even her commonplace little speeches a hidden and 
mysterious meaning which would have surprised her. 
Elizabeth saw nothing, but Oswald did, and enjoyed it 
all. Her great charm for him lay in her sincerity and 
youthfulness of heart, and he could but smile 
it would have been with bitterness had he been 
earnest enough for that to see his little world pass 



the real attraction, supplying attributes which could 
be worshiped by the book. 

In the meantime, Philip came for his promised visit. 
Oswald had proposed it again, after they had been 
home a few weeks, telling Elizabeth, with the good- 
nature which always characterized him when his sun 
shone brightly, to have the boy down at once. There- 
upon she was smitten by remorse at rinding in her 
heart a slight jealousy at the thought of any third per- 
son's entering her selfish Paradise, and wrote Philip at 
once, on receiving a particularly discouraged letter 
