
    To the butter and jelly left in the pan add three
      tablespoonfuls of vinegar.

    A small teaspoonful of made mustard.

    A quarter spoonful of salt.

    Half as much pepper as you have salt.

    Stir together over the fire until they boil, and pour
      on the meat. Cover three minutes over boiling water,
      and serve.


Devilled, or Barbecued Ham.

Slice cold Ferris & Co.’s “Trade Mark” ham, lean and fat together, and
lay in a clean frying-pan. Fry gently in the grease that runs from it
as it heats, until the lean is soft, the fat clear and beginning to
crisp at the edges.

Take out the slices with a fork, lay on a warmed dish; keep hot over
boiling water.

Add to the fat left in the frying-pan:

    Four tablespoonfuls of vinegar.

    A small teaspoonful of made mustard.

    As much pepper as will lie easily on a silver
      half-dime.

    Stir until it boils, then pour on the ham. Let it stand
      covered over the boiling water for five minutes
      before sending to the table.


Chicken Croquettes.

    One cup of cold chicken, minced fine.

    One quarter cup of pounded cracker.

    One teaspoonful of cornstarch, wet up in a little
      cold water.

    One egg.

    One tablespoonful of butter.

    Half a tablespoonful of salt.

    A good pinch of pepper.

    Half a cupful of boiling water.

    Mix minced chicken and crumbs together in a bowl with
      salt and pepper.

Put the boiling water in a clean saucepan, add the butter and set over
the fire. When the butter is melted stir in the wet corn starch. Boil
and stir until it thickens.

Have the egg beaten light in a bowl and pour the hot mixture upon it.
Beat well, and mix with the minced chicken. Let it get perfectly cold
and make into croquettes as directed for beef croquettes.

But roll these in a well-beaten egg, then in fine cracker-crumbs
instead of flour, and fry, a few at a time, in a mixture half-butter,
half-lard enough to cover them well. Drain off every drop of fat from
each croquette as you take it up, and keep hot until all are done.

Serve hot and at once.




9

DINNER DISHES.


I AM amused and yet made thoughtful by the fact that so many young
housekeepers write to me of their pleasure in cake-making and
their desire to learn how to compound what are usually known as
“fancy-dishes,” some sending excellent receipts for loaf-cake, cookies
and doughnuts, while few express the least interest in soups, meats and
vegetables. The drift of the dear creatures’ thoughts reminds me of a
rhymed—“If I had!” which I read years ago, setting forth how a little
boy would have if he could, a house built of pastry, floored with
taffy, ceiled with sugar-plums, and roofed with frosted gingerbread.
In engaging a cook one does not ask, first of all, “Can you get up
handsome desserts?” but, “Do you understand bread-making and baking,
and the management of meats, soups, and other branches of plain
cookery?”

The same “plain cookery” is the pivot on which the family health and
comfort rest and turn. If you would qualify yourselves to become
thorough housewives, it is as essential that you should master the
principles of this, as that a musician should be able to read the notes
on the staff. Some people do play tolerably by ear, but they are never
ranked as students, much less as professors of music. “Fancy” cookery
is to the real thing what embroidery is to the art of the seamstress.
She who has learned how to use her needle deftly upon “seam, gusset and
band,” will find the acquisition of ornamental stitches an easy matter.
Skill in Kensington and satin stitch is of little value in fitting one
to do “fine,” which is also useful sewing.

I am sorry to add that my observation goes to prove that more American
housekeepers can make delicate and rich cake than excellent soups.


Soup Stock.

    Two pounds coarse lean beef, chopped almost as fine as
      sausage-meat.

    One pound of lean veal—also chopped.

    Two pounds of bones (beef, veal, or mutton) cracked in
      several places.

    Half an onion chopped.

    Two or three stalks of celery, when you can get it.

    Five quarts of cold water.

Meat and bones should be raw, but if you have bones left from underdone
beef or mutton, you may crack and add them. Put all the ingredients (no
salt or pepper) in a large clean pot, cover it closely and set at one
side of the range where it will not get really hot under two hours.
This gives the water time to draw out the juices of the meat. Then
remove to a warmer place, stir up well from the bottom, and cook slowly
five hours longer.

It should never boil hard, but “bubble-bubble” softly and steadily all
the while. Fast boiling toughens the fibres and keeps in the juice of
the meat which should form the body of the soup. When the time is up,
lift the pot from the fire, throw in a heaping tablespoonful of salt,
and a teaspoonful of pepper, and pour out into your “stock-pot.” This
should be a stout stone crock or jar, with a cover, and be used for
nothing else.

See that it is free from grease, dust and all smell, scald out with hot
water and soda, then with clean boiling water just before pouring in
the soup, or the hot liquid may crack it.

Put on the cover and set in a cold place until next day.

Then take off every particle of the caked fat from the top. You can use
this as dripping for frying. Soup that has globules of grease floating
on the surface is unwholesome and slovenly.

Strain the skimmed liquid through a colander, squeezing the meat hard
to extract every drop of nutriment. Throw away the tasteless fibres and
bones when you have wrung them dry.

This process should give you about three quarts of strong “stock.”

Rinse your jar well and pour back the strained stock into it to be used
as the foundation of several days’ soups. Season it highly and keep in
a cold place—in warm weather on the ice.

I hope you will not fail to set up a “stock-pot.” Every family should
have one. It makes the matter of really good soups simple and easy.


Clear Soup with Sago or Tapioca.

Soak half a cup of German sago or pearl tapioca four hours in a
large cup of cold water. An hour before dinner put a quart of your
soup-stock on the stove and bring quickly almost to a boil. When it
is hot, stir in the raw white and the shell of an egg, and, stirring
frequently to prevent the egg from catching on the bottom of the pot,
boil fast ten minutes.

Take off and strain through a clean thick cloth, wrung out in hot water
and laid like a lining in your colander. Do not squeeze the cloth, or
you will muddy the soup.

Return the liquid, when strained, to the saucepan, which must be
perfectly clean; stir in the soaked tapioca and a teaspoonful of minced
parsley, and simmer half an hour on the side of the range.

If necessary, add a little more seasoning.

When you have made nice clear soup once, you may, if you like, color
the second supply with a little “caramel-water.”

This is made by putting a tablespoonful of sugar in a tin cup and
setting it over the fire until it breaks up into brown bubbles, then
pouring a few tablespoonfuls of boiling water on it and stirring it
until dissolved. A tablespoonful of this in a quart of clear soup will
give a fine amber color and not injure the flavor. Send all soups in to
table very hot.


Julienne Soup.

    One quarter of a firm white cabbage, shred as for cold
      slaw.

    One small turnip, peeled and cut into thin dice.

    One carrot, peeled and cut into strips like inch-long
      straws.

    One teaspoonful of onion shred fine.

    Three raw tomatoes, peeled and cut into bits.

    One tablespoonful of minced parsley, and, if you can
      get it, three stalks of celery cut into thin slices.

Use a sharp knife for this work and bruise the vegetables as little as
possible.

When all are prepared, put them in hot water enough to cover them,
throw in a teaspoonful of salt and cook gently half an hour.

Clear a quart of soup-stock as directed in the last receipt, and color
it with a teaspoonful of Halford sauce, or walnut catsup.

When the vegetables are tender, turn them into a colander to drain,
taking care not to mash or break them. Throw away the water in which
they were boiled, and add the vegetables to the clear hot soup.

Taste, to determine if it needs more pepper or salt, and simmer all
together gently twenty minutes before turning into the tureen.


White Chicken Soup (Delicious).

A tough fowl can be converted into very delicious dishes by boiling it
first for soup and mincing it, when cold, for croquettes.

In boiling it, allow a quart of cold water for each pound of chicken,
and set it where it will heat very slowly.

If the fowl be quite old do not let it reach a boil under two hours,
then boil very gently four hours longer.

Throw in a tablespoonful of salt when you take it from the fire, turn
chicken and liquor into a bowl and set in a cold place all night.

Next day skim off the fat, strain the broth from the chicken, shaking
the colander to do this well, and put aside the meat for croquettes or
a scallop.

Set three pints of the broth over the fire with a teaspoonful of
chopped onion, season with salt and pepper, and let it boil half an
hour. Line a colander with a thick cloth, and strain the liquid,
squeezing the cloth to get the flavor of the onion.

Return the strained soup to the saucepan, with a tablespoonful of
minced parsley, and bring to a boil. Meanwhile, scald in a farina
kettle a cupful of milk, dropping into it a bit of soda the size of a
pea.

Stir into this when hot, a tablespoonful of cornstarch wet up with
cold milk. When it thickens scrape it out into a bowl in which you have
two eggs whipped light. Beat all together well, and stir in, spoonful
by spoonful, a cupful of the boiling soup.

Draw the soup pot to one side of the range, stir in the contents of the
bowl, and let it stand—but not boil—three minutes before pouring into
the tureen.


Chicken and Rice Soup

Is made as white chicken soup, but with the addition of four
tablespoonfuls of rice, boiled soft, and added to the chicken liquor at
the same time with the parsley. Then proceed as directed, with milk,
eggs, etc.


Tomato Soup.

    Add a quart of raw tomatoes, peeled and sliced, or a
      can of stewed tomatoes, and half a small onion to a
      quart of stock, and stew slowly one hour.

    Strain and rub through a colander and set again over
      the fire.

    Stir in a tablespoonful of butter cut up and rubbed
      into a tablespoonful of flour.

    A tablespoonful of cornstarch wet up with cold water.

    Season to taste with pepper and salt, boil once more
      and pour out.


Bean Soup.

Soak one pint of dried beans all night in lukewarm water. In the
morning add three quarts of cold water, half a pound of nice salt pork,
cut into strips, half an onion chopped, and three stalks of celery, cut
small. Set at one side of the fire until it is very hot, then where it
will cook slowly, and let it boil four hours. Stir up often from the
bottom, as bean-soup is apt to scorch.

An hour before dinner, set a colander over another pot and rub the bean
porridge through the holes with a stout wooden spoon, leaving the
skins in the colander.

Return the soup to the fire, stir in a tablespoonful of butter rubbed
in a tablespoonful of flour, and simmer gently fifteen minutes longer.

Have ready in the tureen a double handful of strips or squares of stale
bread, fried like doughnuts in dripping, and drained dry. Also, half a
lemon, peeled and sliced very thin.

Pour the soup on these and serve.


A Soup Maigre (without Meat).

    Twelve mealy potatoes, peeled and sliced.

    One quart of tomatoes—canned or fresh.

    One half of an onion.

    Two stalks of celery.

    One tablespoonful of minced parsley.

    Four tablespoonfuls of butter, cut up and rolled in
      flour.

    One tablespoonful of cornstarch wet and dissolved in
      cold water.

    One lump of white sugar.

    Three quarts of cold water will be needed.

Parboil the sliced potatoes fifteen minutes in enough hot water to
cover them well. Drain this off and throw it away. Put potatoes,
tomatoes, onion, celery and parsley on in three quarts of cold water,
and cook gently two hours.

Then rub them all through a colander, return the soup to the pot, drop
in the sugar, season to taste with pepper and salt, boil up once and
take off the scum before adding the floured butter, and when this is
dissolved, the cornstarch.

Stir two minutes over the fire, and your soup is ready for the table.
Very good it will prove, too, if the directions be exactly followed.

When celery is out of season, you can use instead of it, a little
essence of celery, or, what is better, celery salt.




10

MEATS.


ONE of the most comico-pathetico true stories I know is that of a boy,
the youngest of a large family, who, having always sat at the second
table, knew nothing experimentally of the choicer portions of chicken
or turkey. Being invited out to dinner as the guest of a playmate, he
was asked, first of all present, “what part of the turkey he preferred.”

“The carker” (carcass), “and a little of the stuff” (stuffing), “if
you please,” replied the poor little fellow, with prompt politeness.

It was his usual ration, and in his ignorance, he craved nothing
better.

The pupil in cookery who enjoys tossing up entrées, and devising
dainty rechauffés, but cannot support the thought of handling raw
chickens and big-boned joints of butcher’s meat, is hardly wiser than
he.

It is a common fallacy to believe that this branch of the culinary art
is uninteresting drudgery, fit only for the hands of the very plain
hired cook.

Another mistake, almost as prevalent, lies in supposing that she can,
of course, perform the duty properly. There is room for intelligent
skill in so simple a process as roasting a piece of meat, nor is the
task severe or repulsive. Practically, it is far more important to know
how to do this well, than to be proficient in cake, jelly, and pudding
making.


Roast Beef.

Have a steady, moderate fire in the stove-grate. Increase the heat when
the meat is thoroughly warmed.

Lay the beef, skin side uppermost, in a clean baking-pan, and dash all
over it two cups of boiling water in which a teaspoonful of salt
has been dissolved. This sears the surface slightly, and keeps in the
juices.

Shut the oven door, and do not open again for twenty minutes. Then,
with a ladle or iron spoon dip up the salted water and pour it over
the top of the meat, wetting every part again and again. Eight or ten
ladlefuls should be used in this “basting,” which should be repeated
every fifteen minutes for the next hour. Allow twelve minutes to each
pound of meat in roasting beef.

Do not swing the oven door wide while you baste, but slip your hand
(protected by an old glove or a napkin) into the space left by the
half-open door, and when you have wet the surface of the roast quickly
and well, shut it up again to heat and steam.

A little care in this respect will add much to the flavor and
tenderness of the beef.

Should one side of it, or the back, brown more rapidly than the
rest, turn the pan in the oven, and should the water dry up to a few
spoonfuls, pour in another cupful from the tea-kettle.

About twenty minutes before the time for the roasting is up, draw the
pan to the oven-door, and sift flour over the meat from a flour dredger
or a small sieve. Shut the door until the flour browns, then baste
abundantly, and dredge again.

In five minutes, or when this dredging is brown, rub the top of the
meat with a good teaspoonful of butter, dredge quickly and close the
door.

If the fire is good, in a few minutes a nice brown froth will encrust
the surface of the cooked meat. Lift the pan to the side table, take
up the beef by slipping a strong cake-turner or broad knife under it,
holding it firmly with a fork, and transfer to a heated platter.

Set in the plate-warmer, or over boiling water, while you make the
gravy.


Gravy (brown).

Set the pan in which the meat was roasted, on the range when the beef
has been removed to a dish. Scrape toward the centre the browned flour
from sides and bottom and dust in a little more from your dredger as
you stir. If the water has boiled away until the bottom of the pan is
exposed, add a little, boiling hot, directly from the teakettle and
stir until the gravy is of the consistency of rich cream.

Pepper to taste and pour into a gravy boat.

While I give these directions, I may remark that few people of nice
taste like made thickened gravy with roast beef. Many prefer,
instead, the red essence which follows the carver’s knife and settles
in the dish. The carver should give each person helped his or her
choice in this matter.

I am thus explicit with regard to roasting beef because the process is
substantially the same with all meats. Dash scalding water over the
piece put down for cooking in this way: heat rather slowly at first,
increasing the heat as you go on; baste faithfully; keep the oven open
as little as may be and dredge, then baste, alternately, for twenty
minutes, or so, before dishing the meat.


Roast Mutton.

Cook exactly as you would beef: but if you wish a made gravy, pour
it first from the baking-pan into a bowl and set in cold water five
minutes, or until the fat has risen to the top.

Skim off all of this that you can remove without disturbing the dregs.
It is “mutton-tallow”—very good for chapped hands, but not for human
stomachs. Return the gravy to the fire, thicken, add boiling water, if
needed, and stir until smooth.

Always send currant, or grape jelly, around with mutton and lamb.


Roast Lamb.

Cook two minutes less in the pound than you would mutton. Instead of
gravy, you can send in with it, if you choose


Mint Sauce.

To two tablespoonfuls of chopped mint, add a tablespoonful of white
sugar and nearly two thirds of a cup of vinegar. Let them stand
together ten minutes in a cool place before sending to table.


Roast Veal

Must be cooked twice as long as beef or mutton, and very well basted,
the flesh being fibrous and dry. To the made gravy add two teaspoonfuls
of stewed and strained tomato, or one tablespoonful of tomato catsup,
and cook one minute before pouring into the gravy-boat.


Roast Turkey, Chicken or Duck.

It would not be possible for me to write such directions as would
enable you to prepare a fowl for cooking. Yet I advise you to learn
how to draw and dress poultry. Watch the process closely, if you have
opportunity, or else ask some experienced friend to instruct you.

For the present we will suppose that our fowl is ready for the
roasting pan. Lay it in tenderly, breast uppermost, pour a bountiful
cup of boiling water, slightly salted, over it, if it be a chicken
or duck, two cupfuls, if a turkey, and roast, basting often, about
twelve minutes for each pound. When the breastbone browns, turn the
fowl on one side, and as this colors, on the other, that all may be
done evenly. Dredge once with flour fifteen minutes before taking up
the roast and when this browns, rub all over with a tablespoonful of
butter. Shut up ten minutes longer and it is ready for dishing.

Chop the liver and soft parts of the gizzard—which have been roasted
with the fowl—fine, and stir into the gravy while you are making it.


Fricasseed Chicken.

Cut up a full-grown fowl into joints, dividing the back and breast into
two pieces each. Lay these in cold water, slightly salted, for half
an hour. Wipe dry with a clean cloth. In the bottom of a pot scatter
a handful of chopped fat salt pork, with half a teaspoonful of minced
onion. On this lay the pieces of chicken. Sprinkle a double handful
of pork on the top with another half teaspoonful of onion, pour in
carefully, enough cold water to cover all, fit on a close top, and set
the pot where it will heat slowly. It should not boil under one hour
at least. Increase the heat, then, but keep at a very gentle boil
for another hour, or until the chicken is tender. The time needed for
cooking will depend on the age of the fowl. Fast stewing will harden
and toughen it.

When done, take out the chicken with a fork and arrange on a warm dish,
covering and keeping it hot in the plate warmer or over boiling water.
Add to the gravy left in the pot two tablespoonfuls of chopped parsley,
a heaping tablespoonful of butter cut up in the same quantity of flour,
half a teaspoonful of salt, and a quarter of a teaspoonful of pepper.
Stir to a boil. Meanwhile, beat up an egg in a bowl, add a teaspoonful
of cornstarch, and a small cupful of milk, and when these are mixed, a
cupful of the boiling gravy. Beat hard and pour into the pot where is
the rest of the gravy. Bring to a quick boil, take at once from the
fire and pour over the chicken. Cover and let it stand over hot water
three minutes before sending to table.


Smothered Chicken.

The chicken must be split down the back as for broiling, washed well
and wiped dry. Lay it, breast upward, in a baking pan; pour in two cups
of boiling water, in which has been dissolved a heaping tablespoonful
of butter, and cover with another pan turned upside down and fitting
exactly the edges of the lower one. Cook slowly half an hour, lift the
cover and baste plentifully with the butter water in the pan; cover
again and leave for twenty minutes more. Baste again, and yet once more
in another quarter of an hour. Try the chicken with a fork to see if it
is done.

An hour and ten minutes should be enough for a young fowl. Baste the
last time with a tablespoonful of butter; cover and leave in the oven
ten minutes longer before transferring to a hot dish. It should be of a
fine yellow brown all over, but crisped nowhere.

Thicken the gravy with a tablespoonful of browned flour, wet up in a
little water, salt and pepper to taste, boil up once and pour a cupful
over the chicken, the rest into a gravy boat.

There is no more delightful preparation of chicken than this.


Boiled Corn Beef.

Lay in clean cold water for five or six hours when you have washed off
all the salt. Wipe and put it into a pot and cover deep in cold water.
Boil gently twenty-five minutes per pound. When done, take the pot
from the fire and set in the sink with the meat in it, while you make
the sauce.

Strain a large cupful of the liquor into a saucepan and set it over
the fire. Wet a tablespoonful of flour up with cold water, and when
the liquor boils, stir it in with a great spoonful of butter. Beat it
smooth before adding the juice of a lemon. Serve in a gravy-dish. Take
up the beef, letting all the liquor drain from it, and send in on a hot
platter.

(Save the pot-liquor for bean soup.)


Boiled Mutton.

Sew up the leg of mutton in a stout piece of mosquito net or of “cheese
cloth;” lay it in a pot and cover several inches deep with boiling
water. Throw in a tablespoonful of salt, and cook twelve minutes to the
pound. Take up the cloth with the meat in it and dip in very cold
water. Remove the bag and dish the meat.

Before taking up the mutton, make your sauce, using as a base a cupful
of the liquor dipped from the pot. Proceed with this as you did with
the drawn butter sauce for the corned beef, but instead of the lemon
juice, add two tablespoonfuls of capers if you have them. If not, the
same quantity of chopped green pickle.




11

VEGETABLES.


IN attempting to make out under the above heading, a list of receipts,
I have laid down my pen several times in sheer discouragement.
The number and variety of esculents supplied by the American
market-gardener would need for a just mention of each, a treatise
several times larger than our volume. I have, therefore, selected a few
of the vegetables in general use on our tables, and given the simplest
and most approved methods of preparing them.

As a preface I transcribe from “Common Sense in the Household” “RULES
APPLICABLE TO THE COOKING OF ALL VEGETABLES.”

Have them as fresh as possible.

Pick over, wash well, and cut out all decayed parts.

Lay them when peeled in cold water before cooking.

If you boil them put a little salt in the water.

Cook steadily after you put them on.

Be sure they are thoroughly done.

Drain well.

Serve hot!


Potatoes (boiled).

Pare them thin with a sharp knife. The starch or meal lies, in greatest
quantities, nearest to the skin. Lay in clean cold water for one hour,
if the potatoes are newly gathered. Old potatoes should be left in
the water for several hours. If very old, they will be the better for
soaking all night. New potatoes require half an hour for boiling, and
the skins are rubbed off with a coarse cloth before they are cooked.
Those stored for winter use should be boiled forty-five minutes.

Wipe each dry before dropping them into a kettle of boiling water, in
which has been mixed a heaping tablespoonful of salt.

Boil steadily until a fork will go easily into the largest.

Turn off the water by tipping the pot over on its side in the sink,
holding the top on with a thick cloth wrapped about your hand, and
leaving room at the lowest edge of the cover for the water to escape,
but not for a potato to slip through.

Set the pot uncovered on the range; sprinkle a tablespoonful of salt
over the potatoes, shaking the pot as you do this, and leave it where
they will dry off, but not scorch, for five minutes.


Mashed Potatoes.

Boil as directed in last receipt, and when the potatoes have been dried
off, remove the pot to the sink, or table, break and whip them into
powder with a four-tined fork, or a split spoon. When fine, add a great
spoonful of butter, whipped in thoroughly, salting to taste as you go
on.

Have ready a cup of milk almost boiling, and beat in until the potato
is soft and smooth.

Heap in a deep dish for the table.


Onions (boiled).

Remove the outer layers until you reach the sleek, silvery, crisp
skins. Cook in plenty of boiling, salted water, until tender. Forty
minutes should be sufficient, unless the onions are very old and large.
Turn off all the water; add a cupful from the tea-kettle with one of
warm milk and stew gently ten minutes.

Heat, meanwhile, in a saucepan, half a cupful of milk with a large
tablespoonful of butter.

Drain the onions in a hot clean colander, turn them into a heated
deep dish, salt and pepper lightly, and pour the boiling milk and
butter over them.

Onions cooked thus are not nearly so rank of flavor as when boiled in
but one water.


Tomatoes (stewed).

Put ripe tomatoes into a pan, pour boiling water directly from the
kettle, upon them, and cover closely for five minutes. The skins will
then come off easily.

When all are peeled, cut them up, throwing away the unripe parts and
the cores, and put them into a clean saucepan with half a teaspoonful
of salt.

Stew twenty minutes before adding a heaping tablespoonful of butter,
one teaspoonful of white sugar (for a dozen large tomatoes) and a
little pepper. Stew gently fifteen minutes, and serve.


Scalloped Tomatoes.

Scald, skin, and cut each crosswise, into two or three pieces. Just
melt a teaspoonful of butter in a pie-plate, or pudding-dish, and put
into this a layer of tomatoes. Lay a bit of butter on each slice,
sprinkle lightly with salt, pepper, and white sugar, and cover with
fine dry cracker, or bread crumbs. Fill the dish with alternate layers
of tomato crumbs, having a thick coating of crumbs on the top, and
sticking tiny “dabs” of butter all over it.

Bake, covered, half an hour. Take off the tin pan, or whatever you have
used to keep in the steam, and brown nicely before sending to table.


Beets.

Wash well, taking care not to scratch the skin, as they will “bleed”
while in cooking if this is cut or broken.

Cook in boiling water an hour and a half if young, three, four or five
hours as their age increases.

Drain, scrape off the skins, slice quickly with a sharp knife; put into
a vegetable dish, and pour over them a half a cupful of vinegar, with
two tablespoonfuls of butter, heated to boiling, and a little salt and
pepper.

Let them stand three minutes covered in a warm place before serving.


Green Peas.

Shell and leave in very cold water fifteen minutes. Cook in plenty of
boiling, salted water. They should be done in half an hour.

Shake gently in a hot colander to get rid of the water; turn into a
heated deep dish, sprinkle with salt and pepper, and stir in fast and
lightly with a fork, two tablespoonfuls of butter.

Eat while hot.


String Beans.

Do not cook these at all unless you are willing to take the trouble of
“stringing” them.

With a small sharp knife cut off the stem and blossom-tips, then trim
away the tough fibres from the sides carefully, and cut each bean into
inch-lengths.

Lay in cold water for half an hour. Cook one hour in salted boiling
water, or until the beans are tender.

Drain, butter and season as you would peas.

String beans half-trimmed and cut into slovenly, unequal lengths are a
vulgar-looking, unpopular dish. Prepared as I have directed, they are
comely, palatable and wholesome.


Squash.

Pare, quarter, take out the seeds, and lay in cold water for half an
hour.

Boil in hot salted water thirty minutes for summer squash; twice as
long if the “Hubbard” or other varieties of winter squash are used.
Take up piece by piece, and squeeze gently in a clean cloth, put back
into the empty dried pot, and mash quickly and smoothly with a wooden
spoon.

Stir in a heaping tablespoonful of butter for one large squash, or two
small ones.

Season with pepper and salt; heat and stir until smoking hot, then dish
and serve.


Cauliflower.

    Trim off leaves and cut the stalk short.

    Lay in ice-cold water for half an hour.

    Tie it up in a bit of white netting.

    Put into a clean pot, cover deep with salted boiling
      water.

    Boil steadily, not hard, one hour and ten minutes.

Before taking it from the fire, put a cupful of boiling water in a
saucepan.

Wet a heaping teaspoonful of corn-starch with cold water, and stir into
the boiling until it thickens. Then add two tablespoonfuls of butter,
and when this is well stirred in, the strained juice of a lemon.

Remove the net from the cauliflower, lay in a deep dish, and pour over
it the drawn butter made by the addition of the lemon juice into sauce
tartare.


Egg Plant.

Slice it crosswise, and about an inch thick; lay in strong salt water
for one hour with a plate on the topmost slice to keep it under the
brine.

This will draw out the bitter taste.

Put a cupful of pounded crackers into a flat dish and season with salt
and pepper.

Beat the yolks of two eggs in a shallow bowl. Wipe each slice of the
egg plant dry, dip it in the egg, and roll it over and over in the
crumbs. Have ready heated in a frying-pan, some sweet lard, and fry the
vegetables in it to a fine brown.

As each slice is done, lay it in a hot colander set in the open oven,
that every drop of grease may be dried off. Serve on a hot platter.


Spinach.

Wash very carefully, leaf by leaf, to get rid of sand and dust. Lay
in very cold water until you are ready to cook it. Boil forty-five
minutes; drain in a colander and chop fine in a wooden tray. Beat
then three great tablespoonfuls of butter (this for a peck of spinach),
a teaspoonful of white sugar, and half as much salt, with a little
pepper. Whip all to a soft green mass and return to the empty pot.

As you stir it over the fire add a cupful of rich milk—cream, if you
have it—whip up hard and turn into a deep dish.

Cut two hard-boiled eggs into thin slices, and lay in order on the
spinach when dished.




12

DESSERTS.


ENGLISH cooks would call this “A Chapter on Sweets.” “Dessert” with
them is usually applied to fruits, nuts, etc. Webster defines the word
thus:

“A service of pastry, fruit or sweetmeats at the close of an
entertainment; the last course at the table after the meat.”

Without dwelling upon the fact that when fruit and coffee are served
they follow pastry or puddings or sweetmeats, we take advantage of the
elastic definition and assume that the dessert of the family dinner is
a single preparation of “sweets.”

The too-universal PIE will not appear on our menu. I am tempted to
wish its manufacture might soon be numbered among the lost arts.

Bayard Taylor once said that “If Rum had slain its thousands in
America, Pork-fat (fried) and Pies had slain their ten thousands.”

The average pastry of our beloved land would drive a Patrick Henry to
self-exile if he were obliged to eat it every day. Nor could one of a
dozen inexperienced cooks manipulate puff-paste as it should be handled
in order to be flaky and tender. Dexterity of motion and strength of
wrist are needed for this operation, such as belong only to the trained
cook.

The more wholesome and daintier jellies, custards and trifles, and
plain puddings we have selected from the vast variety of sweet things
known to our housewives, are adapted to the powers of novices in
cookery, and not unworthy the attention of adepts.


Boiled Custard.

This is the base of so many nice “fancy dishes,” and is itself so
excellent and popular that we may properly lay the knowledge how to
prepare it properly as the foundation-stone of dessert making.
