the liquid murmur of the Cher. Claude Dupin was 
not only a great man of business, but a man of honor 
and a patron of knowledge; and his wife was gracious, 
clever, and wise. They had acquired this famous pro 
perty by purchase (from one of the Bourbons; for 
Chenonceaux, for two centuries after the death of 
Catherine de Medici, remained constantly in princely 
hands), and it was transmitted to their son, Dupin de 
Francueil, grandfather of Madame George Sand. This 
lady, in her Correspondence, lately published, describes 
a visit that she paid, more than thirty years ago, to 
those members of her family who were still in posses 
sion. The owner of Chenonceaux to-day is the daughter 
of an Englishman naturalized in France. But I have 
wandered far from my story, which is simply a sketch 
of the surface of the place. Seen obliquely, from either 
side, in combination with its bridge and gallery, the 
chateau is singular and fantastic, a striking example 
of a w r ilful and capricious conception. Unfortunately, 
all caprices are not so graceful and successful, and I 
grudge the honor of this one to the false and blood- 
polluted Catherine. (To be exact, I believe the arches 
of the bridge were laid by the elderly Diana. It was 
Catherine, however, who completed the monument.) 
Within, the house has been, as usual, restored. The 



  

staircases and ceilings, in all the old royal residences 
of this part of France, are the parts that have suffered 
least; many of them have still much of the life of the 
old time about them. Some of the chambers of Che- 
nonceaux, however, encumbered as they are with mo 
dern detail, derive a sufficiently haunted and suggestive 
look from the deep setting of their beautiful windows, 
which thickens the shadows and makes dark corners. 
There is a charming little Gothic chapel, with its apse 
hanging over the water, fastened to the left flank of 
the house. Some of the upper balconies, which look 
along the outer face of the gallery, and either up or 
down the river, are delightful protected nooks. We 
walked through the lower gallery to the other bank of 
the Cher; this fine apartment appeared to be for the 
moment a purgatory of ancient furniture. It terminates 
rather abruptly; it simply stops, with a blank wall. 
There ought, of course, to have been a pavilion here, 
though I prefer very much the old defect to any mo 
dern remedy. The wall is not so blank, however, but 
that it contains a door which opens on a rusty draw 
bridge. This drawbridge traverses the small gap which 
divides the end of the gallery from the bank of the 
stream. The house, therefore, does not literally rest 
on opposite edges of the Cher, but rests on one and 
just fails to rest on the other. The pavilion would 
have made that up; but after a moment we ceased to 
miss this imaginary feature. We passed the little 
drawbridge, and wandered awhile beside the river. 
From this opposite bank the mass of the chateau looked 


more charming than ever; and the little peaceful, lazy 
Cher, where two or three men were fishing in the 
eventide, flowed under the clear arches and between 
the solid pedestals of the part that spanned it, with 
the softest, vaguest light on its bosom. This was the 
right perspective; we were looking across the river of 
time. The whole scene was deliciously mild. The 
moon came up; we passed back through the gallery 
and strolled about a little longer in the gardens. It 
was very still. I met my old gondolier in the twilight. 
He showed me his gondola; but I hated, somehow, to 
see it there. I don't like, as the French say, to meler 
les genres. A gondola in a little flat French river? 
The image was not less irritating, if less injurious, than 
the spectacle of a steamer in the Grand Canal, which 
had driven me away from Venice a year and a half 
before. We took our way back to the Grand Monarque, 
and waited in the little inn-parlor for a late train to 
Tours. We were not impatient, for we had an ex 
cellent dinner to occupy us; and even after we had 
dined we were still content to sit awhile and exchange 
remarks upon the superior civilization of France. 
Where else, at a village inn, should we have fared so 
well? Where else should we have sat down to our 
refreshment without condescension? There were two 
or three countries in which it would not have been 
happy for us to arrive hungry, on a Sunday evening, 
at so modest an hostelry. At the little inn at Chenon- 
ceaux the cuisine was not only excellent, but the ser 
vice was graceful. We were waited on by mademoiselle 



  

and her mamma; it was so that mademoiselle alluded 
to the elder lady, as she uncorked for us a bottle of 
Vouvray mousseux. We were very comfortable, very 
genial; we even went so far as to say to each other 
that Vouvray mousseux was a delightful wine. From 
this opinion, indeed, one of our trio differed; but this 
member of the party had already exposed herself to 
the charge of being too fastidious, by declining to de 
scend from the carriage at Chaumont and take that 
back-stairs view of the castle. 



VIII. 

WITHOUT fastidiousness, it was fair to declare, on 
the other hand, that the little inn at Azay-le-Rideau 
was very bad. It was terribly dirty, and it was in 
charge of a fat megdre whom the appearance of four 
trustful travellers we were four, with an illustrious 
fourth, on that occasion roused apparently to fury. 
I attached great importance to this incongruous 
hostess, for she uttered the only uncivil words I heard 
spoken (in connection with any business of my own) 
during a tour of some six weeks in France. Breakfast 
not at Azay-le-Rideau, therefore, too trustful traveller; 
or if you do so, be either very meek or very bold. 
Breakfast not, save under stress of circumstance; but 
let no circumstance whatever prevent you from going 
to see the admirable chateau, which is almost a rival 
of Chenonceaux. The village lies close to the gates, 





though after you pass these gates you leave it well 
behind. A little avenue, as at Chenonceaux, leads to 
the house, making a pretty vista as you approach the 
sculptured doorway. Azay is a most perfect and 
beautiful thing; I should place it third in any list of 
the great houses of this part of France in which these 
houses should be ranked according to charm. For 
beauty of detail it comes after Blois and Chenon 
ceaux; but it comes before Amboise and Chambord. 
On the other hand, of course, it is inferior in majesty 
to either of these vast structures. Like Chenonceaux, 
it is a watery place, though it is more meagrely 
moated than the little chateau on the Cher. It consists 
of a large square corps de logis, with a round tower 
at each angle, rising out of a somewhat too slumberous 
pond. The water the water of the Indre sur 
rounds it, rput it is only on one side that it bathes its 
feet in the moat. On one of the others there is a 
little terrace, treated as a garden, and in front there 
is a wide court, formed by a wing which, on the right, 
comes forward. This front, covered with sculptures, 
is of the richest, stateliest effect. The court is ap 
proached by a bridge over the pond, and the house 
would reflect itself in this wealth of water if the water 
were a trifle less opaque. But there is a certain 
stagnation it affects more senses than one about 
the picturesque pools of Azay. On the hither side of 
the bridge is a garden, overshadowed by fine old 
sycamores, a garden shut in by greenhouses and by 
a fine last-century gateway, flanked with twin lodges. 




Beyond the chateau and the standing waters behind 
it is a so-called pare, which, however, it must be con 
fessed, has little of park-like beauty. The old houses 
(many of them, that is) remain in France; but the old 
timber does not remain, and the denuded aspect of 
the few acres that surround the chateaux of Touraine 
is pitiful to the traveller who has learned to take the 
measure of such things from the manors and castles 
of England. The domain of the lordly Chaumont is 
that of an English suburban villa; and in that and 
in other places there is little suggestion, in the 
imtended aspect of walk and lawns, of the vigilant 
British gardener. The manor of Azay, as seen to-day, 
dates from the early part of the sixteenth century; 
and the industrious Abbe Chevalier, in his very 
entertaining though slightly rose-colored book on 
Touraine,* speaks of it as "perhaps the purest expres 
sion of the belle Renaissance frangaise" "Its height," 
he goes on, "is divided between two stories, terminat 
ing under the roof in a projecting entablature which 
imitates a row of machicolations. Carven chimneys 
and tall dormer windows, covered with imagery, rise 
from the roofs; turrets on brackets, of elegant shape, 
hang with the greatest lightness from the angles of 
the building. The soberness of the main lines, the 
harmony of the empty spaces and those that are 
filled out, the prominence of the crowning parts, the 
delicacy of all the details, constitute an enchanting 





whole." And then the Abbe speaks of the admirable 
staircase which adorns the north front, and which, 
with its extention inside, constitutes the principal 
treasure of Azay. The staircase passes beneath one 
of the richest of porticos, a portico over which a 
monumental salamander indulges in the most deco 
rative contortions. The sculptured vaults of stone 
which cover the windings of the staircase within, the 
fruits, flowers, ciphers, heraldic signs, are of the 
noblest effect. The interior of the chateau is rich, 
comfortable, extremely modern; but it makes no 
picture that compares with its external face, about 
which, with its charming proportions, its profuse yet 
not extravagant sculpture, there is something very 
tranquil and pure. I took a particular fancy to the 
roof, high, steep, old, with its slope of bluish slate, 
and the way the weather-worn chimneys seemed to 
grow out of it, like living things out of a deep soil. 
The only defect of the house is the blankness and 
bareness of its walls, which have none of those delicate 
parasites attached to them that one likes to see on the 
surface of old dwellings. It is true that this bareness 
results in a kind of silvery whiteness of complexion, 
which carries out the tone of the quiet pools and even 
that of the scanty and shadeless park. 



  



IX. 

I HARDLY know what to say about the tone of 
Langeais, which, though I have left it to the end of 
my sketch, formed the objective point of the first ex 
cursion I made from Tours. Langeais is rather dark 
and gray; it is perhaps the simplest and most severe 
of all the castles of the Loire. I don't know why I 
should have gone to see it before any other, unless it 
be because I remembered the Duchesse de Langeais, 
who figures in several of Balzac 's novels, and found 
this association very potent. The Duchesse de Lan 
geais is a somewhat transparent fiction; but the 
castle from which Balzac borrowed the title of his 
heroine is an extremely solid fact. My doubt just 
above as to whether I should pronounce it excep 
tionally grey came from my having seen it under a 
sky which made most things look dark. I have, how 
ever, a very kindly memory of that moist and melan 
choly afternoon, which was much more autumnal than 
many of the days that followed it. Langeais lies 
down the Loire, near the river, on the opposite side 
from Tours, and to go to it you will spend half an 
hour in the train. You pass on the way the Chateau 
de Luynes, which, with its round towers catching 
the afternoon light, looks uncommonly well on a hill 
at a distance; you pass also the ruins of the castle 
of Cinq-Mars, the ancestral dwelling of the young 
favorite of Louis XIIL, the victim of Richelieu, the 





hero of Alfred de Vigny 's novel, which is usually re 
commended to young ladies engaged in the study of 
French. Langeais is very imposing and decidedly 
sombre; it marks the transition from the architecture 
of defence to that of elegance. It rises, massive and 
perpendicular, out of the centre of the village to 
which it gives its name, and which it entirely domi 
nates; so that, as you stand before it, in the crooked 
and empty street, there is no resource for you but to 
stare up at its heavy overhanging cornice and at the 
huge towers surmounted with extinguishers of slate. 
If you follow this street to the end, however, you 
encounter in abundance the usual embellishments of 
a French village: little ponds or tanks, with women 
on their knees on the brink, pounding and thumping 
a lump of saturated linen; brown old crones, the tone 
of whose facial hide makes their nightcaps (worn by 
day) look dazzling; little alleys perforating the thick 
ness of a row of cottages, and showing you behind, 
as a glimpse, the vividness of a green garden: In 
the rear of the castle rises a hill which must formerly 
have been occupied by some of its appurtenances, 
and which indeed is still partly enclosed within its 
court. You may walk round this eminence, which, 
with the small houses of the village at its base, shuts 
in the castle from behind. The enclosure is not 
defiantly guarded, however; for a small, rough path, 
which you presently reach, leads up to an open gate. 
This gate admits you to a vague and rather limited 
pare, which covers the crest of the hill, and through 



  

which, you may walk into the gardens of the castle. 
These gardens, of small extent, confront the dark 
walls with their brilliant parterres, and, covering the 
gradual slope of the hill, form, as it were, the fourth 
side of the court. This is the stateliest view of the 
chateau, which looks to you sufficiently grim and gray 
as, after asking leave of a neat young woman who 
sallies out to learn your errand, you sit there on a 
garden bench and take the measure of the three tall 
towers attached to this inner front and forming sever 
ally the cage of a staircase. The huge bracketed cor 
nice (one of the features of Langeais) which is merely 
ornamental, as it is not machicolated, though it looks 
so, is continued on the inner face as well. The whole 
thing has a fine feudal air, though it was erected on 
the ruins of feudalism. 

The main event in the history of the castle is the 
marriage of Anne of Brittany to her first husband, 
Charles VIII., which took place in its great hall in 
1491. Into this great hall we were introduced by 
the neat young woman, into this great hall and 
into sundry other halls, winding staircases, galleries, 
chambers. The cicerone of Langeais is in too great a 
hurry; the fact is pointed out in the excellent Guide- 
Joanne. This ill-dissimulated vice, however, is to be 
observed, in the country of the Loire, in every one 
who carries a key. It is true that at Langeais there 
is no great occasion to indulge in the tourist 's weak 
ness of dawdling; for the apartments, though they 
contain many curious odds and ends of antiquity, are 





not of first-rate interest. They are cold and musty, 
indeed, with that touching smell of old furniture, as 
all apartments should be through which the insatiate 
American wanders in the rear of a bored domestic, 
pausing to stare at a faded tapestry or to read the 
name on the frame of some simpering portrait. 

To return to Tours my companion and I had counted 
on a train which (as is not uncommon in France) 
existed only in the "Indicateur des Chemins de Fer;" 
and instead of waiting for another we engaged a vehicle 
to take us home. A sorry carriole or patache it proved 
to be, with the accessories of a lumbering white mare 
and a little wizened, ancient peasant, who had put on, 
in honor of the occasion, a new blouse of extraordinary 
stiffness and blueness. We hired the trap of an energetic 
woman who put it "to" with her own hands; women 
in Touraine and the Blesois appearing to have the 
best of it in the business of letting vehicles, as well as 
in many other industries. There is, in fact, no branch 
of human activity in which one is not liable, in France, 
to find a woman engaged. Women, indeed, are not 
priests; but priests are, more or less, women. They 
are not in the army, it may be said; but then they are 
the army. They are very formidable. In France one 
must count with the women. The drive back from 
Langeais to Tours was long, slow, cold; we had an 
occasional spatter of rain. But the road passes most 
of the way close to the Loire, and there was some 
thing in our jog-trot through the darkening land, beside 
the flowing river, which it was very possible to enjoy. 



  



X. 

THE consequence of my leaving to the last my little 
mention of Loches is that space and opportunity fail 
me; and yet a brief and hurried account of that extra 
ordinary spot would after all be in best agreement with 
my visit. We snatched a fearful joy, my companion 
and I, the afternoon we took the train for Loches. 
The weather this time had been terribly against us: 
again and again a day that promised fair became hope 
lessly foul after lunch. At last we determined that if 
we could not make this excursion in the sunshine, we 
would make it with the aid of our umbrellas. We 
grasped them firmly and started for the station, where 
we were detained an unconscionable time by the evoju- 
tions, outside, of certain trains laden with liberated 
(and exhilarated) conscripts, who, their term of service 
ended, were about to be restored to civil life. The 
trains in Touraine are provoking; they serve as little 
as possible for excursions. If they convey you one 
way at the right hour, it is on the condition of bring- 
ing you back at the wrong; they either allow you far 
too little time to examine the castle or the ruin, or 
they leave you planted in front of it for periods that 
outlast curiosity. They are perverse, capricious, ex 
asperating. It was a question of our having but an 
hour or two at Loches, and we could ill afford to sacri 
fice to accidents. One of the accidents, however, was 
that the rain stopped before we got there, leaving behind
it a moist mildness of temperature and a cool 
and lowering sky, which were in perfect agreement 
with the gray old city. Loches is certainly one of the 
greatest impressions of the traveller in central France, 
the largest cluster of curious things that presents 
itself to his sight. It rises above the valley of the 
Indre, the charming stream set in meadows and sedges, 
which wanders through the province of Berry and 
through many of the novels of Madame George Sand; 
lifting from the summit of a hill, which it covers to 
the base, a confusion of terraces, ramparts, towers, and 
spires. Having but little time, as I say, we scaled 
the hill amain, and wandered briskly through this 
labyrinth of antiquities. The rain had decidedly 
stopped, and save that we had our train on our minds, 
we saw Loches to the best advantage. We enjoyed 
that sensation with which the conscientious tourist is 
or ought to be well acquainted, and for which, at 
any rate, he has a formula in his rough-and-ready 
language. We "experienced," as they say, (most odious 
of verbs!) an "agreeable disappointment." We were 
surprised and delighted; we had not suspected that 
Loches was so good. 

I hardly know what is best there: the strange and 
impressive little collegial church, with its romanesque 
atrium or narthex, its doorways covered with primitive 
sculpture of the richest kind, its treasure of a so-called 
pagan altar, embossed with fighting warriors, its three 
pyramidal domes, so unexpected, so sinister, which I 
have not met elsewhere, in church architecture; or the 
huge square keep, of the eleventh century, the most 
cliff-like tower I remember, whose immeasurable thick 
ness I did not penetrate; or the subterranean mysteries 
of two other less striking but not less historic dungeons, 
into which a terribly imperative little cicerone intro 
duced us, with the aid of downward ladders, ropes, 
torches, warnings, extended hands, and many fearful 
anecdotes, all in impervious darkness. These horrible 
prisons of Loches , at an incredible distance below the 
daylight, were a favorite resource of Louis XI., and 
were for the most part, I believe, constructed by him. 
One of the towers of the castle is garnished with the 
hooks or supports of the celebrated iron cage in which 
he confined the Cardinal La Balue, who survived so 
much longer than might have been expected this extra 
ordinary mixture of seclusion and exposure. All these 
things form part of the castle of Loches, whose enorm 
ous enceinte covers the whole of the top of the hill, and 
abounds in dismantled gateways, in crooked passages, 
in winding lanes that lead to postern doors, in long 
facades that look upon terraces interdicted to the 
visitor, who perceives with irritation that they com 
mand magnificent views. These views are the property 
of the sub-prefect of the department, who resides at 
the Chateau de Loches, and who has also the enjoy 
ment of a garden a garden compressed and curtailed, 
as those of old castles that perch on hill-tops are apt 
to be containing a horse-chestnut tree of fabulous 
size, a tree of a circumference so vast and so perfect 
that the whole population of Loches might sit in concentric
rows beneath its boughs. The gem of the place, 
however, is neither the big marronier, nor the collegial 
church, nor the mighty dungeon, nor the hideous prisons 
of Louis XL; it is simply the tomb of Agnes Sorel, la 
belle des belles, so many years the mistress of Charles VII. 
She was buried, in 1450, in the collegial church, 
whence, in the beginning of the present century, her 
remains, with the monument that marks them, were 
transferred to one of the towers of the castle. She has 
always, I know not with what justice, enjoyed a fairer 
fame than most ladies who have occupied her position, 
and this fairness is expressed in the delicate statue 
that surmounts her tomb. It represents her lying there 
in lovely demureness, her hands folded with the best 
modesty, a little kneeling angel at either side of her 
head, and her feet, hidden in the folds of her decent 
robe, resting upon a pair of couchant lambs, innocent 
reminders of her name. Agnes, however, was not 
lamb-like, inasmuch as, according to popular tradition 
at least, she exerted herself sharply in favor of the ex 
pulsion of the English from France. It is one of the 
suggestions of Loches that the young Charles VII., 
hard put to it as he was for a treasury and a capital, 
"le roi de Bourges," he was called at Paris, was 
yet a rather privileged mortal, to stand up as he does 
before posterity between the noble Joan and the genii lie 
Agnes; deriving, however much more honor from one 
of these companions than from the other. Almost as 
delicate a relic of antiquity as this fascinating tomb is 
the exquisite oratory of Anne of Brittany, among the 
apartments of the castle the only chamber worthy of 
note. This small room, hardly larger than a closet, 
and forming part of the addition made to the edifice 
by Charles VIII, is embroidered over with the curious 
and remarkably decorative device of the ermine and 
festooned cord. The objects in themselves are not 
especially graceful; but the constant repetition of the 
figure on the walls and ceiling produces an effect of 
richness, in spite of the modern whitewash with which, 
if I remember rightly, they have been endued. The 
little streets of Loches wander crookedly down the hill, 
and are full of charming pictorial "bits:" an old town- 
gate, passing under a mediaeval tower, which is orna 
mented by Gothic windows and the empty niches of 
statues; a meagre but delicate hotel de ville, of the 
Renaissance, nestling close beside it; a curious chancel- 
lerie of the middle of the sixteenth century, with 
mythological figures and a Latin inscription on the 
front, both of these latter buildings being rather un 
expected features of the huddled and precipitous little 
town. Loches has a suburb on the other side of the 
Indre, which we had contented ourselves with looking 
down at from the heights, while we wondered whether, 
even if it had not been getting late and our train were 
more accommodating, we should care to take our way 
across the bridge and look up that bust, in terra-cotta, 
of Francis I., which is the principal ornament of the 
Chateau de Sansac and the faubourg of Beaulieu. I 
think we decided that we should not; that we were 
already quite well enough acquainted with the nasal 
profile of that monarch. 



XI. 

I KNOW not whether the exact limits of an excur 
sion, as distinguished from a journey, have ever been 
fixed; at any rate, it seemed none of my business, at 
Tours, to settle the question. Therefore, though the 
making of excursions had been the purpose of my 
stay, I thought it vain, while I started for Bourges, to 
determine to which category that little expedition 
might belong. It was not till the third day that I re 
turned to Tours; and the distance, traversed for the 
most part after dark, was even greater than I had sup 
posed. That, however, was partly the fault of a tire 
some wait at Vierzon, where I had more than enough 
time to dine, very badly, at the buffet, and to observe 
the proceedings of a family who had entered my rail 
way carriage at Tours and had conversed unreservedly, 
for my benefit, all the way from that station, a family 
whom it entertained me to assign to the class of petite 
noblesse de province. Their noble origin was confirmed 
by the way they all made maigre in the refreshment- 
room (it happened to be a Friday), as if it had been 
possible to do anything else. They ate two or three 
omelets apiece, and ever so many little cakes, while 
the positive, talkative mother watched her children as 
the waiter handed about the roast fowl. I was destined 



  

to share the secrets of this family to the end; for 
when I had taken place in the empty train that was 
in waiting to convey us to Bourges, the same vigilant 
woman pushed them all on top of me into my com 
partment, though the carriages on either side con 
tained no travellers at all. It was better, I found, to 
have dined (even on omelets and little cakes) at the 
station at Vierzon than at the hotel at Bourges, which, 
when I reached it at nine o clock at night, did not 
strike me as the prince of hotels. The inns in the 
smaller provincial towns in France are all, as the term 
is, commercial, and the commts-voyageur is in triumphant 
possession. I saw a great deal of him for several 
weeks after this; for he was apparently the only traveller 
in the southern provinces, and it was my daily fate to 
sit opposite to him at tables d hote and in railway 
trains. He may be known by two infallible signs, 
his hands are fat, and he tucks his napkin into his 
shirt-collar. In spite of these idiosyncrasies, he seemed 
to me a reserved and inoffensive person, with singularly 
little of the demonstrative good-humor that he has 
been described as possessing. I saw no one who re 
minded me of Balzac 's "illustre Gaudissart;" and in 
deed, in the course of a month 's journey through a 
large part of France, I heard so little desultory con 
versation that I wondered whether a change had not 
come over the spirit of the people. They seemed to 
me as silent as Americans when Americans have not" 
been "introduced," and infinitely less addicted to ex 
changing remarks in railway trains and at tables d hote 



than the colloquial and cursory English; a fact per 
haps not worth mentioning were it not at variance 
with that reputation which the French have long en 
joyed of being a pre-eminently sociable nation. The 
common report of the character of a people is, how 
ever, an indefinable product; and it is apt to strike 
the traveller who observes for himself as very wide of 
the mark. The English, who have for ages been de 
scribed (mainly by the French) as the dumb, stiff, 
unapproachable race, present to-day a remarkable ap 
pearance of good-humor and garrulity, and are dis 
tinguished by their facility of intercourse. On the 
other hand, any one who has seen half a dozen 
Frenchmen pass a whole day together in a railway- 
carriage without breaking silence is forced to believe 
that the traditional reputation of these gentlemen is 
simply the survival of some primitive formula. It was 
true, doubtless, before the Revolution; but there have 
been great changes since then. The question of which 
is the better taste, to talk to strangers or to hdd your 
tongue, is a matter apart; I incline to believe that the 
French reserve is the result of a more definite con 
ception of social behavior. I allude to it only be 
cause it is at variance with the national fame, and at 
the same time is compatible with a very easy view of 
life in certain other directions. On some of these 
latter points the Boule d Or at Bourges was full of 
instruction; boasting, as it did, of a hall of reception 
in which, amid old boots that had been brought to be 
cleaned, old linen that was being sorted for the wash, 



  

and lamps of evil odor that were awaiting replenish 
ment, a strange, familiar, promiscuous household life 
went forward. Small scullions in white caps and aprons 
slept upon greasy benches; the Boots sat staring at 
you while you fumbled, helpless, in a row of pigeon 
holes, for your candlestick or your key; and, amid the 
coming and going of the commis-voyageurs, a little 
sempstress bent over the under-garments of the hostess, 
the latter being a heavy, stern, silent woman, who 
looked at people very hard. 

It was not to be looked at in that manner that one 
had come all the way from Tours; so that within ten 
minutes after my arrival I sallied out into the dark 
ness to get somehow and somewhere a happier im 
pression. However late in the evening I may arrive 
at a place, I cannot go to bed without an impression. 
The natural place, at Bourges, to look for one seemed 
to be the cathedral; which, moreover, was the only 
thing that could account for my presence dans cette 
galore. I turned out of a small square, in front of the 
hotel, and walked up a narrow, sloping street, paved 
with big, rough stones and guiltless of a foot-way. 
It was a splendid starlight night; the stillness of a 
sleeping ville de province was over everything; I had 
the whole place to myself. I turned to my right, at 
the top of the street, where presently a short, vague 
lane brought me into sight of the cathedral. I ap 
proached it obliquely, from behind; it loomed up in 
the darkness above me, enormous and sublime. It 
stands on the top of the large but not lofty eminence 





over which Bourges is scattered, a very good position, 
as French cathedrals go, for they are not all so nobly 
situated as Chartres and Laon. On the side on which 
I approached it (the south) it is tolerably well ex 
posed, though the precinct is shabby; in front, it is 
rather too mucli shut in. These defects, however, it 
makes up for on the north side and behind, where it 
presents itself in the most admirable manner to the 
garden of the Archeveche", which has been arranged 
as a public walk, with the usual formal alleys of the 
jardin franqais. I must add that I appreciated these 
points only on the following day. As I stood there in 
the light of the stars, many of which had an autumnal 
sharpness, while others were shooting over the heavens, 
the huge, rugged vessel of the church overhung me in 
very much the same way as the black hull of a ship 
at sea would overhang a solitary swimmer. It seemed 
colossal, stupendous, a dark leviathan. 

The next morning, which was lovely, I lost no 
time in going back to it, and found, with satisYaction, 
&lt; that the daylight did it no injury. The cathedral of 
Bourges is indeed magnificently huge; and if it is a 
good deal wanting in lightness and grace it is perhaps 
only the more imposing. I read in the excellent hand 
book of M. Joanne that it was projected "dls 1172," 
but commenced only in the first years of the thirteenth 
century. "The nave," the writer adds, "was finished 
tant bien que ma!, faute de ressources; the facade is of 
the thirteenth and fourteenth centuries in its lower 
part, and of the fourteenth in its upper." The allusion 



  

to the nave means the omission of the transepts. The 
west front consists of two vast but imperfect towers; 
one of which (the south) is immensely buttressed, so 
that its outline slopes forward, like that of a pyramid, 
being the taller of the two. If they had spires, these 
towers would be prodigious; as it is, given the rest 
of the church, they are wanting in elevation. There 
are five deeply recessed portals, all in a row, each 
surmounted with a gable; the gable over the central 
door being exceptionally high. Above the porches, 
which give the measure of its width, the front rears 
itself, piles itself, on a great scale, carried up by gal 
leries, arches, windows, sculptures, and supported by 
the extraordinarily thick buttresses of which I have 
spoken, and which, though they embellish it with deep 
shadows thrown sidewise, do not improve its style. 
The portals, especially the middle one, are extremely 
interesting; they are covered with curious early sculp 
tures. The middle one, however, I must describe 
alone. It has no less than six rows of figures, the 
others have four, some of which, notably the upper 
one, are still in their places. The arch at the top has 
three tiers of elaborate imagery. The upper of these 
is divided by the figure of Christ in judgment, of great 
size, stiff and terrible, with outstretched arms. On 
either side of him are ranged three or four angels, 
with the instruments of the Passion. Beneath him, in 
the second frieze, stands the angel of justice, with his 
scales; and on either side of him is the vision of the 
last judgment. The good prepare, with infinite titilla- 



  

tion and complacency, to ascend to the skies; while 
the bad are dragged, pushed, hurled, stuffed, crammed, 
into pits and caldrons of fire. There is a charming 
detail in this section. Beside the angel, on the right, 
where the wicked are the prey of demons, stands a 
little female figure, that of a child, who, with hands 
meekly folded and head gently raised, waits for the 
stern angel to decide upon her fate. In this fate, how 
ever, a dreadful big devil also takes a keen interest; 
he seems on the point of appropriating the tender 
creature; he has a face like a goat and an enormous 
hooked nose. But the angel gently lays a hand upon 
the shoulder of the little girl the movement is full of 
dignity as if to say, "No; she belongs to the other 
side." The frieze below represents the general resur 
rection, with the good and the wicked emerging from 
their sepulchres. Nothing can be more quaint and 
charming than the difference shown in their way of 
responding to the final trump. The good get out of 
their tombs with a certain modest gayety, an alacrity 
tempered by respect; one of them kneels to pray as 
soon as he has disinterred himself. You may know 
the wicked, on the other hand, by their extreme shy 
ness; they crawl out slowly and fearfully; they hang 
back, and seem to say, "Oh, dear!" These elaborate 
sculptures, full of ingenuous intention and of the 
reality of early faith, are in a remarkable state of pre 
servation; they bear no superficial signs of restoration, 
and appear scarcely to have suffered from the centu 
ries. They are delightfully expressive; the artist had 



  OQ 

the advantage of knowing exactly the effect he wished 
to produce. 

The interior of the cathedral has a great simplicity 
and majesty, and, above all, a tremendous height. The 
nave is extraordinary in this respect; it dwarfs every 
thing else I know. I should add, however, that I am, 
in architecture, always of the opinion of the last 
speaker. Any great building seems to me, while I 
look at it, the ultimate expression. At any rate, during 
the hour that I sat gazing along the high vista of 
Bourges, the interior of the great vessel corresponded 
to my vision of the evening before. There is a tranquil 
largeness, a kind of infinitude, about such an edifice: 
it soothes and purifies the spirit, it illuminates the 
mind. There are two aisles, on either side, in addi 
tion ,to the nave, five in all, and, as I have said, 
there are no transepts; an omission which lengthens 
the vista, so that from my place near the door the 
central jewelled window in the depths of the perpen 
dicular choir seemed a mile or two away. The second, 
or outward, of each pair of aisles is too low, and the 
first too high; without this inequality the nave would 
appear to take an even more prodigious flight. The 
double aisles pass all the way round the choir, the 
windows of which are inordinately rich in magnificent 
old glass. I have seen glass as fine in other churches; 
but I think I have never seen so much of it at once. 

Beside the cathedral, on the north, is a curious 
structure of the fourteenth or fifteenth century, which 
looks like an enormous flying buttress, with its sup- 



go   

port, sustaining the north tower. It makes a massive 
arch, high in the air, and produces a romantic effect 
as people pass under it to the open gardens of the 
Archeveche, which extend to a considerable distance 
in the rear of the church. The structure supporting 
the arch has the girth of a largeish house, and con 
tains chambers with whose uses I am unacquainted, 
but to which the deep pulsations of the cathedral, the 
vibration of its mighty bells, and the roll of its organ - 
tones must be transmitted even through the great arm 
of stone. 

The archiepiscopal palace, not walled in as at Tours, 
is visible as a stately habitation of the last century, 
now in course of reparation in consequence of a fire. 
From this side, and from the gardens of the palace, 
the nave of the cathedral is visible in all its great 
length and height, with its extraordinary multitude of 
supports. The gardens aforesaid, accessible through 
tall iron gates, are the promenade the Tuileries of 
the town, and, very pretty in themselves, are immensely 
set off by the overhanging church. It was warm and 
sunny; the benches were empty; I sat there a long 
time, in that pleasant state of mind which visits the 
traveller in foreign towns, when he is not too hurried, 
while he wonders where he had better go next. The 
straight, unbroken line of the roof of the cathedral 
was very noble; but I could see from this point how 
much finer the effect would have been if the towers, 
which had dropped almost out of sight, might have 
been carried still higher. The archiepiscopal gardens 





look down at one end over a sort of esplanade or 
suburban avenue lying on a lower level, on which they 
open, and where several detachments of soldiers 
(Bourges is full of soldiers) had just been drawn up. 
The civil population was also collecting, and I saw 
that something was going to happen. I learned that 
a .private of the Chasseurs was to be "broken" for 
stealing, and every one was eager to behold the cere 
mony. Sundry other detachments arrived on the 
ground, besides many of the military who had come 
as a matter of taste. One of them described to me 
the process of degradation from the ranks, and I felt 
for a moment a hideous curiosity to see it, under the 
influence of which I lingered a little. But only a 
little; the hateful nature of the spectacle hurried me 
away, at the same time that others were hurrying for 
ward. As I turned my back upon it I reflected that 
human beings are cruel brutes, though I could not 
flatter myself that the ferocity of the thing was ex 
clusively French. In another country the concourse 
would have been equally great, and the moral of it all 
seemed to be that military penalties are as terrible as 
military honors are gratifying. 







XII. 

THE cathedral is not the only lion of Bourges; the 
house of Jacques Coeur is an object of interest scarcely 
less positive. This remarkable man had a very strange 
history, and he too was "broken," like the wretched 
soldier whom I did not stay to see. He has been re 
habilitated, however, by an age which does not fear 
the imputation of paradox, and a marble statue of 
him ornaments the street in front of his house. To 
interpret him according to this image a womanish 
figure in a long robe and a turban, with big bare arms 
and a dramatic pose would be to think of him as a 
kind of truculent sultana. He wore the dress of his 
period, but his spirit was very modern; he was a Van- 
derbilt or a Rothschild of the fifteenth century. He 
supplied the ungrateful Charles VII. with money to pay 
the troops who, under the heroic Maid, drove the 
English from French soil. His house, which to-day is 
used as a Palais de Justice, appears to have been re 
garded at the time it was built very much as the resi 
dence of Mr. Vanderbilt is regarded in New York to-day. 
It stands on the edge of the hill on which most of the 
town is planted, so that, behind, it plunges down to a 
lower level, and, if you approach it on that side, as I 
did, to come round to the front of it, you have to 
ascend a longish flight of steps. The back, of old, 
