where he chose a corner table, and they disposed of their hats on the
window-seat.

“All well at home?” asked the young fellow, as he took up the bill of
fare to order the dinner. His father hated that, and always made him do
it.

“Yes, yes; as usual, I believe. Minnie is off for a week at the
mountains; Eunice is at home.”

“Oh! How would you like some green goose, with apple-sauce,
sweet-potatoes, and succotash?”

“It seems to me that was pretty good, the last time. All right, if you
like it.”

“I don’t know that I care for anything much. I’m a little off my feed.
No soup,” he said, looking up at the waiter bending over him; and then
he gave the order. “I think you may bring me half a dozen Blue Points,
if they’re good,” he called after him.

“Didn’t Bar Harbour agree with you--or Campobello?” asked Mr. Mavering,
taking the opening offered him.

“No, not very well,” said Dan; and he said no more about it, leaving
his father to make his own inferences as to the kind or degree of the
disagreement.

“Well, have you made up your mind?” asked the father, resting his elbows
on either side of his plate, and putting his hands together softly,
while he looked across them with a cheery kindness at his boy.

“Yes, I have,” said Dan slowly.

“Well?”

“I don’t believe I care to go into the law.”

“Sure?”

“Yes.”

“Well, that’s all right, then. I wished you to choose freely, and I
suppose you’ve done so.”

“Oh Yes.”

“I think you’ve chosen wisely, and I’m very glad. It’s a weight off my
mind. I think you’ll be happier in the business than you would in the
law; I think you’ll enjoy it. You needn’t look forward to a great deal
of Ponkwasset Falls, unless you like.”

“I shouldn’t mind going there,” said Dan listlessly.

“It won’t be necessary--at first. In fact, it won’t be desirable. I want
you to look up the business at this end a little.”

Dan gave a start. “In Boston?”

“Yes. It isn’t in the shape I want to have it. I propose to open a place
of our own, and to put you in charge.” Something in the young man’s
face expressed reluctance, and his father asked kindly, “Would that be
distasteful to you?”

“Oh no. It isn’t the thing I object to, but I don’t know that I care
to be in Boston.” He lifted his face and looked his father full in the
eyes, but with a gaze that refused to convey anything definite. Then the
father knew that the boy’s love affair had gone seriously wrong.

The waiter came with the dinner, and made an interruption in which they
could be naturally silent. When he had put the dinner before them, and
cumbered them with superfluous service, after the fashion of his kind,
he withdrew a little way, and left them to resume their talk.

“Well,” said the elder lightly, as if Dan’s not caring to be in Boston
had no particular significance for him, “I don’t know that I care to
have you settle down to it immediately. I rather think I’d like to have
you look about first a little. Go to New York, go to Philadelphia, and
see their processes there. We can’t afford to get old-fashioned in our
ways. I’ve always been more interested by the aesthetic side of the
business, but you ought to have a taste for the mechanism, from your
grandfather; your mother has it.”

“Oh yes, sir. I think all that’s very interesting,” said Dan.

“Well, go to France, and see how those fellows do it. Go to London, and
look up William Morris.”

“Yes, that would be very nice,” admitted the young fellow, beginning to
catch on. “But I didn’t suppose--I didn’t expect to begin life with a
picnic.” He entered upon his sentence with a jocular buoyancy, but at
the last word, which he fatally drifted upon, his voice fell. He said
to himself that he was greatly changed; that, he should never be gay and
bright again; there would always be this undercurrent of sadness; he had
noticed the undercurrent yesterday when he was laughing and joking with
those girls at Portland.

“Oh, I don’t want you to buckle down at once,” said his father, smiling.
“If you’d decided upon the law, I should have felt that you’d better
not lose time. But as you’re going into the business, I don’t mind your
taking a year off. It won’t be lost time if you keep your eyes open.
I think you’d better go down into Italy and Spain. Look up the old
tapestries and stamped leathers. You may get some ideas. How would you
like it?”

“First-rate. I should like it,” said Dan, rising on the waft of his
father’s suggestion, but gloomily lapsing again. Still, it was pleasing
to picture himself going about through Europe with a broken heart, and
he did not deny himself the consolation of the vision.

“Well, there’s nobody to dislike it,” said his father cheerily. He was
sure now that Dan had been jilted; otherwise he would have put forth
some objection to a scheme which must interrupt his lovemaking. “There’s
no reason why, with our resources, we shouldn’t take the lead in this
business.”

He went on to speak more fully of his plans, and Dan listened with
a nether reference of it all to Alice, but still with a surface
intelligence on which nothing was lost.

“Are you going home with me to-morrow?” asked his father as they rose
from the table.

“Well, perhaps not to-morrow. I’ve got some of my things to put together
in Cambridge yet, and perhaps I’d better look after them. But I’ve
a notion I’d better spend the winter at home, and get an idea of the
manufacture before I go abroad. I might sail in January; they say it’s a
good month.”

“Yes, there’s sense in that,” said his father.

“And perhaps I won’t break up in Cambridge till I’ve been to New York
and Philadelphia. What do you think? It’s easier striking them from
here.”

“I don’t know but you’re right,” said his father easily.

They had come out of the dining-room, and Dan stopped to get some
cigarettes in the office. He looked mechanically at the theatre bills
over the cigar case. “I see Irving’s at the ‘Boston.’”

“Oh, you don’t say!” said his father. “Let’s go and see him.”

“If you wish it, sir,” said Dan, with pensive acquiescence. All the
Maverings were fond of the theatre, and made any mood the occasion or
the pretext of going to the play. If they were sad, they went; if they
were gay, they went. As long as Dan’s mother could get out-of-doors she
used to have herself carried to a box in the theatre whenever she was in
town; now that she no longer left her room, she had a dominant passion
for hearing about actors and acting; it was almost a work of piety in
her husband and children to see them and report to her.

His father left him the next afternoon, and Dan, who had spent the
day with him looking into business for the first time, with a running
accompaniment of Alice in all the details, remained to uninterrupted
misery. He spent the evening in his room, too wretched even for the
theatre. It is true that he tried to find Boardman, but Boardman was
again off on some newspaper duty; and after trying at several houses
in the hope, which he knew was vain, of finding any one in town yet, he
shut himself up with his thoughts. They did not differ from the thoughts
of the night before, and the night before that, but they were calmer,
and they portended more distinctly a life of self-abnegation and
solitude from that time forth. He tested his feelings, and found that
it was not hurt vanity that he was suffering from: it was really wounded
affection. He did not resent Alice’s cruelty; he wished that she might
be happy; he could endure to see her happy.

He wrote a letter to the married one of the two ladies he had spent the
day with in Portland, and thanked them for making pass pleasantly a day
which he would not otherwise have known how to get through. He let a
soft, mysterious melancholy pervade his letter; he hinted darkly at
trouble and sorrow of which he could not definitely speak. He had the
good sense to tear his letter up when he had finished it, and to send
a short, sprightly note instead, saying that if Mrs. Frobisher and her
sister came to Boston at the end of the month, as they had spoken of
doing, they must be sure to let him know. Upon the impulse given him by
this letter he went more cheerfully to bed, and fell instantly asleep.

During the next three weeks he bent himself faithfully to the schemes
of work his father had outlined for him. He visited New York and
Philadelphia, and looked into the business and the processes there;
and he returned to Ponkwasset Falls to report and compare his facts
intelligently with those which he now examined in his father’s
manufactory for the first time. He began to understand how his father,
who was a man of intellectual and artistic interests, should be fond of
the work.

He spent a good deal of time with his mother, and read to her, and got
upon better terms with her than they usually were. They were very much
alike, and she objected to him that he was too light and frivolous. He
sat with his sisters, and took an interest in their pursuits. He drove
them about with his father’s sorrels, and resumed something of the old
relations with them which the selfish years of his college life had
broken off. As yet he could not speak of Campobello or of what had
happened there; and his mother and sisters, whatever they thought, made
no more allusion to it than his father had done.

They mercifully took it for granted that matters must have gone wrong
there, or else he would speak about them, for there had been some gay
banter among them concerning the objects of his expedition before he
left home. They had heard of the heroine of his Class Day, and they had
their doubts of her, such as girls have of their brothers’ heroines.
They were not inconsolably sorry to have her prove unkind; and their
mother found in the probable event another proof of their father’s total
want of discernment where women were concerned, for the elder Mavering
had come home from Class Day about as much smitten with this mysterious
Miss Pasmer as Dan was. She talked it over indignantly with her
daughters; they were glad of Dan’s escape, but they were incensed with
the girl who could let him escape, and they inculpated her in a high
degree of heartless flirtation. They knew how sweet Dan was, and they
believed him most sincere and good. He had been brilliantly popular in
college, and he was as bright as he could be. What was it she chose not
to like in him? They vexed themselves with asking how or in what way she
thought herself better. They would not have had her love Dan, but they
were hot against her for not loving him.

They did not question him, but they tried in every way to find out how
much he was hurt, and they watched him in every word and look for signs
of change to better or worse, with a growing belief that he was not very
much hurt.

It could not be said that in three weeks he forgot Alice, or had begun
to forget her; but he had begun to reconcile himself to his fate, as
people do in their bereavements by death. His consciousness habituated
itself to the facts as something irretrievable. He no longer framed
in his mind situations in which the past was restored. He knew that he
should never love again, but he had moments, and more and more of them,
in which he experienced that life had objects besides love. There were
times when he tingled with all the anguish of the first moment of
his rejection, when he stopped in whatever he was doing, or stood
stock-still, as a man does when arrested by a physical pang, breathless,
waiting. There were other times when he went about steeped in gloom so
black that all the world darkened with it, and some mornings when he
woke he wished that the night had lasted for ever, and felt as if the
daylight had uncovered his misery and his shame to every one. He never
knew when he should have these moods, and he thought he should have them
as long as he lived. He thought this would be something rather fine. He
had still other moods, in which he saw an old man with a grey moustache,
like Colonel Newcome, meeting a beautiful white-haired lady; the man had
never married, and he had not seen this lady for fifty years. He bent
over, and kissed her hand.

“You idiot!” said Mavering to himself. Throughout he kept a good
appetite. In fact, after that first morning in Portland, he had been
hungry three times a day with perfect regularity. He lost the idea
of being sick; he had not even a furred tongue. He fell asleep pretty
early, and he slept through the night without a break. He had to laugh
a great deal with his mother and sisters, since he could not very well
mope without expecting them to ask why, and he did not wish to say
why. But there were some laughs which he really enjoyed with the Yankee
foreman of the works, who was a droll, after a common American pattern,
and said things that were killingly funny, especially about women, of
whom his opinions were sarcastic.

Dan Mavering suffered, but not solidly. His suffering was short, and
crossed with many gleams of respite and even joy. His disappointment
made him really unhappy, but not wholly so; it was a genuine sorrow,
but a sorrow to which he began to resign himself even in the monotony
of Ponkwasset Falls, and which admitted the thought of Mrs. Frobisher’s
sister by the time business called him to Boston.




XXIV.

Before the end of the first week after Dan came back to town, that which
was likely to happen whenever chance brought him and Alice together had
taken place.

It was one of the soft days that fall in late October, when the
impending winter seems stayed, and the warm breath of the land draws
seaward and over a thousand miles of Indian summer. The bloom came and
went in quick pulses over the girl’s temples as she sat with her head
thrown back in the corner of the car, and from moment to moment she
stirred slightly as if some stress of rapture made it hard for her
to get her breath; a little gleam of light fell from under her fallen
eyelids into the eyes of the young man beside her, who leaned forward
slightly and slanted his face upward to meet her glances. They said some
words, now and then, indistinguishable to the others; in speaking they
smiled slightly. Sometimes her hand wavered across her lap; in both
their faces there was something beyond happiness--a transport, a
passion, the brief splendour of a supreme moment.

They left the car at the Arlington Street corner of the Public Garden,
and followed the winding paths diagonally to the further corner on
Charles Street.

“How stupid we were to get into that ridiculous horse-car!” she said.
“What in the world possessed us to do it?”

“I can’t imagine,” he answered. “What a waste of time it was! If we had
walked, we might have been twice as long coming. And now you’re going to
send me off so soon!”

“I don’t send you,” she murmured.

“But you want me to go.”

“Oh no! But you’d better.”

“I can’t do anything against your wish.”

“I wish it--for your own good.”

“Ah, do let me go home with you, Alice?”

“Don’t ask it, or I must say yes.”

“Part of the way, then?”

“No; not a step! You must take the first car for Cambridge. What time is
it now?”

“You can see by the clock on the Providence Depot.”

“But I wish you to go by your watch, now. Look!”

“Alice!” he cried, in pure rapture.

“Look!”

“It’s a quarter of one.”

“And we’ve been three hours together already! Now you must simply fly.
If you came home with me I should be sure to let you come in, and if I
don’t see mamma alone first, I shall die. Can’t you understand?”

“No; but I can do the next best thing: I can misunderstand. You want to
be rid of me.”

“Shall you be rid of me when we’ve parted?” she asked, with an inner
thrill of earnestness in her gay tone.

“Alice!”

“You know I didn’t mean it, Dan.”

“Say it again.”

“What?”

“Dan.”

“Dan, love! Dan, dearest!”

“Will that car of yours never come? I’ve promised myself not to leave
you till it does, and if I stay here any longer I shall go wild. I can’t
believe it’s happened. Say it again!”

“Say what?”

“That--”

“That I love you? That we’re engaged?”

“I don’t believe it. I can’t.” She looked impatiently up the street.
“Oh, there comes your car! Run! Stop it!”

“I don’t run to stop cars.” He made a sign, which the conductor obeyed,
and the car halted at the further crossing.

She seemed to have forgotten it, and made no movement to dismiss him.
“Oh, doesn’t it seem too good to be standing here talking in this way,
and people think it’s about the weather, or society?” She set her head a
little on one side, and twirled the open parasol on her shoulder.

“Yes, it does. Tell me it’s true, love!”

“It’s true. How splendid you are!” She said it with an effect for the
world outside of saying it was a lovely day.

He retorted, with the same apparent nonchalance, “How beautiful you are!
How good! How divine!”

The conductor, seeing himself apparently forgotten, gave his bell a
vicious snap, and his car jolted away.

She started nervously. “There! you’ve lost your car, Dan.”

“Have I?” asked Mavering, without troubling himself to look after it.

She laughed now, with a faint suggestion of unwillingness in her laugh.
“What are you going to do?”

“Walk home with you.”

“No, indeed; you know I can’t let you.”

“And are you going to leave me here alone on the street corner, to be
run over by the first bicycle that comes along?”

“You can sit down in the Garden, and wait for the next car.”

“No; I would rather go back to the Art Museum, and make a fresh start.”

“To the Art Museum?” she murmured, tenderly.

“Yes. Wouldn’t you like to see it again?”

“Again? I should like to pass my whole life in it!”

“Well, walk back with me a little way. There’s no hurry about the car.”

“Dan!” she said, in a helpless compliance, and they paced very, very
slowly along the Beacon Street path in the Garden. “This is ridiculous.”

“Yes, but it’s delightful.”

“Yes, that’s what I meant. Do you suppose any one ever--ever--”

“Made love there before?”

“How can you say such things? Yes. I always supposed it would
be--somewhere else.”

“It was somewhere else--once.”

“Oh, I meant--the second time.”

“Then you did think there was going to be a second time?”

“How do I know? I wished it. Do you like me to say that?”

“I wish you would never say anything else.”

“Yes; there can’t be any harm in it now. I thought that if you had
ever--liked me, you would still--”

“So did I; but I couldn’t believe that you--”

“Oh, I could.”

“Alice!”

“Don’t you like my confessing it! You asked me to.”

“Like it!”

“How silly we are!”

“Not half so silly as we’ve been for the last two months. I think we’ve
just come to our senses. At least I have.”

“Two months!” she sighed. “Has it really been so long as that?”

“Two years! Two centuries! It was back in the Dark Ages when you refused
me.”

“Dark Ages! I should think so! But don’t say refused. It wasn’t
refusing, exactly.”

“What was it, then?”

“Oh, I don’t know. Don’t speak of it now.”

“But, Alice, why did you refuse me?”

“Oh, I don’t know. You mustn’t ask me now. I’ll tell you some time.”

“Well, come to think of it,” said Mavering, laughing it all lightly
away, “there’s no hurry. Tell me why you accepted me to-day.”

“I--I couldn’t help it. When I saw you I wanted to fall at your feet.”

“What an idea! I didn’t want to fall at yours. I was awfully mad. I
shouldn’t have spoken to you if you hadn’t stopped me and held out your
hand.”

“Really? Did you really hate me, Dan?”

“Well, I haven’t exactly doted on you since we last met.”

She did not seem offended at this. “Yes, I suppose so. And I’ve gone on
being fonder and fonder of you every minute since that day. I wanted to
call you back when you had got half-way to Eastport.”

“I wouldn’t have come. It’s bad luck to turn back.”

She laughed at his drolling. “How funny you are! Now I’m of rather a
gloomy temperament. Did, you know it?”

“You don’t look it.”

“Oh, but I am. Just now I’m rather excited and--happy.”

“So glad!”

“Go on! go on! I like you to make fun of me.”

The benches on either side were filled with nursemaids in charge of
baby-carriages, and of young children who were digging in the sand
with their little beach shovels, and playing their games back and forth
across the walk unrebuked by the indulgent policemen. A number of
them had enclosed a square in the middle of the path with four of the
benches, which they made believe was a fort. The lovers had to walk
round it; and the children, chasing one another, dashed into them
headlong, or, backing off from pursuit, bumped up against them. They did
not seem to know it, but walked slowly on without noticing: they were
not aware of an occasional benchful of rather shabby young fellows
who stared hard at the stylish girl and well-dressed young man talking
together in such intense low tones, with rapid interchange of radiant
glances.

“Oh, as to making fun of you, I was going to say--” Mavering began, and
after a pause he broke off with a laugh. “I forget what I was going to
say.”

“Try to remember.”

“I can’t.”

“How strange that we should have both happened to go to the Museum this
morning!” she sighed. Then, “Dan,” she broke in, “do you suppose that
heaven is any different from this?”

“I hope not--if I’m to go there.”

“Hush, dear; you mustn’t talk so.”

“Why, you provoked me to it.”

“Did I? Did I really? Do you think I tempted you to do it? Then I must
be wicked, whether I knew I was doing it or not. Yes.”

The break in her voice made him look more keenly at her, and he saw the
tears glimmer in her eyes. “Alice!”

“No; I’m not good enough for you. I always said that.”

“Then don’t say it any more. That’s the only thing I won’t let you say.”

“Do you forbid it, really? Won’t you let me even think it?”

“No, not even think it.”

“How lovely you are! Oh! I like to be commanded by you.”

“Do you? You’ll have lots of fun, then. I’m an awfully commanding
spirit.”

“I didn’t suppose you were so humorous--always. I’m afraid you won’t
like me. I’ve no sense of fun.”

“And I’m a little too funny sometimes, I’m afraid.”

“No, you never are. When?”

“That night at the Trevors’. You didn’t like it.”

“I thought Miss Anderson was rather ridiculous,” said Alice. “I don’t
like buffoonery in women.”

“Nor I in men,” said Mavering, smiling. “I’ve dropped it.”

“Well, now we must part. I must go home at once,” said Alice. “It’s
perfectly insane.”

“Oh no, not yet; not till we’ve said something else; not till we’ve
changed the subject.”

“What subject?”

“Miss Anderson.”

Alice laughed and blushed, but she was not vexed. She liked to have him
understand her. “Well, now,” she said, as if that were the next thing,
“I’m going to cross here at once and walk up the other pavement, and
you must go back through the Garden; or else I shall never get away from
you.”

“May I look over at you?”

“You may glance, but you needn’t expect me to return your glance.”

“Oh no.”

“And I want you to take the very first Cambridge car that comes along. I
command you to.”

“I thought you wanted me to do the commanding.”

“So I do--in essentials. If you command me not to cry when I get home, I
won’t.”

She looked at him with an ecstasy of self-sacrifice in her eyes.

“Ah, I sha’n’t do that. I can’t tell what would open. But--Alice!”

“Well, what?” She drifted closely to him, and looked fondly up into his
face. In walking they had insensibly drawn nearer together, and she had
been obliged constantly to put space between them. Now, standing at the
corner of Arlington Street, and looking tentatively across Beacon, she
abandoned all precautions.

“What! I forget. Oh yes! I love you!”

“But you said that before, dearest!”

“Yes; but just now it struck me as a very novel idea. What if your
mother shouldn’t like the idea?”

“Nonsense! you know she perfectly idolises you. She did from the first.
And doesn’t she know how I’ve begin behaving about you ever since
I--lost you?”

“How have you behaved? Do tell me, Alice?”

“Some time; not now,” she said; and with something that was like a gasp,
and threatened to be a sob, she suddenly whipped across the road. He
walked back to Charles Street by the Garden path, keeping abreast of
her, and not losing sight of her for a moment, except when the bulk of
a string team watering at the trough beside the pavement intervened. He
hurried by, and when he had passed it he found himself exactly abreast
of her again. Her face was turned toward him; they exchanged a smile,
lost in space. At the corner of Charles Street he deliberately crossed
over to her.

“O dearest love! why did you come?” she implored.

“Because you signed to me.”

“I hoped you wouldn’t see it. If we’re both to be so weak as this, what
are we going to do?”

“But I’m glad you came. Yes: I was frightened. They must have overheard
us there when we were talking.”

“Well, I didn’t say anything I’m ashamed of. Besides, I shouldn’t care
much for the opinion of those nurses and babies.”

“Of course not. But people must have seen us. Don’t stand here talking,
Dan! Do come on!” She hurried him across the street, and walked him
swiftly up the incline of Beacon Street. There, in her new fall suit,
with him, glossy-hatted, faultlessly gloved, at a fit distance from her
side, she felt more in keeping with the social frame of things than in
the Garden path, which was really only a shade better than the Beacon
Street Mall of the Common. “Do you suppose anybody saw us that knew us?”

“I hope so! Don’t you want people to know it?”

“Yes, of course. They will have to know it--in the right way. Can you
believe that it’s only half a year since we met? It won’t be a year till
Class Day.”

“I don’t believe it, Alice. I can’t recollect anything before I knew
you.”

“Well, now, as time is so confused, we must try to live for eternity.
We must try to help each other to be good. Oh, when I think what a happy
girl I am, I feel that I should be the most ungrateful person under the
sun not to be good. Let’s try to make our lives perfect--perfect! They
can be. And we mustn’t live for each other alone. We must try to do good
as well as be good. We must be kind and forbearing with every one.”

He answered, with tender seriousness, “My life’s in your hands, Alice.
It shall be whatever you wish.”

They were both silent in their deep belief of this. When they spoke
again, she began gaily: “I shall never get over the wonder of it. How
strange that we should meet at the Museum!” They had both said this
already, but that did not matter; they had said nearly everything two
or three times. “How did you happen to be there?” she asked, and the
question was so novel that she added, “I haven’t asked you before.”

He stopped, with a look of dismay that broke up in a hopeless laugh.
“Why, I went there to meet some people--some ladies. And when I saw you
I forgot all about them.”

Alice laughed to; this was a part of their joy, their triumph.

“Who are they?” she asked indifferently, and only to heighten the
absurdity by realising the persons.

“You don’t know them,” he said. “Mrs. Frobisher and her sister, of
Portland. I promised to meet them there and go out to Cambridge with
them.”

“What will they think?” asked Alice. “It’s too amusing.”

“They’ll think I didn’t come,” said Mavering, with the easy conscience
of youth and love; and again they laughed at the ridiculous position
together. “I remember now I was to be at the door, and they were to
take me up in their carriage. I wonder how long they waited? You put
everything else out of my head.”

“Do you think I’ll keep it out?” she asked archly.

“Oh yes; there is nothing else but you now.”

The eyes that she dropped, after a glance at him, glistened with tears.

A lump came into his throat. “Do you suppose,” he asked huskily, “that
we can ever misunderstand each other again?”

“Never. I see everything clearly now. We shall trust each other
implicitly, and at the least thing that isn’t clear we can speak.
Promise me that you’ll speak.”

“I will, Alice. But after this all will be clear. We shall deal with
each other as we do with ourselves.”

“Yes; that will be the way.”

“And we mustn’t wait for question from each other. We shall know--we
shall feel--when there’s any misgiving, and then the one that’s caused
it will speak.”

“Yes,” she sighed emphatically. “How perfectly you say it? But that’s
because you feel it, because you are good.”

They walked on, treading the air in a transport of fondness for each
other. Suddenly he stopped.

“Miss Pasmer, I feel it my duty to warn you that you’re letting me go
home with you.”

“Am I? How noble of you to tell me, Dan; for I know you don’t want to
tell. Well, I might as well. But I sha’n’t let you come in. You won’t
try, will you? Promise me you won’t try.”

“I shall only want to come in the first door.”

“What for?”

“What for? Oh, for half a second.”

She turned away her face.

He went on. “This engagement has been such a very public affair, so far,
that I think I’d like to see my fiancee alone for a moment.”

“I don’t know what in the world you can have to say more.”

He went into the first door with her, and then he went with her upstairs
to the door of Mrs. Pasmer’s apartment. The passages of the Cavendish
were not well lighted; the little lane or alley that led down to this
door from the stairs landing was very dim.

“So dark here!” murmured Alice, in a low voice, somewhat tremulous.

“But not too dark.”




XXV.

She burst into the room where her mother sat looking over some
housekeeping accounts. His kiss and his name were upon her lips; her
soul was full of him.

“Mamma!” she panted.

Her mother did not look round. She could have had no premonition of the
vital news that her daughter was bringing, and she went on comparing the
first autumn month’s provision bill with that of the last spring month,
and trying to account for the difference.

The silence, broken by the rattling of the two bills in her mother’s
hands as she glanced from one to the other through her glasses, seemed
suddenly impenetrable, and the prismatic world of the girl’s rapture
burst like a bubble against it. There is no explanation of the effect
outside of temperament and overwrought sensibilities. She stared across
the room at her mother, who had not heard her, and then she broke into a
storm of tears.

“Alice!” cried her mother, with that sanative anger which comes to
rescue women from the terror of any sudden shock. “What is the matter
with you?--what do you mean?” She dropped both of the provision bills to
the floor, and started toward her daughter.

“Nothing--nothing! Let me go. I want to go to my room.” She tried to
reach the door beyond her mother.

“Indeed you shall not!” cried Mrs. Pasmer. “I will not have you behaving
so! What has happened to you? Tell me. You have frightened me half out
of my senses.”

The girl gave up her efforts to escape, and flung herself on the sofa,
with her face in the pillow, where she continued to sob. Her mother
began to relent at the sight of her passion. As a woman and as a mother
she knew her daughter, and she knew that this passion, whatever it was,
must have vent before there could be anything intelligible between them.
She did not press her with further question, but set about making her a
little more comfortable on the sofa; she pulled the pillow straight, and
dropped a light shawl over the girl’s shoulders, so that she should not
take cold.

Then Mrs. Pasmer had made up her mind that Alice had met Mavering
somewhere, and that this outburst was the retarded effect of seeing him.
During the last six weeks she had assisted at many phases of feeling in
regard to him, and knew more clearly than Alice herself the meaning of
them all. She had been patient and kind, with the resources that every
woman finds in herself when it is the question of a daughter’s ordeal in
an affair of the heart which she has favoured.

The storm passed as quickly as it came, and Alice sat upright casting
off the wraps. But once checked with the fact on her tongue, she found
it hard to utter it.

“What is it, Alice?--what is it?” urged her mother.

“Nothing. I--Mr. Mavering--we met--I met him at the Museum, and--we’re
engaged! It’s really so. It seems like raving, but it’s true. He came
with me to the door; I wouldn’t let him come in. Don’t you believe it?
Oh, we are! indeed we are! Are you glad, mamma? You know I couldn’t have
lived without him.”

She trembled on the verge of another outbreak.

Mrs. Pasmer sacrificed her astonishment in the interest of sanity, and
returned quietly: “Glad, Alice! You know that I think he’s the sweetest
and best fellow in the world.”

“O mamma!”

“But are you sure--”

“Yes, Yes. I’m not crazy; it isn’t a dream he was there--and I met
him--I couldn’t run away--I put out my hand; I couldn’t help it--I
thought I should give way; and he took it; and then--then we were
engaged. I don’t know what we said: I went in to look at the ‘Joan of
Arc’ again, and there was no one else there. He seemed to feel just as
I did. I don’t know whether either of us spoke. But we, knew we were
engaged, and we began to talk.”

Mrs. Pasmer began to laugh. To her irreverent soul only the droll side
of the statement appeared.

“Don’t, mamma!” pleaded Alice piteously.

“No, no; I won’t. But I hope Dan Mavering will be a little more definite
about it when I’m allowed to see him. Why couldn’t he have come in with
you?”

“It would have killed me. I couldn’t let him see me cry, and I knew I
should break down.”

“He’ll have to see you cry a great many times, Alice,” said her mother,
with almost unexampled seriousness.

“Yes, but not yet--not so soon. He must think I’m very gloomy, and I
want to be always bright and cheerful with him. He knows why I wouldn’t
let him come in; he knew I was going to have a cry.”

Mrs. Pasmer continued to laugh.

“Don’t, mamma!” pleaded Alice.

“No, I won’t,” replied her mother, as before. “I suppose he was
mystified. But now, if it’s really settled between you, he’ll be coming
here soon to see your papa and me.”

“Yes--to-night.”

“Well, it’s very sudden,” said Mrs. Pasmer. “Though I suppose these
things always seem so.”

“Is it too sudden?” asked Alice, with misgiving. “It seemed so to me
when it was going on, but I couldn’t stop it.”

Her mother laughed at her simplicity. “No, when it begins once, nothing
can stop it. But you’ve really known each other a good while, and for
the last six weeks at least you’ve known you own mind about him pretty
clearly. It’s a pity you couldn’t have known it before.”

“Yes, that’s what he says. He says it was such a waste of time. Oh,
everything he says is perfectly fascinating!”

Her mother laughed and laughed again.

“What is it, mamma? Are you laughing at me?”

“Oh no. What an idea!”

“He couldn’t seem to understand why I didn’t say Yes the first time, if
I meant it.” She looked down dreamily at her hands in her lap, and
then she said, with a blush and a start, “They’re very queer, don’t you
think?”

“Who?”

“Young men.”

“Oh, very.”

“Yes,” Alice went on musingly. “Their minds are so different. Everything
they say and do is so unexpected, and yet it seems to be just right.”

Mrs. Pasmer asked herself if this single-mindedness was to go on for
ever, but she had not the heart to treat it with her natural levity.
Probably it was what charmed Mavering with the child. Mrs. Pasmer had
the firm belief that Mavering was not single-minded, and she respected
him for it. She would not spoil her daughter’s perfect trust and hope by
any of the cynical suggestions of her own dark wisdom, but entered into
her mood, as such women are able to do, and flattered out of her every
detail of the morning’s history. This was a feat which Mrs. Pasmer
enjoyed for its own sake, and it fully satisfied the curiosity which
she naturally felt to know all. She did not comment upon many of the
