after the holidays. One of my gifts at New Year was my own
glove-case,--you remember the apple-blossom thing I began last
autumn? I put it in our window to fill up, and Mamma bought it, and
gave it to me full of elegant gloves, with a sweet note, and Papa
sent a check to ‘Miller, Warren & Co.’ I was so pleased and proud I
could hardly help telling you all. But the best joke was the day you
girls came in and bought our goods, and I peeped at you through the
crack of the door, being in the back room dying with laughter to see
you look round, and praise our ‘nice assortment of useful and pretty
articles.’”

“That’s all very well, and we can bear to be laughed at if you
succeeded, Miss. But I don’t believe you did, for no Millers are
there now. Have you taken a palatial store on Boylston Street for
this year, intending to run it alone? We’ll all patronize it, and
your name will look well on a sign,” said Maggie, wondering what the
end of Ella’s experience had been.

“Ah! I still have the best of it, for my romance finished up
delightfully, as you shall hear. We did well all winter, and no
wonder. What was needed was a little ‘boost’ in the right direction,
and I could give it; so my Millers were much comforted, and we were
good friends. But in March Grammer died suddenly, and poor Almiry
mourned as if she had been the sweetest mother in the world. The old
lady’s last wishes were to be ‘laid out harnsome in a cap with a
pale blue satin ribbin, white wasn’t becomin’, to hev at least three
carriages to the funeral, and be sure a paper with her death in it
was sent to N. Baxter, Westminster, Vermont.’

“I faithfully obeyed her commands, put on the ugly cap myself, gave
a party of old ladies from the home a drive in the hacks, and
carefully directed a marked paper to Nathan, hoping that he HAD
proved ‘faithful and true.’ I didn’t expect he would, so was not
surprised when no answer came. But I WAS rather amazed when Almiry
told me she didn’t care to keep on with the store now she was free.
She wanted to visit her friends a spell this spring, and in the fall
would go back to her trade in some milliner’s store.

“I was sorry, for I really enjoyed my partnership. It seemed a
little bit ungrateful after all my trouble in getting her customers,
but I didn’t say anything, and we sold out to the Widow Bates, who
is a good soul with six children, and will profit by our efforts.

“Almiry bid me good-by with all the grim look gone out of her face,
many thanks, and a hearty promise to write soon. That was in April.
A week ago I got a short letter saying,--

“‘DEAR FRIEND,--You will be pleased to hear that I am married to Mr.
Baxter, and shall remain here. He was away when the paper came with
mother’s death, but as soon as he got home he wrote. I couldn’t make
up my mind till I got home and see him. Now it’s all right, and I am
very happy. Many thanks for all you done for me and mother. I shall
never forget it My husband sends respects, and I remain Yours
gratefully, ALMIRA M. BAXTER.’”

“That’s splendid! You did well, and next winter you can look up
another sour spinster and cranky old lady and make them happy,” said
Anna, with the approving smile all loved to receive from her.

“My adventures are not a bit romantic, or even interesting, and yet
I’ve been as busy as a bee all winter, and enjoyed my work very
much,” began Elizabeth, as the President gave her a nod.

“The plan I had in mind was to go and carry books and papers to the
people in hospitals, as one of Mamma’s friends has done for years. I
went once to the City Hospital with her, and it was very
interesting, but I didn’t dare to go to the grown people all alone,
so I went to the Children’s Hospital, and soon loved to help amuse
the poor little dears. I saved all the picture-books and papers I
could find for them, dressed dolls, and mended toys, and got new
ones, and made bibs and night-gowns, and felt like the mother of a
large family.

“I had my pets, of course, and did my best for them, reading and
singing and amusing them, for many suffered very much. One little
girl was so dreadfully burned she could not use her hands, and would
lie and look at a gay dolly tied to the bedpost by the hour
together, and talk to it and love it, and died with it on her pillow
when I ‘sung lullaby’ to her for the last time. I keep it among my
treasures, for I learned a lesson in patience from little Norah that
I never can forget.

“Then Jimmy Dolan with hip disease was a great delight to me, for he
was as gay as a lark in spite of pain, and a real little hero in the
way he bore the hard things that had to be done to him. He never can
get well, and he is at home now; but I still see to him, and he is
learning to make toy furniture very nicely, so that by and by, if he
gets able to work at all, he may be able to learn a cabinet-maker’s
trade, or some easy work.

“But my pet of pets was Johnny, the blind boy. His poor eyes had to
be taken out, and there he was left so helpless and pathetic, all
his life before him, and no one to help him, for his people were
poor and he had to go away from the hospital since he was incurable.
He seemed almost given to me, for the first time I saw him I was
singing to Jimmy, when the door opened and a small boy came fumbling
in.

“‘I hear a pretty voice, I want to find it,’ he said, stopping as I
stopped with both hands out as if begging for more.

“‘Come on. Johnny, and the lady will sing to you like a bobolink,’
called Jimmy, as proud as Barnum showing off Jumbo.

“The poor little thing came and stood at my knee, without stirring,
while I sang all the nursery jingles I knew. Then he put such a thin
little finger on my lips as if to feel where the music came from,
and said, smiling all over his white face, ‘More, please more, lots
of ‘em! I love it!’

“So I sang away till I was as hoarse as a crow, and Johnny drank it
all in like water; kept time with his head, stamped when I gave him
‘Marching through Georgia,’ and hurrahed feebly in the chorus of
‘Red, White, and Blue.’ It was lovely to see how he enjoyed it, and
I was so glad I had a voice to comfort those poor babies with. He
cried when I had to go, and so touched my heart that I asked all
about him, and resolved to get him into the Blind School as the only
place where he could be taught and made happy.”

“I thought you were bound there the day I met you, Lizzie; but you
looked as solemn as if all your friends had lost their sight,” cried
Marion.

“I did feel solemn, for if Johnny could not go there he would be
badly off. Fortunately he was ten, and dear Mrs. Russell helped me,
and those good people took him in though they were crowded. ‘We
cannot turn one away,’ said kind Mr. Parpatharges.

“So there my boy is, as happy as a king with his little mates,
learning all sorts of useful lessons and pretty plays. He models
nicely in clay. Here is one of his little works. Could you do as
well without eyes?” and Lizzie proudly produced a very one-sided
pear with a long straw for a stem. “I don’t expect he will ever be a
sculptor, but I hope he will do something with music he loves it so,
and is already piping away on a fife very cleverly. Whatever his
gift may prove, if he lives, he will be taught to be a useful,
independent man, not a helpless burden, nor an unhappy creature
sitting alone in the dark. I feel very happy about my lads, and am
surprised to find how well I get on with them. I shall look up some
more next year, for I really think I have quite a gift that way,
though you wouldn’t expect it, as I have no brothers, and always had
a fancy boys were little imps.”

The girls were much amused at Lizzie’s discovery of her own powers,
for she was a stately damsel, who never indulged in romps, but lived
for her music. Now it was evident that she had found the key to
unlock childish hearts, and was learning to use it, quite
unconscious that the sweet voice she valued so highly was much
improved by the tender tones singing lullabies gave it. The fat pear
was passed round like refreshments, receiving much praise and no
harsh criticism; and when it was safely returned to its proud
possessor, Ida began her tale in a lively tone.

“I waited for MY chore, and it came tumbling down our basement steps
one rainy day in the shape of a large dilapidated umbrella with a
pair of small boots below it. A mild howl made me run to open the
door, for I was at lunch in the dining-room, all alone, and rather
blue because I couldn’t go over to see Ella. A very small girl lay
with her head in a puddle at the foot of the steps, the boots waving
in the air, and the umbrella brooding over her like a draggled green
bird.

“‘Are you hurt, child?’ said I.

“‘No, I thank you, ma’am,’ said the mite quite calmly, as she sat up
and settled a woman’s shabby black hat on her head.

“‘Did you come begging?’ I asked.

“‘No, ma’am, I came for some things Mrs. Grover’s got for us. She
told me to. I don’t beg.’ And up rose the sopping thing with great
dignity.

“So I asked her to sit down, and ran up to call Mrs. Grover. She was
busy with Grandpa just then, and when I went back to my lunch there
sat my lady with her arms folded, water dripping out of the toes of
her old boots as they hung down from the high chair, and the biggest
blue eyes I ever saw fixed upon the cake and oranges on the table. I
gave her a piece, and she sighed with rapture, but only picked at it
till I asked if she didn’t like it.

“‘Oh yes, ‘m, it’s elegant! Only I was wishin’ I could take it to
Caddy and Tot, if you didn’t mind. They never had frostin’ in all
their lives, and I did once.’

“Of course I put up a little basket of cake and oranges and figs,
and while Lotty feasted, we talked. I found that their mother washed
dishes all day in a restaurant over by the Albany Station, leaving
the three children alone in the room they have on Berry Street.
Think of that poor thing going off before light these winter
mornings to stand over horrid dishes all day long, and those three
scraps of children alone till night! Sometimes they had a fire, and
when they hadn’t they stayed in bed. Broken food and four dollars a
week was all the woman got, and on that they tried to live. Good
Mrs. Grover happened to be nursing a poor soul near Berry Street
last summer, and used to see the three little things trailing round
the streets with no one to look after them.

“Lotty is nine, though she looks about six, but is as old as most
girls of fourteen, and takes good care of ‘the babies,’ as she calls
the younger ones. Mrs. Grover went to see them, and, though a
hard-working creature, did all she could for them. This winter she
has plenty of time to sew, for Grandpapa needs little done for him
except at night and morning, and that kind woman spent her own
money, and got warm flannel and cotton and stuff, and made each
child a good suit. Lotty had come for hers, and when the bundle was
in her arms she hugged it close, and put up her little face to kiss
Grover so prettily, I felt that I wanted to do something too. So I
hunted up Min’s old waterproof and rubbers, and a hood, and sent
Lotty home as happy as a queen, promising to go and see her. I did
go, and there was my work all ready for me. Oh, girls! such a bare,
cold room, without a spark of fire, and no food but a pan of bits of
pie and bread and meat, not fit for any one to eat, and in the bed,
with an old carpet for cover, lay the three children. Tot and Caddy
cuddled in the warmest place, while Lotty, with her little blue
hands, was trying to patch up some old stockings with bits of
cotton. I didn’t know how to begin, but Lotty did, and I just took
her orders; for that wise little woman told me where to buy a bushel
of coal and some kindlings, and milk and meal, and all I wanted. I
worked like a beaver for an hour or two, and was so glad I’d been to
a cooking-class, for I could make a fire, with Lotty to do the
grubby part, and start a nice soup with the cold meat and potatoes,
and an onion or so. Soon the room was warm, and full of a nice
smell, and out of bed tumbled ‘the babies,’ to dance round the stove
and sniff at the soup, and drink milk like hungry kittens, till I
could get bread and butter ready.

“It was great fun! and when we had cleared things up a bit, and I’d
put food for supper in the closet, and told Lotty to warm a bowl of
soup for her mother and keep the fire going, I went home tired and
dirty, but very glad I’d found something to do. It is perfectly
amazing how little poor people’s things cost, and yet they can’t get
the small amount of money needed without working themselves to
death. Why, all I bought didn’t cost more than I often spend for
flowers, or theatre tickets, or lunches, and it made those poor
babies so comfortable I could have cried to think I’d never done it
before.”

Ida paused to shake her head remorsefully, then went on with her
story, sewing busily all the while on an unbleached cotton
night-gown which looked about fit for a large doll.

“I have no romantic things to tell, for poor Mrs. Kennedy was a
shiftless, broken-down woman, who could only ‘sozzle round,’ as Mrs.
Grover said, and rub along with help from any one who would lend a
hand. She had lived out, married young, and had no faculty about
anything; so when her husband died, and she was left with three
little children, it was hard to get on, with no trade, feeble
health, and a discouraged mind. She does her best, loves the girls,
and works hard at the only thing she can find to do; but when she
gives out, they will all have to part,--she to a hospital, and the
babies to some home. She dreads that, and tugs away, trying to keep
together and get ahead. Thanks to Mrs. Grover, who is very sensible,
and knows how to help poor people, we have made things comfortable,
and the winter has gone nicely.

“The mother has got work nearer home, Lotty and Caddy go to school,
and Tot is safe and warm, with Miss Parsons to look after her. Miss
Parsons is a young woman who was freezing and starving in a little
room upstairs, too proud to beg and too shy and sick to get much
work. I found her warming her hands one day in Mrs. Kennedy’s room,
and hanging over the soup-pot as if she was eating the smell. It
reminded me of the picture in Punch where the two beggar boys look
in at a kitchen, sniffing at the nice dinner cooking there. One
says, ‘I don’t care for the meat, Bill, but I don’t mind if I takes
a smell at the pudd’n’ when it’s dished.’ I proposed a lunch at
once, and we all sat down, and ate soup out of yellow bowls with
pewter spoons with such a relish it was fun to see. I had on my old
rig; so poor Parsons thought I was some dressmaker or work-girl, and
opened her heart to me as she never would have done if I’d gone and
demanded her confidence, and patronized her, as some people do when
they want to help. I promised her some work, and proposed that she
should do it in Mrs. K.’s room, as a favor, mind you, so that the
older girls could go to school and Tot have some one to look after
her. She agreed, and that saved her fire, and made the K.’s all
right. Sarah (that’s Miss P.) tried to stiffen up when she learned
where I lived; but she wanted the work, and soon found I didn’t put
on airs, but lent her books, and brought her and Tot my bouquets and
favors after a german, and told her pleasant things as she sat
cooking her poor chilblainy feet in the oven, as if she never could
get thawed out.

“This summer the whole batch are to go to Uncle Frank’s farm and
pick berries, and get strong. He hires dozens of women and children
during the fruit season, and Mrs. Grover said it was just what they
all needed. So off they go in June, as merry as grigs, and I shall
be able to look after them now and then, as I always go to the farm
in July. That’s all,--not a bit interesting, but it came to me, and
I did it, though only a small chore.”

“I’m sure the helping of five poor souls is a fine work, and you may
well be proud of it, Ida. Now I know why you wouldn’t go to matinees
with me, and buy every pretty thing we saw as you used to. The
pocket money went for coal and food, and your fancy work was little
clothes for these live dolls of yours. You dear thing! how good you
were to cook, and grub, and prick your fingers rough, and give up
fun, for this kind work!”

Maggie’s hearty kiss, and the faces of her friends, made Ida feel
that her humble task had its worth in their eyes, as well as in her
own; and when the others had expressed their interest in her work,
all composed themselves to hear what Marion had to tell.

“I have been taking care of a scarlet runner,--a poor old
frost-bitten, neglected thing; it is transplanted now, and doing
well, I’m happy to say.”

“What do you mean?” asked Ella, while the rest looked very curious.

Marion picked up a dropped stitch in the large blue sock she was
knitting, and continued, with a laugh in her eyes: “My dears, that
is what we call the Soldiers’ Messenger Corps, with their red caps
and busy legs trotting all day. I’ve had one of them to care for,
and a gorgeous time of it, I do assure you. But before I exult over
my success, I must honestly confess my failures, for they were sad
ones. I was so anxious to begin my work at once, that I did go out
and collar the first pauper I saw. It was an old man, who sometimes
stands at the corners of streets to sell bunches of ugly paper
flowers. You’ve seen him, I dare say, and his magenta daisies and
yellow peonies. Well, he was rather a forlorn object, with his poor
old red nose, and bleary eyes, and white hair, standing at the windy
corners silently holding out those horrid flowers. I bought all he
had that day, and gave them to some colored children on my way home,
and told him to come to our house and get an old coat Mamma was
waiting to get rid of. He told a pitiful story of himself and his
old wife, who made the paper horrors in her bed, and how they needed
everything, but didn’t wish to beg. I was much touched, and flew
home to look up the coat and some shoes, and when my old Lear came
creeping in the back way, I ordered cook to give him a warm dinner
and something nice for the old woman.

“I was called upstairs while he was mumbling his food, and blessing
me in the most lovely manner; and he went away much comforted, I
flattered myself. But an hour later, up came the cook in a great
panic to report that my venerable and pious beggar had carried off
several of Papa’s shirts and pairs of socks out of the clothes-basket
in the laundry, and the nice warm hood we keep for the girl to hang
out clothes in.

“I was VERY angry, and, taking Harry with me, went at once to the
address the old rascal gave me, a dirty court out of Hanover Street
No such person had ever lived there, and my white-haired saint was a
humbug. Harry laughed at me, and Mamma forbade me to bring any more
thieves to the house, and the girls scolded awfully.

“Well, I recovered from the shock, and, nothing daunted, went off to
the little Irishwoman who sells apples on the Common,--not the fat,
tosey one with the stall near West Street, but the dried-up one who
sits by the path, nodding over an old basket with six apples and
four sticks of candy in it. No one ever seems to buy anything, but
she sits there and trusts to kind souls dropping a dime now and
then; she looks so feeble and forlorn, ‘on the cold, cold ground.’

“She told me another sad tale of being all alone and unable to work,
and ‘as wake as wather-grewl, without a hap-worth av flesh upon me
bones, and for the love of Heaven gimme a thrifle to kape the breath
av loife in a poor soul, with a bitter hard winter over me, and
niver a chick or child to do a hand’s turn.’ I hadn’t much faith in
her, remembering my other humbug, but I did pity the old mummy; so I
got some tea and sugar, and a shawl, and used to give her my odd
pennies as I passed. I never told at home, they made such fun of my
efforts to be charitable. I thought I really was getting on pretty
well after a time, as my old Biddy seemed quite cheered up, and I
was planning to give her some coal, when she disappeared all of a
sudden. I feared she was ill, and asked Mrs. Maloney, the fat woman,
about her.

“‘Lord love ye, Miss dear, it’s tuk up and sint to the Island for
tree months she is; for a drunken ould crayther is Biddy Ryan, and
niver a cint but goes for whiskey,--more shame to her, wid a fine
bye av her own ready to kape her daycint.’

“Then I WAS discouraged, and went home to fold my hands, and see
what fate would send me, my own efforts being such failures.”

“Poor thing, it WAS hard luck!” said Elizabeth, as they sobered down
after the gale of merriment caused by Marion’s mishaps, and her
clever imitation of the brogue.

“Now tell of your success, and the scarlet runner,” added Maggie.

“Ah! that was SENT, and so I prospered. I must begin ever so far
back, in war times, or I can’t introduce my hero properly. You know
Papa was in the army, and fought all through the war till
Gettysburg, where he was wounded. He was engaged just before he
went; so when his father hurried to him after that awful battle,
Mamma went also, and helped nurse him till he could come home. He
wouldn’t go to an officer’s hospital, but kept with his men in a
poor sort of place, for many of his boys were hit, and he wouldn’t
leave them. Sergeant Joe Collins was one of the bravest, and lost
his right arm saving the flag in one of the hottest struggles of
that great fight. He had been a Maine lumberman, and was over six
feet tall, but as gentle as a child, and as jolly as a boy, and very
fond of his colonel.

“Papa left first, but made Joe promise to let him know how he got
on, and Joe did so till he too went home. Then Papa lost sight of
him, and in the excitement of his own illness, and the end of the
war, and being married, Joe Collins was forgotten, till we children
came along, and used to love to hear the story of Papa’s battles,
and how the brave sergeant caught the flag when the bearer was shot,
and held it in the rush till one arm was blown off and the other
wounded. We have fighting blood in us, you know, so we were never
tired of that story, though twenty-five years or more make it all
as far away to us as the old Revolution, where OUR ancestor was
killed, at OUR Bunker Hill!

“Last December, just after my sad disappointments, Papa came home to
dinner one day, exclaiming, in great glee: ‘I’ve found old Joe! A
messenger came with a letter to me, and when I looked up to give my
answer, there stood a tall, grizzled fellow, as straight as a
ramrod, grinning from ear to ear, with his hand to his temple,
saluting me in regular style. “Don’t you remember Joe Collins,
Colonel? Awful glad to see you, sir,” said he. And then it all came
back, and we had a good talk, and I found out that the poor old boy
was down on his luck, and almost friendless, but as proud and
independent as ever, and bound to take care of himself while he had
a leg to stand on. I’ve got his address, and mean to keep an eye on
him, for he looks feeble and can’t make much, I’m sure.’

“We were all very glad, and Joe came to see us, and Papa sent him on
endless errands, and helped him in that way till he went to New
York. Then, in the fun and flurry of the holidays, we forgot all
about Joe, till Papa came home and missed him from his post. I said
I’d go and find him; so Harry and I rummaged about till we did find
him, in a little house at the North End, laid up with rheumatic
fever in a stuffy back room, with no one to look after him but the
washerwoman with whom he boarded.

“I was SO sorry we had forgotten him! but HE never complained, only
said, with his cheerful grin,’ I kinder mistrusted the Colonel was
away, but I wasn’t goin’ to pester him.’ He tried to be jolly,
though in dreadful pain; called Harry ‘Major,’ and was so grateful
for all we brought him, though he didn’t want oranges and tea, and
made us shout when I said, like a goose, thinking that was the
proper thing to do, ‘Shall I bathe your brow, you are so feverish?’

“‘No, thanky, miss, it was swabbed pretty stiddy to the horsepittle,
and I reckon a trifle of tobaccer would do more good and be a sight
more relishin’, ef you’ll excuse my mentionin’ it.’

“Harry rushed off and got a great lump and a pipe, and Joe lay
blissfully puffing, in a cloud of smoke, when we left him, promising
to come again. We did go nearly every day, and had lovely times; for
Joe told us his adventures, and we got so interested in the war that
I began to read up evenings, and Papa was pleased, and fought all
his battles over again for us, and Harry and I were great friends
reading together, and Papa was charmed to see the old General’s
spirit in us, as we got excited and discussed all our wars in a
fever of patriotism that made Mamma laugh. Joe said I ‘brustled up’
at the word BATTLE like a war-horse at the smell of powder, and I’d
ought to have been a drummer, the sound of martial music made me so
‘skittish.’

“It was all new and charming to us young ones, but poor old Joe had
a hard time, and was very ill. Exposure and fatigue, and scanty
food, and loneliness, and his wounds, were too much for him, and it
was plain his working days were over. He hated the thought of the
poor-house at home, which was all his own town could offer him, and
he had no friends to live with, and he could not get a pension,
something being wrong about his papers; so he would have been badly
off, but for the Soldiers’ Home at Chelsea. As soon as he was able,
Papa got him in there, and he was glad to go, for that seemed the
proper place, and a charity the proudest man might accept, after
risking his life for his country.

“There is where I used to be going when you saw me, and I was SO
afraid you’d smell the cigars in my basket. The dear old boys always
want them, and Papa says they MUST have them, though it isn’t half
so romantic as flowers, and jelly, and wine, and the dainty messes
we women always want to carry. I’ve learned about different kinds of
tobacco and cigars, and you’d laugh to see me deal out my gifts,
which are received as gratefully as the Victoria Cross, when the
Queen decorates HER brave men. I’m quite a great gun over there, and
the boys salute when I come, tell me their woes, and think that Papa
and I can run the whole concern. I like it immensely, and am as
proud and fond of my dear old wrecks as if I’d been a Rigoletto, and
ridden on a cannon from my babyhood. That’s MY story, but I can’t
begin to tell how interesting it all is, nor how glad I am that it
led me to look into the history of American wars, in which brave men
of our name did their parts so well.”

A hearty round of applause greeted Marion’s tale, for her glowing
face and excited voice stirred the patriotic spirit of the Boston
girls, and made them beam approvingly upon her.

“Now, Maggie, dear, last but not least, I’m sure,” said Anna, with
an encouraging glance, for SHE had discovered the secret of this
friend, and loved her more than ever for it.

Maggie blushed and hesitated, as she put down the delicate muslin
cap-strings she was hemming with such care. Then, looking about her
with a face in which both humility and pride contended, she said
with an effort, “After the other lively experiences, mine will sound
very flat. In fact, I have no story to tell, for MY charity began at
home, and stopped there.”

“Tell it, dear. I know it is interesting, and will do us all good,”
 said Anna, quickly; and, thus supported, Maggie went on.

“I planned great things, and talked about what I meant to do, till
Papa said one day, when things were in a mess, as they often are at
our house, ‘If the little girls who want to help the world along
would remember that charity begins at home, they would soon find
enough to do.’

“I was rather taken aback, and said no more, but after Papa had gone
to the office, I began to think, and looked round to see what there
was to be done at that particular moment. I found enough for that
day, and took hold at once; for poor Mamma had one of her bad
headaches, the children could not go out because it rained, and so
were howling in the nursery, cook was on a rampage, and Maria had
the toothache. Well, I began by making Mamma lie down for a good
long sleep. I kept the children quiet by giving them my ribbon box
and jewelry to dress up with, put a poultice on Maria’s face, and
offered to wash the glass and silver for her, to appease cook, who
was as cross as two sticks over extra work washing-day. It wasn’t
much fun, as you may imagine, but I got through the afternoon, and
kept the house still, and at dusk crept into Mamma’s room and softly
built up the fire, so it should be cheery when she waked. Then I
went trembling to the kitchen for some tea, and there found three
girls calling, and high jinks going on; for one whisked a plate of
cake into the table drawer, another put a cup under her shawl, and
cook hid the teapot, as I stirred round in the china closet before
opening the slide, through a crack of which I’d seen, heard, and
smelt ‘the party,’ as the children call it.

“I was angry enough to scold the whole set, but I wisely held my
tongue, shut my eyes, and politely asked for some hot water, nodded
to the guests, and told cook Maria was better, and would do her work
if she wanted to go out.

“So peace reigned, and as I settled the tray, I heard cook say in
her balmiest tone, for I suspect the cake and tea lay heavy on her
conscience, ‘The mistress is very poorly, and Miss takes nice care
of her, the dear.’

“All blarney, but it pleased me and made me remember how feeble poor
Mamma was, and how little I really did. So I wept a repentant weep
as I toiled upstairs with my tea and toast, and found Mamma all
ready for them, and so pleased to find things going well. I saw by
that what a relief it would be to her if I did it oftener, as I
ought, and as I resolved that I would.

“I didn’t say anything, but I kept on doing whatever came along, and
before I knew it ever so many duties slipped out of Mamma’s hands
into mine, and seemed to belong to me. I don’t mean that I liked
them, and didn’t grumble to myself; I did, and felt regularly
crushed and injured sometimes when I wanted to go and have my own
fun. Duty is right, but it isn’t easy, and the only comfort about it
is a sort of quiet feeling you get after a while, and a strong
feeling, as if you’d found something to hold on to and keep you
steady. I can’t express it, but you know?” And Maggie looked
wistfully at the other faces, some of which answered her with a
quick flash of sympathy, and some only wore a puzzled yet respectful
expression, as if they felt they ought to know, but did not.

“I need not tire you with all my humdrum doings,” continued Maggie.
“I made no plans, but just said each day, ‘I’ll take what comes,
and try to be cheerful and contented.’ So I looked after the
children, and that left Maria more time to sew and help round. I did
errands, and went to market, and saw that Papa had his meals
comfortably when Mamma was not able to come down. I made calls for
her, and received visitors, and soon went on as if I were the lady
of the house, not ‘a chit of a girl,’ as Cousin Tom used to call me.

“The best of all were the cosey talks we had in the twilight, Mamma
and I, when she was rested, and all the day’s worry was over, and we
were waiting for Papa. Now, when he came, I didn’t have to go away,
for they wanted to ask and tell me things, and consult about
affairs, and make me feel that I was really the eldest daughter. Oh,
it was just lovely to sit between them and know that they needed me,
and loved to have me with them! That made up for the hard and
disagreeable things, and not long ago I got my reward. Mamma is
better, and I was rejoicing over it, when she said,’ Yes, I really
am mending now, and hope soon to be able to relieve my good girl.
But I want to tell you, dear, that when I was most discouraged my
greatest comfort was, that if I had to leave my poor babies they
would find such a faithful little mother in you.’

“I was SO pleased I wanted to cry, for the children DO love me, and
run to me for everything now, and think the world of Sister, and
they didn’t use to care much for me. But that wasn’t all. I ought
not to tell these things, perhaps, but I’m so proud of them I can’t
help it. When I asked Papa privately, if Mamma was REALLY better and
in no danger of falling ill again, he said, with his arms round me,
and such a tender kiss,--

“‘No danger now, for this brave little girl put her shoulder to the
wheel so splendidly, that the dear woman got the relief from care
she needed just at the right time, and now she really rests sure
that we are not neglected. You couldn’t have devoted yourself to a
better charity, or done it more sweetly, my darling. God bless
you!’”

Here Maggie’s voice gave out, and she hid her face, with a happy
sob, that finished her story eloquently. Marion flew to wipe her
tears away with the blue sock, and the others gave a sympathetic
murmur, looking much touched; forgotten duties of their own rose
before them, and sudden resolutions were made to attend to them at
once, seeing how great Maggie’s reward had been.

“I didn’t mean to be silly; but I wanted you to know that I hadn’t
been idle all winter, and that, though I haven’t much to tell, I’m
quite satisfied with my chore,” she said, looking up with smiles
shining through the tears till her face resembled a rose in a
sun-shower.

“Many daughters have done well, but thou excellest them all,”
 answered Anna, with a kiss that completed her satisfaction.

“Now, as it is after our usual time, and we must break up,”
 continued the President, producing a basket of flowers from its
hiding-place, “I will merely say that I think we have all learned a
good deal, and will be able to work better next winter; for I am
sure we shall want to try again, it adds so much sweetness to our
own lives to put even a little comfort into the hard lives of the
poor. As a farewell token, I sent for some real Plymouth mayflowers,
and here they are, a posy apiece, with my love and many thanks for
your help in carrying out my plan so beautifully.”

So the nosegays were bestowed, the last lively chat enjoyed, new
plans suggested, and goodbyes said; then the club separated, each
member going gayly away with the rosy flowers on her bosom, and in
it a clearer knowledge of the sad side of life, a fresh desire to
see and help still more, and a sweet satisfaction in the thought
that each had done what she could.




AN IVY SPRAY AND LADIES’ SLIPPERS


“IT can’t be done! So I may as well give it I up and get a new pair.
I long for them, but I’m afraid my nice little plan for Laura will
be spoilt,” said Jessie Delano to herself, as she shook her head
over a pair of small, dilapidated slippers almost past mending.
While she vainly pricked her fingers over them for the last time,
her mind was full of girlish hopes and fears, as well as of
anxieties far too serious for a light-hearted creature of sixteen.

A year ago the sisters had been the petted daughters of a rich man;
but death and misfortune came suddenly, and now they were left to
face poverty alone. They had few relations, and had offended the
rich uncle who offered Jessie a home, because she refused to be
separated from her sister. Poor Laura was an invalid, and no one
wanted her; but Jessie would not leave her, so they clung together
and lived on in the humble rooms where their father died, trying to
earn their bread by the only accomplishments they possessed. Laura
painted well, and after many disappointments was beginning to find a
sale for her dainty designs and delicate flowers. Jessie had a
natural gift for dancing; and her former teacher, a kind-hearted
Frenchwoman, offered her favorite pupil the post of assistant
teacher in her classes for children.

It cost the girl a struggle to accept a place of this sort and be a
humble teacher, patiently twirling stupid little boys and girls
round and round over the smooth floor where she used to dance so
happily when she was the pride of the class and the queen of the
closing balls. But for Laura’s sake she gratefully accepted the
offer, glad to add her mite to their small store, and to feel that
she could help keep the wolf from the door. They had seemed to hear
the howl of this dreaded phantom more than once during that year,
and looked forward to the long hard winter with an anxiety which
neither would confess to the other. Laura feared to fall ill if she
worked too hard, and then what would become of this pretty young
sister who loved her so tenderly and would not be tempted to leave
her? And Jessie could do very little except rebel against their hard
fate and make impracticable plans. But each worked bravely, talked
cheerfully, and waited hopefully for some good fortune to befall
them, while doubt and pain and poverty and care made the young
hearts so heavy that the poor girls often fell asleep on pillows wet
with secret tears.

The smaller trials of life beset Jessie at this particular moment,
and her bright wits were trying to solve the problem how to spend
her treasured five dollars on slippers for herself and paints for
Laura. Both were much needed, and she had gone in shabby shoes to
save up money for the little surprise on which she had set her
heart; but now dismay fell upon her when the holes refused to be
cobbled, and the largest of bows would not hide the worn-out toes in
spite of ink and blacking lavishly applied.

“These are the last of my dear French slippers, and I can’t afford
any more. I hate cheap things! But I shall have to get them; for my
boots are shabby, and every one has to look at my feet when I lead.
Oh dear, what a horrid thing it is to be poor!” and Jessie surveyed
the shabby little shoes affectionately, as her eyes filled with
tears; for the road looked very rough and steep now, when she
remembered how she used to dance through life as happy as a
butterfly in a garden full of sunshine and flowers.

“Now, Jess, no nonsense, no red eyes to tell tales! Go and do your
errands, and come in as gay as a lark, or Laura will be worried.”
 And springing up, the girl began to sing instead of sob, as she
stirred about her dismal little room, cleaning her old gloves,
mending her one white dress, and wishing with a sigh of intense
longing that she could afford some flowers to wear, every ornament
having been sold long ago. Then, with a kiss and a smile to her
patient sister, she hurried away to get the necessary slippers and
the much-desired paints, which Laura would not ask for, though her
work waited for want of them.

Having been reared in luxury, poor little Jessie’s tastes were all
of the daintiest sort; and her hardest trial, after Laura’s feeble
health, was the daily sacrifice of the many comforts and elegances
to which she had been accustomed. Faded gowns, cleaned gloves, and
mended boots cost her many a pang, and the constant temptation of
seeing pretty, useful, and unattainable things was a very hard one.
Laura rarely went out, and so was spared this cross; then she was
three years older, had always been delicate, and lived much in a
happy world of her own. So Jessie bore her trials silently, but
sometimes felt very covetous and resentful to see so much pleasure,
money, and beauty in the world, and yet have so little of it fall to
her lot.

“I feel as if I could pick a pocket to-day and not mind a bit, if it
were a rich person’s. It’s a shame, when papa was always so
generous, that no one remembers us. If ever I’m rich again, I’ll
just hunt up all the poor girls I can find, and give them nice
shoes, if nothing else,” she thought, as she went along the crowded
streets, pausing involuntarily at the shop windows to look with
longing eyes at the treasures within.

Resisting the allurements of French slippers with bows and buckles,
she wisely bought a plain, serviceable pair, and trudged away,
finding balm for her wounds in the fact that they were very cheap.
More balm came when she met a young friend, who joined her as she
stood wistfully eying the piles of grapes in a window and longing to
buy some for Laura.

This warm-hearted schoolmate read the wish before Jessie saw her,
and gratified it so adroitly that the girl could accept the pretty
basketful sent to her sister without feeling like a spendthrift or a
beggar. It comforted her very much, and the world began to look
brighter after that little touch of kindness, as it always does when
genuine sympathy makes sunshine in shady places.

At the art store she was told that more of Laura’s autumn-flowers
were in demand; and her face was so full of innocent delight and
gratitude it quite touched the old man who sold her the paints, and
gave her more than her money’s worth, remembering his own hard times
and pitying the pretty young girl whose father he had known.

So Jessie did not have to pretend very hard at being “as gay as a
lark” when she got home and showed her treasures. Laura was so happy
over the unexpected gifts that the dinner of bread and milk and
grapes was quite a picnic; and Jessie found a smile on her face when
she went to dress for her party.

It was only a child’s party at the house of one of Mademoiselle’s
pupils, and Jessie was merely invited to help the little people
through their dancing. She did not like to go in this way, as she
was sure to meet familiar faces there, full of the pity, curiosity,
or indifference so hard for a girl to bear. But Mademoiselle asked
it as a favor, and Jessie was grateful; so she went, expecting no
pleasure and certain of much weariness, if not annoyance.

When she was ready,--and it did not take long to slip on the white
woollen dress, brush out the curly dark hair, and fold up slippers
and gloves,--she stood before her glass looking at herself, quite
conscious that she was very pretty, with her large eyes, blooming
cheeks, and the lofty little air which nothing could change. She was
also painfully conscious that her dress was neither fresh nor
becoming without a bit of ribbon or a knot of flowers to give it the
touch of color it needed. She had an artistic eye, and used to
delight in ordering charming costumes for herself in the happy days
when all her wishes were granted as if fairies still lived. She
tossed over her very small store of ribbons in vain; everything had
been worn till neither beauty nor freshness remained.

“Oh dear! where CAN I find something to make me look less like a
nun,--and a very shabby one, too?” she said, longing for the pink
corals she sold to pay Laura’s doctor’s bill.

The sound of a soft tap, tap, tap, startled her, and she ran to open
the door. No one was there but Laura, fast asleep on the sofa. Tap,
tap, tap! went the invisible hand; and as the sound seemed to come
from the window, Jessie glanced that way, thinking her tame dove had
come to be fed. Neither hungry dove nor bold sparrow appeared,--only
a spray of Japanese ivy waving in the wind. A very pretty spray it
was, covered with tiny crimson leaves; and it tapped impatiently, as
if it answered her question by saying, “Here is a garland for you;
come and take it.”

Jessie’s quick eye was caught at once by the fine color, and running
to the window she looked out as eagerly as if a new idea had come
into her head. It was a dull November day, and the prospect of
sheds, ash-barrels, and old brooms was a gloomy one; but the whole
back of the house glowed with the red tendrils of the hardy vine
that clung to and covered the dingy bricks with a royal mantle, as
if eager to cheer the eyes and hearts of all who looked. It preached
a little sermon of courage, aspiration, and content to those who had
the skill to read it, and bade them see how, springing from the
scanty soil of that back yard full of the commonest objects, the
humblest work, it set its little creepers in the crannies of the
stone, and struggled up to find the sun and air, till it grew strong
and beautiful,--making the blank wall green in summer, glorious in
autumn, and a refuge in winter, when it welcomed the sparrows to the
shelter of its branches where the sun lay warmest.

Jessie loved this beautiful neighbor, and had enjoyed it all that
summer,--the first she ever spent in the hot city. She felt the
grace its greenness gave to all it touched, and half unconsciously
imitated it in trying to be brave and bright, as she also climbed up
from the dismal place where she seemed shut away from everything
lovely, till she was beginning to discover that the blue sky was
over all, the sun still shone for her, and heaven’s fresh air kissed
her cheeks as kindly as ever. Many a night she had leaned from the
high window when Laura was asleep, dreaming innocent dreams, living
over her short past, or trying to look into the future bravely and
trustfully. The little vine had felt warmer drops than rain or dew
fall on it when things went badly, had heard whispered prayers when
the lonely child asked the Father of the fatherless for help and
comfort, had peeped in to see her sleeping peacefully when the hard
hour was over, and been the first to greet her with a tap on the
window-pane as she woke full of new hope in the morning. It seemed
to know all her moods and troubles, to be her friend and confidante,
and now came with help like a fairy godmother when our Cinderella
wanted to be fine for the little ball.

“Just the thing! Why didn’t I think of it? So bright and delicate
and becoming? It will last better than flowers; and no one can think
I’m extravagant, since it costs nothing.”

As she spoke, Jessie was gathering long sprays of the rosy vine,
with its glossy leaves so beautifully shaded that it was evident
Jack Frost had done his best for it. Going to her glass, she
fastened a wreath of the smallest leaves about her head, set a
cluster of larger ones in her bosom, and then surveyed herself with
girlish pleasure, as well she might; for the effect of the simple
decoration was charming. Quite satisfied now, she tied on her cloud
and slipped away without waking Laura, little dreaming what good
fortune the ivy spray was to bring them both.

She found the children prancing with impatience to begin their
ballet, much excited by the music, gaslight, and gay dresses, which
made it seem like “a truly ball.” All welcomed Jessie, and she soon
forgot the cheap slippers, mended gloves, and old dress, as she
gayly led her troop through the pretty dance with so much grace and
skill that the admiring mammas who lined the walls declared it was
the sweetest thing they ever saw.

“Who is that little person?” asked one of the few gentlemen who
hovered about the doorways.

His hostess told Jessie’s story in a few words, and was surprised to
hear him say in a satisfied tone,--

“I’m glad she is poor. I want her head, and now there is some chance
of getting it.”

“My dear Mr. Vane, what DO you mean?” asked the lady, laughing.

“I came to study young faces; I want one for a picture, and that
little girl with the red leaves is charming. Please present me.”

“No use; you may ask for her hand by-and-by, if you like, but not
for her head. She is very proud, and never would consent to sit as a
model, I’m sure.”

“I think I can manage it, if you will kindly give me a start.”

“Very well. The children are just going down to supper, and Miss
Delano will rest. You can make your bold proposal now, if you dare.”

A moment later, as she stood watching the little ones troop away,
Jessie found herself bowing to the tall gentleman, who begged to
know what he could bring her with as much interest as if she had
been the finest lady in the room. Of course she chose ice-cream, and
slipped into a corner to rest her tired feet, preferring the
deserted parlor to the noisy dining-room,--not being quite sure
where she belonged now.

Mr. Vane brought her a salver full of the dainties girls best love,
and drawing up a table began to eat and talk in such a simple,
comfortable way that Jessie could not feel shy, but was soon quite
at her ease. She knew that he was a famous artist, and longed to
tell him about poor Laura, who admired his pictures so much and
would have enjoyed every moment of this chance interview. He was not
a very young man, nor a handsome one, but he had a genial face, and
the friendly manners which are so charming; and in ten minutes
Jessie was chatting freely, quite unconscious that the artist was
studying her in a mirror all the while. They naturally talked of the
children, and after praising the pretty dance Mr. Vane quietly
added,--

“I’ve been trying--to find a face among them for a picture I’m
doing; but the little dears are all too young, and I must look
elsewhere for a model for my wood-nymph.”

“Are models hard to find?” asked Jessie, eating her ice with the
relish of a girl who does not often taste it.

“What I want is very hard to find. I can get plenty of beggar-girls,
but this must be a refined face, young and blooming, but with poetry
in it; and that does not come without a different training from any
my usual models get. It will be difficult to suit me, for I’m in a
hurry and don’t know where to look,”--which last sentence was not
