in fact, he had never had one since that 
night when his mother 

said they were to give her love to him, if he came home 
while she was asleep. He had beaten about so, sleeping 
for the most part in his berth, and sailing again directly ; 
he had never had any place, he said, to hang his winter 
clothes in ; closets and bureaus seemed treasure-houses 
to him, and the kitchen fire a luxury greater than a less 
good-looking man would have deserved. When he came 
home, drenched and chilly, from a winter voyage, and 
Teen took the covers off, and the fiery heart of the coals 
leaped out to greet him, and she stood in the rich color, 
with her yellow hair, young and fair and sweet as any 
man's wife could look,«and said she had missed him, and 
called him her dear husband, Jack even went so far as to 

feel that Teen was the luxury. He treated her accord- 
ingly ; that was at first. He came straight home to her ; 
he kept her in flour and fuel ; she had the little things 
and the gentle words that women need. Teen was very 
fond of him. This was the first of it, — I was going to 
say this was the worst of it. All there was of Teen 
seemed to have gone into her love for Jack. A part of 
Jack had gone into his love for Teen. Teen was very 
happy, to begin with. The respectable neighbors came 
to see her, and said, " We 're happy to make your 
acquaintance." Nobody knew that it had not always been 
so that Teen's acquaintance would have been a source of 
social happiness. And she wrote to her mother that 
she was married ; and her mother came on to make her 
a little visit ; and Teen cried her soul out for joy. She 
was very modest and home-keeping and loving ; no wife 
in the land was truer than this girl he had chosen was 
to the fisherman who chose her. Jack knew that. He 
believed in her. She made him happy ; and therefore 
she kept him right. 

All this was at first. It did not last. Why should 
we expect that, when we see how little there is in the 
relation of man and woman which lasts ? If happy 
birth and gentle rearing, and the forces of what we call 
education, and the silken webs of spun refinements, are 
so strained in the tie which requires two who cannot get 
away from each other to make each other happy, how 
should we ask, of the law of chances, the miracle for 
Teen and Jack ? 

There was no miracle. No transubstantiation of the 
common bread to holy flesh was wrought upon that poor 
altar. Their lot went the way of other lots, with the 
facts of their history dead against them. Trouble came, 
and poverty, and children, and care, and distaste. Jack 
took to his old ways, and his wife to the tears that they 
bring. The children died ; they were poor sickly babies 
who wailed a little while in her arms, and slipped out 
because there wasn't enough to them to stay. And the 
gray house was damp. Some said it was diphtheria ; 
but their mother said it was the will of God. She added : 
Might his will be done ! On the whole she was not 


sorry. Their father struck her when he was in liquor. 
She thought if the babies lived they might get hurt. A 
month before the last one was born she showed to 
Jack's biographer a bruise across her shoulder, long and 
livid. She buttoned her dress over it with hasty re- 
pentance. 

" Maybe I 'd oughtn't to have told," she said. " But 
he said he 'd be kind to me." 

Jack was very sorry about this when he was sober. 
He kissed his wife, and bought a pair of pink kid shoes 
for the baby ; which it never grew large enough to wear. 

I am not writing a temperance story, only the biography
of a fisherman, and a few words will say better than 
many how it was. Alcoholized brain-cells being one of 
the few bequests left to society which the heirs do not 
dispute, Jack went back to his habits with the ferocity 
that follows abstinence. Hard luck came. Teen was 
never much of a housekeeper ; she had left her mother 
too early ; had never been taught. Things were soggy, 
and not always clean ; and she was so busy in being 
struck and scolded, and in bearing and burying babies, 
that it grew comfortless beside the kitchen fire. The 
last of the illusions which had taken the name of home 
within the walls of the crumbling half-cottage withered 
out of it, just as the cinnamon roses did the summer 
Jack watered them with whiskey by a little emotional 
mistake. 

A worse thing had happened too. Some shipmate 
had " told " in the course of time ; and Teen's 
prematrimonial story got set adrift upon the current — 
one of the crudest currents of its kind — of Fairharbor 
gossip. The respectable neighbors made her feel it, as 
only respectable neighbors do such things. Jack, raging, 
overheard her name upon the wharves. Teen had 
been "that she said she would" to him. He knew it. 
No matron in the town had kept her life or heart more 




true. In all her sickness and trouble and slackness, and 
in going cold or hungry, and in her vivid beauty that 
none or all of these things could quench, Teen had carried
a sweet dignity of her own as the racer in the old 
Promethean festival carried the torch while he ran 




against the wind. Jack knew, — oh yes, he knew. 
But he grew sullen, suspicious. When he was drunk 
he was always jealous ; it began to take that form. 
When he was sober he still admired his wife ; sometimes
he went so far as to remember that he loved her.
When this happened, Teen dried her eyes, and brushed 
her yellow hair, and washed up the kitchen floor, and 
made the coffee, and said to the grocer when she paid 
for the sugar : 

"My husband has reformed." 

One night Jack came home unexpectedly ; a strange 
mood sat upon him, which his wife did not find herself 
able to classify by any of the instant and exquisite 
perceptions which grow, like new faculties, in wives. He 
had been drinking heavily when he left her, and she had 
not looked for him for days ; if he sailed as he was, it 
would be a matter of weeks. Teen went straight to 
him ; she thought he might be hurt ; she held out her 
arms as she would to one of her children ; but he met 
her with a gesture of indifference, and she shrank back. 

"She's here," said Jack. " Mother Mary 's in this 
d town. I see her." 

"I wish she'd talk to you," said Teen, saying pre- 
cisely the wrong thing by the fatal instinct which so 
often possesses drunkards' wives. 

" You do, do you ? " quoth Jack. " Well, I don't. I 
haven't give her the chance." He crushed on his hat 
and stole out of the house again. 

But his mood was on him yet ; the difference being 
that his wife was out of it. He sulked and skulked 
about the streets alone for a while ; he did not go back 
to the boys just then, but wandered with the apparent 
aimlessness in which the most tenacious aims are 


hidden. Mother Mary and her husband were holding 
sailors' meetings in the roughest quarter of the town. 
There was need enough of Mother Mary in Fairharbor. 
A crowd had gathered to hear the novelty. Fairharbor 
seamen were none too used to being objects of consideration ; 
it was a matter of mark that a parson and a lady 




should hire a room from a rich fish-firm, pay for it out 
of their own scanty pockets, and invite one in from deck 
or wharf, in one's oil-clothes or jumper, to hear what a 
messmate of Jack's called a "high-toned prayer." He 
meant perhaps to convey the idea that the petition 
treated the audience politely. 

Jack followed the crowd in the dark, shrinking in its 
wake, for he was now sober enough not to feel like himself.
He waited till the last of the fellows he knew had 




gone into the place and then crept up on tiptoe, and 
put his face against the window of the salt-cod warehouse 
where the little congregation was gathered, and 
looked in. The room was full and bright. It wore that 
same look of peace and shelter which he remembered. 
Mother Mary stood, as she had stood before, tall and 
pale in her black dress, with the white covering on her 
bosom. Her husband had been speaking to the fishermen, 
and she, as Jack put his gnarled hand to his ex- 
cited eyes and his eyes to the window -glass, turned 
her face full about, to start the singing. She seemed 
to Jack to look at him. Her look was sad. He felt 
ashamed, and cowered down below the window-sill. 
But he wanted to hear her sing. — he had never heard 
anybody sing like Mother Mary, — and so he stayed there 
for a little while, curled against the fish-house. It 
began to rain, and he was pretty wet ; but Jack was in his 
jumper, and a ragged old jumper at that; he knew he 
was not so handsome as he used to be ; he felt that he 
cut a poor figure even for a drunken fisherman ; all the 
self-respect that life had left him shrank from letting 
Mother Mary see him. Jack would not go in. A con- 
fused notion came to him, as he crouched against the 
warehouse, in the showers, that it was just as well it 
should rain on him ; it might wash him. He pushed up 
his sleeves and let the rain fall on his arms. He found 
an old Cape Ann turkey - box there was lying about, 
turned it edgewise so that one ragged knee might rest 
upon it, and thus bring his eye to a level with the window-sill, 
while yet he could not be seen from within. So 
he crouched listening. The glimmer from the prayer- 
room came across the fisherman's bared right arm, and 
struck the crucifix. Jack had the unconscious attitude 
of one sinking, who had thrown up his arms to be saved. 
The Christ on the crucifix looked starved and sickly. 
Jack did not notice the crucifix. 

At this moment Mother Mary's yearning voice rang 
out above the hoarse chorus of the fishermen, whose 
weather-ragged and reverent faces lifted themselves 



" I'm reformed:' 

mistily before her, as if they had been the countenance 
of one helpless man : 

" Rock of Ages, cleft for me ! " 

" Oh, my God ! " cried Jack. 

IV. 

It was the next day that some one told Mother Mary, 
at the poor boarding-house where she stayed, that a 
woman wanted a few words with her. The visitor was 
Teen. She was worn and wan and sobbing with excite- 
ment. Her baby was soon to be born. She did not 
look as if she had enough to eat. She had come, she 
said, just to see Mother Mary, just to tell her, for Jack 
never would tell himself, but she was sure her husband 
had reformed ; he would never drink again ; he meant to 
be a sober man ; and Mother Mary ought to know she 
did it, for she did, God bless her ! 

" I 've walked all this way to bless you for myself," 
said Teen. " I ain't very fit for walkin', nor I can't afford 
a ferry-ticket, for he didn't leave me nothin' on this 
trip, but I Ve come to bless you. My husband come to 
your meetin', Mother Mary, by himself, Jack did. He 
never goes to no meetin's, — nobody couldn't drove 
him ; but he come to yours because he says you treat a 
man like folks, and he wouldn't go inside, for he 'd ben 
drinkin' and he felt ashamed. So he set outside upon 
a box behind the winder and he peeked in. And he said 
it rained on him while he set peekin', for he wanted to 
get a look at you. And he come home and told me, 
for we 'd had some words beforehand, and I was glad to 
see him. I was settin' there and cryin' when he come. 
'I wouldn't, Teen,' says he, 'for I've seen Mother 



Mary, and I 'm reformed,' says he. So he told me how 
he set upon the box and peeked. He says you looked 
straight at him. He says you stood up very tall and 
kind of white. He says you read something out of a 
book, and then you sang to him. He says the song you 
sano- was Rock of Ages, and it made him feel so bad I 
had to cry to see him. He come in, and he got down 
on the lounge against our window, and he put his hand 
acrost his eyes and groaned like he was hurted in an 
accident. And he says, ' Teen, I wished I was a better 
man.' And I says, 'Jack, I wished you was.' And 
he says, ' I lost the hanker when I heard her sing the 
Rock of Ages, and if I lost the hanker I could swear 
off.' So I didn't answer him, for if I says, ' do swear 
off,' he'd just swear on, — they won't, you know, for 
wives. But I made him a cup of coffee, for I didn't 
know what else to do, and I brought it to him on the 
lounge, and he thanked me. ' Teen,' he says, ' I 'll never 
drink a drop again, so help me Mother Mary ! ' And 
then he kissed me, — for they don't, you know, after 
you 've been married. And he 's gone out haddockin', 
but we parted very kind. And so I come to tell you, 
for it mayn't be many days that I could walk it, and 
I 've been that to him as I said I should, and I thought 
you 'd better know." 

"You've had no breakfast," answered Mother Mary, 
"and you've walked too far. Here, stop at the Holly 
Tree as you go home ; get a bowl of soup ; and take the 
ferry back. There, there ! don't cry quite so hard. 
I 'll try to stay a little longer. I won't leave town till 
Jack comes in. It takes the Rock of Ages to cure the 
hanker, Teen. But I 've seen older men than he is 
stop as if they had been stopped by a lasso thrown from 

heaven. If there's any save in him," added Mother 
Mary below her breath, " he shall have his chance, this 
time." 

He went aboard sober, and sober he stayed. He kept 
a good deal by himself and thought of many things. 
His face paled out and refined, as their faces do, from 
abstinence ; the ghost of his good looks hovered about 
him ; he mended up his clothes ; he did a kind turn to a 
messmate now and then ; he told some excellent clean 
stories, and raised the spirits of the crew ; he lent a 
dollar to a fellow with the rheumatism who had an indebt- 
edness to liquidate for St. Galen's Oil. When he had 
done this, he remembered that he had left his wife 

without money, and said aloud : ''That 's a mean 

trick to play on a woman." 

He had bad luck, however, that trip ; his share was 
small ; he made seven dollars and twenty-seven cents 
in three weeks. This was conceded by the crew of 
the fishing-schooner (her name was the Destiny) to be 
because Jack had "sworn off." It is a superstition 
among them. One unfamiliar with the lives of these 
men will hammer cold iron if he thinks to persuade 
them that rum and luck do not go together ; or that to 
"reform" does not imply a reduction of personal in- 
come. You might as well try to put the fisherman's 
fist into a Honiton lace jumper, as the fisherman's mind 
into proportion upon this point. 

Therefore Jack took his poor trip carelessly ; it was 
to be expected ; he would explain it to Mother Mary 
when he got in. He drank nothing at all ; and they 
weighed for home. 

When Jack stepped off the Destiny, at Zephaniah 
Salt & Co.'s wharf at Fairharbor, after that voyage, 



clean, pale, good-natured, and sober, thinking that he 
would get shaved before he hurried home to Teen, and 
wishing he could pay the grocer's bill upon the way, 
and thinking that, in default of this, he would start an 
account at the market, and carry her a chop or a sausage, 
in fact, thinking about her with an absorption 
which resembled consideration, if not affection, — 
suddenly he caught her name upon the wharves. 

It may have been said of accident, or of the devil, — 
God knew ; they may have been too drunk to notice 
Jack at first, or they may have seen and scented from 
afar the bad blood they stirred, like the hounds they 
were. It will never be told. The scandal of these 
places is incredibly barbarous, but it is less than the 
barbarity of drinking men to a man who strikes out from 
among themselves, and fights for his respectability. 

The words were few, — they are not for us, — but 
they were enough to do the deed. Jack was quite sober. 
He understood. They assailed the honor of his 
home, the truth of his wife ; they hurled her past at her 
and at himself ; they derided the trust which he had in 
her in his absence ; they sneered at the " reformed 
man " whose domestic prospects were — as they were ; 
they exulted over him with the exultation in the sight of 
the havoc wrought, which is the most inexplicable impulse
of evil. 

Everybody knew how hot-blooded Jack was ; and 
when the fury rushed red over his face painted gray by 
abstinence, there was a smart scattering upon the 
wharves. 

His hand clapped to his pockets ; but his was an old, 
cheap, rusty pistol (he had swapped a Bible and his 
trawls for it once, upon a spree, and got cheated) ; it 

held but one cartridge, and his wrist shook. The shot 
went sputtering into the water, and no harm came of it. 
Jack jammed the pistol back into his pocket ; he glared 
about him madly, but had his glare for his pains ; the 
men were afraid of him ; he was alone upon the wharf. 

It can hardly be said that he hesitated. Would that 
it could. Raving to himself, — head down, hands 
clenched, feet stumbling like a blind man's, — the 
fisherman sank into the first open door he staggered by, as 
a seiner, pierced by an invisible swordfish, sinks into 
the sea. He had fifteen such places to pass before 
he reached his house. His chances were — as such 
chances go — at best. 

He drank for half an hour — an hour — a half more — 
came out, and went straight home. 

It was now night of a February day. It had not 
been a very cold day ; a light, clean snow had fallen, 
which was thawing gently. Jack, looking dimly on 
through his craze, saw the light of his half of the gray 
cottage shining ahead ; he perceived that the frost was 
melted from the windows. The warm color came 
quietly down to greet him across the fresh snow ; it had 
to him in his delirium the look of a woman's eyes when 
they are true, and lean out of her love to greet a man. 
He did not put this to himself in these words, but only 
said : 

"Them lamps look like she used to, — curse her ! " 
and so went hurtling on. 

He dashed up against the house, as a bowsprit dashes 
on the rocks, took one mad look through the unfrosted 
window, below the half-drawn curtain, and flung himself 
against the door, and in. 

His wife sat there in the great rocking-chair, leaning 




back ; she had a pillow behind her and her feet on the 
salt-fish box which he had covered once to make a 
cricket for her, when they were first married. She 
looked pale and pretty — very pretty. She was talking 
to a visitor who sat upon the lounge beside her. It was 
a man. Now, Jack knew this man well ; it was an old 
messmate ; he had sworn off, a year ago, and they had 
gone different ways ; he used to be a rough fellow ; but 
people said now you wouldn't know him. 

" I ain't so drunk but I see who you be, Jim," began 
the husband darkly ; " I 'll settle with you another day. 
I 've got that to say to my wife I 'd say better if we 
missed your company. Leave us by ourselves ! " 

" Look here, Jack," Jim flashed good-hum oredly, 
" you 're drunk, you know. She 'll tell you what I come 
for. You ask her. Seein' she wasn't right smart — 
and there 's them as says she lacked for victuals, — my 
wife sent me over with a bowl of cranberry sass, so help 
me Heaven ! " 

" I 'll kill you some other evenin'. Leave us be ! " 
cried Jack. 

" We was settin' and talkin' about the Reform Club 
when you come in," objected Jim, with the patience of 
an old friend. " We was wonderin' if we couldn't get 
you to sign, Jack. Ask her if we was n't. Come, now ! 
I wouldn't make a fool of myself if I was you, Jack. 
See there. You 've set her to cryin' already. And she 
ain't right smart." 

" Clear out of my house ! " * thundered Jack. " Leave 
us be by ourselves ! " 

" I don't know 's I 'd ought to," hesitated Jim. 

* Such peculiarities of Jack's pronunciation as were attributable to his 
condition will not be reproduced here. 




" Leave us be ! or I won't leave you be a minute longer ! Ain't it my house ? Get out of it ! " 

" It is, that 's a fact," admitted the visitor, looking 
perplexed ; " but I declare to Jupiter I don't know 's 
I 'd oughter leave it, the way things look. Have your 
senses, Jack, my boy ! Have your senses ! She ain't 
right smart." 

But with this Jack sprang upon him, and the wife 
cried out between them, for the love of mercy, that 
murder would be done. 

"Leave us be!" she pleaded, sobbing. " Nothin' 
else won't pacify him. Go, Jim, go, and shut the door, 
and thank her, for the cranberry sarse was very kind 
of her, and for my husband's sake don't tell nobody he 
wasn't kind to me. There. That 's right. There." 

She sank back into the rocking-chair, for she was 
feeble still, and looked gently up into her husband's 
face. All the tones of her agitated voice had changed. 

She spoke very low and calmly, as if she gathered her 
breath for the first stage of a struggle whose nature she 
solemnly understood. She had grown exceedingly pale. 

"Jack, dear?" softly. 

" I 'll give ye time," he answered with an ominous 
quiet. "Tell yer story first. Out with it ! " 

"I haven't got nothin' to tell, Jack. He brought 
the cranberry sarse, for his wife took care of me, and 
she was very kind. And he set a little, and we was 
talkin' about the club, just as he says we was. It's 
Mother Mary's club, Jack. She 's made Jim secretary, 
and she wanted you to join, for I told her you 'd 
reformed. Oh, Jack, I told her you 'd reformed ! — Jack, 
Jack ! Oh, Jack ! What are you goin' to do to me ' 
What makes you look like that ? — Jack, Jack, Jack. " 


:and up here ! " he raved. He was past reason, 
and she saw it ; he tore off his coat and pushed up his 
sleeves from his tattooed arms. 

You've plaved me false, I say! I trusted ye. and 
you've tricked me. I 'll teach ye to be the talk upon 
the wharves another time when I get in from George - 

She stood as he bade her, tottered and sank back ; 
crawled up again, holding by the wooden arm of the 
rocking-chair, and stretched one hand out to him, feebly. 
She did not dare to touch him ; if she had clung to him, 
he would have throttled her. When she saw him rolling 
up his sleeves, her heart stood still. But 
thought : "I will not show him I'm afraid of him. It's 
the only chance I 've got.'' 

The poor girl looked up once into his face, and 
thought she smiled. 

"Jack ! Dear Jack !" 

"I 'll teach ye ! I 'll teach you."

"Oh. wait a moment. For the love of Heaven, 

— stop a minute ! I 've been that I said I 'd be to you, 
since we was married. I've been an honest wife to you, 
my boy, and there 's none on earth nor heaven as can 
look me in the eye and darst to say I haven't. I swore 
to've upon the Rock of A_ces. Mother Man,- witnessin', 

— why, Jack?" her voice sank to infiniteness- 
" have ye forgotten ? You ain't yourself, poor boy. 
You'll be so sorry. I ain't very strong, yet. — you'd 
feel bad if you should hit me — again. I 'd hate to 
have vou feel so bad. Jack dear, don't Go look in the 
other room, before you strike again. Ye ain't seen it 

Jack, for the love of mercy ! — Tack ! Jack ! 
"Say you've played me false, and I'll stop. Own 
up, and I 'll quit. Own up to me. 




" I can't own up to you, for I swore you by the Rock 
of Ages ; I swore ye I would be an honest wife. You 
may pummel me to death, but I 'll not lie away them 
words I swore to ye . . . by that, . . . Jack, for the love 
of Heaven, don't ye, Jack ! For the way you used to 
feel to me, clear, dear Jack ! For the sake of the babies 
we had, . . . and you walked beside of me, to bury 'em ! 
Oh, for God's sake . . . Jack ! . . . Oh, you said you 'd 
be kind to me . . . Oh, ye 'll be so sorry ! For the love 
of pity ! For the love of God ! Not the pistol ! Oh, 
for the Rock of " — 

But there he struck her down. The butt end of the 
weapon was heavy enough to do the deed. He struck, 
and then flung it away. 

Upon his bared arm, as it came crashing, the crucifix 
was spattered red. 

V. 

He stood up stupidly and looked about the room. 
The covers were off the kitchen stove, and the heat of 
the coals blazed out. Her yellow hair had loosened as 
she fell, and shone upon the floor. 

He remembered that she spoke about the other room, 
and said of something yonder, that he hadn't seen it 
yet. Confusedly he wondered what it was. He stumbled 
in and stared about the bedroom. It was not very 
light there, and it was some moments before he perceived 
the cradle, standing straight across his way. 
The child waked as he hit the cradle, and began to cry, 
stretching out its hands. 

He had forgotten all about the baby. There had 
been so many. 




" You 'd better get up, Teen," he said as he went 
out; "it's cryin' after you." 

He shut the door and staggered down the steps.- He 
hesitated once, and thought he would go back and say 
to her : 

" What 's the use of layin' there ? " 

But he thought better, or worse, of it, and went his 
way. He went out and reshipped at once, lingering 
only long enough to drink madly on the way, at a place 
he knew, where he was sure to be let alone. The men 
were afraid of Jack, when he was so far gone under as 
this. Nobody spoke to him. He went down to Salt 
Brothers' wharf, opposite Salt & Co.'s, and found the 
Daredevil, just about to weigh. She was short by one 
hand, and took him as he was. 

He was surprised to find himself aboard when the 
next sun went down ; he had turned in his bunk and was 
overheard to call for Teen, ordering her to do some service 
for him, testily enough. 

" Oh," he muttered, " she ain't here, is she ? Be 
blasted if I ain't on the Daredevil." 

He was good for nothing, for a matter of days, and 
silent or sullen for the trip. It had been a heavy spree. 
He fell to, when he came to himself, and fished desperately ;
his luck turned, and he made money ; he made 
seventy - five dollars. They were gone three weeks. 
They had a bitter voyage, for it was March. 

They struck a gale at Georges', and another coming 
home. It snowed a great deal, and the rigging froze. 
The crew were uncommonly cold. They kept the stew- 
ard cooking briskly, and four or five hot meals a clay 
were not enough to keep one's courage up. They were 
particular about their cooking, as fishermen are, and 




the steward of the Daredevil was famous in his calling. 
But it was conceded to be unusually cold, even for 
March, at Georges'. One must keep the blood racing, 
somehow, for life's sake. 

Whiskey flowed fast between meals. Jack was ob- 
served not to limit himself. " It was for luck," he said. 
Take it through, it was a hard trip. The sober men — 
there were some — looked grim and pinched ; the drink- 
ers ugly. 

" It 's a hound's life," said a dory-mate of Jack's one 
day. His name was Rowe — Rowe Salt ; he was a half- 
brother of Jim's. But Jim was at home. And Teen, 
of course, was at home. Jack had not spoken of her ; 
he had thought of her, — he had thought of nothing 
else. God knows what those thoughts had been. When 
Rowe spoke to him in this fashion, Jack looked hard at 
him. 

" I 've been thinkin' ef it disobligated a feller," he 
said. 

" Hey ? " asked Rowe. 

" If you was treated like folks ; but you ain't. You 're 
froze. You 're soaked. You 're wrecked. Your nets 
is stole. You 're drove off in the fog. You 're drownded, 
and you lose your trawls. If you swear off, you 
miss your luck. It 's dirty aboard. Folks don't like 
the looks of you. There 's alwers a hanker in the pit o' 
your stomick. When you get upon a tear you don't 
know what you — do to — folks." 

Jack stopped himself abruptly, and leaned upon his 
oar ; they were trawling, and the weather grew thick. 

"Rowe," he said, staring off into the fog, "did ye 
ever think we was like fishes, us Fairharbor folks ?" 

"I don't know's I hev," said the dory-mate, staring 
too. 

" Well, we be, I think. We live in it and we 're 
drownded in it, and we can't get out on 't, — we can't 
get out. We look like 'em, too. I 've thought about 
that. Some of us look like haddock. You 've got the 
halibut look yourself. Skipper, he 's got the jib of a 
monk-fish, — you ken see it for yourself. There's a 
man I messed with, once, reminded me of a sculpin. I 
guess I 'd pass for a lobster, myself, — for color, anyhow.
We take it out someways, each on us. Don't 
ye know the look the women folks have when they get 
old and have gone hungry ? You can tell by the build 
of a boy which way he'll turn out, — halibut way, or 




hake, or mebbe mackerel if he 's sleek and little. It 's a 
kind of a birth-mark, I shouldn't wonder. There 's no 
gettin' out on 't, no more 'n it out of you. Sometimes 
I used to think — 

" Good Lord ! " cried Jack. He laid down his oar 
again, and the dory wheeled to starboard sharply. 

" Rowe Salt, you look there ! You tell me if you see 
a woman yonder, on the water ! " 

" You 've got the jim-jams, Jack. Women folks don't 




walk at Georges'. I can't see nothin' nowhere, but it's 
thick as " — 

" It's thick as hell," interrupted Jack, "and there's 
a woman walkin' on the water, — Lord ! don't you see 
her ? Lord ! her hair is yeller hair, and it 's streamin' 
over her, — don't you see her ? She 's walkin' on this 
devilish fog to-wards the dory, — Teen? Teen ! There! 
Lord save me, Rowe, if I didn't see my wife come 
walkin' towards us, us settin' in this dory. — Hi-i-igh ! 
I 'll swear off when I get home. I 'll tell her so. I 
hate to see such things." 

" You see, Rowe," Jack added presently, — for he had 
not spoken after that, but had fallen grimly to work. 
It was ten below, and the wind was taking the backward 
spring for a bitter blow ; both men, tugging at their 
trawls through the high and icy sea, were suffering too 
much to talk, — " ye see we had some words before I 
come aboard, and she warn't right smart. The baby 
can't be very old. I don' know how old it is. I was 
oncommon drunk ; I don't remember what I did to her. 
I 'm afraid I hit her, — for I had some words with her. 
I wished I was at home. She won't tell nobody. She 
never does. But I 'm set to be at home and tell her 
I 've sworn off. I 've got money for her this trip, too ; 
I 'm afraid she 's in a hurry for it." 

After this outburst of confidence, Jack seemed to 
cling to his dory-mate ; he followed him about deck, and 
looked wistfully at him. Jack had begun to take on the 
haggard look of the abstainer once again. The crew 
thought he did not seem like himself. He had stopped 
drinking, abruptly, after that day in the fog, and suffered 
heavily from the weather and from exposure. 

" I say, Rowe," he asked one day, " if anything was 




to happen, would you jest step in and tell my wife I 
didn't believe that yarn about her ? She'll know." 

Now it befell, that when they were rounding Eastern 
Point, and not till then, they bespoke the Destiny, which 
was outward bound, and signaled them. She drew to 
speaking distance, and her skipper had a word with the 
master of the Daredevil, but he spoke none too loud, 
and made his errand quickly, and veered to his own 
course, and the two boats parted company, and the Daredevil 
came bustling in. They were almost home. 

It was remembered afterward that Jack was badly 
frostbitten upon that voyage ; he looked badly ; he had 
strange ways ; the men did not know exactly how to 
take him. He was overheard to say : 

" I ain't agoin' to go to Georges' again." 

Rowe Salt overheard this, after the skipper of the 
Destiny had signaled and tacked. Jack was sitting aft 
alone, when he said it, looking seaward. He had paid 
little or no attention to the incident of the Destiny, but 
sat staring, plunged in some mood of his own which 
seemed as solitary, as removed from his kind and from 
their comprehension, as the moods of mental disorder 
are from the sane. 

So then, with such dexterity as the ignorant man 
could muster, Salt got his friend down below, on some 
pretext, and stood looking at him helplessly. 

"You don't look well, Rowe," Jack suggested pleasantly. 

" Jack," said his dory-mate, turning white enough, 
" I 'll make no bones of it, nor mince nothin', for 
somebody 's got to tell ye, and they said it must be me. 
There 's a warrant after ye. The sheriff's on the tug 
betwixt us and the wharf. She \s layin' off of the island, 
him aboard of her." 




"I never was in prison," faltered Jack. "The boys 
have always bailed me." 

"I ain't a bailin' matter, Jack, this time." 

" What did you say ? " 

" I said it wasn't a bailin' business. Somebody 's 
got to tell you." 

Jack gazed confidingly up into his friend's face. 

"What was it that I done, old boy? Can't ye tell 

me?" 

" Let the sheriff tell you. Ask the sheriff. I 'd 
rather it was the sheriff told you, Jack." 

" Tell me what it is I done, Rowe Salt ; I 'd tell you." 
He looked puzzled. 

" The sheriff knows more about it nor I do," begged 
the fisherman ; " don't make an old messmate tell you." 

"All right," said Jack, turning away. He had now 
grown very quiet. He pleaded no more, only to mutter 
once : 

" I 'd rather heard it from a messmate." 

Rowe Salt took a step or two, turned, stopped, stirred, 
and turned again. 

"You killed somebody, then, if you will know." 

" Killed somebody ? " 

" Yes." 

" I was drunk and killed somebody ? " 

" Lord help you, yes." 

" I hope," hoarsely — " Look here, Salt. I hope Teen 
wont know. 

"I say, Rowe," after a long pause, "who was it that 
I killed?" 

"Ask the sheriff." 

"Who was it that I killed ?" 

"The skipper 'll tell you, mebby. I won't. No, I 




vow I won't. Let me go. I 've done my share of this. 
Let me up on deck ! I want the air ! " 

"I won't let you up on deck— so help me! — till you 
tell!" 

" Let me off, Jack, let me off ! " 




" Tell me who it was, I say ! " 

"Lord in heaven, the poor devil don't know, — he 
really don't." 

" I thought you would ha' told me, Rowe," said Jack 
with a smile, — his old winning smile, that had captivated 
his messmates all his life. 

" I will tell you ! " cried Rowe Salt with an oath of 
agony. " You killed your wife ! You murdered her. 
She 's dead Teen ain't to home. She 's dead." 



VI. 

They made way for him at this side and at that, for 
he sprang up the gangway, and dashed among them. 
When he saw them all together, and how they looked at 
him, he stopped. A change seemed to strike his pur- 
pose, be it what it might. 

" Boys," said Jack, looking all about, " ye won't have 
to go no bail for me. I 'll bide my account, this time." 

He parted from them, for they let him do the thing 
he would, and got himself alone into the bows, and there 
he sank down, crouching, and no one spoke to him. 

The Daredevil rounded Eastern Point, and down the 
