quickly pulls herself in with a round turn, which 
is an apology in itself. Upon such occasions a 
man wants to get his fingers about the throat of 
the world. She has acquired all the little arts 
and mannerisms of the London drawing-room 
girl, and although they do not sit ungracefully 
upon her, because she is innately graceful, and 
too clever to assume a virtue which she cannot 
assimilate, still it is like a foreigner -who speaks 
your language to perfection in all but accent, and 
whom you long to hear in his own tongue. Put 
her back in her Welsh castle, and the scales 
would fall from her as from a mermaid who 
loves. If she returns to her father at the end of 
the season, I think I will call upon her six months 
later. She should go now, though; scales are 
apt to corrode. But what is the mystery about 
the mother? Did she elope with the coachman ? 
But, no; that is strictly a modern freak of fashion. 
Perhaps she died in a mad-house. Not 
improbable, if she had an)^thing of the nature of 
this girl in her, and Sir Iltyd sowed the way with 
thorns too sharp. Poor girl! she is too young 
for mysteries, whatever it is. I shall like to 
know her better, but she is so intense that she 
makes me feel frivolous. I am never intense 
except when I have the blues, and intensity, with 
my peculiar mental anatomy, is a thing to be 
avoided. In what is invariably the last chapter 
of those attacks of morbid dissatisfaction I shall 
some day feel an intense desire to blow out my 
brains, and shall probably sucgumb. I wonder 
if she will induce another rhyming attack to- 
night. Was that night a dream or a reality ? 
Could I have had a short but sharp attack of 
brain fever ? Perhaps the less I think about it 
the better; but it is decidedly hard to be gifted 
with the instincts of a poet and denied the 
verbal formulation. And it was the most pain- 
fully realistic, aggressively material thing, that 
conflict in my brain, that mortal ever experi- 
enced. That, however, may have been a mere 
figment of my excited imagination. But what 
excited my imagination ? That is the question. 
If I remember aright, I was mentally discoursing 
with some enthusiasm upon Miss Penrhyn's 
charms, but in strict impartiality it cannot be 
said that I was excited. The excitement was 
like that produced by an onslaught from behind. 
It is the more surprising, as I think it may be 
conceded that I have myself pretty well in hand 
by this time, and that my nerves, unruly as 
nature saw fit to make them, are now my very 
abject slaves. Occasionally one of our fiction 
carpenters flies off at a tangent and treats us to a 
series of intellectual gymnastics, the significance 
of which — so we are called upon to digest — is that 
the soul of one dead, finding its present clime 
too warm — or too cold — or having left something 
undone on earth, takes temporary and summary 
possession of an unfortunate still in the flesh, 
and through this unhappy medium endeavors to 
work his will. Perhaps that is what is the matter 
with me. Pollok, perchance, who died in his 
flower, thinking that he had not given the world 
a big enough pill to swallow, wants to concoct 
another dose in my presumably vacant brain. I 
appreciate the compliment, but I disdain to be 
Pollok's mouthpiece: I will be original or nothing. 
Besides, it is deuced uncomfortable. And 
I should like to know if there is anything in life 
more bitter than the sense, even momentary, of 
loss of self-mastery. Well, as I remarked a few 
moments since, the less I think about it the bet- 
ter, considering my unfortunate peculiarities. I 
will go and see Miss Penrhyn to-morrow; that 
will be sufficiently distracting for the present. 
V. 
He found her the next day in a pretty nwrning- 
room, dressed in a long white gown, with a single 
great yellow rose at her throat. She had a piece 
of tapestry in her hand, and as she rose to greet 
him, the plain, heavy folds of her gown clinging 
about her, and her dark hair bound closely around 
her head with asimplicity that was almost severe, 
Dartmouth again felt a humorous sense of hav- 
ing suddenly stepped into a page of a past 
century. 
" What are you doing ? " he said, as he took a 
chair opposite her. " Women never make tap- 
estry — real tapestry — in these days. You remind 
me of Lady Jane Grey. Shall I get a volume of 
Greek and read it to you ? " 
She laughed. " I fear it would literally be 
Greek to me. Latin and I had a fierce and 
desperate war, but I conquered in the end. With 
the Greek, however, the war was extremely 
brief, and he marched off with colors flying, and 
never condescended to renew the engagement." 
" For all mercies make us duly thankful. A 
woman who knows Greek is like a hot-house 
grape; a mathematically perfect thing, but 
scentless and flavorless." 
" You are consoling; and, indeed, I cannot see 
that it would have done me much good; it cer- 
tainly would not have increased my popularity 
among your exacting sex. You are the first man 
to whom I have dared acknowledge I know 
Latin. Lady Langdon was kind enough to give 
me elaborate warnings and instructions before 
she launched me into society. Among other 
things, she constantly reiterated, ' Never let a 
man suspect that you know anything, my dear. 
He will fly from you as a hare to cover. I want 
you to be a belle, and you must help me.' I
naturally asked her what I was to talk about, and she 
promptly replied: 'Nothing. Study the Ameri- 
can girl; they have the most brilliant way of jabbering 
meaningless recitatives of any tribe on 
the face of the earth. Every sentence is an epi- 
gram with the point left out. They are like the 
effervescent part of a bottle of soda-water.' 
This was while we were still in Wales; and she 
sent for six books by two of those American 
novelists who are supposed to be the expound- 
ers-in-chief of the American girl at home and 
abroad, and made me read them. It nearly 
killed me, but I did it; and I learned a valuable 
lesson. I hated the American girl, but I felt as 
if I had been boiled in soda-water and every 
pore of my body had absorbed it. I felt ecstatically
frivolous, and commonplace, and flashing, 
and sizzling. And — I assure you this is a fact, 
although you may not give me credit for such 
grim determination and concentration of purpose 
— but I never eat my breakfast before I have 
read an entire chapter from one of those two 
authors; it adjusts my mental tone for the day 
and keeps me in proper condition." 
Dartmouth threw back his head and gave vent 
to the heartiest burst of laughter he had indulged
in for years. " Upon my word, you are 
original," he exclaimed, delightedly; " and for 
heaven's sake, don't try to be anything else. 
You could not be an American girl if you tried 
for a century, for the reason that you have too 
many centuries behind you. The American girl 
is charming, exquisite, a perfect flower — but 
thin. She is like the first fruit of a new tree 
planted in new soil. Her flavor is as subtle and 
vanishing as pistachio, but there is no richness, 
no depth, no mellowness, no suggestion of generations
of grafting, or of orchards whose very sites 
are forgotten. The soda-water simile is good, 
but the American girl, in her actual existence — 
not in her verbal photographs, I grant you — is 
worthy of a better. She is more like one glass 
of champagne-/ra///, momentarily stimulating, 
but quickly forgotten. When I was in America, 
I met the most charming women in New York — 
I did not spend two weeks, all told, in Washington
— and New York is the concentrated essence, 
the pinnacle of American civilization and achievment. 
But although I frequently talked to one 
or another of those women for five hours at a 
time without a suggestion of fatigue, I always 
had the same sensation in regard to them that I 
had in regard to their waists while dancing — they 
were unsatisfactory, intangible. I never could 
be sure I really held a woman in my arms, and I 
never could remember a word I had exchanged 
with them. But they are charming — that word 
describes them 'down to the ground.' " 
" That word ' thin ' is good, too," she replied; 
" and I think it describes their literature better 
than any other. They write beautifully, those 
Americans, they are witty, they are amusing, 
they are entertaining, they delineate character 
with a master hand; they give us an exact idea 
of their peculiar environment and conditions; 
and the way they handle dialect is a marvel; but 
— they are thin; they ring hollow; they are like 
sketches in pen-and-ink; there is no color, no 
warmth, and above all, no perspective. I don't 
know that they are even done in sharp black-and- 
white; to me the pervading tone is gray. The 
American author depresses me; he makes me 
feel commonplace and new and unballasted. I 
always feel as if I were the ' millionth woman in 
superfluous herds'; and when one of those terrible 
American authors attacks my type, and 
carves me up for the delectation of the public, I 
shall go back to Wales, nor ever emerge from my 
towers again. And they are so cool and calm 
and deliberate, and so horribly exact, even the 
 
lesser lights. They always remind me of a 
medical student watching the workings of the 
exposed nervous system of a chloroformed hare." 
Dartmouth looked at her with some intensity 
in his gaze. " I am glad your ideas are so 
singularly like my own," he said. "It is rather 
remarkable they should be, but so it is. You 
have even a way of putting your thoughts that 
strikes me as familiar, and which, out of my 
natural egotism, I find attractive. But I wish you 
would go back to your old castle; the world will 
spoil you." 
"I shall return in a month or two now; my 
father is lonely without me." 
" I suppose he spoils you," said Dartmouth, 
smiling. " I imagine you were an abominable 
infant. Tell me of some of the outrageous things 
you used to do. I was called the worst child 
in three counties; but, I doubt not, your 
exploits discounted mine, as the Americans say." 
" Oh, mine are too bad to relate," she 
exclaimed, with a nervous laugh, and coloring 
swiftly, as she had done the night before. " But 
you were ill for a whole week, were you not ? 
Was it anything serious ? " 
Dartmouth felt a sudden impulse to tell her of 
his strange experience. He was not given to 
making confidences, but he felt en rapport with 
this girl as he had never felt with man or 
woman before. He had a singular feeling, when 
talking with or listening to her, of losing his 
sense of separateness. It was not that he felt 
de-individualized, but that he had an accession 
of personality. It was pleasant because it was 
novel, but at the same time it was uncomfortable 
because it was a trifle unnatural. He smiled a 
little to himself. Was it a case of affinity after 
all ? But he had no time to analyze. She was 
waiting for an answer, and in a moment he 
found himself yielding to his impulse and giving 
her a graphic account of his peculiar visitation. 
At first she merely dropped her tapestry and 
listened attentively, smiling and blushing a 
little when he told her what had immediately 
preceded the impulse to write. But gradually the 
delicate pink left her face, and she began to 
move in the spasmodic, uncontrollable way of a 
person handling an electric battery. She clasped 
the arms of her chair with such force that her 
arms looked twisted and rigid, and finally she bent 
slowly forward, gazing up into his face with eyes 
expanded to twice their natural size and not a 
vestige of color in her cheek or lips: she looked 
like a corpse still engaged in the mechanical act of 
gazing on the scene of agony which had preceded 
its death. Suddenly she sprang to her feet and 
threw out her hands. "Stop!" she cried; 
"stop ! '' 
" What is it ? " he demanded, rising to his 
feet in amazement; he had been watching her 
with more or less surprise for some time. 
" I am afraid I have frightened you and made 
you nervous. I had better have kept my con- 
fidence to myself." 
" No, no, " she cried, throwing back her 
head and clasping her hands about it; 
" it is not that I am frightened — only — it 
was so strange ! While you were talking it 
seemed — oh ! I cannot describe it ! — as if you 
were telling me something which I knew as well 
as yourself. When you spoke it seemed to me 
that I knew and could put into words the wonderful 
verse-music which was battling upward to 
reach your brain. They were, they were — I 
know them so well. I have known them always; 
but I cannot — I cannot catch their meaning ! " 
Suddenly she stepped backward, dropped her 
hands, and colored painfully. " It is all purest 
nonsense, of course," she said, in her ordinary 
tone and manner, except for its painful embar- 
rasment. "It is only your strong, picturesque 
way of telling it which presented it as vividly to 
my mind as if it were an experience of my own. 
I never so much as dreamed of it before you 
began to speak." 
Dartmouth did not answer her for a moment. 
His own mind was in something of a tumult. In 
telling the story he had felt, not a recurrence of 
its conditions, but a certain sense of their 
influence; and the girl's manner and words were 
extraordinary. It could hardly be possible, even 
in cold blood, to understand their meaning. She 
was indisputably not acting. What she had 
said was very strange and unconventional, but 
from whatever source the words had sprung, 
they had not been uttered with the intention
premeditated or spontaneous of making an impression
upon him. They carried conviction of 
their sincerity with them, and Dartmouth was 
sensible that they produced a somewhat uncanny 
but strangely responsive effect upon himself. 
But what did it mean ? That in some occult way 
she had been granted a glimpse into the depths 
of his nature was unthinkable. He was not 
averse to indulging a belief in affinity; and that 
this girl was his was not a disagreeable idea; 
but his belief by no means embraced a second, 
to the effect that the soul of one's anti- 
type is as an open book to the other. Could her 
mind be affected ? But no. She was a very
unusual girl, possibly an eccentric one; but he 
flattered himself that he knew a lunatic when he 
saw one. There was left then but the conclusion 
that she possessed a strongly and remarkably 
sympathetic nature, as yet unbridled and 
unblunted by the world, and that he had made a 
dangerous imprint upon it. He was not unduly 
vain, but he was willing to believe that she would 
not vibrate so violently to every man's touch. 
This point settled to the best of his capabilities, 
 
he allowed a second consciousness, which had 
been held under for the moment, during the
exercisings of his analytical instinct, to claim his 
consideration. He was sensible that he was
attracted as he had never been attracted by woman 
before. He had felt something of this on the 
night he had met her, and he had felt it more 
strongly on the occasion of their second inter- 
view; but now he was aware that it had suddenly 
taken the form of an overmastering desire for 
possession. He was by nature an impulsive man, 
but he was a man of the world as well, and he 
had his impulses pretty well subordinated to
interest and common-sense; nevertheless he felt 
very much like doing a rash and impulsive thing 
at the present moment. He was a man of rapid 
thought, and these reflections chased each other 
through his mind much more quickly than I have 
been able to take them down, and Miss Penrhyn 
had averted her gaze and was playing nervously 
with some flowers in a basket on a pedestal
beside her. She was acutely aware that she had 
made a fool of herself, and imagined that his 
hesitation was due to a polite desire to arrange his 
reply in such wise as not to make his 
appreciation of the fact too crudely apparent. At the 
same time she was a little exhausted under 
the reaction of a short but very severe mental 
strain. As for Dartmouth, he hesitated a mo- 
ment longer. He was balancing several pros 
 
and cons very rapidly. He was aware that if he 
asked this girl to marry him and she consented, 
he must, as a man of honor, abide by the contract,
no matter how much she might disappoint 
him hereafter. At the same time the knowledge 
that he was in love with her was growing more 
distinct every second. Doubtless the wisest 
course would be to go away for the ptesent and 
postpone any decisive step until he knew her 
better. But he was not a patient man, and he 
was not in the habit of putting off until to-morrow
what he could do to-day. (He considered 
that certain of the precepts instilled during
childhood were of admirable practical value). The 
best thing in life was its morning: he did not 
like evening shadows and autumn twilights. 
There was nothing that could compare with the 
sweetness and fineness of the flavor of novelty. 
When it was practicable to take advantage of 
one's impulses one had a brief draught of true 
philosopher's happiness. And, at all events, this 
girl was a lady, high-born, high-bred, intellectual, 
and unique. She was also plastic, and if she had 
a somewhat too high-strung nature, love had 
been known to work wonders before. He had 
mastered the difficult art of controlling himself; 
he was not afraid of not being able to control 
any woman who loved him. He went over to 
her and took her hands in his strong clasp. 
" I have known you a very short " he began,
and then paused abruptly. 
 
He had meant to speak calmly and not frighten 
her by the suddenness of his love-making, but 
her touch fired him and sent the blood to his 
head. He flung down her hands, and throwing 
his arms about her, kissed her full on the mouth. 
The girl turned very white and tried to free 
herself, but his arms were too strong, and in a mo- 
ment she ceased to resist. She made no attempt 
to define her feelings as Dartmouth had done. 
She had felt the young man's remarkable
magnetism the moment she had met him: she had 
been aware of a certain prophetic instinct of 
it some hours before, when he had stood in 
the window of a crowded caf^ above a crowded 
thoroughfare and speculatively returned her 
gaze. And the night before, she had gone 
home with a very sharply outlined consciousness 
that she would never again meet a man who 
would interest her so deeply. To-day, this
feeling had developed into one of strong
reciprocal sympathy, and he had exerted a psychological 
influence over her as vaguely delightful as it was 
curious and painful. But all this was no 
preparation for the sudden tumult of feeling which 
possessed her under his kiss. She knew that it 
was love; and, that it had come to her without 
warning, made the knowledge no less keen and 
sure. Her first impulse was to resist, but purely 
out of that pride which forbids a woman to yield 
too soon; and when his physical strength made 
her powerless, she was glad that it should be so. 
"Will you marry me?" he asked. 
" Yes " she said; " I will marry you." 
PART II. 
THE DISCORD. 
I. 
Two WEEKS later Dartmouth had -followed 
Weir Penrhyn to Wales. He had written to her 
father at once, and Sir Iltyd had informed him 
in reply that although aware of his rank and 
private fortune, through Lady Langdon's 
intimation, and although possessing a high regard and 
esteem for his father, still it was impossible for 
him to give any definite answer until he had 
known him personally, and he therefore invited 
him to come as soon as it pleased him and pay 
Rhyd-Alwyn a visit. Weir accordingly, and much 
to Lady Langdon's disgust, had returned to 
Wales at once; Dartmouth insisted upon an early 
marriage, and the longer they delayed obtaining 
Sir Iltyd's consent the longer must the wedding 
be postponed. 
 
Dartmouth arrived late in the afternoon at 
Rhyd-Alwyn — a great pile of gray towers of the 
Norman era and half in ruins. He did not 
meet Sir Iltyd until a few minutes before dinner 
was announced, but he saw Weir for a moment 
before he went up-stairs to dress for dinner. 
His room was in one of the towers, and as he 
entered it he had the pleasurable feeling, which 
Weir so often induced, of stepping back into a 
dead and gone century. It looked as if unnumbered
generations of Penrhyns had slept there 
since the hand of the furnisher had touched it. 
The hard, polished, ascetic-looking floor was 
black with age; the tapestry on the walls
conveyed but a suggestion of what its pattern and 
color had been; a huge four-posted bed heavily 
shrouded with curtains stood in the centre of the 
room, and there were a number of heavy, carved 
pieces of furniture whose use no modern Penrhyn 
would pretend to explain. The vaulted ceiling 
was panelled, and the windows were narrow and 
long and high. Sufficient light found its way 
through them, however, to dress by, and there 
was a bright log-fire in the open fire-place. 
"Jones," said Dartmouth, after he had admiringly 
examined the details of the room and was 
getting into his clothes, " just throw those 
curtains up over the roof of that bed. I like the 
antique, but I don't care to be smothered. Give 
me my necktie, and look out for the bed before 
you forget it." 
 
Jones looked doubtfully up at the canopy. 
"That is pretty 'igh, sir," he said. " If I can 
find a step-ladder " 
"A step-ladder in a Welsh castle! The ante- 
deluge Penrhyns would turn in their graves, or to 
be correct, in their family vaults. No true Welsh 
noble is guilty of departing from the creed of 
his ancestors to the tune of domestic comforts. 
It is fortunate a man does not have to marry his 
wife's castle as well as herself. Get up on to that 
cabinet — it is twice as high as yourself — and you 
can manage the curtains quite easily." 
Jones with some difficulty succeeded in mov- 
ing the tall piece of furniture designated to 
the bed-side; then with the help of a chair he 
climbed to the top of it. He caught one of the 
tender-looking curtains carefully between his 
hands, and was about to throw it over the 
canopy, shutting his eyes and his mouth to 
exclude the possible dust, when the cabinet be- 
neath him suddenly groaned, swayed, and the 
next moment there was a heavy crash, and he 
was groaning in the midst of a dozen antique 
fragments. Harold sprang forward in some 
alarm and picked him up. " By Jove ! " he 
exclaimed, " I am afraid you are hurt; and what a 
row I have made! I might have known better 
than to tell you to trust your weight on that old 
thing." 
Jones shook himself slowly, extended his arms 
 
and legs, announced himself unhurt, and Dartmouth 
gave his attention to the cabinet. " I 
shall have to initiate myself in my prospective 
fnther-in-law's good graces by announcing myself 
a spoiler of his household goods," he exclaimed, 
ruefully. " And a handsome old thing like that, 
too; it is a shame ! " He thrust his hands into 
his pockets and continued looking down at the 
ruins with a quizzical smile on his face. 
"By every law of romance and of precedent,'' 
he thought, " I ought to find in that cabinet the 
traditional packet of old letters which would 
throw a flood of light upon some dark and 
tragic mystery. Else why did I tell Jones to 
stand upon that particular cabinet instead of that 
one over there, which looks as if iron hammers 
could not break it; and why did Jones blindly 
obey me ? That it should be meaningless chance 
is too flat to be countenanced. I should find the 
long lost Mss. of that rhymer who took posses- 
sion of me that night, and so save myself the 
discomfort of being turned into a Temple of 
Fame a second time. Truly there has been an 
element of the unusual throughout this whole 
affair with Weir. Once or twice I have felt as if 
about to sail out of the calm, prosaic waters of 
this every-day nineteenth-century life, and em- 
bark upon the phosphorescent sea of our 
sensational novelists — psychological, so-called. 
It IS rather soon for the cabinet to break, however. 
It suggests an anti-climax, which would 
be inartistic. But such material was never intended
to be thrown away by a hero of romance." 
He kicked about among the fragments of the 
ruined cabinet, but was rewarded by no hollow 
ring. It was a most undutifully matter-of-fact 
and prosaic piece of furniture in its interior, 
however much it may have pleased the aesthetic 
sense outwardly. He gave it up after a time, 
and finished dressing. " Nothing in that but 
firewood," he announced to Jones, who had 
been watching his researches with some surprise. 
" Pile it up in a corner and leave it there until I 
have made my peace with Sir Iltyd." 
He gave his necktie a final touch, then went 
down to the drawing-room, where he found the 
candles lit and Sir Iltyd standing on the hearth- 
rug beside his daughter. The old gentleman 
came forward at once and greeted him with 
stately, old-fashioned courtesy, his stern, 
somewhat sad features relaxing at once under Dart- 
mouth's rare charm of manner. He was a fine- 
looking man, tall and slim like his daughter, but 
Very fair. His head, well developed, but by no 
means massive, and scantily covered with gray 
hair, was carried with the pride which was the 
bone and fibre of his nature. Pride, in fact, 
albeit a gentle, chastened sort of pride, was 
written all over him, from the haughty curve of his 
eyebrow to the conscious wave of his small,
delicate hand — pride, and love for his daughter, 
for he followed her every movement with the 
adoring eyes of a man for the one solace of a 
sad and lonely old age. 
" It is so awfully good of you to let me come 
up here so soon," exclaimed Dartmouth. " But 
what do you suppose I have done to prove my 
gratitude?" 
" Made the castle your own, I hope." 
" I have. I proceeded at once to make my- 
self, at home by smashing up the furniture. One 
of your handsomest cabinets is now in ruins 
upon my bedroom floor." 
Sir Iltyd looked at him with a somewhat puzzled
glance. He had lived in seclusion for 
nearly thirty years, and was unaccustomed to the 
facetiousness of the modern youth. " Has anything 
happened ' " he demanded anxiously. 
Dartmouth smiled, but gave an account of the 
disaster in unadorned English, and received 
forgiveness at once. Had he confessed to having 
chopped his entire tower to pieces. Sir Iltyd 
would have listened without a tightening of the 
lips, and with the air of a man about to invite 
his guest to make a bonfire of the castle if so it 
pleased him. As for Weir, her late education 
made her appreciate the humor of the situation, 
and she smiled sympathetically at Harold over 
her father's shoulder. 
They went into dinner a few moments later, 
and Sir Iltyd talked a good deal. Although a 
man of somewhat narrow limitations and one-
sided views, as was but natural, taking into 
consideration the fact that his mental horizon had 
not been widened out by contact with his fellow- 
men for twenty-five years, he was, for a recluse, 
surprisingly well-informed upon the topics of 
the day. Dartmouth could not forbear making 
some allusion to the apparent paradox, and his 
host smiled and told him that as history had 
been his favorite study all his life, he could 
hardly be so inconsistent as to ignore the work 
which his more active contemporaries were making 
for the future chronicler. He then drew 
from Dartmouth a detailed account of that restless
young gentleman's political experience in 
Russia, and afterward questioned him somewhat 
minutely about the American form of government 
He seemed to be pleased with the 
felicity of expression and the well-stored mind 
of his would-be son-in-law, and lingered at the 
table longer than was his habit. There were no 
formalities at Rhyd-Alwyn. Weir remained 
with them, and when her father finally rose and 
went over to the hearth-rug, as if loth to leave 
the society of the young people, she went and 
stood beside him. He laid his arm across 
her shoulders, then turned to Dartmouth with a 
sigh. "You would take her from me," he said, 
sadly, " do you know that you will leave me to 
a very lonely life ? " 
 
" Oh, you will see enough of us," replied Har- 
old, promptly. " We shall be back and forth all 
the time. And Crumford Hall, I can assure you, 
is not a bad place to come to for the shooting." 
Sir Iltyd shook his head: " I could not live 
out of Wales," he said; "and I have not slept 
under another roof for a quarter of a century. 
But it is good of you to say you would not 
mind coming once in a while to this lonely old 
place, and it would make the separation easier 
to bear." 
He left them shortly after, and as he took 
Harold's hand in good-night, he retained it a 
moment with an approving smile, then passed a 
characteristic Welsh criticism: "It is a small 
hand," he said, "and a very well-shaped hand; 
and your feet, too. I am willing to acknowledge 
to you that I am weak enough to have a horror 
of large hands and feet. Good-night. I have 
to thank you for a very pleasant evening." 
II. 
" Harold," said Weir, the next morning after 
breakfast, as the door closed behind Sir Iltyd, 
"I shall entertain you until luncheon by showing 
you the castle." 
" My dear girl," said Harold, smiling, " let 
your role of hostess sit lightly upon you. I do 
not want to be entertained. I am perfectly 
happy." 
" Of that I have no doubt. Nevertheless I 
want you to see the castle, particularly the
picture-gallery, where all my ancestors be." 
" Then, by my troth, will I go, fair Mistress 
Penrhyn, for a goodly show your ancestors be, I 
make no doubt; " and Dartmouth plunged his 
hands into his pockets and looked down at her 
with a broad smile. 
Weir lifted her head. " My English is quite 
as pure as yours," she said. "And you certainly 
cannot accuse me of using what the London girls 
call 'slang. ' " 
This time Dartmouth laughed aloud. " No, 
my dear," he said, '' not even Shaksperean slang. 
But let us investigate the mysteries of the castle 
by all means. Lead, and I will follow." 
" There are no mysteries," said Weir; " we 
have not even a ghost. Nor have we a murder, 
or crime of any sort, to m'ake us blush for our 
family tree." 
" Happy tree ! Mine has a blush for every 
twig, and a drop curtain for every branch. 
Thank God for the Penrhyn graft! Let us hope 
that it will do as much good as its fairest flower 
has already done the degenerate scion of all the 
Dartmouths. But, to the castle! I would get 
through — I mean, I would gaze upon its an- 
tiquities as soon as possible." 
"This castle is very interesting, Mr. Dart- 
mouth," replied Weir, elevating her chin; "you 
have nothing so old in England." 
" True, nor yet in Jerusalem, O haughtiest of 
Welsh maidens ! I esteem it a favor that I am 
not put below the salt." 
Weir laughed. " What a tease you are ! But 
you know that in your heart your pride of 
family is as great as mine. Only it is the ' fad ' 
of the day to affect to despise birth and lineage. 
We of Wales are more honest.'' 
" Yes, it is your sign and seal, and it sits well 
upon you. I don't affect to despise birth and 
lineage, my dear. If I could not trace my ancestry
back to the first tadpole who loafed his 
life away in the tropical forests of old, I should 
be miserable." 
He spoke jestingly, but he drew himself up as 
he spoke, his lip was supercilious, and there was 
an intolerant light in his eye. At that moment he 
did not look a promising subject for the Liberal 
side of the House, avowedly as were his sympathies 
in that quarter. Weir, however, gave him 
an approving smile, and then commanded him to 
follow her. 
She took him over the castle, from the dungeons 
below to the cell-like rooms in the topmost towers. 
She led him through state bedrooms, in which had 
slept many a warlike Welsh prince, whose bones 
could scarcely be in worse order than the magnificence 
which once had sheltered them. She piloted 
him down long galleries with arcades on one 
side, like a cloister, and a row of rooms on the 
 
other, wherein the retainers of ancient princes of 
the house of Penrhyn had been wont to rest their 
thews after a hard day's fight. She slid back 
panels and conducted him up by secret ways to 
gloomy rooms, thick with cobwebs, wher-e treasure 
had been hid, and heads too loyal to a fallen 
king had alone felt secure on their trunks. She 
led him to chambers hung with tapestries 
wrought by fair, forgotten grandmothers, who 
over their work had dreamed their eventless lives 
away. She showed him the chapel, impressive 
in its ancient Norman simplicity and in its ruin, 
and the great smoke-begrimed banqueting-hall, 
where wassails had been held, and beauty had 
thought her lord a beast. 
" Well," she demanded, as they paused at 
length on the threshold of the picture-gallery, 
" what do you think of my father's castle ? " 
" Your father's castle is the most consistent 
thing I have seen for a long time: it is an 
artistically correct setting for your father's daughter. 
The chain of evolution is without a missing 
link. And what is better, the last link is 
uncorroded with the rust of modern conventions. 
Seriously, your castle is the most romantic I 
have ever seen. The nineteenth century is
forgotten, and I am a belted Knight of Merrie Eng- 
land who has stormed your castle and won you 
by his prowess. You stood in your window, high 
up in your tower, and threw me a rose, while 
 
your father stalked about the ramparts and 
swore that my bones should whiten on the beach. 
I raised the rose to my lips, dashed across the 
drawbridge, and hurled my lance at the gates. 
About my head a shower of barbs and bullets 
fell, but 1 heeded them not. Behind me thun- 
dered my retainers, and under their onslaught 
the mighty gates gave way with a crash, and the 
castle was ours ! We trampled into the great 
hall, making it ring with our shouts and the 
clash of our shields. Your father's men fled 
before us, but he calmly descended the staircase 
and confronted us with his best Welsh stare. 
' I fear ye not, villains,' he cried. ' Barbarians, 
English dogs ! I defy ye. Do your worst. My 
daughter and I for death care not. The mighty 
house of Istyn-ap-Dafyd-ap-Owain-ap-Caradoc- 
ap-Iltyd-ap-Penrhyn knoweth not fear of living 
man, nor yet of death's mysterious charnel- 
house.' 'Wrong me not, gentle sir,' I cried, 
snatching off my helmet and trailing its plumes 
upon the floor; 'I come in love, not in destruc- 
tion. Give me but thy daughter, O Dafyd-ap- 
Owain- ap - Istyn - ap - Caradoc- ap- Iltyd-ap-Pen- 
rhyn, and thy castle and thy lands, thy rocks 
and thy sea, are thine again, even as were they 
before the beauty of the Lady Weir turned my 
blood to lava and my heart to a seething volcano. 
Give me but thy daughter's hand, and wealth 
shall flow into thy coffers, and the multitude of 
thy retainers shall carry terror to the heart of 
thy foe. What say ye, my Lord Caradoc-ap- 
Owain-ap-etcetera ? ' Whereupon the lord of 
Rhyd-Alwyn unbent his haughty brows, and 
placing one narrow, white, and shapely hand 
upon my blood-stained baldric, spoke as follows: 
' Well said, young Briton. Spoken like a brave 
knight and an honorable gentleman. My 
daughter thou shalt have, my son thou shalt be, 
thy friends shall be my friends, and thou and all 
of them shall be baptized Welshmen.' And then 
he himself re-ascended the staircase and sought 
you in your tower and led you down and placed 
your hand in mine. And the drums beat, and 
the shields clashed, and once more the mighty 
storm shook the rooks from the roof. But we 
heard it not, for on your finger I had placed the 
betrothal ring, then thrown my brawny arms 
about you and forgot that earth existed. Ex- 
cuse my eloquence," he cried, as he lifted her up 
and kissed her, " but your castle and yourself 
are inspiring." 
" That was all very charming, however," she 
said, " if you only had not such a reprehensible 
way of jumping from the sublime to the ridiculous, 
like a meteor from world to world." 
" Prettily said, sweetheart. But, trust me, if I 
ever reach the sublime I will stay there. Now, 
to your ancestors! Great heaven ! what an 
array!" 
 
They had entered a long, narrow room, against 
whose dark background stood out darker canvasses 
of an army of now celestial Penrhyns; an 
army whose numbers would have been a morning's 
task to count. The ancient Penrhyns had 
been princes, like most of their ilk; and the titles 
which Weir glibly recited, and the traditions of 
valor and achievement which she had at her 
tongue's end, finally wrung from Dartmouth a 
cry for mercy. 
"My dear girl!" he exclaimed, "keep the 
rest for another day. Those ' aps ' are buzzing 
in my ears like an army of infuriated gnats, and 
those mighty deeds are so much alike — who is 
that?" 
He left her side abruptly and strode down 
the gallery to a picture at the end, and facing 
the room. It was the full-length, life-size portrait
of a woman with gown and head-dress in 
the style of the First Empire. One tiny, pointed 
foot was slightly extended from beneath the 
white gown, and — so perfect had been the skill of 
the artist — she looked as if about to step from 
the canvas to greet her guests. 
" That is my grandmother, Sioned, wife of 
Dafyd - ap - Penrhyn, who, I would have you 
know, was one of the most famous diplomatists 
of his day," said AVeir, who had followed, and 
stood beside him. " She was the daughter of 
the proudest earl in Wales — but I spare you his 
 
titles. I am exactly like her, am I not? It is 
the most remarkable resemblance which has ever 
occurred in the family." 
"Yes," said Dartmouth, "you are like her." 
He plunged his hands into his pockets and 
stared at the floor, drawing his brows together. 
Then he turned suddenly to Weir. "I have seen 
that woman. before,'' he said. "That is the
reason why I thought it was your face which was 
familiar. I must have seen your grandmother 
when I was a very young child. I have forgotten 
the event, but I could never forget such a 
face." 
"But Harold," said Weir, elevating her brows 
"It is quite impossible you could ever have seen 
my grandmother. She died when papa was a 
little boy." 
"Are you sure?" 
" Quite sure. I have often heard him say he 
had no memory whatever of his mother. And 
grandpapa would never talk with him about her. 
He was a terribly severe old man, they say — he 
died long years before I was born — but he must 
have loved my grandmother very much, for he 
could not bear to hear her name, and he never 
came to the castle after her death." 
"It is strange," said Harold, musingly, "but I 
have surely seen that face before." 
He looked long at the beautiful, life-like picture 
before him. It was marvellously like Weir 
in form and feature and coloring. But the expression
was sad, the eyes were wistful, and the 
whole face was that, not of a woman who had 
lived, but of a woman who knew that out of her 
life had passed the power to live did she bow her 
knee to the Social Decalogue. As Weir stood, 
with her bright, eager, girlish face upheld to the 
woman out of whose face the girlish light had 
forever gone, the resemblance and the contrast 
were painfully striking. 
" I love her! " exclaimed Weir, " and whenever 
I come in here I always kiss her hand." She 
went forward and pressed her lips lightly to the 
canvas, while Dartmouth stood with his eyes 
fastened upon the face whose gaze seemed to 
meet his own and — soften — and invite — 
He stepped forward suddenly as Weir drew 
back. " She fascinates me, also," he said, with a 
half laugh. 'I, too, will kiss her hand." 
III. 
With the exception of the time spent in the 
dining-room, the young people saw little of Sir 
Iltyd. That he liked Dartmouth and enjoyed 
his society were facts he did not pretend to
disguise. But the habits of years were too strong, 
and he always wandered back to his books. He 
did not trouble himself about proprieties. Weir 
had grown up and ruled the castle all these years 
 
without a chaperon, and he had Hved out of the 
world too long to suggest the advisability of one 
now. His daughter and her lover experienced 
no yearning for supervision, and the free, 
untrammelled life was a very pleasant one, 
particularly to Dartmouth, who always gave to novelty 
its just meed of appreciation. At this period, 
in fact, Dartmouth's frame of mind left nothing 
to be desired. In the first place, it was a de- 
