there not ? ' inquired San Giacinto. 

' She is not dead,' replied the surgeon. ' Do you know 
herT 

' I think so. Had she anything about her to prove her 
identity ? ' 

' The letter M embroidered on her handkerchief. That is 
all I know. She has not been here a quarter of an hour. 
I thought she was dead myself, when we took her up.' 

' She was not under the ruins ? ' 

' No. She was struck by some small stone, I fancy. The 
two Zouaves were half buried, and are quite dead.' 

' May I see them ? I know many in the corps. They 
might be acquaintances.' 

' Certainly. They are close by in the mortuary chamber, 
unless they have been put in the chapel.' 

The two men entered the grim place, which was dimly 
lighted by a lantern hanging overhead. It is unnecessary to 
dwell upon the ghastly details. San Giacinto bent down 
curio iisly and looked at the dead men's faces. He knew 
neither of them, and told the surgeon so. 

' Will you allow me to see the lady ? ' he asked. 

' Pardon me, if I ask a question,' said the surgeon, who 
was a man of middle age, with a red beard and keen gray 
eyes. ' To whom have I the advantage of speaking ? ' 

' Signer Professore,' replied San Giacinto. ' I must tell you 
that if this is the lady I suppose your patient to be, the 






honour of one of the greatest families in Eome is concerned, 
and it is important that strict secrecy should be preserved.' 

'The porter told me that you were a Eoman prince,' 
returned the surgeon rather bluntly. ' But you speak like a 
southerner.' 

' I was brought up in Naples. As I was saying, secrecy 
is very important, and I can assure you that you will earn 
the gratitude of many by assisting me.' 

' Do you wish to take this lady away at once ? ' 

' Heaven forbid ! Her mother and sister shall come for 
her in half an hour.' 

The surgeon thrust his hands into his pockets, and stood 
staring for a moment or two at the bodies of the Zouaves. 

'I cannot do it,' he said, suddenly looking up at San 
Giacinto. I am master here, and I am responsible. The 
secret is professional, of course. If I knew you, even by 
sight, I should not hesitate. As it is, I must ask your name.' 

San Giacinto did not hesitate long, as the surgeon was 
evidently master of the situation. He took a card from his 
case and silently handed it to the doctor. The latter took it 
and read the name, ' Don Giovanni Saracinesca, Marchese di 
San Giacinto. His face betrayed no emotion, but the belief 
flashed through his mind that there was no such person in 
existence. He was one of the leading men in his profession, 
and knew Prince Saracinesca and Sant' Ilario, but he had 
never heard of this other Don Giovanni. He knew also that 
the city was in a state of revolution and that many suspicious 
persons were likely to gain access to public buildings on false 
pretences. 

' Very well,' he said quietly. ' You are not afraid of dead 
men, I see. Be good enough to wait a moment here no one 
will see you, and you will not be recognised I will go and 
see that there is nobody in the way, and you shall have a 
sight of the young lady.' 

His companion nodded in assent and the surgeon went 
out through the narrow door. San Giacinto was surprised 
to hear the heavy key turned in the lock and withdrawn, but 
immediately accounted for the fact on the theory that the 
surgeon wished to prevent any one from finding his visitor 




lest the secret should be divulged. He was not a nervous 
man, and had no especial horror of being left alone in a mor 
tuary chamber for a few minutes. He looked about him, and 
saw that the room was high and vaulted. One window alone 
gave air, and this was ten feet from the floor and heavily 
ironed. He reflected with a smile that if it pleased the 
surgeon to leave him there he could not possibly get out. 
Neither his size nor his phenomenal strength could assist him 
in the least. There was no furniture in the place. Half a 
dozen slabs of slate for the bodies were built against the wall, 
solid and immovable, and the door was of the heaviest oak, 
thickly studded with huge iron nails. If the dead men had 
been living prisoners their place of confinement could not 
have been more strongly contrived. 

San Giacinto waited a quarter of an hour, and at last, 
as the surgeon did not return, he sat down upon one of the 
marble slabs and, being very hungry, consoled himself by 
lighting a cigar, while he meditated upon the surest means 
of conveying Donna Faustina to her father's house. At last 
he began to wonder how long he was to wait. 

I should not wonder,' he said to himselfj ' if that long- 
eared professor had taken me for a revolutionist.' 

He was not far wrong, indeed. The surgeon had despatched 
\ messenger for a couple of gendarmes and had gone about 
nis business in the hospital, knowing very well that it would 
take some time to find the police while the riot lasted, and 
congratulating himself upon having caught a prisoner who, if 
not a revolutionist, was at all events an impostor, since he 
had a card printed with a false name. 



CHAPTER VI 

THE improvised banquet at the Palazzo Saracinesca was not 
a merry one, but the probable dangers to the city and the 
disappearance of Faustina Montevarchi furnished matter for 
plenty of conversation. The majority inclined to the belief 
that the girl had lost her head and had run home, but as 
neither Sant' Ilario nor his cousin returned, there was much 


 

speculation. The prince said he believed that they had 
found Faustina at her father's house and had stayed to 
dinner, whereupon some malicious person remarked that it 
needed a revolution in Kome to produce hospitality in such 
a quarter. 

Dinner was nearly ended when Pasquale, the butler, 
whispered to the prince that a gendarme wanted to speak 
with him on very important business. 

' Bring him here,' answered old Saracinesca, aloud. 
' There is a gendarme outside,' he added, addressing his 
guests, ' he will tell us all the news. Shall we have him 
here ? ' 

Every one assented enthusiastically to the proposition, for 
most of those present were anxious about their houses, not 
knowing what had taken place during the last two hours. 
The man was ushered in, and stood at a distance holding his 
three-cornered hat in his hand, and looking rather sheepish 
and uncomfortable. 

' Well ? ' asked the prince. ' What is the matter ? We 
all wish to hear the news.' 

'Excellency,' began the soldier, 'I must ask many 

pardons for appearing thus ' Indeed his uniform was 

more or less disarranged and he looked pale and fatigued. 

' Never mind your appearance. Speak up,' answered old 
Saracinesca in encouraging tones. 

' Excellency,' said the man, ' I must apologise, but there 
is a gentleman who calls himself Don Giovanni, of your 
revered name ' 

' I know there is. He is my son. What about him ? ' 

' He is not the Signer Principe di Sant' Ilario, Excellency 
he calls himself by another name Marchese di di 
here is his card, Excellency.' 

'My cousin, San Giacinto, then. What about him, I 



'Your Excellency has a cousin ' stammered the 

gendarme. 

' Well ? Is it against the law to have cousins ? ' cried 
the prince. ' What is the matter with my cousin ? ' 

' Dio mio I ' exclaimed the soldier in great agitation. 





' What a combination ! Your Excellency's cousin is in the 
mortuary chamber at Santo Spirito ! ' 

' Is he dead ? ' asked Saracinesca in a lower voice, but 
starting from his chair. 

'No,' cried the man, ' queston male. That is the 
trouble ! He is alive and very well ! ' 

'Then what the devil is he doing in the mortuary 
chamber?' roared the prince. 

' Excellency, I beseech your pardon, I had nothing to do 
with locking up the Signer Marchese. It was the surgeon, 
Excellency, who took him for a Garibaldian. He shall be 
liberated at once ' 

' I should think so ! ' answered Saracinesca, savagely. 
'And what business have your asses of surgeons with 
gentlemen ? My hat, Pasquale. And how on earth came 
my cousin to be in Santo Spirito ? ' 

'Excellency, I know nothing, but I had to do my 
duty.' 

' And if you know nothing how the devil do you expect 
to do your duty ! I will have you and the surgeon and the 
whole of Santo Spirito and all the patients, in the Carceri 
Nuove, safe in prison before morning ! My hat, Pasquale, 
I say ! ' 

Some confusion followed, during which the gendarme, 
who was anxious to escape all responsibility in the matter 
of San Giacinto's confinement, left the room and descended 
the grand staircase three steps at a time. Mounting his 
horse he galloped back through the now deserted streets to 
the hospital. 

Within two minutes after his arrival San Giacinto heard 
the bolt of the heavy lock run back in the socket and the 
surgeon entered the mortuary chamber. San Giacinto had 
nearly finished his cigar and was growing impatient, but 
the doctor made many apologies for his long absence. 

'An unexpected relapse in a dangerous case, Signer 
Marchese,' he said in explanation. ' What would you have ? 
We doctors are at the mercy of nature ! Pray forgive my 
neglect, but I could send no one, as you did not wish to be 
seen. I locked the door, so that nobody might find you 




here. Pray come with me, and you shall see the yotmg lady 
at once.' 

' By all means,' replied San Giacinto. ' Dead men are 
poor company, and I am in a hurry.' 

The surgeon led the way to the accident ward and 
introduced his companion to a small clean room in which a 
shaded lamp was burning. A Sister of Mercy stood by the 
white bed, upon which lay a young girl, stretched out at her 
full length. 

' You are too late,' said the nun very quietly. ' She is 
dead, poor child.' 

San Giacinto uttered a deep exclamation of horror and 
was at the bedside even before the surgeon. He lifted the 
fair young creature in his arms and stared at the cold face, 
holding it to the 'light. Then with a loud cry of astonish 
ment he laid down his burden. 

' It is not she, Signer Professore,' he said. ' I must 
apologise for the trouble I have given you. Pray accept 
my best thanks. There is a resemblance, but it is 
not she.' 

The doctor was somewhat relieved to find himself freed 
from the responsibility which, as San Giacinto had told him, 
involved the honour of one of the greatest families in Rome. 
Before speaking, he satisfied himself that the young woman 
was really dead. 

'Death often makes faces look alike which have no 
resemblance to each other in life,' he remarked as he turned 
away. Then they both left the room, followed at a little 
distance by the sister who was going to summon the bearers 
to carry away her late charge. 

As the two men descended the steps, the sound of loud 
voices in altercation reached their ears, and as they emerged 
into the vestibule, they saw old Prince Saracinesca flourish 
ing his stick in dangerous proximity to the head of the 
porter. The latter had retreated until he -stood with his 
back against the wall 

' I will have none of this lying,' shouted the irate noble 
man. 'The Marchese is here the gendarme told me he 
was in the mortuary chamber if he is not produced at once 





I will break your rascally neck ' The man was protest 
ing as fast and as loud as his assailant threatened him. 

' Eh ! My good cousin ! ' cried San Giacinto, whose 
unmistakable voice at once made the prince desist from his 
attack and turn round. ' Do not kill the fellow ! I am alive 
and well, as you see.' 

A short explanation ensued, during which the surgeon 
was obliged to admit that as San Giacinto had no means of 
proving any identity he, the doctor in charge, had thought 
it best to send for the police, in view of the unquiet state of 
the city. 

' But what brought you here ? J asked old Saracinesca, 
who was puzzled to account for his cousin's presence in the 
hospital 

San Giacinto had satisfied his curiosity and did not care 
a pin for the annoyance to which he had been subjected. 
He was anxious, too, to get away, and having half guessed 
the surgeon's suspicions was not at all surprised by the 
revelation concerning the gendarme. 

' Allow me to thank you again,' he said politely, turning 
to the doctor. ' I have no doubt you acted quite rightly. 
Let us go,' he added, addressing the prince. 

The porter received a coin as consolation money for the 
abuse he had sustained, and the two cousins found themselves 
in the street. Saracinesca again asked for an explanation. 

' Very simple,' replied San Giacinto. ' Donna Faustina 
was not at her father's house, so your son and I separated to 
continue our search. Chancing to find myself here for I 
do not know my way about the city I learnt the news of 
the explosionj and was told that two Zouaves had been 
found dead and had been taken into the hospital. Fearing 
lest one of them might have been Gouache, I succeeded in 
getting in, when I was locked up with the dead bodies, as 
you have heard. Gouache, by the bye, was not one of them. 

'It is outrageous ' began Saracinesca, but his 

companion did not allow him to proceed. 

' It is no matter,' he said, quickly. ' The important thing 
is to find Donna Faustina. I suppose you have no news 
of her.' 



' None. Giovanni had not come home when the gendarme 
appeared.' 

' Then we must continue the search as best we can,' said 
San Giacinto. Thereupon they both got into the prince's 
cab and drove away. 

It was nearly midnight when a small detachment of 
Zouaves crossed the bridge of Sant' Angelo. There had 
been some sharp fighting at the Porta San Paolo, at the other 
extremity of Rome, and the men were weary. But rest was 
not to be expected that night, and the tired soldiers were led 
back to do sentry duty in the neighbourhood of their quarters. 
The officer halted the little body in the broad space beyond. 

' Monsieur Gouache,' said the lieutenant, ' you will take 
a corporal's guard and maintain order in the neighbourhood 
of the barracks if there is anything left of them,' he added 
with a mournful laugh. 

Gouache stepped forward and half a dozen men formed 
themselves behind him. The officer was a good friend 
of his. 

' I suppose you have not dined any more than I, Monsieui 
Gouache ? ' 

' Not I, mon lieutenant. It is no matter.' 

' Pick up something to eat if you can, at such an hour. 
I will see that you are relieved before morning. Shoulder 
arms ! March ! ' 

So Anastase Gouache trudged away down the Borgo 
Nuovo with his men at his heels. Among the number there 
was the son of a French duke, an English gentleman whose 
forefathers had marched with the Conqueror as their 
descendant now marched behind the Parisian artist, a young 
Swiss doctor of law, a couple of red-headed Irish peasants, and 
two or three others. When they reached the scene of the 
late catastrophe the place was deserted. The men who had 
been set to work at clearing away the rubbish had soon 
found what a hopeless task they had undertaken ; and 
the news having soon spread that only the regimental 
musicians were in the barracks at the time, and that these 
few had been in all probability in the lower story of the 
building, where the band -room was situated, all attempts 
at finding the bodies were abandoned until the next 
day. 

Gouache and many others had escaped death almost 
miraculously, for five minutes had not elapsed after they had 
started at the double-quick for the Porta San Paolo, when 
the building was blown up. The news had of course been 
brought to them while they were repulsing the attack upon the 
gate, but it was not until many hours afterwards that a small 
detachment could safely be spared to return to their 
devastated quarters. Gouache himself had been just in 
time to join his comrades, and with them had seen most of 
the fighting. He now placed his men at proper distances 
along the street, and found leisure to reflect upon what had 
occurred. He was hungry and thirsty, and grimy with 
gunpowder, but there was evidently no prospect of getting 
any refreshment. The night, too, was growing cold, and he 
found it necessary to walk briskly about to keep himself 
warm. At first he tramped backwards and forwards, some 
fifty paces each way, but growing weary of the monotonous 
exercise, he began to scramble about among the heaps of 
ruins. His quick imagination called up the scene as it must 
have looked at the moment of the explosion, and then 
reverted with a sharp pang to the thought of his poor 
comrades-in-arms who lay crushed to death many feet below 
the stones on which he trod 

Suddenly, as he leaned against a huge block, absorbed in 
his thoughts, the low wailing of a woman's voice reached his 
ears. The sound proceeded apparently from no great 
distance, but the tone was very soft and low. Gradually, as 
he listened, he thought he distinguished words, but such 
words as he had not expected to hear, though they expressed 
his own feeling well enough. 

' Requiem eternam dona eis ! ' 

It was quite distinct, and the accents sounded strangely 
familiar. He held his breath and strained every faculty 
to catch the sounds. 

' Requiem sempiternam sempiternam sempiternam I ' 
The despairing tones trembled at the third repetition, and 
then the voice broke into passionate sobbing. 


Anastase did not wait for more. At first he had half 
believed that what he heard was due to his imagination, 
but the sudden weeping left no doubt that it was real. 
Cautiously he made his way amongst the ruins, until ne 
stopped short in amazement not unmingled with horror. 

In an angle where a part of the walk was still standing, 
a woman was on her knees, her hands stretched wildly out 
before her, her darkly-clad figure faintly revealed by the 
beams of the waning moon. The covering had fallen back 
from her head upon her shoulders, and the struggling rays 
fell upon her beautiful features, marking their angelic out 
line with delicate light. Still Anastase remained motionless, 
scarcely believing his eyes, and yet knowing that lovely face 
too well not to believe. It was Donna Faustina Montevarchi 
who knelt there at midnight, alone, repeating the solemn 
words from the mass for the dead j it was for him that she 
wept, and he knew it. 

Standing there upon the common grave of his comrades, 
a wild joy filled the young man's heart, a joy such as must 
be felt to be known, for it passes the power of earthly words 
to tell it. In that dim and ghastly place the sun seemed 
suddenly to shine as at noonday in a fair country ; the 
crumbling masonry and blocks of broken stone grew more 
lovely than the loveliest flowers, and from the dark figure 
of that lonely heart-broken woman the man who loved her 
saw a radiance proceeding which overflowed and made bright 
at once his eyes and his heart. In the intensity of his 
emotion, the hand which lay upon the fallen stone con 
tracted suddenly and broke off a fragment of the loosened 
mortar. 

At the slight noise, Faustina turned her head. Her eyea 
were wide and wild, and as she started to her feet she uttered 
a short, sharp cry, and staggered backward against the wall. 
In a moment Anastase was at her side, supporting her and 
looking into her face. 

' Faustina ! ' 

During a few seconds she gazed horrorstruck and silent 
upon him, stiffening herself and holding her face away from 
his. It was as though his crhost had risen out of the earth 





and embraced her. Then the wild look shivered like a 
mask and vanished, her features softened and the colour 
rose to her cheeks for an instant. Very slowly she drew 
him towards her, her eyes fixed on his ; their lips met in 
a long, sweet kiss then her strength forsook her and she 
swooned away in his arms. 

Gouache supported her tenderly until she sat leaning 
against the wall, and then knelt down by her side. He did 
not know what to do, and had he known, it would have 
availed him little. His instinct told him that she would 
presently recover consciousness and his emotions had so 
wholly overcome him that he could only look at her lovely 
face as her head rested upon his arm. But while he waited 
a great fear began to steal into his heart. He asked him 
self how Faustina had come to such a place, and how her 
coming was to be accounted for. It was long past midnight, 
now, and he guessed what trouble and anxiety there would 
be in her father's house until she was found. He repre 
sented to himself in quick succession the scenes which would 
follow his appearance at the Palazzo Montevarchi with the 
youngest daughter of the family in his arms or in a cab, 
and he confessed to himself that never lover had been in 
such straits. 

Faustina opened her eyes and sighed, nestled her head 
softly on his breast, sighing again, in the happy conscious 
ness that he was safe, and then at last she sat up and looked 
him in the face. 

' I was so sure you were killed,' said she, in her soft 
voice. 

' My darling ! ' he exclaimed, pressing her to his side. 

' Are you not glad to be alive ? ' she asked. ' For my 
sake, at least ! You do not know what I have suffered.' 

Again he held her close to him, in silence, forgetting all 
the unheard-of difficulties of his situation in the happiness 
of holding her in his arms. His silence, indeed, was more 
eloquent than any words could have been. 

' My beloved ! ' he said at last, ' how could you run 
such risks for me ? Do you think I am worthy of so much 
love ' And yet, if loving you can make me worthy of you, 







I am the most deserving man that ever lived and I live 
only for you. But for you I might as well be buried under 
our feet here with my poor comrades. But tell me, Faustina, 
were you not afraid to come ? How long have you been 
here ? It is very late it is almost morning.' 

' Is it ? What does it matter, since you are safe ? You 
ask how I came ? Did I not tell you I would follow you ? 
Why did you run on without me ? I ran here very quickly, 
and just as I saw the gates of the barracks there was a 
terrible noise and I was thrown down, I cannot tell how. 
Soon I got to my feet and crept under a doorway. I sup 
pose I must have fainted, for I thought you were killed. I 
saw a soldier before me, just when it happened, and he must 
have been struck. I took him for you. When I came 
to myself there were so many people in the street that I 
could not move from where I was. Then they went away, 
and I came here while the workmen tried to move the stones, 
and I watched them and begged them to go on, but they 
would not, and I had nothing to give them, so they went 
away too, and I knew that I should have to wait until 
to-morrow to find you for I would have waited no one 
should have dragged me away ah ! my darling my 
beloved ! What does anything matter now that you are 
safe ! ' 

For fully half an hour they sat talking in this wise, both 
knowing that the situation could not last, but neither willing 
to speak the word which must end it Gouache, indeed, 
was in a twofold difficulty. Not only was he wholly at a 
loss for a means of introducing Faustina into her father's 
house unobserved at such an hour ; he was in command of 
the men stationed in the neighbourhood, and to leave his 
post under any circumstances whatever would be a very 
grave breach of duty. He could neither allow Faustina to 
return alone, nor could he accompany her. He could not 
send one of his men for a friend to help him, since to take 
any one into his confidence was to ruin the girl's reputa 
tion in the eyes of all Eome. To find a cab at that time of 
night was almost out of the question. The position seemed 
desperate. Faustina too, was a mere child, and it was im- 





possible to explain to her the social consequences of her 
being discovered with him. 

' I think, perhaps,' said she after a happy silence, and in 
rather a timid voice ' I think, perhaps, you had better take 
ine home now. They will be anxious, you know,' she added, 
as though fearing that he should suspect her of wishing to 
leave him. 

' Yes, I must take you home,' answered Gouache, some 
what absently. To her his tone sounded cold. 

' Are you angry, because I want to go ? ' asked the young 
girl, looking lovingly into his face. 

' Angry ? No indeed, darling ! I ought to have taken 
you home at once but I was too happy to think of it. Of 
course your people must be terribly anxious, and the question 
is how to manage your entrance. Can you get into the 
house unseen ? Is there any way ? Any small door that is 
open ? ' 

' We can wake the porter,' said Faustina, simply. ' He 
will let us, in.' 

' It would not do. How can I go to your father and tell 
him that I found you here ? Besides, the porter knows me.' 

' Well, if he does, what does it matter ? ' 

' He would talk about it to other servants, and all Rome 
would know it to-morrow. You must go home with a 
woman, and to do that we must find some one you know. 
It would be a terrible injury to you to have such a story 
repeated abroad.' 

'Why?' 

To this innocent question Gouache did not find a ready 
answer. He smiled quietly and pressed her to his side 
more closely. 

' The world is a very bad place, dearest. I am a man 
and know it You must trust me to do what is best. 
Will you r 

' How can you ask ? I will always trust you.' 
' Then I will tell you what we will do. You must go 
home with the Princess Sant' Ilario.' 
' With Corona ? But ' 

' She knows that I love you, and she is the only woman 




in Rome whom I would trust. Do not be surprised. She 
asked me if it was true, and I said it was. I am on duty 
here, and you must wait for me while I make the rounds of 
my sentries it will not take five minutes. Then I will 
take you to the Palazzo Saracinesca. I shall not be missed 
here for an hour.' 

' I will do whatever you wish,' said Faustina. ' Perhaps 
that is best. But I am afraid everybody will be asleep. Is 
it not very late ? ' 

' I will wake them up if they are sleeping.' 

He left her to make his round and soon assured himself 
that his men were not napping. Then before he returned 
he stopped at the corner of a street and by the feeble moon 
light scratched a few words on a leaf from his notebook. 

' Madame,' he wrote, 'I have found Donna Faustina 
Montevarchi, who had lost her way. It is absolutely neces 
sary that you should accompany her to her father's house. 
You are the only person whom I can trust. I am at your 
gate. Bring something in the way of a cloak to disguise 
her with.' 

He signed his initials and folded the paper, slipping it 
into his pocket where he could readily find it. Then he 
went back to the place where Faustina was waiting. He 
helped her out of the ruins, and passing through a side 
street so as to avoid the sentinels, they made their way 
rapidly to the bridge. The sentry challenged Gouache who 
gave the word at once and was allowed to pass on with his 
charge. In less than a quarter of an hour they were at the 
Palazzo Saracinesca. Gouache made Faustina stand in the 
shadow of a doorway on the opposite side of the street and 
advanced to the great doors. A ray of light which passed 
through the crack of a shutter behind the heavy iron grating 
on one side of the arch showed that the porter was up. 
Anastase drew his bayonet from his side and tapped with 
its point against the high window. 

' Who is there ? ' asked the porter, thrusting his head out. 

' Is the Principe di Sant' Ilario still awake ? ' asked 
Gouache. 

' He is not at home. Heaven knows where he is. What 


 



do you want ? The princess is sitting up to wait for the 
prince.' 

'That will do as well,' replied Anastase. 'I am sent 
with this note from the Vatican. It needs an immediate 
answer. Be good enough to say that I was ordered to 
wait.' 

The explanation satisfied the porter, to whom the sight 
of a Zouave was just then more agreeable than usual. He 
put his arm out through the grating and took the paper. 

' It does not look as though it came from the Vatican,' 
he remarked doubtfully, as he turned the scrap to the light 
of his lamp. 

' The cardinal is waiting make haste ! ' said Gouache. 
It struck him that even if the man could read a little, 
which was not improbable, the initials A. G., being those of 
Cardinal Antonelli in reversed order would be enough to 
frighten the fellow and make him move quickly. This, 
indeed was precisely what occurred. 

In five minutes the small door in the gate was opened 
and Gouache saw Corona's tall figure step out into the street. 
She hesitated a moment when she saw the Zouave alone, 
and then closed the door with a snap behind her. Gouache 
bowed quickly and gave her his arm. 

' Let us be quick,' he said, ' or the porter will see us. 
Donna Faustina is under that doorway. You know how 
grateful I am there is no time to say it.' 

Corona said nothing but hastened to Faustina's side. 
The latter put her arms about her friend's neck and kissed 
her. The princess threw a wide cloak over the young girl's 
shoulders and drew the hood over her head. 

'Let us be quick,' said Corona, repeating Gouache's 
words. They walked quickly away in silence, and no one 
spoke until they reached the Palazzo Montevarchi. Ex 
planations were impossible, and every one was too much 
absorbed by the danger of the situation to speak of anything 
else. When they were a few steps from the gate Corona 
stopped. 

' You may leave us here,' she said coldly, addressing 
Gouache. 








' But, princess, I will see you home,' protested the latter, 
somewhat surprised by her tone. 

' No I will take a servant back with me. Will you be 
good enough to leave us ? ' she asked almost haughtily, as 
Gouache still lingered. 

He had no choice but to obey her commands, though for 
some time he could not explain to himself the cause of the 
princess's behaviour. 

' Good-night, Madame. Good-night, Mademoiselle,' he 
said, quietly. Then with a low bow he turned away and dis 
appeared in the darkness. In five minutes he had reached 
the bridge, running at the top of his speed, and he regained 
his post without his absence having been observed. 

When the two women were alone, Corona laid her hand 
upon Faustina's shoulder and looked down into the girl's 
face. 

'Faustina, my child,' she said, 'how could you be led 
into such a wild scrape V 

'Why did you treat him so unkindly?' asked the young 
girl with flashing eyes. ' It was cruel and unkind ' 

' Because he deserved it,' answered Corona, with rising 
anger. ' How could he dare from my house a mere child 
like you ' 

I do not know what you imagine,' said Faustina in a 
tone of deep resentment. ' I followed him to the Serristori 
barracks, and I fainted when they were blown up. He 
found me and brought me to you, because he said I could 
not go back to my father's house with him. If I love him 
what is that to you ? ' 

' It is a great deal to me that he should have got you into 
this trouble.' 

' He did not. If it is trouble, I got myself into it. Do 
you love him yourself that you are so angry ! ' cried Corona in amazement at the girl's audacity. 
' Poor Gouache ! ' she added with a half-scornful, half-pitying 
laugh. ' Come, child ! Let us go in. We cannot stand 
here all night talking. I will tell your mother that you lost 
your way in our house and were found asleep in a distant 
room. The lock was jammed, and you could not get out.' 



' I think I will simply tell the truth,' answered Faustina. 

' You will do nothing of the kind,' said Corona, sternly. 
' Do you know what would happen ? You would be shut 
up in a convent by your father for several years, and the 
world would say that I had favoured your meetings with 
Monsieur Gouache. This is no trifling matter. You need 
say nothing. I will give the whole explanation myself, and 
take the responsibility of the falsehood upon my own 
shoulders.' 

' I promised him to do as he bid me,' replied Faustina. 
' I suppose he would have me follow your advice, and so I 
will Are you still angry, Corona ?' 

' I will try not to be, if you will be sensible.' 

They knocked at the gate and were soon admitted. The 
whole household was on foot, though it was past one o'clock. 
It is unnecessary to describe the emotions of Faustina's 
relations, nor their gratitude to Corona, whose explanation 
they accepted at once, with a delight which may easily be 
imagined. 

' But your porter said he had seen her leave your house,' 
said the Princess Montevarchi, recollecting the detail and 
anxious to have it explained. 

' He was mistaken, in his fright,' returned Corona, calmly. 
' It was only my maid, who ran out to see what was the 
matter and returned soon afterwards.' 

There was nothing more to be said. The old prince and 
Ascanio Bellegra walked home with Corona, who refused to 
wait until a carriage could be got ready, on the ground that 
her husband might have returned from the search and might 
be anxious at her absence. She left her escort at her door 
and mounted the steps alone. As she was going up the porter 
came running after her. 

' Excellency,' he said in low tones, ' the Signer Principe 
came back while you were gone, and I told him that you 
had received a note from the Vatican and had gone away 
with the Zouave who brought it. I hope I did right ' 

' Of course you did,' replied Corona. She was a calm 
woman and not easily thrown off her guard, but as she 
made her answer she was conscious of an unpleasant sensa- 




tion wholly new to her. She had never done anything 
concerning which she had reason to ask herself what 
Giovanni would think of it. For the first time since her 
marriage with him she knew that she had something to 
conceal How, indeed, was it possible to tell him the story 
of Faustina's wild doings ? Giovanni was a man who knew 
the world, and had no great belief in its virtues. To tell 
him what had occurred would be to do Faustina an irrepar 
able injury in his eyes. He would believe his wife, no 
doubt, but he would tell her that Faustina had deceived 
her. She cared little what he might think of Gouache, for 
she herself was incensed against him, believing that he must 
certainly have used some persuasion to induce Faustina to 
follow him, mad as the idea seemed. 

Corona had little time for reflection, however. She could 
not stand upon the stairs, and as soon as she entered the 
house she must meet her husband. She made up her mind 
hurriedly to do what in most cases is extremely dangerous. 
Giovanni was in her boudoir, pale and anxious. He had 
forgotten that he had not dined that evening and was 
smoking a cigarette with short sharp puff's. 

' Thank God !' he cried, as his wife entered the room. 
' Where have you been, my darling ?' 

' Giovanni,' said Corona, gravely, laying her two hands on 
his shoulders, ' you know you can trust me do you not V 

'As I trust Heaven,' he answered, tenderly. 
