paper, would have been the most that you would 
count on, and you would have expected vaguely 
to find the number high somewhere up in the 
millions. As every copy of the newspaper wears 
the same label, so that of Miss Dosson s visitor 
would have been " Young commercial American." 
Let me add that among the accidents cf his ap 
pearance was that of its sometimes striking other 
young commercial Americans as fine. He was 
twenty-seven years of age and had a small square 
head, a light gray overcoat, and in his right fore 
finger a curious natural crook which might have 
served, under pressure, to identify him. But for 
the convenience of society he ought always to have 
worn something conspicuous a green hat or a 
scarlet necktie. His job was to obtain material 
in Europe for an American "society-paper." 

If it be objected to all this that when Francie 
Dosson at last came in she addressed him as if 
she easily placed him, the answer is that she had 





been notified by her father more punctually than 
was indicated by the manner of her response. 
"Well, the way you do turn up," she said, 
smiling and holding out her left hand to him: 
in the other hand, or the hollow of her right 
arm, she had a largeish parcel. Though she had 
made him wait she was evidently very glad to 
see him there ; and she as evidently required and 
enjoyed a great deal of that sort of indulgence. 
Her sister s attitude would have told you so even 
if her own appearance had not. There was that 
in her manner to the young man a perceptible 
but indefinable shade which seemed to legitimate 
the oddity of his having asked in particular for 
her, as if he wished to see her to the exclusion of 
her father and sister: a kind of special pleasure 
which had the air of pointing to a special relation. 
And yet a spectator, looking from Mr. George Flack 
to Miss Francie Dosson, would have been much 
at a loss to guess what special relation could exist 
between them. The girl was exceedingly, extra 
ordinarily pretty, and without discoverable resem 
blance to her sister; and there was a brightness 
in her a kind of still radiance which was quite 
distinct from what is called animation. Kather 
tall than short, slim, delicate and evidently as 
light of hand and of foot as it was possible to be, 
she yet gave no impression of quick movement, of 
abundant chatter, of excitable nerves and irre 
pressible life no hint of being of the most usual 







(which is perhaps also the most graceful) American 
type. She was brilliantly but quietly pretty, 
and your suspicion that she was a little stiff 
was corrected only by your perception that she 
was extremely soft. There was nothing in her 
to confirm the implication that she had rushed 
about the deck of a Cunarder with a newspaper 
man. She was as straight as a wand and as fine as 
a gem ; her neck was long and her gray eyes had 
colour ; and from the ripple of her dark brown hair 
to the curve of her unaffirmative chin every line 
in her face was happy and pure. She had an 
unformed voice and very little knowledge. 

Delia got up, and they came out of the little 
reading-room this young lady remarking to her 
sister that she hoped she had got all the things. 
"Well, I had a fiendish hunt for them, we 
have got so many," Francie replied, with a curious 
soft drawl. " There were a few dozens of the 
pocket-handkerchiefs I couldn 't find; but I 
guess I've  got most of them, and most of the 
gloves." 

" Well, what are you carting them about for ? " 
George Flack inquired, taking the parcel from her. 
" You had better let me handle them. Do you 
buy pocket-handkerchiefs by the hundred ? " 

" Well, it only makes fifty apiece," said Francie, 
smiling. " They ain 't nice we're going to change 
them." 

"Oh, I won 't be mixed up with that you 







can 't work that game on these Frenchmen ! " the 
young man exclaimed. 

"Oh, with Francie they will take anything 
back," Delia Dosson declared. "They just love 
her, all over." 

"Well, they're like me then," said Mr. Flack, 
with friendly hilarity. "I 'll take her back, if 
she 'll come." 

"Well, I don 't think I am ready quite yet," 
the girl replied. " But I hope very much we 
shall cross with you again." 

"Talk about crossing it s on these boulevards 
we want a life-preserver ! " Delia remarked. They 
had passed out of the hotel and the wide vista 
of the Rue de la Paix stretched up and down. 
There were many vehicles. 

" Won 't this thing do ? I 'll tie it to either of 
you," George Flack said, holding out his bundle. 
" I suppose they won 't kill you if they love you," 
he went on, to the younger girl. 

"Well, you've  got to know me first," she 
answered, laughing and looking for a chance, 
while they waited to pass over. 

" I didn 't know you when I was struck." He 
applied his disengaged hand to her elbow and 
propelled her across the street. She took no notice 
of his observation, and Delia asked her, on the 
other side, whether their father had given her 
that money. She replied that he had given her 
loads she felt as if he had made his will ; which 



led George Flack to say that he wished the old 
gentleman was his father. 

"Why, you don 't mean to say you want to be 
our brother ! " Francie exclaimed, as they went 
down the Rue de la Paix. 

" I should like to be Miss Delia s, if you can 
make that out," said the young man. 

" Well, then, suppose you prove it by calling 
me a cab," Miss Delia returned. " I presume you 
and Francie don 't think this is the deck." 

" Don 't she feel rich ? " George Flack demanded 
of Francie. " But we do require a cart for our 
goods;" and he hailed a little yellow carriage, 
which presently drew up beside the pavement. 
The three got into it and, still emitting innocent 
pleasantries, proceeded on their way, while at the 
Hotel de 1 Univers et de Cheltenham Mr. Dosson 
wandered down into the court again and took his 
place in his customary chair. 



II. 



THE court was roofed with glass ; the April air 
was mild ; the cry of women selling violets came 
in from the street and, mingling with the rich 
hum of Paris, seemed to bring with it faintly the 
odour of the flowers. There were other odours 
in the place, warm, succulent and Parisian, which 
ranged from fried fish to burnt sugar ; and there 
were many things besides : little tables for the 
post-prandial coffee; piles of luggage inscribed 
(after the initials, or frequently the name, R. P. 
Scudamore or D. Jackson Hatch), Philadelphia, 
Pa., or St. Louis, Mo. ; rattles of unregarded bells, 
flittings of tray-bearing waiters, conversations 
with the second-floor windows of admonitory 
landladies, arrivals of young women with cofnn- 
like bandboxes covered with black oilcloth and 
depending from a strap, sallyings forth of persons 
staying and arrivals, just afterwards, of other 
persons to see them ; together with vague prostra 
tions on benches of tired heads of American 



families. It was to this last element that Mr. 
Dosson himself in some degree contributed, but 
it must be added that he had not the extremely 
bereft and exhausted appearance of certain of his 
fellows. There was an air of meditative patience, 
of habitual accommodation in him ; but you would 
have guessed that he was enjoying a holiday 
rather than panting for a truce, and he was not 
so enfeebled but that he was able to get up from 
time to time and stroll through the porte coch&re 
to have a look at the street. 

He gazed up and down for five minutes, with 
his hands in his pockets, and then came back; 
that appeared to content him ; he asked for very 
little had no restlessness that these small 
excursions would not assuage. He looked at the 
heaped-up luggage, at the tinkling bells, at the 
young woman from the lingtre, at the repudiated 
visitors, at everything but the other American 
parents. Something in his breast told him that 
he knew all about these. It is not upon each other 
that the animals in the same cage, in a zoological 
collection, most turn their eyes. There was a silent 
sociability in him and a superficial fineness of 
grain that helped to account for his daughter 
Francie s various delicacies. He was fair and spare 
and had no figure; you would have seen in a 
moment that the question of how he should hold 
himself had never in his life occurred to him. He 
never held himself at all; providence held him 





rather (and very loosely), by an invisible string, 
at the end of which he seemed gently to dangle 
and waver. His face was so smooth that his thin 
light whiskers, which grew only far back, scarcely 
seemed native to his cheeks : they might have 
been attached there for some harmless purpose 
of comedy or disguise. He looked for the most 
part as if he were thinking over, without exactly 
understanding it, something rather droll which 
had just occurred ; if his eyes wandered his atten 
tion rested, and hurried, quite as little. His feet 
were remarkably small, and his clothes, in which 
light colours predominated, were visibly the work 
of a French tailor : he was an American who still 
held the tradition that it is in Paris a man dresses 
himself best. His hat would have looked odd 
in Bond Street or the Fifth Avenue, and his 
necktie was loose and flowing. 

Mr. Dosson, it may further be mentioned, was 
a man of the simplest composition, a character 
as cipherable as a sum of two figures. He had 
a native financial faculty of the finest order, a gift 
as direct as a beautiful tenor voice, which had 
enabled him, without the aid of particular strength 
of will or keenness of ambition, to build up a 
large fortune while he was still of middle age. 
He had a genius for happy speculation, the quick, 
unerring instinct of a " good thing ; " and as he sat 
there idle, amused, contented, on the edge of the 
Parisian street, he might very well have passed 







for some rare performer who bad sung his song 
or played his trick and had nothing to do till the 
next call. And he had grown rich not because 
he was ravenous or hard, but simply because he 
had an ear, or a nose. He could make out the 
tune in the discord of the market-place ; he could 
smell success far up the wind. The second factor 
in his little addition was that he was an unassum 
ing father. He had no tastes, no acquirements 
nor curiosities, and his daughters represented 
society for him. He thought much more and much 
oftener of these young ladies than of his bank- 
shares and railway-stock ; they refreshed much 
more his sense of ownership, of accumulation. 
He never compared them with other girls; he 
only compared his present self to what he would 
have been without them. His view of them was 
perfectly simple. Delia had a more unfathomable 
profundity and Francie a wider acquaintance with 
literature and art. Mr. Dbsson had not perhaps 
a full perception of his younger daughter s beauty : 
he would scarcely have pretended to judge of 
that, more than he would of a valuable picture 
or vase, but he believed she was cultivated up to 
the eyes. He had a recollection of tremendous 
school-bills and, in later days, during their travels, 
of the way she was always leaving books behind 
her. Moreover was not her French so good that 
he could not understand it ? 

The two girls, at any rate, were the wind in 





his sail and the only directing, determining force 
he knew ; they converted accident into purpose ; 
without them, as he felt, he would have been the 
tail without the kite. The wind rose and fell, 
of course ; there were lulls and there were gales ; 
there were intervals during which he simply floated 
in quiet waters cast anchor and waited. This 
appeared to be one of them now; but he could 
be patient, knowing that he should soon again 
inhale the brine and feel the dip of his prow. 
When his daughters were out the determining 
process gathered force, and their being out with a 
brilliant young man only deepened the pleasant 
calm. That belonged to their superior life, and 
Mr. Dosson never doubted that George M. Flack 
was brilliant. He represented the newspaper, 
and the news-paper for this man of genial 
assumptions represented Mind it was the great 
shining presence of our time. To know that 
Delia and Francie were out with an editor or a 
correspondent was really to see them dancing 
in the central glow. This is doubtless why Mr. 
Dosson had slightly more than usual his air of 
recovering slowly from a pleasant surprise. The 
vision to which I allude hung before him, at 
a convenient distance, and melted into other 
bright confused aspects : reminiscences of Mr. 
Flack in other relations on the ship, on the 
deck, at the hotel at Liverpool, and in the cars. 
Whitney Dosson was a loyal father, but he would 



have thought himself simple had he not had 
two or three strong convictions : one of which 
was that the children should never go out with a 
gentleman they had not seen before. The sense 
of their having, and his having, seen Mr. Flack 
before was comfortable to him now : it made it 
mere placidity for him personally to forego the 
young man s society in favour of Delia and Francie. 
He had not hitherto been perfectly satisfied that 
the streets and shops, the general immensity of 
Paris, were just the right place for young ladies 
alone. But the company of a pleasant gentleman 
made them right a gentleman who was pleasant 
through being up to everything, as one connected 
with that paper (he remembered its name now, 
it was celebrated) would have to be. To Mr. 
Dosson, in the absence of such happy accidents, 
his girls somehow seemed lonely ; which was not the 
way he struck himself. They were his company 
but he was scarcely theirs; it was as if he had 
them more than they had him. 

They were out a long time, but he felt no anxiety, 
as he reflected that Mr. Flack s very profession 
was a prevision of everything that could possibly 
happen. The bright French afternoon waned 
without bringing them back, but Mr. Dosson 
still revolved about the court, till he might have 
been taken for a valet de place hoping to pick up 
custom. The landlady smiled at him sometimes, as 
she passed and re-passed, and even ventured to 







remark disinterestedly that it was a pity to waste 
such a lovely day indoors not to take a turn 
and see what was going on in Paris. But Mr. 
Dosson had no sense of waste : that came to him 
much more when he was confronted with historical 
monuments, or beauties of nature or art, which he 
didn 't understand nor care for : then he felt a little 
ashamed and uncomfortable but never when he 
lounged in that simplifying way in the court. It 
wanted but a quarter of an hour to dinner (that 
he could understand) when Delia and Francie 
at last met his view, still accompanied by Mr. 
Flack and sauntering in, at a little distance from 
each other, with a jaded air which was not in the 
least a tribute to his possible solicitude. They 
dropped into chairs and joked with each other, 
with a mixture of sociability and languor, on the 
subject of what they had seen and done a 
question into which he felt as yet a delicacy as to 
inquiring. But they had evidently done a good 
deal and had a good time : an impression suffi 
cient to rescue Mr. Dosson personally from the 
consciousness of failure. 

" Won 't you just step in and take dinner with 
us ? " he asked of the young man, with a friendli 
ness begotten of the circumstances. 

" Well, that s a handsome offer," George Flack 
replied, while Delia remarked that they had each 
eaten about thirty cakes. 

" Well, I wondered what you were doing so 





long. But never mind your cakes. It's twenty 
minutes past six, and the talk'd hote is on time." 

"You don 't mean to say you dine at the table 
d hote \ " Mr. Flack ejaculated. 

" Why, don 't you like that ? " Francie drawled 
sweetly. 

"Well, it isn 't what you most build on when 
you come to Paris. Too many flower-pots and 
chickens legs." 

" Well, would you like one of these restaurants ? " 
asked Mr. Dosson. " I don 't care, if you show us 
a good one." 

" Oh, I 'll show you a good one don 't you 
worry." 

"Well, you've  got to order the dinner then," 
said Francie. 

" Well, you 'll see how I could do it ! " And 
the young man looked at her very hard, with an 
intention of softness. 

"He has got an interest in some place," Delia 
declared. "He has taken us to ever so many 
stores, and he gets his commission." 

"Well, I'd pay you to take them round," said 
Mr. Dosson; and with much agreeable trifling 
of this kind it was agreed that they should sally 
forth for the evening meal under Mr. Flack s 
guidance. 

If he had easily convinced them on this occa 
sion that that was a more original proceeding 
than worrying those old bones, as he called it, 





at the hotel, he convinced them of other things 
besides in the course of the following month and 
by the aid of repeated visits. What he mainly 
made clear to them was that it was really most 
kind of a young man who had so many great 
public questions on his mind to find sympathy 
for problems which could fill the telegraph and 
the press so little as theirs. He came every day 
to set them in the right path, pointing out its 
charms to them in a way that made them feel 
how much they had been in the wrong. He 
made them feel indeed that they didn 't know 
anything about anything, even about such a 
matter as ordering shoes an art in which they 
vaguely supposed themselves rather strong. He 
had in fact great knowledge, and it was wonder 
fully various, and he knew as many people as 
they knew few. He had appointments very often 
with celebrities for every hour of the day, and 
memoranda, sometimes in shorthand, on tablets 
with elastic straps, with which he dazzled the 
simple folk at the Hotel de I Univers et de Chel 
tenham, whose social life, of narrow range, consisted 
mainly in reading the lists of Americans who 
" registered " at the bankers and at Galignani s. 
Delia Dosson, in particular, had a way of poring 
solemnly over these records which exasperated 
Mr. Flack, who skimmed them and found what he 
wanted in the flash of an eye : she kept the others 
waiting while she satisfied herself that Mr. and 



 



Mrs. D. S. Rosenheim and Miss Cora Rosenheim 
and Master Samuel Rosenheim had "left for 
Brussels." 

Mr. Flack was wonderful on all occasions in 
finding what he wanted (which, as we know, was 
what he believed the public wanted), and Delia 
was the only one of the party with whom he was 
sometimes a little sharp. He had embraced from 
the first the idea that she was his enemy, and 
he alluded to it with almost tiresome frequency, 
though always in a humorous, fearless strain. 
Even more than by her fashion of hanging over 
the registers she provoked him by appearing to 
think that their little party was not sufficient 
to itself; by wishing, as he expressed it, to work 
in new stuff. He might have been easy, however, 
for he had sufficient chance to observe how it 
was always the fate of the Dossons to miss their 
friends. They were continually looking out for 
meetings and combinations that never came off, 
hearing that people had been in Paris only after 
they had gone away, or feeling convinced that 
they were there but not to be found through 
their not having registered, or wondering whether 
they should overtake them if they should go to 
Dresden, and then making up their minds to 
start for Dresden, only to learn, at the eleventh 
hour, through some accident, that the elusive 
party had gone to Biarritz. "We know plenty 
of people if we could only come across them," 







Delia had said more than once : she scanned the 
continent with a wondering, baffled gaze and 
talked of the unsatisfactory way in which friends 
at home would " write out " that other friends 
were " somewhere in Europe." She expressed the 
wish that such correspondents as that might be 
in a place that was not at all vague. Two or three 
times people had called at the hotel when they 
were out and had left cards for them, without any 
address, superscribed with a mocking dash of the 
pencil, " Off to-morrow ! " The girl sat looking at 
these cards, handling them and turning them over 
for a quarter of an hour at a time ; she produced 
them days afterwards, brooding upon them afresh 
as if they were a mystic clue. George Flack gener 
ally knew where they were, the people who were 
" somewhere in Europe." Such knowledge came 
to him by a kind of intuition, by the voices of the 
air, by indefinable and unteachable processes. But 
he held his peace on purpose ; he didn 't want any 
outsiders ; he thought their little party just right. 
Mr. Dosson s place in the scheme of providence 
was to go with Delia while he himself went with 
Francie, and nothing would have induced George 
Flack to disfigure that equation. 

The young man was professionally so occupied 
with other people s affairs that it should doubt 
less be mentioned to his praise that he still 
managed to have affairs or at least an affair 
of his own. That affair was Francie Dosson, and 







he was pleased to perceive how littile she cared 
what had become of Mr. and Mrs. Rosenheirn 
and Master Samuel and Miss Cora. He counted 
all the things she didn 't care about her soft 
inadvertent eyes helped him to do that ; and they 
footed up so, as he would have said, that they gave 
him a pleasant sense of a free field. If she had 
so few interests there was the greater possibility 
that a young man of bold conceptions and cheerful 
manners might become one. She had usually 
the air of waiting for something, with a sort of 
amused resignation, while tender, shy, indefinite 
little fancies hummed in her brain; so that she 
would perhaps recognise in him the reward of 
patience. George Flack was aware that he exposed 
his friends to considerable fatigue; he brought 
them back pale and taciturn from suburban ex 
cursions and from wanderings often rather aimless 
and casual among the boulevards and avenues of 
the town. He regarded them at such moments 
with complacency, however, for these were hours 
of diminished resistance : he had an idea that he 
should be able eventually to circumvent Delia 
if he could only watch for some time when she 
was tired. He liked to make them all feel help 
less and dependent, and this was not difficult 
with people who were so modest and artless, so 
unconscious of the boundless power of wealth. 
Sentiment, in our young man, was not a scruple 
nor a source of weakness ; but he thought it 





really touching, the little these good people knew 
of what they could do with their money. They 
had in their hands a weapon of infinite range 
and yet they were incapable of firing a shot for 
themselves. They had a kind of social humility ; 
it appeared never to have occurred to them that, 
added to their amiability, their money gave them 
a value. This used to strike George Flack on cer 
tain occasions when he came back to find them 
in the places where he had dropped them while 
he rushed off to give a turn to one of his screws. 
They never played him false, never wearied of 
waiting ; always sat patient and submissive, usually 
at a cafe to which he had introduced them or 
in a row of chairs on the boulevard, or in the 
Tuileries or the Champs Elysees. 

He introduced them to many cafes, in different 
parts of Paris, being careful to -choose those which 
(in his view) young ladies might frequent with 
propriety, and there were two or three in the 
neighbourhood of their hotel where they became 
frequent and familiar figures. As the late spring 
days grew warmer and brighter they usually sat 
outside on the "terrace" the little expanse of 
small tables at the door of the establishment, 
where Mr. Flack, on the return, could descry 
them from afar at their post in exactly the same 
position to which he had committed them. They 
complained of no satiety in watching the many- 
coloured movement of the Parisian streets ; 







and if some of the features in the panorama 
were base they were only so in a version which 
the imagination of our friends was incapable of 
supplying. George Flack considered that he was 
rendering a positive service to Mr. Dosson : 
wouldn 't the old gentleman have sat all day in the 
court anyway? and wasn 't the boulevard better 
than the court ? It was his theory, too, that 
he flattered and caressed Miss Francie s father, 
for there was no one to whom he had furnished 
more copious details about the affairs, the projects 
and prospects, of the Reverberator. He had left 
no doubt in the old gentleman s mind as to the 
race he himself intended to run, and Mr. Dosson 
used to say to him every day, the first thing, 
" Well, where have you got to now ? " as if he 
took a real interest. George Flack narrated his 
interviews, to which Delia and Francie gave 
attention only in case they knew something of 
the persons on whom the young emissary of the 
Reverberator had conferred this distinction ; 
whereas Mr. Dosson listened, with his tolerant 
interposition of " Is that so ? " and " Well, that s 
good," just as submissively when he heard of 
the celebrity in question for the first time. 

In conversation with his daughters Mr. Flack 
was frequently the theme, though introduced much 
more by the young ladies than by himself, and 
especially by Delia, who announced at an early 
period that she knew what he wanted and that it 







wasn 't in the least what she wanted. She amplified 
this statement very soon at least as regards her 
interpretation of Mr. Flack s designs : a certain 
mystery still hung about her own, which, as she 
intimated, had much more to recommend them. 
Delia s vision of the danger as well as the advantage 
of being a pretty girl was closely connected (and 
this was natural) with the idea of an " engage 
ment " : this idea was in a manner complete in 
itself her imagination failed in the oddest way 
to carry it into the next stage. She wanted 
her sister to be engaged but she wanted her not 
at all to be married, and she had not clearly 
made up her mind as to how Francie was to 
enjoy both the promotion and the arrest. It was 
a secret source of humiliation to her that there 
had as yet to her knowledge been no one with 
whom her sister had exchanged vows : if her con 
viction on this subject could have expressed itself 
intelligibly it would have given you a glimpse 
of a droll state of mind a dim theory that a 
bright girl ought to be able to try successive 
aspirants. Delia s conception of what such a trial 
might consist of was strangely innocent : it 
was made up of calls and walks and buggy-drives 
and above all of being spoken of as engaged ; 
and it never occurred to her that a repetition of 
lovers rubs off a young lady s delicacy. She felt 
herself a born old maid and never dreamed of a 
lover of her own he would have been dreadfully 



in her way ; but she dreamed of love as something 
in its nature very delicate. All the same she dis 
criminated ; it did lead to something after all, and 
she desired that for Francie it should not lead to 
a union with Mr. Flack. She looked at such a 
union in the light of that other view which she 
kept as yet to herself but which she was ready 
to produce so soon as the right occasion should 
come up ; and she told her sister that she would 
never speak to her again if she should let 

this young man suppose And here she 

always paused, plunging again into impressive 
reticence. 

" Suppose what ? " Francie asked, as if she were 
totally unacquainted (which indeed she really was) 
with the suppositions of young men. 

" "Well, you 'll see, when he begins to say things 
you won 't like." This sounded ominous on Delia s 
part, but she had in reality very little apprehen 
sion ; otherwise she would have risen against the 
custom adopted by Mr. Flack of perpetually com 
ing round : she would have given her attention 
(though it struggled in general unsuccessfully 
with all this side of their life) to some prompt 
means of getting away from Paris. She told her 
father what in her view the correspondent of the 
Reverberator was " after " ; but it must be added 
that she did not make him feel very strongly on 
the matter. This however was not of importance, 
with her inner sense that Francie would never 




really do anything that is would never really like 
anything they didn 't like. 

Her sister s docility was a great comfort to 
her, especially as it was addressed in the first 
instance to herself. She liked and disliked cer 
tain things much more than the younger girl did 
either ; and Francie was glad to take advantage 
of her reasons, having so few of her own. They 
served Delia s reasons for Mr. Dosscn as well, 
so that Francie was not guilty of any particular 
irreverence in regarding her sister rather than her 
father as the controller of her fate. A fate was 
rather a cumbersome and formidable possession, 
which it relieved her that some kind person should 
undertake the keeping of. Delia had somehow 
got hold of hers first before even her father, and 
ever so much before Mr. Flack ; and it lay with 
Delia to make any change. She could not have 
accepted any gentleman as a husband without 
reference to Delia, any more than she could have 
done up her hair without a glass. The only action 
taken by Mr. Dosson in consequence of his elder 
daughter s revelations was to embrace the idea as 
a subject of daily pleasantry. He was fond, in his 
intercourse with his children, of some small usual 
joke, some humorous refrain; and what could 
have been more in the line of true domestic sport 
than a little gentle but unintermitted raillery 
upon Francie s conquest ? Mr. Flack s attributive 
intentions became a theme of indulgent parental 



chaff, and the girl was neither dazzled nor annoyed 
by such familiar references to them. " Well, he 
has told us about half we know," she used often 
to reply. 

Among the things he told them was that this was 
the very best time in the young lady s life to have 
her portrait painted and the best place in the 
world to have it done well; also that he knew a 
" lovely artist a young American of extraordinary 
talent, who would be delighted to undertake the 
work. He conducted them to this gentleman s 
studio, where they saw several pictures by which 
they were considerably mystified. Francie pro 
tested that she didn 't want to be done that way, 
and Delia declared that she would as soon have 
her sister shown up in a magic lantern. They 
had had the fortune not to find Mr. Waterlow at 
home, so that they were free to express themselves 
and the pictures were shown them by his servant. 
They looked at them as they looked at bonnets 
and confections when they went to expensive 
shops; as if it were a question, among so many 
specimens, of the style and colour they would 
choose. Mr. Waterlow s productions struck them 
for the most part in the same manner as those 
garments which ladies classify as frights, and 
they went away with a very low opinion of the 
young American master. George Flack told them, 
however, that they couldn 't get out of it, inasmuch 
as he had already written home to the Reverberator 





that Francie was to sit. They accepted this 
somehow as a kind of supernatural sign that she 
would have to ; for they believed everything that 
they heard quoted from a newspaper. Moreover 
Mr. Flack explained to them that it would be 
idiotic to miss such an opportunity to get something 
at once precious and cheap ; for it was well known 
that Impressionism was going to be the art of 
the future, and Charles Waterlow was a rising 
Impressionist. It was a new system altogether 
and the latest improvement in art. They didn 't 
want to go back, they wanted to go forward, and 
he would give them an article that would fetch 
five times the money in a couple of years. They 
were not in search of a bargain, but they allowed 
themselves to be inoculated with any reason which 
they thought would be characteristic of earnest 
people ; and he even convinced them, after a 
little, that when once they had got used to Impres 
sionism they would never look at anything else. 
Mr. Waterlow was the man, among the young, 
and he had no interest in praising him, because he 
was not a personal friend; his reputation was 
advancing with strides, and any one with any 
sense would want to secure something before the 
rush. 



III. 



THE young ladies consented to return to the 
Avenue de Villiers, and this time they found the 
celebrity of the future. He was smoking cigarettes 
with a friend, while coffee was served to the two 
gentlemen (it was just after luncheon), on a vast 
divan, covered with scrappy oriental rugs and 
cushions; it looked, Francie thought, as if the 
artist had set up a carpet-shop in a corner. She 
thought him very pleasant; and it may be men 
tioned without circumlocution that the young lady 
ushered in by the vulgar American reporter, whom 
he didn 't like and who had already come too often 
to his studio to pick up "glimpses" (the painter 
wondered how in the world he had picked her up), 
this charming candidate for portraiture struck 
Charles Waterlow on the spot as an adorable model. 
She made, it may further be declared, quite the same 
impression on the gentleman who was with him 
and who never took his eyes off her while her own 
rested, afresh, on several finished and unfinished 





canvases. This gentleman asked of his friend, at 
the end of five minutes, the favour of an intro 
duction to her ; in consequence of which Francie 
learned that his name (she thought it singular) 
was Gaston Probert. Mr. Probert was a kind- 
eyed, smiling youth, who fingered the points of his 
moustache ; he was represented by Mr. Waterlow 
as an American, but he pronounced the American 
language (so at least it seemed to Francie) as if 
it had been French. 

After Francie had quitted the studio with Delia 
and Mr. Flack (her father, on this occasion, was 
not of the party), the two young men, falling 
back upon their divan, broke into expressions 
of aasthetic rapture, declared that the girl had 
