We have only had it a month yet, and see what has 
been done at a trifling cost. And next week we 
must move in. The goods will be up on Tuesday, 
and on Friday Mrs. West is coming over. I am so 
 
glad Joe is still here, though I suppose it is not very 
profitable for him. But he is so handy and willing." 
We had finished our supper by this time, or rather 
I had. Joe was still asleep. Eve stood the tea on 
the back of the stove, and deftly put away the dishes. 
I sat there, growing angrier at myself that I was not 
in some business where I could keep her a lady. I 
hated to have her always planning how she could 
make a little money. Yet, with all the incidents of 
the day, she had been to look at a new picture that 
was creating unusual interest, and her vivid descrip 
tion seemed to place it before my very eyes. She 
was fitted to adorn some higher station. How 
could she be so delightfully content! 
I roused Joe presently, and sent him to his own 
bed. But afterward I lay awake a long while, pon 
dering the grave question of another's moral salva 
tion. I should have been glad to go to Mr. Bradford, 
and ask his help ; but I could see that there would 
be no sympathy between the two. Joe would shrink 
into himself, and seem ungracious, stolid; and Mr. 
Bradford would drop into platitudes. They would 
not meet at any vital point. Yet why should not 
the salvation of any soul be an important matter 
with him ? 
Eve was bright and stirring the next morning : I 
was about to say bustling, but that word never 
 
applied to her. She always moved with such grace 
and ease, and looked so truly the lady. Joe was up 
early, swept the office and waiting-room, and was out 
on the platform before I came down. He looked 
rather shamefaced, but his dissipation had left no 
other trace. 
" Did you tell her ? " he asked in a whisper. 
" No," I answered ; and he wrung my hand. 
We decided at breakfast that it would be best to 
take every thing we could spare, and let Joe sleep in 
the new house. The piano had been there several 
days ; but it was still boxed, and no one knew it had 
come. We packed baskets and boxes, and Joe moved 
on a wheelbarrow, making a good deal of amusement 
out of it. They put up window-curtains and lam 
brequins, hung pictures and brackets, and placed 
some pretty vases and ornaments around. My cot 
was put in one of the small rooms, and a rug laid in 
front of it. There was a pretty curtain at the win 
dow, bordered with a soft, dull red ; a wall-pocket 
we had manufactured to hold odd papers ; two book 
shelves arranged bracket- wise ; and when the chairs 
and washing-stand came up, it would look cosey 
enough. 
Joe and I had no chance for a talk all day ; but 
Eve went down to the choir-practice with Ruth 
Montgomery. She had been asked to join them ; 
 
but for various sensible reasons had declined, though 
her voice never failed in the congregation. 
"Thurston," Joe said, after a long silence, "you 
are the best fellow I ever knew. I acted like a fiend 
'yesterday, didn't I? Was I very much" and 
the poor lad faltered with shame. 
" You were not quite out of your senses, I am 
thankful to say. But, O Joe ! how could you ? " 
"I don't know. I'll take the pledge again." 
" What good will that do, if you do not mean to 
keep it?" 
"But I do mean when I sign it. Only I'm so 
awfully weak when the temptation comes. And the 
desire is so strong you don't know, Thurston. 
You've never been there." 
" Joe," I said slowly, " I have been there : to my 
shame and sorrow I confess it. Yet it was not from 
any real love for liquor, but rather the jolly com 
panionship, and the most horrible indifference. I 
can't say that I ever longed for it. And to burn up 
one's blood and brain and health, to throw away 
character and capability, does seem so senseless." 
"What did you do?" 
"I resolved, and then I kept steadfastly to my 
resolve. I said my strength should be stronger than 
the temptation." 
" I have tried," he returned complainingly. " I 
 
thought the pledge would help me, give me some 
strength ; but it did not," and he sighed. 
"No," I said, "you do not try to the extent of 
your strength. You rather try the extent of the 
temptation. You keep looking at it, and longing 
for it ; and you take yourself to the door of the 
saloon, and then you topple over, and' say you can't 
help yourself. Suppose yesterday you had come 
directly up here, and not tempted yourself further? 
Suppose you had said, ' I will not do this thing,' and 
walked resolutely away. Then } T OU would have 
tried your own strength. I do not believe God ever 
made any soul so weak but that it could put forth 
some strength. You and I, who were born of sober, 
health}' parents, cannot plead the excuse of the poor 
wretches who have been born of generations of 
drunkards. So God has already helped you in that 
way." 
"Ad," he said, in a low, awed voice, "are you 
religious ? " 
It was not the first time in my life that I had 
wished I dared say boldly and bravely that I was. 
I did not understand the great and awful mystery 
that some can make so simple, and others so com 
plicated and well-nigh impossible. 
" I have never quite decided the matter for my 
self," I answered slowly ; " but if I cannot do all the 
 
things I consider right, I can at least refrain from 
some I know to be deadly wrong. And this matter 
of drinking is one. If the taste of it fills you with 
desire, then you must not drink at all. I think I 
would make a resolve for six months, at least. It 
has been the cause of all your troubles so far. It 
keeps you at poverty's door, it throws you out of 
situations, it loses friends and trust and respect. 
It may not kill you speedily, but you might better 
a thousand times be dead. And your example acts 
upon others. You encourage them every time you 
drink. Some younger lad may lay his sin and 
weakness at your door." 
"I never thought of it in that light. Oh, I 
wish I could stop ! God knows I wish I could 
stop ! " 
He was walking up and down, his voice in a 
great tremble, that meant earnestness now, even if 
evanescent. 
" You raw, Joe. Just think as strongly and 
surely that you can, as that the temptation has so 
much more power than your own will and your own 
soul. What you want is real backbone. All the 
resolves in the world will not save you. It is a 
great fight with the powers of evil, and God will 
help you ; but he doesn't keep you in spite of your 
self. You must act. Nothing saves you against 
 
your own self. If you are looking for that, you may 
as well hurry to a drunkard's grave at once." 
" But, oh ! what am I to do ? " he pleaded. 
" You are to begin in good earnest. See here, you 
are not quite twenty-one yet. I suppose you have 
been drinking three years or so. How many situations 
have you lost in the last year? What have you 
gained except to add to the prosperity of the liquor 
interest? You have gone in rags, you have suffered 
with hunger and cold, and the man who sells you rum 
laughs to himself to think what a silly fool you are." 
Joe's face flushed deeply. 
" It is idiotic when you come to think of it in that 
light. It is shameful all around. See here, Ad 
Thurston, I will never drink another drop as long as 
I live, so help me God ! " 
He stopped right before me, and put out both 
hands. I took them in a strong grasp. 
" Make that promise solemnly to God," I said ; 
" but give me your faithful word, that, for the next 
six months, you will neither buy it for yourself, nor 
allow any one to treat you. Tell me this every 
Saturday night. When you are away from me, send 
a postal or telegram. Giving an account so often 
will keep it fresh in your mind. And never think 
you cannot do it ; always believe that you can by going 
away from the temptation, not looking and longing 
 
after it. And now," I continued, " I am going to 
give you Miss Eve's quarter back again. Think 
that you spent my money, not hers. You see, it isn't 
any trust when you know a fellow can't do a certain 
thing. I know you have the money to get a drink, 
but I trust you wholly for my own and my sister's 
sake. I know you mean to keep your word this time." 
"Yes," he said just under his breath, and began 
to walk up and down again. 
I had learned before this that long sermons were 
useless. There was such a thing as talking away 
the strength of an argument in cases like these. 
One's own reflection and resolves must count for a 
factor, or the work is in vain. 
After the train came in, we went down for Eve. 
Pryor was there ; and we all walked back together, 
and had a pleasant little chat about our moving. 
" Do you know," said he, " that I am half sorry ? 
What jolly evenings we have had in this little office, 
and what famous talks about every thing ! I never en 
joyed a winter more in my life, though of course I've 
had gayer ones. I can just imagine, though, what a 
paradise you will make of that place up there. You 
have taken hold of the right end, and you'll succeed 
too." 
" If we shouldn't stumble over an apple," returned 
Eve, her eyes alight with humor. 
 
" An apple ! " he exclaimed in amaze ; but Joe 
caught at the joke, and giggled. 
" Oh ! " and he laughed. " It will be Adam and 
Eve in a garden. And who is to play serpent ? " 
" Some designing Lilith, who will set her cap for 
Adam. But we have made a league, offensive and 
defensive ; and we shall allow of no third person 
until Paradise has been paid for in hard cash ! " Eve 
exclaimed resolutely. 
" O Miss Thurston ! " 
Pryor looked at her so steadily that he almost had 
his heart in his eyes. 
" Yes," she resumed, in a tone that was friendly to 
a point of frank meaning. " It is hard, I know, for 
the girls. Ad is nice." 
"But you" 
" Well, I've brought him into this trouble, almost 
against his will, and it would be cruel not to see him 
through. So I shall have to put up a card over the 
hall-door, ' All hope abandon, ye who enter here.' " 
" You are cruel," he said. " That was not the way 
the flaming sword was used." 
" But, you see, we do not mean to have any falls 
from grace until the five years are ended." 
" Pryor is more than half in love with your sister," 
Joe Crawford said that night. 
 
CHAPTER VIII 
ON Monday morning we began to pack up our 
bulky articles. The smaller ones had gone in the 
manner in which Pip was brought up, " by hand." 
I had hired a wagon of a neighbor ; and after break 
fast, we made ready, and moved. Joe and I put the 
kitchen-stove in place, and the fire was kindled. Joe 
and Eve put the matting down in the two chambers, 
and the furniture was placed in proper position after 
some moving about. Eve had chosen the room with 
the bay-window, and it furnished very prettily. 
Indeed, the bedroom suite had never looked half so 
pretty in the big room over the station. Then she 
prepared the dinner ; but we were compelled to have 
it in the kitchen, as our conveniences were of that 
sort, and extremely limited. 
" The first thing to-morrow morning we must go 
down to Northwood, and buy some more matting, a 
dining-table, and chairs. When we get rich, we can 
have some carpets. I have just fifty dollars." 
" Which you ought to spend on yourself." 
 
" As I mean to ; " and Eve nodded complacently. 
" The 1st of June I shall have ten dollars more. 
The 1st of July thirty dollars ; and if the class in 
painting gets together, I have offered to give a 
class of ten girls twelve lessons for five dollars 
apiece, just half price ; but having them all at once 
makes the difference. That will be fifty dollars, you 
see," triumphantly. 
" You seem to coin money," I said jocosely. " I 
shall have to look well to my ways." 
" Oh ! this is a sort of summer harvest," she laughed. 
" But I do hope to go on with the music ; and now I 
have my own dear piano for aid and comfort. For 
fifty dollars we must furnish our dining-room, and 
cover our parlor-floor." 
" Well, you know how to work miracles," I replied. 
Then we went out in the garden. The grass was 
looking green and lovely : there were some daffodils 
in bloom, and here and there a crocus. The rose 
bushes had been trimmed : there were indications of 
tulips, and great mounds of day-lilies. We could 
think how lovely it would be when the fruit-trees 
came out : the cherries were showing white, and the 
peaches were in a haze of pink, but nothing really 
open. We had discovered a great lilac, and several 
bushes of syringa. 
" I can hardly wait," she declared ; " and yet I wish 
 
the days were twice as long, there is so much to do. 
Why, I never knew time to go so fast." 
We were to sleep in our own house that night, and 
Joe was to take the lounge down at the office. He 
insisted that I should not come down for the first 
train but I knew I should be awake. I spent the 
evening taking the piano out of its coffin, as Eve called 
it. The packing had been well done, and it had not 
suffered a scratch; but it needed polishing, and, no 
doubt, tuning. We decided where it should stand ; 
and, as soon as we had the matting down, I would 
get some help to lift it. 
The stairs and hall we resolved to leave for the 
present, or, at least, until my pay came. We dis 
cussed the feasibility of purchasing our parlor furni 
ture on the instalment plan, just the articles that 
were absolutely necessary. Somehow- we could 
hardly resign ourselves to the idea of retiring to bed, 
every thing seemed so strange and unreal. And 
long afterward my brain was busy wondering how 
the house, and all we desired to have therein, would 
ever get paid for. 
We left Joe to keep the station the next morning, 
while we set off in search of adventures. Matting 
we found was comparatively high, it being early in the 
season for it ; but we saw some very pretty, not quite 
as good a quality as I preferred, but the man lowered 
 
his price in consideration of our taking the whole 
piece and a remnant besides, as we needed forty-eight 
yards. That came to fifteen dollars and thirty-six 
cents. Then we looked at furniture, the expensive, 
the beautiful, and the cheap. We found one man 
whose stock was good, and reasonable in price, 
and who was very anxious to secure a customer, 
either cash or on instalment. We turned into a 
block presently where there were four auctioneer's 
flags flying. 
" Let us go in," said Eve. " Mrs. Toodles never 
wanted a bargain any more than we do." 
They were selling some very handsome furniture 
in the first place, but the bidding was quite above 
us. We watched for a while, and then went out, 
regretting our inability to have a voice in the 
matter. The second was an intensely common 
establishment, filled mostly with Irish women ; and 
the confusion of tongues would have done credit to 
Babel. The next was quite thinly attended. They 
were selling some excellent carpet very cheap. Then 
two suites of bedroom furniture, followed by a hand 
some dining-room suite in walnut. It went cheaply 
enough, but quite above us. 
Then an ash table, buffet, six chairs, and a small 
side-table, were put up. People seemed languid. 
A small, Jewish-looking man started it at twenty, 
 
which the auctioneer scouted, but took reluctantly. 
I added a dollar, so did he. 
" Let us consider how high we can go, and fix our 
limit resolutely," whispered Eve. 
"Well?" inquiringly. "Do you like it? How 
high will you go ? " 
"I had not thought of ash, nor a buffet; bid 
again while I consider." 
I did, rather reluctantly it seemed. The Jew 
scanned me eagerly. 
"Thirty dollars," concluded Eve. "It is all we 
ought to spend. The man is a second-hand dealer." 
A woman put in the next bid, then the Jew again. 
The two had another bout. Then I bid. The 
woman turned away in disgust. Two or three people 
went out. Then the Jew bid half a dollar, and I 
followed suit. It was up to twenty-nine dollars and 
a half; and we half turned, for we knew it was lost 
to us. The Jew was watching us closely. At the 
last moment I touched my limit. 
" We shall not get it," I said in a whisper ; and 
now I felt disappointed. 
"Going," said the man of lungs, "going," a 
long, long pause of alniost breathless silence, 
"gone!" 
I was so utterly amazed that I looked question- 
ingly at the Jew. 
 
"You haf a goot bargain. I buy him to sell again, 
and cannot give so mooch," shaking his head. 
Eve and I glanced at each other in a curious 
manner. 
" Well, it is a good deal for the money," said she ; 
" and it is pretty neat and solid-looking yes, I 
like it. Let us be content." 
We paid for it, and I found an expressman who 
took it to the station for seventy-five cents. On our 
homeward way we laughed a little, and felt quite 
uncertain. When we reached Athens, we found our 
other furniture had come, a chamber suite, two 
extra chairs with fine rush seats, but a good deal 
defaced, and two packing-boxes. 
" I think here is quite a large bargain also," 
laughed Eve. 
About four o'clock our city traps came up, and the 
load was moved over to the house. In all it made 
quite a show. And when we had the furniture set 
out in the dining-room, it looked very well indeed. 
The buffet, though simple, was very pretty, and the 
chairs excellent. 
" Yes, I do like it," declared Eve positively. " It 
wants cleaning and polishing, and it furnishes 
admirably." 
I thought so myself. In fact, though we had been 
rather surprised into bargain-making, we were not 
 
dissatisfied. I took the covers off the boxes, and we 
had a good laugh over the contents. There were 
several pieces of partly worn carpets, a pair of 
blankets, odds and ends of almost every kind, some 
pieces of elegant china and glass, some kitchen 
utensils, a pair of pillows, shades, brackets, and two 
or three pictures. 
"I thought the stair-carpet would do a while," said 
Eve, surveying it dubiously. " The edges are good, 
and we can have the middle covered. And there 
will be enough of our up-stairs matting for the 
hall until we get rich," laughingly. " We must 
believe ourselves at Lake George, or at the seaside, 
in a furnished cottage, and it will look all right." 
The next day we put the matting down in the 
parlor and dining-room. The latter appeared very 
pretty and summery. The piano was set up; and 
we brought in the odd chairs, and looked quite at 
home. 
" I shall not have a parlor suite at present," an 
nounced Eve. " You remember those lovely Turkish 
lounges in French cretonnes for ten dollars, I want 
one of those and some lounging-chairs, cheap folding 
ones, and no end of rocking-chairs. Those things 
will come by degrees. Now let us enjoy ourselves, 
and be content." 
The stair-carpet looked fairly well when it was 
down. Two breadths of matting all we had were 
put somewhat in the centre of the hall-room. The 
spaces at the edges were to be painted red. Those at 
the hall-door and at the rear were quite wide, and a 
rug could be laid in both places. Two of the Brus 
sels remnants we had purchased in the fall, harmo 
nized admirably. The room up-stairs was put in 
order, and the work seemed almost done. 
" So, you see, we will not need to run in debt, after 
all," said Eve triumphantly. " Indeed, the furnish 
ing has come much more easily than I expected. 
And Mrs. West will be pleasant company to keep me 
from longing after the delights of Egypt, as I sojourn 
in this wilderness." 
That night Joe said to me, " Thurston, should you 
mind if I did a little work for the new people at the 
building? They are short-handed, and the man is 
hurrying them dreadfully. They offered me a dollar 
and a half a day." 
" Why, no ! " In fact, I was rather pleased. " Do 
as much as you can anywhere." 
" It is so strange they don't send up for me ! " and 
Joe knit his brows anxiously. 
" Something may come to hand presently," I re 
turned, in a more hopeful tone than I really felt. I 
had written to Jersey City, and the reply was, that 
Joe Crawford was not very steady or reliable ; but 
 
when the rush came on, and they were short of 
hands, he might find a place. Already the poor 
lad's bad habits stood in his way. Yet he was so 
willing and good-tempered, ready to do any thing 
with all his strength. I had been casting about to see 
whether I could keep him a while longer ; but, with 
all I had on my hands, I could not pay him wages. 
He had taken express packages the last week, and 
earned himself a new hat ; but he did need a suit of 
clothes. 
He, it seems, was thinking of the same thing. " If 
I could earn a suit of clothes," he said. " I could 
get one for twelve dollars. And I could do a good 
deal for you nights and mornings." 
" That's good of you, Joe." 
" Well, I ought to make up my board. Oh, I wish 
I could stay with you always, Thurston ! I never 
liked any one half as well as you and Miss Eve." 
She was playing on. the piano, and we went in. 
Oh, how delightful and homelike it was ! I was one 
great throb of thankfulness. My cup seemed run 
ning over ; but I had a fear that it was too fairy-like, 
and would vanish. 
Joe was up at five the next morning, and delved 
away in the garden for nearly an hour, when he 
insisted that he should go down to the station. 
Eve made biscuits : we had radishes and fried eggs, 
 
that were done in a manner known only to Eve, 
and were simply delicious. 
" I have bargained for four more hens," said Eve. 
" They want to sit, and Mrs. Banks doesn't want 
them. The way she does, is to kill them off as soon 
as they begin to cluck. She was going to sell these 
to the butcher. She says they are of no account after 
you let them sit once, as they only lay six or eight 
eggs, and then want to sit again. But she says a 
late hatched pullet will lay all summer through. I 
shall treasure up all these bits of chicken-wisdom. 
And that reminds me that I ought to have some 
young chicks to-day. After breakfast, let us go out 
and see." 
Surely enough ! In one nest we found four, and 
in the other six. What lovely, cunning balls of 
down they were ! I do believe Eve kissed the one 
she held up to her cheek. Joe had made two coops 
of lath ; and now we put all the chickens and one 
hen in one, on the floor of the barn, and the eggs 
under the other hen. We brought out a saucer of 
water, and some crumbs of bread ; and two black- 
eyed chicks knew by intuition that eating was the 
great business of life. I could hardly tear myself 
away, so fascinating were the little midgets in white, 
yellow, and brown. 
" To-night Joe or you must go after my new hens. 
 
Mrs. Montgomery is to let me have two dozen Brahma 
eggs, and Mrs. Clark a dozen Plymouth Rock. You 
see, I am going into the chicken business in good 
earnest." 
" I wonder what next ! " I retorted gayly. 
Joe ran up home to breakfast, and then went off 
to his day's labor. They were digging and carting 
dirt, and laying the cellar-wall. The house was to 
be quite large, much on the plan of ours. 
Mrs. Brower and Mrs. West came over about noon, 
accompanied by a large trunk. Mrs. West was a 
pretty little woman, with a soft, wrinkled face, blue 
eyes, and silvery hair that was a mass of natural 
waves and stray ends, and just the sort of tender 
voice that one would expect. She kissed Eve, and 
called her " My dear ; " and the ladies walked up 
together. Eve had her dainty luncheon almost 
prepared. The weather was still chilly, and we kept 
just enough fire in the heater to diffuse a comfortable 
warmth. Mrs. West was delighted with the appear 
ance of the house, and Mrs. Brower admired every 
thing in an almost effusive manner. Her pretty 
enthusiasms were not really insincere, but they 
evinced no discrimination whatever. She was just 
as content in the thought of going out to Greece, as 
if it was a fortune left to her, and quite certain that 
Mr. Brower would prosper. A happy aisposition 
 
perhaps, but one that was never weighted with eare 
or trouble. 
In the afternoon she returned, and at supper-time 
I found Mrs. West and Eve as cosey as possible. She 
had, from her husband's estate, an annuity of about 
seven hundred a year, the rest having been spent by 
her children long before ; but she was so content and 
sweet, so simple in her tastes, that it seemed a 
fortune. 
" It is all settled, just what we are to do," said Eve, 
as we were walking down to Mrs. Banks's, who was 
our colored washerwoman, but an extremely nice 
body. " Mrs. West isn't coming down to breakfast. 
She likes a cup of coffee, an egg and some toast, 
about nine o'clock ; and that will be taken to her 
room. Then, she prefers her heartiest meal in the 
middle of the day, which seems to be our habit just 
now. She is extravagantly fond of reading, so our 
books from the library will come in play. There 
certainly will be no trouble about entertaining her. 
It seems to me that I shall pay this debt easily." 
" And the handmaiden you spoke of ? " I inquired. 
" Oh ! that is Letty Banks. She wants to take 
lessons on the melodeon, as they have a very fair 
one, and she wondered if she could not come and 
work it out. So, you see, other people understand 
' barter,' as you call it ; " and Eve laughed. " She 
 
will come to wash my dishes every evening, and all 
day Saturday ; and I am to give her two lessons a 
week." 
" You certainly are brilliant in managing." 
Eve laughed gayly. 
Mrs. Banks received us in a quiet, pleasant 
manner, took me out to the hen-house, and the cap 
tured hens were too sleepy to say a word. I packed 
them in my basket, and tied down the cover. Letty, 
bright-eyed and trim, about fifteen years old, had a 
little talk with Eve while we were gone. After 
vacation commenced, she would be willing to come 
regularly. Now she was going to school. 
We took our hens home without any misadventure. 
Joe had made nests for them in a dark corner, and 
Mrs. Banks told us to keep them shut in for the 
first two days. We put in the eggs and the hens, 
and left them to settle themselves. Our other 
mother had eleven little chicks, but we concluded 
that she had better remain where she was for the 
night. Joe had gone down to the station for the 
nine-o'clock train, pretty well tired with his day's 
work, but very cheerful. 
The weather was lovely the ensuing week. Gar 
dening began in good earnest. The fruit-trees dis 
played a wealth of bloom : lilacs scented the air, that 
was sweet already with the varied fragrance of 
 
spring. The little belts and clumps of wood the 
hand of improvement had left standing, put on their 
bravest greenery. I never tired of studying them ; 
and it seemed as if I had never understood before, 
how beautiful the world was. Surely, one would go 
far, to find a lovelier place than Athens. 
By Saturday night, Joe had four dollars and a 
half for his three days' work, and another dollar for 
delivering parcels. He handed it over to Eve, with 
the utmost pride, declaring that she must be his 
banker. As we were walking down to the station, 
he said, 
" Thurston, they had some lager at the building to 
day. One of the men treated." 
"Did he treat you?" I asked quietly, but with 
inward fear. 
" No : I kept my word. You know, I was to 
report every week how it fared with me. It 
wasn't as hard to refuse as I thought ; but I was 
thirsty, and I went up to the house for some water. 
Miss Eve gave me some splendid cold tea, about 
half milk; and then I didn't seem to care for the 
lager." 
" I hope I shall hear just as good an account of you 
every week, my dear Joe ; " and I put my arm over his 
shoulder. " I know you can, but there will be some 
hard times." 
 
"I don't mean ever to drink again. I ought to 
help myself, when you and Miss Eve are so ready 
with your kindness and sympathy." 
Eve did not go to choir-practice that evening. I 
found her playing and singing to Mrs. West ; but 
I had hardly settled myself, when Pryor made his 
appearance with a small parcel. 
" There are a dozen white Leghorn eggs," said he, 
laying it carefully down on the table. " I used some 
strategy to get them. Vanduyne is still selling eggs 
at a dollar and a half a dozen." 
" I hope you didn't give that ; " and there was a 
touch of remonstrance in Eve's voice, as she wheeled 
round on the piano-stool. 
" No, no. Set your heart at rest. I told Van 
duyne I was going to bring you up next week. What 
day can you go ? It is a sight, truly, and you will be 
amazed." 
" I have no hen," said Eve, glancing at the parcel, 
and not heeding his query. 
" Beg or borrow one, then. These are too valu 
able to have for breakfast. Now please reward me 
with a song. They missed you at church." 
" I am so much farther away now." 
"But I hope that is not going to keep you at 
home?" 
Eve turned over some songs, and we three sang 
 
together. At ten Mrs. West quietly withdrew, and 
presently Eve stopped playing. 
" I suppose I must be going," began Pryor regret 
fully. "It doesn't seem half as gay and cosey as 
when you were at the station. I suppose I ought to 
suffer for having persuaded you to buy a ( house." 
" Yes," replied Eve piquantly. " And now you 
compel me to buy a hen. Where all this extrava 
gance will end, the future only can tell." 
Pryor rose. He was in the mood when he longed 
for a word or a look to persuade him to stay ; but 
Eve was dignified, and I had promised to play watch 
ful dragon. 
"Good-night," lingeringly. "I shall be so glad 
when it is warm enough to sit out of doors." 
" Good-night," we said in a breath. 
We all went to church in the morning, except Joe. 
Mrs. West enjoyed it very much. In the afternoon 
we took Joe with us, and rambled through the woods, 
bringing home an armful of wild-flowers. 
I found the next week, as I surveyed my garden, 
that I had some things planted pretty well in the 
shade. I had hardly supposed the trees could reach 
so far. But there was still quite a large space over 
at the back. I put in more sweet corn and some 
for the chickens, then squash and pop-corn. Already 
I found weeds were beginning to grow apace, and I 
 
realized that eternal vigilance was the price of many 
things besides liberty. Still, I did enjoy the work. 
A garden, I learned, always offered fresh entertain 
ment, and Eve's two families of chickens were our 
delight. 
On Wednesday morning, Pryor drove up to the 
station in a two-seat wagon, and insisted that we 
should go at once for Eve. He had bargained with 
Joe the evening before to keep the station while we 
were away. He had to "see a man," and would 
leave us at Vanduyne's, while he was doing some 
business. 
Mrs. West insisted that Eve should go. She was 
not timid about staying alone, as there were workmen 
on the building next door. 
It was a perfect day, and birds were singing their 
love-ditties in a maddening manner. Could it be 
possible that the bleak and bare world of a brief 
while ago was smiling in richness and bloom? 
Surely, this in itself was a miracle. And, oh, the 
long wafts of sweetness ! Would I go down to the 
sand and the glare of the great beach, and live in 
the hurrying rush for the little difference in money ? 
It seemed as if I should never love a city again. 
I had seen chicken-farms at the West, larger in 
extent and numbers than this place of Mr. Van 
duyne's, but nothing in such perfect order. It was 
 
like turning the pages of an illustrated poultry-book. 
The owner was a fair, still delicate-looking man of 
six or eight and thirty, very affable in manner, and 
with a trained voice, that bespoke familiarity with 
the world of society as well. He received us 
courteously, and, as he was not especially busy, 
attended us himself through the different depart 
ments. Every thing was arranged as compactly as 
possible, and in a manner to save time as well as to 
prevent waste. There were three large houses of 
young chickens, old enough to be without mothers : 
there were broods with hens, broods with artificial 
mothers, and one incubator was still full of eggs. 
There were young chickens being prepared for 
market : there was a house with all the appliances for 
packing eggs in large or small quantities, and it 
seemed then as if it was half full at least. Every 
kind was labelled ; but, on a close inspection, even an 
unpractised eye could detect the difference in shape 
and color. Then, of the same kind, there were three 
sizes, large, medium, and small. Evidently Mr. 
Vanduyne had not reached the secret of compelling 
every hen to lay a large egg. 
As for the show-pens, they were truly marvellous. 
I never saw any thing more nearly perfect. Every 
feather was as true as if it had been painted on the 
fowl. But the clouds of white Leghorns were like 
 
snowdrifts. The brilliant red of comb and wattles, 
the rich yellow of their legs, made them dazzling. 
They really seemed to know they were handsome, and 
to enjoy it. There were immense Brahmas, snowy 
white as well ; others with their beautifully pencilled 
collars and tails, and dark ones that were not less 
striking. There were all kinds of fancy breeds and 
magnificent games, down to tiny Seabrights not 
much larger than birds. One could have studied 
them for a week. 
It was as Pryor said, Mr. Vanduyne gave away 
no hints, or bits of knowledge. Eve was at her best 
and brightest, and did surprise him into several 
admissions ; but he soon covered them with a doubt. 
He could keep his hens laying all winter : he could 
raise hundreds of chickens without getting disease 
among them, and he evidently was making it pay. 
But he laughed satirically at most of the methods in 
vogue, and was doubtful of the success of ordinary 
people in the attempt to make it profitable. 
Pryor was gone less than half an hour; and I 
began to feel that we must not trespass upon Mr. 
Vanduyne's time, and neither must I waste my own. 
We had already consumed nearly two hours. So we 
expressed our obligations, and he cordially invited 
us to come up again. 
" Well," began Pryor, when we were seated in the 
 
wagon, " were you paid for your trouble ? Have 
you learned any thing, Miss Thurston ? I was very 
glad you never suggested the ownership of a hen, or 
he would have drawn into his shell at once." 
" It is all very elegant," replied Eve. " It has 
taken time and money to perfect all this, and is like 
the wonderful fruit-farms. But sometimes a peach 
or a pear off your own tree may have as fine a flavor, 
and one of your own hens may lay as fresh an egg 
for your breakfast. I picked up a few words of 
wisdom," and she laughed. " You see, every thing 
that is not perfect is taken out of the choice flocks, 
so their faults and failings are not propagated. 
But, after all, some old woman summed it up : 'A 
good hen ought to lay twelve dozen eggs a year ; and 
at twenty-five cents a dozen, she earns three dollars, 
and eats up one.' Now, the profit is, making her 
eggs bring in more than three dollars ; and keeping 
her good and warm in the winter hot food, with 
pepper and spices ; plenty of fresh warm water ; 
when she cannot find worms or bugs, give her some 
meat." 
" You have it quite down to a business point, 
Miss Thurston," Pryor said with admiration, as well 
as amusement. 
" I strive to bring every thing to a business point," 
she replied sententiously. " I have started out to be 
 
a business woman, and to make the eight hundred 
dollars that I am justly entitled to." 
" Eight hundred ? Why just eight hundred ? " 
Eve laughed merrily. How pretty and dainty 
and bewitching she looked, though I had remarked 
of late she had not put on her sweetest ways for 
Gordon Pryor. 
We explained about the money. 
" See here, Miss Eve ; wouldn't it be a stupendous 
joke if every man and woman should set out to get 
his and her share, and the children as they grew up ? 
By Jove ! what would become of the millionnaires ? 
You certainly have discovered the great panacea, 
the secret of equalizing the crooked and unjust 
things of this world." 
We all laughed. 
CHAPTER IX 
A PASTORAL IN HENS 
JOE added six dollars to his store the next week. 
He wanted his clothes so badly, that Eve proposed 
to lend him the rest ; and we went down to North- 
wood, wliile she kept station with a big boy at hand. 
Through the winter she had added to her other 
accomplishments the train-signals, and quite a 
knowledge of telegraphy, and could manage very 
well; though, when I had occasion to leave her, I 
always made certain that Frank Barr would be 
about. He soon became one of Eve's devoted 
admirers, and I think she wilfully encouraged him. 
I know there were times when Pryor wanted to kick 
him, out of pure jealousy that a smile should be 
wasted on a cub of thirteen. 
I never saw a happier lad than Joe this morning. 
He seemed bubbling over with a wholesome, grate 
ful joy. We found a very nice business-suit for 
fourteen dollars, and his shoes were three and a half 
more. It left him just five dollars in my debt. We 
went into the library to change some books, and then 
 
sauntered up the busy street, somewhat disfigured, 
I must own, by saloons. The blind-door of one 
opened, and a young lad not more than eighteen 
staggered out. I saw a hot flush go over Joe's face : 
then suddenly he broke away from me, and threw 
his arm over the shoulder of the boy. I walked on 
slowly. Perhaps the good seed had taken root 
when Joe desired to save some one else. 
" I couldn't help it ! " he exclaimed, as he rejoined 
me, his eyes full of tears. "I thought of the 
wretched object that I was when I came to you, 
and how good you were ; and I wanted to say a 
word. He has a mother and two sisters oh, why 
must he break their hearts ! and he told me where 
he lived, 19 Cross Street. Maybe it isn't true. 
Oh, why can't they shut up these dens and holes 
that drag boys and men down to destruction ! " 
Why not, some of them at least ? I counted five 
on one side of the block, four on the other. Two 
or three young men dropped into one, even as I 
counted. If they cannot be strong for themselves, 
has Government no duty towards its citizens ? 
Eve declared herself very proud of Joe in his 
new clothes. He went to church with us on Sunday, 
though he insisted on sitting in a far-back seat. 
Now, why should not some one take him by the hand 
in a friendly manner? I had begun to like Mr. 
 
Bradford a good deal, in some sermons ; but it 
seemed to me that he took himself and his religion 
too far off, and, when he called you to follow, he was 
out of sight. If you could walk side by side ; if you 
could feel and believe that it was not the system 
that was so dear, but the human soul it might snatch 
from the ways of destruction ! 
One of the sweetest and bravest things was Eve 
walking right over to Joe when church was out, and 
taking him under her protection by the cordial smile 
and inclination of her head. There were three or 
four others, and no end of girls : and Joe, blushing 
like a peony, fell back to me; but she had given 
him that fine, brave recognition before them all. 
" Will you be surprised to hear that my painting- 
class is an absolute fact ? " Eve inquired, a few even 
ings later, as we sat at the supper-table. "Josie 
Morrison was in here an hour ago, and the last girl 
has joined. They are to begin the first week in 
June, and come every Tuesday and Thursday after 
noon. I shall transform this room into a studio, and 
range my girls around the dining-table. Just fancy 
me!" 
" My dear," said Mrs. West, who had succumbed 
entirely to Eve's fascinations, "how can you find 
time for so many things? You will work yourself 
to death." 
Eve laughed gayly. " Why, do you know that 
I thrive upon it ! I am absolutely getting fat, and I 
never was better in my life. But " retrospectively 
"I don't know that I am much busier than I used 
to be, only it is different. Why, some days I have 
run half over town, made dozens of calls, gone to a 
" tea," to the theatre, and then to a dancing-party, 
and come home two o'clock at night, aching in every 
joint, and by ten the next morning started on 
another round. I don't work half as hard ; and there 
is not the awful rush and worry, and wonder as to 
how you will get gloves and ribbons and gowns, 
and running all over to find cheap goods no, I 
mean elegant goods for a little money. Why, I 
think it idiotic ! " and Eve straightens herself up. 
"It makes me laugh, from its sheer ridiculousness. 
Fashionable girls have to work very hard when they 
are poor, and want to seem rich." 
" And you know how to do so many things ! 
Where did you learn them? What a treasure you 
will be to your husband ! " and the sweet old face is 
solid admiration. 
" That depends on the kind of husband. I have 
resolved that I will never make believe rich for 
any man's sake ; and I cannot help thinking that a 
