at him with a kind of stupefaction, in which liis 
eye wandered to the doorway, where he saw Fulker- 
son standing, it seemed to him a long time, before 
he heard him saying, "Hello, hello! What's the 
row ? Conrad pitching into you on eld Lindau's 
account, too ?, " 
The young man turned, and after a glance at 
Fulkerson's light, smiling face, went out, as if in his 
present mood he could not bear the contact of that 
IWersiflant spirit. 
March felt himself getting provisionally very 
angry again. "Excuse me, Fulkerson, but did you 
know when you went out what Mr. Dryfoos wanted 
to see me for ? " 
"Well, no, I didn't exactly," said Fulkerson, 
taking his usual seat on a chair, and looking over 
  
the back of ifc at March. " I saw he was ou his ear 
about something, and I tliought I 'd better not 
monkey with him mucli. I supposed he was going 
to bring you to book about old Liudau, somehow." 
Fulkerson broke into a laugh. 
March remained serious, " Mr. Dryfoos," ho 
said, willing to let the simple statement have its own 
weight with Fulkerson, and nothing more, "came 
in here and ordered me to discharge Lindau from 
his employment on the magazine — to tui'n him off, 
as he put it." 
" Did he ? " asked Fulkerson, with unbroken cheer- 
fulness. " The old man is business, every time. Well, 
I suppose you can easily get somebody else to do 
Lindau's work for you. This town is just running 
over with lialf- starved linguists. What did you 
say ? " 
" What did I say ? " March echoed. " Look here, 
Fulkerson ; you may regard this as a joke, but I 
don't. I 'm not used to being spoken to as if I were 
the foreman of a shop, and told to discharge a sen- 
sitive and cultivated man like Lindau, as if he 
were a drunken mechanic; and if that's your idea 
of me " 
" Oh, hello, now, March ! You mustn't mind the 
old man's way. He don't mean anything by it — he 
don't Jcnoiv any better, if you come to that." 
"Then I know better," said March. "I refused 
to receive any instructions from Mr. Dryfoos, whom 
I don't know in my relations with Every Other Week, 
and I referred him to you." 
" You did ? " Fulkcrson whistled. " He owns the 
thing ! " 
" I don't care -who owns the thing," said INIarch. 
"My negotiations were witli you alone from the 
beginning, and I leave tliis matter with you. What 
do you M'isli done about Lindau ? " 
"Oh, better let the old fool droj)," said Fulkerson. 
" He 'll light on his feet somehow, and it will save 
a lot of rumpus." 
" And if I decline to let him drop ? " 
" Oh, come, now, March ; don't do that," Fulker- 
son began. 
" If I decline to let him drop," March repeated, 
" what will you do ? " 
" I 'll be dogged if I know n-Juii I 'll do," said Ful- 
kerson. " I hope you won't take that stand. If the 
old man went so far as to speak to you about it, his 
mind is made up, and we might as well knock under 
first as last." 
"And do you mean to say that you would not 
stand by me in what I considered my duty — in a 
matter of piinciple ? " 
"Why, of course, March," said Fulkerson coax- 
ingly, " I mean to do the right thing. Lut Dryfoos 
owns the magazine " 
"He doesn't own ?»c," said March, rising. "He 
has made the little mistake of speaking to me as if 
he did ; and when" — March put on his hat and took 
his overcoat down from its nail — " when you bring 
me his apologies, or come to say that, having failed 
to make him understand they were necessary, you 
  
are prepared to stand by me, I will come back to 
this desk. Otherwise my resignation is at your 
service." 
He started toward the door, and Fulkerson inter- 
cepted him. "Ah, now, look here, March! Don't 
do that ! Hang it all, don't you see where it leaves 
me ? Now, you just sit down a minute, and talk it 
over. I can make you see — I can show you . 
why, confound the old Dutch beer-buzzer ! Twenty 
of him wouldn't be worth the trouble he 's makin'. 
Let him go, and the old man 'll come round in time.' 
" I don't think we 've understood each other 
exactly, Mr. Fulkerson," said March, very haughtily. 
"Perhaps we never can ; but I 'll leave you to think 
it out." 
He pushed on, and Fulkerson stood aside to let 
him pass, with a dazed look and a mechanical move- 
ment. There was something comic in his rueful 
bewilderment to March, who was tempted to smile, 
but he said to himself that he had as much reason 
to bo unhappy as Fulkerson, and he did not smile. 
His indignation kept him hot in his i:)urpose to 
suffer any consequence rather than submit to the 
dictation of a man like Dryfoos ; he felt keenly the 
degradation of his connection with him, and all his 
resentment of Fulkerson's original uncandour re- 
turned ; at the same time his heart ached with fore- 
boding. It was not merely the work in which he 
had constantly grown happier that he saw taken 
from him ; but he felt the misery of the man who 
stakes the security and plenty and peace of homo 
  
upon some cast, and knows that losing -will sweep 
from him most that most men find sweet and 
pleasant in life. He faced the fact, which no good 
man can front without terror, that he was risking 
the support of his family, and for a point of pride, 
of honour, which perhaps he had no right to consider 
in view of the possible adversity. He realised, as 
every hireling must, no matter how skilfully or 
gracefully the tie is contrived for his wearing, that 
he belongs to another, whose will is his law. His 
indignation was shot with abject impulses to go 
back and tell Fulkerson that it was all right, and 
that he gave up. To end the anguish of his struggle 
he quickened his steps, so that lie found he was 
reaching home almost at a run. 
VIII. 
He must have made more clatter than he sup- 
posed with his key at the apartment door, for his 
wife had come to let him in when he flung it open. 
"Why, Basil," she said, "what 's brought you back ? 
Are you sick ? You 're all pale. Well, no wonder ! 
This is the last of Mr. Fulkerson's dinners you shall 
go to. You 're not strong enough for it, and your 
stomach will be all out of order for a week. How 
hot you are ! and in a drip of perspiration ! Now 
you'll be sick." She took his hat away, which hung 
dangling in his hand, and pushed him into a chair 
with tender impatience. " What is the matter ? 
Has anything happened ? " 
"Everything has happened," he said, getting his 
voice after one or two husky endeavours for it ; and 
then he poured out a confused and huddled state- 
ment of the case, from which she only got at the 
situation by prolonged cross-questioning. 
At the end she said, " I knew Lindau would get 
you into trouble." 
This cut March to the heart. " Isabel ! " he cried 
reproachfully. 
" Oh, I know," she retorted, and the tears began 
to come. " I don't -wonJer you didn't want to say 
much to me about that dinner at breakfast. I noticed 
it ; but I thoni,W]it you "were just dull, and so I didn't 
insist. I wish I had, now. If you had told me what 
Lindau had said, I sliould have known what would 
have come of it, and I could have advised you " 
"Would you have advised me," March demanded 
curiously, " to submit to bullying like that, and 
meekly consent to commit an act of cruelty against 
a man who had once been such a friend to me ? " 
" It was an unlucky day when you met him. I 
suppose we shall have to go. And just when we 
had got used to Ncav York, and begun to like it. 
I don't know where we shall go now ; Boston isn't 
like home any more ; and we couldn't live on two 
thousand there ; I should be ashamed to try. I 'm 
sure I don't know where we can live on it. I sup- 
pose in some country village, where there are no 
schools, or anything for the children. I don't know 
what they 'll say when we tell  the m, poor things." 
Every word was a stab in March's heart, so weakly 
tender to his own; his wife's tears, after so much 
experience of the comparative lightness of the griefs 
that weep themselves out in women, always seemed 
wrung from his own soul ; if his children suffered in 
the least through him, he felt like a murderer. It 
was far worse than he could have imagined, the way 
his wife took the affair, though he had imagined 
certain words, or perhaps only looks, from her that 
were bad enough. He had allowed for trouble, 
but trouble on his account : a sympathy that might 
  
burden and embarrass him ; but he had not dreamt 
of this merely domestic, this petty, this sordid view 
of their potential calamity, which left him wholly 
out of the question, and embraced only what was 
most crushing and desolating in the prospect. He 
could not bear it. He caught up his hat againgst and 
with some hope that his wife would try to keep him, 
rushed out of the house. He wandered aimlessly 
about, thinking the same exhausting thoughts over 
and over, till he found himself horribly hungry; 
then he went into a restaurant for his lunch, and 
when he paid, he tried to imagine how he should 
feel if that were really his last dollar. 
He went home toward the middle of the afternoon, 
b-Wsely hoping that Fulkerson had sent him some 
cunciliatory message, or perhaps was waiting there 
for him to talk it over ; March was quite willing to 
talk it over now. But it was his wife who again met 
him at the door, though it seemed another woman 
than the one he had left weeping in the morning. 
" I told the children," she said, in smiling ex- 
planation of his absence from lunch, " that perhaps 
you were detained by business. I didn't know but 
you had gone back to the office." 
" Did you think I would go back there, Isabel ? " 
asked March, with a haggard look. " Well, if you 
say so, I will go back, and do what Dryfoos ordered 
me to do. I 'm sufficiently cowed between him and 
you, I can assure you." 
" Nonsense," she said. " I approve of everything 
you did. But sit down, now, and don't keep walk- 
  
ing that way, and let me see if I understand it per- 
fectly. Of course I had to have my say out." 
She made him go all over his talk with Dryfoos 
again, and report his own language })reciscly. From 
time to time, as she got his points, she said, " That 
was splendid," " Good enough for him ! " And " Oh, 
I 'm so glad you said that to him ! " At the end she 
said, " Well, now, let 's look at it from his point of 
view. Let 's be perfectly just to him before we take 
another step forward." 
" Or backward," March suggested ruefully. " The 
case is simply this : he owns the magazine." 
" Of course." 
"And he has a right to expect that I will con- 
sider his pecuniary interests " 
" Oh, those detestable pecuniary interests ! Don't 
you wish there wasn't any money in the world ? " 
" Yes ; or else that there was a great deal more 
of it. — And I was perfectly willing to do that. I 
have always kept that in mind as one of my duties 
to him, ever since I understood what his relation to 
the magazine was." 
" Yes, I can bear witness to that in any court of 
justice. You've done it a great deal more than I 
could, Basil. And it was just the same way with 
tliose horrible insurance people." 
"I know," March went on, trying to be proof 
against her flatteries, or at least to look as if he did 
not deserve praise ; " I know that what Lindau said 
was offensive to him, and I can understand how he 
felt that he had a right to punish it. All I say is 
that he had no right to punish it through me." 
  
" Yes," said Mrs. March askingly. 
"If it had been a question of making Evcnj Other 
week the vehicle of Lindau's pecuhar opinions — 
though they 're not so very peculiar ; he might have 
got the most of them out of Euskiu — I shouldn't 
have had any ground to stand on, or at least then I 
should have had to ask myself whether his opinions 
would be injurious to the magazine or not." 
"I don't see," Mrs. March interpolated, "how 
they could hurt it much worse than Colonel wood- 
burn's article crying up slavery." 
" Well," said March impartially, " we could print 
a dozen articles praising the slavery it's impossible 
to have back, and it wouldn't hurt us. But if we 
printed one paper against the slavery which Lindau 
claims still exists, some people would call us bad 
names, and the counting-room would begin to feel it. 
But that isn't the point. Lindau's connection with 
Every Other IFeclc is almost purely mechanical ; he 's 
merely a translator of such stories and sketches 
as he first submits to me, and it isn't at all a ques- 
tion of his opinions hurting us, but of my becom- 
ing an agent to punish him for his opinions. That 
is what I wouldn't do; that's what I never will 
do." 
"If you did," said his wife, "I should perfectly 
despise you. I didn't understand how it was before. 
I thought you were just holding out against Dryfoos 
because he took a dictatorial tone with you, and 
because you wouldn't recognise his authority. But 
now I 'm with you, Basil, every time, as that horrid 
little Fulkerson says. But who would have ever 
  
supposed he would be so base as to side against 
you ] " 
"I don't know," said March thoughtfully, "that 
we had a right to expect anything else. Fulkerson's 
standards are low ; they 're merely business standards, 
and the good that 's in him is incidental, and some- 
thing quite apart from his morals and methods. 
He 's naturally a generous and right-minded creature, 
but life has taught him to truckle and trick, like the 
rest of us." 
"It hasn't taught you that, Basil." 
" Don't be so sure. Perhaps it 's only that I 'm 
a poor scholar. But I don't know, really, that I 
despise Fulkerson so much for his course this morn- 
ing as for his gross and fulsome flatteries of Dryfoos 
last night. I could hardly stomach it." 
His wife made him tell her what they were, and 
then she said, "Yes, that was loathsome; I couldn't 
have believed it of Mr. Fulkerson." 
"Perhaps he only did it to keep the talk going, 
and to give the old man a chance to say something," 
March leniently suggested. " It was a worse effect 
because he didn't or couldn't follow up Fulkerson's 
lead." 
" It was loathsome, all the same," his wife insisted. 
"It's the end of Mr. Fulkerson, as far as I'm con- 
cerned." 
"I didn't tell you before," March resumed, after a 
moment, " of my little interview with Conrad Dryfoos 
after his father left," and now he went on to repeat 
what had passed between him and the young man. 
  
" I suspect that he and his father had been liaving 
some words before the okl man came up to talk witli 
me, and that it was that made him so furious." 
" Yes, but what a strange position for the son of 
such a man to take ! Do you suppose he says such 
things to his father ? " 
"I don't know; but I suspect that in his meek 
way Conrad would say what he believed to anybody. 
I suppose we must regard him as a kind of crank." 
" Poor young fellow ! He always makes me feel 
sad somehow. He has such a pathetic face. I don't 
believe I ever saw him look quite happy, except that 
night at Mrs. Horn's, when he was talking with Miss 
Vance ; and then he made me feel sadder than ever." 
" I don't envy him the life he leads at home, with 
those convictions of his. I don't see why it wouldn't 
be as tolerable there for old Lindau himself." 
" Well, now," said Mrs. March, '•' let us put them 
all out of our minds and see what we are going to 
do ourselves." 
They began to consider their ways and means, 
and how and Mdiere they should live, in view of 
March's severance of his relations with Evenj Other 
week, They had not saved anything from the first 
year's salary ; they had only prepared to save ; 
and they had nothing solid but their two thousand 
to count upon. But they built a future in which 
they easily lived on that and on what March earned 
with his pen. He became a free lance, and fought 
in whatever cause he thought just ; he had no ties, 
no chains. They went back to Boston with the 
heroic will to do what was most distasteful ; they 
would have returned to their own liousc if  the y 
had not rented it again ; but, any rate, Mrs. ISIarch 
helped out by taking boarders, or perhaps only 
letting rooms to lodgers. They had some hard 
struggles, but they succeeded. 
" The great thing," she said, " is to be right. I 'm 
ten times as happy as if you had come home and 
told me that you had consented to do wliat Dryfoos 
asked, and he had doubled j-our salary." 
" I don't think that would have happened in any 
event," said March dryly. 
" Well, no matter. I just used it for an example." 
They both experienced a buoyant relief, such as 
seems to come to people who begin life anew on 
whatever terms. " I hope we are young enough yet, 
Basil," she said, and she would not have it when he 
said they had once been younger. 
They heard the children's knock on the door ; 
they knocked when they came home from school so 
that their mother might let them in. "Shall we 
tell them at once ? " she asked, and ran to open for 
them before March could answer. 
They were not alone. Fulkerson, smiling from 
ear to car, was with them. " Is March in ? " he 
asked. 
" Mr. March is at home, yes," she said very 
haughtily. " He 's in his study," and she led the 
way there, while the children went to their rooms. 
" Well, March," Fulkenson called out at sight of 
him, "it's all right! The old man has come down." 
  
" I suppose if you gentlemen are going to talk 
business " Mrs. March began. 
" Oh, we don't want you to go away," said Ful- 
kerson. " I reckon March has told you, anyway." 
"Yes, I've told her," said March. "Don't go, 
Isabel. What do you mean, Fulkerson ? " 
" He 's just gone on up home, and he sent me 
round with his apologies. He sees now that he had 
no business to speak to you as he did, and he with- 
draws everything. He 'd 'a' come round himself if 
I 'd said so, but I told him I could make it all right." 
Fulkerson looked so happy in having the whole 
aflfair put right, and the Marches knew him to be 
so kindly aflfected toward them that they could not 
refuse for the moment to share liis mood. They 
felt themselves slipping down from the moral height 
which they had gained, and March made a clutch to 
stay himself with the question, "And Lindau? " 
"Well," said Fulkerson, "he's going to leave 
Lindau to me. You won't have anything to do 
with it. I 'll let the old fellow down easy." 
"Do you mean," asked March, " that Mr. Dryfoos 
insists on his being dismissed ? " 
" Why, there isn't any dismissing about it," Ful- 
kerson argued. " If you don't send him any more 
work, he won't do any more, that's all. Or if he 
comes round you can He 's to be referred to me." 
March .shook his head, and his wife, with a sigh, 
felt herself plucked up from the soft circumstance of 
their lives, which she had sunk back into so quickly, 
and set beside him on that cold peak of principle 
  
again. " It wou't do, Fulkcrson. It 's very gootl of 
you and all that, but it comes to the same tiling in 
the end. I could have gone on without any apology 
from Mr. Dryfoos ; he transcended liis authoritj-, 
but that's a minor matter. I could have excused it 
to liis ignorance of life among gentlemen ; but I 
can't consent to Lindau's dismissal — it comes to that, 
 whether you do it or I do it, and whether it's a 
positive or a negative thing — because he holds this 
opinion or that." 
"But don't you see," said Fulkerson, "that it's 
just Lindau's opinions the old man can't stand ! Ho 
hasn't got anything against him jjcrsonally. I don't 
suppose there 's anybody that appreciates Lindau in 
some ways more than the old man does." 
" I understand. He wants to punish him for his 
opinions. Well, I can't consent to that, directly or 
indirectly. "We don't print his opinions, and he has 
a i)erfect right to hold them, whether Mr. Dryfoos 
agrees with them or not." 
Mrs. March had judged it decorous for her to say 
nothing, but she now went and sat down in the 
chair next her husband. 
" Ah, dog on it ! " cried Fulkerson, rumpling his 
hair with both his hands. " What am I to do ? 
The old man says he 's got to go. ' 
" And I don't consent to his going," said March. 
" And you won't stay if he goes ? " 
" I won't stay if he goes." 
Fulkerson rose. " Well, well ! I 've got to see 
about it. I 'm afraid the old man won't stand it, 
  
March ; I am, indeed. I wish you 'd reconsider. I 
— I 'd take it as a personal favour if you would. It 
leaves me in a fix. You sec I 've got to side with 
one or the other." 
March made no reply to this, except to say, " Yes, 
you must stand by him, or you must stand by me." 
" Well, well ! Hold on a while ! I 'll see you in 
the morning. Don't take any steps " 
" Oh, there are no steps to take," said March, with 
a melancholy smile. " The steps are stopped ; 
that 's all." He sank back into his chair when Ful- 
kerson was gone, and drew a long bi-eath. "This 
is pretty rough. I thought we had got through it." 
"No," said his wifc. '"It seems as if I had to 
make the fight all over again." 
" Well, it 's a good thing it 's a holy war." 
" I can't bear the suspense. Why didn't you tell 
him outright you wouldn't go back on any terms ? " 
" I might as well, and got the glory. He 'll never 
move Dryfoos. I suppose we lK)th would like to go 
back, if we could." 
" Oh, I suppose so." 
They could not regain their lost exaltation, their 
lost dignity. At dinner Mrs. March asked the 
children how they would like to go back to Hoston 
to live. 
" Why, we 're not going, are we ? " asked Tom 
without enthusiasm. 
"I was just wondering how you felt about it, 
now," she said, with an underlook at her husband. 
"Well, if we go back," said Bella, "I want to 
  
live on the Hack Bay. It 's awfully IMiclcy at tlis 
South EikI." 
'' I suppose I should go to Harvard," said Tom, 
" and I 'd room out at Cambridge. It  would be 
easier to get at you on the Back Bay." 
The parents smiled ruefully at each other, and in 
view of these grand expectations of his children, 
March resolved to go as far as he could in meeting 
Dryfoos's wishes. He proposed the theatre as a 
distraction from the anxieties that he knew were 
pressing equally on his wife. " We might go to the 
Old Homestead," he suggested, with a sad irony, 
which only his wife felt. 
"Oh yes, let's!" cried Bella. 
"While they were getting ready, some one rang, 
and Bella went to the door, and then came to tell 
her father that it was Mr. Lindau. "He says he 
wants to see you just a moment. He's in the 
parlour, and he won't sit down, or anything." 
"What can he wanf?" groaneil Mrs. March, 
from their common dismay. 
!March apprehended a storm in the old man's face. 
But he only stood in the middle of the room, looking 
very sad and grave. " You are coing oudt," lie 
said. " I won't geep you long. I haf gome to pring 
pack dose macassines, and dis mawney. I can't do 
any more voark for you ; and I can't geep the 
mawney you haf baid me a'ready. It iss not hawncst 
mawney — that hass been earned py voark; it iss 
rnawney that hass pecn mate py sbeculation, and the 
obbressiou off lapour, and the necessity of the boor, 
  
py a man . Here it is, efcry tollar, efcry zcnt. 
Dake it ; I feel as if dere vas ploodt on it." 
"Why Lindau," March began, but the old man 
interrupted him. 
" Ton't dalk to me, Passil ! I could not haf 
believedt it of you. When you know how I feel 
about dose tings, why tidn't you dell me tchose 
mawney you bay oudt to me ? Ach, I ton't plame 
you — I ton't rebroach you. You haf nefer thought 
of it ; boat I — I have thought, and I should be 
cuilty, I must share that man's cuilt, if I gept hiss 
mawney. If you hat toldt me at the peginning — if 
you hat peen frank with me — boat it iss all righdt ; 
you can go on ; you ton't see dese tings as I sec 
them; and you haf cot a family, and I am a free 
man. I voark to myself, and when I don't voark, 
I sdarfe to myself. But I geep my handts glean, 
voark or sdarfe. Gif him hiss mawney pack ! I am 
sawry for him ; I would not hoart hiss feelings, boat 
I could not pear to douch him, and hiss mawney iss 
like boison ! " 
March tried to reason- with Lindau, to show him 
the folly, the injustice, the absurdity of his course ; 
it ended in their both getting angry, and in Lindau's 
going away in a whirl of German that included Basil 
in the guilt of the man whom Lindau called his 
master. 
"Well," said Mrs. March. "He is a crank, and 
I think you 're well rid of him. Now you have no 
quarrel with that horrid old Dryfoos, and you can 
keep right on." 
  
"Yes," said March, "I wish it didn't make me 
feel so sneaking. What a long day it's been! It 
seems like a century since I got up." 
" Yes, a thousand years. Is there anything else 
left to happen ? " 
"I hope not. I 'd like to go to bed." 
"Why, aren't yon going to the theatre?" wailed 
Bella, coming in upon her fatlicr's desperate ex- 
pression. 
"The theatre? Oh yes, certainly! I meant 
after we got home," and March amused himself at 
the puzzled countenance of the child. " Come on ! 
Is Tom ready ? " 
VIII. 
FuLKERSON parted with the Marches in such 
trouble of mind that he did not feel able to meet 
that night the people whom he usually kept so gay 
at Mrs. Leighton's table. He went to Maroni's for 
his dinner, for this reason, and for others more 
obscure. He could not expect to do anything more 
with Dryfoos at once ; he knew that Dryfoos must 
feel that he had already made an extreme concession 
to March, and he believed that if he was to get anj'- 
thing more from him it must be after Dryfoos had 
dined. But he was not without the hope, Aaguo 
and indefinite as it might be, that he should find 
Lindau at Maroni's, and perhaps should get some 
concession from him, some word of regret or apology 
which he could report to Dryfoos, and at least make 
the means of reopening the afi'air with him ; perhaps 
Lindau, when he knew how matters stood, would 
back down altogether, and for March's sake would 
withdraw from all connection with Every Other Week 
himself, and so leave everything serene. Fulkerson 
felt capable, in his desperation, of delicately suggest- 
ing such a course to Lindau, or even of plainly 
advising it : he did not care for Lindau a great 
  
(leal, and lie did care a great deal for the 
maiiWellazino. 
Diit lie did not find Lindau at Maroni's ; lie only 
found Bi'aton. He sat looking at the doorway as 
I'ulkerson entered, and Fulkerson naturally came 
and took a place at his table. Something in 
Beaton's large-eyed solemnity of aspect invited Ful- 
kerson to confidence, and he said, as he pulled his 
napkin open and strung it, still a little damp (as the 
scanty, often-wa.shed linen at Maroni's was ai)t to 
be), across his knees, " I was looking for you this 
morning, to talk "with you about the Christmas 
number, and I was a good deal worked up because I 
couldn't find you; but I guess I might as well have 
spared myself my emotions." 
"Why V asked Beaton briefly. 
" Well, I don't know as there 's going to be any 
Christmas number." 
"Why ? " Beaton asked again. 
" Eow between the financial angel and the literary 
editor about the chief translator and polyglot smeller." 
" Lindau ? " 
"Lindau is his name." 
" What does the literary editor expect after 
Lindau's expression of his views last night ? " 
" I don't know what he expected, but the; ground 
he took with the old man was that as Lindau's 
opinions didn't characterise his work on the maga- 
zine he would not be made the instrument of 
punishing him for them : the old man wanted him 
turned oil', as he calls it," 
  
"Seems to be pretty good ground," said Beaton 
impartially, while he speculated, with a dull trouble 
at lieart, on the effect the row would have on his 
own fortunes. His late visit home had made him 
feel that the claim of his family upon him for some 
repayment of help given could not be much longer 
delayed ; with his mother sick and his father grow- 
ing old, he must begin to do something for them, 
but up to this time he had spent his salary even 
faster than he had earned it : when Fulkerson came 
in he was wondering whether ho could get him to 
increase it, if he threatened to give up his work, 
and he wished that he was enough in love with 
Margaret Vance, or even Christine Dryfoos, to 
marry her, only to end in the sorrowful conviction 
that he was really in love with Alma Leighton, who 
had no money, and who had apparently no wish to 
be married for love, even. "And what are you 
going to do about it ] " he asked listlessly. 
"Be dogged if I know what I 'm going to do about 
it," said Fulkerson. " I 've been round all day, trying 
to pick up the pieces — row began right after break- 
fast this morning — and one time I thought I 'd got 
the thing all put together again. I got the old man 
to say that he had spoken to March a little too 
authoritatively about Lindau ; that in fact he ought 
to have communicated his wishcs through me ; and 
that he was willing to have me get rid of Lindau, 
and March needn't have anything to do with it. 
I thought that was pretty white, but March says the 
apologies and regrets are all avcII enough in their 
way, but they leave the main question where tlicy 
found it." 
" What is the main question ? " Beaton asked, 
liouring himself out some Chianti ; as ho set the 
flask down he made the reflection that if he would 
drink water instead of Chianti he could send liis 
father tlirce dollars a week, on his back debts, and 
he r(?solvcd to do it. 
"The main question, as March looks at it, is the 
question of punishing Lindau for his private 
opinions ; he says that if he consents to nvj bounc- 
ing the old fellow it *s the same as if he bounced him." 
" It might have that complexion in some lights," 
said Beaton. He drank ofl" his Chianti, and thought 
he would have it twice a week, or make Maroni 
keep the half-bottles over for him, and send his father 
two dollars. " And what are you going to do now ? " 
"That's what I don't know," said Fulkerson 
ruefully. After a moment he said desperately, 
"Beaton, you've got a pretty good head; why 
don't you suggest something ? " 
"Why don't you let March go ?" Beaton suggested. 
"Ah, I couldn't," said Fulkerson. "I got him to 
break-up in Boston and come here ; I like him ; 
nobody else could get the hang of the thing like he 
has; he 's — a friend." Fulkerson said this with the 
nearest approach he could make to seriousness, 
which was a kind of unhappiness. 
Beaton shrugged. " Oh, if you can afi'ord to have 
deals, I congratulate you. They 're too expensive for 
jne. Then, suppose you get rid of Dryfoos ?" 
  
Fulkerson laughed forlornly. " Go on, Bildad. 
Like to sprinkle a few ashes over nay boils ? Don't 
mind vie ! " 
They both sat silent a little while, and then 
Beaton said, "I suppose you haven't seen Dryfoos 
the second time ?" 
" No. I came in here to gird up my loins with 
a little dinner before I tackled him. But something 
seems to be the matter with Maroni's cook. I don't 
want anything to eat." 
"The cooking's about as bad as usual," said 
Beaton. After a moment, he added ironically, for 
he found Fulkerson's misery a kind of relief from 
his "WTi, and was willing to protract it as long as it 
was amusing : " Why not try an envoy extraordinary 
and minister plenipotentiary ? " 
" What do you mean ? " 
" Get that other old fool to go to Dryfoos for you !" 
"Which other old fool? The old fools seem to 
be as thick as flies." 
"That Southern one." 
"Colonel Woodburn?" 
" Mrammm." 
" He did seem to rather take to the colonel ! " 
Fulkerson mused aloud. 
" Of course he did. Woodburn, with his idiotic 
talk about patriarchal slavery, is the man on horse- 
back to Dryfoos's muddy imagination. He 'd listen 
to him abjectly, and he 'd do whatever Woodburn 
told him to do." Beaton smiled cynically. 
Fulkerson got up and reached for his coat and 
hat. "You've struck it, old man." The waiter 
came up to help him on with his coat ; Fulkerson 
slipped a dollar in his hand. " Never mind the 
coat; you can give the rest of my dinner to the 
poor, Paolo. Beaton, shake ! You 've saved my 
life, little hoy, though I don't think you meant it." 
lie took Beaton's hand and solemnly pressed it, and 
then almost ran out of the door. 
They had just reached coffee at Mrs. Leighton's 
when he arrived, and sat down with them, and 
began to put some of the life of his new hope into 
them. His appetite revived, and after protesting 
that he would not take anything but coffee, he went 
back and ate some of the earlier courses. But with 
the pressure of his purpose driving him forward, he 
did not conceal from Miss Woodburn, at least, that 
he was eager to get her apart from the rest for 
some reason. When he accomplished this, it seemed 
as if he liad contrived it all himself, but perhaps he 
had not wholly contrived it. 
'•I'm so glad to get a chance to speak to you 
alone," he said at once ; and while she waited for 
the next word he made a pause, and then said 
desperately, " I want you to help me ; and if you 
can't help me, there 's no help for me." 
" Mah goodness," she said, " is the case so bad as 
that ? What in the woald is the trouble ? " 
" Yes, it 's a bad case," said Fulkerson. " I want 
your father to help me." 
" Oh, I thoat you said me ! " 
" Yes ; I want you to help me with your father. 
  
I suppose I ought to go to him at once, but I 'm a 
little afraid of him." 
"And you awe not afraid of mel I don't think 
that 's very flattering, Mr. Fulkerson. You ought 
to think Ah 'm twahce as awful as papa." 
" Oh, I do ! You see, I 'm quite paralysed Lc- 
fore you, and so I don't feel anything." 
" Well, it 's a pretty lahvely kyand of paralysis. 
But — go on." 
" I will — I will. If I can only begin." 
" Pohaps Ah maght begin fo' you." 
" No, you can't. Lord knows, I 'd like to let you. 
Well, it 's like this." 
Fulkerson made a clutch at his hair, and then, 
after another hesitation, he abruptly laid the whole 
affair before her. He did not think it necessary to 
state the exact nature of the offence Lindau had 
given Dryfoos, for he doubted if she could grasp it, 
and he was profuse of his excuses for troubling her 
with the matter, and of wonder at himself for having 
done so. In the rapture of his concern at having 
perhaps made a fool of himself, he forgot why he 
had told her ; but she seemed to like having been 
confided in, and she said, " Well, Ah don't see what 
you can do with you' ahdeals of friendship, except 
stand bah' Mr. Maweh." 
" My ideals of friendship ? What do you mean ? " 
" Oh, don't you suppose we know ? Mr. Beaton 
said you we' a pofect Bahyard in friendship, and 
you wovdd sacrifice anything to it." 
"Is that so V said Fulkerson, thinking how easily 
  
he could sacrifice Liiulau in this case. lie had never 
supposed before that he was so cliivah-ous in such 
matters, but he now began to see it in that light, 
and he  wondered that he could ever have entertained 
for a moment the idea of throwing March over. 
" But, Ah most sat," Miss "Woodburn went on, 
" Ah don't envy you you' next interview with Mr. 
Dryfoos. Ah suppose you'll have to sec liirn at 
once aboat it." 
The conjecture recalled Fulkerson to the object 
of his confidences. "Ah, there's M'here your help 
comes in. I 've exhausted all the influence I have 
with Dryfoos " 
" Good gracious, you dou't expect ylh could have 
any!" 
They both laughed at the comic dismay with 
which she conveyed the preposterous notion ; and 
Fulkerson said, " If I judged from myself, I should 
expect you to bring him round instantly." 
" Oh, ihanh you, Mr. Fulkerson," she said, with 
mock-meekness. 
" Not at all. But it isn't Dryfoos I want you to 
help me with ; it 's your father. I want your father 
to intervicw Dryfoos for me, and I — I 'm afraid to 
ask him." 
" Poo' Mr. Fulkerson ! " she said, and she in- 
sinuated something through her burlesque compas- 
sion that lifted him to the skies. He swore in his 
heart that the woman never lived who was so witty, 
so wise, so beautiful, and so good. " Come raght 
with me this minute, if the cyoast's clea'." She 
  
went to the door of the dining-room and looked in 
across its gloom to the little gallery where her father 
sat beside a lamp reading his evening paper ; Mrs. 
Leighton could be heard in colloquy with the cook 
below, and Alma had gone to her room. She bec- 
koned Fulkerson with the hand outstretched behind 
her, and said, " Go and ask him." 
" Alone ! " he palpitated. 
"Oh, what a cyowahd !" she cried, and went with 
him. " Ah suppose you 'll want me to tell him 
aboat it." 
"Well, I wish you'd begin, Miss "Woodburn," he 
said. " The fact is, you know, I 've been over it so 
much I 'm kind of sick of the thing." 
Miss Woodburn advanced, and put her hand on 
her father's shoulder. " Look heah, papa ! Mr. 
Fulkerson wants to ask you something, and he 
wants me to do it fo' him." 
The colonel looked up through his glasses with 
the sort of ferocity elderly men sometimes have to 
put on in order to keep their glasses from falling off. 
His daughter continued : — 
" lie 's got into an awful difficulty with his edito' 
and his proprieto', and he wants you to pacify them." 
" I do not know whethah I understand the case 
exactly," said the colonel, " but Mr. Fulkerson may 
command me to the extent of my ability." 
" You don't understand it aftah what Ah 've said ?" 
cried the girl. " Then Ah don't see but what 
you 'll have to explain it you'self, Mr. Fulkerson." 
"Well, Miss Woodburn has been so luminous 
 
about it, colonel," said Fulkerson, glad of the joking 
shape she had given the affair, "that I can only 
throw in a little side light here and there." 
The colonel listened, as Fidkerson went on, with 
a grave diplomatic satisfaction. He felt gratified, 
honoured, even, he said, by Mr. Fulkerson's appeal 
to him ; and probably it gave him something of the 
high joy that an affair of honour would have 
brought him in the days wlien he had arranged for 
meetings between gentlemen. Next to bearing a 
challenge, this work of composing a difficulty must 
have been grateful. But he gave no outward sign 
of his satisfaction in making a rhum of the case 
so as to get the points clearly in his mind. 
" I was afraid, sir," he said, with the state due to 
the serious nature of the facts, " that Mr. Lindau 
had given Mr. Dryfoos offence by some of his 
questions at the dinner-table last night." 
" Perfect red rag to a bull," Fulkerson put in ; 
and then he wanted to withdraw his words at 
 the  colonel's look of displeasure. 
"I have no reflections to make upon Mr. Lindau," 
Colonel AYoodburn continued, and Fulkerson felt 
grateful to him for going on ; "I do not agree with 
Mr. Lindau ; I totally disagree with him on socio- 
logical points ; but the course of the conversation 
had invited him to the expression of his convictions, 
and he had a right to express them, so far as they 
had no personal bearing." 
"Of course," said Fulkerson, while Miss Wood- 
burn perched on the arm of her father's chair. 
"At the same time, sir, I think that if Mr. 
Dryfoos felt a personal censure in Mr. Lindau's 
questions concerning his suppression of the strike 
among his workmen, he had a right to resent it." 
" Exactly," Fulkerson assented. 
"But it must be evident to you, sir, that a high- 
spirited gentleman like Mr. March — I confess that 
my feelings are with him very warmly in the matter 
— could not submit to dictation of the nature you 
describe." 
" Yes, I see," said Fulkerson ; and with that 
strange duplex action of the human mind, he wished 
that it was his hair, and not her father's, that Miss 
Woudburn was poking apart with the corner of her 
fan. 
"Mr. Lindau," the colonel concluded, "was riglit 
from his point of view, and Mr, Dryfoos was equally 
right. The position of Mr. March is perfectly 
correct " 
His daughter dropped to her feet from his chair 
arm. " Mali goodness ! If nobody 's in the wrong, 
ho' awe you evah going to get the mattah straight ? " 
" Yes, you see," Fulkerson added, " nobody can 
give in." 
"Pardon me," said the colonel, "the case is one 
in which all can give in." 
" I don't know which 'll begin," said Fulkerson. 
The colonel rose. "Mr. Lindau must begin, sir. 
JFe must begin by seeing Mr. Lindau, and securing 
from him the assurance that in the expression of his 
peculiar views he liad no intention of offering any 
personal offence to Mr. Dryfoos. If I have formed a 
correct estimate of Mr. Lindau, this will be perfectly 
simple." 
Fulkerson shook his head. "But it wouldn't 
help. Dryfoos don't care a rap whether Lindau 
meant any personal offence or not. As far as that 
is concerned, he 's got a hide like a hippopotamus. 
But what he liates is Lindau's opinions, and what 
he says is that no man who holds such opinions 
shall have any work from him. And what March 
