"I am sure I don't," added Corny.

"I sent you up here to ascertain all about the Bellevite," continued
Mulgate, rather sharply.

"I have not had time to find out anything," Corny explained, with some
indignation in his tones.

"Corny has done as well as he could in the time he has had to do it in,"
interposed Captain Carboneer. "I think you are inclined to stir up bad
blood with this young man, Mulgate. It appears now that you have a
purpose of your own to accomplish, and that Corny will not allow you
to carry it out."

"My first purpose is the same as your own," replied Mulgate.

"You admit that you have a second object; and I cannot tell when you
will decide to make it your principal purpose," added Captain Carboneer.
"I am not satisfied with the situation. I have done everything I can to
accomplish our patriotic object. You endanger it by your crusty manner
to this young man, who seems to be willing to do his duty; and he is in
a position to be of great service to our enterprise."

"If you think it is necessary, I will take off my cap to this young
man," said Mulgate, with a sneer in his tones.

"Be reasonable, Mulgate."

"What can I do more than I have done?" demanded the military gentleman,
as his title indicated that he was.

"The first thing to do on your part is to renounce this idea of taking
a lady passenger with you in the steamer," replied Captain Carboneer, in
a very decided tone. "Women are not permitted on board of naval vessels,
especially in time of war."

"I don't think I have any idea to renounce," muttered Mulgate.

"You certainly hinted that you desired to take a lady on board, and
convey her to our destination," said the captain, rather earnestly.

"Not against her will, as you and Corny will have it," protested
Mulgate.

"Do you renounce that plan or that idea, whatever it may be?"

"I do not renounce it. If the lady is willing to go with me, as I
believe she will be, I know of no reason why she should not go as a
passenger," argued Mulgate.

"I think we had better abandon the enterprise in the beginning, for I
think we can be of more service to our country at liberty than within
the walls of Fort Lafayette," added the captain, with not a little
disgust mingled with his indignation.

Whatever his object in visiting this locality, he was clearly a
high-toned gentleman, and the idea of prosecuting a love adventure
in connection with what he regarded as a highly patriotic duty was
repulsive to his nature. He found by trial that the Florence was not
grounded very hard on the beach, for the tide was rising, and he drew
the boat farther up from the water, as he turned to walk away from the
spot.

"Am I to understand that you retire from this enterprise, Captain
Carboneer?" asked Mulgate.

"Am I to understand that you renounce your scheme to carry off a woman
as a part of the enterprise?" demanded the captain.

"I do not renounce it, though I have no intention to carry off a woman,
as you put it. The most I have asked is that she be permitted to go as a
passenger of her own free will," replied Mulgate.

"She never will go with him of her own free will," interposed Corny.

"I will not have a woman on board of the vessel, whether she goes
willingly or otherwise. Do you renounce that scheme entirely?"

"I think you are driving me into a small corner, Captain Carboneer."

"After what you have said before, I think I am fully justified in what I
require. With your private affairs, I have nothing to do. If you choose
to marry this young lady, I have nothing to say about that; but no woman
can be a passenger in a war vessel under my command. After I have landed
you at Bermuda or Nassau, I shall not attempt to run the blockade, which
is now enforced, in order to land you and the lady. Besides, we may be
in action at any time after we get under way."

"Then if I do not yield the point, you intend to leave me to carry out
this enterprise alone?" demanded Mulgate.

"In that case, I wish to go with you, Captain Carboneer," added Corny,
with emphasis. "But I want it understood that I shall not leave
Bonnydale without telling my uncle to look out for his daughter."

"Then you mean to be a traitor, Corny?" said Mulgate angrily.

"Call it what you like."

"All this is absurd, Mulgate," interposed Captain Carboneer. "Without my
resources, you can do nothing at all, and it would be foolish for you to
attempt the capture of the vessel. You are not a sailor or a navigator,
and you could do nothing with the vessel if you succeeded in getting her
to sea."

"I have no doubt I could find a hundred men in New York, including
half a score of navigators, to assist me in this enterprise," replied
Mulgate.

"I have another steamer in view, though the Bellevite is vastly superior
to anything I know of in speed and general fitness. Do as you think
best, Mulgate; and I shall be able to explain in a satisfactory manner
my failure to obtain this vessel."

"The fault will be mine, I suppose," muttered Mulgate.

"The court-martial will decide that point," replied the captain.

Mulgate seemed to be buried in his own reflections, no doubt suggested
by the last remark of the other. Possibly he considered that the failure
of such an important enterprise because he had insisted upon bringing
a lady into the affair would not sound well at home. Whatever he was
thinking about, he was greatly agitated, and Captain Carboneer walked in
the direction of the road, half a mile from the river. He had no time to
consider the matter: he must yield at once, or abandon the scheme.

"I will do anything you ask, Captain Carboneer!" he shouted, forgetting,
in his excitement, the demand for secrecy.

The naval officer, as his conversation indicated that he was, turned and
retraced his steps to the beach. He did not seem to be at all excited
because his associate had changed his mind, for in his judgment it would
have been worse than madness for him to persist in his intentions.

"I have stated the case as I understand it, and I have nothing more to
say, Mulgate," said he.

"I renounce my scheme, and I will not ask that the lady be a passenger
even to Bermuda or Nassau," replied Mulgate, though not without a
considerable display of emotion.

"Very well; that is enough. Nothing more need be said about your
purpose, since you have renounced it. Now we will visit the Bellevite,
and learn what we can in regard to her," said the naval officer, in his
usual quiet manner, and whether he was a Confederate or a Unionist, one
could hardly have failed to be impressed by his dignified deportment.

At the request of Captain Carboneer, Mulgate climbed to the forward deck
of the Florence. She was twenty-eight feet long, and her deck covered
more than half of her length. She had a very large cabin for a boat of
her size, which was fitted up with berths, with a cook-room forward of
it, for Christy Passford was often absent a week in her.

"I think Corny had better go back to the house, and keep an eye on
Christy, so as to make sure that he does not disturb us," suggested
Mulgate, as the planter's son was about to go on board of the yacht.

"I think we shall want him, and he had better be with us," replied the
captain, as one would speak when he expected to be obeyed.

Corny climbed up the stem of the Florence. He had never seen the captain
before, and had not even been informed who and what he was; but he
appeared to be a more important person than Mulgate, and he did not wait
for the latter to argue his point. He had sailed in the Florence very
often, and he knew all about her. He took a boathook, and planted its
point on the beach, in readiness to shove off.

"Not yet, Corny," said the naval officer, as he sprang lightly to the
deck of the sailboat. "Let us see where we are before we do anything."

Captain Carboneer seated himself on one of the cushioned seats in the
standing-room, and looked about him. A steamer towing a multitude of
canal boats was approaching, and he waited for it to pass. Then no
steamer or other craft was to be seen on the river.

"So far as I have been able to discover, there are only two men on board
of the Bellevite, and I think we have not a moment to lose," said the
naval officer, when he saw that the river was clear of everything that
might interfere with his plans. "But we must go on board of her, and
make sure of everything before we commit ourselves."

"As you said, Captain Carboneer, I am no sailor; and you don't think of
taking the steamer out of the river alone?" added Mulgate.

"I have not come here on a fool's errand, Major Pierson," replied the
captain. "We are alone now, and we may call things by their right
names."

"But I don't care to have my name used in this vicinity," interposed
this gentleman, when addressed by his own name.

"Your wish in this respect shall be respected, Mr. Mulgate. I was about
to say that I had a ship's company all ready to take possession of this
craft, to handle her at sea, and even to fight a battle if necessary."

"But where are your ship's company?" asked Mulgate, as he wished still
to be called.

"I will produce them at the right time. Now you may shove her off,
Corny," added the captain, as he took the wheel.




CHAPTER IV

CORNY PASSFORD PLAYS ANOTHER PART


Captain Carboneer brought the Florence about, and headed her across the
river. The Bellevite was moored a short distance from the estate down
the stream.

"I have been up here before to-day," said the naval officer, as the boat
moved away from the shore, assuring him that no one could be near enough
to hear what he said.

"We only reached New York yesterday, and I don't see how you can have
picked up a ship's company in that time," replied Mulgate.

"I sent the men before I came myself. I have stationed them in various
places on the river, where I can get them when I want them; and I shall
want them before the sun rises to-morrow morning," replied the captain.

"To-night!" exclaimed Mulgate, who seemed to be astounded at the
revelation.

"Yes, to-night; in a few hours from now. I have obtained all the
information I could in regard to the steamer, and what we do must be
done at once. The Bellevite, as they call her now, has not yet been
handed over to the government, though she has been accepted. They are
waiting for something, though I don't know what, and she may be sent
to the navy yard to-morrow; and then it will be too late for us to do
anything."

"But to-night--that is rather hurried," added Mulgate, musing.

Very likely he was thinking of the beautiful Miss Florry in the elegant
mansion a short distance up the river. Without a doubt he was Major
Pierson, since the naval officer had addressed him by this name and
title. He had often met the young lady at Glenfield Plantation, and
possibly his sudden visit to the North had not been without some thought
of her. However it may have been with her, he was at least very much
interested in Miss Florry.

The fact that she was a "Yankee" did not make her less beautiful, and it
did not make her any the less the daughter of a millionnaire. No one
could say that he was mercenary, however, and no one could say why he
was not as deeply interested in the daughter of the planter, for she
was hardly less beautiful, though her father was not considered a
millionnaire, to say nothing of a ten-millionnaire. Major Pierson did
not tell what he was thinking about; but he was certainly astounded and
badly set back when the naval officer intimated that the capture of the
Bellevite might be undertaken that night.

"You can see for yourself that we must strike at once, or there may be
nothing to strike at," replied Captain Carboneer.

"But we shall have no time to work up the case," suggested the major.

"The case is all worked up, and there is nothing more to work up,"
replied the captain, as he headed the boat for the steamer.

Major Pierson said no more, but he was as much dissatisfied with the
promptness of the naval officer as though he had said it in so many
words. It would be difficult to imagine how he expected to manage his
case with Miss Florry, since he could not enter the house without
betraying his identity. Perhaps he intended to lie in wait for her in
the grounds of the estate, and trust that her interest in him would
induce her to keep his secret.

"Is that you, Christy?" called a voice from the steamer, as the Florence
approached the Bellevite.

"Answer him, Corny," said Captain Carboneer, in a low voice. "Say 'yes,'
and ask who it is that speaks."

"Yes," repeated Corny. "Who are you?"

"Sampson," replied the man on board of the steamer.

"And who is with him," added the captain.

"Are you alone on board?" demanded Corny, varying his speech a little
from his instructions.

"No; Warping is on board, but he has gone to sleep in the pilot-house.
Do you want him?"

"No; but you wish to take a couple of friends on board to obtain the
measure of a gun-carriage," continued Captain Carboneer.

"No; I don't want Warping; I only wanted to know if he was on board,"
repeated Corny. "I have a couple of friends here who want to measure a
gun-carriage to-night, for they have to leave in the morning."

"Very well, young man; you understand yourself very well," said the
captain, in tones of approval.

By this time Captain Carboneer had brought the boat alongside the
accommodation steps, the lower part of which were hoisted up to prevent
any water tramps from coming on board without permission. But when Corny
had delivered the last message, the steps were lowered, and the Florence
made fast to them. Corny was told to lead the way, and act as though he
were Christy Passford, and owned the ship in his own right.

The planter's son went up the steps, and the other two followed him,
though the naval officer had really ascertained all he wished to know.
There were only two ship-keepers on board, and they would be no obstacle
in the way of the ship's company to which the captain had alluded. But
the leader of the enterprise had another object in view, though it was
only secondary in its nature. He was afraid to overburden the mind of
Corny, and he said nothing more.

"Is everything all right on board, Sampson?" asked Corny, as he stepped
down upon the deck of the vessel.

"All right, Christy," replied the man.

"I am glad to hear it. Is there anything new?"

"Nothing at all, Christy. I have been overhauling the boilers a little
to-day for the want of something to do, and they are in first-rate
condition. As you told me to-day that we might expect the order to
report at the navy yard at any minute, I thought I would have everything
as nearly ready as it could be."

"You have done very well, Sampson," added Corny, approvingly. "We are
to get under way early in the morning, and if father gets home he will
start the steamer as soon as he comes. He went to the city this evening,
and probably he will bring the order with him," continued Corny, making
use of the information he had obtained in the house.

"Where is this long gun, my man?" asked Captain Carboneer, taking a
measure from his pocket.

"Forward, sir," replied Sampson, as he led the way.

The captain kept some distance behind the ship-keeper, and took Corny by
the arm to detain him.

"Tell him to get up steam at once," whispered the leader of the party,
as he hastened forward to the long midship gun, where he proceeded to
take his measurements as though he were in real earnest, though it was
so dark that he could not possibly see the marks on his tape, even if he
tried to do so.

"You say that everything is ready to start the fires, Sampson?" said
Corny, as soon as he had a chance to speak to the ship-keeper.

"Everything is ready, Christy, and I have only to touch the match to the
shavings to make a beginning," replied Sampson. "Is there any news about
my appointment in the engine-room, Christy?"

"Not yet, Sampson; but the papers will soon come, and I am almost
willing to guarantee your appointment."

"Mr. Vapoor has already spoken a good word for me."

"All right, Sampson; then you are sure of the position. I am very sure
that we shall get the order before morning to move the steamer over
to the navy yard, and I think you had better start the fires at once,
Sampson," continued Corny, making himself as much at home on board of
the steamer as though he had really been the person he was supposed
to be.

"All right, Christy; and if the order don't come as soon as you expect
it, we can bank the fires, and no harm will be done," replied the oiler,
for such was his position on board, though he was evidently expecting
something better.

By this time Captain Carboneer had finished taking the measure of the
gun-carriage, though he had not been able to see anything. But he had
been through all the forms, and that answered his purpose just as well.
He declared that he had no further business on board, and the trio went
to the accommodation ladder. Sampson had called his sleeping companion,
and already the black smoke began to pour out of the smokestack.

"That was all very handsomely done," said Major Pierson, as they stepped
on board of the Florence.

"Everything worked very well; but it was all owing to the fact that the
ship-keeper thought that Corny was some other person," replied the
captain.

"I know that he took him for Christy Passford, and I have had some
experience with Christy," replied the major, recalling his attempts to
prevent the Bellevite from escaping from Mobile Bay. "He is a smart
fellow, as the Yankees would say, and it is fortunate that he is not
here at the present time."

"He can't be very far off," suggested Corny. "He was expected back to
supper, and I wanted to see him, for he is my cousin. He must be about
here somewhere."

"Never mind whether he is or not; we have finished our business here,
and the harvest is ripe for the sickle. We will leave this boat just
where we found it, for I have a rowboat a little farther down the
river," continued Captain Carboneer.

"I suppose I ought to return to my uncle's house," suggested Corny.
"If they miss me they will be looking about here to ascertain what has
become of me."

"I think you had better not try to relieve their anxiety to-night.
If they are worried about you, they will get over it in the morning
when they find the steamer is missing," said Captain Carboneer, with
something like a chuckle in his tones when he pictured the surprise of
the "Yankees" in making the discovery that the Bellevite had taken to
herself wings, and sped on her way to the South.

"I don't think they will worry about me," added Corny, laughing. "I was
afraid they might think I was here to capture the city of New York, or
something of that sort."

"I think you had better not undeceive them to-night," replied the
captain, as he ran the yacht upon the beach near where he had found her.

"Everything looks exceedingly well for our enterprise."

"If you get that steamer into Mobile Bay"--

"I don't intend to get her into the bay; that would be folly, and I
shall run no risks among the blockaders, for a single shot might give
her back to her present owners."

"No matter; if you only get her, and she is under the flag of the
Confederacy, it will put me back where I was when she went into the
bay by a Yankee trick," added Major Pierson.

"After the war, if you wish to see the young lady, you will have more
time to attend to the affair, and I shall wish you every success then,"
said the captain lightly.

"How long do you think the war will last, Captain Carboneer?" asked the
major, in this connection.

"Possibly it may last a year, though if we can break up that blockade,
it will not last six months longer."

The trio landed on the beach, and the naval officer made sure that the
Florence was securely fixed in the gravel. The party walked down stream,
embarked in the boat of which the captain had spoken. It was pulled by
two men, and after they had gone about a mile, the captain began to blow
a boatswain's whistle which he took from his pocket.

But they had hardly jumped down on the beach before Christy Passford
opened the cabin door of the yacht, and crept out with the utmost care.




CHAPTER V

CAPTAIN CARBONEER AND HIS PARTY


As Captain Carboneer blew his whistle, a mile below the moorings of the
Bellevite, an occasional response came from the shore. Everything was
remarkably quiet on the river, though at long intervals a steamer passed
on its way up or down the stream. The signals made by the naval officer
were not loud, and the replies, made without the aid of any instrument,
were quite feeble. One might have taken them for some frolic on the part
of the boys.

"I don't quite understand this business," said Major Pierson, after he
had listened a while to the signals. "I suppose from the answers you
get, that your men are all along the river, and the woods seem to be
full of them."

"I have no doubt they are all here," replied Captain Carboneer. "I have
been in this vicinity all day, and I have made good use of my time.
I believe the Bellevite belongs to the Confederacy, and it shall be
no fault of mine if the goods are not delivered in good order and
condition."

"My father was confident that he should obtain her at Nassau, though he
was mistaken," added the major.

"But when she went within our lines, we were all satisfied that she was
ours. I have not yet been able to understand why she was permitted to
escape."

"If you mean by that to cast any blame upon those who did their best
to prevent her escape, Captain Carboneer, you wrong them grossly,"
said Major Pierson. "She came on a friendly visit to the plantation of
Colonel Passford; but this gentleman, though the owner of the steamer
was his own brother, promptly gave information of her presence in the
creek, and did all he could to have her captured. No man could have
sacrificed more to his patriotism than he did."

"I do not reflect on him or on any one; I only wonder how the Bellevite
contrived to escape when several steamers were sent out to capture her,"
added the captain.

"The son of the owner of the Bellevite was a prisoner of mine, for when
I had my brother arrested for desertion, this young man was with him.
The only mistake I made was in not putting him in irons. The captain of
my tug proved to be a traitor to the Confederacy, and this fellow, with
Christy Passford, did the most of the mischief in preventing the capture
of the steamer."

"I was told that he was a smart boy," added the naval officer.

"He is all of that; and I think it was very fortunate that he did not
happen to be at home when we visited the Bellevite just now," said Major
Pierson, who evidently had a proper respect for the abilities of the
millionnaire's son.

"I do not see that his presence in his father's mansion, if he had been
there, could have made any difference," added the captain, as he sounded
his whistle again, and heard a faint response from the shore. "As long
as he was not actually on board of the steamer, he was harmless."

"Perhaps he was, though I have the feeling that it would have been
otherwise. There was a whistle from the shore."

"I heard it, and I understand it. Haslett has done his whole duty,
I judge," replied Captain Carboneer.

"Who is Haslett?" asked the major curiously. "I never heard of him
before."

"He is to be the first lieutenant of the Bellevite."

"You seem to have a full supply of officers and men, Captain Carboneer,"
added Major Pierson, apparently a little disconcerted. "I do not see
that I am of the least use here, for you seem to have done everything
without consulting me."

"In naval matters I have; but I give you full credit for the planning of
the enterprise," replied the captain, in his softest tones.

"When I was removed from my command because I allowed the steamer to
pass the forts, I felt that a great injustice had been done to me. I did
all I could to effect the capture of the vessel, but the attempt was a
failure," argued the major. "The shot hole through the bow of the Belle
utterly wrecked her, and the force on board of her could do nothing, and
Christy Passford had brought my own tug to bear against me. Why, the
Bellevite actually saved the force on board of the Belle from drowning.
A violent gale came up, and that did a great deal to nullify all our
efforts. But I think I did my whole duty."

"I have no doubt of it, Major Pierson; and for that reason you were sent
on this mission; and I am confident that the success of the enterprise
will restore you to your former command, or give you another quite as
good," said Captain Carboneer, as consolation to the military arm of the
expedition.

"But I cannot see that I have been of any use to this enterprise, and I
might as well have staid at home."

"You are too modest by half, major. You planned the expedition, and
suggested that Corny should take part in it, as he would have the
entrée to the residence of Captain Passford. But, being a mere boy,
he could not be sent alone, and your services were likely to be of
the most important character. It is no fault of yours that we found
everything made ready for us, as it were. It might have been quite
different, and the burden of the action might have rested upon you.
It is all right as it is."

"I am satisfied," added the major, "though I think it was no more than
right that you should have consulted me in regard to your methods, of
which I am still profoundly ignorant. In getting up the scheme, I based
everything on the fact that Corny could go into his uncle's house and
obtain all the information we needed."

"The scheme was well concocted; and I shall have the pleasure of
reporting to the government that the military arm of the expedition
conducted the enterprise to a perfect success, the naval force only
doing the duty pointed out by the military."

"You are very kind, Captain Carboneer," said Major Pierson, who could
not well help being entirely satisfied, and even greatly pleased, with
this happy showing of the final result.

"By daylight in the morning we shall be outside of Sandy Hook, I expect.
We have no time to waste, and you can see for yourself how the affair of
the young lady would have complicated our operations."

"How do you intend to convey these men, who seem to be scattered all
along the shores of the river, to the steamer?"

"They understand my signals, and they will all be ready within an hour
to take a small steamer which will pick them up."

"But where is the steamer?"

"She is farther down the river. As you seem to be a little sensitive to
the fact that I have not consulted you in regard to the naval operations
of this enterprise, I can tell you in a few words all there is of them,"
continued Captain Carboneer. "As you are aware, as soon as our plan was
matured by you, I left Mobile with Lieutenant Haslett, though you knew
nothing about him, for Nassau. We had no difficulty in getting out of
the bay, for the blockade was not then enforced. At Nassau I engaged a
couple of English engineers, and a few other officers, with thirty
seamen, mostly English, who were looking for prize-money. I had to take
my force to Quebec, for no steamer offered for New York. I sent them all
here in small parties, and Haslett posted them along the river when I
told him they would be needed to-night."

"I did not leave Mobile till two weeks later with Corny," added the
major. "But I got here sooner than you did."

"You were more fortunate in finding a steamer. I believe I have a
capital crew, though I shall obtain more men at Bermuda, or some other
port. There are plenty of good English sailors who are willing to fight
on either side if there is a good showing for prize-money; and I have
no doubt I shall capture a dozen vessels before we reach the Bermudas,
which will fully satisfy them, especially as the government will pay
the value of all vessels we are compelled to burn on the high seas."

"You will have the advantage over everything that floats, for I was told
that the Bellevite made twenty knots an hour, and had done twenty-two,"
said Major Pierson. "At what time do you think you will get on board of
the steamer?"

"By one or two in the morning, I hope; but it will depend upon the
steamer Haslett engages, though he told me he had bargained for an old
one with a walking-beam; but that will answer our purpose. I believe he
had to buy her, though she was of no great value."

At a creek which appeared to be the rendezvous of the conspirators,
the boat left the river; but there was no steamer, though quite a number
of men had gathered there. Leaving the party in the boat to follow out
the remaining details of their enterprise, which, by this time, in the
absence of anything like an obstacle, they regarded as so many mere
formalities, it becomes necessary to make another visit to the mansion
of Captain Passford. This gentleman had gone to the city upon important
business connected with the fitting out of the Bellevite, and he had not
returned when the clock in the great hall struck ten, which was at about
the time Captain Carboneer and his companions went into the creek five
miles down the river.

"There is no knowing when your father will come home, Florry," said Mrs.
Passford, as she suspended her work on a stocking she was knitting for
the soldiers. "But I can't imagine what has become of Christy. He never
stays out as late as this unless he tells us of it beforehand."

"I am really worried about him, mother," replied the beautiful daughter,
looking up from the stocking on which she was employed. "He went away in
the Florence, and something may have happened to him."

"I think not, Florry: there has been no storm, or heavy blow, and
he thinks he is as safe in his boat as he is on shore," added Mrs.
Passford, with an effort to control the fears of the daughter. "He may
have gone down to the city. He is very indignant at the delay in giving
the order to have the steamer sent to the navy yard, and wherever he is,
I am confident he is doing something in connection with the steamer."

"I wish I knew whether the Florence was at the boathouse," continued
Florry. "He said he was going out in the boat; but perhaps he did not.
Perhaps he is with father."

"There is the front-door bell," added Mrs. Passford, with a start.
"It cannot be your father or Christy, for both of them have latch-keys.
Who could come here at this time in the evening?"

"Mr. Paul Vapoor," said the man-servant, who answered the bell.

The gentleman announced walked into the sitting-room without any
ceremony, for he had long been a familiar visitor. He was dressed in
the full uniform of a chief engineer of the navy. Removing his cap, he
politely bowed to the two ladies; and any one who was looking might have
seen that Miss Florry blushed a little when she saw him; and very likely
if Major Pierson had witnessed the roses on her fair cheek, he might
possibly have concluded that it would have been useless to postpone the
capture of the Bellevite to enable him to fortify his position near her.

"I beg your pardon, ladies, for calling so late," said Mr. Vapoor, as he
drew a long envelope from his pocket. "But I thought Christy might wish
to see what is in this envelope before he retired."

"Why, what is in it?" asked Mrs. Passford.

"Christy's commission as a midshipman in the navy."

"But Christy is not at home, and we are somewhat anxious about him,"
added the mother, stating the facts in regard to her son.

Paul Vapoor volunteered to go in search of him, and left the house.




CHAPTER VI

THE CABIN OF THE FLORENCE


If Captain Carboneer had felt any especial interest in the Florence as
a sailing yacht, he might have desired to see the cabin of the craft,
which had always been the delight of Christy Passford. He had expended
a great deal of his pocket-money upon the arrangement and furnishing of
the cabin of his yacht, not only because he spent a considerable portion
of his vacation hours in it, but because it had been a perpetual study
with him to enlarge and improve it.

It is very difficult to get three pints of liquid into a quart measure,
and it was a conundrum of this sort that Christy was studying upon
when he tried to make a parlor, bedroom, and dining-saloon of the very
limited space in the forward part of the Florence. Though he could
hardly get the three pints into the quart measure, he had done the best
he could, and succeeded to a rather remarkable degree. But spite of the
miracle which had been wrought in the cabin, Captain Carboneer did not
even try the door of the apartment when he and his companions went on
board of the yacht. He was so absorbed in the enterprise in which he was
engaged, that his indifference to the miracle of the cabin may be
excused.

Even the double doors of the cabin were of handsome wood, elaborately
polished; and they were not secured with the usual appliance of a
padlock, but were provided with an expensive mortise-lock, which could
be operated upon either side. If Captain Carboneer had tried to open
that door, he would have found that it was fastened; but perhaps he
could not have discovered that it had been secured upon the inside.
Unless, therefore, he had taken the trouble to break open the door, he
could not have ascertained that Christy Passford was actually in the
cabin.

Possibly, if he had opened the door by any means, he would not have
discovered that the proprietor of the boat was in this dainty apartment,
for the skipper had taken a great deal of pains to conceal himself so
that he should not be seen, even if the intruders in the Florence had
succeeded in opening the doors without the aid of the key in his pocket.
Though he had two very nice berths in the cabin, miraculously arranged
as to space, Christy did not occupy one on the present occasion, for in
that case the unbidden visitors would have seen him if their curiosity
had led them to force the doors.

When the cook of the Florence, usually the skipper of the craft, was
engaged in the practice of the culinary art, he seated himself on what
looked like a box in front of the stove. But the interior of this box
was really a part of the cabin, for it contained the feet of any one
occupying the berth on the starboard side. The cookroom had no end of
bins, lockers and drawers to contain the variety of provisions and
stores necessary to get up a dinner for the skipper and his guests, when
he had any. And even all these places could not contain everything that
was needed on board. Under the two berths were large, though not very
deep, lockers, one of which contained the jib-topsail of the craft, and
other spare sails, while the opposite one was the fuel locker of the
sloop.

As the boat had not been used for a long time in cruising, the fuel
receptacle was empty, though a spare gaff-topsail had been thrown
into it. This locker was big enough to admit the body-corporate of
the skipper. It was not a particularly clean place, for a portion of it
had been economized for the stowage of the charcoal, which the skipper
preferred to wood. But he did not rebel at the blackness of the retreat
he had chosen, for he wore his boating dress, which was hardly stylish
enough for a dude or a dandy.

But Skipper Passford did not crawl into this black hole for the fun of
the thing. He had been spending his time in waiting for a movement to be
made in regard to the Bellevite. He staid in the house all the forenoon,
and, after lunch, he sailed down the river in the Florence, though with
no object in doing so beyond passing the time. Not far from the beach
where he had afterwards left the yacht, he discovered a boat rowed by
two men with a third in the stern sheets.

The breeze was quite gentle, though the Florence would sail at a very
tolerable speed when there was the least apology for a wind. She was
doing so on the present occasion, and Christy had stretched himself out
on the cushioned seat, with the spokes of the wheel where he could steer
without any exertion, or next to none. The idleness of his days since
his return from the eventful cruise of the Bellevite seemed to have
infected him with an unnatural indolence.

He felt as though he was rather more than half asleep when he saw the
boat with the two oarsmen. It was going up the river, while he was going
down. He had to luff a little to keep clear of the oars, but he did not
move from his half-recumbent posture. When the boat was alongside, he
glanced idly and carelessly at the person in the stern sheets. Instantly
he was wide awake, though he did not change his position. The person
looked like a gentleman, and Christy was sure that he had seen him
before. A couple of minutes of earnest cudgelling of his brain assured
him that he had seen the stranger in Nassau; that he was one of the many
who wanted to purchase the Bellevite, ostensibly for a merchant vessel,
but really for the Confederate navy.

After he had run a short distance farther down the river, Christy came
about, the boat being some distance from him, but the gentleman soon
landed and walked up the river on the shore, or very near it. In a short
time, he was joined by another person, whose form looked familiar to the
skipper of the Florence. He could not identify him, for he was not near
enough to him to see his face. A puff of air came from across the river,
and the Florence darted ahead, and Christy was soon out of sight of the
two strangers.

Near the boundary of his father's estate, he ran the yacht on the sandy
beach, letting her strike the sand hard enough to stick where she was
for half an hour, though she was not likely to get adrift, for the
gentle breeze was blowing her farther on the shore as the tide rose.

Christy hauled down the jib of the sloop, and then seated himself, or
rather reclined upon the cushions, though in such a position that he
could see the shore, or any persons who came upon it. No one was in
sight, and he had no one to watch. The swash of a great steamer passing
in the channel made his boat roll heavily for a moment, with the forward
part of the bottom resting on the sand. For the want of something better
to think of, he began to put conundrums to himself in the absence of any
other person to perplex with them. What was the gentleman that wanted to
buy a steamer in Nassau doing up the Hudson? This was the principal one:
he could not answer it. He gave it up; as the French have it, he had to
"throw his tongue to the dogs," having no use for it in this connection.

But while he was dreaming of the possible mission of the stranger,
he heard voices on the beach. Not deeming it wise to show himself, he
rolled off the cushion upon the floor of the standing-room, and then
fixed himself in a position where he could see and hear what passed
between the speakers. He could see without being seen. It did not
require a second look for him to decide that the second person on the
beach was Major Pierson, though his companion called him Mulgate.

If Christy had been interested before, he was excited now. The two
speakers were within earshot of the boat, and in the stillness of the
scene he could hear every word that was said. In a few moments he was in
full possession of the statements of the captain and the major in regard
to their intentions; and it appeared that the gentleman he had seen in
Nassau still desired to obtain a steamer.

Before it was dark, Christy was astonished to behold his cousin Corny on
the other side of the fence; and he readily understood that he was to
take part in the enterprise in hand. As yet the listener had obtained
but little more than the information in regard to the intention of the
visitors. When he found that they were disposed to take possession of
the Florence, and make their visit to the Bellevite in her, the skipper
retired from the standing-room of the boat to the cabin, where he locked
the door, and put the key in his pocket. When he realized that they
really meant to come on board, he crawled into the space under the
starboard berth, and arranged the sail so that it would conceal him
in case the intruders pushed their investigation into the cabin.

When he had completed his preparations, he was quite satisfied that
he should not be discovered. The trio came on board, and Christy fixed
himself so that he could hear every word that was said, for there was a
small opening under the berth through which the superfluous length of a
pair of oars could be thrust when not in use.

Christy, without the remotest suspicion on the part of the plotters
that they could be heard by any living being, and especially not by so
dangerous a character as Christy had proved himself to be to the peace
and dignity of the Confederacy, heard all that was said, and he obtained
a full idea of the intentions of the conspirators. When they went on
board of the Bellevite, he was so excited that he could no longer remain
in his prison, but came out, and crept up the accommodation ladder to
the deck of the steamer. But he was careful not to show himself, and,
having a key to the cabin, he went into it, locking the door after him.
Then he had a chance to think.

What should he do? He had no force at hand to beat off such a party as
Captain Carboneer mentioned. They might carry out their plot that very
night, as they had talked of doing. Perhaps it would be executed at
once, even while he was on board, and he would then be a prisoner. This
idea was too galling to be considered, and he left the cabin to visit
the wardroom. Going still farther forward, he was surprised to hear the
roar of the flames in the furnaces below. It looked at that moment as
though the Bellevite was doomed to sail under a Confederate flag. But if
he could do nothing more, he could save himself, even if he had to jump
into the river and swim to the shore.

Christy lost no time in making his way to the main deck of the vessel;
but he was careful to avoid the visitors. He went back to the cabin, and
went on deck from it. Then he discovered that the trio were in the act
of descending the accommodation steps. Mounting the rail he saw them
embark in the Florence, and sail down the river. Dismounting from the
rail, he hastened to the engine-room, where he found Sampson getting the
engine ready to be put in motion.

"Ah, Christy, I thought you had gone," said the oiler.

"Who were those two men who were on board?" asked Christy, not a little
excited.

"They were two gentlemen you brought on board, Christy," replied
Sampson, innocently enough.

"That I brought on board!" exclaimed the skipper of the Florence.

"Yes, sir: and I thought you had gone ashore with them," added the
oiler.

"I brought no men on board, Sampson! What are you talking about?"
demanded Christy impatiently.

"Didn't you bring two gentlemen on board, and didn't one of them want to
measure the carriage of the big gun?"

"No! I did not! I have not seen you before now this evening," protested
Christy.

"Then I have lost my senses. Didn't you tell me to get up steam, because
the steamer would be moved to the navy yard before daylight in the
morning?" demanded Sampson, bewildered by the denial of the young man.

"I see now," added Christy. "You mistook Corny for me."

Sampson gave him all the details of the visit of the strangers.


