the gas had to be lighted in the house. No one called; but Hermia was
willing to be left to solitude. She was not restless, she was dully
indifferent. The grayness of the day entered into her and enveloped her;
life in the Brooklyn flat had never looked colder and barer than in this
palace which her will and her wealth had created.
When evening came she gave orders that no one but Cryder should be
admitted. Somewhat to her surprise he did not come. She did not care
particularly, but went to bed at half-past nine, and had Miss Newton rub
her to sleep.
                 
                             CHAPTER XVIII.
                        A BLOODLESS ENTHUSIAST.
Cryder did not come the next day or evening, nor did he write. At first
Hermia experienced a mild fear that he was ill; but Helen Simms called
the following morning and said, en passant, that she had met him a few
moments before on the street. Then Hermia began to be piqued and a
little mortified. For several hours she thought less about dismissing
him. The next day the whole thing seemed like a dream; she caught
herself wondering if it had really happened. At this point she received
a note from Cryder.
    “It is a year since I have seen you, but I have a book due at
    the publisher’s on Thursday, and I have been working night and
    day. After the weary grind is over you will see too much of me.
    In the mean time I am with you always. In fancy I look into your
    eyes and see the waves break over the rocks, and watch the moon
    coquet with the tides. Now the green bosom of the sea is placid
    for a moment, and I see * * * the mermaids * * * sleeping in
    their caves—
                                              “Until to-night!
                                                          “O. C.”
Hermia shrugged her shoulders. It was very pretty, but rather tame. At
the same time her pride was glad to be reassured that he still loved
her, and she once more put her dismissal into mental shape and blunted
the arrow of decree with what art she possessed.
When he was shown into the library that evening she rose nervously,
wondering how she was to keep him from kissing her. He raised her hand
lightly to his lips after his old habit, complimented her Catherine de’
Medici gown, and threw himself into an easy-chair by the fire.
“How grateful this fire is!” he exclaimed. “It is one of those horrid,
sleety nights. The horse slipped once or twice.”
“Did you come in a cab?” asked Hermia.
“Yes; I had not the courage to face that long block from the elevated.”
He settled himself back in his chair, asked permission to light a
cigarette, and for an hour entertained her in his most brilliant vein.
Hermia listened with the most complex sensations of her life. The
predominating one at first was intense mortification. There was no
danger of this man blowing out his brains for any woman. She was rather
the most agreeable woman he knew just then, but—there were plenty of
others in the world. Then her brain and her philosophy came to her aid,
and she began to be amused. She had always been able to laugh at her own
expense, and she indulged in a little private burst whilst Cryder was
reciting a graphic passage from his lately finished book. The laugh
added several years to her twenty-five, but on the whole, she concluded,
it did her good.
Then she began to reason: Why break it off? He is the most agreeable man
I have ever known; why lose him? If I dismiss him thus cavalierly, he
will be piqued at least, and I shall not even have his friendship. And I
can never love or have a throb of real feeling. All that was the
delusion of a morbid imagination. There are no men like those I have
dreamed of. The ocean rolls between the actual and the ideal.
She did Cryder some injustice in the earlier part of her meditations. He
was really very fond of her. There were many things about her that he
liked immensely. She was beautiful, she was artistic, she had a fine
mind, and, above all things, she was the fashion, and he had carried her
off. But he never rushed at a woman and kissed her the moment he entered
the room; he did not think it good taste. Moreover, she looked
particularly handsome in that black-velvet gown and stiff white ruff,
and her position in that carved, high-backed chair was superb. His eye
was too well pleased to allow the interference of his other senses.
After a time he went over and lifted her face and kissed her. She
shrugged her shoulders a little but made no resistance.
                 
                              CHAPTER XIX.
                            TASTELESS FRUIT.
She began to have an absurdly married feeling. When she had made up her
mind to drift on the wave she had chosen, she had consoled herself with
the thought that, if love was a disappointment, the situation was
romantic. By constantly reminding herself that she was the heroine of
“an experience,” she could realize in part her old wild dreams. To
create objective illusion was a task she soon renounced. No matrimonial
conditions were ever more prosaic and matter-of-fact than the various
phases of this affair.
The evenings were long and very pleasant. Cryder smoked innumerable
cigarettes in the most comfortable chair in the library, and was never
dull. Hermia began to get rather fond of him in a motherly sort of way.
One night he had a cold and she gave him a dose of quinine; occasionally
she sent him certain of her cook’s dainty concoctions. She always had a
little supper for him on his particular evenings, and took care that his
favorite dishes were prepared.
She had her intervals of disgust and fury with fate, but they were
becoming less frequent. Like all tragic and unversed women she was an
extremist. She had dreamed that life was one thing; her particular
episode had taught her that it was another. There was no medium nor
opposite pole; she had been wrong in every theory.
Ennui was her worst enemy. Sometimes she got tired of the very sound of
Cryder’s voice—it ceased so seldom. She longed for variety of any sort,
for something to assure her that she was not as flatly married as Bessie
and her husband. One day when she was more bored than usual Helen Simms
came in.
“How brilliant you look!” she exclaimed. “What is the matter with
you?”
“Ennui; life is a burden.”
“Where is Ogden Cryder? I thought he had put ennui to flight.”
“He is charming,” said Hermia, “and I am having that flirtation with him
that you advised; but even that is getting a little monotonous.”
“I will tell you what you want,” exclaimed Helen, decidedly. “You want
to see something of the champagne side of life. You have had enough of a
flirtation by a library fire in a feudal room; it is time you did
something a little more risqué! Get Mr. Cryder to take you to some
awfully wicked place to dine—some place which would mean social
ostracism were you found out—only you mustn’t be found out. There is
nothing actually wrong in it, and the danger gives one the most
delightful sensation.”
Hermia elevated her nose. “I hate anything ‘fast,’” she said. “I prefer
to keep out of that sort of atmosphere.”
“Oh, nonsense! It is the spice of life; the spice without the vulgarity.
To have all the appearance of being quite wicked, and yet to be actually
as innocent as a lamb—what more stimulating? It is the only thing which
has saved my valuable life. I always amuse myself picturing how poor
papa would look if he should suddenly descend upon me. Then after the
dinner take a drive through the park in a hansom—at midnight! You quite
feel as if you were eloping; and yet—with none of the disagreeable
consequences. You elope, and that is the end of you. You drive through
the park in a hansom, and go home and to bed like a good little girl.
The next week—you drive through the park in another hansom. Then you
feel that life is worth living. Some night you and Mr. Cryder, Mr.
Winston and myself will have a tear.”
“No!” exclaimed Hermia; “I abominate that sort of thing, and I will not
go.”
But Helen, unconsciously, had appalled her. Was there no other escape
from ennui? What a prospect! Mrs. Dykman had promised to take her to
Europe. She determined to make that lady hasten her plans and go at
once.
                 
                              CHAPTER XX.
                         A COMMONPLACE MEETING.
Quintard, after an absence of five years, had returned to New York to
find Hermia Suydam the sensation of the year. He saw her first at the
Metropolitan Opera-House, and, overhearing some people discussing her,
followed the direction of their glances. She had never looked more
radiant. Her hair shone across the house like burnished brass; her eyes
had the limpid brilliancy of emeralds, and the black lashes lay heavy
above and below them; her skin was like ivory against which pomegranate
pulp had been crushed, and her mouth was as red as a cactus-flower. Her
neck and arms and a portion of her bust were uncovered. Although it was
a first night and most of her sister belles were present, her peculiar,
somewhat barbaric beauty glittered like a planet in a firmament of
stars.
Quintard left his seat at the end of the second act and walked back and
forth in the lobby until he met Ralph Embury.
“Do you know Miss Suydam?” he asked the lively little journalist.
Embury hastened to assure him that he had the honor of Miss Suydam’s
acquaintance.
“Then introduce me,” said Quintard.
Embury went at once to ask Miss Suydam’s permission for the desired
presentation, and, returning in a few moments, told Quintard to follow
him. Cryder gave his chair to Quintard, and Hermia was very gracious.
She talked in a low, full voice as individual as her beauty—a voice
that suggested the possibility of increasing to infinite volume of
sound—a voice that might shake a hearer with its passion, or grow
hoarse as a sea in a storm. Quintard had never heard just such a voice
before, but he decided—why, he did not define—that the voice suited
its owner.
She said nothing beyond the small-talk born of the conditions of the
moment, but she gave him food for speculation, nevertheless. Had it not
been absurd, he would have said that twice a look of unmistakable terror
flashed through her eyes. She was looking steadily at him upon both
occasions—once he was remarking that he was delighted to get back to
America, and again that he had last seen Tannhäuser at Bayreuth.
He was also perplexed by a vague sense of unreality about her. What it
meant he could not define; she was not an adventuress, nor was her
beauty artificial. While he was working at his problems the curtain went
down on the third act, and she rose to go. She held out her hand to him
with a frank smile and said good-night. When she had put on her wraps
she bent her head to him again and went out of the door. Then she turned
abruptly and walked quickly back to him. The color had spread over her
face, but the expression of terror had not returned to her eyes. They
were almost defiant.
“Come and see me,” she said quickly.
He bowed. “I shall be delighted,” he murmured; but she left before he
had finished.
“She is lovely,” he thought, “but how odd! What is the matter with her?”
                 
                              CHAPTER XXI.
                           BACK TO THE PAST.
Hermia gave a little supper after the opera, and, when the last guest
had gone, she went up to her room and sank down in a heap before her
bedroom fire. As she stared at the coals, the terrified look came back
to her eyes and remained there. She had received a shock. And yet
Quintard had only uttered a dozen sentences, and these she could not
recall. And she had never seen him before. Had not she? She closed her
eyes. Once more she was in her little Brooklyn room; that room had been
transformed * * * and she was not alone. She opened her eyes and gave a
quick glance about her, then plunged her head between her knees and
clasped her hands about the back of it. She must conjure up some other
setting from that strange, far-away past of hers—one that had never
been reproduced in this house. There had been splendid forests in those
old domains of hers, forests which harbored neither tigers nor panthers,
bulbuls nor lotus-lilies. Only the wind sighed through them, or the
stately deer stalked down their dim, cool aisles. Once more she drifted
from the present. He was there, that lover of her dreams; she lay in his
arms; his lips were at her throat. How long and how faithfully she had
loved him! Every apple on the tree of life they had eaten together. And
how cavalierly she had dismissed him! how deliberately forgotten him!
She had not thought of him for months—until to-night.
She raised her head with abrupt impatience and scowled. What folly! How
many men had not she met with black hair and dark-blue eyes and athletic
frames? What woman ever really met her ideal? But—there had been
something besides physical resemblance of build and color. A certain
power had shone through his eyes, a certain magnetism had radiated from
him—she shuddered, threw herself back on the rug, and covered her eyes
with her hands. To meet him now!
                 
                             CHAPTER XXII.
                         QUINTARD IS DISCUSSED.
The next afternoon Hermia was sitting in the library with Miss Starbruck
when Helen came in. Hermia greeted her eagerly. Helen always diverted
her mind. Perversely, also, she wanted to hear some one speak of
Quintard.
“I have only a few moments,” said Helen. “I told Mr. Winston to call for
me at four. We are going to find a place to walk where we shall not meet
everybody we know——.” She stopped suddenly as she caught sight of Miss
Starbruck’s gray, erect figure and shocked expression. “I beg your
pardon, Miss Starbruck,” she said, sweetly; “I did not see you.”
“Why do you object to meeting people you know when you walk with young
men?” demanded Miss Starbruck, severely.
Helen, by this time, had quite recovered her presence of mind. “Oh! they
always want to stop and talk,” she said, lightly, “and that is such a
bore.” Then she turned to Hermia: “I saw Grettan Quintard in your box
last night. Did you ever hear such a name? As hard as a rock! But I
imagine it suits him—although he felt pretty bad five years ago.”
“What about?” demanded Hermia.
“You never heard that story? But, to be sure, that was before your time.
He was awfully in love with Mrs. Theodore Maitland—one of the prettiest
women in town—and she with him. Everybody was talking, and finally Mr.
Maitland found it out. He was very cool about it; he calmly went down
town to a lawyer and told him to begin proceedings for a divorce. He
sent for his things and took rooms at a hotel. Everybody cut Mrs.
Maitland, and she felt so horrible that she killed herself. Quintard was
fearfully upset. He went abroad at once and staid five years. This is
his first reappearance.”
“A true nineteenth-century romance!” exclaimed Hermia, sarcastically.
“An intrigue, a divorce court, and a suicide!” But she had listened with
a feeling of dull jealousy, and the absurdity of it angered her. Her
imagination had made a fool of her often enough; was she about to weakly
yield herself to its whip again? What was Quintard or his past to her?
“I rather liked his face,” she added, indifferently. “Did you know him
before he went away?”
“Only by sight. I was not out. For the matter of that he went out very
little himself until the Mrs. Maitland episode. He cared nothing for
society, and only went into it to be with her. He wasn’t even very much
of a club man, and had few intimates. I met him the other night at Mrs.
Trennor-Secor’s dinner, and he took me in. I can’t say I care much for
him; he’s too quiet. But he is awfully good-looking, and has great
distinction. It is time,” she added, glancing at the clock, “for Mr.
Winston to appear.”
“Are you engaged to that young man?” asked Miss Starbruck.
Helen stared. “Oh, no!” she said, with a little laugh; “he is only my
first infant-in-waiting.”
The “infant” arrived as she spoke. He was a mild, blonde,
inoffensive-looking youth, so faithful to his type that it was difficult
to remember him by name until closer acquaintance had called out his
little individualities. He had his importance and use, however; he knew
how to get up and carry off a ball. He even attended to the paying of
the bills when husbands were too busy or had moved to Greenwood. He had
saved Hermia a great deal of trouble, and she rewarded him by taking him
to the theater occasionally. He admired her in a distant, awe-struck
way, much as a pug admires the moon; but he preferred Helen Simms.
“I am afraid you will find it rather cold for walking,” he said to
Helen, with his nationally incorrect imitation of English drawl and
accent. “It is quite beastly out, don’t you know?”
“Yes,” said Helen, “I know; but you will have to stand it. Good-bye,
Hermia. A walk would not hurt you; you are looking pale.”
“Aren’t you going to let me sit down for a moment?” asked Winston.
“No, it is getting late; and, besides, Hermia doesn’t want you. Come.”
They went out, and Miss Starbruck remarked: “That is the average man of
to-day, I suppose. They were different when I was young.”
“Oh, no; that is not the average man,” said Hermia; “that is only the
average society man. They are two distinct species, I assure you.”
“Well, at all events, I prefer him to that dreadful Mr. Quintard. I hope
he will not come to this house, Hermia.”
“Oh, I have invited him,” said Hermia, indifferently. “He shines beside
some who come here, if you did but know it.”
“Then I am thankful I do not know it,” exclaimed Miss Starbruck. “I
think I will go up-stairs and talk to Miss Newton.”
“No,” said Hermia, “stay and talk to me. I am bored! I hate to be alone!
Sit down.”
                 
                             CHAPTER XXIII.
                          PLATONIC PROSPECTS.
She met Quintard the next afternoon at a tea. She was standing with a
group of people when he joined her. After a moment he asked her to go
over to the other side of the room and talk to him. She was somewhat
amused at his directness, but went with him to a sofa and ignored the
rest of the company for a half-hour.
At the end of that time she drew a long sigh of relief. He was not her
ideal; he was commonplace. He talked very well, but with none of
Cryder’s brilliancy. He was even a little didactic, a quality she
detested. And he had none of the tact of an accomplished man of the
world. She was not surprised to hear that he had not been to five
entertainments in as many years. There was no subtle flattery in his
manner; he did not appear to take any personal interest in her whatever;
sometimes he appeared inattentive to what she was saying. She wondered
why he had insisted upon talking to her. Moreover, he was cold, and
coldness and her ideal had never shaken hands. He looked as if nothing
could move that calm self-control, that slow, somewhat stiff formality.
She saw him several times during the next two weeks, but never alone. In
the mean time she heard much of him. His personal appearance, his
wealth, his exile and its cause, made him an interesting figure, and
people began to remember and compare all the tales regarding him which
had floated across the Atlantic during the last five years. These tales
were of a highly adventurous nature, and were embroidered and fringed.
Quintard was not very grateful. He went out seldom, and got away as soon
as he could. This, of course, made people wonder what he was doing.
Hermia heard all these stories with some surprise. They seemed so
incongruous with the man. Assuredly there was neither romance nor love
of adventure in him; he was quite matter-of-fact; he might have been a
financier. She thought, however, that he had humor enough to be amused
at the stories he had inspired.
One evening he found her alone. The night was cold, and she was sitting
in a heap in a big arm-chair by the fire, huddled up in a soft, bright,
Japanese gown. She did not rise as he entered, and he looked at her
calmly and took a seat on the other side of the hearth.
“You look comfortable,” he said. “Those gowns are the warmest things in
the world. I have one that I wear when I sit by the fire all night and
think. If my dinner does not agree with me, I do not sleep like a lamb.”
This was romantic! Hermia had a fine contempt for people who recognized
the existence of their internal organs. She raised her brows. “Why do
you eat too much?” she demanded.
“Because I happen to feel like it at the time. The philosophy of life is
to resist as few temptations as you conveniently can. I have made it a
habit to resist but three.”
“And they are?”
“To tell a woman I love her, to make love to the wife of a friend, and
to have a girl on my conscience. The latter is a matter of comfort, not
of principle. The girl of to-day nibbles the apple with her eyes wide
open.”
Hermia did not know whether she was angry or not. Her experience with
Cryder had affected her peculiarly. He had the super-refinement of all
artificial natures, and there had been nothing in his influence to
coarsen the fiber of her mind. Moreover, he had barely ruffled the
surface of her nature. She always had a strange feeling of standing
outside of herself, of looking speculatively on while the material and
insignificant part of her “played at half a love with half a lover.”
She was not used to such abrupt statements, but she was too much
interested to change the conversation.
“Do you mean that you never tell a woman when you love her?” she asked,
after a moment.
“If I loved a woman I should tell her so, of course. I make it a
principle never to tell a woman that I love her, because I never do. It
saves trouble and reproaches.”
Hermia leaned forward. “Did not you love Mrs. Maitland?” she asked.
The color mounted to Quintard’s face.
“My dear Miss Suydam, this is the nineteenth century—the latter
quarter. Love of that sort is an episode, a detached link.” He leaned
forward and smiled. “I suppose you think I talk like the villain in the
old-fashioned novel,” he said. “But codes of all sorts have their
evolutions and modifications. The heroes of the past would cut a
ridiculous figure in the civilization of to-day. I am not a villain. I
am merely a man of my prosaic times.”
It was as she had thought—no romance, no love of the past. But the man
had a certain power; there was no denying that. And his audacity and
brutal frankness, so different from Cryder’s cold-blooded acting,
fascinated her.
“Oh, no! I do not think you a villain,” she said; “only I don’t see how
you could have had the cruelty to——”
“I am inclined to be faithful, Miss Suydam,” he interrupted. “In my
extreme youth it was the reverse, but experience has taught me to
appreciate and to hold on to certain qualities when I find them—for in
combination they are rare. When one comes to the cross-roads, and shakes
hands good-bye with Youth, his departing comrade gives him a little
packet. The packet is full of seeds, and the label is ‘philosophy.’”
“I found that packet long before I got to the cross-roads,” said Hermia,
with a laugh—“that is, if I ever had any youth. How old are you?”
“Oh, only thirty-four as yet. But I got to the cross-roads rather early.
What do you mean by saying that you never had any youth?”
“Nothing. Are all those European stories about you true?”
“What stories?”
“Oh! all those stories about women. They say you have had the most
dreadful adventures.”
Quintard shrugged his shoulders. “I don’t know what the stories are,” he
said. “Nor do I particularly care. I am not posing as a masculine Circe
or a destroyer of households. You must remember that there are more than
two classes of women in the world. There are many women who are without
any particular ties, who live a drifting, Bohemian sort of existence,
who may have belonged to society once, but have exhausted it, and prefer
the actualities of life. These women are generally the most
companionable in every respect. And they are more or less indifferent to
public opinion.”
“I was sure of one thing!” exclaimed Hermia; “but, if possible, you have
made me more sure: you have not a spark of romance in you.”
An expression of shyness crossed Quintard’s face, and he hesitated a
moment.
“Oh, well, you know, nobody has in these days,” he said, awkwardly.
“What would people do with romance? They would never find any one to
share it.”
“No,” said Hermia, with a laugh, “probably they would not.”
He went away soon after, and she did not see him again for a week.
Cryder came the next night, and Hermia had never liked him less. He was
as entertaining as usual, but he was more like highly-charged mineral
water than ever. He spoke of his personal adventures; they were tame and
flat. Nothing he said could grasp her, hold her. He seemed merely an
embodied intellect, a clever, bloodless egoist, babbling eternally about
his little self. As she sat opposite him, she wondered how she had
managed to stand him so long. She was glad Quintard had come to relieve
the monotony. He was the sort of man she would care to have for a
friend.
                 
                             CHAPTER XXIV.
                       AN UNEXPECTED CONFESSION.
She met Quintard next at one of Mrs. Dykman’s musicales. That
fashionable lady was fond of entertaining, and Hermia was delighted to
pay the bills. If it pleased Mrs. Dykman to have her entertainments in
her own house rather than in the mansion on Second Avenue, she should be
gratified, and Winston never betrayed family secrets.
People were very glad to go to Mrs. Dykman’s house. She never had any
surprises for them, but they always went away feeling that her evening
had been one of the successes of the season. In her palmier days she had
done much entertaining, and seen a great deal of the world. She had been
a beauty in her youth, and was still so handsome that people forgot to
insult her by calling her “well preserved.” If her hair had turned gray,
the world never found it out; she wore a dark-brown wig which no one but
her maid had ever seen elsewhere than on her head; and her unfathomable
gray eyes had not a wrinkle about them. She still carried her head with
the air of one who has had much incense offered her, and, although her
repose amounted to monotony, it was very impressive. She had grown
stout, but every curve of her gowns, every arrangement of draperies,
lied as gracefully and conclusively as a diplomatist. She was one of the
few women upon whom Quintard ever called, and he was a great pet of
hers.
“She may not be an intellectual woman,” he said to Hermia, on this night
of the musicale, “but she has learned enough in her life to make up
for it. I have seldom met a more interesting woman. If she were twenty
years younger, I’d ask her to marry and knock about the world with me.”
“Yes? I suppose you find the intellectual a good deal of a bore, do you
not?”
“Was that a shot? By itself, emphatically yes—a hideous bore. When
combined with one or two other things, most eagerly to be welcomed.”
“What other things?”
“Oh, womanliness and savoir—but, primarily, passion.”
“Do you know that you are very frank?” exclaimed Hermia.
“I beg your pardon,” humbly. “I have a bad habit of saying what I think,
and, besides, I feel a doubly strong impulse to be frank with you. I
abominate girls as a rule; I never talk to them. But I have rather a
feeling of good comradeship with you. It always seems as if you
understood, and it never occurs to me that I can make a mistake with
you. You are quite unlike other girls. You have naturally a broad mind.
Do not deliberately contract it.”
“No,” said Hermia, quite mollified, “I have no desire to; and, for some
peculiar reason, what you say may startle but it never offends. You have
a way of carrying things off.”
After the music and supper were over, Hermia sat with him awhile
up-stairs in her aunt’s boudoir.
“Have you idled away your whole life?” she asked. “Do you never intend
to do anything?”
“Do you think it is doing nothing to spend five years in the study of
Europe?”
“But what are you going to do with it all? Just keep it in your head?”
“What would you have me do with it? Put it in a book and inflict it on
the world?”
“Yes. Give yourself some definite object in life. I have no respect for
people who just drift along—who have no ambition nor aim.”
“Well, I will tell you something if you will promise not to betray me,”
he said, quickly: “I am writing a book.”
“No?” exclaimed Hermia. “Actually? Tell me about it. Is it a novel? a
book of travels?”
“Neither. It is a series of lives of certain knights of Norman days
about whom there are countless fragmentary legends, but nothing has ever
been written. I am making a humble endeavor to reproduce these legends
in the style and vernacular of the day and in blank verse. Imagine a
band of old knights, broken-down warriors, hunted to the death, and
hiding in a ruined castle. To while away the time they relate their
youthful deeds of love and war. Do you like the idea?”
Hermia leaned forward with her eyes expanded to twice their natural
size. “Do you mean to tell me,” she said, “that you care for the
past—that its romance appeals to you?”
Quintard threw himself back in his chair and raised his eyebrows a
little. “I have gone so far, I may as well confess the whole thing,” he
said. “I would have lived in the feudal ages if I could. Love and war!
That is all man was made for. Everything he has acquired since is
artificial and in the way. He has lost the faculty of enjoying life
since he has imagined he must have so much to enjoy it with. Let a man
live for two passions, and he is happy. Let him have twenty ways of
amusing himself, and he lowers his capacity for enjoying any one in the
endeavor to patronize them all.”
Hermia remembered her experience with Cryder. He had talked very
beautifully of the past—once. Life was making her skeptical. “Have you
written any of your book?” she asked.
“Yes, it is nearly done.”
“Would you let me see it? Or is that asking too much? But—that period
of history particularly interests me. I used to live in it.”
“Did you? I should be very glad to have you read my effusions; but
wading through manuscript is a frightful bore.”
“I have waded through a good deal,” said Hermia, briefly. “Bring it
to-morrow night. No,”—she had suddenly recollected that the next was
Cryder’s evening. “Bring it the next night—no—the next. Will that do?”
“Yes,” said Quintard. “I will afflict you, with great pleasure, if you
will let me.”
When they went down-stairs, Mrs. Dykman wrapped Hermia’s furs more
closely about her. “I hope, my dear,” she murmured, “you do not mind
that the whole house is talking about you. Do you know that Mr. Quintard
is the only man whom you have condescended to notice during the entire
evening?”
“No?” said Hermia. “I had not thought about it. No, I don’t mind. A
woman is not happy until she is talked about—just a little, you know.
When her position is secure, it makes her so picturesque—quite
individual.”
“You will be engaged before the week is over. You will be accused of
having deserted Mr. Cryder, and entered upon a more desperate flirtation
yet. The ultra caustic will remember Grettan Quintard’s reputation.”
“You can deny the engagement,” said Hermia.
                 
                              CHAPTER XXV.
                       THE POWER OF PERSONALITY.
A few evenings later Quintard came with a portion of his book, which he
had had type-written for her. While he amused himself with the many rare
volumes on the library shelves, Hermia read the introduction and the
four tales with equal interest and astonishment. They had a vital power
which seemed to grip her mind as with a palpable hand and hold it until
she had read the last of the sheets. Quintard had reproduced the style
and spirit of the age with remarkable fidelity—the unbridled passions,
the coarse wit, the stirring deeds of valor. He made no attempt at
delicate pathos or ideality. When a man suffered, he raged like a
wounded boar; every phase of his nature was portrayed in the rough.
Hermia dropped the sheets into her lap and gazed into the fire. Her
opinion of Quintard had quite changed. Why did she not love him? But she
did not. He attracted her mentally, and his character fascinated her,
but stone could not be colder than her heart. Did he go out of the room
that moment never to return, she would not care, save that a promising
friend would be lost. He had come too late. She no longer possessed the
power to love. She shrugged her shoulders. They could be friends; that
was quite enough.
Her comments were very flattering and discriminating, and he was much
gratified, and gave her a general idea of the rest of the book. She had
one or two books that might help him, and she promised to send them to
his rooms.
“You are a remarkable mixture,” she said, in conclusion; “at times you
seem almost prosaic, altogether matter-of-fact. When I first met you, I
decided that you were commonplace.”
“You will allow a man to have two sides, at least,” said Quintard,
smiling. “I cannot always be walking on the ramparts of imagination. I
enjoy being prosaic at intervals, and there are times when I delight to
take a hammer and smash my ideals to atoms. I like to build a castle and
raze it with a platitude, to create a goddess and paint wrinkles on her
cheek, to go up among the gods and guy them into common mortals, to kiss
a woman and smother passion with a jest.”
“That is the brutality in your nature.”
“Yes,” said Quintard, “I suppose that is it.”
She watched him for a moment. He had taken a chair near her and was
leaning forward looking at the fire, his elbow on his knee, his chin in
the cup of his hand. His strong, clean-cut profile stood out like a
bas-relief against the dark wood of the mantel. The squareness of his
jaw and the thickness of his neck indicated the intense vitality of his
organism; his thick, black mustache overshadowed a mouth heavy and
determined; his dense, fine hair clung about a head of admirable lines;
and his blue eyes were very dark and piercing. He had the long,
clean-limbed, sinewy figure of a trained athlete, and there was not an
ounce of superfluous flesh on it. He combined the best of the old
world’s beauty with the best of the new, and Hermia looked at him with a
curious mixture of national and personal pride.
“I like brutality,” she said, abstractedly; “all the great men of the
world had it.” She turned to him suddenly. “You look as if you always
got whatever you made up your mind to have,” she said. “Do you?”
“Yes,” he said, “usually.”
                 
                             CHAPTER XXVI.
                        HERMIA HEARS THE TRUTH.
He called one morning soon after and spent the entire day with her. He
had finished the last of the stories and he read it to her. The tale was
a tragic one, and had a wild, savage pathos in it. It brought the tears
to her eyes, and at the climax she leaned forward with a gasp.
“Oh, you can cry?” said Quintard.
“It is only nervousness,” hastily. “I never do. I may have been able to
once, but I no longer possess feeling of any sort. Don’t think that I am
ridiculous and blasé; it is simply that I cannot take any personal
interest in life. I have made the discovery that there is nothing in it
a little sooner than most people—that is all.”
“You are a little crazy,” said Quintard. “You will get over it.”
The blood mounted to the roots of Hermia’s hair, and her eyes looked as
fierce as if she were one of Quintard’s barbarians. She felt more anger
than she cared to betray. No other man living would have dared make such
a speech to her. Cryder would have humored her, and she had expected
Quintard to be suitably impressed.
“What did you say?” she demanded, with an effort at control.
He looked at her unmoved. “You have a great many ridiculous notions
about life,” he said. “In addition, you have less knowledge of yourself
than any woman I have ever known. The two things combined have put your
mind out of joint.”
Hermia felt as if she were stifling. “I wonder you dare,” she said
through her teeth.
“Your point of view is all wrong,” he went on; “you see everything
through glasses that do not fit your eyes. You are not fond of talking
about yourself, but you have given me several opportunities to gather
that. You think you have exhausted life, whereas you have not begun to
live. You simply don’t even know what you are thinking about. You know
less about the world than any woman of brain and opportunities I ever
met in my life, and it is because you have deliberately blinded yourself
by false and perverted views.”
Hermia’s teeth were clinched and her bosom was heaving. “You may as well
finish,” she said, in a voice ominously calm.
“Just to mention one point. You have said you do not believe in
matrimony—particularly when people love each other. I have had every
experience with women that a romantic temperament can devise, so perhaps
you will allow me to tell you that I have come to the conclusion that
the only satisfactory relationship for a man and woman who love each
other is matrimony. The very knowledge that conditions are temporary,
acts as a check to love, and one is anxious to be off with one affair
for the novelty of the next. Moreover, if human character is worth
anything at all, it is worth its highest development. This, an irregular
and passing union cannot accomplish; it needs the mutual duties and
responsibilities and sacrifices of married life. If ever I really loved
a woman I should ask her to marry me. You have got some absurd, romantic
notions in your head about the charm and spice of an intrigue. Try it,
and you will find it flatter than any matrimony you have ever seen or
imagined.”
Hermia, with a cry of rage, sprang from her chair and rushed from the
room. She dropped her handkerchief in her flight, and Quintard went
forward and picked it up. “She is ready to tear me bone from bone,” he
thought; “but, if I have destroyed some of her illusions, I shall not
mind.” He passed his hand tenderly over the handkerchief, then raised it
suddenly to his lips. A wave of color rushed over his dark face, making
it almost black. “She was superb in her wrath,” he muttered, unsteadily.
He laid the handkerchief on the table and went back to his seat. After a
time Hermia returned. She was very pale, and looked rather ashamed of
herself. It was characteristic of her that she made no allusion to the
past scene. She had a book in her hand. “I came across this in an old
book-shop the other day,” she said. “I am fond of prowling about dusty
shelves; I suppose I shall end by becoming a bibliomaniac. This is a
collection of fragmentary verses which it is said the Crusaders used to
sing at night on the battle-field. I thought you might use it.”
Quintard looked as pleased as a boy. “It was very good of you to think
of me,” he said impulsively, “and I shall make use of it. But tell me
what you think of this last yarn.”
“It is magnificent,” said Hermia; “I believe you are that rarest object
in the history of the world—a poet.”
“I have written miles of it, and have made some of the most beautiful
bonfires in history.”
Hermia laughed. “Could you never be consistently serious?”
“Yes, I could,” said Quintard, briefly.
Hermia looked at the door. “Higgins is coming to announce luncheon,” she
said.
                 
                             CHAPTER XXVII.
                          FIVE POINTS OF VIEW.
At five o’clock Mrs. Dykman, Helen Simms, and Cryder dropped in for a
cup of tea, and Miss Starbruck came down-stairs.
Quintard insisted that, in spite of Miss Starbruck’s open disapproval of
him, she was his proudest conquest; and her abuse was certainly growing
milder. She rarely failed to appear at these informal tea-drinkings;
there was just enough of the worldly flavor about them to fascinate
without frightening her; and it was noticeable that to whatever Quintard
chose to say she listened with a marked and somewhat amusing interest.
The poor old lady was no more proof against personal magnetism and the
commanding manliness which was Quintard’s most aggressive characteristic
than her less rigid sisters. Quintard threatened to marry her and
deprive Hermia of her only natural protector, but Miss Starbruck was as
yet innocent of his designs.
“This is quite a family party,” said Helen; “let us draw our chairs
close to the fire and warm ourselves with brotherly affection; it is so
beastly cold out. But by this great log fire one thinks himself in the
hall of an old English castle; and the streets of New York are not. I
feel almost romantic.”
“Let us tell stories,” suggested Cryder.
“No,” replied Helen, promptly, “I don’t want to listen to long stories.
You would tell your own, and I can’t understand dialect. Besides, I want
to talk about myself—I beg that prerogative of your sex. As this is a
family party, I am going to tell my woes and ask advice. I want to get
married! Shall I, or shall I not?”
“Who is the man?” asked Cryder. “How can we advise until we know whether
he is worthy to buy your bonnets?”
“I have not decided. The man is not much of a point. I simply want to be
married that I may be free,” and she heaved a sigh.
“Free of what?” asked Hermia, sarcastically. “Of freedom?”
“Oh, this is not freedom, my dear. A girl always has to be chaperoned. A
married woman chaperones. Oh, the difference!”
“But where do you propose to keep the future Mr. Helen Simms?” asked
Cryder, laughing.
“At his club, or in a rose-colored boudoir. Mine will be blue.”
“Helen Simms! you are the most immoral young woman I ever—ever——.”
The wrathful voice broke down, and all turned to Miss Starbruck with
amused sympathy.
“Are you not yet used to our wicked Gotham?” asked Quintard, taking a
chair beside her.
“No!” Miss Starbruck had recovered her voice. “And I think it abominable
that the holy institution of matrimony should be so defamed.”
“Oh, dear Miss Starbruck,” cried Helen, good-naturedly. “It is time you
left Nantucket. That primitive saying has long since been paraphrased
into ‘the unholy institution of whithersoever thou goest, in the other
direction will I run.’ And a jolly good revolution it is, too. Please do
not call me immoral, dear Miss Starbruck. You and I were born on
different planets, that is all.”
“Marriage is a necessary evil,” said Mrs. Dykman’s soft, monotonous
voice. “You have done well to defer it as long as possible, but you are
wise to contemplate a silken halter. No woman’s position is established,
nor has she any actual importance until she has a husband. But marry
nothing under a million, my dear. Take the advice of one who knows;
money is the one thing that makes life worth living. Everything else
goes—youth, beauty, love. Money—if you take care that does not go
too—consoles for the loss of all, because it buys distractions,
amusement, power, change. It plates ennui and crystallizes tears to
diamonds. It smoothes wrinkles and keeps health in the cheek. It buys
friends and masks weakness and sin. You are young, but the young
generation is wiser than the old; my advice, I feel sure, will not be
thrown away.”
“And this!” exclaimed Miss Starbruck, hoarsely; “this is what life has
come to! I am an old maid, and have done with all thought of marriage;
but I am not ashamed to say that many years ago I loved a young man, and
had he lived would have married him, and been a true and faithful and
loving wife. That a woman should marry from any other motive seems to me
scandalous and criminal.”
“What do truth and duty mean?” demanded Hermia scornfully. “Monotony and
an ennui worse than death. You are happy that you live your married life
in imagination, and that your lover died before even courtship had begun
to pall. Still”—she shrugged her shoulders as she thought of
Bessie—“perhaps you wouldn’t have minded it; some people don’t.”
“No,” said her aunt; “I wouldn’t have minded it. I would have
appreciated it.”
Hermia turned to her with a curious glance. “How differently people are
made,” she said with a sigh. “The monotony of married life would drive
me mad.”
Quintard rose and rested his elbow on the mantel. “Did it ever occur to
you,” he said, “that monotony is not an absolutely indispensable
ingredient of married life?”
Hermia shrugged her shoulders. “It ruins more wedded lives than jealousy
or bad temper.”
“True; but if married life is monotonous, it is largely the fault of
those who suffer from the monotony. It is true that the average human
animal is commonplace; therefore monotony in the domestic relations of
such men and women follows as a matter of course. They suffer the
consequences without the power to avert them. Those who walk on the
plane above, shiver under the frozen smile of the great god Bore as
well—but they can avert it. The ennui that kills love is born of
dispelled illusions, of the death of the dramatic principle, which is
buried at the foot of the altar. When a man is attempting to win a woman
he is full of surprises which fascinate her; he never tarries a moment
too long; he is always planning something to excite her interest; he
watches her every mood and coddles it, or breaks it down for the
pleasure of teaching her the strength of his personality; he does not
see her too often; above all, he is never off guard. Then, if he wins
her, during the engagement each kiss is an event; and, another point, it
is the future of which they always talk.”
“How is it after marriage? We all know.”
Cryder gave an unpleasant little laugh, common to him when some one else
had held the floor too long. “Taking your own theory as a premise,” he
said, “I should say that the best plan was not to get married at all.
People who marry are doomed to fall between the time-honored lines.
Better they live together without the cloying assurance of ties; then,
stimulus is not wanting.”
“That is all very well for people who are independent of the world’s
opinion,” said Mrs. Dykman, “but what are they to do who happen to have
a yearning for respectable society?”
Cryder shrugged his shoulders. “They must be content with water in their
claret. You can’t get intoxicated and dilute your wine, both.”
“I deny that,” said Quintard. “I believe that matrimony can be made more
exciting and interesting than liaison, open or concealed, because it
lacks the vulgarity; it can be made champagne instead of beer.”
“You ought to know,” murmured Mrs. Dykman.
“Mr. Quintard!” exclaimed Miss Starbruck; “I am glad to hear you say
that, although I do not think it is a very proper subject to discuss
before both men and women.”
“My dear Miss Starbruck,” broke in Helen, with a laugh; “this is the
progressive nineteenth century, and we are people of the world—the
wild, wicked world. We are not afraid to discuss anything, particularly
in this house, where the most primitive and natural woman in the world
is queen. It has come to be a sort of Palace of Truth. We don’t offend
the artistic sense, however.”
“Miss Simms has been right more than once to-day,” said Quintard. “She
said a moment ago that one must be married to be free. May I venture the
assertion that, in the present state of society, the highest human
freedom is found in the bonds of matrimony alone?”
“Explain your paradox,” said Hermia, who had made no comment to
Quintard’s remarks.
“It is easily explained. I say nothing whatever of passing fancies,
infatuations, passions, which are best disposed of in a temporary union.
I refer to love alone. When a man loves a woman he wants her constant
companionship, with no restraint but that exercised by his own judicious
will and art. He wants to live with her, to travel with her, to be able
to seek her at all hours, to follow his own will, unquestioned and
untrammeled. This, outside of conventional bonds, is impossible without
scandal, and no man who loves a woman will have her lightly spoken of if
he can help it. But let the priest read his formula, and the man so
bound is monarch of his own desires, and can snap his fingers at the
world. I have neither patience nor respect for the man who must have the
stimulus of uncertainty to feed his love. He is a poor, weak,
unimaginative creature, who is dependent upon conditions for that which
he should find in his own character.”
“I never expected to hear you talk like this, Mr. Quintard!” exclaimed
Miss Starbruck, “for you have been a very immoral man.”
Quintard looked at her with an amused smile. “Why immoral, Miss
Starbruck?”
“You have—well, people say——” stammered poor Miss Starbruck, and then
broke down.
Mrs. Dykman came to the rescue. “Miss Starbruck means that you have
lived with a number of women and have not taken any particular pains to
hide the fact.”
“Is that immoral? I think not. I have lived with no woman who had
anything to lose, and I have lived with no woman who was not my equal
intellectually. Companionship was quite as much an object as passion. I
never took a woman out of the streets and hung jewels upon her and
adored her for her empty beauty, and with a certain class of women I
have never exchanged a dozen words since my callow youth. Furthermore, I
never won a woman’s affections from her husband. If I ever got them he
had lost them first. Therefore, I protest against being called immoral.”
“If you want to go into the question of moral ethics,” said Cryder, “you
cannot plead guiltless altogether of immorality. In openly living with a
woman who is not your wife you outrage the conventions of the community
and set it a bad example. It may be argued that you do less harm than
those who pursue the sort of life you let alone; but the positive harm
is there.”
All looked at Quintard, wondering how he would reply. Even Hermia felt
that he was driven into a corner.
“The question is,” replied Quintard, slowly, “What is morality? The
world has many standards, from that of the English Government to that of
the African barbarian, who follows his instincts, yet who, curiously
enough, is in all respects more of a villain than his artificial
brother. That point, however, we will not discuss. A man’s standard, of
course, is determined by the community in which he lives. We will
consider him first in relation to himself. Man is given a temperament
which varies chiefly according to his physical strength, and tastes
which are distinctly individual. And he not only is a different man
after the experiences of each successive decade, but he frequently waits
long for the only woman for whom he is capable of feeling that peculiar
and overwhelming quality of love which demands that he shall make her
his wife. But in the mean time he cannot go altogether companionless,
and he meets many women with whom life is by no means unennobling. As to
the community, I deny that he sets it a bad example. It is a wiser, more
educating, and more refined life than insensate love-making to every
pretty weak woman who comes along, or than associations which degrade a
man’s higher nature and give him not a grain of food for thought. If
more men, until ready to marry, spent their lives in the manner which I
have endeavored to defend, there would be less weariness of life, less
drinking, less excess, less vice of all sorts.”
Miss Starbruck shuddered, but felt that the conversation had gone out of
her depth, and made no reply. Hermia looked at Quintard with a feeling
of unconscious pride. Until he finished speaking, she did not realize
how she would hate to have him beaten.
Cryder rose and began walking up and down the room. “When you argue,” he
said fretfully, “I always feel as if you were hammering me about my
ears. You have such a way of pounding through a discussion! One never
knows until the next day whether you are right or whether you have
simply overwhelmed one by the force of your vitality. Personally,
however, I do not agree with you, and for the same reason that I would
never marry; I dislike responsibilities.”
Quintard gave him a glance of contempt, under which Hermia shrank as if
a lash had cut her shoulders; but before he could reply Helen rushed to
the front. “And all this discussion has come out of my poor little bid
for sympathy and advice!” she cried. “You have frightened me to death! I
am afraid of the very word matrimony with all your analysis and
philosophy. To me it was a simple proposition: ‘Marry and chaperon;
don’t marry, and be chaperoned.’ Now I feel that, if a man proposes to
me, I must read Darwin and Spencer before I answer. I refuse to listen
to another word. Mrs. Dykman, I am going home; let me drive you over.”
They all went in a few moments, and Hermia was left alone with her
reflections.
                 
                            CHAPTER XXVIII.
                   TWO HISTORIES ARE ALMOST FINISHED.
Hermia saw a great deal of Quintard. They walked together, they rode
together, and circumstances frequently forced them into each other’s
society for hours at a time. She liked him more with every interview,
but she did not feel a throb of love for him. The snow on her nature’s
volcano was deep as the ashes which buried Pompeii.
He had many opportunities to put his wearing qualities to the test. Once
they met at a fashionable winter rendezvous in the country. The other
women were of the Helen Simms type; the rest of the men belonged to the
Winston brotherhood. For the greater part of four days Hermia and
Quintard devoted themselves exclusively to each other. When they were
not riding across the country or rambling through the windy woods, they
sat in the library and told stories by the fire.
One day they had wandered far into the woods and come upon a hemlock
glen, down one side of which tumbled melting snow over great jutting
rocks that sprang from the mountain side. Quintard and Hermia climbed to
a ledge that overhung one of the rocky platforms and sat down. About and
above them rose the forest, but the wind was quiet; there was no sound
but the dull roar of the cataract. A more romantic spot was not in
America, but Quintard could not have been more matter-of-fact had he
been in a street-car. He had never betrayed any feeling he may have had
for her by a flash of his eye. He discussed with her subjects dangerous
and tender, but always with the cold control of the impersonal analyst.
He smoked for a few moments in silence and then said abruptly: “Don’t
imagine that I am going to discuss religion with you; it is a question
which does not interest me at all. But do you believe in the immortality
of the soul?”
“No,” said Hermia.
“Why not?”
Hermia lifted her shoulders: “I have never thought agnosticism needed
defense.”
“Agnosticism is the religion of the intellectual, of course. But I have
some private reasons for going a step beyond agnosticism, and believing
in the persistence of personality. Do you want to hear them?”
“Yes,” said Hermia, “but it all comes down to the same proposition.
Religion has its stronghold in Ego the Great. La vie, c’est moi! I am,
therefore must ever be! Now and forever! World without end!”
“I refuse to be snubbed beforehand. Why are children so frequently the
ancestors of their family’s talent? When heredity cannot account for
genius, what better explanation than that of the re-embodiment of an
unquenchable individuality? The second reason is a more sentimental one.
Why is a man never satisfied until he meets the woman he really loves,
and why are his instincts so keen and sure when he does meet her? Why,
also, does he so often dwell with the ideal of her before he sees her in
