position of his legs a little, by way of answer, so as not to appear too
discourteous.

"I'm a failure because I always see double," pursued Hollis,
meditatively; "I'm like a stereoscope out of kilter. When I was
practising law, the man I was pitching into always seemed to me to have
his good side; contrariwise, the man I was defending had his bad one;
and rather more bad because my especial business was to make him out a
capital good fellow."

There was a sound of voices; Paul came through the wood on his way to
the beach, with Cicely; Eve, behind them, was leading Jack.

"Are you going out again?" said the judge.

"Yes. Paul can go this morning," Cicely answered.

"But you were out so long yesterday," said the old man, following them.

"Open air fatigue is a good fatigue," said Paul, as he lifted Cicely
into one of the canoes.

The judge had stopped at the edge of the beach; he now went slowly back
into the wood and joined Hollis.

"Your turn, Miss Bruce," said Paul. And Eve and Jack were placed in a
second canoe. One of the Indians was to paddle it, but he was not quite
ready. Paul and Cicely did not wait; they started.

    "I's a-goin' wis old Eve!--old Eve!--old Eve!"

chanted Jack, at the top of his voice, to the tune of "Charley is my
darling," which Hollis had taught him.

"Seems mean that she should have to go with a Chip, when there are white
men round," said Hollis.

The judge made no reply.

But Eve at that moment called, "Mr. Hollis, are you busy? If not,
couldn't you come with me instead of this man?"

Hollis advanced to the edge of the woods and made a bow. "I am
exceedingly pleased to accept. My best respects." He then took off his
coat, and, clucking to the Indian as a sign of dismissal, he got into
the canoe with the activity of a boy, and pushed off.

It was a beautiful day. The thick woods on the shore were outlined
sharply in the Northern air against the blue sky. Hollis paddled slowly.

"Why do you keep so far behind the other boat?" said Eve, after a while.

"That's so; I'm just loafing," answered Hollis.

"Christopher H., paddle right along," he went on to himself. "You
needn't be so afraid that Paul will grin; he'll understand."

And Paul did understand. At the end of half an hour, when Eagle Point
was reached, and all had disembarked, he came to Hollis, and stood
beside him for a moment.

"This canoe is not one of the best," Hollis remarked.

"No," said Paul.

"I think we can make it do for a while longer, though," Hollis went on,
examining it more closely.

"I dare say we can," Paul answered.

They stood there together for a moment, rapping it and testing it in
various ways; then they separated, perfectly understanding each other.
"I really didn't try to come with her:" this was the secret meaning of
Hollis's remark about the canoe.

And "I know you didn't," was the signification of Paul's answer.

Cicely and Eve were sitting on the beach. It was a wild shore, clean,
untouched by man; the pure waters of the lake rolled up and laved its
glistening brown pebbles. Jack ramped up and down against Eve's knees.
"Sing to Jacky--poor, poor Jacky!" he demanded loudly.

"That child is too depressing with his 'Poor Jacky'!" said Cicely.
"Never say that again, Jack; do you hear?"

"Poor, poor Jacky!" said the boy immediately, as though he were
irresistibly forced to try the phrase again.

"He heard some one say it to that parrot in Port aux Pins," explained
Eve.

"Oh, I shall never be able to govern him!" Cicely answered.

"Sing to Jacky, Aunty Eve--poor, poor Jacky!"

And in a low tone Eve began to sing:

    "'Row the boat, row the boat up to the strand;
    Before our door there is dry land.
    Who comes hither all booted and spurred?
    Little Jacky Bruce with his hand on his sword.'"

Paul came up. "Now for a walk," he said to Cicely.

"I am sorry, Paul. But if I sit here it will be lovely; if I walk, I am
afraid I shall be too tired."

"I'll stay here, then; I am not at all keen about a tramp."

"No, please go. And take Eve."

"Uncly Paul, not old Eve. I want old Eve," announced Jack, reasonably.

"You don't seem to mind his calling you that," said Paul, laughing.

"Why should I?" Eve answered. "I don't care for a walk, thanks."

"Make her go," continued Cicely; "march her off."

"Will you march?" asked Paul.

"Not without a drum and fife."

Jack was now cooing without cessation, and in his most insinuating
tones, "Sing to Jacky--poor, poor Jacky. Sing to Jacky--poor, poor
Jacky!"

She took him in her arms and walked down the beach with him, going on
with her song in a low tone:

    "'He knocks at the door and he pulls up the pin,
    And he says, "Mrs. Wingfield, is Polly within?"
    "Oh, Polly's up-stairs a-sewing her silk."
    Down comes Miss Polly as white as milk.'"

"Eve never does what you ask, Paul," remarked Cicely.

"Do I ask so often?"

"I wish you would ask her oftener."

"To be refused oftener?"

"To gain your point--to conquer her. She is too self-willed--for a
woman." She looked at Paul with a smile.

The tie between them had become very close, and it was really her
dislike to see him rebuffed, even in the smallest thing, that made her
say, alluding to Eve, "Conquer her; she is too self-willed--for a
woman."

Paul smiled. "I shall never conquer her."

"Try, begin now; make her think that you want her to walk with you."

"But I don't."

"Can't you pretend?"

"Why should I?"

"Well, to please me."

"You're an immoral little woman," said Paul, laughing. "I'll go;
remember, however, that you sent me." He went up the beach to meet Eve,
who was still walking to and fro, singing to Jack, Hollis accompanying
them after his fashion; that is, following behind, and stopping to skip
a stone carelessly when they stopped. Paul went straight to Eve. "I wish
you would go with me for a walk," he said. He looked at her, his glance,
holding hers, slowly became entreating. The silence between them lasted
an appreciable instant.

"I will go," said Eve.

Jack seemed to understand that his supremacy was in danger. "No, old
Eve--no. I want old Eve, Uncly Paul," he said, in his most persuasive
voice. Then, to make himself irresistible, he began singing Eve's song:

    "'Who pums idder, all booted an' spurred?
    Little Jacky Bruce wiz his han' on his sword.'"

Hollis came up. "Were you wanting to go off somewhere? I'll take Jack."

"Old man, you get out," suggested Jack, calmly.

"Oh, where does he learn such things?" said Eve. She thought she was
distressed--she meant to be; but there was an undertide of joyousness,
which Hollis saw.

"On the contrary, Jackum, I'll get in," he answered. "If it's singing
you want, I can sing very beautifully. And I can dance too; looker
here." And skipping across the beach in a Fisher's Horn-pipe step, he
ended with a pigeon's wing.

Jack, in an ecstasy of delight, sprang up and down in Eve's arms.
"'Gain! 'gain!" he cried, imperiously, his dimpled forefinger pointed at
the dancer.

Again Hollis executed his high leap. "Now you'll come to me, I guess,"
he said. And Jack went readily. "You are going for a walk, I suppose?"
Hollis went on. "There's nothing very much in these woods to make it
lively." He had noted the glow of anticipation in her face, and was glad
that he had contributed to it. But when he turned to Paul, expecting as
usual to see indifference, he did not see it; and instantly his feelings
changed, he felt befooled.

Jack made prodding motions with his knees. "Dant! dant!"

"I'll dance in a few minutes, my boy," said Hollis.

Paul and Eve went up the beach and turned into the wood. It was a
magnificent evergreen forest without underbrush; above, the sunlight was
shut out, they walked in a gray-green twilight. The stillness was so
intense that it was oppressive.




XIX.


They walked for some distance without speaking. "I have just been
writing to Ferdie," Paul said at last.

The gray-green wood had seemed to Eve like another world, an enchanted
land. Now she was forced back to real life again. "Oh, if he would only
say nothing--just go on without speaking; it's all I ask," she thought.

"I shall go down there in ten days or so," Paul went on. "Ferdie will be
up then--in all probability well. I shall take him to Charleston, and
from there we shall sail."

"Sail?"

"To Norway."

"Norway?"

"Didn't I tell you?--I have made up my mind that a long voyage in a
sailing vessel will be the best thing for him just now."

"And you go too?"

"Of course."

"Four or five weeks, perhaps?"

"Four or five months; as it grows colder, we can come down to the
Mediterranean."

A chill crept slowly over Eve. "Was it--wasn't it difficult to arrange
for so long an absence?"

"As Hollis would phrase it, 'You bet it was!'" answered Paul, laughing.
"I shall come back without a cent in either pocket; but I've been
centless before--I'm not terrified."

"If you would only take some of mine!"

"You will have Cicely. We shall both have our hands full."

She looked up at him more happily; they were to be associated together
in one way, then, after all. But a vision followed, a realization of the
blankness that was to come. Less than two weeks and he would be gone!

"When the journey is over, shall you bring Ferdie to Port aux Pins?"

"That depends. On the whole, I think not; Ferdie would hate the place;
it's comical what tastes he has--that boy! My idea is that he will do
better in South America; he has already made a beginning there, and
likes the life. This time he can take Cicely with him, and that will
steady him; he will go to housekeeping, he will be a family man." And
Paul smiled; to him, Ferdie was still the lad of fifteen years before.

But in Eve's mind rose a recollection of the light of a candle far down
a narrow road. "Oh, don't let her go with him! Don't!"

Paul stopped. "You are sometimes so frightened, I have noticed that. And
yet you are no coward. What happened--really? What did you do?"

She could not speak.

"I'm a brute to bother you about it," Paul went on. "But I have always
felt sure that you did more that night than you have ever acknowledged;
Cicely couldn't tell us, you see, because she had fainted. How strange
you look! Are you ill?"

"It is nothing. Let us walk on."

"As you please."

"If they go to South America, why shouldn't you go with them?" he said,
after a while, returning to his first topic. "You will have to go if you
want to keep a hold on Jack, for Cicely will never give him up to you
for good and all, as you have hoped. If you were with them, I should
feel a great deal safer."

Well, that was something. Was this, then, to be her occupation for the
future--by a watch over Ferdie, to make his brother more comfortable?
She tried to give a sarcastic turn to this idea. But again the feeling
swept over her: Oh, if it had only been any one but Ferdinand
Morrison!--Ferdinand Morrison!

"How you shuddered!" said Paul. Walking beside her, he had felt her
tremble. "You certainly are ill."

"No. But don't let us talk of any of those things to-day, let us forget
them."

"How can we?"

"I can!" The color rose suddenly in her cheeks; for the moment she was
beautiful. "My last walk with him! When he is gone, the days will be a
blank."

--"It is my last walk with you!" she said aloud, pursuing the current of
her thoughts.

He looked at her askance.

His glance brought her back to reality. She turned and left him; she
walked rapidly towards the lake, coming out on the beach beyond Eagle
Point.

He followed her, and, as he came up, his eyes took possession of and
held hers, as they had done before; then, after a moment, he put his arm
round her, drew her to him, and bent his face to hers.

She tried to spring from him. But he still held her. "What shall I say
to excuse myself, Eve?"

The tones of his voice were very sweet. But he was smiling a little too.
She saw it; she broke from his grasp.

"You look as though you could kill me!" he said.

(And she did look so.)

"Forgive me," he went on; "tell me you don't mind."

"I should have thought--that what I confessed to you--you know, that
day--

But there were no subtleties in Paul. "Why, that was the very reason,"
he answered. "What did you tell me for, if you didn't want me to think
of it?" Then he took a lighter tone. "Come, forget it. It was
nothing.--What's one kiss?"

Eve colored deeply.

And then, suddenly, Paul Tennant colored too.

He turned his head away, and his glance, resting on the water, was
stopped by something--a dark object floating. He put up a hand on each
side of his face and looked more steadily. "Yes. No. Yes! There's a
woman out there--lashed to something. I must go out and see." He had
thrown his hat down upon the sand as he spoke; he was hastily taking off
his coat and waistcoat, his shoes and stockings; then he waded out
rapidly, and when the rock shelved off, he began to swim.

Eve stood watching him mechanically. "He has already forgotten it!"

Paul reached the dark object. Then, after a short delay, she could see
that he was trying to bring it in.

But his progress was slow.

"Oh, there must be something the matter! Perhaps a cramp has seized
him." A terrible impatience took possession of her; it was impossible
for him to hear her, yet she cried to him at the top of her voice, and
fiercely: "Let it go! Let it go, I say! Come in alone. Who cares for it,
whatever it is?" It was not until his burden lay on the beach that she
could turn her mind from him in the least, or think of what he had
brought.

The burden was a girl of ten, a fair child with golden curls, now heavy
with water; her face was calm, the eyes peacefully closed. She had been
lashed to a plank by somebody's hand--whose? Her father's? Or had it
been done by a sobbing mother, praying, while she worked, that she and
her little daughter might meet again.

"It's dreadful, when they're so young," said big Paul, bending over the
body reverently to loosen the ropes. He finished his task, and
straightened himself. "A collision or a fire. If it was a fire, they
must have seen it from Jupiter Light." He scanned the lake. "Perhaps
there are others who are not dead; I must have one of the canoes at
once. I'll go by the beach. You had better follow me." He put on his
shoes, and, dripping as he was, he was off again like a flash, running
towards the west at a vigorous speed.

Eve watched him until he was out of sight. Then she sat down beside the
little girl and began to dry her pretty curls, one by one, with her
handkerchief. Even then she kept thinking, "He has forgotten it!"

By-and-by--it seemed to her a long time--she saw a canoe coming round
the point. It held but one person--Paul. He paddled rapidly towards her.
"Why didn't you follow me, as I told you to?" he said, almost angrily.
"Hollis has gone back to the camp for more canoes and the Indians; he
took Cicely, and he ought to have taken you."

"I wanted to stay here."

"You will be in the way; drowned people are not always a pleasant sight.
Sit where you are, then, since you are here; if I come across anything,
I'll row in at a distance from you."

He paddled off again.

But before very long she saw him returning. "Are you really not afraid?"
he asked, as his canoe grated on the beach.

"No."

"There's some one out there. But I find I can't lift anything into this
canoe alone--it's so tottlish; I could swim and tow, though, if I had
the canoe as a help. Can you paddle?"

"Yes."

"Get in, then." He stepped out of the boat, and she took his place. He
pushed it off and waded beside her until the water came to his chin;
then he began to swim, directing her course by a movement of his head.
She used her paddle very cautiously, now on one side, now on the other,
the whole force of her attention bent upon keeping the little craft
steady. After a while, chancing to raise her eyes, she saw something
dark ahead. Fear seized her, she could not look at it; she felt faint.
At the same moment, Paul left her, swimming towards the floating thing.
With a determined effort at self-control, she succeeded in turning the
canoe, and waited steadily until Paul gave the sign. Keeping her eyes
carefully away from that side, she then started back towards the shore,
Paul convoying his floating freight a little behind her. As they
approached the beach, he made a motion signifying that she should take
the canoe farther down; when she was safely at a distance, he brought
his tow ashore. It was the body of a sailor. The fragment of deck
planking to which he was tied had one end charred; this told the
dreadful tale--fire at sea.

The sailor was dead, though it was some time before Paul would
acknowledge it. At length he desisted from his efforts. He came down the
beach to Eve, wiping his forehead with his wet sleeve. "No use, he's
dead. I am going out again."

"I will go with you, then."

"If you are not too tired?"

They went out a second time. They saw another dark object half under
water. Again the sick feeling seized her; but she turned the canoe
safely, and they came in with their load. This time, when he dismissed
her, she went back to the little girl, and, landing, sat down; she was
very tired.

After a while she heard sounds--four canoes coming rapidly round the
point, the Indians using their utmost speed. She rose; Hollis, who was
in the first canoe, saw her, and directed his course towards her. "Why
did you stay here?" he demanded, sternly, as he saw the desolate little
figure of the child.

Eve began to excuse herself. "I was of use before you came; I went out;
I helped."

"Paul shouldn't have asked you."

"He had to; he couldn't do it alone."

"He shouldn't have asked you." He went off to Paul, and she sat down
again; she took up her task of drying the golden curls. After a while
the sound of voices ceased, and she knew that they had all gone out on
the lake for further search. She went on with what she was doing; but
presently, in the stillness, she began to feel that she must turn and
look; she was haunted by the idea that one of the men who had been
supposed to be dead was stealing up noiselessly to look over her
shoulder. She turned. And then she saw Hollis sitting not far away.

"Oh, I am so glad you are there!"

Hollis rose and came nearer, seating himself again quietly. "I thought I
wouldn't leave you all alone."

She scanned the water. The five canoes were clustered together far out;
presently, still together, they moved in towards the shore.

"They are bringing in some one else!"

"Sha'n't we go farther away?" suggested Hollis--"farther towards the
point? I'll go with you."

"No, I shall stay with this little girl; I do not intend to leave her.
You won't understand this, of course; only a woman would understand it."

"Oh, I understand," said Hollis.

But Eve ignored him. "The canoes are keeping all together in a way they
haven't done before. Do you think--oh, it must be that they have got
some one who is living!"

"It's possible."

"They are holding something up so carefully." She sprang to her feet. "I
am sure I saw it move! Paul has really saved somebody. How can you sit
there, Mr. Hollis? Go and find out!"

Hollis went. In twenty minutes he came back.

"Well?" said Eve, breathlessly.

"Yes, there's a chance for this one; he'll come round, I guess."

"Paul has saved him."

"I don't know that he's much worth the saving; he looks a regular
scalawag."

"How can you say that--a human life!"

Hollis looked down at the sand, abashed.

"Couldn't I go over there for a moment?" Eve said, still excitedly
watching the distant group.

"Better not."

"Tell me just how Paul did it, then?" she asked. "For of course it was
he, the Indians don't know anything."

"Well, I can't say how exactly. He brought him in."

"Isn't he wonderful!"

"I have always thought him the cleverest fellow I have ever known,"
responded poor Hollis, stoutly.

The next day the little girl, freshly robed and fair, was laid to rest
in the small forest burying-ground belonging to Jupiter Light; Eve had
not left her. There were thirty new mounds there before the record was
finished.

"Steamer Mayhew burned, Tuesday night, ten miles east Jupiter Light,
Lake Superior. Fifteen persons known to be saved. Mayhew carried
twenty cabin passengers and thirty-five emigrants. Total loss."
(Associated Press despatch.)

Soon after this the camp was abandoned; as Paul was to go south so soon,
he could not give any more time to forest-life, and they all, therefore,
returned to Port aux Pins together. Once there Paul seemed to have no
thought for anything but his business affairs. And Eve, in her heart,
said again, "He has forgotten!"




XX.


FOURTH OF JULY at Port aux Pins; a brilliant morning with the warm sun
tempering the cool air, and shining on the pure cold blue of the lake.

At ten o'clock, the cannon began to boom; the guns were planted at the
ends of the piers, and the men of the Port aux Pins Light Artillery held
themselves erect, trying to appear unconscious of the presence of the
whole town behind them, eating peanuts, and criticising.

The salute over, the piers were deserted, the procession was formed. The
following was the order as printed in the Port aux Pins Eagle:

              "The Marshal of the Day.

    The Goddess of Liberty. (Parthenia Drone.)

               The Clergy. (In carriages.)

                Fire-Engine E. P. Snow.

    The Mayor and Common Council. (In carriages.)

                Hook and Ladder No. 1.

    The Immortal Colonies. (Thirteen little girls in a wagon,
           singing the 'Red, White, and Blue.')

            Fire-Engine Leander Braddock.

The Carnival of Venice. (This was a tableau. It represented the facade
of a Venetian palace, skilfully constructed upon the model of the
Parthenon, with Wolf Roth in an Indian canoe below, playing upon his
guitar. Wolf was attired, as a Venetian, in a turban, a spangled jacket,
high cavalry boots with spurs, and powdered hair; Idora Drone looked
down upon him from a Venetian balcony; she represented a Muse.)

    Reader of the Declaration of Independence, and Orator of
    the Day. (In carriages.)

      The Survivors of the War. (On foot with banners.)

         Model of Monument to Our Fallen Heroes.

        The Band. (Playing 'The Sweet By-and-By.')

       Widows of Our Fallen Heroes. (In carriages.)

            Fire-Engine Senator M. P. Hagen.

The Arts and Sciences. (Represented by the portable printing-press of
the Port aux Pins Eagle; wagons from the mines loaded with iron ore;
and the drays, coal-carts, and milk-wagons in a procession, adorned with
streamers of pink tarlatan)."

Cicely watched the procession from the windows of Paul's office,
laughing constantly. When Hollis passed, sitting stiffly erect in his
carriage--he was the "Reader of the Declaration of Independence"--she
threw a bouquet at him, and compelled him to bow; Hollis was adorned
with a broad scarf of white satin, fastened on the right shoulder with
the national colors.

"I am going to the public square to hear him read," Cicely announced,
suddenly. "Paul, you must take me. And you must go too, grandpa."

"I will keep out of the rabble, I think," said the judge.

"Oh, come on; I dare say you have never heard the thing read through in
your life," suggested Paul, laughing.

"The Declaration of Independence? My grandfather, sir, was a signer!"

The one church bell (Baptist) and the two little fire bells were
jangling merrily when they reached the street. People were hurrying
towards the square; many of them were delegates from neighboring towns
who had accompanied their fire-engines to Port aux Pins on this, the
nation's birthday. White dresses were abundant; the favorite refreshment
was a lemon partially scooped out, the hollow filled with lemon candy.
When they reached the square Paul established Cicely on the top of a
fence, standing behind to steady her; and presently the procession
appeared, wheeling slowly in, and falling into position in a half-circle
before the main stand, the gayly decorated fire-engines in front, with
the Carnival of Venice and the Goddess of Liberty, one at each end. The
clergy, the mayor and common council, the orator of the day, were
escorted to their places on the stand, and the ceremonies opened.
By-and-by came the turn of Hollis. In a high voice he began:

"When in the course--of human events, it becomes necessary for one
people to dissolve the political bands which have connected them with
another--"

"Cheer!" whispered Cicely to Paul.

Paul, entering into it, set up hurrahs with so much vigor that all the
people near him joined in patriotically, to the confusion of the reader,
who went on, however, as well as he could:

"We hold these truths--to be self-evident, that all men are created
equal--"

"Again," murmured Cicely.

And again Paul's corner burst forth irrepressibly, followed after a
moment by the entire assemblage, glad to be doing something in a vocal
way on their own account, and determined to have their money's worth of
everything, noise and all.

And so, from "the present king of Great Britain" to "our lives, our
forrchuns, and our sacrred honor" on it went, a chorus of hurrahs
growing louder and louder until they became roars.

"I knew it was you," Hollis said to Paul, when, later, his official
duties over, and his satin scarf removed, he appeared at the cottage to
talk it over.

"But say, did you notice the widows of our fallen heroes? They had a
sort of glare under their crape. You see, once we had eight of 'em, but
this year there is only one left; all the rest have married again. Now
it happens that this very year the Soldiers' Monument is done at last,
and naturally the committee wanted the widows to ride in the procession.
The one widow who was left declared that she would not ride all alone;
she said it would look as though no one had asked her, whereas she had
had at least three good offers. So the committee went to the others and
asked them to dress up as former widows, just for to-day. So they did;
and lots of people cried when they came along, two and two, all in
black, so pathetic." He sprang up to greet Eve, who was entering, and
the foot-board entangled itself with his feet, after the peculiarly
insidious fashion of extension-chairs. "Instrument of torture!" he said,
grinning.

"I will leave it to you in my will," declared Paul. "And it is just as
well to say it now, before witnesses, because I am going away
to-morrow."

"To-morrow!" said Cicely.

"Only to Lakeville on business. I shall be back the day before I start
south."

"There go the last few hours!" thought Eve.

The third evening after, Hollis came up the path to Paul's door. The
judge, Eve, Cicely, and Porley with Jack, were sitting on the steps,
after the Port aux Pins fashion. They had all been using their best
blandishments to induce Master Jack to go to bed; but that young
gentleman refused; he played patty-cake steadily with Porley, looking at
the others out of the corner of his eye; and if Porley made the least
attempt to rise, he set up loud bewailings, with his face screwed, but
without a tear. It was suspected that these were pure artifice; and not
one of his worshippers could help admiring his sagacity. They altogether
refrained from punishing it.

"I was at the post-office, so I thought I'd just inquire for you," said
Hollis. "There was only one letter; it's for Miss Bruce."

Eve took the letter and put it in her pocket. She had recognized the
handwriting instantly.

Hollis, who also knew the handwriting, began to praise himself in his
own mind as rapidly as he could for bringing it. "It was a good thing to
do, and a kind thing; you must manage jobs like that for her often, C.
Hollis. Then you'll be sure that you ain't, yourself, a plumb fool. She
doesn't open it? Of course she doesn't. Sit down, and stop your jawing!"

Eve did not open her letter until she reached her own room. It was
eleven o'clock; when she was safely behind her bolted door, she took it
from its envelope and read it. She read it and re-read it; holding it in
her hand, she pondered over it. She was standing by the mantelpiece
because her lamp was there. After a while she became half conscious that
the soles of her feet were aching; she bore it some time longer, still
half consciously. When it was one o'clock she sat down. The letter was
as follows:

     "DEAR EVE,--Now that I am away from her, I can see that Cicely is
     not so well as we have thought. All that laughing yesterday morning
     wasn't natural; I am afraid that she will break down completely
     when I start south. So I write to suggest that you take her off for
     a trip of ten days or so; you might go to St. Paul. Then she
     needn't see me at all, and it really would be better.

     "As to seeing you again--

    "Yours sincerely,           PAUL TENNANT."

"Why did he write, 'As to seeing you again,' and then stop? What was it
that he had intended to say, and why did he leave it unfinished? 'As to
seeing you again--' Supposing it had been, 'As to seeing you again, I
dread it!' But no, he would never say that; he doesn't dread
anything--me least of all! Probably it was only, 'As to seeing you
again, there would be nothing gained by it; it would be for such a short
time.'"

But imagination soon took flight anew. "Possibly, remembering that day
in the wood, he was going to write, 'As to seeing you again, do you wish
to see me? Is it really true that you care for me a little? It was so
brave to tell it! A petty spirit could never have done it.' But no, that
is not what he would have thought; he likes the other kind of
women--those who do not tell." She laid her head down upon her arms.

Presently she began again: "He had certainly intended to write something
which he found himself unable to finish; the broken sentence tells that.
What could it have been? Any ordinary sentence, like, 'As to seeing you
again, it is not necessary, as you know already my plans,'--if it had
been anything like that, he would have finished it; it would have been
easy to do so. No; it was something different. Oh, if it could only have
been, 'As to seeing you again, I must see you, it must be managed in
some way; I cannot go without a leave-taking!'" She sat up; her eyes
were now radiant and sweet. Their glance happened to fall upon her
watch, which was lying, case open, upon the table. Four o'clock. "I have
sat here all night! I am losing my wits." She undressed rapidly,
angrily. Clad in white, she stood brushing her hair, her supple figure
taking, all unconsciously, enchanting postures as she now held a long
lock at arm's-length, and now, putting her right hand over her shoulder,
brushed out the golden mass that fell from the back of her head to her
knees. "But he must have intended to write something unusual, even if
not of any of the things I have been thinking of; then he changed his
mind. That is the only solution of his leaving it unfinished--the only
possible solution." This thought still filled her heart when daylight
came.

The evening before, sitting in the bar-room of the Star Hotel,
Lakeville, Paul had written his letter. He had got as far as, "Then she
needn't see me at all, and it really would be better. As to seeing you
again," when a voice said, "Hello, Tennant!--busy?"

"Nothing important," replied Paul, pushing back the sheet of paper.

The visitor shook hands; then he seated himself, astride, on one of the
bar-room chairs, facing the wooden back, which he hugged tightly. He had
come to talk about Paul's Clay County iron; he had one or two ideas
about it which he thought might come to something.

Paul, too, thought that they might come to something when he heard what
they were. He was excited; he began to jot down figures on the envelope
which he had intended for Eve. Finally he and the new-comer went out
together; before going he put the letter in his pocket.

When he came in, it was late. "First mail to Port aux Pins?" he
inquired.

"Five o'clock to-morrow morning," replied the drowsy waiter.

"Must finish it to-night, then," he thought. He took out the crumpled
sheet, and, opening it, read through what he had written. "What was it I
was going to add?" He tried to recall the train of thought. But he was
sleepy (as Hollis said, Paul had a genius for sleep); besides, his mind
was occupied by the new business plan. "I haven't the slightest idea
what I was going to say.--A clear profit of fifty thousand in four
years; that isn't bad. Ferdie will need a good deal. Ye-ough!" (a yawn).
"What was it I was going to say?--I can't imagine. Well, it couldn't
have been important, in any case. I'll just sign it, and let it go." So
he wrote, "Yours sincerely, Paul Tennant;" and went to bed.




XXI.


PAUL came back to Port aux Pins five days before the time of his
departure for the South. Cicely was still there. She had refused to go
to St. Paul. "The only Paul I care for is the one here. What an i-dea,
Eve, that I should choose just this moment for a trip! It looks as
though you were trying to keep me away from him."

"I'm not trying; it's Paul," Eve might have answered.

"It must be curious to be such a cold sort of person as you are," Cicely
went on, looking at her. "You have only one feeling that ever gives you
any trouble, haven't you? That's anger."

"I am never angry with you," Eve answered, with the humility which she
always showed when Cicely made her cutting little speeches.

Paul had been right. As the time of his departure for Romney drew near,
Cicely grew restless. She was seized with fits of wild weeping. At last,
when there were only two days left, Paul proposed a drive--anything to
change, even if only upon the surface, the current of her thoughts. "We
will go to Betsy Lake, and pay a visit to the antiquities."

The mine at Betsy Lake--the Lac aux Becs-Scies of the early Jesuit
explorers--had been abandoned. Recently traces of work there in
prehistoric times had been discovered, with primitive tools which
excited interest in the minds of antiquarians. The citizens of Port aux
Pins were not antiquarians; they said "Mound Builders;" and troubled
themselves no more about it.

"We had better spend the night at the butter-woman's," Paul suggested.
"It is too far for one day."

Eve did not go with the party. They had started at three o'clock,
intending to visit a hill from which there was an extensive view, before
going on to the butter-woman's farm-house. At four she herself went out
for a solitary walk.

As she was passing a group of wretched shanties, beyond the outskirts of
the town, a frightened woman came out of one of them, calling loudly,
"Mrs. Halley! oh, Mrs. Halley, your Lyddy is dying!"

A second woman, who was hanging out clothes, dropped the garment she had
in her hand and ran within; Eve followed her. A young girl, who appeared
to be in a spasm, occupied the one bed, a poor one; the mother rushed
to her. In a few minutes the danger was over, and the girl fell into a
heavy sleep.

"That Mrs. Sullivan--she's too sprightly," said Mrs. Halley, after she
had dismissed her frightened neighbor. "I just invited her to sit here
trenquilly while I put out me clothes, when lo! she begins and screams
like mad. She's had no education, that's plain. There's nothing the
matter with my Lyddy except that she's delicate, and as soon as she's a
little better I'm going to have her take music lessons on the peanner."

Eve looked at Mrs. Halley's ragged, wet dress, and at the wan, pinched
face of the sleeping girl. "It is a pity you have to leave her," she
said. "Couldn't you get somebody to do your washing?"

"I take in washing, miss; I'm a lady-laundress. Only the best; I never
wash for the boats."

"How much do you earn a week?"

"Oh, a tidy sum," answered Mrs. Halley. Then, seeing that Eve had taken
out her purse, her misery overcame her pride, and she burst forth,
suddenly: "Never more than three dollars, miss, with me slaving from
morning to night. And I've five children besides poor Lyddy there."

Eve gave her a five-dollar bill.

"Oh, may the Lord bless you!" she began to cry. "And me with me skirt
all wet, and the house not clean, when the chariot of the Lord descended
upon me!" She sank into a chair, her toil-worn hands over her face, her
tired back bent forward, relaxed at last, and resting.

Eve pursued her investigations; she sent a boy to town for provisions,
and waited to see a meal prepared. Mrs. Halley, still wet and ragged,
but now refreshed by joy, moved about rapidly; at last there was nothing
more to do but to sit down and wait. "She was the prettiest of all my
children," she remarked, indicating the sleeping girl with a motion of
her head.

"She is still pretty," Eve answered.

"Yet you never saw her making eyes at gentlemen like some; there's a
great deal of making eyes at Potterpins. Rose Bonham, now--she got a
silk dress out of Mr. Tennant no longer ago as last March."

"Mr. Tennant?"

