sorts went on,--coral-carvers filled their windows with pretty
ornaments; pastry-cooks tempted with dainty dishes; milliners showed
hats fresh from Paris; and Turkish merchants hung out rich rugs and
carpets at their doors. Church-bells chimed; priests with incense and
banners went through the streets on holy errands; the Pifferoni piped
gayly; orange-women and chestnut-sellers called their wares in musical
voices; even the little scullions who go about scouring saucepans at
back doors made a song of their cry, "Casserola!"
Tino had a charming time, and could hardly believe his senses when one
fine thing after another was bought for him and ordered home. Not only
the suit, but two ruffled shirts, a crimson tie for the lace collar, a
broad new ribbon for the guitar, handkerchiefs, hose, and delicate
shoes, as if he was a gentleman’s son.  When Luigi added a little mantle
and a hat such as other well-dressed lads of his age wore, Tino
exclaimed, "This also!  Dio mio, never have I known so kind a man as
Signor Mario.  I shall serve him well and love him even better than you
do."
Luigi shrugged his shoulders and answered with a disagreeable laugh,
"Long may you think so, poverino; I serve for money, not love, and look
to it that I get my wages, else it would go ill with both of us.  Keep
all you can get, boy; our master is apt to forget his servants."
Tino did not like the look, half scornful, half pitiful, which Luigi
gave him, and wondered why he did not love the good signor.  Later he
found out; but all was pleasant now, and lunch at a café completed the
delights of that long morning.
The rooms were empty when they returned; and bidding him keep out of
mischief, Luigi left Tino alone for several hours.  But he found plenty
of amusement in examining all the wonders the apartment contained,
receiving the precious parcels as they arrived, practising his new bow
before the long mirror, and eating the nuts that he had bought of a
jolly old woman at a street corner.
Then he went to lounge on the balcony that ran along the front of the
hotel, and watched the lively scene below, till sunset sent the
promenaders home to dress for dinner.  Feeling a sudden pang of
homesickness as he thought of Stella, Tino got his guitar and sang the
old songs to comfort his loneliness.
The first was hardly ended before one after the other five little heads
popped out of a window farther down the balcony; and presently a group
of pretty children were listening and smiling as the nice boy played and
sang to them.  A gentleman looked out; and a lady evidently listened,
for the end of a lace flounce lay on the threshold of the long window,
and a pair of white hands clapped when he finished a gay air in his best
style.
This was his first taste of applause, and he liked it, and twanged away
merrily till his master’s voice called him in just as he was beginning
to answer the questions the eager children asked him.
"Go and dress!  I shall take you down to dinner with me presently.  But
mind this, I will answer questions; do you keep quiet, and leave me
to tell what I think best.  Remember, or I pack you home at once."
Tino promised, and was soon absorbed in getting into his new clothes;
Luigi came to help him, and when he was finished off, a very handsome
lad emerged from the closet to make his best bow to his master, who,
also in fine array, surveyed him with entire approval.
"Very good!  I thought you would make a passable butterfly when you shed
your grub’s skin.  Stand up and keep your hands out of your pockets.
Mind what I told you about supping soup noisily, and don’t handle your
fork like a shovel.  See what others do, smile, and hold your tongue.
There is the gong. Let us go."
Tino’s heart beat as he followed Mario down the long hall to the great
salle à manger with its glittering table d’hôte and many guests.
But the consciousness of new clothes sustained him, so he held up his
head, turned out his toes, and took his place, trying to look as if
everything was not very new and dazzling to him.
Two elderly ladies sat opposite, and he heard one say to the other in
bad Italian, "Behold the lovely boy, Maria; I should like to paint him."
And the other answered, "We will be amiable to him, and perhaps we may
get him for a model.  Just what I want for a little Saint John."
Tino smiled at them till his black eyes sparkled and his white teeth
shone, for he understood and enjoyed their praise.  The artistic ladies
smiled back, and watched him with interest long after he had forgotten
them, for that dinner was a serious affair to the boy, with a heavy
silver spoon and fork to manage, a napkin to unfold, and three glasses
to steer clear of for fear of a general upset, so awkward did he feel.
Every one else was too busy to mind his mistakes; and the ladies set
them down to bashfulness, as he got red in the face, and dared not look
up after spilling his soup and dropping a roll.
Presently, while waiting for dessert, he forgot himself in something
Mario was saying to his neighbor on the other side:--
"A poor little fellow whom I found starving in the streets at Genoa.  He
has a voice; I have a heart, and I adore music.  I took him to myself,
and shall do my best for him.  Ah, yes!  in this selfish world one must
not forget the helpless and the poor."
Tino stared, wondering what other boy the good signor had befriended,
and was still more bewildered when Mario turned to him with a paternal
air, to add in that pious tone so new to the boy,--
"This is my little friend, and he will gladly come and sing to your
young ladies after dinner. Many thanks for the honor; I shall bring him
out at my parlor concerts, and so fit him for his place by and by.  Bow
and smile, quick!"
The last words were in a sharp whisper; and Tino obeyed with a sudden
bob of the head that sent his curls over his eyes, and then laughed such
a boyish laugh as he shook them back that the gentleman leaning forward
to look at him joined in it, and the ladies smiled sympathetically as
they pushed a dish of bonbons nearer to him.  Mario gave him an
indulgent look, and went on in the same benevolent tone telling all he
meant to do, till the kindly gentleman from Rome was much interested,
having lads of his own and being fond of music.
Tino listened to the fine tales told of him and hoped no one would ask
him about Genoa, for he would surely betray that he had never been there
and could not lie as glibly as Mario did. He felt rather like the little
old woman who did not know whether she was herself or not, but consoled
himself by smiling at the ladies and eating a whole plateful of little
cakes standing near him.
When they rose, Tino made his bow, and Mario walked down the long hall
with his hand on the boy’s shoulder and a friendly air very impressive
to the spectators, who began at once to gossip about the pretty lad and
his kind protector, just as the cunning gentleman planned to have them.
As soon as they were out of sight, Mario’s manner changed; and telling
Tino to sit down and digest his dinner or he would n’t be able to sing a
note, he went to the balcony to smoke till the servant came to conduct
them to Conte Alborghetti’s salon.
"Now mind, boy; do exactly as I tell you, or I ’ll drop you like a hot
chestnut and leave you to get home as you can," said Mario, in a sharp
whisper, as they paused on the threshold of the door.
"I will, signor, indeed I will!" murmured Tino, scared by the flash of
his master’s black eye and the grip of his hand, as he pulled the
bashful boy forward.
In they went, and for a moment Tino only perceived a large light room
full of people, who all looked at him as he stood beside Mario with his
guitar slung over his shoulder, red cheeks, and such a flutter at his
heart that he felt sure he could never sing there.  The amiable host
came to meet and present them to a group of ladies, while a flock of
children drew near to look at and listen to the "nice singing boy from
Genoa."
Mario, having paid his thanks and compliments in his best manner, opened
the little concert by a grand piece upon the piano, proving that he was
a fine musician, though Tino already began to fancy he was not quite so
good a man as he wished to appear.  Then he sang several airs from
operas; and Tino forgot himself in listening delightedly to the mellow
voice of his master, for the lad loved music and had never heard any
like this before.
When Tino’s turn came, he had lost his first shyness, and though his
lips were dry and breath short, and he gave the guitar an awkward bang
against the piano as he pulled it round ready to play upon, the
curiosity in the faces of the children and the kindly interest of the
ladies gave him courage to start bravely off with "Bella Monica,"--the
easiest as well as gayest of his songs.  It went well; and with each
verse his voice grew clearer, his hand firmer, and his eyes fuller of
boyish pleasure in his own power to please.
For please he did, and when he ended with a loud twang and kissed his
hand to the audience as he always used to do to the girls at home, every
one clapped heartily, and the gentlemen cried, "Bravo, piccolo!  He
sings in truth like a little nightingale; encore, encore!"
These were sweet sounds to Tino; and he needed no urging to sing "Lucia"
in his softest tones, "looking like one of Murillo’s angels!" as a young
lady said, while he sang away with his eyes piously lifted in the manner
Mario had taught him.
Then followed a grand march from the master while the boy rested; after
which Tino gave more folk-songs, and ended with a national air in which
all joined like patriotic and enthusiastic Italians, shouting the
musical chorus, "Viva Italia!" till the room rang.
Tino quite lost his head at that, and began to prance as if the music
had got into his heels. Before Mario could stop him, he was showing one
of the little girls how to dance the Salterello as the peasants dance it
during Carnival; and all the children were capering gayly about the wide
polished floor with Tino strumming and skipping like a young fawn from
the woods.
The elder people laughed and enjoyed the pretty sight till trays of ices
and bonbons came in; and the little party ended in a general enjoyment
of the good things children most delight in.  Tino heard his master
receiving the compliments of the company, and saw the host slip a paper
into his hand; but, boylike, he contented himself with a pocket full of
sweetmeats, and the entreaties of his little patrons to come again soon,
and so backed out of the room, after bowing till he was dizzy, and
bumping against a marble table in a very painful manner.
"Well, how do you like the life I promised you?  Is it all I said?  Do
we begin to fill our pockets, and enjoy ourselves even sooner than I
expected?" asked Mario, with a good-natured slap of the shoulder, as
they reached his apartment again.
"It is splendid!  I like it much, very much! and I thank you with all my
heart," cried Tino, gratefully kissing the hand that could tweak
sharply, as well as caress when things suited its owner.
"You did well, even better than I hoped; but in some things we must
improve.  Those legs must be taught to keep still; and you must not
forget that you are a peasant when among your betters.  It passed very
well to-night with those little persons, but in some places it would
have put me in a fine scrape.  Capers! but I feared at one moment you
would have embraced the young contessa, when she danced with you."
Mario laughed as poor Tino blushed and stammered, "But, signor, she was
so little, only ten years old, and I thought no harm to hold her up on
that slippery floor.  See, she gave me all these, and bade me come
again.  I would gladly have kissed her, she was so like little Annina at
home."
"Well, well, no harm is done; but I see the pretty brown girls down
yonder have spoiled you, and I shall have to keep an eye on my gallant
young troubadour.  Now to bed, and don’t make yourself ill with all
those confections.  Felice notte, Don Giovanni!" and away went Mario to
lose at play every franc of the money the generous count had given him
"for the poor lad."
That was the beginning of a new and charming life for Tino, and for two
months he was a busy and a happy boy, with only a homesick fit now and
then when Mario was out of temper, or Luigi put more than his fair share
of work upon his shoulders.  The parlor concerts went well, and the
little nightingale was soon a favorite toy in many salons.  Night after
night Tino sang and played, was petted and praised, and then trotted
home to dream feverishly of new delights; for this exciting life was
fast spoiling the simple lad who used to be so merry and busy at
Valrose.  The more he had, the more he wanted, and soon grew
discontented, jealous, and peevish.  He had cause to complain of some
things; for none of the money earned ever came to him, and when he
plucked up courage to ask for his promised share, Mario told him he only
earned his food and clothes as yet.  Then Tino rebelled, and got a
beating, which made him outwardly as meek as a lamb, but inwardly a very
resentful, unhappy boy, and spoiled all his pleasure in music and
success.
He was neglected all day and left to do what he liked till needed at
night, so he amused himself by lounging about the hotel or wandering on
the beach to watch the fishermen cast their nets.  Lazy Luigi kept him
doing errands when he could; but for hours the boy saw neither master
nor man, and wondered where they were. At last he found out, and his
dream of fame and fortune ended in smoke.
Christmas week was a gay one for everybody, and Tino thought good times
had come again; for he sang at several childrens’ fêtes, received some
pretty gifts from the kind Alborghettis, and even Mario was amiable
enough to give him a golden napoleon after a run of good luck at the
cards.  Eager to show his people that he was getting on, Tino begged
Antoine, the friendly waiter who had already written one letter to
Stella for him, to write another, and send by a friend going that way a
little parcel containing the money for Mariuccia, a fine Roman sash for
Stella, and many affectionate messages to all his old friends.
It was well he had that little satisfaction, for it was his last chance
to send good news or exult over his grand success.  Troubles came with
the new year; and in one week our poor little jay found himself stripped
of all his borrowed plumes, and left a very forlorn bird indeed.
Trotting about late at night in silk stockings, and getting wet more
than once in the winter rains, gave Tino a bad cold.  No one cared for
it; and he was soon as hoarse as a crow.  His master forced him to sing
several times in spite of the pain he suffered, and when at the last
concert he broke down completely, Mario swore at him for "a useless
brat," and began to talk of going to Milan to find a new set of singers
and patrons.  Had Tino been older, he would have discovered some time
sooner that Signor Mario was losing favor in Nice, as he seldom paid a
bill, and led a very gay, extravagant life.  But, boylike, Tino saw only
his own small troubles, and suspected nothing when Luigi one day packed
up the velvet suit and took it away "to be repaired," he said.  It was
shabby, and Tino, lying on the sofa with a headache and sharp cough, was
glad no one ordered him to go with it, for the Tramontana was blowing,
and he longed for old Mariuccia’s herb tea and Stella’s cosseting, being
quite ill by this time.
That night as he lay awake in his closet coughing, feverish and
restless, he heard his master and Luigi moving about till very late,
evidently packing for Paris or Milan, and Tino wondered if he would like
either place better than Nice, and wished they were not so far from
Valrose.  In the midst of his meditations he fell asleep, and when he
woke, it was morning.  He hurried up and went out to see what the order
of the day was to be, rather pleased at the idea of travelling about the
world.
To his surprise no breakfast appeared; the room was in confusion, every
sign of Mario had vanished but empty bottles and a long hotel bill lying
unpaid upon the table.  Before Tino could collect his wits, Antoine came
flying in to say with wild gesticulations and much French wrath that
"the rascal Mario had gone in the night, leaving immense debts behind
him, and the landlord in an apoplexy of rage."
Poor Tino was so dismayed he could only sit and let the storm pelt about
his ears; for not only did the waiter appear, but the chambermaid, the
coachman, and at last the indignant host himself, all scolding at once
as they rummaged the rooms, questioned the bewildered boy, and wrung
their hands over the escape of these dishonest wretches.
"You also, little beast, have grown fat upon my good fare! and who is to
pay me for all you have eaten, not to mention the fine bed, the washing,
the candles, and the coaches you have had?  Ah, great heavens! what is
to become of us when such things occur?" and the poor landlord tore his
hair with one hand while he shook his other fist at Tino.
"Dear sir, take all I have; it is only an old guitar, and a few clothes.
Not a centime do I own; but I will work for you.  I can clean saucepans
and run errands.  Speak for me, Antoine; you are my only friend now."
The lad looked so honest and ill and pathetic, as he spoke with his poor
hoarse voice, and looked beseechingly about him, that Antoine’s kind
heart was melted, and he advised the boy to slip away home as soon as
possible, and so escape all further violence and trouble.  He slipped
two francs into Tino’s empty pocket, and as soon as the room was
cleared, helped him tie up the few old clothes that remained. The host
carried off the guitar as the only thing he could seize, so Tino had
less to take away than he brought, when Antoine led him out by the back
way, with a good sandwich of bread and meat for his breakfast, and bade
him go to the square and try to beg a ride to Valrose on some of the
carriages often going thither on the way to Genoa.
With many thanks Tino left the great hotel, feeling too miserable to
care much what became of him, for all his fine dreams were spoiled like
the basket of china the man kicked over in the "Arabian Nights," while
dreaming he was a king.  How could he go home, sick, poor, and forsaken,
after all the grand tales he had lately told in his letter?  How they
would laugh at him, the men and girls at the factory!  How Mariuccia
would wag her old head and say, "Ecco! is it not as I foretold?"  Even
Stella would weep over him and be sorry to see her dear boy in such a
sad plight, yet what could he do?  His voice was gone and his guitar, or
he might sing about the streets, as Mario described his doing at Genoa,
and so earn his daily bread till something turned up.  Now he was quite
helpless, and much against his will, he went to see if any chance of
getting home appeared.
The day was showery, and no party was setting off for the famous drive
along the Cornice road.  Tino was glad of it, and went to lie on a bench
at the café where he had often been with Luigi.  His head ached, and his
cough left him no peace, so he spent some of his money in syrup and
water to quell the trouble, and with the rest paid for a good dinner and
supper.
He told his sad tale to the cook, and was allowed to sleep in the
kitchen after scrubbing saucepans to pay for it.  But no one wanted him;
and in the morning, after a cup of coffee and a roll he found himself
cast upon the world again.  He would not beg, and as dinner time
approached, hunger reminded him of a humble friend whom he had forgotten
in his own days of plenty.
He loved to stroll along the beach, and read the names on the boats
drawn up there, for all were the names of saints; and it was almost as
good as going to church to read the long list of Saint Brunos, Saint
Francises, and Saint Ursulas. Among the fishermen was one who had always
a kind word for the lad, who enjoyed a sail or a chat with Marco
whenever nothing better turned up to amuse his leisure hours.  Now in
his trouble he remembered him, and went to the beach to ask help, for he
felt ill as well as sad and hungry.
Yes, there sat the good fellow eating the bread and macaroni his little
daughter had brought for his dinner, and a smile welcomed poor Tino as
he sat down beside this only friend to tell his story.
Marco growled in his black beard and shook his knife with an awful frown
when he heard how the lad had been deserted.  Then he smiled, patted
Tino’s back, thrust the copper basin of food into one hand and a big
lump of the brown-bread into the other, inviting him to eat in such a
cordial way that the poor meal tasted better than the dainty fare at the
hotel.
A draught of red wine from the gourd cheered Tino up, as did the good
and kind words, and when Marco bade him go home with little Manuela to
the good wife, he gladly went, feeling that he must lie down somewhere,
his head was so giddy and the pain in the breast so sharp.
Buxom Teresa received him kindly, put him straight to bed in her own
boy’s little room, laid a cool cloth on his hot head, a warm one on his
aching chest, and left him to sleep, much comforted by her motherly
care.  It was well the good soul befriended him, for he needed help
sorely, and would have fared ill if those humble folk had not taken him
in.
For a week or two he lay in Beppo’s bed burning with fever, and when he
could sit up again was too feeble to do anything but smile gratefully
and try to help Manuela mend nets. Marco would hear of no thanks,
saying, "Good deeds bring good luck.  Behold my haul of fish each day
thou hast been here, poverino! I am well paid, and Saint Peter will
bless my boat for thy sake."
Tino was very happy in the little dark, shabby house that smelt of
onions, fish, and tar, was full of brown children, and the constant
clack of Teresa’s lively tongue as she gossiped with her neighbors, or
fried polenta for the hungry mouths that never seemed filled.
But the time came when Tino could go about, and then he begged for work,
anxious to be independent and earn a little so that in the spring he
could go home without empty pockets.
"I have taken thought for thee, my son, and work warm and easy is ready
if thou wilt do it. My friend Tommaso Neri, makes the good macaroni near
by.  He needs a boy to mind the fire and see to the donkey who grinds
below there.  Food, shelter, and such wages as thou art able to earn, he
will give thee.  Shall it be?"
Tino gratefully accepted, and with hearty embraces all round went off
one day to see his new place.  It was in the old part of Nice, a narrow,
dirty street, a little shop with one window full of the cheaper sorts of
this favorite food of all Italians, and behind the shop a room where an
old woman sat spinning while two little boys played with pine cones and
pretty bits of marble at her feet.
A fat jolly man, with a shining face and loud voice, greeted Marco and
the lad, saying he "was worn to a thread with much work, since that bad
imp of a donkey-boy had run away leaving the blessed macaroni to spoil,
and poor Carmelita to perish for want of care. Come below at once, and
behold the desolation of the place."
With that he led the way to the cellar, where a small furnace-fire
burned, and an old gray donkey went round and round, turning a wheel
which set some unseen machinery in motion with a dismal creaking sound.
Down through many holes in one part of the wooden floor overhead came
long pipes of macaroni, hardening as they hung quivering in the hot air
till stiff enough to be cut off in handfuls and laid to dry on wire
trays over the furnace.
Tino had never seen the good macaroni made before, and was much
interested in the process, though it was of the rudest kind.  In a room
upstairs a great vat of flour and water was kept stirring round and
round and forced down to the place below by the creaking wheel which
patient Carmelita turned all day.  The cellar was dark but warm; and
Tino felt that it would be comfortable there with the old donkey for a
comrade, jolly Tommaso for a master, and enough to eat,--for it was
evident the family lived well, so plump and shining were all the faces,
so cheery the tempers of the old women and little lads.
There Marco left him, well satisfied that he had done his best for the
poor boy; and there Tino lived for three months, busy, well fed, and
contented, till spring sunshine made him long for the sweet air, the
green fields, and dear faces at Valrose.  Tommaso was lazy but kind, and
if the day’s work was done in time, let Tino out to see Marco’s children
or to run on the beach with little Jacopo and Seppi.  The grandmother
gave him plenty of rye bread, thin wine, and macaroni fried in oil; old
Carmelita learned to love him and to lean her gray head on his shoulder
with joyful waggings of her long ears as he caressed her, and each week
increased the little hoard in an old shoe hidden behind a beam.
But it was a dull life for a boy who loved music, flowers, light, and
freedom; and he soon grew tired of seeing only a procession of legs go
by the low windows level with the street; the creak of the wheel was not
half so welcome as the brisk rattle of the mill at home, and the fat
little lads always climbing over him could not be so dear as sister
Stella and pretty Annina, the wine-maker’s daughter, at Valrose. Even
the kind old woman who often saved an orange for him, and gave him a gay
red cotton handkerchief on his birthday, was less to his taste than
Mariuccia, who adored him in spite of her scolding and stern ways.
So he looked about for travellers going to Genoa; and one happy day as
he returned from church, he saw, sitting under two red umbrellas before
two easels beside the road, the two elderly ladies of the hotel.  Both
wore brown hats like mushrooms; both had gray curls bobbing in the wind;
and both were painting away for dear life, trying to get a good sketch
of the ruined gateway, where passion-flowers climbed, and roses nodded
through the bars.
Tino stopped to look, as many another passer-by had done; and glancing
up to see if he admired their work, the good ladies recognized their
"Saint John," as they called the pretty boy who had vanished before they
could finish the pictures they had begun of him.
They were so glad to see him that he opened his heart to them, and found
to his great joy that in a week they were to drive to Genoa, and would
gladly take him along if he would sit to them meantime.  Of course he
agreed, and ran home to tell his master that he must go. Tommaso
bewailed his loss, but would not keep him; and as Marco’s son Beppo was
willing to take his place till another lad could be found, Tino was free
to sit in a sheepskin for the Misses Blair as often as they liked.
It was a very happy week; and when the long-desired day came at last,
Tino was so gay he danced and sang till the dingy cellar seemed to be
full of birds in high spirits.  Poor Carmelita gratefully ate the
cabbage he gave her as a farewell offering; the old woman found her box
full of her favorite snuff; and each small boy grew more shiny than ever
over a new toy presented by Tino.  Tommaso wept as he held him in his
fat arms, and gave him a bundle of half-baked macaroni as a reward for
his faithful service, while Marco and all his family stood at the hotel
door to see the carriage depart.
"Really quite like a wedding, with all those orange-flowers and roses,"
said Miss Priscilla, as Teresa and Manuela threw great bunches of
flowers into their laps, and kissed their hands to the departing
travellers.
Sitting proudly aloft, Tino waved his old hat to these good friends till
he could see them no more, then having, with some difficulty, bestowed
his long bundle from Tommaso, his basket of fish from Marco, his small
parcel of clothes, and the immense bouquet the children had made for
him, he gave himself up to the rapture of that lovely April day.
The kind ladies had given him a new suit of clothes like the old ones,
and paid him well besides; so he felt quite content with the picturesque
peasant garments he wore, having had enough of fine feathers, and gayly
jingled the money in his pocket, though it was not the fortune he had
foolishly hoped to make so easily.  He was a wiser boy than the one who
went over that road six months before, and decided that even if his
voice did come back in time, he would be in no hurry to leave home till
he was sure it was the wisest thing to do. He had some very serious
thoughts and sensible plans in his young head, and for a time was silent
and sober.  But soon the delicious air, the lovely scenery, and the many
questions of the ladies raised his spirits, and he chattered away till
they stopped for dinner.
All that long bright day they drove along the wonderful road, and as
night fell, saw Valrose lying green and peaceful in the valley as they
paused on the hill-top to enjoy its beauty. Then they went slowly down
to the Falcone, and the moment the luggage was taken in, rooms secured,
and dinner ordered, Tino, who had been quivering with impatience, said
eagerly,--
"Dear signoras, now I go to my own people to embrace them; but in the
morning we come to thank you for your great kindness to me."
Miss Priscilla opened her mouth to send some message; but Tino was off
like an arrow, and never stopped till he burst into the little kitchen
where Mariuccia sat shelling dry beans, and Stella was packing
mandarinas in dainty baskets for market.  Like an affectionate little
bear did the boy fall upon and embrace the two astonished women; while
Stella laughed and cried, and Mariuccia called on all the saints to
behold how tall and fat and beautiful her angel had become, and to thank
them for restoring him to their arms.  The neighbors rushed in; and till
late that night there was the sound of many voices in the stone cottage
under the old fig-tree.
Tino’s adventures were listened to with the deepest interest, and a very
hearty welcome given him.  All were impressed with the splendors he had
seen, afflicted by his trials, and grateful for his return.  No one
laughed or reproached, but regarded him as a very remarkable fellow, and
predicted that whether his voice came back or not, he was born for good
luck and would prosper.  So at last he got to bed in the old loft, and
fell asleep with the same friendly moon looking in at him as it did
before, only now it saw a quiet face, a very happy heart, and a
contented boy, glad to be safe again under the humble roof that was his
home.
Early next morning a little procession of three went to the Falcone
bearing grateful offerings to the dear signoras who sat on the portico
enjoying the balmy air that blew up from the acres of flowers below.
First came Tino, bearing a great basket of the delicious little oranges
which one never tastes in their perfection unless one eats them fresh
from the tree; then Stella with two pretty boxes of perfume; and
bringing up the rear, old Mariuccia with a blue jar of her best honey,
which like all that of Valrose was famous.
The ladies were much delighted with these gifts, and promised to stop
and see the givers of them on their return from Genoa, if they came that
way.  Tino took a grateful farewell of the good souls; Stella kissed
their hands, with her dark eyes full of tender thanks, and Mariuccia
begged the saints to have them in their special keeping by land and by
sea, for their kindness to her boy.
An hour later, as the travellers drove down the steep road from the
village, they were startled by a sudden shower of violets and roses
which rained upon them from a high bank beside the path.  Looking up,
they saw Tino and his sister laughing, waving their hands, and tossing
flowers as they called in their musical language,--
"A rivederla, signoras!  Grazia, grazia!" till the carriage rolled round
the corner looking as if it were Carnival-time, so full was it of
fragrant violets and lovely roses.
"Nice creatures! how prettily they do things! I hope we shall see them
again; and I wonder if the boy will ever be famous.  Such a pity to lose
that sweet voice of his!" said Miss Maria, the younger of the sisters,
as they drove along in a nest of sweet and pretty gifts.
"I hope not, for he will be much safer and happier in this charming
place than wandering about the world and getting into trouble as these
singers always do.  I hope he will be wise enough to be contented with
the place in which his lot is cast," answered Miss Priscilla, who knew
the world and had a good old-fashioned love for home and all it gives
us.
She was right; Tino was wise, and though his voice did come back in
time, it was no longer wonderful; and he was contented to live on at
Valrose, a busy, happy, humble gardener all his life, saying with a
laugh when asked about his runaway adventures,--
"Ah, I have had enough of music and macaroni; I prefer my flowers and my
freedom."
[Illustration: "Fortunately aunty came down in time to see what was
going on, and found Lu busily buttoning the waterproof."--PAGE 152.]
                                  VI.
                         THE LITTLE RED PURSE.
Among the presents which Lu found on her tenth birthday was a pretty red
plush purse with a steel clasp and chain, just like mamma’s, only much
smaller.  In it were ten bright new cents, that being the sum Lu
received each week to spend as she liked.  She enjoyed all her gifts
very much; but this one seemed to please her even more than the French
doll in blue silk, the pearl ring, or "Alice in Wonderland,"--three
things which she had wanted for a long time.
"It is so cunning, and the snap makes such a loud noise, and the chain
is so nice on my arm, and the plush so red and soft, I can’t help loving
my dear little purse.  I shall spend all the money for candy, and eat it
every bit myself, because it is my birthday, and I must celebrate it,"
said Lu, as she hovered like a bee round a honey-pot about the table
where the gifts were spread.
Now she was in a great hurry to go out shopping, with the new purse
proudly carried in her small fat hand.  Aunty was soon ready, and away
they went across the pleasant Park, where the pretty babies were
enjoying the last warm days of autumn as they played among the fallen
leaves.
"You will be ill if you eat ten cents’ worth of candy to-day," said
aunty.
"I ’ll sprinkle it along through the day, and eat each kind seppyrut;
then they won’t intersturb me, I am sure," answered Lu, who still used
funny words, and always got interrupt and disturb rather mixed.
Just then a poor man who had lost his legs came creeping along with a
tray of little flower-pots to sell.
"Only five cents, miss.  Help an unfortnit man, please, mum."
"Let me buy one for my baby-house.  It would be sweet.  Cora Pinky May
would love to have that darling little rose in her best parlor," cried
Lu, thinking of the fine new doll.
Aunty much preferred to help the poor man than to buy candy, so the
flower-pot was soon bought, though the "red, red rose" was unlike any
ever seen in a garden.
"Now I ’ll have five cents for my treat, and no danger of being ill,"
said Lu, as they went on again.
But in a few moments a new beggar appeared, and Lu’s tender heart would
not let her pass the old woman without dropping two of her bright cents
in the tin cup.
"Do come to the candy-place at once, or I never shall get any," begged
Lu, as the red purse grew lighter and lighter every minute.
Three sticks of candy were all she could buy, but she felt that she
could celebrate the birthday on that, and was ready to go home and begin
at once.
As they went on to get some flowers to dress the cake at tea-time, Lu
suddenly stopped short, lifted both hands, and cried out in a tone of
despair,--
"My purse! my purse!  I ’ve lost it.  Oh, I ’ve lost it!"
"Left it in the store probably.  Come and look for it," said aunty; and
back they turned, just in time to meet a shabby little girl running
after them with the precious thing in her hand.
"Ain’t this yours?  I thought you dropped it, and would hate to lose
it," she said, smiling pleasantly.
"Oh, I should.  It’s spandy new, and I love it dearly.  I ’ve got no
more money to pay you, only this candy; do take a stick," and Lu
presented the red barley sugar.
The little girl took it gladly, and ran off.
"Well, two sticks will do.  I ’d rather lose every bit of it than my
darling purse," said Lu, putting it carefully in her pocket.
"I love to give things away and make people happy," began Lu, but
stopped to watch a dog who came up to her, wagging his tail as if he
knew what a kind little girl she was, and wanted to be made happy.  She
put out her hand to pat him, quite forgetting the small parcel in it;
but the dog snapped it up before she could save it.
"Oh, my last stick!  I did n’t mean to give it to him.  You naughty dog,
drop it this minute!" cried poor Lu.
But the beautiful pink cream candy was forever lost, and the ungrateful
thief ran off, after a vain attempt to eat the flower-pot also.  It was
so funny that aunty laughed, and Lu joined her, after shaking her finger
at the dog, who barked and frisked as if he felt that he had done a
clever thing.
"Now I am quite satisfied, and you will have a pleasanter birthday for
having made four people and a dog happy, instead of yourself sick with
too many goodies.  Charity is a nice sort of sweetie; and I hope you
will buy that kind with your pocket-money now and then, my dear," said
aunty, as they walked on again.
"Could I do much with ten cents a week?" asked Lu.
"Yes, indeed; you could buy a little book for lame Sammy, who loves to
read, or a few flowers for my sick girl at the hospital, or a loaf of
bread for some hungry person, or milk for a poor baby, or you could save
up your money till Christmas, and get presents for children who
otherwise would have none."
"Could I do all those things?  I’d like to get presents best, and I
will--I will!" cried Lu, charmed with the idea of playing Santa Claus.
"I did n’t think ten cents would be so useful.  How long to Christmas,
aunty?"
"About ten weeks.  If you save all your pocket-money till then, you will
have a dollar to spend."
"A truly dollar!  How fine!  But all that time I should n’t have any
candy.  I don’t think I could get along without some.  Perhaps if I
was very good some one would give me a bit now and then;" and Lu
looked up with her most engaging smile and a twinkle in her eye.
"We will see about that.  Perhaps ’some one’ will give extra cents for
work you may do, and leave you to decide which kind of sweeties you
would buy."
"What can I do to earn money?" asked Lu.
"Well, you can dry and fold the paper every morning for grandpa.  I will
pay you a cent for that, because nurse is apt to forget it, and he likes
to have it nicely ready for him after breakfast.  Then you might run up
and down for mamma, and hem some towels for me, and take care of Jip and
the parrot.  You will earn a good deal if you do your work regularly and
well."
"I shall have dreadful trials going by the candy-shops and never buying
any.  I do long so to go in that I have to look away when you say No.  I
want to be good and help poor people, but I ’m afraid it will be too
hard for me," sighed Lu, foreseeing the temptations before her.
"We might begin to-day, and try the new plan for a while.  If it is too
hard, you can give it up; but I think you will soon like my way best,
and have the merriest Christmas you ever knew with the money you save."
Lu walked thoughtfully home, and put the empty purse away, resolved to
see how long she could hold out, and how much she could earn. Mamma
smiled when she heard the plan, but at once engaged the little girl to
do errands about the house at a cent a job, privately quite sure that
her pretty express would soon stop running. Grandpapa was pleased to
find his paper ready, and nodded and patted Lu’s curly head when she
told him about her Christmas plans.  Mary, the maid, was glad to get rid
of combing Jip and feeding Polly, and aunty made towel hemming pleasant
by telling stories as the little needle-woman did two hems a day.
Every cent went into the red purse, which Lu hung on one of the gilt
pegs of the easel in the parlor, for she thought it very ornamental, and
hoped contributions might drop in occasionally. None did; but as every
one paid her in bright cents, there was soon a fine display, and the
little bag grew heavy with delightful rapidity.
Only once did Lu yield to temptation, and that was when two weeks of
self-denial made her trials so great that she felt as if she really must
reward herself, as no one else seemed to remember how much little girls
loved candy.
One day she looked pale, and did not want any dinner, saying she felt
sick.  Mamma was away, so aunty put her on the bed and sat by her,
feeling very anxious, as scarlet-fever was about.  By and by Lu took her
handkerchief out, and there, sticking to it, was a large brown
cough-drop.  Lu turned red, and hid her face, saying with a penitent
sob, "I don’t deserve to be cuddled.  I ’ve been selfish and silly, and
spent some of my money for candy.  I had a little cold, and I thought
cough-drops would do me good.  I ate a good many, and they were bitter
and made me sick, and I ’m glad of it."
Aunty wanted to laugh at the dear little sinner and her funny idea of
choosing bitter candy as a sort of self-denial; but she comforted her
kindly, and soon the invalid was skipping about again, declaring that
she never would do so any more.
Next day something happened which helped her very much, and made it
easier to like the new kind of sweeties better than the old.  She was in
the dining-room getting an apple for her lunch, when she saw a little
girl come to the lower door to ask for cold food.  The cook was busy,
and sent her away, telling her begging was forbidden.  Lu, peeping out,
saw the little girl sit down on the steps to eat a cold potato as if she
was very hungry, and while she ate she was trying to tie on a pair of
very old boots some one had given her.  It was a rainy day, and she had
only a shawl over her head; her hands were red with cold; her gown was a
faded cotton one; and her big basket seemed to have very few scraps in
it.  So poor, so sad, and tired did she look, that Lu could not bear to
see it, and she called out in her pitiful child’s voice,--
"Come in and get warm, little girl.  Don’t mind old Sarah.  I ’ll give
you something to eat, and lend you my rubber boots and waterproof to go
home in."
The poor child gladly went to sit by the comfortable fire, while Lu with
hospitable haste got crackers and cheese and cake and apples, and her
own silver mug of milk, for her guest, forgetting, in her zeal, to ask
leave.  Fortunately aunty came down for her own lunch in time to see
what was going on, and found Lu busily buttoning the waterproof, while
the little girl surveyed her rubber boots and small umbrella with pride.
"I ’m only lending my things, and she will return them to-morrow,
aunty.  They are too small for me, and the umbrella is broken; and I ’d
love to give them all to Lucy if I could. She has to go out in the
rain to get food for her family, like a bird, and I don’t."
"Birds don’t need waterproofs and umbrellas," began aunty; and both
children laughed at the idea of sparrows with such things, but looked a
little anxious till aunty went on to say that Lucy could have these
comforts, and to fill the basket with something better than cold
potatoes, while she asked questions and heard the sad little story: how
father was dead, and the baby sick, so mother could not work, and the
boys had to pick up chips and cinders to burn, and Lucy begged food to
eat.  Lu listened with tears in her blue eyes, and a great deal of pity
as well as admiration for poor little Lucy, who was only nine, yet had
so many cares and troubles in her life.  While aunty went to get some
flannel for baby, Lu flew to her red purse and counted out ten cents
from her store, feeling so rich, so glad to have it instead of an empty
bonbon box, and a headache after a candy feast.
"Buy some nice fresh milk for little Totty, and tell her I sent it--all
myself--with my love.  Come again to-morrow, and I will tell mamma all
about you, and you shall be my poor people, and I ’ll help you if I
can," she said, full of interest and good-will, for the sight of this
child made her feel what poverty really was, and long to lighten it if
she could.
Lucy was smiling when she went away, snug and dry in her comfortable
clothes, with the full basket on her arm; and all that day Lu talked and
thought about her "own poor people," and what she hoped to do for them.
Mamma inquired, and finding them worthy of help, let her little girl
send many comforts to the children, and learn how to be wisely
charitable.
"I shall give all my money to my ’Lucy children’ on Christmas,"
announced Lu, as that pleasant time drew near.  "I know what they want,
and though I can’t save money enough to give them half the things they
need, maybe I can help a good deal, and really have a nice bundle to
s’prise them with."
This idea took possession of little Lu, and she worked like a beaver in
all sorts of funny ways to fill her purse by Christmas-time.  One thing
she did which amused her family very much, though they were obliged to
stop it.  Lu danced very prettily, and often had what she called ballets
before she went to bed, when she tripped about the parlor like a fairy
in the gay costumes aunty made for her.  As the purse did not fill as
fast as she hoped, Lu took it into her head one fine day to go round the
square where she lived, with her tambourine, and dance as some of the
girls with the hand-organ men did.  So she dressed herself in her red
skirt and black velvet jacket, and with a fur cap on her head and a blue
cloak over her shoulders, slipped out into the quiet square, and going
to the farther corner, began to dance and beat her tambourine on the
sidewalk before a house where some little children lived.
As she expected, they soon came running to the window, and were charmed
to see the pretty dancer whirling to and fro, with her ribbons flying
and her tambourine bells ringing, till her breath was gone.  Then she
held up the instrument and nodded smilingly at them; and they threw down
cents wrapped in paper, thinking her music much better than any the
organ men made.  Much encouraged, Lu went on from house to house, and
was doing finely, when one of the ladies who looked out recognized the
child, and asked her if her mother knew where she was.  Lu had to say
"No;" and the lady sent a maid to take her home at once.
That spoiled all the fun; and poor Lu did not hear the last of her prank
for a long time.  But she had made forty-two cents, and felt comforted
when she added that handsome sum to her store. As if to console her for
this disappointment, after that day several bright ten-cent pieces got
into the red purse in a most mysterious manner. Lu asked every one in
the house, and all declared that they did not do it.  Grandpa could not
get out of his chair without help, and nurse said she never took the
purse to him; so of course it could not be he who slipped in those
welcome bits of silver.  Lu asked him; but he was very deaf that day,
and did not seem to understand her at all.
"It must be fairies," she said, pondering over the puzzle, as she
counted her treasure and packed it away, for now the little red purse
was full.  "Aunty says there are no fairies; but I like to think so.
Perhaps angels fly around at Christmas-time as they did long ago, and
love to help poor people, and put those beautiful bright things here to
show that they are pleased with me."  She liked that fancy, and aunty
agreed that some good spirit must have done it, and was sure they would
find out the secret some time.
Lucy came regularly; and Lu always tried to see her, and so learned what
she and Totty and Joe and Jimmy wanted, but never dreamed of receiving
Christmas morning.  It did both little girls much good, for poor Lucy
was comforted by the kindness of these friends, and Lu learned about far
harder trials than the want of sugarplums.  The day before Christmas she
went on a grand shopping expedition with aunty, for the purse now held
three dollars and seven cents. She had spent some of it for trifles for
her "Lucy children," and had not earned as much as she once hoped,
various fits of idleness and other more amusing but less profitable work
having lessened her wages.  But she had enough, thanks to the good
spirit, to get toys and books and candy for her family, and went
joyfully away Christmas Eve to carry her little basket of gifts,
accompanied by aunty with a larger store of comforts for the grateful
mother.
When they got back, Lu entertained her mother with an account of the
delight of the children, who never had such a Christmas before.
"They could n’t wait till morning, and I could n’t either, and we opened
the bundles right away; and they screamed, mamma, and jumped for joy
and ate everything and hugged me.  And the mother cried, she was so
pleased; and the boys can go to school all neat now, and so could Lucy,
only she has to take care of Totty while her mother goes to work.  Oh,
it was lovely!  I felt just like Santa Claus, only he does n’t stay to
see people enjoy their things, and I did."
Here Lu stopped for breath, and when she got it, had a fine ballet as
the only way to work off her excitement at the success of her "s’prise."
It was a trial to go to bed, but she went at last, and dreamed that her
"Lucy children" all had wings, and were flying round her bed with
tambourines full of heavenly bonbons, which they showered down upon her;
while aunty in an immense nightcap stood by clapping her hands and
saying, "Eat all you like, dear; this sort won’t hurt you."
Morning came very soon; and she popped up her head to see a long knobby
stocking hanging from the mantel-piece.  Out of bed skipped the little
white figure, and back again, while cries of joy were heard as the
treasures appeared one by one.  There was a tableful beside the
stocking, and Lu was so busy looking at them that she was late to
breakfast.  But aunty waited for her, and they went down together some
time after the bell rang.
"Let me peep and see if grandpa has found the silk handkerchief and
spectacle-case I made for him," whispered Lu, as they passed the parlor
door, which stood half open, leaving a wide crack for the blue eyes to
spy through.
The old gentleman sat in his easy-chair as usual, waiting while nurse
got his breakfast; but what was he doing with his long staff?  Lu
watched eagerly, and to her great surprise saw him lean forward, and
with the hook at the end take the little red purse off the easel, open
it, and slip in a small white parcel, then hang it on the gilt peg
again, put away the cane, and sit rubbing his hands and laughing to
himself at the success of his little trick, quite sure that this was a
safe time to play it.  Lu was about to cry out, and rush in, but aunty
whispered, "Don’t spoil his fun yet.  Go and see what is in the purse,
then thank him in the way he likes best."
So Lu skipped into the parlor, trying to look very innocent, and ran to
open the dear red purse, as she often did, eager to see if the good
fairy had added to the charity fund.
"Why, here ’s a great gold medal, and some queer, shaky writing on the
paper.  Please see what it is," said Lu, very loud, hoping grandpa would
hear her this time, for his face was hidden behind the newspaper he
pretended to read.
"For Lu’s poor’s purse, from Santa Claus," read aunty, glad that at last
the kind old fairy was discovered and ready for his reward.
Lu had never seen a twenty-dollar gold-piece before; but she could not
stop to find out whether the shining medal was money or a locket, and
ran to grandpa, crying as she pulled away the paper and threw her arms
about his neck,--
"I ’ve found you out, I ’ve found you out, my dear old Santa Claus!
Merry Christmas, grandpa, and lots of thanks and kisses!"
It was pretty to see the rosy cheek against the wrinkled one, the golden
and the silver heads close together, as the old man and the little girl
kissed and laughed, and both talked at once for a few minutes.
"Tell me all about it, you sly grandpa. What made you think of doing it
that way, and not let any one know?" cried Lu, as the old gentleman
stopped to rest after a kindly "cuddle," as Lu called these caresses.
"Well, dear, I liked to see you trying to do good with your little
pennies, and I wanted to help.  I ’m a feeble old man, tied to my chair
and of no use now; but I like a bit of fun, and love to feel that it is
not quite too late to make some one happy."
"Why, grandpa, you do heaps of good, and make many, many people happy,"
said Lu, with another hug.  "Mamma told me all about the hospital for
little children you built, and the money you gave to the poor soldiers
in the war, and ever so many more good things you ’ve done.  I won’t
have you say you are of no use now.  We want you to love and take care
of; and we could n’t do without you, could we, aunty?"
Aunty sat on the arm of the chair with her arm round the old man’s
shoulder, and her only answer was a kiss.  But it was enough, and
grandpa went on quite cheerfully, as he held two plump hands in his own,
and watched the blooming face that looked up at him so eagerly:
"When I was younger, I loved money, and wanted a great deal.  I cared
for nothing else, and worked hard to get it, and did get it after years
of worry.  But it cost me my health, and then I saw how foolish I had
been, for all my money could not buy me any strength or pleasure and
very little comfort.  I could not take it with me when I died, and did
not know what to do with it, because there was so much.  So I tried to
see if giving it away would not amuse me, and make me feel better about
having wasted my life instead of using it wisely.  The more I gave away
the better I felt; and now I’m quite jolly, though I’m only a helpless
old baby just fit to play jokes and love little girls.  You have begun
early at this pretty game of give-away, my dear, and aunty will see that
you keep it up; so that when you are old you will have much treasure in
the other world where the blessings of the poor are more precious than
gold and silver."
Nobody spoke for a minute as the feeble old voice stopped; and the
sunshine fell on the white head like a blessing.  Then Lu said very
soberly, as she turned the great coin in her hand, and saw the letters
that told its worth,--
"What shall I do with all this money?  I never had so much, and I ’d
like to spend it in some very good and pleasant way.  Can you think of
something, aunty, so I can begin at once to be like grandpa?"
"How would you like to pay two dollars a month, so that Totty can go to
the Sunnyside Nursery, and be taken care of every day while Lucy goes to
school?  Then she will be safe and happy, and Lucy be learning, as she
longs to do, and the mother free to work," said aunty, glad to have this
dear child early learn to help those less blessed than herself.
"Could I?  How splendid it would be to pay for a real live baby all
myself!  How long would my money do it?" said Lu, charmed with the idea
of a living dolly to care for.
"All winter, and provide clothes besides. You can make them yourself,
and go and see Totty, and call her your baby.  This will be a sweet
charity for you; and to-day is a good day to begin it, for this is the
birthday of the Divine Child, who was born in a poorer place even than
Lucy’s sister.  In His name pity and help this baby, and be sure He will
bless you for it."
Lu looked up at the fine picture of the Good Shepherd hanging over the
sofa with holly-leaves glistening round it, and felt as if she too in
her humble way was about to take a helpless little lamb in her arms and
comfort it.  Her childish face was very sweet and sober as she said
softly,--
"Yes, I will spend my Christmas money so; for, aunty, I do think your
sort of sweetie is better than mine, and making people happy a much
wiser way to spend my pennies than in buying the nicest candy in the
world."
Little Lu remembered that morning long after the dear old grandfather
was gone, and kept her Christmas promise so well that very soon a larger
purse was needed for charity money, which she used so wisely and so
happily.  But all her life in one corner of her desk lay carefully
folded up, with the bit of paper inside, the little red purse.
[Illustration: "Sophie came and sat beside her while she dried her curly
hair."  PAGE 178.]
                                  VII.
                            SOPHIE’S SECRET.
,, class:: center medium
    I.
A party of young girls, in their gay bathing-dresses, were sitting on
the beach waiting for the tide to rise a little higher before they
enjoyed the daily frolic which they called "mermaiding."
"I wish we could have a clam-bake; but we have n’t any clams, and don’t
know how to cook them if we had.  It’s such a pity all the boys have
gone off on that stupid fishing excursion," said one girl, in a
yellow-and-black striped suit which made her look like a wasp.
"What is a clam-bake?  I do not know that kind of fête," asked a pretty
brown-eyed girl, with an accent that betrayed the foreigner.
The girls laughed at such sad ignorance, and Sophie colored, wishing she
had not spoken.
"Poor thing! she has never tasted a clam. What should we do if we went
to Switzerland?" said the wasp, who loved to tease.
"We should give you the best we had, and not laugh at your ignorance, if
you did not know all our dishes.  In my country, we have politeness,
