and made tinder by burning an old shirt. "Necessity is the mother of
invention," says an old proverb, which, in our case, spoke truly, for
by untiring perseverance we succeeded in constructing a compass,
which, though of course imperfect, answered every purpose. After many
entreaties, we procured from our attendants a couple of needles, under
pretence of mending our clothes. Pretending that we had lost them, we
devoted them to the manufacture of our compass. Through repeated
rubbings on a magnetic stone, which Chleb Nikow had found, and which
we kept carefully concealed in a corner of the yard, we succeeded in
rendering one of them magnetic, and then fastened it to a little sheet
of copper, which we loosened from the roof of our house. We undertook,
besides this, to manufacture some weapons for our defence, in case of
need, and in this attempt fortune again favored us. We found, among
the grass in the court-yard, a large and sharp chisel, which, most
probably, the carpenters had used in the construction of the house,
and forgotten. We put it carefully by, in order that we might fasten
it to a pole, and use it in the moment of our flight as a spear. We
found, also, a spade in the court, which we hid, that it too might
serve as a weapon. Besides this, the sailors, on the night when we
made the attempt, were to arm themselves with some long poles, which
had been used in drying our clothes.
After we had finished our preparations, we noted carefully, whenever
we took a walk, the road and footpath which led to the mountains. On
the twenty-third of April, having gone farther than usual, we induced
our attendants, under the plea of curiosity, to show us a temple,
which lay directly in the way we must take in our flight. Whilst we
were gathering, as usual, leeks and herbs for our own use, we observed
accurately the whole neighborhood, and then set out on our way home.
When we arrived there, we went to bed. A half an hour before midnight,
two of the sailors, who had taken a couple of knives from the kitchen,
which adjoined our rooms, slunk into the garden just after the guard
had made the twelfth round, and hiding themselves under the steps,
began digging a hole under the hedge, whilst we put a bundle of
clothes into each of their beds, that it might appear as if they were
still there.
After they had happily finished their task, without being discovered,
we all went out, and one after the other crept through the hole. When
it came to my turn, I stumbled, but got through, striking my knee,
however, as I did so, against a small post, which was nearly buried in
the ground. The blow was violent, but the pain soon disappeared. We
now found ourselves in a very narrow footpath, between the hedge and
the wall of the fort, which we followed, and after some trouble,
reached the principal street of the town. We hastened along, keeping
among the trees, and at the end of a half hour found ourselves at the
foot of a high mountain, which we were obliged to ascend.
VII.
We immediately began to climb up the hill, and endeavored, as far as
possible, by means of the stars, our only guides, to direct our course
due north. By the time we had reached the first eminence, I felt a
stinging pain in my knee, which suddenly swelled up so much, and put
me into such agony, that I could proceed only with the greatest
difficulty. My companions, therefore, to my great vexation and
concern, were obliged to halt every little while, that I might recover
myself, and ease my injured limb.
Our intention was to reach, before daybreak, that portion of the hill
which was covered with trees, in order to secure ourselves against the
first attempts which the Japanese, who we now considered as our mortal
enemies, might make to capture us. In our walks through the valleys
which surrounded the town, these woods had not appeared to us to be
very far off, but we saw now how much we had been deceived. One of the
footpaths which we had remarked during the day as leading directly to
them, we were unable to find in the thick darkness, which shrouded
from our view objects only a few paces distant.
The only resource left to us was to keep ascending, which the
unevenness of the soil, covered as it was with brushwood, rendered
tedious and difficult. After three painful hours passed in this way,
we came at last to the highest ridge of the mountain, and now imagined
that we could go forward on the high level ground, without any great
exertion. But fate had many obstacles and much trouble in store for
us, that we knew not of. We had now got to a part of the mountain
which in many places was covered with snow, and as we did not wish our
trail to be visible to the Japanese, we were obliged to go first to
the one side and then to the other, and often had to retrace our
steps. In this way we expended our strength, and made very little
progress. An hour before daybreak, we struck on a broad road, which
led towards the north, and which was firm and almost free from snow.
As we knew that we could now go on without the fear of leaving our
footprints visible, we rejoiced not a little, and redoubled our speed.
I still felt much pain in my knee and leg, but as we were now on level
ground, it was not to be compared to what I endured whilst ascending
the mountain. We believed that we must now reach the wood in a very
short time, and had made up our minds to rest in one of its thickets,
when suddenly a sailor who chanced to look back, exclaimed, "They are
coming after us on horseback, with lanterns!" and immediately sprang
into an opening by the road side. Startled by this exclamation, we
looked round, and perceived some lights which seemed to be rapidly
approaching us. Seeing that there was no time to be lost, we followed
the sailor's example. For a long way the road led us down the
mountain, without there being either tree or bush to afford us
shelter, or screen us from our pursuers. Soon the day began to break.
If there had been more light at that moment, the Japanese must
inevitably have seen us from the surrounding heights, as there was
nothing which could hide us from their sight. At length we reached the
bottom of the ravine, which was surrounded by naked rocks. Deep snow
covered it, and we could not find a single place where we could hide.
It was now broad day, and we stood still for a moment, looking vainly
in every direction, and much perplexed to know what to do. At length
we discovered in the rocks an opening, which on examination, turned
out to be a cave, but so small as to be hardly able to contain us all.
Close to it was a water-fall, which coming down from the mountain, had
hollowed out in the snow, directly before the entrance, a pit some ten
feet deep. By the aid of a little tree we climbed into this cave, in
which, however, we could not sit down, but were obliged to stand
upright, squeezed together in a most uncomfortable way. As the bottom
of our hiding-place was shelving, and covered with loose stones, we
were obliged to change our positions with the greatest caution, for
fear of rolling out, and in order to rest ourselves, we leaned first
on one elbow and then on the other. However, we were now tolerably
secure, for the cave could not be seen by any one who was not close to
it.
We remained in this position until sunset, consulting, with drooping
courage, on the best way to save ourselves. The day was clear and
warm, but the rays of the sun did not penetrate into the ravine, and
the water-fall made the air so cold that our teeth absolutely
chattered. We heard plainly the strokes of an axe in the surrounding
forest, and as we ventured out in the evening, saw people on the
mountains. Suddenly we heard a rushing sound as if some one was
sliding down the mountain towards us. It came nearer and grew louder,
and we thought that we should now soon see the soldiers who were
seeking us. We prepared ourselves for a struggle, when behold a wild
stag appeared, and as soon as he saw us, dashed quickly away.
As soon as the stars began to appear, we left our inconvenient
hiding-place, and climbed up a high mountain, which in many places was
overgrown with brushwood. My situation was now really dreadful. While
in the cave I had held my leg in one position, and consequently, felt
no great pain, but it returned as soon as I began to walk, and soon
became almost intolerable. As we had still to cross many mountains,
and in our case great haste was necessary, I saw clearly that I was
keeping back my comrades, and most likely would be the cause of their
re-capture. I, therefore, implored them to leave me to my fate, and
think only of their own safety. But my entreaties had no effect on
them whatever, except to render them most determined not to leave me.
They swore they would stay by me whilst life remained, and that they
were perfectly willing to rest whenever I wished it. Moreover,
Makarov, the strongest of the sailors, entreated me to let him help me
along, which he could do, if I would go behind him, and hold fast to
his girdle. On hearing this I determined to remain with my companions
and allow myself to be dragged along by them.
After we had gone some distance from them, over rocky cliffs, and
through deep ravines, we came to a couple of huts, from which came a
whistling noise, such as, with us, the people use to charm quails, in
order to capture them. We stooped down among the grass, and listened
for a long while, in order to find out whether it came from a bird, or
whether there were people in the huts. As it was not likely that many
persons dwelt in such an out of the way place, we took courage, and
went up to them; but when we drew near, we found out that what we had
taken for huts, were in reality two heaps of wood. As we had not been
able to gain a moment's rest during the preceding day, we laid
ourselves down on this spot, where we were protected from the wind and
cold, and slept for two or three hours. Greatly refreshed, we started
again on our journey, and by daybreak reached the top of a high
mountain, which was covered with thick brushwood, and which far
out-topped the surrounding hills. Here we determined to pass the day.
As at sunrise a thick fog covered the tops of the mountains, we
ventured to make a fire among the bushes to warm our limbs, stiffened
with wet and cold. We placed on it a tea kettle, which, however, was
not for the purpose of preparing tea, a luxury by no means within our
reach, but to warm our dry and mouldy rice, in order to render it
palatable. We searched, also, for wild herbs, but nothing eatable was
to be found any where, for on the heights winter reigned despotic. We
melted some snow for a drink, and made a meal of our rice, which was
already nearly putrid. In the meantime, black clouds were rising in
the east, the wind howled through the trees, and every thing indicated
that a storm was fast approaching. As we concluded that none of the
Japanese would venture among the mountains in such weather as this, we
determined not to wait for the approach of night, but to continue our
journey during the day. After we had passed through a deep ravine, and
waded through a stream of water, the road again led us up the
mountain, and we had already reached a tolerable height, when suddenly
a high and steep rock towered up directly in front of us, which could
not be ascended without great difficulty and danger, and yet there was
no way of avoiding it. Up we went, I holding fast to the girdle of
Makarov, who had nearly reached the top, when he was obliged to free
himself from my grasp, in order to climb up a very steep part of the
rock just at the top. I braced the toes of my uninjured foot against a
projecting stone, wound my right arm round a young tree, which curved
up from below, and in this position waited until Makarov had reached
the summit, from which he could assist me to mount up to him. But this
Hercules of a man was now so fatigued and overcome that he had hardly
strength to swing himself to the top of the rock, where he lay as if
dead. At this moment the stone, against which I was resting, gave way,
and rolled down the mountain, leaving me swinging by one hand, and
totally unable, on account of the smoothness of the rock, to get a
resting place for my feet. The other sailors, it is true, were not far
from me, but they were all so fatigued as to be totally unable to come
to my assistance. In this fearful situation I passed several minutes,
and my hand began to pain me so intolerably that I was tempted to let
go my hold, and have my sufferings ended by being dashed to pieces on
the rocks, a hundred fathoms below me.
But at this moment Makarov recovered himself, and seeing the danger I
was in, prepared to help me. He braced his left foot against a stone,
which projected from the rock directly opposite to my breast, grasped
the branches of the tree to which I was clinging, and let me seize his
girdle with my unoccupied hand. Then, with a great exertion of
strength, he dragged me to his side, and again fell back almost
senseless. Had the stone, on which he stood, given way, or the bough
he grasped broken, we should both have been inevitably dashed to the
ground. After we had rested for some time on the top of the rock, we
continued our fatiguing journey until nightfall. We then encamped on a
part of the mountain which was overgrown with reeds, and immediately
made a fire to prepare our evening meal, which this time consisted of
wild leeks and other herbs, collected along the banks of the stream we
had waded through. We then dried our clothes, and lay down to rest in
a tent hastily constructed of reeds. Want of sleep, and the great
fatigue we had undergone, soon closed our eyes, and we slept soundly.
After a few hours I awoke, and found the hut so uncomfortably hot that
I went out into the open air. I leaned against a tree which grew near
by, and thought over our probable fate. The sublime picture of nature
first attracted my attention. The sky was clear, but below us and
among the mountains rolled dark masses of clouds; it was most
probably raining in the valleys. The snow which lay on the mountains
glittered brightly in the distance, and never before had I seen the
stars shine forth so clearly as they did on that night. A death-like
silence prevailed, or was broken only by the sighing of the breeze as
it swept softly by. But the beauty and sublimity of this spectacle
suddenly vanished, as the thoughts of our situation came thronging
upon me, clothed with the most fearful shapes. Six men on one of the
highest of the Japanese mountains, without sufficient food, clothing,
or even weapons to defend themselves from the attacks of wild animals;
possessing neither knowledge nor ability to construct any kind of a
vessel in which they might escape, and one of them, moreover, with a
wounded leg, which at every step, pained him dreadfully. When I
thought of this, our helpless position, my feelings bordered on
despair. Whilst I was occupied with these sad thoughts, some of my
companions awoke, and their sighs and prayers affected me so deeply
that I forgot myself, and shed scalding tears. In this way an hour
passed by, but the cold night air finally forced me to seek shelter in
the hut, where I lay down, but not to sleep.
VIII.
As the road over these high mountains was filled with difficulties and
danger, we now determined to direct our steps towards the coast,
creeping along during the day and hiding by night in the woods and
among the hills. As we were descending from the heights we suddenly
caught sight of some mounted soldiers, who were on the same road
which we were travelling, and coming directly towards us. We
immediately crept into a hollow, and hid among some bushes. The
soldiers, fortunately, rode by without perceiving us, but we now saw
plainly enough how vigilant our pursuers were. We grew bolder,
however, and on the following night, passed through a village, in
order to take a look at a couple of boats which we saw lying on the
shore near to it. We found that they were in good condition, but much
too small for us to trust ourselves in on the open sea.
During the day as we lay concealed in a thicket, we prepared every
thing that was necessary for the success of our anticipated flight. We
sewed two of our shirts together for a sail, and made all the
necessary rigging of some ropes, which we had brought with us. From
one of our hiding-places we remarked at one time, that a large
Japanese vessel, which was sailing along the coast, had cast anchor
near to a neighboring village, and we determined to surprise and
capture it during the night. By good fortune we passed through the
village undiscovered, and were close to the vessel, when suddenly it
weighed anchor and sailed away. We gazed after it for a while, and
then sorrowfully pursued our way along the shore.
After having ventured into the village for several nights without
accomplishing our purpose, we were at last discovered on the morning
of the first of May, as we were returning rather late, by a woman who
was standing on one of the surrounding heights. She immediately
beckoned in every direction to give notice of the discovery she had
made. We saw immediately that no time was to be lost, and fled into a
ravine that we might hide ourselves among the bushes. Unluckily,
before we could reach a place of concealment, we found ourselves
surrounded by a crowd of people who raised a loud cry. I and Makarov,
my inseparable attendant, took refuge in a thicket, but soon being
unable to go farther, we lay down and waited the result of the affair.
To our great astonishment, instead of our pursuers being the country
people, as we imagined, we perceived several well-armed soldiers, and
an officer on horseback.
Our companions were immediately surrounded and forced to surrender,
and from our hiding-place we could plainly see how the Japanese bound
their hands behind their backs, inquired from them where we were, and
led them towards the shore, whilst some of them commenced an active
search after us.
"What shall we do now?" asked Makarov, trembling with fear.
"Perhaps," replied I, "the Japanese will not find us to-day, in which
case, as soon as it grows dark, we will steal along the coast, capture
a boat, and sail from island to island, until we reach the nearest
Russian port."
Makarov agreed to my proposition, but we did not reflect that every
thing necessary for such an undertaking, which we had prepared with so
much trouble, had fallen into the hands of the Japanese, with our
companions.
Whilst we were yet discussing the possibility of flight, four of our
pursuers, two of whom were armed with spears, and the other two with
sabres, came directly towards us, searching even nooks and corners,
where a dog could hardly hide. I now took in my hand the pole with
the chisel fastened to it; but Makarov, with tears in his eyes, begged
me not to defend myself, or injure any of the Japanese, for if I did
so I would ruin not only us two, but all my companions, whilst by a
voluntary surrender, we might all perhaps be saved. These words made
such a deep impression on me, that I immediately struck my spear in
the ground, and walked out followed by Makarov.
The Japanese were so startled at our sudden appearance, that they
stepped backwards a few paces; but when they saw that we were unarmed,
they grew bolder, advanced towards us, seized us, bound our hands
behind our backs, and led us towards a house which stood on the sea
shore. Here we found the rest of our party, who had already been
taken. Our captors now treated us to rice-broth, herrings, radishes,
tea, and sago. Not the slightest injury did they do us, nor even
bestow a single invective on us, either whilst they were taking us to
the house, or after we got there. On the contrary, when they remarked
that I limped and walked with difficulty, two of them took me by the
arms, and assisted me over the hills and dangerous places. After
resting here for an hour, they bound our hands, as they had formerly
done, and led us along the sea shore under a strong escort, back to
Matsmai.
We remarked that the Japanese had stuck little staves in our
footprints, wherever we had gone during the night, and we learnt from
them that they had never once lost sight of our trail. Indeed, they
had often seen us, and had watched us when we slept or took our frugal
meals. Why they had never seized us, we could not imagine. Perhaps,
with their well known cowardice, they feared lest we might defend
ourselves, and kill some of them. As often as we passed through a
valley, the inhabitants flocked out of their houses to see us, but to
their credit be it said, that we never received from them the
slightest injury nor even a mocking word. They all regarded us with
pity, and some of the women, who gave us food and drink, wept! So much
good feeling was displayed by a people, that we enlightened Europeans
consider rude and inhuman! The leader of our escort, however, was far
less obliging and polite to us than the Japanese officers had formerly
been. Although there was no lack of horses in the neighborhood, we
were obliged to walk, and were no longer carried over streams of
water, but forced to wade through them. When it rained, too, they did
not hold umbrellas over us, but covered us with mats. We soon became
very much fatigued, especially I, for the pain in my leg grew more
violent every moment. During that night, which was unusually dark,
they led us along with the greatest caution. We walked in single file,
and before each of us, as also before the leader of the band, a
lantern was carried. Men, too, with lights in their hands, went
before, and came after the procession. Near steep cliffs, and deep
ravines, a crowd of people, who had been summoned from the neighboring
villages to attend us on our journey back to Matsmai, shook out
bundles of straw, which they carried, and set fire to them, so that it
was as bright as day. Had an European seen our train in the distance,
he would have imagined that we were carrying along the mortal remains
of some distinguished man. On the third of May, we arrived at Matsmai,
and halted before the gates of the town. An imperial officer
immediately made his appearance, and without saying a word began
thoroughly to search us. We remarked to him that he might save himself
the trouble, as he would find nothing on us.
"I know that very well," replied he, coolly, "but the laws of Japan
require it."
As soon as he had performed his duty, the soldiers who accompanied us
put on their city clothing, and with slow and weary steps we took our
way back into the town. The officer who had taken us prisoners, rode a
horse richly caparisoned with silk, and looked round on all sides with
the air of a proud victor, returning laden with the spoils of
conquest, and who, for his heroic deeds, claimed laurels and thanks
from his countrymen. The crowd of spectators was immense, and as it
rained, and they all carried umbrellas, the sight was a strange one.
IX.
We were taken directly to the castle. Formerly we had always worn our
caps until we entered the court, but now we were obliged to take them
off at the castle gates. After being taken into an ante-chamber, and
treated to rice-broth, salted radishes, and tea without sugar, they
led us into the judgment hall, where the officers had already
assembled, and where the governor soon afterwards made his appearance.
There was not the slightest change visible in his countenance; he
seemed as pleasant and unruffled as ever, and showed no displeasure at
our behavior. As soon as he had taken his seat, he inquired, with his
accustomed good humor, what were the motives of our flight? I remarked
to him that I wished, first of all, to declare that I alone was
responsible for the course we had pursued, and that it was against
their will that my companions had obeyed my orders; if they had
refused to do so, they would be liable to severe penalties, if we ever
returned to our native land. Therefore, though the Japanese should
kill me, they ought not to harm a hair of their heads. The Bunjo
replied, in the coolest manner possible, that if the Japanese
considered it necessary to take my life, they could so without my
putting them in mind of the fact; if, on the contrary, they did not
deem it advisable to do so, all my entreaties would avail nothing. He
then repeated his question.
"We fled," replied I, "because we had not the slightest prospect of
ever being set free; on the contrary, every day showed us more clearly
that the Japanese were determined never to release us."
"Who told you that? Have I ever hinted to you that we would always
hold you prisoners?"
"The orders from the capital," replied I, "forboded no good."
"Whence do you know that?"
"The officer here present, whom we instructed in the Russian language,
gave us good ground to suppose so."
The governor now addressed several questions to this officer, which we
understood no better than his answers; we saw only that he was not a
little embarrassed, and grew red and white by turns.
The governor now turned to us again and commanded us to give him the
history of our flight, without omitting the most trivial circumstance.
We were obliged to tell him where we were each day, and make a sketch
of several localities, concerning which he seemed to be in some doubt.
After he had demanded of us whether some of the guards and servants
had not been privy to and aided our escape, he inquired in an earnest
manner, what was the precise object of our flight.
"To return to our native land," replied we.
"How would it have been possible to have carried out this project?"
"We intended to capture a boat somewhere along the coast, and venture
in it to the nearest Russian port."
"Could you not have guessed that as soon as your escape was known,
orders would be given immediately, to watch the coast and especially
all vessels."
"Yes, we expected that, but in the course of time our enterprise might
have succeeded when we least expected it."
"But," continued the governor, "you saw in your former journeys, that
the land was covered with mountains, among which it is very difficult
to travel, and that along the coast lie numberless villages, which
would render escape almost impossible. Your undertaking was
thoughtless and childish."
"And yet," replied I, "for six nights we wandered along the shore, and
through these villages, without being discovered by any one. At any
rate, we would leave no plan untried, let it be as thoughtless, or
even desperate as it may, to escape from our miserable lot, and as we
had an eternal imprisonment hovering over us, we determined either to
reach our homes, or find a grave among the mountains or beneath the
waves."
"Why was it necessary to go into the woods or on the sea in order to
die, when you could do it very easily here?"
"That would have been suicide, but if we venture our lives to win our
freedom, we could rely on the aid of God, and perhaps gain our end."
"Had you succeeded, what would you have said in Russia, concerning the
Japanese?"
"All that we have heard or seen, without adding or concealing any
thing."
"Do not you know that if you had escaped, the governor, and several
other officers would have lost their lives in consequence."
"We could well imagine that the guards would not have escaped
punishment, as that is customary in Europe, but we were not aware that
the Japanese laws were so cruel as to condemn innocent persons to
death."
"Is there a law in Europe which allows a prisoner to escape?"
"There is certainly no written law, but if he has not pledged his word
of honor, it is allowable for him to seize on any favorable
opportunity for flight."
With this equivocal explanation, the examination ended, and the
Governor now made a long speech, in which he said: If we were
Japanese, and had secretly left our prison, the consequences for us
would have been very serious; but as we were foreigners, and not
acquainted with the Japanese laws, and had, moreover, no object in
view which was injurious to the Japanese, but were influenced solely
by a desire to see again our native land, which is dearest to every
man; therefore, his good opinion of us remained unchanged. It was true
that he could not answer for the light in which the government would
regard our flight, but he would still hold himself devoted to our
interests, and endeavor to get permission for us to return to Russia;
but until our affairs were settled, we must, according to the Japanese
laws, return to prison, and be more carefully guarded than before.
After the governor had finished his speech, he left the hall, whilst
we were immediately bound, and led to a prison, which, like our former
ones, consisted of cages. I was put into a small one, whilst my
companions were confined together in one of a large size. They stood,
however, so near together, that we could converse very easily. Our
food was now given to us with a very sparing hand, and the sailors
continually complained of hunger. After supper, which we ate about
four o'clock, our prison was shut up, and as the walls were made of
boards, instead of lattice work, not a ray of light reached us after
that hour. As soon as it struck six o'clock, the guards came to
examine us, which they did very thoroughly, and if we were asleep woke
us, to answer to our names. On the fourth of May, we were again led
into the hall, at daybreak, where, as I received many hints, something
very important was this time to be determined. When we had taken our
places on the benches, which were prepared for us, they unloosened
our hands, but did not remove from our waists the rope, which we were
led by. The governor now repeated the questions he had before asked
us, and had the answers we gave, carefully explained. But now came the
most important question, which was, whether I considered my conduct as
right or wrong, and whether I thought I had acted properly towards the
Japanese or not.
"The Japanese," replied I, "forced us to the course we took, by first
taking us prisoners by stratagem, and then refusing to give credence
to our assertions."
The governor appeared very much astonished at my words; the capturing
of us, he said, was now a by-gone affair, about which it was useless
to say any thing; he merely wished to know whether I considered myself
innocent or guilty, as in the former case he could not lay our case
before the Emperor. All the objections I made, did no good; they only
made him angry, and he kept repeating the same question. At last as I
began to see what he was aiming at, and that he only had our interests
in view, I frankly confessed that we had not acted rightly, and that
our conduct merited punishment. He seemed very well satisfied with
this confession of mine, and we were told that our affairs were
prospering.
We were now led back to the house, where we had dwelt before our
flight, and treated very well. Besides our usual fare, they gave us
tea, and very good tobacco, and provided us, too, with combs,
handkerchiefs, and also curtains, to protect us against the gnats,
which were very troublesome. Besides these marks of good-will, they
gave us some Russian books to read, and pens, ink, and paper; but
when we expressed a wish to learn to write the Japanese tongue, they
told us that their laws expressly forbade them to teach Christians
their language. We never, however, received permission to take walks
again, but in order that we might enjoy the fresh air, the governor
ordered the doors of our dwelling to be left open from morning until
evening.
In this manner, with all our wants gratified, but with time hanging
heavy on our hands, we lived until the sixth of September. On that day
we were again conducted to the castle, and received the joyful
intelligence that the Diana was again at Kumachir, and treating with
the Japanese government for our liberation. Our joy, however, was of
short duration, for we received information in a letter from the
commander of the vessel, that in order to satisfy the Japanese, he was
obliged to return to Russia to procure from the government the
required avowal, that the acts of violence perpetrated in Japanese
territory, was done without their knowledge or consent. We were,
therefore, obliged to remain for another year, but during that time we
were treated with the greatest consideration.
In September following, word was brought to us that a Russian vessel
had again arrived in the Japanese waters, and a few days afterwards we
were informed that the negotiations had been successfully terminated,
and that we would soon begin our journey to Khakodade. From this time
forward, we were most hospitably entertained. Several officers, with
their children, visited us, and heartily wished us joy at our
liberation. The mayor of the town, also came to see us, and presented
us with a beautifully lacquered casket, filled with confectionary, as
a token of remembrance. On the following morning, amid the rejoicing
of the inhabitants, we left Matsmai, and after a journey of three
days, reached Khakodade, where the Diana soon afterwards arrived,
accompanied by a multitude of Japanese boats, tastefully ornamented.
On the morning of the fifth of October, an officer, in the most
respectful manner, presented me with my hat and sword, which, during
our imprisonment, had been carefully preserved. I was, however,
obliged to dress myself as the Japanese wished, namely, in a jacket,
and wide breeches of costly silk, which had been made expressly for
the occasion. The hat and sword must have made this dress appear
strange enough in the eyes of Europeans, but as it was all the same to
the Japanese, and since they had returned our arms, they had ceased to
regard us as prisoners. I willingly complied with their wishes, and
determined to present myself before my countrymen, in a costume in
which they would have some difficulty in recognizing me.
As every thing was ready for our departure, we went down to the shore,
accompanied by the governor and all the officers. Here we found a
magnificently decorated barge waiting for us, in which we embarked,
after having taken leave of a crowd of people, who wished us a
pleasant journey. A multitude of boats, laden with every thing
belonging to us, and numerous presents besides, shot from the shore,
and accompanied us to the vessel.
On board the Diana, the officers and men received us with a joy which
only brothers or bosom friends feel under such circumstances. As for
ourselves, when after an imprisonment of two years, two months, and
twenty-six days, we again found ourselves on board an imperial vessel
of war, and surrounded by our countrymen, we felt what can only be
felt, and not described. On the tenth of October we weighed anchor,
and with a favorable wind left the land of our sufferings, whose
inhabitants, nevertheless, we had learned to esteem and love.
So ends the narrative of Golownin. He resumed the command of his
vessel, sailed for Kamtschatka, and from there went to St. Petersburg,
where he and his rescued companions were richly rewarded by the
Emperor.
A Sea-Fight on the Cuban Coast.
By the orders of the British government, I cruised for a season in the
Cuban waters, for the express purpose of aiding in the suppression of
the slave trade, which, in spite of all treaties and efforts to put an
end to it, was still carried on with the most unblushing boldness. I
had under my command a small, but well-armed schooner, with a crew of
picked men, and sailed for my destination with the most positive
orders to sink or capture all suspected vessels. We cruised about for
some time without making any prizes, and the weary and monotonous life
I led, became almost unbearable to me, driving me from the cabin to
the deck, and from the deck to the cabin, seeking in vain for some
relief from the ennui I suffered.
One very dark evening, it might have been about eight o'clock, I went
on deck depressed in spirits, and completely out of sorts. Here I
found Timothy Tailtackle, who had the watch, gazing into the
surrounding darkness so intently that he did not perceive me until I
was standing close to him.
"Any thing in sight, Master Tailtackle?" asked I, eagerly.
"Not exactly, sir, but I have just been begging for your glass. See
there! once, twice; but it is as dark as pitch Pray, sir, tell me how
far are we from the Hole in the Wall?"
The Hole in the Wall is a very remarkable rock forming the southern
promontory of the island of Abaco, one of the Bahamas. As its name
signifies, it resembles, either, from the action of the waves, or from
the cannonadings it has received, a perforated wall. It rises some
forty feet above the surface of the water.
"We are ten miles distant, at least," said I.
"Then," cried Tailtackle, in a sharp tone, "there must be a sail to
windward, and not far off either."
"Where?" asked I, eagerly; "quick, get my glass."
"Here it is, sir."
"Let me see, then."
I looked through the glass until my eyes ached, but as I could
perceive nothing, I resumed my walk on deck, satisfied in my own mind
that Timothy had been mistaken. The latter, however, continued to look
through the glass, and when I approached him, a few minutes
afterwards, said:
"Well, sir, now that it brightens a little, I see what it is that has
been puzzling me."
"The deuce you do! give me the glass." In a moment I saw it also.
"By Jove, Tailtackle, you're right. Send the men to their posts, get
the long guns ready, and clear the deck for action."
These orders of mine quickly changed our hitherto quiet vessel into a
scene of bustle and confusion. I kept my eyes steadily fixed on the
object which had attracted the watchful gaze of Timothy Tailtackle,
but all that I could make out was that it was a strange sail. On
account of the distance, and unusual darkness of the night, I could
distinguish neither its size nor rig. All this time a fine breeze was
driving us rapidly towards the coast of Cuba.
"Give the glass to the boatswain, Master Tailtackle, and come forward
here."
The long gun was now swung round, and the other pieces run into the
opened ports. They were all double shotted and carefully primed, and
the whole crew, even to a negro we had on board, stood at their posts
ready for action.
"I see her now, sir, plain enough," cried Tailtackle.
"Good! What does she look like?"
"A large brig, sir, hard up against the wind. You can see her now
without the glass."
I looked in the direction indicated by Tailtackle, and sure enough,
there was a dark mass towering above the surface of the water, dim and
black like a spirit from the deep.
"She's a large vessel, sir," said Tailtackle, "there's no doubt of
that; there goes her lower sails, and now they're furling her topsail;
ha! she's crossing our bows; look out, sir, here comes a shot."
"The devil!" ejaculated I. I now saw the vessel plain enough, scudding
before the wind.
"Keep her close to the wind--ease her a little--that's right--now give
that fellow a shot across his bows--we'll find out what he's made of.
Reefpoint," continued I, to one of the midshipmen, "show our signal."
"Aye, aye, sir."
The shot was fired and the lights shown, but still our ghostly friend
remained silent and dark.
"Scarfemwell," said I to the gunner, "go forward to the long gun;
Tailtackle, I've no great liking for that chap, open the magazine."
The stranger had now neared us considerably, and he shortened sail;
but when he found that his endeavors to cross our bows in order to
rake us, were unsuccessful, as we ran with him before the wind,
broadside to broadside, he hastily let go his topsail, as he was now
not more than a cable's length from us. At this moment, Tailtackle, in
his shirt, pantaloons, and shoes, put his head out of the hatchway,
and said:
"If I might advise, sir, I think we had better keep our hatches down;
that fellow is not honorable, depend upon it, sir."
"Very well, Tailtackle, very well. Forward there, Master Jigmaree;
give him a shot, if he won't speak, right between the masts, sir. Do
you hear?"
"Aye, aye, sir," answered the boatswain.
"Fire."
The gun was discharged, and immediately we heard the crashing of
timbers on board the stranger, accompanied by a piercing cry, such as
a negro makes at the death of his companions, and then came a long and
doleful howl.
"A slaver, sir, and our shot has struck him," cried Handlead, the
gunner.
"Then we shall have a little sport," remarked I. Hardly had I spoken,
when the brig again shortened sail, and fired a shot from her bows;
then came another, and another, and another.
"She shows a good set of teeth," cried Jigmaree; "nine on a side, as I
am a living sinner!"
Three of the shots struck us, mortally wounding a sailor, and injuring
the poor little midshipman, Reefpoint, who was hit by a splinter.
"Steady, men--aim low--fire!"
Again the long gun was discharged, together with two smaller pieces.
But our friend was too nimble for us; he crowded on sail, and escaped
in spite of our efforts to overtake him. In less than an hour we lost
sight of him.
"Crowd on sail, and after him, Master Jigmaree," said I; but as I
feared lest he might lead us too near the coast, I went down into the
cabin to consult the chart.
II.
In the cabin I found Wagtail, Gelid, and Bangs, three British
officers, stationed at the West Indies, capital fellows, who finding
their time hang heavy on their hands, had procured leave of absence,
and accompanied me in my cruise, which though somewhat dangerous it is
true, still offered occasional opportunities of amusement. They were
sitting round a small table, smoking, and before them stood glasses of
brandy and water.
"Something of a fight, eh?" said Paul Gelid, a long-limbed Creole from
the Bahamas, but a warm-hearted, honorable fellow, with a drawling
voice. "Not very pleasant in the evening, I should say."
"You're a pretty fellow," retorted Aaron Bangs, "to be plaguing us
with your chatter at such an unseasonable moment as this."
Bangs had been an active and brave officer, but ease and comfort was
every thing to him, and when he could not fight, he did not like to
hear it spoken of.
Pepperpot Wagtail was a little round fellow, of an irritable
temperament, but great goodness of heart, and very scrupulous in his
dealings with mankind. He had been sick and had come on board in order
to recruit his health. I do not know how to describe his appearance
better than to compare him to an egg, to the large end of which, his
little feet were fastened.
"My dear sir," he said to Bangs, "reach me that cursed biscuit."
Bangs gave him the bowl, throwing into it some pieces of biscuit which
were as hard as stones.
All this time I was occupied with my chart. Wagtail took a piece of
the biscuit and put it into his mouth.
"Zounds! my dear Aaron," cried he, ironically, "what dentist are you
in league with? Gelid has just broken off his favorite tooth, and now
you want"--
"Bah!" replied Bangs, "don't frighten yourself; but what the deuce is
this? Wagtail, Gelid, my dear fellows, look here!"
A sailor, who was followed by the ship's surgeon, brought down on his
back, the poor fellow who had been wounded, and laid him on the table.
I must here remark that the captain's cabin in small vessels is
sometimes used as a cockpit, as it now was.
"Your pardon, captain and gentlemen," said the surgeon, "but I must,
I fear, perform an ugly operation on this poor lad, and I think it
better that you should go on deck."
I had now an opportunity of seeing what kind of mettle my friends were
made of.
"Doctor," said Bangs, pulling off his coat, "I can be of use, I know
very well--no skill, but firm nerves."
"And I," cried Wagtail, "can tie a bandage, although I am not a
surgeon."
Gelid said nothing, but when it came to the pinch was the most useful
of all. The wounded lad Wiggins, a fine young man, was weak and very
pale, but bold as a lion. A cannon shot had shivered the bone of his
leg just above the knee. Round his thigh was a tourniquet, and in
consequence he did not bleed much.
"Captain," said the poor boy, "I shall get over this. I have no great
pain, sir; I have not indeed."
All this time the surgeon was cutting his pantaloons from his leg, and
now a shocking sight presented itself to our view. The foot and leg
were blue and shrivelled, and connected with the thigh by only a small
ligament; the knee pan too was shattered. The doctor made the young
man swallow a glass of brandy, containing a strong dose of opium, and
then began to amputate the limb above the knee. As long as the knife
was used, Aaron remained firm, but when the saw grated against the
bone, he murmured with a shudder:
"I'm going on deck captain: I can't stand this--I'm sick as a dog."
He was so weak that I released him and took his place, holding Wiggins
in my arms. Wagtail, too, was soon obliged to beat a retreat, but
Gelid remained firm as a rock. The leg was amputated, the arteries
tied, and the surgeon busy in loosening the tourniquet, when suddenly
the thread which bound the principal artery, gave way, and a stream of
blood gushed forth, as if driven by an engine. The poor fellow had
hardly time to cry "Take away that cold hand from my heart!" when his
eyes grew dim, his lower jaw fell, and in a minute it was all over
with him.
"Dead as Julius Cæsar, captain," said Gelid coolly.
Dead enough, thought I, and left the cabin to go on deck. At the foot
of the companion-ladder, I stumbled over something.
"What the deuce is this?" growled I.
"It's me, sir."
"Me--and who's me?"
"Reefpoint, sir."
"Gracious God! what are you doing here youngster? You're not wounded,
I hope."
"A little, sir; a scratch from a splinter, sir. The same shot that
tripped up poor Wiggins, sent a splinter after me."
"Why don't you go to the doctor, Reefpoint?"
"I was waiting until he had finished with Wiggins, sir, but as it is
all over with him now, I'll go and have my wound dressed."
His voice grew weaker and weaker, until I could hardly understand what
he said. I took him in my arms, carried him into the cabin, and
undressed him. I found that he was wounded in the right side just
above the hip. Bangs, who in the meanwhile had got over his weakness
by the aid of a glass of water, lent his aid, and the natural goodness
of his heart now made itself apparent.
"What, Reefpoint! little reefer," he cried; "you are surely not
wounded, my dear friend--such a little fellow; why I should as soon
have thought they would have shot at a fly."
"Indeed, I am wounded, Master Bangs; look there."
Bangs examined the wound, holding the poor little midshipman in his
arms.
"God bless me!" he cried, with an outbreak of the most heartfelt
grief; "you seem more fit to be in your mother's nursery, than to be
knocked about in this way."
Reefpoint sank fainting into his arms.
"With the captain's permission you must have my bed," said Aaron to
him, whilst he and Wagtail undressed the boy with the greatest care
and tenderness, and laid him in the hammock.
"Thank you, sir," sobbed little Reefpoint, "if my mother were here,
she would thank you too."
III.
My duty called me on deck, and I heard no more. The night was very
dark, and I could see nothing of the stranger, but I steered as near
as I could in the direction I believed him to have taken, hoping to
catch a glimpse of him at daybreak. After a little while Bangs came on
deck.
"Well, captain, now that the little reefer is asleep, what do you
think of this business? A pretty large vessel, eh? We nearly had a
brush with her. I'm not particularly sorry, though, she has taken
herself off, especially as the wind has gone down."
"Ah, but my dear sir," replied I, "I don't think that we have done
with her yet. I hope to have a brush with her at daybreak."
"Now, captain, you're jesting; you don't wish that really and truly,
do you?"
"Really and truly, my dear fellow, and the only thing which troubles
me, is that you and your friends will thereby be exposed to danger."
"Bah! don't bother yourself about that, but reflect before you engage
with this slaver, how is it possible to gain any advantage over him?
Remember that he has twice as many men as we have, and eighteen guns
to our three."
"Time will show," replied I, smiling; "but I must and will fight, if I
can only get alongside of him. And now, my dear friend, as the surgeon
has left the cabin, I advise you to go down to your hammock--good
night. I fear that I must remain on deck."
"Good night, captain. Heaven guard you. I will go down and comfort my
friends."
He went below, and I continued my walk on deck, stopping every moment
to look through the nightglass, until my eyes ached. The long night
was at last over, and the light of day found me leaning against the
mast, sleeping soundly. The noise made by the sailors, in holy-stoning
the deck, woke me, and I discovered our friend of the previous night,
under full sail, about four miles to leeward of us, and evidently
striving to reach the coast of Cuba. During the night, however, we had
sailed faster than he had expected, and as we were now between him and
the island, his purpose was frustrated. When he saw that he was thus
cut off from the land, he hoisted his lower sails, fired a gun, and
run up the Spanish flag, as if he had been a vessel of war. It was now
bright day, and Wagtail, Bangs, and Gelid, were all three on deck,
washing themselves. I, myself, was standing forward by the long gun,
when Pegtop, Bangs' black servant, came to me, and said:
"Scuse me, massa captin; could ye gibe me some guns?"
"Some guns," replied I; "certainly, a half dozen of them, if you wish
it."
"Jist de number massa told me to fotch him; tank'e, massa captin."
Pegtop was very fond of this word, "massa," and could never get
accustomed to any other title used by the whites.
"Listen, friend," said I to Pegtop, "now that you have got the guns;
is your master really going to fight?"
The negro stood still, rolling his eyes, and expressing in his
countenance the greatest astonishment.
"Massa Bangs fight! Golly, massa, you jestin? Massa Bangs fight? Why
yer doesn't know him. Ye ought to see de way he fotches down de ducks
and snipe, and a man isn't so hard to hit as dem."
"Granted," said I; "but a snipe has not a loaded gun in his claws,
like a Spaniard, friend Pegtop."
"Makes no difference, massa," replied Pegtop, decidedly. "Saw massa
Aaron, myself, fight robbers, and helped him to kill de debbils, too.
Massa Aaron fight? Don't say nothin' more about dat."
"Very well," said I; "and is Master Gelid going to fight."
"B'lieve he will; fust rate friend of massa Bangs--good at shootin'
ducks, too--guess he'll fight."
"Ah," said I, "your friends are all heroes, Pegtop. Will Master
Wagtail also fight?"
Pegtop came closer to me, and said in a low, mysterious voice:
"Aint so sartin about him, massa; nice little fat man, but tinks too
much of his belly. Not 'zactly sartin if he'll fight or not."
With these words, Pegtop and the two other blacks, Chin-Chin and
Zampa, Wagtail's and Gelid's servants, took a couple of guns apiece,
and providing themselves with the necessary ammunition, went aft, and
began carefully cleaning and oiling the weapons. I had expected that
the wind would blow fresher at daybreak, but I was mistaken. Well,
thought I, we might as well sit down to breakfast, which we
accordingly did.
The wind soon died away entirely, and I ordered out the sweeps, but I
soon found that we had no chance of overtaking the slaver in that way,
and it was just as much out of the question to attack him with our
boats. Besides, as we did not know at what moment we might ourselves
be attacked, I was unwilling to fatigue my men by compelling them to
row under a burning sun, whilst the enemy could man his oars with
lusty slaves, and not use a single man of his crew. Accordingly, I
ordered the men to desist, and remained all day on deck, watching the
brig, which was gradually leaving us. At noon I ordered the boatswain
to pipe to dinner. When the men had finished their meal, they came on
deck again, and as the calm still continued, and there was no prospect
of a wind springing up, we sat down to dinner in the cabin. Very
little was spoken by any of us. My friends were brave men, but still
they could not help feeling glad that they had escaped an engagement,
which would bring them danger without profit. As for myself, my
feelings were of a mixed nature, for though I was determined to use
every endeavor to bring the enemy to an engagement, yet I confess that
my heart would not have been broken had he escaped us. But this was
not to be, for we had hardly ordered our meal, when the rush of the
water past the vessel caught my ear, and I knew in a moment that we
were once more in motion. At this moment Tailtackle appeared at the
cabin door, and announced that the wind had sprung up again, and that
the strange vessel was bearing down upon us. I immediately rushed on
deck, and sure enough, there was the slaver, some two miles from us,
his deck crowded with men, and evidently prepared for action. As soon
as I saw the state of affairs, I busied myself in putting every thing
in order, on board our vessel, for a fight. Wagtail and Gelid had
followed me on deck, and were now assisting their servants in putting
the muskets in order. Bangs alone remained in the cabin, and when I
went down, I found him swallowing the last morsel of his meal. He had
on his fork some very respectable pieces of cheese. Before I left the
deck, I saw clearly enough that a combat was inevitable, and as the
disparity between the two vessels was very great, I confess that I
had serious misgivings as to its probable result. That I felt excited
and uneasy at the prospect before me, I cannot deny; it was the first
time I had commanded a vessel, and on the result of this action rested
all my hopes of promotion. God bless me! I was but a boy, not more
than one-and-twenty years of age. A strange and indescribable feeling
came over me at this moment--an irresistible desire to open my heart
to the excellent man I saw before me. I sat down.
"Halloa, captain," cried Bangs, putting down his coffee cup, "what's
the matter with you? You look infernally pale, my dear fellow."
"I was up all night," replied I, somewhat embarrassed, "and have been
running about all day. I am very tired."
As I pronounced these words, a shudder ran through my frame, and a
strong emotion, which I could not account for, kept my tongue tied.
"Master Bangs," said I, at length, "you are the only friend in whom at
this moment I can confide. You know my circumstances in life, and I
feel that I can with confidence ask you to do the son of my father a
favor."
"What is it you wish, my dear fellow--speak out."
"I will speak. In the first place, I am very much worried that I have
exposed you and your friends to so much danger, but I could not
foresee it; on that score my conscience is easy; the only thing I ask
of you all is to remain below and not expose yourselves unnecessarily.
If I should fall,"--here I involuntarily grasped Bang's hand--"and I
doubt if I shall see another sunset, for we are going to fight against
fearful odds."
"Well," interrupted Bangs, "if the enemy is too strong for you, why
didn't you leave him to himself, my dear fellow, and take to flight?"
"A thousand things, my worthy friend, prevented me from taking such a
step. I am a young man and a young officer, and must win my character
in the service; no, it is impossible to fly; an older and more tried
seaman than myself might have done so, but I must fight; if a shot
finishes me, will you, my dear friend, deliver this portfolio to my
poor mother, whose only support I am?"
As I uttered these words, the scalding tears rolled in torrents down
my cheeks. I trembled like a leaf, and firmly pressing my friend's
hand in mine, I fell on my knees and fervently and silently prayed to
