the Parisian banlieue would not have been immediately 
apparent to a merely superficial observer ; but a day, and 
then another, at Versailles, a day at Fontainebleau and a 
trip, particularly harmonious and happy, to Rambouillet, took 
their place in Sherringham's programme as a part of the 
legitimate indirect culture, an agency in the formation of 
taste. Intimations of the grand style, for instance, would 
proceed in abundance from the symmetrical palace and 
gardens of Louis XIV. Sherriugham was very fond of 
Versailles, and went there more than once with the ladies of 





the Hotel de la Garonne. They chose quiet hours, when the 
fountains were dry ; and Mrs. Rooth took an armful of novels 
and sat on a bench in the park, flanked by clipped hedges and 
old statues, while her young companions strolled away, walked 
to the Trianon, explored the long, straight vistas of the woods. 
Rambouillet was vague and pleasant and idle ; they had an 
idea that they found suggestive associations there; and indeed 
there was an old white chateau which contained nothing else. 
They found, at any rate, luncheon and, in the landscape, a 
charming sense of summer and of little brushed French 
pictures. 

I have said that in these days Sherringham wondered a 
good deal, and by the time his leave of absence was granted 
him this practice had engendered a particular speculation. 
He was surprised that he was not in love with Miriam Rooth, 
and he considered in moments of leisure the causes of his 
exemption. He had perceived from the first that she was a 
" nature," and each time she met his eyes the more vividly it 
appeared to him that her beauty was rare. You had to get 
the view of her face, but when you did so it was a splendid 
mobile mask. And the possessor of this high advantage had 
frankness and courage and variety and the unusual and the 
unexpected. She had qualities that seldom went together 
impulses and shynesses, audacities and lapses, something 
coarse, popular and strong, all intermingled with disdains and 
languors and nerves. And then, above all, she was there, she 
was accessible, she almost belonged to him. He reflected 
ingeniously that he owed his escape to a peculiar cause 
the fact that they had together a positive outside object. 
Objective, as it were, was all their communion ; not personal 
and selfish, but a matter of art and business and discussion. 
Discussion had saved him and would save him further ; for 
they would always have something to quarrel about. Sher- 
ringham, who was not a diplomatist for nothing ; who had his 
reasons for steering straight and wished neither to deprive 
the British public of a rising star nor to change his actual 
situation for that of a conjugal impresario, blessed the bene- 
ficence, the salubrity, the pure exorcism of art. At the same 
time, rather inconsistently and feeling that he had a completer 
vision than before of the odd animal the artist who happened 
to have been born a woman, he felt himself warned against a 
serious connection (he made a great point of the " serious,") 
with so slippery and ticklish a creature. The two ladies had 
only to stay in Paris, save their candle-ends and, as Madame 





Carre had enjoined, practise their scales : there were apparently 
no autumn visits to English country-houses in prospect for 
Mrs. Pvooth. 

Sherringham parted with them on the understanding that 
in London he would look as thoroughly as possible into the 
question of an engagement for Miriam. The day before he 
began his holiday he went to see Madame Carre, who said to 
him : " Vous devriez bien nous la laisser." 

" She has got something, then? " 

" She has got most things. She'll go far. It is the first 
time I ever was mistaken. But don't tell her so I don't 
flatter her ; she'll be too puffed up." 

" Is she very conceited  ? " Sherringham asked. 

" Mauvais sujet ! " said Madame Carre. 

It was on the journey to London that he indulged in some 
of those questionings of his state which I have mentioned ; 
but I must add that by the time he reached Charing Cross (he 
smoked a cigar, deferred till after the Channel, in a compart- 
ment by himself) it suddenly came over him that they were 
futile. Now that he had left the girl, a subversive, unpre- 
meditated heart-beat told him it made him hold his breath a 
minute in the carriage that he had after all not escaped. He 
was in love with her ; he had been in love with her from the 
first hour. 



XIII. 

THE drive from Harsh to the Place, as it was called there- 
abouts, could be achieved by swift horses in less than ten 
minutes ; and if Mrs. Dallow's ponies were capital trotters the 
general high pitch of the occasion made it congruous that they 
should show their speed. The occasion was the polling-day, 
the hour after the battle. The ponies had worked, with all 
the rest, for the week before, passing and repassing the neat 
windows of the flat little town (Mrs. Dallow had the com- 
placent belief that there was none in the kingdom in which 
the flower-stands looked more respectable between the stiff 
muslin curtains), with their mistress behind them in her low, 
smart trap. Very often she was accompanied by the Liberal 
candidate, but even when she was not the equipage seemed 
scarcely less to represent his pleasant sociable confidence. It 





moved in a radiance of ribbons and handbills and hand-shakes 
and smiles ; of quickened intercourse and sudden intimacy ; 
of sympathy which assumed without presuming and gratitude 
which promised without soliciting. But, under Julia's guidance 
the ponies pattered now, with no indication of a loss of fresh- 
ness, along the firm, wide avenue which wound and curved, to 
make up in picturesque effect for not undulating, from the 
gates opening straight into the town to the Palladian mansion, 
high, square, gray and clean, which stood, among parterres 
and fountains, in the centre of the park. A generous steed 
had been sacrificed to bring the good news from Ghent to 
Aix, but no such extravagance was after all necessary for 
communicating with Lady Agnes. 

She had remained at the house, not going to the Wheat- 
sheaf, the Liberal inn, with the others ; preferring to await in 
privacy, and indeed in solitude, the momentous result of the 
poll. She had come down to Harsh with the two girls in the 
course of the proceedings. Julia had not thought they would 
do much good, but she was expansive and indulgent now and 
she had liberally asked them. Lady Agnes had not a nice 
canvassing manner, effective as she might have been in the 
character of the high, benignant, affable mother looking 
sweet participation but not interfering of the young and 
handsome, the shining, convincing, wonderfully clever and 
certainly irresistible aspirant. Grace Dormer had zeal with- 
out art, and Lady Agnes, who during her husband's lifetime 
had seen their affairs follow the satisfactory principle of a 
tendency to defer to supreme merit, had never really learned 
the lesson that voting goes by favour. However, she could 
pray God if she couldn't flatter the cheesemonger, and Nick 
felt that she had stayed at home to pray for him. I must add 
that Julia Dallow was too happy now, flicking her whip in 
the bright summer air, to say anything so ungracious even to 
herself as that her companion had been returned in spite of 
his nearest female relatives. Besides, Biddy had been a rosy 
help : she had looked persuasively pretty, in white and pink, 
on platforms and in recurrent carriages, out of which she had 
tossed, blushing and making people remember her eyes, several 
words that were telling for their very simplicity. 

Mrs. Dallow was really too glad for any definite reflection, 
even for personal exultation, the vanity of recognizing her 
own large share of the work. Nick was in and he was 
beside her, tired, silent, vague, beflowered and beribboned, 
and he had been splendid from beginning to end, delightfully 





good-humoured and at the same time delightfully clever still 
cleverer than she had supposed he could be. The sense that 
she had helped his cleverness and that she had been repaid by 
it, or by his gratitude (it came to the same thing), in a way 
she appreciated, was not triumphant and jealous ; for the break 
of the long tension soothed her, it was as pleasant as an untied 
ligature. So nothing passed between them on their way to 
the house ; there was no sound in the park but the happy 
rustle of summer (it seemed an applausive murmur) and the 
swift progress of the vehicle. 

Lady Agnes already knew, for as soon as the result was 
declared Nick had despatched a man on horseback to her, 
carrying the figures on a scrawled card. He had been far 
from getting away at once, having to respond to the hubbub 
of acclamation, to speak yet again, to thank his electors 
individually and collectively, to chaff the Tories, to be carried 
hither and yon, and above all to pretend that the interest of 
the business was now greater for him than ever. If he said 
never a word after he put himself in Julia's hands to go 
home, perhaps it was partly because the consciousness began 
to glimmer within him that that interest had on the contrary 
now suddenly diminished. He wanted to see his mother 
because he knew she wanted to see him, to fold him close in 
her arms. They had been open there for that purpose for 
the last half-hour, and her expectancy, now no longer an ache 
of suspense, was the reason of Julia's round pace. Yet this 
very expectancy somehow made Nick wince a little. Meeting 
his mother was like being elected over again. 

The others had not come back yet Lady Agnes was 
alone in the large bright drawing-room. "When Nick went in 
with Mrs. Dallow he saw her at the further end ; she had 
evidently been walking to and fro, the whole length of it, and 
her tall, upright black figure seemed in possession of the fair 
vastness like an exclamation-point at the bottom of a blank 
page. The room, rich and simple, was a place of perfection 
as well as of splendour in delicate tints, with precious speci- 
mens of French furniture of the last century ranged against 
walls of pale brocade and here and there a small, almost 
priceless picture. George Dallow had made it, caring for 
these things and liking to talk about them (scarcely about 
anything else) ; so that it appeared to represent him still, 
what was best in his kindly, uniform nature a friendly, 
competent, tiresome insistence upon purity and homogeneity. 
Nick Dormer could hear him yet, and could see him, too fat 





and with a congenital thickness in his speech, lounging there 
in loose clothes with his eternal cigarette. " Now, my dear 
fellow, that's what I call form : I don't know what you call 
it " that was the way he used to begin. The room was full 
of flowers in rare vases, but it looked like a place of which 
the beauty would have had a sweet odour even without them. 

Lady Agnes had taken a white rose from one of the 
clusters and was holding it to her face, which was turned 
to the door as Nick crossed the threshold. The expression 
of her figure instantly told him (he saw the creased card that 
he had sent her lying on one of the beautiful bare tables) 
how she had been sailing up and down in a majesty of 
satisfaction. The inflation of her long, plain dress, the 
brightened dimness of her proud face were still in the air. 
In a moment he had kissed her and was being kissed, not in 
quick repetition, but in tender prolongation, with which the 
perfume of the white rose was mixed. But there was some- 
thing else too her sweet, smothered words in his ear : " Oh, 
my boy, my boy oh, your father, your father ! " Neither 
the sense of pleasure nor that of pain, with Lady Agnes 
(and indeed with most of the persons with whom this history 
is concerned), was a liberation of chatter ; so that for a 
minute all she said again was : " I think of Sir Nicholas. I 
wish he were here ; " addressing the words to Julia, who had 
wandered forward without looking at the mother and son. 

"Poor Sir Nicholas ! " said Mrs. Dallow, vaguely. 

" Did you make another speech? " Lady Agnes asked. 

" I don't know ; did I? " Nick inquired. 

"I don't know!" Mrs. Dallow replied, with her back 
turned, doing something to her hat before the glass. 

" Oh, I can fancy the confusion, the bewilderment ! " said 
Lady Agnes, in a tone rich in political reminiscence. 

" It was really immense fun ! " exclaimed Mrs. Dallow. 

"Dear Julia!" Lady Agnes went on. Then she added: 
" It was you who made it sure." 

"There are a lot of people coming to dinner," said Julia. 

"Perhaps you'll have to speak again," Lady Agnes smiled 
at her son. 

"Thank you; I like the way you talk about it!" cried 
Nick. " I'm like lago : ' from this time forth I never will 
speak word ! ' " 

" Don't say that, Nick," said his mother, gravely. 

" Don't be afraid : he'll jabber like a magpie ! " And Mrs. 
Dallow went out of the room. 





Nick had flung himself upon a sofa with an air of weariness, 
though not of completely vanished cheer ; and Lady Agnes 
stood before him fingering her rose and looking down at him. 
His eyes looked away from hers : they seemed fixed on some- 
thing she couldn't see. " I hope you've thanked Julia," Lady 
Agnes dropped. 

"Why, of course, mother." 

" She has done as much as if you hadn't been sure." 

" I wasn't in the least sure and she has done everything." 

" She has been too good but we've done something. I 
hope you don't leave out your father," Lady Agnes amplified, 
as Kick's glance appeared for a moment to question her " we." 

" Never, never ! " Nick uttered these words perhaps a 
little mechanically, but the next minute he continued, as if 
he had suddenly been moved to think what he could say that 
would give his mother most pleasure : "Of course his name 
has Avorked for me. Gone as he is, he is still a living force." 
He felt a good deal of a hypocrite, but one didn't win a seat 
every day in the year. Probably indeed he should never 
win another. 

" He hears you, he watches you, he rejoices in you," Lady 
Agnes declared. 

This idea was oppressive to Nick that of the rejoicing 
almost as much as of the watching. He had made his con- 
cession, but, with a certain impulse to divert his mother from 
following up her advantage, he broke out : " Julia's a 
tremendously effective woman." 

"Of course she is ! " answered Lady Agnes, knowingly. 

" Her charming appearance is half the battle," said Nick, 
explaining a little coldly what he meant. But he felt that 
his coldness was an inadequate protection to him when he 
heard his mother observe, with something of the same 
sapience 

" A woman is always effective when she likes a person' 

It discomposed him to be described as a person liked, and 
by a woman ; and he asked abruptly : " When are you going 
away? " 

" The first moment that's civil to-morrow morning. Fou'll 
stay here, I hope." 

" Stay ? What shall I stay for ? " 

" Why, you might stay to thank her." 

" I have everything to do." 

' I thought everything was done," said Lady Agnes. 

"Well, that's why," her son replied, not very lucidly. "I 





want to do other things quite other things. I should like to 
take the next train." And Nick looked at his watch. 

" When there are people coming to dinner to meet you? " 

" They'll meet you that's better." 

" I'm sorry any one is coming," Lady Agnes said, in a tone 
unencouraging to a deviation from the intensity of things. " I 
wish we were alone just as a family. It would please Julia 
to-day to feel that we are one. Do stay with her to-morrow." 

" How Avill that do, when she's alone? " 

" She won't be alone, with Mrs. Gresham." 

" Mrs. Gresham doesn't count." 

" That's precisely why I want you to stop. And her cousin, 
almost her brother : what an idea that it won't do ! Haven't 
you stayed here before, when there has been no one ? " 

" I have never stayed much, and there have always been 
people. At any rate, now it's different." 

" It's just because it is different. Besides, it isn't different, 
and it never was," said Lady Agnes, more incoherent, in her 
earnestness, than it often happened to her to be. " She always 
liked you, and she likes you now more than ever, if you call 
that different ! " Nick got up at this and, without meeting 
her eyes, walked to one of the windows, where he stood with 
his back turned, looking out on the great greenness. She 
watched him a moment and she might well have been wishing, 
while he remained gazing there, as it appeared, that it would 
come to him with the same force as it had come to herself (very 
often before, but during these last days more than ever), that 
the level lands of Harsh, stretching away before the window, 
the French garden, with its symmetry, its screens and its 
statues, and a great many more things, of which these were 
the superficial token, were Julia's very own, to do with exactly 
as she liked. No word of appreciation or envy, however, 
dropped from the young man's lips, and his mother presently 
went on : " What could be more natural than that after your 
triumphant contest you and she should have lots to settle and 
to talk about no end of practical questions, no end of busi- 
ness ? Aren't you her member, and can't her member pass a 
day with her, and she a great proprietor ? " 

Nick turned round at this, with an odd expression. " Her 
member am I hers? " 

Lady Agnes hesitated a moment ; she felt that she had need 
of all her tact. " Well, if the place is hers, and you represent 
the place " she began. But she went no further, for Nick 
interrupted her with a laugh. 





" What a droll thing to ' represent,' when one thinks of it ! 
And what does it represent, poor torpid little borough, with 
its smell of meal and its curiously fat-faced inhabitants? Did 
you ever see such a collection of fat faces, turned up at the 
hustings ] They looked like an enormous sofa, with the cheeks 
for the gathers and the eyes for the buttons." 

" Oh, well, the next time you shall have a great town," 
Lady Agnes replied, smiling and feeling that she was tactful. 

" It will only be a bigger sofa ! I'm joking, of course," 
Nick went on, " and I ought to be ashamed of myself. They 
have done me the honour to elect me, and I shall never say a 
word that's not civil about them, poor dears. But even a new 
member may joke with his mother." 

" I wish you'd be serious with your mother," said Lady 
Agnes, going nearer to him. 

" The difficulty is that I'm two men ; it's the strangest thing 
that ever was," Nick pursued, bending his bright face upon 
her. " I'm two quite distinct human beings, who have scarcely 
a point in common ; not even the memory, on the part of one, 
of the achievements or the adventures of the other. One man 
wins the seat but it's the other fellow who sits in it." 

"Oh, Nick, don't spoil your victory by your perversity!" 
Lady Agnes cried, clasping her hands to him. 

" I went through it with great glee I won't deny that : it 
excited me, it interested me, it amused me. When once I was 
in it I liked it. But now that I'm out of it again " 

" Out of it? " His mother stared. " Isn't the whole point 
that you're in ? " 

" Ah, now I'm only in the House of Commons." 

For an instant Lady Agnes seemed not to understand and 
to be on the point of laying her finger quickly to her lips with 
a " Hush ! " as if the late Sir Nicholas might have heard the 
" only." Then, as if a comprehension of the young man's 
words promptly superseded that impulse, she replied with 
force : " You will be in the Lords the day you determine to 
get there." 

This futile remark made Nick laugh afresh, and not only 
laugh but kiss her, which was always an intenser form of 
mystification for poor Lady Agnes, and apparently the one he 
liked best to practise ; after which he said : " The odd thing is, 
you know, that Harsh has no wants. At least it's not sharply, 
not eloquently conscious of them. We all talked them over 
together, and I promised to carry them in my heart of hearts. 
But upon my word I can't remember one of them. Julia says 





the wants of Harsh are simply the national wants rather a 
pretty phrase for Julia. She means she does everything for 
the place ; she's really their member, and this house in which 
we stand is their legislative chamber. Therefore the lacunce 
that I have undertaken to fill up are the national wants. It 
will be rather a job to rectify some of them, won't it? I 
don't represent the appetites of Harsh Harsh is gorged. I 
represent the ideas of my party. That's what Julia says." 

" Oh, never mind what Julia says ! " Lady Agnes broke 
out, impatiently. This impatience made it singular that the 
very next words she uttered should be : " My dearest son, I 
wish to heaven you'd marry her. It would be so fitting now ! " 
she added. 

"Why now?" asked Nick, frowning. 

" She has shown you such sympathy, such devotion." 

" Is it for that she has shown it? " 

" Ah, you might feel I can't tell you ! " said Lady Agnes, 
reproachfully. 

Nick blushed at this, as if what he did feel was the reproach. 
" Must I marry her because you like her? " 

" Why, we are all as fond of her as we can be." 

" Dear mother, I hope that any woman I ever may marry 
will be a person agreeable not only to you, but also, since you 
make a point of it, to Grace and Biddy. But I must tell you 
this that I shall marry no woman I am not unmistakably in 
love with." 

" And why are you not in love with Julia charming, clever, 
generous as she is? " Lady Agnes laid her hands on him 
she held him tight. " My darling Nick, if you care anything 
in the world to make me happy, you'll stay over here to- 
morrow and be nice to her." 

" Be nice to her ! Do you mean propose to her? " 

" With a single word, with the glance of an eye, the move- 
ment of your little finger" and Lady Agnes paused, looking 
intensely, imploringly up into Nick's face " in less time than 
it takes me to say what I say now, you may have it all." As 
he made no answer, only returning her look, she added insist- 
ently, " You know she's a fine creature you know she is ! " 

" Dearest mother, what I seem to know better than any- 
thing else in the world is that I love my freedom. I set it 
far above everything." 

"Your freedom? What freedom is there in being poor? 
Talk of that when Julia puts everything that she possesses at 
your feet !" 





" I can't talk of it, mother it's too terrible an idea. And 
I can't talk of her, nor of what I think of her. You must 
leave that to me. I do her perfect justice." 

" You don't, or you'd marry her to-morrow. You would feel 
that the opportunity is exquisitely rare, with everything in 
the world to make it perfect. Your father would have valued 
it for you beyond everything. Think a little what would 
have given him pleasure. That's what I meant when I spoke 
just now of us all. It wasn't of Grace and Biddy I was 
thinking fancy ! it was of him. He's with you always ; he 
takes with you, at your side, every step that you take your- 
self. He would bless devoutly your marriage to Julia ; he 
would feel what it would be for you and for us all. I ask for 
no sacrifice, and he would ask for none. We only ask that 
you don't commit the crime " 

Nick Dormer stopped her with another kiss ; he murmured : 
" Mother, mother, mother ! " as he bent over her. 

He wished her not to go on, to let him off ; but the deep 
deprecation in his voice did not prevent her saying : " You 
know it you know it perfectly. All, and more than all that 
I can tell you, you know." 

He drew her closer, kissed her again, held her there as he 
would have held a child in a paroxysm, soothing her silently 
till it should pass away. Her emotion had brought the tears 
to her eyes ; she dried them as she disengaged herself. The 
next moment, however, she resumed, attacking him again : 

"For a public man she would be the ideal companion. 
She's made for public life ; she's made to shine, to be con- 
cerned in great things, to occupy a high position and to help 
him on. She would help you in everything as she has helped 
you in this. Together there is nothing you couldn't do. You 
can have the first house in England yes, the first ! What 
freedom is there in being poor? How can you do anything 
without money, and what money can you make for yourself 
what money will ever come to you ] That's the crime to 
throw away such an instrument of power, such a blessed 
instrument of good." 

" It isn't everything to be rich, mother," said Nick, looking 
at the floor in a certain patient way, with a provisional docility 
and his hands in his pockets. " And it isn't so fearful to be 
poor." 

" It's vile it's abject. Don't I know ? " 

" Are you in such acute want? " Nick asked, smiling. 

"Ah, don't make me explain what you have only to look at 



TRAGIC' MUSE. 

to see ! " his mother returned, as if with a richness of allusion 
to dark elements in her fate. 

"Besides," Nick went on, "there's other money in the 
world than Julia's. I might come by some of that." 

" Do you mean Mr. Carteret's?" The question made him 
laugh, as her feeble reference, five minutes before, to the 
House of Lords had done. But she pursued, too full of her 
idea to take account of such a poor substitute for an answer : 
" Let me tell you one thing, for I have known Charles 
Carteret much longer than you, and I understand him better. 
There's nothing you could do that would do you more good 
with him than to marry Julia. I know the way he looks at 
things and I know exactly how that would strike him. It 
would please him, it would charm him ; it would be the thing 
that would most prove to him that you're in earnest. You 
need to do something of that sort." 

" Haven't I come in for Harsh? " asked Kick. 

"Oh, he's very canny. He likes to see people rich. Then 
he believes in them then he's likely to believe more. He's 
kind to you because you're your father's son ; but I'm sure 
your being poor takes just so much off." 

" He can remedy that so easily," said Nick, smiling still. 
" Is being kept by Julia what you call making an effort for 
myself?" 

Lady Agnes hesitated ; then : ' You needn't insult Julia ! " 
she replied. 

" Moreover, if I've her money, I sha'u't want his," Nick 
hinted. 

Again his mother waited an instant before answering ; after 
which she produced : " And pray wouldn't you wish to bo 
independent? " 

" You're delightful, dear mother you're very delightful ! I 
particularly like your conception of independence. Doesn't it 
occur to you that at a pinch I might improve my fortune by 
some other means than by making a mercenary marriage or 
by currying favour with a rich old gentleman ? Doesn't it 
occur to you that I might work ? " 

" Work at politics ? How does that make money, 
honourably ? " 

" I don't mean at politics." 

" What do you mean, then? " Lady Agnes demanded, look- 
ing at him as if she challenged him to phrase it if he dared. 
Her eye appeared to have a certain effect upon him, for he re- 
mained silent, and she continued : " Are you elected or not ? " 





" It seems a dream," said Nick. 

" If you are, act accordingly and don't mix up things that 
are as wide asunder as the poles I " She spoke with sternness, 
and his silence might have been an admission that her stern- 
ness was wholesome to him. Possibly she was touched by it ; 
at any rate, after a few moments, during which nothing more 
passed between them, she appealed to him in a gentler and 
more anxious key, which had this virtue to touch him, that he 
knew it was absolutely the first time in her life Lady Agnes 
had begged for anything. She had never been obliged to beg ; 
she had got on without it and most things had come to her. 
He might judge therefore in what a light she regarded this 
boon for which, in her old age, she humbled herself to be a 
suitor. There was such a pride in her that he could feel what 
it cost her to go on her knees even to her son. He did judge 
how it was in his power to gratify her ; and as he was generous 
and imaginative he was stirred and shaken as it came over 
him in a wave of figurative suggestion that he might make up 
to her for many things. He scarcely needed to hear her ask, 
with a pleading wail that was almost tragic : " Don't you see 
how things have turned out for us ; don't you know how 
unhappy I am don't you know what a bitterness? " She 
stopped for a moment, with a sob in her voice, and he recog- 
nized vividly this last tribulation, the unhealed wound of her 
bereavement and the way she had sunken from eminence to 
flatness. " You know what Percival is and the comfort I 
have from him. You know the property and what he is 
doing with it and what comfort I get from that! Everything's 
dreary but what you can do for us. Everything's odious, 
down to living in a hole with one's girls who don't marry. 
Grace is impossible I don't know what's the matter with 
her ; no one will look at her, and she's so conceited with it 
sometimes I feel as if I could beat her ! And Biddy will 
never marry, and we are three dismal women in a filthy house. 
What are three dismal women, more or less, in London? " 

So, with an unexpected rage of self-exposure, Lady Agnes 
talked of her disappointments and troubles, tore away the veil 
from her sadness and soreness. It almost frightened Nick to 
perceive how she hated her life, though at another time it 
might have amused him to note how she despised her garden- 
less house. Of course it was not a country-house, and Lady 
Agnes could not get used to that. Better than he could do 
for it was the sort of thing into which, in any case, a woman 
enters more than a man she felt what a lift into brighter 





air, what a regilding of his sisters' possibilities, his marriage 
to Julia would effect for them. He couldn't trace the differ- 
ence, but his mother saw it all as a shining picture. She made 
the vision shine before him now, somehow, as she stood there 
like a poor woman crying for a kindness. What was filial in 
him, all the piety that he owed, especially to the revived spirit 
of his father, more than ever present on a day of such public 
pledges, was capable from one moment to the other of tremb- 
ling into sympathetic response. He had the gift, so embarrass- 
ing when it is a question of consistent action, of seeing in an 
imaginative, interesting light anything that illustrated forcibly 
the life of another : such things effected a union with some- 
thing in his life, and the recognition of them was ready to 
become a form of enthusiasm in which there was no conscious- 
ness of sacrificenone scarcely of merit. 

Rapidly, at present, this change of scene took place before 
his spiritual eye. He found himself believing, because his 
mother communicated the belief, that it was in his option to 
transform the social outlook of the three women who clung 
to him and who declared themselves dismal. This was not 
the highest kind of inspiration, but it was moving, and it 
associated itself with dim confusions of figures in the past 
figures of authority and expectancy. Julia's wide kingdom 
opened out around him, making the future almost a dazzle of 
happy power. His mother and sisters floated in the rosy 
element with beaming faces, in transfigured safety. " The 
first house in England," she had called it ; but it might be 
the first house in Europe, the first house in the world, by the 
fine air and the high humanities that should fill it. Every- 
thing that was beautiful in the place where he stood took on 
a more delicate charm ; the house rose over his head like a 
museum of exquisite rewards, and the image of poor George 
Dallow hovered there obsequious, as if to confess that he had 
only been the modest, tasteful forerunner, appointed to set 
it all in order and punctually retire. Lady Agues's tone 
penetrated further into Nick's spirit than it had done yet, 
as she syllabled to him, supremely : " Don't desert us don't 
desert us." 

" Don't desert you? " 

" Be great be great," said his mother. " I'm old, I've 
lived, I've seen. Go in for a great material position. That 
will simplify everything else." 

" I will do what I can for you anything, everything I can. 
Trust me leave me alone," said Nick Dormer. 





"And you'll stay over you'll spend the day with her?" 

" I'll stay till she turns me out ! " 

His mother had hold of his hand again now ; she raised it 
to her lips and kissed it. " My dearest son, my only joy ! " 
Then, " I don't see how you can resist her," she added. 

" No more do I ! " 

Lady Agnes looked round the great room with a soft ex- 
halation of gratitude and hope. " If you're so fond of art, 
what art is equal to all this ? The joy of living in the midst 
of it of seeing the finest works every day ! You'll have 
everything the world can give." 

" That's exactly what was just passing in my own mind. 
It's too much." 

" Don't be selfish ! " 

" Selfish ] " Nick repeated. 

" Don't be unselfish, then. You'll share it with us." 

"And with Julia a little, I hope," said Nick. 

" God bless you ! " cried his mother, looking up at him. 
Her eyes were detained by the sudden perception of something 
in his own that was not clear to her ; but before she had time 
to ask for an explanation of it Nick inquired, abruptly 

" Why do you talk so of poor Biddy ? Why won't she 
marry ? " 

" You had better ask Peter Sherringharn," said Lady 
Agnes. 

" What has he got to do with it I " 

" How odd of you to ask, when it's so plain how she thinks 
of him that it's a matter of common chaff ! " 

" Yes, we've made it so, and she takes it like an angel. 
But Peter likes her." 

"Does he? Then it's the more shame to him to behave as 
he does. He had better leave his actresses alone. That's the 
love of art, too ! " mocked Lady Agnes. 

" Biddy's so charming she'll marry some one else." 

" Never, if she loves him. But Julia will bring it about 
Julia Avill help her," said Lady Agnes, more cheerfully. 
" That's what you'll do for us that she'll do every- 
thing ! " 

" Why then more than now? " Nick asked. 

" Because we shall be yours." 

" You are mine already." 

" Yes, but she isn't. However, she's as good ! " exulted 
Lady Agnes. 

"She'll turn me out of the house," said Nick. 





" Come and tell me when she does ! But there she is go 
to her ! " And she gave him a push toward one of the windows 
that stood open to the terrace. Mrs. Dallow had become 
visible outside ; she passed slowly along the terrace, with her 
long shadow. " Go to her," Lady Agnes repeated " she's 
waiting for you." 

Nick went out with the air of a man who was as ready to 
pass that way as any other, and at the same moment his two 
sisters, freshly restored from the excitements of the town, 
came into the room from another quarter. 

" We go home to-morrow, but Nick will stay a day or two," 
their mother said to them. 

" Dear old Nick ! " Grace ejaculated, looking at Lady 
Agnes. 

" He's going to speak," the latter went on. " But don't 
mention it." 

"Don't mention it?" said Biddy, staring. "Hasn't he 
spoken enough, poor fellow ? " 

" I mean to Julia," Lady Agnes replied. 

"Don't you understand, you goose?" Grace exclaimed to 
her sister. 



XIV. 

THE next morning brought Nick Dormer many letters and 
telegrams, and his coffee was placed beside him in his room, 
where he remained until noon answering these communications. 
When he came out he learned that his mother and sisters had left 
the house. This information was given him by Mrs. Gresham, 
whom he found dealing with her own voluminous budget at 
one of the tables in the library. She was a lady who received 
thirty letters a day, the subject-matter of which, as well as of 
her punctual answers, in a hand that would have been " lady- 
like " in a manageress, was a puzzle to those who observed her. 

She told Nick that Lady Agnes had not been willing to 
disturb him at his work to say good-bye, knowing she should 
see him in a day or two in town. Nick was amused at the 
way his mother had stolen off ; as if she feared that further 
conversation might weaken the spell she believed herself to 
have wrought. The place was cleared, moreover, of its other 
visitors, so that, as Mrs. Gresham said, the fun was at an end, 





This lady expressed the idea that the fun was after all rather 
heavy. At any rate now they could rest, Mrs. Dallow and 
Nick and she, and she was glad Nick was going to stay for a 
little quiet. She liked Harsh best when it was not en fete : 
then one could see what a sympathetic old place it was. She 
hoped Nick was not dreadfully tired ; she feared Julia was 
completely done up. Mrs. Dallow, however, had transported 
her exhaustion to the grounds she was wandering about 
somewhere. She thought more people would be coming to the 
house, people from the town, people from the country, and had 
gone out so as not to have to see them. She had not gone far 
Nick could easily find her. Nick intimated that he himself 
was not eager for more people, whereupon Mrs. Gresham said, 
rather archly smiling : 

" And of course you hate me for being here ! " He made 
some protest, and she added : " But I'm almost a part of the 
house, you know I'm. one of the chairs or tables." Nick 
declared that he had never seen a house so well furnished, and 
