
"But the naughty and evil heart would not be likely to do good works."

Primrose was silent. The spiritual part of theology was quite beyond
her.

Then there was a clang at the knocker and the small black boy in a
bright turban went to answer.




CHAPTER VI.

TO THE RESCUE.


Primrose was dismissed, though she saw her Cousin Andrew again at
dinner. Madam Wetherill had quite settled the question. She was going
out to her own country estate, and Primrose would have a change of air
and much more liberty, and under the circumstances it was altogether
better that she should not go to her uncle's, and Madam Wetherill
considered the matter as settled, though she promised to come out the
next day.

The dream of William Penn had been a fair, roomy city, with houses set
in gardens of greenery. There were to be straight, long streets reaching
out to the suburbs and the one to front the river was to have a great
public thoroughfare along the bank. Red pines grew abundantly, and many
another noble tree was left standing wherever it could be allowed, and
new ones planted. Broad Street cut the city in two from north to south,
High Street divided it in the opposite direction.

But even now "The greene country towne" was showing changes. To be sure
the house in Letitia Court was still standing and the slate-roof house
into which Mr. Penn moved later on. But market houses came in High
Street, the green river banks were needed for commerce, and little
hamlets were growing up on the outskirts. There were neighborly rows of
houses that had wide porches where the heads of families received their
neighbors, the men discussing the state of the country or their own
business, the women comparing household perplexities, complaining of
servants, who, when too refractory, were sent to the jail to be whipped,
and the complaints or the praises of apprentices who boarded in their
master's houses, or rather, were given their board and a moderate yearly
stipend to purchase clothes, where they were not made at home. Young
people strolled up and down under the great trees of elm and sycamore,
or lingered under the drooping willows where sharp eyes could not follow
them so closely, and many a demure maiden tried her hand on her father's
favorite apprentice, meaning to aim higher later on unless he had some
unusual success.

Up to this time there had been a reign of quiet prosperity. The old
Swedes had brought in their own faith; the church, so small at first as
to be almost unnoticed, was winning its way. And though Whitfield had
preached the terrors of the law, religious life was more tolerant.
Natural aspects were more conciliatory. The Friends were peace-loving
and not easily roused from placid methods of money-getting. There was
nothing of the Puritan environment or the strenuous conscience that
keeps up fanatics and martyrs. Witchcraft could not prosper here, there
being only one trial on record, and that easily dismissed. The mantle of
charity and peace still hovered over the place, and prosperity had
brought about easy habits. Perhaps, too, the luxuriant growth and
abundance of everything assisted. Nature smiled, springs were early,
autumns full of tender glory.

And though the city was not crowded, according to modern terms, there
were many who migrated up the Schuylkill every summer, who owned
handsome farms and wide-spreading country houses. Chestnut Hill and
Mount Airy, Stenton and the Chew House at Germantown, were the scene of
many a summer festivity where Friends and world's people mingled in
social enjoyment; pretty Quakeresses practiced the fine art of pleasing
and making the most of demure ways and eyes that could be so seductively
downcast, phraseology that admitted of more intimacy when prefaced by
the term "Friend," or lingered in dulcet tones over the "thee and thou."

Madam Wetherill always made a summer flitting to her fine and profitable
farm, and surrounded herself with guests. She was very fond of company
and asked people of different minds, having a great liking for argument,
though it was difficult to find just where she stood on many subjects,
except the Church and her decided objection to many of the tenets of the
Friends, though she counted several of her most intimate acquaintances
among them. She had a certain graceful suavity and took no delight in
offending anyone.

But she was moved to the heart by Lois Henry's misfortunes. The old
mother sat under a great walnut tree on a high-backed bench, with some
knitting in her hand, in which she merely run the needles in and out and
wound the yarn around any fashion, while she babbled softly or asked a
question and forgot it as soon as asked. Rather spare in figure and much
wrinkled in face, she still had a placid look and smiled with a
meaningless softness as anyone drew near.

For a moment Madam Wetherill thought of William Penn, whom her father
had visited at Ruscombe in those last years of a useful life when
dreams were his only reality, still gentle and serene, and fond of
children. Faith was sitting at her knee and answering her aimless talk,
and Rachel had her spinning wheel on the porch.

Madam Wetherill alighted from her horse, and Rachel came out to her. She
sometimes took her servant, but she was a fearless and capable rider.

"I will call my aunt," the young woman said with a courtesy of respect
such as girls gave to elders.

"Tell her it is Madam Wetherill. Nay, I will sit here," as the girl
invited her within; and she took the porch bench.

Lois Henry showed her added cares in the thinness of her face and
certain drawn lines about the mouth, but it had not lost its grave
sweetness.

"I hear you are full of trouble," began Madam Wetherill in her well-bred
tones. What with education on the one side, and equable temperament on
the other, perhaps too, the softness of the climate and the easier modes
of life, voices and manners both had a refinement for which they are
seldom given credit. The intercourse between England and the colonies
had been more frequent and kindly, though the dawning love of liberty
was quite as strong as in the Eastern settlements.

"Yes, there is heaviness and burthens laid upon me, but if we are glad
to receive good at the hands of the Lord we must not murmur against
evil. The spring is a bad time for the head of the house to be laid
aside."

"And you have added family cares. I have come to see if you are willing
to be relieved in some measure. Everyone counts at such a time, while in
a family like ours, with the going and coming, one more never adds to
the work."

"I should be quite willing if we could be assured it was our duty to
shift burthens in times of trouble. James is somewhat disquieted about
the child. Will you come in and talk with him?"

The bed had been brought out to the best room, as it was so much larger
than the sleeping chamber adjoining it. James Henry lay stretched upon a
pallet, his ruddy face somewhat paler than its wont.

"I am pleased to see thee," he said gravely.

"And I am sorry for thy misfortune."

The use of the pronoun "thou" had its old English manner and was not
confined to the Friends alone. The more rigid, who sought to despise all
things that savored of worldliness, used their objective in season and
out. And among the younger of the citified Friends, "you" was not
infrequently heard.

"It is the Lord's will. We are not allowed our choice of times. Though I
must say I have been prospered heretofore, and give thanks for it. I
hear there are other troubles abroad and that those pestilent Puritans,
who were never able to live in peace for any length of time, have
rebelled against the King. I am sorry it hath come to open blows. But
they will soon have the punishment they deserve. We are enjoined to live
at peace with all men."

"The news is extremely meager. There is a great ferment," Madam
Wetherill replied suavely.

"And in town they are holding congresses! The Lord direct them in the
right way. But we have many rebels among us, I think. This was to be a
town of peace. William Penn conciliated his enemies and had no use for
the sword."

"True--true! We shall need much wisdom. But I must not weary thee
talking of uncertainties. There is another matter that concerns us both,
our little ward. As affairs stand I think she had better remain with me
through the summer. She will be on a farm and have plenty of air and
take up some of the arts of country life. She is in good health and is,
I think, a very easily governed child."

"It is not following out her father's wishes. He hoped she would be of
his faith. And the influence here might serve to counteract some
follies. I would rather she came. But Lois is heavily weighted and two
children of the same age----"

"Primrose would have many strange things for her little cousin's ears.
Nay, they are hardly cousins." And Madam Wetherill smiled. A keen
observer might have observed a touch of disdain.

"Except as to faith. She would be forbidden to talk over her worldly
life. We discountenanced it before. It is a sad thing that a child
should be so torn and distracted before she can hardly know good or
evil. I do not think my brother meant this course should be followed."

"Yet he could not deprive the mother of her child. And he gave away his
son for worldly advancement. It was merely that Mistress Henry and her
child should live here half the year. The court decided she could
transfer her rights to another guardian, and I was nearest of kin. And I
shall have to seek heirs somewhere. But one summer cannot matter much,
and it will be a relief to thy overtired wife."

James Henry started to raise himself on his elbow and then remembered
that he was bandaged and strapped, and was but a helpless log. Two
months, the doctor had said, even if all went well, before he could
make any exertion. He glanced at his wife. He must be waited on hand and
foot, and now the child had been filled with worldliness and would need
strong governing. Andrew was overindulgent to her.

"It hath caused me much thought. This time we might make it a year for
good reasons. Mr. Northfield would no doubt consent. Then she would come
in the fall and remain."

"Nay, I will not promise that. Her winters in town are important for
education. It was for that partly that I preferred the winters. She hath
no farm to go to afterward and will lead a town life."

"But so much worldly education does not befit a woman or improve her."

"Yet we must admit that the earlier Friends were men of sound education.
They read Greek and Latin, and now at the Friends' school there are many
high branches pursued. And it is becoming a question whether spelling
correctly, and being able to write a letter and cast up accounts, will
harm any woman. Widows often have a sorry time when they know nothing of
affairs, and become the prey of designing people. I have had large
matters to manage and should have had a troublesome time had I been
ignorant."

James Henry sighed. He had wished before that this woman had not been
quite so shrewd. And though he was a stanch Friend and would have
suffered persecution for the cause, wealth had a curious charm for him,
and he was not quite certain it would be right to deprive Primrose Henry
of any chance. She had seemed easily influenced last year. If Faith
could gain some ascendency over her! But Faith was more likely to be
swayed than to sway, he was afraid.

"Then let the case stand this way," said Madam Wetherill. "After a month
or so matters may be improved with you, and she can come then, being a
month or two later in town."

"Yes, that may do," he answered reluctantly, but he did long for a whole
year in which to influence his brother's child. For surely she was born
in the faith. He would not have gone outside for a convert; the Friends
were not given to the making of proselytes. Everyone must be convinced
of his own conscience.

"Then we will agree upon this for the present. Thou hast my warmest
sympathy, and I shall be glad to hear of thy improvement. I hope Friend
Lois will not get quite worn out. Good-day to thee. If there is anything
a friend can do, command me at once."

"My own patience is the greatest requisite," said the master of the
house, while Lois raised her eyes with a certain grateful light.

She paused a moment for a word with Rachel, a nice, wholesome-looking
girl with the freshness of youth, and who responded quietly but made no
effort for conversation. Faith was still chatting with the grandmother.
Madam Wetherill stepped on the block and mounted her horse as deftly as
a young person might.

"The youth Andrew is not so straitlaced," she ruminated. "And he seemed
much interested in the talk of war. If it comes to that, what will the
Quakers do, I wonder? They can hardly go among the Indians to escape the
strife, and if home and country is worth anything they ought to take
their share in defending it. As Mr. Adams says, it would come sooner or
later. The colonists are of English blood and cannot stand so much
oppression. It is queer they cannot think of us as their own children.
And we of the more southern lands have felt tenderly toward the mother
country, especially we of the church."

Philadelphia believed herself on the eve of great changes, as well as
Boston. Virginia had her heroes that felt quite as keenly the injustice
of the mother country. Patrick Henry had fired many hearts with his
patriotic eloquence. When Governor Dunmore had seized a quantity of
gunpowder belonging to the colonies and had it shipped on board a man of
war, Henry went at the head of a party of armed citizens and demanded
restitution, which was made with much show of ill feeling. Not long
after the exasperated people had driven the Governor from his house,
shorn him of power, and compelled him to seek safety. In North Carolina
there had been a declaration of independence read aloud to a convention
at Charlotte. "An appeal to arms and to the God of Hosts, is all that is
left us," said Patrick Henry. And Joseph Hawley said, "We must fight."

The battle of Lexington was the match that started the blaze. The other
colonies were ready. Philadelphia prepared herself for the struggle. At
another meeting it was resolved, "That the United Colonies are of right
or ought to be free and independent states, and that they are absolved
from all duties to the British crown."

Jefferson wrote this declaration, submitting it to Franklin and John
Adams, and many discussions followed before it was adopted. And the
Continental Congress had been much encouraged by the enthusiasm of
Virginia. Washington had said publicly, "I will raise a thousand men,
subsist them at my own expense, and march with them, at their head, for
the relief of Boston."

Mrs. Washington had not been less patriotic, though her love of peaceful
domestic affairs was well known. To a friend she had written, "Yes, I
foresee serious consequences, dark days and darker nights, domestic
happiness suspended, social enjoyments abandoned, property of every kind
put in jeopardy by war, neighbors and friends at variance, and eternal
separations possible."

There had come news of the seizure of fortresses at Ticonderoga and
Crown Point. Ammunition, stores, and fifty pieces of cannon had been
taken. General Gage had announced his intentions of sending "those arch
offenders Samuel Adams and John Hancock" to England to be hanged. The
latter brave rebel had laughed the threat to scorn. But the Declaration
was considered a bold step.

There was a gathering of friends at Madam Wetherill's that very evening,
for it was known that she would soon be out on the farm, and since she
had much at stake in trade and property, many were curious to see which
side she would really espouse.

"The idea of a horde of common people running a government with no head
but their own wills is preposterous!" cried the proud old Tory Ralph
Jeffries, as he settled his wig with a shake of the head and pulled out
his lace ruffles. "Are these canting Puritans going to rule us with
their quarrels?"

"The whole country seems pretty well ablaze. It is like a Latimer and
Ridley fire," was the retort.

"We will put it out, sir! We will put it out! Where would be the dignity
or security of any such government? A pack of braggarts over a little
skirmish. King George is good enough for us."

"Then you may have to emigrate again presently," suggested portly John
Logan. "The storm has been long gathering. Little by little we have seen
our rights abridged, while we have been growing up to the full size of
manhood. We have tried our wit and ability. To-day we could enter the
lists of trade with foreign nations, but our ports have been closed.
England dictates how much and how little we shall do. We are not a
nation of slaves, but brethren with them over the seas. We are not to be
kept in the swaddling clothes of infancy.

"It hath been a sorry hardship not to trade where we will when the
country groweth steadily. It is a great and wonderful land and needeth
only wise rulers to make it the garden of the world. But the taxes are
grievous, and no one knows where this will end. I am a man of peace as
thou all knowest, but when the iron is at white heat and has been struck
one blow it is best to keep on."

"And you believe," returned Jeffries scornfully, "that a handful of men
can conquer the flower of Britain? How many, think you, will come to the
fore if there is a call to arms? A few of these noisy brawlers like
Henry and Jefferson and Adams, and those pestilent Puritans who have
been ever stirring up strife, and a few foolish men easily turned with
every wind that blows. Good Lord, what an army to cope with trained
men!"

"These same brawlers have done England some good service against the
French. They have fighting blood, and when it is roused on the side of
right will be a match for the redcoats at Champlain."

Some of the women were gathered in the hall where there was tea and
cakes, or mead if one liked better.

"But, if there is war, we shall not be able to get anything," said vain
and pretty Madam Jeffries, who was a second wife, and strong of will as
her husband seemed, twisted him around her finger. "And I have just sent
abroad for finery."

"We must come to linsey-woolsey, though the weavers of Germantown make
fine goods, and there is silk already made in our own town. Instead of
so much gossiping and sitting with idle hands we must make our own
laces. It is taught largely, I hear, at Boston, and my mother was an
expert at it. Then there are fringes and loops--and, oh, I think we
shall manage."

"But will there really be war?--Madam Wetherill, it will begin in the
room there," laughing and nodding her head. "They will come to blows
soon. And Hugh Mifflin, methinks, has forgotten his Quaker blood. How
well he talks! And hear--he quotes from the Farmers' letters. I thought
the Friends were resolved not to bear arms."

"Do they always turn the other cheek to the smiter?" asked someone, and
a laugh followed.

In the upper hall Primrose stood by the end window, listening and
wondering. Patty found her there, large-eyed.

"What will there be war about?" she asked. "And will they come here and
take us all prisoners?"

"Nonsense, child! This is no talk for thee. Come to bed at once."

"Patty, did you hear my great-aunt say if I was to go out to the farm?
What if they make Cousin Andrew fight? I should be so sorry."

"Quakers do not fight."

"But brave men do. I have read about them. And I am sure Andrew is
brave."

"Do not be sure of any man. Thou wilt get a sight of wisdom between this
and twenty years. And I believe thou art not to go out to Cherry Hill.
There is too much illness. And we are to move to our own farm."

"And will there be chickens and birds and squirrels, and little lambs
playing about, and----"

"Do not string any more things together with an 'and,' like beads on a
chain, but get to bed. Yes, they seem to be having a fine noisy time
downstairs. I know on which side the madam will be."

"For the King?"

"Not strongly, I think," with an ironical laugh Primrose did not
understand.

"And you, Patty?"

"The King would have poor luck if he depended on me to fight for him.
There, good-night, and good sleep."




CHAPTER VII.

AT SOME CROSSROADS.


There was much confusion in the old house, putting fine things and
ornaments away and packing family heirlooms and silver. There was also
much going to and fro, and after a few days Primrose, with her
attendant, Patty, went out to the farm, then in all its beauty of
greenness, though the fruit blooms were over. But there were countless
roses and garden flowers of all the old-fashioned sorts, and sweet herbs
and herbs for all kinds of medicinal brews. For though Dr. Shippen and
Dr. Rush had begun to protest against "old women's doses," many still
had faith in them and kept to feverfew and dittany and golden rod and
various other simples, and made cough balsams and salves.

The house was large and plain, with uncarpeted floors that were mopped
up in the morning for coolness and cleanliness, quite a Virginian
fashion. The kitchen and dining room were sanded, the chairs were plain
splint or rather coarse rush or willow. There were a wide wooden settle
and some curious old chests used for seats, as well as hiding places for
commoner things.

But it was the garden that attracted Primrose. She had never seen so
many flowers nor such lovely ones, for in the woods there was not this
variety. Life had been too busy, and wants too pressing, to indulge in
much luxury where gardening was concerned. John Bartram had many
remarkable trees and plants, but they were things of families and
pedigrees, and his house was the resort of curious and scientific men.
Although a Friend, he had a tender heart for beauty, as well as many
other things. But in general the Friends cultivated simple and useful
herbs. At the Henry farm there was no pretense of a flower garden.

Primrose ran up and down the wide, smooth walk, made of dirt and small
stones with much labor, where, through the summer at least, not a tuft
of grass was permitted to grow. How lovely it was! The house stood on
quite an elevation. One could see Mount Airy and Clieveden and other
summer homes, and the Schuylkill winding placidly about, peeping through
its embowered banks here and there.

But the quiet, romantic stream was to witness many a tragedy and many an
act of heroism that no one dreamed of that summer. The real alarms of
war scarcely penetrated it. Young people went sailing and rowing and had
picnics and teas along its banks, and the air was gay with jests and
laughter.

The town was much divided in spirit and did not really pull together.
There were rampant Tories, who declared boldly for the King; there were
more faint-hearted ones who had much business at stake and cared only
for making money, and many of the Friends who counseled peace at any
price. But events marched on rapidly and in June Congress declared for a
Continental Army, and the host of patriots at Cambridge called Colonel
Washington from Philadelphia, where he had been in consultation with
some of the important citizens, and made him commander in chief of the
American forces.

The city had been prosperous and stretched out its borders in many
directions. There were flourishing Friends' meeting houses, there was
Christ Church and St. Peter's on the hill. For the hills had not been
leveled, and there were many pretty altitudes crowned with brick
residences that were considered fine at that time and certainly were
roomy. The Swedes had their church and all the denominations were well
represented, for at this period religious, interest was strong. There
were not many outside amusements. Plays were considered rather
reprehensible.

There were a few bridges over the creeks where boys waded, and girls
were not always averse to the enjoyment on a summer afternoon. There
were flocks of geese and ducks disporting themselves. And along the
shore front docks had been built, there were business warehouses and
shipping plying to and fro, for the trade with more southern ports was
brisk. There were some noted taverns where one might see foreign
sailors, and shops that displayed curious goods. There was damask
Floreells silk, brocades and lutestrings done up in fair boxes, as you
found when you entered. There were gold and silver laces and gold
buttons and brocades of every variety and cost.

The young damsels were sometimes allowed to go out with their elders and
have a peep at the fine things and express their likings. Some of the
storekeepers who had laid in abundant stocks chuckled to themselves at
the thought that now, when all importations on private account must be
stopped, they would stand a better chance.

In the early part of the century there had been an eloquent divine, a
Mr. Evans, who had succeeded Mr. Clayton and who somehow had proved very
attractive to the Friends. They had flocked to church to hear him, they
had even taken off their broadbrims with a timid desire to conform to
the ways of the world's people. This had gone on until it awakened a
sense of alarm, and at the evening meeting where business might be
considered, they had been forbidden to attend the services. So there had
grown up a broader feeling, and numbers, while they did not quite like
to break with their own communion, were more tolerant, read disapproved
books, thought more of education, and began to look with different eyes
on the great world, while others, almost horror-stricken at the
latitude, drew their lines tighter.

From Christ Church, as an offshoot, had sprung up St. Peter's. Governor
Penn had his pew in the south gallery. Benjamin Franklin and many of the
élite thronged the stone aisles with pattering footsteps, in laced
coats, queues, and ruffles; the women with their big hats tied under the
chin with an enormous bow, a fashion that sent the top up with a great
flare where puffs of hair were piled one upon another, or little curls,
and stiff brocades that rustled along, little heels that clicked, lace
or lawn scarfs coquettishly arranged for summer use, and great fans
carried by a ribbon on the arm. In winter there were silk pelisses edged
with fur, or a fur or velvet coat. The great distinction was the young
girls in much more simple material, with pretty demureness and sometimes
longing looks cast at the attire of the young wives or older matrons,
and a thought of the time when this glory should be theirs.

Now that one must be for or against, Madam Wetherill, though not
aggressive in her opinions, plainly showed on which side her sympathies
were ranged.

Wiseacres shook their heads; even among those who came to drink tea in
the summer house, made primarily by four large, over-arching trees and a
latticework about, against which there was a bench all around, and a
great table sufficiently rustic not to mind the summer showers.

There was no spinet to practice on. There were no tutors, but Primrose
said a few lessons to Patty, sewed a little, and ran about, her hands
and arms encased in long linen mitts that left the fingers free, and a
widebrimmed straw hat tied well down, or a Quaker sun bonnet made of
reeds and cambric. But there were so many visitors that she was often
dressed up, and made much of by the young ladies.

Polly Morris complained that "Bella was in a very poor state and pining
for country air. If her purse were long enough she would take her up to
Martha Woolcot's, but boarding was high. The Matthews had gone over to
the Jerseys. They had been very kind in giving her a fortnight's visit,
but now the house would be shut up, and there was only her small
cottage, that had been so built around by reason of business that one
could hardly find a mouthful of fresh air."

"I did say I would not ask her here again in the summer. Bella is
troublesome and forward amid company. But, poor thing! she has only part
of her house, as below it is a shop and rented out, and her purse is a
slim one at best," said good-hearted Madam Wetherill. "Patty, suppose
you write for me, and ask her for a fortnight. She will stay a full
month. The children may play about and amuse themselves. 'Tis not that I
grudge what she eats and drinks, but I like not to have people take so
much by right, and feel that your best is hardly good enough for them,
and that you owe them something."

"Yes, madam," replied Patty respectfully, though she set about it rather
reluctantly. She was not over fond of Bella.

A week later they came with a chest of attire that did indeed presage a
good long stay. Bella was glad enough to meet her compeer.

"For it has been utterly wretched since Aunt Matthews went away," she
confessed to Primrose. "We went there so often. And Jonas, the younger
boy, has so much drollness in him and tells about pranks at school. And
one night he crept out of the window on a shed and slid down and went to
a merrymaking at some tavern, where they had rare fun. He did not come
in until nearly morning, and his head ached so he was ill the next day.
Aunt Matthews made him a posset."

"And did he confess this wrong to her?" asked Primrose in grave
solicitude.

"Confess! What a silly you are, Primrose! That would have spoiled all
the fun."

"But it was not right."

"Well--his father would have been severe with him, and when one is sharp
it is a pleasure to outwit him. The boys had carried off some gates
shortly before, and they had changed the sign of the Jolly Fisherman to
Friend Reed's coffin shop, and he never knew it the whole morning and
wondered why people stared. Both boys were soundly caned for it, and
after all it was only a bit of fun. So then they kept their own counsel.
Jonas knows such pages of funny verses, and there are some in Latin."

"How did you come to know?"

"Oh, he told me!" Bella bridled her head and half shut one eye that gave
her an unpleasant look of cunning. "He swore me not to tell and said
little girls were often better than big girls."

"And did you swear?" Primrose was horror-stricken.

"Well, I didn't say any wicked words. Some of the great ladies say, 'I
swear,' and the men often do, but it doesn't really mean anything when
you say it in French."

Primrose asked Patty about it.

"Swearing is swearing, whether you do it in French or Dutch. What put
such nonsense in thy head? I think the French a wicked language anyhow,
and I don't see why madam wants thee to jabber any such gibberish."

"It's very hard and I don't believe I ever shall," said the child with a
sigh.

"The better grace for thee then."

Bella was quite wise and precocious and learning ways of fashion
rapidly. She stood a little in awe of Madam Wetherill and could be very
demure when she saw that it was the part of wisdom. Occasionally she
made Primrose a tacit partner in some reprehensible matter in a way that
the child could not protest against. And then Bella laughed at her love
for birds and flowers and was always talking about finery and repeating
the flattering things that were said to her. And she much preferred
listening to the ladies and the gallants to gathering flowers or hearing
the birds singing in the trees.

One day Andrew came. Everything was better at Cherry Hill, and her uncle
thought now it was time for her to come.

"Why, is your father getting about so soon?" asked Madam Wetherill in
surprise.

"Oh, no, indeed! He mends but slowly. Still he wishes to do his duty,
and I think he broods over it more than is good for him. So my mother
proposed to him that the little maid should be sent for, and he was
eager at once. And he wished me to say if it was not too inconvenient to
thee I would bring her back. I have a pillion."

"Nay, the child knows so little about riding. I meant to have her
instructed this summer. And there would be some garments to take. I
cannot get them ready so soon. And I am afraid she will bother thy
people sadly. Thou hadst better return and explain this. I will drive
over in a few days and bring her. Meanwhile thou art warm and tired.
Rest and refresh thyself a little. I think the children are roaming in
the woods, but, like the chickens, they are sure to come home to
supper."

Andrew Henry washed his face and hands at the rustic out-of-doors
toilette, and little Casper, the black boy, brought him a thick linen
towel, with velvet-like softness and smelling of lavender. Then he must
have some home-brewed beer to refresh himself, and a plate of Janice
Kent's wafers, that were spicy and not over sweet and went excellently
well with the beer.

"Dost thou go often to the city?" Madam Wetherill asked. She was
thinking how finely this young Quaker was filling out in the shoulders,
how well set and soft his brown eyes were, and his cherry lips had fine
curves with resolution, yet a certain winning tenderness.

"I go in on market days, twice a week. These are stirring times. There
are arguments on every corner of the street, and men almost come to
blows."

"The blows may be needed later on. Thou art a peace man, I dare say."

"That is the belief in which I have been brought up," he answered
respectfully.

"And I was brought up to honor the King. But if a king listens to evil
rather than good counselors--kings were cut off in old times for not
dealing justly. I am sure Mr. Pitt hath given excellent advice, but it
has not been followed."

"I know so little about it," Andrew returned. "I went once to John
Bartram's for some rare cuttings my father desired, and met there the
great Franklin, who counseled peace and leniency in England. And they
all think now that nothing can stop the war."

"It hath begun already. We must decide which side we shall be on, even
if we do not fight. But come down here where smiling peace sits
gossiping with fair plenty. I wonder if next summer will give us such a
scene?"

She made a gracious little movement, and she took his arm as they began
to descend the sloping path. She was a very fascinating woman and now
she had resolved to do her best to win over those who stood in
uncertainty if she could not move the uncompromising Friend.

It was a pretty scene. After the slope was a level of beautiful sward,
with a circle of magnificent trees. Then another varying decline that
ended at the river's edge, where rocked two or three gayly painted
boats. There were two young fellows in the attire of the gallant of the
day lolling on the grass, and a young man in Quaker garb of the finest
sort, sporting silver buckles at his knee and on his low shoes.

The ladies were some of the beauties of Philadelphia, to be famous long
afterward. There was the pretty Miss Shippen and Becky Franks, noted for
her wit and vivacity; Miss Wharton and Miss Mifflin and the gay Mrs.
Penn.

"I have brought thee a new recruit, Friend Norris," she began smilingly,
"since thou art of the same faith and texture. Thy father knew Philemon
Henry well, and this is his nephew. Ladies, let me present Friend Henry,
since the Quakers will have no handle to their names. Perhaps many of
you know Cherry Hill, from whence some of our finest fruit is brought."

The ladies courtesied. Mrs. Penn stepped nearer.

"Yes, I knew thy uncle somewhat and had met his lovely wife, who lives
again in the little fairy she left behind. It must have broken her heart
to go."

Young Norris came around. Andrew Henry had blushed furiously under the
scrutiny of so many lovely eyes, and then, recovering, stood his ground
manfully. The scene affected him something as if he had been drinking
wine, and yet the impression was delightful.

"He has come to take our little moppet away. She belongs part of the
time to her uncle."

"Oh, Madam Wetherill," exclaimed Miss Franks, "put her best gown on Miss
Bella and send her by mistake. Wait until dusk and no one will ever
know."

"Not even in the morning?" asked Andrew with a touch of merriment, while
the others laughed.

"Nay, the best gown is not needed if you want to pass off someone in
her stead," said Norris. "That would be suspected at once. Plan again."

"Oh, I forgot! Little Miss Bella hath so much pretty attire. I do
suppose she would be astray in a Quaker frock. Well, what can we do? Mr.
Henry, we shall outwit thee, never fear."

"Madam Wetherill hath refused me already," he answered. "But she was
merciful."

"And I brought him hither for consolation. An old woman's refusal cannot
be so heart-breaking as that of a young lass."

"But we have had no chance to refuse," said saucy Miss Mifflin, raising
her coquettish eyes.

"Cherry hill is a large estate, but somewhat out of the way. I have
ridden by it," said Norris. "We of the town get spoiled by neighbors. It
must be dreary in the winter."

"The evenings are lonesome. In summer, what with being up at sunrise and
busy all day, the nights are welcome, but in winter the city hath a
deeper interest. Although I have so far been content."

"We are in a curious heat now. Our staid town never saw such a ferment.
Every day we wait for news from some of the provinces, north or south. I
suppose thou wilt take little heed to it. Yet we number many of the
Friends on our side."

"I have not paid much attention to what has gone before, I must admit,
but one day I heard some speeches at Carpenter's."

"Nay, you are not to talk war to Friend Henry. He will take us for a
party of savages. Is there no more inviting topic?"

They found one that was full of light, harmless jest, and an hour
passed so quickly that Andrew Henry was startled.

He rode home alone without seeing Primrose, who could not be found in
the nearby haunts. And for the first time strange visions, strange
longings filled his mind, as if he had suddenly come to manhood and
outgrown the bands that had made his way so strait.

Was it some suggestion of the tempter? All the strong virile blood
rushed through his veins, and he only made a feeble fight to subdue it.
He did not really want to put it aside.

It was much later than usual when he reached home. In fact the sun had
gone down, Julius with the great market wagon had been home hours
before.

"Son, what delayed thee so? And the child--where is she?" asked his
mother.

He explained that she had gone off with her companion and that he had
waited; that Madam Wetherill would bring her up in a day or two. Rachel
sat on the doorstep knitting, and some supper was spread in the living
room. But he went in to his father first, and, after a few words about
Primrose, gave an account of his day's doings, except a little loitering
to hear the talk. And he took from his pocket the leathern pouch tied
tightly with a string, pouring the money on the bed and counting it over
for his father. Then he brought out a curious box much ornamented with
copper, now black by age except at the sides where it had been handled,
and, unlocking it, put in the money, giving the key back to his father.

"You think Friend Wetherill is quite honest about the child?" he asked
feverishly.

"She is not one to place a light value on her own word. The child could
hardly have been gotten ready in that brief while."

"There was nothing to get," rather fretfully. "We do not want the vain
clothing of the world. The child will be ruined by vanity."

"She keeps very sweet, methinks."

"How canst thou judge? Thy mother hath more wisdom and may tell another
story. There, get to supper. It is weary lying here, but the Lord's ways
are not as ours."

Andrew ate a little supper in the plain, bare room. On the green where
the ladies had sat was a strong cherry table, containing some plates and
glasses and a great stone pitcher curiously molded. How the trees had
waved overhead and sifted golden gleams and shadows through! There had
been a bit of peerless blue sky, the sweetness of the grass, the soft
lap of the river that one could hear only when the talk stopped. How
beautiful it all was! That was God's world. And the long ride home, the
woods in solemn grandeur, the bits of river now and then. He was stirred
mysteriously. He was a new man.

Rachel still sat on the doorstep. Sometimes he came out, and, though
they said little, there was a pleasure in the nearness.

Penn Morgan returned from the great barn, where he and the hired man had
left things comfortable for the night. Anything was safe enough. No need
to lock or bolt in this Arcadian simplicity, except to keep cattle from
straying.

Penn told over his day's work and the morrow's plans and went to bed.
Rachel had not been knitting for some time, but she folded up her work
and passed in without a word. Friends of the stricter sort were as
careful of vain and idle words as the most rigid Puritan.

He missed something sorely to-night. It was the little girl who had
kissed him.

Two days later Madam Wetherill brought her over in the neatest attire,
with no furbelows or laces. Primrose had demurred somewhat. "Nay," said
Madam Wetherill with a consoling sound in her voice, "they would not
like it, and it is only for a few months. All the articles will be here
on thy return or in the city," smiling. "It will not be long and thou
must be a brave, good girl, and happy, too. Sometime thou wilt choose. A
hundred things may happen."

She ran down the path and said good-by to the nodding flowers. She was
sorry to part with Bella and Patty, and Casper and the great dog, and
the mother cat with the two kittens, and she was loath to leave the gay
chatter and the visions of the radiant young women who petted her now
and then. She was not afraid of Mistress Kent, though her tongue was
still sharp, and she kept her riding whip handy to give Casper and Joe,
the black boys, who were very full of frolic, a cut now and then.

The ride in the clumsy chaise was a silent one. Madam Wetherill was
surprised to find how the little one had crept into her heart. And she
was growing ever so much prettier, more like her mother. It was the
care, no doubt. They would let her get tanned and try to subdue the curl
in her lovely silken hair. The lady smiled oddly to herself, thinking a
mightier power than Quaker rule had put it there. But it would be bad
for the child, this continual changing. However, it could not be helped
now. One consolation was that she was much too young to give anything
but a child's love to her cousin. And he would be married to some
thrifty woman before she was grown up.

It was Rachel who came to take the budget done up in a stout hempen
cloth, and lifted out the little girl, then holding the horse while
Madam descended, and fastening it to the hitching post. The old lady sat
under the same tree, but the little girl was weeding in the garden and
stood up to look, covered with her widebrimmed hat.

"They have been wondering," said Rachel. "Uncle is not so well. The
fever hath been troublesome. Wilt thou come in? And this is the little
cousin? Thou and Faith will make nice companions."

Friend Lois came to the door and received her guest with grave courtesy,
saying to Primrose, "We have been looking for thee, child," as they
walked in.

There was a pitcher of mead standing in a stone jar of cold spring water
and both travelers were thirsty. Friend Lois had the name of making it
in a most excellent fashion.

"I am afraid Primrose will be a care to thee this summer," Madam
Wetherill said with kindly solicitude. "And thy husband is not so well,
the young girl tells me."

"My niece, Rachel Morgan. And though the loss of my sister was great and
unexpected, her health being robust, and it hath added much to my cares,
Rachel is to me as a daughter and a great comfort."

The young girl made a courtesy and stood undecided.

"Does not the broken limb mend?"

"It is doing well. But he hath thought of his duty concerning the child
overmuch. I assured him he might let it go for this summer, but he was
not minded to."

"It would have been quite as well."

"He did not think so. And since it was on his mind I sent." She gave a
soft sigh. "Wilt thou come in and see him? He would rather."

Madam Wetherill walked into the room and greeted the invalid. There was
a flush on his cheek and a brightness in the eye that betokened feverish
disarrangement. He began to explain in a quick, excited tone.

"Of course it is thy time. We shall not dispute about the law's
decision, though Mr. Chew did think it would not be so good for the
child, seeing that our lines are cast in such different places. I hope
all will go well with you and she will not add to your cares. I will
send over to hear now and then."

"Where is she?" in a half-suspicious manner.
