was greeted by a piercing cry. At first I thought of 
nothing but a sudden gale of wind, and was about to issue 
the necessary orders, when I perceived breakers foaming 
and raging on our left. As none, however, were to be seen 
ahead, I hoped to escape even this danger, and ordered the 
ftnchor to be in readiness ; but this hope vanished utterly 
when the vessel was driven by the current and a mighty 
wave directly towards the breakers, and I saw she must be 
vrrecked. We dropped our largest anchor, and drew in all 
sail, but wave upon wave urged us forward and we were 
driven upon the saud with such a shock that the crew 
were prostrated upon the deck. 
I knew now that there was no hope for the ship, which 
must soon fill with water, and instantly I gave orden to 
 
have all the provisions, that could be got at, brought upon 
deck, and we then emptied several wine casks, that they 
might hold the water drawn from the hogsheads on board. 
The waves broke over our bows, and swept the forward 
deck, but we succeeded in launching both the long and 
small boat, and had loaded the former with five casks of 
water, as many of wine, three casks of biscuits, and four 
others with salt meat, besides books, charts, nautical instru- 
ments, and clothes, before the day dawned and allowed us 
to discover our proximity to the land ; as I found it quite 
near, I secured one end of a stout cable to the mast of the 
ship, and the other to our small boat, into which I, with 
one of the crew, descended on the side of the vessel where 
the fury of the waves was broken. In pushing off we were 
perfectly overwhelmed in the boiling, angry flood, and im- 
mediately driven forwards more than a hundred yards ; 
the foaming breakers only now and then allowed us a short 
breathing space, but at last we were with our boat hurled 
upon a low sandy shore. 
My first care, after recovering from the shock, was to 
bale out the boat and drag it high up upon the shore. For- 
tunately, the cable was still secured to it, and we fastened 
it securely by means of a part of the vessel which had been 
already thro'wn upon the shore. Our ship lay at high 
tide, about a hundred yards from the shore, and in order 
to rescue the crew, a strong rope was tied to the cable, 
which stretched from them to us ; we drew it over to us 
and secured it firmly. This accomplished, two men got 
into the long boat which was loaded with our provisions, &c., 
and on the back of a huge wave, reached the land, but the 
 
boat was dashed upon the shore with so much violeace 
that it broke. With the greatest difficulty we succeeded 
in saving three casks of buiscuit and two of pork. For 
the rest of the crew on board of the vessel, no means of 
safety now remained but the tightly stretched rope, and I 
immediately urged them, by signs, to avail themselves of 
it. The boldest of the sailors threw off his jacket, seized 
the rope, and began his perilous journey ; as soon as he got 
beyond the protection of the wreck, the waves rose, each, 
some yards above his head, and seemed to bury him in 
their depths ; he, however, held on with the gripe of one 
working for his life, and gained a little distance between 
each wave, until one more powerful than the rest, tore the 
rope from him and hurled him upon the shore, where we 
rolled him over and over, until he came to himself. I 
stood up to my chin in the water, although the waves 
broke over my head, and gave all the assistance in my 
power, to the men coming over on the rope, and I was so 
fortunate as to receive the whole crew safe upon the land. 
As we saw that we were upon a desert, barren coast, our 
first, care was to secure the casks of water and provision 
that we had fished out of the breakers ; we then erected 
with our oars and two sails a kind of tent, foolishly purposing that no one would discover us in this inhospitable 
country, and purposing to mend our boats with the wood 
and planks that would be thrown on shore from the wreck, 
so that we might put to sea in a calm, and with the help 
of our compass, reach some European settlement or friendly 
vessel. 
While were diligently occupied in the erection of our 
tent, we perceived a human form emerging from behind a 
sand-hill, and proceed to the shore to plunder our effects, 
which were strewn about there. I approached the stran- 
ger with every sign of peace and amity that I could think 
of; but he seemed very shy, and gave me to understand, 
by signs, that I must keep myself at a distance, while he 
continued to possess himself of our property. I then grew 
angiy, and as he was imarmed, approached until I was 
within twenty paces of him. 
Apparently, he was quite old, but still powerful and 
agile ; the color of his skin was darker than that of a 
North American Indian, and lighter than that of a negro ; 
his clothing consisted of a piece of coarse woollen cloth 
that reached from his breast to his knees. His hair was 
long, matted, and stood out far around his head like a stiff 
brush ; his face resembled more an ourang-outang than a 
human being ; red, fiery eyes, a mouth stretching from ear 
to ear, but filled with sound teeth, and a beard hanging 
down upon his breast from his upper Up and chin, gave him 
a frightful appearance and suggested forcibly to my mind, 
the idea that those teeth had been sharpened in feasts of 
human flesh. Two old women, of a Kke exterior, appa- 
rently his wives, soon joined him. Although they were 
not quite as repulsive as the old man, and wore their long 
hair in braids, yet they were anything but attractive, for 
their brown skin hung in flabby folds from their bodies, 
and their eye-teeth projected like the tusks of the wild 
 
boar. A girl from eighteeu to twenty years old, who was 
just not hideous, and six children of various site and sex, 
entirely naked, completed the group ; they took what they 
wanted, and carried the articles of clothing in-shore, where 
they spread them out to dry. They emptied the beds of 
their contents as they perceived the utility of the outside 
only, and amused themselves with the blowing about of 
the feathers by the wind. 
All appeared perfectly satisfied with their booty, and 
even the forbidding features of the old man brightened a 
little when he encountered no opposition on our part. We 
were, indeed, provided with no fire-arms or other efiective 
weapons, but it would not have been difficult to have 
driven this mob away with some of the poles and planks 
of the wreck. Some of the sailors were preparing to do 
so, but I dissuaded them from it, as I saw clearly that in 
our present wretched condition, the friendship of these 
people was a matter of great importance to us. We qui- 
etly let them take what they wanted and determined to 
defend our provisions only, to the last. 
After spending the day in the erection of our tent, and 
in mending our injured boat, upon which rested all our 
hope of safety, we kindled a great fire and prepared an 
excellent meal of salt meat, not suspecting that this would 
be the last of our provisions that we should enjoy. When 
we had thus refreshed ourselves, we set two of our men as 
a watch, and stretched out our weary limbs upon the soft 
sand. Night had already enveloped every thing in her 
dark mantle, the savages were at a distance, and all was 
 till except the restless waves which broke \apon the for- 
 
gaken wreck and dashed upon some rocks at no great distance firom us. Up to this moment, the exertion which 
our situation rendered necessary, had so occupied my mind 
as to banish all reflection, but now it broke like a flood 
over my soul and the necessary sleep forsook my weary 
frame. The crew relied for safety upon the miserably 
mended boat, but I doubted if we could ever escape from 
the coast through the raging breakers in such a frail skiff. 
On land, danger menaced us from the wild, greedy savages, 
who might be evfea now preparing to rob us, if not of Hfe 
yet of freedom, dragging us away to a slavery worse than 
death. I was distressed and despairing ; a thousand anx 
ieties filled my mind. I was a husband and the father of 
five little children, whom I dearly loved and whom I must 
soon leave orphans. I shuddered, but at last was able to 
say within myself, " Thy ways, great Father of the uni- 
verse, are wisdom and goodness, and who am I ? A grain 
of dust; shall I complain of thy decrees?" 
I soon found consolation in the thought that my companions, who lay around me buried in the deepest slumber, 
were still alive and with me, and I felt it my solemn duty 
to exert all my power for their preservation and safety. 
Occupied with such thoughts, the night passed slowly for 
me ; at last day dawned in the east, not upon a oheering 
prospect of rescue for us, but upon new scenes of misery. 
It was scarcely light when the old man, with his wives 
and children, and two young men whom I had not seen 
the day before, came down to us. He brandished a long 
spear above his head, as if he were about to throw it at us, 
and signified by threatening gestures that we must retreat 
 
to the wreck if we would not fall into the hands  
of his people, whom I already perceived in the distance, 
approaching us with a herd of camels. The women, at the 
same time, raised a fearful shriek, and threw sand into the 
air. When I ran towards the shore, to seize a plank lying 
there, the old man ran like a maniac to our tent, chased 
out of it, with a few pricks of his spear, the men who were 
yet sleeping there, and so terrified them, by his gestures 
and pointing to the drove of camels, that they all rushed 
towards the little boat, whilst I kept the old man at ahttle 
distance with my plank. They prepared to embark in such 
confusion and disorder that the boat filled and sank. Then 
we attempted to escape along the shore, leaving behind us 
all our provision, but the terrible spear was turned against 
us, and we were surrounded by the women, screaming and 
gesticulating like fiends. We now saw that no way of 
escape was left for us ; they were forcing us to embark that 
they might be rid of us without danger to themselves. I 
therefore shoved the long boat into the water, and insisted 
that the crew should get in at the stem one by one ; thus 
we at last succeeded in escaping to the ship, which was by 
this time half full of water. 
III. 
The natives, as soon as we were no longer in the way, 
collected around our tent, and, brandishing their weapons, 
made their camels kneel down — loaded them with our pro- 
visions and other artibles, and then bade their children 
drive them off. The malicious old man cut open our wine 
and water casks, and let the contents escape; the other 
 
articles, for which they could find no use, books, nautical 
instruments, and charts, were heaped up together and 
burned. Now that we had neither food nor water, no 
choice was left us but to put to sea in our leaky boat, to 
remain in the vessel all night and be drowned, or to die in 
the hands of these cruel savages. These, we gathered 
from their gestures, would shortly return with fire-arms; 
besides they could easily reach the wreck, for a sand bar 
extending some distance into the &ea, was even nov,- visible, 
and would be quite dry at low tide. We therefore deter- 
mined to make preparations for our departure as quickly as 
possible; we fished up some pickled beef and bottles of 
wine firom the hold at the risk of our lives. We had no 
water, and our biscuit was all ruiaed. 
We rigged the long boat as well as we could, and were 
about to set sail, when the natives, touched with pity, as 
it seemed, for our wretched condition, approached the 
shore, bowed to the ground, and beckoned to us, with every 
sign of amity, to come again to the land. As we showed 
no inclination to do so, the old man advanced alone into 
the water up to his waist, with a leather bottle of water, 
and invited us repeatedly to come and drink. As we were 
not a little thirsty, I advanced towards him by means of 
the rope which stm stretched from the wreck to the land, 
took the bottle and brought it to my companions. The 
old man then signified to me that he wished to go on board 
of the wreck, if I would stay on shore until his return. 
Convinced that it was best to maintain a friendly under- 
standing with the natives, I accepted his projosition, and 
returned to the beach again. 
 
The young men, women and children, all nearly naked, 
Bat down on the edge of the beach, and repeated the 
friendly signs, looking upwards, as if they called heavtu 
to witness that their intentions were honest. I placed my- 
self in the midst of them and they behaved in a very 
friendly manner, putting their hands into mine, trying on 
my hat, and feeling my clothes, and searching my pocksts 
most thoroughly. 
When the old man had been taken on board by my peo- 
ple, I tried to make them understand that they must keep 
him until I had been set free, hut the roaring of the waves 
prevented me from being understood, and after he had 
examined every thing carefully, from the provisions swim- 
ming about in the hold, to the money, fire-arms, nd what- 
ever else valuable was to be found, he was allowed to 
return. I now attempted to rise ; but two tf the strong- 
est of the young men who were sitting licside me, threw 
themselves upon me like lions, and held me down, while 
the women and children drew their daggers and knives, 
which they had hitherto concealed, and pointed them at 
my breast. Resistance would have availed me nothing, 
I therefore, remained perfectly quiet and determined to 
betray no fear. They now laid aside the hypocritical ex- 
pression of kindness frtjni their faces, and their former 
malignity appeared ; thoy gnashed their teeth and pricked 
my skin with the points of their knives, while the old man 
took up a sabre, seized me by my hair, and made as if he 
would cut off my head. I was satisfied that my last hour 
had come, and that my body was destined to appease the 
hunger of these monsters, whom I firmly believed to be 
 
cannibals. " Grod, thy will be done," I mentally ejacu* 
lated, and resigned myself to m}- inevitable fate. 
But all these threatening gestures were only meant to 
terrify me ; as I showed no signs of fear, the old man 
released my head from his grasp, after he had touched ray 
neck gently with his sabre. Then he made me to under- 
stand that if I valued my life I must immediately have 
all the money that we had on board brought to land. My 
people were about to come to my relief when the old man 
released me, and I shouted to them to bring all the gold 
from the vessel ; they were again prevented by the dis- 
tance and the noise of the waves, from hearing what I 
added, that they must not give it up until I was perfectly 
at liberty. In the hope of effecting my rescue, they col- 
lected all the money that they possessed, amounting to 
about a thousand piastres, and putting it into a bucket, 
slipped it along the rope to the shore. The old man emp- 
tied the bucket into his woollen apron, and commanded me 
to follow him. The two young men led me along by 
my arms, and held their long knives to my breast, while 
the woman and children followed close behind me with 
their spears and daggers. In this way we proceeded about 
seven hundred paces ; then they sat down upon the ground 
and the old man divided the money into three parts, one 
he gave to the young men, and one to his wives, reserving 
the third for himself While they were thus busied, they 
released my arms, and I thought to myself, " If I do not 
now escape my fate is sealed." I felt sure that an unsuo- 
cessfiil attempt at flight would be followed by certain death, 
but I, nevertheless, determined to attempt it, and seized a 
 
moment for it when I thought the attention of all directed 
from me. But one of the young men, observing my in- 
tention, struck a blow at me with his sabre, and although 
I avoided it by falling back upon the ground, it cut through 
my waistcoat ; he was about to repeat the blow, when the 
old man commanded him to desist. 
My tormenters now arose, and still holding me by the 
arms, and threatening me with their knives, continued their 
inland progress. I was in despair, when suddenly the 
thought struck me of appealing to the avarice of these 
savages. I signified to them that the crew possessed much 
more money ; they received this communication with great 
delight, and, sending one of the young men on with their 
booty, they instantly returned with me to the shore, where 
they seated me as before, and commanded me to have the 
promised money brought on shore. Although I knew that 
there was no more money in the vessel, I hoped that my 
men would attempt my rescue, but they now saw clearly 
the danger that threatened them, and were not inclined to 
hazard the venture. I therefore waited an hour on the 
beach, threatened every moment with instant death, and 
finally became so hoarse with hallooing that I could not 
make myself audible to those around me. At last one of 
the sailors, whose humanity conquered his fears for his 
life, came over upon the rope. The natives immediately 
flocked around him, thinking that he had brought more 
money with him; when they discovered their mistake 
they struck him with their fists and the handles of their 
daggers ; the children pricked him with the points of their 
knives, and all appeared determined upon giving him up 
 
to a slow, cruel death. He begged upon hifl knees for hit 
life, but they did not heed his prayers. 
To free him from the fury of these monsters, I cried out 
to him to make them understand by signs that there was 
money hidden on the spot where we had erected our tent. 
We had actually buried a purse containing four hundred 
dollars there, which I just then remembered. They soon 
understood him, and dragging him to the spot, made him 
begin to dig. I sat upon the sand, my face turned toward? 
the sea, between the old man, who held his spear at my 
heart, and the strongest of the young men, who held his 
sabre just above my head. When the diggers find what 
ihey are searching for, thought I, my guards will turn 
their heads to see, for the place where they were searching 
was directly behind us. I thought over my plan of escape, 
Mid without exciting suspicion, drew my legs up under me, 
that I might be ready for a spring at any moment. 
Suddenly there was a shout behind us, and as I had 
foreseen, my guards turned their heads around. Quick as 
lightning I sprang from under their weapons, and fled 
towards the sea ; my life hung on my speed, and in less 
than a minute I reached the water. As I h«ard some one 
close behind me, I plunged head foremost into the waves, 
! and swam under water as long as I could ; then I lifted 
 my head, and looked round at my persecutors. The old 
 man, up to his chin in the water, was only about ten steps 
behind me, and in the act of hurling his spear through my 
 body, when a wave, rolling over me, rescued my life, and 
In hurled him and his companion upon the beach. I now 
swam as quickly as possible towards the vessel, and spite 
 
of the gigantic breakers that broke ove- me, I reached it, 
and was dragged half unconscious into the boat by the 
sailors. 
Completely exhausted, I could not see what ensued upon 
the shore, but I learnt from my men that my pursuers 
stood like statues at the water's edge until they saw me 
safe in the vessel. Then they rushed upon the poor sailor, 
pierced him through the heart with a spear, and withdrew 
immediately with every thing they had found. When I 
came to myself again, I saw the bloody corse of the sailor 
stretched out upon a sand hill, and was indescribably 
pained at the thought that perhaps I had caused his death 
by my flight ; and although calmer reflection has convinceif 
me that my death would have been the ruin of my thought 
less companions, still the remembrance of the murder ot 
the poor fellow, who owed his death to sympathy for m 
embitters my thoughts to this hour. 
After this cruel murder, we no longer had the shghtest 
doubt that the savages would return in greater force, and 
that we should all share the fate of our poor companion 
as soon as they could succeed in overpowering us in any 
way. The wind was blowing strong, and the waves broke 
thirty feet high upon the wreck ; any hope of gaining the , 
open sea, in our frail boat, was more than doubtful, for 
tossed about by the waves, now against the sand bank, and 
now against the wreck, it was bent like an old basket, and 
leaked so badly that two men could scarcely keep it empty 
by the most diligent bailing. Still, a' there was no other 
heavy with storms. The wind blew more fiercely from 
the north-east, and about midnight the waves raged so that 
that the boat was half full of water. All hands were 
occupied in bailing it out with hats and shoes and we 
believed our last hour was at hand. The sea rushed 
through the holes and seams of our craggy skiff and the 
nails that I had driven in on shore appeared to keep their 
hold only by the pressure of the water on the outside. 
Sharp, blinding flashes of lightning darted through the 
gloom and added to the horrors of our situation. 
All courage now forsook the crew, and they declared it 
useless to exert themselves to keep the boat empty, as it 
must, in spite of all our labor, fill and sink. Some even 
dipped their heads in the sea to find out what effect the 
water would have upon them, and whether drowning werf 
really painful; others began to prepare themselves fol 
death, and to pray for forgiveness for their sins. This 
hour of trial was fearful, and I was scarcely able, by my 
entreaties and example, to induce them to continue to paS. 
the boat. Thus passed this dreadful night, in which out 
burning thirst, increased by our exertions, was not the 
least part of our misery, and we could only moisten out 
lips with 5 few drops of wine. 
The storm continued through the whole of the following 
day, and even increased at night-fall, so that our boat was 
tossed about most fearfully, and leaked even worse than 
before. The next morning we were entirely exhausted by 
hunger, thirst, and toil, and to add to our misery, the sun 
sent its burnltog rays directly upon our uncovered boat. 
No ship was in sight, and as our water was all gone bat 
 
two or three drops, and our strength was vanishing, I lost 
all hope of rescue upon the open sea, and towards noon, 
told my companions that I judged it best to seer again 
for the coast. All assented joyfully, and with great 
patience continued to bail out the boat, although the wind 
was still very high. Twice a day we moistened our lips 
with a little wine, and devoured, at the same time, the 
flesh, bones, and at last, even the skin of the pig. 
The boat was in such a miserable condition that it could 
scarcely hold together a day longer, and yet the coast, 
which was much farther off than I had thought, was not 
to be seen. Some of the men began again to despair; 
thirst induced them to forget what they owed to their 
companions in misery, and during the night they drank up 
one of the two bottles of wine that was all our store. 
When in the morning I asked for the missing wine, all 
ienied having taken it, each declaring that he should 
consider such an act an unpardonable crime, and he who 
should perpetrate it worthy only to be thrown overboard. 
The vehemence of the protestations of the guilty ones 
betrayed them to me, but the wine was gone, and nothing 
remained but patience and stricter watchfuless for the 
future. 
At last we discovered land at a great distance, and 
directly ahead ; it appeared very level ; not the slightest 
elevation was to be perceived, and I therefore judged that 
we were approaching a sandy desert shore, where death 
would soon put an end to our sufferings. But as we came 
nearer we found t to be a coast, bordered by steep, upright 
rocks, among which we could find no landing place ; no 
 
path by which to ascend the steep heights. I therefore 
advised passing the night on the sea, and searching in the 
morning for a less perilous landing place. But all the men 
opposed this plan, and I therefore steered for a place 
between some high rocks, where a little spot of sand was 
visible. A gigantic wave seized our boat and threw it just 
upon the spot that I had chosen, but with such violence 
that it was shattered to pieces. Every where around us, 
great broken masses of rock projected from the water, upon 
which the breakers dashed with fury, and we felt that we 
oad again been preserved only by the special care of Pro- 
ridence. 
V. 
After we had recovered our scant remains of food from 
foe waves, I climbed the rocky shore, and found that we 
were upon a high cape, which I learned afterwards was 
tailed the White cape. As, however, the summit appeared 
inaccessible from this side, and the night was falling, I 
returned to my companions, who had, in the meantime, 
prepared a sleeping place upon the sand between the rocks. 
We were most miserable indeed; our meat was almost 
eaten up ; oiu; stiffened limbs refused their office, and our 
parched tongues could scarcely articulate, although we had 
exhausted our last bottle of wine before making an attempt 
to land, lest we should lose it. However, we eat a little 
piece of salt meat, laid down to rest with a prayer of 
thankfulness, and spite of our wretched condition, slept 
soundly all night long. 
Kefreshed and encouraged by our undisturbed slumbera, 
 
we arose the next morning determined to find our way 
over the clifis to the country beyond, where we hoped to 
find water and some nourishing roots. The rocks rose 
perpendicularly over our heads, sometimes five and six 
hundred feet high, and we clambered among them, just on 
the edge of the sea, for the rest of the day, often up to our 
necks in water, without finding any path to the summit. 
We were often in imminent peril of our lives, for the least 
false step would have plunged us into the fearful abyss 
beneath us, where the foaming breakers would have dashed 
us to pieces upon the sharp rocks. Our shoes were almost 
cut to pieces, our feet torn and bleeding, the rays of a ver- 
tical sun scorched our emaciated bodies, and there was no 
breath of air among the high clifis to cool our boiling blood; 
to complete the measure of our miseries, I had, in climb- 
ing, broken my bottle, which had contained two or three 
drops of wine, and my tongue almost rattled in my throat 
When night came on we had scarcely  advanced half a 
mile ; entirely exhausted, we prepared our couch for the 
night upon some soft sand, under an overhanging cliff close 
apon the sea, and after taking a mouthful of beef, and 
ofiering a prayer for succor, we laid down to rest. 
The following day, although fatigue scarcely allowed us 
to stand upright, we continued our journey, and soon dis- 
covered, not far off", a broad level shore of sand, upon which 
the rpcky wall appeared to be less steep, and to open a 
path for us. We approached this spot with joy ; but when 
almost there found ourselves cut off fi-om it by a steep 
fragment of rock, extending far into the sea, which, con 
oealing the base of the rock, beat with great fury against 
 
its head, fantastically shaped by the dashing of the waves 
for thousands of years. To damber over this rock ap- 
peared just as impossible as to go round it through the 
water, and this last could not have been done quickly 
enough to avoid the breakers, which would have seized the 
unhappy man venturing such an attempt, and hurled him 
upon the sharp rocks in the hollows of the cliff. 
To press on any further in this direction, was to doom 
ourselves to destruction, but to turn back would only in- 
crease our sufferings without affording us any aid. We 
stood still in despair. 
Fortunately, just at this moment, we discovered in the 
sea, about half way around this steep cliff, a smaller frag- 
ment of rock, which had apparently rolled down from 
above, and which, although it was concealed by every j 
breaker as it dashed upon it, was left bare when the waves 
receded. In hopes of gaining this spot between the waves, 
I rushed into the water as one was receding, and, reaching 
it, clung to it for my hfe, while the next rushed over m« 
and broke upon the chff. As this last rolled back, I 
plunged again into the water, and reached the other side 
of the cliff — clung there again until the next breaker had 
spent its fury, when I clambered up out of the reach of 
the water. My men followed my example, reached th« 
first rock as I had done, and thence the spot where I lay 
stretched out on the sand, ready to draw them up. Al- 
though our limbs were not a little bruised and lacerated 
by these exertions, we felt somewhat encouraged, and soon 
gained the sandy plain. 
Here we dug for water in several different places, but 
 
every where found it salt. While my companions were 
thus occupied, I endeavored, in the hope of finding Water 
or something green, to climb the wall of rocks before as, 
and succeeded in doing so. 
But what was my dismay when, on reaching the desired 
summit, I saw nothing, as far as my eyes could reach, but 
a barren sandy plain, with not even a bush or a green leaf 
to be seen. Fainting with fatigue, I threw myself on the 
ground; after some time I came to myself, and looked 
axound — despair seized me, and I was about to cast myself 
from the rock into the sea, when the recollection of my 
anhapjiy companions, who looked to me for advice and 
encouragement, and of my wife and children, who depen- 
ded upon me for their support, brought me to my senses, 
tnstead of burying myself in the water, I only took a bath 
iu it, which refreshed me exceedingly, and I descended 
►gain to my men with a lighter heart. As they had found 
no water in digging, and had every where struck upon 
rock, they desisted, and we determined to pursue our 
weary wfay. 
It was noon when we all stood before the steep height 
which I had climbed in the morning, and which seemed 
to us, in our exhausted state, perfectly inaccessible ; we 
therefore laid down in the shadow of an overhanging cliff 
to rest and to escape the rays of the sun, which had so 
heated the air that we could hardly breathe. No breath 
of wind was stirring, and a hot mist rose from the damp 
sand. We were so worn out that neither thirst nor our 
sad thoughts could keep our eyos open ; we were bwned 
for two hours in a jdeath-like deep, during which a soft 
 
breeze sprang up from the sea that refreshed us somewhat 
We clambered up the rocks on our hands and knees ; I had 
prepared my companions for the sight of the desert above, 
but the actual prospect of the immense waste so affected 
them, that they involuntarily sank upon the ground, 
crying out, " All is over with us ; here we must breathe 
our last, after such horrible suffering, such superhuman 
exertions; we shall find here neither water nor food, 
neither man nor beast, nothing can exist here." All the 
moisture left in our bodies flowed over at our eyes ; but 
when the salt tears rolled down over our cheeks, we could 
not refrain from catching them upon our fingers, and then 
moistening our tongues, which were now almost as dry as 
tanned leather, so that we could with difficulty articulate 
intelligibly. 
I urgently entreated my despairing comrades to proceed 
flowly a little farther, as we might still find help. The 
soil was very hard and stony, but at last we came upon 
some bitter plants about the size of a man's finger, which 
we dug up with some difficulty with our sticks. They 
were very dry, but tasted well, and we only lamented that 
we had no more of them. Towards evening we discovered 
the traces of camels, with here and there human footsteps, 
and after sunset we noticed the light of a fire not very far 
off. We were once more inspired with hope, but as we 
were utterly unable to take another step, we took up our 
quarters for the night upon a spot where the sand was soft, 
firmly convinced that the next day we should reach some 
human habitation. By sunrise the next morning, we con- 
tinued our journey, and had not gone fiir, before, on 
ascending a sand hill, we saw right before us, on a level 
open place by the sea, a drove of camels and a crowd of 
Arabs, who appeared to be engaged in watering their 
cattle. 
VI. 
As soon as they observed us, a man and two women 
hastened towards us ; I went to meet them with two of 
my men, and bowed myself to the earth before them, 
beseeching their sjmipathy by signs. The man held a 
drawn sabre in his hand, and made as if he would cut me 
down with it, but as I bowed in token of my entire 
submission, he proceeded, without further delay, to tear 
my clothes from my body, while the two women did thf 
same to my companions. In the meantime, about fortj 
Arabs with their wives came up, and stripping the rest of 
my men to the skin, divided us among themselves, giving 
us to understand that we were now their slaves and must 
obey them. We were then led along, or rather, driven 
with sticks to the place where the camels were feeding 
although we were so weary and wretched that we could 
scarcely drag one foot after the other. As I, naked and 
barefoot, could not walk as quickly as the woman who 
was driving us desired, I showed her my mouth, which 
was perfectly dry and quite white. She immediately 
brought a great wooden basin of water, and placing it on 
the ground, made us kneel down around it, and dip our 
heads into it as if we had been camels. I now found out 
how much easier it is to give good advice than to follow 
it; I had often warned my men if they found any water 
 
after their long thirst, not to indulge in it too freely, but 
now I drank huge draughts myself, and suffered torments 
for my indiscretion for the next two days. 
We begged the Arabs for something to eat, but they 
were suffering themselves for want of food and appeared 
to be very sorry that they could not satisfy our hunger. 
They afterwards gave us. some sour camel's milk which 
tasted more deliciously than the greatest delicacies had 
ever done before. 
After our new masters had taken possession of us, on 
the following day the caravan made preparations to con- 
tinue our north-easterly progress through the desert. 
Each of us was mounted, amid the shrill laughter of the 
Komen, on the back of a camel, and advised to hold on by 
the long hair of the hump. The back of the animal upon 
which I was perched, was as sharp as the edge of an oar, 
while his body, distended with water, was so round that 
tny legs stretched out across it, could find no firm hold, and 
I was afraid every moment of slipping off his steep back 
behind. My unfortunate companions fared no better. 
The rough gait of the camels, urged to their utmost speed 
by the women, was like the laboring of a small skiff upon 
a stormy sea, and so violent that the skin of the inner 
side of our legs and feet was soon flayed off, while the 
rest of our bodies was covered with blisters, caused by the 
heat of the sun. Thus sore from head to foot, suffering 
too from hunger and thirst, we rode all day long over the 
level, stony plain. At last the night drew near, and as 
the cool night wind congealed the blood that had liitherto 
flowed from our feet, and rendered our wounds much more 
 
painful, and as the women neither heeded our entreaties to 
be allowed to alight, nor noticed our sufferings, we let our- 
selves down, at great peril, from the backs of the camels 
while they were trotting at full speed, and endeavored to 
persuade the women to give us a drink of water. But 
they were not only deaf to our heart-rending cries, but 
they urged on the camels so that we were obliged to run 
as fast as we could to keep up with them. 
My courage now left me again ; I cursed my unhappy 
fate, and repented that I had not thrown myself into the 
sea rather than have trusted to the mercy of such unfeeling 
wretches. K I could have procured any weapon I should 
have put an end to my life. I even searched for a large 
stone with which to shatter my skill. But at last this fi< 
of madness passed away, and I reflected that my life be- 
longed to the power who had given it, and that in his jus 
tice and mercy he would do with us as seemed to him best 
Quite resigned, and not even heeding the pains that racked 
my frame, I again mounted my camel, and have nevfer since 
broken the resolution that I then formed of never lament- 
ing my fate, whatever it might be, and never losing cour- 
age. With this determination I also endeavored to inspire 
my companions. We had hitherto entreated our guides 
loudly that they would have compassion upon us, and as 
we were silent, they feared to lose us in the darkness of 
night, and saw that we were all well mounted again, 
although they continued to drive the animals forward 
with the same speed, until at midnight we arrived at a 
spot where thety encamped for the night. To shelter our- 
selves from the damp cold night wind, we crowded together 
as doBely aa possible, but in vain did we look for sleep, 
which alone could s(X)tiie our pain, lying as we were, on 
the ground, which was covered with small sharp pointed 
stones. 
After the women had mliked the camels in the night, 
we each received about a pint of fresh milk, which warmed 
us and appeased, in sone measure, our hunger and thirst. 
In the morning wo agecn received a cup full of milk, which 
hardly suSced to moisten our mouths, and were instantly 
ordered to prepare for moving on. I cannot even now 
think without shuddering, of our wretched condition, espe- 
cially as to our feet ; but we rode patiently on and had 
proceeded some miles when wt saw some tents in a small 
hollow, and joined our masters, who had ridden on befora 
The rest of the horde appeared to be collected here, and 
when they heard of the arrival of the straifige men, the 
women came curiously out of their tents to see us. Of 
course, naked and covered with bruises, we could not but 
seem to them wretched and disgusting, a fact of which they 
maae us sufficiently aware by distorting their ugly faces 
and spitting. 
SfX)a after noon the whole caravan was again in motion, 
but towards evening halted again at a small oasis, where 
a considerable number of men was assembled, who ex- 
pressed some sympathy for our sufferings, and induced our 
masters to provide ji tent for us, into which we all crowded, 
not a little rejoiinnl to be again united. In the meantime 
about a hmidred and fifty people, of all ages, collected 
around the tent, and placed themselves in circles of from 
ten to fifteen each, with legs crossed under them, to discuss 
 
as. After a long discussion, an old man approached me, 
and asked me, in very bad Spanish, which he rendered 
Intelligible by signs, what my name was, whence we came, 
and how we had happened to fall into their power. As in 
the course of the conversation he showed himself quite an 
intelligent man, I related to him circumstantially our mis- 
erable story, and. told him that my name was James Eiley, 
and that I was the captain of a North American vessel, 
which had been wrecked upon their coast. He appeared 
to understand perfectly all that I said. I also assured him 
ihat he should receive a large ransom if he would carry 
tie and my men to Morocco, but he shook his head, and 
intimated that Morocco was a great way off, and that no 
food for the camels was to be found on the journey. After 
this conversation he returned to his people, but I did not 
entirely relinquish all hope of regaining our freedom, 
ulthough I endeavored in vain to inspire my companions 
*dth a like trust. 
Day after day we continued our journey with our mas- 
ters in this manner, without reaching the place of our des- 
tination; the dissert always presenting the same appear- 
ance, very like the sea in a dead calm. Gradually the 
provisions and water came to an end, and it may easily be 
conceived that we poor prisoners suffered most severely. 
Often we received nothing during a whole day but a few 
drops of milk, and when we were driven to declare that 
we were too hungry and tired to proceed, they drove us on 
with blows and threats. 
I vainly attempted to work upon the sympathy of the 
women, and obtain a drink of water from them; they 
laughed at and mocked me, and when I continued my 
entreaties, drove me from the shadow of the tent, so that 
I was compelled to lie in the heat of the sun at high noon. 
To add to all this, a great negro slave, belonging to my 
master, a coarse bully of a fellow, undertook to tease us 
in every possible way, calling me "captain," with great 
mock respect. His witticisms pf this kind were greatly 
applauded by my master's family, to please whom he 
exerted himself in this way. Sometimes his jokes were 
cruelly rough, and he even used to poke our wounds with 
a pointed stick, to show the Arabs what miserable crea- 
tures we were, not to be able to endure even the heat of 
the sun. My men determined often to give him a deserved 
chaetiflement for his impudence, but I dissuaded them from 
doing 80, lest we should give our masters a pretext for still 
more rough usage of us. 
As my companions were more exasperated than I at the 
conduct of the negro, they were also more tormented by 
hunger, and resorted to the most horrible means to satisfy 
it. Thus I was once obliged to tie the hands of one 
of the men behind his back, that he might not gnaw his 
own flesh, and another time I discovisred, just at the right 
time, that two of them had enticed a child of four year;
old to some distance from the tents, and were about to kill 
him with a stone and devour him. I rescued him with 
difficulty, as they were burning with a desire for his blood, 
"We will willingly die for it afterwards," they replied to 
my entreaties and representations that we should all be 
murdered cruelly by the Arabs, if they persisted. God be 
praised, I was at last able to convince them that it was 
 
far more manly to die of thirst and hunger than to becoma 
cannibals. 
VII. 
Our affairs were in this wretched condition when, one 
day, two Arabs with several well-laden camels, approached 
our camp. They made their weary beasts kneel down, 
dismounted, and seated themselves opposite my master's 
tent. As the men were absent on a hunting, or rather a 
marauding expedition, the women came out to receive the 
strangers. As soon as the latter observed them, they rose 
and greeted them with the words, " Peace, peace be with 
you !" to which salutation the women replied in the same 
 words, and then went to work and erected a tent for their 
guests, into which they carried their saddles and all their 
baggage ; among this last were two skins of water which 
they brought. 
The strangers remained in the meantime sitting upon 
the ground beside their weapons, for each had a good 
double-barreled gun that shone like silver in the sunlight. 
After finishing their work, the women seated themselves 
beside the men, and asked them, as I gathered from my 
small knowledge of Arabic, which I had been diligently 
attempting to learn, whence they came, how long they had 
been on the way, and what goods they had with them. 
After their curiosity had been satisfied, an old woman, in 
whom I had never before discovered a trace of sympathy 
for us, came to me, and gave m« to understand that Sidi 
Hamet, one of the two strangers, came from the dominions 
of the Sultan of Modcco, and could, if he would, buy 
 
me and cany me where I might return to my wife and 
children. 
As my master would soon return, I went without further 
reflection to the strangers' tent, with a cup in my hand, 
and begged Sidi Hamet, pointing to my parched lips, for 
a little water. He looked at me, and asked if I were the 
captain. I nodded assent, and he then requested his 
brother to give me some water. But as the latter did not 
appear inclined to obey, he took the cup himself, poured 
about a pint of clear crystal water into it, and said, " Drink 
captain !" I greedily emptied half the cup, called down 
Heaven's blessing upon him for his humanity, and turned 
to carry the rest of the water to the tent, where one of 
our sailors lay, worn to a skeleton, suflfering the last cruel 
pangs of hunger and thirst. But Sidi Hamet signified to 
me that I m'jst drink the water myself. Still, when I told 
him as well as I could of the misery of my unfortunate 
companion, he kindly let me go. It was perfectly clear, 
the first good water that we had tasted since we had 
left our boat. It was a luxury indeed ; it gave the poor 
sailor new life, and his sunken eyes flashed in their sock- 
ets. " That is magnificent water," he said, " and must 
,come from a better land than this ; if we were only there, 
and could have a good drink, I might be savedi but now I' 
shall not survive to-morrow." 
In the meantime our masters returned, sat down with 
the strangers and conversed with them until dark, when 
they all withdrew to their tents. For reasons unknown 
to me, I and my companions were not permitted to sleep 
in our tents, but were thrust forth without shelter ?r cov- 
 
ering, into the cold damp night air. About the milking 
time, our master, quite an old man, brought us, not with- 
out some show of anxiety, a pint of milk for each one, 
which was better than any we had ever had before, and 
which saved my poor companion from death. It was the 
first nourishment that our master had given us for three 
days, and I gathered from his attention to us, that he was 
unwilling to lose his property by death, and had hopes of 
selling us to the strangers. That they would buy us all 
I very much doubted ; I therefore determined to use every 
exertion to have the youngest of our sailors, who was 
called Horace Savage, bought with me. He was the son 
of one of my dearest friends, and had been entrusted to 
me, after his father's death, by his mother, to whom I had 
solemnly promised that I would care for him as I would 
my own child. The fulfilment of this promise lay next 
my heart at this moment. 
The following day Sidi Hamet called me to him, made me 
sit down beside him, and began to question me concerning 
my country and my misfortunes, and I rejoiced that I had 
made such progress in Arabic as to be able to make myself 
intelligible to him. I told him that I was the father of 
five children, and that my oldest son, Horace, was with 
me in captivity. I described our shipwreck to him ; our 
horrible sufierings in consequence, and mingled sighs and 
tears, and every expression of love and despair in my nar- 
rative. I had a man of intelligence and feeling before me, 
and although my story could not have been very exact or 
clear, yet he understood me so well that he shed tears, 
contrary to the custom of the Arabs, who consider all 
 
weeping as womanish. Ashamed of his weakness, he said 
at last that bearded men should shed no tears, and drying 
his eyes he rose hastily and left me. 
As I had succeeded in awakening his sympathy, I hoped 
by hberal promises of money, to awaken his avarice also, 
and to persuade him to buy me and my companions and 
carry us out of the deeert, as soon as I met him alone 
again. I proceeded to carry out my plan, and promise him 
a large ransom if he would buy me and my companions 
and carry us to Mqgadore or any other sea-port town in 
Morocco, where Europeans or Americans were to be 
found. 
" I cannot take the othei-s," he said, after some hesita- 
tion, " but how much will you give me if I buy you and 
take you to your friends ?" 
* A hundred dollars," was my reply. 
" Have you money in Mogadore, or do you expect to 
wait there until you can receive some from your own coun- 
try ?" he asked further, by signs and words. 
" My friend in Mogadore," I replied, " will certainly pay 
you if you take me to him." 
After some remarks betraying doubt as to whether I was 
not deceiving him, he said at last, with great solemnity: 
" Well then I will buy you, but if you are deceiving me 
(here he made a very intelligible gesture with his hand) 
I will cut your throat myself — remember." 
In vain did I entreat him to buy Horace also, whom  I 
called my son, nor would he hoar of purchasing any of my 
companions, insisting that it would be impossible to carry 
more than one through the desert. At the close of our 
 
conversation he enjoined it upon me to tell neither his 
brother, my master, or any other Arab, of his intention, 
and then left me. 
