they might reach their home, which was at Newburgh on the Hudson. Mr.
Pembroke was not a wealthy man, though he had the means of supporting
what was left of his family comfortably. But Christy had to ask to be
excused, as the Bronx was but a short distance from the Havana.

He directed Mr. Amblen to stop her, so as to permit the gunboat to
come alongside of her. As the Bronx came within hailing distance of
the steamer towing the schooners, a hearty cheer burst from the crew on
the forecastle of the former, for the prizes alongside of the Havana
indicated the success of the expedition. The sea was smooth, and the
naval steamer came alongside of the port schooner, and Christy, who had
put himself in position to do so as soon as he understood her intention,
sprang lightly on board of her.

Captain Blowitt was on the quarter deck, and the commander of the
expedition hastened into his presence. Of course Christy could not help
realizing that he had been successful, however the circumstances had
aided him, and he felt sure of his welcome.

The commander of the Bronx was a man that weighed two hundred pounds,
and his fat cheeks were immediately distended with laughter as soon as
he saw his executive officer hastening towards him. He almost doubled
himself up in his mirth as he looked into the young man's sober face,
for Christy was struggling to appear as dignified as the importance of
the occasion seemed to require of him. But the commander restrained
himself as much as he could, and extended his hand to the first
lieutenant, which the young man accepted, and received a pressure that
was almost enough to crush his feebler paw. In spite of himself, he
could not help laughing in sympathy with his superior.

"I am sorry you did not bring it all off with you, Mr. Passford," said
Captain Blowitt, as soon as he was able to speak, for his risibles
seemed to have obtained complete control of him.

"I have brought it all off with me, captain," replied Christy, though he
had not yet got at the point of the joke, and spoke at a venture.

"What, the whole State of Florida!" exclaimed the commander.

"No, sir; I did not bring it all off with me, for I did not think it
would be quite safe to do this, for it might set the Gulf Stream to
running in a new course, and derange navigation by making all our charts
useless," replied Christy, smoothing down the muscles of his face so
that he looked as sober as before.

"I thought from the appearance that you had brought it all off," added
Captain Blowitt. "Did I instruct you to bring it off?"

"No, sir; you were considerate enough to say that you did not expect me
to capture the whole State, and therefore I have not done it."

"But we heard heavy guns this morning," continued the commander, putting
on his sober face, for he could be as serious as a judge, though his
adipose structure compelled him to be a great joker at suitable times.
"You had no boat guns."

"No, sir; but we picked up four twelve-pounder field pieces, which you
see, two of them on carriages, on the forecastle of that steamer. We
found the garrison asleep, and we carried off the four guns with which
the battery was mounted. We put them on the Seahorse Key, and went into
the bay to see what was there, sir. We found two schooners, and on the
way we took the steamer. When we were hauling out the two schooners, the
garrison woke up, and attempted to drive us off with musketry. We beat
them off and sunk two boats with the field pieces. This is my report in
brief."

"And a very good report it is, Mr. Passford. I did not expect you to do
anything more than bring off full information in regard to the situation
at the port," added Captain Blowitt.

"But you ordered me to do anything I could to prepare the way for a
visit from the Bronx," suggested Christy.

"And you have prepared the way by bringing off everything at the port,
so that there is nothing for the Bronx to do there," said the commander
with a smile.

"When I found that the garrison were all asleep, I thought it was
my duty not to lose the opportunity that was thus presented to me.
Everything was in our favor, and I was led to do one thing after another
till there was nothing more to do. I found that Captain Lonley, the
worthy gentleman who had made prisoners of Mr. Flint and myself on Santa
Rosa Island, was in command of the steamer. He was not glad to see me;
and from him I learned that the Havana, which is her name, belonged to
my uncle Homer; and so did the schooners."

"Then your uncle has a heavy charge against you, for you have now taken
four of his vessels."

"Possibly the Confederate government is behind him in this operation.
I don't know; but I am sure that the loss of every dollar he has in the
world would not change his views in regard to the justice of his cause.
But, Captain Blowitt, there are on board of the Havana a gentleman and
his daughter, who reside in Newburgh. He is an invalid and a loyal
citizen," continued Christy, as he happened to see Miss Pembroke on the
quarter deck of the steamer.

"They wish to go home, I suppose, and there will soon be an opportunity
for them to do so," replied the captain, as he went with his lieutenant
to take a look at the prizes.

He gave particular attention to the Havana, which it was said had been
built to run between Cedar Keys and the port for which she had been
named, in connection with the railroad. She appeared to be a good vessel
of about four hundred tons, which was as large as the navigation of the
channel to the port would permit. She was not fit for war purposes in
her present condition, and Captain Blowitt decided to send her to New
York. Most of the hands on board of the three prizes were negroes, who
were too happy to go to the North.

"Sail, ho!" shouted the lookout on board of the Bronx, while the
commander was still discussing his plans with Christy.

"Where away?" demanded the captain.

"Coming down from the northwest," reported a quartermaster.

Captain Blowitt hastened on board of the Bronx, for it did not yet
appear whether the vessel was a friend or an enemy. She was a steamer,
and she left a thin streak of black smoke in the sky, which indicated
that her coal came from British territory.

The Havana and the schooners were left in charge of Mr. Amblen, after
the prisoners had been properly disposed of in safe places. Mr. Spinnet,
the second assistant engineer, was sent on board of her, for the
commander had not full confidence in Dolly, though he permitted him to
remain as assistant. The boats used by the expedition were hoisted up to
the davits, and the first and second lieutenants were ordered to return
to the Bronx, and only six seamen were left on board to guard the
prisoners, of whom Lonley was the only dangerous one, at all likely to
make trouble.

The Bronx steamed off at her best speed in the direction of the
approaching steamer, which appeared to be fast, and to be of that
peculiarly rakish class of vessels of which there were so many engaged
in the business of blockade running. She was examined by the officers
with their glasses; but they were unable to make her out. Her ensign was
set on a stern pole; but they could not see whether it was the American
or the Confederate flag.

"What do you make of her, Mr. Passford?" asked the captain, as they
watched her advance over the smooth sea.

"She is or has been a blockade runner, and that is all I can make out of
her," replied Christy.

"She may have run the blockade, fitted in Mobile or some other port as a
cruiser, and come out to do what mischief she can. We may have to fight
for our prizes, but the splinters will fly before she gets them away
from us," said Captain Blowitt, who watched the steamer with an anxious
look on his face, resolute as he was in the discharge of his duty. "She
is considerably larger than the Bronx."

"As I make her out, she looks something like the Ocklockonee and the
Escambia, which we sent to New York, though they had but one smokestack
each while this one has two. They were about five hundred tons; and I
should think this vessel was of very nearly the same size," added
Christy.

"Flies the American flag, sir," reported a quartermaster who had been
sent into the main rigging to observe her.

"That may be a trick," said the captain, "though I hardly think it is,
for she is larger than the Bronx, and need not resort to tricks."

A little later, she began to hoist her signals on the foremast where
they could be plainly seen. Mr. Flint made them out to the effect that
the steamer had orders for the Bronx. This settled the question, and
there was no more anxiety in regard to her, and there was to be no sea
fight for the possession of the prizes.

In less than half an hour the two steamers were within hailing distance
of each other, and the stranger sent off a boat with an officer as soon
as both vessels had stopped their screws and lost their headway. As
Christy watched the approaching boat, he recognized the chief engineer
of the Bellevite in the stern sheets. It was Paul Vapoor, his old
friend and crony, who waved his cap as soon as he discovered the
first lieutenant. The boat came to the side, and Paul mounted the
accommodation ladder. He was a demonstrative young man, and he embraced
Christy as though he had been a Frenchman, as soon as he reached the
deck. He touched his cap to Captain Blowitt, and then delivered several
huge envelopes to him, and also a despatch bag.

"Bearer of despatches, sir," said the chief engineer of the Bellevite.

"I see you are, Mr. Vapoor. If you will make yourself at home on board
of the Bronx, I will read these papers in my cabin," said the captain,
as he went below.

"I think Mr. Passford and I shall not waste any time while you are
engaged, captain," replied Mr. Vapoor.

Certain personal and social matters had to be spoken of, and Paul had
to ask about Florry Passford first, and Christy's father and mother
afterwards, though there was no news to tell.

"What are those vessels off there, Christy?" asked Paul, pointing to the
Havana and the schooners.

"They are our prizes," replied the first lieutenant.

"Did you have to fight for them?"

"A little, not much. What steamer is that in which you came, Paul?"

"Our prize," replied Paul, with a smile as though he knew more than he
was permitted to tell. "We had an awful fight to get her; but we got her
all the same. Poor Mr. Dashington was badly wounded, and he may not get
over it."

"I am sorry to hear that. Where was the fight?" asked Christy.

"About a hundred miles off the entrance to Mobile Bay. We were sent to
look out for her on account of our speed. She came out, and seemed to
think she was going to have her own way. We overhauled her, and captured
her by boarding."

"Captain Blowitt wishes to see Lieutenant Passford and Mr. Vapoor in his
cabin," said Dave, coming up to them at this moment; and both of them
hastened to obey the summons.

"Take seats, gentlemen," said the commander, as he pointed to chairs
at the table at which he was seated. "I am ordered back to the Bellevite
as first lieutenant, for poor Dashington has been seriously wounded.
Mr. Passford is ordered to New York in the Vixen, which brings these
despatches, for she must be condemned. Mr. Flint is ordered to the
temporary command of the Bronx, though I am unable to understand why it
is made temporary. You are to convoy several vessels at Key West in the
Vixen, which is fully armed, and has a sufficient crew."

Christy was never more astonished in all his life.




CHAPTER XXIX

THE NEW COMMANDER OF THE VIXEN


"Have I done anything to offend the flag-officer, or has he no
confidence in me?" asked Christy, who heard in utter surprise that he
was ordered to New York in command of the Vixen.

"Certainly not, Mr. Passford," replied Captain Blowitt, with a
deprecatory smile which was almost enough to satisfy the young officer.
"What could have put such an idea as that into your head?"

"It looked to me just as though I was sent away simply as a prize-master
because my services were not needed down here where there is fighting,
and is likely to be a great deal more of it," added Christy, not yet
quite satisfied. "Perhaps I am banished for the crime of audacity."

"That is a little too bad, Christy," said the commander, shaking his
head. "I promised not to use that word again, and you ought not to twit
me for it, for it was only a pleasantry on my part."

"It was the farthest thing in the world from my mind to twit you for the
word; I was only afraid that they considered me an imprudent officer on
board of the flagship. I beg your pardon, Captain Blowitt, and I will
never again remind you of the conversation we had on the subject of
audacity," answered Christy, rising from his chair and taking the
commander by the hand.

"It is all right, Christy, my dear fellow," replied the captain, coming
down from the dignified manner of the navy. "I think we understand each
other perfectly, and I don't wish to part with the shadow of a shadow
between us. We have sailed together too long to be anything but the best
of friends; and the fate of poor Dashington reminds me that we may never
meet again in this world."

"Whatever you say and whatever you do, Captain Blowitt, we can never
be anything but the best of friends, and, so far as you are concerned,
I never had an instant of doubt or suspicion."

"Now, Christy," interposed Paul Vapoor, "you entirely mistake the motive
which has led to your appointment to the Vixen, for I happen to know
something about it. You are not sent simply as a prize-master to New
York, but you are put in temporary command of the Vixen because an able,
vigilant, courageous officer was required."

"Then I wonder all the more that I was selected," added Christy.

"You wonder!" exclaimed Paul, looking intently into the brown face of
the young officer, apparently to discover if there was not some
affectation in this manifestation of modesty.

There was nothing like affectation in the composition of Christy
Passford, and whatever he had done to distinguish himself, he had done
strictly in the line of his duty, and from the purest of patriotic
motives. It was the most difficult thing in the world to make him
believe that he had done "a big thing," though all others on board
of his ship believed it with all their might. Paul Vapoor knew what
everybody thought of his friend, and he was surprised that he should be
so innocent and ignorant of the great reputation he had won.

"I do wonder," replied Christy, earnestly and honestly. "I believe I
am about the youngest officer in the fleet, and if this service requires
an able officer, it seems very strange to me that I should have been
selected."

"Captain Breaker was consulted in regard to you, though he was not asked
to name a commander, for the flag-officer had thought of you himself,
and no doubt he had just been reading your report of your voyage to the
Gulf in the Bronx," said Paul, laughing. "I don't see how he could do
otherwise than select you, Christy."

"You are chaffing me, Paul, as you do sometimes," said Christy with a
smile.

"Then the expression of my honest opinion, which is also the opinion
of every other officer in the ship, is chaffing you," retorted the
engineer.

"I am satisfied; and I am sorry I said a word," added the subject of all
these remarks.

"It is a very important and responsible situation to which you are
ordered, Mr. Passford," said Captain Blowitt, putting on his dignity
again. "Not a few steamers fitted up in part for service as Confederate
men-of-war, in spite of neutrality treaties, are expected on the coast.
You have diminished the number by two, and I hope you will be able to
make a still further reduction of that fleet. We have three vessels to
send on for condemnation, and your orders will inform you that there
are several others, including another steamer, at Key West; and a
Confederate armed steamer could easily recapture the whole of them. You
will have to protect a fleet of at least seven vessels; and this command
ought to satisfy your ambition. You will also have charge of a despatch
bag, to be forwarded to Washington at once; and this must not fall into
the hands of the enemy. Sink or burn it if you are captured."

"I don't intend to be captured," added Christy with a smile.

"I remember that you were taken by the enemy on one occasion, and
misfortunes may come to the best of officers. You must get ready to sail
at once; but you must write your report of your expedition before you
leave," added Captain Blowitt, as he rose from his chair, and the trio
left the cabin.

Christy gaped several times during the latter part of the interview, for
he had not slept a wink during the preceding night. He went to the ward
room and began to write his report, while the Bronx and the Vixen
proceeded towards the three vessels which had been captured. It was well
that they did so, for as they approached the Havana and her consorts
they discovered quite a fleet of boats coming out from behind the
Seahorse Key, evidently intending to recapture the prizes in the absence
of the gunboat. They retired at once as she approached.

Christy was a rapid writer, and his report was soon finished, for the
subject was still very fresh in his mind, and he never attempted to
do any "fine writing." He had packed his valises, and he took an
affectionate farewell of the captain, Flint, and Sampson, as well as the
ship's company in a more general way, though he said he expected to be
back again in a few weeks. The Vixen's boat was waiting for him, and he
embarked in it with Paul Vapoor. In a few minutes he ascended to the
deck of the steamer, and the side was manned at his appearance. He was
presented to the officers of the ship by the engineer, and all three of
them were older men than Christy, though he was their senior in rank,
for his commission had been dated back to his enlistment in the navy.

Every one of the officers was a stranger to Christy, though there were a
few men who had served in the Bellevite, but not in her original crew.
With the customary proceedings he took command of the Vixen, and he
found from sundry remarks made to him or dropped in his hearing that his
reputation was already established on board. He directed the executive
officer to follow the Bronx. In a short time the screw was stopped in
the vicinity of the prizes. The Bronx reclaimed the men left on board of
the Havana, and Captain Lonley was sent on board of the Vixen.

Christy had been down into his cabin, and taken a hasty glance at the
ward room. In addition to his own apartments like those on board of the
Bronx, though they were larger, he found a state room opening from the
foot of the companion way, and another from the passage way leading to
his principal cabin. These two rooms he appropriated to the use of Mr.
Pembroke and his daughter, though they were very well provided for on
board of the Havana. They were invited on board, and gratefully accepted
the accommodations tendered to them.

Mr. Amblen was to retain the place assigned to him as prize-master, and
two competent men were found to take charge of the schooners. All the
arrangements were completed in a couple of hours, and the prizes of the
Bronx were started at once. The negroes were employed in transferring
the deckload of the Havana to the holds of the schooners, which were not
quite full.

The engineer of the Bellevite was to return to her in the Bronx, and he
shook hands at parting with Christy, giving him a letter to Miss Florry
Passford; and even her brother could not help seeing that he was greatly
interested in her. Three rousing cheers went up from the Bronx as the
screw of the Vixen began to turn, and she started on her voyage.

The new commander, though he was very sleepy, gave his first moments
to an examination of the vessel. The carpenter and his gang were still
engaged in repairing the damage done to her in the engagement with the
Bellevite. She was about the size of the two steamers captured by the
Bronx, and coming out of the small steamer, she seemed quite large.
She carried a midship gun of heavy calibre, and four broadside pieces.
She had a crew of sixty men, besides those employed in the engineer's
department, selected from the fleet, for the mission of the steamer was
regarded as a very important one.

"Your machine looks well, Mr. Caulbolt," said Christy, as he went to the
engine room in making his round with the executive officer.

"I fancy it is as good as can be built on the other side of the water,"
replied the chief engineer.

"Do you know anything in regard to the speed of the Vixen, for that may
be a very important matter with us?" asked the commander.

"I do not know very much yet, sir, but I think she is a fast steamer.
Mr. Vapoor told me that the Bellevite made twenty-two knots in chasing
her, and that no other vessel in the navy could have overhauled her.
He gave me the figures," added Mr. Caulbolt, taking a paper from his
pocket. "I think she is good for eighteen knots when driven hard."

"I dare say that will do," replied Christy, finishing his examination
and retiring to his cabin.

He found Mr. Pembroke and his daughter there. The young lady presented
him to her father, who appeared to be about fifty years of age. He was
very gentlemanly in his manners, and thanked the captain heartily for
the courtesy and kindness with which he had been treated. Later in the
voyage he learned that Mr. Pembroke's wife and son had been killed some
years before in a railroad accident, and that the money recovered from
the corporation was about his only fortune. Miss Bertha, as her father
called her, had been educated to become a teacher, but when his health
failed, she had devoted herself wholly to him. They had gone to Georgia
just before the war, and had lived in the pine woods nearly two years.

"My health is very much improved, and the genial climate just suited my
case; but in the present situation, I had rather die at home than live
in the South," said the invalid in conclusion.

"Father is ever so much better than when we came to Georgia," added
Bertha.

Christy looked at her, and he had never seen a young lady before who
made such a decided impression upon him. Of course the reason for this
was that she was so dutiful and devoted to her sick father, for not
every young and beautiful maiden would have been so entirely unselfish
as she was. The commander could not help looking at her till he made her
blush by the intensity of his gaze, and after all, it is possible that
Christy was as human as other young men of his age. He had never been so
affected before, and he hardly knew what to make of it; but he concluded
that it was not because she was so pretty, but because she was so good,
and so devoted to her father.

In due time the Vixen and her convoy reached Key West. He found only two
schooners and a steamer, all loaded with cotton, awaiting his coming,
for two others had been sent with another steamer. Christy went on board
of them, and as the sea was smooth, he arranged them as he had the
others, though tow lines were ready in case of need, and the fleet
sailed for the North.




CHAPTER XXX

THE ACTION WITH A PRIVATEER STEAMER


Christy had made up his lost sleep. On the first day out he had taken
Captain Lonley's word that he would not interfere with anything on
board, and had then given him a berth in the ward room, where he messed
with the officers. Captain Rowly had also been taken on board, and as he
was a captain in the Confederate army, innocent as he was, he demanded
similar accommodations. His request was granted, but Christy decided to
leave him at Key West, for the ward room was full.

The fleet continued on its voyage after the call at the Florida port,
and was soon in the Gulf Stream. It was an exceedingly quiet time in the
little fleet of vessels, though the drill on board of the Vixen was
closely followed up. On the second day they had a mild gale, and the
schooners were cast off, and towed astern, one behind the other.

Then the weather was fine again, though the sea was still too rough for
the Havana and the Aleppo to tow the prizes alongside. Christy observed
the drill a great deal of the time, and Bertha Pembroke was often his
companion. He told her all about vessels in the navy, explained actions
at sea, but hoped she would not be permitted to see one.

Then he related to her the experience of the Bellevite as a yacht and
as a naval vessel, and no one ever had a more attentive listener.
He could not conceal it from himself that he was deeply interested in
the young lady, and observers would have said that she was not less
interested in him. On the fifth day out from Key West, while they were
thus agreeably occupied, there was a hail from the fore rigging.

"Sail, ho!" shouted the lookout on the fore crosstrees, where the
prudence of the commander required a hand to be stationed at all times,
day and night.

"Where away?" called Scopfield, the third lieutenant, who was the
officer of the deck.

"Broad on the starboard bow," replied the lookout.

"Can you make it out?"

"A steamer, sir; black smoke behind her," responded the lookout.

Mr. Fillbrook had joined the third lieutenant by this time, and the
former reported to the captain. Christy had heard all that had passed,
and he immediately began to feel a heavy anxiety in regard to the sail.

"What do you think of her, Mr. Fillbrook?" he asked, after the executive
officer had reported to him.

"There are so many steamers coming over from British ports about this
time, bound to Confederate ports, that it is not very difficult to guess
what she is," replied the first lieutenant. "She is either a blockade
runner, or a steamer fitted out to prey upon the commerce of the United
States."

"That seems to be plain enough; and from the position in which we find
her, she has come out of the Bermudas, or is bound there," added the
commander. "Bring my glass from my state room," he continued to his
cabin steward, who was sunning himself on the deck.

When it was brought, the captain and the executive officer went forward
and mounted the top-gallant forecastle. Mr. Fillbrook procured a glass
from the pilot house, and both of them looked long and earnestly at the
speck in the distance. The steamer was hull down, and they soon agreed
that she was bound to the eastward.

"We have no business with her at present," said Christy, as he shut up
his glass.

"But I have no doubt she has already run the blockade, and came out of
Wilmington or Savannah. If that is the case, she must be loaded with
cotton, which contains a fortune at the present time within a small
compass," replied Mr. Fillbrook, who had not been as fortunate as some
others in the matter of prizes.

"Very likely," replied Christy, rather coldly, his companion thought.
"I do not think I should be justified in giving chase to her, which
could only be done by abandoning the convoy."

"Could we not pick up the convoy after we had captured the steamer?"
asked the first lieutenant.

"Yes, if some Confederate cruiser does not pick it up in our absence,"
replied Christy, with a significant smile.

Mr. Fillbrook was evidently very much disappointed, not to say
disgusted, with the decision of Captain Passford; but he was too good an
officer to make a complaint, or utter a comment. The ship's company had
become somewhat excited when it was announced that a sail, with black
smoke painting a long streak on the blue sky, was made out. If it was a
blockade runner, with a cargo of cotton, it meant a small fortune to
each officer, seaman, and others on board.

The new commander had a reputation as a daring leader, and the hopes of
the officers and men ran high. They waited eagerly to have the steamer
headed to the eastward; but no such order was given, and the chins of
all hands began to drop down.

Christy had no interest in the money value of a prize, and yet he could
understand the feeling of his ship's company. He was an heir of a
millionaire, and he had no occasion to trouble his head about the
profits of a capture. He looked at the question from a purely patriotic
point of view, and every prize secured was so much taken from the
resources of the enemy.

He saw the disappointment painted on the face of the first lieutenant,
and he went to his cabin to consider his duty again, and review the
reasoning that had influenced him; but he came to the conclusion he had
reached in the beginning. He was in charge of six vessels loaded with
cotton, and the ship's company of the Bronx and other vessels had an
interest in their cargoes. The Vixen was less than a hundred and fifty
miles from the coast, and a tug boat, with a bow gun and a crew of
twenty-five, could come out and capture the whole fleet without the
least difficulty. The risk was too great, and the commander was as firm
as a rock.

The next morning, before it was daylight, Mr. Bangs the second
lieutenant, who had the mid watch, sent a messenger to the commander
to inform him that a sail was made out, which appeared to be a steamer,
on the starboard bow, very broad, nearly on the beam. Christy dressed
himself in a great hurry, and hastened on deck. It was beginning to be a
little light, and the steamer appeared to be about five miles to the
eastward of the Vixen, and was headed towards her.

Christy at once concluded that the vessel meant mischief, and he
promptly gave the order to beat to quarters. He thought it must be the
steamer seen the day before, as she could hardly be a blockade runner
for the reason that she was headed towards the fleet. If she desired to
break through the blockading squadron, she would be likely to keep as
far as possible from anything that might be an armed vessel.

Christy went to his state room to write an order for Mr. Amblen in the
Havana, which was hardly a cable's length from the Vixen on the port
side, the Aleppo being ahead of her. He had already given his general
orders to the prize masters, but this was a special one. In the cabin he
found Bertha, who had been awakened by the tramping of the men on deck.

"Pray what is the matter, Captain Passford?" she asked, evidently
somewhat alarmed.

"Nothing is the matter yet, Miss Pembroke, but something may be the
matter within an hour or two, for there is a sail making for us,"
replied Christy with the smile he always wore when she spoke to him, or
he to her. "In other words there may be an action, for I must defend my
convoy."

"Is there any danger?" she inquired.

"Of course there is, for a shot may come through the side of the ship
anywhere and at any time. But I have thought of this matter, and I
propose to put you and your father on board of the Havana until after
the danger is passed. Be kind enough to get ready as soon as possible."

Christy wrote his order, and hastened on deck with it. Hailing the
Havana, he ordered the prize-master to send a boat on board. When it
came the two passengers were embarked in it and the order sent. The
commander did not wait a moment to watch the receding form of the
maiden, but immediately directed his attention to the steamer
approaching the Vixen.

"Run for that steamer, Mr. Fillbrook," said he, after his first glance.

"Make the course east by north, Mr. Bangs," added the first lieutenant.

"East by north," repeated the quartermaster at the wheel when the order
reached him.

"I have just been aloft, and she flies the Confederate flag, Captain
Passford," said Mr. Fillbrook. "She is a large steamer, and she is by no
means as jaunty as the Vixen."

Both steamers were going at full speed, and it required but a short time
to bring them near enough together for something to happen. She was well
down in the water, and appeared as though she might be loaded with
something besides the appliances of a man-of-war. She looked as though
she might be twice as large as the Vixen, and it was soon evident that
her speed was nothing to boast of. She certainly was not one of the
high-flyer yachts which had been bought up for service in the
Confederate navy.

When the two vessels were not more than a mile apart, a column of smoke
rose from her waist, as she swung around so that her great gun could be
brought to bear, and a shot dropped into the water at least an eighth of
a mile short of the Vixen.

"Thank you, sir!" exclaimed Christy. "Half speed, if you please, Mr.
Fillbrook."

The commander went to the long English gun in the waist, to which he had
already given a great deal of study, and sighted along the heavy piece.
He had not forgotten when he pointed the gun on board of the Bellevite,
the shot from which had disabled the Vampire, and he had some confidence
in his ability to put a shot where he wished it to go, for he had
brought all his mathematics and all his physics to bear on the matter,
though the best gunners must sometimes fail. When he was ready he gave
the word to fire. The ship was shaken by the heavy report, and every one
waited with peculiar interest for the smoke to clear away, because the
captain had pointed the gun.

Christy had ordered the screw to be stopped, and had waited till the
steamer lost her headway. She rolled but slightly, and he had allowed
for everything. Glasses were in demand, and a moment later there was a
shout went up from the men at the gun, followed by another from the rest
of the crew. The shot had upset the great gun on the deck of the enemy.
She was swinging round, and beginning to fire her broadside guns, but
the shots came nowhere near the Vixen. Christy did not believe there was
any naval officer on board of that steamer.

"Keep up the fire with the long gun, Mr. Fillbrook," said the commander,
in a low tone, and with no excitement apparent in his manner, for he
always studied and labored to appear cool and self-possessed, whether he
was so or not, and there was nothing in the present situation to try him
in the least.

For a full hour the long gun of the Vixen continued to pelt the enemy
with solid shot, about every one of them hulling her or carrying away
some of her spars. Her mainmast had gone by the board, and the
resistance she was making was becoming very feeble.

"She is full of men, Captain Passford," said Mr. Fillbrook, when the
steamer seemed to be almost a wreck.

"I observed that she had a large crew some time ago, and it is better to
knock her to pieces than to board her," replied Christy. "Keep her as
far off as she is now."

The enemy tried to get nearer to the Vixen, but failed to do so.




CHAPTER XXXI

A SHORT VISIT TO BONNYDALE


The firing was continued from the long gun, though only at intervals
that would permit any signals to be seen on board of the enemy. When it
looked as though there would soon be nothing left of her, she hauled
down the Confederate flag at her fore, where she had hoisted it when the
mainmast went over. The order to go ahead was given, and in a short time
the Vixen was alongside of her.

"Do you surrender?" asked Christy, mounting the rail of his ship.

"We do; there is not much left of the steamer, and I am not justified
in throwing away the lives of my men," replied a very spruce-looking
officer.

"You will board her, Mr. Fillbrook, with the first division, and take
possession of her," said Christy, when he had received the captain's
answer. "Ascertain her condition as soon as possible."

The steamer proved to be the Pedee, formerly the Carnfield, Captain
Linden. She had run the blockade with a valuable cargo, which more than
paid the cost of the vessel, and was then loaded with cotton, and armed
for her own protection, as well as to capture anything that fell in her
way. She had a crew of eighty men to do her fighting, and the commander
confidently expected to pick up a better steamer than the Pedee, to
which the greater portion of the ship's company were to be transferred.

"I saw your steamer yesterday afternoon," said the captain; "but she had
several other vessels near her, and I thought she might have a whole
blockading squadron with her. I kept off, and put about in the night.
When I saw the Vixen early this morning, I thought she would just answer
my purpose, and I wanted her. A nearer view of her assures me she is
exactly the steamer I needed."

"For your sake, captain, I am sorry I cannot accommodate you," replied
Christy, laughing at the cheerful expressions of Captain Linden.
"I presume you are an officer of the Confederate Navy?"

"No, sir; I am not; but I am a Confederate to the backbone. It was my
intention to set up a navy on my own hook. The Pedee was the first
vessel, and I intended that the Vixen should be the second, and become
my flag-ship."

"Then you came out as a privateer?"

"That's just the color of it. If you hadn't unhorsed my big gun I should
have been as polite to you about this time as you are to me. The fact of
it is, Captain Passford, you did not manage your ship just right."

"Indeed? In what respect?" asked Christy.

"Well, you see, you knocked my big gun all to pieces, and then, instead
of running down and boarding the Pedee, you stood off out of range of my
side guns, and knocked the starch all out of us. If you had only boarded
us, I could have whipped you out of your boots, for I have got the
greatest crowd of fighting dogs that was ever hitched up together."

"Of course I was not aware of your views in regard to the manner in
which I ought to have managed the affair on my own part, and therefore I
could not handle my ship just as you desired," replied Christy. "As it
is, I am afraid you will have to start your navy over again."

Mr. Fillbrook had by this time driven the "fighting dogs" forward, and
taken full possession of the prize. On examination, Christy found that,
though the Pedee had been terribly battered in her upper works, she was
not materially injured below the water line. He sent for Mr. Caulbolt,
and required him to inspect the engine, which was not injured in any
important part.

Captain Linden had three times attempted to get nearer to the Vixen with
the intention of boarding her, but Christy preferred to fight the battle
at long range under the circumstances, and he had preserved his distance
from the enemy. He had discovered that she had a large crew, and he was
vastly more prudent than most of his critics gave him the credit of
being. He was surprised, after examining the Pedee, that the captain had
hauled down his flag, for the steamer could have stood a good deal more
pounding without being used up. He concluded that Captain Linden was
full of fight, but, for the want of a naval education, he had not fully
comprehended his situation.

It was deemed advisable to transfer one half of the Pedee's crew of
"fighting dogs" to the Vixen, as she was not encumbered with any
prisoners to speak of, and this was effected without any delay. Mr.
Scopfield, the third lieutenant, was appointed prize-master, and
instructed to keep as near as practicable to the Vixen on the voyage.
Captain Linden and his principal officers were allowed to remain on
board. An assistant engineer and two first-class firemen, on their way
to New York for examination and promotion, were sent on board of the
prize. The two steamers were soon under way, and then it was ascertained
that the Pedee's ordinary rate of sailing did not exceed ten knots, and
it was not probable that she would be bought into the navy.

The fleet of prize vessels had continued on its course to the north, and
was soon overhauled by the Vixen and her capture. The progress of the
fleet was very slow, for the Aleppo, which was said to have a speed of
ten knots, did very badly towing two steamers. Mr. Pembroke and Bertha
were sent on board of the Vixen, and the young lady blushed beautifully
when Christy welcomed her return.

Possibly she had feared he might be killed in the action, and had
worried about him till his return in safety, with the prize alongside
his ship. Her father was very cordial in his congratulations to the
young commander, and even said that he and his daughter had prayed that
he might not be killed or injured in the conflict; and Bertha blushed
all the more when he said it.

Mr. Scopfield was instructed to take one of the schooners of the Aleppo
in tow. Five men had been killed on board of the Pedee, and her surgeon
had more than he could do with at least twenty wounded men. Dr. Appleton
was sent on board of her to assist him. The fleet thus reorganized got
under way, and it was found that the log gave better results after the
change. Fortunately no enemy interfered with its progress, for Christy
felt that his hands were already full.

In the early days of the month of May, he sailed into New York harbor
with his fleet of eight vessels, though only three of them were the
prizes of the Bronx. He had been absent hardly a month; though he had
something to show for the time he had been employed. The vessels were
delivered over to the authorities, and the young commander obtained
leave of absence to visit his mother and sister at Bonnydale, for his
father came on board of the Vixen as soon as he heard the news of her
arrival in command of his son.

Captain Passford, Senior, was conducted to the cabin of Captain
Passford, Junior, and the meeting of father and son was very
affectionate and very demonstrative. Mr. Pembroke and his daughter
were presented to the commander's father, and after they had talked over
the incidents of the return voyage, the former owner of the Bellevite
suspected that relations were altogether pleasant between Christy and
Bertha.

He was greatly pleased with the young lady, and whatever else he
thought, he could not very well help indorsing his son's good taste. In
the course of the subsequent conversation it appeared that Mr. Pembroke
owned a small house at Newburgh, but that the occupant of it had a
three-years' lease of the premises. Captain Passford immediately
extended an invitation to the invalid and his daughter to visit
Bonnydale, which became so pressing that it was finally accepted. In the
afternoon the entire party took the train for the home of the captain.

Christy's welcome was as hearty as though he had come home a commodore.
The visitors were received with a sincere greeting, and Bertha and
Florry were soon fast friends. Even if Christy's father had not dropped
a hint to Mrs. Passford in regard to the fact that his son was at least
tenderly inclined towards the lovely maiden from the South she could not
have failed to notice his attentions to her. Later at night his father
and mother had a long talk over the matter.

"Christy, I have a couple of envelopes for you," said Captain Passford,
as the party seated themselves in the drawing-room after supper.

"Envelopes, father?" asked the young officer curiously. "Base ball or
boat-club business?"

"I should say neither; decidedly not," replied his father, taking the
documents from his pocket, and handing them to him. "They have an
official look, and bear the imprint of the Navy Department."

"What business can the Navy Department have with me now? I have the
honor to be the executive officer of the gunboat Bronx, with the rank of
master, on detached duty as prize-master," added Christy, as he looked
at the ponderous envelopes.

"You can easily answer that question by reading the papers," replied his
father.

"A commission!" exclaimed Christy, as he opened the first one. "I am
promoted to the rank of lieutenant!"

"And, though you are my son, I must say that you deserve the promotion,"
added Captain Passford. "I have read your report of the capture of the
Ocklockonee and the Escambia, and you have won your spurs, my son. I did
not ask for this promotion, or even suggest it to any one."

"Well, I am astonished, confounded, overwhelmed!" exclaimed the young
lieutenant, as we are now permitted to call him. "And the commission is
dated back far enough to put me over the heads of not a few others of
the same rank."

"Perhaps it will please you quite as much when I inform you that the
officers you recommended for appointment as masters have been promoted
to that rank," added the captain.

"I am even more pleased at their promotion than at my own," replied
Christy, opening the other envelope, in which he was addressed as
"Lieutenant Christopher Passford." "Ah, ha!" he exclaimed, leaping out
of his chair in his excitement, to which he gave way on such an occasion
as the present.

"What in the world is the matter with you, Christy?" demanded his
mother, astonished at such an unusual demonstration on the part of her
son.

"I am appointed to the command of the Bronx, in place of Lieutenant
Blowitt, transferred to the Bellevite!" almost shouted the young
officer. "If I could have selected a position for myself, this is the
very one I should have chosen."

"I heard you say as much as that when you were appointed to the
temporary command of the Bronx, and I shall plead guilty of having
inserted a hint where it would do the most good," added Captain
Passford.

"I am much obliged to you, father; for I don't object to that kind of
influence, though I could have commanded the Bronx just as well as a
