Abstract. If I could do that, and it succeeded, the riddle would be
read for me."

"What do you mean?"

"I mean that I should have a handsome income, and could give up
newspaper work altogether."

"Could you? How glorious!" said Louise, with the sort of maternal
sympathy she permitted herself to feel for the sick youth. "How much
would you get for your play?"

"If it was only reasonably successful, it would be worth five or six
thousand dollars a year."

"And is that a handsome income?" she asked, with mounting earnestness.

He pulled himself up in the hammock to get her face fully in view, and
asked, "How much do you think I've been able to average up to this
time?"

"I don't know. I'm afraid I don't know at all about such things. But I
should like to."

Maxwell let himself drop back into the hammock. "I think I won't
humiliate myself by giving the figures. I'd better leave it to your
imagination. You'll be sure to make it enough."

"Why should you be ashamed of it, if it's ever so little?" she asked.
"But I know. It's your pride. It's like Sue Northwick wanting to give
up all her property because her father wrote that letter, and said he
had used the company's money. And Matt says it isn't his property at
all, and the company has no right to it. If she gives it up, she and her
sister will have nothing to live on. And they won't let themselves be
helped--any more than--than--you will!"

"No. We began with that; people who need help can't let you help them.
Don't they know where their father is?"

"No. But of course they must, now, before long."

Maxwell said, after the silence that followed upon this. "I should like
to have a peep into that man's soul."

"Horrors! Why should you?" asked Louise.

"It would be such splendid material. If he is fond of his children--"

"He and Sue dote upon each other. I don't see how she can endure him; he
always made me feel creepy."

"Then he must have written that letter to conciliate public feeling, and
to make his children easier about him and his future. And now if you
could see him when he realizes that he's only brought more shame on
them, and forced them to beggar themselves--it would be a tremendous
situation."

"But I shouldn't like to see him at such a time. It seems to me,
that's worse than interviewing, Mr. Maxwell."

There was a sort of recoil from him in her tone, which perhaps he felt.
It seemed to interest, rather than offend him. "You don't get the
artistic point of view."

"I don't want to get it, if that's it. And if your play is going to be
about any such thing as that--"

"It isn't," said Maxwell. "I failed on that. I shall try a comic
motive."

"Oh!" said Louise, in the concessive tone people use, when they do not
know but they have wronged some one. She spiritually came back to him,
but materially she rose to go away and leave him. She stooped for the
letter he had dropped out of the hammock and gave it him. "Don't you
want this?"

"Oh, thank you! I'd forgotten it." He glanced at the superscription,
"It's from Pinney. You ought to know Pinney, Miss Hilary, if you want
the true artistic point of view."

"Is he a literary man?"

"Pinney? Did you read the account of the defalcation in the
Events--when it first came out? All illustrations?"

"That? I don't wonder you didn't care to read his letter! Or perhaps
he's your friend--"

"Pinney's everybody's friend," said Maxwell, with an odd sort of relish.
"He's delightful. I should like to do Pinney. He's a type." Louise stood
frowning at the mere notion of Pinney. "He's not a bad fellow, Miss
Hilary, though he is a remorseless interviewer. He would be very good
material. He is a mixture of motives, like everybody else, but he has
only one ambition: he wants to be the greatest newspaper man of his
generation. The ladies nearly always like him. He never lets five
minutes pass without speaking of his wife; he's so proud of her he can't
keep still."

"I should think she would detest him."

"She doesn't. She's quite as proud of him as he is of her. It's
affecting to witness their devotion--or it would be if it were not such
a bore."

"I can't understand you," said Louise, leaving him to his letter.




XV.


Part of Matt Hilary's protest against the status in which he found
himself a swell was to wash his face for dinner in a tin basin on the
back porch, like the farm-hands. When he was alone at the farm he had
the hands eat with him; when his mother and sister were visiting him he
pretended that the table was too small for them all at dinner and tea,
though he continued to breakfast with the hands, because the ladies were
never up at his hour; the hands knew well enough what it meant, but they
liked Matt.

Louise found him at the roller-towel, after his emblematic ablutions.
"Oh, is it so near dinner?" she asked.

"Yes. Where is Maxwell?"

"I left him up at the camp." She walked a little way out into the
ground-ivy that matted the back-yard under the scattering spruce trees.

Matt followed, and watched the homing and departing bees around the
hives in the deep, red-clovered grass near the wall.

"Those fellows will be swarming before long," he said, with a measure of
the good comradeship he felt for all living things.

"I don't see," said Louise, plucking a tender, green shoot from one of
the fir boughs overhead, "why Mr. Maxwell is so hard."

"Is he hard?" asked Matt. "Well, perhaps he is."

"He is very sneering and bitter," said the girl. "I don't like it."

"Ah, he's to blame for that," Matt said. "But as for his hardness, that
probably comes from his having had to make such a hard fight for what he
wants to be in life. That hardens people, and brutalizes them, but
somehow we mostly admire them and applaud them for their success against
odds. If we had a true civilization a man wouldn't have to fight for the
chance to do the thing he is fittest for, that is, to be himself. But
I'm glad you don't like Maxwell's hardness; I don't myself."

"He seems to look upon the whole world as material, as he calls it; he
doesn't seem to regard people as fellow beings, as you do, Matt, or even
as servants or inferiors; he hasn't so much kindness for them as that."

"Well, that's the odious side of the artistic nature," said Matt,
smiling tolerantly. "But he'll probably get over that; he's very young;
he thinks he has to be relentlessly literary now."

"He's older than I am!" said Louise.

"He hasn't seen so much of the world."

"He thinks he's seen a great deal more. I don't think he's half so nice
as we supposed. I should call him dangerous."

"Oh, I shouldn't say that, exactly," Matt returned. "But he certainly
hasn't our traditions. I'll just step over and call him to dinner."

"Oh, no! Let me try if I can blow the horn." She ran to where the long
tin tube hung on the porch, and coming out with it again, set it to her
lips and evoked some stertorous and crumby notes from it. "Do you
suppose he saw me?" she asked, running back with the horn.

Matt could not say; but Maxwell had seen her, and had thought of a poem
which he imagined illustrated with the figure of a tall, beautiful girl
lifting a long tin horn to her lips with outstretched arms. He did not
know whether to name it simply The Dinner Horn, or grotesquely, Hebe
Calling the Gods to Nectar. He debated the question as he came lagging
over the grass with his cushion in one hand and Pinney's letter, still
opened, in the other. He said to Matt, who came out to get the cushion
of him, "Here's something I'd like to talk over with you, when you've
the time."

"Well, after dinner," said Matt.

Pinney's letter was a long one, written in pencil on one side of long
slips of paper, like printer's copy; the slips were each carefully
folioed in the upper right hand corner; but the language was the
language of Pinney's life, and not the decorative diction which he
usually addressed to the public on such slips of paper.

"I guess," it began, "I've got onto the biggest thing yet, Maxwell. The
Events is going to send me to do the Social Science Congress which
meets in Quebec this year, and I'm going to take Mrs. Pinney along and
have a good time. She's got so she can travel first-rate, now; and the
change will do her and the baby both good. I shall interview the social
science wiseacres, and do their proceedings, of course, but the thing
that I'm onto is Northwick. I've always felt that Northwick kind of
belonged to yours truly, anyway; I was the only man that worked him up
in any sort of shape, at the time the defalcation came out, and I've got
a little idea that I think will simply clean out all competition. That
letter of his set me to thinking, as soon as I read it, and my wife and
I both happened on the idea at the same time; clear case of telepathy.
Our idea is that Northwick didn't go to Europe--of course he
didn't!--but he's just holding out for terms with the company. I don't
believe he's got off with much money; but if he was going into business
with it in Canada, he would have laid low till he'd made his
investments. So my theory is that he's got all the money he took with
him except his living expenses. I believe I can find Northwick, and I am
not going to come home without trying hard. I am going to have a
detective's legal outfit, and I flatter myself I can get Northwick over
the frontier somehow, and restore him to the arms of his anxious friends
of the Ponkwasset Company. I don't know yet just how I shall do it, but
I guess I shall do it. I shall have Mrs. Pinney's advice and counsel,
and she's a team; but I shall have to leave her and the baby at Quebec,
while I'm roaming round in Rimouski and the wilderness generally, and I
shall need active help.

"Now, I liked some things in that Abstract article of yours; it was
snappy and literary, and all that, and it showed grasp of the subject.
It showed a humane and merciful spirit toward our honored friend that
could be made to tell in my little game if I could get the use of it. So
I've concluded to let you in on the ground floor, if you want to go into
the enterprise with me; if you don't, don't give it away; that's all. My
idea is that Northwick can be got at quicker by two than by one; but we
have not only got to get at him, but we have got to get him; and get
him on this side of Jordan. I guess we shall have to do that by moral
suasion mostly, and that's where your massive and penetrating intellect
will be right on deck. You won't have to play a part, either; if you
believe that his only chance of happiness on earth is to come home and
spend the rest of his life in State's prison, you can conscientiously
work him from that point of view. Seriously, Maxwell, I think this is a
great chance. If there's any of that money he speaks of we shall have
our pickings: and then as a mere scoop, if we get at Northwick at all,
whether we can coax him over the line or not, we will knock out the
fellow that fired the Ephesian dome so that he'll never come to time in
all eternity.

"I mean business, Maxwell; I haven't mentioned this to anybody but my
wife, yet; and if you don't go in with me, nobody shall. I want you,
old boy, and I'm willing to pay for you. If this thing goes through, I
shall be in a position to name my own place and price on the Events. I
expect to be managing editor before the year's out, and then I shall
secure the best talent as leading writer, which his name is Brice E.
Maxwell, and don't you forget it.

"Now, you think it over, Maxwell. There's no hurry. Take time. We've got
to wait till the Soc. Sci. Congress meets, anyway, and we've got to let
the professional pursuit die out. This letter of Northwick's will set a
lot of detectives after him, and if they can't find him, or can't work
him after they've found him, they'll get tired, and give him up for a
bad job. Then will be the time for the gifted amateur to step in and
show what a free and untrammelled press can do to punish vice and reward
virtue."




XVI.


Maxwell explained to Matt, as he had explained to Louise, that Pinney
was the reporter who had written up the Northwick case for The Events.
He said, after Matt had finished reading the letter, "I thought you
would like to know about this. I don't regard Pinney's claim on my
silence where you're concerned; in fact, I don't feel bound to him,
anyway."

"Thank you," said Matt. "Then I suppose his proposal doesn't tempt you?"

"Why, yes it does. But not as he imagines. I should like such an
adventure well enough, because it would give me a glimpse of life and
character that I should like to know something about. But the reporter
business and the detective business wouldn't attract me."

"No, I should suppose not," said Matt. "What sort of fellow, personally,
is this--Pinney?"

"Oh, he isn't bad. He is a regular type," said Maxwell, with tacit
enjoyment of the typicality of Pinney. "He hasn't the least chance in
the world of working up into any controlling place in the paper. They
don't know much in the Events office; but they do know Pinney. He's a
great liar and a braggart, and he has no more notion of the immunities
of private life than--Well, perhaps it's because he would as soon turn
his life inside out as not, and in fact would rather. But he's very
domestic, and very kind-hearted to his wife; it seems they have a baby
now, and I've no doubt Pinney is a pattern to parents. He's always
advising you to get married; but he's a born Bohemian. He's the most
harmless creature in the world, so far as intentions go, and quite
soft-hearted, but he wouldn't spare his dearest friend if he could make
copy of him; it would be impossible. I should say he was first a
newspaper man, and then a man. He's an awfully common nature, and hasn't
the first literary instinct. If I had any mystery, or mere privacy that
I wanted to guard; and I thought Pinney was on the scent of it, I
shouldn't have any more scruple in setting my foot on him than I would
on that snake."

A little reptile, allured by their immobility, had crept out of the
stone wall which they were standing near, and lay flashing its keen eyes
at them, and running out its tongue, a forked thread of tremulous
scarlet. Maxwell brought his heel down upon its head as he spoke, and
ground it into the earth.

Matt winced at the anguish of the twisting and writhing thing. "Ah, I
don't think I should have killed it!"

"I should," said Maxwell.

"Then you think one couldn't trust him?"

"Yes. If you put your foot on him in some sort of agreement, and kept it
there. Why, of course! Any man can be held. But don't let Pinney have
room to wriggle."

They turned, and walked away, Matt keeping the image of the tormented
snake in his mind; it somehow mixed there with the idea of Pinney, and
unconsciously softened him toward the reporter.

"Would there be any harm," he asked, after a while, "in my acting on a
knowledge of this letter in behalf of Mr. Northwick's family?"

"Not a bit," said Maxwell. "I make you perfectly free of it, as far as
I'm concerned; and it can't hurt Pinney, even if he ought to be spared.
He wouldn't spare you."

"I don't know," said Matt, "that I could justify myself in hurting him
on that ground. I shall be careful about him. I don't at all know that I
shall want to use it; but it has just struck me that perhaps--But I
don't know! I should have to talk with their attorney--I will see about
it! And I thank you very much, Mr. Maxwell."

"Look here, Mr. Hilary!" said Maxwell. "Use Pinney all you please, and
all you can; but I warn you he is a dangerous tool. He doesn't mean any
harm till he's tempted, and when it's done he doesn't think it's any
harm. He isn't to be trusted an instant beyond his self-interest; and
yet he has flashes of unselfishness that would deceive the very elect.
Good heavens!" cried Maxwell, "if I could get such a character as
Pinney's into a story or a play, I wouldn't take odds from any man
living!"

His notion, whatever it was, grew upon Matt, so that he waited more and
more impatiently for his mother's return, in order to act upon it. When
she did get back to the farm she could only report from the Northwicks
that she had said pretty much what she thought she would like to say to
Suzette concerning her wilfulness and obstinacy in wishing to give up
her property; but Matt inferred that she had at the same time been able
to infuse so much motherly comfort into her scolding that it had left
the girl consoled and encouraged. She had found out from Adeline that
their great distress was not knowing yet where their father was.
Apparently he thought that his published letter was sufficient
reassurance for the time being. Perhaps he did not wish them to get at
him in any way, or to have his purposes affected by any appeal from
them. Perhaps, as Adeline firmly believed, his mind had been warped by
his suffering--he must have suffered greatly--and he was not able to
reason quite sanely about the situation. Mrs. Hilary spoke of the
dignity and strength which both the sisters showed in their trial and
present stress. She praised Suzette, especially; she said her trouble
seemed to have softened and chastened her; she was really a noble girl,
and she had sent her love to Louise; they had both wished to be
remembered to every one. "Adeline, especially, wished to be remembered
to you, Matt; she said they should never forget your kindness."

Matt got over to Hatboro' the next day, and went to see Putney, who
received him with some ironical politeness, when Matt said he had come
hoping to be useful to his clients, the Miss Northwicks.

"Well, we all hope something of that kind, Mr. Hilary. You were here on
a mission of that kind before. But may I ask why you think I should
believe you wish to be useful to them?"

"Why?"

"Yes. Your father is the president of the company Mr. Northwick had his
little embarrassment with, and the natural presumption would be that you
could not really be friendly toward his family."

"But we are friendly! All of us! My father would do them any service
in his power, consistent with his duty to--to--his business associates."

"Ah, that's just the point. And you would all do anything you could for
them, consistent with your duty to him. That's perfectly
right--perfectly natural. But you must see that it doesn't form a ground
of common interest for us. I talked with you about the Miss Northwicks'
affairs the other day--too much, I think. But I can't to-day. I shall be
glad to converse with you on any other topic--discuss the ways of God to
man, or any little interest of that kind. But unless I can see my way
clearer to confidence between us in regard to my clients' affairs than I
do at present, I must avoid them."

It was absurd; but in his high good-will toward Adeline, and in his
latent tenderness for Suzette, Matt was hurt by the lawyer's distrust,
somewhat as you are hurt when the cashier of a strange bank turns over
your check and says you must bring some one to recognize you. It cost
Matt a pang; it took him a moment to own that Putney was right. Then he
said, "Of course, I must offer you proof somehow that I've come to you
in good faith. I don't know exactly how I shall be able to do it. Would
the assurance of my friend, Mr. Wade, the rector of St. Michael's--"

The name seemed to affect Putney pleasantly; he smiled, and then he
said, "Brother Wade is a good man, and his words usually carry
conviction, but this is a serious subject, Mr. Hilary." He laughed, and
concluded earnestly, "You must know that I can't talk with you on any
such authority. I couldn't talk with Mr. Wade himself."

"No, no; of course not," Matt assented; and he took himself off
crestfallen, ashamed of his own short-sightedness.

There was only one way out of the trouble, and now he blamed himself for
not having tried to take that way at the outset. He had justified
himself in shrinking from it by many plausible excuses, but he could
justify himself no longer. He rejoiced in feeling compelled, as it were,
to take it. At least, now, he should not be acting from any selfish
impulse, and if there were anything unseemly in what he was going to do,
he should have no regrets on that score, even in the shame of failure.




XVII.


Matt Hilary gave himself time, on his way to the Northwick place, or at
least as much time as would pass between walking and driving, but that
was because he was impatient, and his own going seemed faster to his
nerves than that of the swiftest horse could have seemed. At the crest
of the upland which divides Hatboro' from South Hatboro', and just
beyond the avenue leading to Dr. Morrell's house, he met Sue Northwick;
she was walking quickly, too. She was in mourning, but she had put aside
her long, crape veil, and she came towards him with her proud face
framed in the black, and looking the paler for it; a little of her
yellow hair showed under her bonnet. She moved imperiously, and Matt was
afraid to think what he was thinking at sight of her. She seemed not to
know him at first, or rather not to realize that it was he; when she
did, a joyful light, which she did not try to hide from him, flashed
over her visage; and "Mr. Hilary!" she said as simply and hospitably as
if their last parting had not been on terms of enmity that nothing could
clear up or explain away.

He ran forward and caught her hand. "Oh, I am so glad," he said. "I was
going out to see you about something--very important; and I might have
missed you."

"No. I was just coming to the doctor's, and then I was going back. My
sister isn't at all well, and I thought she'd better see the doctor."

"It's nothing serious, I hope?"

"Oh, no. I think she's a little worn out."'

"I know!" said Matt, with intelligence, and nothing more was said
between them as to the cause or nature of Adeline's sickness. Matt asked
if he might go up the doctor's avenue with her, and they walked along
together under the mingling elm and maple tops, but he deferred the
matter he wished to speak of. They found a little girl playing in the
road near the house, and Sue asked, "Is your father at home, Idella?"

"Mamma is at home," said the child. She ran forward, calling toward the
open doors and windows, "Mamma! Mamma! Here's a lady!"

"It isn't their child," Sue explained. "It's the daughter of the
minister who was killed on the railroad, here, a year or two ago--a very
strange man, Mr. Peck."

"I have heard Wade speak of him," said Matt.

A handsome and very happy looking woman came to the door, and stilled
the little one's boisterous proclamation to the hoarse whisper of, "A
lady! A lady!" as she took her hand; but she did not rebuke or correct
her.

"How do you do, Mrs. Morrell," said Suzette, with rather a haughty
distance; but Matt felt that she kept aloof with the pride of a person
who comes from an infected house, and will not put herself at the risk
of avoidance. "I wished to see Dr. Morrell about my sister. She isn't
well. Will you kindly ask him to call?"

"I will send him as soon as he comes," said Mrs. Morrell, giving Matt
that glance of liking which no good woman could withhold. "Unless," she
added, "you would like to come in and wait for him."

"Thank you, no," said Suzette. "I must go back to her. Good-by."

"Good-by!" said Mrs. Morrell.

Matt raised his hat and silently bowed; but as they turned away, he said
to Suzette, "What a happy face! What a lovely face! What a good face!"

"She is a very good woman," said the girl. "She has been very kind to
us. But so has everybody. I couldn't have believed it." In fact, it was
only the kindness of their neighbors that had come near the defaulter's
daughters; the harshness and the hate had kept away.

"Why shouldn't they be kind?" Matt demanded, with his heart instantly in
his throat. "I can't imagine--at such a time--Don't you know that I love
you?" he entreated, as if that exactly followed; there was, perhaps, a
subtle spiritual sequence, transcending all order of logic in the
expression of his passion.

She looked at him over her shoulder as he walked by her side, and said,
with neither surprise nor joy, "How can you say such a thing to me?"

"Because it is true! Because I can't help it! Because I wish to be
everything to you, and I have to begin by saying that. But don't answer
me now; you need never answer me. I only wish you to use me as you would
use some one who loved you beyond anything on earth,--as freely as that,
and yet not be bound or hampered by me in the least. Can you do that? I
mean, can you feel, 'This is my best friend, the truest friend that any
one can have, and I will let him do anything and everything he wishes
for me.' Can you do that,--say that?"

"But how could I do that? I don't understand you!" she said, faintly.

"Don't you? I am so glad you don't drive me from you--"

"I? You!"

"I was afraid--But now we can speak reasonably about it; I don't see why
people shouldn't. I know it's shocking to speak to you of such a thing
at such a time. It's dreadful; and yet I can't feel wrong to have done
it! No! If it's as sacred as it seems to me when I think of it, then it
couldn't be wrong in the presence of death itself. I do love you; and I
want you some day for my wife. Yes! But don't answer that now! If you
never answer me, or if you deny me at last, still I want you to let me
be your true lover, while I can, and to do everything that your accepted
lover could, whether you ever look at me again or not. Couldn't you do
that?"

"You know I couldn't," she answered, simply.

"Couldn't you?" he asked, and he fell into a forlorn silence, as if he
could not say anything more. He forced her to take the word by asking,
"Then you are offended with me?"

"How could I be?"

"Oh--"

"It's what any girl might be glad of--"

"Oh, my--"

"And I am not so silly as to think there can be a wrong time for it. If
there were, you would make it right, if you chose it. You couldn't do
anything I should think wrong. And I--I--love you, too--"

"Suzette! Suzette!" he called wildly, as if she were a great way off. It
seemed to him his heart would burst. He got awkwardly before her, and
tried to seize her hand.

She slipped by him, with a pathetic "Don't! But you know I never could
be your wife. You know that."

"I don't know it. Why shouldn't you?"

"Because I couldn't bring my father's shame on my husband."

"It wouldn't touch me, any more than it touches you!"

"It would touch your father and mother--and Louise."

"They all admire you and honor you. They think you're everything that's
true and grand."

"Yes, while I keep to myself. And I shall keep to myself. I know how;
and I shall not give way. Don't think it!"

"You will do what is right. I shall think that."

"Don't praise me! I can't bear it."

"But I love you, and how can I help praising you? And if you love me--"

"I do. I do, with all my heart." She turned and gave him an impassioned
look from the height of her inapproachability.

"Then I won't ask you to be my wife, Suzette! I know how you feel; I
won't be such a liar as to pretend I don't. And I will respect your
feeling, as the holiest thing on earth. And if you wish, we will be
engaged as no other lovers ever were. You shall promise nothing but to
let me help you all I can, for our love's sake, and I will promise never
to speak to you of our love again. That shall be our secret--our
engagement. Will you promise?"

"It will be hard for you," she said, with a pitying look, which perhaps
tried him as sorely as anything could.

"Not if I can believe I am making it easy for you."

They walked along, and she said with averted eyes, that he knew had
tears in them, "I promise."

"And I promise, too," he said.

She impulsively put out her left hand toward him, and he held its slim
fingers in his right a moment, and then let it drop. They both honestly
thought they had got the better of that which laughs from its
innumerable disguises at all stratagems and all devices to escape it.

"And now," he said, "I want to talk to you about what brought me over
here to-day. I thought at first that I was only going to see your
lawyer."




XVIII.


Matt felt that he need now no longer practise those reserves in speaking
to Sue of her father, which he had observed so painfully hitherto.
Neither did she shrink from the fact they had to deal with. In the trust
established between them, they spoke of it all openly, and if there was
any difference in them concerning it, the difference was in his greater
forbearance toward the unhappy man. They both spoke of his wrong-doing
as if it were his infirmity; they could not do otherwise; and they both
insensibly assumed his irresponsibility in a measure; they dwelt in the
fiction or the persuasion of a mental obliquity which would account for
otherwise unaccountable things.

"It is what my sister has always said," Sue eagerly assented to his
suggestion of this theory. "I suppose it's what I've always believed,
too, somehow, or I couldn't have lived."

"Yes; yes, it must be so," Matt insisted. "But now the question is how
to reach him, and make some beginning of the end with him. I suppose
it's the suspense and the uncertainty that is breaking your sister
down?"

"Yes--that and what we ought to do about giving up the property.
We--quarrelled about that at first; we couldn't see it alike; but now
I've yielded; we've both yielded; and we don't know what to do."

"We must talk all that over with your lawyer, in connection with
something I've just heard of." He told her of Pinney's scheme, and he
said, "We must see if we can't turn it to account."

They agreed not to talk of her father with Adeline, but she began it
herself. She looked very old and frail, as she sat nervously rocking
herself in a corner of the cottage parlor, and her voice had a sharp,
anxious note. "What I think is, that now we know father is alive, we
oughtn't to do anything about the property without hearing from him. It
stands to reason, don't you think it does, Mr. Hilary, that he would
know better than anybody else, what we ought to do. Any rate, I think we
ought to wait and consult with him about it, and see what he says. The
property belonged to mother in the first place, and he mightn't like to
have us part with it."

"I don't think you need trouble about that, now, Miss Northwick," said
Matt. "Nothing need be done about the property at present."

"But I keep thinking about it. I want to do what Sue thinks is right,
and to see it just in the light she does; and I've told her I would do
exactly as she said about it; but now she won't say; and so I think
we've got to wait and hear from father. Don't you?"

"Decidedly, I think you ought to do nothing now, till you hear from
him," said Matt.

"I knew you would," said the old maid, "and if Sue will be ruled by me,
she'll see that it will all turn out right. I know father, and I know
he'll want to do what is sensible, and at the same time honorable. He is
a person who could never bear to wrong any one out of a cent."

"Well," said Sue, "we will do what Mr. Hilary says; and now, try not to
worry about it any more," she coaxed.

"Oh, yes! It's well enough to say not to worry now, when my mind's got
going on it," said the old maid, querulously; she flung her weak frame
against the chair-back, and she began to wipe the gathering tears. "But
if you'd agreed with me in the first place, it wouldn't have come to
this. Now I'm all broken down, and I don't know when I shall be well
again."

It was a painful moment; Sue patiently adjusted the cushion to her
sister's shoulders, while Adeline's tongue ran helplessly on. "You were
so headstrong and stubborn, I thought you would kill me. You were just
like a rock, and I could beat myself to pieces against you, and you
wouldn't move."

"I was wrong," said the proud girl, meekly.

"I'm sure," Adeline whimpered, "I hate to make an exhibition before Mr.
Hilary, as much as any one, but I can't help it; no, I can't. My nerves
are all gone."

The doctor came, and Sue followed Matt out of doors, to leave her, for
the first few confidential moments, sacred to the flow of symptoms,
alone with the physician. There was a little sequestered space among the
avenue firs beside the lodge, with a bench, toward which he led the way,
but the girl would not sit down. She stood with her arms fallen at her
side, and looked him steadily in the face.

"It's all true that she said of me. I set myself like a rock against
her. I have made her sick, and if she died, I should be her murderer!"

He put his arms round her, and folded her to his heart. "Oh, my love, my
love, my love!" he lamented and exulted over her.

She did not try to resist; she let her arms hang at her side; she said,
"Is this the way we keep our word?--Already!"

"Our word was made to be broken; we must have meant it so. I'm glad we
could break it so soon. Now I can truly help you; now that you are to be
my wife."

She did not gainsay him, but she asked, "What will you think when you
know--you must have known that I used to care for some else; but he
never cared for me? It ought to make you despise me; it made me despise
myself! But it is true. I did care all the world for him, once. Now
will you say--"

"Now, more than ever," said the young man, silencing her lips with his
own, and in their trance of love the world seemed to reel away from
under their feet, with all its sorrows and shames, and leave them in
mid-heaven.

"Suzette!" Adeline's voice called from within. "Suzette! Where are you?"

Sue released herself, and ran into the cottage. She came out again in a
little while, and said that the doctor thought Adeline had better go to
bed for a day or two and have a thorough rest, and relief from all
excitement. "We mustn't talk before her any more, and you mustn't stay
any longer."

He accepted the authority she instinctively assumed over him, and found
his dismissal already of the order of things. He said, "Yes, I'll go at
once. But about--"

She put a card into his hand. "You can see Mr. Putney, and whatever you
and he think best, will be best. Haven't you been our good angel ever
since--Oh, I'm not half good enough for you, and I shouldn't be, even if
there were no stain--"

"Stop!" he said; he caught her hand, and pulled her toward him.

The doctor came out, and said in a low voice, "There's nothing to be
anxious about, but she really must have quiet. I'll send Mrs. Morrell
down to see you, after tea. She's quiet itself."

Suzette submitted, and let Matt take her hand again in parting.

"Will you give me a lift, doctor, if you're going toward town?"

"Get in," said the doctor.

Sue went indoors, and the two men drove off together.

Matt looked at the card in his hand, and read: "Mr. Putney: Please talk
to Mr. Hilary as you would to my sister or me." Suzette's printed name
served for signature. Matt put the card in his pocket-book, and then he
said, "What sort of man is Mr. Putney, doctor?"

"Mr. Putney," said the doctor, with a twinkle of his blue eyes, "is one
of those uncommon people who have enemies. He has a good many because
he's a man that thinks, and then says what he thinks. But he's his own
worst enemy, because from time to time he gets drunk."

"A character," said Matt. "Do you think he's a safe one? Doesn't his
getting drunk from time to time interfere with his usefulness?"

"Well, of course," said the doctor. "It's bad for him; but I think it's
slowly getting better. Yes, decidedly. It's very extraordinary, but ever
since he's been in charge of the Miss Northwicks' interests--"

"Yes; that's what I was thinking of."

"He's kept perfectly straight. It's as if the responsibilities had
steadied him."

"But if he goes on sprees, he may be on the verge of one that's
gathering violence from its postponement," Matt suggested.

"I think not," said the doctor after a moment. "But of course I can't
tell."

"They trust him so implicitly," said Matt.

"I know," said the doctor. "And I know that he's entirely devoted to
them. The fact is, Putney's a very dear friend of mine."

"Oh, excuse me--"

"No, no!" The doctor stayed Matt's apologies. "I understand just what
you mean. He disliked their father very much. He was principled against
him as a merely rich man, with mischievous influence on the imaginations
of all the poor people about him who wanted to be like him--"

"Oh, that's rather good," said Matt.

"Do you think so?" asked the doctor, looking round at him. "Well! I
supposed you would be all the other way. Well! What I was saying was
that Putney looks upon these poor girls as their father's chief victims.
I think he was touched by their coming to him, and has pitied them. The
impression is that he's managed their affairs very well; I don't know
about such things; but I know he's managed them honorably; I would stake
my life on it; and I believe he'll hold out straight to the last. I
suppose," the doctor conjectured, at the end, "that they will try to get
at Northwick now, and arrange with his creditors for his return."

"I don't mind telling you," said Matt, "that it's been tried and failed.
The State's attorney insists that he shall come back and stand his
trial, first of all."

"Oh!" said the doctor.

"Of course, that's right from the legal point of view. But in the
meantime, nobody knows where Mr. Northwick is."

"I suppose," said the doctor, "it would have been better for him not to
have written that letter."

"It's hard to say," Matt answered. "I thought so, too, at first. I
thought it was cowardly and selfish of him to take away his children's
superstition about his honesty. You knew that they held to that through
all?"

"Most touching thing in the world," said the doctor, leaning forward to
push a fly off his horse with the limp point of his whip. "That poor old
maid has talked it into me till I almost believed it myself."

"I don't know that I should hold him severely accountable. And I'm not
sure now that I should condemn him for writing that letter. It must have
been a great relief to him. In a way, you may say he had to do it.
It's conceivable that if he had kept it on his mind any longer, his mind
would have given way. As it is, they have now the comfort of another
superstition--if it is a superstition. What do you think, doctor? Do you
believe that there was a mental twist in him?"

"There seems to be in nearly all these defaulters. What they do is so
senseless--so insane. I suppose that's the true theory of all crime. But
it won't do to act upon it, yet awhile."

"No."

The doctor went on after a pause, with a laugh of enjoyment at the
notion. "Above all, it won't do to let the defaulters act upon that
theory, and apply for admission to the insane asylums instead of taking
the express for Canada, when they're found out."

"Oh, no," said Matt. He wondered at himself for being able to analyze
the offence of Suzette's father so cold-bloodedly. But in fact he could
not relate the thought of her to the thought of him in his sin, at all;
he could only realize their kindred in her share of his suffering.




XIX.


Putney accepted Suzette's authorization of Matt with apparent
unconsciousness of anything but its immediate meaning, and they talked
Pinney's scheme intimately over together. In the end, it still remained
a question whether the energies of such an investigator could be
confined to the discovery of Northwick's whereabouts; whether his
newspaper instincts would not be too strong for any sense of personal
advantage that could be appealed to in him. They both believed that it
would not be long before Northwick followed up the publication of his
letter by some communication with his family.

But time began to go by again, and Northwick made no further sign; the
flurry of activity which his letter had called out in the detectives
came to nothing. Their search was not very strenuous; Northwick's
creditors were of various minds as to the amount of money he had carried
away with him. Every one knew that if he chose to stay in Canada, he
could not be molested there; and it seemed very improbable that he could
be persuaded to put himself within reach of the law. The law had no
terms to offer him, and there was really nothing to be done.

Putney forecast all this in his talk with Matt, when he held that they
must wait Northwick's motion. He professed himself willing to wait as
long as Northwick chose, though he thought they would not have to wait
long, and he contended for a theory of the man's whole performance which
he said he should like to have tested before a jury.

Matt could not make out how much he really meant by saying that
Northwick could be defended very fairly on the ground of insanity; and
that he would enjoy managing such a defence. It was a common thing to
show that a murderer was insane; why not a defaulter? Tilted back in his
chair, with one leg over the corner of his table, and changing the
tobacco in his mouth from one cheek to the other as he talked, the
lawyer outlined the argument which he said could be made very effective.
There was the fact to begin with, that Northwick was a very wealthy man,
and had no need of more money when he began to speculate; Putney held
that this want of motive could be made a strong point; and that the
reckless, almost open, way in which Northwick used the company's money,
when he began to borrow, was proof in itself of unsound mind: apparently
he had no sense whatever of meum and tuum, especially tuum. Then,
the total collapse of the man when he was found out; his flight without
an effort to retrieve himself, although his shortage was by no means
hopelessly vast, and could have been almost made up by skilful use of
the credit that Northwick could command, was another evidence of shaken
reason. But besides all this, there was his behavior since he left home.
He had been absent nearly five months, and in that time he had made no
attempt whatever to communicate with his family, although he must have
known that it was perfectly safe for him to do so. He was a father who
was almost dotingly fond of his children, and singularly attached to his
home; yet he had remained all that time in voluntary exile, and he had
left them in entire uncertainty as to his fate except so far as they
could accept the probability of his death by a horrible casualty. This
