    "Ever yours sincerely,

    "LAURA ARDEN."

Ghisleri read the note over several times, to be quite sure that he had
not misunderstood it, and then burned it, as he had always burned
everything in the nature of writing until his last difficulties had
begun. He saw that Laura had forced the situation, and he knew her well
enough not to doubt that she would execute her threat to the letter, and
wait for him, watch in hand, on the morrow. He hated himself for being
glad, for he knew that the world she despised would give her little
credit for her generous act. Yet, in spite of his self-contempt, he was
happy. Five minutes before one o'clock on the next day he rang at her
door. She had returned as usual to the small apartment she had occupied
since leaving the Tempietto.

He found her dressed for walking, all in black, and looking at the
clock. As he entered she turned and laughed happily. There was a faint
colour in her cheeks too.

"I knew you would not let me ruin my reputation for the sake of your
obstinacy," she said, as she came forward to meet him. "In four minutes
I would have left the house." She grasped his hand warmly as she spoke.

"No," he said, "I could not have done that. What ways you have of
forcing people to obey you! But you are very wrong; I still maintain
that."

"Sit down," she said, "and let us talk of more interesting things. I
must hear the whole story from your own lips, though I am sure my mother
did her best to be quite truthful; but she does not understand you and
never will, as I begin to think."

"Tell me first how you are, and about Herbert," said Ghisleri. "You will
hear quite enough of this miserable affair. It will keep a day or two."

"It need not keep so long as that," answered Laura, "I can tell you the
news in a few words. I am perfectly well. Herbert is perfectly well too,
thank God, and has outgrown his clothes twice and his shoes four times
since we have been away. Since I last wrote great things have happened.
I have been in England again at last, and have stayed with the
Lulworths. You see I am in mourning. Uncle Herbert died a month ago. I
never saw the old gentleman but once, for he lived in the most
extraordinary way, in complete isolation. You know that--well, he is
dead, and he has left all the fortune to my Herbert, with a life
interest in one-quarter of it for me, besides an enormous allowance for
Herbert's education. That is all there is to tell."

"It is good news indeed," said Ghisleri. "I am so glad. It will make an
immense difference to you, though of course you have known of it a long
time."

"It will not make so much difference as you fancy. I shall go on living
much as I do, for I have had almost all I wanted in these years. But I
am glad for Herbert's sake, of course. And now begin, please, and do not
stop until you have told me everything."

"Needs must, when you will anything," Ghisleri answered, with a faint
smile.

So he told her the story, while she listened and watched him. She had
developed in strength and decision during the last year, more rapidly
than before, and he felt in speaking to her as though she had power to
help him and would use it. He was grateful, and more than grateful.
Within the last few weeks he had learned that the strongest and most
determined men may sometimes need a friend. He had long had one in her,
and he had found a new one in San Giacinto; but though the latter's
imposing personality had more influence in the world than that of any
man Ghisleri knew, there was that in Laura's sympathy which gave him a
new strength of his own, and fresh courage to face the many troubles he
expected to encounter before long. For man gets no such strength in life
to do great deeds or to bear torments sudden and sharp or mean, little
and harassing, as he gets from the woman he loves, even though he does
not yet know that she loves him again.

"I hope I do not take my own side too much," he said, as he ended the
long tale, "though I suppose that when a man is perfectly innocent he
has a right to say hard things of people who accuse him. For my own
part, I believe that Donna Adele is mad. There is the ingenuity of
madness in everything she does in this affair. No sane person could
invent such a story almost out of nothing, and make half the world
believe it."

"She may be mad," Laura answered, "but she is bad, too. It will all come
out at the trial, and she will get what she deserves."

"I hope so. But do you know what I really expect? Unless it can be
proved that the confession has been all the time in the safe keeping of
some person who has not even read it, I shall be convicted and
imprisoned. I am quite prepared for that. I suppose that will come to me
by way of expiation for my sins."

"Please do not talk like that," cried Laura. "It is absurd! There is no
court in the world that would convict you--a perfectly innocent man.
Besides I shall give my evidence about those letters. I shall insist
upon it. That alone would be enough to clear you."

"I am afraid not. Even my lawyer thinks that your testimony would not
help me much. After all, you know what happened. I told you that I was
innocent, and you believed me. Or, if you please, you believed me
innocent before I said I was. There is only your belief or my word to
fall back upon, and neither would prove anything in court. Ubaldini says
so. I really expect to be convicted, and I will bear it as well as I
can. I will certainly not do anything to escape from it all." He had
hesitated as he reached the last words, but he saw that Laura
understood.

"You should not even think of such things," she said gravely. "You are
far too brave a man to take your own life even if you were convicted,
and you shall not be. I tell you that you shall not be!" she repeated,
with sudden energy.

"No one can tell. But I am inclined to think that if you were angry you
might terrify judge and jury into doing whatever you pleased." He
laughed a little. "You have grown so strong of late that I hardly
recognise you. What has made the change?"

"Something--I cannot explain it to you. Besides--was I ever a weak
woman? Did I ever hesitate much?"

"No, that is true. Perhaps I did not use the right word. You seem more
active, more alive, more determined to influence other people."

"Do I? It may be true. I fancy I am less saint-like in your opinion than
I was. I am glad of it. You used to think me quite different from what I
was. But I know that I have changed during this summer. I feel it now."

"So have I. The change began before you went away." Ghisleri glanced at
her, and then looked at the wall.

A short silence followed. Both felt strangely conscious that their
former relation had not been renewed exactly where it had been
interrupted by their separation in the summer. But there was nothing
awkward about the present break in the conversation.

"In what way have you changed?" asked Laura at last. She had evidently
been thinking of his words during the pause.

"Indeed I should find it hard to tell you now," Ghisleri answered, with
a smile at the thought uppermost in his mind. "I would rather not try."

"Is it for the worse, then?" Laura's eyes sought his.

"No. It is for the better. Perhaps, some day, if all this turns out less
badly--" He stopped, angry with himself for having said even that much.

"Shall you have more confidence in me when the trial is over?" asked
Laura, leaning back and looking down. "Have I shown that I believe in
you, or not, to-day?" Had she known what was so near his lips to say,
she might not have spoken.

"You have done what few women would have done. You know that I know it.
If I will not say what I am thinking of, it is for that very reason."
His fingers clasped each other and unclasped again with a sharp, nervous
movement.

"I am sorry you do not trust me altogether," said Laura.

"Please do not say that. I do trust you altogether. But I respect you
too. Will you forgive me if I go away rather suddenly?" He rose as he
spoke and held out his hand.

"You are not ill, are you?" Laura stood up, looking anxiously into his
face. Unconsciously she had taken his hand in both of her own.

"No--I am not ill. Good-bye!"

"Come to-morrow, please. I want to see you often. Promise to come
to-morrow." Her tone was imperative, and he knew that she had the power
to force him to compliance.

He yielded out of necessity, and left her. When he was in the street he
stood still a few moments, leaning upon his stick as though he were
exhausted. His face was white. Oddly enough, what he felt recalled an
accident which had once happened to him. On a calm, hot day, several
years earlier, he had been slowly sailing along a southern shore. The
heat had been intense, and he had thrown himself into the water to get
a little coolness, holding by a rope, and allowing himself to be towed
along under the side of the boat. Then one of the men called to him
loudly to come aboard as quickly as he could. As he reached the deck,
the straight black fin of a big shark glided smoothly by. He could
remember the shadow it cast on the bright blue water, and the sensation
he experienced when he saw how near he had unconsciously been to a
hideous death. Like many brave but very sensitive men, he had turned
pale when the danger was quite past and had felt for one moment
something like physical exhaustion. The same feeling overtook him now as
he paused on the pavement before the house in which Laura Arden lived.
An instant later he was walking rapidly homeward.

At the corner of a street he came suddenly upon Gianforte Campodonico.
Both men raised their hats almost at the same moment, for their
relations were necessarily maintained upon rather formal terms. Ghisleri
owed his old adversary a debt of gratitude for his conduct at the club,
but a rather exaggerated sense of delicacy hindered Pietro from stopping
and speaking with him in the street. Campodonico, however, would not let
him pass on and stood still as Ghisleri came up to him.

"I wish to thank you with all my heart for the generous way in which you
have spoken of me," said Ghisleri, grasping the other's ready
outstretched hand.

"You have nothing to thank me for," replied Gianforte. "Knowing you to
be a perfectly honourable and honest man, I should have been a coward if
I had held my tongue. You have a good friend in San Giacinto, and I
suppose I cannot be of much use to you. But if I can, send for me. I
shall never like you perhaps, but I will stand by you, because I respect
you as much as any man living."

"I thank you sincerely," said Ghisleri, pressing his hand again. "You
are very generous."

"No, but I try to be just."

They parted, and Ghisleri pursued his way, meditating on the
contradictions of life, and wondering why at the most critical moment of
his existence the one man who had come forward unasked and of his own
free impulse to defend him publicly and to offer his help, should be his
oldest and most implacable enemy. He was profoundly conscious of the
man's generosity. The world, he said to himself, might not be such a bad
place after all. But he did not guess how soon he was to need the
assistance so freely proffered.

He went home at once. Bonifazio closed the door behind him and followed
him respectfully into the sitting-room.

"I beg pardon, signore," he began, standing still as he waited for
Ghisleri to turn and look at him.

"Do you need money?" asked the latter carelessly.

"No, signore. You have perhaps forgotten that you gave me money
yesterday. It is something which I have had upon my conscience a long
time, and now that you are falsely accused, signore, it is my duty to
speak, if you permit me."

"Tell me what it is." Ghisleri sat down at his writing-table, and lit a
cigarette.

"It is a very secret matter, signore. But if I keep it a secret any
longer, I shall be doing wrong, though I also did wrong in coming by the
information I have, though I did not know it. I have also been to a
lawyer who understands these matters, and takes an interest in the case,
and he has told me that unless some saint performs a miracle nothing can
save you at the trial. So that I must give my evidence. But if I do, the
Princess Adele will go to the galleys, and the house of Savelli will be
quite ruined. For the Princess murdered Lord Herbert Arden, and tried to
murder Donna Laura, as we call her. She invited them to dinner and gave
them napkins which she with her own hand had poisoned with infection of
the scarlet fever, her maid Lucia having had it at the time. And Lord
Herbert died within three days, but Donna Laura did not catch it. And I
have read how she did this, and many other wicked things, in a letter
written with her own hand. For it was I who found the confession they
speak of, when I went alone to look at the old prisons at Gerano, while
you and the signori were out driving. And now I do not know what to do,
but I had to speak in order to save you, and you must judge of the rest,
signore, and pardon me if I have done wrong."

Ghisleri knew the truth at last, and his lean, weather-beaten face
expressed well enough the thirst for vengeance that burned him. He
waited a few moments and then spoke calmly enough.

"Have you got the confession here?" he asked. "If it is found in my
house it will ruin me, though it may ruin Donna Adele too."

"I understand, signore. Have no fear. I read it through, because I found
it open and the leaves scattered as it must have fallen, though how it
fell there I do not know. But it is still at Gerano. If you will allow
me, I will explain what I did. When I had read it, I put it into my
pocket, saying to myself that it was a difficult case for the
conscience. And I thought about it for more than an hour while I walked
about the castle. Then I went and got an envelope and I put the leaves
into it thinking that perhaps it would be wrong to burn it. So I wrote
on the outside: 'This was found in the prison of the castle of Gerano by
Bonifazio di Rienzo,' and I also wrote the date in full. Then at the
tobacconist's shop in the village I bought some wax, and took a seal I
have, which is this one, signore. It has 'B.R.' on it. And I sealed the
letter with much wax, so that the tobacconist laughed at me. But I did
not let him see what was written on the envelope. Then I took it to the
parish priest whose name is Don Tebaldo, and who seemed to me to be a
very respectable and good man. I told him in confidence that I had found
something which it was not possible for me to give to the rightful
owner, but which I thought it would be wrong to destroy, because the
rightful owner might some day make inquiry for it and wish to have it.
He asked many questions, but I would not answer them all, and he did not
know what the letter was about nor that it was a confession. So I begged
him to put it into another envelope and to seal it again with his own
seal, and I gave him what was left of the wax I had bought. Then he did
as I asked him, and wrote on the back: 'This was brought to me to be
kept, by one Bonifazio di Rienzo, until the owner claims it. But it is
to be burned when I die.' And there it is to this day, for I have made
inquiries and Don Tebaldo is alive and well, and God bless him! So I
come to tell you all this, in order that you may act as you see fit,
signore. For Don Tebaldo can swear that I gave him the letter on the day
I found it and I can swear that you never knew anything of it."

Ghisleri looked at his faithful old servant, whose round brown eyes met
his so steadily and quietly.

"I can never thank you enough, my dear Bonifazio," he said. "You have
saved me. I will not forget it."

"As for that, signore, I will not accept any present, and I humbly beg
you not to offer me any, for it would be the price of blood, such as
Judas Iscariot received, seeing that the Princess Adele will go to the
galleys."

"You need not be afraid of that, Bonifazio," answered Ghisleri. "Casa
Savelli will easily prove that she was mad, as I believe she is, and she
will end her life in a lunatic asylum. But you must not bring either Don
Tebaldo or the letter here. Go at once to the Marchese di San Giacinto
and tell him exactly what you have told me, and that I sent you. He will
know what to do. Take money with you and execute his orders exactly
without returning here, no matter what they are. I can do without you
for a week if necessary, and I wish to know nothing of the matter until
it is over."

"Yes, signore," answered Bonifazio, and without more words he left the
room and went directly to San Giacinto's house.

The latter received him in his study, and listened to his story with
calm attention. Then, without making any remark, he smoked nearly half a
cigar, while Bonifazio stood motionless, respectfully watching him. Then
he rang the bell, and gave the man who answered it instructions to order
out a sort of mail-cart he used for driving himself, and the strongest
horses in the stable.

"You must come with me," he said to Bonifazio. "We can be back before
midnight." Then he began to write rapidly.

He wrote a note to his cousin, the Prince of Sant' Ilario, another to
Gianforte Campodonico, and then a rather longer one to Savelli. In the
last mentioned, he informed the Prince that he would appear on the
morrow, with Campodonico and Sant' Ilario, and that he desired to be
received by Savelli himself in the presence of Francesco and Adele, as
he had a communication of the highest importance to make. In his usual
hard way he managed to convey the impression that it would be decidedly
the worse for the whole house of Savelli and for Adele in particular if
his request were not complied with to the letter. By the time he had
finished a servant announced that the carriage was waiting. San Giacinto
thrust a handful of black cigars and a box of matches into his outer
pocket.

"Come," he said to Bonifazio, "I am ready. It is a long drive to
Gerano."

It was nearly three o'clock in the afternoon when they started, and the
days were very short and the weather threatening. But the horses were
splendid animals, and there were few roads between Rome and the Abbruzzi
which San Giacinto did not know well. He was acting as he always did,
swiftly, surely, and in person, trusting to no one, and making himself
alone responsible for the result. Before one o'clock in the morning he
was back, bringing with him a mild and timid old priest, muffled in a
horse blanket against the bitter wind. But the sealed packet containing
Adele Savelli's confession was in his own pocket.

On his table he found three notes, which satisfied him that everything
would take place as he had hastily planned it before his departure.
Campodonico expressed his readiness to serve Ghisleri in any way, Sant'
Ilario said that he was ready to support San Giacinto in anything he
undertook, though he had never been intimate with Ghisleri, who was much
younger than he. Savelli answered coldly that he would receive the three
men as requested, adding that he hoped the communication would prove to
be of such importance as to justify putting his daughter-in-law to the
inconvenience which any prolonged interview caused her in her present
state of ill-health. San Giacinto smiled rather grimly. He did not think
that his visit to Casa Savelli need be a very long one. Before he went
to bed, he debated whether he should send word to Gerano to be present
also, but he ultimately decided not to do so. It seemed useless to make
Adele's father witness his daughter's humiliation, though he meant not
to spare either Savelli or his son. Towards Adele he was absolutely
pitiless. It was his nature. If she had been dying, he would have found
means to make her listen to what he had to say. If she had been at the
very last gasp he would have forced his way to her bedside to say it. He
was by no means a man without faults.

Meanwhile Ghisleri was pacing his room in solitude, reflecting on the
sudden change in all the prospects of the future, and wondering how
matters would be managed, but feeling himself perfectly safe in San
Giacinto's hands, and well understanding that he was not to be informed
of what had happened until all was over. That San Giacinto would face
all the assembled Savelli and force them then and there to withdraw all
charges against Ghisleri, the latter was sure, and, on the whole, he was
glad that he was not to witness their discomfiture. But it was not only
of his being in one moment cleared of every accusation that he thought.
The consequences to himself were enormous. He remembered the sickening
horror he had felt that afternoon when he realised how nearly he had
told Laura that he loved her. In four and twenty hours there would be
nothing to hinder him from speaking out what filled his heart. If he
chose to do so, he might even now write to her and tell her what he had
struggled so hard to hide when they had been face to face. But he was
not the man to write when there was a possibility of speaking, nor to
trust to the black and white of ink and paper to say for him what he
could say better for himself.

Then the old doubt came back, and he spent a night of strange
self-questioning and much useless moral torment. Was this the last, the
very last of his loves? He remembered how a little less than three years
earlier he had bid good-bye to Maddalena dell' Armi, saying to himself
that he could never again feel his heart beat at a woman's voice, nor
his face turn pale with passion for a woman's kiss. And now he loved
again, perhaps with little hope of seeing his love returned, but with
the mad desire to stake his fate upon one cast, and win or lose all for
ever. He had never felt that irresistible longing before, not even when
he had first loved Bianca Corleone in his early days. Then, it was true,
he had been very young, and Bianca had not been like Laura. She had been
young herself as he was, and had loved him from the first, almost
without hiding it. There had been little need for words on either side,
for love told his own tale plainly. Yet it seemed to him now that if he
had then thought Bianca as cold as he had reason to believe that Laura
was, he might have resigned himself to his fate at the beginning--he
might not have found the strength he now had to risk such a defeat as
perhaps waited him, to run any danger, now that he was free, rather than
live in suspense another day.




CHAPTER XXIX.


Sant' Ilario and Gianforte Campodonico rang at San Giacinto's door half
an hour before the time the latter had appointed for his descent upon
Casa Savelli. He had not explained the situation in the hurried notes he
had written them on the previous day, and they did not know what was to
take place.

"It is very simple," said San Giacinto, coolly. "The whole story was a
lie from beginning to end, as I always believed. The confession was
found at Gerano and deposited with the parish priest under seal on the
same day. I went to Gerano and brought the priest and the letter back.
Here it is, if you wish to see the outside of it, and the priest is
waiting in the next room. This is the document which Donna Adele will
have signed an hour hence."

He produced a sheet of stamped paper from the drawer of his
writing-table and read aloud what was written upon it, as follows:

    "I, the undersigned, being in full possession of my faculties, and
    free of my will, hereby publicly withdraw each and every one of the
    accusations I have made, publicly or privately, either in my own
    person or through my father, the Prince of Gerano, or my
    father-in-law, Prince Savelli, my husband, Francesco, Prince
    Savelli, or through any other persons purporting to represent me,
    against Pietro Nobile Ghisleri; and I declare upon my oath before
    God that there is not and never was any truth whatsoever in any one
    of the said accusations upon which the said Pietro Nobile Ghisleri
    was unjustly arrested and accused of extortion under Article 409 of
    the Penal Code. And I further declare that the letters of his which
    I hold do and did refer directly to the purchase of the manuscript
    writings of Donna Isabella Montevarchi which were at that time for
    sale, and to no other manuscript or writing whatsoever; and further,
    I declare that no such person as 'Maria B.' was ever known to me,
    but that I wrote the letters received from 'Maria B.' by Lady
    Herbert Arden, and that I withdrew her answers myself from the
    general post-office. And if I have done anything else to strengthen
    the false accusation against the said Pietro Nobile Ghisleri such
    as may hereafter come to light, this present retraction and denial
    shall be held to cover it by anticipation. And hereunto I set my
    hand and seal in the presence of Don Giovanni Saracinesca, Prince of
    Sant' Ilario, of Don Giovanni Saracinesca, Marchese di San Giacinto,
    and of Don Gianforte Campodonico di Norba, who in my presence and in
    the presence of each other are witnesses of this act."

San Giacinto ceased reading, and looked at his two companions.
Campodonico was grave, but Sant' Ilario smiled.

"If you can make her sign that, you are stronger than I supposed,
Giovanni," said the latter.

"So it seems to me," said Gianforte.

"I do not think she will offer much resistance," answered San Giacinto,
quietly pocketing the confession and the document he had just read. "I
suppose what I am going to do is unscrupulous, but I do not think that
Donna Adele has shown any uncommon delicacy of feeling in this little
affair. Let us go and see whether she has any objection to signing her
name."

Don Tebaldo, the priest, and Bonifazio followed the three gentlemen in a
cab to the Palazzo Savelli, and all five went up the grand staircase
together. Neither Don Tebaldo nor the servant had received any
instructions beyond being told that if they were called into the room
when the reading took place, they were to answer truthfully any
questions which might be put to them.

Prince Savelli met them all in an outer drawing-room, the same indeed in
which poor Herbert Arden had talked with Francesco a few days before his
death. He was coldly courteous to San Giacinto, but greeted the others
somewhat more warmly.

"May I ask what the nature of your communication is?" he inquired of the
former.

"I prefer to explain it in the presence of Donna Adele, as it concerns
her directly," answered San Giacinto: "It is useless to tell a story
twice."

The extremely high and mighty head of all the Savelli stared up at the
giant through his big spectacles. He was not at all used to being
treated with so little consideration. But the other was a match for him,
and stood carelessly waiting for the master of the house to lead the
way.

"Considering whom you represent," said the Prince, "your manner is
somewhat imperative."

San Giacinto's heavy brows bent in an ominous frown, and Savelli found
it impossible to meet the gaze of the hard, deep-set eyes for more than
a few seconds.

"I represent an innocent man, whom you and yours are trying to ruin. As
for my manners, they were learned in an inn and not in Casa Savelli. I
shall be obliged if you will lead the way."

Sant' Ilario suppressed a smile. He had seen his strong cousin in more
than one such encounter, but he had never seen any one resist him long.
Savelli did not reply, but turned and went before them and opened the
door. They passed through another drawing-room and through a third, and
then found themselves in Adele's boudoir. She was seated in a deep chair
near the fire, warming her transparent hands at the flame. Her face was
exactly of the colour of the yellow ashes of certain kinds of wood. It
seemed impossible that any human being could be so thin as she seemed,
and live. But there was yet some strength left, and her strong will,
aided by the silent but insane satisfaction she felt in Ghisleri's ruin,
kept her still in a sort of animation which was sometimes almost like
her old activity. She had, of course, been warned of the impending
interview, but she thought that San Giacinto had come to propose some
compromise to the advantage of Ghisleri, and her father-in-law and
husband were inclined to share her opinion; she meant to refuse
everything, and to say that she would abide the judgment of the courts.
She did not rise when the party entered, but held out her hand to each
in succession. Francesco Savelli stood beside her, and also shook hands
with each, but made no remark.

"Sit down," said Prince Savelli, moving forward a chair.

"Thank you," answered San Giacinto, "but it is useless. We shall stay
only long enough for Donna Adele to sign a paper I have brought with me.
We do not wish to disturb you further than necessary. With your
permission I will read the document."

And thereupon, standing before her, he read it slowly and distinctly.
Prince Savelli gradually turned pale, for he knew the man, and guessed
that he possessed some terribly sure means of enforcing his will. But
Adele laughed scornfully and her husband followed her example.

"Is there any reason why I should sign that very singular and untrue
declaration?" she asked, with contempt.

San Giacinto looked at her steadily for a moment, and without reasoning
she began to feel afraid.

"I have a strong argument in my pocket," he said. "For I have your
confession here, and the priest with whom it has been deposited since
the day it was found is waiting in the hall, if you wish to see him."

Adele shook from head to foot, and her hands moved spasmodically. She
made a great effort, however, and succeeded in speaking.

"The fact that it has been in a place where Ghisleri knew how to find it
is the last proof of his guilt we required," she said, mechanically
repeating the words she had heard her father-in-law use more than once.

"Ghisleri never saw it and never knew where it was until yesterday,"
answered San Giacinto. "If you will oblige me by signing this paper, I
will not trouble you any further."

"I will not sign it, nor anything of such a nature," said Adele,
desperately.

"You are perfectly free to do as you please," answered San Giacinto.
"And so am I. Since you positively refuse, there is nothing left for me
to do but to go away. But I forgot to tell you that the humble person
who found it was able to read, and read it, before taking it to the
priest, and that he has informed me most minutely of the contents. I see
you are annoyed at that, and I am not surprised, for in half an hour it
will be in the hands of the attorney-general. Good morning, Princess."

In the dead silence that followed one might have heard a pin fall, or a
feather. San Giacinto waited a few moments and then turned to go.
Instantly Adele uttered a sharp cry and sprang to her feet. With a
quickness of which no one present would have believed her capable, she
was at his side, and holding him back by the arm. He turned again and
looked calmly down at her.

"You do not mean to do what you threaten?" she cried, in abject terror.

"I mean to take this sealed document to the attorney-general without
losing a moment," he answered. "You know very well what will happen if I
do that."

Both Savelli and his son came forward while he was speaking.

"I will not allow you to hint in my house that anything in that
confession could have any consequences to my daughter-in-law," said the
Prince, in a loud voice. "You have no right to make any such
assertions."

"If Donna Adele wishes it, I will break the seal and read her own
account," answered San Giacinto. He put his hand into the breast pocket
of his coat and drew out the packet.

Altogether losing control of herself, Adele tried to snatch it from his
hand, but he held it high in air, and his vast figure towered above the
rest of the group, still more colossal by the gesture of the upstretched
arm.

"You see for yourselves what importance Donna Adele attaches to this
trifle," he said, in deep tones. "You would do well to persuade her to
sign that paper. That is the only exchange I will take for what I hold.
She knows that every word written there is true--as true as every word
she has written here," he added, glancing up at the sealed letter. "I
will wait one minute more by that clock, and then I will go."

The two Savelli gazed at Adele in undisguised astonishment and horror.
It was clear enough from her face and terrified manner that San Giacinto
spoke the truth, and that the confession he held contained some awful
secret of which they were wholly ignorant.

"What is the meaning of all this, Adele?" asked the Prince, sternly.
"What does that confession contain?"

But she did not answer, as she sank into a chair before the table, and
almost mechanically dipped a pen into the ink. San Giacinto laid the
formal denial before her, holding the confession behind him, for he
believed her capable of snatching it from him and tossing it into the
fire at any moment. She signed painfully in large, sloping characters
that decreased rapidly in size at the end of each of her two names. The
pen fell from her hand as she finished, and San Giacinto quietly laid
the sealed letter before her. If she had been on the point of fainting,
the sight recalled her to herself. She seized it eagerly and broke the
seals, one after the other. Then she went to the fire, assured herself
that the sheets were all there, and were genuine, and thrust the whole
into the flames, watching until the last shred was consumed.

Meanwhile San Giacinto silently handed the pen to Sant' Ilario, who
signed and passed it to Gianforte. He in his turn gave it to San
Giacinto, and the transaction was concluded. The two cousins, as though
by common instinct, glanced at the page on which was written twice
"Giovanni Saracinesca," and each thought of all the pain and anxiety the
coincidence had caused in days long gone by. The last time they had
signed a document together had been in the study of the Palazzo
Montevarchi more than twenty years earlier, when they were still young
men.

"You see for yourselves," said San Giacinto, turning to the two Savelli
as he neatly folded the paper, "that Donna Adele desires no further
explanation, and wishes the contents of the letter she has burned to
remain a secret. So far as I am concerned I pledge my word never to
divulge it, nor to hint at it, and I have reason to believe that those
who are acquainted with it will do the same. So far as one man can
answer for another, I will be responsible for them. With regard to the
finding of the letter and to the manner of its being kept so long, I
leave Don Tebaldo, the parish priest of Gerano, to explain that. You can
question him at your leisure. Our mission is accomplished, and Pietro
Ghisleri's innocence is established for ever. That is all I wished. Good
morning."

After burning the confession Adele had let herself fall into the deep
chair in which she had been sitting when the three friends entered the
room. Her head had fallen back, and her jaw dropped in a ghastly
fashion. She looked as though she were dead; but her hands twitched
convulsively, rising suddenly and falling again upon her knees. It was
impossible to say whether she was conscious or not.

The two Savelli, father and son, stood on the other side of the
fireplace and looked at her, still speechless at her conduct, which they
could only half understand, but which could mean nothing but disgrace to
her and dishonour to them. The elder man seemed to suffer the more, and
he leaned heavily against the chimney-piece, supporting his head with
his hand. Neither the one nor the other paid any attention to the three
men as they silently left the room.

San Giacinto begged Don Tebaldo to wait a short time, and then to send a
messenger inquiring whether the Prince wished to see him, and if not, to
return at once to the palace in which San Giacinto lived. Then he took
Bonifazio with him as well as Campodonico and Sant' Ilario, and went at
once to Ghisleri's lodging. They found him breakfasting alone in a
rather sketchy fashion, for Bonifazio had not been allowed by San
Giacinto to return to his master until everything was accomplished. He
showed some surprise when he opened the door himself, and found the
three together on the landing.

"Is anything the matter?" he inquired, as he ushered them into the
sitting-room, where he had been taking his meal.

"On the contrary," said San Giacinto, "we have come to tell you that
nothing is the matter. This paper may amuse you; but it is worth
keeping, as Campodonico and my cousin can testify, for their names
appear in it as witnesses."

Ghisleri read the contents carefully, and they could see how his brow
cleared at every word.

"You have been the best friend to me that any man ever had," he said,
grasping San Giacinto's huge hand.

"You could have done it quite as well yourself, only I knew you would
not do it at all," answered the latter. "I have no scruples in dealing
with such people, nor do I see why any one should have any. But you
would have gone delicately and presented Donna Adele with the
confession, and then when she had burned it before your eyes, you would
have told her that you trusted to her sense of justice to right you in
the opinion of the world."

Ghisleri laughed. He was so happy that he would have laughed at
anything. After giving him a short account of what had taken place, all
three left him, going, as they said, to breakfast at the club, and
inform the world of what had happened. And so they did. And before the
clock struck eight that night, Bonifazio had received a hundred visiting
cards, each with two words, "to congratulate," written upon it in
pencil, and four invitations to dinner addressed to Pietro Ghisleri. For
the world is unconsciously wise in its generation, and on the rare
occasions when it has found out that it has made a mistake, its haste to
do the civil thing is almost indecent. In eight and forty hours the
whole Savelli family and the Prince and Princess of Gerano had left
Rome, and Ghisleri found it hard to keep one evening a week free for
himself.

But in the afternoon of that day on which San Giacinto had so suddenly
turned the tables upon Pietro's adversaries, Pietro went to see Laura
Arden. She, of course, was in ignorance of what had occurred, and was
amazed by the change she saw in his face when he entered.

"Something good has happened, I am sure!" she exclaimed, as she came
half-way across the room to meet him with outstretched hands.

"Yes," he said, "something very unexpected has happened. The confession
has been found, Donna Adele has admitted that the whole story was a
fabrication, and she has signed a formal denial of every accusation,
past, present, and to come. I am altogether cleared."

"Thank God! Thank God!" Laura cried, wringing his two hands, and gazing
into his eyes.

"You are glad," he said. "I suppose I knew you would be, but I could not
realise that it would make so much difference to you."

"In one way it makes no difference," she said more quietly, as she sat
down and pointed to his accustomed place. "I knew the truth from the
beginning. But it is for you. I saw how unhappy you were yesterday. Now
tell me all about it."

He told her all that had taken place since he had left her on the
previous day, as it has been told in these pages, and his heart beat
fast as he saw in her eyes the constant and great interest she felt.

"And so I am quite free of it all at last," he said, when he had
finished.

"And you will be happy now," answered Laura, softly. "You have been
through almost everything, it seems to me. Do you realise how much I
know of all your life? It is strange, is it not? You are not fond of
making confidences, and you never made but one to me, when you could not
help yourself. Yes; it is very strange that I should know so much about
you."

"And still be willing to call me your friend?" added Ghisleri. "I do not
know how you can--and yet--" He stopped. "The reason is," he said
suddenly, "that you have long been a part of my life--that is why you
know me so well. I think that even long ago we were much more intimate
than we knew or dreamed of. There were many reasons for that."

"Yes," Laura answered. "And then, after all, I have known you ever since
I first went out as a young girl. I did not like you at first, I
remember, though I could never tell why. But as for your saying that you
cannot see why I should still be your friend, I do not understand how
you mean it. It seems to me that you have done much to get my friendship
and to strengthen it, and nothing to lose it. Besides, you yourself know
that you are not what you were. You have changed. You were saying so
only yesterday, and you said the change was for the better."

"Yes, I have changed," said Ghisleri. "It is of no use to deny it. I do
not mean in everything, though I do not lead the life I did. Perhaps it
all goes together after all."

"That is not very clear," observed Laura, with a low laugh.

Ghisleri was silent for a moment.

"I do not think of you as I did," he said. "That is the greatest change
of all."

Laura did not answer. She leaned back in her seat, and looked across the
room.

"I never thought it would come," he said. "For years I honourably
believed I could be your friend. I know, now, that I cannot. I love you
far too deeply--with far too little right."

Still Laura did not speak. But she turned her face from him, laying her
cheek against the silken cushion behind her.

"Perhaps I am doing very wrong in telling you this," said Ghisleri,
trying to steady his voice. "But I made up my mind that it was better,
and more honest. I do not believe that you love me, that you ever can
love me in the most distant future of our lives. I am prepared for that.
I will not trouble you with my love. I will never speak of it again--for
I can never hope to win you. But at least you know the truth."

Slowly Laura turned her face again and her eyes met his. There was a
deep, warm light in them. She seemed to hesitate. Then the words came
sharply, in a loud, clear voice, unlike her own, as though the great
secret had burst every barrier and had broken out against her will by
its own strength, sudden, startling, new to herself and to the man who
heard it.

"I love you now!"

Ghisleri turned as deadly pale as when Gianforte's bullet had so nearly
gone through his heart. The words rang out in the quiet room with an
intensity and distinctness of tone not to be described. He had not even
guessed that she might love him. For one moment they looked at one
another, both white with passion, both trembling a little, the black
eyes and the blue both gleaming darkly. Then Ghisleri took the two hands
that were stretched out to meet his own, and each felt that the other's
were very cold. As though by a common instinct they both rose, and stood
a moment face to face. Then his arms went round her. He did not know
until long afterwards that when he kissed her he lifted her from the
ground.

It had all been sudden, strange, and unlike anything in his whole life,
unexpected beyond anything that had ever happened to him. Perhaps it was
so with her, too. They remembered little of what they said in those
first moments, but by and by, as they sat side by side on the sofa,
words came again.

"I knew it when you went away last summer," said Ghisleri. "And then I
thought I should never tell you."

"And I found it out when I left you," answered Laura. "I found that I
could not live without you and be happy. Did you guess nothing when I
made you come to me yesterday? Yesterday--only yesterday! It seems like
last year. Did you think it was mere friendship?"

"Yes, I thought it was that and nothing more--but such friendship as I
had never dreamed of."

"Nor any one else, perhaps," said Laura, with a happy smile. "For I
would have come, you know, in spite of every one. What would you have
done then, I wonder?"

"Then? Do not speak of yesterday. What could I have done? Could I have
told you that I loved you with such an accusation hanging over me? No,
you know that. It was only yesterday that I asked you to let me leave
you rather suddenly--did you not guess the reason?"

"I thought you were ill--no--well, it crossed my mind that you might be
a little, just a little, in love with me." She laughed.

"I felt ill afterwards. I was horrified when I thought how nearly I had
spoken."

"And why should you not have spoken, if it was in your heart?" asked
Laura, taking his hand again. "Why should you have thought, even for a
moment, that I could care what people said. You are you, and I am I,
whether the world is with us or against us. And I think, dear, that we
shall need the world very little now. Perhaps it will change its mind
and pretend it needs us."

"There is no doubt of that. It always happens so. Why should we care?"
He paused a moment, then, as his eyes met hers, the great dominating
passion broke out again: "Ah--darling--heart's heart--beloved! There are
not words to tell you how I love you and bless you, and worship you with
all my soul. What can I say, what can I do, to make you understand?"

"Love me, dear," she said, "and be faithful, as I will be." And their
lips met again.

They loved well and truly. Strange, some may say, that a love of that
good kind should have begun in friendship on the one side, and
indifference if not dislike on the other. But neither had understood
the other at all in the beginning. The world-tired and world-weary man
had not guessed at the real woman who lived so humanly, and could love
so passionately, and whom nature had clothed with such saint-like, holy
beauty as to make her seem a creature above all earthly feeling and all
mortal weakness. Her eyes had seemed fixed on far-distant, heavenly
sights, gazing upon the world only to wonder at its vanity and to loathe
its uncleanness. Her best and her greatest thoughts had been, he
fancied, of things altogether divine and supernatural, of love
celestial, of beatific vision, of the waters of paradise, of goodness
and of God. And something of all this there was in her, but there was
room for more both in heart and soul, and more was there--the deep,
human sympathy, the simple strength to love one man wholly, the
singleness of thought and judgment to see the good in him and love it,
and to understand and forgive the bad--and far down in the strong, quiet
nature was hidden the passion but newly awakened whose irresistible
force would have broken every barrier and despised every convention,
respecting only its own purity in taking what it loved and desired, and
would have at any cost, save the defilement of the soul it moved. Small
wonder that when it awoke at last unresisted and meeting its like, it
burst into sight with a sudden violence that startled the woman herself,
and amazed the man who had not suspected its existence.

But she, on her side, had learned to know him more slowly, not ever
analysing him, nor trying to guess at his motives, but merely seeing
little by little how great and wide was the discrepancy between the
hard, sceptical, cynic thoughts he expressed so readily, and the
constant, unchangingly brave effort of his heart to do in all cases what
was honourable, just, and brave according to his light. She saw him ever
