guard he was left, had accompanied him, to 
allow him to watch the procedure. Marcy 
suggested that the horse was used to smell 
ing-salts and missed them. 

" There ! " said the orderly, flinging back 
the last corner of the comforter. 

" Ugh ! " cried Jerry McCarty. 

" What 's the game ? " asked Symmes. 

But Marcy, leaning nonchalantly against 
the side of the doorway, tossing away the 
end of his cigar with a light fillip of his 
delicate hand, Donald Marcy said : 

" Well, gentlemen, may I go back to 
college now ? I'd like to get there in time to 
find out where to-morrow morning 's recitation 
is. Jerry ! Say Jerry ! " 

But Mr. McCarty was gone. He had 



 

taken himself back to his beat with 
inglorious and melancholy haste, long remembered 
at that police station. 

The cart contained an empty barrel an 
old barrel covered with tar ; some brush 
wood freshly gathered from the country, and 
a basket or two of pine-cones. That was 
all. 

" I was detailed to provide material for a 
bonfire," explained Marcy, smiling. " It 's 
against college law, I own. I don't say I'd 
any business to do it. Jerry 's spoiled the 
prettiest blaze of this term, I 'll say that 
much for him. But say, Mr. Officer, it isn't 
a state 's prison offense, is it ? It doesn't 
hurt the feelings of the Commonwealth, 
does it, if I run the risk of forty marks to 
light a tar-barrel on the campus ? Hey ? " 

" No," admitted the sergeant sadly, " I 
don't know as it does. I guess we 'll have 
to let you go. But don't do it any more, 
Mr. Marcy." 

" Look here," said the young fellow, with 
a touch of earnestness ; he lifted his clear 
face pleasantly to the dark countenance of 
the officer. " I want you to understand, Mr. 
Sergeant, just erase my father 's name, 
will you, from that book ? I 'll be glad if 



 

you 'll remember that I don't get to this 
station, except by mistake, sir. I've had 
my share of fun in this college ; I don't 
deny it. I dare say I shall have some more. 
But I don't sneak, and I don't do a low 
lived, mean trick, and I don't steal. Come, 
now ! Do I look that kind of chap ? " 

Donald had now taken off his disguise; 
the ragged overcoat lay in a heap at his 
feet, he tossed it across the dumping-cart 
with a gesture of disgust. Somehow, he felt 
a little ashamed, in spite of all that grand 
manner of his. He held the slouch hat in 
his white hand. The yarn mittens were 
gone. He stood in the quiet dress of a 
young gentleman, and bowed gracefully to 
the officer. 

" No," said the sergeant, looking him over. 
" I can't say that you do. But you've made 
me a sight of trouble." 

" You trouble ! " cried Don merrily. " Consider,
gentlemen, what you've made me! 
I've got to drive this plaguy horse three 
miles to find his master ; he 's a poor man, 
and I promised to take the beast back 
c tenderly, and I vowed I'd lick him with 
care. And the worst of it is, there won't 
be any bonfire ! " 



 

Lifting his hat jauntily to the officer, the 
boy climbed back into the dumping-cart, and 
rode away into the rain, singing : 

" When Fresh, they used me rather roughly," 

at the top of his healthy lungs. 

" Say, Peeler ! " he called back, far down 
the street, " something 's happened to this 
horse ; I think he 's dead. Wouldn't you 
offer him as material to the medical 
department ? Don't you think they'd 
like -him?" 



CHAPTER II. 

A RUSH. 

HARLE COLLEGE was excited. It was a 
temperate excitement, relatively speaking, 
for the occasion was what might be called 
a mild one. It was nothing madder than a 
" rush." Every college boy knows what a 
rush is. They were a specialty at Harle. 
At this time of year, when the long autumn 
nights set in early, when the elder faculty 
found it hard to see without their spectacles 
before tea-time, and the tutors were busy in 
their rooms burrowing into to-morrow 's 
problems, the text-book being still too new to 
the tutors to make the lesson easy, when 
it was just cold enough to give a snap to the 
air and a fillip to the fun, and hot so cold as 
to make the feet stiff and the fingers numb ; 
then the rush was in its prime. Then the 
Sophomores and the Freshmen, new 
acquaintances yet, but thoroughly introduced, had 
formed opinions of each other 's mettle, and 
were zealous to test it. Then nobody began 

to study till eight or nine o clock, and 
supper was over at seven, and opportunity was 
at its best. 

On the evening of which I speak, the stars 
were out. Not a cloud was in the sky. 
There was no moon. A light, stimulating 
breeze had started up since dusk, and gave a 
zest to breath and body. The foot rang on 
the frozen ground, and the chorus of fine, 
young voices singing on the college fence 
echoed to the sky. Harle boys are good 
singers ; and, up to reasonable hours, the 
tutor hindereth not. Their repertoire was 
vigorous and varied, if limited : " Lauriger 
Horatius," " Swe-de-le-we," " Come to Din 
ner Just Now," " Trankadillo," " Nelly was a 
Lady," " Hit the Coon," " Prexy 's Gone to 
Boston," " How can I Bear to Leave Thee ? " 
" Excelsior," "The Landlady 's Daughter," 
" One Fish-Ball," and so on. This hap 
pened to be the programme for that 
particular occasion. 

The boys sang with uncommon spirit. In 
fact, it soon became evident that they were 
making as much noise and as little music as 
possible, and that their numbers were 
remarkably few. 

The first hollow-eyed tutor who looked up 

from the maddening pages of his Analytical 
Geometry to glance out of the hall window 
at the group upon the fence would notice 
this ; steal down in his slippers on tiptoe to 
see what it meant ; guess, if he were clever, 
that the concert was " a blind," and that the 
squad detailed upon the fence were doing 
unwelcome duty to distract the interest of 
the faculty, while the mass of the boys were 
up to mischief somewhere else. Then, if he 
were not too old a tutor, recently graduated, 
if he felt quite kind, and had enjoyed his 
supper, and was getting on well with his 
Loomis, and nobody ha:l been impertinent 
to him that day, and if he suspected nothing 
more serious than a rush, that amiable tutor 
would return comfortably to his book, or 
mingle, disguised, in the crowd, and nobody 
would be the worse for him, unless something
happened. If anything did, he was a 
tutor on his guard. 

Out on the brightly lighted fence a dozen 
or so boys sang loyally. They didn't like 
it, but they sang straight on. Back in the 
dark, upon the campus, fifty boys one 
hundred two hundred five hundred 
gathered silently and swiftly. There was 
some talking, but all in undertones. Groups 

stood apart whispering or smoking idly, 
preparing for the fun. 

Here and there in the dim foreground, 
lighted chiefly by cigar ends, prominent
figures passed to and fro. Among these moved 
the lithe form of Don Marcy, straight and 
graceful ; his square shoulders and nervous, 
athletic hand and arm, his brown curls and 
merry, blue eyes and clean mouth and well- 
cut chin, were familiar features wherever 
there was college fun. 

A quiet fellow stood on the outskirts of 
the crowd, watching him with intent,
affectionate look. This boy had black eyes and 
straight, black hair, and a good forehead ; 
he was a trifle pale and thin ; he was not 
very well dressed ; he had the carriage of a 
student, while Don had the swing of a man 
of the world. Don made his way through 
the crowd, pushing the fellows to right and 
to left with an authoritative touch of his 
light cane, and came up to this boy. 

" In for it to-night, Jamie ? " 

"I guess not," said Jamie Fleet. "I'll 
look on awhile. I've got a lot of work to 
do to-night." 

" All right," nodded Don. " Just as you 
say. You're always so awfully virtuous, 



 

J. ! Come, now ! There 's nothing immoral 
in a rush, is there ? " 

" That 's your business, Don," said Fleet, 
smiling pleasantly. " I'm not your keeper, 
if I am your chum. All I say is, I've got 
too much to do. And hold your horses, 
Don, won't you ? Don't let things go too 
far." 

" Oh, no, indeed," replied Don confidently. 
" I never do that. Well, all right, 
J. Trouncey, won't you just form em in 
line ? " 

" Fleet doesn't like rushes," observed a 
Freshman sneeringly. " He keeps on the 
safe side. It needs some pluck." 

" Who said that ? " 

Like a flash-light Don wheeled. His fist 
clenched, his eyes blazed. He was very fond 
of Jamie Fleet. A better fellow than J. 
never attended to his business in Harle 
College. And Jamie was not strong. Every 
body knew that he wasn't by f Our weeks 
over a slow fever, yet. 

" Calhoun said it," observed the boy whom 
Don had addressed as Trouncey. " I don't 
mind telling. Mean thing to say. Sick boy. 
T isn't fair fight." 

" Lee Calhoun ? Are you there ? "thundered Don. 



" Ye-es," drawled Callioun. " I'm here, 
and I said it, and I 'll say it again." 

Pie stepped forward and confronted Don. 
He was a tall, indolent-looking, handsome 
fellow, with a sandy mustache and a sneer 
too pronounced for his years twitching its 
corners down. 

" I don't fancy Fleet," he urged insolently. 
" He 's a dig. And why can't he dress like 
a gentleman, if he is one ? " 

" Here 's why ! " cried Don, in a white 
rage. He sprang upon Calhoun, and would 
have twisted him like a willow stick in 
muscles so developed by rowing and the 
gymnasium that everybody in college respected 
his knuckles, even Trouncey O Grian ; 
and Trouncey was the son of the prize 
fighter of that distinguished name. 

But Trouncey interposed, and Jamie Fleet 
himself. 

" You 'll spoil the fun," urged Trouncey. 
" Can't stop to fight to-night. Have it out 
next time. I 'll second you." 

" I can defend myself," put in Jamie 
quickly. " There 's no need of anybody 
fighting over me. Let him alone, Don, do. 
There are other ways than fighting. I 'll 
meet him in some of em any time he says, 
class rank, for instance." 



 

" Let him apologize, then ! " cried hot 
headed Don. " I 'll let you off, Lee Calhoun, 
this time, to oblige my chum. That 's the 
only reason, mind you. Get out of my way ; 
I need your room. Now, Trouncey ! Boys ! 
Come, boys ! Form ! Form ! R-r-r-ush ! " 

" I want to be a Peeler, 

And with the Peelers stand ; 
A pistol in my pocket, 
And a billy in my hand, 

sang the boys upon the fence. 

As quickly as the passing of the word, the 
students formed, Freshmen and Sophomores 
leading. 

A line of perhaps a dozen men from each 
class stood linked, elbow within elbow, 
presenting a solid front. Against them the rest 
pressed up, class to class ; the remainder of 
the college joining according to inclination, 
though in the main the Juniors supported 
the Freshmen, while the Seniors backed the 
Sophomores. Then the huge mass gathered, 
nervous, electric, ready for anything in the 
nature of a fight, and stood, swaying and 
excitable. In the centre of the Freshmen 
ranks, guarded by picked men, stood the 
Freshman Cane, the innocent object of 
this mighty warfare. A Sophomore victory 



 

meant that no member of the Freshman 
class could carry a cane that year upon the 
streets of Harle. 

The boys upon the fence began to be rest 
less, and added to the musical interest of the 
occasion after this manner : 

" I dreamt that I dwelt in marble halls 
Where we don't go home till morning- ! 
If you loved me still the same 
One, two, three, and away you go ! 
Last night she died she did ! 
Drink her down ! Drink her dow-ow-own ! 
Bi-ennials are a bore-ore-ore ! 
John Brown 's body Nelly was a lady 
Rush ! Rush ! Rush and away we go 
Our souls come marching on! " 

With this they came, piling, boy after boy, 
over the fence, and over each other, leaving 
the tutor in possession of the field. The 
rush was too much for the pickets ; they 
deserted bodily, and came panting up to see 
the fun. 

Before one could have said whether the 
play had fairly begun, it had become dead 
earnest. A solid mass, the students blocked 
and closed. Then by main force and sheer 
endurance the contest held. Now this side 
staggered, and then that. The Sophomores 
wavered, and the Freshmen made ground ; 
and the Sophomores shook again ; both lost ; 



 

each gained ; it was a drawn game ; it was a 
doubtful one ; it was a persistent one ; it 
began to be an angry one ; it threatened to 
be a serious one. An onlooker would have 
received a new impression of the sense in the 
phrase, " Clear push" 

Tutors were on the scene now, but nobody 
noticed them. All attempt at secrecy was 
gone. The boys began to cry out and to 
yell like little beasts. They had forgotten 
everybody and everything except the mere 
brute, masculine instinct of fight. 

That preeminent Sophomore, Donald 
Marcy, was in the thick of it, in the front 
of it. He was usually in the front of things, 
if we except the marking-list in class-room. 

His fine figure, eminent and alert, flashed 
to and fro ; his strong shoulder gave many 
a magnificent shove. But he never gave a 
brutal knock. He did not lose his chivalry 
in his frolic. 

Everybody else was not so controlled, and 
the play was waxing hot. Some heavy 
blows were given ; some bruises, too serious, 
received. A colored student in particular 
a Freshman had a hard time. He was 
a sturdy fellow, and took his part in the rush 
as naturally as any white man ; quite as 



 

effectually as most of them. It was noticed 
that he played quite fair, and dealt no foul 
blows. 

Suddenly the negro gave a cry, and fell. 
The mass of boys, too heavily charged to 
stop at an instant 's notice, swayed to and fro 
above him. Some walked over him ; one fell 
on him. Shouts and ugly words arose ; then 
came the cry, so fatal to the fun of a college 
rush : 

" Give him air ! Stand back ! Hold up, 
boys ! somebody 's down ! somebody 's hurt ! 
Air ! give him air ! Who did it ? Who hit 
foul ? It 's George Washington Clay ! Who 
struck Clay ? " 

"Calhoun did it! Calhoun ! Calhoun ! 
He hit a classmate ! " 

" He handled me," said Lee Calhoun, trem 
bling, and white with rage. " He pushed me 
impertinently. He is a nigger, and I knocked 
him down." 

Now the son of the prize - fighter stood 
near enough to overhear this. His big, good- 
natured face flushed slowly with the terrible 
blood of his inheritance. He said nothing. 
Nobody noticed him. He stepped up so 
quietly in front of Calhoun that the action 
attracted no attention till Calhoun lay flat 



 

upon the ground, where one blow of Troun- 
cey 's mighty fist had stretched him. 

" There ! " said Trouncey O Grian to the 
reviving negro, whom the boys were fanning 
and unfastening and helping to his feet. 
" He won't sarse you again to-night. This 
is a free college and a free country. Come 
and look at him, if you want to. He 'll have 
a headache for a week or two, I take it. 
Don't be scared, boys. He isn't hurt. You 
don't suppose I'd be such a flat as that." 

But the rush broke up now in confusion. 
Calhoun was insensible ; the colored student 
bleeding ; the tutors on the spot ; the police 
coming ; Trouncey O Grian suspended ; 
Calhoun marked ; and generally there was the 
mischief to pay. 

Don Marcy went to his room that night a 
little gloomily. Jamie Fleet was there, hard 
at his Antigone for to-morrow. 

" Hi, Don ! " he said cordially. " How'd 
the rush go off ? I didn't stay. I've got an 
extra job on to-night. And it took you so 
long to get at it. Have a good time ? " 

" Got forty marks," answered Don so 
berly. " Ten more will expel me. I shall 
have to get up to prayers all the rest of the 
term. Counted on those forty to sleep over. 



 

It was no kind of a rush, anyhow. Didn't 
get the cane. Nobody got the cane. Tutor 
got the cane. Jerry McCarty arrested the 
cane. Two fellows busted. Faculty there. I 
lost my smoking-cap, too. Got my clothes 
torn off of me see ! clear down to the 
waist. I came home in a coat of Trouncey s. 
I sprained my shoulder somehow. Somebody 
squashed my toes. It was the greatest tom 
fool of a rush, anyhow." 

" Didn't pay, did it ? " asked Jamie sym 
pathetically. 

" Where 's the Greek lesson ? " growled 
Don. He sat down very hard and looked it 
over. He presented anything but a scholarly 
appearance ; his handsome face was pounded 
and bleeding, his flannel shirt in strips, and 
Trouncey 's big coat fastened across his
shoulders by the sleeves. " They 'll flunk me, sure 
pop," he said disconsolately. " I haven't 
learned a Greek for two weeks, I've been so 
busy. Well, anyway, I've got to go and get 
a bath, now" 

Lee Calhoun, while he was recovering 
from the effects of Trouncey O Grian 's blow, 
employed his time in writing home the most 
dismal letters that had visited his ancestral 
halls since Lee came to college. The result 



 

of the most explicit was a communication 
from his father to the President of Harle, 
which ran as follows : 

PRESIDENT OF HARLE UNIVERSITY Sir : 
My son complains to me that he is required to sit 
by the side of a negro student. I am compelled 
to make it a personal request that his seat be 
changed. Respectfully, 

C. C. CALHOUN. 

To this letter the President sent, by return 
mail, the following reply : 

C. C. CALHOUN, ESQ. Dear Sir : I am 
happy to be able to inform you that your cause of 
complaint in the case of your son will be entirely 
removed at the close of this term. Hitherto, we 
have seated the students alphabetically in the 
recitation-room ; hereafter, they will be seated 
according to scholarship. 

I am, sir, respectfully, 

A. B. BAXTER, 
President of Harle University. 



CHAPTER III. 

HAZING. 

WHEN Don Marcy was* a Freshman at 
Harle, he took his turn at a slight acquaint 
ance with the ancient and fortunately now 
unfashionable practice of hazing which had 
such a mysterious relation to the culture of 
a liberal education, as imbibed by the mas 
culine race. Marcy 's experience was in this 
wise : 

Nobody had handled him, or threatened to, 
till the first term was nearly over. He was 
such a good-natured, sensible lad, mannered 
with the modesty of real good breeding, and 
he had the lack of ostentation which accom 
panies plenty of money when one is born to 
it, or, at least, well-born to it, he had 
such merry eyes, and treated everybody so 
decently ; and was clever at recitation when 
he chose to trouble himself, and never swag 
gered or swelled, and was such a plucky fel 
low in particular, that it had been hard to 
make out a case against him. At last, however, 
a Sophomore raised the objection that 
he was too well dressed, and took a Professor 's 
daughter to drive. This accusation carried 
the class, and a delegation of a dozen Sopho 
mores waited upon Marcy one pleasant even 
ing with vengeance in their eyes. 

Donald was alone ; he had no chum just 
then ; he was studying in his comfortable 
room, the most tastefully fitted of any in 
the college. It was not a showy room, but 
refinedly elegant, from the damask drapery 
curtains on his study windows and the brass 
fender and fire-set at the fireplace, to the 
little Persian rug that lay before the toilet- 
table in his chamber. Don was a fellow of 
delicate personal habits, and kept that room 
as neat as any lady might have done. He 
enjoyed it amazingly, and it had never 
occurred to him, by the way, that two views 
could be taken of the subject, till Jamie 
Fleet 's father came in one day with Don 's 
own parental visitor they had been class 
mates, and had forgotten each other, and 
met again and remembered at Harle, where 
their two sons entered college together to 
see the boy 's room. 

Dr. Fleet was a poor man, a country minister.
He had the same gentle, attractive 



 

eyes that Jamie had: he wrote for the 
reviews from his rural parish, and was not 
unknown in the great world where the elder 
Mr. Marcy lived upon his income, and 
frequented what is called " society." 

" There, Fleet, what do you think of it ? " 
asked the other father fondly. " Isn't this 
a pretty good thing in the way of a boy 's 
room ? I've tried to make Don comfortable. 
He 's used to it, you know." 

" Sir," answered his old classmate, smil 
ing, and rubbing the toe of his patched boot 
over the pattern of the heavy Axminster on 
which they stood, " if you really want to 
know what I think of it, I 'll tell you. You'll 
never raise a scholar on that carpet" 

It was on this unscholarly carpet that 
Donald tipped back his chair to listen when 
the hazing party knocked at his door. 

" Oh, come in," he said pleasantly. ," Delighted,
I'm sure. Make yourself at home, 
boys. A dozen ? I'm honored. Sit down ? 
Have cigars ? No ? What will you have, 
then ? Me ? Stand upon that table and sing 
Mother Goose ? Well, I'm not in voice 
to-night. Thank you, no. I don't undress 
before strange guests. Nor I don't gargle 
my throat with raw alcohol and molasses 



 

and red pepper. I don't care to go downstairs 
with you, either, and out to the pump - 
See here ! " cried the Freshman, suddenly 
changing his tone, and moving a chair into 
the doorway, where he seated himself se 
renely. " Do you see this crowbar ? It 's a 
new one. I bought it last week. I'm busy 
to-night. I've got a lesson to learn. I 'll 
just sit here, if you please, and learn it. 
Now, gentlemen, the first man of you that 
enters this room gets the crowbar ! " 

With that, Donald 's bright eye looked 
them over firmly and fearlessly ; he took his 
book and his crowbar ; the hazing party, 
after a whispered consultation, took their 
departure. They dropped away, one by one, 
with an air of having an appointment with 
another fellow. 

" Plucky," they saict. " One of the kind ! 
Equal to it ! Couldn't say what he'd do ! 
No go ! Try another room ! " 

Now the Freshman has views about haz 
ing ; he considers it a brutal and unmanly 
practice. The Sophomore replaces these 
opinions by the lax creed of conscious power. 
The Sophomore regards hazing as an inno 
cent custom, affording a little college fun, 
and to be deprecated, chiefly, when it meets 



 

with mishaps which bring the practice before 
the attention of the faculty or the police. 

Don, I regret to say, had suffered this 
" class change " in his principles. From a 
Freshman and a hazee he had become a 
Sophomore and a hazor. His position was 
underaroinar one of the revolutions which 
circumstances wrest from any of us if we have 
not acquired a pretty firm moral and mental 
leverage of our own. 

In the course of time that is to say, in 
the course of the first term of Sophomore 
year Don, without much thought, easily 
and lightly as such boys do such things, " for 
the fun of it," joined a hazing party which 
had for its objective point two or three 
unpopular Freshmen. Of these, Calhoun 
was the most prominent, and the especially 
doomed man. Calhoun had never been a 
favorite at Harle. From the first week of 
his college career he had contrived to create 
an atmosphere of personal irritation around 
himself. It was hard to say just how this 
was done, except by a series of petty offenses, 
all of them bearing in some form or other 
upon the sense of caste that in Calhoun was 
developed to a degree against which the 
hearty, healthy spirit of human equality 



 

among his classmates rebelled. Calhoun, in 
short, considered himself a gentleman who 
must maintain his position. The students 
of Harle College considered him a disagree 
able fellow who hadn't any position, because 
he felt it necessary to maintain it. 

This was a difference of opinion not easily 
reconciled, and snobbishness is the last fault 
which a college full of sturdy young demo 
crats will overlook. In an institution where 
the negro was respected, and the prize-fight 
er 's son personally respectable, Calhoun was 
not at home. The Vermont clergyman 's boy 
and the New York gentleman 's son knew 
how to adapt themselves to the social
problems of that world-in-little which a large New 
England college represents. But Calhoun 
had received a different education. 

The accident at the interrupted rush, in 
which Calhoun had been so unpleasantly 
prominent, gave the final touch to his 
unpopularity. A fellow who would spoil a 
rush, hit foul, and turn on a classmate, met 
with small favor at Harle College. From 
the date of that event Calhoun was doomed 
for the severest hazing of the year. 

Donald Marcy went into the affair hotly 
enough. The vigorous sense of chivalry in 



 

him, which Calhoun had so offended, was not 
balanced enough to keep him out of a secret 
personal attack, ten men to one. It did 
not occur to him that he might be doing as 
mean a deed as Calhoun 's ; clearly a meaner 
one from certain points of view, such as 
regulate the conditions of conflict between man 
and man in any other civilized set of 
circumstances outside of a college world. He 
plunged in, and thought about it as little as 
possible. 

Calhoun was in his room when the boys 
came upon him, a group of ten, disguised, 
masked, and determined. The door was 
locked. The hazors demanded admittance. 
Calhoun requested them, firmly enough, to 
visit a region geographically warmer than 
the entry of North Middle, top floor, upon 
that chilly night. 

" May as well let us in," insisted Donald 
Marcy. " We're bound to have you." 

" I 'll see you further, first ! " replied the 
Freshman. 

" It would save you some expense in locks," 
suggested one of the Sophomores. 

Calhoun made no answer. The pleasant 
puff of a plantation cheroot came out through 
the cracks of the door. The hazing party 



 

agreeably suggested that if he kept such a 
weed as that, he should invite them in for one 
apiece all round. Receiving no hospitality 
of this nature, they put their shoulder to the 
locked and bolted door, burst it in, and piled 
pell-mell into the Freshman 's room. 

Calhoun was standing there in the middle 
of the room, in his embroidered slippers and 
quilted dressing-gown, looking as pale and 
as plucky as was possible. He knew that he 
was unpopular in Harle College, and he 
knew that his hour had come. 

" Why didn't you let us in? " asked one 
of the fellows. " It would have been better 
for you." 

" I open my doors to gentlemen," replied 
the Southerner, " not to burglars." 

There was something in the justice and 
in the dignity of this reply not calculated to 
soothe the hazing party, who revenged them 
selves by proceeding to extreme measures 
with their victim without further parley. 
One of the boys produced a pair of hand 
cuffs, with which he intimated the intention 
of securing the Freshman, to start with ; for, 
as they all knew, he was a hot-blooded fellow. 
This particular Sophomore, his name, by 
the way, was Braggs ; Ben Braggs, when 



 

he had taken ten steps toward Calhoun, 
uttered an exclamation more warm than 
polite, and retreated more heartily than he had 
advanced. He was confronted by a fine 
Southern rifle, held straight to his face ; so 
close, that he could feel the cold lips of the 
weapon upon his forehead. 



CHAPTER IV. 

BURIED ALIVE. 

HARDLY had Calhoun presented the rifle 
when he observed that he would be some- 
thing-or-othered if they tried that again. 

" Oh, come," said Don Marcy. " What 's 
the use, Calhoun ? Why don't you put 
up with college fun as other fellows do ? 
There 's no sense in shooting. We're not 
blacklegs." 

" Oh, aren't you ? " asked Calhoun with 
his cold sneer. " It 's just as well you 
mentioned it. Pray, what are you, then ? " 

" Gentlemen and scholars," replied Don 
promptly. 

" Really ? " scoffed Calhoun. " Dear me ! 
I'm so glad you told me." 

" Look here ! " roared Trouncey O Grian 
in his big, bass voice, " we've fooled with 
you long enough, Calhoun. I'll put those 
handcuffs on, if you please, in the name of 
the Sophomore class of Harle College." 

Trouncey presented himself, breast to the 

