“It’s getting very dull in New York,” said Hester, after a long pause.
“I think we shall go out of town soon, this year.”

She suppressed a yawn with her diaphanous hand, as she leaned back in
her corner of the sofa, staring vacantly at an etching which hung on the
opposite wall, and wishing that Katharine would go. Then she rang the
bell, having thought of tea as a possible antidote to dulness.

“I suppose we shall go away, too,” said Katharine, wondering what the
summer was to be like.

The servant came, and got his orders, and went out, and Hester almost
yawned again.

“I don’t know what’s the matter with me,” she said, half apologetically.
“I’m so sleepy.”

“You’ll be all right after you’ve had some tea,” answered Katharine,
trying to think of something pleasant to say, and finding nothing.

“I hope so,” observed the elder woman. “This is awful. I’m conscious of
being dreadfully dull.”

“It’s probably the reaction,” suggested Katharine.

There was another long pause. The sound of a carriage passing along the
street came in through the windows, but scarcely seemed to break the
silence. Presently the servant returned--a highly respectable, elderly
butler with very white hair, answering to the name of Fletcher. He set
down the tea and departed noiselessly and with dignity. He had formerly
been butler at the Ralstons’ for a number of years, but Mrs. Ralston
had reduced her establishment after her husband’s death.

“What reaction did you mean?” asked Hester, idly, as she made the tea.

“Oh--I meant the natural reaction after the tremendous excitement we’ve
all been living in for so long.”

“Oh!” ejaculated her companion, rather coldly. “I see,” she continued
after a pause, during which she had made a busy little clatter with the
tea things, “you mean because we hoped to get the money and
didn’t--therefore, I’m sleepy. That doesn’t sound very sensible.”

“Well--not as you put it,” answered Katharine, with a short laugh of
embarrassment.

She had determined to attack the subject boldly, so as to break the ice
once and for always. Hester’s aggressive answer put her out.

“How would you put it?” enquired the latter, leaning back again and
waiting for the tea to draw. “Explain! I’m awfully dull to-day.”

“Don’t you think it’s natural?” asked Katharine. “It’s of no use to deny
that we’ve all been tremendously excited during the last fortnight, and
now the excitement has stopped. One’s nerves run down--that sort of
thing, you know--and then one’s tired and feels depressed.”

“The depression’s natural--in our case,” answered Hester, lifting the
cover and looking into the teapot in a futile way, as though she would
see whether the tea were strong enough.

“Yes,” said Katharine, thoughtfully. “Do you know, dear? It seems to me
as though you were thinking that it was my fault, in a way.”

“What? That I’m depressed? Don’t be silly! Do you like it strong? I’ve
forgotten. It’s about right now, I should think.”

“A little water, please--no cream--one lump of sugar--thanks. No,” she
continued, a little impatiently, “you know perfectly well what I mean,
if you’ll only understand. I suppose that’s rather Irish--” she laughed
again.

“It’s Greek to me!” replied Hester, smartly, as she poured out her own
cup of tea. “You’re trying to say something--why don’t you say it?”

It began to be clear to Katharine that there were more difficulties in
the way of what she was attempting to do, than she had dreamt of. She
had expected that Hester would be quite ready to meet her half way,
instead of intrenching herself behind an absurd and pretended
misunderstanding, as she was doing. The best way seemed to be to enter
into an explanation at once. She sipped her tea thoughtfully and then
began again.

“I’ll tell you exactly what I mean,” she said; “so that you’ll see it as
I do. I’m afraid that this question of money has come between you and
me. And if it has, I’m very sorry, because I’m very fond of you,
Hester.”

“Well--I’m fond of you,” answered Hester, in a matter-of-fact tone. “I
don’t see why the money should make any difference.”

“I hope it doesn’t. Only--I’m afraid it does, in spite of what you say.
I don’t feel as though we could ever be again exactly what we’ve always
been until now. But it’s not fair, Hester. It’s not just. You know very
well that if I could have done anything to make the will good, I would
have done it. I couldn’t. What could I do? It’s simply a misfortune that
we were on opposite sides of the fight--or our people were. I’m not
exactly what you’d call gushing, I suppose--indeed, I know I’m not. But
it hurts me to think that we’re to be like strangers, because three men
couldn’t agree about a signature. It’s unnatural. It’s not right. I came
here to-day, meaning to say so--and I’m glad I’ve had the courage to say
it without waiting any longer. But if we’re only to know each other--in
a general way like distant cousins--why, it’s better to acknowledge it
at once. It shan’t come from me--that’s all. But I’d rather be prepared
for it, you know.”

“So far as I’m concerned, I don’t want to fight,” said Hester, coolly.
“I don’t see any reason why we should. Of course we don’t throw
ourselves into each other’s arms and cry with delight every time we
meet, like schoolgirls. We’ve outgrown that. But as for my quarrelling
with you because your father’s inherited a fortune when I ought to have
had a part of it--it’s too ridiculous. You would have had a share, too,
under the will. Then you ought to quarrel with your own father, much
more than with me. Isn’t that common sense?”

“Yes--I suppose it is. But you don’t say it exactly as though--”

Katharine stopped short. She was afraid of seeming impulsive, as many
people of self-contained natures are. She knew that she was not herself
very expansive, as a rule, in her expressions of affection. But Hester
was, and the change from her former manner to her present coldness was
startling. One may miss in others what one would not have in oneself,
and one may resent another’s refusal to give it. The regret of missing
anything is not measured by its value, but by the strength of the habit
its presence has created. Men liberated after years of captivity have
missed their chains. The Irish woman in the typical story complained
that her husband no longer beat her. She missed it.

“I’ll say it in any way you like,” answered Hester, hardly. “It seems to
me that we’re just as good friends as ever. I see no difference.”

“I do,” answered Katharine. “And there’s always going to be a
difference, now,” she added, regretfully.

She was conscious that in some unaccountable way the positions had been
reversed with regard to her character and her friend’s. It should
naturally have been the more passionate, expansive, sensitive woman who
should be almost begging that the old friendship might not be forgotten,
and Katharine herself, the colder of the two, the one by far less easily
carried away by passing emotions, should have been giving the assurance
that nothing was changed. It was incomprehensible to her, as well it
might be, since there was a cause for Hester’s behaviour which lay very
far from the question of money, though the coldness which the latter had
caused was helping to make matters worse.

“I suppose we’re outgrowing each other,” suggested Hester, who was more
or less anxious to account for the change, since Katharine was laying
such great stress upon it. “You know that’s the way of the world,” she
added, tritely. “People are ever so fond of each other for a long time,
and then all at once they find out that they’re not what they were, you
know, and that they don’t really care.”

“Oh--do you look at it in that way?” Katharine’s voice and manner
changed, for she was hurt. “But don’t you think this outgrowing, as you
call it, has been rather sudden? It’s only about three weeks since we
were talking quite differently. It can’t be more, I’m sure.”

“Isn’t it?” asked Hester, indifferently. “Really, it seems ever so long
since we sat here and told each other things.”

There is a beautiful vagueness about the language of a woman when she
wishes to have something forgotten.

“It seems long to me, too,--in another way,” answered Katharine. “It’s
far off--like a good many things that happened then.”

Hester made no answer to this remark, but leaned back against her
cushion and meditatively nibbled the edge of a ginger-snap.

“Of course,” said Katharine, “if you want it all to end here, I’m not
going to cry and behave like the schoolgirl you talked about--”

“No,” interrupted Hester, munching her biscuit audibly; “it isn’t worth
it.”

“Once upon a time we should both have thought it was,” answered the
young girl. “But when a thing like friendship’s gone--it’s gone, that’s
all, and there’s nothing more to be said about it.”

“I wish you wouldn’t be so silly, my dear!” exclaimed Hester, who,
having swallowed the remains of the ginger-snap, suddenly realized that
she might at least bury her intimacy with a protest to the effect that
it was not dead. “You really go on as though we were lovers, and I had
betrayed you. In the first place it doesn’t follow, because we’re grown
up and not exactly what we used to be, that there’s no friendship
between us. We can go on just the same as ever, even if we talk
differently and gush less, and we can see just as much of each other as
we always did. You’ve got some idea or other into your head about my
being cold, because I’m sleepy and dull to-day. Probably the next time
we meet it will be just the opposite, and you’ll think me too gushing.”

So long as Hester had made no serious pretence of anything more than she
felt, confining herself more or less to generalities and vaguely saying
that she desired no break, Katharine had remained calm, but something in
the last speech seemed to ring outrageously false, and the blood slowly
rose to her throat and ebbed again without reaching her cheeks.

“Don’t pretend!” she exclaimed. “We’ve got to get at the truth to-day,
if we’re ever to get at it at all.”

Hester raised her beautiful eyebrows, as delicately and finely marked as
though they had been drawn with pen and ink.

“My dear child!” she answered, with real or affected surprise. “Don’t
fly into little pink rages like that.”

“I’m not in a rage,” protested Katharine. “And if I were, I shouldn’t be
pink--I never am. But I don’t want you to pretend things you don’t feel.
We’ve never pretended much with each other, and I don’t want to begin
now. It’s over and done for. Let’s make up our minds to it and be
sensible. I don’t see that there’s anything else to be done. But don’t
let’s pretend things. I hate that.”

“Not half so much as I do, my dear,” said Hester, airily, as though to
close the discussion. “I don’t see the slightest good in talking about
it any more. You’ve got it into your head that I’ve changed. If you
believe it, you know it, for Mr. Griggs says that--”

“Do leave Mr. Griggs alone!” cried Katharine, irritably. “It isn’t a
mere idea, either. You said we’d outgrown each other. I’m not conscious
of having grown a head taller in the last three weeks. But so far as
talking about it goes, you’re quite right. Only--” her voice changed
again and took a gentler tone--“let’s part friends, Hester, for the sake
of all that has been.”

“Why, of course!” exclaimed Hester, with insincere frankness. “That is,
if you insist upon parting, as you call it. But I declare! we might just
as well be a pair of lovers quarrelling, you know. It’s just about as
sensible, on the whole.”

“I suppose things mean more to me than they do to you,” answered
Katharine, with sudden coldness. “Friendship--like everything
else--like--”

She was going to say ‘like love,’ but checked herself. In that at least
she felt that she must have been mistaken. Whatever else she might think
of Hester, she knew that she was almost insanely in love with her
husband. At the very moment when the words were on her lips the thought
flashed through her mind, that with Hester it might be the
half-desperate, all-absorbing passion which was draining her of all
capacity for any other attachment. Katharine thought of herself and of
her love for Ralston, and felt more real sympathy for her friend just
then than she had felt for many a day.

As she ceased speaking she heard the hall door opened and shut again,
just outside the sitting-room, and a moment later she heard Crowdie’s
soft voice, low and sweet, humming to himself as he began to ascend the
stairs. As she turned to Hester, as though to continue speaking, she saw
how the pale face had changed in a moment. Every faculty was strained to
catch the faint echo of the melody, the deep eyes gleamed, there was
colour in the transparent cheeks, the dewy lips were just parted. There
was nothing unreal nor affected in that.




CHAPTER XXIX.


Katharine could not keep the expression of curiosity out of her eyes as
she watched Hester Crowdie. The woman’s whole manner had changed in an
instant, and she seemed to be another person. She seemed trying to hold
her breath to catch the distant and ever retreating sound of her
husband’s voice. The colour in her pale cheeks heightened and paled and
heightened again in visible variations. Her slender throat fluttered
with quick pulsations like that of a singing bird or a chameleon, and
her deep eyes were filled with light. Katharine even fancied that the
little ringlets of soft brown hair trembled and waved like the leaves of
a sensitive plant, impossible as it was. Hester’s whole being was all at
once intensely alive, intensely sensitive, intensely brilliant. A few
minutes earlier she had been leaning back against her cushion,
suppressing a yawn from time to time, saying cold and disagreeable
things, pale, cool, diaphanous.

Katharine moved slightly, and the white hand was upon hers instantly,
with a light touch of warning, as though to silence her, lest a single
faint echo of Crowdie’s voice should fail to reach Hester’s ears.

The young girl wondered whether she herself ever behaved so strangely
when John Ralston was near, and whether any one sitting beside her could
see his presence reflected in her eyes. She did not know, though she
believed herself, as she really was, colder and less quick to show what
she felt. The last note died away as Crowdie ascended the staircase and
got out of hearing, and Hester sank back against her cushion again. The
colour faded from her cheek, the light died in her eyes, and her throat
was quiet. The bloodless hands just met on her knees, and the tips of
the slight fingers tapped one another nervously two or three times, and
then lay quite still.

There had been something in the quickly succeeding changes which struck
Katharine as not exactly human, though she could have found no other
word with which to describe better the phases of the passing
sensitiveness she had witnessed. But it had been more like the
infinitive sensitiveness of nature than the ordinary responses of an
impressionable woman. Katharine had thought of the sensitive plant, for
she had seen many in hot-houses and had often played with them, softly
stroking the fern-like plumes made by the two rows of tiny oval leaves,
and delighting to see how they rose and waved, and tried to find and
follow her finger. And she thought, too, of stories she had heard about
the behaviour of animals before an earthquake, a great storm, or any
terrible convulsion of nature. She had never before quite understood
that, but it was clear to her now.

At the same time she felt a strong sympathy for Hester, and for the love
which was so unmistakable and real. It was impossible for her to
comprehend how such love could exist for such a man as Crowdie, whom she
herself thought so strangely repulsive, though she could find nothing to
say against him. It could only be explained on the ground of an elective
affinity, mysterious in its source, but most manifest in its results.
She had never been allowed to read Goethe’s great book, but the title of
it had always meant something to her, and represented a set of ideas
which she used in order to explain the inexplicable. It was true, also,
so far as she could see, that between Hester and Crowdie the affinity
was mutual and almost equally strong, and Katharine thought with an
unpleasant sensation of the way Crowdie sometimes smiled at his wife. Of
course, she thought, if one did not object to a certain amount of
womanliness in a man’s looks and manner, nor to a pale, pear-shaped face
with intensely red lips, nor to a figure which altogether lacked
masculine dignity--if one could forget all those things and consider
what Crowdie must seem to a blind woman, for instance, and if one could
forgive a certain insolent softness of speech which now and then was
his, why, then, Crowdie was one of the most charming of men. There was
no word but that one. Take him all in all,--his remarkable power as a
portrait painter, developed by study and real industry, his exquisite
voice and perfect taste in singing--so perfect that there was not a
trace of that art which it is art’s mission to conceal--his
conversation, which was often brilliant and almost always
interesting,--taking him all in all, thought Katharine, and quite apart
from his appearance, he was a marvellously gifted man. She had never
known a man like him. Paul Griggs was not to be despised as a judge of
men, for he had seen and known many who were worth knowing, and Paul
Griggs liked Crowdie and was intimate with him. It was true that no
other man of Katharine’s acquaintance liked him, but Griggs’ opinion
might outweigh that of many just men. But when she thought of Crowdie’s
appearance, she marvelled how any woman could love him. There was
something about it which thrilled her painfully, like a strong, bad
taste--yet not so as to hinder her from feeling sympathy for Hester, in
spite of all the latter had said during the past half hour.

“How you love him!” she exclaimed, when the voice had died away, and
Hester leaned back again in her seat.

The words were spoken impulsively and half unconsciously--the natural
expression of the young girl’s wonder. But Hester’s eyes turned quickly,
with a suspicious glance which Katharine did not see and could not have
understood.

“Well--is there any harm in my loving my husband?” asked Hester, in a
tone of unmistakable resentment.

Katharine turned and looked at her in surprise, not realizing that she
could possibly have given offence.

“Harm! why no--no more harm than there is in my saying so--nor than I
meant, when I spoke. Why, are you angry?”

“I’m not angry. Why did you say it, though--and just then? I want to
know.”

She fixed her eyes on Katharine, and a little colour came back suddenly
to her cheeks, just where it had been while Crowdie was singing--as a
transparent glass, that has been heated red in the flame and has cooled,
flushes where it had flushed before, almost as soon as it is brought to
the fire.

“Why did I say it?” repeated Katharine, surprised. “I don’t know, I’m
sure. It was a very natural remark. Everybody knows that you love your
husband very much. I suppose it struck me particularly at that moment.
How strange of you to take offence!”

“I’m not offended. I only want to know why you said it just then. Did I
change colour--or what?”

“A little colour came into your face--yes. It’s very becoming,” added
Katharine, by way of propitiation.

“Yes--I know. You needn’t tell me that I’m generally too pale. Were my
eyes different from usual?”

“They were very bright, with a far-away look at the same time--as though
you saw him through the wall.”

“Do you think any one would have noticed how I looked? I mean--any one
sitting near me, as you are?”

“I should think so--yes,” answered Katharine, without much hesitation.
“I only said what any one would have thought who happened to see you
just then. I didn’t think there was any harm in it. I shall certainly
never say it again, since you’re displeased.”

“Oh--that doesn’t matter!” exclaimed Hester, with a little scornful
laugh. “As we’re not to be friends any more, you can displease me as
much as you like now. It doesn’t matter in the least!”

“How strange you are, Hester!” Katharine said, thoughtfully. “I don’t in
the least understand you.”

“We never really understood each other,” replied Hester. “We only
thought we did. But--as I say--since we’re not to be friends any more,
it’s of no consequence.”

“You can’t say that--that we never understood each other,” said
Katharine. “It’s not true.”

“Oh yes, it is! We never understood--never, what I mean by
understanding. So I blush, and stare, and behave like a schoolgirl, when
Walter comes in singing! I didn’t know it. I am glad you’ve told me, for
I don’t like to do foolish things in public.”

“I don’t think it’s always foolish to show what one feels. It’s better
to feel something, and show it, than to feel nothing at all.”

“I should think so!” Hester laughed rather contemptuously again, and
glanced at Katharine’s face.

The young girl moved, as though she were about to rise,--the little
preliminary movement which most women make, as a clock gives warning
five minutes before it strikes. It is often a tentative measure, and
there is some expectation on the part of her who moves that her friend
will make at least a show of detaining her. When she does not mean to do
so, she herself generally moves a little, which precipitates matters. If
men could understand this, they would more often be able to understand
whether they are wanted any longer or not. But, instead, they rarely
give warning, but seize their hats, in countries where it is manners to
carry them, and rise with one movement, giving the lady no choice about
detaining them or not.

On the present occasion, as soon as Katharine moved, Hester did
likewise, sitting up straight, and pushing the small tea-table a little
away from her, in order to make room for herself to rise. Katharine did
not fail to notice the fact, and got up at once.

“I’m sorry we can’t make it up, Hester,” she said, regretfully. “I’m
sorry if we’re both changed so much in such a short time. I shouldn’t
have thought it possible.”

“The world’s full of surprises,” observed Hester, rising and slipping
out from behind the tea-table.

“Oh--really, Hester!” exclaimed Katharine, impatiently. “You needn’t
make it worse by saying such things as that, you know!”

“What things? Isn’t it true, my dear? I’m sure I’ve found the world a
very surprising place to live in. Haven’t you?”

Katharine said nothing, but turned her face away a little, and made
haste over her gloves, which she had forgotten to put on before rising,
in her sudden haste to get away. Hester looked down at the tea-table,
and absently took up a teaspoon and moved a little leaf that lay in the
bottom of the empty cup. Katharine was only just beginning to use her
right hand a little, and had difficulty in buttoning the glove on her
left. She tried once or twice, and then turned to Hester.

“I wish you’d button it for me,” she said. “I can’t do anything with my
right hand, it’s so weak.”

She held out her left, and Hester bent over it. But before she had
fastened two buttons, she started, and looked at the door. Her quick ear
had caught her husband’s footfall as he came downstairs again, doubtless
in search of her. She paused, and held her breath, listening, though he
was not singing now. The footsteps came nearer, the handle of the door
turned, and Crowdie entered the room.

“Oh--Miss Lauderdale!” he exclaimed. Then he smiled at Hester, who held
out her hand, and he touched it with his lips, in a foreign fashion.
“You’re not going away?” he asked, turning to Katharine again. “Just as
I’ve come in. Do sit down again! Now, please give me a cup of tea,
Hester--I’m tired and thirsty--and I’ve been awfully bored. Do sit down,
Miss Lauderdale! Just a minute, to please me!”

“Well--I would,” answered Katharine, affecting a hesitation she did not
feel, in order not to seem ungracious. “I would--but I really must be
going. I’ve been here ever so long, already.”

“Yes--but you’ve got another welcome to wear out--mine,” he said,
letting his voice soften and dwell on the last word.

“I really think Katharine’s in a hurry,” said Hester, who was pale.

Katharine glanced at her in some surprise. She had never in her life
been so plainly told to go away, and she was inclined to resent the
rudeness. She might never enter the house again, but she did not choose
to be turned out of it by a woman who a few weeks earlier had professed
with protestations that she was her dearest and closest friend.

“You can’t be in such a hurry as all that,” objected Crowdie, who
supposed that Katharine had really said that she was pressed for time.
“Besides, I’ve got something to show you.”

“Have you?” asked Katharine, suddenly glad of an excuse for staying a
few moments, in spite of Hester’s anxiety to get rid of her.

Hester looked at her husband in surprise, and her finely chiselled lips
moved and almost trembled.

“What do you mean, Walter?” she asked, in an uncertain tone.

“Oh--don’t you know? That head of poor uncle Robert, I did last night. I
want to show it to Miss Lauderdale--she knew his face better than any of
us.”

Katharine tried to detect a shade of irony in the words; but they were
spoken quite naturally, without the least underthought.

“I should like to see it,” she answered, quietly, after an instant’s
silence.

“I’ll get it,” said Crowdie, “if you don’t mind waiting a minute. It’s
in your dressing-room, isn’t it, Hester?” he asked, turning to his wife.
“You were looking at it last night, just before you went to bed. I did
it late in the evening,” he added, explaining to Katharine.

“Certainly,” she replied. “I’ll wait while you get it. I should really
like to see it.”

Crowdie left the room, and her eyes followed him, and she disliked the
undulating, feminine swing of his walk. He was badly made, having low,
sloping shoulders, and being heavy about the waist, though he was not
stout. He left the door open, and the two women waited in silence, not
looking at one another. A moment later they heard Crowdie moving about
overhead, where Hester’s dressing-room was situated, corresponding with
the sitting-room in which they were. Hester listened intently, her eyes
turned upwards towards the ceiling, as though they could help her to
hear.

“He can’t find it,” she said. “I’d better go and help him--he’ll never
find it alone.”

She made a step towards the door, paused, and listened again. The
wrathful instinct grew stronger in Katharine. She imagined that Hester
had thought of going upstairs in order to escape from the unpleasantness
of being alone with her a little longer.

“If you’d finish buttoning my glove,” she said, calmly, “I’ll go without
waiting. I’m very sorry, but I can’t do it myself.”

Hester’s eyebrows twitched irritably, but she bent over the outstretched
hand, for she could not do otherwise. A moment later Crowdie’s footstep
was heard on the stairs again, and he came in through the open door.

“I’ve hunted everywhere!” he exclaimed. “I can’t think where you’ve put
it. I wish you’d go and find it for me, dear. It’s awfully stupid of me,
I know!”

“Oh--I know just where it is,” answered Hester. “You must have seen
it--why, I set it up on the toilet-table, on one side of the
looking-glass, turned to the light.”

“Well--it’s not there now,” said Crowdie, “because I’ve just looked.”

“I’m sure it’s there,” replied Hester, going towards the door. “Nobody
could have moved it.”

“Go and see, darling--I assure you I’ve looked everywhere for it, and I
don’t believe it’s in the room at all.”

It was one of those absurd little discussions which occur between two
people, the one who has seen, and the other who believes. Hester left
the room rather impetuously, being absolutely sure that she was right.
She, also, left the door open behind her.

“Can’t I button your glove for you?” asked Crowdie. “I saw that Hester
was doing it when I came in.”

Crowdie’s touch was intensely disagreeable to Katharine, but she held
out her hand to him, in spite of the fact. Just then, she felt that she
should almost prefer to let him do it, rather than let Hester help her.
She was standing in the middle of the room, half turned away from the
door.

“I thought you would like to see the sketch,” said Crowdie, fastening
the button nearest to her wrist with his deft, pointed fingers, skilful
as any woman’s. “I did it on a board last night--just a crayon thing
from memory, with an old photograph to help me. Hester thought it was
very like. If you approve of it, I’ll paint a picture from it.”

“I wish you would!” answered Katharine. “There never was anything good
of him--I should so like to have something--”

She checked herself, having momentarily forgotten that Crowdie had been
a very heavy loser, through his wife, by the decision in the case of the
will, and that he could hardly be expected to make a present to one of
her family, under the circumstances.

“Why do you hesitate?” he asked, pausing at the last button and looking
into her face.

“Oh--because--I don’t know!” She was a little embarrassed. “I was afraid
I’d spoken as though I meant to ask for the sketch.”

“You didn’t!” laughed Crowdie, softly. “You’re going to have it anyway.
I made it for you.”

“I don’t believe that,” answered Katharine, quickly, but smiling.
“You’re only trying to help me out of my rudeness. But it’s very
generous of you to think of giving me anything, after all that’s
happened.”

“Why? Do you mean about the will? Really, Miss Lauderdale, if you think
I’m that sort of person--”

He stopped and laughed again, so naturally and easily that she hardly
doubted his sincerity. His womanish eyes looked innocently into hers. He
held her left wrist in both his hands, just as he had paused in the act
of buttoning the glove.

Overhead, Hester’s light footstep was audible in the short silence that
followed, as she moved about the room, searching for the sketch, which
had evidently not been in the place where she had left it.

“Besides,” added Crowdie, after a short pause, “you’re not your father.
And if you were,” he continued, lightly, “that wouldn’t be a reason for
being horrid. The law decided it, and I suppose the law was right. Mr.
Lauderdale didn’t make the law, and it gave him his rights. Hester and
I shall get along just as well on what we’ve always had. I don’t
complain. Of course it would be nice to buy Greek islands, and play with
marble palaces and Oriental luxury. But after all, I’m a painter. I
suppose it’s an assumption, or a boast, or something. But I don’t
care--before you--I like painting, and I should always paint, and I
should always want to sell my pictures, if I had a hundred millions.
What could Hester and I do with five or six hundred thousand a year?
That would have been about our share. I shouldn’t feel like myself, if I
didn’t earn money by what I do. I suppose you can’t understand that, can
you?”

“Oh yes, I can,” answered Katharine, quickly. “I understand it, and I
like it in you. It’s because you’re not an amateur that you feel like
that.”

“I’m not exactly an amateur,” said Crowdie, with a smile. “As for the
sketch, or the picture, if I paint it, they’re yours. You were the old
gentleman’s favourite, and it’s right that you should have a portrait of
him--that is--if you’ll accept it.”

“Thank you very much. I don’t know about taking it, exactly--it’s much
too generous of you.”

She knew what Crowdie’s work was worth, for he was a very successful man
at portrait painting, and he had never seemed to care much for any other
variety of the art. He was more or less of a specialist in his own
department, but so far as he went, he brought an amount of experience
and a richness of conception to bear upon what he did, which had carried
him beyond most rivals. Possibly he had not in him the stuff which makes
the greatest artists--the manly, ascetic, devoted nature which has in it
a touch of the fanatic, the absolute concentration of all faculties upon
a single but many-sided task. He was, in a way, the product of the age,
an artist and a good one, but a specialist--an expert in the painting of
portraits. All his gifts favoured and strengthened the tendency.

“I don’t see anything generous in offering you one of my daubs!” he
laughed, in answer to what Katharine had said last. “Hester can’t find
it--I knew it wasn’t where she said it was,” he added, after a short
pause, during which he listened for his wife’s footstep.

“Please button the last button, too,” said Katharine, who had listened
also, but had heard nothing. “You’re so awfully clever at it.”

“Am I?” he asked, still smiling. “This is evidently my day of grace and
favour in your royal eyes.”

His beautiful voice had an inflection of something like tenderness in
it, which displeased Katharine. She pushed his hands lightly with hers
as he held it, to remind him of what he was doing.

“Please button it!” she said, a little imperiously, and looking at the
button in question as she spoke, but quite conscious of his eyes.

He inclined his head dutifully, after gazing at her an instant longer,
and then bent over the hand again and quietly slipped the button through
the button-hole, touching it very delicately and in evident fear of
tightening the glove so as to pinch her arm. Gloves with buttons chanced
to be the fashion just then, in an interval between two fits of the
Biarritz gauntlet. When he had performed the little operation, he
glanced at each of the others in turn, touching each with his finger,
while Katharine watched him carelessly. Then, before she could withdraw
her hand, he bent his head a little more and lightly kissed the button
at her wrist, releasing it instantly.

Katharine drew it back almost before he had let it go, with a quick
movement of displeasure.

“Don’t do that!” she cried, in a low voice.

But as he raised his head Crowdie turned ashy pale. Even his lips lost
some of their over-brilliant colour, and his eyes lost their light.
Hester had descended the stairs noiselessly and stood in the open door,
her face whiter than his. As their glances met, she dropped the sheet of
pasteboard she held in one hand by her side, and steadied herself
against the door-post. Katharine turned quickly and saw her. It did not
strike the young girl that such agitation could be due to having seen
what Crowdie had done. Katharine herself had been annoyed, but, after
all, it was an innocent offence, she thought, especially for a man who
had lived long abroad, and could not be supposed to attach much
importance to the act of touching a glove with his lips, when he had
been long familiar with the custom of kissing a lady’s hand instead of
shaking it at meeting and parting, if the hand were offered to him.

“Why, Hester!” she exclaimed. “What’s the matter? Are you ill?”

“No--it’s nothing,” answered Hester, twisting her lips to form the
words. “Here’s the drawing. I ran--I’m out of breath.”

She held it out as she spoke, and Crowdie took it from her mechanically.
His hand trembled as he did so, for he was a coward. Hester turned from
them both and went to the open window. She lifted one hand and rested it
on the sash at the level of her head. They could not see that the other
was pressed to her heart, for she kept the elbow close to her side.
Crowdie was still pale and trembling, and he glanced uneasily towards
her, as he held up the drawing to Katharine to look at.

“Give it to me,” said the young girl, unconsciously speaking in a low
voice. “Your hand shakes.”

She began to wonder exactly what had taken place, and could find no
explanation except Crowdie’s small offence. Instantly, she understood
that Hester was desperately jealous of her. It sometimes takes longer to
understand such things in real life, when they are very far from one’s
thoughts, than to guess them from the most meagre description of what
has taken place. Katharine almost laughed when she realized the truth.
She looked intently at the drawing.

“It’s wonderfully like!” she exclaimed, feeling that matters would be
worse if she did not express some admiration of the work, though she
found it hard to concentrate her attention upon the familiar features.
“Especially the”--she did not know what she was saying--“the beard,” she
added, completing her sentence.

“Ah, yes--the beard--as you say,” responded Crowdie, in a rather
tremulous tone, and glancing at his wife’s figure. Then he laughed very
nervously. “Yes--the beard’s like, isn’t it?” he said.

“Oh, very!” answered Katharine, looking quickly at Hester and then
intently at the pasteboard again. “Every hair--”

“Yes.” And Crowdie tried to laugh again, as though it would help him.
“There are hairs in the pasteboard, too--sticking up here and there--it
helps the illusion, doesn’t it?”

“Why, so there are!” Katharine looked at the drawing in silence for a
moment and collected herself. “The expression’s very good,” she said. “I
like a picture when the eyes look right at you.”

She raised her own mechanically as she spoke, and she realized how white
he was. She held out the drawing to him.

“Thanks, so much,” she said. “I’m glad to have seen it. It was so good
of you. I really must be going now. It’s getting late.”

He took the drawing and laid it carefully upon the table, with the
instinctive forethought of the artist for the safety of his work.

“Good-bye, Hester,” said Katharine, moving a step towards the window.

Hester turned abruptly. There were deep shadows under her eyes, and
there was a bright colour in her face now, but not like that which had
come to it when her husband had passed the door, singing. As she stood
with her back against the bright light of the window, however, Katharine
could hardly distinguish her features.

“Oh--good-bye,” said Hester in a strange, cold voice, not moving and not
holding out her hand.

But Katharine extended her own, for she entirely refused to be treated
as though she had injured her friend, just as a little while earlier,
she had chosen to stay a few minutes rather than to take a hint so broad
that it sounded like an order to go. She went nearer to the window.

“Good-bye, Hester,” she repeated, holding out her hand in such a way
that Hester could not refuse to take it.

And Hester took it, but dropped it again instantly. Katharine nodded
quietly, turned, nodded again to Crowdie in exactly the same way, and
passed out through the open door, calmly and proudly, being quite sure
that she had done nothing to be ashamed of. She knew, at the moment,
that all hope of ever renewing her friendship was gone, at least for the
present, and she regretted the fact to the last minute, and was willing
to show that she did. Hester’s behaviour had been incomprehensible from
the first, and it was still a mystery to Katharine when she left the
house. One thing only was clear, and that was the woman’s uncontrollable
jealousy during the little scene which had taken place. The idea of
connecting that jealousy with former events never crossed the young
girl’s mind, and of finding an original cause for it in the fact of
Crowdie’s having sung at Mrs. Bright’s on a certain evening three weeks
earlier. Still less could she have guessed that it had begun long ago,
during the preceding winter, when she had sat for her portrait in
Crowdie’s studio, while Hester lay extended upon the divan where she
could watch her husband’s face, and note every passing look of
admiration that crossed it, as he of necessity studied the features of
his model. Such an idea was altogether too far removed from Katharine,
in her ignorance of human nature--as far as Hester’s passion for her
husband, which went beyond the limits of what the young girl had ever
dreamed of in its excessive sensitiveness.

Katharine closed the front door behind her and went out into the street.
As she descended the neat white stone steps she was close to the open
windows of the little sitting-room and could have heard anything which
might have been said within. But no sound of voices reached her. She
could not help glancing over her shoulder towards the window, as she
turned away, and she could see that Hester was still standing with her
back to it, as she had stood when Katharine had insisted upon taking
leave of her.

She walked slowly homewards, wondering what was taking place since she
had left the two together, and going over in her mind the details of the
scene. She remembered Crowdie’s face very distinctly. She was not sure
that she had ever in her life seen a man badly frightened before, and it
had produced a very vivid impression upon her at the time. And she
recalled the picture of Hester, standing in the doorway, the pasteboard
at her feet, and her hand raised to support herself against the doorway.
She had heard of ‘domestic tragedies,’ as they are called in the
newspapers, and she wondered whether they ever began in that way.




CHAPTER XXX.


Hester Crowdie heard Katharine’s footfall outside, and did not move from
her position at the window until she had listened to the last retreating
echo of the young girl’s light step upon the pavement. It was very still
after that, for Lafayette Place is an unfrequented corner--a quiet
island, as it were, round which the great rivers of traffic flow in all
directions. Only now and then a lumbering van thunders through it, to
draw up at the great printing establishment at the southeast corner, or
a private carriage rolls along and stops, with a discreet clatter, at
the Bishop’s House, on the west side, almost opposite the Crowdies’
dwelling.

But as Hester stood in silence, with her back to the window, her eyes
rested with a fixed look on her husband’s face. He was pale, and his own
beautiful eyes had lost their self-possessed calm. He looked at her, but
his glance shifted quickly from one point to another--from her throat to
her shoulder, from her hair to the window behind her--in a frightened
and anxious way, avoiding her steady gaze.

What he had done was harmless enough, if not altogether innocent, in
itself. That there had been something not exactly right about it, or
about the way in which he had done it, was indirectly proved by
Katharine’s own quick displeasure. But he knew, himself, how much it had
meant to Hester, over, above and beyond any commonly simple
interpretation which might be put upon it. His face and manner showed
that he knew it, long before she spoke the first word of what was to
come.

“Walter!”

She uttered his name in a low tone that quivered with the pain she felt,
full of suffering, and reproach, and disappointment. Instantly his eyes
fell before hers, but he answered nothing. He looked at his own white
hand as it rested on the back of a chair.

“Look at me!” she said, almost sharply, with a rising intonation.

He looked up timidly, and a slight flush appeared on his pale forehead,
but not in his cheeks.

“I don’t know why you make such a fuss about nothing,” he said, in the
colourless voice of a frightened boy, caught in mischief before he has
had time to invent an excuse.

“Don’t use such absurd words!” cried Hester, with sudden energy. “It’s
bad enough as it is. You love her. Say so! Be a man--be done with it!”

“I certainly won’t say that,” answered Crowdie, regaining a little
self-possession under the exaggerated accusation. “It wouldn’t be true.”

“I’ve seen--I know!” She turned from him again and rested her forehead
on her hands against the raised sash of the window.

He gained courage, when he no longer felt her eyes upon him, and he
found words.

“You’ve no right to say that I love Katharine Lauderdale,” he said. “You
saw what I did, and all I did. Well--what harm was there in kissing her
hand--not her hand, her glove, when I had fastened it?”

“What harm!” she repeated, in a low voice, without turning to him, and
moving her head a little against her hands.

“Yes--what harm was there, I ask? Wasn’t it a perfectly natural thing to
do? Haven’t you seen me--”

“Natural!” Hester turned again very quickly and came forward two steps
into the room. “Natural!” she repeated. “Yes--that’s it--it was
natural--oh, too natural! What else could you do? Buttoning her
glove--her hand in yours--and you, loving her--you kissed it! Ah,
yes,--I know how natural it was! And you tell me there was no harm in
it! What’s harm, then? What does the word mean to you? Nothing? Is there
no harm in hurting me?”

“But Hester, love--”

“And as though you did not know it--as though you had not turned white
when you saw me at the door there, looking at you! If there were no
harm, you needn’t have been afraid of me. You’d have smiled instead of
getting pale; you’d have held her hand still, instead of dropping it,
and you’d have kissed it again, to show me how little it meant. No harm,
indeed!”

