
We hauled in the ladder and dropped down till 
we was just above the reach of the animals, then 
we let down a rope with a slip knot in it and hauled 
up a dead lion, a small tender one, then yanked up 
a cub tiger. We had to keep the congregation off 
with the revolver, or they would 'a' took a hand in 
the proceedings and helped. 

We carved off a supply from both, and saved 
the skins, and hove the rest overboard. Then we 
baited some of the professor's hooks with the fresh 
meat and went a-fishing. We stood over the lake 
just a convenient distance above the water, and 
catched a lot of the nicest fish you ever see. It 
was a most amazing good supper we had : lion 
steak, tiger steak, fried fish, and hot corn-pone. I 
don't want nothing better than that. 

We had some fruit to finish off with. We got 
it out of the top of a monstrous tall tree. It was 
a very slim tree, that hadn't a branch on it from the 
bottom plumb to the top, and there it busted out 
like a feather duster. It was a pam tree, of course ; 
anybody knows a pam tree the minute he sees it, 
by the pictures. We went for coco-nuts in this 
one, but there warn't none. There was only big 
loose bunches of things like over-sized grapes, 
and Tom allowed they was dates, because he 
said they answered the description in the ' Arabian 
Nights ' and the other books. Of course they 
mightn't be, and they might be p'ison ; so we had 
to wait a spell, and watch and see if the birds et 
them. They done it ; so we done it too, and they 
was most amazing good. 

By this time monstrous big birds begun to come 
and settle on the dead animals. They was plucky 
creturs ; they would tackle one end of a lion that 
was being gnawed at the other end by another 
lion. If the lion drove the bird away, it didn't do 
no good : he was back again the minute the lion was 
busy. 

The big birds come out of every part of the sky 
— you could make them out with the glass whilst 
they was still so far away you couldn't see them 
with your naked eye. The dead meat was too fresh 
to have any smell— at least, any that could reach 
to a bird that was five mile away ; so Tom said 
the birds didn't find out the meat was there by the 
smell— they had to find it out by seeing it. Oh, 
but ain't that an eye for you ! Tom said at the 
distance of five mile a patch of dead lions couldn't 
look any bigger than a person's finger-nail, and he 
couldn't imagine how the birds could notice such a 
little thing so far off. 

It was strange and unnatural to see lion eat 
lion, and we thought maybe they warn't kin. But 
Jim said that didn't make no difference. He said 
a hog was fond of her own children, and so was a 
spider, and he reckoned maybe a lion was pretty 
near as unprincipled, though maybe not quite. He 
thought likely a lion wouldn't eat his own father, if 
he knowed which was him, but reckoned he would 
eat his brother-in-law if he was uncommon hungry, 
and eat his mother-in-law any time. But reckon- 
ing don't settle nothing. You can reckon till the 
cows comes home, but that don't fetch you to no 
decision. So we give it up and let it drop. 

Gener'ly it was very still in the Desert, nights, 
but this time there was music. A lot of other 
animals come to dinner; sneaking yelpers that 
Tom allowed was jackals, and roached-backed ones 
that he said was hyenas ; and all the whole b'iling 
of them kept up a racket all the time. They made 
a picture in the moonlight that was more different 
than any picture I ever see. We had a line out 
and made fast to the top of a tree, and didn't stand 
no watch, but all turned in and slept ; but I was up 
two or three times to look down at the animals and 
hear the music. It was like having a front seat at 
a menagerie for nothing, which I hadn't ever had 
before, and so it seemed foolish to sleep and not 
make the most of it : I mightn't ever have such a 
chance again. 

We went a-fishing again in the early dawn, and 
then lazied around all day in the deep shade on an 
island, taking turn about to watch and see that 
none of the animals come a-snooping around 
there after erronorts for dinner. We was going 
to leave next day, but couldn't— it was too lovely. 

The day after, when we rose up towards the sky 
and sailed off eastward, we looked back and watched 
that place till it warn't nothing but just a speck in 
the Desert, and I tell you it was like saying good- 
bye to a friend that you ain't ever going to see 
any more. 

Jim was thinking to himself, and at last he 
says : 


' Mars Tom, we's mos' to de end er de Desert 
now, I speck.' 

' Why ? ' 

' Well, hit stan' to reason we is. You knows 
how long we's been a-skimming over it. Mus' be 
mos' out o' san'. Hit's a wonder to me dat it's 
hilt out as long as it has.' 

' Shucks ! there's plenty sand, you needn't 
worry.' 

' Oh, I ain't a- worry in', Mars Tom, only won- 
derin', dat's all. De Lord's got plenty san', I ain't 
doubtin' dat, but nemmine, He ain't gwyne to was'e 
it jist on dat account ; en I allows dat dis Desert's 
plenty big enough now, jist de way she is, en you 
can't spread her out no mo' 'dout was'in' san'.' 

'Oh, go 'long ; we ain't much more than fairly 
started across this Desert yet. The United States 
is a pretty big country, ain't it ? Ain't it, Huck ? ' 

' Yes,' I says ; ' there ain't no bigger one, I don't 
reckon.' 

' Well,' he says, ' this Desert is about the shape 
of the United States, and if you was to lay it down 
on top of the United States, it would cover the land 

of the free out of sight like a blanket. There'd be 
a little corner sticking out, up at Maine, and away 
up north-west, and Florida sticking out like a 
turtle's tail, and that's all. We've took California 
away from the Mexicans two or three years ago, so 
that part of the Pacific coast is ours now ; and if 
you laid the Great Sahara down with her edge on 
the Pacific, she would cover the United States and 
stick out past New York six hundred miles into the 
Atlantic Ocean.' 

I says : 

' Good land ! have you got the documents for 
that, Tom Sawyer ? ' 

'Yes, and they're right here, and I've been 
studying them. You can look for yourself. From 
New York to the Pacific is 2,600 miles ; from one 
end of the Great Desert to the other is 3,200. The 
United States contains 3,600,000 square miles ; the 
Desert contains 4,162,000. With the Desert's bulk 
you could cover up every last inch of the United 
States, and in under where the edges projected out 
you could tuck England, Scotland, Ireland, France, 
Denmark, and all Germany. Yes, sir, you could 
hide the home of the brave and all of them coun- 
tries clean out of sight under the Great Sahara, 
and you would still have 2,000 square miles of sand 
left.' 

' Well I says, ' it clean beats me. Why, Tom, 
it shows that the Lord took as much pains making 
this Desert as He did to make the United States 
and all them other countries. I reckon He must 'a' 
been a- working at this Desert two or three days 
before He got it done.' 

Jim says: 

 Huck, dat doan' stan' to reason. I reckon dis 
Desert wan't made at all. Now, you take en look at 
it like dis — you look at it, and see if I's right. 
What's a desert good for ? 'Tain't good for nuthin'. 
Dey ain't no way to make it pay. Hain't dat so, 
Huck?' 

' Yes, I reckon.' 

' Hain't it so, Mars Tom ? ' 

'I guess so. Go on.' 

' Ef a thing ain't no good, it's made in vain, 
ain't it ? ' 

' Yes.' 


' Now, den ! Do de Lord make anything in vain ? 
You answer me dat.' 
' Well, no, He don't.' 
' Den how come He make a desert ? ' 
' Well, go on. How did He come to make it ? ' 
' Mars Tom, it's my opinion He never made it at 
all ; dat is, He didn't plan out no Desert, never sot 
out to make one. Now I's gwyne to show you, den 
you kin see. J b'lieve it uz jes' like when you's 
buildin' a house ; dey's allays a lot o' truck en 
rubbish lef over. What does you do wid it? 
Doan' you take en k'yart it off en dump it into a 
ole vacant back lot ? 'Course. Now, den, it's my 
opinion hit was jes' like dat. When the Lord uz 
gwyne to buiP de worl', He tuck en made a lot o' 
rocks en put 'em in a pile, en made a lot o' yearth 
en put it in a pile handy to de rocks, den a lot o' 
san', en put dat in a pile, handy, too. Den He 
begin. He measure out some rocks en yearth en 
san', en stick 'em together en say, " Dat's Ger- 
many," en paste a label on it, en set it out to dry ; 
en measure out some mo' rocks en yearth en san', 
en stick 'em together, en say, " Dat's de United 

States," en paste a label on it, and set it out to dry ; 
en so on, en so on, tell it come supper time Sataday, 
en He look roun' en see dey's all done, en a mighty 
good worl' for de time she took. Den He notice 
dat whilst He's cal'lated de yearth en de rocks jes' 
right, dey's a mos' turrible lot 0' san' lef over, 
which He can't 'member how it happened. So He 
look roun' to see if dey's any ole back lot anywheres 
dat's vacant, en see dis place, en is powerful glad, en 
tell de angels to take en dump de san' here. Now, 
den, dat's my idea 'bout it — dat de Great Sahara 
warn't made at all — she jes' happen'.' 

I said it was a real good argument, and I 
believed it was the best one Jim ever made. Tom 
he said the same, but said the trouble about argu- 
ments is, they ain't nothing but theories, after all, 
and theories don't prove nothing : they only give 
you a place to rest on, a spell, when you are 
tuckered out butting around and around trying 
to find out something there ain't no way to find out. 
And he says : 

' There's another trouble about theories : there's 
always a hole in them somewheres, sure, if you 

look close enough. It's just so with this one of 
Jim's. Look what billions and billions of stars 
there is. How does it come that there was just 
exactly enough star-stuff, and none left over ? 
How does it come there ain't no sand-pile up 
there ? ' 

But Jim was fixed for him and says : 

' What's de Milky Way ?— dat's what 2" wants 
to know. What's de Milky Way? Answer me 
dat!' 

In my opinion it was just a sockdologer. It's 
only an opinion— it's only my opinion— and others 
may think different ; but I said it then and I stand 
to it now - it was a sockdologer. And moreover, 
besides, it landed Tom Sawyer. He couldn't say a 
word. He had that stunned look of a person that's 
been shot in the back with a kag of nails. All he 
said was, as for peon]eJike_jiie and _Jim ? he'd just 
as soon have intellectual intercourse with a catfish. 
But anybody can say that — and I notice they 
always do when somebody has fetched them a lifter. 
Tom Sawyer was tired of that end of the subject. 

So we got back to talking about the size of the 

Desert again, and the more we compared it with 
this and that and t'other thing, the more nobler 
and bigger and grander it got to look, right along. 
And so, hunting amongst the figgers, Tom found, 
by and by, that it was just the same size as the 
Empire of China. Then he showed us the spread 
the Empire of China made on the map and the 
room she took up in the world. Well, it was 
wonderful to think of, and I says : 

' Why, I've heard talk about this Desert plenty 
of times, but I never knowed, before, how im- 
portant she was.' 

Then Tom says : 

' Important ! Sahara important ! That's just 
the way with some people. If a thing's big, it's 
important. That's all the sense they've got. All 
they can see is size. Why, look at England. It's . 
the most important country in the world ; and yet 
you could put it in China's vest pocket ; and not 
only that, but you'd have the dickens' own time to 
find it again the next time you wanted it. And 
look at Eussia. It spreads all around and every- 
wheres, and yet ain't no more important in this 
world than Rhode Island is, and hasn't got half as 
much in it that's worth saving. My uncle Aimer, 
which was a Preshyterian preacher and the bluest 
they make, he always said that if size was a right 
thing to judge importance by, where would heaven 
be alongside of the other place ? He always said 
heaven was the Rhode Island of the Hereafter.' 

Away off, now, we see a low hill, a-standing up 
just on the edge of the world. Tom broke off his 
talk, and reached for a glass, very much excited, 
and took a look, and says : 

'That's it— it's the one I've been looking for, 
sure. If I'm right it's the one the dervish took 
the man into and showed him all the treasures of 
the world.' 

So we begun to gaze, and he begun to tell 
about it out of the ' Arabian Nights. 



CHAPTEE X 

Tom said it happened like this. 

A dervish was stumping it along through the 
Desert on foot one blazing hot day, and he had 
come a thousand miles and was pretty poor and 
hungry, and ornery and tired, and along about 
where we are now he run across a camel driver 
with a hundred camels, and asked him for some 
ams. But the camel driver he asked to be excused. 
The dervish says : 

' Don't you own these camels ? 

' Yes, they're mine.' 

' Are you in debt ? ' 

' Who— me ? No. 

 Well, a man that owns a hundred camels, and 
ain't in debt, is rich, and not only rich, but very 
rich. Ain't it so ? ' 


The camel driver owned up that it was so. Then 
the dervish says: 

' God has made you rich, and He has made me 
poor. He has His reasons, and they are wise— 
blessed be His name ! But He has willed that His 
rich shall help His poor, and you have turned 
away from me, your brother, in my need, and He 
will remember this, and you will lose by it.' 

That made the camel driver feel shaky, but all 
the same he was born hoggish after money, and 
didn't like to let go a cent ; so he begun to whine 
and explain, and said times was hard, and although 
he had took a full freight down to Balsora and got 
a fat rate for it, he couldn't git no return freight, 
and so he warn't making no great things out of 
his trip. So the dervish starts along again, and 
says : 

' All right, if you want to take the risk ; but I 
reckon you've made a mistake this time, and 
missed a chance.' 

Of course the camel driver wanted to know 
what kind of a chance he had missed, because 
maybe there was money in it ; so he run after the 

dervish and begged him so hard and earnest to 
take pity on him, and tell him, that at last the 
dervish give in and says : 

' Do you see that hill yonder ? Well, in that 
hill is all the treasures of the earth, and I was 
looking around for a man with a particular good 
kind heart and a noble generous disposition, 
because if I could find just that man, I've got a 
kind of a salve I could put on his eyes and he 
could see the treasures and get them out.' 

So then the camel driver was in a sweat ; and 
he cried and begged, and took on, and went down 
on his knees, and said he was just that kind of a 
man, and said he could fetch a thousand people 
that would say he wasn't ever described so exact 
before. 

' Well, then,' says the dervish, ' all right. If 
we load the hundred camels, can I have half of 
them ? ' 

The driver was so glad he couldn't hardly hold 
in, and says : 

' Now you're shouting.' 

So he shook hands on the bargain, and the 
dervish got out his box and rubbed the salve on the 
driver's right eye, and the hill opened and he went 
in, and there, sure enough, was piles and piles of 
gold and jewels sparkling like all the stars in heaven 
had fell down. 

So him and the dervish laid into it, and they 
loaded every camel till he couldn't carry no more ; 
then they said good-bye, and each of them started 
off with his fifty. But pretty soon the camel driver 
came a- running and overtook the dervish and 
says : 

 You ain't in society, you know, and you don't 
really need all you've got. Won't you be good, 
and let me have ten of your camels ? ' 

' Well,' the dervish says, ' I don't know but what 
you say is reasonable enough.' 

So he done it, and they separated and the der- 
vish started off again with his forty. But pretty 
soon here comes the camel driver bawling after 
him again, and whines and slobbers around and 
begs another ten off of him, saying thirty camel 
loads of treasures was enough to see a dervish 
through, because they live very simple, you know, 
and don't keep house, but board around and give 
their note. 

But that warn't the end, yet. That ornery 
hound kept coming and coming till he had begged 
back all the camels and had the whole hundred. 
Then he was satisfied, and ever so grateful, and said 
he wouldn't ever forgit the dervish as long as he 
lived, and nobody hadn't ever been so kind to him 
before, and liberal. So they shook hands good-bye, 
and separated and started off again. 

But do you know, it warn't ten minutes till the 
camel driver was unsatisfied again — he was the 
low-downest reptyle in seven counties — and he 
come a-running again. And this time the thing he 
wanted was to get the dervish to rub some of the 
salve on his other eye. 

' Why ? ' said the dervish. 

' Oh, you know,' says the driver. 

' Know what ? ' says the dervish. 

' Well, you can't fool me,' says the driver. 
' You're trying to keep back something from me — 
you know it mighty well. You know, I reckon, 
that if I had the salve on the other eye I could see 

a lot more things that's valuable. Come — please 
put it on.' 

The dervish says : 

'I wasn't keeping anything back from you. I 
don't mind telling you what would happen if I put 
it on. You'd never see again. You'd be stone 
blind the rest of your days.' 

But do you know that beat wouldn't believe 
him. No ; he begged and begged, and whined and 
cried, till at last the dervish opened his box and 
told him to put it on if he wanted to. So the man 
done it, and sure enough he was as blind as a bat 
in a minute. 

Then the dervish laughed at him and mocked 
at him and made fun of him, and says : 

' Good-bye — a man that's blind hain't got no 
use for jewellery.' 

And he cleared out with the hundred camels, 
and left that man to wander around poor and 
miserable and friendless the rest of his days in the 
Desert. 

Jim said he'd bet it was a lesson to him. 

' Yes,' Tom says, ' and like a considerable many 
lessons a body gets. They ain't no account, because 
the thing don't ever happen the same way again 

and can't. The time Hen Scovil fell down the 

chimbly and crippled his back for life, everybody 
said it would be a lesson to him. What kind of a 
lesson ? How was he going to use it ? He couldn't 
climb chimblies no more, and he hadn't no more 
backs to break.' 

' All de same, Mars Tom, dey is sich a thing as 
learnin' by expe'ence. De Good Book say de burnt 
chile shun de fire.' 

' Well, I ain't denying that a thing's a lesson if 
it's a thing that can happen twice just the same 
way. There's lots of such things, and they educate 
a person — that's what uncle Abner always said ; but 
there's forty million lots of the other kind — the 
kind that don't happen the same way twice — and 
they ain't no real use : they ain't no more instructive 
than the small-pox. When you've got it it ain't no 
good to find out you ought to been vaccinated, and it 
ain't no good to get vaccinated afterwards, because 
the small- pox don't come but once. But on the other 
hand uncle Abner said that the person that had took 
a bull by the tail once had learnt sixty or seventy 
times as much as a person that hadn't, and said a 
person that started in to carry a cat home by the tail 
was gitting knowledge that was always going to be 
useful to him, and warn't ever going to grow dim or 
doubtful. But I can tell you, Jim, uncle Abner 
was down on them people that's all the time trying 
to dig a lesson out of everything that happens, no 
matter whether ' 

But Jim was asleep. Tom looked kind of 
ashamed, because, you know, a person always feels 
bad when he is talking uncommon fine and thinks 
the other person is admiring, and that other person 
goes to sleep that way. Of course he oughtn't to go 
to sleep, because it's shabby ; but the finer a person 
talks the certainer it is to make you sleep, and so, 
when you come to look at it, it ain't nobody's fault 
in particular — both of them's to blame. 

Jim begun to snore — soft and blubbery, at first 
then a long rasp, then a stronger one, then a half- 
a-dozen horrible ones like the last water sucking 
down the plug-hole of a bath-tub, then the same 
with more power to it, and some big coughs and 
snorts flung in, the way a cow does that is choking 
to death ; and when the person has got to that point 
he is at his level best, and can wake up a man that 
is in the next block with a dipper full of loddanum 
in him, but can't wake himself up although all that 
awful noise of his'n ain't but three inches from his 
own ears. And that is the curiosest thing in the 
world, seems to me. But you rake a match to light 
the candle, and that little bit of a noise will fetch 
him. I wish I knowed what was the reason of that, 
but there don't seem to be no way to find out. 
Now, there was Jim alarming the whole Desert, and 
yanking the animals out, for miles and miles around, 
to see what in the nation was going on up there; there 
warn't nobody nor nothing that was as close to the 
noise as he was, and yet he was the only cretur that 
wasn't disturbed by it. We yelled at him and 
whooped at him — it never done no good ; but the 
first time there came a little wee noise that wasn't 
of a usual kind it woke him up. No, sir ; I've 
thought it all over, and so has Tom, and there ain't 
no way to find out why a snorer can't hear himself 
snore. 
Jim said he hadn't been asleep : he just shut his 
eyes so he could listen better. 

Tom said nobody warn't accusing him. 

That made him look like he wished he hadn't 
said anything. And he wanted to git away from 
the subject, I reckon, because he begun to abuse the 
camel driver, just the way a person does when he 
has got catched in something and wants to take it 
out of somebody else. He let into the camel driver 
the hardest he knowed how, and I had to agree with 
him ; and he praised up the dervish the highest 
he could, and I had to agree with him there, too. 
But Tom says : 

 I ain't so sure. You call that dervish so 
dreadful liberal and good and unselfish, but I don't 
quite see it. He didn't hunt up another poor der- 
vish, did he ? No, he didn't. If he was so un- 
selfish, why didn't he go in there himself and take 
a pocketful of jewels and go along and be satisfied ? 
No, sir ; the person he was hunting for was a man 
with a hundred camels. He wanted to get away 
with all the treasure he could ' 

' Why, Mars Tom, he was willin' to divide, fair 
and square ; he only struck for fifty camels.' 

' Because he knowed how he was going to get all 
of them by and by.' 

' Mars Tom, he talc de man de truck would 
make him bline.' 

' Yes, because he knowed the man's character. 
It was just the kind of a man he was hunting for — 
a man that never believes in anybody's word or 
anybody's honourableness, because he ain't got none 
of his own. I reckon there's lots of people like that 
dervish. They swindle right and left, but they 
always make the other person seem to swindle him- 
self. They keep inside of the letter of the law all 
the time, and there ain't no way to git hold of them. 
They don't put the salve on — oh, no ; that would be 
sin — but they know how to fool you into putting it 
on, then it's you that blinds yourself. I reckon the 
dervish and the camel driver was just a pair — a 
fine, smart, brainy rascal, and a dull, coarse, 
ignorant one, but both of them rascals, just the 
same.' 

' Mars Tom, docs you reckon dey's any 0' dat 
kind o' salve in de worl' now ? ' 

' Yes, uncle Abner says there is. He says they've 
got it in New York, and they put it on country 
people's eyes and show them all the railroads in the 
world, and they go in and get them, and then when 
they rub the salve on the other eye the other man 
bids them good-bye and goes off with their railroads. 
Here's the treasure hill now. Lower away ! ' 

We landed, but it warn't as interesting as I 
thought it was going to be, because we couldn't find 
the place where they went in to git the treasure. 
Still, it was plenty interesting enough just to see 
the mere hill itself where such a wonderful thing 
happened. Jim said he wouldn't 'a' missed it for 
three dollars, and I felt the same way. 

And to me and Jim as wonderful a thing as any 
was the way Tom could come into a strange big 
country like this and go straight and find a little 
hump like that and tell it in a minute from a mil- 
lion other humps that was almost just like it, and 
nothing to help him but only his own learning and 
his own natural smartness. We talked and talked 
it over together, but couldn't make out how he done 
it. He had the best head on him I ever see ; and 
all he lacked was age to make a name for himself 
equal to Captain Kidd or George Washington. I 
bet you it would 'a' crowded either of them to find 
that hill, with all their gifts, but it warn't nothing 
to Tom Sawyer : he went across Sahara and put 
his finger on it as easy as you could pick a nigger 
out of a bunch of angels. 

We found a pond of salt water close by, and 
scraped up a raft of salt around the edges and 
loaded up the lion's skin and the tiger's so as they 
would keep till Jim could tan them. 

CHAPTEE XI 

We went a-fooling along for a day or two, and 
then just as the full moon was touching the ground 
on the other side of the Desert we see a string of 
little black figgers moving across its big silver face. 
You could see them as plain as if they was painted 
on the moon with ink. It was another caravan. 
We cooled down our speed and tagged along after 
it, just to have company, though it warn't going our 
way. It was a rattler, that caravan, and a most 
bully sight to look at, next morning, when the sun 
come a-streaming across the Desert and flung the 
long shadders of the camels on the gold sand like a 
thousand granddaddy-longlegses marching in pro- 
cession. We never went very near it, because we 
knowed better, now, than to act like that and scare 
people's camels and break up their caravans. It 
was the gayest outfit you ever see for rich clothes 

and nobby style. Some of the chiefs rode on 
dromedaries— the first we ever see, and very tall, and 
they go plunging along like they was on stilts, and 
they rock the man that is on them pretty violent, 
and churn up his dinner considerable, I bet you ; 
but they make noble good time, and a camel ain't 
nowheres with them for speed. 

The caravan camped during the middle part of 
the day, and then started again about the middle of 
the afternoon. Before long the sun begun to look 
very curious. First it kind of turned to brass, and 
then to copper, and after that it begun to look like a 
blood-red ball, and the air got hot and close, and 
pretty soon all the sky in the west darkened up and 
looked thick and foggy, but fiery and dreadful, like 
it looks through a piece of red glass, you know. 
We looked down and see a big confusion going on 
in the caravan and a rushing every which way like 
they was scared, and then they all flopped down 
flat in the sand and laid there perfectly still. 

Pretty soon we see something coming that stood 
up like an amazing wide wall, and reached from 
the desert up into the sky and hid the sun, and it 
was coming like the nation, too. Then a little faint 
breeze struck us, and then it come harder, and 
grains of sand begun to sift against our faces and 
sting like fire, and Tom sung out : 

' It's a sand-storm — turn your backs to it ! ' 
We done it, and in another minute it was blow- 
ing a gale and the sand beat against us by the 
shovelful and the air was so thick with it we couldn't 
see a thing. In five minutes the boat was level 
full and we was setting on the lockers buried up to 
the chin in sand, and only our heads out, and could 
hardly breathe. 

Then the storm thinned, and we see that mon- 
strous wall go a-sailing off across the Desert, awful 
to look at, I tell you. We dug ourselves out and 
looked down, and where the caravan was before 
there wasn't anything but just the sand ocean now, 
and all still and quiet. All them people and camels 
was smothered and dead and buried — buried under 
ten foot of sand, we reckoned — and Tom allowed it 
might be years before the wind uncovered them, and 
all that time their friends wouldn't ever know what 
become of that caravan. Tom said : 

' Now we know what it was that happened to 
the people we got the swords and pistols from.' 

Yes, sir, that was just it. It was as plain as 
day now. They got buried in a sand-storm, and 
the wild animals couldn't get at them, and the wind 
never uncovered them again till they was dried to 
leather and warn't fit to eat. It seemed to me we 
had felt as sorry for them poor people as a person 
could for anybody, and as mournful too, but we 
was mistaken ; this last caravan's death went 
harder with us — a good deal harder. You see, the 
others was total strangers, and we never got to 
feeling acquainted with them at all, except, maybe, 
a little with the man that was watching the girl, 
but it was different with this last caravan. We 
was huvvering around them a whole night and 
'most a whole day, and had got to feeling real 
friendly with them, and acquainted. I have found 
out that there ain't no surer way to find out 
whether you like people or hate them than to travel 
with them. Just so with these. We kind of liked 
them from the start, and travelling with them put 
on the finisher. The longer we travelled with 

them, and the more we got used to their ways, the 
hetter and better we liked them and the gladder 
and gladder we was that we run across them. We 
had come to know some of them so well that we 
called them by name when we was talking about 
them, and soon got so familiar and sociable that 
we even dropped the Miss and the Mister and just 
used their plain names without any handle, and it 
did not seem unpolite, but just the right thing. 
Of course it wasn't their own names, but names we 
give them. There was Mr. Elexander Robinson 
and Miss Adaline Robinson, and Colonel Jacob 
McDougal, and Miss Harryet McDougal, and Judge 
Jeremiah Butler and Young Bushred Butler — and 
these was big chiefs, mostly, that wore splendid 
great turbans and simmeters and dressed like 
the Grand Mogul— and their families. But as 
soon as we come to know them good, and like 
them very much, it warn't Mister, nor Judge, 
nor nothing, any more, but only Elleck, and 
Addy, and Jake, and Hattie, and Jerry, and Buck, 
and so on. 

And, you know, the more you join in with people 
in their joys and their sorrows, the more nearer 
and dearer they come to be to you. Now, we warn't 
cold and indifferent, the way most travellers is — we 
was right down friendly and sociable, and took a 
chance in everything that was going ; and the cara- 
van could depend on us to be on hand every time, 
it didn't make no difference what it was. 

When they camped, we camped right over them, 
ten or twelve hundred foot up in the air. When they 
et a meal, we et ourn, and it made it ever so much 
homeliker to have their .company. WTien they had 
a wedding, that night, and Buck and Addy got 
married, we got ourselves up in the very starchiest 
of the professor's duds for the blow-out ; and when 
they danced we j'ined in and shook a foot up 
there. 

But it is sorrow and trouble that brings you the 
nearest, and it was a funeral that done it with us. 
It was next morning, just in the still dawn. We 
didn't know the diseased, and he warn't in our set, 
but that never made no difference— he belonged to 
the caravan, and that was enough ; and there warn't 
no more sincerer tears shed over him than the 
ones we dripped on him from up there eleven hun- 
dred feet on high. 

Yes, parting with this caravan was much more 
bitterer than it was to part with them others, which 
was comparative strangers, and been dead so long, 
anyway. We had knowed these in their lives, and 
was fond of them, too, and now to have death 
snatch them from right before our faces whilst we 
was looking, and leave us so lonesome and friend- 
less in the middle of that big Desert, it did hurt so, 
and we wished we mightn't ever make any more 
friends on that voyage if we was going to lose them 
again like that. 

We couldn't keep from talking about them, and 
they was all the time coming up in our memory, 
and looking just the way they looked when we was 
all alive and happy together. We could see the 
line marching, and the shiny spearheads a- winking 
in the sun, we could see the dromedaries lumbering 
along, we could see the wedding and the funeral, 
and more oftener than anything else we could see 
them praying, because they don't allow nothing to 
prevent that : whenever the call came, several times 
a day, they would stop right there, and stand up 
and face the east and lift back their heads, and 
spread out their arms and begin, and four or five 
times they would go down on their knees, and then 
fall forwards and touch their forehead to the 
ground. 

Well, it warn't good to go on talking about 
them, lovely as they was in their life, and dear to 
us in their life and death both, because it didn't do 
no good, and made us too down-hearted. Jim 
allowed he was going to live as good a life as he 
could, so he could see them again in a better world ; 
and Tom kept still and didn't tell him they was 
only Mohammedans — it warn't no use to disappoint 
him, he was feeling bad enough just as it was. 

When we woke up next morning we was feeling 
a little cheerfuller, and had had a most powerful 
good sleep, because sand is the comfortablest bed 
there is, and I don't see why people that can afford 
it don't have ' it more. And it's terrible good 
ballast, too ; I never see the balloon so steady 
before. 

Tom allowed we had twenty tons of it, and 
wondered what we better do with it ; it was good 
sand, and it didn't seem good sense to throw it 
away. Jim says : 

' Mars Tom, can't we tote it back home en sell 
it ? How long'll it take ? ' 

' Depends on the way we go.' 

' Well, sah, she's wuth a quarter of a dollar a 
load at home, en I reckon we's got as much as 
twenty loads, hain't we ? How much would dat 
be?' 

' Five dollars.' 

' By jings, Mars Tom, le's shove for home right 
on de spot ! Hit's more'n a dollar en a half apiece, 
hain't it ? ' 

'Yes.' 

' Well, ef dat ain't makin' money de easiest 
ever I struck ! She jes' rained in — never cos' us a 
lick o' work. Le's mosey right along, Mars Tom.' 

But Tom was thinking and ciphering away so 
busy and excited he never heard him. Pretty soon 
he says : 

' Five dollars — sho ! Look here, this sand's 
worth— worth — why, it's worth no end of money.' 

' How is dat, Mars Tom ? Go on, honey, go 
on!' 

 Well, the minute people knows it's genuwyne 
sand from the genuwyne Desert of Sahara, they'll 
just be in a perfect state of mind to git hold of 
some of it to keep on the whatnot in a vial with a 
label on it for a curiosity. All we got to do is to 
