cannot bear it!” she said bravely, but with a quivering lip. “Give
me your arm, Mr. Bayard, and let us get home.”

He obeyed her in silence. He felt, in truth, too spent to speak.
They got back to the door of the cottage, and Helen led him in. Her
father was not in the parlor, and her mother had gone to bed. The
fire had fallen to embers. Helen motioned him to an easy-chair,
and knelt, coaxing the blaze, and throwing on pine wood to start
it. She looked so womanly, so gentle, so home-like, and love-like,
on her knees in the firelight there, caring for the comfort of
the exhausted man, that the sight was more than he could bear. He
covered his eyes.

“The fire flares so, coming in from the dark,” he said.

She stepped softly about, and brought him wine and crackers, but he
shook his head.

“My little tea-urn is packed,” she said, smiling, trying to look as
if nothing had happened. “I would have made you such a cup of tea
as you never tasted!”

“Spare me!” he pleaded. “Don’t you suppose I know that?”

He rose manfully, as soon as he could. She stood in the firelight,
looking up. A quiver passed over her delicate chin. He held out his
hand. She put her strong, warm clasp within it.

“I told you that I trusted you,” she said distinctly. “Believe me,
and go in peace.”

“I don’t know another woman in the world who would!” cried Bayard.

“Then let me be that only one,” she answered. “I am proud to be.”

He could not reply. They stood with clasped hands. Their eyes did
not embrace, but comradeship entered them.

“You will let me write?” he pleaded, at last.

“Yes.”

“And see you--sometimes.”

“Yes.”

“And trust me--in spite of all?”

“I have said it.”

“My blessing isn’t worth much,” he said brokenly, “but for what it
is--Oh, my Love, God go with you!”

“And stay with you!” she whispered.

He laid her hand gently down, and turned away. She heard him shut
the door, and walk feebly, coughing, up the avenue. He looked back,
once. He saw her standing between the lace curtains with her arms
upraised, and her hand above her eyes, steadily looking out into
the dark.




XX.


So Emanuel Bayard entered into his Wilderness. Therein he was
tempted like other men of God who renounce the greatest joy of life
for its grandest duty. There he thirsted and hungered, and put
forth no hand towards the meat or drink of human comfort; there he
contended with himself, and hid his face, for he went into solitary
places, and prayed apart, asking for that second strength which
sustains a man in the keeping of the vow that he has not feared to
take upon his soul--not knowing, till God teaches him, how easy it
is to recognize, and how hard to hold, “the highest when we see it.”

       

Winter drew its yoke of ice about the shrinking shoulders of the
Cape; the fleets huddled in the harbor; the fishermen drowned on
the Grand Banks; Windover shivered and shriveled, and looked with
wincing, winking eyes upon the blinding horizon of the winter sea;
the breakers broke in white fire upon the bar; Angel Alley drank
and cursed to keep warm; and the young preacher’s delicate face,
patiently passing in and out beneath the white and scarlet lights
of the chapel of Christlove, gathered a snowdrift of its own with
the whitening of the year.

His work, like most service sustained in consecration and in common
sense by one pure and strong personality, grew upon his hands; not
steadily, but by means of much apparent failure.

The fame of the heretic missionary had gone abroad as such things
do. It was no uncommon thing for members of the strictest sect of
the Orthodox churches to stand half curious, half deferent, and
wholly perplexed by what they saw and heard, and calculating the
prospects of an experiment which the observer was, as a rule, too
wise a man or too good a woman not to respect.

It even happened now and then that some distinguished clergyman was
seen jammed between a fisherman and a drunkard in the crush by the
door; taking notes of the sermon, studying the man and his methods
with the humility characteristic of large men, and seldom imitated
by little ones.

The Reverend George Fenton was not, but would have liked to be,
one of these eminent and docile clerical visitors at the chapel
of Christlove. He dared not leave his congregation, decorously
scattered to listen to a sound theology, in the pews of the old
First Church, to elbow his unnoticed way among the publicans and
sinners who thronged his classmate’s mission; but he often wished
he could. He asked himself anxiously: “What is the secret? How
does the man do it?” Sometimes he envied his heretic friend the
drunkards, and sailors, the reckless girls, and most of all the
fishermen, sacred in the canon and to the imagination of the
church,--the fishermen, once the chosen friends of Our Lord.

Bayard even fancied that Fenton looked at him a little wistfully;
and that he spoke with him oftener and lingered longer when they
met upon the streets of the sad and tempted town whose redemption
both men, each in his own way, desired and sought, with a sincerity
which this biography would not intimate was to be found only in the
heart of its subject, and hero. For the Reverend George Fenton was
no hypocrite, or Pharisee; the prevailing qualities of his class
not being of this sort. No one rated him more generously than his
heretic classmate; or looked more gently upon the respectable,
dreary effort to save the world by an outgrown method, which the
conformer dutifully and comfortably sustained.

“I heard a Boston man call you the Father Taylor of Windover,”
one day abruptly said the clergyman to the missionary, upon the
post-office steps. “Boston could no farther go, I take it. I hear
your audience has outgrown your mission-room. That must be a great
encouragement; you must consider it a divine leading,” added
Fenton, with the touch of professional slang and jealousy not
unnatural to better men than he. “But you must remember that we,
too, are following the Master in our way; it’s a pretty old and
useful way.”

Then up spoke Captain Hap, who stood at Bayard’s elbow.

“It’s jest about here, Mr. Fenton. You folks set out to foller
Him; but our minister, he lives like Him. There’s an almighty
difference.”

Another day, Fenton, with his young wife on his arm, came down
Angel Alley with the air of a tourist inspecting the points of
interest in a new vicinity.

“Bayard!” he exclaimed; “you look as white as a Cesarea snowdrift.
You are overworked, man. What can I do, to help you?--If there
is anything,” he added with genuine concern, “you’d let me know,
wouldn’t you?”

“Probably not, Fenton,” replied Bayard, smiling.

“I mean it,” urged the other, flushing.

“If you do, the time may come,” said Bayard dreamily.

He glanced at his old friend,--the rosy, well-fed man; at the round
face destitute of the carving of great purpose or deep anxiety;
at the pretty girl with the Berkshire eyes who looked adoringly
over the sleek elbow to which she clung. These two well-meaning,
commonplace people seemed ennobled and beautified, as commoner far
than they may be, by their human love and happiness. Bayard, in his
shabby clothes, with his lonely face, watched them with a certain
reverence.

He thought--but when did he not think of Helen?

He wrote; she answered; they did not meet; he worked on patiently;
and the winter went. Bayard drowned himself in his work with the
new and conscious ardor of supreme renunciation. He thought of the
woman whom he loved, as the diver at the bottom of the sea, when
the pumps refuse to work, thinks of sky and shore and sun, of air
and breath.

       

One bleak, bright February night, Bayard came out from his mission,
and looked about Angel Alley anxiously.

Bob was within, and Tony and Jean were safe; Job Slip was sober,
and Tom, Dick, and Harry were accounted for. But Lena--Lena had not
been seen at Christlove for now many weeks.

The waywardness of the girl had long been sore at Bayard’s heart,
and the step which he took that night was the result of thought and
deliberate purpose. Afterwards he was glad to remember that he had
acted on no one of those mere sentiments or impulsive whims which
are the pitfalls of a philanthropic life.

The hour was not early, decent people were scattering to their
homes, and Windover was giving herself over to the creatures of
the night. It was a windy night, and the snow blew in cold, white
powder from the surface of drifts called heavy for the coast, and
considered a sign of “a spell of weather.”

There was a full moon; and the harbor, as one looked down between
the streets, showed in glints and glimpses, bright and uneasy. The
bellow of the whistling-buoy nine miles out, off the coast, was
audible at firesides. The wind sped straight from Cape Cod, and was
as icy as death.

It was one of the nights when the women of Windover grow silent,
and stand at the window with the shade raised, looking out between
their hands, with anxious, seaward eyes. “God pity the men at sea!”
they say who have no men at sea. But those who have say nothing.
They pray. As the night wears on, and the gale increases, they
weep. They do not sleep. The red light on the Point goes out, and
dawn is gray. The buoy shrieks on malignantly. It “comes on thick”;
and the fog-bell begins to toll. Its mighty lips utter the knell
for all the unburied drowned that are, and have been, and are yet
to be. Windover listens and shudders. It is one of the nights when
the sheltered and the happy and the clean of life bless God for
home, for peace, for fire and pillow. It is one of the nights when
the soul of the gale enters into the soul of the tempted and the
unbefriended, and with it seven devils worse than the first. It was
one of the nights when girls like Lena are too easy or too hard to
find.

Bayard sought her everywhere. She was not to be seen in Angel
Alley, and he systematically and patiently searched the town. With
coat-collar turned up, and hat turned down, he tried to keep warm,
but the night was deadly bleak. It came on to be eleven o’clock;
half past; and midnight approached. He was about to abandon his
quest when he struck a trace of her, and with redoubled patience
he hunted it down. He had taken no one with him in his search for
Lena; in truth, he knew of no person in all that Christian town
who would have wished to share that night’s repulsive errand if he
had asked it. He recognized this fact with that utter absence of
bitterness which is the final grace and test of dedication to an
unselfish end.

“Why should I expect it?” he thought gently. “Duty is not subject
to a common denominator. This is mine and not another’s.”

A policeman gave him, at last, the clew he needed; and Bayard, who
had returned on his track to Angel Alley, halted before the door
of a house at the end of a dark court, within a shell’s-throw of
the wharves. His duty had never led him before into precisely such
a place, and his soul sickened within him. He hesitated, with his
foot on the steps.

“Better stay outside, sir,” suggested the policeman.

Bayard shook his head.

“Shan’t I go with you, sir? You don’t know what you’re about.
Better have an officer along.”

“Stay here, within call, will you?” answered Bayard. “That will do.
The law can’t do my errand.”

“Nor nothin’ else in this town but that,” returned the officer,
touching his helmet.

He pointed up the Alley where the large letters of the solemn
white and scarlet sign blazed all night before the chapel of
Christlove. The fishermen could see it from their schooners’
decks as they dropped anchors; and it shone strangely in their
weather-beaten faces as they pushed past--or sank into--the doors
of the dens that lined the street.

Bayard’s eye followed the officer’s finger, lighting with that
solemn radiance peculiar to himself; and with this illumination on
his face he entered the place whose ways take hold on death.

The officer waited without. In an incredibly short time the
minister reappeared. He was not alone. Lena followed him with
hanging head.

“Thank you, Sergeant,” said Bayard quietly, touching his hat, “I
shall need you no longer.”

He turned, with the girl beside him, and crossed the Alley. The
officer, with a low whistle, lingered a moment, and watched the
astounding pair. In the full moonlight, in the sight of all whom
it did or did not concern, Bayard walked up and down the street
with Lena. It was now near to the stroke of midnight. The two
could be seen conversing earnestly. Lena did not raise her eyes.
The minister watched her eagerly. They paced up and down. Men
staggering home from their sprees stood stupidly and stared at the
two. Old Trawl came to his door and saw them, and called Ben, who
looked, and swore the mighty oath of utter intellectual confusion.
The minister nodded to Ben, and spoke once or twice to some sailor
who awaited salutation; but he suffered no interruption of his
interview with the girl. In the broad moonlight he continued
quietly to walk up and down Angel Alley, with the street-girl at
his side.

“Lena,” Bayard had begun, “I have been trying to help the people
in this Alley for almost a year and a half, and I have met with
nothing to discourage me as much as you do. Some men and women have
grown better, and some have not changed at all. You are growing
worse.”

“That’s so,” assented Lena. “It’s as true as Hell.”

“I begin to think,” replied the minister, “that it must be partly
my fault. It seems to me as if I must have failed, somehow, or made
some mistake--or you would be a better girl, after all this time.
Do you think of anything--Come, Lena! Give your best attention to
the subject--Do you think of anything that I could do, which I have
not done, to induce you to be a decent woman?”

“I tried, for you!” muttered Lena. “I tried; you know I did!”

“Yes, I know you did; and I appreciated it. You failed, that was
all. You are discouraged, and so am I. Now, tell me! What else can
I do, to make a good girl of you? For it’s got to be done, you
see,” he added firmly. “I can’t have this any longer. You disgrace
the chapel, and the people, and me. It makes me unhappy, Lena.”

“Mr. Bayard! Mr. Bayard!” said Lena with trembling lip, “I’ll go
drown in the outer harbor. I ain’t fit to live ... if you care. I
didn’t suppose you cared.”

“You are not fit to die, Lena,” returned Bayard gently. “And I
do care. I have always thought you were born to be a fine woman.
There’s something I like about you. You are generous, and brave,
and kind-hearted. Then see what a voice you have! You might have
been a singer, Lena, and sung noble things--the music that makes
people purer and better. You might have”....

“Oh, my God!” cried Lena; “I was singin’ in that--in
there--to-night. They’re always after me to sing ’em into
damnation.”

“Lena,” said Bayard in a thrilling tone, “look into my face!”

She obeyed him. High above her short stature Bayard’s delicate
countenance looked down at the girl. All the loathing, all the
horror, all the repulsion that was in him for the sin he suffered
the sinner to see for the first time. His tender face darkened and
quivered, shrinking like some live thing that she tormented.

“Oh,” wailed Lena, “am I like that--to you? Is it as bad as
that?”

“It is as bad as that,” answered the minister solemnly.

“Then I’ll go drown,” said Lena dully; “I might as well.”

“No,” he said quietly. “You will not drown. You will live, and
make yourself a girl whom I can respect.”

“Would you ever respect me--respect ME, if I was to be--if I
was to do what you say?” asked Lena in a low, controlled tone.

“I should respect you from my soul,” said Bayard.

“Would you--would you be willing to--would you feel ashamed to
shake hands with me, Mr. Bayard,--if I was a different girl?”

“I will shake hands with you now,” returned the minister quietly,
“if you will give me your word of honor that you will never, from
this hour”--

“I will never, from this hour, so help me God!” said Lena solemnly.

“So help her, God!” echoed Bayard.

He lifted his hand above her head, as if in prayer and blessing;
then gently extended it. The girl’s cold, purple fingers shook as
he touched them. She held her bare hand up in the moonlight, as if
to bathe it in whiteness.

“Mr. Bayard, sir,” she said in her ordinary voice, “it is a
bargain.”

Bayard winced, in spite of himself, at the words; but he looked at
Lena’s face, and when he saw its expression he felt ashamed of his
own recoil.

“Very well,” he answered, adopting her business-like tone, “so it
is. Now, then, Lena! What next? What are you going to do? Have you
any home--any friends--anywhere to turn?”

“I have no friend on all God’s earth but you, sir,” said Lena
drearily, “but I guess I’ll manage, somehow. I can mostly do what
I set out to.”

“Your mother?” asked Bayard gently.

“She died when my baby was born, sir. She died of the shame of it.
I was fifteen year old.”

“Oh! and the--the man? The father of your child?”

“He was a gentleman. He was a married man. I worked for him, in a
shop. He ain’t dead. But I’d sooner go to hell than look to him.”

“I’d about as soon you would”--the minister said in his heart. But
his lips answered only,--“You poor girl! You poor, poor, miserable
girl!”

Then, for the first time, Lena broke down, and began to cry, there,
on the streets, in the sight of every one.

“I must find you work--shelter--home--with some lady. I will do
whatever can be done. Rely on me!” cried Bayard helplessly.

He began to realize what he had done, in undertaking Lena’s “case”
without the help of a woman. Confusedly he ran over in his mind the
names of the Christian women whom he knew, to whom he could turn in
this emergency. He thought of Helen Carruth; but an image of the
Professor’s wife, her mother, being asked to introduce Lena into
the domestic machinery of a Cesarea household, half amused and half
embittered him. He remembered the wife of his church treasurer,
a kindly woman, trained now to doing the unexpected for Christ’s
sake.

“I will speak to Mrs. Bond. I will consider the matter. Perhaps
there may be some position--some form of household service,” he
ventured, with the groping masculine idea that a domestic career
was the only one open to a girl like Lena.

Then Lena laughed.

“Thank you, sir. But I ain’t no more fit for housework than I be
for a jeweler’s trade, or floss embroidery, or a front pew in
Heaven. There ain’t a lady in Christendom would put up with me. I
wouldn’t like it, either,” said Lena candidly. “There’s only one
thing I would like. It’s just come over me, standin’ here. I guess
I’ll manage.”

“I shall wish to know,” observed Bayard anxiously, “what you are
going to do, and where you will be.”

“I’ll take a room I know of,” said Lena. “It ain’t in Angel Alley.
It’s a decent place. I’ll get Johnny’s mother to come along o’ me.
She’s dead sick of the Widders’ Home. She’s kinder fond of me,
Johnny’s mother is, and she can take in or go out, to help a bit.
Then I’ll go over to the powder factory.”

“The powder factory?” echoed the puzzled pastor.

“The gunpowder factory, over to the Cut,” said Lena. “They’re
kinder short of hands. It ain’t a popular business. The pay’s good,
and Lord, I shouldn’t care! The sooner I blow up, the safer I’ll
be. I guess I’d like it, too. I always thought I should.”

“Very well,” said the minister helplessly. “That may answer, till
we can find something better.”

It was now past twelve o’clock, and the night was growing bitterly
cold. Bayard said good-night to Lena, and they separated opposite
Trawl’s door.

He went shivering home, and stirred up his fire. He was cold to the
heart. That discreet afterthought which is the enemy of too many
of our noble decisions, tormented him. He turned to his books, and
taking one which was lying open upon the study-table read:--

“He spoke much about the wrongs of women; and it is very touching
to know that during the last year of his life he frequently went
forth at night, and endeavored to redeem the fallen women of
Brighton.”...

It was not three days from this time that Captain Hap approached
the minister on the Alley, with a sober and anxious face. He held
in his hand a copy of the “Windover Topsail.” His rough finger
trembled as it pressed the paragraph which he handed in silence for
Bayard to read:--

“We regret to learn that a certain prominent citizen of this
place who has been laboring among the sailors and fishermen in a
quasi-clerical capacity, is so unfortunate as to find his name
associated with a most unpleasant scandal arising out of his
acquaintance with the disreputable women of the district in which
he labors. We wish the Reverend gentleman well out of his scrape,
but may take occasion to suggest that such self-elected censors of
our society and institutions must learn somehow that they cannot
touch pitch and not be defiled, any more than ordinary men who do
not make their pretensions to holiness.”

“Well?” said Bayard, quietly returning the paper.

Job Slip had joined them, and read the paragraph over the Captain’s
shoulder. Job was white to the lips with the virile rage of a man
of the sea.

“I’ve shipped here, and I’ve coasted there, and I’ve sailed
eenymost around the world,” slowly said Captain Hap. “I never in my
life--and I’m comin’ on seventy-five year old--I never knew no town
I wouldn’t d’ruther see a scandal a-goin’ in, than this here. It’s
Hell let loose on ye,” added the Captain grimly.

“Find me the fellar that put up that job!” roared Job Slip, rolling
up his sleeves.

“He ain’t fur to seek,” answered the Captain with a short laugh.

“He’s the devil and all his angels smithered into one!” raved Job.

“That’s drawrin’ of it mild,” said Captain Hap.

“This--low--matter does not trouble me,” observed Bayard, smiling
with genuine and beautiful remoteness.

“Excuse me, sir,” said Captain Hap; “that’s all you know!”




XXI.


Captain Hap was wiser in his generation than the child of light.
Before a week had gone by, Bayard found himself the victim of
one of the cruelest forms of human persecution--the scandal of a
provincial town.

Its full force fell suddenly upon him.

Now, this was the one thing for which he was totally unprepared; of
every other kind of martyrdom, it seemed to him, he had recognized
the possibility: this had never entered his mind.

He accepted it with that outward serenity which means in a man of
his temperament the costliest expenditure of inward vitality, and,
turning neither to the right nor to the left, kept on his way.

Averted looks avoided him upon the streets. Cold glances sought
him in Angel Alley. Suspicion lurked in eyes that had always met
him cordially. Hands were withdrawn that had never failed to meet
his heartily. His ears quivered with comments overheard as he
passed through groups upon the business streets. The more public
and the more respectable the place, the worse his reception. He
came quickly into the habit of avoiding, when he could, the better
portions of the town.

Before he had time to determine on any given course of conduct, he
felt himself hunted down into Angel Alley, like other outcasts.

The Reverend Mr. Fenton in this crisis did what appealed to him as
a praiseworthy deed. He came down to the chapel, and, in the eyes
of Angel Alley sought his classmate boldly. Give him the credit of
the act; it meant more than we may readily distinguish.

Men who conform, who live like other men, who think in the
accustomed channels, are not to be judged by the standard which we
hold before our heroes. He held out his hand to Bayard with some
unnecessary effusion.

“My dear fellow!” he murmured, “this is really--you know--I came
to--express my sympathy.”

“Thank you, Fenton,” said Bayard quietly.

He said nothing more, and Fenton looked embarrassed. He had
prepared himself at some length to go into the subject. He felt
that Bayard’s natural indiscretion needed the check which it had
probably now received, for life. But he found himself unable to
say anything of the kind. The words shriveled on his tongue. His
own eyes fell before Bayard’s high look. A spectator might have
thought their positions to be reversed; that the clergyman was the
culprit, and the slandered missionary the judge and patron. Fenton
was uncomfortable, and, after a few meaningless words, he said
good-morning, and turned away.

“Of course,” he observed, as he went down the long steps of
the mission, “you will meet this slander by some explanation,
or change of tack? You will adapt your course hereafter to the
circumstances?”

“I shall explain nothing, and change nothing,” answered Bayard
calmly. “I should do the same thing over again to-morrow, if I had
it to do. I have committed no imprudence, and I shall stoop to no
apology. I doubt if there are six civilized places in this country
where an honest man in my position, doing my work, would have been
subjected to the consequences which have befallen a simple deed
of Christian mercy such as has been done by scores of better men
than I, before me. Why, it has not even the merit--or demerit--of
originality! I did not invent the salvation of the Magdalene. That
dates back about two thousand years. It takes a pretty low mind to
slander a man for it.”

This was the only bitter thing he was heard to say. It may be
pardoned him. It silenced the Reverend Mr. Fenton, and he departed
thoughtfully from Angel Alley.

As Bayard looked back upon these lonely days, when the fury of
the storm which swept about his ears had subsided, as such social
tornadoes do, he perceived that the thing from which he had
suffered most keenly was the disapproval of his own people. Wrong
him they did not, because they could not. They might as easily have
smirched the name and memory of the beloved disciple. But criticise
him they did, poor souls! Windover gossip, the ultimatum of their
narrow lives, seemed to them to partake of the finalities of death
and the judgment. The treasurer of the society was troubled.

“We must reef to the breeze! we must reef to the breeze!” he
repeated mournfully. “But, my dear sir, you must allow me to say
that I think it would have been better seamanship to have avoided
it altogether.”

“What would you have had me do, Mr. Bond?” asked Bayard, looking
rather pale. “I am sorry to disappoint you. The love and trust of
my own people is all I have,” he faltered.

“Some witness, for instance,” suggested Mr. Bond. “To be sure, you
did call on the police, I am told.”

“All Angel Alley was my witness,” returned Bayard, recovering his
self-possession.

“Some woman, then--some lady?”

“Name the woman. I thought of summoning your wife. Should you have
let her go on such an errand, on such a night, at such an hour, and
under such conditions?”

“I ought to have let her go,” answered the officer of the heretic
church, honestly. “I’m not sure that I should.”

He looked perplexed, but none the less troubled for that, and
sighed as he shook hands with his pastor. Mrs. Bond took her
husband’s arm, and walked away with him. “I would have done it,
John,” she said. But she was crying; so was Mrs. Granite. Jane’s
face was white and scared. Captain Hap was very sober. Job Slip
was significantly silent. Rumor had it, that a fight was brewing
between Job and the Trawls. Job’s anger, if thoroughly aroused,
was a serious affair. Bayard felt the discomfort and annoyance of
his people acutely. He went away alone, and walked up and down
the winter coast, for miles and hours, trying to regain himself
in solitude and the breath of the sea. For some time he found it
impossible to think coherently. A few words got the ring of his
mind, and shook it:--

“From that time many of His disciples went back, and walked no more
with Him.”

       

Usually in such a situation, some one trivial occurrence fixes
itself upon the sore imagination of a man and galls him above all
the really important aspects of his misfortune. This trifle came to
Bayard in the reception of a letter from the girl herself.

  DEAR SIR, MR. BAYARD: My hart will brake to think I cause you
  shame for savin of a poor girl. I see that peece in the paper. It
  aint far to gess who done it. If it wasnt for disgrasin you Ide
  kill Ben Trawl tonite. I wouldnt mind hangin. I know how Ide do
  it too. But dont you trubble I wont shame you no more. I’ll clare
  out all-together. So good-bye and God bless you Sir.
    This is from, Yours respictfully,                       LENA.

Bayard’s reply to Lena’s note was to go straight to the gunpowder
factory, and speak with the girl. The superintendent stood by, and
overheard him say, in a commanding tone:--

“Lena, you will not leave this town. You will come to the chapel as
usual. You will sing with us next Sunday. You will pay no attention
to anything that you hear, or see. You will never suffer yourself
even to suppose that any base, low mind or tongue can injure your
pastor. You will do as I bid you, and you will become the woman you
promised to. You will do this with my help or without it. Anything
may happen to a person. Nothing can undo a promise.”

“Mr. Bayard, sir,” said Lena, forcing back her tears, for she was
not a crying girl, “I’m a girl of my word, and I ain’t goin’ back
on you. But there’s one thing I’ve got to say. Mebbe I shouldn’t
have another chance, bein’ things are as they be. I did want
to ask you, Mr. Bayard, sir, if I was to be a good girl long
enough,--as long as you should set the time to make me fit,--do you
suppose, Mr. Bayard, you would ever feel so as if you could touch
your hat to me--same as you do to decent girls?”

The superintendent of the powder factory brushed his hand across
his eyes. Bayard was much moved.

The dark, little figure of the girl, in her working-clothes,
standing stolidly at her post in the most dangerous of the deadly
trades, wherein no “hand” can insure his life, blurred before the
minister. He thought how little life could mean to Lena, at its
kindest and best.

“When the time comes,” he said gently, “I shall lift my hat to you.”

“That’s worth while,” said Lena in her short, forcible way. She
turned and went back to her work.

The factory seemed to throb with the struggle of imprisoned death
to burst its bars. Bayard came out into the air with the long
breath which the bravest man always drew when he left the buildings.

These incidents (which are events to the solitary, missionary life)
were but two days old when Joey Slip climbed the minister’s stairs,
sobbing dolorously.

Rumor was running in Windover that Job was drunk again. Neither the
child nor the wife could say if truth were in it, for neither had
seen the man since yesterday. But Mari had dispatched the boy to
the minister with the miserable news. With a smothered exclamation
which Joey found it impossible to translate, Bayard snatched the
child’s hand, and set forth. His face wore a terrible look. He
reached the wharves in time to come directly upon Job, the centre
of a ring of jeering roughs. Muddy, wet, torn, splashed with slime
from the docks, hatless and raving, Job was doing his maudlin best
to fight Ben Trawl, who stood at a safe distance, smiling with
the cynicism of a rumseller who never drinks. Job--poor Job, the
“reformed man”; Job, who had fought harder for his manhood than
most sober men ever fight for anything from the baby’s crib to the
broadcloth casket; Job, the “pillar” of Christlove mission, the
pride and pet of the struggling people; Job, the one sure comfort
of his pastor’s most discouraged hour,--Job stood there, abased and
hideous.

He had lived one splendid year; he had done one glorious thing;
he had achieved that for which better men than he should take
off their hats to him. And there--Bayard looked at him once, and
covered his face.

Job recognized him, and, frenzied as he was, sunk upon his knees
in the mud, and crawled towards the minister, piteously holding up
his hands. One must have been in Job’s place, or in Bayard’s, to
understand what that moment was to these two men.

In the paltry scenes of what we call the society of the world,
there are no actors who should criticise, as there are few who can
comprehend the rôles of this plain and common tragedy.

With the eyes of a condemning angel, Bayard strode into the group,
and took Job home.

“It’s clear D. T.,” said Captain Hap between his teeth.

Bayard sent for a doctor, who prescribed chloral, and said the
case was serious. Mari put on a clean apron, and dusted up the
rooms, and reinforced the minister, who proceeded to nurse Job for
thirty-six hours. Captain Hap went home. He said he’d rather tie a
slipknot round the fellar’s neck, and drawr it taut.

But when Job came to himself, poor fellow, the truth came with him.
Job had been the blameless victim of one of those incredible but
authenticated plots which lend blackness to the dark complexion of
the liquor trade.

Job was working ashore, it seemed, for a week, being out of a
chance to ship; and he had been upon the wharves, salting down
fish, and came out at his nooning, with the rest, for his lunch.
There was a well, in a yard, by the fish-flakes, and a dipper,
chained, hung from the pump.

It came Job’s turn to drink from the dipper. And when he had
drunk, the devil entered into him. For the rim of the dipper had
been maliciously smeared with rum. Into the parched body of the
“reformed man” the fire of that flavor ran, as flame runs through
stubble in a drought.

The half-cured drunkard remembered putting down his head, and
starting for the nearest grogshop on a run, with a yell. From that
moment till Bayard found him, Job remembered nothing more. Such
episodes of the nether world are not rare enough to be doubted, and
this one is no fiction.

“I’m in for it, now,” groaned Job. “Might as well go to h---- and
done with it.”

Then Bayard, haggard from watching, turned and looked on Job. Job
put his hands before his face.

“Oh, sir!” he cried. “But you see, there ain’t a wharf-rat left
in Windover as ’u’d trust me now!”

“Take my hand, Job,” said the minister slowly.

Job took it, sobbing like a baby.

“Now climb up again, Job!” said Bayard in a strong voice. “I’m with
you!”

Thus went the words of the shortest sermon of the minister’s life.
To the end of his days, Job Slip will think it was the greatest and
the best.

Captain Hap, penitent, but with no idea of saying so, came up the
tenement stairs. Mari and Joey sat beside the fire. Mari was frying
chunks of haddock for supper. Joey was singing in a contented
little voice something that he had caught in the mission:--

    “Veresawidenessin Godsmer--cy
      Likevewidenessof vesea....
    ForveloveofGod is bwoard--er
      Vanvemeazzerof mansmine
    Anve heartof veE--ter--nal
      Ismoswonderfully kine.”

“Hear the boy!” cried Mari, laughing for the first time for many
black days.

“What in the world is he singin’?” asked Joey’s father.

“Why, I’m sure it’s as plain as can be,” said Joey’s mother,--

    “‘There’s a wideness in God’s mercy,
      Like the wideness of the sea.’

Then he says:--

    “‘For the love of God is broader
      Than the measure of man’s mind,
    And the heart of the Eternal
      Is most wonderful and kind.’

Oh, ain’t he the clever boy?”

“We’ll see,” said Job unexpectedly, putting his feet to the floor.
“I ain’t a-goin’ to have the little fellar ashamed of his father,
see if I be!”

“All the same,” observed Captain Hap dryly, “I wouldn’t go on the
street to-night, if I was you. I’ll stay along of you a spell.
The minister’s beat out. There’s enough goin’ on yet to capsize a
soberer man than you be, Job. The fellar that did this here ain’t
a-goin’ to stop at rims of dippers. No, sir!... Job Slip! Don’t you
tech nothin’; not nothin’ outside of your own house, this six
month to come! Not a soda, Job! Not a tumbler o’ milk! Not a cup o’
coffee! Not a swaller o’ water! No, nor a bite of victuals. You’ll
be hunted down like a rat. There’s bread buttered with phosphorus
layin’ round loose for ye most anywheres. Everybody knows who done
this. ’T ain’t no use to spile good English callin’ bad names. He
won’t stop at nothin’ partikkelar to drawr you under.”

“But why?” asked Bayard. “Why should he hound down poor Job so?”

“To spite you, sir,” replied the captain without hesitation.

In the dead silence which followed the captain’s words, Joey’s
little voice piped up again:--

    “Be hushed my dark spew--it
    Ve wussvatcancome
    But shortens vy zhour--nee
    Anhastingsme home.”

Joey stole up merrily, and patted out the tune with his little
fingers on the minister’s pale cheek.

“He says,” began Mari proudly,

    “‘Be hushed, my dark spirit,
    The worst that can come’”--

But Captain Hap, who was not in a pious mood, interrupted the
maternal translation.

“Folks say that they’ve got into their ---- heads their license
is in genooine danger. Confine yourself to prayin’ an’ singin’,
an’ they don’t deny that’s what you’re hired for. Folks say if
you meddle with city politics, there ain’t an insurance company
in New England ’u’d take a policy on your life, sir. You might as
well hear what’s goin’ on, Mr. Bayard. I don’t suspicion it’ll
make no odds to you. I told ’em you wouldn’t tech the politics of
this here town with a forty-fathom grapplin’-iron,--no, nor with a
harbor-dredger!”

“You’re right there, Captain,” returned Bayard, smiling.

“Then ’tain’t true about the license?” asked the captain anxiously.

“I have nothing to conceal in the matter, Captain,” answered Bayard
after a moment’s silence. “There are legalized crimes in Angel
Alley which I shall fight till I die. But it will be slow work. I
don’t do it by lobbying. I have my own methods, and you must grant
me my own counsel.”

“The dawn that rises on the Trawls without their license,” slowly
said the captain, “that day, sir, you may as well call on the city
marshal for a body-guard. You’ll need it!”

“Oh, you and Job will answer, I fancy,” replied Bayard, laughing.

He went straight home and to bed, where he slept fitfully till
nearly noon of the next day. He was so exhausted with watching and
excitement, that there is a sense of relief in thinking that the
man was granted this one night’s rest before that which was to be
befell him.

For, at midnight of the succeeding night, he was awakened by the
clang of the city bells. It was a still night, there was little
wind, and the tide was calm at the ebb. The alarm was quite
distinct and easily counted. One? two? three? Six? One--two--three.
Six. Thirty-six. Thirty-six was the call from the business section
of the town. This alarm rang in for the board of trade, Angel
Alley, the wharves, and certain banks and important shops.

“A fire on the wharves, probably,” thought Bayard; he turned on his
pillow; “the fire-boat will reach it in three minutes. It is likely
to be some slight affair.”

One--two--three. Six. One--two--three. Six. One-two. One-two. The
sounding of the general alarm aroused him thoroughly. He got to
the window and flung open the blinds. In the heart of the city, two
miles away, a pillar of flame shot straight towards the sky, which
hung above it as red as the dashed blood of a mighty slaughter.
