
But he did not go, and days and weeks went by 
in irresolution. No word came from Carmen, and 
this humiliated Jack more than anything else 
not the loss of her friendship, but the remem- 
brance that he had ever danced attendance on her 
and trusted her. He was getting a good many 
wholesome lessons in these days. 

One afternoon he called upon Miss Tavish. There 
was no change in her. She received him with her 
usual gay cordiality, and with no affectation. 

" I didn't know what had become of you," she 
said. 

"I've been busy," he replied, with a faint at- 
tempt at a smile. 

"Yes, I know. It's been an awful time, what 





with Henderson's death and everything else. Al- 
most everybody has been hit. But," and she looked 
at him cheerfully, " they will come up again ; up and 
down; it is always so. Why, even I got a little 
twist in that panic." The girl was doing what she 
could in her way to cheer him up. 

"I think of going off somewhere to seek my 
fortune," said Jack, with a rueful smile. 

" Oh, I hope not ; your friends wouldn't like 
that. There is no place like New York, I'm sure." 
And there was a real note of friendliness and en- 
couragement in her tone. " Only," and she gave 
him another bright smile, " I think of running away 
from it myself, for a time. It's a secret yet. Car- 
men wants me to go abroad with her." 

" I have not seen Mrs. Henderson since her hus- 
band's death. How is she ?" 

" Oh, she bears up wonderfully. But then she 
has so much to do, poor thing. And then the let- 
ters she gets, the begging letters. You've no idea. 
I don't wonder she wants to go abroad. Don't 
stay away so long again," she said as Jack rose to 
go. " And, oh, can't you come in to dinner to- 
morrow night just Carmen I think I can per- 
suade her and nobody else ?" 

" I'm sorry that I have an engagement," Jack 
answered. 

" Well, some other time. Only soon." 

This call did Jack temporarily a world of good. 





It helped his self -esteem. But it was only tem- 
porary. The black fact stared him in the face 
every morning that he was ruined. And it came 
over him gradually that he was a useless member 
of society. He never had done anything ; he was 
not trained or fitted to do anything. And this 
^ was impressed upon him in the occasional attempts 
he made to get employment. He avoided as much 
as possible contact with those who knew him. 
Shame prevented him from applying to them for 
occupation, and besides he very well knew that to 
those who knew him his idle career was no recom- 
mendation. Yet he formed a habit of going down- 
town every day and looking for work. His ap- 
pearance commanded civility, but everywhere he 
met with refusal, and he began to feel like a well- 
bred tramp. There had been in his mind before 
no excuse for tramps. He could see now how they 
were made. 

It was not that he lacked capacity. He knew 
a great deal, in an amateurish way, about pict- 
ures, books, bric-a-brac, and about society. Why 
shouldn't he write ? He visited the Loan Exhibi- 
tion, and wrote a careful criticism on the pictures 
and sent it to a well-known journal. It was re- 
turned with thanks : the journal had its own art crit- 
ic. He prepared other articles about curious books, 
and one about porcelain and pottery. They were 
all returned, except one which gave the history of 



a rare bit of majolica, which had been picked up 
for - fifty cents and then sold for five hundred dol- 
lars, and was now owned by a collector who had 
paid four thousand dollars for- it. For that the 
newspaper sent him five dollars. That was not 
encouraging, and his next effort for the same jour- 
nal was returned. Either he hadn't the newspa- 
per knack, or the competition was too great. 

He had ceased going to his club. It was too 
painful to meet his acquaintances in his altered 
circumstances, and it was too expensive. It even 
annoyed him to meet Major Fairfax. That philos- 
opher had not changed towards him any more than 
Miss Tavish had, but it was a melancholy business 
to talk of his affairs, and to listen to the repeated 
advice to go down to the country to Edith, and 
wait for some good opening. That was just what 
he could not do. His whole frivolous life he began 
now to see as she must have seen it. And it seemed 
to him that he could only retain a remnant of his self- 
respect by doing something that would reinstate 
him in her opinion. 

" Yery well," said the Major, at the close of the 
last of their talks at the club ; " what are you go- 
ing to do ?" 

" I'm going into some business," said Jack, stiffly. 

" Have you spoken to any of your friends ?" 

" Ko. It's no use," he said, bitterly ; " they are 
all like me, or they know me." 







" And hasn't your wife some relations who are in 
business ?" 

" The last people I should apply to. No. I'm 
going to look around. Major, do you happen to 
know a cheap lodging-house that is respectable ?" 

" I don't know any that is not respectable," the 
Major replied, in a huffy manner. 

"I beg your pardon," said Jack. "I want to 
reduce expenses." 

The Major did know of a place in the neighbor- 
hood where he lived. He gave Jack the address, 
and thereafter the club and his usual resorts knew 
him no more. 

As the days went by and nothing happened to 
break the monotony of his waiting and his fruit- 
less search, he became despondent. Day after day 
he tramped about the city, among the business 
portions, and often on the East Side, to see misery 
worse than his own. He had saved out of the 
wreck his ample wardrobe, his watch, and some 
jewelry, and upon these he raised money for his 
cheap lodgings and his cheap food. He grew care- 
less of his personal appearance. Every morning 
he rose and went about the city, always with less 
hope, and every night he returned to his lodging, 
but not always sober. 

One day he read the announcement that Mrs. 
Rodney Henderson and Miss Tavish had sailed for 
Europe. That ended that chapter. What exactly 





he had expected he could not say. Help from Car- 
men ? Certainly not. But there had never been a 
sign from her, nor any word from Mavick lately. 
There evidently was nothing. He had been thrown 
over. Carmen evidently had no more use for him. 
She had other plans. The thought that he had 
been used and duped was almost more bitter than 
his loss. 

In after-days Jack looked back upon this time 
with a feeling akin to thankfulness for Carmen's 
utter heartlessness in regard to his affairs. He 
trembled to think what might have happened to 
him if she had sent for him and consulted him and 
drawn him again into the fatal embrace of her 
schemes and her fascinations. Now he was sim- 
ply enraged when he thought of her, and irritated 
with himself. 

These were dark days, days to which he looked 
back with a shudder. He wrote to Edith frequent- 
ly a brief note. He was straightening out his af- 
fairs ; he was busy. But he did not give her his 
address, and he only got her letters when the Ma- 
jor forwarded them from the club, which was ir- 
regularly. A stranger, who met him at his lodg- 
ings or elsewhere, would have said that he was an 
idle and rather dissipated-looking man. He was 
idle, except in his feeble efforts to get work ; he 
was worn and discouraged, but he was not doing 
anything very bad. In his way of looking at it, 





he was carrying out his notion of honor. He was 
only breaking a woman's heart. 

He was conscious of little except his own mis- 
fortunes and misery. He did not yet apprehend 
his own selfishness nor her nobility. He did not 
yet comprehend the unselfishness of a good wom- 
an's love. 

On the East Side one day, as he was sauntering 
along Grand Street, he encountered Dr. Leigh, his 
wife's friend, whom he had seen once at his house. 
She did not at first recognize him until he stopped 
and spoke his name. 

"Oh," she said, with surprise at seeing him. 
and at his appearance, " I didn't expect to see you 
here. I thought everybody had gone from the 
city. Perhaps you are going to the Neighborhood 
Guild?" 

" IS"o," and Jack forced a little laugh, " I'm not 
so good as that. I'm kept in town on business. I 
strolled over here to see how the other side of life 
looks." 

" It doesn't improve. It is one of the worst sum- 
mers I ever saw. Since Mr. Henderson's death 

" What difference did Henderson's death make 
over here ?" 

" Why, he had deposited a little fund for Father 
Damon to draw on, and the day after his death the 
bank returned a small check with the notice that 
there was no deposit to draw on. It had been such 



a help in extraordinary cases. Perhaps you saw 
some allusion to it in the newspapers ?" 

" Wasn't it the Margaret Fund ?" 

" Yes. Father Damon dropped a note to Mrs. 
Henderson explaining about it. No reply came." 

" As he might have expected." Dr. Leigh looked 
up quickly as if for an explanation, but Jack ig- 
nored the query, and went on. " And Father Da- 
mon, is he as active as ever ?" 

" He has gone." 

" What, left the city, quit his work ? And the 
mission ?" 

" I don't suppose he will ever quit his work while 
he lives, but he is much broken down. The mission 
chapel is not closed, but a poor woman told me 
that it seemed so." 

" And he will not return ? Mrs. Delancy will be 
so sorry." 

" I think not. He is in retreat now, and I heard 
that he might go to Baltimore. I thought of your 
wife. She was so interested in his work. Is she 
well this summer ?" 

" Yes, thank you," said Jack, and they parted. 
But as she went on her way his altered appearance 
struck her anew, and she wondered what had hap- 
pened. 

This meeting with Mr. Delancy recalled most 
forcibly Edith, her interest in the East Side work, 
her sympathy with Father Damon and the mission, 





the first flush of those days of enthusiasm. "When 
Father Damon began his work the ladies used to 
come in their carriages to the little chapel with 
flowers and money and hearts full of sympathy 
with the devoted priest. Alone of all these Edith 
had been faithful in her visits, always, when she 
was in town. And now the whole glittering show 
of charity had vanished for the time, and Father 
Damon 

The little doctor stopped, consulted a memoran- 
dum in her hand-bag, looked up at the tenement- 
house she was passing, and then began to climb its 
rickety stairway. 

Yes, Father Damon had gone, and Kuth Leigh 
simply went on with her work as before. Perhaps 
in all the city that summer there was no other per- 
son whose daily life was so little changed as hers. 
Others were driven away by the heat, by tempora- 
ry weariness, by the need of a vacation and change 
of scene. Some charities and some clubs and 
schools were temporarily suspended ; other chari- 
ties, befitting the name, were more active, the very 
young children were most looked after, and the 
Good Samaritans of the Fresh -Air Funds went 
about everywhere full of this new enthusiasm of 
humanity. But the occupation of Ruth Leigh re- 
mained always the same, in a faithful pertinacity 
that nothing could wholly discourage, in a routine 
that no projects could kindle into rnuclfenthusiasm. 





Day after day she went about among the sick and 
the poor, relieving and counselling individuals, and 
tiring herself out in that personal service, and more 
and more conscious, when she had time, at night, 
for instance, to think, of the monstrous injustice 
somewhere, and at times in a mood of fierce revolt 
against the social order that made all this misery 
possible and hopeless. 

Yet a great change had come into her life the 
greatest that can come to any man or woman in 
the natural order. She loved and she was loved. 
An ideal light had been cast upon her common- 
place existence, the depths of her own nature had 
been revealed to herself. In this illuminating 
light she walked about in the misery of this world. 
This love must be denied, this longing of the heart 
for companionship could never be gratified, yet 
after all it was a sweet self-sacrifice, and the love 
itself brought its own consolation. She had not to 
think of herself as weak, and neither was her lov- 
er's image dimmed to her by any surrender of his 
own principle or his own ideal. She saw him, as 
she had first seen him, a person consecrated and 
set apart, however much she might disagree with 
his supernatural vagaries set apart to the service 
of humanity. She had bitter thoughts sometimes 
of the world, and bitter thoughts of the false 
system that controlled his conduct, but never of 
him. 







It was unavoidable that she should recall her 
last interview with him, and that the image of his 
noble, spiritual face should be ever distinct in her 
mind. And there was even a certain comfort in 
this recollection. 

Father Damon had indeed striven, under the 
counsel of his own courage and of Brother Monies, 
to conquer himself on the field of his temptation. 
Bat with his frail physique it was asking too much. 
This at last was so evident that the good brother 
advised him, and the advice was in the nature of a 
command in his order, to retire for a while, and 
then take up his work in a fresh field. 

When this was determined on, his desire was 
nearly irresistible to see Kuth Leigh ; he thought it 
would be cowardly to disappear and not say good- 
by. Indeed, it was necessary to see her and ex- 
plain the stoppage of help from the Margaret 
Fund. The check that he had drawn, which was 
returned, had been for one of Dr. Leigh's cases. 
With his failure to elicit any response from Mrs. 
Henderson, the hope, raised by the newspaper 
comments on the unexecuted will, that the fund 
would be renewed was dissipated. 

In the interview which Father Damon sought 
with Dr. Leigh at the Women's Hospital all this 
was explained, and ways and means were discussed 
for help elsewhere. 

" I wanted to talk this over with you," said Fa- 







ther Damon, " because I am going away to take a 
rest." 

"You need it, Father Damon," was Ruth's an- 
swer, in a professional manner. 

"And and," he continued, Tvith some hesita- 
tion, " probably I shall not return to this mission." 

" Perhaps that will be best," she said, simply, 
but looking up at him now, with a face full of ten- 
der sympathy. 

" I am sure of it," he replied, turning away from 
her gaze. " The fact is, doctor, I am a little 
hipped overworked, and all that. I shall pull 
myself together with a little rest. But I wanted 
to tell you how much I appreciate } T our work, and 
and what a comfort you have been to me in my 
poor labors. I used to hope that some time you 
would see this world in relation to the other, 
and" 

" Yes, I know," she interrupted, hastily, " I can- 
not think as you do, but " And she could not go 
on for a great lump in her throat. Involuntarily 
she rose from her seat. The interview was too 
trying. Father Damon rose also. There was a 
moment's painful silence as they looked in each 
other's faces. Neither could trust the voice for 
speech. He took her hand and pressed it, and 
said " God bless you !" and went out, closing the 
door softly. 

A moment after he opened it again and stood 





on the threshold. She was in her chair, her head 
bowed upon her arms on the table. As he spoke 
she looked up, and she never forgot the expression 
of his face. 

"I want to say, Kuth" he had never before 
called her by her first name, and his accent thrilled 
her " that I shall pray for you as I pray for my- 
self, and though I may never see you again in this 
world, the greatest happiness that can come to me 
in this life will be to hear that you have learned to 
say Our Father which art in heaven." 

As she looked he was gone, and his last words re- 
mained a refrain in her mind that evening and af- 
terwards " Our Father which art in heaven " a 
refrain recurring again and again in all her life, in- 
separable from the memory of the man she loved. 






CHAPTER XXII 

ALONG the Long Island coast lay the haze of 
early autumn. It was the time of lassitude. In 
the season of ripening and decay Nature seemed 
to have lost her spring, and lay in a sort of deli- 
cious languor. Sea and shore were in a kind of 
truce, and the ocean south wind brought cool re- 
freshment but no incentive. 

From the sea the old brown farm-house seemed 
a snug haven of refuge ; from the inland road it 
appeared, with its spreading, sloping roofs, like an 
ancient sea-craft come ashore, which had been, 
covered in and then embowered by kindly Nat- 
ure with foliage. In those days its golden-brown 
color was in harmony with the ripening orchards 
and gardens. 

Surely, if anywhere in the world, peace was 
here. But to its owner this very peace and quiet- 
ness was becoming intolerable. The waiting days 
were so long, the sleepless nights of uncertainty 
were so weary. When her work was done, and 
Edith sat with a book or some sewing under the 
arbor where the grape clusters hung, growing dark 
and transparent, and the boy played about near 



her, she had a view of the blue sea, and about her 
were the twitter of birds and the hum of the cica- 
da. The very beauty made her heart ache. Sea- 
ward there was nothing nothing but the leap- 
ing little waves and the sky. From the land side 
help might come at any hour, and at every roll of 
wheels along the road her heart beat faster and 
hope sprang up anew. But day after day noth- 
ing came. 

Perhaps there is no greater bravery than this 
sort of waiting, doing the daily duty and waiting. 
Endurance is woman's bravery, and Edith was en- 
during, with an almost broken but still with a cou- 
rageous heart. It was all so strange. Was it sim- 
ply shame that kept him away, or had he ceased to 
love her? If the latter, there was no help for her. 
She had begged him to come, she had offered to 
leave the boy with her cousin companion and go 
to him. Perhaps it was pride only. In one of his 
short letters he had said, " Thank God, your little 
fortune is untouched." If it were pride only, how 
could she overcome it ? Of this she thought night 
and day. She thought, and she was restless, fever- 
ish, and growing thin in her abiding anxiety. 

It was true that her own fortune was safe and 
In her control. But with the usual instinct of 
women who know they have an income not likely 
to be ever increased, she began to be economical. 
She thought not of herself, but of the boy. It was 



the boy's fortune now. She began to look sharply 
after expenses; she reduced her household; she 
took upon herself the care of the boy, and other 
household duties. This was all well for her, for it 
occupied her time, and to some extent diverted her 
thoughts. 

So the summer passed a summer of anxiety, 
longing, and dull pain for Edith. The time came 
when the uncertainty of it could no longer be en- 
dured. If Jack had deserted her, even if he should 
die, she could order her life and try to adjust her 
heavy burden. But this uncertainty was quite be- 
yond her power to sustain. 

She made up her mind that she would go to the 
city and seek him. It was what he had written 
that she must not on any account do, but nothing 
that could happen to her there could be so bad as 
this suspense. Perhaps she could bring him back. 
If he refused, and was angry at her interference, 
that even would be something definite. And then 
she had carefully thought out another plan. It 
might fail, but some action had now become for 
her a necessity. 

Early one morning it was in September she 
prepared for a journey to the city. This little trip, 
which thousands of people made daily, took on for 
her the air of an adventure. She had been im- 
mured so' long that it seemed a great undertaking. 
And when she bade good-by to the boy for the 




day she hugged him and kissed him again and 
again, as if it were to be an eternal farewell. To 
her cousin were given the most explicit directions 
for his care, and after she had started for the train 
she returned to give further injunctions. So she 
told herself, but it was really for one more look at 
the boy. 

But on the whole there was a certain exhilara- 
tion in the preparation and the going, and her spir- 
its rose as they had not done in months before. 
Arrived in the city, she drove at once to the club 
Jack most frequented. 

"He is not in," the porter said; "indeed, Mr. 
Delancy has not been here lately." 

" Is Major Fairfax in?" Edith asked. 

Major Fairfax was in, and he came out imme- 
diately to her carriage. From him she learned 
Jack's address, and drove to his lodging-house. 
The Major was more than civil ; he was disposed to 
be sympathetic, but he had the tact to see that 
Mrs. Delancy did not wish to be questioned, nor to 
talk. 

" Is Mr. Delancy at home?" she asked the small 
boy who ran the elevator. 

" No'me." 

" And he did not say where he was going ?" 

"No'rae." 

" Is he not sometimes at home in the daytime ?" 

"No'me." 



" And what time does he usually come home in 
the evening ?" 

" Don't know. After I've gone, I guess." 

Edith hesitated whether she should leave a card 
or a note, but she decided not to do either, and or- 
dered the cabman to take her to Pearl Street, to 
the house of Fletcher & Co. 

Mr. Fletcher, the senior partner, was her cousin, 
the son of her father's elder brother, and a man 
now past sixty years. Circumstances had carried 
the families apart socially since the death of her 
father and his brother, but they were on the most 
friendly terms, and the ties of blood were not in 
any way weakened. Indeed, although Edith had 
seen Gilbert Fletcher only a few times since her 
marriage, she felt that she could go to him any 
time if she were in trouble, with the certainty of 
sympathy and help. He had the reputation of the 
old-fashioned New York merchants, to whom her 
father belonged, for integrity and conservatism. 

It was to him that she went now. The great 
shop, or wholesale warehouse rather, into which 
she entered from the narrow and cart-encumbered 
street, showed her at once the nature of the busi- 
ness of Fletcher & Co. It was something in the 
twine and cordage way. There were everywhere 
great coils of ropes and bales of twine, and the 
dark rooms had a tarry smell. Mr. Fletcher was 
in his office, a little space partitioned off. in the 





rear, with half a dozen clerks working by gaslight, 
and a little sanctum where the senior partner was 
commonly found at his desk. 

Mr. Fletcher was a little, round-headed man, with 
a shrewd face, vigorous and cheerful, thoroughly a 
man of business, never speculating, and who had 
been slowly gaining wealth by careful industry and 
cautious extension of his trade. Certain hours of 
the day from ten to three he gave to his busi- 
ness. It was a habit, and it was a habit that he 
enjoyed. He had now come back, as he told 
Edith, from a little holiday at the sea, where his 
family were, to get into shape for the fall trade. 

Edith was closeted with him for a full hour. 
When she came out her eyes were brighter and 
her step more elastic. At sundown she reached 
home, almost in high spirits. And when she 
snatched up the boy and hugged him, she whis- 
pered in his ear, " Baby, we have done it, and we 
shall see." 

One night when Jack returned from his now 
almost aimless tramping about the city he found a 
letter on his table. It seemed from the printing 
on the envelope to be a business letter; and busi- 
ness, in the condition he was in and it was the 
condition in which he usually came home did not 
interest him. He was about to toss the letter aside, 
when the name of Fletcher caught his eye, and he 
opened it. 



It "was a brief note, written on an office memo- 
randum, which simply asked Mr. Delancy to call at 
the office as soon as it was convenient, as the writer 
wished to talk with him on a matter of business, 
and it was signed " Gilbert Fletcher." 

" Why don't he say what his business is ?" said 
Jack, throwing the letter down impatiently. " I 
am not going to be hauled over the coals by any of 
the Fletchers." And he tumbled into bed in an in- 
jured and yet independent frame of mind. 

But the next morning he reread the formal little 
letter in a new light. To be sure, it was from 
Edith's cousin. He knew him very well ; he was 
not a person to go out of his way to interfere with 
anybody, and more than likely it was in relation 
to Edith's affairs that he was asked to call. That 
thought put a new aspect on the matter. Of course 
if it concerned her interests he ought to go. He 
dressed with unusual care for him in these days, 
breakfasted at the cheap restaurant which he fre- 
quented, and before noon was in the Fletcher 
warehouse in Pearl Street. 

He had never been there before, and he was 
somewhat curious to see what sort of a place it 
was where Gilbert carried on the string business, 
as he used to call it when speaking to Edith of her 
cousin's occupation. It was a much more dingy 
and smelly place than he expected, but the carts 
about the doors, and the bustle of loading and un- 



loading, of workmen hauling and pulling, and of 
clerks calling out names and numbers to be regis- 
tered and checked, gave him the impression that it 
was not a dull place. 

Mr. Fletcher received him in the little dim 
back office with a cordial shake of the hand, gave 
him a chair, and reseated himself, pushing back 
the papers in front of him with the air of a 
very busy man who was dropping for a moment 
one thing in order to give his mind promptly to 
another. 

" Our fall trade is just starting up," he said, " and 
it keeps us all pretty busy." 

" Yes," said Jack. " I could drop in any other 
time" 

" ]STo, no," interrupted Mr. Fletcher ; " it is just 
because I am busy that I wanted to see you. Are 
you engaged in anything ?" 

" Nothing in particular," replied Jack, hesitating. 
"I'd thought of going into some business." And 
then, after a pause : " It's no use to mince matters. 
You know everybody knows, I suppose that I 
got hit in that Henderson panic." 

" So did lots of others," replied Mr. Fletcher, 
cheerfully. " Yes, I know about it. And I'm not 
sure but it was a lucky thing for me." He spoke 
still more cheerfully, and Jack looked at him in- 
quiringly. 

"Are you open to an offer?" 





" I'm open to almost anything," Jack answered, 
with a puzzled look. 

"Well," and Mr. Fletcher settled back in his 
chair, " I can give you the situation in five minutes. 
I've been in this business over thirty years yes, 
over thirty -five years. It has grown, . little by 
little, until it's a pretty big business. I've a partner, a first-rate man he is in Europe now who 
attends to most of the buying. And the business 
keeps spreading out, and needs more care. I'm 
not as young as I was I shall be sixty-four in October and I can't work right along as I used to. 
I find that I come later and go away earlier. It 
isn't the work exactly, but the oversight, the details ; and the fact is that I want somebody near 
me whom I can trust, whether I'm here or whether 
I'm away. I've got good, honest, faithful clerks 
if there was one I did not trust, I wouldn't have 
him about. But do you know, Jack " it was the 
first time in the interview that he had used this 
name " there is something in blood." 

" Yes," Jack assented. 

" Well, I want a confidential clerk. That's it." 

"Me?" he asked. He was thinking rapidly 
while Mr. Fletcher had been speaking ; something 
like a revolution was taking place in his mind, and 
when he asked this, the suggestion took on a hu- 
morous aspect a humorous view of anything had 
not occurred to him in months. 



" You are just the man." 

" I can be confidential," Jack rejoined, with the 
old smile on his face that had been long a stranger 
to it, "but I don't know that I can be a clerk." 

Mr. Fletcher was good enough to laugh at this 
pleasantry. 

" That's all right. It isn't much of a position. 
We can make the salary twenty-five hundred dol- 
lars for a starter. Will you try it ?" 

Jack got up and went to the area window, and 
looked out a moment upon the boxes in the dim 
court. Then he came back and stood by Mr. 
Fletcher, and put his hand on the desk. 

"Yes, I'll try." 

" Good. When will you begin ?" 

"Now." 

" That's good. No time like now. Wait a bit, 
and I'll show you about the place before we go 
to lunch. You'll get hold of the ropes directly." 
This was Mr. Fletcher's veteran joke. 

At three o'clock Mr. Fletcher closed his desk. It 
was time to take his train. " To-morrow, then," he 
said, "we will begin in earnest." 

"What are the business hours here?" asked 
Jack. 

" Oh, I am usually here from ten to three, but the 
business hours are from nine till the business is 
done. By-the-way, why not run out with me and 
spend the night, and we can talk the thing over ?" 



There was no reason why he should not go, and 
he went. And that was the way John Corlear De- 
lancy was initiated in the string business in the old 
house of Fletcher & Co 



CHAPTER XXIII 

FEW battles are decisive, and perhaps least of all 
those that are won by a sudden charge or an acci- 
dent, and not as the result of long-maturing causes. 
Doubtless the direction of a character or a career 
is often turned by a sudden act of the will or a mo- 
mentary impotence of the will. But the battle 
is not over then, nor without long and arduous 
fighting, often a dreary, dragging struggle without 
the excitement of novelty. 

It was comparatively easy for Jack Delancy in 
Mr. Fletcher's office to face about suddenly and 
say yes to the proposal made him. There was on 
him the pressure of necessity, of his own better 
nature acting under a sense of his wife's approval ; 
and besides, there was a novelty that attracted him 
in trying something absolutely new to his habits. 

But it was one thing to begin, and another, with 
a man of his temperament, to continue. To have 
regular hours, to attend to the details of a traffic 
that was to the last degree prosaic, in short, to 
settle down to hard work, was a very different 
thing from the " business " about which Jack and 
his fellows at the club used to talk so much, and to 



fancy they were engaged in. When the news came 
to the Union that Delancy had gone into the house 
of Fletcher & Co. as a clerk, there was a general 
smile, and a languid curiosity expressed as to how 
long he would stick to it. 

In the first day or two Jack was sustained not 
only by the original impulse, but by a real instinct 
in learning about business ways and details that 
were new to him. To talk about the business and 
about the markets, to hear plans unfolded for ex- 
tension and for taking advantage of fluctuations in 
prices, was all very well ; but the drudgery of de- 
tails copying, comparing invoices, and settling 
into the routine of a clerk's life, even the life of a 
confidential clerk was contrary to the habits of 
his whole life. It was not to be expected that 
these habits would be overcome without a long 
struggle and many backslidings. 

