ladyship again.”
Dil stood shaking with terror, and some moments elapsed before she had
courage enough to open the door. She was in a degree prepared for a line
of defence.
Her mother seized her by the arm, and fairly shouted at her,—
“Who was the man who kim to see ye, ye young huzzy?”
“Man! When did a man come? I don’t remember,” assuming surprise.
“I’ll help yer mem’ry thin wid that;” and Dil’s ears rang with the sound
of the blow.
“There wasn’t any man since the wan that sang a long whiles ago. Mrs.
Murphy knew. She said he was a Moody an’ Sankey man, an’ that they do be
goin’ round singin’ and prayin’. An’ they all stood in the hall, the
women about. Mrs. Murphy kin tell you.”
Mrs. Quinn was rather nonplussed.
“What did he gev ye?”
“Nothin’,” sobbed Dil. “It was poor old Mrs. Bolan that had the money.”
“Not a cint?” She took Dil by the shoulder. “Dil Quinn, I don’ no
whether to belave yer; but if he’d gev ye any money, an’ ye’d bin such a
deceivin’ little thafe, I’d break ivery bone in yer mean little body.
Howld yer tongue! I ain’t done nothin’ but ast a civil question.”
Dil tried to stop sobbing. Her mother was in a hurry to get out, or
matters might have been worse.
“Stop yer snivelin’,” commanded her mother. “But if I hear of any more
men singin’ round, I’ll make ye wish yer never been born.”
The baby cried at this juncture, and Dil took it up. Mrs. Quinn went
out, and there would be peace until midnight.
Bess sat in the carriage, wild-eyed and ghostly, trembling in every
limb.
“It was a norful lie!” sobbed Dil. “But if I’d told her, she’d killed
me! He wouldn’t a done such a thing; but nobody’d darst to tackle him,
an’ rich people don’t beat an’ bang.”
“You didn’t tell no lie,” said Bess in a sudden strong voice. “He
never gev you no money. ’Twarn’t your money ’t all. Doncher know he put
it in the bag the first time when you was feared to take it, an’ he jes’
dropped it down here in the side of the kerrige. He never gev you a
penny. An’ it was my money.”
“O Bess! Ye’r such a bright, smart little thing! If you’d been well we’d
just kept ahead of mother all the time;” and now the sunshine slanted
over the brown quartz eyes that were swimming in tears. “I d’n’ know,
but I should have hated norful to tell a lie ’bout him. He seems—well, I
can’t somehow git the right words; but’s if you wanted to be all on the
square when he liked you. I don’t b’leve he’d so much mind yer snivyin’
out a nickel when there was a good many babies, an’ puttin’ it back when
there wasn’t, to save gettin’ yer head busted. But he wouldn’t tell no
lie. He kem when he said he would an’ brought Christiana, an’ he’ll come
in the spring, sure.”
“Yes, sure,” said Bess, with a faint smile. “But you better ast Mrs.
Murphy to keep the book a few days, for mammy might go snoopin’ about—”
“I just will; but I don’t b’leve she’d dast to hustle you round and find
the money. An’ now a week’s gone, an’ there’s only three left, en then
it’ll be anuther month, an’ O Bess, spring! spring!”
There was an exultant gladness in Dil’s voice.
VII—MARTYRED CHRISTIANA.
Dil was always so tired, she went to sleep at once from exhaustion. But
to-night every nerve seemed in a quiver. They had found some medicine
that soothed Bess and kept her from coughing, so she slept better than
in the summer. Dil tossed and tumbled. There had been given her a
magnificent endowment of physical strength, and the dull apathy of
poverty had kept her from a prodigal waste of nerve force. She was what
people often called stolid, but she had never been roused. How many poor
souls live and die with most of their energies dormant.
There had never been but one dream to Dil’s life, and that was Bess.
Here her imagination had some play. When they took their outings through
the more respectable streets for the cleanliness and quiet, or paused
awhile in the green and flowery squares, she sometimes “made believe”
that Bess was the lovely child in the elegant carriage, with wraps of
eider down and lace, and she the nurse-maid in white apron and cap who
trundled her along jauntily. Or else it was Bess, blue-eyed and
golden-haired, sitting in a real “grown-up” carriage with her pretty
mamma in silks and satins. The little nurse-maid was at home, putting
everything in order, and waiting for the lovely princess to come back
and tell her all she had seen. That and heaven had been the extent of
her romancing.
But to-night a curious, separate life stirred within her. A
consciousness of the great difference between such people as John
Travis, even the lady in the hall who had so disdainfully gathered up
her skirts and scattered a faint fragrance about. Why was such a great
difference made? Why should she and Bess be Honor Quinn’s children?
Would another mother be given them in heaven?
The mothers in the court seemed to love their little babies, yet
afterward they beat and banged them about. But the children in that
clean, beautiful world where there was no pain, the children in
heaven—ah! ah! She was not crying with human passion; it was the deep
anguish of the soul that cannot even find vent in tears, the throes of
an awful inward pain, that seldom, thank God, comes to the young, that
dense ignorance often keeps from the very poor.
“Took them in his arms.” That was what John Travis had said. She was so
tired to-night—not the fatigue of hard work altogether, but a great
aching that had no name. If she could be taken in some one’s arms!
Dilsey Quinn could not remember being held, though her mother had been
proud of her first-born, and fond too, in those days.
If Mrs. Quinn’s life had been a little more prosperous, if she had lived
in a cottage with a patch of ground, a cow and some chickens, and the
wholesome surroundings of the little village where she had reigned a
sort of rural queen, her children might have known love and tenderness.
But the babies had come fast. Her man had taken to drink. They were
crowded in among the poor and ignorant, where brawls and oaths, drinking
and cruelty, were daily food. Ah, what wonder one lapses into barbarism!
For the last half-dozen years she had slaved, and sometimes gone hungry.
She could have strangled little Dan when he came, for adding to her
burthens. How much of the peril of the soul depends upon the
surroundings!
And now Dil longed for the strong arms to be about her. Do you wonder
she had so little idea of a heavenly Father? The teaching of the Mission
School had been measured by the hard, bare materialism of poverty, quite
as upas-like as the materialism of philosophy. It had a rather dainty
aspect when John Travis dallied with it among his college compeers; but
it seems shocking when these hundreds of little children cannot even
formulate the idea of a God. And though Dil stretched out her hands with
an imploring moan, it was for some present and personal comfort.
Owny came creeping in softly, and just saved his skin, for to-night his
mother returned earlier than usual. She was growing stout, and walked
solidly. She seemed to be puttering about. Then she pushed Dil’s door
wide open, and there was barely room for her. The lamp stood on the
floor outside. Dil’s “chest of drawers” was covered with a curtain of
various pieces, and she had ornamented the top with treasures found amid
the cast-off Christmas and Easter cards that had fallen to her when more
favored children had tired of them. A cigar-box was covered with some
bits of silk, and held a few paltry “treasures.” Some fancy beads, a
tarnished bangle, a bit of ribbon, and so on, she found as she dumped
them in her apron and then thrust them back. Next she dragged the
articles out of the improvised “drawers,” and shook them one by one.
Nothing contraband fell out. There was nothing to reward her search, and
she glared at the child in the faded, shabby wagon.
Dil hardly breathed. She remembered in that half-frozen, fascinated sort
of way that horrible events will rise up, ghost-like, in times of
terror—that one night last winter, a woman farther up the court had
murdered her two little children, and then killed herself. She was cold
with an awful apprehension of evil. Even though she kept her eyes
closed, she could seem to see with that awesome, inward sight.
Mrs. Quinn thrust her hand under Bess’s pillow, under her bed, and the
poor child gave a broken, disturbed half-cry. Her efforts were
fruitless; but before Dil could give a sound to her horrible fear, she
had turned and was facing her. Then Dil sprang partly up, but the scream
curdled in her throat.
“Oh, ye naydent disturb yersilf this time o’ night. I was jist lookin’
in upon me two gals that the man was so distrissed about. Dil Quinn, av’
ye iver go to the bad like some gals, I’ll not lave a square inch of
skin on yer body, ner a whole bone inside. I’ll have no men singin’
round whiles I’m not here. You shut the door on ’em, jist. You’re a
humbly little runt, God knows, but thim kind is purty hard whin they
once set out. Ye mind, now! An’ that un—”
She shook her fist, and backed out of the room, for she could hardly
have turned around. Bess moaned, but she was not awake. Dil used all her
strength to suppress a scream, while a cold perspiration oozed from
every pore.
When she dared, after the lamp was out, she rose and changed Bess to a
more comfortable position. Ah, if the book had been there! The child
shuddered with vague apprehension.
All the rest of the night she lay fearfully awake, and the next morning
she looked ghastly. Even her mother was moved.
“You don’t look well, Dil,” she said. “What’s got yer?”
“My head aches.” Had she dreamed that horrible vision of the night?
“Take some queuann. Ye’ve no toime to be sick. Ye spind too much toime
over the brat there. An’ it’ll be a mercy whin it’s all over. I cuddent
stan’ it mesilf much longer.”
Patsey came that afternoon. Business was good, and he had a few dimes in
the bank. He and three other boys boarded with an old woman.
“But I’ve been thinkin’, Dil, that if we had you instid o’ the old
woman! She can’t make an Irish stew worth shucks, an’ yers wud jist make
a felly sing in his sleep. Whin I git some money ahead I’ll jist have
youse come. Yer mammy’ll not mind if ye take Bess.”
Dil smiled. It was lovely of Patsey, but they would be going to heaven
then. She wondered why they didn’t care to take Patsey along when they
were so fond of him. He wouldn’t want to go—how she knew that she could
not tell, either.
He brought Bess a splendid orange and some candy and an illustrated
paper. The pictures were very entertaining.
“Bess is lookin’ slim,” he said. “She wants to go out in the fresh air.”
“But it’s so cold, an’ it just goes over me an’ all through, as if I
hadn’t half enough clo’es on. No, I must stay in an’ keep good an’ warm,
an’ get well by spring.”
“That’s the talk,” and Patsey smiled.
When he was gone and they were all alone, they looked at each other
curiously.
“’Twould be nice to go an’ live with Patsey if we wasn’t goin’ to
heaven,” Bess said. “I do be so afeard of mammy sometimes.”
“An’ she rummiged last night, Bess, on the shelves an’ in your bed; an’
if it hadn’t been for yer wit she’d a found the book. I was so glad it
was in Misses Murphy’s, an’ I guess I’ll keep it up there every night;
an’ if she finds out an’ asts, I’ll say an’ old trac’ woman left it. She
won’t mind an old woman. I sh’d hate to tell such a lie, but when we see
him we’ll tell him how it was. ’Cause we can’t be murdered.”
“We just won’t tell any one ’bout goin’ to heaven, either. Only Patsey,
just at the last.”
Mrs. Quinn dropped her suspicions in a few days. The weather was growing
colder, and she needed a little more to keep up the internal fires. She
managed to pay her rent promptly, and so had a good reputation with the
agent. Through Dil’s good management the boys fared very well as to
food, but Bess did not eat enough to keep a bird alive.
“But the medicine helps,” she said. “It’s such splendid medicine! so
much better’n that ’Spensary stuff.”
The morphine in it soothed and quieted. Sometimes Bess slept all the
morning, and now she was seldom wakeful at night. Dil thought that an
improvement. If only she was not so frightfully thin!
The days sped on with little variation. At Thanksgiving they had two
turkeys, and several of Mrs. Quinn’s cronies came in to dinner. They
feasted all the rest of the week.
And now another month was gone. Only four remained.
Alas! with all their care and caution, and the ready sympathy of Mrs.
Murphy, there came a swift, crushing martyrdom to their much-loved
Christiana, almost to Dil. She had hurried her supper dishes out of the
way, tidied up the room, and, as her mother had gone to Mrs. MacBride’s,
Dan in bed with a cold, and Owen roaming the streets, Dil brought out
her book for an hour’s reading. They had come to Giant Grim and his
blustering threats to the Pilgrims, who would have fared badly indeed
but for Mr. Greatheart. Dil had to stop to spell many of the words;
often it took the united efforts of both brains to decide the meaning of
a sentence.
The door opened, and Mrs. Quinn walked in. There had been a rather
heated talk at Mrs. MacBride’s.
Dil paused suddenly, with a swift, startled breath.
“What’s that ye got?” She came nearer and glared over Dil. “An’ who gev
ye that?”
“A—a woman left it!” exclaimed Dil tremulously. “An old woman with
trac’s—”
She pulled Dil up to her feet, and the book fell to the floor.
“An’ it wasn’t that—that singin’ man?”
She shook her so that Dil could scarcely make a sound, and for once she
hardly minded.
“No man has been here,” declared Bess.
“Shet yer head!” roared her mother. “Pick up that buke. What’s it all
about?”
“’Bout a woman they told me of in the Mission School. She took her
children an’—was goin’ to heaven—”
“Well, you’ve got business here, an’ ye’ll be tindin’ to it, it’s my
opinion. Ye ain’t got time for no sich foolin’. Yer wurruk will kape ye
busy. Ye best not be settin’ up fer a schollard. The radin’ an’ the
stuff’ll turn your head upside down. Take that!”
Mrs. Quinn gave her a resounding blow with it. Before Dil could fairly
see, she had marched over to the stove.
“O mother! mother!” shrieked Dil as she caught her arm.
Mrs. Quinn gave her a push that sent her staggering across the room. She
raised the stove-lid, and crowded in the book.
“Ye’ll not waste yer time over any sich nonsense. Git off to bed at
wanst, er I’ll make ye see stars! Take that measlin’ brat along wid ye.”
Dil turned the wagon into the small chamber without another word. Bess
caught her hands, but neither dared speak.
“Where’s Owny?” the mother demanded.
“I don’t know,” almost sobbed Dil.
“I’ll not hev him runnin’ the streets at night! A foine sister yes are,
to be sure, readin’ novils, an’ lettin’ yer pore brother go to
destruction! If ye don’t kape him in at night I’ll know the reason why.
I’ll lie here a bit, an’ I’ll give him a norful larrupin’ when he
comes.”
Mrs. Quinn threw herself down on the old lounge, and in five minutes was
snoring as usual. Dil prepared Bess for bed, and rubbed her with a soft
mitten she had made. The poor thing trembled so that it was a positive
shudder. Then, as the snoring grew louder, they dared to give vent to
their own overcharged hearts in tears.
“An’ to think poor Christiana’s burnt up, an’ we can’t tell how she got
out of the giant’s hands! Dil, there’s jes’ such truly people, an’
mammy’s one of ’em! Jes’ think if she’d been like Christiana, an’ took
us by the hand, an’ was leadin’ us to heaven, an’ pushin’ the kerrige
whiles to spell you!”
Then they cried again at the thought, so utterly delightful, and the
present reality so hard to bear.
“But we know she did get to heaven,” resumed Bess; “only we can’t tell
how many things there were. Dil, it isn’t reel easy to go to heaven,
after all. But when we have him, you see he’ll do the fightin’, an’
he’ll pick out the way, an’ we’ll go right straight along. We won’t stop
in them queer places an’ get all tangled up; for we’re in such a norful
hurry to get there, an’ have my hurted legs made well.”
Dil kissed her convulsively, and cried over the shining golden head.
Besides the book, there had been an irreparable loss to her, that Bess
had not yet realized. She had tucked her precious picture inside the
cover of the book. For now she felt it must be kept out of her mother’s
sight, as she could not explain how she came by it, and escape with her
life. That, too, had perished in the flames, the next precious thing to
Bess.
The poor children unlocked arms presently, and Dil crept into bed sad
and forlorn. She heard Owen stealing in, but her mother never stirred.
Mrs. Quinn sat taking her cup of coffee the next morning when Owen made
his appearance. She tried to recall what had happened last night, and
whether she had thrashed him or not.
“A purty time of night it was for ye to come home,” she began.
“Oh, come off!” said Owen. “What yer givin’ us? I was home an’ abed
afore ye kem in, an’ ye was full of the shindy at Mis’ MacBride’s. Don’t
ye remimber how ye wint on?”
Owen dodged the cuff. His mother was so nonplussed that for once she was
helplessly silent. But as she went out of the door she turned and said,—
“I’ll see yer in to-night, young feller.”
Dil’s face was in such a maze of surprise that she looked at Owen
without being able to utter a word for some moments, while he laughed
heartily.
“How could ye, Owny?”
“How cud I?” Owen laughed again. “Well,” with a swagger, “it’s all in
knowin’ how to dale with the female sect. Was she thunderin’ mad last
night? Did she go fer me?”
“But about Mrs. MacBride? How could ye know what happened?”
“Why, ye see I was passin’ jes’ after the shindy. That Mrs. Whalen who
made the row whin she beat ye so, ye know, was harang’in’; an’ then I
heard there’d been a great row, an’ mammy’d come home mad as a hornet.
So, sez I, I’ll wait until she’s asleep before I trust myself. An’ its
jes’ havin’ yer wits about ye. She was too drunk to remember what she
did. Did she break yer head agen? If she did I’ll go an’ complain of
her. Whin yer tired a-havin’ her round, we’ll git her sent up to th’
Island. An’ now get me some grub.”
“She only struck me wunst. But she burnt up something,” and Dil began to
sob. “But, Owny, ye were not in, an’ it was a—a—”
“Git off de stump wid yer high notions! I’d save me head wid any kind o’
lie. You gals don’t know nothin’ but to run right agin de stun wall. Ye
see, it’s a bit o’ circumwention, an’ ye jes’ use yer brains a bit to
save yer skull er yer back. But dat old gin-mill ain’t goin’ to boss me
much longer. Ye’ll see, an’ be moighty s’prised. An’ here’s a nickel,
Dil.”
Owen ate his breakfast, and then taking out a cigarette, lighted it, and
swaggered off.
Dil woke Dan, and gave him his meal, as two babies were asleep and the
other sat on the floor munching a crust.
Bess slept late. Poor Dil went about her work in a strange maze. Owny
slipped out of a great many things, and told lies about them, and this
morning he had been very “cute.” Dil sighed. She could not have done it.
She would have blundered and betrayed herself. And yet she had told a
lie about the book. It had not saved the book, but perhaps it had saved
her and Bess from something more terrible.
It was a sad day for both of them. The babies were cross. One had a bad
cold and a croupy sound in his voice. There was not even a glint of
sunshine at noon now; the high houses kept it out of the court. But the
day wore to an end. Mrs. Quinn did not go out at all in the evening.
Owen was very jaunty, and pretended to study.
Mrs. Quinn’s reformation lasted two or three days. She had “taken her
oath she would niver step fut inside o’ Mrs. MacBride’s dure;” but Mrs.
MacBride had no notion of losing so good a customer. To be sure, Mrs.
Quinn was getting rather quarrelsome and overbearing, but she was good
company for the most part.
Winter had fairly set in with December. There was much talk of dull
times, and the babies fell off after Monday and Tuesday. Owen and his
mother seemed continually on the warpath. He was a big, stout boy of his
age; and, when he thought it was safe, played hookey, put in coal, ran
errands, sold papers, and did whatever his hands found to do with all
his might, even to snivyin’ on the corner grocer. Dan was pretty shrewd
and sharp, though not so daring, but could swear and smoke cigar ends
with the worst of them.
There was an occasional religious visitor in the court besides the
sisters and the priests. But Dil never mentioned them to her mother now.
Besides, she did not want to leave Bess for even an hour or two at the
Mission School; she hated to spend a moment away from her. Since the
loss of the book and the picture they clung closer to each other. There
was only one anticipation now, waiting for spring and John Travis.
And as other things failed, their faith seemed to centre about this.
They lived on the hope of heaven with the fervor of saints who had known
and loved the Lord, and were counting all the appointed days, as if the
glories had already been revealed, and they were walking by faith.
VIII—BESS
Everybody began to talk about Christmas. Last year Dil had wheeled Bess
around to see the shop windows.
“If it would come reel nice and warm, an’ there wasn’t any babies! But
it’s awful cold when you just have a winder open to sweep, an’ I
couldn’t stan’ bein’ out in it.”
“No, you couldn’t,” and Dil sighed.
Bess was ethereal now. Her large, bright eyes, her golden hair, and the
pink that came in her cheeks every afternoon, gave a suggestion of the
picture. Then she was so curiously, so nervously alive, that, afraid as
Dil was of every change, she blindly hoped some of these things were
indications of recovery.
But Dil’s poor head ached a good deal now, and she had restless nights
when it seemed as if she would burn up. As she listened to Bess’s
beautiful thoughts and strange visions, she felt discouraged with her
own stupidness. She was so physically worn out that her brain was inert.
“I wisht I knew what Christmas was all about,” sighed Bess. “An’ Santa
Claus! Mammy says there ain’t no such thing, an’ he couldn’t come down a
chimbly. But he gives a norful lot of things to some folks. An’, Dil, we
used to hang up our stockings. What’s it for, anyway?”
Dil gave a long sigh, and the wrinkles of perplexity deepened and
strayed over her short nose.
“Johnny Dike’s goin’ to see the cradle in the manger on Christmas Eve.
An’ he’s goin’ to take a present, some money he’s been savin’ up. What
makes Christ get born agen? ’Tain’t the Lord Jesus, though; for he’s a
big man now, if he can carry children in his arms.”
“We might ast Johnny or Misses Murphy,” suggested Dil.
“They’re Catholics. An’ there’s such curis things, with people tellin’
you diff’rent. I don’t see how he can be born every Christmas. I b’lieve
I like Santa Claus best. You don’t have to give him nothin’ when you
ain’t got even a penny. O Dil,” pausing to rest a moment, “don’t you
wisht he was here! He’d know all about it. Rich folks have chances,
an’ get to know everything. He’s a long way off. When mammy was clever
t’other night, I ast her ’bout comin’ crost the oshin, ’Lantic Oshin,
’tis; an’ she said you sailed an’ sailed two whole weeks. An’ if he
don’t start ’till April, there’ll be two weeks more. I keep countin’
thim up.”
Dil had been warming some broth.
“I wisht you’d take a little of this,” she said. “The ’Spensary doctor
said you must have it. An’ you ain’t eat nothin’ but the pear an’ the
piece of norange.”
“They was so good and juicy. My throat’s hot, an’ kinder dry an’ sore.
Things don’t taste good.”
“I wisht I could get some more of that nice medicine. The ’Spensary
stuff ain’t no good. I might ast Patsey to lend me some money; but how’d
I ever get any to pay him back?”
They looked at each other in wonderment. Then the child’s feverish eyes
sparkled.
“O Dil, I know he’d help us pay it back, for mammy was so cross to the
lady he sent that she won’t come no more. An’ ’twouldn’t been no use to
give mammy the money. O Dil, we’ve had ten whole dollars. Wasn’t it
lovely? An’ I wisht the time would spin round an’ round, faster’n ever.
I get so tired waitin’. Seems sometimes ’s if I jes’ couldn’t draw
another breath.”
“Oh, you must! you must!” cried Dil in affright. “For when people stop
breathin’, they die.”
“An’ I wanter live, so’s we can get started for heaven. I’ll be better
when it’s all nice an’ warm out o’ doors, an’ sunshiny. I’d jes’ like to
live in sunshine. You see, when the babies cry, it makes me feel all
roughened up like. An’ I’m that feared o’ mammy when she an’ Owny hev
scrimmiges. There’s a lump comes in my throat ’n’ chokes me. But I’m
gonter live. Don’t you know how las’ winter I was so poor an’ measlin’?
An’ I crawled out in the spring. Owny was readin’ in his lesson ’bout
some things doin’ that way;” and Bess gave a pitiful ghost of a laugh.
“Won’t you lay me down?” she asked presently. “My poor back’s so tired.”
“You must eat some broth first.”
She did not want it, and the effort she made to please Dil was heroic.
She often asked to be laid down now. When the babies cried, it seemed as
if knives were being thrust into her head. She had so many queer
fancies, but she tried not to tell the bad ones to Dil. One moment she
seemed out of doors, with the cold rasping her skin everywhere, going
down her back like a stream of ice-water. Then she was scorched with
heat, her skin crisping up and cracking. When she was pillowed up, it
seemed as if she would fall to pieces; when she was laid down, the poor
bones ached.
And in that land of “pure delight” there was no pain, no sickness, no
chilling winds! And perhaps the babies didn’t cry,—maybe there were no
babies. They mightn’t be big enough to go, and they would be scared at
the giants.
Monday night began badly. A neighbor came in and made a complaint about
Owen, and threatened to have him arrested. He had broken a pane of glass
and kicked her dog. Mrs. Quinn was tired with a big wash; and this made
her furious, though she went at the woman in no gentle terms.
Owen had not been so much to blame. The miserable little cur had snapped
at him, and he had kicked it away. Then, as it ran yelping along, it was
too good a mark for a boy to miss. He shied a piece of oyster shell;
but, as bad luck would have it, he missed the dog, and the missile
bounded down to a basement window.
“I’ll put that lad in the ’form school this blissid week! A pore woman
can’t take care o’ sich a lot o’ brats, an’ they fuller ’n an egg of
diviltry. I’ll jist see—”
She began to hunt around for the end of a stout trunk-strap. Dil
trembled in every limb. If Owny would only stay away! But he didn’t. He
came up the stairs whistling gayly; for he had earned a quarter, and he
was saving money to have a regular Christmas blow-out.
His mother fell on him. There was a tremendous battle. Owen kicked and
scratched and swore, and his mother’s language was not over choice. He
managed to wriggle away, and reached the door, crying out, as he sprang
down the stairs, that he’d “niver darken the dure agin, if he lived a
hundred years;” and added to it an imprecation that made Dil turn faint
and cold.
Bess went into a hysteric.
“Drat the young un! Shet yer head, er you’ll get some, ye bag o’ bones!
Ye shud a ben in yer grave long ago. Take her in t’other room, Dil. I
can’t bide the sight uv her!”
Dil uttered not a word, though the room spun round. She poured her
mother a cup of tea, and had a dish of nicely browned sausage, and some
baked potatoes. Mrs. Quinn ate, and threatened dire things about Owny.
Then she put on her shawl, throwing it over her head, which meant an
hour or two or three at Mrs. MacBride’s, though she started to look for
Owen.
Dil brought the wagon back, and nursed and soothed Bess.
“I wouldn’t ever come back, if I was Owny,” she said in her spasmodic
tone, for the nervous fright was still strong upon her. “An’ if I had
two good legs, we’d run away too. Dil, I think she’d jes’ be glad to
have me die.”
Dilsey Quinn shuddered. Just a few months longer—
Mrs. Murphy came in to borrow a “bit o’ tay,” and to learn what the
rumpus was about. Dan told the story, putting Owny in the best light,
and declaring valiantly that “Owny wasn’t no chump.”
“Misses Murphy,” said Dil, as soon as she could get a chance, “what is
it ’bout Christmas? an’ what makes Christ be born ivery year?”
“Shure, dear, I do be havin’ so many worries that I disremember. What
wid th’ babby bein’ sick, an’ pore ol’ Mis’ Bolan not sittin’ up a
minnit, an’ bein’ queer like in her mind, an’ me hardly airnin’ enough
to keep body an’ sowl togither, I hardly mind ’bout the blissed day. But
I do be thinkin’ he isn’t born reely, for ye see the blissid Virgin’s
his mother, an’ she’s in hivin wid th’ saints. I do be a bad hand at
tellin’ things straight; but I niver had any larnin’, fer I wint in a
mill whin I was turned o’ six years. An’ whin ye can’t rade, it’s hard
gettin’ to know much. But I’ll ast the praist. Ah, dear,” with a furtive
glance at Dil, “If ye’d only let me ast him to come—”
“Oh, no, no!” protested Dil. “Mother’d kill us; an’ she don’t b’leve in
priests an’ such. You know how she went on ’bout the man who came an’
sang.”
“Ah, yis, dear; it wouldn’t do.” And she shook her head, her eyes still
fixed sorrowfully on Bess. “But I have me beads, an’ I go to confission
wanst a month, an’ that’ll be Friday now, an’ I’ll ast Father Maginn an’
tell ye all. Oh, you poor childer! An’ it’ll be a sad Christmas fer many
a wan, I’m thinkin’. There’s poor Mis’ Bolan—”
Mrs. Murphy paused. Was Dil so blind? She could not suggest Mrs. Bolan’s
death when the great shadow seemed so near them.
“Dear,” she added, with sympathetic softness, “if ye should be wantin’
any one suddint like, run up fer me.”
“Yer very kind, Misses Murphy. I sometimes wisht there would be nights a
whole week long, I’m so tired.”
Owen did not come home that night nor the next. Dil devoutly hoped he
would not come at all. She had a secret feeling that he would go to
Patsey, and she comforted Bess with it. The house was so much quieter,
and Dan was better alone.
Even in Barker’s Court there were people who believed in Christmas,
though some of them had ideas quite as vague as Dilsey Quinn’s. But
there was a stir in the very air, and penny trumpets began to abound.
Still, there were many who had no time for Christmas anticipations, who
were driven to do their six days’ work in five, who stitched from
morning to midnight, who did not even have time to gossip with a
neighbor.
Poor Bess! she could not eat, and she was so restless. The pears and the
oranges were gone, and, saddest of all, their bank was empty. If Patsey
would only come!
Dil took Bess up and laid her down, gave her sips of water, caressed her
tenderly, bathed her head with cologne, and even that was running low.
The babies were left on the floor to cry, if Dil caught the faintest
sound that was like desire. Bess often just held up her spindling arms
and, drawing Dil down, kissed her with eager fervor.
She was so glad to have night come and see the last baby taken away.
Mrs. Quinn was working at a grand house where they were to have a
Christmas feast. She was to go again to-morrow; and, as it was late, she
did not go out, but just tumbled into bed, with not an anxiety on her
mind.
Dil sat and crooned to her little sister, who seemed a part of her very
life. When Mrs. Quinn snored, it was safe to indulge in a little
freedom. And though Dil was so worn and weary, she ministered as only
love can. Everybody had been so used to Bess’s weakness, and they
thought that the end would be a great relief. But Dil never dreamed of
the end they saw so plainly.
It was past midnight when Dil laid her down for the last time.
“O Dil, I feel so nice an’ easy all of a suddent,” she cried, with an
eager joyousness that thrilled the heavy heart. “Nothin’ pains me. I’m
quite sure I’ll be better to-morrow. An’ when Patsey comes, we’ll just
ast him to help us get that nice medicine. He’s so good to us, Dil; ’n’
if he had lots of money he’d give us anything.”
“He just would,” said Dil. “An’ if Owny’s gone to him, he’ll be all
right.”
The thought comforted her immeasurably.
“O Dil, dear,” murmured the plaintive voice, “do you remember the big
bowl of wild roses, an’ how sweet they were, an’ how pritty, with their
soft pink leaves an’ baby buds? I can almost smell them. It’s so sweet
all around. Dil, are there any wild roses?”
“No, dear,” said the gentle, tired voice.
“Well—then I’m dreamin’; an’ they’re so lovely. Just like he told us,
you know; ’bout that place where they growed. Oh, you dear, sweet,
lovely Dil! I want to see the picture he put you in. You were pritty, I
know; folks always are pritty in pictures. An’ we’ll ast him to let us
be taken over agen, for when we get on the way to heaven we’ll both be
so full of joy. An’ he’ll help us clear to the pallis.”
She stopped to breathe. It came so quick and short now, hardly going
below her chest.
“Sit here an’ hold my two hands. Dil, dear, I’m as much trouble as the
babies; but I most know I’ll be better to-morrow. And when I go fast
asleep, you run right to bed, an’ it’ll be all right. I feel so light
an’ lovely, ’most ’s if I was a wild rose—a soft, pink, satiny wild
rose.”
There was a little pleasant gurgle that did duty for a laugh. Dil kissed
her and crooned sleepily. As she held the hands, the fever seemed to go
out of them. The little golden head had such a restful poise. The breath
came slowly, easily.
Dil kissed her with the long, yearning, passionate kisses that take
one’s whole soul, that leave some souls bankrupt indeed. All her own
being was in a strange quiver. Oh, did it mean that Bess would be better
to-morrow? She believed it in some strange, undefined way, and was at
peace.
Perhaps she drowsed. She started, feeling stiff and chilly. Bess slept
tranquilly. There was no pain to make her moan unconsciously. Why, it
was almost a foretaste of that blessed land.
Dil wrapped herself in an old shawl and dropped down on her little cot.
In all the glad wide world there was no one to come in and comfort her,
and so God sent his angel—kindly sleep. The night breath that he
breathed over her had the fragrance of wild roses.
The alarm clock roused her. It was dark now when her day began. Bess was
quiet; and she drew the blanket more closely around her, for the morning
felt bitterly cold. She stirred the fire, made her mother’s coffee, and
broiled a bit of steak. The windows were all ice, which seldom happened.
“It’s enough to kill one to go out in the cold,” declared Mrs. Quinn.
“I’ll not be home airly the night, for I promised cook to stay a bit an’
gev her a hand wid th’ fancy fixin’s. Foine doin’s they’re to be havin’.
An’ if that thafe of the world Owny comes in, ye be soft spoken jist as
if nothin’ had happened. I’ll settle wid him. I’ll gev him some
Christmas!”
With that she was off. Then Dan came for his breakfast.
“I do miss Owny so,” he half whimpered. “Ther’ ain’t a boy in the street
who could think up such roarin’ fun.”
“Whisht!” Dil said softly. “Bess is asleep, an’ I won’t have her
worrited. She had a bad time yist’day with the babies. I do hope there
won’t be no such crowd to-day. Seven babies an’ that was thirty-five
cents. Mother might be given Bess an’ me some Christmas.”
Dan laughed at that.
Dil sighed. She drank a little coffee, but she could not eat. Two sleepy
babies came. She washed the dishes, and spread up her mother’s bed,
putting the babies in there. It was dark, with no ventilation but the
door, and kept warm easily.
Another and another baby, one crying for its mother. When Dil had hushed
it she took a vague glance at Bess, whose fair head lay there so
restful. The frost was melting off the window-panes, and she put out the
lamp. With a baby in her arms she sat down and rocked.
A curious sense of something, not quite anxiety, came over her
presently. She went to Bess and raised the blanket, peering at the small
white face that seemed almost to light the obscurity of the room. The
eyes were half-closed. The lips were parted with a smile, and the little
white teeth just showed. One hand seemed to hold up the chin.
Dil stooped and kissed her. O God! what was it? What was it? For Bess
was marble cold.
“O Bess, Bess!” she cried in mortal terror. “Wake up, my darlin’! Wake
up an’ get warm.”
As she seized the hand, a startling change came over the child. The chin
dropped. The pretty smile was gone. The eyes looked out with awesome
fixedness. Her heart stood still as if she were frozen.
Then, moved by horror, she flew up-stairs, her breath almost strangling
her.
“O Misses Murphy!” she shrieked, “there’s somethin’ strange come over
Bess. She’s never been like this—an’ cold—”
“Yis, dear. I’ll jist look at poor Mis’ Bolan. She do be goin’ very
fast. All night she was that res’les’ talkin’ of the beautiful hymn the
man sung, an’ beggin’ him to sing it agen; an’ then hearin’ angels an’
talkin’ ’bout green fields an’ flowers, an’ where there do be no night.
They do be mostly so at the last, rememberin’ beautiful things.”
An awful terror clutched Dil at the heart, as she recalled Bess’s talk
of the wild roses. So cruel a fear smote her that her very tongue seemed
paralyzed.
“You don’t mean”—she cried wildly.
Mrs. Murphy’s thoughts were running on Mrs. Bolan.
“She’ll not last the day through. Pore dear, there’s not much pleasure
to the’r ould lives. But she did be so longin’ to have that man come
agen—”
She had taken Dil’s hand, and they were going down-stairs. A baby had
rolled off the lounge and bumped his head, and was screaming. But Dil
hardly heard him. They went through to the tiny room.
“Ah, pore dear! Pore lamb! She’s gone, an’ she’s outen all her mis’ry.
She’ll niver suffer any more. An’ she’s safe—”
Mrs. Murphy paused, not quite sure she could give that comfort. There
was purgatory, and the poor thing had never been christened. She was
extremely ignorant of her own church doctrine; but she felt the bitter
injustice of condemning this poor soul to everlasting torment for her
mother’s neglect.
“No, Misses Murphy,” cried Dil in the accent of utter disbelief, “she
can’t be—Oh, hurry an’ do somethin’ for her. She’s jes fainted! Le’s get
her warm agen. Bring her out to the fire, an’ I’ll run for the ’Spensary
doctor. Oh, no, she isn’t—she wouldn’t—’cause we was goin’ to heaven
together in the spring, an’ she couldn’t leave me without a word—don’t
you see?”
Oh, the wild, imploring eyes that pierced Mrs. Murphy through! the
heart-breaking eyes that entreated vainly, refusing the one unalterable
fiat!
“Ah, dear, they’sen don’t hev any ch’ice. O Dil, Dilly Quinn!” and she
clasped the child to her heart. “You mustn’t take on so, dear! Shure,
God knows best. Mebbe he’s better’n folks an’ the things they say. She
won’t suffer any more, pore dear. I’ve seen it for weeks, an’ knowed
what must come.”
Dil gave a few long, dry, terrible sobs; then she lay helpless in Mrs.
Murphy’s arms. The kind soul placed her on the cot, sprinkled water on
her face, chafed her hands; but Dil lay as one dead.
Then she ran down-stairs.
“O Mrs. Minch! have ye iver a bit of camphire? I used the last o’ mine
this mornin’ for the pore old craythur. Bessy Quinn’s gone at last, an’
is cold, an’ Dil’s that overcome she’s gone in an norful faint. Come up
a bit, do. An’ that haythen woman’ll not care more’n if it was a kitten.
She do be the hardest!”
Mrs. Minch laid down her work, looked up the “camphire,” and plied her
caller with inquiries.
All their efforts were unavailing, though Dil opened her eyes once, and
at intervals a shudder ran through her frame.
“Yes, the poor dear’s dead and cold, and it’s God’s mercy, Mrs. Murphy.
How she’s lived so long’s a mystery; but Dil’s been more watchful than
most any mother. She was the sweetest and patientest, and loved her
beyond all things. Mrs. Quinn hasn’t any human feeling in her, and
there’s plenty like her, more’s the shame. When you bring helpless
little ones in the world, it’s not their fault. And when they are
bruised and banged and made helpless, as that poor little one, a
mother’s heart should have pitied her.”
“Oh, dear, it’s the rum that takes out all the nateral feelin’. An’ one
’ud think she’d had enough of it in her husband, not to be goin’ the
same way. An’ pore Dil carin’ for them babies an’ doin’ a woman’s work,
a-stuntin’ her an’ makin’ her old afore her time. An’, if ye’ll stay,
I’ll go fer th’ ’Spensary doctor. Sorra a Christmas it’ll be in the
court. Mr. Sheehan is dyin’, an’ Mrs. Neefus’s baby went yes’tday, an’
the ould woman—but they do be dyin’ all the time, some wan.”
Mrs. Minch bent over Dil with pitying eyes. She had seen better times,
and lived in a nicer neighborhood than Barker’s Court. But poverty had
driven her down step by step. She had her old deaf father to care for,
and a son growing up; and the three rooms, such as they were, proved
cheaper than anything she had seen, though she was on the lookout all
the time. She had not made much intimacy with her neighbors, except that
through her pity for Mrs. Bolan she had come to know good-hearted Mrs.
Murphy quite well, and she had been interested in Dilsey and Bess. But
most of the people in the court were afraid of Mrs. Quinn’s tongue.
“The poor thing!” she sighed. “She is a little old woman already. She
has never had leave to grow as children should. Oh, why are they brought
into the world to suffer?”
She had once thought herself full of trust and love to God, but so many
questions had come to the surface with her years of hard experience. Why
this little Bess should have suffered four years—but both parents had
given her a good constitution, that in some positions in life might have
made her a useful factor instead of mere waste material.
Then she took up one of the crying babies. Another was clamoring loudly,
“Bed, bed,” and opening wide his mouth to show her how empty it was.
“Oh, how ever did she look after them all?” she cried in despair as Mrs.
Murphy entered.
“She had a rare way with childers, that she had.” Mrs. Murphy cut a
chunk from the loaf of bread and gave the hungry baby. “An’ the docthor
will be in as soon as he kin, but there’s a sight o’ folks waitin’. I
have heerd say a grane Christmas made fat graveyards, but this is cold
enough to be black. An’ how’s the poor gurl?”
“She seems—asleep somehow, and you can notice her breathin’.”
“I’ll look after Mrs. Bolan, an’ kem down agen,” said Mrs. Murphy,
disappearing.
IX—DILSEY
Mrs. Bolan was faintly breathing, as she had been since midnight, but so
cold that she might easily be thought dead. Mrs. Murphy’s baby was
asleep.
The babies were crowing and talking in their fashion, unmindful of
sorrow.
“The pore dear,” said Mrs. Murphy tenderly, viewing Bess; “I’m thinkin’
we better care for her afore Dil wakes up. An’ she never havin’ had a
bit o’ christenin’, along o’ Mrs. Quinn not belevin’ nothin’. I’ve heard
her talk a way that wud set yer blood a-chill.”
“The Lord took the little ones in his arms and said, ‘Forbid them not,’
and I guess he won’t mind the christenin’. And this child’s been patient
and cheerful beyond common. I think she’s had a lot of Christian grace
unbeknownst. She’d look up with her sweet smile that almost broke your
heart, when Dil would be takin’ her out. And how she stood everything—”
“Mrs. Quinn’s been not so savage as she used. ’Tain’t nat’rel for
mothers to be so cruel. But ’twas last March, if I don’t disremember—you
were not here then, Mrs. Minch—she made such a nawful ’ruction that the
neighbors called in de cop, and nothin’ but her beggin’ off an’ sayin’
the children wud starve, an’ promisin’ on her bended knees, which she
never uses fer a bit o’ prayer, saved her. An’ she don’t bang ’em about
quite so bad since.”
“There was an awful time the other night.”
“Yes; that Owny’s too smart, an’ mebbe he would er banged her in a fair
fight; but he cut stick, an’ hasn’t shown hide ner hair sence.”
Mrs. Murphy leaned over Dil, and uttered a benison in her ignorant
Christianity.
“’Pears like they jist oughten to go togither. She looks like a ghost,
poor thing.” Then she lifted Bess from the shabby wagon that had been
her home so long, and brought her out on the lounge.
“Will ye look at them poor legs?” she said with a cry. “They do make yer
heart bleed. She was a smart little thing, goin’ to school, whin it
happened. The father oughter been hung fer it; fer it was he that did
it, murderin’ by inches. An’ he beat Mrs. Quinn to a jelly. Wudden’t ye
think now she’d had enough o’ rum, not to be goin’ the same road?”
Mrs. Minch sighed.
“It’s stuck everywhere, right in a body’s way, Mrs. Murphy. They’re
taxin’ people for prisons and ’sylums and homes for orphans, when they
haven’t the sense to shut up the saloons and gin-mills. Look at that
Mrs. MacBride, smilin’ and making it pleasant for a hard-workin’ woman,
havin’ a nice warm room for gossipin’ and such, and bein’ clever enough
to make them run up a score, and get her money once a week. There’s no
dancin’ nor carousin’; but it takes in the decentish sort of women, and
turns ’em out as bad as the men. It’s the poor families that’s pinched
and starved and set crazy. When I think of my boy growin’ up in it—but
where’ll poor folks go? Saloons are all over. They fight for the chance
to ruin folks.”
“Thrue for ye, Mrs. Minch. An’ sorra indade it is whin ye do be sad that
they come into the world, an’ rej’ice whin they go out of it young.
They’re spared a dale o’ pain an’ care. Yet it do seem wrong some way.
Childers should be a blessin’ an’ comfort to yer ould age. Things is
changed in the world. One gits that confused with thinkin’—”
They had prepared some water, but the poor little body was clean and
sweet. It was heart-breaking to see it.
Mrs. Murphy went into the bedroom for some clothing.
“Will ye look at the sort o’ bury Dil made out o’ boxes an’ covered.
She’s that handy an’ full o’ wit. An’ them clo’es is like snow, and all
mended nate. I don’t see how she cud do it wid all the babies. An’ I do
be thinkin’ it was Dil’s love that kep’ the little wan alive so long. It
was like medicine; her warm arms an’ cheery smile, her patience an’
thinkin’ what wud pleasure Bess. If there don’t be a straight road to
hiven fer thim both—an’ purgatory ought to be saved fer the ither kind.
Now, it don’t look a bit sinsible that little lamb shud suffer whin
she’s suffered so much a’ready! Sometimes I most think the church has
mistook whin they save the rumsellers an’ the great wicked men wid their
money, cause they kin pay fer prayers.”
“She’s in heaven, if there is any heaven.” Sometimes Mrs. Minch doubted.
“An’ oh, Mrs. Minch, if there wasn’t any hiven to rest us at last, how
cud we live through the cruel world?”
Such a pathetic cry as it was!
The doctor came. He looked at Bess, and asked a few questions, made a
note or two in his book, cutting short Mrs. Murphy’s explanations.
“Yes, yes; I’ve seen the child. She’s been strung on fine steel wires,
or they’d given way long ago. And the old woman? Strange how they go on
living when they had a hundred times better be dead, and the people of
some account go out like the snuff of a candle! Where’s the girl?”
glancing around.
“In there.” Mrs. Murphy nodded towards the room.
Dil lay motionless, but for the faint breathing. The doctor listened
with his ear down on her heart, felt her pulse, and seemed in a study.
“Let her sleep as long as she can. She has worn herself out. She used to
wheel this one round,” nodding. “Have in some fresh air; the room is
stifling. How any one lives—”
Dil roused without opening her eyes.
“Was it you, Bess? Oh, is it morning?”
“No, no; go to sleep again. The night’s just begun. She’s dead tired
out,” to the women. “Let the mother come round when she can, and get rid
of these young ones before the girl wakes. If there’s anything else
wanted, send round. Are these people very poor?”
“Mrs. Quinn goes out washing. And the babies are taken in by the day. I
don’t know”—doubtfully.
“The mother will settle that. And the old lady—the city must bury her, I
suppose?”
“’Deed an’ it must. She’s had nothin’ but her pinshin, an’ has no folk.”
They found Bess’s nice white frock pinned up in a cloth, beautifully
ironed and laid away in anticipation of the journey—the very journey she
had taken so unknowingly. They put it on, and smoothed down the poor
little legs with tender hands. Then they laid her on her mother’s bed
until Dil should rouse.
Mrs. Minch brought up her sewing, while Mrs. Murphy went to her own room
to look after Mrs. Bolan. Mrs. Carr, another neighbor, came in and
helped with the babies, and wondered how Dilly Quinn had ever been able
to do as much work as a hearty, grown woman, and she not bigger than a
ten-year-old child!
It was three o’clock when Dil roused. Mrs. Minch sat quietly at her
sewing. The wagon was pushed clear up to the window, empty.
“O Mrs. Minch, what has happened?” She sprang out, wild-eyed and
quivering.
“My dear,” Mrs. Minch took her in her arms, “Bess is better off. She is
in heaven with the good God, who will be tenderer of her than any human
friend. She will have no more pain. She will be well and strong, and a
lovely angel. You would not wish her back—”
“Yes, I do, I do. We was goin’ to heaven together in the spring; we had
it all planned. And Bess wouldn’t ’a’ gone without me—oh, I know she
wouldn’t. Where is she? What have you done with her?”
“She is in there.”
Dil flew to her mother’s room. The ironing-board lay on the bed, and a
strange, still shape imperfectly outlined under the sheet.
“She looks like an angel,” said Mrs. Minch.
Dilsey Quinn stared, bereft of her senses for some moments. Slowly the
incidents of the morning came over her—of last night, when Bess seemed
so improved, so hopeful. She had seen dead people. Death was no stranger
in Barker’s Court. There were “wakes,” and quiet, hurried burials. They
died and were taken away, that was all. With a curious, obstinate
unreason she knew Bess had died like all the rest; yet she had been so
sure Bess could not die. But she had not gone to heaven. The breath
had gone out of her body, but a breath couldn’t go to heaven. She had
left her body here; the poor hurted legs the Lord Jesus would have
mended. They could never be mended now, for they would be put in the
ground.
She stood so still that Mrs. Minch raised the sheet. The pinched look
was going out of the face, as it often does after death. The eyes were
closed; the long bronze lashes were beautiful; the thin lips had been
pressed rather tightly, as if in fear that they might betray their
secret. Yet it had a strange, serene beauty.
Dil did not cry or utter a sound. A great solitude enveloped her, as if
she were alone in a wide desert. She would never have any one to love or
caress; a thick darkness settled all about her, as if now she and Bess
were shut out of heaven forever. For what would the palace be, and the
angels innumerable, if Bess was not there?
She turned and went to her own room, began to pick up the things and
tidy it, spread the cot, shook the cushion of the poor dilapidated
wagon, carefully laid over it the blanket she had taken so much pains to
make.
“Mrs. Minch,” she said, “will you please bring Bess in here. Mammy
wouldn’t like her there. An’ I want her here—on my bed.”
Mrs. Minch looked at her in surprise. The face was rigid and
unresponsive, but there was an awesome, chilling sorrow in every line.
She reverently obeyed Dil’s behest.
“You are very good. You see, no one cared ’bout her but jes’ me an’
Patsey an’”—Ah, what would John Travis say? “An’ I want to keep her
here.”
“My dear, dear child—”
She put away the kindly hands, not ungently, but as if she could not
quite bear them—as if she was too sore for any human touch.
“How did I come to sleep so long?” she asked, in a strained, weary tone.
“You were so tired, poor dear. The doctor was in, and he said it was the
best thing for you. Mrs. Murphy has been in and out, and Mrs. Carr.”
“You took care of the babies?” Her lips quivered, and a few big tears
rolled down her cheeks. She could suffer, if the time to sorrow had not
yet come.
“Yes, dear. I don’t see how you get along so with them. And do you feel
better?”
The kind eyes studied her with concern.
“I’m well. I never do get sick.”
“Do you know where your mother is?”
“Not the street. No, ma’am. The people have a queer long name. An’
she’ll be late th’ night.”
Mrs. Murphy looked in the door.
“Ah, yer up, an’ ye do look better. Hev ye had anything to ate? Do ye
mind if I have Mrs. Minch come up-stairs just a bit?”
“Oh, no.” Dil did not notice the strain in the eyes, the awesomeness of
facing death.
“I cudden’t be alone. She’s roused, but she’s almost gone; fightin’ fer
life, one may say, at the very end,” she whispered as they went up the
stairs.
The babies were amusing themselves. Dil uncovered the face of her dead,
and looked long and earnestly, as if she knew there was a great mystery
she ought to solve. Ah, how sweet she was! Dil’s heart swelled with a
sense of triumph. She had always been so proud of Bess’s beauty.
But what was dead? It happened any time, and to anybody, to babies
mostly, and made you cold and still, useless. Then you were taken away
and buried. It was altogether different from going to heaven. What
strange power had taken Bess, and kept her from that blessed journey?
Why did the Lord Jesus let any one do it? John Travis couldn’t have been
so mistaken, and Christiana, and the children.
She was so glad they had put on her best dress, bought with John
Travis’s money. Ah, if they only had started that day and risked all!
Here was her blue sash and the blue bows for her sleeves. She hardly had
the courage to touch the beloved form.
How strangely cold the little hands were. She kissed them, and then she
no longer felt afraid. She raised the frail figure, and passed the
ribbon round the waist. Almost it seemed as if Bess breathed.
She brought the brush and comb, and curled the hair in her own flowing
fashion, picking out the pretty bang in rings, kissing the cold cheeks,
the shell-like eyelids. Why, surely Bess was only asleep. She must, she
would waken, to-morrow morning perhaps. A sudden buoyant hope
electrified her. She had her again, and the horrible thought of
separation vanished. Dil was too ignorant to formulate any theories, but
every pulse stirred within her own body.
Two of the mothers came for babies, but she uttered no word of what had
