must search it out and cure it. 

The defect turned out to be the one already 
spoken of — two stories in one, a farce and a tragedy. 
So I pulled out the farce and left the tragedy. This 
left the original team in, but only as mere names, 
not as characters. Their prominence was wholly 
gone; they were not even worth drowning; so I 
removed that detail. Also I took those twins apart 
and made two separate men of them. They had no 
occasion to have foreign names now, but it was too 
much trouble to remove them all through, so I left 
them christened as they were and made no explanation. 




THE TWINS AS THEY REALLY WERE 

THE conglomerate twins were brought on the 
stage in Chapter I of the original extravaganza. 
Aunt Patsy Cooper has received their letter applying 
for board and lodging, and Rowena, her daughter, 
insane with joy, is begging for a hearing of it: 

"Well, set down then, and be quiet a minute and 
don't fly around so; it fairly makes me tired to see 
you. It starts off so: 'Honored Madam — '" 

"I like that, ma, don't you? It shows they're 
high-bred." 

"Yes, I noticed that when I first read it. 'My 
brother and I have seen your advertisement, by 
chance, in a copy of your local journal — ' " 

"It's so beautiful and smooth, ma — don't you 
think so?" 

"Yes, seems so to me — and beg leave to take 
the room you offer. We are twenty-four years of 
age, and twins — '" 

"Twins! How sweet! I do hope they are hand- 
some, and I just know they are! Don't you hope 
they are, ma?" 

"Land, I ain't particular. 'We are Italians by 
birth—'" 

"It's so romantic! Just think — there's never 
been one in this town, and everybody will want to 
see them, and they're all ours! Think of that!" 


' — 'but have lived long in the various countries 
of Europe, and several years in the United States.'" 

"Oh, just think what wonders they've seen, ma! 
Won't it be good to hear them talk?" 

"I reckon so; yes, I reckon so. 'Our names 
are Luigi and Angelo Capello — '" 

"Beautiful, perfectly beautiful! Not like Jones 
and Robinson and those horrible names." 

"'You desire but one guest, but dear madam, if 
you will allow us to pay for two we will not discom- 
mode you. We will sleep together in the same bed. 
We have always been used to this, and prefer it.' 
And then he goes on to say they will be down 
Thursday." 

"And this is Tuesday — I don't know how I'm 
ever going to wait, ma! The time does drag along 
so, and I'm so dying to see them! Which of them 
do you reckon is the tallest, ma?" 

"How do you s'pose I can tell, child? Mostly 
they are the same size — twins are." 

"Well then, which do you reckon is the best 
looking?" 

"Goodness knows — I don't." 

"I think Angelo is; it's the prettiest name, any- 
way. Don't you think it's a sweet name, ma?" 

"Yes, it's well enough. I'd like both of them 
better if I knew the way to pronounce them — the 
Eyetalian way, I mean. The Missouri way and the 
Eyetalian way is different, I judge." 

"Maybe — yes. It's Luigi that writes the letter. 
What do you reckon is the reason Angelo didn't 
write it?" 


"Why, how can I tell? What's the difference 
who writes it, so long as it's done?" 

"Oh, I hope it wasn't because he is sick! You 
don't think he is sick, do you, ma?" 

"Sick your granny; what's to make him sick?" 

"Oh, there's never any telling. These foreigners 
with that kind of names are so delicate, and of course 
that kind of names are not suited to our climate — 
you wouldn't expect it." 

[And so-on and so-on, no end. The time drags along; Thurs- 
day comes: the boat arrives in a pouring storm toward mid- 
night.] 

At last there was a knock at the door and tne 
anxious family jumped to open it. Two negro men 
entered, each carrying a trunk, and proceeded up- 
stairs toward the guest-room. Then followed a 
stupefying apparition — a double-headed human crea- 
ture with four arms, one body, and a single pair 
of legs! It — or they, as you please — bowed with 
elaborate foreign formality, but the Coopers could 
not respond immediately; they were paralyzed. At 
this moment there came from the rear of the group 
a fervent ejaculation — "My Ian'!" — followed by 
a crash of crockery, and the slave-wench Nancy 
stood petrified and staring, with a tray of wrecked 
tea-things at her feet. The incident broke the spell, 
and brought the family to consciousness. The 
beautiful heads of the new-comer bowed again, and 
one of them said with easy grace and dignity : 

"I crave the honor, madam and miss, to introduce 
to you my brother, Count Luigi Capello," (the other 





 

head bowed) "and myself — Count Angelo; and at 
the same time offer sincere apologies for the lateness 
of our coming, which was unavoidable," and both 
heads bowed again. 

The poor old lady was in a whirl of amazement 
and confusion, but she managed to stammer out : 

"I'm sure I'm glad to make your acquaintance, 
sir — I mean, gentlemen. As for the delay, it is 
nothing, don't mention it. This is my daughter 
Rowena, sir — gentlemen. Please step into the par- 
lor and sit down and have a bite and sup; you are 
dreadful wet and must be uncomfortable — both of 
you, I mean." 

But to the old lady's relief they courteously ex- 
cused themselves, saying it would be wrong to keep 
the family out of their beds longer; then each head 
bowed in turn and uttered a friendly good night, and 
the singular figure moved away in the wake of 
Rowena's small brothers, who bore candles, and dis- 
appeared up the stairs. 

The widow tottered into the parlor and sank into 
a chair with a gasp, and Rowena followed, tongue- 
tied and dazed. The two sat silent in the throbbing 
summer heat unconscious of the million-voiced 
music of the mosquitoes, unconscious of the roaring 
gale, the lashing and thrashing of the rain along the 
windows and the roof, the white glare of the light- 
ning, the tumultuous booming and bellowing of the 
thunder; conscious of nothing but that prodigy, that 
uncanny apparition that had come and gone so sud- 
denly — that weird strange thing that was so soft- 
spoken and so gentle of manner and yet had shaken 





 

them up like an earthquake with the shock of its 
gruesome aspect. At last a cold little shudder 
quivered along down the widow's meager frame and 
she said in a weak voice: 

"Ugh, it was awful — just the mere look of that 
phillipene!" 

Rowena did not answer. Her faculties were still 
caked, she had not yet found her voice. Presently 
the widow said, a little resentfully: 

"Always been used to sleeping together — in fact, 
prefer it. And I was thinking it was to accommo- 
date me. I thought it was very good of them, 
whereas a person situated as that young man is — " 

' Ma, you oughtn't to begin by getting up a preju- 
dice against him. I'm sure he is good-hearted and 
means well. Both of his faces show it." 

"I'm not so certain about that. The one on the 
left — I mean the one on it's left — hasn't near as 
good a face, in my opinion, as its brother." 

"That's Luigi." 

"Yes, Luigi; anyway it's the dark-skinned one; 
the one that was west of his brother when they stood 
in the door. Up to all kinds of mischief and diso- 
bedience when he was a boy, I'll be bound. I lay 
his mother had trouble to lay her hand on him when 
she wanted him. But the one on the right is as good 
as gold, I can see that." 

"That's Angelo." 

"Yes, Angelo, I reckon, though I can't tell t'other 
from which by their names, yet awhile. But it's the 
right-hand one — the blond one. He has such kind blue 
eyes, and curly copper hair and fresh complexion — " 





 

"And such a noble face! — oh, it is a noble face, 
ma, just royal, you may say! And beautiful — 
deary me, how beautiful! But both are that; the 
dark one's as beautiful as a picture. There's no 
such wonderful faces and handsome heads in this 
town — none that even begin. And such hands — 
especially Angelo's — so shapely and — " 

"Stuff, how could you tell which they belonged 
to? — they had gloves on." 

"Why, didn't I see them take off their hats?" 

"That don't signify. They might have taken off 
each other's hats. Nobody could tell. There was 
just a wormy squirming of arms in the air — seemed 
to be a couple of dozen of them, all writhing at 
once, and it just made me dizzy to see them go." 

"Why, ma, I hadn't any difficulty. There's two 
arms on each shoulder — " 

"There, now. One arm on each shoulder belongs 
to each of the creatures, don't it? For a person to 
have two arms on one shoulder wouldn't do him any 
good, would it? Of course not. Each has an arm 
on each shoulder. Now then, you tell me which of 
them belongs to which, if you can. They don't 
know, themselves — they just work whichever arm 
comes handy. Of course they do; especially if they 
are in a hurry and can't stop to think which belongs 
to which." 

The mother seemed to have the rights of the argu- 
ment, so the daughter abandoned the struggle. 
Presently the widow rose with a yawn and said: 

"Poor thing, I hope it won't catch cold; it was 
powerful wet, just drenched, you may say. I hope 





 

it has left its boots outside, so they can be dried." 
Then she gave a little start, and looked perplexed. 
"Now I remember I heard one of them ask Joe to 
call him at half after seven — I think it was the one 
on the left — no, it was the one to the east of the 
other one — but I didn't hear the other one say any- 
thing. I wonder if he wants to be called too. Do 
you reckon it's too late to ask?" 

"Why, ma, it's not necessary. Calling one is 
calling both. If one gets up, the other's got to." 

"Sho, of course; I never thought of that. Well, 
come along, maybe we can get some sleep, but I 
don't know, I'm so shook up with what we've been 
through." 

The stranger had made an impression on the boys, 
too. They had a word of talk as they were getting 
to bed. Henry, the gentle, the humane, said: 

"I feel ever so sorry for it, don't you, Joe?" 

But Joe was a boy of this world, active, enter- 
prising, and had a theatrical side to him: 

"Sorry? Why, how you talk! It can't stir a 
step without attracting attention. It's just grand!" 

Henry said, reproachfully: 

"Instead of pitying it, Joe, you talk as if — " 

"Talk as if what? I know one thing mighty 
certain: if you can fix me so I can eat for two and 
only have to stub toes for one, I ain't going to fool 
away no such chance just for sentiment." 

The twins were wet and tired, and they proceeded 
to undress without any preliminary remarks. The 
abundance of sleeve made the partnership coat hard 
to get off, for it was like skinning a tarantula ; but it 





 

came at last, after much tugging and perspiring. 
The mutual vest followed. Then the brothers stood 
up before the glass, and each took off his own cravat 
and collar. The collars were of the standing kind, 
and came high up under the ears, like the sides of a 
wheelbarrow, as required by the fashion of the day. 
The cravats were as broad as a bank-bill, with 
fringed ends which stood far out to right and left 
like the wings of a dragon-fly, and this also was 
strictly in accordance with the fashion of the time. 
Each cravat, as to color, was in perfect taste, so far 
as its owner's complexion was concerned — a deli- 
cate pink, in the case of the blond brother, a violent 
scarlet in the case of the brunette — but as a combi- 
nation they broke all the laws of taste known to 
civilization. Nothing more fiendish and irrecon- 
cilable than those shrieking and blaspheming colors 
could have been contrived. The wet boots gave no 
end of trouble — to Luigi. When they were off at 
last, Angelo said, with bitterness: 

"I wish you wouldn't wear such tight boots, they 
hurt my feet." 

Luigi answered with indifference: 

"My friend, when I am in command of our body, 
I choose my apparel according to my own con- 
venience, as I have remarked more than several 
times already. When you are in command, I beg 
you will do as you please." 

Angelo was hurt, and the tears came into his 
eyes. There was gentle reproach in his voice, but 
not anger, when he replied: 

"Luigi, I often consult your wishes, but you 


never consult mine. When I am in command I 
treat you as a guest; I try to make you feel at 
home; when you are in command you treat me as 
an intruder, you make me feel unwelcome. It 
embarrasses me cruelly in company, for I can see 
that people notice it and comment on it." 

"Oh, damn the people," responded the brother 
languidly, and with the air of one who is tired of the 
subject. 

A slight shudder shook the frame of Angelo, but 
he said nothing and the conversation ceased. Each 
buttoned his own share of the nightshirt in silence; 
then Luigi, with Paine's Age of Reason in his hand, 
sat down in one chair and put his feet in another 
and lit his pipe, while Angelo took his Whole Duty 
of Man, and both began to read. Angelo presently 
began to cough; his coughing increased and became 
mixed with gaspings for breath, and he was finally 
obliged to make an appeal to his brother's humanity : 

"Luigi, if you would only smoke a little milder 
tobacco, I am sure I could learn not to mind it in 
time, but this is so strong, and the pipe is so rank 
that—" 

"Angelo, I wouldn't be such a baby! I have 
learned to smoke in a week, and the trouble is 
already over with me; if you would try, you could 
learn too, and then you would stop spoiling my 
comfort with your everlasting complaints." 

"Ah, brother, that is a strong word — everlasting 
— and isn't quite fair. I only complain when I 
suffocate; you know I don't complain when we are 
in the open air." 





 

"Well, anyway, you could learn to smoke your- 
self." 

"But my principles, Luigi, you forget my prin- 
ciples. You would not have me do a thing which I 
regard as a sin?" 

"Oh, bosh!" 

The conversation ceased again, for Angelo was 
sick and discouraged and strangling; but after some 
time he closed his book and asked Luigi to sing 
"From Greenland's Icy Mountains" with him, but 
he would not, and when he tried to sing by himself 
Luigi did his best to drown his plaintive tenor with 
a rude and rollicking song delivered in a thundering 
bass. 

After the singing there was silence, and neither 
brother was happy. Before blowing the light out 
Luigi swallowed half a tumbler of whisky, and 
Angelo, whose sensitive organization could not 
endure intoxicants of any kind, took a pill to keep 
it from giving him the headache. 



CHAPTER II 

MA COOPER GETS ALL MIXED TJP 

THE family sat in the breakfast-room waiting for 
the twins to come down. The widow was 
quiet, the daughter was alive with happy excitement. 
She said: 

"Ah, they're a boon, ma, just a boon! don't you 
think so?" 

"Laws, I hope so, I don't know." 

"Why, ma, yes you do. They're so fine and 
handsome, and high-bred and polite, so every way 
superior to our gawks here in this village; why, 
they'll make life different from what it was — so 
humdrum and commonplace, you know — oh, you 
may be sure they're full of accomplishments, and 
knowledge of the world, and all that, that will be an 
immense advantage to society here. Don't you 
think so, ma?" 

"Mercy on me, how should I know, and I've 
hardly set eyes on them yet." After a pause she 
added, "They made considerable noise after they 
went up." 

"Noise? Why. ma, they were singing! And it 
was beautiful, too." 

"Oh, it was well enough, but too mixed-up, 
seemed to me." 

"Now, ma, honor bright, did you ever hear 





 

'Greenland's Icy Mountains' sung sweeter — now 
did you?" 

"If it had been sung by itself, it would have been 
uncommon sweet, I don't deny it; but what they 
wanted to mix it up with 'Old Bob Ridley' for, I 
can't make out. Why, they don't go together, at all. 
They are not of the same nature. 'Bob Ridley' is 
a common rackety slam-bang secular song, one of 
the rippingest and rantingest and noisiest there is. 
I am no judge of music, and I don't claim it, but in 
my opinion nobody can make those two songs go 
together right." 

"Why, ma, I thought—" 

"It don't make any difference what you thought, 
it can't be done. They tried it, and to my mind it 
was a failure. I never heard such a crazy uproar; 
seemed to me, sometimes, the roof would come off; 
and as for the cats — well, I've lived a many a year, 
and seen cats aggravated in more ways than one, 
but I've never seen cats take on the way they took 
on last night." 

" Well, I don't think that that goes for anything, 
ma, because it is the nature of cats that any sound 
that is unusual — " 

"Unusual! You may well call it so. Now if 
they are going to sing duets every night, I do hope 
they will both sing the same tune at the same time, 
for in my opinion a duet that is made up of two 
different tunes is a mistake; especially when the 
tunes ain't any kin to one another, that way." 

"But, ma, I think it must be a foreign custom; 
and it must be right too; and the best way, because 





 

they have had every opportunity to know what is 
right, and it don't stand to reason that with their 
education they would do anything but what the 
highest musical authorities have sanctioned. You 
can't help but admit that, ma." 

The argument was formidably strong; the old 
lady could not find any way around it; so, after 
thinking it over awhile she gave in with a sigh of 
discontent, and admitted that the daughter's posi- 
tion was probably correct. Being vanquished, she 
had no mind to continue the topic at that disad- 
vantage, and was about to seek a change when a 
change came of itself. A footstep was heard on the 
stairs, and she said: 

"There — he's coming!" 

"They, ma — you ought to say they — it's nearer 
right." 

The new lodger, rather shoutingly dressed but 
looking superbly handsome, stepped with courtly 
carriage into the trim little breakfast-room and put 
out all his cordial arms at once, like one of those 
pocket-knives with a multiplicity of blades, and 
shook hands with the whole family simultaneously. 
He was so easy and pleasant and hearty that all 
embarrassment presently thawed away and disap- 
peared, and a cheery feeling of friendliness and 
comradeship took its place. He — or preferably 
they — were asked to occupy the seat of honor at 
the foot of the table. They consented with thanks, 
and carved the beefsteak with one set of their hands 
while they distributed it at the same time with the 
other set. 





 

'Will you have coffee, gentlemen, or tea?" 
'Coffee for Luigi, if you please, madam, tea for 



me. 



"Cream and sugar?" 

"For me, yes, madam; Luigi takes his coffee 
black. Our natures differ a good deal from each 
other, and our tastes also." 

The first time the negro girl Nancy appeared in 
the door and saw the two heads turned in opposite 
directions and both talking at once, then saw the 
commingling arms feed potatoes into one mouth 
and coffee into the other at the same time, she had 
to pause and pull herself out of a faintness that 
came over her; but after that she held her grip and 
was able to wait on the table with fair courage. 

Conversation fell naturally into the customary 
grooves. It was a little jerky, at first, because 
none of the family could get smoothly through a 
sentence without a wabble in it here and a break 
there, caused by some new surprise in the way of 
attitude or gesture on the part of the twins. The 
weather suffered the most. The weather was all 
finished up and disposed of, as a subject, before the 
simple Missourians had gotten sufficiently wonted 
to the spectacle of one body feeding two heads to 
feel composed and reconciled in the presence of so 
bizarre a miracle. And even after everybody's 
mind became tranquilized there was still one slight 
distraction left: the hand that picked up a biscuit 
carried it to the wrong head, as often as any other 
way, and the wrong mouth devoured it. This was a 
puzzling thing, and marred the talk a little. It 





 

bothered the widow to such a degree that she 
presently dropped out of the conversation without 
knowing it, and fell to watching and guessing and 
talking to herself: 

"Now that hand is going to take that coffee to 
— no, it's gone to the other mouth; I can't under- 
stand it ; and now, here is the dark-complected hand 
with a potato on its fork, I'll see what goes with it 
— there, the light-complected head's got it, as sure 
as I live!" Finally Rowena said: 

"Ma, what is the matter with you? Are you 
dreaming about something?" 

The old lady came to herself and blushed; then 
she explained with the first random thing that came 
into her mind: "I saw Mr. Angelo take up Mr. 
Luigi's coffee, and I thought maybe he — sha'n't I 
give you a cup, Mr. Angelo?" 

"Oh no, madam, I am very much obliged, but I 
never drink coffee, much as I would like to. You 
did see me take up Luigi's cup, it is true, but if you 
noticed, I didn't carry it to my mouth, but to his." 

"Y-es, I thought you did. Did you mean to?" 

"How?" 

The widow was a little embarrassed again. She 
said: 

"I don't know but what I'm foolish, and you 
mustn't mind; but you see, he got the coffee I was 
expecting to see you drink, and you got a potato 
that I thought he was going to get. So I thought it 
might be a mistake all around, and everybody get- 
ting what wasn't intended for him." 

Both twins laughed and Luigi said: 

"Dear madam, there wasn't any mistake. We 
are always helping each other that way. It is a 
great economy for us both; it saves time and labor. 
We have a system of signs which nobody can notice 
or understand but ourselves. If I am using both 
my hands and want some coffee, I make the sign and 
Angelo furnishes it to me; and you saw that when 
he needed a potato I delivered it." 

"How convenient!" 

"Yes, and often of the extremest value. Take 
the Mississippi boats, for instance. They are always 
overcrowded. There is table-room for only half of 
the passengers, therefore they have to set a second 
table for the second half. The stewards rush both 
parties, they give them no time to eat a satisfying 
meal, both divisions leave the table hungry. It isn't 
so with us. Angelo books himself for the one table, 
I book myself for the other. Neither of us eats any- 
thing at the other's table, but just simply works — 
works. Thus, you see there are four hands to feed 
Angelo, and the same four to feed me. Each of us 
eats two meals." 

The old lady was dazed with admiration, and kept 
saying, "It is perfectly wonderful, perfectly wonder- 
ful!" and the boy Joe licked his chops enviously, 
but said nothing — at least aloud. 

"Yes," continued Luigi, "our construction may 
have its disadvantages — in fact, has — but it also 
has its compensations of one sort and another. 
Take travel, for instance. Travel is enormously ex- 
pensive, in all countries; we have been obliged to 
do a vast deal of it — come, Angelo, don't put any 





 

more sugar in your tea, I'm just over one indiges- 
tion and don't want another right away — been 
obliged to do a deal of it, as I was saying. Well, 
we always travel as one person, since we occupy but 
one seat; so we save half the fare." 

"How romantic!" interjected Rowena, with effu- 
sion. 

"Yes, my dear young lady, and how practical 
too, and economical. In Europe, beds in the hotels 
are not charged with the board, but separately — 
another saving, for we stood to our rights and 
paid for the one bed only. The landlords often 
insisted that as both of us occupied the bed we 
ought—" 

"No, they didn't," said Angelo. "They did it 
only twice, and in both cases it was a double bed — 
a rare thing in Europe — and the double bed gave 
thern some excuse. Be fair to the landlords; twice 
doesn't constitute 'often.'" 

"Well, that depends — that depends. I knew a 
man who fell down a well twice. He said he didn't 
mind the first time, but he thought the second time 
was once too often. Have I misused that word, 
Mrs. Cooper?" 

"To tell the truth, I was afraid you had, but it 
seems to look, now, like you hadn't." She stopped, 
and was evidently struggling with the difficult prob- 
lem a moment, then she added in the tone of one 
who is convinced without being converted, ' ' It seems 
so, but I can't somehow tell why." 

Rowena thought Luigi's retort was wonderfully 
quick and bright, and she remarked to herself with 
satisfaction that there wasn't any young native of 
Dawson's Landing that could have risen to the 
occasion like that. Luigi detected the applause in 
her face, and expressed his pleasure and his thanks 
with his eyes; and so eloquently withal, that the 
girl was proud and pleased, and hung out the deli- 
cate sign of it on her cheeks. 

Luigi went on, with animation: 

"Both of us get a bath for one ticket, theater 
seat for one ticket, pew-rent is on the same basis, 
but at peep-shows we pay double." 

"We have much to be thankful for," said Angelo, 
impressively, with a reverent light in his eye and 
a reminiscent tone in his voice, "we have been 
greatly blessed. As a rule, what one of us has 
lacked, the other, by the bounty of Providence, has 
been able to supply. My brother is hardy, I am 
not; he is very masculine, assertive, aggressive; I 
am much less so. I am subject to illness, he is 
never ill. I cannot abide medicines, and cannot 
take them, but he has no prejudice against them, 
and—" 

"Why, goodness gracious," interrupted the widow, 
"when you are sick, does he take the medicine for 
you?" 

"Always, madam." 

"Why, I never heard such a thing in my life! I 
think it's beautiful of you." 

"Oh, madam, it's nothing, don't mention it, it's 
really nothing at all." 

"But I say it's beautiful, and I stick to it!" cried 
the widow, with a speaking moisture in her eye. 





 

"A well brother to take the medicine for his poor 
sick brother — I wash I had such a son," and she 
glanced reproachfully at her boys. "I declare I'll 
never rest till I've shook you by the hand," and she 
scrambled out of her chair in a fever of generous 
enthusiasm, and made for the twins, blind with her 
tears, and began to shake. The boy Joe corrected 
her: 

"You're shaking the wrong one, ma." 

This flurried her, but she made a swift change and 
went on shaking. 

"Got the wrong one again, ma," said the boy. 

"Oh, shut up, can't you!" said the widow, em- 
barrassed and irritated. "Give me all your hands, 
I want to shake them all ; for I know you are both 
just as good as you can be." 

It was a victorious thought, a master-stroke of 
diplomacy, though that never occurred to her and 
she cared nothing for diplomacy. She shook the 
four hands in turn cordially, and went back to her 
place in a state of high and fine exultation that 
made her look young and handsome. 

"Indeed I owe everything to Luigi," said Angelo, 
affectionately. "But for him I could not have sur- 
vived our boyhood days, when we were friendless 
and poor — ah, so poor! We lived from hand to 
mouth — lived on the coarse fare of unwilling charity, 
and for weeks and weeks together not a morsel of 
food passed my lips, for its character revolted me 
and I could not eat it. But for Luigi I should have 
died. He ate for us both." 

"How noble!" sighed Rowena. 



'Do you hear that?" said the widow, severely, 
to her boys. "Let it be an example to you — I 
mean you, Joe." 

Joe gave his head a barely perceptible disparaging 
toss and said: "Et for both. It ain't anything — 
I'd 'a' done it." 

"Hush, if you haven't got any better manners 
than that. You don't see the point at all. It 
wasn't good food." 

"I don't care — it was food, and I'd 'a' et it if it 
was rotten." 

"Shame! Such language! Can't you under- 
stand? They were starving — actually starving — 
and he ate for both, and — " 

"Shucks! you gimme a chance and I'll — " 

"There, now — close your head! and don't you 
open it again till you're asked." 

[Angelo goes on and tells how his parents the Count and 
Countess had to fly from Florence for political reasons, and died 
poor in Berlin bereft of their great property by confiscation; 
and how he and Luigi had to travel with a freak-show during 
two years and suffer semi-starvation.] 

"That hateful black-bread; but I seldom ate 
anything during that time; that was poor Luigi's 
affair—" 

"I'll never Mister him again!" cried the widow, 
with strong emotion, "he's Luigi to me, from this 
out!" 

"Thank you a thousand times, madam, a thousand 
times! though in truth I don't deserve it." 

"Ah, Luigi is always the fortunate one when 
honors are showering," said Angelo, plaintively; 
"now what have I done, Mrs. Cooper, that you 
leave me out? Come, you must strain a point in 
my favor." 

"Call you Angelo? Why, certainly I will; what 
are you thinking of! In the case of twins, why — " 

"But, ma, you're breaking up the story — do let 
him go on." 

"You keep still, Rowena Cooper, and he can go 
on all the better, I reckon. One interruption don't 
hurt, it's two that makes the trouble." 

"But you've added one, now, and that is three." 

"Rowena! I will not allow you to talk back at 
me when you have got nothing rational to say." 



CHAPTER in 

ANGELO IS BLUE 

[After breakfast the whole village crowded in, and there was a 
