


HEMAN'S MA.


It was half-past nine of a radiant winter's night, and the Widder
Poll's tooth still ached, though she was chewing cloves, and had
applied a cracker poultice to her cheek. She was walking back and forth
through the great low-studded kitchen, where uncouth shadows lurked and
brooded, still showing themselves ready to leap aloft with any
slightest motion of the flames that lived behind the old black
fire-dogs. At every trip across the room, she stopped to look from the
window into the silver paradise without, and at every glance she
groaned, as if groaning were a duty. The kitchen was unlighted save by
the fire and one guttering candle; but even through such inadequate
illumination the Widder Poll was a figure calculated to stir rich
merriment in a satirical mind. Her contour was rather square than
oblong, and she was very heavy. In fact, she had begun to announce that
her ankles wouldn't bear her much longer, and she should "see the day
when she'd have to set by, from mornin' to night, like old Anrutty
Green that had the dropsy so many years afore she was laid away." Her
face, also, was cut upon the broadest pattern in common use, and her
small, dull eyes and closely shut mouth gave token of that firmness
which, save in ourselves, we call obstinacy. To-night, however, her
features were devoid of even their wonted dignity, compressed, as they
had been, by the bandage encircling her face. She looked like a
caricature of her unprepossessing self. On one of her uneasy journeys
to the window, she caught the sound of sleigh-bells; and staying only
to assure herself of their familiar ring, she hastily closed the
shutter, and, going back to the fireplace, sank into a chair there, and
huddled over the blaze. The sleigh drove slowly into the yard, and
after the necessary delay of unharnessing, a man pushed open the side
door, and entered the kitchen. He, too, was short and square of build,
though he had no superfluous flesh. His ankles would doubtless continue
to bear him for many a year to come. His face was but slightly
accented; he had very thin eyebrows, light hair, and only a shaggy
fringe of whisker beneath the chin. This was Heman Blaisdell, the
Widder Poll's brother-in-law, for whom she had persistently kept house
ever since the death of his wife, four years ago. He came in without
speaking, and after shaking himself out of his great-coat, sat silently
down in his armchair by the fire. The Widder Poll held both hands to
her face, and groaned again. At length, curiosity overcame her, and,
quite against her judgment, she spoke. She was always resolving that
she would never again take the initiative; but every time her
resolution went down before the certainty that if she did not talk,
there would be no conversation at all,--for Heman had a staying power
that was positively amazing.

"Well?" she began, interrogatively.

Heman only stirred slightly in his chair.

"Well! ain't you goin' to tell me what went on at the meetin'?"

Her quarry answered patiently, yet with a certain dogged resistance of
her,--

"I dunno's there's anything to tell."

"How'd it go off?"

"'Bout as usual."

"Did you speak?"

"No."

"Lead in prayer?"

"No."

"Wa'n't you asked?"

"No."

"Well, my soul! Was Roxy Cole there?"

"Yes."

"Did you fetch her home?"

"No, I didn't!" Some mild exasperation animated his tone at last. The
Widder detected it, and occupied herself with her tooth.

"My soul an' body! I wonder if it's goin' to grumble all night long!"
she exclaimed, bending lower over the blaze. "I've tried everything but
a roasted raisin, an' I b'lieve I shall come to that."

Heman rose, and opened the clock on the mantel; he drew forth the key
from under the pendulum, and slowly wound up the time-worn machinery.
In another instant, he would be on his way to bed; the Widder knew she
must waste no time in hurt silence, if she meant to find out anything.
She began hastily,--

"Did they say anything about the church fair?"

"They ain't goin' to have it."

"Not have it! Well, how be they goin' to git the shinglin' paid for?"

"They've got up the idee of an Old Folks' Concert."

"Singin'?"

"Singin' an' playin'."

"Who's goin' to play?"

"Brad Freeman an' Jont Marshall agreed to play fust an' second fiddle."
Heman paused a moment, and straightened himself with an air of
conscious pride; then he added,--

"They've asked me to play the bass-viol."

The Widder had no special objections to this arrangement, but it did
strike her as an innovation; and when she had no other reason for
disapproval, she still believed in it on general principles. So
altogether effective a weapon should never rust from infrequent use!

"Well!" she announced. "I never heard of such carryin's-on,--never!"

Heman was lighting a small kerosene lamp. The little circle of light
seemed even brilliant in the dusky room; it affected him with a relief
so sudden and manifest as to rouse also a temporary irritation at
having endured the previous gloom even for a moment.

"'Ain't you got no oil in the house?" he exclaimed, testily. "I wish
you'd light up, evenin's, an' not set here by one taller candle!"

He had ventured on this remonstrance before, the only one he permitted
himself against his housekeeper's ways, and at the instant of making
it, he realized its futility.

"The gre't lamp's all full," said the Widder, warming her apron and
pressing it to her poulticed face. "You can light it, if you've got the
heart to. That was poor Mary's lamp, an' hard as I've tried, I never
could bring myself to put a match to that wick. How many evenin's I've
seen her set by it, rockin' back'ards an' for'ards,--an' her needle
goin' in an' out! She was a worker, if ever there was one, poor
creatur'! At it all the time, jes' like a silk-worm."

Heman was perfectly familiar with this explanation; from long
repetition, he had it quite by heart. Possibly that was why he did not
wait for its conclusion, but tramped stolidly away to his bedroom,
where he had begun to kick off his shoes by the time his sister-in-law
reached a period.

The Widder had a fresh poultice waiting by the fire. She applied it to
her cheek, did up her face in an old flannel petticoat, and then,
having covered the fire, toiled up to bed. It was a wearisome journey,
for she carried a heavy soapstone which showed a tendency to conflict
with the candle, and she found it necessary to hold together most of
her garments; these she had "loosened a mite by the fire," according to
custom on cold nights, after Heman had left her the field.

Next day, Heman went away into the woods chopping, and carried his
dinner of doughnuts and cheese, with a chunk of bean-porridge frozen
into a ball, to be thawed out by his noontime fire. He returned much
earlier than usual, and the Widder was at the window awaiting him. The
swelling in her cheek had somewhat subsided; and the bandage, no longer
distended by a poultice beneath, seemed, in comparison, a species of
holiday device. She was very impatient. She watched Heman, as he went
first to the barn; and even opened the back door a crack to listen for
the rattling of chains, the signal of feeding or watering.

"What's he want to do that now for?" she muttered, closing the door
again, as the cold struck her cheek. "He'll have to feed 'em ag'in,
come night!"

But at last he came, and, according to his silent wont, crossed the
kitchen to the sink, to wash his hands. He was an unobservant man, and
it did not occur to him that the Widder had on her Tycoon rep, the gown
she kept "for nice." Indeed, he was so unused to looking at her that he
might well have forgotten her outward appearance. He was only sure of
her size; he knew she cut off a good deal of light. One sign, however,
he did recognize; she was very cheerful, with a hollow good-nature
which had its meaning.

"I got your shavin'-water all ready," she began. "Don't you burn ye
when ye turn it out."

It had once been said of the Widder Poll that if she could hold her
tongue, the devil himself couldn't get ahead of her. But fortune had
not gifted her with such endurance, and she always spoke too often and
too soon.

"Brad Freeman's been up here," she continued, eying Heman, as she drew
out the supper-table and put up the leaves. "I dunno's I ever knew
anybody so took up as he is with that concert, an' goin' to the vestry
to sing to-night, an' all. He said he'd call here an' ride 'long o'
you, an' I told him there'd be plenty o' room, for you'd take the
pung."

If Heman felt any surprise at her knowledge of his purpose, he did not
betray it. He poured out his shaving-water, and looked about him for an
old newspaper.

"I ain't goin' in the pung," he answered, without glancing at her. "The
shoe's most off'n one o' the runners now."

The Widder Poll set a pie on the table with an emphasis unconsciously
embodying her sense that now, indeed, had come the time for remedies.

"I dunno what you can take," she remarked, with that same foreboding
liveliness. "Three on a seat, an' your bass-viol, too!"

Heman was lathering his cheeks before the mirror, where a sinuous Venus
and a too-corpulent Cupid disported themselves in a green landscape
above the glass. "There ain't goin' to be three," he said, patiently.
"T'others are goin' by themselves."

The Widder took up her stand at a well-chosen angle, and looked at him
in silence. He paid no attention to her, and it was she who, of
necessity, broke into speech.

"Well! I've got no more to say. Do you mean to tell me you'd go off
playin' on fiddles an' bass-viols, an' leave me, your own wife's
sister, settin' here the whole evenin' long, all swelled up with the
toothache?"

Heman often felt that he had reached a state of mind where nothing
could surprise him, but this point of view was really unexpected. He
decided, however, with some scorn, that the present misunderstanding
might arise from a confusion of terms in the feminine mind.

"This ain't the concert," he replied, much as if she had proposed going
to the polls. "It's the rehearsal. That means where you play the tunes
over. The concert ain't comin' off for a month."

And now the Widder Poll spoke with the air of one injured almost beyond
reparation.

"I'd like to know what difference that makes! If a man's goin' where he
can't take his womenfolks, I say he'd better stay to home! an' if
there's things goin' on there't you don't want me to git hold of, I
tell you, Heman Blaisdell, you'd better by half stop shavin' you now,
an' take yourself off to bed at seven o'clock! Traipsin' round playin'
the fiddle at your age! Ain't I fond o' music?"

"No, you ain't!" burst forth Heman, roused to brief revolt where his
beloved instrument was concerned. "You don't know Old Hunderd from
Yankee Doodle!"

The Widder walked round the table and confronted him as he was turning
away from the glass, shaving-mug in hand.

"You answer me one question! I know who's goin' to be there, an' set in
the chorus an' sing alto. Brad Freeman told me, as innercent as a lamb.
Heman Blaisdell, you answer me? Be you goin' to bring anybody here to
this house, an' set her in poor Mary's place? If you be, I ought to be
the fust one to know it."

Heman looked at the shaving-mug for a moment, as if he contemplated
dashing it to the floor. Then he tightened his grasp on it, like one
putting the devil behind him.

"No, I ain't," he said, doggedly, adding under his breath, "not unless
I'm drove to 't."

"I dunno who could ha' done more," said the Widder, so patently with
the air of continuing for an indefinite period that Heman reached up
for his hat. "Where you goin'? Mercy sakes alive! don't you mean to eat
no supper, now I've got it all ready?"

But Heman pushed his way past her and escaped, muttering something
about "feedin' the critters." Perhaps the "critters" under his care
were fed oftener than those on farms where the ingle-nook was at least
as cosey as the barn.

These slight skirmishes always left Heman with an uneasy sense that
somehow he also must be to blame, though he never got beyond wondering
what could have been done to avert the squall. When he went back into
the kitchen, however,--the "critters" fed, and his own nerves soothed
by pitchforking the haymow with the vigor of one who assaults a
citadel,--he was much relieved at finding the atmosphere as clear as
usual; and as the early twilight drew on, he became almost happy at
thought of; the vivid pleasure before him. Never, since his wife died,
had he played his bass-viol in public; but he had long been in the
habit of "slying off" upstairs to it, as to a tryst with lover or
friend whom the world denied. The Widder Poll, though she heard it
wailing and droning thence, never seriously objected to it; the
practice was undoubtedly "shaller," but it kept him in the house.

They ate supper in silence; and then, while she washed the dishes,
Heman changed his clothes, and went to the barn to harness. He stood
for a moment, irresolute, when the horse was ready, and then backed him
into the old blue pung. A queer little smile lurked at the corners of
his mouth.

"I guess the shoe'll go once more," he muttered. "No, I ain't goin' to
marry ag'in! I said I ain't, an' I ain't. But I guess I can give a
neighbor a lift, if I want to!"

Brad Freeman was waiting near the tack door when Heman led the horse
out of the barn. He was lank and lean, and his thick red hair strayed
low over the forehead. His army overcoat was rent here and there beyond
the salvation which lay in his wife's patient mending, and his old fur
cap showed the skin in moth-eaten patches; yet Heman thought, with a
wondering protest, how young he looked, how free from care.

"Hullo, Heman!" called Brad.

"How are ye?" responded Heman, with a cordiality Brad never failed to
elicit from his brother man.

Heman left the horse standing, and opened the back door.

He stopped short. An awful vision confronted him,--the Widder Poll,
clad not only in the Tycoon rep, but her best palm-leaf shawl, her
fitch tippet, and pumpkin hood; her face was still bandaged, and her
head-gear had been enwound by a green barège veil. She stepped
forward with an alertness quite unusual in one so accustomed to
remembering her weight of mortal flesh.

"Here!" she called, "you kind o' help me climb in. I ain't so spry as I
was once. You better give me a real boost. But, land! I mustn't talk. I
wouldn't git a mite of air into that tooth for a dollar bill."

Heman stepped into the house for his bass-viol, and brought it out with
an extremity of tender care; he placed it, enveloped in its green baize
covering, in the bottom of the pung. Some ludicrous association between
the baize and the green barège veil struck Brad so forcibly that he
gave vent to a chuckle, sliding cleverly into a cough. He tried to meet
Heman's eye, but Heman only motioned him to get in, and took his own
place without a word. Brad wondered if he could be ill; his face had
grown yellowish in its pallor, and he seemed to breathe heavily.

Midway in their drive to the vestry, they passed a woman walking
briskly along in the snowy track. She was carrying her singing-books
under one arm, and holding her head high with that proud lift which had
seemed, more than anything else, to keep alive her girlhood's charm.

"There's Roxy," said Brad. "Here, Heman, you let me jump out, an' you
give her a lift." But Heman looked straight before him, and drove on.

By the time they entered Tiverton Street, the vestry was full of
chattering groups. Heman was the last to arrive. He made a long job of
covering the horse, inside the shed, resolved that nothing should tempt
him to face the general mirth at the Widder's entrance. For he could
not deceive himself as to the world's amused estimate of her
guardianship and his submission. He had even withdrawn from the School
Board, where he had once been proud to figure, because, entering the
schoolroom one day at recess, he had seen, on a confiscated slate at
the teacher's desk, a rough caricature representing "Heman and his Ma."
The Ma was at least half the size of the slate, while Heman was
microscopic; but, alas! his inflamed consciousness found in both a
resemblance which would mightily have surprised the artist. He felt
that if he ever saw another testimony of art to his unworthiness, he
might commit murder.

When he did muster courage to push open the vestry door, the Widder
Poll sat alone by the stove, still unwinding her voluminous wrappings,
and the singers had very pointedly withdrawn by themselves. Brad and
Jont had begun to tune their fiddles, and the first prelusive snapping
of strings at once awakened Heman's nerves to a pleasant tingling; he
was excited at the nearness of the coming joy. He drew a full breath
when it struck home to him, with the warm certainty of a happy truth,
that if he did not look at her, even the Widder Poll could hardly spoil
his evening. Everybody greeted him with unusual kindliness, though some
could not refrain from coupling their word with a meaning glance at the
colossal figure near the stove. One even whispered,--

"She treed ye, didn't she, Heman?"

He did not trust himself to answer, but drew the covering from his own
treasure, and began his part of the delicious snapping and screwing.

"Where's Roxy?" called Jont Marshall "Can't do without her alto.
Anybody seen her?"

Roxy was really very late, and Heman could not help wondering whether
she had delayed in starting because she had expected a friendly
invitation to ride, "All right," he reflected, bitterly. "She must get
used to it."

The door opened, and Roxy came in. She had been walking fast, and her
color was high. Heman stole one glance at her, under cover of the
saluting voices. She was forty years old, yet her hair had not one
silver thread, and at that instant of happy animation, she looked
strikingly like her elder sister, to whom Heman used to give lozenges
when they were boy and girl together, and who died in India. Then Roxy
took her place, and Heman bent over his bass-viol. The rehearsal began.
Heman forgot all about his keeper sitting by the stove, as the old,
familiar tunes swelled up in the little room, and one antique phrase
after another awoke nerve-cells all unaccustomed nowadays to thrilling.
He could remember just when he first learned The Mellow Horn, and how
his uncle, the sailor, had used to sing it. "Fly like a youthful hart
or roe!" Were there spices still left on the hills of life? Ah, but
only for youth to smell and gather! Boldly, with a happy bravado, the
choir sang,--

  "The British yoke, the Gallic chain,
  Were placed upon our necks in vain!"

And then came the pious climax of Coronation, America, and the
Doxology. Above the tumult of voices following the end of rehearsal,
some one announced the decision to meet on Wednesday night; and Heman,
his bass-viol again in its case, awoke, and saw the Widder putting on
her green veil. Rosa Tolman nudged her intimate friend, Laura Pettis,
behind Heman's back, and whispered,--

"I wonder if she's had a good time! There 'ain't been a soul for her to
speak to, the whole evenin' long!"

The other girl laughed, with a delicious sense of fun in the situation,
and Heman recoiled; the sound was like a blow in the face.

"Say, Heman," said Brad, speaking in his ear. "I guess I'll walk home,
so't you can take in Roxy."

But Heman had bent his head, and was moving along with the rest, like a
man under a burden.

"No," said he, drearily. "I can't. You come along."

His tone was quite conclusive; and Brad, albeit wondering, said no
more. The three packed themselves into the pung, and drove away. Heman
was conscious of some dull relief in remembering that he need not pass
Roxy again on the road, for he heard her voice ring out clearly from a
group near the church. He wondered if anybody would go home with her,
and whether she minded the dark "spell o' woods" by the river. No
matter! It was of no use. She must get used to her own company.

The Widder was almost torpid from her long sojourn by the stove; but
the tingling air roused her at last, and she spoke, though mumblingly,
remembering her tooth,--

"Proper nice tunes, wa'n't they? Was most on 'em new?"

But Brad could not hear, and left it for Heman to answer; and Heman
gave his head a little restive shake, and said, "No." At his own gate,
he stopped.

"I guess I won't car' you down home," he said to Brad.

It was only a stone's-throw, Brad hesitated.

"No, I, didn't mean for ye to," answered he, "but I'll stop an' help
unharness."

"No," said Heman, gently. "You better not. I'd ruther do it." Even a
friendly voice had become unbearable in his ears.

So, Brad, stepped down, lifted out his fiddle-case, and said
good-night. Heman drove into the yard, and stopped before the kitchen
door. He took the reins in one hand, and held out the other to the
Widder.

"You be a mite careful o' your feet," he said. "That bass-viol slipped
a little for'ard when we come down Lamson's Hill."

She rose ponderously. She seemed to sway and hesitate; then she set one
foot cautiously forward in the pung. There was a rending, crash. The
Widder Poll had stepped into the bass-viol. She gave a little scream;
and plunged forward.

"My foot's ketched!" she cried. "Can't you help me out?"

Heman dropped the reins; he put his hands on her arms, and pulled her
forward. He never knew whether she reached the ground on her feet or
her knees. Then he pushed past her, where she floundered, and lifted
out his darling. He carried it into the kitchen, and lighted the
candle, with trembling hands. He drew back the cover. The bass-viol had
its mortal wound; he could have laid both fists into the hole. He
groaned.

"My God Almighty!" he said aloud.

The Widder Poll had stumbled into the room. She threw back her green
veil, and her face shone ivory white under its shadow; her small eyes
were starting. She looked like a culprit whom direst vengeance had
overtaken at last. At the sound of her step, Heman lifted his hurt
treasure, carried it tenderly into his bedroom, and shut the door upon
it. He turned about, and walked past her out of the house. The Widder
Poll followed him, wringing her mittened hands.

"O Heman!" she cried, "don't you look like that! Oh, you'll do yourself
some mischief, I know you will!"

But Heman had climbed into the pung, and given Old Gameleg a vicious
cut. Swinging out of the yard they went; and the Widder Poll ran after
until, just outside the gate, she reflected that she never could
overtake him and that her ankles were weak; then she returned to the
house, groaning.

Heman was conscious of one thought only: if any man had come home with
Roxy, he should kill him with his own hands. He drove on, almost to the
vestry, and found no trace of her. He turned about, and, retracing his
way, stopped at her mother's gate, left Old Gameleg, and strode into
the yard. There was no light in the kitchen, and only a glimmer in the
chamber above. Heman went up to the kitchen door and knocked. The
chamber window opened.

"Who is it?" asked Mrs. Cole. "Why, that you, Heman? Anybody sick?"

"Where's Roxy?" returned Heman, as if he demanded her at the point of
the bayonet.

"Why, she's been abed as much as ten minutes. The Tuckers brought her
home."

"You tell her to come here! I want to see her."

"What! down there? Law, Heman! you come in the mornin'. She'll ketch
her death o' cold gittin' up an' dressin', now she's got all warmed
through."

"What's he want, mother?" came Roxy's clear voice from within the room.
"That's Heman Blaisdell's voice."

"Roxy, you come down here!" called Heman, masterfully.

There was a pause, during which Mrs. Cole was apparently pulled away
from the window. Then Roxy, her head enveloped in a shawl, appeared in
her mother's place.

"Well!" she said, impatiently. "What is it?"

Heman's voice found a pleading level.

"Roxy, will you marry me?"

"Why, Heman, you 're perfectly ridiculous! At this time o' night, too!"

"You answer me!" cried Heman, desperately. "I want you! Won't you have
me, Roxy? Say?"

"Roxy!" came her mother's muffled voice from the bed. "You'll git your
death o' cold. What's he want? Can't you give him an answer an' let him
go?"

"Won't you, Roxy?" called Heman. "Oh, won't you?"

Roxy began to laugh hysterically. "Yes," she said, and shut the window.

When Heman had put up the horse, he walked into the kitchen, and
straight up to the Widder Poll, who stood awaiting him, clinging to the
table by one fat hand.

"Now, look here!" he said, good-naturedly, speaking to her with a
direct address he had not been able to use for many a month, "You
listen to me. I don't want any hard feelin', but to-morrer mornin'
you've got to pick up your things an' go. You can have the house down
to the Holler, or you can go out nussin', but you come here by your own
invitation, an' you've got to leave by mine. I'm goin' to be married as
soon as I can git a license." Then he walked to the bedroom, and shut
himself in with his ruined bass-viol and the darkness.

And the Widder Poll did not speak.


      *       *       *       *       *

There are very few cosey evenings when Heman and Roxy do not smile at
each other across the glowing circle of their hearth, and ask, the one
or the other, with a perplexity never to be allayed,--

"Do you s'pose she tumbled, or did she put her foot through it
a-purpose?"

But Heman is sure to conclude the discussion with a glowing tribute to
Brad Freeman, his genius and his kindliness.

"I never shall forgit that o' Brad," he announces. "There wa'n't
another man in the State o' New Hampshire could ha' mended it as he
did. Why, you never'd know there was a brack in it!"




HEARTSEASE.

    "For as for heartsease, it groweth in a single night."


"What be you doin' of, Mis' Lamson?" asked Mrs. Pettis, coming in from
the kitchen, where she had been holding a long conversation with young
Mrs. Lamson on the possibility of doing over sugar-barberry. Mrs.
Pettis was a heavy woman, bent almost double with rheumatism, and she
carried a baggy umbrella for a cane. She was always sighing over the
difficulty of "gittin' round the house," but nevertheless she made more
calls than any one else in the neighborhood. "It kind o' limbered her
up," she said, "to take a walk after she had been bendin' over the
dish-pan."

Mrs. Lamson looked up with an alert, bright glance. She was a little
creature, and something still girlish lingered in her straight, slender
figure and the poise of her head. "Old Lady Lamson" was over eighty,
and she dressed with due deference to custom; but everything about her
gained, in the wearing, an air of youth. Her aggressively brown front
was rumpled a little, as if it had tried to crimp itself, only to be
detected before the operation was well begun, and the purple ribbons of
her cap flared rakishly aloft.

"I jest took up a garter," she said, with some apology in her tone.
"Kind o' fiddlin' work, ain't it?"

"Last time I was here, you was knittin' mittins," continued Mrs.
Pettis, seating herself laboriously on the lounge, and leaning forward
upon the umbrella clutched steadily in two fat hands. "You're dretful
forehanded. I remember I said so then. 'Samwel 'ain't got a mittin, to
his name,' I says, 'nor he won't have 'fore November.'"

"Well, I guess David's pretty well on't for everything now," answered
Mrs. Lamson, with some pride. "He's got five pair o' new mittins, an'
my little blue chist full o' stockin's. I knit 'em two-an'-two, an'
two-an'-one, an' toed some on 'em off with white, an' some with red,
so's to keep 'em in pairs. But Mary said I better not knit any more,
for fear the moths'd git into 'em, an' so I stopped an' took up this
garter. But 'tis dretful fiddlin' work!"

A brief silence fell upon the two, while the sweet summer scents stole
in at the window,--the breath of the cinnamon rose, of growing, grass
and good brown earth. Mrs. Pettis pondered, looking vacantly before
her, and Old Lady Lamson knit hastily on. Her needles clicked together,
and she turned her work with a jerk in beginning a row. But neither was
oppressed by lack of speech. They understood each other, and no more
thought of "making talk" than of pulling up a seed to learn whether it
had germinated. It was Mrs. Pettis who, after, a natural interval; felt
moved to speak.

"Mary's master thoughtful of you, ain't she? 'Tain't many sons' wives
would be so tender of, anybody, now is it?"

Mrs. Lamson looked up sharply, and then, with the same quick movement;
bent her eyes on her work.

"Mary means to do jest what's right," she answered. "If she don't make
out, it ain't for lack o' tryin'."

"So I says to Samwel this mornin, 'Old Lady Lamson 'ain't one thing to
concert herself with,' says I, 'but to git dressed an' set by the
winder. When dinner-time comes, she's got nothin' to do but hitch up to
the table; an' she don't have to touch her hand to a dish.' Now ain't
that so, Mis' Lamson?"

"That's so," agreed Mrs. Lamson, with a little sigh, instantly
suppressed. "It's different from what I thought to myself 'twould be
when Mary come here. ''Tain't in natur' she'll have the feelin' for me
she would for her own,' I says; but I b'lieve she has, an' more too.
When she come for good, I made up my mind I'd put 'Up with everything,
an' say 'twas all in the day's work; but law! I never had to. She an'
David both act as if I was sugar or salt, I dunno which."

"Don't ye never help 'round, washin'-days?"

"Law, no! Mary won't hear to 't. She'd ruther have the dishes wait till
everything's on the line; an' if I stir a step to go into the gardin to
pick a 'mess o' beans, or kill a currant worm, she's right arter me.
'Mother, don't you fall!' she says, a dozen 'times a day. 'I dunno what
David'd do to me, if I let anything happen to you.' An' 'David, he's
ketched it, too. One night, 'long towards Thanksgivin' time, I kicked
the soapstone out o' bed, an' he come runnin' up as if he was
bewitched. 'Mother,' says he, 'did you fall? You 'ain't had a stroke,
have ye?'"

Old Lady Lamson laughed huskily; her black eyes shone, and her cap
ribbons nodded, and danced, but there was an ironical ring to her
merriment.

"Do tell!" responded Mrs. Pettis, in her ruminating voice. "Well,
things were different when we was young married folks, an' used to do
our own spinnin' an' weavin'."

"I guess so!" Mrs. Lamson dropped her busy hands in her lap, and leaned
back a moment, in eager retrospect. "Do you recollect that Friday we
spun from four o'clock in the mornin' till six that evenin', because
the men-folks had gone in the ma'sh, an' all we had to do was to stop
an' feed the critters? An' Hiram Peasley come along with tinware, an'
you says, 'If you're a mind to stop at my house, an' throw a colander
an' a long-handled dipper over the fence, under the flowerin'-currant,
an' wait till next time for your pay, I'll take 'em,' says you. 'But I
ain't goin' to leave off spinnin' for anything less 'n Gabriel's
trumpet,' says you. I remember your sayin' that, as if 'twas only
yisterday; an' arter you said it, you kind o' drawed down your face an'
looked scairt. An' I never thought on't ag'in till next Sabbath
evenin', when Jim Bellows rose to speak, an' made some handle about the
Day o' Judgment, an' then I tickled right out."

"How you do set by them days!" said Mrs. Pettis, striving to keep a
steady face, though her heavy sides were shaking. "I guess you remember
'em better 'n your prayers!"

"Yes, I laughed out loud, an' you passed me a pep'mint over the pew,
an' looked as if you was goin' to cry. 'Don't,' says you; an' it sort
o' come over me you knew what I was laughin' at. Why, if there ain't
John Freeman stoppin' here,--Mary's sister's brother-in-law, you know.
Lives down to Bell P'int. Guess he's pullin' up to give the news."

Mrs. Pettis came slowly to her feet, and scanned the farmer, who was
hitching his horse to the fence. When he had gone round to the back
door, she turned, and grasped her umbrella with a firmer hand.

"Well, I guess 'twon't pay me to set down ag'in," she announced. "I'm
goin' to take it easy on the way home. I dunno but I'll let down the
bars, an' poke a little ways into the north pastur', an' see if I can't
git a mite o' pennyr'yal. I'll be in ag'in to-morrer or next day."

"So do, so do," returned Mrs. Lamson.

"'Tain't no use to ask you to come down, I s'pose? You don't git, out
so fur, nowadays."

"No," said the other, still with that latent touch of sarcasm in her
voice. "If I should fall, there'd be a great hurrah, boys,--'fire on
the mountain, run, boys, run!'"

Mrs. Pettis toiled out into the road; and Old Lady Lamson, laying her
knitting on the table, bent forward, not to watch her out of sight, but
to make sure whether she really would stop at the north pasture.

"No, she's goin' by," she said aloud, with evident relief. "No, she
ain't either. I'll be whipped if she ain't lettin' down the bars!
'Twould smell kind o' good, I declare!"

She was still peering forward, one slender hand on the window-sill,
when Mary, a pretty young woman, with two nervous lines between her
eyes, came hurrying in.

"Mother," she began, in that unnatural voice which is supposed to allay
excitement in another, "I dunno what I'm goin' to do. Stella's sick."

"You don't say!" said Old Lady Lamson, turning away from the window.
"What do they think 'tis?"

"Fever, John says. An' she's so full-blooded it'll be likely to go hard
with her. They want me to go right down, an' David's got to carry me.
John would, but he's gone to be referee in that land case, an' he won't
be back for a day or two. It's a mercy David's just home from town, so
he won't have to change his clo'es right through. Now, mother, if you
should have little 'Liza Tolman come an' stay with you, do you think
anything would happen, s'posin' we left you alone just one night?"

A little flush rose in the old lady's withered cheek. Her eyes gleamed
brightly through her glasses.

"Don't you worry one mite about me," she replied, in an even voice.
"You change your dress, an' git off afore it's dark. I shall be all
right."

"David's harnessin' now," said Mary, beginning to untie her apron. "I
sent John down to the lower barn to call him. But, mother, if anything
should happen to you--"

"Lord-a-massy! nothin' 's goin' to!" the old lady broke forth, in
momentary impatience. "Don't stan' here talkin'. You better have your
mind on Stella. Fever's a quicker complaint than old age. It al'ays
was, an' al'ays will be."

"Oh, I know it! I know it!" cried Mary, starting toward the door.
"There ain't a thing for you to do. There's new bread an' preserves on
the dairy-wheel, an' you have 'Liza Tolman pick you up some chips, an'
build the fire for your tea; an' don't you wash the dishes, mother.
Just leave 'em in the sink. An' for mercy sake, take a candle, an' not
meddle with kerosene--"

"Come, come, ain't you ready?" came David's voice from the door. "I
can't keep the horse stan'in' here till he's all eat up with flies."

Mary fled to her bedroom, unbuttoning her dress as she ran; and David
came in, bringing an air of outdoor freshness into the little
sitting-room, with his regal height, his broad shoulders, and tanned,
fresh face.

"Well, mother," he said, putting a hand of clumsy kindliness on her
shoulder, "if anything happens to you while we're gone, I shall wish
we'd let the whole caboodle of 'em die in their tracks. Don't s'pose
anything will, do ye?"

"Law, no, David!" exclaimed the old lady, looking at him with beaming
pride. "You stan' still an' let me pick that mite o' lint off your arm.
I shall be tickled to death to git rid on ye."

"Now, mother," counselled Mary, when she came but of the bedroom,
hastily tying her bonnet strings, "you watch the school-children, an'
ask 'Liza Tolman to stay with you, an' if she can't, to get one of the
Daltons; an' tell her we'll give her some Bartlett pears when they're
ripe."

"Yes, yes, I hear," answered the old lady, rising, and setting back her
chair in its accustomed corner. "Now, do go along, or ye won't be down
to Grapevine Run afore five o'clock."

She watched them while they drove out of the yard, shading her eyes
with one nervous hand.

"Mother," called Mary, "don't you stan' there in that wind, with
nothin' on your head!"

The old lady turned back into the house, and her face was alive with
glee.

"Wind!" she ejaculated scornfully, and yet with the tolerance of one
too happy for complaint. "Wind! I guess there wouldn't be so much, if
some folks would save their breath to cool their porridge!"

She did not go back to the sitting-room and her peaceful knitting. She
walked into the pantry, where she gave the shelves a critical survey,
and then, returning to the kitchen, looked about her once more.

"If it's one day sence I've been down sullar," she said aloud, "it's
two year." She 'was lighting a candle as she spoke. In another moment,
she was taking sprightly steps down the stairs into the darkness below.

"Now, mother, don't you fall!" she chuckled, midway in the descent; and
it was undeniable that the voice sounded much like Mary's in her
anxious mood. "Now, ain't I a mean creatur' to stan' here laughin' at
'em!" she went on: "Well,' if she don't keep things nice! 'Taters all
sprouted; an' the preserve cupboard never looked better in my day.
Mary's been well brought up,--I'll say that for her."

Old Lady Lamson must have spent at least half an hour in the cellar,
for when she ascended it was after four o'clock, and the
school-children had passed the house on their way home. She heard their
voices under the elms at the turn of the road.

"I ain't to blame if I can't ketch 'em," she remarked calmly, as she
blew out her light. "I don't see's anybody could say I was to blame.
An' I couldn't walk up to the Tolmans' to ask 'Liza. I might fall!"

She set about her preparations for supper. It was a favorite maxim in
the household that the meal should be eaten early, "to get it out of
the way;" and to-night this unaccustomed handmaid had additional
reasons for haste. But the new bread and preserves were ignored. She
built a rousing fire in the little kitchen stove; she brought out the
moulding-board, and with trembling eagerness proceeded to mix
cream-of-tartar biscuits. Not Cellini himself nor Jeannie Carlyle had
awaited the results of passionate labor with a more strenuous
eagerness; and when she drew out the panful of delicately browned
biscuits, she set it down on the table, and looked at it in sheer
delight.

"I'll be whipped if they ain't as good as if I'd made 'em every night
for the last two year!" she cried. "I ain't got to git my hand in,
an' that's truth an' fact!"

She brought out some "cold b'iled dish," made her strong green tea, and
sat down to a banquet such as they taste who have reached the
Delectable Mountains. It held within it all the savor of a happy past;
it satisfied her hungry soul.

After she had washed the supper dishes and scrupulously swept the
hearth, she rested, for a moment's thought, in the old rocking-chair,
and then took her way, candle in hand, to the attic. There was no
further self-confidence on the stairs; she was too serious, now. Her
hours were going fast. The attic, in spite of the open windows, lay hot
under summer's touch upon the shingles outside, and odorous of the
dried herbs hanging in bunches here and there.

"Wormwood--thoroughwort--spearmint," she mused, as she touched them,
one after another, and inhaled their fragrance. "'Tain't so long ago I
was out pickin' herbs an' dryin' 'em. Well, well, well!"

She made her way under the eaves, and pulled out a hair-trunk, studded
with brass nails. A rush-bottomed chair stood near-by, and, setting her
candle in it, she knelt before the trunk and began lifting out its
contents: a brocaded satin waistcoat of a long-past day, a woolen
comforter knit in stripes, a man's black broadcloth coat. She smoothed
them, as she laid them by, and there was a wondering note in her
lowered voice.

"My Lord!" she whispered reverently, as if speaking to One who would
hear and understand, "it's over fifty year!"

A pile of yellowed linen lay in the bottom of the trunk, redolent of
camphor from contact with its perishable neighbors. She lifted one
shirt after another, looking at them in silence. Then she laid back the
other clothes, took up her candle and the shirts, and went downstairs
again. In hot haste, she rebuilt the kitchen fire, and set two large
kettles of water on the stove. She dragged the washing-bench into the
back kitchen from its corner in the shed, and on it placed her tubs;
and when the water was heated, she put the garments into a tub, and
rubbed with the vigor and ease of a woman well accustomed to such work.
All the sounds of the night were loud about her, and the song of the
whippoorwill came in at the open door. He was very near. His presence
should have been a sign of approaching trouble, but Old Lady Lamson did
not hear him. Her mind was reading the lettered scroll of a vanished
year.

Perhaps the touch of the warm water on her hands recalled her to the
present.

"Seems good to feel the suds," she said, happily, holding up one
withered hand, and letting the foam drip from her fingers, "I wish't I
could dry outdoor! But when mornin' come, they'd be all of a sop."

She washed and rinsed the garments, and, opening a clothes-horse,
spread them out to dry. Then she drew a long breath, put out her
candle, and wandered to the door. The garden lay before her, unreal in
the beauty of moonlight. Every bush seemed an enchanted wood. The old
lady went forth, lingering at first, as one too rich for choosing; then
with a firmer step. She closed the little gate, and walked out into the
country road. She hurried along to the old signboard, and turned aside
unerringly into a hollow, there, where she stooped and filled her hands
with tansy, pulling it up in great bunches, and pressing it eagerly to
her face.

"Seventy-four year ago!" she told the unseen listener of the night,
with the same wonder in her voice. "Sir laid dead, an' they sent me
