gathered her child to her breast with a gesture that was almost fierce.
That Eva should suffer so cruelly when she, Fanny, would have made any
sacrifice to save her from it, would have died for her gladly, were it
not that she was the girl's only protector--oh, what fate had come over
their happy life together! She had not the heart to be stern. All she
said was, "We will go away, dear; we will go away."

"No," said Eva, rising; "let me stay here. You need not be afraid."

"Of course I am not afraid," answered Fanny, gravely. "My daughter will
never do anything unseemly; she has too much pride."

"I am afraid I have no pride--that is, not as you have it, mamma. Pride
doesn't seem to me at all important compared with---- But of course I
know that there is nothing I can do. He is perfectly indifferent. Only
do not take me away again--do not."

"Why do you wish to stay?"

"Because then I can think--for three days more--that he is at least as
near me as that." She trembled as she said this; there was a spot of
sombre red in each cheek; her fair face looked strange amid her
disordered hair.

Her mother watched her helplessly. All her beliefs, all her creed, all
her precedents, the experience of her own life and her own nature even,
failed to explain such a phenomenon as this. And it was her own child
who was saying these things.

The next day Eva was passive. She wandered about the terrace, or sat for
hours motionless staring blankly at the sea. Her mother left her to
herself. She had comprehended that words were useless. She pretended to
be embroidering, but in reality as she drew her stitches she was
counting the hours as they passed: seventy-two hours; forty-eight hours.
Would he ever be gone?



On the second day, in the afternoon, she discovered that Eva had
disappeared. The girl had been on the terrace with Mademoiselle;
Mademoiselle had gone to her room for a moment, and when she returned
her pupil could not be found. She had not passed through the
drawing-room, where Fanny was sitting with her pretended industry; nor
through the other door, for Rosine was at work there, and had seen
nothing of her. There remained only the rock stairway to the beach.
Mademoiselle ran down it swiftly: no one. But there was a small boat not
far off, she said. Fanny, who was near-sighted, got the glass. In a
little boat with a broad sail there were two figures; one was certainly
David Rod, and the other--yes, the other was Eva. There was a breeze,
the boat was rapidly going westward round the cliffs; in two minutes
more it was out of sight.

Fanny wrung her hands. The French woman, to whom the event wore a much
darker hue than it did to the American mother, turned yellowly pale.

At this moment Horace Bartholomew came out on the terrace; uneasy, for
Fanny's missive had explained nothing, he had followed his letter
himself. "What is it?" he said, as he saw the agitation of the two
women.

"Your friend--yours--the man you brought here, has Eva with him at
this moment out on the bay!" said Fanny, vehemently.

"Well, what of that? You must look at it with Punta Palmas eyes, Fanny;
at Punta Palmas it would be an ordinary event."

"But my Eva is not a Punta Palmas girl, Horace Bartholomew!"

"She is as innocent as one, and I'll answer for Rod. Come, be sensible,
Fanny. They will be back before sunset, and no one in Sorrento--if that
is what is troubling you so--need be any the wiser."

"You do not know all," said Fanny. "Oh, Horace--I must tell
somebody--she fancies she cares for that man!" She wrung her hands
again. "Couldn't we follow them? Get a boat."

"It would take an hour. And it would be a very conspicuous thing to do.
Leave them alone--it's much better; I tell you I'll answer for Rod.
Fancies she cares for him, does she? Well, he is a fine fellow; on the
whole, the finest I know."

The mother's eyes flashed through her tears. "This from you?"

"I can't help it; he is. Of course you do not think so. He has got no
money; he has never been anywhere that you call anywhere; he doesn't
know anything about the only life you care for nor the things you think
important. All the same, he is a man in a million. He is a man--not a
puppet."

Gentle Mrs. Churchill appeared for the moment transformed. She looked as
though she could strike him. "Never mind your Quixotic ideas. Tell me
whether he is in love with Eva; it all depends upon that."

"I don't know, I am sure," answered Bartholomew. He began to think. "I
can't say at all; he would conceal it from me."

"Because he felt his inferiority. I am glad he has that grace."

"He wouldn't be conscious of any inferiority save that he is poor. It
would be that, probably, if anything; of course he supposes that Eva is
rich."

"Would to Heaven she were!" said the mother. "Added to every other
horror of it, poverty, miserable poverty, for my poor child!" She sat
down and hid her face.

"It may not be as bad as you fear, nor anything like it. Do cheer up a
little, Fanny. When Eva comes back, ten to one you will find that
nothing at all has happened--that it has been a mere ordinary excursion.
And I promise you I will take Rod away with me to-morrow."

Mrs. Churchill rose and began to pace to and fro, biting her lips, and
watching the water. Mademoiselle, who was still hovering near, she waved
impatiently away. "Let no one in," she called to her.

There seemed, indeed, to be nothing else to do, as Bartholomew had said,
save to wait. He sat down and discussed the matter a little.

Fanny paid no attention to what he was saying. Every now and then broken
phrases of her own burst from her: "How much good will her perfect
French and Italian, her German, Spanish, and even Russian, do her down
in that barbarous wilderness?"--"In her life she has never even buttoned
her boots. Do they think she can make bread?"--"And there was Gino. And
poor Pierre." Then, suddenly, "But it shall not be!"

"I have been wondering why you did not take that tone from the first,"
said Bartholomew. "She is very young. She has been brought up to obey
you implicitly. It would be easy enough, I should fancy, if you could
once make up your mind to it."

"Make up my mind to save her, you mean," said the mother, bitterly. She
did not tell him that she was afraid of her daughter. "Should you
expect me to live at Punta Palmas?" she demanded, contemptuously, of
her companion.

"That would depend upon Rod, wouldn't it?" answered Bartholomew, rather
unamiably. He was tired--he had been there an hour--of being treated
like a door-mat.

At this Fanny broke down again, and completely. For it was only too
true; it would depend upon that stranger, that farmer, that unknown
David Rod, whether she, the mother, should or should not be with her own
child.

A little before sunset the boat came into sight again round the western
cliffs. Fanny dried her eyes. She was very pale. Little Mademoiselle,
rigid with anxiety, watched from an upper window. Bartholomew rose to go
down to the beach to receive the returning fugitives. "No," said Fanny,
catching his arm, "don't go; no one must know before I do--no one." So
they waited in silence.

Down below, the little boat had rapidly approached. Eva had jumped out,
and was now running up the rock stairway; she was always light-footed,
but to her mother it seemed that the ascent took an endless time. At
length there was the vision of a young, happy, rushing figure--rushing
straight to Fanny's arms. "Oh, mamma, mamma," the girl whispered, seeing
that there was no one there but Bartholomew, "he loves me! He has told
me so! he has told me so!"

For an instant the mother drew herself away. Eva, left alone, and
mindful of nothing but her own bliss, looked so radiant with happiness
that Bartholomew (being a man) could not help sympathizing with her.
"You will have to give it up," he said to Fanny, significantly. Then he
took his hat and went away.

Fifteen minutes later his place was filled by David Rod.

"Ah! you have come. I must have a few words of conversation with you,
Mr. Rod," said Fanny, in an icy tone. "Eva, leave us now."

"Oh no, mamma, not now; never again, I hope," answered the girl. She
spoke with secure confidence; her eyes were fixed upon her lover's face.

"Do you call this honorable behavior, Mr. Rod?" Fanny began. She saw
that Eva would not go.

"Why, I hope so," answered Rod, surprised. "I have come at once, as soon
as I possibly could, Mrs. Churchill (I had to take the boat back first,
you know), to tell you that we are engaged; it isn't an hour old yet--is
it, Eva?" He looked at Eva smilingly, his eyes as happy as her own.

"It is the custom to ask permission," said Fanny, stiffly.

"I have never heard of the custom, then; that is all I can say,"
answered Rod, with good-natured tranquillity, still looking at the
girl's face, with its rapt expression, its enchanting joy.

"Please to pay attention; I decline to consent, Mr. Rod; you cannot have
my daughter."

"Mamma--" said Eva, coming up to her.

"No, Eva; if you will remain here--which is most improper--you will have
to hear it all. You are so much my daughter's inferior, Mr. Rod, that I
cannot, and I shall not, consent."

At the word "inferior," a slight shock passed over Eva from head to
foot. She went swiftly to her lover, knelt down and pressed her lips to
his brown hand, hiding her face upon it.

He raised her tenderly in his arms, and thus embraced, they stood there
together, confronting the mother--confronting the world.

Fanny put out her hands with a bitter cry. "Eva!"

The girl ran to her, clung to her. "Oh, mamma, I love you dearly. But
you must not try to separate me from David. I could not leave him--I
never will."

"Let us go in, to our own room," said the mother, in a broken voice.

"Yes; but speak to David first, mamma."

Rod came forward and offered his arm. He was sorry for the mother's
grief, which, however, in such intensity as this, he could not at all
understand. But though he was sorry, he was resolute, he was even stern;
in his dark beauty, his height and strength, he looked indeed, as
Bartholomew had said, a man.

At the sight of his offered arm Mrs. Churchill recoiled; she glanced all
round the terrace as though to get away from it; she even glanced at the
water; it almost seemed as if she would have liked to take her child and
plunge with her to the depths below. But one miserable look at Eva's
happy, trustful eyes still watching her lover's face cowed her; she took
the offered arm. And then Rod went with her, supporting her gently into
the house, and through it to her own room, where he left her with her
daughter. That night the mother rose from her sleepless couch, lit a
shaded taper, and leaving it on a distant table, stole softly to Eva's
side. The girl was in a deep slumber, her head pillowed on her arm.
Fanny, swallowing her tears, gazed at her sleeping child. She still
saw in the face the baby outlines of years before, her mother's eye
could still distinguish in the motionless hand the dimpled fingers of
the child. The fair hair, lying on the pillow, recalled to her the short
flossy curls of the little girl who had clung to her skirts, who had had
but one thought--"mamma."



"What will her life be now? What must she go through, perhaps--what
pain, privation--my darling, my own little child!"

The wedding was to take place within the month; Rod said that he could
not be absent longer from his farm. Fanny, breaking her silence,
suggested to Bartholomew that the farm might be given up; there were
other occupations.

"I advise you not to say a word of that sort to Rod," Bartholomew
answered. "His whole heart is in that farm, that colony he has built up
down there. You must remember that he was brought up there himself, or
rather came up. It's all he knows, and he thinks it the most important
thing in life; I was going to say it's all he cares for, but of course
now he has added Eva."

Pierre came once. He saw only the mother.

When he left her he went round by way of the main street of Sorrento in
order to pass a certain small inn. His carriage was waiting to take him
back to Castellamare, but there was some one he wished to look at first.
It was after dark; he could see into the lighted house through the low
uncurtained windows, and he soon came upon the tall outline of the young
farmer seated at a table, his eyes bent upon a column of figures. The
Belgian surveyed him from head to foot slowly. He stood there gazing
for five minutes. Then he turned away. "That, for Americans!" he
murmured in French, snapping his fingers in the darkness. But there was
a mist in his boyish eyes all the same.

The pink villa witnessed the wedding. Fanny never knew how she got
through that day. She was calm; she did not once lose her self-control.

They were to sail directly for New York from Naples, and thence to
Florida; the Italian colonists were to go at the same time.

"Mamma comes next year," Eva said to everybody. She looked indescribably
beautiful; it was the radiance of a complete happiness, like a halo.

By three o'clock they were gone, they were crossing the bay in the
little Naples steamer. No one was left at the villa with Fanny--it was
her own arrangement--save Horace Bartholomew.

"She won't mind being poor," he said, consolingly, "she won't mind
anything--with him. It is one of those sudden, overwhelming loves that
one sometimes sees; and after all, Fanny, it is the sweetest thing life
offers."

"And the mother?" said Fanny.




THE STREET OF THE HYACINTH


I

It was a street in Rome--narrow, winding, not over-clean. Two vehicles
meeting there could pass only by grazing the doors and windows on either
side, after the usual excited whip-cracking and shouts which make the
new-comer imagine, for his first day or two, that he is proceeding at a
perilous speed through the sacred city of the soul.

But two vehicles did not often meet in the street of the Hyacinth. It
was not a thoroughfare, not even a convenient connecting link; it
skirted the back of the Pantheon, the old buildings on either side
rising so high against the blue that the sun never came down lower than
the fifth line of windows, and looking up from the pavement was like
looking up from the bottom of a well. There was no foot-walk, of course;
even if there had been one no one would have used it, owing to the easy
custom of throwing from the windows a few ashes and other light trifles
for the city refuse-carts, instead of carrying them down the long stairs
to the door below. They must be in the street at an appointed hour, must
they not? Very well, then--there they were; no one but an unreasonable
foreigner would dream of objecting.

But unreasonable foreigners seldom entered the street of the Hyacinth.
There were, however, two who lived there one winter not long ago, and
upon a certain morning in the January of that winter a third came to see
these two. At least he asked for them, and gave two cards to the Italian
maid who answered his ring; but when, before he had time to even seat
himself, the little curtain over the parlor door was raised again, and
Miss Macks entered, she came alone. Her mother did not appear. The
visitor was not disturbed by being obliged to begin conversation
immediately; he was an old Roman sojourner, and had stopped fully three
minutes at the end of the fourth flight of stairs to re-gain his breath
before he mounted the fifth and last to ring Miss Macks's bell. Her card
was tacked upon the door: "Miss Ettie F. Macks." He surveyed it with
disfavor, while the little, loose-hung bell rang a small but exceedingly
shrill and ill-tempered peal, like the barking of a small cur. "Why in
the world doesn't she put her mother's card here instead of her own?" he
said to himself. "Or, if her own, why not simply 'Miss Macks,' without
that nickname?"

But Miss Macks's mother had never possessed a visiting-card in her life.
Miss Macks was the visiting member of the family; and this was so well
understood at home, that she had forgotten that it might not be the same
abroad. As to the "Ettie," having been called so always, it had not
occurred to her to make a change. Her name was Ethelinda Faith, Mrs.
Macks having thus combined euphony and filial respect--the first title
being her tribute to æsthetics, the second her tribute to the memory of
her mother.

"I am so very glad to see you, Mr. Noel," said Miss Macks, greeting her
visitor with much cordial directness of voice and eyes. "I have been
expecting you. But you have waited so long--three days!"

Raymond Noel, who thought that under the circumstances he had been
unusually courteous and prompt, was rather surprised to find himself
thus put at once upon the defensive.

"We are not always able to carry out our wishes immediately, Miss
Macks," he replied, smiling a little. "I was hampered by several
previously made engagements."

"Yes; but this was a little different, wasn't it? This was something
important--not like an invitation to lunch or dinner, or the usual idle
society talk."

He looked at her; she was quite in earnest.

"I suppose it to be different," he answered. "You must remember how
little you have told me."

"I thought I told you a good deal! However, the atmosphere of a
reception is no place for such subjects, and I can understand that you
did not take it in. That is the reason I asked you to come and see me
here. Shall I begin at once? It seems rather abrupt."

"I enjoy abruptness; I have not heard any for a long time."

"That I can understand, too; I suppose the society here is all finished
off--there are no rough ends."

"There are ends. If not rough, they are often sharp."

But Miss Macks did not stop to analyze this; she was too much occupied
with her own subject.

"I will begin immediately, then," she said. "It will be rather long; but
if you are to understand me you ought, of course, to know the whole."

"My chair is very comfortable," replied Noel, placing his hat and gloves
on the sofa near him, and taking an easy position with his head back.

Miss Macks thought that he ought to have said, "The longer it is, the
more interesting," or something of that sort. She had already described
him to her mother as "not over-polite. Not rude in the least, you
know--as far as possible from that; wonderfully smooth-spoken; but yet,
somehow--awfully indifferent." However, he was Raymond Noel; and that,
not his politeness or impoliteness, was her point.

"To begin with, then, Mr. Noel, a year ago I had never read one word you
have written; I had never even heard of you. I suppose you think it
strange that I should tell you this so frankly; but, in the first place,
it will give you a better idea of my point of view; and, in the second,
I feel a friendly interest in your taking measures to introduce your
writings into the community where I lived. It is a very intelligent
community. Naturally, a writer wants his articles read. What else does
he write them for?"

"Perhaps a little for his own entertainment," suggested her listener.

"Oh no! He would never take so much trouble just for that."

"On the contrary, many would take any amount just for that. Successfully
to entertain one's self--that is one of the great successes of life."

Miss Macks gazed at him; she had a very direct gaze.

"This is just mere talk," she said, not impatiently, but in a
business-like tone. "We shall never get anywhere if you take me up so.
It is not that your remarks are not very cultivated and interesting,
and all that, but simply that I have so much to tell you."

"Perhaps I can be cultivated and interesting dumbly. I will try."

"You are afraid I am going to be diffuse; I see that. So many women are
diffuse! But I shall not be, because I have been thinking for six months
just what I should say to you. It was very lucky that I went with Mrs.
Lawrence to that reception where I met you. But if it had not happened
as it did I should have found you out all the same. I should have looked
for your address at all the bankers', and if it was not there I should
have inquired at all the hotels. But it was delightful luck getting hold
of you in this way almost the very minute I enter Rome!"

She spoke so simply and earnestly that Noel did not say that he was
immensely honored, and so forth, but merely bowed his acknowledgments.

"To go back. I shall give you simply heads," pursued Miss Macks. "If you
want details, ask, and I will fill them in. I come from the West.
Tuscolee Falls is the name of our town. We had a farm there, but we did
not do well with it after Mr. Spurr's death, so we rented it out. That
is how I come to have so much leisure. I have always had a great deal of
ambition; by that I mean that I did not see why things that had once
been done could not be done again. It seemed to me that the point
was--just determination. And then, of course, I always had the talent. I
made pictures when I was a very little girl. Mother has them still, and
I can show them to you. It is just like all the biographies, you know.
They always begin in childhood, and astonish the family. Well, I had my
first lessons from a drawing-teacher who spent a summer in Tuscolee. I
can show you what I did while with him. Then I attended, for four years,
the Young Ladies' Seminary in the county-town, and took lessons while
there. I may as well be perfectly frank and tell the whole, which is
that everybody was astonished at my progress, and that I was myself. All
sorts of things are prophesied out there about my future. You see, the
neighborhood is a very generous-spirited one, and they like to think
they have discovered a genius at their own doors. My telling you all
this sounds, I know, rather conceited, Mr. Noel. But if you could see my
motive, and how entirely without conceit my idea of myself really is,
you would hold me free from that charge. It is only that I want you to
know absolutely the whole."

"I quite understand," answered her visitor.

"Well, I hope you do. I went on at home after that by myself, and I did
a good deal. I work pretty rapidly, you see. Then came my last lessons,
from a third teacher. He was a young man from New York. He had
consumption, poor fellow! and cannot last long. He wasn't of much use to
me in actual work. His ideas were completely different from those of my
other teachers, and, indeed, from my own. He was unreliable, too, and
his temper was uneven. However, I had a good deal of respect for his
opinion, and he told me to get your art-articles and read them. It
wasn't easy. Some of them are scattered about in the magazines and
papers, you know. However, I am pretty determined, and I kept at it
until I got them all. Well, they made a great impression upon me. You
see, they were new." She paused. "But I doubt, Mr. Noel, whether we
should ever entirely agree," she added, looking at him reflectively.

"That is very probable, Miss Macks."

Miss Macks thought this an odd reply. "He is so queer, with all his
smoothness!" she said to her mother afterwards. "He never says what you
think he will say. Now, any one would suppose that he would have
answered that he would try to make me agree, or something like that.
Instead, he just gave it right up without trying! But I expect he sees
how independent I am, and that I don't intend to reflect any one."

"Well, they made a great impression," she resumed. "And as you seemed to
think, Mr. Noel, that no one could do well in painting who had not seen
and studied the old pictures over here, I made up my mind to come over
at any cost, if it was a possible thing to bring it about. It wasn't
easy, but--here we are. In the lives of all--almost all--artists, I have
noticed--haven't you?--that there comes a time when they have to live on
hope and their own pluck more than upon anything tangible that the
present has to offer. They have to take that risk. Well, I have taken
it; I took it when we left America. And now I will tell you what it is I
want from you. I haven't any hesitation in asking, because I am sure
you will feel interested in a case like mine, and because it was your
writings really that brought me here, you know. And so, then, first: I
would like your opinion of all that I have done so far. I have brought
everything with me to show you. Second: I want your advice as to the
best teacher; I suppose there is a great choice in Rome. Third: I should
be glad if you would give a general oversight to all I do for the next
year. And last, if you would be so kind, I should much enjoy making
visits with you to all the galleries and hearing your opinions again by
word of mouth, because that is always so much more vivid, you know, than
the printed page."

"My dear Miss Macks! you altogether over-estimate my powers," said Noel,
astounded by these far-reaching demands, so calmly and confidently made.

"Yes, I know. Of course it strikes you so--strikes you as a great
compliment that I should wish to put myself so entirely in your hands,"
answered Miss Macks, smiling. "But you must give up thinking of me as
the usual young lady; you must not think of me in that way any more than
I shall think of you as the usual young gentleman. You will never meet
me at a reception again; now that I have found you, I shall devote
myself entirely to my work."

"An alarming girl!" said Noel to himself. But, even as he said it, he
knew that, in the ordinary acceptation of the term at least, Miss Macks
was not alarming.

She was twenty-two; in some respects she looked older, in others much
younger, than most girls of that age. She was tall, slender, erect, but
not especially graceful. Her hands were small and finely shaped, but
thin. Her features were well cut; her face oval. Her gray eyes had a
clear directness in their glance, which, combined with the other
expressions of her face, told the experienced observer at once that she
knew little of what is called "the world." For, although calm, it was a
deeply confident glance; it showed that the girl was sure that she could
take care of herself, and even several others also, through any
contingencies that might arise. She had little color; but her smooth
complexion was not pale--it was slightly brown. Her mouth was small, her
teeth small and very white. Her light-brown hair was drawn back smoothly
from her forehead, and drawn up smoothly behind, its thickness braided
in a close knot on the top of her head. This compact coiffure, at a time
when most feminine foreheads in Rome and elsewhere were shaded almost to
the eyebrows by curling locks, and when the arched outline of the head
was left unbroken, the hair being coiled in a low knot behind, made Miss
Macks look somewhat peculiar. But she was not observant of fashion's
changes. That had been the mode in Tuscolee; she had grown accustomed to
it; and, as her mind was full of other things, she had not considered
this one. One or two persons, who noticed her on the voyage over, said
to themselves, "If that girl had more color, and if she was graceful,
and if she was a little more womanly--that is, if she would not look at
everything in such a direct, calm, impartial, impersonal sort of
way--she would be almost pretty."

But Miss Macks continued without color and without grace, and went on
looking at things as impersonally and impartially as ever.

"I shall be most happy, of course, to do anything that I can," Noel had
answered. Then to make a diversion, "Shall I not have the pleasure of
seeing Mrs. Macks?" he asked.

"Mrs. Macks? Oh, you mean mother. My mother's name is Spurr--Mrs. Spurr.
My father died when I was a baby, and some years afterwards she married
Mr. Spurr. She is now again a widow. Her health is not good, and she
sees almost no one, thank you."

"I suppose you are much pleased with the picturesqueness of Roman life,
and--ah--your apartment?" he went on.

"Pleased?" said Miss Macks, looking at him in wonder. "With our
apartment? We get along with it because we must; there seems to be no
other way to live in Rome. The idea of having only a story of a house,
and not a whole house to ourselves, is dreadful to mother; she cannot
get used to it. And with so many families below us--we have a
clock-mender, a dress-maker, an engraver, a print-seller, and a
cobbler--and only one pair of stairs, it does seem to me dreadfully
public."

"You must look upon the stairway as a street," said Noel. "You have
established yourselves in a very short time."

"Oh yes. I got an agent, and looked at thirty places the very first day.
I speak Italian a little, so I can manage the house-keeping; I began to
study it as soon as we thought of coming, and I studied hard. But all
this is of secondary importance; the real thing is to get to work. Will
you look at my paintings now?" she said, rising as if to go for them.

"Thanks; I fear I have hardly time to-day," said Noel. He was thinking
whether it would be better to decline clearly and in so many words the
office she had thrust upon him, or trust to time to effect the same
without an open refusal. He decided upon the latter course; it seemed
the easier, and also the kinder to her.

"Well, another day, then," said Miss Macks, cheerfully, taking her seat
again. "But about a teacher?"

"I hardly know--"

"Oh, Mr. Noel! you must know."

And, in truth, he did know. It came into his mind to give her the name
of a good teacher, and then put all further responsibilities upon him.

Miss Macks wrote down the name in a clear, ornamental handwriting.

"I am glad it isn't a foreigner," she said. "I don't believe I should
get on with a foreigner."

"But it is a foreigner."

"Why, it's an English name, isn't it?--Jackson."

"Yes, he is an Englishman. But isn't an Englishman a foreigner in Rome?"

"Oh, you take that view? Now, to me, America and--well, yes, perhaps
England, too, are the nations. Everything else is foreign."

"The English would be very much obliged to you," said Noel, laughing.

"Yes, I know I am more liberal than most Americans; I really like the
English," said Miss Macks, calmly. "But we keep getting off the track.
Let me see--Oh yes. As I shall go to see this Mr. Jackson this
afternoon, and as it is not likely that he will be ready to begin
to-morrow, will you come then and look at my pictures? Or would you
rather commence with a visit to one of the galleries?"

Raymond Noel was beginning to be amused. If she had shown the faintest
indication of knowing how much she was asking, if she had betrayed the
smallest sign of a desire to secure his attention as Raymond Noel
personally, and not simply the art authority upon whom she had pinned
her faith, his disrelish for various other things about her would have
been heightened into utter dislike, and it is probable that he would
never have entered the street of the Hyacinth again. But she was so
unaware of any intrusion, or any exorbitance in her demands, probably so
ignorant of--certainly so indifferent to--the degree of perfection
(perfection of the most quiet kind, however) visible in the general
appearance and manner of the gentleman before her, that (he said to
himself) he might as well have been one of her own Tuscolee farmers, for
all she knew to the contrary. The whole affair was unusual; and Noel
rather liked the unusual, if it was not loud--and Miss Macks was, at
least, not loud; she was dressed plainly in black, and she had the gift
of a sweet voice, which, although very clear, was low-toned. Noel was an
observer of voices, and he had noticed hers the first time he heard her
speak. While these thoughts were passing through his mind, he was
answering that he feared his engagements for the next day would,
unfortunately, keep him from putting himself at her service.

Her face fell; she looked much disappointed.

"Is it going to be like this all the time?" she asked, anxiously. "Are
you always engaged?"

"In Rome, in the winter, one generally has small leisure. It will be the
same with you, Miss Macks, when you have been here a while longer; you
will see. As to the galleries, Mr. Jackson has a class, I think, and
probably the pupils will visit them all under his charge; you will find
that very satisfactory."

"But I don't want Mr. Jackson for the galleries; I want you," said
Miss Macks. "I have studied your art criticisms until I know them by
heart, and I have a thousand questions to ask about every picture you
have mentioned. Why, Mr. Noel, I came to Europe to see you!"

Raymond Noel was rather at a loss what to answer to this statement, made
by a girl who looked at him so soberly and earnestly with clear gray
eyes. It would be of no avail again to assure her that his opinions
would be of small use to her; as she had said herself, she was very
determined, and she had made up her mind that they would be of great use
instead of small. Her idea must wear itself out by degrees. He would try
to make the degrees easy. He decided that he would have a little private
talk with Jackson, who was a very honest fellow; and, for the present,
he would simply take leave.

"You are very kind," he said, rising. "I appreciate it, I assure you. It
has made me stay an unconscionable time. I hope you will find Rome all
you expected, and I am sure you will; all people of imagination like
Rome. As to the galleries, yes, certainly; a--ah--little later. You must
not forget the various small precautions necessary here as regards the
fever, you know."

"Rome will not be at all what I expected if you desert me," answered
Miss Macks, paying no attention to his other phrases. She had risen,
also, and was now confronting him at a distance of less than two feet;
as she was tall, her eyes were not much below the level of his own.

"How can a man desert when he has never enlisted?" thought Noel,
humorously. But he kept his thought to himself, and merely replied, as
he took his hat: "Probably you will desert me; you will find out how
useless I am. You must not be too hard upon us, Miss Macks; we Americans
lose much of our native energy if we stay long over here."

"Hard?" she answered--"hard? Why, Mr. Noel, I am absolutely at your
feet!"

He looked at her, slightly startled, although his face showed nothing of
it; was she, after all, going to--But no; her sentence had been as
impersonal as those which had preceded it.

"All I said about having contrary opinions, and all that, amounts to
nothing," she went on, thereby relieving him from the necessity of
making reply. "I desire but one thing, and that is to have you guide me.
And I don't believe you are really going to refuse. You haven't an
unkind face, although you have got such a cold way! Why, think of it:
here I have come all this long distance, bringing mother, too, just to
study, and to see you. I shall study hard; I have a good deal of
perseverance. It took a good deal to get here in the first place, for we
are poor. But I don't mind that at all; the only thing I should mind,
the only thing that would take my courage away, would be to have you
desert me. In all the troubles that I thought might happen, I assure
you, I never once thought of that, Mr. Noel. I thought, of course, you
would be interested. Why, in your books you are all interest. Are you
different from your books?"

"I fear, Miss Macks, that writers are seldom good illustrations of their
own doctrines," replied Noel.

"That would make them hypocrites. I don't believe you are a hypocrite. I
expect you have a habit of running yourself down. Many gentlemen do
that, and then they think they will be cried up. I don't believe you are
going to be unkind; you will look at the pictures I have brought with
me, won't you?"

"Mr. Jackson's opinion is worth a hundred of mine, Miss Macks; my
knowledge is not technical. But, of course, if you wish it, I shall take
pleasure in obeying." He added several conventional remarks as
filling-up, and then, leaving his compliments for "your mother"--he
could not recall the name she had given--he went towards the little
curtained door.

She had brightened over his promise.

"You will come Monday, then, to see them, won't you?--as you cannot come
to-morrow," she said, smiling happily.

When she smiled (and she did not smile often), showing her little white,
child-like teeth, she looked very young. He was fairly caught, and
answered, "Yes." But he immediately qualified it with a "That is, if it
is possible."

"Oh, make it possible," she answered, still smiling and going with him
herself to the outer door instead of summoning the maid. The last he saw
of her she was standing in the open doorway, her face bright and
contented, watching him as he went down. He did not go to see her
pictures on the following Monday; he sent a note of excuse.

Some days later he met her.

"Ah, you are taking one of the delightful walks?" he said. "I envy you
your first impressions of Rome."

"I am not taking a walk--that is, for pleasure," she answered. "I am
trying to find some vegetables that mother can eat; the vegetables here
are so foreign! You don't know how disappointed I was, Mr. Noel, when I
got your note. It was such a setback! Why couldn't you come right home
with me now--that is, after I have got the vegetables--and see the
pictures? It wouldn't take you fifteen minutes."

It was only nine o'clock, and a beautiful morning. He thought her such a
novelty, with her urgent invitations, her earnest eyes, and her basket
on her arm, that he felt the impulse to walk beside her a while through
the old streets of Rome; he was very fond of the old streets, and was
curious to see whether she would notice the colors and outlines that
made their picturesqueness. She noticed nothing but the
vegetable-stalls, and talked of nothing but her pictures.

He still went on with her, however, amused by the questions she put to
the vegetable-dealers (questions compiled from the phrase-books), and
the calm contempt with which she surveyed the Roman artichokes they
offered. At last she secured some beans, but of sadly Italian aspect,
and Noel took the basket. He was much entertained by the prospect of
carrying it home. He remarked to himself that of all the various things
he had done in Rome this was the freshest. They reached the street of
the Hyacinth and walked down its dark centre.

"I see you have the sun," he said, looking up.

"Yes; that is the reason we took the top floor. We will go right up.
Everything is ready."

He excused himself.

"Some other time."

They had entered the dusky hallway. She looked at him without replying;
then held out her hand for the basket. He gave it to her.

"I suppose you have seen Mr. Jackson?" he said, before taking leave.

She nodded, but did not speak. Then he saw two tears rise in her eyes.

"My dear young lady, you have been doing too much! You are tired. Don't
you know that that is very dangerous in Rome?"

"It is nothing. Mother has been sick, and I have been up with her two
nights. Then, as she did not like our servant, I dismissed her, and as
we have not got any one else yet, I have had a good deal to do. But I
don't mind that at all, beyond being a little tired; it was only your
refusing to come up, when it seemed so easy. But never mind; you will
come another day." And, repressing the tears, she smiled faintly, and
held out her hand for good-bye.

"I will come now," said Noel. He took the basket again, and went up the
stairs. He was touched by the two tears, but, at the same time, vexed
with himself for being there at all. There was not one chance in five
hundred that her work was worth anything; and, in the four hundred and
ninety-nine, pray what was he to say?

She brought him everything. They were all in the four hundred and
ninety-nine. In his opinion they were all extremely and essentially bad.

It was one of Raymond Noel's beliefs that, where women were concerned, a
certain amount of falsity was sometimes indispensable. There were
occasions when a man could no more tell the bare truth to a woman than
he could strike her; the effect would be the same as a blow. He was an
excellent evader when he chose to exert himself, and he finally got away
from the little high-up apartment without disheartening or offending its
young mistress, and without any very black record of direct
untruth--what is more, without any positive promise as to the exact date
of his next visit. But all this was a good deal of trouble to take for
a girl he did not know or care for.

Soon afterwards he met, at a small party, Mrs. Lawrence.

"Tell me a little, please, about the young lady to whom you presented me
at Mrs. Dudley's reception--Miss Macks," he said, after some
conversation.

"A little is all I can tell," replied Mrs. Lawrence. "She brought a
letter of introduction to me from a far-away cousin of mine, who lives
out West somewhere, and whom I have not seen for twenty years; my home,
you know, is in New Jersey. How they learned I was in Rome I cannot
imagine; but, knowing it, I suppose they thought that Miss Macks and I
would meet, as necessarily as we should if together in their own
village. The letter assures me that the girl is a great genius; that all
she needs is an opportunity. They even take the ground that it will be a
privilege for me to know her! But I am mortally tired of young geniuses;
we have so many here in Rome! So I told her at once that I knew nothing
of modern art--in fact, detested it--but that in any other way I should
be delighted to be of use. And I took her to Mrs. Dudley's omnium
gatherum."

"Then you have not been to see her?"

"No; she came to see me. I sent cards, of course; I seldom call. What
did you think of her?"

"I thought her charming," replied Noel, remembering the night-vigils,
the vegetables, the dismissed servant, and the two tears of the young
stranger--remembering, also, her extremely bad pictures.

"I am glad she has found a friend in you," replied Mrs. Lawrence. "She
was very anxious to meet you; she looks upon you as a great authority.
If she really has talent--of course you would know--you must tell me.
It is not talent I am so tired of, but the pretence of it. She struck
me, although wofully unformed and awkward, of course, as rather
intelligent."

"She is intelligence personified," replied Noel, qualifying it mentally
with "intelligence without cultivation." He perceived that the young
stranger would have no help from Mrs. Lawrence, and he added to himself:
"And totally inexperienced purity alone in Rome." To be sure, there was
the mother; but he had a presentiment that this lady, as guardian, would
not be of much avail.

The next day he went down to Naples for a week with some friends. Upon
his return he stopped at Horace Jackson's studio one afternoon as he
happened to be passing. His time was really much occupied; he was a
favorite in Rome. To his surprise, Jackson seemed to think that Miss
Macks had talent. Her work was very crude, of course; she had been
brutally taught; teachers of that sort should simply be put out of
existence with the bowstring. He had turned her back to the alphabet;
and, in time, in time, they--would see what she could do.

Horace Jackson was English by birth, but he had lived in Italy almost
all his life. He was a man of forty-five--short, muscular, his thick,
rather shaggy, beard and hair mixed with gray; there was a permanent
frown over his keen eyes, and his rugged face had marked lines. He was a
man of strong individuality. He had the reputation of being the most
incorruptibly honest teacher in Rome. Noel had known him a long time,
and liked him, ill-tempered though he was. Jackson, however, had not
shown any especial signs of a liking for Noel in return. Perhaps he
thought that, in the nature of things, there could not be much in common
between a middle-aged, morose teacher, who worked hard, who knew nothing
of society, and did not want to know, and a man like Raymond Noel. True,
Noel was also an artist--that is, a literary one. But he had been highly
successful in his own field, and it was understood, also, that he had an
income of his own by inheritance, which, if not opulence, was yet
sufficiently large to lift him quite above the usual res angusta of
his brethren in the craft. In addition, Jackson considered Noel a
fashionable man; and that would have been a barrier, even if there had
been no other.

As the Englishman seemed to have some belief in Miss Macks, Noel did not
say all he had intended to say; he did, however, mention that the young
lady had a mistaken idea regarding any use he could be to her; he should
be glad if she could be undeceived.

"I think she will be," said Jackson, with a grim smile, giving his guest
a glance of general survey that took him in from head to foot; "she
isn't dull."

Noel understood the glance, and smiled at Jackson's idea of him.

"She is not dull, certainly," he answered. "But she is
rather--inexperienced." He dismissed the subject, went home, dressed,
and went out to dinner.

One morning, a week later, he was strolling through the Doria gallery.
He was in a bad humor. There were many people in the gallery that day,
but he was not noticing them; he detested a crowd. After a while some
one touched his coat-sleeve from behind. He turned, with his calmest
expression upon his face; when he was in an ill-humor he was
impassively calm. It was Miss Macks, her eyes eager, her face flushed
with pleasure.

"Oh, what good luck!" she said. "And to think that I almost went to the
Borghese, and might have missed you! I am so delighted that I don't know
