"It seems to me, doctor, you were extravagant."

"It does seem so."

I did not propose to enlighten Mrs. Wyman as to the small expense I was
at for a ticket. I could see with secret amusement that her respect for
me was increased by my supposed liberal outlay. In this respect I showed
to advantage beside her escort who had availed himself of a ticket
purchased by her. She had represented that the tickets were sent her by
the management.

"The Count had an advantage over us," said the widow. "He could
understand the language."

"Si, Signora," said the Count, with a smile.

"It wasn't the words I cared for," said I. "I should enjoy Patti if she
sang in Arabic."

"Well, perhaps so. Were you ever in Italy, doctor?"

"No, the only foreign country I ever visited was New Jersey."

"Is New Jersey then a foreign country?" asked the Count, puzzled.

"It is only a joke, Count," said the widow.

"And a poor one, I admit."

"The Count had been telling me of his ancestral home, of the vine-clad
hills, and the olive trees, and the orange groves. Oh, I am wild to
visit that charming Italy."

"Perhaps you may do so some day, my dear Mrs. Wyman," said the Count, in
a soft tone.

The widow cast down her eyes.

"It would be too lovely," she said.

When we reached the boarding-house, the Count asked, "May I come up to
your room, Dr. Fenwick?"

"Certainly. I shall be glad to have you do so." My room was a small one.
I should have had to pay a higher price for a larger one. However, I
gave the Count my only chair, and sat on the bed.

"Is it permitted?" he asked, as he lighted a cigarette.

"Oh, yes," I replied, but I only said so out of politeness. It was
decidedly disagreeable to have any one smoke in my chamber in the
evening. I could, however, open the window afterwards and give it an
airing.

"Mrs. Wyman is a very fine woman," said the Count, after a pause.

"Very," I responded, briefly.

"And she is rich, is she not?" he asked, in some anxiety.

"Sits the wind in that quarter?" I thought. "Well, I won't stand in the
way."

"She seems independent."

"Ah! you mean--"

"That she has enough to live upon. She never seemed to have any money
troubles. I suppose it is the same with you, you no doubt draw a
revenue from your estates in Italy?"

"No, no, you make a mistake. They belong to my father, and he is
displease with me. He will send me no money."

"Are you the oldest son?"

"Si, signor!" but he answered hesitatingly.

"Then you will be all right some day."

"True, doctor, some day, but just now I am what you call short. You
could do me a great favor."

"What is it?"

"If you could lend me fifty dollar?"

"My dear Count, it would be quite impossible. Do you think I am rich?"

"You pay five--six dollar for your ticket to hear Patti."

"It was imprudent, but I wished to hear her; now I must be careful."

"I would pay you when I get my next remittance from Italy."

"It will not be possible," I answered, firmly. "Have you asked Prof.
Poppendorf?"

"No! Has he got money?"

"I think he has more than I."

"I have a special use for the money," said the Count, but I did not ask
what it was.

Presently the Count rose and left me. It took twenty minutes to clear
the room of the vile smell of cigarette smoke.

"After all," thought I, "there is a chance for Mrs. Wyman to become a
Countess, that is if he is a real Count." Upon this point I did not feel
certain.

"Well, did you enjoy Patti?" asked Miss Blagden at the breakfast table.

"Immensely. Why did you not go?"

"Because I have very little taste for music," answered the Disagreeable
Woman.

"Mrs. Wyman was there."

"She sings," said Miss Blagden, with a slight smile.

"Yes, the Count was with her."

"Humph! where did they sit?"

"In the upper part of the house somewhere. I felt myself out of place
among the Four Hundred. But it brought me luck."

"How is that?"

"I secured a patient, a Mr. Gregory Vincent of Madison Avenue."

"Was Gregory Vincent there? How did you make his acquaintance?"

"He was my next neighbor. He seemed to take a liking to me, confided to
me that he was a victim of rheumatism, and I am to assume charge of his
case."

"I am very glad," said Miss Blagden, heartily. "Do your best to cure
him."

"I will."

"And don't be afraid to send him in a good bill."

"I am sure he will pay me liberally."

"It may be your stepping stone to success."

"Thank you for your kind interest."

"And how is your poor patient--Alice Mills?"

"Quite well now, but I wish she were not obliged to spend so many hours
in a crowded store."

"When do you call there again?"

"I may call this morning."

"I will go with you. I have a plan for them."

Miss Blagden accompanied me to the poor house. She was so kind and
gentle that I did not understand how any one could call her the
Disagreeable Woman.

In a few days, thanks to her, Mrs. Mills was installed as housekeeper to
a wealthy widower in Fifty-seventh street. Alice was made governess to
two young children, and Frank was provided with a home in return for
some slight services.




CHAPTER XVII.

MY RICH PATIENT.


When I was admitted to the house of Gregory Vincent, I was surprised by
its magnificence. It has been said that there are few palaces in Europe
that compare in comfort and luxury with a first class New York mansion.
I have never been in a palace, and Mr. Vincent's house was the only
aristocratic house which I had had an opportunity to view. But I am
prepared to indorse the remark.

I handed my card to the liveried servant who opened the door.

"Dr. Fenwick," he repeated. "Yes, sir; you are expected."

He led me upstairs into an elegant library, or sitting-room and library
combined. Here sat my acquaintance of the evening before, with his foot
swathed in bandages and resting on a chair, while he was seated in a
cosy arm-chair.

"Good-morning, doctor," he said. "I am glad to see you. You see that I
am in the grasp of my old enemy."

"We will try to rout him," I said, cheerfully.

"That sounds well, and encourages me. Do you know, Dr. Fenwick, that
without any special reason I feel great confidence in you. You are a
young man, probably not more than half as old as my regular physician,
but he has not been able to do me any good."

"And I hope to be able to do so."

"I suppose you have had experience in such cases?"

"Yes, I have an old aunt who had suffered untold tortures from
rheumatism. She put herself under my charge, and for her sake I made an
extensive study of rheumatic cases and remedies."

"Well?" he asked, eagerly.

"I finally cured her. It is now three years since she has had a twinge."

"Good! My instinct was correct. That gives me hopes of success under
your charge. Don't be afraid to lose your patient by effecting a speedy
cure. I will make you a promise. When you have so far cured me that I am
free from rheumatic pains for three months, I will hand you a check for
a thousand dollars."

"A thousand dollars!" I repeated with sparkling eyes. "That will indeed
be an inducement."

"Of course I shall pay you your regular fees besides."

I could hardly credit my good fortune. I was like one who had just
received intelligence that I had drawn a large sum in the lottery. I
determined to win the promised check if there was any chance.

I began to question Mr. Vincent as to his trouble. I found that it was a
case of rheumatic gout. A difficult case, but very similar to that of
my aunt. I resolved to try the same treatment with him.

I wished to ask some questions, but he forestalled them.

"I have no wife," he said. "I was left a widower many years ago. My
niece and myself constitute our whole family."

"Don't you feel lonely at times?" I asked.

"Yes. My niece has her friends, suited to one of her age, but little
company for me. If I had a nephew now--like yourself--it would cheer me
up and give me a new interest in life."

"I wish you were my uncle," I said to myself.

"I am an old man, but I have great interest in young company. I think it
was that that drew me toward you at Patti's concert. When I learned that
you were a physician I saw that I could make it worth your while to call
on an old man. I hope you are not a very busy man."

"Not yet," I answered, guardedly. I felt that it would be unwise to let
him know how far from a busy man I was.

"Then you will be able to call upon me every day."

"I will do so gladly, but it will not be necessary--from a medical point
of view."

"No matter! I shall be glad to have you come, and of course I pay for
your time. It will be an advantage, no doubt, to have your patient under
constant observation."

"That is true."

"Now I won't put you to the trouble of keeping an account of your
visits. I will agree to pay you twenty-five dollars a week if that will
be satisfactory."

Twenty-five dollars a week! Why I scarcely made that sum in fees in a
month.

"It is more than I should think of charging," I said, frankly.

"Then it is satisfactory. Your money will be paid you at the end of
every week."

When I left the house I felt as if I had suddenly come into a fortune.
Now I could see my way clear. The little stock of money which still
remained to me would suffer no further diminution. On the contrary, I
should be able to add to it.

It is said that there comes to every man once in his life a chance to
succeed. Apparently mine had come to me, and this chance had come to me
through the Disagreeable Woman.




CHAPTER XVIII.

THE PROFESSOR'S BOOK.


For some weeks matters went on quietly at our boarding-house. Prof.
Poppendorf, in spite of the failure of his matrimonial schemes, ate,
smoked, and drank as tranquilly as ever. Ruth was grateful to him that
he had accepted her refusal as final, and disturbed her no more. They
still sat near each other at the table, but there was never anything in
his manner to indicate that there had been any romantic passages between
them.

The Disagreeable Woman remained as great a mystery as ever. Sometimes
she was absent for three or four days together. Then she would suddenly
reappear. No one ever asked where she had been. It would have taken rare
courage to do that. Nor did she ever volunteer any explanation.

Whether she possessed large means or not no one could conjecture. She
always paid her board bill, and with unfailing regularity, at the end of
every week. Her dress was always plain, but oftentimes of costly
material. She seldom indulged in conversation, though she was always
ready with an answer when spoken to. Perhaps I may mention as exceptions
to her general rule of reticence the young woman from Macy's and myself.
She seemed to feel more kindly toward us than toward any of the others.

There had been various attempts to find out where she lived. None had
succeeded. One day Mrs. Wyman asked the question directly.

"Where do you live, Miss Blagden, if you will allow me to ask?"

"I will allow you to ask," returned the Disagreeable Woman, coolly. "Do
you propose to call on me?"

"If you will permit me."

"It is hardly necessary. We meet at the table every day. I am a hermit,"
she added after a pause, "I do not care to receive visitors."

"I once heard of a hermit who lived in one of the cottages on the rocks
near Central Park," said the widow, rather impertinently.

"I don't live there!" said the Disagreeable Woman, composedly.

"Of course not. I did not suppose you did."

"Thank you. You are right as usual."

If Miss Blagden meant to be sarcastic, nothing in her tone revealed it.
She had warded off the attack dictated by curiosity.

Whether Miss Blagden was rich or not, she was always ready to contribute
to any public or private cause. When Prof. Poppendorf announced that he
was about to publish a book, enlarged from his lecture on "The Material
and The Immaterial." Miss Blagden subscribed for two copies.

"One is for you, Dr. Fenwick!" she said, in a low tone.

"Thank you, Miss Blagden. You are very kind. Am I expected to read it?"

"If you can," she responded with a grim smile.

The other boarders were asked, but each had some excuse.

"I have just bought a new hat," said Mrs. Wyman.

"I no understand English," said the Count.

"Do you think I ought to subscribe, Miss Blagden?" asked Ruth.

"No, child. Why should you? You have a use for your money. Besides, you
would not understand it. If you wish, I will buy one for you?"

"No, thank you, Miss Blagden. It would be of no use to me, but I
thought the Professor would think it friendly."

She could not explain that she wished to make amends for refusing his
suit, for she had with rare delicacy abstained from mentioning the
learned German's uncouth courtship. Perhaps Miss Blagden, who was very
observing, penetrated her motive, for she said: "There is something in
that. Subscribe, and I will pay for the book."

Upon this Ruth gently told the Professor that she would take a copy.

He was surprised and delighted.

"By all means Mees Ruth, but perhaps I should give you one."

"No, no, Prof. Poppendorf. I want to show my interest in you--and your
book."

"You are so good. I will give you the first copy."

"Thank you," said Ruth, shyly.

"What do you want of the old fossil's book?" asked Mrs. Wyman later,
when the Professor was out of hearing. "I suspect that you are in love
with the Professor."

"No, you don't suspect that," said Ruth, composedly.

"At any rate he seems struck with you."

"I suppose I am either material or immaterial," returned Ruth, laughing.

"You went to walk with him one evening."

"I am afraid you are jealous, Mrs. Wyman."

The widow laughed and the conversation ended.




CHAPTER XIX.

A SPEECH FROM THE THRONE.


It was some time since Mrs. Gray had made any communication to the
boarders.

But one evening she seemed laboring under suppressed excitement.

"Something is up," said Mr. Blake, the young reporter who sat on my
left, the Disagreeable Woman being on my right.

"We shall have it after supper," I answered.

Mrs. Gray always waited till the last boarder had finished his meal. It
was one of the unwritten laws of the boarding-house.

The last boarder on this occasion was Professor Poppendorf. He was the
heartiest eater, and we usually had to wait for him. When he had taken
the last sip of beer, for in consideration of his national tastes he was
always supplied with a schooner of that liquid which is dear to the
Teutonic heart, Mrs. Gray opened her mouth.

"My friends," she said, "I have a letter to read to you."

She opened a perfumed billet, adjusted her spectacles, and read.

"It is from Mrs. Wyman," she said, "and it is at her request that I read
it."

We had already noticed that neither Mrs. Wyman nor the Count was
present.

Mrs. Gray began:


"MY DEAR MRS. GRAY:--For three years I have been an inmate of your happy
home. I have come to feel an interest in it and in all whose
acquaintance I have made here. I had no thought of leaving you, but
circumstances make it necessary. Let me say at once that I have
consented to marry Count di Penelli. You who are familiar with his fine
traits and aristocratic bearing will hardly be surprised that I have
been unable to resist his ardent entreaties. I had indeed intended never
to marry again, but it was because I never expected to find one who
could take the place of my dear departed first husband. The Count and I
leave by an early train for Philadelphia where the ceremony will be
performed. We may remain there for a few days. Beyond that our plans are
not arranged. We would have had a public wedding and invited our
friends, but as the Count's family are in Italy and cannot be present,
we thought it best to have a simple private ceremony. When we go to
Italy next summer there may be another ceremony at the Penelli Castle in
Southern Italy.

"I cannot tell when I shall return to New York. Probably I shall never
again be an inmate of your happy home. The Count and I may take a flat
up-town--a whole house would be too large for us. But I shall--we shall
certainly call on our old friends, and I trust that the ties that bind
us together in friendship may never weaken.

"I shall soon be the Countess di Penelli. But once more and for the last
time, I subscribe myself

"Your faithful and devoted
"LETITIA WYMAN."


We listened to the reading of the letter in silent excitement. Then
there was a chorus of exclamations.

"Did you ever?" ejaculated the young woman from Macy's.

"I am not surprised," said the Disagreeable woman, calmly. "Mrs. Wyman
has been courting the Count ever since he came here."

"You mean that he has been paying his attentions to her," suggested Mr.
Blake, the reporter.

"No, I mean what I say."

"She says she had no thought of marrying again."

"Mr. Blake, you are a young man. You don't understand women, and
particularly widows. Probably there is not a gentleman at the table whom
Mrs. Wyman has not thought of as a matrimonial subject, yourself not
excepted."

Mr. Blake was a very young man, and he blushed.

"She would not have married me," growled the Professor.

Most of us smiled.

"Are you pledged to celibacy, Professor?" asked the landlady.

"No, madam. If a certain young lady would marry me I would marry
to-morrow."

Ruth Canby blushed furiously, and was indignant with herself for doing
so, especially as it drew all glances to her.

"Let us hope you may be successful in your suit, Professor," said Mrs.
Gray.

"Thank you, my dear lady; time will show."

Miss Blagden turned her searching glance upon the flaming cheeks of Ruth
and smiled kindly. If there was any one at the table whom she liked it
was the young woman from Macy's.

"I suppose there is no doubt about his being a Count," suggested Mr.
Blake.

"I should say there was a good deal of doubt," answered the Disagreeable
Woman.

"Do you really think so?"

"It is my conjecture."

"Oh, I think there is no doubt about it," said the landlady, who prided
herself on having had so aristocratic a boarder.

"I am a loser by this marriage," said Mrs. Gray. "I have two rooms
suddenly vacated."

"A friend of mine will take one of them," said Mr. Blake, the reporter.
"He has been wishing to get in here for a month."

"I shall be glad to receive him," said Mrs. Gray, graciously.

The other room was also taken within a week.




CHAPTER XX.

A STARTLING DISCOVERY.


Usually I secured a morning paper, and ran over the contents at my
office while waiting for patients.

It was perhaps a week later that I selected the Herald--I did not
confine myself exclusively to one paper--and casually my eye fell upon
the arrivals at the hotels.

I started in surprise as I read among the guests at the Brevoort House
the name of Count di Penelli.

"What!" I exclaimed, "are our friends back again? Why is not the
Countess mentioned? Perhaps, however, the Count has left his wife in
Philadelphia, and come on here on business."

It chanced that I had occasion to pass the Brevoort an hour later.

I was prompted to call and inquire for the Count.

"Yes, he is in. Will you send up your card?"

I hastily inscribed my name on a card and sent it up to his room.

The bell-boy soon returned.

"The Count will be glad to see you, sir," he said. "Will you follow me?"

"He is getting ceremonious," I reflected. "I thought he would come down
to see me."

I followed the bell-boy to a room on the second floor.

"Dr. Fenwick?" he said, as the door was opened.

I saw facing me a tall, slender, dark-complexioned man of about
forty-five, a perfect stranger to me.

"I wished to see Count di Penelli," I stammered, in some confusion.

"I am the Count," he answered, courteously.

"But the Count I know is a young man."

"There is no other Count di Penelli."

"Pardon me!" I said, "but a young man calling himself by that name was
for two months a fellow boarder of mine."

"Describe him, if you please," said the Count, eagerly.

I did so.

"Ah," said the Count, when I concluded, "it is doubtless my valet, who
has been masquerading under my title. He ran away from me at the West,
nearly three months since, carrying with him three hundred dollars. I
set detectives upon his track, but they could find no clue. Is the
fellow still at your boarding-house?"

"No, Count, he eloped a week since with a widow, another of our
boarders. I believe they are in Philadelphia."

"Then he has deceived the poor woman. Has she got money?"

"A little. I don't think she has much."

"That is what he married her for. Doubtless he supposed her wealthy. He
had probably spent all the money he took from me."

"I hope, Count, for the sake of his wife, you will not have him
arrested."

Count di Penelli shrugged his shoulders.

"I will let him go at your request, poor devil," he said. "Why did she
marry him?"

"For his title."

"Then the heart is not concerned?"

"I never discovered that Mrs. Wyman had a heart."

"Probably both will be heartily sick of the marriage, perhaps are so
already."

"Thank you for your information, Count."

"And I thank you for yours. Good-morning!"

I said nothing at the boarding-house of the discovery I had made. Why
should I? So far as the rest of the boarders knew Mrs. Wyman was a
veritable Countess.




CHAPTER XXI.

AFTER THREE MONTHS.


The curtain falls and rises again after an interval of three months.

There have been some changes in our boarding-house. Prof. Poppendorf
still occupies his accustomed place, and so does Miss Blagden. The young
reporter still sits at my left, and entertains me with interesting
gossip and information about public affairs and public men with whom he
has come in contact.

But the young woman from Macy's has left us. She has returned to her
country home and is now the wife of her rustic admirer, Stephen Higgins.
I think she has done wisely. Life in the great stores is a species of
slavery, and she could save nothing from her salary. When Prof.
Poppendorf heard of her marriage, he looked depressed, but I noticed
that his appetite was not affected. A true Teuton seldom allows anything
to interfere with that.

Mrs. Gray has received two or three notes from the Countess di Penelli.
They treated of business matters solely. Whether she has discovered that
her husband's title is spurious I cannot tell. I hear, however, from a
drummer who is with us at intervals, that she is keeping a
boarding-house on Spring Garden street, and that her title has been the
magnet that has drawn to her house many persons who are glad in this way
to obtain a titled acquaintance.

As for myself I am on the high road to a comfortable income. I was
fortunate enough to give my rich patient so much relief that I have
received the large check he promised me, and have been recommended by
him to several of his friends. I have thought seriously of removing to
a more fashionable neighborhood, but have refrained--will it be
believed?--from my reluctance to leave the Disagreeable Woman. I am
beginning to understand her better. Under a brusque exterior she
certainly possesses a kind heart, and consideration for others. Upon
everything in the shape of humbug or pretension she is severe, but she
can appreciate worth and true nobility. In more than one instance I have
applied to her in behalf of a poor patient, and never in vain.

Yet I am as much in the dark as ever as to her circumstances and
residence. Upon these subjects I have ceased, not perhaps to feel, but
to show any curiosity. The time was coming, however, when I should learn
more of her.

One day a young girl came to my office. Her mother kept a modest lodging
house on West Eleventh street, and she had been my patient.

"Any one sick at home, Sarah?" I asked.

"No, doctor, but we have a lodger who is very low with a fever. I think
he is very poor. I am afraid he cannot pay a doctor, but mother thought
you would be willing to call."

"To be sure," I said, cheerfully, "I will be at your house in an hour."

An hour found me ringing at the door of Mrs. Graham's plain lodging
house.

"I thought you would come, Dr. Fenwick," said the good woman, who
personally answered the bell. "You come in good time, for poor Mr.
Douglas is very sick."

"I will follow you to his room."

He occupied a small room on the third floor. It was furnished in plain
fashion. The patient, a man who was apparently nearing fifty, was
tossing restlessly on his bed. Poorly situated as he was, I could see
that in health he must have been a man of distinguished bearing.
Poverty and he seemed ill-mated.

"Mr. Douglas," said the landlady, "this is Dr. Fenwick. I took the
liberty of calling him, as you are so ill."

The sick man turned upon me a glance from a pair of full, black eyes.

"Dr. Fenwick," he said, sadly, "I thank you for coming, but I am almost
a pauper, and I fear I cannot pay you for your services."

"That matters little," I replied. "You need me, that is enough. Let me
feel your pulse."

I found that he was in a high fever. His symptoms were serious. He
looked like a man with a constitution originally strong, but it had been
severely tried.

"Well?" he asked.

"You are seriously ill. I am not prepared just now with my diagnosis,
but I can tell better in a day or two."

"Shall I be long ill?" he asked.

"It will take time to recover."

"Shall I recover?" he asked, pointedly.

"We will hope for the best."

"I understand. Don't think I am alarmed. Life has few charms for me. My
chief trouble is that I shall be a burden to you and Mrs. Graham."

"Don't think of me, I have a fair practise, but I have time for you."

"Thank you, doctor. You are very kind."

"Let me put down your name," I said, taking down my tablets.

"My name is Philip Douglas."

I noted the name, and shortly left him.

I felt that in his critical condition he ought to have a nurse, but
where was the money to come from to pay one?

"He is no common man," I reflected. "He has been rich. His personal
surroundings do not fit him."

Somehow I had already come to feel an interest in my patient. There was
something in his appearance that set me wondering what his past could
have been.

"It must have been his misfortune, not his fault," I decided, for he
bore no marks of dissipation.

Under favorable circumstances I felt that I could pull him through, but
without careful attendance and generous living there was great doubt.
What should I do? I decided to speak of his case to the Disagreeable
Woman.




CHAPTER XXII.

I APPEAL TO THE DISAGREEABLE WOMAN.


"Miss Blagden," I said when the opportunity came, "I want to interest
you in a patient of mine--a gentleman to whom I was called this
morning."

"Speak freely, doctor. Is there anything I can do for him?"

"Much, for he requires much. He is lying in a poor lodging-house
grievously ill with a fever. He has little or no money, yet he must once
have been in affluent circumstances. Without a trained nurse, and the
comforts that only money can buy, I fear he will not live."

"It is a sad case. I am willing to cooperate with you. What is your
patient's name?"

"Philip Douglas."

"Philip Douglas!" she exclaimed, in evident excitement. "Tell me
quickly, what is his appearance?"

"He is a large man, of striking appearance, with full, dark eyes, who
must in earlier days have been strikingly handsome."

"And he is poor, and ill?" she said, breathless.

"Very poor and very ill."

Her breath came quick. She seemed deeply agitated.

"And where is he living?"

"In No. -- West Eleventh Street."

"Take me there at once."

I looked at her in amazement.

"Dr. Fenwick," she said, "you wonder at my excitement. I will explain
it. This man, Philip Douglas, and I were once engaged to be married. The
engagement was broken through my fault and my folly. I have regretted it
many times. I have much to answer for. I fear that I wrecked his life,
and it may be too late to atone. But I will try. Lead me to him."

I bowed gravely, and we set out.

Arrived at the lodging-house I thought it prudent to go up alone. I
feared that excitement might be bad for my patient.

He was awake and resting more comfortably.

"How do you feel?" I asked.

"Better, doctor. Thanks to you."

"Have you no relatives whom you would wish to see--or friends?"

"I have no relatives in New York," he said.

"Or friends?"

He paused and looked thoughtful.

"I don't know," he answered, slowly. "There is one--I have not seen her
for many years--but it is impossible, yet I would give my life to see
Jane Blagden."

"Why not send for her?"

"She would not come. We were friends once--very dear friends--I hoped
to marry her. Now I am poor and broken in health, I must give up the
thought."

"Could you bear to see her? Would it not make you ill?"

"What do you mean, doctor?" he asked, quickly.

"I mean that Miss Blagden is below. She wishes to see you."

"Can it be? Are you a magician? How could you know of her?"

"Never mind that. Shall I bring her up?"

"Yes."




CHAPTER XXIII.

AT LAST.


Jane Blagden paused a moment at the entrance to the room, as if to
gather strength for the interview. I had never seen her so moved. Then
she opened the door and entered with a firm step.

He lay on the bed with his eyes fixed eagerly on the door. As she
entered he tried to raise his head.

"Jane!" he exclaimed, eagerly.

She placed her hand for a moment on her heart, as if to still its
throbbing. Then she walked quickly to the bed.

"Philip!" she said.

"At last!" he cried, in a low voice.

"Can you forgive me, Philip, dear Philip?"

"If there is anything to forgive."

"There is--much. I am afraid you have suffered."

"I have."

"And so have I. Since we parted I have been lonely--desolate. I let my
pride and my obstinacy come between us--but I have been punished."
