
She dropped her eyes, but after a moment, 
while her left hand patted her heart, she raised 
them with an odd, strained expression. " I mean 
is it really good enough ? " 

" That's exactly what I want you to tell me ! " 
Dennis laughed out. A certain surprise at her 
manner was in his face. 

While she noted it she heard a sound again, a 
sound this time explained by the opening of the 
door of the vestibule. Doctor Ramage had come 
back ; Rose put down her letter. " I'll tell you 
as soon as I have spoken to the Doctor." 



IX 



THE Doctor, eagerly, spoke to her first. " Our 
friend has not come back ? " 

" Mine has," said Rose with grace. " Let me 
introduce Mr. Vidal." Doctor Ramage beamed a 
greeting, and our young lady, with her discreet 
gaiety, went on to Dennis : " He too thinks all 
the world of me." 

" Oh, she's a wonder she knows what to 
do ! But you'll see that for yourself," said the 
Doctor. 

" I'm afraid you won't approve of we," Dennis 
replied with solicitude. " You'll think me rather 
in your patient's way." 

"Doctor Ramage laughed. "No indeed I'm 
sure Miss Armiger will keep you out of it." 
Then looking at his watch, " Bream's not with 
her still?" he inquired of Rose. 

"He came away, but he returned to her." 

"He shouldn't have done that." 






" It was by my advice, and I'm sure you'll find 
it's all right," Rose replied. "But you'll send 
him back to us." 

" On the spot." And the Doctor danced off. 

"He's not at all easy," Dennis pronounced 
when he had gone. 

Rose demurred. "How do you know that?" 

"By looking at him. I'm not such a fool," 
her visitor added with some emphasis, "as you 
strike me as wishing to make of me." 

Rose candidly stared. " As I strike you as 

wishing ? " For a moment this young couple 

looked at each other hard, and they both changed 
colour. " My dear Dennis, what do you mean ? " 

He evidently felt that he had been almost vio 
lently abrupt; but it would have been equally 
evident to a spectator that he was a man of cool 
courage. "I mean, Rose, that I don't quite 
know what's the matter with you. It's as if, 
unexpectedly, on my eager arrival, I find some 
thing or other between us." 

She appeared immensely relieved. "Why, my 
dear child, of course you do ! Poor Julia's be 
tween us much between us." She faltered 
again ; then she broke out with emotion : " I may 
as well confess it frankly I'm miserably anxious. 



 

Good heavens," she added with impatience, " don't 
you see it for yourself ? " 

" I certainly see that you're agitated and absent 
as you warned me so promptly you would be. 
But remember you've quite denied to me the 
gravity of Mrs. Bream's condition." 

Rose's impatience overflowed into a gesture. 
"I've been doing that to deceive my own self!" 

"I understand," said Dennis kindly. "Still," 
he went on, considering, " it's either one thing or 
the other. The poor lady's either dying, you 
know, or she ain't ! " 

His friend looked at him with a reproach too 
fine to be uttered. " My dear Dennis you're 
harsh ! " 

He showed a face as conscientious as it was 
blank. " I'm crude possibly coarse ? Perhaps 
I am without intention." 

"Think what these people are to me," said 
Rose. 

He was silent a little. " Is it anything so very 
extraordinary? Oh, I know," he went on, as if 
he feared she might again accuse him of a want 
of feeling ; " I appreciate them perfectly I do 
them full justice. Enjoying their hospitality 
here, I'm conscious of all their merits." The 


letter she had put down was still on the table, 
and he took it up and fingered it a moment. 
"All I mean is that I don't want you quite 
to sink the fact that Fin something to you 
too." 

She met this appeal with instant indulgence. 
" Be a little patient with me," she gently said. 
Before he could make a rejoinder, she pursued: 
"You yourself are impressed with the Doctor's 
being anxious. I've been trying not to think 
so, but I daresay you're right. There, I've an 
other worry." 

" The greater your worry, then, the more press 
ing our business." Dennis spoke with cordial 
decision, while Rose, moving away from him, 
reached the door by which the Doctor had gone 
out. She stood there as if listening, and he con 
tinued: "It's me, you know, that you've now to 
' fall back ' upon." 

She had already raised a hand with her clear 
" Hush ! " arid she kept her eyes on her com 
panion while she tried to catch a sound. "The 
Doctor said he would send him out of the room. 
But he doesn't." 

" All the better for your reading this." Den 
nis held out the letter to her. 



 

She quitted her place. "If he's allowed to 
stay, there must be something wrong." 

" I'm very sorry for them ; but don't you call 
that a statement ? " 

" Ah, your letter ? " Her attention came back 
to it, and, taking it from him, she dropped again 
upon the sofa with it. " Voyons, voyons this great 
affair!" she had the air of trying to talk her 
self into calmness. 

Dennis stood a moment before her. " It puts 
us on a footing that really seems to me sound." 

She had turned over the leaf to take the measure 
of the document; there were three large, close, 
neat pages. " He's a trifle long-winded, the 
'governor' ! " 

" The longer the better," Dennis laughed, " when 
it's all in that key ! Read it, my dear, quietly and 
carefully; take it in it's really simple enough." 
He spoke soothingly and tenderly, turning off to 
give her time and not oppress her. He moved 
slowly about the hall, whistling very faintly and 
looking again at the pictures, and when he had 
left her she followed him a minute with her eyes. 
Then she transferred them to the door at which 
she had just listened ; instead of reading she 
watched as if for a movement of it. If there had 





been anyone at that moment to see her face, such 
an observer would have found it strangely, tragi 
cally convulsed : she had the appearance of holding 
in with extraordinary force some passionate sob or 
cry, some smothered impulse of anguish. This 
appearance vanished miraculously as Dennis turned 
at the end of the room, and what he saw, while 
the great showy clock ticked in the scented still 
ness, was only his friend's study of what he had put 
before her. She studied it long, she studied it in 
silence a silence so unbroken by inquiry or com 
ment that, though he clearly wished not to seem 
to hurry her, he drew nearer again at last and 
stood as if waiting for some sign. 

" Don't you call that really meeting a fellow ? " 
"I must read it again," Rose replied without 
looking up. She turned afresh to the beginning, 
and he strolled away once more. She went 
through to the end; after which she said with 
tranquillity, folding the letter : " Yes ; it shows 
what they think of you." She put it down where 
she had put it before, getting up as he came back 
to her. " It's good not only for what he says, but 
for the way he says it." 

" It's a jolly bit more than I expected." Dennis 
picked the letter up and, restoring it to its en- 



 

velope, slipped it almost lovingly into a breast 
pocket. " It does show, I think, that they don't 
want to lose me." 

" They're not such fools ! " Rose had in her 
turn moved off, but now she faced him, so intensely 
pale that he was visibly startled ; all the more that 
it marked still more her white grimace. " My dear 
boy, it's a splendid future." 

" I'm glad it strikes you so ! " he laughed. 

" It's a great joy you're all right. As I said 
a while ago, you're a made man." 

"Then by the same token, of course, you're 
a made woman ! " 

" I'm very, very happy about you," she brightly 
conceded. " The great thing is that there's more 
to come." 

" Rather there's more to come ! " said Dennis. 
He stood meeting her singular smile. " I'm only 
waiting for it." 

"I mean there's a lot behind a general 
attitude. Read between the lines ! " 

"Don't you suppose I have, Miss? I didn't 
venture, myself, to say that to you." 

" Do I have so to be prompted and coached ? " 
asked Rose. " I don't believe you even see all 
I mean. There are hints and tacit promises 





glimpses of what may happen if you'll give 
them time." 

" Oh, I'll give them time ! " Dennis declared. 
" But he's really awfully cautious. You're sharp 
to have made out so much." 

"Naturally I'm sharp." Then, after an in 
stant, "Let me have the letter again," the girl 
said, holding out her hand. Dennis promptly 
drew it forth, and she took it and went over 
it in silence once more. He turned away as he 
had done before, to give her a chance ; he 
hummed slowly, to himself, about the room, and 
once more, at the end of some minutes, it 
appeared to strike him that she prolonged her 
perusal. But when he approached her again 
she was ready with her clear contentment. She 
folded the letter and handed it back to him. 
" Oh, you'll do ! " she proclaimed. 

"You're really quite satisfied?" 

She hesitated a moment. "For the present 
perfectly." Her eyes were on the precious 
document as he fingered it, and something in 
his way of doing so made her break into incon 
gruous gaiety. He had opened it delicately and 
been caught again by a passage. "You handle 
it as if it were a thousand-pound note ! " 



 

He looked up at her quickly. "It's much 
more than that. Capitalise his figure." 

"'Capitalise' it?" 

" Find the invested sum." 

Rose thought a moment. " Oh, I'll do every 
thing for you but cipher ! But it's millions." 
Then as he returned the letter to his pocket she 
added : " You should have that thing mounted in 
double glass with a little handle like a hand- 
screen." 

" There's certainly nothing too good for the 
charter of our liberties for that's what it really 
is," Dennis said. " But you can face the music ? " 
he went on. 

" The music ? " Rose was momentarily blank. 

He looked at her hard again. " You have, my 
dear, the most extraordinary vacuities. The figure 
we're talking of the poor, dear little figure. 
The five-hundred-and-forty," he a trifle sharply 
explained. " That's about what it makes." 

"Why, it seems to me a lovely little figure," 
said the girl. " To the ' likes ' of me, how can 
that be anything but a duck of an income ? Then," 
she exclaimed, " think also of what's to come ! " 

"Yes but I'm not speaking of anything you 
may bring." 





Rose wavered, judicious, as if trying to be as 
attentive as he desired. "I see without that. 
But I wasn't speaking of that either," she added. 

"Oh, you may count it I only mean I don't 
touch it. And the going out you take that 
too ? " Dennis asked. 

Rose looked brave. "Why it's only for two 
years." 

He flushed suddenly, as with a flood of reassur 
ance, putting his arms round her as round the 
fulfilment of his dream. " Ah, my own old girl ! " 

She let him clasp her again, but when she disen 
gaged herself they were somehow nearer to the 
door that led away to Julia Bream. She stood 
there as she had stood before, while he still held 
one of her hands; then she brought forth some 
thing that betrayed an extraordinary disconnection 
from all that had just preceded. "I can't make 
it out why he doesn't send him back ! " 

Dennis Vidal dropped her hand ; both his own 
went into his pockets, and he gave a kick to the 
turned-up corner of a rug. " Mr. Bream the 
Doctor? Oh, they know what they're about!" 

" The Doctor doesn't at all want him to be there. 
Something has happened," Rose declared as she 
left the door. 



 

Her companion said nothing for a moment. 
" Do you mean the poor lady's gone ? " he at last 
demanded. 

" Gone ? " Rose echoed. 

"Do you mean Mrs. Bream is dead?" 

His question rang out so that Rose threw her 
self back in horror. " Dennis God forbid ! " 

" God forbid too, I say. But one doesn't know 
what you mean you're too difficult to follow. 
One thing, at any rate, you clearly have in your 
head that we must take it as possibly on the 
cards. That's enough to make it remarkably to 
the point to remind you of the great change that 
would take place in your situation if she should 
die." 

" What else in the world but that change am I 
thinking of ? " Rose asked. 

" You're not thinking of it perhaps so much in 
the connection I refer to. If Mrs. Bream goes, 
your 'anchorage,' as you call it, goes." 

"I see what you mean." She spoke with the 
softest assent ; the tears had sprung into her eyes 
and she looked away to hide them. 

" One may have the highest possible opinion of 
her husband and yet not quite see you staying 
on here in the same manner with him" 





Rose was silent, with a certain dignity. " Not 
quite," she presently said with the same gen 
tleness. 

" The way therefore to provide against every 
thing is as I remarked to you a while ago to 
settle with me this minute the day, the nearest 
one possible, for our union to become a reality." 

She slowly brought back her troubled eyes. 
"The day to marry you?" 

" The day to marry me, of course ! " He gave 
a short, uneasy laugh. " What else ? " 

She waited again, and there was a kind of fear 
in her face. "I must settle it this minute?" 

Dennis stared. " Why, my dear child, when in 
the world if not now?" 

" You can't give me a little more time ? " she 
asked. 

" More time?" His gathered stupefaction broke 
out. " More time after giving you years ? " 

" Ah, but just at the last here this news, this 
rush is sudden." 

" Sudden ! " Dennis repeated. " Haven't you 
known I was coming, and haven't you known for 
what?" 

She looked at him now with an effort of resolu 
tion in which he could see her white face harden ; 



 

as if by a play of some inner mechanism some 
thing dreadful had taken place in it. Then she 
said with a painful quaver that no attempt to 
be natural could keep down : " Let me remind 
you, Dennis, that your coming was not at my 
request. You've come yes; but you've come 
because you would. You've come you've come 
in spite of me." 

He gasped, and with the mere touch of her tone 
his own eyes filled. " You haven't wanted me ? " 

"I'm delighted to see you." 

" Then in God's name what do you mean ? 
Where are we, and what are you springing on 
me?" 

" I'm only asking you again, as I've asked you 
already, to be patient with me to let me, at 
such a critical hour, turn round. I'm only ask 
ing you to bear with me I'm only asking you 
to wait." 

" To wait for what ? " he snatched the word out 
of her mouth. " It's because I have waited that I'm 
here. What I want of you is three simple words 
that you can utter in three simple seconds." He 
looked about him in his helpless dismay, as if to 
call the absent to witness. " And you look at me 
like a stone. You open up an abyss. You give 





me nothing, nothing." He paused, as it were, for 
a contradiction, but she made none ; she had low 
ered her eyes and, supported against a table, stood 
there rigid and passive. Dennis sank into a chair 
with his vain hands upon his knees. " What do 
you mean by my coming in spite of you? You 
never asked me not to you've treated me well 
till now. It was my idea yes ; but you perfectly 
accepted it." He gave her time to assent to this 
or to deny it, but she took none, and he continued : 
" Don't you understand the one feeling that has 
possessed me and sustained me ? Don't you under 
stand that I've thought of nothing else every hour 
of my way ? I arrived here with a longing for you 
that words can't utter; and now I see though I 
couldn't immediately be sure that I found you 
from the first constrained and unnatural." 

Rose, as he went on, had raised her eyes again ; 
they seemed to follow his words in sombre sub 
mission. " Yes, you must have found me strange 
enough." 

"And don't again say it's your being anx 
ious ! " Dennis sprang up warningly. " It's 

your being anxious that just makes my right." 

His companion shook her head slowly and am 
biguously, "I am glad you've come." 



 

" To have the pleasure of not receiving me ? " 

" I have received you," Rose replied. " Every 
word I've spoken to you and every satisfaction I've 
expressed is true, is deep. I do admire you, I do 
respect you, I'm proud to have been your friend. 
Haven't I assured you of my pure joy in your pro 
motion and your prospects ? " 

" What do you call assuring me ? You utterly 
misled me for some strange moments ; you mysti 
fied me ; I think I may say you trifled with me. 
The only assurance I'm open to is that of your 
putting your hand in mine as my wife. In God's 
name," the young man panted, "what has hap 
pened to you and what has changed you ? " 

" I'll tell you to-morrow," said Rose. 

"Tell me what I want?" 

She cast about her. "Tell you things I can't 
now." 

He sounded her with visible despair. "You're 
not sincere you're not straight. You've noth 
ing to tell me, and you're afraid. You're only 
gaining time, and you've only been doing so 
from the first. I don't know what it's for 
you're beyond me ; but if it's to back out, I'll 
be hanged if I give you a moment." 

Her wan face, at this, showed a faint flush; 





it seemed to him five years older than when he 
came in. "You take, with your cruel accusa 
tions, a strange way to keep me ! " the girl 
exclaimed. "But I won't talk to you in bitter 
ness!" she pursued in a different tone. "That 
will drop if we do allow it a day or two." Then 
on a sharp motion of his impatience she added: 
" Whether you allow it or not, you know, I 
must take the time I need." 

He was angry now, as if she were not only 
proved evasion, but almost proved insolence ; 
and his anger deepened at her return to this 
appeal that offered him no meaning. "No, no, 
you must choose," he said with passion, "and 
if you're really honest you will. I'm here for 
you with all my soul, but I'm here for you now 
or never." 

" Dennis ! " she weakly murmured. 

"You do back out?" 

She put out her hand. "Good-bye." 

He looked at her as over a flood; then he 
thrust his hand behind him and glanced about 
for his hat. He moved blindly, like a man 
picking himself up from a violent fall flung 
indeed suddenly from a smooth, swift vehicle. 
" Good-bye." 



DENNIS VIDAL quickly remembered that he 
had not brought in his hat, and also, the next 
instant, that even to clap it on wouldn't under 
the circumstances qualify him for immediate de 
parture from Bounds. Just as it came over him 
that the obligation he had incurred must keep 
him at least for the day, he found himself in 
the presence of his host, who, while his back 
was turned, had precipitately reappeared and 
whose vision of the place had resulted in an in 
stant question. 

"Mrs. Beever has not come back? Julia 
wants her Julia must see her!" 

Dennis was separated by the width of the hall 
from the girl with whom he had just enjoyed 
such an opportunity of reunion, but there was 
for the moment no indication that Tony Bream, 
engrossed with a graver accident, found a be 
trayal in the space between them. He had, 







however, for Dennis the prompt effect of a re 
minder to take care : it was a consequence of 
the very nature of the man that to look at him 
was to recognise the value of appearances and 
that he couldn't have dropped out upon a scene, 
however disordered, without, by the simple fact, 
re-establishing a superficial harmony. His new 
friend met him with a movement that might 
have been that of stepping in front of some ob 
ject to hide it, while Rose, on her side, sound 
ing out like a touched bell, was already alert 
with her response. "Ah," said Dennis to him 
self, " it's for them she cares ! " 

"She has not come back, but if there's a 
hurry " Rose was all there. 

" There is a hurry. Someone must go for her." 

Dennis had a point to make that he must 
make on the spot. He spoke before Rose's 
rejoinder. "With your increasing anxieties, Mr. 
Bream, I'm quite ashamed to be quartered on 
you. Hadn't I really better be at the inn?" 

"At the inn to go from here? My dear 
fellow, are you mad?" Tony sociably scoffed; 
he wouldn't hear of it. " Don't be afraid ; we've 
plenty of use for you if only to keep this 
young woman quiet." 



 

" He can be of use this instant." Rose looked 
at her suitor as if there were not the shadow 
of a cloud between them. " The servants are 
getting luncheon. Will you go over for Mrs. 
Beever? " 

"Ah," Tony demurred, laughing, "we mustn't 
make him fetch and carry ! " 

Dennis showed a momentary blankness and 
then, in his private discomposure, jumped at the 
idea of escaping from the house and into the 
air. " Do employ me," he pleaded ; " I want to 
stretch my legs. I'll do anything." 

" Since you're so kind, then, and it's so near," 
Tony replied. "Mrs. Beever's our best friend, 
and always the friend of our friends, and she's 
only across the river." 

"Just six minutes," said Rose, "by the short 
way. Bring her back with you." 

" The short way," Tony pressingly explained, 
"is through my garden and out of it by the 
gate on the river." 

"At the river you turn to the right the 
little foot-bridge is her bridge," Rose went 
on. 

"You pass the gatehouse at the other side of 
it, and there you are," said Tony. 





" In her garden it's lovely. Tell her it's for 
Mrs. Bream, and it's important," Rose added. 

" My wife's calling aloud for her ! " Tony 
laid his hand, with his flushed laugh, on the 
young man's shoulder. 

Dennis had listened earnestly, looking at his 
companions in turn. "It doesn't matter if she 
doesn't know in the least who I am?" 

" She knows perfectly don't be shy ! " Rose 
familiarly exclaimed. 

Tony gave him a great pat on the back which 
sent him off. "She has even something partic 
ular to say to you ! She takes a great interest 
in his relations with you," he continued to Rose 
as the door closed behind their visitor. Then 
meeting in her face a certain impatience of any 
supersession of the question of Julia's state, he 
added, to justify his allusion, a word accompanied 
by the same excited laugh that had already 
broken from him. "Mrs. Beever deprecates the 
idea of any further delay in your marriage, and 
thinks you've got quite enough to 'set up' on. 
She pronounces your means remarkably ade 
quate." 

"What does she know about our means?" 
Rose coldly asked. 



 

" No more, doubtless, than I ! But that needn't 
prevent her. It's the wish that's father to the 
thought. That's the result of her general good 
will to you." 

"She has no good will of any sort to me. 
She doesn't like me." Rose spoke with marked 
dryness, in which moreover a certain surprise at 
the direction of her friend's humour was visible. 
Tony was now completely out of his groove ; 
they indeed both were, though Rose was for the 
moment more successful in concealing her emo 
tion. Still vibrating with the immense effort of 
the morning and particularly of the last hour, 
she could yet hold herself hard and observe 
what was taking place in her companion. He 
had been through something that had made his 
nerves violently active, so that his measure of 
security, of reality almost, was merged in the 
mere sense of the unusual. It was precisely this 
evidence of what he had been through that helped 
the girl's curiosity to preserve a waiting attitude 
the firm surface she had triumphantly pre 
sented to each of the persons whom, from an 
early hour, she had had to encounter. Bat Tony 
had now the air of not intending to reward her 
patience by a fresh communication ; it was as if 





some new delicacy had operated and he had struck 
himself as too explicit. He had looked astonished 
at her judgment of the lady of Eastmead. 

" My dear Rose," he said, " I think you're 
greatly mistaken Mrs. Beever much appreci 
ates you." 

She was silent at first, showing him a face 
worn with the ingenuity of all that in her inter 
view with Dennis Vidal she had had to keep out 
of it and put into it. "My dear Tony," she 
then blandly replied, "I've never known any 
one like you for not having two grains of obser 
vation. I've known people with only a little ; 
but a little's a poor affair. You've absolutely 
none at all, and that, for your character, is the 
right thing: it's magnificent and perfect." 

Tony greeted this with real hilarity. "I like 
a good square one between the eyes ! " 

"You can't like it as much as I like you for 
being just as you are. Observation's a second- 
rate thing; it's only a precaution the refuge 
of the small and the timid. It protects our own 
ridicules and props up our defences. You may 
have ridicules I don't say so; but you've no 
suspicions and no fears and no doubts; you're 
natural and generous and easy " 



 

" And beautifully, exquisitely stupid ! " Tony 
broke in. "'Natural' thank you! Oh, the hor 
rible people who are natural ! What you mean 
only you're too charming to say it is that 
I'm so utterly taken up with my own interests 
and feelings that I pipe about them like a canary 
in a cage. Not to have the things you mention, 
and above all not to have imagination, is simply 
not to have tact, than which nothing is more 
unforgivable and more loathsome. What lovelier 
proof of my selfishness could I be face to face 
with than the fact which I immediately after 
wards blushed for that, coming into you here 
a while ago, in the midst of something so impor 
tant to you, I hadn't the manners to ask you so 
much as a question about it ? " 

" Do you mean about Mr. Vidal after he had 
gone to his room? You did ask me a question," 
Rose said; "but you had a subject much more 
interesting to speak of." She waited an instant 
before adding: "You spoke of something I 
haven't ceased to think of." This gave Tony a 
chance for reference to his discharge of the 
injunction she had then laid upon him; as 
a reminder of which Rose further observed: 
"There's plenty of time for Mr. Vidal." 





" I hope indeed he's going to stay. I like his 
looks immensely," Tony responded. "I like his 
type ; it matches so with what you've told me 
of him. It's the real thing I wish we had him 
here." Rose, at this, gave a small, confused cry, 
and her host went on : " Upon my honour I do 
I know a man when I see him. He's just the 
sort of fellow I personally should have liked 
to be." 

"You mean you're not the real thing?" Rose 
asked. 

It was a question of a kind that Tony's good 
nature, shining out almost splendidly even through 
trouble, could always meet with princely extrava 
gance. " Not a bit ! I'm bolstered up with all 
sorts of little appearances and accidents. Your 
friend there has his feet on the rock." This 
picture of her friend's position moved Rose to 
another vague sound the effect of which, in 
turn, was to make Tony look at her more 
sharply. But he appeared not to impute to her 
any doubt of his assertion, and after an instant 
he reverted, with a jump, to a matter that he 
evidently wished not to drop. " You must really, 
you know, do justice to Mrs. Beever. When she 
dislikes one it's not a question of shades or de- 



 

grees. She's not an underhand enemy she very 
soon lets one know it." 

" You mean by something she says or does ? " 

Tony considered a moment. " I mean she gives 
you her reasons she's eminently direct. ' And 
I'm sure she has never lifted a ringer against you." 

"Perhaps not. But she will," said Rose. 
" You yourself just gave me the proof." 

Tony wondered. " What proof ? " 

"Why, in telling Dennis that she had told 
you she has something special to say to him." 

Tony recalled it it had already passed out 
of his mind. " What she has to say is only what 
I myself have already said for the rest of us 
that she hopes with all her heart things are now 
smooth for his marriage." 

"Well, what could be more horrid than that?" 

