day. 

Of what we know as literary ambition, I believe 
myself to have been as destitute at that 
time as any girl who ever put pen to paper. I 
was absorbed in thought and feeling as far 
removed from the usual class of emotions or mo 
tives which move men and women to write, as 
Wachusett was from the June lilies burning 
beside the moonlit cross in my father's garden. 
Literary ambition is a good thing to possess ; 


and I do not at all suggest that I was superior 
to it, but simply apart from it. Of its pangs 
and ecstasies I knew little, and thought less. 

I have been asked, possibly a thousand times, 
whether I looked upon that little book as in any 
sense the result of inspiration, whether what is 
called spiritualistic, or of any other sort. I have 
always promptly said " No " to this question. 
Yet sometimes I wonder if that convenient 
monosyllable in deed and truth covers the whole 
case. 

When I remember just how the book came 
to be, perceive the consequences of its being, 
and recall the complete unconsciousness of the 
young author as to their probable nature, there 
are moments when I am fain to answer the 
question by asking another : " What do we 
mean by inspiration ? " 

That book grew so naturally, it was so inevitable,
it was so unpremeditated, it came so 
plainly from that something not one's self which 
makes for uses in which one's self is extinguished,
that there are times when it seems to 
me as if I had no more to do with the writing 
of it than the bough through which the wind 
cries, or the wave by means of which the tide 
rises. 

The angel said unto me "Write!" and I 
wrote. 

 

It is impossible to remember how or when 
the idea of the book first visited me. Its
publication bears the date of 1869, but I am told 
that the exact time was in 1868 ; since
publishers sometimes give to an Autumn book the 
date of the coming year. My impressions are 
that it may have been towards the close of 
1864 that the work began ; for there was work 
in it, more than its imperfect and youthful 
character might lead one ignorant of the art of 
book-making to suppose. 

It was not until 1863 that I left school, being 
then just about at my nineteenth birthday. It 
is probable that the magazine stories and Sun 
day-school books and hack work occupied from 
one to two years without interruption ; but I 
have no more temperament for dates in my own 
affairs than I have for those of history. At the 
most, I could not have been far from twenty 
when the book was written ; possibly approach 
ing twenty-one. 

At that time, it will be remembered, our 
country was dark with sorrowing women. The 
regiments came home, but the mourners went 
about the streets. 

The Grand Review passed through Washing 
ton ; four hundred thousand ghosts of murdered 
men kept invisible march to the drum-beats, 
and lifted to the stained and tattered flags the 


proud and unreturned gaze of the dead who 
have died in their glory. 

Our gayest scenes were black with crape. 
The drawn faces of bereaved wife, mother, 
sister, and widowed girl showed piteously every 
where. Gray-haired parents knelt at the grave 
of the boy whose enviable fortune it was to be 
brought home in time to die in his mother's 
room. Towards the nameless mounds of Arlington, 
of Gettysburg, and the rest, the yearn 
ing of desolated homes went out in those waves 
of anguish which seem to choke the very air 
that the happier and more fortunate must 
breathe. 

Is there not an actual, occult force in the 
existence of a general grief ? It swells to a tide 
whose invisible flow covers all the little
resistance of common, human joyousness. It is like 
a material miasma. The gayest man breathes 
it, if he breathe at all ; and the most superficial 
cannot escape it. 

Into that great world of woe my little book 
stole forth, trembling. So far as I can remem 
ber having had any "object " at all in its 
creation, I wished to say something that would 
comfort some few I did not think at all about 
comforting many, not daring to suppose that 
incredible privilege possible of the women 
whose misery crowded the land. The smoke 
 

of their torment ascended, and the sky was 
blackened by it. I do not think I thought so 
much about the suffering of men the fathers, 
the brothers, the sons bereft ; but the wo 
men, the helpless, outnumbering, unconsulted 
women ; they whom war trampled down, with 
out a choice or protest ; the patient, limited, 
domestic women, who thought little, but loved 
much, and, loving, had lost all, to them I 
would have spoken. 

For it came to seem to me, as I pondered 
these things in my own heart, that even the 
best and kindest forms of our prevailing beliefs 
had nothing to say to an afflicted woman that 
could help her much. Creeds and commenta 
ries and sermons were made by men. What 
tenderest of men knows how to comfort his 
own daughter when her heart is broken ? What 
can the doctrines do for the desolated by death ? 
They were chains of rusty iron, eating into raw 
hearts. The prayer of the preacher was not 
much better ; it sounded like the language of 
an unknown race to a despairing girl. Listen 
to the hymn. It falls like icicles on snow. Or, 
if it happen to be one of the old genuine out 
cries of the church, sprung from real human 
anguish or hope, it maddens the listener, and 
she flees from it, too sore a thing to bear the 
touch of holy music. 


At this time, be it said, I had no interest at 
all in any especial movement for the peculiar 
needs of women as a class. I was reared in 
circles which did not concern themselves with 
those whom we should probably have called 
agitators. I was taught the old ideas of woman 
hood, in the old way, and had not to any 
important extent begun to resent them. 

Perhaps I am wrong here. Individually, I 
may have begun to recoil from them, but only 
in a purely selfish, personal way, beyond which 
I had evolved neither theory nor conscience, 
much less the smallest tendency towards
sympathy with any public movement of the question. 

In the course of two or three years spent in 
exceptional solitude, I had read a good deal in 
the direction of my ruling thoughts and feeling, 
and came to the writing of my little book, not 
ignorant of what had been written for and by 
the mourning. The results of this reading, of 
course, went into the book, and seemed to me 
at the time by far the most useful part of it. 

How the book grew, who can say ? More of 
nature than of purpose, surely. It moved like 
a tear or a sigh or a prayer. In a sense I 
scarcely knew that I wrote it. Yet it signified 
labor and time, crude and young as it looks to 
me now ; and often as I have wondered, from 
 

my soul, why it has known the history that it 
has, I have at least a certain respect for it, my 
self, in that it did not represent shiftlessness or 
sloth, but steady and conscientious toil. There 
was not a page in it which had not been sub 
jected to such study as the writer then knew 
how to offer to her manuscripts. 

Every sentence had received the best atten 
tion which it was in the power of my 
inexperience and youth to give. I wrote and rewrote. 
The book was revised so many times that I 
could have said it by heart. The process of 
forming and writing "The Gates Ajar" lasted, 
I think, nearly two years. 

I had no study or place to myself in those 
days ; only the little room whose one window 
looked upon the garden cross, and which it was 
not expected would be warmed in winter. 

The room contained no chimney, and, until I 
was sixteen, no fire for any purpose. At that 
time, it being supposed that some delicacy of 
the lungs had threatened serious results, my 
father, who always moved the sods beneath 
him and the skies above him to care for a sick 
child, had managed to insert a little stove into 
the room, to soften its chill when needed. But 
I did not have consumption, only life ; and one 
was not expected to burn wood all day for 
private convenience in our furnace-heated house. 


Was there not the great dining-room where the 
children studied ? 

It was not so long since I, too, had learned 
my lessons off the dining-room table, or in the 
corner by the register, that it should occur to 
any member of the family that these opportu 
nities for privacy could not answer my needs. 

Equally, it did not occur to me to ask for any 
abnormal luxuries. I therefore made the best 
of my conditions, though I do remember sorely 
longing for quiet. 

This, at that time, in that house, it was
impossible for me to compass. There was a grow 
ing family of noisy boys, four of them, of 
whom I was the only sister, as I was the old 
est child. When the baby did not cry (I have 
always maintained that the baby cried pretty 
steadily both day and night, but this is a point 
upon which their mother and I have affection 
ately agreed to differ), the boys were shouting 
about the grounds, chasing each other through 
the large house, up and down the cellar stairs, 
and through the wide halls, a whirlwind of 
vigor and fun. They were merry, healthy boys, 
and everything was done to keep them so. I 
sometimes doubt if there are any happier
children growing anywhere than the boys and girls 
of Andover used to be. I was very fond of 
the boys, and cherished no objection to their 

 



privileges in the house. But when one went 
down, on a cold day, to the register, to write 
one's chapter on the nature of amusements in 
the life to come, and found the dining-room 
neatly laid out in the form of a church congre 
gation, to which a certain proportion of brothers 
were enthusiastically performing the duties of 
an active pastor and parish, the environment 
was a definite check to inspiration. 

I wonder if all Andover boys played at 
preaching? It certainly was the one sport in our 
house which never satiated. 

Coming in one day, I remember, struggling 
with certain hopeless purposes of my own, for 
an afternoon's work, I found the dining-room 
chairs all nicely set in the order of pews ; a 
table, ornamented with Bible and hymn-books, 
confronted them ; behind it, on a cricket, 
towered the bigger brother, loudly holding forth. 
The little brother represented the audience 
it was usually the little one who was forced to 
play this duller role and, with open mouth, 
and with wriggling feet turned in on the rounds 
of the chair, absorbed as much exhortation as 
he could suffer. 

"My text, brethren," said the little minister, 
" is, * Suffer the little children to come unto 
me. " Pausing here to make a fit and full 
impression he solemnly proceeded : 


"My subject is, God ; Joseph ; and Moses in 
the bulrushes ! " 

Discouraged by the alarming breadth of the 
little preacher's topic, I fled upstairs again. 
There an inspiration did, indeed, strike me ; for 
I remembered an old fur cape, ox pelisse, of my 
mother s, out of fashion, but the warmer for 
that ; and straightway I got me into it, and 
curled up, with my papers, on the chilly bed in 
the cold room, and went to work. 

It seems to me that a good part of "The 
Gates Ajar " was written in that old fur cape. 
Often I stole up into the attic, or into some 
unfrequented closet, to escape the noise of the 
house while at work. I remember, too, writing 
sometimes in the barn, on the haymow. 
The book extended over a wide domestic to 
pography. 

I hasten to say that no person was to blame 
for inconveniences of whose existence I had 
never complained. Doubtless something would 
have been done to relieve them had I asked for 
it ; or if the idea that my work could ever be 
of any consequence had occurred to any of us. 
Why should it ? The girl who is never " do 
mestic " is trial enough at her best. She can 
not cook ; she will not sew. She washes dishes 
Mondays and Tuesdays under protest, while 
the nurse and parlor maid are called off from 
 

their natural avocations, and dusts the drawing- 
room with resentful obedience. She sits cutting 
out underclothes in the March vacations, 
when all the schools are closed, and when the 
heavy wagons from the distant farming region 
stick in the bottomless Andover mud in front 
of the professor's house. The big front door 
is opened, and the dismal, creaking sounds 
come in. 

The kind and conscientious new mother, to 
whom I owe many other gentle lessons more 
valuable than this, teaches how necessary to a 
lady's education is a neat needle. 

The girl does not deny this elemental fact ; 
but her eyes wander away to the cold sky above 
the Andover mud, with passionate entreaty. 
To this day I cannot hear the thick chu-chunk ! 
of heavy wheels on March mud without a sud 
den mechanical echo of that wild, young outcry : 
" Must I cut out underclothes forever ? Must 
I go on tucking the broken end of the thread 
into the nick in the spool ? Is this LIFE ? " 

I am more than conscious that I could not 
have been an easy girl to "bring up," and am 
sure that for whatever little difficulties beset 
the earlier time of my ventures as a writer, no 
person was in any fault. They were doubtless 
good for me, in their way. We all know that 
some of the greatest of brain-workers have 
selected the poorest and barest of spots in which 
to study. Luxury and bric-a-brac come to easy 
natures or in easy years. The energy that very 
early learns to conquer difficulty is always worth 
its price. 

I used, later, to hear in Boston the story of 
the gentleman who once took a friend to see 
the room of his son at Harvard College. The 
friend was a man of plain life, but of rich men 
tal achievement. He glanced at the Persian 
rugs and costly draperies of the boy's quarters 
in silence. 

"Well," cried the fond father, "don't you 
think my son has a pretty room ? " 

"Sir," said the visitor, with gentle candor, 
"you'll never raise a scholar on that carpet." 

Out of my discomforts, which were small 
enough, grew one thing for which I have all 
my life been grateful the formation of fixed 
habits of work. 

I have seldom waited for inspiration before 
setting about a task to be done. Life is too 
short for that. Broken health has too often 
interrupted a regimen of study which ought to 
have been more continuous ; but, so far as I 
may venture to offer an opinion from personal 
experience, I should say that the writers who 
would be wise to play hide and seek with their 
own moods are few. 

 

According to my custom, I said nothing (so 
far as I can remember) to any person about 
the book. 

It cannot be said that I had any hope of 
success with it ; or that, in my most irrational 
dreams, anything like the consequences of its 
publication ever occurred to my fancy. But I 
did distinctly understand that I had set forth 
upon a venture totally dissimilar to the safe 
and respectable careers of my dozen Sunday- 
school books. 

I am sometimes asked why it was that, hav 
ing such a rare critic at first hand as my father, 
I did not more often submit my manuscripts 
to his judgment. It would be difficult to say 
precisely why. The professor of rhetoric was 
a very busy man ; and at that time the illness 
which condemned him to thirty years of invalid 
suffering was beginning to make itself manifest. 
I can remember more often throwing down my 
pen to fly out and beg the children to be quiet 
in the garden while the sleepless man struggled 
for a few moments rest in the daytime, or 
stealing on tiptoe to his locked door, at any 
hour of the night, to listen for signs of sudden 
illness or need of help ; these things come back 
more easily than the desire to burden him with 
what I wrote. 

Yet perhaps that abnormal pride, whose 
existence I have admitted, had quite as much to 
do with this restraint. 

When a thing was published, then quickly to 
him with it ! His sympathy and interest were 
unfailing, and his criticism only too gentle ; 
though it could be a sword of flame when he 
chose to smite. 

Unknown to himself, I had dedicated "The 
Gates Ajar " to him. In this dedication there 
was a slip in good English, or, at least, in such 
English as the professor wrote and spoke. I 
had used the word " nears " as a verb, instead 
of its proper synonym, " approaches." He read 
the dedication quietly, thanked me tenderly for 
it, and said nothing. It was left for me to find 
out my blunder for myself, as I did, in due 
time. He had not the heart to tell me of it 
then. Nor did he insinuate his consciousness 
that the dedication might seem to involve him 
as it did in certain citadels of stupidity in 
the views of the book. 

The story was sent to its publishers, Messrs. 
Ticknor and Fields, and leisurely awaited their 
verdict. As I had written somewhat for their 
magazines, " The Atlantic " and " Our Young 
Folks," I did not come quite as a stranger. 
Still, the fate of the book hung upon a delicate 
scale. It was two years from the time the story 
went to its publishers before it appeared between 
 

covers. How much of this period the author 
was kept in suspense I cannot remember ; but, 
I think, some time. I have the impression that 
the disposal of the book, so far as that firm 
went, wavered for a while upon the decision 
of one man, whose wife shared the reading of 
the manuscript. "Take it," she said at last, 
decidedly ; and the fiat went forth. The lady 
afterwards became a personal friend, and I 
hope I may not forfeit the treasure of her 
affection by this late and public recognition of the 
pleasant part she bore in the fortunes of my 
life. 

The book was accepted, and still this piece 
of good luck did not make my head spin. I 
had lived among book-makers too much to
expect the miracle. I went soberly back to my 
hack work, and on with my Sunday - school 
books. 

One autumn day the customary package of 
gift copies of the new book made its way to 
Andover Hill ; but I opened it without elation, 
the experience being so far from my first of its 
kind. The usual note of thanks was returned 
to the publishers, and quiet fell again. 
Unconscious of either hope or fear, I kept on about 
my business, and the new book was the last 
thing on earth with which I concerned myself. 

One morning, not many weeks after its 
publication, I received a letter from Mr. James T. 
Fields. He, who was the quickest of men to 
do a kindness, and surest to give to young 
writers the encouraging word for which they 
had not hope enough to listen, had hurried him 
self to break to me the news. 

" Your book is moving grandly," so he wrote. 
" It has already reached a sale of four thousand 
copies. We take pleasure in sending you " 
He enclosed a check for six hundred dollars, 
the largest sum on which I had ever set my 
startled eyes. It would not, by my contract, 
have been due me for six months or more to 
come. 

The little act was like him, and like the 
courteous and generous house on whose list I 
have worked for thirty years. 


As was said in the last chapter, " The Gates 
Ajar" was written without hope or expectation 
of any especial success, and, when the happy 
storm broke, in truth, I was the most aston 
ished girl in North America. From the day 
when Mr. Fields thoughtful note reached the 
Andover post-office, that miracle such as we 
read of, often in fiction, and sometimes in 
literary history, touched the young writer's life ; 
and it began over again, as a new form of or 
ganization. 

As I look back upon them, the next few 
years seem to have been a series of amazing 
phantasmagoria. Indeed, at the time, they 
were scarcely more substantial. A phantom 
among phantoms, I was borne along. 
Incredulous of the facts and dubious of my own iden 
tity, I whirled through readjustments of scene, 
of society, of purposes, of hopes, and now, at 
last, of ambitions ; and always of hard work 
and plenty of it. Really, I think the gospel of 


work then, as always, and to all of us, was 
salvation from a good deal of nonsense incident 
to the situation. 

I have been told that the American circulation
of the book, which has remained below 
one hundred thousand, was outrun by that in 
Great Britain. Translations, of course, were 
manifold. The French, the German, the Dutch, 
the Italian have been conscientiously sent to 
the author; some others, I think, have not. 
More applications to republish my books have 
reached me from Germany than from any other 
country. For awhile, with the tenderness of 
a novice in such experience, I kept all these 
foreign curiosities on my book-shelves ; but the 
throes of several New England " movings " 
have scattered their ashes. 

Not long ago, I came across a tiny pamphlet, 
in which I used to feel more honest pride than 
in any edition of "The Gates Ajar" which it 
has ever been my fortune to handle. It is a 
sickly yellow thing, covered with a coarse de 
sign of some kind, in which the wings of a par 
ticularly sprawly angel predominate. The print 
is abhorrent, and the paper such as any respect 
able publisher would prepare to be condemned 
for in this world and in that to come. In fact, 
the entire book was thus given out by one of 
the most enterprising of English pirates as an 
advertisement for a patent medicine. I have 
never traced the chemical history of the drug ; 
but it has pleased my fancy to suppose it to be 
the one in which Mrs. Holt, the mother of
Felix, dealt so largely ; and whose sale Felix put 
forth his mighty conscience to suppress. 

Of course, owing to the state of our copy 
right laws at that time, all this foreign 
publication was piratical ; and most of it brought no 
visible consequence to the author, beyond that 
cold tribute to personal vanity on which our 
unlucky race is expected to feed. I should 
make one exception. The house of Sampson 
Low and Company honorably offered me at a 
very early date a certain recognition of their 
editions. Other reputable English houses since, 
in the case of succeeding books, have passed 
contracts of a gentlemanly nature, with the 
disproportionately grateful author; who was, 
of course, entirely at their mercy. When an 
American writer compares the sturdy figures 
of the foreign circulation with the attenuated 
numerals of such visible returns as reach him, 
he is more puzzled in his mind than surfeited 
in his purse. But the relation of foreign
publishers to " home talent " is an ancient and 
honorable conundrum, which it is not for this 
paper or its writer to solve. 

Nevertheless, I found the patent medicine 



Gates Ajar delicious, and used to compare it 
with Messrs. Fields and Osgood's edition 
deluxe with an undisguised delight which I found 
it difficult to induce the best of publishers to 
share. 

Like most such matters, the first energy of 
the book has its funny and its serious side. A 
man coming from a far Western village, and 
visiting Boston for the first time, is said to have 
approached a bar-tender in an exclusive hotel 
thus confidentially : 

" Excuse me but I am a stranger in this 
part of the country, and I want to ask a 
question. Everywhere I go, I see posted up like 
this The Gates Ajar! The Gates Ajar! 
I'm sick to death of the sight of the durn thing ; 
I haven't darst to ask what it is. Do tell a 
fellar ! Is it a new kind of drink ? " 

There was a Gates Ajar tippet, for sale in 
the country groceries ; I have fancied that it 
was a knit affair of as many colors as the jewels 
in the eternal portals, and extremely openwork. 
There was a Gates Ajar collar paper, I fear 
loading the city counters. Ghastly rumors 
have reached me of the existence of a Gates 
Ajar cigar; I have never personally set my eyes 
upon these tangible forms of earthly fame. If 
the truth must be told, I have kept a cowardly 
distance from them. Music, of course, took 



her turn at the book, and popular "pieces" 
warbled under its title. One of these, I think, 
is sung in Sunday-schools to this day. Then 
there was, and still exists, the Gates Ajar 
funeral piece. This used to seem to me the 
least serious of them all ; but, by degrees, when 
I saw the persistence of force in that elaborate 
symbol, and how many mourning people were 
so constituted as to find comfort in it, I came 
to have a tolerance for it which even grows 
into a certain tenderness. I may frankly ad 
mit that I have begun to love it, since I heard 
about the two ragged little newsboys who came 
to the eminent city florist, with all their savings 
clenched in their grimy fists, and thus made 
known their case : 

" Ye see Larks he was our pardner, him an 
us sold on the same beat, an he jes got run 
over by a lectric, and it went over his back, so 
they tuk him to the horspittle, n Larks he up 
an died there yestiddy. So us fellars were 
goin to give Larks a stylish funeril, you bet. 
We liked Larks an it went over his back. 
Say, mister, there ain't nothin mean bout us, 
come to buryin of Larks ; n we've voted to 
settle on one them Gates Ajar pieces made 
o flowers, doncherknow. Some n him an 
the other fellars we've saved up all our
property, for we re a-goin ter give Larks a stylish 


funeril an here it is, mister. I told the kids 
ef there was more n enough, you's trow in a 
few greens, anyhow. Make up de order right 
away, mister, and give us our money's worf 
now, sure for Larks." 

The gamin proudly counted out upon the 
marble slab of that fashionable flower store 
the sum of seventy-five cents. The florist 
blessings on him ! is said not to have unde 
ceived the little fellows, but to have duly hon 
ored their "order;" and the biggest and most 
costly Gates Ajar piece to be had in the market
went to the hospital and helped to bury 
Larks. 

Of course, as is customary in the case of all 
authors who have written one popular book, re 
quests for work at once rained in on the new 
study on Andover Hill ; for it soon became 
evident that I must have a quiet .place to write 
in. In the course of time I found it convenient 
to take for working hours a sunny room in the 
farmhouse of the seminary estate ; a large, old- 
fashioned building next to my father's house. 
In still later years, I was allowed to build over 
for my own purposes the summer house under 
the big elm in my father's garden, once used 
by my mother for her own study, and well remembered 
by all persons interested in Andover 
scenery. This building had been for some 

years used exclusively as a mud-bakery by the 
boys ; it was piled with those clay turnovers 
and rolls and pies in whose manufacture the 
most select circles of Andover youth delighted. 
But the bakery was metamorphosed into a 
decent, dear little room, about 9 by n, and 
commanding the sun on the four sides of its 
quadrangle. In fact, it was a veritable 
sunbath ; and how dainty was the tip-drip of the 
icicles from the big elm-bough, upon the little 
roof ! To this spot I used to travel down in all 
weathers; sometimes when it was so slippery 
on the hill behind the carriage house (for the 
garden paths were impassable in winter) that 
I have had to return to primitive methods of 
locomotion, and just sit down and coast half 
the way on the crust. Later still, when an 
accident and crutches put this delightful means 
of locomotion out of the question, the summer 
house (in a blizzard, I delighted in the name) 
was moved up beside my father's study. I 
have, in fact, always had an out-of-door study, 
apart from the house I lived in ; and have come 
to look upon it as quite a necessity, so that we 
have carried on the custom in our Gloucester 
home. We heartily recommend it to all people 
who live by their brains and pens. The inces 
sant trotting to and fro on little errands is a 
wholesome thing. Proof-sheets, empty ink-
stands, dried-up mucilage, yawning wood boxes, 
wet feet, missing scissors, unfilled kerosene 
lamps, untimely thirst, or unromantic lunches, 
the morning mail, and the dinner-bell, and the 
orders of one's pet dog, all are so many imperious
summons to breathe the tingling air and 
stir the blood and muscle. 

Be as uncomfortable or as cross about it as 
you choose an out-of-door study is sure to 
prove your best friend. You become a species 
of literary tramp, and absorb something of the 
tramp's fine hygiene. It is impossible to be 
"cooped" at your desk, if you have to cross 
a garden or a lawn thirty times a day to get 
to it. And what reporter can reach that sweet 
seclusion across the distant housemaid's wily 
and experienced art ? What autograph or lion 
hunter can ruin your best chapter by bombard 
ment in mid-morning ? 

In the old farmhouse study I remember one 
of my earliest callers from the publishing world, 
that seems always to stand with clawing fingers 
demanding copy of the people least able to give 
it. He was an emissary from "The Youth's 
Companion," who threatened or cajoled me into 
a vow to supply him with a certain number of 
stories. My private suspicion is that I have 
just about at this present time completed my 
share in that ancient bargain, so patient and 
 

long-suffering has this pleasant paper been with 
me ! I took particular delight in that especial 
visit, remembering the time when the Compan 
ion gave my first pious little sentences to print, 
and paid me with the paper for a year. 

"The Gates Ajar" was attacked by the 
press. In fact, it was virulently bitten. The 
reviews of the book, some of them, reached the 
point of hydrophobia. Others were found to be 
in a milder pathological condition. Still others 
were gentle or even friendly enough. Religious
papers waged war across that girl's notions 
of the life to come, as if she had been an evil 
spirit let loose upon accepted theology for the 
destruction of the world. The secular press 
was scarcely less disturbed about the matter ; 
which it treated, however, with the more 
amused good-humor of a man of the world puzzled
by a religious disagreement. 

In the days of the Most Holy Inquisition 
there was an old phrase whose poignancy has 
always seemed to me to be but half appre 
ciated. One did not say : He was racked ; she 
was burned ; they were flayed alive ; or pulled 
apart with little pincers ; or clasped in the 
arms of the red-hot Virgin. One was too well- 
bred for so bold a use of language. One 
politely and simply said, He was put to the question. 

 

The young author of "The Gates Ajar" was 
only put to the question. Heresy was her 
crime, and atrocity her name. She had out 
raged the church. She had blasphemed its 
sanctities. She had taken live coals from the 
altar in her impious hand. The sacrilege was 
too serious to be dismissed with cold contempt. 
Opinion battled about that poor little tale, as if 
it had held the power to overthrow church and 
state and family. 

It was an irreverent book it was a devout 
book. It was a strong book it was a weak 
book. It was a religious book it was an 
immoral book. (I have forgotten just why ; in 
fact, I think I never knew.) It was a good 
book it was a bad book. It was calculated 
to comfort the comfortless it was calculated 
to lead the impressionable astray. It was an 
accession to Christian literature it was a 
disgrace to the religious antecedents of the author, 
and so on, and so forth. 

At first, when some of these reviews fell in 
my way, I read them, knowing no better. But 
I very soon learned to let them alone. The 
kind notices, while they gave me a sort of 
courage which by temperament possibly I needed 
more than all young writers may, overwhelmed 
me, too, by a sense of my own inadequacy to 
be a teacher of the most solemn truths, on any 
 

such scale as that towards which events seemed 
to be pointing. The unfair notices put me in 
a tremor of distress. The brutal ones affected 
me like a blow in the face from the fist of a 
ruffian. 

None of them, that I can remember, ever 
helped me in any sense whatsoever to do 
better work. I quickly came to the conclusion 
that I was not adapted to reading the views of 
the press about my own writing. I made a vow 
to let them alone, and from that day to this I 
have kept it. 

Unless in the case of something especially 
brought to my attention by friends, I do not 
read any reviews of my books. Of course, in 
a general way, one knows if some important 
pen has shown a comprehension of what one 
meant to do and tried to do, or has spattered 
venom upon one's poor achievement. Quite 
fairly, one cannot sit like the Queen in the 
kitchen, eating only bread and honey. And 
venom disagrees with me. 

I sometimes think, if I may take advantage 
of this occasion to make the only reply in a 
working life of thirty years to any of the 
" slashers " with whose devotion I am told that 
I have been honored, I sometimes think, good 
brother critics, that I have had my share of the 
attentions of poisoned weapons. 

 

But, regarding my reviewers with the great 
good-humor of one who never reads what they 
say, I can afford to wish them lively luck and 
better game in some quivering writer, who 
takes the big pile of what it is the fashion to 
call criticisms from the publishers table, and 
conscientiously reads them through. With this 
form of being "put to the question" I will 
have nothing to do. If it gives amusement to 
the reviewers, they are welcome to their sport. 
But they stab at the summer air, so far as any 
writer is concerned who has the pertinacity of 
purpose to let them alone. 

Long after I had adopted the rule to read 
no notices of my work, I learned from George 
Eliot that the same had been her custom for 
many years ; and felt reinforced in the manage 
ment of my little affairs by this great example. 
Discussing the question once, with one of our 
foremost American writers, I was struck with 
something like holy envy in his expression. 
He had received rough handling from those 
"critics" who seem to consider authors as 
their natural foes, and who delight in aiming 
the hardest blows at the heaviest enemy. His 
fame is immeasurably superior to that of all his 
reviewers put together. 

"Don't you really read them?" he asked 
wistfully. " I wish I could say as much. I'm 
 

afraid I shouldn't have the perseverance to 
keep that up right along." 

In interesting contrast to all this discord 
from the outside, came the personal letters. 

The book was hardly under way before the 
