"I was thinking just now that I would give Mrs. Weston the money I had
saved for Independence."
"Pooh! Frank."
"It would do her a great deal of good."
"What is the use of going to Boston, if you have no money?" asked
Charles, who was not a little disturbed by this proposed disbursement
of the Fourth of July funds.
"I can stay at home, then."
"That wouldn't be fair, Frank."
"Why not?"
"You not only rob yourself of the fun, but me too."
"I really pity the poor woman so much that I cannot find it in my heart
to spend the money foolishly, when it will buy so many comforts for
her."
"Your father will give you some money for her."
"That isn't the thing."
"What do you mean?"
"You went to meeting last Sunday?"
"Yes."
"And heard the sermon?"
"Some of it," replied Charles, smiling.
"You remember the minister spoke of the luxury of doing good; of the
benefit one gets by sacrificing his inclination for the good of others,
or something like that; I can't express it as he did, though I have the
idea."
Frank paused, and looked earnestly into the face of his friend, to
ascertain whether he was likely to find any sympathy in the heart of
Charles.
"I do remember it, Frank. He told a story to illustrate his meaning."
"That was it. I don't very often mind much about the sermon, but
somehow I was very much interested in that one."
"And so you mean to give your money to the widow Weston, just to see
how you will feel after it," added Charles with a laugh.
"No; that isn't it."
"What is it, then?"
"I will give it to her because I really feel that she needs it more
than I do. I feel a pleasure in the thought of sacrificing my
inclination for her happiness, which is more satisfactory than all the
fun I anticipate to-morrow."
"You'll be a parson, Frank."
"No, I won't; I will do my duty."
"Have you made up your mind?"
"We can have a good time at home."
"Pooh!"
"I shall give my money to the widow Weston, at any rate."
Charles Hardy could not but admire the generosity of his friend, though
he found it difficult to abandon the thought of the pleasure he
anticipated in spending the Fourth in Boston. He stood in silent
thought a few moments, and then spoke.
"Well, Frank," said he, "if you have determined to give your money to
the widow, I shall follow your example."
"But, Charley, I didn't mean to influence you. I will even go to Boston
with you, though I have no money."
"I will give my money to the widow. I think you are right."
"Good, Charley! I like you for it."
"I have two dollars and a quarter," continued Charles, taking the money
from his pocket.
"We shall make up just seven dollars. How it will rejoice the heart of
the poor woman!" exclaimed Frank with enthusiasm.
"So it will. But don't you think your father will make it up to us,
when he finds out how generous we have been?"
Frank looked into the face of his companion with an expression of
painful surprise on his countenance.
"I don't want him to do so."
"Why not?"
"It would rob the action of all its merit. If you give your money with
the hope of having it restored to you, I beg you not to give it at all.
I have abandoned all thoughts of having any money to spend to-morrow."
"And not go to Boston?"
"No."
"What will your father say when you tell him you are not going? He will
want to know the reason."
"I will tell him day after to-morrow."
"He will want to know to-morrow."
"I can persuade him to wait. Shall we go over to-night, and give the
money to Mrs. Weston?"
"Yes; if you like."
"Wait a moment, and I will go into the house and ask my father to let
me stay out till nine o'clock this evening."
Frank bounded lightly over the green lawn to his father's house, near
which the conversation took place.
Rippleton, the scene of my story, is a New England village, situated
about ten miles from Boston. It is one of those thriving places which
have sprung into existence in a moment, as it were, under the potent
stimulus of a railroad and a water privilege. Twenty years ago it
consisted of only one factory and about a dozen houses. Now it is a
great, bustling village, and probably in a few years will become a
city. Trains of cars arrive and depart every hour, as the Traveller's
Guide says; and a double row of factories extends along the sides of
the river. It has its banks, its hotels, its dozen churches, and its
noisy streets--indeed, almost all the pomp and circumstance of a great
city.
About a mile from the village was the beautiful residence of Captain
Sedley--Frank's father. He was a retired shipmaster, in which capacity
he had acquired a handsome fortune. His house was built within a few
rods of Wood Lake--a beautiful sheet of water, nearly three miles in
length, and a little more than a mile in width. On the river, which
formed the outlet of this lake, the village of Rippleton was situated;
and its clear waters turned the great wheels of the factories.
Captain Sedley had chosen this place in which to spend the evening of
his days, because it seemed to him the loveliest spot in all New
England. The glassy, transparent lake, with its wood-crowned shores,
its picturesque rocks, its little green islands, indeed, everything
about it was so grand and beautiful, that it seemed more like the
creation of an enthusiastic imagination than a substantial reality. The
retired shipmaster loved the beautiful in nature, and his first view of
the silver lake and the surrounding country enabled him to decide that
this spot should be his future habitation. He bought the land, built
him a fine house, and was as happy as a mortal could desire to be.
But I beg my young reader not to think that Captain Sedley was happy
because he lived in such a beautiful place, and had such a fine house,
and so much money at his command; for a beautiful prospect, a costly
dwelling, and plenty of money, alone, cannot make a person contented
and happy. The richest men are often the most miserable; a bed of down
may be a bed of thorns; and a magnificent mansion will not banish the
gnawings of remorse.
Captain Sedley was a good man. He had always endeavored to be true to
his God and true to himself; to be just and honest in his relations to
his fellow-men. In an active business experience of twenty years, he
had found a great many opportunities for doing good--opportunities
which he had had the moral courage to improve. He loved his God by
loving his fellow-man. He had made his fortune by being honest and
just. He had lived a good life; and as every good man will, whether he
get rich or poor by it, he was receiving his reward in the serene
happiness of his life in this world, and in the cherished hope of
everlasting bliss in the world to come.
Captain Sedley was happy, too, in his family. Mrs. Sedley was an
amiable and devoted woman; and Frank, his only child, was an
affectionate and obedient son. Perhaps my young friends cannot fully
appreciate the amount of satisfaction which a parent derives from the
good character of his child. Though the worthy shipmaster had a
beautiful estate and plenty of money, if his son had been a liar, a
thief, a profane swearer,--in short, if Frank had been a bad boy,--he
could not have been happy. If a wise and good father could choose
between having his son a hopeless drunkard or villain, and laying his
cold form in the dark grave, never more to see him on earth, he would
no doubt choose the latter. Almost all parents say so; and their words
are so earnest, their tears so eloquent, that we cannot but believe it.
Such was the father of Frank Sedley, and it was such a father that made
so good a son.
Charles Hardy was the son of one of the factory agents, who was Captain
Sedley's nearest neighbor; and a strong friendship had grown up between
the two boys. Charles's character was essentially different from that
of his friend; but as I prefer that my young reader should judge his
disposition for himself, and distinguish between the good and the evil
of his thoughts and actions as the story proceeds, I shall not now tell
him what kind of a boy he was.
CHAPTER II
THE WIDOW WESTON
Near the house of Captain Sedley, a sandy beach extended from the road,
on the margin of the lake, down to the water's side. It was here that
Charles Hardy waited the return of his friend. He was thinking of the
sacrifice they had concluded to make for the widow Weston; and it must
be confessed that he felt not a little sad at the thought of resigning
all the enjoyment he anticipated in connection with the excursion to
the city the following day.
On the water, secured by a pole driven into the sand, floated a raft,
which some of the boys in the neighborhood had built, and with which
they amused themselves in paddling about the lake. It was a rude
structure, made by lashing together four rails in the form of a square,
and placing planks across the upper side of them. The boys who had
constructed it lived farther down the lake in the direction of the
village. They did not bear a very good character in the neighborhood.
If an orchard was robbed, a henroost plundered, or any other mischief
done in the vicinity, it could generally be traced to them. They always
played together, went to and came from school together, planned and
executed their mischief together, so that they came to be regarded as a
unit of roguery, and people never saw one of them without wondering
where the rest were.
The foremost of these unruly fellows was Tim Bunker. He was the ruling
spirit of their party, and had the reputation of being a notoriously
bad boy. He was in the habit of lying, swearing, cheating, and
stealing; and people, judging his followers by their ringleader, had
got into the way of calling them the Bunkers.
Of course Captain Sedley was unwilling that his son should associate
with such boys as the Bunkers; and so much did Frank dislike their
company that it was scarcely necessary to caution him to avoid them.
While Charles Hardy was waiting, he walked down to the water's edge.
The sun was just sinking behind the green hills in the west, reflecting
the shadows of the beautiful gold and purple clouds upon the surface of
the silver lake. A gentle breeze was blowing down the valley, and the
little waves broke with a musical ripple upon the pebbly sands. It was
a lovely hour and a lovely scene, and Charles felt the sweet influence
of both. He looked out upon the lake, and wished he was floating over
its tiny wavelets.
He stepped upon the raft, and thought how pleasant and how exciting it
would be to sail over to Centre Isle, as the little wood-crowned islet
that rose from the middle of the lake was called. Pulling up the stake
that held the raft, he pushed out a little way from the shore. The
sensation which the motion of the raft produced was new and strange to
him, and he felt a longing desire to sail farther. But just then Frank
returned.
"My father is not at home," said he.
"Can't you go, then?" asked Charles, as he pushed the raft to the shore
again.
"Yes; I told my mother where I was going."
"Frank, let us go up to Mrs. Weston's on this raft. She lives close by
the shore of the lake."
"My father told me never to go on the lake without permission from
him."
"Pooh! What harm can there be in it?"
"I don't know that there can be any."
"Let us go then."
"My father told me not to go on the lake."
"But he has gone away, you said."
"I cannot disobey him."
"He never will know it."
"You don't mean what you say, Charley. You would not have me go
directly contrary to what my father told me, just because he is not
here to see me."
Charles felt a little ashamed, and replacing the stake that secured the
raft, jumped on shore.
"It is a delightful evening, and it would be so pleasant to take a
little sail!" said he.
"I don't think that raft is very safe. I saw the Bunkers on it the
other day, and they stood ankle deep in water."
"I am not afraid of it."
"No matter; my father told me not to go on the lake, which is quite
reason enough for me not to do so."
"But the Bunkers seem to have a first-rate time on it."
"Perhaps they do."
"But we fellows that have to mind what our fathers and mothers tell us
are the losers by our obedience."
Frank smiled; he could not help doing so at the thought of one who had
just been counselling him to disobedience making such a remark.
"I am quite sure I am contented."
"But don't you think the Bunkers have more fun than we do? Tim Bunker
don't care any more about what his father says than he does about the
fifth wheel of a coach, and he always seems to have a first-rate time."
"Appearances are deceitful," replied Frank with a sage smile. "Do you
think we should enjoy ourselves up to our ankles in water on that
raft?"
"The water wouldn't hurt us."
"Not so much as the disobedience, it is true; but I don't care much
about such fun as that."
"Tim Bunker asked me to sail with him over to the island yesterday, and
I had a great mind to go. If it had been any other fellow, I would."
"Your father told you not to go on the lake."
"He never would have known it."
"Perhaps not; but you would not have felt any better on that account."
"For my part, I hate to be tied to my father's coat-tails or mother's
apron-string when there is any fun going on. I don't see why we
shouldn't have a good time once in a while, as well as the Bunkers, who
are no better than we are."
"I don't know how it is with you, but I can enjoy myself enough and
obey my parents at the same time."
"Right, Frank!" exclaimed Captain Sedley, who at this moment stepped
down from the grove adjoining the beach, where he had overheard a part
of the conversation. "So you think, Charles, that the boys who disobey
their parents enjoy themselves most."
"No, sir. I don't exactly mean that; but the Bunkers have some
first-rate times with this raft," replied Charles, very much confused
by the sudden appearance of Frank's father.
"But their lives are continually in danger," added Captain Sedley.
"Oh, sir, they can all swim."
"All of them?"
"Like ducks, sir."
"Suppose one of them should fall overboard half a mile from the land,
where I saw them yesterday. Do you think he could swim ashore?"
"Tim could."
"There are a great many things to be considered in such a case. His
clothes might encumber him; he might have the cramp; he might get
frightened."
"The others could save him."
"We do not know what they could do. Boys at play are very different
from boys in the hour of peril. When I was a sailor before the mast,
one of my shipmates, a very expert swimmer ordinarily, fell from the
mainyard arm into the sea. Two of us jumped in to assist him; but he
sank to the bottom like a lump of lead, and we never saw him again."
"That was strange," added Charles.
"He was taken unawares; he lost his self-command, and it might be so
with the Bunkers. This rafting is dangerous business, and I advise you
never to engage in it;" and Captain Sedley walked off towards his
house.
"Father, I want to go up to the widow Weston's a little while," said
Frank.
"Very well; but you must be back so as to go to bed and get up in
season for your excursion to the city to-morrow."
"Come, Charley, I guess we won't go up on the raft," said Frank with a
pleasant laugh.
"I guess not;" and the two boys walked towards the rude cottage of the
widow Weston.
It was situated near the lake, about half a mile from Captain Sedley's.
Mrs. Weston was the widow of a poor laboring man who had died about a
year before our story opens. She was the mother of four
children,--three sons and a daughter. Her eldest son, who was now
twenty-two years old, had been in California nearly two years, having
left his home a year before the death of his father. She had received
one letter from him on his arrival at San Francisco, since which she
had heard nothing of him, and had given up all hopes of ever seeing him
again. She had not a doubt but that he had found a grave in the golden
soil of that far-off land. She mourned him as dead, and all the earthly
hopes of the poor mother were concentrated in her remaining children.
Anthony, the next son, whom everybody called Tony, was now thirteen
years old. He was an active, industrious boy; and all the neighbors
were willing to employ him on their farms and about their houses, so
that he was able to do a great deal towards supporting the family. He
was a good boy, so honest and truthful, so kind-hearted, and so devoted
to his poor mother, that he was a great favorite in the vicinity; and
some of the richer folks, when they really had no work for him, would
find something for him to do, for he was so proud and high-spirited
that he would not take money he had not earned.
Mary Weston, the daughter, was eleven years of age. Like her brother,
she had a sweet and gentle disposition, and did all she could to assist
her poor mother in the strait of her poverty. But Mrs. Weston, though
she had a hard struggle to get along, sent her daughter to school
winter and summer, preferring to deprive herself of many of the
comforts of life, rather than have her daughter forego the advantages
of a tolerable education. Mary, though her little hands were too feeble
to work much, felt that she was a burden to her toiling, self-denying
parent; and though she could not persuade her to let her stay at home
and help her, used all her time out of school in taking care of little
Richard, then only three years old. By constantly striving to be
useful, and by continually watching for opportunities to be of service
to her mother, she very sensibly diminished the burden of her cares.
Poor as the widow Weston was, hard as she was obliged to struggle for a
subsistence, she was happy, and her children were happy. They had no
fine house, no money, no rich carpets, no beds of down, as their rich
neighbor had, yet they were quite as happy as he was. The God of nature
gave them the same beautiful prospect of lake and hills, and woods and
rocks, to look out upon; and if these things helped to gladden their
hearts, it was goodness which lay at the foundation of all their joys,
and cast a ray of sunshine across the path of poverty and want. They
were contented with their lot, hard and bitter as many others deemed
it; and contentment made them happy,--prepared their hearts to enjoy
the blessings of plenty, if God in his wisdom should ever bestow it
upon them.
The boys found the family at supper, and Frank could not but contrast
his evening meal with that of the poor widow's family. He had just
partaken of the choicest fruits, nice cake, hot waffles and muffins,
set before him; the Westons had only brown bread and very white butter.
He had used silver dishes and silver forks; they ate their coarse fare
from a few half-broken plates. His father was rich, and they were very
poor.
"You are welcome, Master Frank; I am glad to see you, and Master
Charles too," said Mrs. Weston, rising from the table and handing them
chairs. "I hope your father and mother are well."
"Very well, I thank you, ma'am," replied Frank. "I have called to see
you about something, and I want to see you alone," added he in a low
tone; for he did not wish Tony, who was a great deal prouder than his
mother, to know the nature of his errand.
Just then Tony finished his supper, and Mrs. Weston sent him out to
feed the hens.
"I have brought you a present, Mrs. Weston," continued Frank; "I hope
you will accept it."
"Indeed, Master Frank, you are always very good to me; and your father
and mother too," replied the widow.
"Here are seven dollars. Charles and I wish to give you this sum."
"Seven dollars!" exclaimed the widow; for to a poor woman like her this
was a very large sum.
"Charles and I had saved it for the Fourth of July; but we thought how
much good it would do you, who have to work so hard, and we determined
to make you a present of it."
"May God bless you both!" exclaimed the widow, wiping a tear of
gratitude from her eye; "but I cannot think of taking your money."
"But, Mrs. Weston, you must take it."
"And you give up your pleasure for a poor body like me?"
"We give the money to you because it will afford us a greater pleasure
than to spend it for fire-crackers and gingerbread."
"How noble and generous! but you wrong yourselves."
"Oh, no, we don't," said Charles; and at that moment he felt happier
than if all the gingerbread and fire-crackers in the world had been
showered down upon him.
"Hush! here comes Tony. Not a word to him about it if you please."
"Heaven bless you, boys!" said the poor woman as she put the money in
her pocket.
Frank and Charles talked a few moments with Tony about the "glorious
Fourth," and then took leave of the family.
CHAPTER III
A DISAPPOINTED BOY
Captain Sedley was an early riser. Every morning at sunrise he was
abroad in the pleasant grove that bordered the lake near his house. It
was a favorite spot, and he had spent a great deal of time and money in
bringing Art into communion with Nature in this lovely retreat. He had
cleared out the underbrush, made gravel walks and avenues through it,
erected a summer-house in the valley, and an observatory on the summit
of the hill, which terminated on the lake side in a steep rocky
precipice, at whose base the waters rippled.
The worthy shipmaster was a devout man, which was perhaps the reason
why he so much enjoyed his morning walk. It was the pleasantest hour of
all the day to him,--a fit time for meditation, and for the
contemplation of the beautiful scenery that surrounded his habitation.
The trees looked greener and the lake more limpid then, when his mind
was invigorated by the peaceful slumbers of the preceding night; and
there, in his favorite retreat, while all nature was smiling upon him,
went up his morning prayer to that beneficent Being who had spared him
yet another day, and crowned his life with loving-kindness and tender
mercies.
It was the morning of the Fourth of July; and the sounds of the booming
cannon and the pealing bells, which the westerly breeze bore up the
lake, reminded him of the gratitude he owed to God for the political,
social, and religious privileges which had been bequeathed to the
country by the fathers of the Revolution. He prayed for his country,
that a blessing might always rest upon it.
As he walked along, thus engaged in his inaudible devotions, he heard a
footstep behind him. The solitude of his morning walk was seldom
disturbed by the intrusion of others. Turning, he recognized the friend
of his son.
"You are abroad early, Charles," said he.
"Yes, sir; this is the Fourth of July."
"And you feel like a little patriot on the occasion."
"I feel like having some fun."
"No doubt of it; I am afraid the boys think more of the smoke and noise
of the day than they do of the momentous event it commemorates."
"We like to have a good time, and the Fourth of July comes but once a
year."
"Probably you will be fully satisfied before night comes."
"I don't know," replied Charles, in a tone and with an expression of
countenance which attracted the attention of Captain Sedley.
"You don't know! I thought you were depending upon a good time in the
city!"
"We did anticipate a great deal of pleasure, but we have given it
up."
"Indeed! I have made preparations to take you to Boston."
"We have given it up, sir," repeated Charles.
"Frank?"
"Yes, sir."
"He has not mentioned the fact to me."
"But he intends to do so."
"What is the meaning of all this? I am surprised."
"I knew you would be," said Charles evasively.
"But why have you given it up?"
"Oh! that's a secret."
"Is it, indeed? Then, you really are not going?"
"No, sir."
"I suppose the secret is not to be divulged to me."
"No, sir."
Captain Sedley was not a little perplexed by what he had heard. The
proposed excursion had been the topic of conversation for the last
fortnight, and Charles and Frank had both manifested the liveliest
interest in it. And now that the whole scheme had been abandoned, the
anticipated pleasure voluntarily resigned, was strange and
incomprehensible. At first he was disposed to believe some more
agreeable plan of spending the day had been devised, and it seemed
questionable to him whether the plan which must be kept secret could
meet his approbation.
"It was Frank's notion, Mr. Sedley," added Charles.
"And you have promised not to tell me?"
"Oh, no, sir! I don't know that Frank would like it if I should do so,
though I can't see what harm it would do."
"Of course you must do as you think proper," replied Captain Sedley. "I
don't wish you to betray Frank's confidence, unless you think he is
doing wrong."
"Nothing wrong, sir."
"Then, why should it be kept secret?"
"I do not know of any reason why it should be. You won't tell Frank if
I let the cat out of the bag?" said Charles with a kind of forced
laugh.
"Certainly not, if you wish it."
"Well, then, we are not going because we have no money to spend."
"No money! Why, I gave Frank three dollars towards it no longer ago
than yesterday, and he had some money before that," replied Captain
Sedley, not a little alarmed at the revelation.
"Frank had four dollars and seventy-five cents, and I had two dollars
and twenty-five cents, which made seven dollars between us."
"What have you done with it?" asked the kind father, fearful lest his
son had been doing wrong.
"Last night we concluded to give our money to the widow Weston, instead
of spending it for candy and crackers, and to stay at home instead of
going to Boston."
An expression of pleasure lighted up the features of the devoted
father. The confession of Charles was a great relief to him.
"Well done, boys!" exclaimed he. "That was noble and generous;" and
involuntarily he thrust his hand into his pocket, and drew forth his
purse.
"Frank proposed it," said Charles, a gleam of satisfaction lighting up
his eye as he beheld the purse.
Captain Sedley held it in his hand a moment, looked searchingly at
Charles, and then returned it to his pocket.
"It was a noble deed, Charles; and I had rather hear such a thing of my
son than to have all the wealth and honors which the world can give
bestowed upon him."
Charles looked disappointed when he saw Captain Sedley restore his
purse to his pocket.
"And Frank means to keep it a secret, does he?" continued the delighted
father.
"Yes, sir; till to-morrow."
"Very well; I will not mention the fact that you have told me about
it."
"Thank you, sir," replied Charles doubtfully.
"And I am glad you told me--that is, if you have not betrayed his
confidence;" and Captain Sedley looked rather sharply at Charles.
"Oh, no, sir! I have not."
"Because, when he tells me he does not intend to go, I should otherwise
have insisted on knowing the reason."
Charles was already sorry he had said a word about it.
"It was a noble sacrifice, Charles," continued Captain Sedley with much
enthusiasm. "If from a worthy motive we sacrifice our inclinations for
the good of others, we are always sure of finding our reward--indeed,
the act is its own reward."
Charles began to feel a little uneasy. It seemed to him as though
Captain Sedley never looked so sharply at him before. What could he
mean? He had given all his money to the widow Weston as well as Frank,
but Captain Sedley's looks seemed to reprove rather than commend him.
He did not feel satisfied with himself, or with Captain Sedley--why, he
could not exactly tell; so he happened to think that his father might
want him, and he ran home as fast as his legs would carry him.
But his father did not want him, and he walked nervously about the
house till breakfast-time. He had no appetite, and everything seemed to
go wrong with him.
"Come, Charles," said his mother, "eat your breakfast, or you will get
hungry before you get to Boston."
"Not going," answered he sulkily.
"Why not?" asked his father and mother in the same breath.
"Haven't got any money."
"No money! Where is the two dollars I gave you yesterday?" asked Mr.
Hardy rather sternly.
"Gave it away."
"You did?"
"Yes, sir."
"To whom?"
"Frank proposed last night to give our money to the widow Weston
instead of spending it; and like a great fool as I was, I agreed to
it."
"Poor fellow! It is too bad!" added Mrs. Hardy.
"What did he do it for, then?" said Mr. Hardy.
"Of course he didn't want to be behind Frank in doing a good action."
"But he is a long way behind him."
"Why, husband!"
"He has given the woman the money, and played the hypocrite," replied
Mr. Hardy, with the most evident expression of disgust in his tones and
looks. "He has acted just like a great many folks who put money into
the contribution-box for missions and Bible societies, because they
think it looks well."
"But, husband, you will give him some more money? You will make up the
sum to him which he has given in charity?"
"Given in charity! Given in hypocrisy, you mean! I shall do no such
thing."
"Deprive the poor boy of all his anticipated pleasure?" said the
indulgent mother.
"The bitter fruit of his own hypocrisy," replied Mr. Hardy.
"You are too bad!"
"No, I am not. If he gave away his money because he thought it was an
act of charity that would look well, that would make Frank and his
father think better of him, he is rightly served; and I am disposed to
shut him up in this room with a good book to teach him better, instead
of letting him go to the celebration."
Mr. Hardy was a blunt, honest man, perhaps a little too much inclined
to be harsh with his son when he had done wrong. Possibly his views of
parental discipline were not altogether correct, but in the main he
meant right. He was disgusted at the conduct of Charles, and thought no
reasonable penalty too severe for hypocrisy and deceit.
"On the other hand," continued he, "if he had made up his mind to
sacrifice his inclination at the call of charity, he would not have
felt as he does now. He would have been contented to stay at home. He
would have found a nobler satisfaction in the consciousness of having
done a good deed than in all the anticipated pleasures of the
celebration. It is very plain to me the whole thing was an act of gross
hypocrisy;" and Mr. Hardy rose from the table, and left the room.
Charles understood his father's analysis of his conduct. He felt that
it was truthful. What would his father have said if he had known his
motive in seeking Captain Sedley that morning? He was ashamed of
himself, and was glad that his father knew nothing about it.
He had not yet lost all hope that Captain Sedley would reimburse the
sums they had given the widow, and take them to Boston. But Frank's
father, appreciating the noble sacrifice his son had made, was content
that he should receive all the moral discipline to be derived from the
act. Therefore he said nothing about it, and went to the city alone.
Charles waited impatiently till ten o'clock; but no one came for him,
and he left the house in search of such enjoyment as Rippleton could
afford him.
CHAPTER IV
THE FOURTH OF JULY
Charles Hardy was sadly disappointed. He had given his money to the
widow Weston in the fullest confidence that it would be refunded to
him, and that he should be able to attend the celebration in Boston.
When Frank had proposed the charitable plan, his heart told him how
good and pleasant it would be to assist the poor woman. His feelings
were with his friend in the benevolent design; it was a mere impulse,
however, which prompted him to join in the act. He thought of the
sacrifice, but the hope of not being actually compelled to make it in
the end involuntarily helped him to a decision.
His father had misjudged his motive in calling him hypocritical, for he
really felt like doing the noble deed. He felt kindly towards the widow
Weston; but his principle was not strong and deep enough to enable him
to bear with pleasure, or even with a good grace, the deprivation which
his benevolent act had called upon him to suffer.
It was not so with Frank. He had given without the hope of reward; and
in staying at home on the Fourth of July, he was perfectly contented,
because it was the price he paid for the pleasure of doing good.
Charles, when he found that Captain Sedley did not come for him,
hastened over to find Frank. He and Tony Weston were on the beach.
"Hello, Charley! We have been waiting for you," said Frank, as he
approached.
"Hello, fellows! What's in the wind?" replied Charles. "What are you
going to do to-day?"
"We were just thinking about something."
"Has your father gone to the city, Frank?"
"Yes."
"What did he say?"
"Nothing."
"Didn't he look surprised?"
"Not much. He only asked me the reason, and I said I would tell him
to-morrow. He didn't say any more about it. Got off nicely, didn't I?"
"First-rate," replied Charles coldly.
"What are you talking about?" asked Tony, to whom, of course, this
conversation was unintelligible.
"Tell you some other time, Tony," replied Charles. "Now, what shall we
do to-day?"
"I don't know. Here comes Uncle Ben; perhaps he can give us an idea."
Uncle Ben was an old seaman, who had sailed a great many years in the
employ of Captain Sedley. He was a rough, blunt old fellow, but so
honest, warm-hearted, and devoted to his employer, that when the latter
retired from the duties of his profession, he had given him a home on
his estate. Uncle Ben was a good sailor, but he had never risen above
the place of second mate. Without much ambition to distinguish himself,
or to make money, he was perfectly content to live with Captain Sedley,
even in a humble capacity.
Frank was an especial favorite of Uncle Ben; and as the old sailor's
habits were good, and as his ideas of morality and religion rendered
him a safe companion for his son, Captain Sedley permitted and
encouraged their intimacy. During the long winter evenings, he listened
with the most intense interest and delight to Uncle Ben's descriptions
of sea life and of the various countries he had visited.
With the neighbors, and especially the boys in the vicinity, the old
sailor was respected, and treated with a great deal of consideration.
He was an old man, but he had always maintained an unblemished
character. He was full of kindness and sympathy, always manifesting the
liveliest regard for the welfare of his friends; and on this account
people had got into the way of calling him by the familiar sobriquet
of Uncle Ben. It is true he was sometimes rude and rough, but his kind
heart atoned for the blemishes in his deportment.
Though Captain Sedley considered Uncle Ben a necessary appendage to his
estate, he did not impose upon him the performance of any very arduous
duties. He kept a pleasure-boat on the lake, and the old sailor had the
entire charge of that. Occasionally he worked a little in the garden,
groomed the horses, and did the "chores" about the house; but to use
his own expression, he was "laid up in ordinary."
"Here comes Uncle Ben," said Frank.
"I have been lookin' for you, boys. What are you up to here?"
"Nothing, Uncle Ben."
"What do you stand there for, then? Arn't this the Fourth of July?"
"It is, Uncle Ben; and we were thinking what we should do with
ourselves. Can't you tell us?"
"That I can, boys; I am goin' across the lake in the boat, and Cap'n
Sedley told me I might take you over with me if you'd like to go."
"Hurrah!" cried Charles Hardy, throwing up his cap with delight.
"That we would, Uncle Ben; and right glad we are of the chance to go,"
replied Frank.
"Tumble up to the boat-house, then," replied Uncle Ben, as he hobbled
after the boys, who, delighted with the prospect of a sail on the lake,
bounded off like so many antelopes.
The boat was cast off from her moorings in the boat-house, and the boys
jumped in.
"You will let me steer, won't you, Uncle Ben?" said Frank.
"Sartin, if you want to. Take the helm."
The old sailor hoisted the sails, and the boat stood out towards the
middle of the lake.
"Steady, there," said Uncle Ben; "keep the sails full."
Frank found it was not so easy a matter to steer a sailboat as he had
supposed; for one moment he stopped the boat by "throwing her up into
the wind," and the next ran her almost on shore by "keeping away."
"Keep her away!" cried Uncle Ben. "That will do; steady as she is. No,
no; you are six p'ints off the course now. Luff a little! Hard a port!"
"I don't know what you mean, Uncle Ben; I think you had better steer
yourself," said Frank, resigning the helm.
"I think I had."
Under the old sailor's skilful management, the boat soon reached Centre
Isle, where they decided to land.
"Now, boys, if you want to celebrate a little, here's half a dozen
bunches of crackers," said Uncle Ben, as he took a little package from
the locker in the stern of the boat.
"Bravo, Uncle Ben! We will have a nice time."
"Now, if you are of a mind to stay here and have a good time, while I
sail over to the other shore to see a sick man, I will give you a good
sail when I return."
"Hurrah! we will, Uncle Ben. Have you got any matches?"
"There are matches and a slowmatch in the bundle," replied Uncle Ben,
as he pushed off. "Now blaze away, and don't burn your fingers."
"Now for it!" exclaimed Charles, as he lighted the slowmatch. "Here
goes the first shot. Hurrah!"
The boys were in high glee. The crackers snapped admirably, and the
little forest of Centre Isle reverberated with the reports of their
mimic guns. Various expedients were devised to vary the entertainment.
Crackers were fired in the water, in the stumps, thrown in the air, or
half buried in the wet sand of the beach.
"By gracious! the Bunkers are coming!" exclaimed Tony Weston, as he
discerned the raft, navigated by half a dozen boys, approaching the
island.
"Let them come," said Charles.
"I had rather they would not come," added Frank.
"What harm will they do?"
"They are quarrelsome and disagreeable."
"Well, they won't be here this half-hour yet; that is one consolation;
and we can have a good time till they do get here," returned Charles,
as he lighted a whole bunch of the crackers.
"Go it!" cried Tony. "Hurrah! Fourth of July comes but once a year."
"Don't fire them all at once, Charley," interposed Frank.
"That is all the fun of it."
"But the fun won't last long at that rate."
"We must fire them all before the Bunkers get here, or they will take
them away from us."
And before the half-hour which Charles had given them to reach the
island had expired, their stock was entirely gone, their ammunition
exhausted, their noisy patriotism evaporated, and they seated
themselves on the grass to watch the approaching raft.
It had been a long and difficult passage, but at last the Bunkers
landed.
"Hello, Tony," said Tim, as he leaped ashore; "what are you doing
here?"
"Been firing crackers," replied Tony.
"Got any more?"
"I haven't."
"Who has?"
"None of us," replied Frank. "We have fired them all."
"You haven't!" answered Tim with an oath.
"I tell you the truth; don't I, Charley?"
"We had but six bunches, and we have fired them all," added Charles.
"I don't believe it; you long-face fellers will lie twice as quick as
one of us," said Tim, walking up to Frank.
"I have no more; I would not lie about it," protested Frank.
"Yes, yer would lie about it too. Now, just hand over some o' them
crackers, or I'll duck you in the lake."
Frank made no reply to this rude speech. He heartily wished himself off
the island, and out of the company of the newcomers.
"Hit him, Tim!" cried one of the Bunkers.
"Hit him!" repeated the others.
"Want to fight?" said Tim, doubling up his fists, and assuming a
pugilistic attitude.
"No, I don't want to fight; I will not fight," replied Frank,
retreating backward from the quarrelsome boy.
"Oh, you won't fight, eh? Then, you'll git licked," replied Tim,
following him.
"I have not injured you; I don't see why you should wish to fight with
me."
"You lie! yer have. Didn't yer tell me yer hadn't got no more
crackers?"
"I have not."
"Yes, yer have;" and Tim struck Frank a severe blow which made his lip
bleed.
"Don't do that again!" cried Tony Weston, his face flushed with
indignation.
"What are you going to do about it?" said Tim, turning to Tony.
"I don't want to fight, but I won't see him abused in that shape."
"Never mind him, Tony," interposed Frank. "He didn't hurt me much. Let
us go over to the other side of the island."
"No, yer won't!" said Tim Bunker, approaching Frank again, and giving
him another blow in the face.
Tony Weston could bear no more; and springing upon the leader of the
Bunkers, he struck him several times in rapid succession.
"Don't, Tony, don't," said Frank, trying to separate the combatants.
"Fair play!" cried the Bunkers.
Tony, though younger and lighter than his antagonist, pressed him so
severely that he brought him to the ground before Frank and Charles
could draw him off. Tim instantly leaped to his feet again.
"Come on!" said he.
"Don't, Tony."
"Mind your own business!" said Tim to Frank as he renewed the assault
upon him.
Frank tried to get away; and when Tony and Charles came to his
assistance the other Bunkers attacked them, and the fight became
general.
"Give it to 'em," shouted Tim, as he struck his opponent several times
on the head.
Frank saw that he had nothing to hope for unless he defended himself.
He had done his best to prevent the fight, and now he felt justified in
resorting to necessary violence to save himself from further injury.
Suddenly springing upon his assailant, he bore him to the ground, and
held him there. In the meantime Tony and Charles were getting the worst
of it, when a loud shout arrested the attention of the combatants. They
all suspended the strife.
"It is Uncle Ben," said Charles.
The Bunkers seemed to understand the character of the old sailor; and
taking to their heels, they fled precipitately towards the other end of
the island.
"What are you about, boys?" said Uncle Ben sternly, as he landed.
"We could not help it, Uncle Ben; indeed we could not," replied Frank,
wiping his bleeding lip, and proceeding to tell the particulars of the
whole affair.
"It was my fault; I ought not to have left you here alone. What will
your father say?" said Uncle Ben, looking much troubled.
"He will not say anything; I am sure you are not to blame, Uncle Ben."
"Jump into the boat, and let us be off. These boys must be attended
to."
Uncle Ben, instead of immediately following the boys into the boat,
pushed off the raft from the shore, and attaching a line to it, made
fast the other end to the boat.
"What are you going to do, Uncle Ben?" asked Frank.
"I am going to keep them ruffians prisoners for a while," replied he,
as the boat shot away from the island with the raft in tow.
"You don't mean to keep them there?"
"I sartinly do, till your father comes home, and he may do what he
pleases with 'em. If I had my way, I'd tie 'em up to the grating, and
give 'em a dozen apiece. 'Twould sarve 'em right, the meddlesome
rascals! I like good boys, but such boys as them is worse nor marines."
"But, Uncle Ben, we can't sail with this raft dragging after us."
"We will make the shore with it, then."
The raft was towed ashore, and the boys had a fine sail the entire
length of the lake. As they passed Centre Isle, they could see the
Bunkers gathered in a ring, apparently discussing their prospects; and
on their return, Tim hailed them, begging to be taken ashore.
"What do you say, boys? Shall we forgive 'em?" asked Uncle Ben.
"Yes!" exclaimed all three.
Uncle Ben landed at the island, and took them in, and during the
passage read them a severe lecture on the error of their ways. They
gave good attention to him, and seemed very penitent. But no sooner had
they got ashore, and out of reach of the old sailor, than they insulted
him by hooting his name, coupled with the most opprobrious epithets.
"No use to be easy with 'em. The better you use 'em the worse they
sarve you," said Uncle Ben, as he hauled the boat into its house.
CHAPTER V
THE CLUB BOAT
For a fortnight the Bunkers did not venture to approach the residence
of Captain Sedley. The raft, which Uncle Ben had been instructed to
break up, was removed some distance down the lake before he had time to
execute his orders. After a few days the memorable incident of the
"Fourth" ceased to be talked about, and was finally forgotten.
Two weeks passed away. Uncle Ben had been absent from home three days.
He went to Boston with his employer, who returned without him. To
Frank's earnest inquiries as to where he was, his father only replied
that he would return soon.
It was after nine o'clock in the evening on the third day when he
returned. Frank teased him to tell where he had been all the time; but
Uncle Ben only looked strange and mysterious, and would not gratify his
curiosity.
Frank got up the next morning quite early, and walked over to the widow
Weston's with Charles. On their return, a new object on the lake
attracted the attention of the latter.
"Hello, Frank! what's that?" exclaimed he. "By gracious! it is a new
boat!"
"So it is; and what an odd-looking craft!"
Both boys ran with all their might down to the little beach by the road
to get a nearer view of the strange boat.
"My eyes! look at it!" ejaculated the wondering Charles.
"What can it mean? It wasn't there last night," said Frank.
"No; and it looks like the boats we read about in the fairy books. I
shouldn't wonder if she dropped down out of the clouds. Isn't she a
beauty?"
"That she is! And how long and slender she is!"
"One, two, three--twelve places for the oars," cried Charles.
"Uncle Ben knows something about her, I believe!" exclaimed Frank, as a
beam of intelligence penetrated his mind.
"Just twig the bow! 'Tis as sharp as a razor."
"And there is her name on each side of it--Zephyr! What a pretty name
it is!"
"So it is. That boat's a ripper, let me tell you!" said Charles
enthusiastically.
"A what?" asked Captain Sedley, coming down from a thicket in the grove
close by, where he had been enjoying the astonishment of the boys.
"O father!" exclaimed Frank, "whose is she? Where did she come from?
What is she for?"
"One question at a time, Frank. But before I answer any of them, let me
say a word to you, Charles. You said she was a 'ripper' just now."
"That wasn't any harm, was it?"
"Not a very elegant word, though. I will warrant you cannot find it in
the dictionary."
"I merely meant that it was a very fine boat."
"I presume you meant nothing wrong; but such expressions do not add
anything to the force of language, and using them may induce a bad
habit. If you associated with boys accustomed to use profanity, this
desire to use strong words would lead you into the practice."
"I never thought of that."
"Just now you said, 'By gracious!' Such phrases are apt to induce
profanity, and are no addition whatever to the force of your remark."
"I don't know that they are."
"You were very much surprised at seeing this boat."
"We were, indeed."
"Frank, it is yours," added Captain Sedley, turning with a smile to his
son.
"Mine, father!" exclaimed Frank, clapping his hands.
"It is yours, and of course your friends will derive as much pleasure
from its use as you will yourself."
"But where did it come from, father?"
"Two months ago, when the Bunkers first began to amuse themselves with
the raft, the idea of procuring it occurred to me. I saw that you and
Charles both had a great desire to join in their sports. For obvious
reasons I could not permit Frank to do so; but I immediately resolved
that you should have the means of enjoying yourselves on the lake in
safety and comfort, and I ordered this boat to be built."
"Isn't she a beauty!" exclaimed Charles.
"But, Charles, do you remember what you said a fortnight ago?"
"No, sir."
"When you were talking here on the evening before the Fourth of July?"
"I said a great many things, I suppose, and some of them not quite so
bright as they might have been," replied Charles, wondering what
weakness of his was now to be exposed.
"Your remark was to the effect that boys who were obliged to mind their
parents were the losers for their obedience."
"But I did not mean so, sir."
"You meant some of it, Charles. You wanted to go on the raft, and you
felt at that moment as though it was a disagreeable duty to obey your
parents. But I think it was only a momentary feeling."
"I am sure it was, sir."
"Let this beautiful boat, then, convince you that obedience to your
parents is your duty, and ought to be your pleasure."
"How came it here, father?" asked Frank. "I am completely mystified."
"Uncle Ben has been in Boston the past three days, procuring its
outfit; and yesterday it was brought up to the village on the
railroad."
"That's why you would not tell me where he was."
"It is; I thought I would surprise you. Last night after dark Uncle Ben
and I rowed it up from the village."
"Wasn't we surprised, though?" added Frank.
"I'll bet we were," replied Charles.
"What, Charles, more of your inelegant speeches?" said Captain Sedley.
Charles blushed.
"I didn't mean to; I will try and break myself of that habit."
"Do; it is a foolish practice."
"But, father, what shall we do with her? Has she got any sails?" asked
Frank.
