country road, or cover her face and shudder at mention of a snake. She
is proud of being afraid of nothing, of having a good appetite, and of
the ability to sleep as soundly as a tired and healthy child.
It is not then to her, but to ourselves, that we mothers have need to
look. We are too often the ones who give way to hysterical tears or to
sharp words, or perhaps to unjust criticism, all of which we attribute
to nervousness. Our more frank girl, if affected in the same way,
would bluntly acknowledge that she was "as cross as a bear." Let us
quietly take hold of ourselves and ask ourselves the plain question,
"Are we nervous, or cross?" If the latter, we know how to remedy it. A
well person has no right to be so abominably bad-tempered or moody
that he cannot keep people from finding it out. If you are nervous,
there is some reason for it. Perhaps you did not sleep well last
night; perhaps you are suffering from dyspepsia; but in any case
will-power will do much towards lessening the trouble. If you are ill,
it may cause a struggle greater than your nearest and dearest can
imagine to repress the startled ejaculation at the slamming of a door,
or the angry exclamation when your bed is jarred. But you will be
better, not worse, physically, for this self-control. The woman, who,
though tortured by nervousness sets her teeth and says, "I will be
strong!" stands a better chance of speedy recovery than does she who
weakly gives way to hysterical sobs a dozen times a day. Your nerves
should be your servants, and, like all servants, may give you much
trouble, but as long as you are mistress of yourself you need not fear
them. Once let them get the control over you, and you are gone. There
is no tyrant more merciless than he who has hitherto been a slave.
May I add one word to those whom we, in exasperation, are apt to call
aggressively strong? If you, yourself, do not know what nervousness
is, pity and help the poor sufferer in your family who never knows
during day or night what it is to be without what you consider "the
fussiness that sets you wild." If this mother, or aunt, or sister,
does control herself, remember that she is stronger than you, as the
man who successfully curbs the fiery steed is more to be commended for
courage than he who holds the reins loosely over the back of the safe
farm-horse who does not know how to shy, kick, or run.
CHAPTER XI.
THE RULE OF TWO.
One character mentioned in the unique rhyme of Mary and her Little
Lamb, has never had due praise and consideration dealt out to him. The
teacher who heartlessly expelled from the temple of learning the
unoffending and guileless companion of the innocent maiden who is the
heroine of the above-mentioned ditty, was, in spite of his cruelty, a
philosopher. After the exit of the principal actors in the poem, we
are told that the following conversation ensued:
   "What makes the lamb love Mary so?"
     The eager children cry.
   "Because she loves the lamb, you know,"
     The teacher did reply.
The teacher was wise in his generation. In his "reply," lies a world
of meaning--one of the answers to the old question of the reason for
personal antipathies and attractions, and may perhaps be said, in this
case, to touch upon animal magnetism.
There are exceptions to every rule, and to the maxim that "love begets
love" there are many instances to be cited in which the contrary
proves true. We all have been so unfortunate at some time during our
lives as to be liked by people of whom we were not fond. But, if we
look the matter thoughtfully and honestly in the face, we will
acknowledge that in ninety-nine cases out of a hundred we are
attracted toward a person as soon as we learn that that person finds
us agreeable. Of course this knowledge must not be conveyed in a
manner that disgusts by effusiveness a sensitive person. None of us
like fulsome flattery, but a compliment so delicately hinted that it
does not shock, and scarcely surprises the person for whom it is
intended, seldom fails to produce an impression that is far from
disagreeable. Certainly no more graceful compliment can be paid a man
or woman by us selfish mortals than the acknowledgment of an affinity
between ourselves and the person whom we would honor by our
friendship. Said a well-known scholar to me:
"The most laudatory public speech ever addressed to me failed to make
my heart glow as warmly as did the remark of an old friend not long
ago. We had been separated for years, and at our reunion spent the
first hour in talking of old times, etc. Suddenly, my friend turned to
me, and grasping my hand exclaimed:
"'Old fellow! you always were, and still are, my affinity!'
"The subtle flattery of that one exclamation makes me even now thrill
with a delicious throb of self-conceit."
Not long ago, I asked of an acquaintance who is a wonderful reader of
character:
"Why has Mrs. S---- so many good friends?"
"Because she is such a good friend herself."
"But why is she attractive to so many people?" queried I.
"Because she is first attracted by them," was the quick response. "She
goes on the principle that there is some good in everybody, and sets
herself to work to find it. Each of us knows when she is thrown into
contact with a person who likes her. It is as if each were surrounded
with tinted atmospheres,--some green, some blue, some red, or
yellow--in fact, there are more shades and colors than you can
mention. When two reds meet, they mingle; when two harmonious tints
touch, they may form a pleasing combination; but when such enemies as
blue and green come together, they clash--fairly 'swear at one
another,' and the persons enveloped in the opposing atmospheres are
mutually disagreeable. The man who is surrounded by the color capable
of most harmonious combinations is said to have personal magnetism."
May not this explanation, while rather far-fetched, afford some clue
to the causes of personal popularity? And the thought following swift
upon this is: If this be true, how much may each of us have to do with
softening and making capable of harmony his and her own individual
atmosphere? While we cannot change our "colors" (to follow out my
friend's figure) we may shade them down and make them less pronounced,
so that in time they may become capable of a variety of combinations.
Does not Faber touch upon this point, when he says:
   "The discord is within which jars
     So roughly in life's song;
   'Tis we ourselves who are at fault
     When others seem so wrong,"
We blame others for being uncongenial When the "discord is within,"
that makes all things go awry. A drunken man sees the whole world go
around, and blames it, for its unsteadiness.
One way to render less obtrusive an inharmonious color, if we possess
such is to keep it out of a strong light that will attract all eyes to
it. Do not let us be proud of our personal defects and peculiarities.
They are subjects for regret, not pride. When a woman boasts that she
"knows she is often impatient, but she simply cannot help it, she is
so peculiarly constituted!" she acknowledges a weakness of which she
should be ashamed. If she is so undisciplined, so untrained, that she
cannot avoid making life uncomfortable for those around her, she would
better stay in a room by herself until she learns self-control. Often
the very eccentricities of character to which we cling so tenaciously
are but forms of vanity. Why should our preferences, our likes or
dislikes be of more account than those of thousands of other people?
Another great mistake we make is that we try the effect of other
colors with our own, and resent it hotly if they do not "go well
together." We do not insist that they shall be like ours in tint, but
they must act as good backgrounds, or form pleasing combinations with
ours, or we will none of them. Now it is quite possible for human
beings to hold contrary views from those entertained by you and me,
and still be excellent members of society and reputable Christians. To
many of us this seems incredible, but it is none the less true. Not
only are individual characters different, but environment and
education make us what we are. Very often a person who is uncongenial
to us, will, in the surroundings to which she is fitted, be at ease,
and perhaps even attractive.
I do not say that we must like everybody. That is a physical, mental
and moral impossibility. But we may do others the justice of seeing
their good traits as well as the bad. And sometimes when we find a
chance acquaintance drearily uninteresting, it is because we do not
take the trouble to find out what is in her.
Some people are always bored. May it not be because they look at
everything animate and inanimate from a selfish standpoint, with the
query in their minds, "How does that affect me?" The old definition of
a bore as "a person who talks so much of himself that he gives you no
chance to talk of yourself," may apply not only to the bore, but to
the bored. When you find yourself wearied and uninterested, be honest
enough to examine yourself calmly, and see if the reason is not
because your vis-a-vis is not talking about anything which interests
you especially. Should he turn the conversation upon your favorite
occupation or pastime, or even upon your personal likes and dislikes
(which, by the way, might be an infinite bore to him), would he not at
once become entertaining?
Viewed from a selfish and politic standpoint, it is to our interest to
make the best of everybody. We cannot always pick and choose our
associates in the school of life, and must frequently be thrown with
people whom we do not "take to," and, worse still, who may not "take
to" us. Since this be true, would it not be better for us to look at
their pleasantest side, and, by making ourselves agreeable to them,
insure their friendly feeling for us? The old saying that the
good-will of a dog is preferable to his ill-will, may still be quoted
with regard to many specimens of the genus homo which we daily meet.
There is one case in which I make an exception to all that I have
said--namely, when from the first, there is--not a feeling of dislike,
but a strong, uncontrollable personal antipathy. If you are generally
charitable and just, and have few actual dislikes, and meet a man
against whom your whole nature revolts, who is as repulsive to you as
a snake would be, avoid him. It is not necessary for you to tell
others of the uncomfortable impression he has made upon you. He may
not affect them in the same way. I acknowledge, not only from
observation, but from personal experience, that there are certain
people from whom one recoils with a feeling of physical as well as
mental repugnance. I believe that every woman who reads this talk has
an unerring feminine instinct which will thus prompt her when she
meets her own particular "Dr. Fell."
But I also believe that we seldom meet characters which repel us in
this especial way. Oftener some slight to ourselves, some one
unfortunate speech, biases our judgment, and those against whom we are
thus prejudiced are even sometimes connected to us by ties of
consanguinity. We would do well to analyze the causes which lead to
our feelings of dislike, and I fear we should often find that wounded
self-esteem was the root of the evil. And, after all, what a great
matter a little fire kindleth! Let us quench the spark before it
ignites. It is arrant folly, not to mention wickedness, to make
enemies for the little while we are here. There is an incurable
heartache which comes from such mistakes. Owen Meredith describes it
in a poem, every verse of which throbs with hopeless love and regret,
and one of which teaches a lesson so much needed by us all that we
would do well to commit to memory the last two lines, and repeat them
almost hourly:
"I thought of our little quarrels and strife,
   And the letter that brought me back my ring;
And it all seemed then, in the waste of life,
   Such a very little thing!"
CHAPTER XII.
THE PERFECT WORK OF PATIENCE.
A slender little treble was singing it over and over again in childish
sort, with so little appreciation of the meaning of the words that the
oddity of the ditty was the first thing to attract my attention to it.
   "You'd better bide a wee, wee, wee!
      Oh, you'd better bide a wee.
   La, la, la, la, la, la,
      You'd better bide a wee."
The elf was singing her dolly to sleep, swinging back and forth in her
little rocking-chair, the waxen face pressed against the warm pink cushion
of her own cheek, the yellow silk of curls palpitating with the owner's
vitality mingling with the lifeless floss of her darling's wig. The picture
was none the less charming because so common, but it was not in admiring
contemplation of it that I arrested my pen in the middle of a word, holding
it thus an inch or two above the paper in position to resume the rapid rush
along the sheet it had kept up for ten minutes and more. I mused a moment.
Then, with the involuntary shake one gives his cranium when he has a
ringing in his ears, I finished the sentence:--"sideration, I cannot but
think that patience has had her perfect work."
"You'd better bide a wee!"
lisped the baby's song.
I smiled slightly and sourly at what I called mentally "the pat
incongruity" of the admonition with mood and written words. A swift
review of the situation confirmed the belief that I did well to be
angry with the correspondent whose open letter lay upon the table
beside the unfinished reply. The letter head was familiar. Of late the
frequent sight of it had bred annoyance waxing into irritation. The
brisk interchange of epistles grew out of a business-matter in which,
as I maintained, I had been first ungenerously, then unfairly, finally
dishonestly dealt with. There was no doubt in my mind of the intention
to mislead, if not to defraud me, and the communication now under
advisement was in tone cavalier almost to the point of insult. Aroused
out of the enforced calm I had hitherto managed to preserve, I had
seated myself and set my pen about the work of letting him who had now
assumed the position of "that man," know how his conduct appeared in
the light of reason and common sense. I had not even withheld an
illusion to honesty and commercial morality. I had never done a better
piece of literary work than that letter. Warming to the task in
recounting the several steps of the transaction, I had not scrupled to
set off my moderation by a Rembrandtish wash of shadow furnished by my
correspondent's double-dealing, and to cast my civility into relief by
adroit quotations from his impertinent pages. When I said that
patience had had her perfect work, it was my intention to unfold in
short, stinging sentences my plans as to future dealings with the
delinquent.
The singing on the other side of the room meant no more than the
chirping of a grasshopper upon a mullein-stalk. I did not delude
myself with the notion of providential use of the tongue that tripped
at the consonants and lingered in liquid dalliance with favorite
vowels. Yet, after ten motionless minutes of severe thinking, the
letter was deliberately torn into strips and these into dice, and all
of these went into the waste-paper basket at my elbow. I had concluded
to "abide a wee." If the sun went down that once upon my anger, he
arose upon cold brands and gray ashes. I had not changed my
intellectual belief as to my correspondent's behavior, but the
impropriety of complicating an awkward business by placing myself in
the wrong to the extent of losing my temper was so obvious that I
blushed in recalling the bombastic periods of the torn composition.
Since that lesson, I have never sent off an angry or splenetic letter,
although the temptation to "have it out" upon paper has sometimes got
the better of my more sensible self. If the excitement is particularly
great, and the epistle more than usually eloquent of the fact that, as
the old-time exhorters used to say, I had "great liberty of speech," I
have always left it to cool over night. The "sunset dews" our mothers
sang of took the starch out of the bristling pages, and the "cool,
soft evening-hours," and nightly utterance of--"As we forgive them
that trespass against us,"--drew out the fire.
"You'd better bide a wee!"
I have sometimes thought of writing it down, as poor Jo of "Bleak
House" begged to have his last message to Esther Summerson
transcribed--"werry large,"--and pasting it upon the mirror that, day
by day, reflects a soberer face than I like to see in its sincere
depths--as one hot and hasty soul placarded upon her looking-glass the
single word "PATIENCE." To people whose tempers are quick and
whose actions too often match their tempers, one of the most difficult
of daily duties is to reserve judgment upon that which appears
ambiguous in the conduct of their associates. The dreary list of slain
friendships that makes retrospect painful to those of mature years;
the disappointments that to the young have the bitterness of death;
the tale of trusts betrayed and promises broken--how would the story
be shortened and brightened if conscientious and impartial trial of
the accused preceded sentence and punishment!--if, in short, we would
only "bide a wee" before assuming that our friend is false, or our
love unworthily given.
In a court of justice previous character counts for much. The number
and respectability of the witnesses to a prisoner's excellent
reputation and good behavior have almost as much weight with the jury
as direct testimony in support of the claim that he did not commit the
crime. To prove that he could not, without change of disposition and
habit, violate the laws of his country, is the next best thing to an
established alibi. I should be almost ashamed to set down a thing
which everybody knows so well were it not that each one of us, when
his best friend's fidelity to him is questioned, flies shamelessly in
the face of reason and precedent by ignoring the record of years. He
may have given ten thousand proofs of attachment to him whom he is now
accused of wronging; have showed himself in a thousand ways to be
absolutely incapable of deception or dishonorable behavior of any
sort. A single equivocal circumstance, a word half-heard, a gesture
misunderstood; the report to his prejudice of a tale-bearer who is his
inferior in every respect,--any one of these outbalances the plea of
memory, the appeal of reason, the consciousness of the right of the
arraigned to be heard. Were not the story one of to-day and of every
day, the moral turpitude it displays would arouse the hearer to
generous indignation.
Taking at random one of the multitude of illustrations crowding upon
my mind, let me sketch a vexatious incident of personal history. Some
years ago--no matter how many, nor how long was my sojourn in the town
which was the scene of the story--I accepted the invitation of an
acquaintance to take a seat in her carriage while on my way to call
upon a woman well known to us both. The owner of the equipage, Mrs.
D----, overtook me while I was trudging up the long street leading to
the suburb in which our common acquaintance lived. The day was bleak
and windy, and I was glad to be spared the walk. Mrs. C----, to whom
the visit was paid, came down to receive us with her hat and cloak on.
She was going down town presently, she said, and would not keep us
waiting while she laid aside her wraps. No! she would not have us
shorten our call on her account; she could go half an hour later as
well as now. A good deal was said of the disagreeable weather, and the
bad sidewalks in that new section of the city--as I recollected
afterward. At the time, I was more interested in her mention that her
favorite brother, an editor of note from another town and State, was
visiting her. She asked permission to bring him to call, and I
consented with alacrity, thinking, as I spoke, that I would, after
meeting him, arrange a little dinner-party of choice spirits in his
honor.
When we were ready to go, Mrs. D----, to my surprise and
embarrassment, did not propose that our hostess should drive down-town
with us, although we were going directly back, and a cold "Scotch
mist" was beginning to fall. To this day, I do not know to what to
attribute what I then felt--what I still consider--was gross
incivility. The most charitable supposition is that it never occurred
to her that it would be neighborly and humane to offer a luxurious
seat in her swiftly rolling chariot to the woman who must otherwise
walk a mile in the chill and wet. She had the reputation of
absent-mindedness. Let us hope that her wits were off upon an
excursion when we got into the carriage and drove away, leaving Mrs.
C---- at the gate.
Glancing back, uneasily, I saw her raise an umbrella and set out upon
her cheerless promenade directly in our wake, and I made a desperate
essay at redressing the wrong.
"It is a pity Mrs. C---- must go out this afternoon," I said,
shiveringly. "She will have a damp walk."
"Yes," assented my companion, readily. "That is the worst of being in
this vicinity. There is no street railway within half a mile."
She went no further. I could go no further. The carriage was hers--not
mine.
Mrs. C---- 's brother did not call on me, nor did she ever again. The
latter circumstance might not have excited surprise, had she not
treated me with marked coldness when I met her casually at the house
of a friend. In the busy whirl of an active life, I should have
forgotten this circumstance, or set it down to my own imagination, had
not her brother's paper contained, a month or so later, an attack upon
myself that amazed me by what I thought was causeless acrimony. Even
when I found myself described as rich, haughty and heartless,
"consorting with people who could pay visits to me in coaches with
monograms upon the doors, and turning the cold shoulder to those who
came on foot,"--I did not associate the diatribe with my visit to the
writer's relative. Five years afterward, the truth was made known to
me by accident. Mrs. C---- had judged from something said during our
interview that the equipage belonged to me, and that I had brought
Mrs. D---- to see her instead of being the invited party. I was now a
resident of another city. The story came to me by a circuitous route.
Explanation was impracticable. Yet it is not six months since there
fell under my eye a paragraph penned by the offended brother
testifying that his opinion of my insignificant self remains
unaltered.
Had he or his sister suspended judgment until the evidence against my
ladyhood and humanity could be investigated, I should have had to
look elsewhere for an incident with which to point the moral of my
Talk.
Rising above the pettiness of spiteful grudge-bearing against a
fellow-mortal, let me say a word of the unholy restiveness with which
we meet the disappointments which are the Father's discipline of His
own. "All these things are against me!" is a cry that has struck upon
His loving heart until Godlike patience is needed to bear with the
fretful wail.
Nothing that He lets fall upon us can be "against" us! In His hottest
fires we have but to "hold still" and bide His good time in order to
see that all His purposes in us are mercy, as well as truth to His
promises. In the Hereafter deeded to us as a sure heritage, we shall
see that each was a part of His design for our best and eternal good.
CHAPTER XIII.
"ACCORDING TO HIS FOLLY."
The hardest task ever set for mortal endeavor is for us to allow other
people to know less than we know.
The failure to perform this task has kindled the fagots about the
stake where heretics perished for obstinacy.
It is not a week, by the way, since I heard a woman, gently nurtured
and intellectual, lament that those "old Pilgrim forefathers were so
disagreeably obstinate." She "wondered that their generation did not
send them to the scaffold instead of across the sea."
Inability to suffer the rest of the world to be mistaken has set a
nation by the ears, broken hearts and fortunes, and separated more
chief friends than all other alienating causes combined. Many
self-deluding souls set down their impatience with others' errors to a
spirit of benevolence. They love their friends too dearly, they have
too sincere a desire for the welfare of acquaintances, to let them
hold mischievous tenets.
The cause of variance may appear contemptible to an indifferent third
party.
To the average reasoner who has no personal concern in the debate, it
may seem immaterial at what date Mrs. Jenkyns paid her last visit to
Boston. She is positive that it was in March, 1889. Mr. Jenkyns is as
certain that she accompanied him thither in April of that year. She
establishes her position by the fact that she left her baby for the
first time when the cherub was ten months old, and there is the Family
Bible to prove that he was born May 10, 1888. Is she likely to be
mistaken on such a point when she cried all night in Boston and the
bereft infant wailed all night in New York? What does Charles take her
for? Hasn't he said, himself, dozens of times, that there is no use
arguing as to times and seasons with a woman who verifies these by her
children's ages? Mr. Jenkyns has said so--but with a difference. There
is no use arguing with a woman in any circumstances, whatsoever. That
Emma tries to carry her point now by lugging in the poor little kid,
who has nothing whatever to do with the case, is but another proof of
the inconsequence of the sex. He has the stub of his check-book to
show that he paid the hotel bill in Boston, April 11, 1889. Figures
cannot lie. Mrs. Charles Jenkyns challenges the check-book on the
spot--and the wrangle goes on until she seeks her chamber to have her
cry out, and he storms off to office or club, irritated past
forbearance by the pig-headed perversity of a creature he called
"angel" with every third breath on their wedding journey to Boston in
1886.
Each of the combatants was confident, after the first exchange of
shots, that the other was in error. Half an hour's quarreling left
both doubly confident of the truth which was self-evident from the
outset. It is sadly probable that neither will ever confess, to
himself or to herself, that the only wise course for either to pursue
would have been to let ignorance have its perfect work, by abstaining
from so much as a hint of contradiction.
"I don't see how you held your temper and your tongue!" said one man
to another, as a self-satisfied acquaintance strutted away from the
pair after a monologue of ten minutes upon a matter of which both of
his companions knew infinitely more than he. "I hadn't patience to
listen to him, much less answer him good-humoredly--he is such a
fool!"
"I let him alone because he is a fool."
"But he is puffed up by the fond impression that you agree with him!"
"That doesn't hurt me,--and waste of cellular tissue in such a cause
would!"
"Seest thou a man wise in his own conceit?" asks Solomon. "There is
more hope of a fool than of him."
Which I take to mean that self-conceit is the rankest form of folly, a
sort of triple armor of defence against counter-statement and
rebutting argument. So far as my experience goes to prove a
disheartening proposition,--all fools are wise (to themselves) in
their own conceit. The first evidence of true wisdom is humility. One
may be ignorant without being foolish. Lack of knowledge because the
opportunity for acquiring it has been withheld, induces in the human
mind such conditions as we find in a sponge that has been cleaned and
dried. Information fills and enlarges the pores. Ignorance that is
content with itself is turgid and saturated. It will take up no more,
no matter what is offered.
This is the form of folly which the preacher admonishes us to answer
in kind. The effort to force the truth upon the charged sponge is an
exercise of mental muscle akin to the beating of the air, deprecated
by the Apostle to the Gentiles.
"Such stolid stupidity is incredible in a land where education is
compulsory!" exclaimed a friend who, having talked himself out of
breath in the effort to persuade a rich vulgarian into belief of one
of the simplest of philosophical principles, had the mortification of
seeing that his opponent actually flattered himself with the idea that
he had come off victorious in the wordy skirmish. "One would have
thought that living where he does, and as he does, he would have taken
in such knowledge through the pores."
"Not if the pores were already full," was a retort that shed new light
into the educated mind.
Folly has a law and language of its own with which intelligence
intermeddles not. The workings of an intellect at once untrained and
self-sufficient are like the ways of Infinite Wisdom--past finding
out.
Philosophy and politeness harmonize in the effort to meet such
intellects upon what they shall not suspect is "made ground." To apply
to them the rules of conversation and debate you would use in
intercourse with equals would be absurd, and disagreeable alike to you
and to themselves. They would never forgive a plain statement of the
difference between you and their guild.
As a matter of curious experiment, I made the attempt once, in a case
of a handsome dolt, who was, nominally, a domestic in my employ for a
few months. She had an affected pose and tread which she conceived to
be majestic. She was stupid, awkward and slovenly about her work, and
altogether so "impossible" that I disliked to send her adrift upon the
world, and was still more averse to imposing her upon another
household. In a weak moment I essayed to reason her out of her fatuous
vanity, and stimulate in her a desire to make something better of
herself. She seemed to hearken while I represented mildly the
expediency of learning to do her part in life well and creditably; how
conscience entered into the performance of duties some people
considered mean; how, in this country, a washerwoman is as worthy as
the President's wife, so long as she respects herself.
Norah's impassive face had not changed, but she interposed here:
"Beg pardon, ma'am! I've no thought of taking a hand with the
washing."
I was silly enough to go on with what I had tried to make so plain
that the wayfaring "living-out girl" could not err in taking it in. I
was willing to train her in the duties of her station. I set forth,
and would have specified what these were, but for a second
interruption that was evidently not intentionally disrespectful, and
was uttered with the bovine stolidity that never forsook her.
"Excuse me, ma'am, but I've always understood that all that made a
lady in Ameriky was eddercation, an' shure I have that 's well 's
you!"
She could read, or so I suppose, although I never saw a book in her
hand, and could probably write, after the fashion of her class.
With a smile at my folly that struggled with a sigh over hers, I let
her go. It was my fault not hers, that I had bruised my fists thumping
against a stone wall. Had I discoursed to her in Bengalee she would
have comprehended me no more imperfectly. The doom of hopelessness was
upon her. She was not merely a fool, but had taken the full degree as
a self-satisfied blockhead. I deserved what I got--and more of the
same sort.
Of a different type--being only a moderately conceited ignoramus, was
an otherwise well-educated woman whom I heard discourse volubly upon
ceramics and a valuable collection of old china she had picked up in a
foreign town. Among other kinds she named some choice bits of
"faience."
"Is not that used now as a general term for earthenware decorated with
color?" asked a listener modestly.
"Oh, by no means! It is never applied except to a particular and
exceedingly rare sort of pottery," went on the connoisseur. "But
perhaps you are not familiar with ceramic terms?"
"Not as familiar as I should be, I confess," rejoined the other,
gently regretful.
A couple of years later, I met the enthusiastic collector in the house
of the other party to the dialogue, and learned with her that our
hostess was renowned for her treasures of old china, and actually the
author of a book upon ceramics.
"What must she have thought of me the day I made such a fool of
myself!" moaned the humbled woman in a corner to me. "And you know--as
I have learned since, as she knew all the time,--that 'faience' is
used as a generic term! Well! I have had my lesson in talking of what
I do not understand. How could she have answered me so civilly and
gravely!"
I was too sorry for her to put into words the thought of the
proverbial answer, "according to his folly." The incident had its
moral and example for me too. The recollection has beaten back many a
vehement protest against egregious absurdity, and helped me endure
with apparent composure even the patronage of fools.
After all, there are so many mistakes made by other people that affect
nobody but themselves that Don Quixote might tire of tilting at them.
The more asinine the speaker the louder is his bray, and the more
surely do we encounter him in social and domestic haunts. To dispute
with him is to strengthen the stakes, and twist harder the cords of
his belief in himself. In recognizing the truth, so humiliating to
human reason, one wonders what effect would be produced by a
determined regime of letting alone. Would what St. James graphically
describes as "foaming out of their own shame," finally froth itself
into silence? Is not the opposition consequent upon the universal
desire to set other people right, the breath that blows the flame?
What would be the status of society, what the atmosphere of our homes,
were each of us to curb the impulse to controvert doubtful, but
important, statements:--to seem to acquiesce in--let us say, in Tom's
declaration that there are forty black cats in the back yard, and
Polly's opinion that Susie Jones is the prettiest girl in town, when
we consider her positively homely, and so on to the end of the day's
or week's or month's chapter? If, when we know that a man is a blatant
vaporer, we simply let him vapor, and mind our own business; if,
having gauged the measure of a woman's mind, and found it only an inch
deep, we do not fret our souls by vain dredgings in a channel to-day
that will fill up by to-morrow; if we give the fool the benefit of his
license; and expend thought and care upon that which is hopeful and
profitable--do we not prove ourselves prudent economists of time and
labor?
The subject is practical, and merits consideration. In this
working-day world of ours there is so much unavoidable pain, and so
much annoyance which we cannot overlook, that sensible people cushion
corners and shrink aside from brier-pricks. We do ourselves actual
physical harm when we lose temper; the tart speech takes virtue out of
us. A woman would better fatigue herself by righting an untidy chamber
than scold a servant for neglecting it. Foreigners comment surprisedly
upon the "anxious faces" of American women even of the better class.
The inchoate condition of our domestic service has undoubtedly much
to do with the premature seams that mar what would else be fair and
sweet, but I incline to the belief that more is due to a certain
irritableness which is a national characteristic,--a restless desire
to set everything right. The zeal for reform is commendable, but not
always according to knowledge. Certain forms of folly cure themselves,
if not flattered by grave rebuke, and others do not come within the
province of her who has her hands full already. It is easier for us
all to find fault than to overlook. It "just drives our woman-reformer
wild to hear some people talk!" The least aggressive of us knows for
herself the impotent vexation of attempting to convince one who is too
dull, or too dogged, to see reason. Why, then, yield to the
disposition to attempt the impracticable? If we would live worthily
and live long, we must school ourselves in the minor details of
self-control and everyday philosophy that make up a useful and
well-balanced life.
CHAPTER XIV.
"BUTTERED PARSNIPS."
I shall never forget the first time I heard the homely proverb, once
better known than now, "Fine words butter no parsnips."
A bitter-tongued old lady, with an eye like a hawk's, and a certain
suspicious turn of the head to this side and that which reminded one
of the same bird of prey, was discussing a new neighbor.
"I don't hold with meaching ways at any time and in anybody," said the
thin croak, made more husky by snuff, a pinch of which she held
between thumb and finger, the joined digits punctuating her
strictures. "And she's one of the fair-and-softy sort. A pleasant word
to this one, and a smile to that, and always recollecting who is sick,
and who is away from home, and ready to talk about what pleases you,
and not herself, and praising your biscuits and your bonnets and your
babies, and listening to you while you are talking as if there was
nobody else upon earth."
Like the octogenarian whose teeth gave out before his dry toast, she
"hadn't finished, but she stopped" there, being clean out of breath.
"But Mrs. A.!" I raised my girlish voice to reach the deaf ears. "I
think all that is beautiful. I only wish I could imitate her, and be
as popular and as much beloved."
"Humph!" inhaling the snuff spitefully. "She's too sweet to be
wholesome. Fair words butter no parsnips. Look out for a tongue that's
smooth on both sides. What does the Bible say of the hypocrite? 'The
words of his mouth were smoother than butter.' I'd rather have honest
vinegar!"
I stood too much in dread of her frankness to ask if sugar is never
honest, or to speculate audibly why she chose parsnips with their
length of fibre and peculiar cloying sweet, as types of daily living.
The adage seemed droll enough to me then, and it is odd even now that
I have become familiar with it in the talk of old-fashioned people.
Interpreting it as they do, I dispute it stoutly. Parsnips may be only
passable to most palates even when buttered. They would be intolerable
with vinegar. Furthermore,--before we drop the figure,--if anything
can butter them, it is fair words.
This business which we call living is not easy at the best. Our
parsnips are sometimes tough and stringy; sometimes insipid; often
withered by drought or frost-bitten. If served without sauce, they--to
quote our old-fashioned people again--"go against the stomach."
There is a pernicious fallacy to the effect that a rough tongue is an
honest one. There are quite as many unpleasant untruths told as there
are flattering falsehoods. Because a speech is kind it is not of
necessity a lie, nor does a remark gain in truth in direct ratio as it
loses its politeness. Often the blunt criticism is the outcome of a
savage instinct on the part of the perpetrator. In America, men and
women (always excepting Italians) do not carry poniards concealed in
their breasts, or swords at their sides. In lieu of these the tongue
is used to revenge an evil.
The Psalmist exclaims: "Let the righteous smite me; it shall be a
kindness; and let him reprove me; it shall be an excellent oil," but
the average representative of the nineteenth century will not echo his
sentiment. It may be that the "righteous" of that day had a more
agreeable way of offering reproof than have the modern saints. However
that may be, the "excellent oil" seems to have given place to
corrosive sublimate and carbolic acid--neither of which, applied in an
undiluted form, may be even remotely suspected of soothing an open
wound. True, they are fatal to bacteria, but at the same time they
madden the sufferer as would coals of living fire.
Even supposing one lays herself open to the charge of flattery, is it
not less of a fault than to merit the reputation for brutal
fault-finding? Who would not rather be a healer than a scarifier?
"Faithful may be the wounds of a friend" (and on this word "friend" I
lay special stress), but the converse is also true. Faithful are his
healings. Have you never had a whole day brightened by some seemingly
chance remark which warmed the cockles of your heart with a delicious
glow? It may have been that you were disappointed in some cherished
scheme--how much disappointed no one guessed and you were ashamed to
confess. It may have been that you were struggling to be brave and
cheerful under some trial, the weight of which you thought others
could not appreciate. The cheering word may only have been--"My dear,
how sweet you are looking to-day! You do my old eyes good." Or perhaps
an appreciative other-half has pressed your hand and whispered, "You
are the bravest little woman in the world!" Who does not remember how,
at such a time, the unexpected sympathy or encouragement brought the
quick tears to the eyes, and to the cheeks the flush which meant a
bound of joy from the heavy heart? If we could but remember that we
are told to "speak the truth in love!" In "love," recollect,--not in
temper. Do not be the accursed one by whom the offences come. They
will come. The Evil One will look out for that, but it is not worth
while for you to make his work too easy. Determine to train yourself
strictly to see the many excellent qualities possessed by your
associates, and you will be surprised to find that before long the
disagreeable traits will only appear as foils for the good. Cultivate
an eye for pleasant characteristics, and do not encourage people who
are prone to rough speech. Frown down the blunt expression of opinion
and it will cease to be considered praiseworthy frankness. The woman
of whom the Royal Preacher speaks, "in whose tongue was the law of
kindness," probably showed that kindness by being agreeable, or we may
be sure no human being of the masculine gender would have considered
her price far above rubies; nor add with such sublime confidence--"her
husband also, and he praises her."
One such woman never forgot to thank anyone for the slightest favor,
and I have seen a burly and phlegmatically sombre policeman smile with
unexpected pleasure at receiving the sweet-faced "thank you!" with
which she always acknowledged his pilotage over a crowded
street-crossing.
It is time that people comprehended that it is not their duty to be
disagreeably frank, when another's comfort is the price thereof. An
unkind sentence has the power of lodgment in the mind. It is like the
red "chigoe" which inserts his tiny head in the flesh and burrows
until he causes a throbbing fester. For instance, I have never
forgotten a speech which was addressed to me over twenty years ago. It
was just after we had built an unpretending, but thoroughly cozy
summer cottage, nestled in a grove of trees that threw long shadows
into a silvery lake. The man in question told me he never saw our
light at night from the other side of the pretty sheet of water that
it did not "remind him of a charcoal-burner's hut in the heart of a
wilderness." It would be of interest to ascertain why this needlessly
unkind remark was made. Since there were at least one or two pleasant
features in the landscape, why could he not call attention to them?
It is not necessary that we should flatter, but let us be lavishly
generous with what French cooks call sauce agreable, since parsnips
must be eaten. Some efforts in this line remind me of a story I
recently heard of a farmer who received at a New York restaurant the
customary small pat of butter with his Vienna roll. Imperiously
beckoning to a waiter, he commanded him to "wipe that grease spot off
that plate, and bring him some butter!"
Let us give more than the grease spot. Better go to the other extreme,
and drown our friend's neglected parsnips in fresh, pure
un-oleomargarined, and entirely sweet butter.
CHAPTER XV.
IS MARRIAGE REFORMATORY?
To no other estate are there so many varieties of phases as to that of
matrimony. Like the music of Saint Cæcilia and old Timotheus combined,
it is capable of raising "a mortal to the skies," or of bringing "an
angel down" to the lowest depths of misery. At the best the betrothed
couple can never say with absolute certainty--"After marriage we shall
be happy." The experience of wedded life is alarmingly like that of
dying--each man and woman must know it for himself and herself, and no
other human being can share its trials or its joys.
The mistake the prospective wife makes is in obstinately closing her
eyes to the fact that married life has any trials which are not far
outbalanced by its pleasures. Marriage does not change man or woman.
The impressive ceremony over, the bridal finery laid aside, the last
strain of the wedding-march wafted into space, and the orange-flowers
dead and scentless,--John becomes once more plain, everyday John, with
the same good traits which first won his Mary's heart, and the many
disagreeable characteristics that exasperated his mother and sisters.
And Mary, being a woman, and no more of a saint than is her
life-partner, will also be exasperated. If John is an honest gentleman
who loves Mary, the chances for her happiness depend upon her
common-sense and her love for John. It is utterly impossible to have
too much of the last-named commodity. It will be all needed,
well-blended with the divine attribute of patience, and judiciously
seasoned with woman's especial gift--tact, to enable man and wife to
live together peaceably for one year.
Moreover, Mary must understand that John the lover and John the
husband have very different ways of showing affection. The lover would
loiter evening after evening waiting for other guests to go home that
he might have time for a few tender words with his sweetheart. Woman's
logic reasons,--"what more natural when he has hours of time than for
him to keep on saying those same tender words, only very many more of
them?" The fact remains that he does not. After the kiss of welcome on
his arrival home at the close of day, he is unsentimental enough to
want his dinner, and, that disposed of, he buries himself behind his
newspaper, from which perhaps he does not emerge before nine o'clock
when he is ready to talk to Mary and to be entertained by her.
And yet this John of whom I am talking is as good morally, as faithful
and conscientious in his manly way as Mary in her womanly.
But--suppose he were not a good man, what then? Could the mere fact of
his union with her change his entire nature?
A good man may be made better by association with a good woman; a man
with repressed evil tendencies may have them held more firmly in check
by his wife's restraining influence, but no woman should undertake to
"make over" a man who has given way to the wicked passions of his
being until they are beyond his control. He will not be made a
reputable member of society and a bright and shining light to the
community in which he dwells, by marrying. He does not go into the new
life as a sort of Keeley cure,--a reformatory institution. A woman's
strongest and weakest point is her power of idealizing every cold fact
with which she comes in contact. She loves a handsome roué. He tells
her that if she will but take him in training she can make a new man
of him; that her fair hand can wipe all the dark spots from his past
life, smooth the rough places and elevate the depressions in his
character until it will be once more goodly to contemplate. And over
the stereopticon view of the man his fiancée throws the rosecolored
light of her idealistic lantern, and believes all he says. Of course
during their engagement he frequently slips back into the old path,
sometimes has a downfall that shocks and horrifies her who would
reform him, but, once more trimming and turning up the wick, she
bathes him in the pink light and remembers that he is not yet as
entirely under her influence as he will be some day. She would think
it cruel injustice were some unprejudiced observer to suggest that if
he cannot change his life when the possibilities of winning her are at
stake, he will hardly do so when the prize is his own.
It is doubtful if a man whose whole nature has become stunted, warped
and foul by sin, has in him the ability to love a true woman as she
deserves to be loved. I do not mean to intimate that his devotion to
her is feigned, but it is only such attachment as he is capable of,
and is no more to be compared with the unselfish love that she freely
lavishes upon him, than the mud-begrimed slush which settles in city
gutters to the snowy blanket covering country fields.
Beauty and the Beast may be a pretty fairy-tale, but in the realism of
practical life it assumes the guise of a tragedy that makes the
looker-on shudder with disgustful pity. My heart aches when I think of
the women who began the work of reformation with hope and laid it
down with despair at the end of a life that made them "turn weary arms
to death" with a sigh of welcome. On the table before me stands the
portrait of one such woman. When she was a merry-hearted girl, she
fell in love with a handsome, brilliant young fellow, whose only
failing was a dangerous fondness for liquor. He loved her
deeply--better than anything else in the world--except drink.
Nevertheless, he promised to overcome even this passion for her sake.
During the month immediately preceding their marriage, he came twice
into her presence intoxicated. In vain did her family plead and
protest. Her only answer was:
"Harry cannot keep straight without some one to help him. I must marry
him now. He needs me!"
Two years after her marriage she died of a broken heart, whispering at
the last to a dear friend that she "was not sorry to go, but would be
thankful life was over if she were only sure that her year-old baby
would not be left to Harry's care."
Yet he was in most respects tender and considerate. The trouble was
that his devotion to her remained at the point at which it stood when
he became her husband. The habit of intemperance grew.
Suppose that, added to this great fault, had been others still more
vicious. Had his been a coarse brutal nature, would not the idea of
reformation have been still more hopeless?
A woman, in tying herself for life to an unprincipled man who has
yielded to the dictates of sin year after year, forgets that he has
lost to a great extent his better nature and is now hardly responsible
for his actions. The spirit may indeed be willing, but the flesh is
lamentably weak. The appetites that have been long indulged do not
relinquish their claims after only a few months' restraint, and when
the girl for whose sake they have been repressed is won, they will
return to the swept and garnished room, and the last end of their
victim will be worse than the first.
I often wonder what a good, pure woman promises herself when she
proposes to entwine her clean life with one that is scarred, seamed
and blackened. Evade the truth as she may, there are but two courses
for her to pursue. She must either live a lonely life apart from her
husband's, frowning down, or silently showing disapproval of his
habits, or she must, to preserve peace and the semblance of happiness,
bring herself down to his level and become even less delicate and more
degraded than he. For is not a coarse woman always more abhorrent
than a coarse man? There are the instincts of her entire moral and
physical nature to be cast aside before she can descend to vulgarity.
In the one case her husband will hate her, while in the other she will
lose his respect and will despise herself.
An evil life so blunts the conscience that the wife of an unreformed
man need hardly expect him to be faithful to her. If a man will sin
against common decency, morality and social codes, he will sin against
his wife.
There is another aspect of the case to be considered. The American
girl of to-day seldom takes the possibility of offspring into her
matrimonial plans. They are not only a possibility, but a probability,
and it behooves every woman to cast aside false modesty, and with a
pure heart and honest soul seriously consider if she is not doing
irreparable wrong to unborn children in giving them an unprincipled
father. Is she willing to see her children's blood tainted by his
vices, their lives wrecked by evil temptations inherited from him? She
must, indeed, be a reckless woman and a soulless, who, with this
thought uppermost can still say, "I will marry this man--let the
consequences be what they may!"
That a man has some redeeming qualities does not make him a
life-companion to be desired above all others. Said a poor Irish
woman:
"Pat is always a good husband, savin' the toimes he's in liquor!"
"When is he sober?" asked a bystander.
"Sure an' his money gin'rally gives out by Friday mornin', and from
that on to Saturday night, he can't git a dhrop. Faith, but he's koind
and consid'rate at sich a time!"
Did the loyal soul find that marriage paid?
One great mistake that many silly women make is to think that a dash
of wickedness makes a man more attractive. Years ago I heard a girl
say:
"I want to know Jack S. He has been very wild, and a man is so much
more interesting for being a little naughty, you know."
I did not "know," nor do I now understand why pearls should plead to
be thrown before swine, or fresh-blown roses upon the dung-hill.
CHAPTER XVI.
"JOHN'S" MOTHER.
One of the oldest problems among the many seemingly contradictory
"examples" set for the student of human nature has to do with the
different positions assigned to mother and mother-in-law.
Painters, poets, divines, sages,--the inspired Word itself,--rank the
mother's office as the noblest assigned to creatures of mortal mould.
Mother-love and the love of the dear Father of us all are compared,
the one with the other. Of all human affections, this, the first that
takes root in the infant's heart, is the last to die out under the
blighting influence of vice, the deadening blows of time. "My Mother"
is spoken by the world-hardened citizen with a gentler inflection,--a
reverential cadence, as if the inner man stood with uncovered head
before a shrine.
Mother-in-law! The words call a smile that is too often a sneer to
lips in which dwells habitually the law of kindness, while lampoon,
caricature, jest and song find in them theme and catchword for mockery
and insult.
I witnessed, not long ago, the skillful impersonation of a husband who
held in his hand a letter just received from his wife. The first page
informed him that after his departure from home his wife's mother had
arrived; the second, that she intended to remain during the winter;
the third, that she had been taken suddenly and violently ill; and the
fourth, that she was dead. The reader spoke no word while perusing the
epistle, but his facial play attested his emotions better than speech
could have done. His countenance was grave on learning of the visit,
desperate at the thought of its length, and expressed annoyance at the
inconvenience of her illness while under his roof; when the final page
was reached, his features became illumined with ecstatic joy. Dropping
the letter, he clasped his hands, and, raising his eyes, ejaculated
with blissful fervor--
"Thank Heaven! she's dead!"
Of course we laughed. It was expected of us. Nevertheless, this kind
of jesting has its effect. It is dangerous playing with edged tools
that would be better laid aside and allowed to rust instead of being
brought forward where they may do mischief.
The relation of mother-in-law and son-or daughter-in-law ought to be
what I am glad to think it sometimes is, one of perfect harmony. The
mother who has brought up a daughter to woman's estate, and made her
fit to be the wife of a good man and the mother of his children,
should be appreciated by the man who profits by the wife's mother's
teachings. Had this mother been careless and negligent, allowing the
daughter to cultivate traits that make her husband wretched, how quick
would he be to lay the blame where it belongs,--upon the mother who
trained, or left untrained the daughter. Why should he not give
credit to the same source?
There are many women who, to their shame be it said, openly sneer at
their mothers-in-law, and ridicule their manners, habits, etc. Yet, in
the same breath, the woman of this class will freely state that she
has "the best husband in all creation." Whose influence made him the
man he is, if not the mother's with whom, for so many years, he was
the first and dearest care, until she uncomplainingly saw him leave
