to win forgiveness. His heart was humbled towards 
Cynthia, and he went wondering how his mother would 
make it out with her, and how, if she won him any 
advantage, he should avail himself of it and regain the 
girl's trust ; he had no doubt of her love. He per- 
ceived that there was nothing for him hereafter but 
the most perfect constancy of thought and deed, and 
he desired nothing better. 
At a turn of his road where it branched towards 
the Huddle a group of young girls stood joking and 
laughing; before Jeff came up with them they sepa- 
rated, and all but one continued on the way beyond 
the turning. She came towards Jeff, who gayly rec- 
ognized her as she drew near. 
She blushed and bridled at his bow and at his 
beauty and splendor, and in her embarrassment pertly 
said that she did not suppose he would have remem- 
bered her. She was very young, but at flfteen a coun- 
try girl is not so young as her town sister at eighteen 
in the ways of the other sex. 
 
Jeff answered that he should have known her any- 
where, in spite of her looking so much older than she 
did in the summer when she had come with berries to 
the hotel. He said she must be feeling herself quite 
a young lady now, in her long dresses, and he praised 
the dress which she had on. He said it became her 
style; and he found such relief from his heavy 
thoughts in these harmless pleasantries that he kept 
on with them. He had involuntarily turned with her 
to walk back to her house on the way he had come, 
and he asked her if he might not carry her catkins 
for her. She had a sheaf of them in the hollow of 
her slender arm, which seemed to him very pretty, 
and after a little struggle she yielded them to him. 
The struggle gave him still greater relief from his 
self-reproach, and at her gate he begged her to let 
him keep one switch of the pussy-willows, and he 
stood a moment wondering whether he might not ask 
her for something else. She chose one from the bun- 
dle, and drew it lightly across his face before she put 
it in his hand. " You may have this for Cynthy," 
she said, and she ran laughingly up the pathway to 
her door. 
XLVI. 
Cynthia did not appear at dinner, and Jefi asked 
liis mother when lie saw her alone if she had spoken 
to the girl. " Yes, but she said she did not want to 
talk yet." 
" All right," he returned. " I'm going to take a 
nap ; I believe I feel as if I hadn't slept for a month." 
He slept the greater part of the afternoon, and 
came down rather dull to the early tea. Cynthia was 
absent again, and his mother was silent and wore a 
troubled look. Whitwell was full of a novel concep- 
tion of the agency of hypnotism in interpreting the 
life of the soul as it is intimated in dreams. He had 
been reading a book that affirmed the consubstantial- 
ity of the sleep-dream and the hypnotic illusion. He 
wanted to know if Jeff, down at Boston, had seen 
anything of the hypnotic doings that would throw 
light on this theory. 
It was still full light when they rose from the table, 
and it was scarcely twilight when Jeff heard Cynthia 
letting herself out at the back door. He fancied her 
going down to her father's house, and he went out to 
the corner of the hotel to meet her. She faltered a 
 
moment at sight of him, and then kept on with 
averted face. 
He joined her, and walked beside her. "Well, 
Cynthy, what are you going to say to me ? I'm ofi 
for Cambridge again to-morrow morning, and I sup- 
pose we've got to understand each other. I came up 
here to put myself in your hands, to keep or to throw 
away, just as you please. Well ? Have you thought 
about it?" 
" Every minute," said the girl, quietly. 
" Well ? " 
" If you had cared for me, it couldn't have hap- 
pened." 
" Oh, yes, it could. Now that's just where you're 
mistaken. That's where a woman never can under- 
stand a man. I might carry on with half a dozen 
girls, and yet never forget you, or think less of you, 
although I could see all the time how pretty and 
bright every one of 'em was. That's the way a man's 
mind is built. It's curious, but it's true." 
" I don't believe I care for any share in your mind, 
then," said the girl. 
"Oh, come, now! You don't mean that." You 
know I was just joking ; you know I don't justify 
what I've done, and I don't excuse it. But I think 
I've acted pretty square with you about it — about 
telling you, I mean. I don't want to lay any claim, 
but you remember when you made me promise that 
if there was anything shady I wanted to hide from 
you — Well, I acted on that. You do remember ? " 
" Yes," said Cynthia, and she pulled the cloud over 
the side of her face next to him, and walked a little 
faster. 
He hastened his steps to keep up with her. " Cyn- 
thy, if you put your arms round me, as you did, 
then—" 
" I can't, JefE ! " 
" You don't want to." 
" Yes, I do ! But you don't want me to, as you 
did then. Do you ? " She stopped abruptly and 
faced him full. " Tell me honestly ! " 
JefE dropped his bold eyes, and the smile left his 
handsome mouth. 
" You don't," said the girl, " for you know that if 
you did, I would do it." She began to walk on again. 
" It wouldn't be hard for me to forgive you anything 
you've done against me — or against yourself ; I should 
care for you the same — if you were the same person ; 
but you're not the same, and you know it. I told 
you then — that time — that I didn't want to make you 
do what you knew was right, and I never shall try to 
do it again. I'm sorry I did it then. I was wrong. 
And I should be afraid of you if I did now. Some 
time you would make me suffer for it, just as you've 
made me suffer for making you do then what was 
right." 
It struck JefE as a very curious fact that Cynthia 
must always have known him better than he knew 
himself in some ways, for he now perceived the truth 
and accuracy of her words. He gave her mind credit 
for the penetration due her heart ; he did not under- 
stand that it is through their love women divine the 
 
souls of men. What other witnesses of his character 
had slowly and carefully reasoned out from their 
experience of him she had known from the beginning, 
because he was dear to her. 
He was silent, and then, with rare gravity, he said, 
" Cynthia, I believe you're right," and he never knew 
how her heart leaped towards him at his words. " I'm 
a pretty bad chap, I guess. But I want you to give 
me another chance — and I'll try not to make you pay 
for it, either," he added, with a flicker of his saucy 
humor. 
"I'll give you a chance, then," she said, and she 
shrank from the hand he put out towards her. " Go 
back and tell that girl you're free now, and if she 
wants you she can have you." 
" Is that what you call a chance ? " demanded Jeff, 
between anger and injury. For an instant he imag- 
ined her deriding him and revenging herself. 
"It's the only one I can give you. She's never tried 
to make you do what was right, and you'll never be 
tempted to hurt her." 
" You're pretty rough on me, Cynthy," Jeff pro- 
tested, almost plaintively. He asked, more in charac- 
ter, "Ain't you afraid of making me do right, now? " 
" I'm not making you. I don't promise you any- 
thing, even if she won't have you." 
"Oh!" 
" Did you suppose I didn't mean that you were 
free ? That I would put a lie in your mouth for you 
to be true with ? " 
".I guess you're too deep for me," said Jeff, after a 
 
sulky silence. " Then it's all ofE between us ? What 
do you say ? " 
" What do you say ? " 
" I say it's just as it was before, if you care for me." 
" I care for you, but it can never be the same as it 
was before. What you've done, you've done. I wish 
I could help it, but I can't. I can't make myself over 
into what I was twenty-four hours ago. I seem an- 
other person, in another world ; it's as if I died, and 
come to life somewhere else. I'm sorry enough, if 
that could help, but it can't. Go and tell that girl the 
truth : that you came up here to me, and I sent you 
back to her." 
A gleam of amusement visited Jeff in the gloom 
where he seemed to be darkling. He fancied doing 
that very thing with Bessie Lynde, and the wild joy 
she would snatch from an experience so unique, so 
impossible. Then the gleam faded. " And what if I 
didn't want her ? " he demanded. 
" Tell her that too," said Cynthia. 
" I suppose," said Jeff, sulkily, " you'll let me go 
away and do as I please, if I'm free." 
" Oh yes. I don't want you to do anything because 
I told you. I won't make that mistake again. Go 
and do what you are able to do of your own free will. 
You know what you ought to do as well as I do ; and 
you know a great deal better what you can do." 
They had reached Cynthia's house, and they were 
talking at the side door, as they had the night before, 
when there had been hope for her in the newness of 
her calamity, before she had yet fully imagined it. 
X 
 
Jeff made no answer to her last words. He asked, 
" Am I going to see you again ? " 
" I guess not. I don't believe I shall be up before 
you start." 
" All right. Good-by, then." He held out his 
hand, and she put hers in it for the moment he chose 
to hold it. Then he turned and slowly climbed the 
hill. 
Cynthia was still lying with her face in her pillow 
when her father came into the dark little house, and 
peered into her room with the newly lighted lamp in 
his hand. She turned her face quickly over and 
looked at him with dry and shining eyes. 
" Well, it's all over with JefE and me, father." 
"Well, I'm satisfied," said Whitwell. "If you 
could ha' made it up, so you could ha' felt right about 
it, I shouldn't ha' had anything to say against it, but 
I'm glad it's turned out the way it has. He's a com- 
ical devil, and he always was, and I'm glad you a'n't 
takin' on about him any more. You used to have so 
much spirit when you was little." 
" Oh, spirit ! You don't know how much spirit I've 
had, now." 
" Well, I presume not," Whitwell assented. 
" I've been thinking," said the girl, after a little 
pause, " that we shall have to go away from here." 
" Well, I guess mo<," her father began. " Not for 
no Jeff Dur— " 
" Yes, yes. We must ! Don't make me talk about 
it. We'll stay here till Jackson gets back in June, 
and then — we must go somewhere else. We'll go 
 
down to Boston, and I'll try to get a place to teach, 
or something,, and Frank can get a place." 
"I presume," Whitwell mused, "that Mr. Westover 
could — " 
" Father ! " cried the girl with an energy that star- 
tled him, as she lifted herself on her elbow. " Don't 
ever think of troubling Mr. Westover ! Ob," she 
lamented, " I was thinking of troubling him myself ! 
But we mustn't, we mustn't! I should be so 
ashamed!" 
"Well," said Whitwell, "time enough to think 
about all that. We got two good months yet to plan 
it out before Jackson gets back, and I guess we can 
think of something before that. I presume," he add- 
ed, thoughtfully, " that when Mrs. Durgin hears that 
you've give Jeff the sack, she'll make consid'able of a 
kick. She done it when you got engaged." 
XLVII. 
After lie went back to Cambridge, Jeff continued 
mechanically in the direction given him by motives 
which had ceased for him. In the midst of his diver- 
gence with Bessie Lynde he had still kept an inner 
fealty to Cynthia, and tried to fulfil the purposes and 
ambition she had for him. The operation of this 
habitual allegiance now kept him up to his work, but 
the time must come when it could no longer operate, 
when his whole consciousness should accept the fact 
known to his intelligence, and he should recognize the 
close of that incident of his life as the bereaved finally 
accept and recognize the fact of death. 
The event brought him relief, and it brought him 
freedom. He was sensible in his relaxation of having 
strained up to another's ideal, of having been ham- 
pered by another's will. His pleasure in the relief 
was tempered by a regret, not wholly unpleasant, for 
the girl whose aims, since they were no longer his, 
must be disappointed. He was sorry for Cynthia, and 
in his remorse he was fonder of her than he had ever 
been. He felt her magnanimity and clemency ; he be- 
gan to question, in that wordless deep of being where 
 
volition begins, whether it would not be paying a kind 
of duty to her if he took her at her word and tried to 
go back to Bessie Lynde. But for the present he did 
nothing but renounce all notion of working at his 
conditions, or attempting to take a degree. That was 
part of a thing that was past, and was no part of any- 
thing to come, so far as Jeff now forecast his future. 
He did not choose to report himself to Westover, 
and risk a scolding, or a snubbing. He easily forgave 
Westover for the tone he had taken at their last meet- 
ing, but he did not care to see him. He would have 
met him half-way, however, in a friendly advance, and 
he was aware of much good-will towards him, which he 
could not have been reluctant to show if chance had 
brought them together. 
Jeff missed Cynthia's letters which used to come so 
regularly every Tuesday, and he had a half -hour every 
Sunday which was at first rather painfully vacant since 
he no longer wrote to her. But in this vacancy he 
had at least no longer the pang of self-reproach which 
her letters always brought him, and he was not obliged 
to put himself to the shame of concealment in writing 
to her. He had never minded that tacit lying on his 
own account, but he hated it in relation to her ; it 
always hurt him as something incongruous and unfit. 
He wrote to his mother now on Sunday, and in his 
first letter, while the impression of Cynthia's dignity 
and generosity was still vivid, he urged her to make 
it clear to the girl that he wished her and her family 
to remain at Lion's Head as if nothing had happened. 
He put a great deal of real feeling into his request. 
 
and he oflEered to go and spend a year in Europe, if 
his mother thought that Cynthia would be more rec- 
onciled to his coming back at the end of that time. 
His mother answered with a dryness to which his 
ear supplied the tones of her voice, that she would try 
to get along in the management of Lion's Head till 
his brother got back, but that she had no objection to 
his going to Europe for a year if he had the money 
to spare. JeS could not refuse her joke, as be felt it, 
a certain applause, but he thought it pretty rough that 
his mother should take part so decidedly against him 
as she seemed to be doing. He had expected her to 
be angry with him, but before they parted she had 
seemed to find some excuse for him, and yet here she 
was siding against her own son in what he might very 
well consider an unnatural way. If Jackson had been 
at home he would have laid it to his charge ; but he 
knew that Cynthia would have scorned even to speak 
of him with his mother, and he knew too well his 
mother's slight for Whitwell to suppose that he could 
have influenced her. His mind turned in momentary 
suspicion to Westover. Had Westover, he wondered, 
with a purpose to pay him up for it forming itself 
simultaneously with his question, been setting his 
mother against him? She might have written to 
Westover to get at the true inwardness of his behav- 
ior, and Westover might have written her something 
that had made her harden her heart against him. But 
upon reflection this seemed out of character for both 
of them ; and Je£E was thrown back upon his mother's 
sober second thought of his misconduct for an expla- 
 
nation of her coldness. He could not deny that he 
had grievously disappointed her in several "ways. 
But he did not see why he should not take a certain 
hint fEom her letter, or construct a hint from it, at 
one with a vague intent prompted by his own restless 
and curious vanity. Since he had parted with Bessie 
Lynde, on terms of humiliation for her which must 
have been anguish for him if he had ever loved her, 
or loved anything but his power over her, he had re- 
mained in absolute ignorance of her. He had not 
heard where she was or how she was ; but now, as the 
few weeks before Class Day and Commencement 
crumbled away, he began to wonder why she made no 
sign. He believed that since she had been willing to 
go so far to get him, she would not be willing to give 
him up so easily. The thought of Cynthia had always 
intruded more or less efiectively between them, but 
now that this thought began to fade into the past, the 
thought of Bessie began to grow out of it with no 
interposing shadow. 
However, JefE was in no hurry. It was not passion 
that moved him, and the mood in which he could play 
with the notion of getting back to his flirtation with 
Bessie Lynde was pleasanter after the violence of 
recent events than any renewal of strong sensations 
could be. He preferred to loiter in this mood, and 
he was meantime much more comfortable than he had 
been for a great while. He was rid of the disagree- 
able sense of disloyalty to Cynthia, and he was rid of 
the stress of living up to her conscience in various 
ways. He was rid of Bessie Lynde, too, and of the 
 
trouble of forecasting and discounting her caprices. 
His thought turned at times with a soft regret to 
hopes, disappointments, experiences connected with 
neither, and now tinged with a tender melancholy, 
unalloyed by shame or remorse. As he drew nearer 
to Class Day he had a somewTiat keener compunction 
for Cynthia and the hopes he had encouraged her to 
build and had then dashed. But he was coming 
more and more to regard it all as a fatality ; and if 
the chance that he counted upon to bring him and 
Bessie together again had occurred he could have 
more easily forgiven himself. 
One of the jays, who was spreading on rather a large 
scale, wanted JefE to spread with him, but he refused, 
because, as he said, he meant to keep out of it alto- 
gether ; and for the same reason he declined to take 
part in the spread of a rather jay society he belonged 
to. In his secret heart he trusted that some friendly 
fortuity might throw an invitation to Beck Hall in his 
way, or at least a card for the Gym, which, if no longer 
the place it had been, was still by no means jay. He 
got neither ; but as he felt all the joy of the June day 
in his young blood he consoled himself very well with 
the dancing at one of the halls, where the company 
happened that year to be openly, almost recklessly 
jay. Jeif had some distinction among the fellows 
who enviously knew of his social successes during the 
winter, and especially of his affair with Bessie Lynde ; 
and there were some girls very pretty and very well 
dressed among the crowd of girls who were neither. 
They were from remote parts of the country, and in 
 
the charge of chaperons ignorant of the differences so 
poignant to local society. JefE went about among 
them, and danced with the sisters and cousins of sev- 
eral men who seemed superior to the lost condition of 
their kinswomen ; these were nice fellows enough, but 
doomed by their grinding, or digging, or their want 
of worldly wisdom, to a place among the jays, when 
they really had some qualifications for a nobler stand- 
ing. He had a very good time, and he was enjoying 
himself in his devotion to a lively young brunette 
whom he was making laugh with his jokes about some 
of the others, when his eye was caught by a group of 
ladies who advanced among the jays with something 
of that collective intrepidity and individual apprehen- 
sion characteristic of people in slumming. They had 
the air of not knowing what might happen to them, 
but the adventurous young Boston matrqn in charge 
of the girls kept on a bold front behind her lorgnette, 
and swept the strange company she found herself in 
with an unshrinking eye as she led her band among 
the promenaders, and past the couples seated along 
the walls. She hesitated a moment as her glance fell 
upon JefE, and then she yielded, at whatever risk, to 
the comfort of finding a known face among so many 
aliens. " Why, Mr. Durgin I " she called out. " Bes- 
sie, here's Mr. Durgin," and she turned to the girl, 
who was in her train, as JefE had perceived by some- 
thing finer than the senses from the first. 
He rose from the side of his brunette, whose broth- 
er was standing near, and shook hands with the ad- 
venturous young matron, who seemed suddenly much 
 
better acquainted with him than he had ever thought 
her, and with Bessie Lynde ; the others were New 
York girls, and the matron presented him. " Are you 
going on ? " she asked, and the vague challenge with 
the smile that accompanied it was sufficient invitation 
for him. 
" Why, I believe so," he said, and he turned to take 
leave of his pretty brunette; but she had promptly 
vanished with her brother, and he was spared the 
trouble of getting rid of her. He would have been 
equal to much more for the sake of finding himself 
with Bessie Lynde again, whose excitement he could 
see burning in her eyes, though her thick complexion 
grew neither brighter nor paler. He did not know 
what quality of excitement it might be, but he said, 
audaciously, " It's a good while since we met ! " and 
he was sensible that his audacity availed. 
"Is it?" she asked. He put himself at her side, 
and he did not leave her again till he went to dress 
for the struggle around the Tree. He found himself 
easily included in the adventurous young matron's 
party. He had not the elegance of some of the taller 
and slenderer men in the scholar's gown, but the cap 
became his handsome face. His affair with Bessie 
Lynde had given him a certain note, and an adventur- 
ous young matron, who was naturally a little indis- 
criminate, might very well have been willing to let him 
go about with her party. She could not know how 
impudent his mere presence was with reference to 
Bessie, and the girl herself made no sign that could 
have enlightened her. She accepted something more 
 
than her share of his general usefulness to the party ; 
she danced with him whenever he asked her, and she 
seemed not to scruple to publish her afiair with him 
in the openest manner. If he could have stilled a 
certain shame for her which he felt, he would have 
thought he was having the best kind of time. They 
made no account of bygones in their talk, but she had 
never been so brilliant, or prompted him to so many 
of the effronteries which were the spirit of his hjiraor. 
He thought her awfully nice, with lots of sense ; he 
liked her letting him come back without any fooling 
or fuss, and he began to admire instead of despising 
her for it. Decidedly it was, as she would have said, 
the chicquest sort of thing. What was the use, any 
way ? He made up his mind. 
When he said he must go and dress for the Tree, 
he took leave of her first, and he was aware of a vivid 
emotion, which was like regret in her at parting with 
him. She said. Must he ? She seemed to want to 
say something more to him ; while he was dismissing 
himself from the others, he noticed that once or twice 
she opened her lips as if she were going to speak. In 
the end she did nothing more important than to ask 
if he had seen her brother ; but after he had left the 
party he turned and saw her following him with eyes 
that he fancied anxious and even frightened in their 
gaze. 
The riot round the Tree roared itself through its 
wonted events. Class after class of the undergradu- 
ates filed in and sank upon the grass below the ter- 
races and parterres of brilliantly dressed ladies within 
 
tlic quadrangle of seats ; the alumni puslied them 
selves together against the wall of Holden Chapel ; the 
men of the Senior class came last in their grotesque 
variety of sweaters and second and third best clothes 
for the scramble at the Tree. The regulation cheers 
tore from throats that grew hoarser and hoarser, till 
every class and every favorite in the faculty had been 
cheered. Then the signal-hat was flung into the air, 
and the rush at the Tree was made, and the combat 
for the flowers that garlanded its burly waist began. 
JefE's size and shape forbade him to try for the 
flowers from the shoulders of others. He was one of 
a group of jays who set their backs to the Tree, and 
fought away all comers except their own ; they pulled 
down every man not of their sort, and put up a jay 
who stripped the Tree of its flowers and flung them 
to his fellows below. As he was let drop to the 
ground, JefE snatched a handful of his spoil from him, 
and made off with it towards the place where he had 
seen Bessie Lynde and her party. But when he 
reached the place, shouldering and elbowing his way 
through the press, she was no longer there. He saw 
her hat at a distance through the crowd, where he did 
not choose to follow, and he stuffed the flowers into 
his breast to give her later. He expected to meet her 
somewhere in the evening ; if not, he would try to 
find her at her aunt's house in town; failing that, he 
could send her the flowers, and trust her for some sort 
of leading acknowledgment. 
He went and had a bath and dressed himself 
freshly, and then he went for a walk in the still even- 
" SUDDENLY HE FELT A FIERY STING ON HIS FOREHEAD ' 
 
ing air. He was very hot from the battle which had 
been fought over him, and which he had shared with 
all his strength, and it seemed to him as if he could 
not get cool. He strolled far out along Concord Avenue, beyond the expanses and ice-houses of Fresh 
Pond, into the country towards Belmont, with his hat 
ofE and his head down. He was very well satisfied, 
and he was smiling to himself at the ease of his return 
to Bessie, and securely speculating upon the outcome 
of their renewed, understanding. 
He heard a vehicle behind him, rapidly driven, and 
he turned out for it without looking around. Then 
suddenly he felt a fiery sting on his forehead, and 
then a shower of stings swiftly following each other 
over his head and face. He remembered stumbling, 
when he was a boy, into a nest of yellow-jackets, that 
swarmed up around him and pierced him like sparks 
of fire at every uncovered point. But he knew at the 
same time that it was some one in the vehicle beside 
him who was lashing him over the head with a whip. 
He bowed his head with his eyes shut and lunged 
blindly out towards his assailant, hoping to seize him. 
But the horse sprang aside, and tore past him down 
the road. Jeff opened his eyes, and through the 
blood that dripped from the cuts above them he saw 
the wicked face of Alan Lynd'e looking back at him 
from the dog-cart where he sat with his man beside 
him. He brandished his broken whip in the air, and 
flung it into the bushes, Jeff walked on, and picked 
it up, before he turned aside to the pools of the marsh 
stretching on either hand, and tried to stanch his 
hurts, and get himself into shape for returning to 
town and stealing back to his lodging. He had to 
wait till after dark, and watch his chance to get into 
the house unnoticed. 
XLVIII. 
The chum to whom Jeff confided the story of his 
encounter with a man hfi left nameless inwardly 
thanked fortune that he was not that man; for he 
knew him destined sooner or later to make such repa- 
ration for the injuries he had inflicted as Jeff chose to 
exact. He tended him carefully, and respected the 
reticence Jeff guarded concerning the whole matter, 
even with the young doctor whom his friend called, 
and who kept to himself his impressions of the nature 
of Jeff's injuries. 
Jeff lay in his darkened room, and burned with 
them, and with the thoughts, guesses, purposes which 
flamed through his mind. Had she, that girl, known 
what her brother meant to do ? Had she wished him 
to think of her in the moment of his punishment, and 
had she spoken of her brother so that he might recall 
her, or had she had some ineffective impulse to warn 
him against her brother when she spoke of him ? 
He lay and raged in vain with his conjectures, and 
he did a thousand imagined murders upon Lynde in 
revenge of his shame. 
Towards the end of the week, while his hurts were 
 
still too evident to allow him to go out-of-doors before 
dark, he had a note from Westover asking him to 
come in at once to see him. 
" Your brother Jackson," Westover wrote, " reached 
Boston by the New York train this morning, and is 
with me here. I must tell you I think he is not at 
all well, but he does not know how sick he is, and so 
I forewarn you. He wants to get on home, but I do 
not feel easy about letting him make the rest of the 
journey alone. Some on* ought to go with him. I 
write not knowing whether you are still in Cambridge 
or not ; or whether, if you are, you can get away at 
this time. But I think you ought, and I wish, at any 
rate, that you would come in at once and see Jackson. 
Then we can settle what had best be done." 
JefE wrote back that he had been suffering with a 
severe attack of erysipelas — he decided upon erysipe- 
las for the time being, but he meant to let Westover 
know later that he had been in a row — and the doctor 
would not let him go out yet. • He promised to come 
in as soon as he possibly could. If Westover thought 
Jackson ought to be got home at once, and was not fit 
to travel alone, he asked him to send a hospital nurse 
with him. 
Westover replied by Jefi's messenger that it would 
worry and alarm Jackson to be put in charge of a 
nurse ; but that he would go home with him, and they 
would start the next day. He urged Jeff to come and 
see his brother if it was at all safe for him to do so. 
But if he could not, Westover would give his mother 
a reassuring reason for his failure. 
 
Mrs. Durgin did not waste any anxiety for the sick- 
ness whicli prevented JefE from coming home with his 
brother. She said ironically that it must be very 
bad, and she gave all her thought and care to Jackson. 
The sick man rallied, as he prophesied he should, in 
his native air, and celebrated the sense and science of 
the last doctor he had seen in Europe, who told him 
that he had made a great gain, but he had better 
hurry home as fast as he could, for he had got all the 
advantage he could expect to have from his stay 
abroad, and now home air was the best thing for him. 
It could not be known how much of this he be- 
lieved ; he had, at any rate, the pathetic hopefulness 
of his malady ; but his mother believed it all, and she 
nursed him with a faith in his recovery which Whit- 
well confided to Westover was about as much as he 
wanted to see, for one while. She seemed to grow 
younger in the care of him, and to get back to her- 
self, more and more, from the facts of JefE's behavior, 
which had aged and broken her. She had to tell 
Jackson about it all, but he took it with that indifier- 
ence to the things of this world which the approach 
of death sometimes brings, and in the light of his 
passivity it no longer seemed to her so very bad. It 
was a relief to have Jackson say, Well, perhaps it was 
for the best ; and it was a comfort to see how he and 
Cynthia took to each other ; it was almost as if that 
dreadful trouble had not been. She told Jackson 
what hard work she had had t© make Cynthia stay 
with her, and how the girl had consented' to stay only 
until JefE came home ; but she guessed, now that Jack- 
Y 
 
son had got back, he could make Cynthia see it all in 
another light, and perhaps it would all come right 
again. She consulted him about Jefi's plan of going 
abroad, and Jackson said it might be about as well ; 
he should soon be around, and he thought if JefE 
went it would give Cynthia more of a chance to get 
reconciled. After all, his mother suggested, a good 
many fellows behaved worse than Jeif had done and 
still had made it up with the girls they were engaged 
to ; and Jackson gently assented. 
He did not talk with Cynthia about Jeff, out of 
that delicacy, or that coldness, common to them both. 
Perhaps it was not necessary for them to speak of 
him ; perhaps they understood him aright in their un- 
derstanding of each other. 
Westover stayed on, day after day, thinking some- 
how that he ought to wait till Jeff came. There were 
only a few other people in the hotel, and these were 
of a quiet Sort ; they were not saddened by the pres- 
ence of a doom«d man under the same roof, as gayer 
summer-folks might have been, and they were them- 
selves no disturbance to him. 
He sat about with them on the veranda, and he made 
friends among them, and they did what they could 
to encourage and console him in his impatience to 
take up his old cares in the management of the hotel. 
The Whitwells easily looked after the welfare of the 
guests, and Jackson was so much better to every one's 
perception that Westover could honestly write Jeff a 
good report of him. 
The report may have been so good that Jeff took 
the affair too easily. It was a fortnight after Jack- 
son's return to Lion's Head when he began to fail so 
suddenly and alarmingly that Westover decided upon 
his own responsibility to telegraph JefE of his condi- 
tion. But he had the satisfaction of Whitwell's ap- 
proval when he told him what he had done. 
"Of course, Jackson a'n't long for this world. 
Anybody but him and his mother could see that ; and 
now he's just melting away, as you might say. I 
ha'n't liked his not carin' to work plantchette since he 
got back ; looked to me from the start that he kind of 
knowed that it wa'n't worth while for him to trouble 
about a world that he'll know all about so soon, any- 
ways ; and d' you notice he don't seem to care about 
Mars, either ? I've tried to wake him up on it two- 
three times, but you can't git him to take an interest. 
I guess JefE can't git here any too soon on Jackson's 
account ; but as far forth as I go, he couldn't git here 
too late. I should like to take the top of his head 
o£E." 
Westover had been in Whitwell's confidence since 
their first chance of speech together. He now said, 
" I know it will be rather painful to you to have him 
here for some reasons, but — " 
" You mean Cynthy ? Well ! I guess when Cynthy 
can't get along with the sight of JefE Durgin, she'll be 
a different girl from what she's ever been before. If 
she's got to see that skunk ag'in, I guess this is about 
the best time to do it." 
It was Westover who drove to meet JefE at the sta- 
tion, when he got his dispatch, naming the train he 
 
would take, and he found him looking very well, and 
perhaps stouter than he had been. 
They left the station in silence, after their greeting 
and Jefi's inquiries about Jackson. Jeff had taken 
the reins, and now he put them with the whip in one 
hand, and pushed up his hat with the other, and 
turned his face full upon Westover. " Notice any- 
thing in particular ? " he demanded. 
" No ; yes — some slight marks." 
" I guess that fellow fixed me up pretty well : paints 
black eyes, and that kind of thing. I got to scrap- 
ping with a man, Class Day ; we wanted to settle a 
little business we began at the Tree, and he left his 
marks on me. I meant to tell you the truth as soon 
as I could get at you ; but I had to say erysipelas in 
my letter. I guess, if you don't mind, we'll let ery- 
sipelas stand, with the rest." 
" I shouldn't have cared," Westover said, " if you'd 
let it stand with me." 
" Oh, thank you," Jeff returned. 
There could have been no show of affection at his 
meeting with Jackson even if there had been any fact 
of it ; that was not the law of their life. But Jeff had 
always been a turbulent, rebellious younger brother, 
resentful of Jackson's control, too much his junior to 
have the associations of an equal companionship in the 
past, and yet too near him in age to have anything 
like a filial regard for him. They shook hands, and 
each asked the other how he was, and then they 
seemed to have done with each other. Jeff's mother 
kissed him in addition to the handshaking, but made 
him feel her preoccupation with Jackson ; she asked 
him if he had hurried home on Jackson's account, and 
he promptly lied her out of this anxiety. 
He shook hands with Cynthia, too, but it was across 
the barrier which had not been lowered between them 
since they parted. He spoke to Jackson about her, 
the day after he came home, when Jackson said he 
was feeling unusually strong and well, and the two 
brothers had strolled out through the orchard togeth- 
er. Now and then he gave the sick man his arm, and 
when he wanted to sit down in a sunny place, he 
spread the shawl he carried for him. 
" I suppose mother's told you about Cynthy and 
me, Jackson ? " he began. 
Jackson answered, with lack-lustre eyes, " Yes." 
Presently he asked, " What's become of the other girl ? " 
" Damn her ! I don't hnow what's become of her, 
and I don't care ! " JefE exploded, furiously. 
"Then you don't care for her any more?" Jackson 
pursued, with the same languid calm. 
" I never cared for her." 
Jackson was silent, and the matter seemed to have 
faded out of his mind. But it was keenly alive in 
JefE's mind, and he was in the strange necessity which 
men in the flush of life and health often feel of seek- 
ing counsel of those who stand in the presence of 
death, as if their words should have something of the 
mystical authority of the unknown wisdom they are 
about to penetrate. 
" What I  want to know is, what I am going to do 
about Cynthy ? " 
 
" I don't know," Jackson answered, vaguely, and lie 
expressed by his indirection the sense he must some- 
times have had of his impending fate — " I don't know 
what she's going to do, her or mother, either." 
"Yes," JefE assented, "that's what I think of. 
And I'd do anything that I could — that you thought 
was right." 
Jackson apparently concentrated his mind upon the 
question by an eSort. "Do you care as much for 
Cynthy as you used to ? " 
"Yes," said JefE, after a moment, " as much as I 
ever did ; and more. But I've been thinking, since 
the thing happened, that, if I'd cared for her the way 
she did for me, it wouldn't have happened. Look 
here, Jackson ! You know I've never pretended to 
be like some men — like Mr. Westover, for example — 
always looking out for the right and the wrong, and 
all that. I didn't make myself, and I guess if the 
Almighty don't make me go right it's because he 
don't want me to. But I have got a conscience about 
Cynthy, and I'd be willing to help out a little if I 
knew how, about her. The devil of it is, I've got to 
being afraid. I don't mean that I'm not fit for her ; 
any man's fit for any woman if he wants her bad 
enough ; but I'm afraid I sha'n't ever care for her in 
the right way. That's the point. I've cared for just 
one woman in this world, and it a'n't Cynthy, as far 
as I can make out. But she's gone, and I guess I 
could coax Cynthy round again, and I could be what 
she wants me to be, after this." 
Jackson lay upon his shawl, looking up at the sky 
full of islands of warm clouds in its sea of blue ; he 
was silent so long that JefE began to think he had not 
been listening ; he could not hear him breathe, and he 
came forward to him quickly from the shadow of the 
tree where he sat. 
" Well ? " Jackson whispered, turning his eyes upon 
him. 
"Well?" Jeff returned. 
" I guess you'd better let it alone," said Jackson. 
" All right. That's what I think, too." 
XLIX. 
Jackson died a week later, and they buried him 
in the old family lot in the farthest corner of the or- 
chard. His mother and Cynthia put on mourning 
for him, and they stood together by his open grave, 
Mrs. Durgin leaning upon her son's arm and the girl 
upon her father's. The woman wept quietly, but 
JefE's eyes were dry, though his face was discharged 
of all its prepotent impudence. Westover, standing 
across the grave from him, noticed the marks on his 
forehead that he said were from his scrapping, and 
wondered what really made them. He recognized 
the spot where they were standing as that where the 
boy had obeyed the law of his nature and revenged 
the stress put upon him for righteousness. Over the 
stone of the nearest grave JeS had shown a face of 
triumphant derision when he pelted Westover with 
apples. The painter's mind fell into a chaos of con- 
jecture and misgiving, so that he scarcely took in the 
words of the composite service which the minister 
from the Union Chapel at the Huddle read over the 
dead. 
Some of the guests from the hotel came to the fu- 
 
neral, but otliers who were not in good healtli re- 
mained away, any there was a general sense among 
them, which imparted itself to Westover, that Jack- 
son's dying so, at the beginning of the season, was 
not a fortunate incident. As he sat talking with 
Jeff at a corner of the piazza late in the afternoon, 
Frank Whitwell came up to them and said there 'vyere 
some people in the office who had driven over from 
another hotel to see about board, but they had heard 
there was sickness in the house, and wished to talk 
with him. 
" I won't come," said Jeff. 
" They're not satisfied with what I've said," the 
boy urged. " What shall I tell them ? " 
" Tell them to — go to the devil," said Jeff, and 
when Frank Whitwell made off with this message for 
delivery in such decent terms as he could imagine for 
it, Jeff said, rather to himself than to Westover, " I 
don't see how we're going to run this hotel with that 
old family lot down there in the orchard, much 
longer." 
He assumed the air of full authority at Lion's 
Head ; and Westover felt the stress of a painful con- 
jecture in regard to the Whitwells intensified upon 
him from the moment he turned away from Jackson's 
grave. 
Cynthia and her father had gone back to their own 
house as soon as Jeff returned, and though the girl 
came home with Mrs. Durgin after the funeral, and 
helped her in their common duties through the after- 
noon and evening, Westover saw her taking her way 
 
down the liill with lier brother when the long day's 
work was over. Jeff saw her too ; he was sitting with 
Westover at the office door smoking, and he was talk- 
ing of the Whitwells. 
" I suppose they won't stay," he said, " and I can't 
expect it ; but I don't know what mother will do, ex- 
actly." 
At the same moment Whitwell came round the cor- 
ner of the hotel from the barn, and approached them. 
" Jeff, I guess I better tell you straight off that we're 
goin', the children and me." 
"All right, Mr. Whitwell," said Jeff, with respect- 
ful gravity, " I was afraid of it." 
Westover made a motion to rise, but Whitwell laid 
a detaining hand upon his knee. "There ain't any- 
thing so private about it, so far as I know." 
" Don't go, Mr. Westover," said Jeff, and Westover 
remained. 
"We a'n't a-goin' to leave you in the lurch, and 
we want you should take your time, especially Mis' 
Durgin. But the sooner the better. Heigh ? " 
"Yes, I understand that, Mr. Whitwell; I guess 
mother will miss you, but if you must go, you must." 
The two men remained silent a moment, and then 
Jeff broke out passionately, rising and flinging his 
cigar away : " I wish I  could go, instead ! That would 
be the right way, and I guess mother would like it 
full as well. Do you see any way to manage it ? " 
