
she was worshipped, it was enough ; she was guilty of 
mortal sin. Curious logic, one must say. 

' Did you not stand sponsor for some children baptised 
at Rheims ? ' 

' At Troyes I did, and at St. -Denis ; and I named the 
boys Charles, in honour of the King, and the girls I named 
Joan.' 

' Did not women touch their rings to those which you 
wore ? ' 

' Yes, many did ; but I did not know their reason for it.' 

' At Rheims was your Standard carried into the church ? 
Did you stand at the altar with it in your hand at the 
Coronation ? ' 

'Yes.' 

' In passing through the country did you confess your- 
self in the churches and receive the sacrament ? ' 

' Yes.' 

' In the dress of a man ? ' 

' Yes. But I do not remember that I was in armour.' 
It was almost a concession ! almost a half-surrender of 

the permission granted her by the Church at Poitiers to 
dress as a man. The wily court shifted to another matter : 
to pursue this one at this time might call Joan's attention 
to her small mistake, and by her native cleverness she 
might recover her lost ground. The tempestuous session 
had worn her and drowsed her alertness. 

' It is reported that you brought a dead child to life 
in the church at Lagny. Was that in answer to your 
prayers ? ' 

' As to that I have no knowledge. Other young girls 
were praying for the child, and I joined them and prayed 
also, doing no more than they.' 

' Continue.' 

' While we prayed it came to life, and cried. It had 
been dead three days, and was as black as my doublet. 
It was straightway baptised, then it passed from life again 
and was buried in holy ground.' 

 

' Why did you jump from the tower of Beaurevoir by 
night and try to escape ? ' 

' I would go to the succour of Compigne.' 

It was insinuated that this was an attempt to commit 
the deep crime of suicide to avoid falling into the hands of 
the English. 

' Did you not say that you would rather die than be 
delivered into the power of the English ? ' 

Joan answered frankly, without perceiving the trap — 

' Yes ; my words were, that I would rather that my soul 
be returned unto God than that I should fall into the hands 
of the EngHsh.' 

It was now insinuated that when she came to, after 
jumping from the tower, she was angry and blasphemed 
the name of God ; and that she did it again when she heard 
of the defection of the Commandant of Soissons. She was 
hurt and indignant at this, and said — 

' It is not true. I have never cursed. It is not my 
custom to swear.' 

CHAPTER XI 

A HALT was called. It was time. Cauchon was losing 
ground in the fight, Joan was gaining it. There were 
signs that here and there in the court a judge was being 
softened toward Joan by her courage, her presence of 
mind, her fortitude, her constancy, her piety, her simplicity 
and candour, her manifest purity, the nobility of her cha- 
racter, her fine intelligence, and the good brave fight she 
was making, all friendless and alone against unfair odds, 
and there was grave room for fear that this softening 
process would spread further and presently bring Cauchon's 
plans in danger. 

Something must be done, and it was done. Cauchon 
was not distinguished for compassion, but he now gave 
proof that he had it in his character. He thought it pity 
to subject so many judges to the prostrating fatigues of 

this trial when it could be conducted plenty well enough 
by a handful of them. Oh, gentle Judge ! But he did not 
remember to modify the fatigues for the little captive. 

He would let all the judges but a handful go, but he 
would select the handful himself, and he did. He chose 
tigers. If a lamb or two got in, it was by oversight, not 
intention ; and he knew what to do with lambs when 
discovered. 

He called a small council now, and during five days 
they sifted the huge bulk of answers thus far gathered from 
Joan. They winnowed it of all chaff, all useless matter 
— that is, all matter favourable to Joan ; they saved up 
all matter which could be twisted to her hurt, and out of 
this they constructed a basis for a new trial which should 
have the semblance of a continuation of the old one. 
Another change. It was plain that the public trial had 
wrought damage : its proceedings had been discussed all 
over the town and had moved many to pity the abused 
prisoner. There should be no more of that. The 
sittings should be secret hereafter, and no spectators 
admitted. So Noel could come no more. I sent this 
news to him. I had not the heart to carry it myself. 
I would give the pain a chance to modify before I should 
see him in the evening. 

On the tenth of March the secret trial began. A week 
had passed since I had seen Joan. Her appearance gave 
me a great shock. She looked tired and weak. She was 
listless and far away, and her answers showed that she 
was dazed and not able to keep perfect run of all that was 
done and said. Another court would not have taken 
advantage of her state, seeing that her life was at stake 
here, but would have adjourned and spared her. Did this 
one ? No ; it worried her for hours, and with a glad and 
eager ferocity, making all it could out of this great chance, 
the first one it had had. 

She was tortured into confusing herself concerning the 
' sign ' which had been given the King, and the next day 


this was continued hour after hour. As a result, she made 
partial revealments of particulars forbidden by her Voices ; 
and seemed to me to state as facts things which were but 
allegories and visions mixed with facts. 

The third day she was brighter, and looked less worn. 
She was almost her normal self again, and did her work 
well. Many attempts were made to beguile her into say- 
ing indiscreet things, but she saw the purpose in view, and 
answered with tact and wisdom. 

' Do you know if St. Catherine and St. Marguerite hate 
the EngHsh ? ' 

' They love whom Our Lord loves, and hate whom He 
hates.' 

' Does God hate the English ? ' 

' Of the love or the hatred of God toward the English I 
know nothing.' Then she spoke up with the old martial 
ring in her voice and the old audacity in her words, and 
added, ' But I know this — that God will send victory to the 
French, and that all the English will be flung out of France 
but the dead ones ! ' 

' Was God on the side of the English when they were 
prosperous in France ? ' 

' I do not know if God hates the French, but I think 
that He allowed them to be chastised for their sins.' 

It was a sufficiently naive way to account for a chastise- 
ment which had now strung out for ninety-six years. But 
nobody found fault with it. There was nobody there who 
would not punish a sinner ninety-six years if he could, nor 
anybody there who would ever dream of such a thing as 
the Lord's being any shade less stringent than men. 

' Have you ever embraced St. Marguerite and St. 
Catherine ? ' 

' Yes, both of them.' 

The evil face of Cauchon betrayed satisfaction when she 
said that. 

' When you hung garlands upon BArbre Fee de Bourle- 
mont did you do it in honour of your apparitions ? ' 



'No.' 

Satisfaction again. No doubt Cauchon would take it 
for granted that she hung them there out of sinful love for 
the fairies. 

' When the saints appeared to you did you bow, did you 
make reverence, did you kneel ? ' 

' Yes ; I did them the most honour and the most rever- 
ence that I could.' 

A good point for Cauchon if he could eventually make 
it appear that these were no saints to whom she had done 
reverence, but devils in disguise. 

Now there was the matter of Joan's keeping her super- 
natural commerce a secret from her parents. Much might 
be made of that. In fact, particular emphasis had been 
given to it in a private remark written in the margin of the 
proces : ' She concealed her visions from her parents andfroj?i every 
one.' Possibly this disloyalty to her parents might itself be 
the sign of the satanic source of her mission. 

' Do you think it was right to go away to the wars 
without getting your parents' leave ? It is written, one 
must honour his father and his mother.' 

' I have obeyed them in all things but that. And for 
that I have begged their forgiveness in a letter and gotten 
it.' 

' Ah, you asked their pardon ? So you knew you were 
guilty of sin in going without their leave ! ' 

Joan was stirred. Her eyes flashed and she exclaimed — 

' I was commanded of God, and it was right to go ! If 
I had had a hundred fathers and mothers and been a king's 
daughter to boot I would have gone.' 

' Did you never ask your Voices if you might tell your 
parents ? ' 

' They were willing that I should tell them, but I would 
not for anything have given my parents that pain.' 

To the minds of the questioners this headstrong conduct 
savoured of pride. That sort of pride would move one to 
seek sacrilegious adorations, 


' Did not your Voices call you Daughter of God ? ' 
Joan answered with simplicity and unsuspiciously — 

' Yes ; before the siege of Orleans and since, they have 
several times called me Daughter of God.' 

Further indications of pride and vanity were sought. 
' What horse were you riding when you were captured ? 
Who gave it you ? ' 
'The King.' 

' You had other things — riches — of the King ? ' 

' For myself I had horses and arms, and money to pay 
the service in my household.' 

' Had you not a treasury ? ' 

'Yes. Ten or twelve thousand crowns.' Then she 
said with naivete ' It was not a great sum to carry on a 
war with.' 

' You have it yet ? ' 

' No. It is the King's money. My brothers hold it for 
him.' 

' What were the arms which you left as an offering in 
the church of St. Denis ? ' 

' My suit of silver mail and a sword.' 

' Did you put them there in order that they might be 
adored ? ' 

' No. It was but an act of devotion. And It Is the 
custom of men of war who have been wounded to 
make such offering there. I had been wounded before 
Paris.' 

Nothing appealed to those stony hearts, those dull 
imaginations — not even this pretty picture, so simply 
drawn, of the wounded girl-soldier hanging her toy har- 
ness there In curious companionship with the grim and 
dusty iron mail of the historic defenders of France. No, 
there was nothing in It for them ; nothing, unless evil and 
Injury for that Innocent creature could be gotten out of It 
somehow. 

' Which aided most — you the Standard, or the Standard 
you? ' 


' Whether it was the Standard or whether it was I, is 
nothing — the victories came from God.' 

' But did you base your hopes of victory in yourself or 
in your Standard ? ' 

' In neither. In God, and not otherwhere.' 

' Was not your Standard waved around the King's head 
at the Coronation ? ' 

' No. It was not.' 

' Why was it that your StSindsLrd had place at the crown- 
ing of the King in the Cathedral of Rheims, rather than 
those of the other captains ? ' 

Then, soft and low, came that touching speech which 
will live as long as language lives, and pass into all 
tongues, and move all gentle hearts wheresoever it shall 
come, down to the latest day : 

'" It had borne the burden it had earned the honour.''
How simple it is, and how beautiful ! And how it 
beggars the studied eloquence of the masters of oratory ! 
Eloquence was a native gift of Joan of Arc ; it came from 
her lips without effort and without preparation. Her 
words were as sublime as her deeds, as sublime as her 
character ; they had their source in a great heart and were 
coined in a great brain. 

CHAPTER XII 

Now as a next move, this small secret court of holy assas- 
sins did a thing so base that even at this day, in my old 
age, it is hard to speak of it with patience. 

' What she said has been many times translated, but never with success.
There is a haunting pathos about the original which eludes all 
efforts to convey it into our tongue. It is as subtle as an odour, and 
escapes in the transmission. Her words were these : 

'  avait cti a la peine  c'etait bien raison qiiilfut a Vhonneur.'' 
Monseigneur Ricard, Honorary Vicar-General Jo the Archbishop of 
Aix, finely speaks of it {'Jeanne d'Arc la Vhtirable page 197) as 'that 
sublime reply, enduring in the history of celebrated sayings like the cry of 
a PVench and Christian soul wounded unto death in its patriotism and its 
faith. ' — Translator. 


In the beginning- of her commerce with her Voices there 
at Domremy, the child Joan solemnly devoted her Hfe to 
God, vowing her pure body and her pure soul to His service. 
You will remember that her parents tried to stop her from 
going to the wars by haling her to the court at Toul to 
compel her to make a marriage which she had never 
promised to make — a marriage with our poor, good, 
windy, big, hard-fighting and most dear and lamented 
comrade the Standard-bearer, who fell in honourable battle 
and sleeps in God these sixty years, peace to his ashes ! 
And you will remember how Joan, sixteen years old, stood 
up in that venerable court and conducted her case all by 
herself, and tore the poor Paladin's case to rags and blew 
it away with a breath ; and how the astonished old judge 
on the bench spoke of her as ' this marvellous child.' 

You remember all that. Then think what I felt, to see 
these false priests here in the tribunal wherein Joan had 
fought a fourth lone fight in three years, deliberately twist 
that matter entirely around and try to make out that Joan 
haled the Paladin into court and pretended that he had 
promised to marry her, and was bent on making him do it. 

Certainly there was no baseness that those people were 
ashamed to stoop to in their hunt for that friendless girl's 
life. What they wanted to show was this — that she had 
committed the sin of relapsing from her vow and trying to 
violate it. 

Joan detailed the true history of the case, but lost her 
temper as she went along, and finished with some words 
for Cauchon which he remembers yet, whether he is fanning 
himself in the world he belongs in or has swindled his way 
into the other. 

The rest of this day and part of the next the court 
laboured upon the old theme — the male attire. It was 
shabby work for those grave men to be engaged in ; for 
they. well knew one of Joan's reasons for clinging to the 
male dress was, that soldiers of the guard were always 
present in her room whether she was asleep or awake, and 


that the male dress was a better protection for her modesty 
than the other. 

The court knew that one of Joan's purposes had been 
the deliverance of the exiled Duke of Orleans, and they 
were curious to know how she had intended to manage it. 
Her plan was characteristically business-like, and her 
statement of it as characteristically simple and straight- 
forward : 

' I would have taken English prisoners enough in France 
for his ransom ; and failing that, I would have invaded 
England and brought him pyt by force.' 

That was just her way. If a thing was to be done, it 
was love first, and hammer and tongs to follow ; but no 
shilly-shallying between. She added with a little sigh — 

' If I had had my freedom three years, I would have 
delivered him.' 

' Have you the permission of your Voices to break out 
of prison whenever you can ? ' 

' I have asked their leave several times, but they have 
not given it.' 

I think it is as I have said, she expected the deliverance 
of death, and within the prison walls, before the three 
months should expire. 

' Would you escape if you saw the doors open ? ' 

She spoke up frankly and said — 

' Yes — for I should see in that the permission of Our 
Lord. God helps who help themselves, the proverb says. 
But except I thought I had permission, I would not go.' 

Now, then, at this point something occurred which 
convinces me, every time I think of it — and it struck me 
so at the time — that for a moment, at least, her hopes 
wandered to the King, and put into her mind the same 
notion about her deliverance which Noel and I had settled 
upon — a rescue by her old soldiers. I think the idea of 
the rescue did occur to her, but only as a passing thought, 
and that it quickly passed away. 

Some remark of the Bishop of Beauvais moved her to 

remind him once more that he was an unfair judge, and 
had no right to preside there, and that he was putting 
himself in great danger. 

' What danger ? ' he asked. 

' I do not know. St. Catherine has promised me help, 
but I do not know the form of it. I do not know whether 
I am to be delivered from this prison or whether when you 
send me to the scaffold there will happen a trouble by 
which I shall be set free. Without much thought as to 
this matter, I am of the opinion that it may be one or the 
other.' After a pause she added these words, memorable 
for ever — words whose meaning she may have miscaught, 
misunderstood, as to that we can never know ; words 
which she may have rightly understood ; as to that also 
we can never know ; but words whose mystery fell away 
from them many a year ago and revealed their real mean- 
ing to all the world : 

' But what my Voices have said clearest is, that I shall 
be delivered by a great victory.'' She paused, my heart was 
beating fast, for to me that great victory meant the sudden 
bursting in of our old soldiers with war-cry and clash of 
steel at the last moment and the carrying off of Joan of 
Arc in triumph. But oh, that thought had such a short 
life ! For now she raised her head and finished, with 
those solemn words which men still so often quote and 
dwell upon — words which filled me with fear, they sounded 
so like a prediction. ' And always they say, '' Submit to 
whatever comes ; do not grieve for your martyrdom ; from it 
you will ascend into the Kingdom of Paradise." ' 

Was she thinking of fire and the stake ? I think not. 
I thought of it myself, but I believe she was only thinking 
of this slow and cruel martyrdom of chains and captivity 
and insult. Surely martyrdom was the right name for it. 

It was Jean de la Fontaine who was asking the ques- 
tions. He was willing to make the most he could out of 
what she had said : 

' As the Voices have told you you are going to Paradise, 
 

you feel certain that that will happen and that you will 
not be damned in hell. Is that so ? ' 

' I believe what they told me. I know that I shall be 
saved.' 

' It is a weighty answer.' 

' To me the knowledge that I shall be saved is a great 
treasure.' 

' Do you think that after that revelation you could be 
able to commit mortal sin ? ' 

' As to that I do not know. My hope for salvation 
is in holding fast to my oath to keep my body and my soul 
pure.' 

' Since you know you are to be saved do you think it 
necessary to go to confession ? ' 

The snare was ingeniously devised, but Joan's simple 
and humble answer left it empty — 

' One cannot keep his conscience too clean.' 

We were now arriving at the last day of this new trial. 
Joan had come through the ordeal well. It had been a 
long and wearisome struggle for all concerned. All ways 
had been tried to convict the accused, and all had failed 
thus far. The inquisitors were thoroughly vexed and dis- 
satisfied. However, they resolved to make one more 
effort, put in one more day's work. This was done — 
March 17th. Early in the sitting a notable trap was set 
for Joan : 

' Will you submit to the determination of the Church 
all your words and deeds, whether good or bad ? ' 

That was well planned. Joan was in imminent peril 
now. If she should heedlessly say yes, it would put her 
mission itself upon trial, and one would know how to 
decide its source and character promptly. If she should 
say no, she would render herself chargeable with the crime 
of heresy. 

But she was equal to the occasion. She drew a distinct 
line of separation between the Church's authority over her 
as a subject member, and the matter of her mission. She 

said she loved the Church and was ready to support the 
Christian faith with all her strength ; but as to the works 
done under her mission, those must be judged by God 
alone, who had commanded them to be done. 

The judge still insisted that she submit them to the 
decision of the Church. She said — 

' I will submit them to Our Lord who sent me. It 
would seem to me that He and His Church are one, and 
that there should be no difficulty about this matter.' Then 
she turned upon the judge and said, ' Why do you make a 
difficulty where there is no room for any ? ' 

Then Jean de la Fontaine corrected her notion that there 
was but one Church. There were two — the Church Tri- 
umphant, which is God, the saints, the angels, and the re- 
deemed, and has its seat in heaven ; and the Church Mili- 
tant, which is our Holy Father the Pope, Vicar of God, the 
prelates, the clergy and all good Christians and Catholics, 
the which Church has its seat in the earth, is governed by 
the Holy Spirit, and cannot err. ' Will you not submit 
those matters to the Church Militant ? ' 

' I am come to the King of France from the Church 
Triumphant on high by its commandant, and to that Church 
I will submit all those things which I have done. For the 
Church Militant I have no other answer now.' 

The court took note of this straightly worded refusal, 
and would hope to get profit out of it ; but the matter was 
dropped for the present, and a long chase was then made 
over the old hunting-ground — the fairies, the visions, the 
male attire, and all that. 

In the afternoon the satanic Bishop himself took the 
chair, and presided over the closing scenes of the trial. 
Along toward the finish, this question was asked by one of 
the judges : 

' You have said to my lord the Bishop that you would 
answer him as you would answer before our Holy Father 
the Pope, and yet there are several questions which you 
continually refuse to answer. Would you not answer the 

Pope more fully than you have answered before my lord of 
Beauvais ? Would you not feel obliged to answer the Pope, 
who is the Vicar of God, more fully ? ' 

Now fell a thunder-clap out of a clear sky — 
' Take me to the Pope. I will answer to everything that 
I ought to.' 

It made the Bishop's purple face fairly blanch with con- 
sternation. If Joan had only known, if she had only 
known ! She had lodged a mine under this black conspi- 
racy able to blow the Bishop's schemes to the four winds of 
heaven, and she didn't know it. She had made that speech 
by mere instinct, not suspecting what tremendous forces 
were hidden in it, and there was none to tell her what she 
had done. I knew, and Manchon knew ; and if she had 
known how to read writing we could have hoped to get the 
knowledge to her somehow ; but speech was the only way, 
and none was allowed to approach her near enough for 
that. So there she sat, once more Joan of Arc the Vic- 
torious, but all unconscious of it. She was miserably worn 
and tired by the long day's struggle and by illness, or she 
must have noticed the effect of that speech and divined the 
reason of it. 

She had made many master-strokes, but this was the 
master-stroke. It was an appeal to Rome. It was her clear 
right ; and if she had persisted in it Cauchon's plot would 
have tumbled about his ears like a house of cards, and he 
would have gone from that place the worst beaten man of 
the century. He was daring, but he was not daring 
enough to stand up against that demand if Joan had urged 
it. But no, she was ignorant, poor thing, and did not 
know what a blow she had struck for life and liberty. 

France was not the Church. Rome had no interest in 
the destruction of this messenger of God. Rome would 
have given her a fair trial, and that was all that her cause 
needed. From that trial she would have gone forth free 
and honoured and blest. 

But it was not so fated. Cauchon at once diverted the 
questions to other matters and hurried the trial quickly to 
an end. 

As Joan moved feebly away, dragging her chains, I felt 
stunned and dazed, and kept saying to myself, ' Such a 
little while ago she said the saving word and could have 
gone free ; and now, there she goes to her death ; yes, it 
is to her death ; I know it, I feel it. They will double the 
guards ; they will never let any come near her now between 
this and her condemnation, lest she get a hint and speak 
that word again. This is the bitterest day that has come 
to me in all this miserable time.' 



CHAPTER XIII 

So the second trial in the prison was over. Over, and no 
definite result. The character of it I have described to 
you. It was baser in one particular than the previous one ; 
for this time the charges had not been communicated to 
Joan, therefore she had been obliged to fight in the dark. 
There was no opportunity to do any thinking beforehand ; 
there was no foreseeing what traps might be set, and no way 
to prepare for them. Truly it was a shabby advantage to 
take of a girl situated as this one was. One day, during 
the course of it, an able lawyer of Normandy, Maitre Lohier, 
happened to be in Rouen, and I will give you his opinion 
of that trial, so that you may see that I have been honest 
with you, and that my partisanship has not made me de- 
ceive you as to its unfair and illegal character. Cauchon 
showed Lohier the proces and asked his opinion about the 
trial. Now this was the opinion which he gave to Cauchon. 
He said that the whole thing was null and void ; for these 
reasons : (i) Because the trial was secret, and full free- 
dom of speech and action on the part of those present not 
possible ; (2) Because the trial touched the honour of the 
King of France, yet he was not summoned to defend him- 
self, nor any one appointed to represent him ; (3) Because 



the charges against the prisoner were not communicated 
to her ; (4) Because the accused, although young and 
simple, had been forced to defend her cause without help 
of counsel, notwithstanding she had so much at stake. 

Did that please Bishop Cauchon ? It did not. He burst 
out upon Lohier with the most savage cursings, and swore 
he would have him drowned. Lohier escaped from Rouen 
and got out of France with all speed, and so saved his 
life. 

Well, as I have said, the second trial was over, without 
definite result. But Cauchon did not give up. He could 
trump up another. And still another and another, if 
necessary. He had the half-promise of an enormous prize 
— the Archbishopric of Rouen — if he should succeed in 
burning the body and damning to hell the soul of this 
young girl who had never done him any harm ; and such 
a prize as that, to a man like the Bishop of Beauvais, was 
worth the burning and damning of fifty harmless girls, let 
alone one. 

So he set to work again straight off, next day ; and 
with high confidence, too, intimating with brutal cheerful- 
ness that he should succeed this time. It took him and 
the other scavengers nine days to dig matter enough out 
of Joan's testimony and their own inventions to build up 
the new mass of charges. And it was a formidable mass 
indeed, for it numbered sixty-six articles ! 

This huge document was carried to the castle the next 
day, March 27th ; and there, before a dozen carefully 
selected judges, the new trial was begun. 

Opinions were taken, and the tribunal decided that 
Joan should hear the articles read, this time. Maybe that 
was on account of Lohier's remark upon that head ; or 
maybe it was hoped that the reading would kill the 
prisoner with fatigue — for, as it turned out, this reading 
occupied several days. It was also decided that Joan 
iShould be required to answer squarely to every article, and 
'that if she refused she should be considered convicted. You 
see, Cauchon was managing to narrow her chances more 
and more all the time ; he was drawing the toils closer and 
closer. 

Joan was brought in, and the Bishop of Beauvais 
opened with a speech to her which ought to have made 
even himself blush, so laden it was with hypocrisy and lies. 
He said that this court was composed of holy and pious 
churchmen whose hearts were full of benevolence and 
compassion toward her, and that they had no wish to hurt 
her body, but only a desire to instruct her and lead her into 
the way of truth and salvation. 

Why, this man was born a devil ; now think of his 
describing himself and those hardened slaves of his in such 
language as that. 

And yet, worse was to come. For now, having in 
mind another of Lohier's hints, he had the cold effrontery 
to make to Joan a proposition which I think will surprise 
you when you hear it. He said that this court, recognis- 
ing her untaught estate and her inability to deal with the 
complex and difficult matters which were about to be con- 
sidered, had determined, out of their pity and their merci- 
fulness, to allow her to choose one or more persons out of 
their own number to help her with counsel and advice ! 

Think of that — a court made up of Loyseleur and his 
breed of reptiles. It was granting leave to a lamb to ask 
help of a wolf. Joan looked up to see if he was serious, 
and perceiving that he was at least pretending to be, she 
declined, of course. 

The Bishop was not expecting any other reply. He 
had made a show of fairness and could have it entered on 
the minutes, therefore he was satisfied.  

Then he commanded Joan to answer straightly to every 
accusation ; and threatened to cut her off from the Church 
if she failed to do that or delayed her answers beyond a 
given length of time. Yes, he was narrowing her chances 
down, step by step. .'v. 

Thomas de Courcelles began the reading of that interminable 
document, article by article. Joan answered to 
each article in its turn ; sometimes merely denying- its truth, 
sometimes by saying her answer would be found in the 
records of the previous trials. 

What a strange document [that was, and what an 
exhibition and exposure of the heart of man, the one 
creature authorised to boast that he is made in the image 
of God ! To know Joan of Arc was to know one who 
was wholly noble, pure, truthful, brave, compassionate, 
generous, pious, unselfish, modest, blameless as the very 
flowers in the fields — a nature fine and beautiful, a character 
supremely great. To know her from that document would 
be to know her as the exact reverse of all that. Nothing 
that she was appears in it, everything that she was not 
appears there in detail. 

Consider some of the things it charges against her, and 
remember who it is it is speaking of. It calls her a sor- 
ceress, a false prophet, an invoker and companion of evil 
spirits, a dealer in magic, a person ignorant of the Catholic 
faith, a schismatic ; she is sacrilegious, an idolater, an 
apostate, a blasphemer of God and His saints, scandalous, 
seditious, a disturber of the peace ; she incites men to war 
and to the spilling of human blood ; she discards the 
decencies and proprieties of her sex, irreverently assuming 
the dress of a man and the vocation of a soldier ; she 
beguiles both princes and people ; she usurps divine 
honours, and has caused herself to be adored and vene- 
rated, offering her hands and her vestments to be kissed. 

There it is — every fact of her life distorted, perverted, 
reversed. As a child she had loved the fairies, she had 
spoken a pitying word for them when they were banished 
from their home, she had played under their Tree and 
around their fountain — hence she was a comrade of evil 
spirits. She had lifted France out of the mud and moved 
her to strike for freedom, and led her to victory after vic- 
tory — hence she was a disturber of the peace — as indeed 
she was, and a provoker of war — as indeed she was again ! 
and France will be proud of it and gi alefii l for it for vaaiMSf 
a omturr to come. And she had been adofed — as if die 
Gonld hdp that, poor thing or was in any way to blame 
for it. The cowed veran and the wavering- lecmit had 
dnmk the spirit of war firom her eyes, and toodied her 
sward with theirs and moved forward invincible — hence 
she was asorceiess. 

And so the docitment went ixi, detail by detail, turning 
these waters d fife to poison, this gold to dross, these 
puMifc of a noble and beantifbl fife to evidences of a foul 



Oher male dress that she would not lay it off even to get the 
blessed privilege of hearing mass. She spoke out with 
spirit and said : 

' I would rather die than be untrue to my oath to God.' 
She was reproached with doing man's work in the wars, 

and thus deserting the industries proper to her sex. She 
answered, with some little touch of soldierly disdain — 

' As to the matter of women's work, there's plenty to 
do it.' 

It was always a comfort to me to see the soldier-spirit 
crop up in her. While that remained in her she would be 
Joan of Arc, and able to look trouble and fate in the face. 

' It appears that this mission of yours which you claim 
you had from God, was to make war and pour out human 
blood.' 

Joan replied quite simply, contenting herself with ex- 
plaining that war was not her first move, but her second : 

' To begin with I demanded that peace should be made. 
If it was refused, then I would fight.' 

The judge mixed the Burgundians and English together 
in speaking of the enemy which Joan had come to make 
war upon. But she showed that she made a distinction 
between them by act and word, the Burgundians being 
Frenchmen and therefore entitled to less brusque treatment 
than the English. She said : 

' As to the Duke of Burgundy, I required of him, both 
by letters and by his ambassadors, that he make peace with 
the King. As to the English, the only peace for them was 
that they leave the country and go home.' 

Then she said that even with the English she had shown 
a pacific disposition, since she had warned them away by 
proclamation before attacking them. 

' If they had listened to me,' said she, ' they would have 
done wisely.' At this point she uttered her prophecy again, 
saying with emphasis, ' Before seven years they will see it 
themselves.' 

Then they presently began to pester her again about 

her male costume, and tried to persuade her to voluntarily 
promise to discard it. I was never deep, so I think it no 
wonder that I was puzzled by their persistency in what 
seemed a thing of no consequence, and could not make out 
what their reason could be. But we all know, now. We 
all know now that it was another of their treacherous pro- 
jects. Yes, if they could but succeed in getting her to 
formally discard it, they could play a game upon her which 
would quickly destroy her. So they kept at their evil work 
until at last she broke out and said — 

' Peace ! Without the permission of God I will not lay 
it off though you cut off my head ! ' 

At one point she corrected the prods verbal  saying — 

' It makes me say that everything which I have done 
was done by the counsel of Our Lord. I did not say that. 
I said '' all which I have well dorvQ.'' ' 

Doubt was cast upon the authenticity of her mission be- 
cause of the ignorance and simplicity of the messenger 
chosen. Joan smiled at that. She could have reminded 
these people that Our Lord, who is no respecter of persons, 
had chosen the lowly for His high purposes even oftener 
than He had chosen bishops and cardinals ; but she phrased 
her rebuke in simpler terms : 

' It is the prerogative of Our Lord to choose His instru- 
ments where He will.' 

She was asked what form of prayer she used in invoking 
counsel from on high. She said the form was brief and 
simple ; then she lifted her pallid face and repeated it, 
clasping her chained hands : 

' Most dear God, in honour of your holy passion I 
beseech you, if you love me, that you will reveal to me what 
I am to answer to these churchmen. As concerns my dress 
I know by what command I have put it on, but I know not 
in what manner I am to lay it off. I pray you tell me what 
