prisoner was arrested? Yes, it was! and she loved her Patita and would
always give her shelter.

When the district attorney sat down with an ugly smile on his thin
mouth, Bourke, muttering anathema, rose to his feet.

“Was there ever a whisper against your reputation when you were a
school-girl in Monterey and most intimate with the prisoner?”

“No, señor!” cried Rosita, paying no attention to the objection. “I
was a child, and could not even endure boys.”

“How many times have you seen the defendant since you left Monterey?”

Rosita cast up her eyes, then tapped the sticks of her fan successively
as she spoke.

“Once she came to see me just after—ah—WCTU died; then once just
before she left Mr. Peele; then that day the ‘Eye’ came out and said she
had done this so horrible thing. Ay, dios!”

“She has called upon you three times only, then, since you were children
in Monterey, since you have been the Rosita of the public; in the last
five years, in short?”

“Si, señor—yes, sir.”

“How long did she remain upon her first visit?”

“Oh, only a little while. I told her something that shocked her, for she
was always so proper.”

“What did you tell her?”

“Objected to,” cried the district attorney.

“Objection sustained,” snapped the judge.

“How long did she remain on her second visit?”

“About a half hour. I never knew what she came at all for. She just
floated in and out.” Rosita waved her arm with enchanting grace.

“Did she tell you why she came the third time?”

“Because she had no other place to go to. She said no hotel would take
her in.”

“She said that her old landlady had refused to admit her, did she not?”

“Si, señor.”

“Yes, yes!—and that in her terrible extremity she naturally turned to
the friend of her childhood?”

“Si!” and Rosita wept.

“But that she should not have gone to your house if there had been any
possibility of obtaining entrance to a hotel, or if she had not been
turned out of her father-in-law’s house?”

“Ay, yi! yes.”

“That is all. You can go.”

During the rest of that day and the two following days the experts for
the prosecution had the stand. The innumerable questions asked by the
district attorney, the technical details of the cross-examinations, the
constant interruptions, and the minutiæ of the evidence emptied the
court room after the first hour, and even Patience became bored, and
fell to thinking of other things, not forgetting to pity those twelve
puzzled little heads in the jury box.

The gist of the evidence was that there was enough morphine in Beverly
Peele’s stomach to kill two men.


                                   XV

“Our turn has come,” said Lansing to Patience on the morning after the
expert testimony was concluded. “We are confident of success now.”

“But the facts are hideous, and they have painted me black.”

“Mr. Bourke scraped off a good deal, and he’ll have the rest off before
he gets through. If he could only make that lying woman open her mouth!
You’ve borne yourself splendidly. Keep in good condition for the witness
stand. Are you frightened?”

“No,” she said, smiling at Bourke gratefully. “Not a bit.”

Simms opened the case for the defence.

He had a harsh strident voice. He gesticulated as if practising for a
prize fight, doubling back and springing forward. He cleared his throat
with vicious emphasis and rasped his heels upon the floor. His
statements were dry and matter-of-fact, his language bald; but he made a
direct vigorous and enthusiastic speech. The jury was informed that it
was there to save the life of one of the most brilliant and high-minded
young women of the age,—a woman utterly incapable of murder or of any
violent act, a woman with the mild and meditative mind of the student.
That it would be proved not only that she was far too clever to take
life by such clumsy methods, but that she had no object, as she had
gained her liberty, and the lover was a myth. The whole prosecution was
a malignant and personal prosecution of an innocent but too gifted woman
by an absurdly conceited family that had resented her superior
intelligence. This and much more of fact and fancy. But Patience, with
perverse feminity, liked him none the better, and would not even look at
him when he sat down.

Mr. Field was the first witness for the defence. Although compelled
under cross-examination to admit the prisoner’s interest in subtle
poisons, he managed to convey to the jury that it was merely the result
of an unusually brilliant and inquiring mind, a thought born of the
moment, of his suggestion. He gave the highest tribute to her
cleverness, her work on his paper, and to her reputation.

Latimer Burr was called next, and spoke with enthusiasm of her
“unfailing submission to a man of abominable and savage temper until
submission ceased to be a virtue.” He had never heard her utter any
threats to kill. Yes, it was true that he had engaged counsel for
defence. He believed in her thoroughly.

Miss Merrien, her landlady, and Mrs. Blair were put on the stand next
morning, and the good character they gave Patience was unshaken by the
nagging of the district attorney. Mr. Tarbox testified to her demeanour
of innocence during her imprisonment.

“But the defence is weak all the same,” whispered Patience to Lansing.
“Not a word can be said in rebuttal. Only Mr. Bourke’s eloquence can
save me.”

“Good character goes a long way,” replied Lansing. “You have no idea of
its weight with a jury, particularly with a jury of this kind.”

Patience was put on the witness stand next. The supreme effort to
overcome nervousness gave her an icy and repellent demeanour. Never had
she held her back as erect, her head as high. She kept her eyelids half
lowered, and spoke with scarcely any change of inflection. She told the
story of the night as she had told it in rehearsal many times. There had
been a quarrel an hour before she heard the deceased get up and go to
the lavatory. She offered to drop his morphine, and he replied with an
oath that she should never do another thing for him as long as he lived,
that he hoped she would leave the house by the first train next morning.
His sudden silence upon his return to his bed excited her apprehension,
and she called the family.

When Bourke sat down and the district attorney arose and confronted her
she shivered suddenly. Bourke’s rich strong voice and kind magnetic gaze
had given her courage, but this man with his eyes like grey ice, his
mechanical smile, and cold smooth voice conjured up a sudden awful
picture of the execution room at Sing Sing. Her insight appreciated with
exactitude the pitiless ambition of the man, knew that he stood pledged
to his future to send her to her death. He made her admit all the
damning facts of the evidence against her, the facts which stood out
like phosphorescent letters on a black wall, and to acknowledge her
abhorrence of the man that had been her husband. But all this had been
anticipated: at least he could not confuse her.

Again two days and a part of a third were monopolised by experts. These
two illustrious chemists testified, through the same bewildering mass of
detail as that employed by their equally illustrious predecessors, that
there was not enough morphine in Beverly Peele’s stomach to kill a cat.

There was a short interval, after the second expert had been permitted
to leave the stand, during which Bourke and Simms and Lansing conferred
together, preparatory to the summing up of the former. As Bourke was
about to rise, the district attorney stood up, cleared his throat, and
said: “One moment, please. Will Miss Honora Mairs kindly take the
stand?”

Bourke was on the alert in an instant. “The case for the prosecution has
closed,” he said.

“This is by special permission of the Court,” replied the district
attorney, coldly.

As Honora ascended the stand there was a deep murmur of admiration. She
looked like an angel, nothing less. She wore a white lawn frock, girt
with a blue sash; a large white leghorn lined with azure velvet, against
which the baby gold of her hair shone softly. Her great blue eyes had
the clear calm serenity of a young child. Patience drew her breath in a
series of short gasps. Bourke sat with clenched hands.

“We understand,” said the district attorney, severely, “that you did not
tell all you knew the other day, and that you have signified your
willingness to now tell the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the
truth. Is this true?”

Honora bowed her head with an expression of deep humility, as a child
might that had been justly rebuked.

“You had not slept at all upon that fatal night?”

“No.”

“Your door was open?”

“Yes.”

“You did see somebody enter the lavatory?”

“Yes.”

“Whom did you see?”

There was a moment’s breathless silence, during which Patience wondered
if a clock had ever ticked so loudly, or if the sun had ever shone with
so vicious a glare.

“Whom did you see?” repeated the district attorney.

“The prisoner.”

“What did she do?”

“She dropped some thirty or forty drops of morphine, I should say, then
half filled the glass with water, as usual.”

“You did not see the deceased go to the lavatory that night.”

“No.”

“Nor any one else until the defendant called you?”

“No.”

“That is all.”

Mr. Bourke sprang to his feet, his nostrils dilating, his fine face
quivering with unassumed scorn and indignation.

“You admit that you perjured yourself the other day?”

“I could not make up my mind to—”

“Never mind what you had not made up your mind to do. You admit that you
perjured yourself?”

“Yes,” gently.

“That in other words you lied.”

“Yes, sir.” Her voice was like the quiver of a violin.

“What proof are we to have that you are not lying now?”

“I am not lying. My conscience gave me no rest.”

“It will give you more, I suppose, if you will have succeeded in
swearing away the life of an innocent woman. Yes, yes!—Exactly how long
did Mrs. Peele remain in the lavatory?”

“I cannot remember. Five or ten minutes.”

“State the exact time.”

“Perhaps five.”

“And a few moments later when she ran into your room you pretended to be
asleep: Why did you assume sleep; what reason had you for lying at that
time?”

“I had dropped off.”

“You had been sufficiently wide awake five minutes before to note
precisely all these other things, and then had promptly fallen into a
sound sleep. Is that your usual habit?”

“Yes, sir.”

“Did you speak to the prisoner when she came into the lavatory?”

“No.”

“Were not you in the habit of holding a conversation with her upon such
occasions?”

“Yes, sir.”

“Why did you not address her on that night?”

“I was very sleepy, and had nothing in particular to say.”

“But you were not too sleepy to note carefully all the details in the
evidence you have just given. You can go,—and to the devil,” he
muttered. He thrust his hands into his pockets and wheeled about,
looking at Patience with such intensity of gaze that she moved suddenly
forward. Her face was pale, but her eyes blazed with rage. Bourke
glanced at the clock.

“It is twenty minutes to one,” he said. “I would ask your honour to
adjourn until two. I must have time to digest this new testimony. Its
remarkable glibness prevented me from giving it the running deliberation
that it demanded.”

The judge sulkily dismissed the court. As Patience passed out of the
room with Tarbox she heard the word “angel” more than once, and knew
that it did not refer to her.

Patience was not conscious of fear as she ate her luncheon. Her heart
was black with rage. “I’d willingly murder her,” she thought, “and my
conscience wouldn’t trouble me the least little bit.”


                                  XVI

Immediately after recess Mr. Bourke began his summing up. He commenced
quietly, shaking the loose cloth of the table in an absent manner. His
language was colloquial as he spoke to the jury of its grave
responsibilities, and complimented it upon the “unusual intelligence
which it had so far made evident.” He passed naturally to the subject in
hand, and dwelt eloquently upon the character of the defendant, of her
lonely pathetic youth, her high ideals, her remarkable intelligence, her
ignorance of the world which had led her to fall in love with the first
handsome and attractive man that had addressed her.

His voice rose to tragic pitch as he dwelt upon the terrible awakening
of such a woman, bound for life to such a man,—a sensual, ill-tempered,
selfish brute, who was a disgrace to the nineteenth century.

He depicted two years of uncomplaining wifely devotion (until Patience
became lost in admiration of the defendant), the husband’s frantic rages
about nothing, his unrecognition of her superiority, his ignorant
determination to make her his slave—his plaything—she, a woman whom
such men as James E. Field and Gardiner Peele delighted to honour.

Then he dropped again into pathos (which never for a moment degenerated
into bathos) and described the desolate life of such a woman in an empty
frivolous brainless society (faint murmur and indignant rustle in the
gallery), a society of idle people with neither soul nor intelligence,
but who squandered the money wrested from the People, the great People,
of whom the Gentlemen of the Jury were twelve worthy and doubtless long
suffering members.

It was not until he had emphasised and recapitulated with every resource
of his splendid vocabulary, every modulation of his glorious voice, by
controlled and telling gesture, by sudden tremendous bursts of
indignation, the married life of the prisoner, that he passed to the day
and night of the tragedy. He began with the morning, and dwelt upon
every detail of the day. Before he reached midnight he had Beverly Peele
in a frame of mind for both suicide and murder. He sent him to bed with
black skin and white flecked nose and chaos in his heart. With a
magnificent burst of scorn he quoted his shameful language when his wife
had offered to get him the morphine, the oaths he had used to a “refined
and elegant and patient woman.” Then he took him to the lavatory, showed
him jerking the stopper from the morphine bottle, and recklessly pouring
a fourth of its contents into a glass. “He knew that he had to die
anyhow, and he could at least die happy in a hideous revenge.” In brief
and vivid phrase he cited several similar instances in legal history.

Then he returned to Peele Manor and denounced the jealous woman who for
five years had nursed fury in her heart, and who, on the witness stand,
here, Gentlemen of the Jury, conceived, at the unfortunate suggestion of
the speaker, the frightful revenge upon a woman who had treated her with
unvarying kindness. She did not speak at once, partly because her lying
tale needed rehearsing, partly because she believed that the case for
the prosecution would win without her. But when she saw that the case
for the prosecution was wholly lost she arrayed herself like an angel,
that she might the better impose upon the unworldly Gentlemen of the
Jury, and swore away a woman’s life.

The several assertions on the defendant’s part that she felt disposition
to murder he tore to rags and flung in the face of the jury. Had not
every high tempered person—could not the Gentlemen of the Jury recall
having exclaimed in bitter moments: “I wish you were dead! I could kill
you!” With deep regret and remorse he would confess that he had used
similar expressions many times.

Then with consummate skill he dilated upon the impossibility of so
clever a woman as the defendant doing aught so stupid as to murder in
the manner of the accusation. When there was nothing left to say on this
subject he expatiated upon the lack of motive with a technical and
personal brilliancy which made even the cross-grained old judge lean
forward with a cynical smile.

The interviews, even the final ones, with the mysterious stranger, he
treated with contempt, although the contempt was sufficiently long drawn
out to impress the jury with every most insignificant detail. It, was
the mere longing for companionship of a lonely woman: that was the
beginning and the end of it. The lover, the intention of either to
marry, he disposed of with a vehemence which made Simms twist about
suddenly and look at Lansing; but the young man was regarding his chief
with rapt admiration.

Not so much as the scraping of a boot heel was heard in the court room.
Patience glanced at the district attorney. His face was set and sullen.

After every possible point had been considered Bourke concluded with an
appeal so stirring, so ringing, so thrilling that every person in the
court room except the district attorney sat forward and held his breath.
No such burst of passion had ever been heard in that room before.
Patience covered her face with her hands. Her heart beat suffocatingly.
The blood pounded in her ears; but not one note of that wonderful voice,
not one phrase of fire, escaped her.

Is there any possible condition in which a man can appear to such
supreme advantage as when pleading for the life of a fellow being, more
particularly of a young and beautiful woman? How paltry all the
time-worn rescues of woman from sinking ship and runaway horse and
burning house. A great criminal lawyer standing before the jury box with
a life in his hand has the unique opportunity to display all the best
gifts ever bestowed upon man: genius, brain, passion, heart, soul,
eloquence, a figure instinct with grace and virility, a face blazing
with determination to snatch a man or woman from the most awful of
dooms.

And all in two short hours.

If those in the court room for whom the case had no personal interest
were at Bourke’s feet, hanging upon his words, adoring him for the
moment, what were the feelings of the woman for whom he was making so
desperate and manly a fight? She forgot her danger, forgot everything
but the man, the reckless joy of loving, of being swept out of her calm
orbit at last. Her analytical brain was dulled, her arms ached, her
heart shook her body.

As Bourke made a few supplementary remarks calculated to take the wind
out of the district attorney’s sails,—references to the young man’s
ambition, his youthful eagerness to become famous, what the winning of
such a great case would mean to him, and to his remarkable cleverness
and skill with a jury,—Patience heard Simms say to Lansing: “My God!
Bourke has surpassed even himself. Even he never got as high as that
before.”

“He’s the greatest man in the country, God bless him!” said Lansing.

As Bourke finally dropped upon his chair he turned to Patience. Their
eyes met and lingered; and in that moment each passed into the other’s
keeping.


                                  XVII

Sturges lost no time taking his stand before the jury box. It was the
hour of his life, but he was not nervous. His long thin figure leaning
toward the box as he rested his finger tips on the table, showed as fine
a repose of nerve as of brain. His clear-cut face with the cruel mouth
and pleasant smile was calm and unclouded.

He began by defending himself against Mr. Bourke’s remarks, and asserted
with convincing emphasis that when he had taken the oath of office he
had left his personal ambition behind him with his personal interests,
and had given himself body and soul and brain to the People of
Westchester County. Then he made an equally earnest statement of the
grave responsibilities of a district attorney, his solemn duty to the
People, the necessity to smother all promptings of humanity that he
might do what was best for the People—“The greatest good of the
greatest number.”

Then he painted Patience as black as Bourke had enamelled her white.
With masterly ingenuity he made each juror feel what an awful being a
bad woman was, an unloving undutiful wife; what a curse each man of them
would writhe under had Fate played him as scurvy a trick as it had
played poor Beverly Peele; that no unloved husband’s life would be safe
were not such women exploited and punished, that if the Gentlemen of the
Jury were weak enough to consider her sex they might be imperilling the
lives of countless thousands. For the matter of that, he reiterated,
crime had no sex.

He took up each detail of the story, and in the light of his
interpretation Patience was the modern Lucretia Borgia and Beverly Peele
an injured, peaceable, affectionate husband, who had been sacrificed by
an abandoned woman to whom he had given his honoured name, his fortune,
and his love.

He scarcely raised his voice. There was no passion in his utterance; but
he manufactured a mosaic, bit by bit, each fragment fitting so exactly
that the design was without crevice or crack. He demonstrated
mathematically that the tardy evidence of Miss Mairs had been
superfluous; that the chain of circumstantial evidence was symmetrical
and complete, and that no possible motive beyond duty to her conscience
could be attributed to her. With devilish adroitness, without a direct
phrase, he managed to filter into those twelve small brains the secret
of the inspired eloquence of the eminent counsel for the defence,—in
behalf of his young and beautiful client.

While he was talking, the skeleton trees beyond the windows grew dim of
outline, the mass of colour in the gallery faded. An official came out
of the library behind the court room and lit the tall gas lamps on
either side of the bench. The judge looked like a bas-relief in pink and
silver against the dark panelling of the background. The rest of the
room was in shadow. The light of the near jet fell full upon Sturges’
stern face.

Patience’s life from “its fiendish childhood” was rehearsed with such
consecutive logic that crime at some point of such a woman’s career was
inevitable. The only wonder was that it had not been committed sooner.
The threats, he demonstrated, whether uttered in moments of passion or
not, were the significant output of a brooding mind. The “cruel letter
to a dying man” was read with slow and indignant emphasis. Then the
events of the fatal day and night, the quarrels, the prisoner’s fury at
being denied a divorce, the deceased’s threat to live twenty years to
spite her, her carefully rehearsed and absurd story that her husband had
dropped the morphine himself,—something he knew himself physically
incapable of doing,—the equal absurdity of his suicide when a greater
revenge lay in his hands, her brutal indifference while he lay dying,
were deliberately gone over with passionless and insidious effect. The
quiet half-lit room was oddly in keeping with the deadly methods of the
man.

When he had made the most of her flight on the morning of the “Eye”
story, he paused a moment, during which the rising wind could be heard
in the trees. Within, there was no sound. No one seemed breathing.
Bourke and Patience were in deep shadow. With an instinct of protection
he clasped his hand suddenly about hers.

Sturges resumed, with lowered and vibrating voice:

“And—where—Gentlemen of the Jury,—was—this—woman—arrested?——In
the house of a harlot!” He paused another half moment. “In the house of
her oldest friend, La Rosita, one of the most abandoned women in
America.”

Bourke’s hand twitched spasmodically. Simms twisted his neck, and shot
at Lansing an uneasy glance. Patience shuddered. For the moment she
forgot Bourke. She felt as if a cobra were folding her about,—very
slowly, and gently, and inexorably.

When Sturges sat down the jury was told to rise. The judge stood under
one of the lamps and read them his charge. He explained that unless they
could find the prisoner guilty of murder in the first degree—of
deliberate premeditated murder—they must acquit her. As the final
quarrel had taken place an hour before the killing it was obviously
impossible that she could have dropped the morphine in a moment of
excitement; and a verdict of self-defence would be equally absurd. He
also charged them that they were to consider the law in the case and
nothing but the law,—that human sympathy must have no place in their
verdict.

Bourke was too able a lawyer not to have the last word. As the judge sat
down, he arose with several sheets of manuscript, and for twenty minutes
asked the judge to charge the jury so and so, practically recapitulating
all the strong points of the defence. The judge answered mechanically,
“I so charge,” and at last the patient jury was conducted out of the
court room and locked up. Bourke was surrounded at once.

As Tarbox, with Patience on his arm, left the court house and its crowd
behind him, he exclaimed, “By God, that was a great speech of Bourke’s!
There never has been a summing up like that in my time before, not even
by him. But he’s the smartest man in Westchester County! Hanged if I
don’t think he’s the smartest man in the State of New York. He’ll be in
the United States Senate yet.”


                                 XVIII

After dinner Patience went back to the court room to remain until ten
o’clock, at which time the jury, if it had not come to a decision, would
be locked up for the night. She sat surrounded by her counsel and the
lawyers that had taken so deep an interest in the case. Bourke sat very
close to her, and once or twice as she met his eyes she forgot the
terrible moment to come. Few people were in the court house. No one
expected a verdict that night.

It was exactly at half-past nine that the jury filed solemnly in.
Patience’s knees jerked suddenly upward. She lost her breath for a
moment. Bourke leaned over her and took her hand, regardless of the
curious people surrounding them.

“Be brave. Be brave,” he said hurriedly. “Now is the time for all your
pride and disdain.”

When she was ordered to stand up and face the jury, she did so with an
air so collected and so haughty that even Simms murmured: “By Jove, she
is a thoroughbred.”

There was a moment of horrible and vibrating silence, during which
Patience’s brain reiterated hilariously: “Twelve little Jurymen all in a
row. Twelve little heads all in a row.” Then the foreman was asked for
the verdict. He cleared his throat, and without moving a muscle of his
face, remarked,—

“Guilty.”

The district attorney sat down suddenly and hid his face with a
convulsive hand. Patience resumed her seat with a mien as stolid as that
of the twelve jurors. Bourke’s face blanched, but he sprang to his feet
and demanded that the jury be polled. Each solemn “Yes,” twelve and
unhesitating, sounded like a knell. Then Bourke demanded a Stay, which
was granted by the impassive judge, and Patience was led through the
silent crowd from the court room to her cell. Tarbox escorted her
mutely, his face turned away. At the door of her cell he attempted to
speak, but gave it up and retreated hastily.

Patience threw off her hat and sat down on the edge of the bed. The
verdict, she knew now, had not been a surprise. But she thought little
of the verdict. She was waiting for something else. It came in a moment.
She heard a quick impatient step on the ground below, then a rapid
ascent of stair, a word or two at the door, Tarbox’s retreating step.

Bourke was in the cell. His face was white, but that of Patience as she
rose and confronted him was not.

“I don’t care!” she said. “I don’t care! I believe I am happier than any
woman alive.”

The red sprang to his face. He took her outstretched hands and held them
to lips and eyes for a moment, then caught her in his arms and kissed
her until the rest of the world lay dull, and all life was in that quiet
cell.


                                  XIX

A year later they took her to Sing Sing. The General Term had refused
her a new trial, the Court of Appeals had sustained the lower court.
Bourke had won nothing but additional glory.

He did not go with her to Sing Sing. She saw him alone for an hour
before Tarbox came to take her away. Her composure was greater than his.
He was torn with horror and defeat, and his surpassing love for the
woman. Not that he had given up hope by any means, nor the fight; but he
knew the fearful odds, and he cursed the law which he had outwitted and
played with so often and so brilliantly.

“I wish we were back in the middle ages,” he said savagely, “when a man
took his rights and regulated justice by brute force. We are not half
men now that we are under the yoke of a thing that operates blindly, and
strikes by chance where it should strike, in nine cases out of ten. Good
God! Good God! it seems incredible that I can let you go, that I shall
stand by and see Tarbox lead you away. Think of the combined intellect
of the world and the centuries having done no more for man than that. I
must stand aside and see you go to a hideous cell in the Death House—O
my God!”

He had awakened the woman down to the depths; to-day he called to life
the maternal instinct in her. She put her arms about him with the
passionate strength of one who would transmit courage and hope through
physical pressure.

“Listen,” she said; “I don’t mind one cell more than another—and I
know, I know, that you will save me. I feel it. I am not going to die.
You are a man of genius. Everybody says that—everybody—I know that you
will have an inspiration at the last minute. And I have been happy,
happy, happy! Don’t forget that—not ever. I would go through twenty
times what I have suffered in all my life for this past year. Don’t you
think I can live on that for a month or two? Why, I can feel your touch,
the pressure of your arms for hours after you leave me. I shall be with
you every minute—”

He threw back his head, shaking it with a brief violent motion
characteristic of him.

“Very well,” he said, “very well; it is not for me to be weak when you
are strong. Perhaps it is because the prize is so great that the fight
is so long and desperate. Oh, you wonderful woman!

“Tell me,” he said after a moment, “that it has all been as perfect to
you as to me. I want to hear you say that, but I know it, I know it.”

“Oh,—I—I—”

                 *        *        *        *        *

Tarbox came and took her away. He looked as if he had lost home and
friends and fortune, and did not speak from White Plains to Sing Sing.
The details of the trip interested her less than such details are
supposed to interest the condemned that look their last on sky and land;
her head ached, and the glare of the Hudson blinded her; but as the
train neared Sing Sing she opened her eyes suddenly, then sat forward
with a note of admiration.

The river was covered with a dense rosy mist which half obscured the
opposite shore, giving it the effect of an irregular group of islands.
Above was a calm lake of yellow fire surrounded by heavy billows of
boiling gold; beyond, storm clouds, growing larger and darker.

As they drove, a few moments later, to the prison, the great grey
battlemented pile was swimming in the same rosy glow. Patience murmured
satirically:

        “‘The splendour falls on castle walls.’”

Tarbox looked at her in amazement. “Oh,” he said, “how do you manage
it?”

“All hope is not gone,” she replied; “there is still the governor.” But
she knew how slender that hope was. The governor was on the eve of
re-election; public feeling was multiplied against her; the “Eye” was
clamouring for her life, and strutting like a turkey cock; the “Eye” and
Tammany Hall were one; the governor was the creature of Tammany Hall.

The warden was in his office. He greeted her with elaborate politeness,
albeit puffed with alcohol and pride. She handed him what valuables she
had not presented to Tarbox, and answered his questions in a manner not
calculated to placate his Irish dignity. Then she turned to say good-bye
to Tarbox, but he had disappeared. The head-keeper, a big kindly man,
who pressed her arm in a paternal manner, led her down long echoing
corridors, past rows and tiers of cells, and yards full of Things in
striped garments, and talked to her in the manner one adopts to a
frightened child, until she said:—

“I am not going to have hysterics; nor am I at all sure that I am to be
executed—but please don’t imagine that I don’t appreciate your
kindness.”

“Well, I like that,” he said. “To tell the truth the prospect of having
a woman here has half scared me out of my wits. But if you won’t take
on, I’ll do everything I can to make you comfortable. We’ve put a woman
servant in there to wait on you. I hope myself it won’t be for long. The
evidence is pretty black, but some of us has our opinion all the same.”

“Must I go into the Death House? I think I shouldn’t mind it so much if
they’d put me anywhere else.”

“I’m afraid you must, ma’am. That’s the custom in these parts.” He
opened a door with a huge key, and Patience did not need to be told that
she was in the famous Death House.

A long corridor with a high window at either end; on one side a row of
cells separated from the main corridor by an iron fence sufficiently
removed from the cells to make space for a narrow promenade. Where the
middle cell should have been was a dark arched stone passage terminated
by a stout oaken door. Patience knew that it led to the execution room.
Two guards walked up and down the corridor. At the end, a sullen-looking
woman stood over a stove, making tea.

“You’ve got the house all to yourself,” said the keeper, with an attempt
at jocularity. “If there’d been any men here I guess you’d have been
sent to Dannemora, but it’s always Sing Sing for the swells, when it’s
possible, you know.”

He opened the gate of the iron fence and led her down to the cell at the
extreme end. It was large and well lighted, but very different from the
cell at White Plains.

“Are you going to lock me in?” she asked.

“Yes, ma’am, I must. If everything ain’t comfortable, just let me know.”

The key grated in the lock. The head-keeper with an encouraging smile
walked away. Patience crouched in a corner, for the first time fully
realising the awfulness of her position, her imagination leaping to the
room beyond the passage. What did it look like, that horrible chair? How
long—how long—the hideously practical details of electric
execution—the awful mystery of it—the new death to which imagination
had not yet become accustomed—

There was no sound but the monotonous pacing of the death watch. The
world beyond those stone walls might have sprung away into space,
leaving the great beautiful prison alone on a whirling fragment.

She sprang to her feet and clenched her hands. “I’ll not go mad and make
an everlasting fool of myself,” she thought. “If I have to die, I’ll die
with my head up and my eyes dry. If I have the blood of the aristocrat
in me I’ll prove it then, not die like a flabby woman of the people. The
people! O God, how I hate the people!”


                                   XX

A great petition was sent to the governor. It was signed uniformly by
men and women of the upper class.

It is not the aristocrats that do the electing in the United States. The
lower classes were against her to a man. Her personality enraged them;
her unreligion, her disdainful bearing, her intellect, her position,
antagonised the superstitious and ambitious masses more than her crime.
Inevitable result: the governor refused to pardon.

Honora returned to Peele Manor from town in April. Bourke’s attempts to
see her were frustrated by a bodyguard of servants. He took up his
residence in the little village adjoining the grounds. He hardly knew
what he hoped. But Honora Mairs was the last and only resource, and he
could not keep away from her vicinity. He did not go to Sing Sing. It
had been agreed between himself and Patience that he should stay away:
they had no desire to communicate through iron bars.

The execution was set for the seventh of May. On the evening of the
sixth, while walking down the single street of the village Bourke came
face to face with the new priest of the district.

“Tim Connor!” he exclaimed, forgetting for the moment, in the sudden
retrospect which this man’s face unrolled, the horror that held him.

“Well, it’s me, sure enough, Garan, and I’ve been hunting for you these
two days. I heard you were here, but faith, I’ve been busy!—not to say
I’ve been away for two weeks.”

“How long have you been here?”

“Six months, come June, it is since I left old Ireland; and I’m wanting
to tell you that the creek we used to wade in is as tempting to the boys
as ever, and that the bog you pulled me out of has moved on a mile and
more. Twenty times I’ve been for going across the country to call on you
and have a good grip of the hand, and to bless you again for letting me
live to do good work; but I was caught in a net here—But what’s the
matter—Are you ill?—Oh, sure! sure! This terrible business! I
remember! Poor young thing!”

He laid his arm about the shoulders of the other man and guided him to
his house. There, in his bare little study, he brewed an Irish toddy,
and the two men drank without a spoken toast to the old times when they
had punched each other’s head, fought each other’s battles, and shared
each other’s joys, two affectionate rollicking mischievous Irish lads.

The priest spoke finally.

“Nothing else is talked of here in the village,” he said; “but you don’t
hear a word of it mentioned over at the house.”

“What house?”

“Peele Manor, to be sure.”

“Do you go there?”

“Occasionally—to dine; or to talk with Miss Mairs. We are amiable
friends, although she doesn’t confess to me.”

Bourke raised his head slowly. Something seemed to swirl through his
heavy heart.

“Is Honora Mairs a Catholic?” he asked.

“She is indeed, and, like all converts, full to the brim and running
over.”

Bourke leaned forward, his hand clinching about his chin, his elbow
pressing his knee with such force that his arm vibrated. He had been
raised a Catholic—he knew its grip. His mind was trained to grasp
opportunities on the moment, to work with the nervous yet mathematical
rapidity of electric currents. And like all great lawyers he was a great
actor.

“Tim,” he said meditatively, “I’m feeling terribly bad over that poor
girl I couldn’t save.”

“Sure and I should think you would, Garan. My heart’s breaking for her
myself.”

“Did you read the trial, Tim?”

“No, faith, I didn’t. I’ve been too busy with these godless folk. Sure
they get away from us priests when they get into America. It’s only one
more drop to hell.”

“You’re right, Tim, you’re right. You always saw things at a glance. But
I’ve got a great work for you to do,—a great work for you and for the
Church.”

“You have, Garan? You have? Out with it, my boy.”

“Do you remember the time when Paddy Flannagan was accused of murdering
his old grandmother for the sake of the money in her stocking?”
continued Bourke, in the same half absent tone, and lapsing gradually
into brogue. “He was convicted, you know, and the whole town was set on
him, and we two boys were the worst of the lot. Do you remember how we
used to hoot under his jail window at night? And then, quite by
accident, at the last minute, two days before he was going to be hanged,
you discovered the man that had committed the murder, and you ran as
fast as your legs could carry you to save Paddy, shouting all the
way,—and that it was the happiest day of your life?”

“Yes, yes!” exclaimed the priest, his face aglow. Bourke had thrown
himself back in his chair, his eyes dwelling on his old friend with a
smile of affectionate satisfaction.

“It’s a grand thing to save a human life, isn’t it, Tim?”

“It is, indeed; the grandest, next to saving an immortal soul.”

“I’m going to give you a chance to do both,—the soul of one woman and
the life of another.”

“Garan, Garan, what do you mean?”

“Just let me tell you a few things first, a few things you don’t know
already.” He gave a concise but picturesque and thrilling account of
Patience’s life and of her trial. As he repeated Honora’s testimony, the
priest, who had followed his recital with profound interest, leaned
forward with sombre brows.

“That woman lied,” concluded Bourke, abruptly.

“I’m afraid so. I’m afraid so.”

“And if she doesn’t open her accursed perjured lips between now and
to-morrow morning at eleven o’clock, that woman up there—” he caught
the priest’s shoulders suddenly, his face contracting with agony—“the
woman I love, Tim, will be murdered. My God, man, don’t you see what
you’ve got to do?”


                                  XXI

Honora was lying on a couch in her celestial bedroom. No incense burned.
The screen was folded closely about the altar. The windows were open.
The pure air of spring, the peaceful sounds of night,—disturbed now and
again by the hideous shriek of an engine,—the delicate perfume of
flowers, played upon her irritated senses. She held a bottle of smelling
salts in her hand. On the table beside her was a jolly looking bottle of
Benedictine.

There was a tap at the door. Honora answered wearily. A maid entered.

“It’s Father Connor, miss, and he wants to see you particular.”

“Tell him I cannot see him—no, tell him to come up.”
