She had some high and fine theories of love such 
as most girls indulge in before they have had any 
real experience in the matter. 

Thirza admired Palmer for many strong and 



 

attractive qualities. There were friendships that 
ripened into love. With a little exultation she be 
thought herself that in this manner she could keep 
them both for friends. Thirza was fond of the 
old Palmer place. What a home she would make 
of it ! Aunt Hannah would go on as housekeeper 
she cared a great deal for Thirza why, was 
there not some desire lingering in her mind that 
this might happen ? Miss Otis felt that she had 
really unearthed Miss Gage's hope. Yet it would 
be one of the perfect marriages when they came 
to understand each other sympathetically. 

Bessie had hurried through her work, wrought 
up to a pitch of desperation by the many last 
things Aunt Hannah had found for her to do. 
Of course Miss Otis would use her best endeavors 
to make Royal Palmer commit himself, yet Bessie 
was quite sure she did not care to marry him. 

Two of the railroad men drove up the old lane, 
as it was called, and stopped at the side entrance 
to see Mr. Palmer a few moments. No, they 
would not get out for the brief errand. 

Aunt Hannah had her hands in the flour. 
Bessie ran around. She paused by the great rose 
tree that oddly enough had flowered a second 
time, a curious, fragrant white rose, " sign of a 
wedding," some one had said, which Aunt. Han 
nah extinguished by insisting it was a sign of 



 

death, and had bloomed that way the year Mrs. 
Palmer had died. 

Bessie announced her errand. Both faces had 
a mysterious look to her, softened and yet be 
trayed by the moonlight, the girl thought. She 
caught at Roy's hand, but he took no notice. All 
her soul filled with the resentment of weeks, she 
grasped her rival's arm and confronted her with 
a flushed countenance and passionate light in 
her eyes. 

" I suppose it is the last night of the play ! " 
she began in rapid, desperate tones. " Have you 
succeeded in your^designS^^ You know you do 
not mean to marry him. When you get back to 
the city it will be like the woman in the poem, 
' pastime ere you went to town.' You wouldn't be 
buried alive in such a place as this. And I love 
him ! I loved him the first night I came. He 
was so sweet and tender and made me so wel 
come. He has fought Aunt Hannah for my sake. 
She hates me. You have all the world to choose 
from, and I had only him. He was mine until 
you tried to detach him from me with your arts. 
It means nothing to you how much you make 
others suffer ; how you wreck their lives." 

She had spoken in one rapid rush of words, 
her cheeks glowing, her eyes kindling with an 
emotion that seemed to stir her heart's blood, that 



 

convinced her at the moment that she loved 
Royal Palmer with her whole soul. 

Miss Otis was amazed beyond everything. 
She shook off the girl's clasp as she rose to her 
feet. 

"I you are altogether mistaken," in a haughty 
tone that trembled with indignation. 

" Do you mean to marry him ? No, you do 
not," as Miss Otis' lips moved without a sound. 
" But you have led him on to think you would. 
You have filled his mind with foolish longings and 
ambitions. He will never be anything but a plain 
common man. He doesn't care for society. You 
will ruin his life and mine " 

" Hush, hush ! " imperiously. " You have al 
lowed anger and suspicion to run away with com 
mon sense. I have had no such thought 

" And love," Bessie interrupted. " You have 
tried to keep him from loving me, but you will not 
prevail. Or if you do, you will ruin his life, and 
my broken heart will lie at your door." 

With a curious, haunting cry Bessie vanished. 
Miss Otis stood trembling and astounded. Had 
she any right to interfere with their lives unless 
she meant to marry him, and no such thought had 
crossed her mind. 



CHAPTER VIII 

A TRAGEDY 

HELEN OTIS spent a nervous, restless night. It 
was foolish to let this girl's anger trouble her. 
Did Roy Palmer care for her, Bessie, in the sense 
of desiring to win her ? She had fancied at first 
that one could easily foretell the end of this pas 
toral romance. But she felt now, with a positive 
inward assurance, that she could not have put 
in words to any human being, that there were 
some fine possibilities in Palmer that would not 
only be thwarted by the hjfliience of such a woman, 
but wholly nullified. With a mind like Thirza's 
yet there was nothing but good) comradeship be 
tween them. Did even Thirza appreciate all his 
excellencies ? 

There was nothing in this mental question to 
stir her temperature, but she did experience an 
uncomfortable flush even in her cheeks. She 
would not follow out this reasoning. But Roy 
could not have been very much in love with Bessie 
during the brief interim before her aunt came. 
He was not lover-like. In her mind she convicted 
 



 

Bessie of falsehood. Did the girl love him ? 
Could she make herself content with the surround 
ings, the pursuits of his life ? She ridiculed and 
sneered at it. Perhaps her anger had been merely 
a jealous coquetry. 

How should she meet her in the morning ? 
Helen would have liked not to see her again. 
She did try to dismiss the matter ; but one of the 
first sounds she heard was Bessie's gay voice carol 
ling a snatchy little song as she swept off the porch. 
Then she called to Roy, and he answered in a cor 
dial tone. 

It was the finer nature that experienced the 
embarrassment. Helen felt that she had no right 
to have this secret of Bessie's flung at her in such 
a rude manner. She wished she did not know it. 
But Bessie was in a delightful mood, helpful to 
Aunt Hannah, courteous with a charming shade 
of deference to Miss Brooke, and nai'vely innocent 
to herself, quite ignoring the scene of last night. 
And though Bessie Deane could not have analyzed 
the component parts, she intuitively guessed at 
some of the secret springs. Miss Otis would be 
distant, perhaps a shade colder toward Roy Palmer. 
If he had taken any heart of grace, any hope of 
future intimacy, the demeanor of Miss Otis, with 
her nervous self-consciousness, would destroy it. 
Bessie noted that she did not address a single 




sentence to him, and answered him with evident 
constraint. 

After that there was a gentle sort of confusion. 
The trunks came down and were sent off. Miss 
Brooke had a little aside with Miss Gage, while 
Bessie flew about her work in a cheery fashion. 
Helen devoted herself to Aunt Esther, who seemed 
a good deal moved by the prospect of parting, per 
haps from the sub-conscious misgiving that this 
would be her last summer anywhere. It had been 
very pleasant, and Roy Palmer, in his kindly, 
thoughtful fashion, had helped make it so. She 
had liked his friend Ward very much, and though 
she could not quite approve of independent careers 
for women, Miss Rolfe did not seem so far out of 
the way, according to her lights. 

Miss Margaret Brooke went out to Bessie. 

" My dear," she said, with a softness in her tone 
that was next to emotion, " I want to thank you 
for your readiness to oblige my sister and myself, 
and all your kindness. I want you to accept this 
little gift," and she squeezed something in her 
hand. " I hope your future will be a pleasant 
one, and that some day we shall hear of your 
being very happy." 

Bessie blushed. Did she suspect Roy Palmer 
would be concerned in the happiness ? 

In a few moments they were driving away in 



 

the same manner they had come. Miss Otis' 
veil was pinned tightly to her hat, not in 
any easy fashion that she could raise. Bessie 
nodded to herself in satisfaction. Miss Otis 
would not look at Roy the second time to marry 
him ; so why should she wind even the charm of 
intelligence and appreciation about him, and rouse 
vague hopes ? Bessie looked upon herself almost 
as his saviour by her resolute stroke of last 
night. 

As for Palmer, he was keenly touched by the 
evident endeavor of Miss Otis to preserve a little 
distance between them. They had been so frank 
and friendly after the first week or two. Not that 
he had been dreaming of any foolishness it 
would have seemed so to him. He was innately 
honorable, and she belonged to her father for the 
present. She was just beginning a beautiful life 
under such different auspices. He would not have 
moved a finger to interfere with it if he could. 
There were better things, wider opportunities 
than his narrow life had ever taken in they 
were her birthright he would have to go grop 
ing along for years before he could reach them. 
Thirza had grown so different from her contact 
with that great world ; finer, higher, stronger in 
her manner of viewing many things. She had 
dropped so much of the littleness and the triviality 



 

of women. And this other girl had begun large, 
had developed in ways of culture. 

He had meant to say something about a future 
acquaintance, if he should come to the city. Thirza 
had laughingly invited him to her menage. But 
every moment a little stiffness seemed to fall be 
tween them, like a cloud spreading itself over the 
serene heavens. 

There were some trifling favors to perform for 
the travellers. He took Miss Esther's arm as the 
train came in, and accompanied her to her chair 
in the^drawing-room coach. Then, a rather hur 
ried good^Bye, Had he any reason to expect any 
more ? 

He drove back, put out his horses, and went 
straight over to the fields. Aunt Hannah began 
at once to clean house, so as to restore the olden 
order before cold weather set in. By night Bessie 
was tired and cross, and Roy went off somewhere, 
leaving them to themselves. Aunt Hannah sat 
and nodded, and Bessie presently flounced off to 
bed. What could one do a whole long winter? 
But if she were mistress here 

Bessie Deane decided that it was the best thing 
she could do. She could think of some more 
desirable positions. A clerk in a store in the city 
would be more to her taste ; but she saw no means 
of getting to that desired haven without some pre- 



 

liminary hardships, which she did not desire to 
take. And though, during the first fortnight here, 
she had believed herself in love with Roy, one of 
the swift, unreasoning, overwhelming fancies, so 
often miscalled love at first sight, she had wavered 
curiously. She had been jealous since ; was not 
that another sign ? Possibly she might meet 
with some one more to her fancy, if she was rich, 
like Miss Otis but would she want to wait five 
or six years like Thirza Rolfe ? Roy Palmer 
wasn't poor ; Aunt Hannah had said he could 
hold up his head with some of the best in town. 
He should, when she was his wife. She would soon 
have him out of these old-fashioned ways. 

Somehow Bessie found imaginary conquests 
much easier than real ones. Roy was deeply 
engrossed with the new road where they were 
surveying, and planning for supplies. There was 
timber to be cut, fences to be moved. Sometimes 
he took his lunch with him. In the evening he 
was tired and abstracted. It had come off quite 
cool, and there was no loitering on the great porch. 
The fire in the sitting-room felt good. Sometimes 
Bessie stole away and played on the piano, but 
the very music was dull when no one came to 
listen. 

Meanwhile the house had been put in order, the 
fall pickling and preserving was done, and Aunt 



 

Hannah one day set the future plainly before 
Bessie. 

" I couldn't leave you enough to take care of 
yourself," she said, "and I may live years yet. 
You can't reasonably expect Royal Palmer, who 
is no kith or kin, to support you ; and any girl 
of spirit would be too proud. I should be ashamed 
of it, myself. I've had a talk with Miss Cummings 
and Mrs. Barstow. Mrs. Barstow will keep you 
through the week ; for it is too far to walk in 
and out, with bad weather coming on presently. 
You'll be able to take good care of yourself in six 
months' time ; I've been talking it over with Roy." 

There was a great lump in Bessie's throat, a hot 
anger in her heart. 

"Oh, if he wants me turned out!" she cried 
passionately. 

" No such thing, Bessie Deane ! He'd be will 
ing to keep you ; but I have some pride, if you 
have not. I've earned my bread since my poor 
father thought fit to share his with a stranger; 
and, surely, you wouldn't want to hang on Roy 
Palmer year in and year out ! There's nothing 
for you to do, but just putter 'round there's not 
enough to keep me busy half the time. Now, if 
you were his kin, instead of mine, I would not raise 
my voice against it. Mrs. Barstow's offer is a good 
one. She does some of the best work in town." 



 

" I shall not go," said the young girl, decisively. 

" What, then ? " Aunt Hannah looked over the 
top of her glasses ; but there was decision in her 
eyes. 

" Well I'll starve first ! I hate the thought of 
dressmaking." Bessie's eyes flashed fire. 

" Perhaps you'd rather live out ? " 

Bessie absolutely screamed in dismay. 

" There, there ! Don't go in a tantrum, Bessie ; 
I am only thinking of your good." 

Her good ! She could give her so many chances 
to see Roy. For a month she had watched her as a 
cat watches a mouse. She did not want her to marry 
Roy Palmer that was plain. And why not ? 

Any other woman would be glad. Yes, Aunt 
Hannah hated her for her poor mamma's sake. 

" I'll write to the Deanes," she declared. 

" I wrote three weeks age," returned Aunt 
Hannah, coolly. " Mrs. Deane advised that you 
be trained to take care of yourself. There are 
plenty of women doing it who are not compelled. 
Come, don't be an idiot, and you most eighteen." 

Bessie was in a white heat of indignation. As 
well throw herself against a rock as appeal to this 
grim woman. She sprang up, lighted her lamp, 
and flounced out of the room. Once in her own 
chamber, she gave way to a passion of tears. She 
could have torn the very counterpane to tatters. 



 

To be sent away the whole week through ! Oh, 
what could she do to circumvent this old woman ? 

She lay there on her bed half the night, it 
seemed to her. But it could not have been, 
for presently Aunt Hannah finished the evening 
chores and came up. What kept Roy out so 
much ? She strained her attention, too, for once 
or twice she heard a sound. Ah, yes. That was 
horse's hoofs. He was going out to the barn. She 
put up her hands to make a little blind for her 
eyes, and looked long and eagerly out of the 
window. Yes there he came. He had an un 
earthly habit of sitting alone, reading, or drawing 
plans or calculations. She had been considering an 
appeal to him. What if she crept down softly now ? 

It seemed daring, enticing to her. She could so 
rarely see him alone, that she excused herself. 
She opened her door and drew a long breath. He 
raked the stove a little. There was a sound as of 
moving the big chair. She stepped out into the 
hall, sat on the stairs a moment, and then trod 
very lightly. One step creaked. Then she raised 
the old-fashioned latch cautiously. Roy had not 
heard her. He was reading some sheets of paper, 
and laid one down. She was so near. Why could 
he not feel it ? 

" Roy," she said softly, " Roy oh, don't make a 
sound ! " holding up her small hands entreatingly. 



 

Her golden hair was floating down her back. 
There was something weird about her sudden ap 
pearance, and for a moment he could not speak. 

" I'm so wretched. I had to come to tell you, 
Roy, I'm going away. I can't stand it." 

She leaned over the arm of the chair. Her eyes 
were full of tears, and her pretty mouth and chin 
quivered. She moved him inexplicably. 

" Going away Bessie " 

He touched her arm with his fingers. Was she 
walking in her sleep ! Or was he dreaming ? 

" Yes ; Aunt Hannah has as good as turned me 
out. I have a little money. I shall go away it 
doesn't matter where, since I am not wanted here. 
And if I don't find friends, I can only die in the 
end," and a sob choked her. 

" Bessie ! " He could never have told who 
made the movement. He raised his arm and put 
it over her shoulder, and she seemed to drop into 
his lap, like a poor fluttering bird, giving a sigh 
of content. 

" I thought at first you liked me. It was no 
plan of mine coming here, and how should I know 
the home wasn't really Aunt Hannah's ? And I 
tried so hard to please ! I've been a little slave all 
summer. I thought maybe I had earned some 
right to a home. But I wish she had never sent 
for me. It's been nothing but pain and misery. 



 

And as for the dressmaking scheme I hate it! 
I'll kill myself first ! " 

She was sobbing softly now, and her head went 
down on his shoulder. Roy looked at her in a 
dazed fashion. She was so small and helpless. 

" I told Aunt Hannah there was no need of 
your going. She ought to have some one, and I 
am likely to be out so much now. You shall 
stay. Why, your keep wouldn't be more than 
that of a kitten, and there is an abundance of 
everything " 

Bessie made a gesture of protest, and partly 
raised her head, enough for him to see her tear- 
wet eyes and tremulous rose-red lips. 

" I have no real claim on you. Oh," with a fling 
of bitterness, "she has made me understand that! 
The home is yours. I am no kin to you ! But I 
wanted to tell you how it was, so when you come 
home some night and hear a long tale of my in 
gratitude, you will know why I couldn't stay. 
And there have been so many pleasant times 
when " 

"You must stay, child." 

" But you see, if I was your half-sister, it would 
make a world of difference ! No ; I shall just go 
off quietly 

"You shall not, Bessie." 

What did he mean to say ? Oh, heavens ! if 



 

she only were his little sister ! She was like a 
trusting baby in his arms. The sobs shook her. 
A poor, friendless, homeless little girl, too pretty 
to take a rough turn with the world. She must 
stay. He would insist to Aunt Hannah, and the 
foolish scheme of dressmaking would be given up. 

He gave a long sigh. She crept closer. Her 
warm tears fell on his hand and moved him im 
measurably. He was man enough to see how he 
could be something more to her, have the right to 
care for her. Why, three months ago he almost 
dreamed of this. What had changed him ? For 
there was some mysterious change, some new 
understanding of himself and the man he wished 
to be. When he reached that height 

The clock ticked solemnly. It seemed the turn 
ing-point of a lifetime. Pity, sympathy, the desire 
to give this eager little butterfly a pleasant life, 
the curious inward protest, and he felt himself 
pulled both ways, unable to decide. 

They did not hear the stir above them. Then a 
sharp voice called, "Bessie! Bessie!" 

She started, but clung closer to him. Her 
small hands grasped entreatingly. Her fright 
ened, pleading child's face was upraised, it moved 
nearer his, and before he was even aware of an 
impulse, he had kissed down amid the tears. 

A quick, piercing cry for help startled them. 



 

Roy put her down and ran. There was a strange 
blaze of light in the little hall, and another cry, 
this time a shriek. 

Aunt Hannah stood in Bessie's room all in a 
blaze. The curtains had burned and fallen to the 
floor. She had reached out for the quilt on the 
bed, but some kind of terror had deprived her of 
her usual presence of mind. He caught it and 
wrapped her tight as she fell to the floor. 

" Bessie, quick ! " he cried. 

But when Bessie came up, it was only to shriek 
and wring her hands. The blue and yellow 
flames were running over the fuzz of the carpet. 
He was shuffling it out, and smothering the blaze 
about Aunt Hannah, who only moaned now. 

Then he began to unroll her. " Bring another 
blanket," he said to Bessie, and with that he 
carried her to her room. " Put out every spark of 
fire ; but oh, for the love of heaven, be careful ! " 

He laid Aunt Hannah on her own bed. She 
moaned in a half-unconscious manner. The flames 
were subdued ; but how severely she was burned 
was beyond his telling. A doctor must be had at 
once. 

" Bessie, I am going over to the Austens' to get 
some one to go for a doctor." 

She raised her lovely, terrified eyes. " Be 
brave," he pleaded, taking both hands. She in- 



clincd her head forward, and for the second time 
he kissed her. 

" Oh, what shall I do ! I have never seen any 
one die. Let me go to the Austens'. Oh, Roy ! " 

She was clinging to him, and sobbing hysteri 
cally. Her soft, wet cheek was pressed against 
his. 

" I shall die here alone," she cried. " Let me 
go with you." 

He quite forgot her selfishness at the moment, 
so deep was his pity for her terror. 

He spoke to Aunt Hannah, and besought her 
to answer. She moaned, but did not move. He 
was afraid himself to open the blanket. 

" I must go. Let me carry you down-stairs," 
and he picked her up, depositing her in the arm 
chair he had left such a few moments before. 
" Be my brave girl," he said, and the next instant 
he had vanished. 

Left alone, Bessie's weeping subsided into an 
occasional sob, though she still trembled with ap 
prehension. When she dared to move, she crept 
cautiously to both doors and locked them. No 
frightful vision could steal upon her unaware. 
What the poor victim up-stairs might be suffering 
was not as much to her as her own terror. Then 
she began to think. Why had Aunt Hannah gone 
to her room? Had she suspected her absence? 



 

She had left her lamp burning, but she had shut 
the door, she was quite certain. She would not 
allow her, Bessie, a moment alone with Roy. But 
if she should be ill a long while up-stairs, there 
would have to be a servant, and Bessie would take 
the head of the house. 

After all, she might as well marry Roy. In all 
this while she had not seemed to attract any one's 
attention. And at the Deanes' there had been 
young men coming in nearly every evening. Here 
it was really out of the way. Of course it would 
be nice to go to the city if she knew just what to 
do ; but Roy would not consent, and she had no 
money to experiment with. But to go on this 
way 

Would Roy never come back ? She kept glanc 
ing furtively at the door, almost expecting Aunt 
Hannah to order her to open it at once. She 
began to cry again, from very loneliness as she sat 
crouching there, not daring to stir. There was a 
constriction in her throat that almost strangled her. 
And it seemed as if it must be morning when the 
sound of wagon wheels broke the awesome stillness. 

She sprang up and unfastened both doors. Roy 
and Mrs. Austen came in together. 

" Oh, you poor child ! what a dreadful accident ! " 
Then Mrs. Austen glanced around. 

"She is up-stairs," explained Roy. Then he 



 

lighted another lamp and led the way. Bessie 
followed, every pulse throbbing with indefinable 
apprehension. 

The long figure lay on the bed, just as he had 
tenderly deposited it there. " Oh, heaven grant 
she may not be dead ! " he cried in sharp sorrow. 

" Has she been alone all this time and nothing 
done ? " glancing at Bessie. 

" We did not know what could be done for 
her. Sometimes inexperience hinders more than 
it helps," he said in excuse. 

Mrs. Austen opened the blanket, then folded it 
again, while a shudder ran over her. 

"I don't suppose we can do anything but just 
wait," she said hopelessly as she dropped into a 
chair. 

Bessie lighted a candle and went through to her 
own room. There was a bracket against the wall 
on which she usually placed her lamp, as her 
dressing-table, as she always called the befur- 
belowed stand, was generally full of knick-knacks. 
A little way from it was an engraving in a celluloid 
frame, and then the window curtain. The lamp 
chimney was broken* The curtain, the picture, 
and the drapery of the table were burned to 
cinders. An untoward gust of wind from the 
window might have done the mischief, or the 
sudden opening of the door creating a draught. 



 

Her bed was blackened, the quilt partly burned, 
the room was full of the odor of smothered flames. 

Yes, if Aunt Hannah had staid in her own room 
instead of prying about. With all her horror and 
dread, Bessie was not specially moved to pity, since 
she felt underneath it all Aunt Hannah's motive. 
The table, too, was one of her aversions. Bessie 
had brought with her numberless little gifts with 
which she had adorned her bare room. The pict 
ure-frame had been especially cherished. 

"You had better come down-stairs," Royal 
Palmer said, looking in. Then he added, in a 
low, solemn tone : " She is not dead. Mrs. Aus 
ten thinks she must have inhaled the flames. 
Oh, when will the doctor come ! " 

Dead ! Bessie had not thought of such an 
ending. She stood horrified. 

" Oh, she will get well again. She is so 
strong " 

" How could it have happened ? " 

" I think she heard us talking and came 
in here. She must have done something. The 
lamp is on the table and the chimney broken. 
I left it on the bracket. Oh, why are people 
so suspicious ! " 

He took her hand and led her down-stairs. 
" You had better take the lounge and get some 
rest," he said, in so grave a tone that it sounded 



 

cold. Then he opened the door, stood a moment 
listening in silence, and passed out to pace rest 
lessly up and down until the doctor came. 

Being forewarned, Doctor Bevans brought a 
satchel of useful articles. Miss Gage was still 
unconscious. Mrs. Austen had looked up some 
clothing, for the nightdress had been burned to 
shreds. Her hair at the edge of her forehead 
was badly scorched, her face and chest had 
suffered severely ; but the greatest danger was 
from inhaling the flames and smoke, and both 
had reacted upon the brain. 

She moaned a little as they moved her, but 
took no note of the voices. 

" It is a very grave matter," said the doctor. 
"You will want a good nurse, and Mrs. Ostrom 
came home a day or two ago. The burns will 
heal, but the greatest danger is from within. Did 
she give no alarm ? How did it all happen ? " 

They went over to Bessie's room. The most 
probable solution was that she had heard the 
lamp chimney break, and had gone over, to find 
the curtain and picture-frame ablaze, and tried 
to put it out without giving any alarm, being 
almost at once strangled by the smoke. Yet the 
blaze had been extinguished easily, and it seemed 
as if it ought not to have brought about such 
terrible consequences. 



 

Doctor Bevans remained until morning, but 
there was little change in the patient. Palmer 
went down-stairs, to find Bessie asleep on the 
lounge. He threw a shawl over her and stirred 
the fire, for the September morning was coming 
in chilly. No, the relationship in this case did 
not count . for much, and he sighed. But if 
Bessie should be her aunt's heir, she would have 
enough to make a new start in life, something 
that would suit her better than living at Wes- 
thorpe. 

She roused when the doctor went away. Mr. 
Palmer had made some coffee, and she arranged 
a tempting breakfast, studying him furtively mean 
while. Surely she could not be to blame. 

About nine, Mrs. Ostrom came, and Mrs. 
Austen went home. Then neighbors and friends 
dropped in with kindly sympathy and ready 
offers of help. It was a strange, exciting day. 
Jane Mason staid at night, and she and Bessie 
took the room Miss Helen had occupied. Bessie 
was curiously awe-stricken, and it stood her in 
the stead of deeper emotion. Her frightened 
eyes appealed to Roy with something beyond 
pity, yet not love, as he had come to consider 
the divine passion. 

Miss Gage died without recovering conscious 
ness. Mrs. Ostrom was one of the kindly, help- 



 

ful women with a pleasant nature, and she felt 
really sorry for Bessie, who seemed stunned by 
the sad affair. The funeral was a large one, for 
Miss Gage had been held in general esteem. 

That very evening lawyer Ralston came over 
with the will. But it had been made several years 
before. He questioned Palmer as to whether she 
had expressed any desire to alter it after her niece 
came, wondering a little that it had not been done. 

"We never dreamed of her dying," answered 
Roy. " I do not suppose she thought about it at 
all. You see she has had a very busy summer." 

With the exception of several gifts to friends 
her few thousands went to different charities in 
which she had been interested. 

" Of course she knew nothing about Bessie 
then," said Mrs. Ostrom, " but it leaves the poor 
child in an awkward position, without a penny. 
I am sorry it doesn't go to her. Hasn't she some 
other relatives ? " 

" Not that I know of," returned Palmer. Had 
fate consigned her to him ? " You will remain 
with us awhile ? " to Mrs. Ostrom. 

" If you desire it yes. She is too young and 
inexperienced to kee"p house, and besides 

Mrs. Ostrom did not finish the sentence. But 
Royal Palmer knew she could not remain unless 
he married her. 



 

Bessie was bitterly disappointed at the will. 
She threw herself upon Roy's sympathies. She 
had no friend but him, and it would have taken a 
harder heart than his to resist her in her sorrow. 
She felt that he really ought to marry her, and he 
accepted what seemed a direct interposition of 
fate, and announced his intention to Mrs. Ostrom, 
who did not seem at all surprised. 

There had not been much real love-making. It 
seemed the only course to Palmer, and Bessie ac 
cepted without being at all exigent. She had not 
loved Aunt Hannah, though she was shocked at 
her death. It seemed in a curious way to Bessie 
she did not like to say a judgment but a result 
of opposing an event that had been marked out 
by Providence. If Aunt Hannah had accepted 
and resigned herself to a conclusion so eminently 
proper, the accident might never have happened. 

She hated the sombreness of mourning, but it 
would not do to defy the opinion of Westhorpe. 
She was married in a plain white gown, in the old 
parlor. So the rose had bloomed for both funeral 
and wedding. Roy took her away on a little jour 
ney, but she felt she did not dare plead for any 
dissipations. They stopped a night in New York, 
and she wondered if they could find Thirza Rolfe. 

" Some other time we will look her up," was the 
