
At that, still looking out, Sir Claude, in 
the window, laughed loud. " So, you see, 
Maisie, we 've not quite lost it ! " 

"Oh, no!" Maisie responded. "Isn't 
that too charming?" She smiled at Mrs. 
Wix. "We know all about it." Then, on 
her friend's showing such blankness as was 
compatible with such a flush, she pursued: 
" She does want me to have you ? " 





Mrs. Wix showed a final timidity, which, 
however, while Sir Claude drummed on the 
window pane, she presently surmounted. 
It came to Maisie that in spite of his drum- 
ming and of his not turning round he was 
really so much interested as to leave himself, 
in a manner, in her hands ; which, somehow, 
suddenly seemed to her a greater proof than 
he could have given by interfering. " She 
wants me to have you! " Mrs. Wix rang out. 

Maisie answered this bang at Sir Claude. 
"Then that 's nice for all of us." 

Of course it was, his continued silence 
sufficiently admitted, while Mrs. Wix rose 
from her chair and, as if to take more of a 
stand, placed herself, not without majesty, 
before the fire. The incongruity of her 
smartness, the circumference of her stiff 
frock presented her as really more ready for 
Paris than any of them. She also gazed hard 
at Sir Claude's back. "Your wife was dif- 
ferent from anything she had ever shown me. 
She recognizes certain proprieties." 

" Which ? do you happen to remember ? " 
Sir Claude asked. 

Mrs. Wix's reply was prompt. "The im- 
portance for Maisie of a gentlewoman of 
some one who is not well, so bad ! She 





objects to a mere maid, and I don't in the 
least mind telling you what she wants me to 
do." One thing was clear Mrs. Wix was 
now bold enough for anything. " She wants 
me to persuade you to get rid of the person 
from Mrs. Beale's." Maisie waited for Sir 
Claude to pronounce on this ; then she could 
only understand that he, on his side, waited, 
and she felt particularly full of common sense 
as she met her responsibility. " Oh, I don't 
want Susan with you! " she said to Mrs. 
Wix. 

Sir Claude, always from the window, 
approved. " That 's quite simple. I'll take 
her back." 

Mrs. Wix gave a positive jump; Maisie 
caught her look of alarm. " ' Take ' her ? 
You don't mean go over on purpose? " 

Sir Claude said nothing for a moment; 
after which, "Why shouldn't I leave you 
here?" he inquired. 

Maisie, at this, sprang up. " Oh, do, oh, 
do, oh, do ! " The next moment she was 
interlaced with Mrs. Wix, and the two, on 
the hearth-rug, their eyes in each other's 
eyes, considered the plan with intensity. 
Maisie then perceived the difference of what 
they saw in it. " She can surely go back 




alone ; why should you put yourself out ? " 
Mrs. Wix demanded. 

" Oh, she 's an idiot she 's incapable. If 
anything should happen to her it would be 
awkward ; it was I who brought her with- 
out her asking. If I turn her away I ought 
with my own hand to place her exactly 
where I found her." 

Mrs. Wix's face appealed to Maisie on 
such folly, and her manner, as directed to 
their companion, had, to her pupil's surprise, 
an unprecedented sharpness. "Dear Sir 
Claude, I think you 're perverse. Pay her 
fare and give her a sovereign. She has had 
an experience that she never dreamed of and 
that will be an advantage to her through life., 
If she goes wrong on the way it will be sim- 
ply because she wants to, and, with her 
expenses and her remuneration make it 
even what you like! you will have treated 
her as handsomely as you always treat every 
one." 

This was a new tone as new as Mrs. 
Wix's cap; and it could strike a perceptive 
person as the upshot of a relation that had 
taken on a new character. It brought out, 
for Maisie, how much more even than she 
had guessed her friends were fighting side 





by side. At the same time it needed so 
definite a justification that, as Sir Claude 
now, at last, did face them, she at first sup- 
posed it in resentment of excessive familiar- 
ity. She was therefore yet more puzzled to 
see him show the whole of his serene beauty, 
as well as an equal interest in a matter quite 
distinct from any freedom but her ladyship's. 
"Did my wife come alone? " He could ask 
even that good-humoredly. 

"When she called on me?" Mrs. Wix 
was red now; his good humor could n't 
keep down her color, which, for a minute, 
glowed there like her ugly honesty. "No 
there was some one in the cab. " The 
only attenuation she could think of was 
after a minute to add: "But they didn't 
come up." 

Sir Claude broke into a laugh Maisie 
herself could guess what it was at : while he 
now walked about, still laughing, and at the 
fireplace gave a gay kick to a displaced log, 
she felt more vague about almost everything 
than about the drollery of such a " they ! " 
She in fact could scarce have told you if it 
was to deepen or to cover the joke that she 
bethought herself to remark: "Perhaps it 
was her maid." 



 

Mrs. Wix gave her a look that, at any 
rate, deprecated the wrong tone. "It was 
not her maid." 

" Do you mean there are, this time, two ? " 
Sir Claude asked as if he had not heard. 

" Two maids ? " Maisie went on as if she 
might assume he had. 

The reproach of the straighteners dark- 
ened; but Sir Claude cut across it with a 
sudden " See here what do you mean ? 
And what do you suppose she meant ? " 

Mrs. Wix let him for a moment in silence 
understand that the answer to his question, 
if he didn't take care, might give him more 
than he wanted. It was as if, with this 
scruple, she measured and adjusted all that 
she gave him in at last saying : " What she 
meant was to make me know that you 're 
definitely free. To have that straight from 
her was a joy I, of course, had n't hoped for: 
it made the assurance, and my delight at it, 
a thing I really proceed upon. You already 
know I would have started even if she had n't 
pressed me ; you already know what, so long, 
we have been looking for and what, as soon 
as she told me of her step taken at Folke- 
stone, I recognized with rapture that we 
have. It 's your freedom that makes me 





right " she fairly bristled with her logic. 
"But I don't mind telling you that it 's her 
action that makes me happy! " 

"Her action?" Sir Claude echoed. 
" Why, my dear woman, her action is just a 
heinous crime. It happens to satisfy our 
sympathies in a way that's quite delicious; 
but that doesn't in the least alter the fact 
that it 's the most abominable thing ever 
done. She has chucked our friend here 
overboard not a bit less than if she had 
shoved her, shrieking and pleading, out of 
that window and down two floors upon the 
paving-stones." 

Maisie surveyed serenely the parties to the 
discussion. " Oh, your friend here, dear Sir 
Claude, doesn't plead and shriek! " 

He looked at her a moment. "Never. 
Never. That's one only one, but charm- 
ing so far as it goes of about a hundred 
things we love her for." Then he pursued 
to Mrs. Wix: "What I can't for the life of 
me make out is what Ida is really up to, what 
game she was playing in turning to you with 
that cursed cheek after the beastly way she 
has used you. Where to explain her at all 
does she fancy she can presently, when 
we least expect it, take it out of us? " 





"She doesn't fancy anything nor want 
anything out of any one. Her cursed 
cheek, as you call it, is the best thing I 've 
ever seen in her. I don't care a fig for the 
beastly way she used me I forgive it all a 
thousand times over ! " Mrs. Wix raised 
her voice as she had never raised it; she 
quite triumphed in her lucidity. " I under- 
stand her I almost admire her ! " she 
proclaimed. She spoke as if this might 
practically suffice; yet in charity to fainter 
lights she threw out an explanation. "As 
I 've said, she was different; upon my word 
I would n't have known her. She had a 
glimmering she had an instinct : they 
brought her. It was a kind of happy 
thought, and if you could n't have supposed 
she would ever have had such a thing, why, 
of course, I quite agree with you. But she 
did have it. There ! " 

Maisie could see that, from what it with 
liveliness lacked, this demonstration gathered 
a certain something that might almost have 
exasperated. But as she had often watched 
Sir Claude in apprehension of displeasure 
that did n't come, so now, instead of his 
saying " Oh, hell ! " as her father used, she 
observed him only to take refuge in a ques- 





tion that, at the worst, was abrupt. " Who 
is it this time, do you know ? " 

Mrs. Wix tried blind dignity. "Who is 
what, Sir Claude ? " 

"The man who stands the cabs. Who 
was in the one that waited at your door ? " 

At this challenge she faltered so long that 
it occurred to Maisie' s conscience to give 
her a hand. " It was n't the Captain." 

Her good intention, however, only changed 
her old friend's scruple to a more ambiguous 
stare ; besides, of course, making Sir Claude 
go off. Mrs. Wix fairly appealed to him. 
"Must I really tell you?" 

His amusement continued. "Did she 
make you promise not to ? " 

Mrs. Wix looked at him still harder. " I 
mean before Maisie. " 

Sir Claude laughed again. "Why, she 
can't hurt him ! " 

Maisie felt herself, as it passed, brushed 
by the light humor of this. "Yes, I can't 
hurt him ! " 

The straighteners again roofed her over; 
after which they seemed to crack with the 
explosion of their wearer's honesty. Amid 
the flying splinters Mrs. Wix produced a 
name. "Mr. Tischbein." 





There was for an instant a silence that, 
under Sir Claude's influence and while he 
and Maisie looked at each other, suddenly 
pretended to be that of gravity. "We don't 
know Mr. Tischbein do we, dear ? " 

Maisie gave the point all needful thought. 
"No not Mr. Tischbein." 

It was a passage that worked visibly on 
their friend. "You must excuse me, Sir 
Claude," she said with an austerity of which 
the note was real, " if I thank God to your 
face that he has in his mercy I mean his 
mercy to our charge allowed me to achieve 
this act." She gave out a long puff of pain. 
"It was time!" Then as if still more to 
point the moral : " I said just now I under- 
stood your wife. I said just now I admired 
her. I stand to it: I did both of those 
things when I saw how even she, poor thing, 
saw. If you want the dots on the i's you 
shall have them. What she came to me for, 
in spite of everything, was that I 'm just 
" she quavered it out " well, just clean ! 
What she saw for her daughter was that 
there must at last be a decent person ! " 

Maisie was quick enough to jump a little 
at the sound of this implication that such 
a person was what Sir Claude was not; the 





next instant, however, she more profoundly 
guessed against whom the discrimination 
was made- She was therefore left the more 
surprised at the complete candor with which 
he embraced the worst. "If she 's bent on 
decent persons, why has she given her to me ? 
You don't call me a decent person, and I 'll 
do Ida the justice that she never did. I 
think I 'm as indecent as any one, and that 
there 's nothing in my behavior that makes 
my wife's surrender a bit less ignoble!" 

"Don't speak of your behavior," Mrs. Wix 
cried; "don't say such horrible things: 
they 're false and they 're wicked and I for- 
bid you ! It 's to keep you decent that I 'm 
here and that I 've done everything I have 
done: it 's to save you I won't say from 
yourself, because in yourself you 're beauti- 
ful and good ! It 's to save you from the 
worst person of all; I haven't, after all, 
come over to be afraid to speak of her ! 
That 's the person in whose place her ladyship 
wants such a person as even me; and if she 
thought herself, as she as good as told me, 
not fit for Maisie's company, it 's not, as you 
may well suppose, that she may make room 
for Mrs. Beale ! " 

Maisie watched his face as it took this 





outbreak, and the most she saw in it was 
that it turned a little white. That indeed 
made him look, as Susan Ash would have 
said, queer, and it was perhaps a part of the 
queerness that he intensely smiled. " You 're 
too hard on Mrs. Beale. She has great 
merits of her own." 

Mrs. Wix, at this, instead of immediately 
replying, did what Sir Claude had been doing 
before : she moved across to the window and 
stared a while into the storm. There was 
for a minute, to Maisie' s sense, a hush that 
resounded with wind and rain. Sir Claude, 
in spite of these things, glanced about for 
his hat ; on which Maisie spied it first and, 
making a dash for it, held it out to him. 
He took it with the gleam of a "Thank you " 
in his face, but as he did so something 
moved her still to hold the other side of the 
brim ; so that united by their grasp of this 
object they stood some seconds looking 
many things at each other. By this time 
Mrs. Wix had fronted them. " Do you mean 
to tell me," she demanded, "that you are 
going back ? " 

" To Mrs. Beale ? " Maisie surrendered his 
hat, and there was something that touched 
her in the embarrassed, almost humiliated 
way their companion's challenge made him 
turn it round and round. She had seen 
people do that who, she was sure, did noth- 
ing else that Sir Claude did. " I can't just 
say, my dear thing. We'll see about it 
we 'll talk of it to-morrow. Meantime I 
must get some air." 

Mrs. Wix, with her back to the window, 
threw up her head to a height that still, for 
a moment, had the effect of detaining him. 
"All the air in France, Sir Claude, won't, 
I think, give you the courage to deny that 
you 're simply afraid of her ! " 

Oh, this time he did look queer; Maisie 
had no need of Susan's vocabulary to note 
it ! It would have come to her of itself as, 
with his hand on the door, he turned his 
eyes from his stepdaughter to her governess 
and then back again. Resting on Maisie' s, 
though for ever so short a time, there was 
something they gave up to her and tried to 
explain. His lips, however, explained noth- 
ing ; they only completed his collapse. " Yes. 
I'm simply afraid of her!" He opened 
the door and passed out. 

It brought back to Maisie his confession 
of fear of her mother; it made her step- 
mother then the second lady about whom he 









failed of the particular virtue that was sup- 
posed most to mark a gentleman. In fact 
there were three of them if she counted in 
Mrs. Wix, before whom he had undeniably 
quailed. Well, his want of valor was but a 
deeper appeal to her tenderness. To thrill 
with response to it she had only to remember 
all the ladies she herself had, as they called 
it, funked. 



XXIV 

IT continued to rain so hard that her fond 
private calculation of explaining the Con- 
tinent to their visitor had to contain a pro- 
viso for some adequate treatment of the 
weather. At the table d'hote that evening 
she threw out a variety of lights : this was 
the second ceremony of the sort she had sat 
through, and she would have neglected her 
privilege and dishonored her vocabulary 
which indeed consisted mainly of the names 
of dishes if she had not been proportion- 
ately ready to dazzle with interpretations. 
Preoccupied and overawed, Mrs. Wix was 
comparatively dim : she accepted her pupil's 
version of the mysteries of the menu in a 





manner that might have struck the child as 
the depression of a credulity conscious not 
so much of its needs as of its dimensions. 
Maisie was soon enough though it scarce 
happened before bedtime confronted again 
with the different sort of prospectus for 
which she reserved her criticism. They re- 
mounted together to their sitting-room while 
Sir Claude, who said he would join them 
later, remained below to smoke and to con- 
verse with the old acquaintances that he met 
wherever he turned. He had offered his 
companions, for coffee, the enjoyment of the 
salon de lecture ; but Mrs. Wix had replied 
promptly, and with something of an air, that 
it struck her their own apartments supplied 
them every convenience. They supplied 
the good lady herself, Maisie could immedi- 
ately observe, not only that of this rather 
grand reference which, already emulous, 
so far as it went, of her pupil, she made as if 
she had spent her life in salons ; but that of 
a lean French sofa where she could sit and 
stare at the faint French lamp (in default of 
the French clock that had stopped) as if for 
some account of the time Sir Claude would 
so markedly interpose. Her demeanor ac- 
cused him so directly of hovering beyond 





her reach that Maisie sought to divert her by 
a report of Susan's quaint attitude toward 
what they had talked of after lunch. Maisie 
had mentioned to the young woman, for 
sympathy's sake, the plan for her relief ; but 
her disapproval of alien ways appeared, 
strange to say, only to prompt her to hug 
her gloom ; so that, between Mrs. Wix's ef- 
fect of displacing her and the visible stiffen- 
ing of her back, the child had the sense of a 
double office, an enlarged play for pacific 
powers. 

These powers played to no great purpose, 
it was true, in keeping before Mrs. Wix the 
vision of Sir Claude's perversity, which hung 
there in the pauses of talk and which he 
himself, after unmistakable delays, finally 
made quite lurid by bursting in it was near 
ten o'clock with an object held up in his 
hand. She knew before he spoke what it 
was ; she knew at least from the underlying 
sense of all that, since the hour spent after 
the Exhibition with her father, had not 
sprung up to reinstate Mr. Farange she 
knew it meant a triumph for Mrs. Beale. 
The mere present sight of Sir Claude's face 
caused her, on the spot, to drop straight 
through her last impression of Mr. Farange a 





plummet that reached still deeper down than 
the security of these days of flight. She 
had wrapped that impression in silence a 
silence that had parted with half its veil to 
cover also, from the hour of Sir Claude's ad- 
vent, the image of Mr. Farange's wife. But 
as the object in Sir Claude's hand revealed 
itself as a letter which he held up very high, 
so there was something in his mere motion 
that laid Mrs. Beale again bare. " Here we 
are ! " he cried almost from the door, shaking 
his trophy at them and looking from one to 
the other. Then he came straight to Mrs. 
Wix: he had pulled two papers out of the 
envelope and glanced at them again to see 
which was which. He thrust one out open 
to Mrs. Wix. " Read that." She looked at 
him hard, as if in fear : it was impossible not 
to see that he was excited. Then she took 
the letter, but it was not her face that Maisie 
watched while she read. Neither, for that 
matter, was it this countenance that Sir 
Claude scanned : he stood before the fire 
and, more calmly now that he had acted, 
communed in silence with his stepdaughter. 
This silence was in truth quickly broken : 
Mrs. Wix rose to her feet with the violence 
of the sound she emitted. The letter had 





dropped from her and lay upon the floor ; it 
had made her turn ghastly white, and she 
was speechless with the effect of it. " It 's 
too abominable it 's too unspeakable ! " she 
then cried. 

"Isn't it a charming thing?" Sir Claude 
asked. " It has just arrived, enclosed in a 
word of her own. She sends it on to me 
with the remark that comment is superfluous. 
I really think it is that 's all you can say." 

" She ought n't to pass such a horror 
about," said Mrs. Wix. " She ought to put 
it straight in the fire." 

" My dear woman, she 's not such a fool ! 
It's much too precious." He had picked the 
letter up, and he gave it, again, a glance of 
complacency which produced a light in his 
face. " Such a document " he considered, 
then concluded with a slight drop " such a 
document is, in fine, a basis." 

"A basis for what?" 

"Well for proceedings." 

" Hers ? " Mrs. Wix's voice had become 
outright the voice of derision. " How can 
she proceed ? " 

Sir Claude turned it over. " How can she 
get rid of him ? Well she is rid of him." 

" Not legally." Mrs. Wix had never looked 





to her pupil so much as if she knew what she 
was talking about. 

"I dare say," Sir Claude laughed; "but 
she 's not a bit less deprived than I am ! " 

" Of the power to get a divorce? It's just 
your want of the power that makes the scan- 
dal of your connection with her. Therefore 
it's just her want of it that makes that of 
hers with you. That's all I contend!" 
Mrs. Wix concluded with an unparalleled 
neigh of battle. Oh, she did know what she 
was talking about ! 

Maisie had meanwhile appealed mutely to 
Sir Claude, who judged it easier to meet 
what she did n't say than to meet what Mrs. 
Wix did. "It's a letter to Mrs. Beale from 
your father, my dear, written from Spa and 
making the rupture between them perfectly 
irrevocable. It lets her know, and not in 
pretty language, that, as we technically say, 
he deserts her. It puts an end, forever, to 
their relations." He ran his eyes over it 
again, then appeared to make up his mind. 
" In fact it concerns you, Maisie, so nearly, 
and refers to you so particularly, that I really 
think you ought to see the terms in which 
this new situation is created for you." And 
he held out the letter. 





Mrs. Wix, at this, pounced upon it ; she 
had grabbed it too soon even for Maisie to 
become aware of being rather afraid of it. 
Thrusting it instantly behind her, she posi- 
tively glared at Sir Claude. "'See' it, 
wretched man the innocent child see such 
a thing? I think you must be mad, and she 
shall not have a glimpse of it while I 'm here 
to prevent." 

The breadth of her action had made Sir 
Claude turn red he even looked a little 
foolish. "You think it's too bad, eh ? But 
it 's precisely because it 's bad that it seemed 
to me it would have a lesson and a virtue for 
her." 

Maisie could do a quick enough justice to 
his motive to be able clearly to interpose. 
She fairly smiled at him. " I assure you I 
can quite believe how bad it is ! " She hesi- 
tated an instant ; then she added : "I know 
what 's in it." 

He of course burst out laughing, and while 
Mrs. Wix groaned an " Oh heavens ! " he 
threw off: " You would n't say that, old boy, 
if you did ! The point I make is," he con- 
tinued to Mrs. Wix with a blandness now 
re-established " the point I make is simply 
that it sets Mrs. Beale free." 





She hung fire but an instant. " Free to 
live with you?" 

" Free not to live, not to pretend to live, 
with her husband." 

" Ah, they 're mighty different things ! " 
a truth as to which her earnestness could now, 
with a fine, inconsequent look, invite the par- 
ticipation of the child. 

Before Maisie could commit herself, how- 
ever, the ground was occupied by Sir Claude, 
who, as he stood before their visitor with an 
expression half rueful, half persuasive, rubbed 
his hand sharply up and down the back of 
his head. "Then why the deuce do you 
grant so do you, I may even say, rejoice 
so that, by the desertion of my precious 
partner, I'm free?" 

Mrs. Wix met this challenge first with si- 
lence, then with a demonstration the most 
extraordinary, the most unexpected. Maisie 
could scarcely believe her eyes as she saw 
the good lady, with whom she had never 
associated the faintest form of coquetry, 
actually, after an upward grimace, give Sir 
Claude a great giggling, insinuating, naughty 
slap. "You wretch you know why ! " And 
she turned away. The face that, with this 
movement, she left him to present to Maisie 





was to abide with his stepdaughter as the 
very image of stupefaction; but the pair 
lacked time to communicate either amuse- 
ment or alarm before their interlocutress was 
upon them again. She had begun in fact to 
show infinite variety, and she flashed about 
with a still quicker change of tone. " Have 
you brought me that thing as a pretext for 
going over? " 

Sir Claude braced himself. "I can't, after 
such news, in common decency not. I mean 
don't you know? in common courtesy and 
humanity. My dear lady, you can't chuck a 
woman that way, especially taking the mo- 
ment when she has been most insulted and 
wronged. A fellow must behave like a gen- 
tleman, damn it, dear good Mrs. Wix. We 
did n't come away, we two, to hang right on, 
you know : it was only to try our paces and 
just put in a few days that might prove to 
every one concerned that we're in earnest. 
It 's exactly because we 're in earnest that, 
hang it, we need n't be so awfully particular. 
I mean don't you know? we need n't be 
so awfully afraid." He showed a vivacity, an 
intensity of argument, and if Maisie counted 
his words she was all the more ready to swal- 
low, after a single swift gasp, those that, the 





next thing, she became conscious he paused 
for a reply to. " We did n't come, old girl, 
did we," he pleaded straight, " to stop right 
away forever and put it all in now? " 

Maisie had never doubted she could be 
heroic for him. "Oh, no!" It was as if she 
had been shocked at the bare thought. 
"We're just taking it as we find it." She 
had a sudden inspiration, which she backed 
up with a smile. "We're just seeing what 
we can afford." She had never yet, in her 
life, made any claim for herself, but she hoped 
that this time, frankly, what she was doing 
would somehow be counted to her. Indeed 
she felt Sir Claude was counting it, though 
she was afraid to look at him afraid she 
should show him tears. She looked at Mrs. 
Wix ; she reached her maximum. " I don't 
think I should be bad to Mrs. Beale." 

She heard on this a deep sound, some- 
thing inarticulate and sweet, from Sir Claude ; 
but tears were what Mrs. Wix did n't scruple 
to show. " Do you think you should be bad 
to me? " The question was the more discon- 
certing that Mrs. Wix's emotion didn't de- 
prive her of the advantage of her effect. " If 
you see that woman again you 're lost ! " she 
declared to their companion. 





Sir Claude looked at the moony globe of 
the lamp ; he seemed to see for an instant 
what seeing Mrs. Beale would consist of. It 
was also apparently from this vision that he 
drew strength to return : " Her situation, by 
what has happened, is completely changed ; 
and it 's no use your trying to prove to me 
that I need n't take any account of that." 

" If you see that woman you 're lost ! " 
Mrs. Wix, with greater force, repeated. 

" Do you think she 'll not let me come 
back to you? My dear lady, I leave you 
here, you and Maisie, as an hostage to for- 
tune, and I promise you by all that 's sacred 
that I shall be with you again, at the very 
latest, on Saturday. I provide you with 
funds ; I install you in these lovely rooms ; I 
arrange with the people here that you be 
treated with every attention and supplied 
with every luxury. The weather, after this, 
will mend ; it will be sure to be exquisite. 
You 'll both be as free as air, and you can 
roam all over the place and have tremendous 
larks. You shall have a carriage to drive 
you ; the whole house shall be at your call. 
You 'll have, in a word, a magnificent posi- 
tion." He paused, he looked from one of his 
companions to the other as if to see the im- 





pression he had made. Whether or no he 
judged it adequate he subjoined after a mo- 
ment : " And you 'll oblige me, above all, by 
not making a fuss." 

Maisie could only answer for the impres- 
sion on herself, though indeed from the heart 
even of Mrs. Wix's rigor there floated, to her 
sense, a faint fragrance of depraved conces- 
sion. Maisie had her dumb word for the 
show such a speech could make, for the 
exquisite charm it could take from his ex- 
quisite sincerity; and before she could do 
anything but blink at excess of light she 
heard this very word sound on Mrs. Wix's 
lips, just as if the poor lady had guessed it and 
wished, snatching it from her, to blight it like 
a crumpled flower. " You 're dreadful, you 're 
terrible, for you know but too well that it 's 
not a small thing to me that you should ad- 
dress me in a fashion that 's princely ! " 
Princely was what he stood there and looked 
and sounded ; that was what Maisie, for the 
occasion, found herself reduced to simple 
worship of him for being. Yet, strange to 
say too, as Mrs. Wix went on, an echo rang 
within her that matched the echo she had 
herself just produced. " How much you 
must want to see her, to say such things as 





that and to be ready to do so much for the 
poor little likes of Maisie and me ! She has 
a hold of you, and you know it, and you 
want to feel it again, and from God knows, 
or at least  know, what base motive and de- 
sire to enjoy it once more and give your- 
self up to it ! It does n't matter if it 's one 
day or three; enough's as good as a feast, 
and the lovely time you 'll have with her is 
something you 're willing to pay for ! I dare 
say you 'd like me to believe that your pay 
is to get her to give you up ; but that 's a 
matter on which I adjure you not to put 
down your money in advance. Give her up 
first. Then pay her what you please ! " 

Sir Claude took this to the end; though 
there were things in it that made him color, 
called into his face more of the apprehension 
than Maisie had ever perceived there of a 
particular sort of shock. She had an odd 
sense that it was the first time she had seen 
any one but Mrs. Wix really and truly scan- 
dalized, and this fed her inference, which 
grew and grew from moment to moment, 
that Mrs. Wix was proving more of a force 
to reckon with than either of them had allowed 
so much room for. It was true that, long 
