could. I feel that there is not room in the 
Californias for those hands and myself." 
" I will take care of you," said Roldan, 
proudly, anxious to rout the memory of his 
recent humiliation. " But come." And 
Rafael, too weary and bewildered to resent 
the authority of his erst-while rival, trudged 
obediently in the rear. 
" It grows colder," said Adan, significantly. 
 
"Yes," said Roldan. "We near the 
mountains." 
Adan stopped. " Is it the mountains 
again?" he asked. "If it is, then I, for 
one, prefer the priest." 
" The mountains never scared you half 
as badly as the priest did," said Roldan, 
cruelly. " And to say nothing of the fact 
that we need never get lost in the mountains again, the embrace of a grizzly 
would be no harder and more death-sure 
than one in the great arms of that fiend 
that wears a cassock." 
" True. You are always right. But 
promise that whatever happens you will 
not lead us into the Sierras." 
" I promise," said Roldan, much flat 
tered by this unconscious tribute to his 
leadership. 
" Do you think that priest is really a 
devil?" asked Rafael, in an awestruck 
voice. 
" When a man has insulted you, you do 
not know what you think of him," said 
Roldan, flushing hotly. " If he only were 
not a priest I'd fight him, big as he is. 
 
But at least I can outwit him. It consoles 
me to think of his fury when he goes to 
the cave and finds us gone." 
" We'd better get out of this tunnel 
before we talk about having the best of 
the priest, * said Adan. " Suppose he returns to kill us himself " 
" He will not return until to-morrow. 
Then he will have repented. He will 
promise to let us go free if we keep his 
secret. But he will not have that satis 
faction, my friends. Yesterday he had a 
friend in Roldan Castanada ; I would have 
done anything for him, gladly kept his 
secret. But to-day he has an enemy that 
he will do well to fear. A Spaniard 
never forgets an insult." 
" What shall you do ? " asked Rafael, 
eagerly. " Expose him ? " 
" No, I do nothing mean. But I proclaim at Los Angeles that gold has been 
discovered in the Californias, and in six 
days the hills will swarm, and the priest in 
his cell will gnash his teeth." 
" Ay ! " exclaimed Adan. " Do you fed 
that?" 
 
An icy blast swept down the tunnel, 
roughening skin and shortening breath. 
A few moments later the low rhythm as of 
distant water came to their ears. Roldan 
and Adan recognised that familiar music, 
and set their teeth. 
" And I prayed that I might never see 
another redwood," muttered Adan, cross 
ing himself. 
The tunnel stopped abruptly. They 
stood before a mass of brushwood, piled 
thickly to keep out wild beasts and delude 
the searching eye of hostile Indians. Be 
yond, seen in patches, was a dazzle of 
white. 
" Snow, of course," said Adan, with a 
groan. 
The boys pulled the branches apart 
without much difficulty: the priests had 
studied facility of egress and had raised 
the barrier from within. In a few moments the boys stood in the sunlight ; 
and the mountains hemmed them in. 
Adan stamped his foot savagely on the 
hard snow. u We are where we started a 
week ago," he said. " No more, no less." 
 
" No," said Roldan, who also had felt 
demoralised for a moment. "The priests 
were too clever for that. They would 
want to get into the shelter of the mountains, no more. I believe that from the 
top of that point above the tunnel we can 
see the valley." 
" Well, we can at least look," said Rafael, 
who was bitterly weary and hungry, but 
determined not to be outdone by these 
hardened adventurers. 
The boys made their way up the de 
clivity as best they could through the 
heavy snowdrifts, pulling themselves up 
by clutching at young trees and scrub. 
They were thinly clad and very cold, and 
hunger was loud of speech. When after 
a half-hour's weary climb, they reached 
the summit, they drew a long sigh of 
relief, but their enthusiasm was too moderate for words in present physical conditions. The valley lay below. Far away, 
beyond leagues of low hills and wide 
valleys something white reflected the sun. 
It was the Mission. 
" We have not a moment to rest, unless 
 
we can find a safe hiding-place," said 
Roldan. " If he should return and find us 
gone, he would follow at once." 
" Where shall we go ? " asked the others, 
who, however, felt a quickening of blood 
and muscle at the thought that the priest 
might be under their feet even then. 
" How near is the next rancho, and 
whose is it ? " 
" A league beyond the Mission grant. 
It is Don Juan Ortegas." 
" Very well, we go there and ask for 
horses." 
The boys made their way rapidly down 
the slope, which after all was only that of 
a foot-hill. Beyond were other foot-hills, 
and they skirted among them, finally enter 
ing a canon. It was as dark and cold and 
damp as the last hour of the tunnel had 
been, but the narrow river, roaring through 
its middle, had caught all the snow, and 
there was scarce a fleck on the narrow 
tilted banks. The hill opposite was the 
last of the foot-hills; but how to reach it? 
The current was very swift, and boys 
knew naught of the art of swimming in 
that land of little water. 
 
Suddenly Roldan raised his hand with 
an exclamation of surprise and pointed to 
a ledge overhanging the stream. A hut 
stood there, made of sections of the red 
wood and pine. From its chimney, 
smoke was curling upward. 
The boys were too hungry to pause and 
reflect upon the possibility of a savage 
inmate ; they scrambled up the bank and 
ran along the ledge to the hut. The 
door was of hide. They knocked. There 
was no response. They flung the door 
aside and entered. No one was in the 
solitary room of the hut, but over a fire in 
the deep chimney place hung a large pot, 
in which something of agreeable savour 
bubbled. 
Roldan glanced about. " I'd rather be 
invited," he said doubtfully. 
But Adan had gone straight for the pot. 
He lifted it off the fire, fetched three 
broken plates and battered knives and 
forks from a shelf, and helped his friends 
and himself. Then he piously crossed 
himself and fell to. It was not in human 
necessities to withstand the fragrance of 
 
that steaming mess of squirrel, and the 
boys had disposed of the entire potful 
before they raised their eyes again. When 
they did, Rafael, who sat opposite the 
door, made a slight exclamation, and the 
others turned about quickly. A man stood 
there. 
He was quite unlike any one they had 
ever seen. A tall lank man with rounded 
shoulders, lean leather-like cheeks, a 
preternatural length of jaw, drab hair and 
chin whiskers, and deeply-set china-blue 
eyes, made up a type uncommon in the 
Californias, that land of priest, soldier, 
caballero, and Indian. He was clad in 
coyote skins, and carried a gun in his 
hand, a brace of rabbits slung over one 
shoulder. He did not speak for some 
seconds, and when he did, it was to make 
a remark that was not understood. He 
said: "Well, I'll be durned ! " 
His expression was not forbidding, and 
Roldan recovered himself at once. He 
stood up and bowed profoundly. 
" Seiior," he said, " I beg that you will 
pardon us. We would have craved your 
 
hospitality had you been here, but as it 
was, our hunger overcame us : we have not 
eaten for many hours. But I am Roldan 
Castanada of the Rancho de los Palos 
Verdes, senor, and I beg that you will one 
day let me repay your hospitality in the 
house of my fathers." 
" Holy smoke ! " exclaimed the man, " all 
that high-falutin lingo for a potful of 
squirril. But you're welcome enough. I 
don't begrudge anybody sup." Then he 
broke into a laugh at the puzzled faces of 
his guests, and translated his reply into 
very lame Spanish. The boys, however, 
were delighted to be so hospitably received, 
and grinned at him, warm, replete, and 
sheltered. 
The man began at once to skin a 
rabbit. " Seein as how you haint left 
me nothin , I may as well turn to," he said. 
"And it ain't every day I'm entertainin 
lords." 
The boys did not understand the words, 
but they understood the act, and reddened. 
" I myself will cook the rabbit for you, 
senor," said Adan. 
 
" Well, you kin," and the man nodded 
acquiescence. 
" You are American, no ? " asked Roldan. 
" I am, you bet." 
" From Boston, I suppose ? " 
The man guffawed. " Boston ought to 
hear that. She'd faint. No, young un, 
I'm not from no such high-toned place as 
Boston. I'm a Yank though, and no 
mistake. Vermont." 
" Is that in America?" 
" In Meriky? Something's wrong with 
your geography, young man. It's one of 
the U. S. and no slouch, neither." 
He spoke in a curious mixture of Eng 
lish and of Spanish that he adapted as 
freely as he did his native tongue. The 
boys stared at him, fascinated. They 
thought him the most picturesque person 
they had ever met. 
" When did you come ? " asked Roldan. 
" I'll answer any more questions you've 
got when I've got this yere rabbit inside 
of me. P r aps as you've been hungry you 
know that it doesn't make the tongue 
ambitious that way. I'll have a pipe 
while it's cookin ." 
 
He was shortly invisible under a rolling 
grey cloud. The tobacco was the rank 
stuff used by the Indians. The boys 
wanted to cough, but would have choked 
rather than be impolite, and finally stole 
out with a muttered remark about the 
scenery. 
When they returned their host had 
eaten his breakfast and smoked his second 
pipe. 
" Come in," he said heartily. " Come 
right in and make yourselves ter home. 
My name's Jim Hill. I won't ask yourn as 
I wouldn't remember them if I did. These 
long-winded Spanish names are beyond 
me. Set. Set. Boxes ain't none too 
comfortable, but it's the best I've got." 
" Oh, this box is most comfortable," 
Roldan hastened to assure him. " And 
we are very thankful to have anything to 
sit on at all, senor. You could not guess 
the many terrible adventures we have had 
in the last few weeks." 
" Indeed ! Adventures ? I want ter 
know! You look as if hammocks was 
more to your taste. Oh, no offence," as 
 
Roldan's eyes flashed. " But you are fine 
looking birds, and no mistake. Howsom- 
ever, we'll hear all about them presently. 
It's polite to answer questions first. You 
was asking me a while back how I come 
here. I come over those mountains, young 
man, and I don't put in the adjectives I 
applied to them in the process outer 
respect to your youth. But they'd make 
a man swear if he'd spent his life psalm 
singin before." 
" We know," said Roldan, grimly. 
" We've been in them. What did you 
eat? And did you get lost?" 
"I ate red ants mor n once, and I usually 
was lost. When I arrived at that Mission 
down yonder the amount of flesh I had 
between my bones and my skin wouldn't 
have filled a thimble. But that priest 
he's a great man if ever there was one 
soon fixed me up. I lived like a prince for 
a month, and I could be there yet if I liked, 
but I'd kinder got used to livin alone and 
I liked it, so I come here. Besides, I found 
so much prayin and bell ringin wearin on 
the nerves, to say nothin of too many 
 
Indians. I ain't got no earthly use for 
Indians. Why priests or anybody else 
run after Indians beats me. Where I was 
brought up t was the other way. They're 
after us with a scalpin knife, and if we 
reafter them at all it's with all the lead we 
kin git. If the murderin dirty beasts is 
willin to stay where they belong, well, I 
for one believe in lettin em." 
"Do you ah like the priest, Don 
Jim?" 
" What ? Well, that's better than Don 
Himy, as they call me down there. You 
bet I like the priest. He's a gentleman, 
and as square as they make em, that is, 
with a poor devil like me ; I guess he's 
one too much for your dons when he feels 
that way. But he's a man every inch of 
him, afraid of nothin under God's heaven, 
and as kind and generous as a as some 
women. What he rots in this God-forsaken 
place for I can't make out." 
" What did you come to California for ? " 
" Well, that ain't bad. I come here, my 
son, because I was lookin for a cold climate. My own was warm, accordin to 
 
my taste, and somehow Californy seemed 
as if it ought to be fur enough away to be 
cool and nice." 
" It's very hot in the valleys." 
" So it is. So it is. But as you see, I 
prefer the mountains." 
" Do you often go to the Mission ? " 
" Every month or so I go down and 
have a chin with Padre Osuna. It keeps 
my Spanish in, and I shouldn't like to 
lose sight of him. I got word from him 
the other day that he wanted to see me 
mighty particular, and I'm wonderin 
what's in the wind. Maybe you heard 
him say." 
" No," said Roldan ; but he guessed. 
" Now," said Hill, " spin your yarn. 
I'm just pinin to hear those adventures." 
Roldan appreciated the sarcasm, but 
was too secure in the wealth of the past 
month to resent it. He began at the 
beginning and told the story with his 
curious combination of reserve and dramatic fire. As he had already told it 
several times it ran glibly off his tongue 
and had several inevitable embellishments. 
 
The man, whose cold blue eyes had wandered at first, finally fixed themselves on 
Roldan ; and his whole face gradually 
softened. When Roldan finished with his 
and Adan's rescue by Don Tiburcio's 
vaquero, he held out his hand and said 
solemnly, 
" Shake." 
Roldan allowed his hand to be gripped 
by that hairy paw ; he was too elated to 
resent it as a familiarity. 
"You've got pluck," continued Hill, 
" and I respect pluck mor'n anything 
else on earth. You're a man and a gentleman, and Californy'll be proud of you 
yet. Got any more ? " 
Roldan related the tale of Rafael's 
prowess with the bull, his own encounter 
with the bear, and Adan's timely interference. Hill then shook the hands of 
the two other boys, and told them that as 
long as he had a roof above his head they 
could share it, and that he'd do anything 
to help them but steal horses, so help him 
Bob. Roldan then told the tale of the 
earthquake and stampede. 
 
" Ugh ! " exclaimed Hill, with a shudder. 
That's one thing I can't abide your 
earthquakes. I tell you it's enough to 
take the grit outen a grizzley to hear the 
land sliden on the mountain and the big 
redwoods that has. got their roots about 
the bed-rock come roarin down. When 
an earthquake comes I go and stand in the 
middle of the creek so as I can see what's 
comin all round. Once I was on the side 
of the mountain when one of those shakes 
come and I slid down twenty feet before I 
could stop myself. It's just the one thing 
that has happenned to me. that I can't 
help thinkin about. Well, what kin I do 
for you ? You're welcome to stay here, 
but this hut ain't no great shakes for such 
as you. Be you goin home, now that the 
conscription's over ? " 
"No!" said Roldan, emphatically, " we 
are not. There are other reasons why we 
must go to Los Angeles as quickly as 
we can. Could you get us three horses?" 
" I could get them from the priest " 
"No! no!" 
" Why, what's the row with the priest ? 
 
Got in his black books ? I shouldn't like 
to do that myself." 
" You said just now that you would do 
anything for us. Would you even hide 
us from the priest if he came here ? " 
" I would. And I ain't the one to ask 
questions. If you don't want to see the 
priest, it's not Jim Hill that will assist 
him to find you. Been there myself." 
" Couldn't you get us three horses from 
my father's corral the Rancho Encar- 
nacion ? " asked Rafael. 
" I could, if you'd go with me ; but 
horse-stealing is just the one thing I 
agreed not to do." 
" You might go with him, Rafael," said 
Roldan. " You would get there after dark 
if you started now ; and even if the vaqueros were not asleep they would not call 
your father." 
"And I could send a message to my 
parents," said Rafael, eagerly. " Then 
they would not worry. Yes, I will go. 
The priest would not dare to harm me 
while I was with the Serior Hill." 
" Oh, the two of us would be a match 
 
for even him, if it came to that," said Hill. 
"Well, we'll start right now, there bein 
no call for delay. We'll have to foot it, 
as my mustang's laid up. If the priest 
should turn up here which ain't likely 
jest run up that ladder inter the garret 
and pull it after yer. Well, hasta luego, 
as they say in these parts. Make your 
selves ter home." 
XX 
" I KNOW " said Roldan, as Rafael and 
Hill trudged into the perspective 
of the canon, " we must sleep, but by 
turns. That priest will surely go to the 
cave to-day, and when he finds us gone 
he'll come straight for the mountains; 
and not through the tunnel either; he'll 
come on that big brown horse of his. 
You sleep first, for two hours, and I'll 
watch " 
" You first, my friend " Suppressing 
a mighty yawn. 
"It is easier for me to keep awake. Lie 
down on that horrible bed. I do not so 
much mind waiting a little longer." 
Adan lifted his nose at the bunk cov 
ered with a bearskin, then flung himself 
upon it, and was asleep in three minutes. 
Roldan sat with his eyes applied to a rift 
between the hide-door and the wall. It 
 
commanded a view of the opposite wall 
of the canon, over which wound a zig-zag 
horse trail. 
The sun, which had hung directly above 
the canon when Hill and Rafael departed, 
had slid toward the west, leaving the 
canon cold and dark again, and Roldan 
was about to call Adan, when he sprang 
to his feet, and stood rigid, cold with 
fear. 
On the brow of the wall opposite, three 
hundred feet above his head, stood a 
powerful brown horse. On him was a 
huge figure clad in a brown cassock, the 
hood drawn well over the face. It was 
impossible to distinguish features at that 
distance, but Roldan fancied that those 
terrible eyes were holding his own. He 
recovered himself and dragged Adan out 
of bed. 
" The priest ! " he said. " Help me to 
wash these dishes quick. It will take 
him some time to get down." 
Adan stumbled across the room, 
plunged the dishes into a pail of drinking 
water, then handed them to Roldan, who 
 
dried them hastily and piled them on the 
shelf. Then he flung the water across the 
clay floor of the hut. 
"Get up the ladder," he commanded. 
Adan scrambled up. Roldan followed, 
and pulled the ladder after him. The garret was very low, and half full of skins. 
They could not stand upright. It was 
also bitterly cold. Each hastily wrapped 
a skin about his body, and lay full length, 
Roldan on his face, his eyes applied to a 
chink in the rough floor. 
A few moments later the door was flung 
aside and the priest strode in. 
Roldan shuddered, but not with personal fear. The priest looked like a man 
who had just left the rack of his native 
Spain. His hair the hood had fallen 
back stood on end, his face and tight 
ened lips were livid, his eyes rolled wildly. 
" Jim! " he said hoarsely. " Jim ! " 
He left the hut as abruptly as he had 
entered it. 
" He has gone to look at the mouth of 
the tunnel," whispered Roldan. "What 
fools we were not to cover it up again. 
  
Then he would have walked its length to 
find us, and the horses might have come 
before he returned. Well, he cannot get 
us until he pulls the roof down." 
" He could do it," whispered Adan, 
grimly. " Those hands ! Dios de mialma ! " 
" He will think we have gone somewhere 
with Don Jim." 
The priest returned in less than half an 
hour. His face, if anything, was still more 
terrible to look upon. There was a touch 
of foam on his lips. His great hands were 
clinched. He strode over to the bunk 
and lifted the heaped-up bearskin. Suddenly he pressed his face into the fur. 
" Perfume Dona Martina's," he exclaimed. " They have been here." 
He raised his face to the ceiling, and the 
boys held their mouths open that their 
teeth might not clack together. They 
closed their eyes: instinct bade them give 
heed to visual magnetism. Roldan imme 
diately wanted to cough, Adan to scratch 
his nose. The next few moments were the 
most agonised of their lives. They felt the 
 
priest lift his hands and pass them slowly 
along the ceiling, they felt those eyes 
searching every crevice. Then they felt 
him grip the edge of the aperture and lift 
himself until his eyes were above the garret floor. But it was pitch dark. He 
could not even see the ladder, much less 
the boys under the bear skins. 
The priest dropped to the floor and 
seated himself upon a box, dropping his 
face into his hands. There he sat, motion 
less, for hours. The boys buried their 
heads in the skins and went to sleep. 
They were awakened by the sound of 
voices. A candle flared below. Hill had 
entered. He and the priest were alone. 
" They were here, sir, that's true enough. 
I've just taken them to the Sennor Carriller's and pointed them fur home. They 
seemed in a hurry to vamos these parts." 
The priest groaned and struck his fist 
on the table. " Then they are leagues 
away by this." 
"They be, for a fact. Their horses was 
fresh and they was powerful keen. They 
was just sweaten to git home." 
 
"And Rafael Carillo? Did he go with 
them ? " 
" He did n t. He allowed to, but his 
father warnt agreeable. In fact he was 
savin your grace cussed disagreeable. 
He corralled us as we was corrallen the 
horses ; and although he was mighty mad 
at such French leave, he said, speakin 
of the other two kids, that they could take 
the two horses and git, and the sooner the 
better, and if they never come lookin for 
adventures in these parts agin the better 
he'd be pleased." 
The priest did not appear to doubt him. 
He was looking through the doorway. 
Roldan could not see his face, but he saw 
the stare of wonder on Hill's. 
" Very well," said the priest, after a 
moment, and his voice was hardly audible. 
" I shall return now. Can you come down 
to the Mission to-morrow no, the day 
after. I have a secret to confide to you, 
and it will not be to your disadvantage to 
know it. I had no intention of telling any 
one, but I need help, and now more than 
ever. There is no time to be lost. Can 
you come early ? " 
 
" I'll be there between dawn and ten 
o'clock." 
" That will do. Good night." And the 
priest went out. 
No one spoke until the sound came 
up to them of a horse fording the creek. 
Then Hill said cautiously, 
" Hi, there, young uns." 
" In the name of Mary let us come 
down, Don Jim," hissed Roldan, through 
the crack. 
" Well, I guess you kin. He's climbin 
the hill, and I don't see as there's anything 
to bring him back. I hope the fleas ain't 
et ye alive." 
The boys lowered the ladder as rapidly 
as their stiff ringers would permit, and a 
moment later stood on the floor of the 
room, shaking themselves vigorously. 
" Where's Rafael ? " demanded Roldan. 
" Tucked in his little warm bed with 
a warmer hide, I guess. The old man 
caught us in the very act of horse stealin. 
Holy smoke, but he did cuss. I ain't got 
no pride in Yankee cussin left." 
" What did Rafael tell him ? " interrupted 
Roldan, eagerly. 
" He told him as how he had made up 
his mind to go home with you for a little 
paseo " 
" Did he say nothing about the priest? " 
" Nothin . Never opened his head about 
the priest " 
" When I'm governor I'll reward him," 
said Roldan, warmly. 
" When you're President of the United 
States you might make him Secretary of 
State " 
" But the horses ? the horses ? " 
" They're tethered just over the moun 
tain. I suspicioned the priest might be 
here, seein as you were expectin him, 
more or less." 
"Did Don Tiburcio say about me us 
what you told the priest ? " 
" He did, and more of it. He was as 
mad as a bear with a sore head. You see, 
he hadn't had no peace of mind for some 
hours, and as for the old lady I believe 
she's been havin high strikes regular since 
breakfast. Now, I'm hospitable, but my 
advice to you is to git. Like as not the 
priest'll see old Carriller to-morrow, and 
 
then the cat'll come out. I kin git outen 
it all right enough I'll say as how the 
old man didn't see you, that you were 
restin on the other side of the wall. Like 
as not he'll believe me, but he thinks you're 
pointed fur home, and if he wants you 
badly, he'll follow. You'd better go 
South fur a month or so and go home by 
barque. I'll fetch the horses down now 
and put them in my shed. That'll rest 
em a bit and keep em warm, and then you 
kin start the minute it's daylight." 
" You have been a friend to us in trouble, 
Don Jim, and I shall never forget it." 
" Don't mention it, Roily, don't mention 
it. I kinder like excitement, when I ain't 
the hero, so ter speak. There's only one 
thing I've got to ask in return : Have you 
got a grudge agin the priest ? " 
" I have." 
" Be you meditatin revenge ? " 
" A Spaniard never forgives an insult." 
" Oh, . . . have you got it in yer power 
to injure Padre Osuna in the sight o 
men?" 
" I have, and worse for him." 
 
" Don't do it, young man," said Hill, 
solemnly. " Don't do it. It ain't worth 
shucks to ruin a man fur personal spite. 
You'll find that out the minute you've 
done it. You'll feel small and mean ; and 
if you want to be a great man and I kin 
see you're ambitious that ain't the way 
to go to work. Padre Osuna has his faults, 
but he's a big man ; there ain't none bigger 
in the Californies ; and he ain't the man to 
ruin, without thinkin a lot about it aforehand." 
" He insulted me horribly," said Roldan, 
shutting his teeth. " I will never respect 
myself until I wipe out the memory of that 
moment." 
u He lost his temper, I suspicion, and 
whacked ye, like as not. Well, I'll admit 
that is hard on a don of your size. But, 
take my word for it, you'll feel a sight 
better if you mount the high horse and 
forgive him, treat him with silent con 
tempt. Nothin* makes you feel as good 
as that. Tried it myself." 
" I must think about it, Don Jim." 
" Well, do. And maybe you'll remember that I asked ye as a favour to let the 
priest off this time. He's been the best 
friend I ever had, and he's been the friend 
of many, young un." 
Roldan stepped forward impulsively and 
grasped Hill's hand. " I will never speak," 
he said. " And you can say to Rafael that 
I wish him never to speak, either. Only, 
in return, Don Jim, I insist that you do 
not tell him that I promised you this. He 
shall not think that I fear him." 
" Oh, I ain't goin to have no conversa 
tion with him on the subject. Don't you 
worry about that. Now, I'll go after the 
mustangs. You lie down, and when I 
come back I'll cook that there rabbit for 
yer. You kin git dinner at the Ortegas , 
but don't stay there too long, for the 
priest's mighty sharp." 
XXI 
THE boys were once more adrift in 
the wilderness. It was with mixed 
emotions that they said good-bye to the 
hospitable American and rode forth to 
new experiences and dangers. They were 
now tried adventurers; they knew their 
mettle ; they also had a far more definite 
idea of what danger and experience meant 
than when they had fled from home with 
the light heart of ignorance. Roldan felt 
several years older, and Adan had mo 
ments of reflection. Moreover, the fine 
point of novelty had worn toward blunt- 
ness. Nevertheless, they felt no immediate desire to return to leading strings, 
and were glad of an excuse to pursue their 
way south. Los Angeles was a famous 
city, the rival of Monterey, which neither 
had seen, and a fitting climax to an 
exciting volume. The exact arrangement 
 
of that climax was compassed by the imagination of neither. 
For two miles they kept in line with the 
foot-hills, then rode rapidly toward the 
valley, impatient for its warmth. So far, 
barring their sojourn in the Sierras, they 
had been favoured with fine weather ; but 
winter was growing older every day, and 
the sky was thick and grey this morning. 
The Casa Ortega stood on the shores 
of a large lake. The banks were thickly 
wooded. On its southern curve was a 
high mountain. As the boys approached, 
a vaquero sprang upon a mustang and 
rode toward them rapidly. Roldan recognised one of the men that had been at the 
rodeo. 
" At your feet, senors," said the vaquero. 
" The Senor Don is away, and all the family ; but I am mayor domo, and in his ab 
sence I place the house at your disposal." 
" My father will reward you," said Roldan, graciously. " We would ask that you 
give us dinner, a thick poncho each, for I 
fear that it will rain before we reach Los 
Angeles, and that you will direct us which 
 
way to go. The ponchos shall be replaced 
with fine new ones as soon as we have returned home." 
" Don Carlos would not hear of the return of the ponchos, senor. But surely 
the senors will remain a few days, until the 
storm is over? " 
" We dare not. But we will rest ; and 
we have good appetites." 
The mayor domo, still protesting, held 
the horses while the boys dismounted, then 
showed them to two bedrooms and bade 
them rest while dinner was preparing. 
" It will be an hour," he said. " I beg 
that the senors will sleep." 
The boys did sleep, and it was two hours 
before they were called. Then they ate 
a steaming dinner, and forgot their fear of 
the priest : the meagre diet of squirrel and 
rabbit of the past thirty-six hours had low 
ered their spirits temperature. 
When they left the room the mayor 
domo awaited them with two thick woollen 
ponchos large squares of cloth with a slit 
in the middle for the head. 
" These will keep the rain out," he said, 
 
as he slipped them over the boys heads. 
"And there is food for two days in the 
saddle-bags, and pistols in the holsters. 
Keep to the right of the lake, and enter 
the mountains by the horse trail. It winds 
over the lower ridges. The senors can 
not lose themselves, for they should be on 
the other side before dark that mountain is the meeting of the two ranges 
and beyond there are no more for many 
leagues. Then the senors must keep 
straight on, straight on never turning 
to the left, for that way lies the terrible Mojave desert. By-and-bye they will 
cross a river, and after that Los Angeles 
is not far. Between the mountain and 
the river is an hacienda, where they will 
find welcome for the night." 
Roldan thanked him profusely, then 
said : " I have reasons for not wishing 
any one to know that I have not returned 
to my father's house. I beg that you will 
tell no one, not even a priest, that we have 
been here, for three days at least." 
" The senor's wishes shall be obeyed. 
The Senor Don returns not for a week. 
 
No one shall know until then of the honour that has been done to his house." 
The boys rode rapidly through the wood 
over a broad road that had evidently been 
traversed many times. The sky was 
leaden, but no rain fell. Nor was there 
any wind. The lake could not have been 
smoother were it frozen, although it reflected the grey above. Wild ducks and 
snipe broke its monotony at times, now 
and again a jungle of tules. In less than 
an hour the travellers were ascending the 
mountain by easy grades, a black forest 
of pines about them. It was darker here, 
but the road was clearly defined, and they 
talked gaily of adventures past and to 
come. In Los Angeles they had many 
relatives, and they knew that a royal welcome would be given them. They would 
see the gay life of which they had heard 
so much from their brothers; and they 
magnanimously resolved that after a week 
of it they would return to their anxious 
parents. 
"Ay!" exclaimed Adan, interrupting 
these pleasant anticipations, " it rains at 
 
A few drops fell ; then the rain came 
with a rush. For some time the wind 
had been rising; suddenly it seemed to 
leap upward to meet the emptying clouds, 
then filled the pine-tops with a great roar, 
rattling the hard branches, bending the 
slender trunks. The boys were on the 
down grade, and there was no danger of 
losing the path, although the rain had put 
out the sallow flame of the sun. They 
pricked their horses and made the descent 
as rapidly as possible. But it was another 
hour before they were on level ground 
once more. The rain was still falling in 
torrents; the wind flung it in their eyes 
as fast as they dashed it from their lashes. 
They could not see a yard ahead. The 
light of the hacienda was nowhere visible. 
If its owner was away from home and his 
house in darkness, then was their plight a 
sorry one indeed. 
" There is only one thing to do," said 
Roldan, putting his hand funnel-wise to 
Adan's ear. " We must keep due south 
until we come to the river. Then, at least, 
we cannot go wrong." 
 
" And that river we must cross ! " said 
Adan, with a groan. lk Dios de mi alma ! " 
Roldan had great faith in his sense of 
locality, but in a blinding rain on a black 
night with a mighty wind roaring inside 
one's very skull, and whirling the heavy 
poncho about one's ears every few mo 
ments, it was difficult to preserve any sense 
at all. They galloped on, however, occasionally pausing to shout, straining their 
eyes into the darkness on every side. But 
nothing came back to eye or ear. Apparently they had the wilderness to themselves. 
There was no sign of even an Indian 
pueblo. 
It was during one of these halts that the 
boys ejaculated simultaneously: "The 
river!" 
" No," shouted Roldan, a moment later 
" it is only a creek." 
" Are we lost ? " demanded Adan ; and 
even the loud tone had a note of pained 
resignation in it. 
"No; I think this must be what he 
meant. Some of the low people say 
river for everything but the ocean. It 
 
is shallow, and we cannot turn back. 
Come." 
They rode along the bank until they 
came to an easy slope, then crossed, and 
cantered on. In a very short time the 
storm was behind them and the stars 
burst out, but there was no sign of habitation. They kept on for an hour longer, 
hoping for a welcome twinkle below ; but 
not even a coyote crossed their path. As 
far as they could see in the starlight they 
were on a plain of illimitable reach, bare 
but for low shrubs whose kind they could 
not determine, although once Adan's coat 
caught on a prickly surface. The atmosphere was warm and very dry. 
Finally Roldan reined in. 
