last succeed in hurting the feelings of a long-suffer- 





ing teacher. There had been nothing but an almost 
childish desire to tease at the root of all that she had 
said; for before all things she was young and gay, 
and her surroundings tended in every way to repress 
both gayety and youth. 

" You must not take everything I say in earnest," 
she said suddenly, with a laugh that jarred on the 
delicate nerves of the overwrought man. 

He turned his head from her as if the sight 
of her face would have been disagreeable just 
then. 

" Jest with life if you can," he said. " Jest with 
death if you are brave enough; yet at least be ear- 
nest in this great matter. If you are fixed in pur- 
pose to go with the King, you and your ladies, then 
go with the purpose to do good, to bind up men's 
wounds, to tend the sick, to cheer the weak, and by 
your presence to make the coward ashamed." 

" And why not to fight ? " asked the Queen, the 
light of an untried emotion brightening in her eyes. 
" Do you think I cannot bear the weight of mail, or 
sit a horse, or handle a sword as well as many a boy 
of twenty who will be there in the thick of battle ? 
And if I and my court ladies can bear the weariness 
as well as even the weakest man in the King's army, 
and risk a life as bravely, and perhaps strike a clean 
blow or drive a straight thrust for the Holy Sepul- 
chre, shall our souls have no good of it, because we are 
women ? " 

As she spoke, her arm lay across the table, and her 
small strong hand moved energetically with her 
speech, touching the monk's sleeve. The fighting 



 

blood of tlie old Duke was in her veins, and there 
was battle in her voice. Bernard looked up. 

" If you were always what you are at this moment," 
he said, " and if you had a thousand such women as 
yourself to ride with you, the King would need no 
other army, for you could face the Seljuks alone. 

" But you think that by the time I have to face 
them my courage will have cooled to woman's tears, 
like hot vapour on a glass." 

She smiled, but gently now, for she was pleased by 
what he had said. 

" You need not fear," she continued, before he had 
time to answer her. " We shall not bear ourselves 
worse than men, and there will be grown men there 
who shall be afraid before we are. But if there were 
with us a leader of men, I should have no fear. Men 
will fight for the King, they will shed their blood for 
Eleanor of Guienne, but they would die ten deaths 
at the bidding of — " 

She paused, and fixed her eyes on Bernard's face. 

" Of whom ? " he asked, unsuspecting. 

" Of Bernard of Clairvaux." 

There was a short silence. Then in a clear far-off 
voice, as if in a dream, the abbot repeated his own 
name. 

" Bernard of Clairvaux — a leader of men ? A 
soldier ? A general ? " He paused as if consulting 
himself. " Madam," he said at last, " I am neither 
general, nor leader, nor soldier. I am a monk, and 
a churchman as the Hermit was, but not like him 
in this — I know the limitation of my strength. I 
can urge men to fight for a good cause, but I will 





not lead them to deatli and ruin, as Peter did, while 
there are men living who have been trained to the 
sword as I to the pen." 

" I do not ask that you should plan battles, lead for- 
lorn charges, nor sit down in your tent to study the 
destruction of walled towns. You can be our leader 
without all that, for he who leads men's souls com- 
mands men's bodies and lives in men's hearts. 
Therefore, I bid you to come with us and help us, 
for although a sword is better at need than a hun- 
dred words, yet there are men at whose single word 
a thousand swords are drawn like one." 

" No, Madam," said the abbot, his even lips closing 
after the words, with a look of final decision, "I 
will not go with you. First, because I am unfit to 
be a leader of armies, and secondly, because such life 
as there is left in me can be better used at home 
than in following a camp. Lastly, I would that this 
good fight might be fought soberly and in earnest, 
neither in the fever of a fanatical fury nor, on the 
other hand, lightly, as an amusement and a play, nor 
selfishly and meanly in the hope of gain. My words 
are neither deep, nor learned, nor well chosen, for I 
speak as my thoughts rise and overflow. But thanks 
be to Heaven, what I say rouses men to act rather 
than moves them to think. Yet it is not well that 
they be over-roused or stirred when a long war is 
before them, lest their heat be consumed in a flash of 
fire, and their strength in a single blow. You need 
not a preacher, but a captain ; not words but deeds. 
You go to make history, not to hear a prophecy." 

"Nevertheless," said the Queen, "you must go 



 

with us, for if the spirit you have called up sinks 
from men's memories, our actions will be worse than 
spiritless. You must go." 

"I cannot." 

" Cannot? But I say you must." 

"No, Madam — I say no." 

For a long time the two sat in silence facing each 
other, the Queen confident, vital, fully roused to the 
-expression of her will ; Bernard, on the other hand, 
as fully determined to oppose her with all the fervent 
conviction which he brought to every question of 
judgment or policy. 

" If we fall out among ourselves," said Eleanor, 
at last, " who shall unite us ? If men lose faith in 
the cause before them and grow greedy of the things 
that lie in their way, who shall set them right ? " 

The abbot shook his head sorrowfully and would 
not meet her eyes, for in this he knew that she was 
right. 

" When an army has lost faith," he said, " it is 
already beaten. When Atalanta stooped to pick up 
the golden apples, her race was lost." 

" As when love dies, contempt and hatred take its 
place," said Eleanor, as if in comment. 

" Such love is of hell," said Bernard, looking sud- 
denly into her face, so that she faintly blushed. 

" Yes," she retorted scornfully, " for it is the love 
of man and wife." 

The holy man watched her sadly and yet keenly, 
for he knew what she meant, and he foresaw the end. 

"Lucifer rebelled against law," he said. 

" I do not wonder," said the Queen, with a sharp 





laugh. " He would have rebelled against marriage. 
Love is the true faith — marriage is the dogma." 
She laughed again. 

Bernard shrank a little as if he felt actual pain. 
He had known her since she had been a little child, 
yet he had never become used to her cruelties of 
expression. He was a man more easily disgusted in 
his aesthetic sensibilities than shocked by the wicked- 
ness of a world he knew. To him, God was not 
only great, but beautiful; Nature, as some theologians 
maintain, was cruel, evil, hurtful, but she was never 
coarse, nor foul in his conception, and her beauty 
appealed to him against his will. So also in his eyes 
a woman could be sinful, and her sins might seem ter- 
rible to him, and yet she herself was to him a woman 
still, a being delicate, refined, tender even in her 
wickedness ; but a woman who could speak at once 
keenly and brutally of her marriage reacted upon him 
as a very ugly or painful sight, or as a very harsh and 
discordant sound that jars every nerve in the body. 

" Madam," he said in a low voice, but very quietly 
and coldly, " I think not that you are in such state 
of grace as to bear the Cross to your good." 

Eleanor raised her head and looked at him haugh- 
tily, with lids half drooped as her eyes grew hard 
and keen. 

"You are not my confessor, sir," she retorted. 
" For all you know, he may have enjoined upon me a 
pilgrimage to the Holy Land. It is a common pen- 
ance." For the third time she laughed. 

" A common penance ! " cried the abbot, in a tone 
of despair. " That is what it has come to in these 




days. A man kills his neighbour in a quarrel and 
goes to Jerusalem to purge him of blood, as he would 
take a physician's draught to cure him of the least 
of little aches. A pilgrimage is a remedy, as a prayer 
is a medicine. To repeat the act of contrition so and 
so often, or to run through a dozen rosaries of an 
afternoon, is a potion for the sick soul." 

" Well, what then ? " asked the Queen. 

" What then ? " repeated the abbot. " Then there 
is no faith left in the true meaning of the Crusade — " 

" That is what I fear," answered Eleanor. " That 
is why I am begging you to come with us. That is 
why the King will be unable to command men 
without you. And yet you will not go." 

"No," he replied, " I will not." 

"You have always disappointed me," said the 
Queen, rising, and employing a weapon to which 
women usually resort last. "You stand in the 
front and will not lead, you rouse men to deeds 
you will not do, you give men ideals in which 
you do not believe, and then you go back to the 
peace of your abbey of Clairvaux, and leave men 
to shift for themselves in danger and need. And 
if, perhaps, some trusting woman comes to you with 
overladen heart, you tell her that she is not in a 
state of grace. It must be easy to be a great man 
in that way." 

She turned as she spoke the last words and stepped 
from the platform to the stone pavement. At the 
enormous injustice of her judgment, Bernard's face 
grew cold and stern ; but he would not answer what 
she said, for he knew how useless it would be. In 





her, and perhaps in her only, of all men and women 
he had known, there was the ssmething to which he 
could not speak, the element that was out of har- 
mony with his own being, and when he had talked 
with her it was as if he had eaten sand. He could 
understand that she, too, was in contradiction with 
her natural feelings in her marriage with such a man 
as the King ; he could be sorry for her, he could pity 
her, he could forgive her, he could pray for her — 
but he could not speak to her as he could to others. 

A dozen times before she reached the door he 
wished to call her back, and he sought in the archive 
of his brain and in the treasury of his heart the 
words that might touch her. But he sought in vain. 
So long as she was before his eyes, a chilled air, dull 
and unresonant, divided his soul from hers. Her 
hand was on the curtain to go out when she turned 
and looked at him again. 

" You will not go with us," she said. " If we fail, 
we shall count the fault yours ; if we quarrel and 
turn our swords upon one another, the sin is yours ; if 
our armies lose heart, and are scattered and hewn in 
pieces, their blood will be on your head. But if we 
win," she said at the last, drawing herself to her 
height, " the honour of our deeds shall be ours alone, 
not yours." 

She had raised the curtain, and it fell behind her 
as she spoke the last word, leaving the abbot no 
possibility of a retort. But she had missed her 
intention, for he was not a man to be threatened 
from the right he had planned. When she was gone, 
his face grew sad, and calm, and weary again, and 



 

presently, musing, lie took up the pen that lay 
beside the half -written page. 

But she went on through the outer hall to the 
vestibule, drawing her thin dark mantle about her, 
her lips set and her eyes cruel, for she had been 
disappointed. Beneath the idle wish to hear Ber- 
nard speak, behind the strong conviction that he 
must follow the army to the East if it was to be 
victorious, there had been the unconscious longing 
for a return of that brave emotion under which, in 
the afternoon, she had taken the Cross with her 
ladies. And a woman disappointed of strong feel- 
ing, hoped for and desired, is less kind than a strong 
man defeated of expectation. 

She was alone. Of all women, she hated most to 
be followed by attendants and watched by inferiors 
when she chose solitude. Reliant on herself and 
unaffectedly courageous, she often wondered whether 
it were not a more pleasant thing to be a man than 
to be even the fairest of womankind, as she was. 
She stood still a moment in the vestibule, drawing 
the hood of her cloak over her head and half across 
her face. The outer door was half open ; the single 
lamp, filled with olive-oil and hanging from the 
middle of the vault, cast its ray out into the night. 
As Eleanor stood arranging her headdress and 
almost unconsciously looking toward the darkness, 
a gleam of colour and steel flashed softly in the 
gloom. It disappeared and flashed again, for a 
man was waiting without and slowly walking 
up and down before the door. The Queen had 
chosen to come alone, but had no reason for con- 





cealing herself ; she made two steps to the thresh- 
old and looked out, opening wide one half of the 
door. 

The man stood still and turned his head without 
haste as the fuller light fell upon him. It was 
Gilbert, and as his eyes turned to the Queen's face, 
dark against the brightness within, she started a 
little, as if she would have drawn back, and she 
spoke nervously, in a low voice, hardly knowing 
what she said. 

" What is it ? " she asked. " Why did you come 
here?" 

"Because I knew your Grace was here," he an- 
swered quietly. 

" You knew that I was here ? How? " 

" I saw you — I followed." ' 

Under her hood, the Queen felt the warm blood 
in her cheeks. Gilbert was very good to see as he 
stood just outside the door, in the bright lamplight. 
He was pale, but not wan like Bernard ; he was 
thin with the leanness of vigorous youth, not with 
fasting and vigils; he was grave, not sad; ener- 
getic, not inspired; and his face was handsome rather 
than beautiful. Eleanor looked at him for a few 
moments before she spoke again. 

" You followed me. Why ? " 

" To beg a word of your Grace's favour." 

" The question you asked today ? " 

"Yes." 

"Is it so urgent?" The Queen laughed a little, 
and Gilbert started in surprise. 

"Your Grace wrote urgently," he said. 



 

" Then you are zealous only to obey me ? I like 
that. You shall be rewarded ! But I have changed 
my mind. If the letter were to be written again, 
I would not write it." 

" It was the letter of a friend. Would you take 
it back?" 

Gilbert's face showed the coming disappointment. 
In his anxiety he pressed nearer to her, resting his 
hand on the doorpost. The Queen drew back and 
smiled. 

"Was it so very friendly?" she asked. "I do 
not remember — but I did not mean it so." 

" Madam, what did you mean ? " His voice was 
steady and rather cold. 

" Oh — I have quite forgotten ! " She almost 
laughed again, shaking her hooded head. 

"If your Grace had need of me, I might under- 
stand. Beatrix is not here. I looked at each of 
your ladies to-day, through all their ranks — she 
was not among them. I asked where she was, but 
you would not answer and were angry — " 

" I ? Angry ? You are dreaming ! " 

" I thought you were angry, because you changed 
colour and would not speak again — " 

" You were wrong. Only a fool can be angry with 
ignorance." 

" Why do you call me ignorant ? These are all 
riddles." 

" And you are not good at guessing. Come  To 
show you that I was not angry, I will have you walk 
with me down through the village. It is growing 
late." 





" Your Grace is alone?" 

"Since you followed me, you know it. Come." 

She almost pushed him aside tor pass out, and a 
moment later they were crossing the dark open space 
before the church. Gilbert was not easily surprised, 
but when he reflected that he was walking late at 
night through a small French village with one of the 
most powerful sovereigns in Europe, who was at the 
same time the most beautiful of living women, he 
realized that his destiny was not leading him by 
common paths. He remembered his own surprise 
when, an hour earlier, he had seen the Queen's unmis- 
takable figure pass the open window of his lodging. 
And yet should any one see her now, abroad at such 
an hour, in the company of a young Englishman, 
there would be much more matter for astonishment. 
Half boyishly he wished that he were not himself, or 
else that the Queen were Beatrix. As for his actual 
position in the Queen's good graces, he had not the 
slightest understanding of it, a fact which just then 
amused Eleanor almost as much as it irritated her. 
The road was uneven and steep beyond the little 
square. For some moments they walked side by 
side in silence. From far away came the sound of 
many rough voices singing a drinking-chorus. 

" Give me your arm," said Eleanor, suddenly. 

As she spoke, she put out her hand, as if she feared 
to stumble. Doing as she begged him, Gilbert 
suited his steps to hers, and they were very close 
together as they went on. He had never walked 
arm in arm in that way before, nor perhaps had he 
ever been so close to any other woman. An inde- 



 

scribable sensation took possession of him; he felt 
that his step was less steady, and that his head was 
growing hot and his hands cold ; and somehow he 
knew that whereas the idea of love was altogether 
beyond and out of the question, yet he was spell- 
bound in the charm of a new and mysterious 
attraction; With it there was the instantaneous 
certainty that it was evil, with the equally sure 
knowledge that if it grew upon him but a few 
moments, longer he should not be able to resist it. 

Eleanor would not have been a woman had she 
not understood. 

"What is the matter?" she asked gently, and 
under her hood she was smiling. 

" The matter ? " Gilbert spoke nervously. " There 
is nothing the matter ; why do you ask? " 

" Your arm trembled," answered the Queen. 

" I suppose I was afraid that you were going to fall. " 

At this the Queen laughed aloud. 

"Are you so anxious for my safety as that ? " she 
inquired. 

Gilbert did not answer at once. 

" It seems so strange," he said at last, " that your 
Grace should choose to be abroad alone so late at 
night." 

" I am not alone," she answered. 

At that moment her foot seemed to slip, and her 
hand tightened suddenly upon Gilbert's arm. But 
as he thought her in danger of falling, he caught her 
round the waist and held her up ; and, as he almost 
clasped her to him, the mysterious influence strength- 
ened his hold in a most unnecessary manner. 





" I never slip," said Eleanor, by way of explaining 
the fact that she had just stumbled. 

"No," answered Gilbert. " Of course not." 

And he continued to hold her fast. She made a 
little movement vaguely indicating that she wished 
him to let her go, and her free right hand pretended 
to loosen his from her waist. He felt infinitesimal 
lines of fire running from his head to his feet, and he 
saw lights where there were none. 

" Let me go," she said, almost under her breath; 
and accentuating her words with little efforts of hand 
and body, it accidentally happened that her head was 
against his breast for a moment. 

The fire grew hotter, the lights brighter, and, with 
the consciousness of doing something at once terrible 
yet surpassingly sweet to do, he allowed his lips to 
touch the dark stuff that hid her russet hair. But 
she was quite unaware of this desperate deed. A 
moment later she seemed to hear something, for she 
turned her head quickly, as if listening, and spoke 
in an anxious half-whisper. 

" Take care ! There is somebody — " 

Instantly Gilbert's hand dropped to his side and 
he assumed the attitude of a respectful protector. 
The Queen continued to stare into the darkness a 
moment longer, and then began to walk on. 

" It was nothing," she said carelessly. 

" I hear men singing," said Gilbert. 

" I dare say," answered Eleanor, with perfect 
indifference. "I have heard them for some time." 

One voice rose higher and louder than the rest 
as the singers approached, and the other voices 



 

joined in the rough chorus of a Burgundy drinking- 
song. Near the outskirts of the village, lights 
were flashing and moving unsteadily in the road 
as those who carried them staggered along. To 
reach the monastery which was the headquarters of 
the court, the Queen and Gilbert would have to walk 
a hundred yards down the street before turning to 
the right. Gilbert saw at a glance that it would 
be impossible for them to reach the turning before 
meeting the drunken crowd. 

" It would be better to go back by another way," 
he said, slackening his pace. 

But the Queen walked quietly on without answer- 
ing him. It was dear that she intended to make 
the people stand aside to let her pass, for she con- 
tinued to walk in the middle of the street. But Gil- 
bert gently drew her aside, and she suffered him 
to lead her to a doorway, raised two steps above the 
street, and darkened by an overhanging balcony. 
There they stood and waited. A dense throng of 
grooms, archers and men-at-arms came roaring up 
the steep way toward them. A huge man in a 
dirty scarlet tunic and dusty russet hose, with soft 
boots that were slipping down in folds about his 
ankles, staggered along in front of the rest. His 
face was on fire with wine, his little red eyes glared 
dully from under swollen lids, and as he bawled his 
song with mouth wide open, one might have tossed 
an apple between his wolfish teeth. In his right 
hand he held an earthen jug in which there was 
still a little vrine ; with his left he brandished a ban- 
ner that had been made by sewing a broad red 





cross upon a towel tied to one of those long wands 
with which farmers' boys drive geese to feed. Half 
dancing, half marching, and reeling at every step, he 
came along, followed closely by a dozen companions 
one degree less burly than himself, but at least quite 
as drunk ; and each had upon his breast or shoulder 
the cross he had received that day. Behind them 
more and more, closer and closer, the others came 
stumbling, rolling, jostling each other, howling the 
chorus of the song. And every now and then the 
leader, swinging his banner and his wine jug, sent a 
shower of red drops into the faces of his followers, 
some of whom laughed, and some swore loudly in 
curses that made themselves felt through the roaring 
din. But loudest, highest, clearest of all, from within 
the heart of the drunken crowd, came one of those 
voices that are made to be heard in storm and battle. 
In a tune of its own, regardless of the singing of all 
the rest, it was chanting the Magnificat anima mea 
Dominum. Long-drawn, sustained, and of brazen 
quality, it calmly defied all other din, and as the crowd 
drew nearer Gilbert saw through the torchlight the 
thin white face of a very tall man in the midst, with 
half-closed eyes and lips that wore a look of pain 
as he sang — the face, the look, the voice of a man 
who in the madness of liquor was still' a fanatic. 

The hot close breath of the ribald crew went be- 
fore it in the warm summer night, the torches threw 
a moving yellow glare upon faces red as flame, or 
ghastly white, and here and there the small crosses 
of scarlet cloth fastened to the men's tunics caught 
the light like splashes of fresh blood. 



 

Eleanor drew back as far as she could under the 
doorway, offended in her sovereign pride and dis- 
gusted as gentlewomen are at the sight of drunken* 
ness. By her side, Gilbert drew himself up as if 
protesting against a sacrilege and against the dese- 
cration of his holiest thoughts. He knew that such 
men would often be as riotous again before they 
reached Jerusalem, and that it would be absurd to 
expect anything else. But meanwhile he realized 
what a little more of disgust would be enough to 
make him hate what was before him. For a moment 
he forgot the Queen's presence at his side, and he 
closed his eyes so as not to see what was passing 
before them. 

A little angry sound, that was neither of pain nor 
of fear, roused him to the present. A man with a 
bad face and a shock head of red hair had fallen out 
of the march and stood unsteadily before the Queen, 
plucking at her mantle in the hope of seeing all her 
face. He seemed not to see Gilbert, and there was 
a wicked light in his winy eyes. The Queen drew 
back, and used her hands to keep her mantle and 
hood close about her ; but the riot pressed onward 
and forced the man from his feet, so that he almost 
fell against her. Gilbert caught him by the neck 
with his hand ; and when he had torn the cross from 
his shoulder, he struck him one blow that flattened 
his face for life. Then he threw him down into 
the drunken crowd, a bruised and senseless thing, 
as island men throw a dead horse from the cliff into 
the sea. 

In a moment the confusion and din were ten times 





greater than before. While some marched on, still 
yelling the tipsy chorus, others stumbled across the 
Aody of their unconscious fellow as it lay in the way ; 
two had been struck by it as it fell, and were half 
stunned ; others turned back to see the cause of the 
trouble; many were forced to the ground, impotently 
furious with drink, and not a few were trampled 
upon, and hurt, and burnt by their own torches. 

Eleanor looked down upon a writhing mass of 
miserable human beings who were blind with wine 
and stupid with rage against the unknown thing that 
had made them fall. She shrank to Gilbert's side, 
almost clinging to him. 

" We cannot stay here," she said. " You must 
not let me be recognized by these brutes." 

" Keep between me and the wall, then," he an- 
swered authoritatively. 

His sword was in his hand as he descended the 
two steps to the level of the street and began to 
force his way along between the houses and the 
crowd. It was not easy at first. One sprang at him 
blindly to stop him, but he thrust him aside; an- 
other drew his dagger, but Grilbert struck him on 
temple and jaw with his flat blade so that he fell in 
a heap ; and presently the man who was sober was 
feared by the drunken men, and they made little re- 
sistance. But many saw by the torchlight that the 
hooded figure of a woman was gliding along beside 
him, and foul jests were screamed out, with howls and 
catcalls, so that the clean Norman blood longed to 
turn and face the whole throng together with edge 
and thrust, to be avenged of insult. Yet Gilbert 



 

remembered that if lie did that, he might be slain, 
leaving Eleanor to the mercy of ruf&ans who would 
not believe that she was the Queen. So he resigned* 
himself and went steadily on along the wall, forcing 
his opponents out of his way, striking them, stun- 
ning them, knocking them down mercilessly, but 
killing none. 

The time had been short from the beginning of 
the trouble till Gilbert reached the turning for which 
he was making. And all the while the high, brazen 
voice was chanting the words of the Canticle, 
above the roaring confusion. When Eleanor, safe 
at last, slipped into the shadows beyond the corner, 
the voice was singing, "He hath visited and re- 
deemed his people," and far up the street the red- 
cross banner was waving furiously in the glare of 
the torchlight. 

As Gilbert sheathed his sword, Eleanor laid her 
hand on his. 

"You please me," she said; and though there 
was no light, he knew by her tone that she was 
smiling. "Thank you," she added softly. "Ask 
what you will, it is yours." 

In the dark he bent down and kissed the hand 
that held him. 

" Madam," he said, " I thank Heaven that I have 
been allowed to serve a woman in need." 

" And you ask nothing of me ? " There was 
an odd little chill in her voice as she spoke.- 

Gilbert did not answer at once, for he was uncer- 
tain whether to press her with a question about Bea- 
trix, or to ask nothing. 





" If I asked anything," lie said at last, " I should 
ask that I might understand your Grace, and why 
►you bade me come in haste to one who is not even 
with you." 

They were within a few steps of the abbey, and 
the Queen separated a little from him and walked 
nearer to the wall. Then she stopped short. 

" Good-night," she said abruptly. 

Gilbert came close to her and stood still in silence. 

" Well ? " She uttered the single word with a 
somewhat cold interrogation. 

" Madam," said Gilbert, suddenly determined to 
know the truth, " is Beatrix here with you or not ? 
I have a right to know." 

"A right?" There was no mistaking the tone 
now, but Gilbert was not awed by it. 

" Yes," he answered ; " you know I have." 

Without a word Eleanor left him and walked 
along the wall in the deep shadow. A moment later 
Gilbert saw two forms of women beside the taller 
figure of the Queen. He made a step forward, 
but instantly stopped again, realizing that he could 
not press the question in the presence of her ladies. 
She had doubtless placed them there when she had 
come out, to wait until she should return. 

When he could no longer see her in the gloom, 
he turned and retraced his steps. The drunken sol- 
diers were gone, on their way to join others in some 
tavern beyond the church, and the street was de- 
serted. The moon, long past the full, was just ris- 
ing above the hills to eastward, and shed a melancholy 
light upon the straggling village. Resentful of the 



 

Queen's mysterious silence, and profoundly sad from 
the impression made upon Mm by the drunken 
throng through which he had forced his way, Gilbert 
slowly climbed the hill and went back to his lodg- 
ing near the church. 

He spent a restless night, and the early summer 
dawn brought him to his open window with that de- 
sire which every man feels, after a troubled day and 
broken rest, to see the world fresh and clean again, 
as if nothing had happened — as the writing is 
smoothed from the wax of the tablet before a new 
message can be written. Gilbert listened to the 
morning sounds, — the crowing of the cocks, the 
barking of the dogs, the calls of peasants greeting 
one another, — and he breathed the cool dawn air 
gratefully, without trying to understand what the 
Queen wanted of him. 



CHAPTER XIII 

The Crusade became a fact on that day when the 
sovereigns of France and Guienne together took the 
scarlet cross from Bernard's hand. But all was not 
ready yet. Men were roused, and the times were 
ripe, but not until the Abbot of Clairvaux had given 
Europe the final impulse could the armies of the 
King and of the Queen, and of Conrad, who 
was never to be crowned Emperor in Rome, begin 
the march of desperate toil and weariness that 
lay between their homes and their death. From 
Vdzelay the master preacher and inspirer of man- 
kind went straight to Conrad's court, doing the will 
of others in faith and without misgiving of con- 
science, to the greater glory of God, yet haunted in 
sleep and waking by the dim ghosts of ruin and 
defeat. He prophesied not, and he saw no visions, 
but he who was almost the world's physician in his 
day felt fever in its pulse and heard distraction in 
the piercing note of its rallying-cry. 

There were multitudes without order, there were 
kings without authority, there were leaders more fit 
to follow than to head the van. And always, when 
he had preached and breathed fire through the dry 
stubble of men's parched hopes, till the flame was 
broad and high and resistless, there came to him, in 
the solitude wherein he found no rest, the deadly 
memory of the Hermit's blasted host, overtaken, 





 

overcome, crushed to a heap of bones in one wild 
battle with the Seljuk horde. 

Many a time he told himself that Peter had been 
no soldier, that stronger and wiser men had won 
what he had failed even to see, and that the memories 
of Godfrey's fearful wrath, of Raj^mond's brave wis- 
dom, and of Tancred's knightly deeds were more than 
half another victory gained. Yet always, too, in his 
deep intuition of men's limits, he felt that the 
soldiers of his day were not those great knights 
who had humbled the Emperor of the East and taught 
a lesson of fear to Kilidj Arslan, and who had grasped 
the flowers of Syria and Palestine with iron hands. 
It was indeed God's will that a great host should go 
