Magdaléna, who thought them most inconsiderate, awaited him in the
green-and-brown reception-room. She knew the ugliness of these rooms
now, and wondered, as Trennahan finally entered, if it clashed with his
sentiment. But he gave no sign. He pushed a small sofa before the fire,
drew her beside him, and demanded the history of the past four months.
He held her hand and looked at her with boyish delight. Even the lines
had left his face for the moment, the grimness his mouth. He looked
twenty-six.

"Your trip has done you more good than California did. You never looked
so well here."

"I have been funereal since the day I left. This is pure reaction. I
never felt so happy in my life. Couldn't we have a walk or ride
somewhere to-morrow early--out to the Presidio? I want to be in the open
air with you."

"I am afraid we couldn't. Nobody does such things, you know--except
Helena. Someone would be sure to see us, and it would be all over town
before night. Then we should have to announce--I'd rather not do that
until just before--I should hate being discussed."

"Well, but I must have you to myself in my own way. I wonder if your
mother would bring you down to my house for a few days. Don Roberto and
Mr. Polk could come down every evening."

"I think they would like it."

"And you?"

"Oh, I should like it. The woods must be lovely in winter."

"Who has been teaching you coquetry? Who has fallen in love with you
since I left?"

"With me? No one. No one would ever think of such a thing but you--"

"I love you with an unerring instinct."

"They are all in love with Helena. I suppose you heard of her in New
York."

"It certainly was not your fault if I did not."

"But surely you must have heard otherwise. She is a great, great belle."

"My dearest girl, you do not hear California mentioned in New York once
a month. It might be on Mars. The East remembers California's existence
about as often as Europe remembers America's. They don't know what they
miss. When am I to see your Helena?"

"A week from to-night; she gives a ball then at Del Monte. She and her
father have already gone, because each thought the other needed rest."

"Monterey,--that is the scene of your Ysabel's tragedy. We will explore
the old part of the town together."

She moved closer to him, her eyes glistening. "That has been one of my
dreams,--to be there with you--for the first time. We can guess where
they all lived--and go to the cemetery on the hill where so many are
buried--and there is the Custom House on the rocks, where the ball was
and where Ysabel jumped off--it will be heaven!"

He laughed and caught her in his arms, kissing her fondly. "You dear
little Spanish maid," he said. "You don't belong to the present at all.
No wonder you bewitched me. I am beginning to feel quite out of place in
the present, myself. It is a novel and delightful sensation."




VIII


Mrs. Yorba decided that it would be wiser for them all to go to Fair
Oaks; no one would know whether Trennahan were their guest or not. This
was her first really gay winter, and could she have thought of a
plausible excuse she would have delayed the marriage for a year or two.
But both Don Roberto and Trennahan were determined that the wedding
should not take place later than June.

They were to spend five days at Fair Oaks. Then Don Roberto, Mrs. Yorba,
and Magdaléna would go to Monterey, Trennahan to follow on the evening
of the ball.

The winter woods were wet and glistening. Thick in the brush were the
vivid red berries and the firm little snowballs. The air was of a
wonderful freshness and fragrance, cool on the cheek, but striking no
chill to the blood. The grass tips in the meadows were close and green.
There was no haze on the distant mountains: the redwoods stood out
sharply; one could almost see the sun baldes crossing in their gloomy
aisles. Close to the ground was a low, restless, continuous mutter,--the
voluntary of Spring.

Trennahan and Magdaléna rode or strolled in the woods during most of the
hours of light. They could not sit on the damp ground, but they swung
hammocks by the path-side to sit in when tired. Trennahan would have
slept on the verandah had not his enthusiasm for outdoor delights been
controlled by his matter-of-fact brain, but he grudged the hours at
table, and persuaded Magdaléna to go early to bed that she might rise
and go forth at five in the evening of night. After four months of snow
and nipping winds and furnace heat, small wonder that he was as happy as
a boy out of school, and that he made Magdaléna the most wonderingly
happy of women. He did little love-making; he treated her more as a
comrade upon whose constant companionship he was dependent for
happiness,--his other part, with which he was far better satisfied than
with the original measure.

"We will camp out up there during all of July and August," he said to
her one morning, as they stood on the edge of the woods and watched the
rising sun pick out the redwoods one by one from the black mass on the
mountain. "I can't imagine a more enchanting place for a honeymoon than
a redwood forest. We'll take a servant, and a lot of books; but I doubt
if we shall read much,--we'll shoot and fish all day. If we like it as
much as I am sure we shall, we'll build a house there. Do you think you
should like it?"

"Oh, I should! I should!"

"You are so sympathetic in your own particular way; not temperamentally
so, which is pleasant but means little, but with a slow, sure
understanding which goes forth to few people, but is unerring and
permanent."

"I love no one but you and Helena. I have never cared to understand
anyone else."

"We all have great weaknesses in us. I wonder if mine were ever revealed
to you--which God forbid!--if you have sympathy enough to cover those,
too."

"I am sure that I have. I am neither quick nor generally affectionate,
but I do nothing by halves."

"I believe you. You are the one person on whose mercy I would throw
myself. However,--it is a long time since we have spoken of another
subject. Do you think no further of writing?"

"I haven't lately. There has been no time. Some day--Oh, yes, I think I
should never wholly give it up. Should--should you object?"

"Not in the least. But I am afraid I sha'n't give you much time, either.
What were you writing,--your Old-California tales?"

"No,--an--an historical novel--English."

"Of course! And with fresh and fascinating material begging for its
turn. I arrived in the nick of time. When you have transcribed those
stories into correct and distinguished English, you will have taken your
place among the immortals. But style alone will give you a place in
letters worth having. Always remember that. The theme determines popular
success, the manner rank. Don't misunderstand me; there is no greater
fraud or bore than the writer who has acquired the art of saying nothing
brilliantly. You must have both. And you are too ambitious, too
intellectual, as distinguished from clever, too serious and logical, to
be contented with anything short of perfection. I shall be your severest
critic; but you yourself will work for years before you produce a line
with which you are wholly satisfied. Is not this true?"

"Yes; I should always be my severest critic."

He drew a long breath of relief. He had no desire for a literary wife;
nor to be known as the husband of one. Magdaléna should be as happy as
he could make her, but the sooner she realised that genius was not her
portion, the better.




IX


"Never I think I come to Monterey again," said Don Roberto, as the 'bus
which contained his party only drove from the little toy station to the
big toy hotel. "Once I hate all the Spanish towns, because so
extravagant I am before that I feel 'fraid, si I return, I am all the
same like then; but now I am old and the habits fixit; and now I know my
moneys go to be safe with Trennahan, I feel more easy in the mind and
can enjoy. But I no go to the town, for all is change, I suppose: all
the womens grown old and poor, and all the mens dead--by the drink,
generalmente. Very fortunate I am I no stay there; meeting Eeram in
time. Ay, yi! What kind de house is this? Look like paper, and the
grounds so artifeecial. No like much."

Magdaléna hardly knew her father these last months. From the day that he
found a reminiscent pleasure in the mild diversions of Menlo he had
visibly softened. From the day he was assured of Trennahan he had become
almost expansive, and at times was moved to generosity. Upon one
occasion he had doubled Magdaléna's allowance, and at Christmas he had
given her a hundred dollars; and he had paid the bills of the season
without a murmur. The fear which had haunted him during the last thirty
years,--that he should suddenly relapse into his native extravagance and
squander his patrimony and his accumulated millions, dying as the
companions of his youth had died,--he dismissed after he met Trennahan.
Polk had been the iron mine to the voracious magnet in his character. In
the natural course of things Polk would outlive him; but the possibility
of Polk's extermination by railroad accident or small-pox had been a
second devil of torment, and during the past year he had visibly failed.
Now, however, there was Trennahan to take his place. Don Roberto would
enjoy life once more, a second youth. He was almost happy. If he felt
his will rotting, he would transfer all his vast interests to Trennahan
in trust for his wife and daughter, retaining a large income. He did not
believe, at this optimistic period, that there was any real danger,
after an inflexible resistance of thirty years; but he also realised for
the first time what the strain of those thirty years had been.

Helena, dazzlingly fair in a frock of forest green, and surrounded by
five new admirers, three Eastern and two English tourists, awaited
Magdaléna on the verandah. The strangers gave Magdaléna a faint shock:
being the only well-dressed men she had ever seen except Trennahan, they
assumed a family likeness to him, and seemed to steal something of his
preeminence among men. She commented distantly on this fact as she went
up the stair with Helena.

"Oh, your little tin god on wheels is not the only one," replied Helena,
the astute. "There are five here with possibilities besides dress, and
more coming to-morrow. They are such a relief! If I feel real wicked
to-morrow night--well, never mind!"

"Helena! You will not make those four young men any more miserable than
they are now?"

Helena shook her head. She was looking very naughty. "Four months, my
dear! I didn't realise what I had endured until I had this sudden
vacation. Two days of blissful rest, and then the variations for which I
was born."

They were in Helena's room, and Magdaléna sat down by the open window,
where she could smell the cypresses, and regarded her beloved friend
more critically than was her habit.

"I wonder if you will ever mature,--get any heart?" she said.

"'Léna! What do you mean! Heart? Don't I love you and my father; and the
other girls--some?"

"I don't mean that kind. Nor falling in love, either. I never expressed
myself very well, but you know what I mean."

"Oh, bother. What were men and women made for but to amuse each other?"

"Life isn't all play."

"It is for a time--when you're young. I am sure that that is what Nature
intended, and that the people who don't see it are those who make the
mistakes with their lives. Otherwise life would be simply
outrageous,--no balance, no compensation. After a certain age even fools
become serious: they can't help it, for life begins to take its revenge
for permitting them to be young at all, and to hope, and all that sort
of thing. Therefore those that don't make the most of youth and all that
goes with it are something more than fools."

Magdaléna looked at her in dismay. "How do you realise that, at your
age? I have lived alone, thought more--had more time to think and to
read--but I never should--"

"I have intuitions. And I've seen more of the world than you have. I see
everything that goes on--you can bet your life on that. Talk about my
powers of concentration! They're nothing to my antennae."

"But have you no principles of right and wrong? No morality? You would
not deliberately sacrifice others to your own pleasure, would you?"

"Wouldn't I? I don't take the least pleasure in cruelty, like some
women. If I could give people oblivion draughts, I'd do it in a
minute--for my vanity has nothing to do with it, either. But the world
is at my feet, and there it shall stay, no matter who pays the piper. I
love life. I love everything about it. I've never seen anything in the
world I thought ugly. I don't think anything is ugly. If it was, I
should hate it. I've never been through a slum,--a horrid slum, that
is,--and I don't want to. The beauty of the earth intoxicates me. When I
even think about it, much less look at it, I feel perfectly wild with
delight to think that I am alive. And my senses are so keen. I see so
far. I can hear miles. I believe I can hear the grass grow. I eat and
drink little, but that little gives me delight. A glass of cold spring
water intoxicates me. And, above all, I enjoy being loved. I never
forget how much you and papa love me. I couldn't exist without either of
you. Papa is looking much better since he came down. Don't you think so?
And I like to see love in the eyes of men I don't care a rap about.
Their eyes are like impersonal mirrors for me to read the secrets of the
future in. And I don't really hurt them. Most men have a lot of
superfluous love in them. I may as well have it as another. It won't
interfere with the destination of the reserve in the least."

"Helena!" exclaimed Magdaléna, with a sinking heart. "I believe you are
a genius."

"I have the genius of personality, but I couldn't do a thing to save my
life."

Magdaléna breathed freely again.




X


Trennahan, who was to have arrived in time to dine with the Belmonts and
Yorbas, missed his train and took his dinner alone. Afterward, he saw
Magdaléna for a few moments in the Yorbas' private parlour, but she had
to dress, and he went off to smoke in the grounds with Don Roberto, Mr.
Polk, Mr. Washington, and Colonel Belmont. They subsequently had a game
of bowls, and--excepting Colonel Belmont--several cocktails. When they
suddenly remembered that a ball was in progress to which they were
expected, it was eleven o'clock, and Trennahan was not dressed.

It was Helena's ball, but she had made every man promise to look after
the wall-flowers, that she might be at liberty to enjoy herself. Her
aunt, Mrs. Yorba, and Magdaléna received with her; and as all the guests
had arrived by the same train, and had dressed at about the same time,
the arduous duty of receiving was soon over. Helena left the stragglers
to her chaperons and prepared to amuse herself. As usual, she had
refused to engage herself for any dances, but she gave the first two to
her devoted four, then announced her intention to dance no more for the
present. The truth was that one of her minute high-heeled slippers
pinched, but this she had no intention of acknowledging; if men wished
to think her an angel, so they should. She was a sensible person, far
too practical to reduce the sum of her happiness by physical discomfort;
but the slippers, which she had never tried on, matched her gown, and
she had no others with her that did. But the one rift in her lute
induced a sympathetic rift in her temper.

The party was very gay and pretty. The rooms had been fantastically
decorated with red berries and snowballs, pine, and cedar. The leader of
the band was in that stage of intoxication which promised music to make
the soles of the dado tingle. All the girls had brought their prettiest
frocks, and all the matrons their diamonds. There were no tiaras in the
Eighties, but there were a few necklaces, stars, and ear-rings--of the
vulgar variety known as "solitaires." It is true that certain of the
Fungi looked like crystal chandeliers upon occasion; but Helena would
have none of them.

Herself had rarely been more lovely,--in floating clouds of pale pink
tulle, which looked like a shower of almond blossoms. Her hair was roped
up with pearls, hinting the head-dress of Juliet, but stopping short of
eccentric effect. She wore nothing to break the lines of her throat and
neck, but on her arms were quantities of odd and beautiful "bangles,"
many made from her own suggestions, others picked up in different parts
of the world.

She was standing opposite the door in the middle of the room as
Trennahan entered, leaning lightly upon a little table to rest her
mischievous foot. Only one man was beside her at the moment, and
Trennahan's view of her was uninterrupted. He knew at once who she was.
His second impression was that he had seen few girls so beautiful. His
third, that she possessed something more potent than beauty, and that he
was responding to it with a certain wild flurry of the senses, and a
certain glad exultation in youth and danger which had not been his
portion for many a long year. The instinct of the hunter leaped from its
tomb, shocked into the eager quivering life of its youth. Trennahan was
appalled to hear the fine web he had spun between his senses and his
spirit rent in a second, then gratified at the youthful singing in his
blood. The old joy in recklessness, in surrender to the delirium of the
senses, came back to him. He pushed them roughly aside, and looked about
for Magdaléna. She was listening to the rapid delivery of Mr. Rollins.
He thought she looked ill, and was about to go to her when Colonel
Belmont took him by the arm.

"You must meet my daughter," he said. "Oh, bother! There go half a
dozen."

When Trennahan reached Helena, he was presented in the same breath with
two other new arrivals, and her slipper was fairly biting. She did not
even hear his name. She was in a mood to make her swains unhappy; and
she liked Trennahan's face, and what she saw there. There was eager
admiration in his eyes and nostrils, and on his face the record of a man
who might possibly be her match. Of man's deeper and more personal life
she never thought. She had heard that men sometimes loved married women,
and others whose like she had never seen; but she hated the mere fact of
vice as she did all forms of ugliness, and dismissed it from her mind.
She read in Trennahan's face that he had had many flirtations, nothing
more.

"I am not going to dance any more to-night," she announced. She placed
her hand in Trennahan's arm. "Take me to the conservatory," she said.

There was really nothing for him to do but take her. But it was three
hours before either was seen again.




XI


"You are not looking well this morning," said Trennahan, solicitously,
about twelve hours after he had appeared in the ball-room. He had just
entered the Yorbas' private parlour.

"Neither do you," replied Magdaléna.

"I sat up late with some of the men, and slept ill after."

Magdaléna raised her eyes and looked at him steadily. "You have fallen
in love with Helena," she said.

"What nonsense! My dear child, what are you talking about? Miss Belmont
asked me to take her to the conservatory; and as I do not dance, and as
you do, and as she announced her intention of not dancing again, and is
a very entertaining young woman, I decided to remain there. If our
engagement had been made known, of course I should have done nothing of
the sort. But as it was--"

"You turned white when you first saw her. Alan Rush looked just like
that. Now he is mad about her."

"I am not Alan Rush, nor any other boy of twenty-five. The man you have
elected to marry, and who is not half good enough for you, as I have
told you many times, is a seasoned person past middle age, my dearest. I
could not go off my head over a pretty face if I tried. My day for that
is long past."

He spoke vehemently.

"You never looked at me like that."

"Doubtless my pallor was due to some such unromantic cause as an
extremely bad dinner."

"I have seen that look several times. Alan Rush is not the only one. And
Helena is no doll. She has every fascination."

"Possibly. Shall we go for our walk? I am most anxious to see those old
houses and graves."

He did not offer to kiss her. She was too proud to take up woman's usual
refrain. She put on her hat, and they left the hotel, and walked toward
the town.

"I believe the cemetery comes first," she said. "I have made inquiries.
We can see the town from there, and go on afterward--if you like."

"Of course I like. How good of you to wait for me! I know you have been
longing for the town which I am convinced is a part of your very
personality."

"Yes, I have been longing. I don't care much about it this morning."

"Which of your heroines is buried in the cemetery?"

"Benicia Ortega, La Tulita, and some of aunt's old friends."

"You must certainly write those old stories. I often think of them."

"Nothing that you say this morning sounds like the truth."

"My dear girl! I am dull and stupid after a sleepless night. And the
night after you left I sat up until two in the morning writing important
letters."

"I think it was disloyal of Helena."

"I must rush to her defence. She did not know until the end of the
evening who I was. She took me for one of the several Easterners who
arrived to-day. Two of them brought letters to her father from Mr.
Forbes. One was the son of an old friend. As her father presented me--"

Magdaléna faced about. "And you did not tell her? You did not speak of
me?"

"I am going to be perfectly frank, knowing how sensible you are. I had a
desperate flirtation with your friend, as desperate and meaningless as
those things always are; for it is merely an invention to pass the idler
hours of society. There was nothing else to do, so we flirted. It added
to the zest to keep her in ignorance of my identity. It was a silly
pastime, but better than nothing. I should far rather have been in bed.
If I could have talked to you, it would have been quite another matter."

Magdaléna hurried on ahead. He had the tact not to accelerate his own
steps. After a time she fell back. She said,--

"What is this 'flirtation,' anyhow? I have heard nothing but
'flirtation' all winter, and I heard a good deal of it last summer. But
I have not the slightest idea what it means. What do you do?"

"Do? Oh--I--it is impossible to define flirtation. You must have the
instinct to understand. Then you wouldn't ask. Thank Heaven you never
will understand. Flirtation is to love-making what soda-water is to
champagne. I can think of no better definition than that."

"Did you kiss Helena?"

"Good God, no! That's not flirtation. She is not the sort that would let
me if I wished."

"Did you hold her hand?"

"I have held no woman's hand but yours for an incalculable time."

"Did you tell her that you loved her?"

"Certainly not!"

"I must say I can't see how a flirtation differs from an ordinary
conversation."

"It only does in that subtle something which cannot be explained."

Magdaléna had an inspiration. "Perhaps you talk with your eyes some."

"Well, you are not altogether wrong. Did you ever see a fencing match?
Imagine two invisible personalities dodging and doubling, springing and
darting. That will give you some idea. And all without a flutter of
passion or real interest. It is good exercise for the lighter wits, but
stupid at best." He did not add that the very essence of flirtation is
its promise of more to come.

It was some time before Magdaléna spoke again. Then she asked,--

"What did Helena say when you told her your name?"

"I believe she said, 'Great Heaven!'"

"I think this must be the cemetery."

They ascended the rough hill, and pushed their way through weeds and
thistles and wild oats to the dilapidated stones under the oaks.
Magdaléna had imagined her conflicting emotions when she visited the
graves of her youthful heroines; among other things the delightful sense
of unreality. But the unreality was of another sort to-day. They were a
part of an insignificant past. Trennahan elevated one foot to a massive
stone and plucked the "stickers" from his trousers.

"This is all very romantic," he said, "but these confounded things are
uncomfortable. Have you found your graves?"

"I think this is Benicia's. We can go if you like."

"By no means." He went and leaned over the sunken grey stone which
recorded the legend of Benicia Ortega's brief life and tragic death,
then insisted upon finding the others.

"You don't take any interest," said Magdaléna. "Why do you pretend?"

He caught her in his arms and seated her on the highest and driest of
the tombs, then sat beside her. He kept his arm about her, but he did
not kiss her. "Come now," he said, "let us have it out. We must not
quarrel. I humble myself to the dust. I vow to be a saint. I will not
exchange two consecutive sentences with your friend in the future. Make
me promise all sorts of things."

"If you love her, you can't help yourself."

"I have no intention of loving her. Perhaps you will be as sweet and
sensible as you always are, and not say anything so absurd again. I am
deeply sorry that I have offended you. Will you believe that? And will
you forgive me?"

"Do you mean that you still wish to marry me?"

"Great Heaven, 'Léna! Even if my head were turned, do you think that I
have not brains enough to remember that that sort of thing is a matter
of the hour only, and that I am a man of honour? I have no less
intention of marrying you to-day than I had yesterday. Does that satisfy
you? And--since you take it so hardly--I wish I might never see Miss
Belmont again."

Magdaléna raised her eyes; they were full of tears. Her hat was pushed
back, her soft hair ruffled. In the deep shade of the oaks and with the
passion in her face she looked prettier than he had ever seen her. A
kiss sprang to her lips. He bent his head swiftly and caught it; and
then he was delighted at the depth of his penitence.

       

"'Léna, you ought to hate me, but I didn't know! I swear I didn't!"

"I know you did not. He told me that it was entirely his fault, and I
have forgiven him; so don't let us say any more about it."

"Well, I am glad he admitted that. I'm pretty selfish, as I've never
denied, but I'd never be disloyal. Not to you, anyhow," she added on
second thoughts. "I shouldn't mind Ila so much, nor Caro."

"You don't mean to say you would take any girl's lover away from her,
Helena?"

"Yes, I would if I wanted him badly. But I'd do it right out before her
face. I'd never be underhand about it. I loathe deceit. I was furious
for a time with Mr. Trennahan last night, but I really believe I was
more furious because he was the most interesting man I had ever met and
I couldn't have him, than because he hadn't behaved quite properly."

Magdaléna reached her right hand to a bow on her left shoulder, that
Helena should not see the sudden leap of her heart. "Do you mean to say
that you had--had intended to--to--add him to the quartette?"

"I had had a very definite idea of turning the entire quartette out in
his favour. I don't mind telling you that, because wild horses couldn't
make me so much as flirt an eyelash at him again; and of course it was
only one of my passing fancies. Nothing goes very deep with me. I'm made
on a magnificent plan. So is he. We'll both have forgotten last evening
before the end of the week. I hate the morning after a ball, don't you?
One always feels so devitalised. Wasn't Ila's gown disgracefully low?
And the way some girls roll their eyes is positively sickening. Let's go
out and get a breath of air."




XII


Two nights later Tiny had a large dinner. A place had been kept for
Trennahan. He had expected to be sent in with Magdaléna,--somewhat
illogically, as no one suspected his engagement. He was sent in with
Helena.

The long low dining-room of the old house on Rincon Hill had never been
double-dated with gas fixtures. There was a large candelabra against the
dark wainscot at each end of the room, and little clusters of flame on
the table. The girls never looked so pretty, so guileless, never planted
their arrows so surely, as in this room, in the soft radiance of its wax
candles.

On Helena's other side sat Rollins, whom she honoured by regarding as a
brother. On Trennahan's left Ila was intent upon the subjugation of a
younger brother of Mr. Washington, who had recently returned to San
Francisco after six years in Europe, and had knelt at her shrine at
once. He was wealthy, and she had made up her mind to marry him.
Trennahan she had given up during the summer. Had she not, she would
have known better than to pit her charms against Helena's. Magdaléna was
on the same side of the table.

Helena wore white, in which she looked her best; the silk softened with
much lace on the bust. She raised her eyes defiantly to Trennahan's.
Their coquetry had been ordered to the rear.

"We've got to talk, or look like idiots," she said. "I had made up my
mind never to speak to you again. I think you were quite too horrid the
other night."

"I certainly was."

"Was it your fault or mine?"

"Wholly mine--despite your fascinations."

"I wouldn't have been fascinating if I had known. I am glad you admit
that it was all your fault. It makes me believe that it was. What made
you keep it up for three hours?"

"The weakness of man."

"Is that what you told 'Léna?"

"No; it is not."

"What did you tell her--Oh, how horrid of me to ask! Let's talk about
something else. Do you like California better than New York?"

"It will take exactly eight minutes to exhaust that subject; I am an old
hand at it. So while I assure you that I do, and am giving my reasons,
please cast about for a subject to follow."

"My thinker is not good to-night. I expect you to take care of me."

"What greater delight! You are paler than you were. Are you not well?"

Trennahan's voice became tender from long habit. The softness and fire
sprang to Helena's eyes. The pink tide poured into her cheeks. A sudden
intense light sprang into Trennahan's eyes. It held hers for the
fraction of a moment, then both looked away; and ate their oysters.

It was Helena who spoke first. "Another moment, and we should have been
launched into the second chapter. But we are not to flirt; we understand
that thoroughly. I don't think, on second thoughts, that I should like
you at all. You have yourself too well in hand; you look as if you had
been through it all too many times; there isn't a bit of freshness about
you--Oh, bother, I hate lying! I'll tell you plainly and have done with
it,--I should be in love with you by this time if it were not for 'Léna.
That's not the way of older climes, but it's mine: I've got to talk out
or die. I've always said everything that occurred to me. Let's talk this
out, and then we'll never talk for two minutes alone again. If you had
not been in love with 'Léna, should you be in love with me by this
time?"

He put his fork down abruptly and turned to her. She shrank a little. "I
think we had better let that subject alone. As a product of older
climes, I am competent to judge."

"I must know. I will know. Tell me."

"Well, then, I should."

"As much as you are with 'Léna?"

"I should have been madder about you than I have been about any woman
for fifteen years."

"If you know that, how can you help it now?"

"There is such a thing as honour in men."

"That means that there is none in women? Well, I don't believe there is.
But honour does not keep a man from loving a woman."

He made no reply.

"Does it?"

"Are you mad about fire? Or is it your vanity that is insatiable?"

Again he met her eyes. And this time her face was as white as her gown.
Her bosom was heaving. Her skin was translucent. To Trennahan's suffused
vision she seemed bathed in white fire.

"I love you," he said hoarsely; "and I would give all the soul I've got
to have met you a year ago."




XIII


Talk about the complex heart of a woman. It is nothing to that of a man.

Trennahan had loved a good many women in a good many ways. Perhaps he
understood women as well as any man of his day: he had been bred by
women of the world, and his errant fancy had occasionally sent him into
other strata. He also thought that he knew himself. His mind, his heart,
his senses, the best and the worst in him, had been engaged so often and
so actively that he could have drawn diagrams of each, alone or in
combination, with accommodating types of woman. He also, without
generalising too freely, knew men, and he had spent ten years of his
life in diplomacy. But he now stood before himself as puzzled as he was
aghast.

If his grip upon himself had suddenly relaxed, and he had spent a wild
night with the wild young men of San Francisco, he should not have been
particularly surprised: he had been living on an exalted plane for the
last ten months. But that he loved Magdaléna with the love of his life,
that he realised in her some vague youthful ideal, that she was the
woman created for the better part of him, that his highest happiness was
to be found in her, he had never doubted from the minute he had finished
his long communion with himself and determined to marry her. And every
moment he had spent with her had strengthened the tie. Nothing about her
but had pleased him: her intellect, her pride, her reticence, her
difference from other women; even, after the first shock to his taste
was over, her lack of beauty. It was true that she had no great power
over his pulses, but he was tired of his pulses. She appealed to his
tenderness and deeper affections as no woman had done. Above all, she
had given him peace of mind; and she held his future in her hands.

And now?

Helena Belmont was that most dangerous rival of other women,--a girl
whom men loved desperately with no attendant loss of self-respect.
Whatever their passion, they felt a keen personal delight in the purity
of her mind; and they admired themselves the more that they appreciated
her cleverness. She was not only a woman to love but to idolise; she
gave even these prosaic San Francisco youths vague promptings to
distinguish themselves by some great and noble action, sending her
shafts straight through the American brain to those dumb inherited
instincts which had straggled down through the centuries from mediæval
ancestors. Her very selfishness--which she was pleased to call
Paganism--charmed them: it was one of the divine rights of the woman
born to rule men and to create a happiness for one unimagined by lesser
women. No man but idealised her, unfanciful as he might be, not so much
for her beauty or gifts, or for all combined, as because when she gave
herself it would be for the last as it was for the first time. As the
reader knows, there was nothing ideal about Helena. Even her
fastidiousness was natural in view of her upbringing. She was a most
practical young flirt, with a very distinct intention of having her own
way as long as she lived. The wealth and petting and adulation which had
surrounded her from birth had made a thorough-going egoist of her,
albeit a most charming one; for she was warm-hearted, impulsive,
generous, and kind--in her own way. Naturally the men for whom her
lovely eyes beamed welcome, for whom her tantalising mouth pouted into
smiles, thought her nothing short of a goddess, and were moved to
inarticulate rhyme.

       

Trennahan had met many more women who were beautiful, seductive,
dashing, and withal fastidious, than had these young men of a
cosmopolitan and still chaotic State; nevertheless, he might have been
Adam ranging the dreary solitudes of Paradise, facing about for the
first time upon the first woman. Helena was the type of woman for whom
such men as meet her have the strongest passion of their lives, if for
no other reason than because she induces an exaggeration of their best
faculties and a consequent exaltation of self-appreciation, as
distinguished from mere masculine self-sufficiency. Never is the briefly
favoured one so much of a man apart from a type, looking down upon that
type with pitying scorn. This is a mere matter of fascination, too
subtle, and composed of too many parts for man's analysis, but it is the
most telling force in the clashing of the sexes.

Trennahan was an extremely practical man. He called things by their
right names, and scorned to turn his head aside when life or himself was
to be looked squarely in the eye. It is true that he cursed himself for
a fool. He was neither in his youth nor in his dotage; he was in that
long intermediate period where a man may hope that his will and sound
common-sense are in their prime,--the interval of the minimum of
mistakes. Nevertheless, he was as madly in love with Helena Belmont as
was the first man with the first woman, as a boy with his first
mistress, an old man with his last. He admitted the fact and ordered his
brain to make the best of the situation.

He was not conscious of any change in his feelings for Magdaléna except
that he no longer desired to marry her. The sense of rest, of
comradeship, the tenderness and affection, had not abated. He was just
as sure that she was the woman for him to marry as he had been two weeks
ago; and he knew that he could not make a greater mistake than to marry
Helena Belmont. He believed that it would be years before she would be
capable of loving any man for any length of time. Such women not only
develop slowly, but they have too much to give, men too little. The
clever woman is abnormal in any case, being a divergence from the
original destiny of her sex. The woman who is beautiful, fascinating,
passionate, and clever is a development with which man has not kept
pace.

He spent the greater part of the three days following the dinner, on the
cliffs beyond the Golden Gate. There was no great moral battle going on
in his mind; he intended to marry Magdaléna. One of his pet theories was
that one secret of the rottenness underlying the social, and in natural
sequence, the political structure of the United States was the absence
of a convention. Men were on their knees to women so long as their
pleasure was materially abetted by the attitude; but the moment the
motive ceased to exist, any display of chivalry toward her would be as
useless and wasted as toward the ordinary run of women. It is always the
woman of the moment, never woman in general. The so-called chivalry of
American men does not exist; the misconception has arisen out of the
multitudinous examples of American subserviency to the individual
woman,--which is part of a habit of exaggeration natural to a youthful
nation. There is an utter absence of all responsibility that is not the
concomitant of personal desire.

The new country is full of good impulses with little to bind them
together. Children respect their parents if they feel like it, just as
they are polite when in a responsive mood, not through any sense of
convention. The American press is an exemplification of this absence of
noblesse oblige, and more particularly in its treatment of women. Even
when not moved by personal jealousy or spite, the total lack of respect
with which the American press treats women who have not in any way
challenged public opinion--society women with whom the public has no
concern, women upon whom either the misfortune of circumstances or of a
powerful individuality has fallen--is the most significant foreboding of
the degeneration of a national character while yet half grown. It is
individualism, which is a polite term for rampant selfishness, run mad,
a fussy contempt and hatred for the traditions of older nations.

Fifty years ago, when the United States was still so old-fashioned as to
be hardly "American," it was more or less bound together by the
conventions it had inherited from the great civilisations that begat it.
These conventions exist to-day only in men of the highest breeding,
those with six or eight generations behind them of refinement,
consequence, and fastidiousness in association. In these men, the
representatives of an aristocracy that is in danger of being crippled
and perhaps swamped by plutocracy, exists the convention which forces
the most deplorable degenerate of old-world aristocracy to manifest
himself a gentleman in every crucial test. So thoroughly did Trennahan
comprehend these facts, so profound was his contempt for the second-rate
men of his country, that he was almost self-conscious about his honour.
He would no more have asked Magdaléna to release him, nor have adopted
the still more contemptible method of forcing her to break the
engagement, than he would have been the ruin of an ignorant girl. But he
would have sacrificed every green blade in his soul to have met Helena
Belmont a year ago, and would have taken the chances with defiance and
the consequences without a murmur.

To marry Magdaléna in June was impossible. That he should ever cease to
desire Helena Belmont, to regret the very complete happiness which might
have been his for a few years, was a matter of doubt,--with even
possibilities. But there must be a long intermission before he could
marry another woman. His determination to leave California for a year
was fixed, but what excuse to offer Don Roberto and Magdaléna was the
question which beset him in all his waking hours and amid all his
torments.

During these three days he avoided seeing Magdaléna alone. On the
afternoon of the fourth day he came face to face with Helena Belmont in
the Mercantile Library.

She was leaving as he entered. They looked at each other for a moment,
then without a word both walked toward a room at the right of the door.

This was a long narrow apartment leading off the great room, and was
darker, dustier, gloomier, grimmer. As the building stood almost against
another of equal height, its side windows looked upon blank walls; but
some measure of grey light was coaxed down from the narrow strip above
by means of reflectors. The walls were lined with old books bound in
calf black with age, and in the centre was a long narrow table which
looked as if it should have a coffin on it. This room had depressed many
cheerful lovers in its time; it was enough to drive tormented souls to
suicide.

Trennahan and Helena sat down in an angle where they were least likely
to be seen.

"What are you going to do?" asked Helena.

"I am going away for a year as soon as I can invent a decent excuse."

"Then shall you come back and marry 'Léna?"

"Yes."

