"Doris told you all her news, I suppose?"
"She read me her letter. Cary seems to be in good spirits and position.
He spoke very highly of Lieutenant Hawthorne."
"The accounts seem very satisfactory."
Then they went out to the quiet supper. A meal was not the same without
Doris.
All the evening he had remained in his room, reading his son's letter
more than once and lapsing into deep thought over it. He heard the
greetings now, and came out, inquiring after the folks in Sudbury
Street, sitting down on the step and listening with evident pleasure to
Doris' eager chat. It was bedtime when they dispersed.
"Uncle Win," Doris said the next morning, "there is a page in my letter
I would like you to read. And do you think I might go home with Eudora
and take dinner at Madam Royall's? Cary sent them some messages."
"Yes, child," he made answer.
They were indeed very glad, but like Betty they could not help wishing
he had been on the famous Constitution. Alice was particularly
interested, and said she should watch the career of the United States.
After that the ice seemed broken and no one hesitated to mention Cary.
But Mr. Winthrop said to Doris:
"My dear child, will you give me this leaf of your letter. I know Cary
did not mean it for my eyes, but it is very precious to me. Doris, how
comes it that you find the way to everybody's heart?"
"And you will forgive him, Uncle Win? He was so brave----" Her voice
trembled.
"I have forgiven him, Doris. If I should never see him again,--you are
young and most likely will,--assure him there never was a moment that I
ceased to love him. Perhaps I have not taken as much pains to understand
him as I might have. I suppose different influences act upon the new
generation. If we should both live to welcome him back----"
"Oh, we must, Uncle Win."
"If he has you----" Oh, what was he saying?
"You will both have me. I shall stay here always."
He stooped and kissed her.
The other alternative, that Cary might not return, they banished
resolutely. But it drew them nearer together in unspoken sympathy.
Everybody noted how thin and frail-looking Mr. Adams had grown. Doris
became his constant companion. She had a well-trained horse now, and
they rode a good deal. Or they walked down Washington street, where
there were some pretty shops, and met promenaders. They sauntered about
Cornhill, where Uncle Win picked up now and then an odd book, and they
discovered strange things that had belonged to the Old Boston of a
hundred years agone. There was quite an art gallery in Cornhill kept by
Dogget & Williams--the nucleus of great things to come. It was quite the
fashion for young ladies to drop in and exercise their powers of budding
criticism or love of art. Now and then someone lent a portrait of
Smibert's or Copley's, or you found some fine German or English
engravings. An elder person generally accompanied the younger people.
The law students, released from their labors, or the young society men,
would walk home beside the chaperone, but talk to the maidens.
Then Uncle Winthrop committed a piece of great extravagance, everybody
said--especially in such times as these, when the British might take and
destroy Boston. This was buying a pianoforte. Madam Royall approved, for
Doris was learning to play very nicely. An old German musician, Gottlieb
Graupner, who was quite a visitor at the Royall house, had imported it
for a friend who had been nearly ruined by war troubles and was
compelled to part with it. Mr. Graupner and a knot of musical friends
used to meet Saturday evenings in old Pond Street, and with a few
instruments made a sort of orchestra. As a very great favor, friends
were occasionally invited in.
There was a new organist at Trinity Church, a Mr. Jackson, who was
trying to bring in the higher class cathedral music. The choir of Park
Street Church, some fifty in number, was considered one of the great
successes of the day, and people flocked to hear it. Puritan music had
been rather doleful and depressing.
There was quite a discussion as to where the piano should stand. They
had very little call to use the parlor in winter. Uncle Winthrop's
friends generally visited him in the study. The spacious hall was the
ordinary living-room, and Doris begged that it might be kept here--for
the winter, at least.
Oh, what a cheerful sound the music made in the old house! Uncle Win
would bring out a book of poems, often Milton's "L'Allegro" and half
read, half listen, to the entrancing combination. Dinah declared "It
was like de w'ice ob de Angel Gabriel hisself." Miss Recompense enjoyed
the grand old hymns that brought back her childhood.
Solomon at first made a vigorous protest. He seemed jealous of the
pretty fingers gliding over the keys, and would spring up to cover them
or rest on her arms. But when he found he was banished to the kitchen
every evening, he began to consider and presently gave in. He would sit
beside Uncle Win in dignified protest, looking very "dour," as a
Scotchman would say.
And then the country was electrified with the news of another great
victory. Off the Canary Islands, Captain Decatur, with the frigate
United States, met the Macedonian, one of the finest of the British
fleet. The fight had been at close quarters with terrific broadsides.
After an hour and a half, with her fighting force disabled, the
Macedonian struck her colors. Her loss in men killed and wounded was
over one hundred, and the United States lost five killed and seven
wounded.
The American vessel brought her prize and prisoners into port amid
general acclaim. The Macedonian was repaired and added to the
fast-increasing navy, that was rapidly winning a world-wide reputation.
And when she came up to New York early in January with "The compliments
of the season," there was great rejoicing. Samuel Woodworth, printer and
poet, wrote the song of the occasion, and Calvert, another poet,
celebrated the event in an ode.
Captain Carden was severely censured by his own government, as Captain
Dacres had been, for not going down with flying colors instead of
allowing his flag to be captured and his ship turned to the enemy's
advantage. Instead of jeering at the navy of "pine boards and striped
bunting," it was claimed the American vessels were of superior size and
armament and met the British at unfair advantage, and that they were
largely manned by English sailors.
There was an enthusiastic note from Cary. He was well, and it had been a
glorious action. Captain Carden had been a brave gentleman, and he said
regretfully, "Oh, why do we have to fight these heroic men!"
But Betty had the letter of triumph this time. Mrs. King was a
delightful correspondent, though she was always imploring Betty to join
her.
There had been a ball and reception given to several naval officers who
were soon to go away. The President, engaged with some weighty affairs,
had not come in yet, but the Secretary of the Navy, Mr. Hamilton, and no
end of military and naval men, in gold lace and epaulettes and gleaming
swords, were present, and beautiful, enthusiastic women in shimmering
silks and laces. One did not have to get a new gown for every occasion
in those days.
There was a little lull in the dancing. Mrs. Madison, who was charmingly
affable, was seated with a group of men about her, when there was a stir
in the hall, and a sudden thrill of expectancy quivered through the
apartment. Ensign Hamilton, son of the Secretary, and several midshipmen
entered, and the young man went straight to his father with the captured
flag of the Macedonian. Such a cheer as rent the air! Ladies wiped
their eyes and then waved their handkerchiefs in the wild burst of joy.
They held the flag over the heads of the chief officer while the band
played "Hail, Columbia!" Then it was laid at the feet of Mrs. Madison,
who accepted it in the name of the country with a charming and graceful
speech. Afterward it was festooned on the wall with the flag of the
Guerriere.
"So, you see, Cary has been the hero of a great victory," said Betty
enthusiastically; "but we all wish it had been 'off Boston Light'
instead of on the distant ocean. And it is a shame not to be in
Washington. Electa seems to be going everywhere and seeing everything,
'in spite of her being the mother of four children,' as Aunt Priscilla
says. And the ladies dress so beautifully. We shall come to be known as
'plain Boston' presently."
There was no Worth or Pingat to charge enormous prices. Patterns were
passed around. Ladies went visiting and took their sleeves along to
make, or their ruffles to plait, and altered over their brocades and
paduasoys and crapes, and some darned Brussels "footing" until it was
transformed into really handsome lace. They could clean their feathers
and ribbons, and one wonders how they found time for so many things.
They were very good letter writers too. Dolly Madison and Mrs. Adams are
fresh and interesting to-day.
But Boston could rejoice, nevertheless. To the little girl Cary was
invested with the attributes of a hero. He even looked different to her
enchanted eyes.
Uncle Win used to smile with grave softness when she chattered about
him. At first it had given him a heartache to hear Cary's name
mentioned, but now it was like a strain of comforting music. Only he
wondered how he ever would have lived without the little girl from Old
Boston.
She used to play and sing "Hail, Columbia!"--for people were patriotic
then. But the sweetest of all were the old-fashioned ones that his wife
had sung as a young girl, daintily tender love songs. Sometimes he tried
them with her, but his voice sounded to himself like a pale ghost out of
the past, yet it still had a mournful sweetness.
But with the rejoicing we had many sorrows. Our northern frontier
warfare had been full of defeats; 1813 opened with various misfortunes.
Ports were blockaded, business dropped lower and lower. Still social
life went on, and in a tentative way intellectual life was making some
progress.
The drama was not neglected either. The old Boston Theater gave several
stirring representations that to-day would be called quite realistic.
One was the capture of the Guerriere with officers, sailors and
marines, and songs that aroused drooping patriotism. Perhaps the young
people of that time enjoyed it as much as their grandchildren did "H. M.
S. Pinafore."
Doris liked the rare musical entertainments. People grew quite used to
seeing Mr. Winthrop Adams with the pretty, bright, growing girl, who
might have been his daughter. It was a delight to her when anyone made
the mistake. Occasionally an old gentleman remembered her grandfather,
and the little boy Charles who went to England.
Then in the early summer Mrs. King came on for a visit, and brought her
eldest child Bessy, a bright, well-trained little girl.
There had been a good deal of trouble at the Mannings', and grandmother
had gone back and forth, making it very confining for Betty. Crops had
proved poor in the autumn; the children had the measles and Mrs. Manning
a run of fever. Elizabeth had taken a cold in the early fall and had a
troublesome cough all winter. Mrs. Leverett wanted to bring her home for
a rest, but Mrs. Manning could not spare her, with all the summer work,
and the warm weather would set her up, she was quite sure.
The country was drawing a brief breath of relief. There had been the
magnificent victories on the Lakes and some on the land, and now and
then came cheering news of naval successes. Everybody was in better
spirits. Mrs. King seemed to bring a waft of hope from the Capital
itself, and the Leverett house was quite enlivened with callers.
Invitations came in for dinners and suppers and evening parties. Madam
Royall quite claimed her on the strength of the Adams relation, and also
Doris, who was such a favorite. Doris and little Bessy fraternized at
once, and practiced a duet for the entertainment of Uncle Winthrop, who
praised them warmly.
She planned to take Betty back to New York with her.
"But I can't go," declared Betty. "Warren must not be taxed any more
heavily, so there would be no hope of having help, and mother cannot be
left alone."
"Is there any objection to Mercy coming? Why doesn't Warren marry? That
would relieve you all. I suppose it is best for young people to have a
home by themselves, but if it isn't possible--and I'd like to know how
we are going to get along in heaven if we can't agree with each other
here on earth!" Mrs. King inquired.
"That sounds like father," said Betty laughingly, yet the tears came to
her eyes. "Poor father! He did not suppose we would have such hard
times. If the war would only end. You see,"--after a pause,--"we are not
quite sure of Aunt Priscilla. She's changed and softened wonderfully,
and she and mother get along so well. She insisted upon paying a
generous board, and she was good to Warren."
"I must talk it over with mother. There is no need of having your life
spoiled, Betty."
For Betty was a very well-looking girl, arch and vivacious, and her
harvest time of youth must not be wasted. Mrs. King was really glad she
had no entanglement.
Mrs. Leverett had no objections to a speedy marriage If Mercy could be
content. Warren had thought if he could be prosperous he would like to
buy out Betty's share if she married. "And my share will be mine as
long as I live," added the mother. "But Warren is fond of the old house,
and Hollis has a home of his own. You girls will never want it."
Warren was delighted with what he called "Lecty's spunk." For Aunt
Priscilla agreed quite readily. It was dull for Betty with two old
people. Mercy would have her husband.
So the wedding day was appointed. Mercy had been a year getting ready.
Girls began soon after they were engaged. Mrs. Gilman was rather afraid
the thing wouldn't work, but she was sure Mercy was good tempered, and
she had been a good daughter.
They made quite a "turning round." Mrs. Leverett went upstairs to
Betty's room, which adjoined Aunt Priscilla's, and she gave some of her
furniture for the adornment of the bridal chamber.
It was a very quiet wedding with a few friends and a supper. At nine
o'clock the new wife went to Sudbury Street. Mrs. Gilman had some rather
strict ideas, and declared it was no time for frolicking when war was at
our very door, and no one knew what might happen, and hundreds of
families were in pinching want.
Mercy was up the next morning betimes and assisted her new mother with
the breakfast. Warren went down to his shop. But they had quite an
elaborate tea drinking at the Leveretts', and some songs and games in
the evening. Mercy did enjoy the wider life.
Mrs. Manning had come in for the wedding and a few days' stay, though
she didn't see how she could be spared just now, and things would get
dreadfully behindhand. Mrs. King was to go home with her and make a
little visit. Bessy thought she would rather stay with Doris, and she
was captivated with the Royall House and Eudora. The children never
seemed in the way of the grown people there, and if elderly men talked
politics and city improvements,--quite visionary, some thought
them,--the young people with Alice and Helen had the garden walks and
the wide porch, and discussed the enjoyments of the time with the zest
of enthusiastic inexperience but keen delight.
CHAPTER XXI
ELIZABETH AND--PEACE
Mrs. King brought back Elizabeth Manning, a pale, slim ghost of a girl,
tall for her age--indeed, really grown up, her mother said. Of the three
girls Bessy King had the most indications of the traditional country
girl. A fine clear skin, pink cheeks and a plump figure, and an
inexhausible flow of spirits, ready for any fun or frolic.
Doris was always well, but she had the Adams complexion, which was
rather pale, with color when she was warm, or enthusiastic or indignant.
The pink came and went like a swift summer cloud.
"I do declare," exclaimed Aunt Priscilla, "if 'Lecty King doesn't beat
all about getting what she wants, and making other people believe they
want it, too! Warren might as well have been married in the winter, and
Mercy would have been company for Betty. She never liked to run out and
leave me alone. Mercy seems a nice, promising body, and Warren might as
well be happy and settled as not. And 'Lecty's been to Washington and
dined with the President and Mrs. Madison, and I'll venture to say there
was something the President's wife consulted her about. And all the big
captains and generals, and what not! And here's the quality of Boston
running after her and asking her out just as if we had nothing to feed
her on at home. She don't do anything, fursisee, but just look smiling
and talk. But my opinion is that Elizabeth Manning hasn't a very long
journey to the graveyard. I don't see what Mary's been thinking about."
Mrs. King took her niece to Dr. Jackson, one of the best medical
authorities of that day, and he looked the young girl over with his keen
eyes.
"If you want the real truth," said the doctor, "she has had too much
east wind and too much hard work. The children of this generation are
not going to stand what their mothers did. A bad cold or two next winter
will finish her, but with care and no undue exposure she may live
several years. But she will never reach the three score and ten that
every human being has a right to."
Uncle Winthrop sent the carriage around every day to the Leveretts'.
They had given up theirs before Mr. Leverett's death. He and Doris took
their morning horseback rides and scoured the beautiful country places
for miles around, until Doris knew every magnificent tree or unusual
shrub or queer old house and its history. These hours were a great
delight to him.
Elizabeth had often gone down to Salem town, but her time was so brief
and there was so much to do that she "couldn't bother." And she wondered
how Doris knew about the shops in Essex Street and Federal Street and
Miss Rust's pretty millinery show, and Mr. John Innes' delicate French
rolls and braided bread, and Molly Saunders' gingerbread that the school
children devoured, and the old Forrester House with its legends and fine
old pictures and the lovely gardens, the wharves with their idle fleets
that dared not put out to sea for fear of being swallowed up by the
enemy.
Uncle Winthrop had taken her several times when some business had called
him thither. But, truth to tell, she had never cared to repeat her
visit to Mrs. Manning's.
The piano was like a bit of heaven, Elizabeth thought, the first time
she came over to visit Doris.
"Oh," she said, with a long sigh, pressing her hand on her heart, for
the deep breaths always hurt her, "if I was only prepared to go to
heaven I shouldn't want to stay here a day longer. When they sing about
'eternal rest' it seems such a lovely thing, and to 'lay your burdens
down.' But then there's 'the terrors of the law,' and the 'judgments to
come,' and the great searching of the hearts and reins--do you know just
what the reins are?"
No, Doris didn't. Heaven had always seemed a lovely place to her and God
like a father, only grander and tenderer than any human father could be.
Then they talked about praying, and it came out that Doris said her
mother's prayers still in French and her father's in English.
"Oh," exclaimed Elizabeth, horrified, "I shouldn't dare to pray to God
in French--it would seem like a mockery. And 'Now I lay me down to
sleep' is just a baby prayer, and really isn't pouring out your own soul
to God."
Doris asked Uncle Winthrop about it.
"My child," he said with grave sweetness, "you can never say any better
prayers of your own. The Saviour himself gave us the comprehensive
Lord's Prayer. And are all the nations of the earth who cannot pray in
English offering God vain petitions? You will find as you grow older
that no earnest soul ever worships God in vain, and that religion is a
life-long work. I am learning something new about it every day. And I
think God means us to be happy here on earth. He doesn't save all the
joys for heaven. He has given me one," and he stooped and kissed Doris
on the forehead. "Poor Elizabeth," he added--"make her as happy as you
can!"
When Mrs. King proposed to take Betty to New York for the whole of the
coming winter there was consternation, but no one could find a valid
objection. It was a somewhat expensive journey, and winter was a very
enjoyable season in the city. Then another year something new might
happen to prevent--there was no time like the present.
No one had the courage to object, though they did not know how to spare
her. Aunt Priscilla sighed and brought out some beautiful long-laid-away
articles that Electa declared would make over admirably.
"Where do you suppose Aunt Priscilla picked up all these elegant
things?" asked Electa. "I never remember seeing her wear them, though
she always dressed well, but severely plain. And Uncle Perkins was quite
strict about the pomps and vanities of the world."
And so Aunt Priscilla put away the last of her idols and the life she
had coveted and never had. But perhaps the best of all was her
consideration for others, the certainty that it was quite as well to
begin some of the virtues of the heavenly world here on earth that they
might not seem strange to one.
Mrs. Manning sent in for Elizabeth.
"Well--you do seem like a different girl," her father declared, looking
her over from head to foot. "You've had a good rest now, and you'll have
to turn in strong and hearty, for Sarah's gone, and Ruth isn't big
enough to take hold of everything. So hunt up your things while I'm
doing some trading."
Elizabeth only had time for the very briefest farewells. Mrs. King sent
a little note containing the doctor's verdict, but Mrs. Manning was
indignant rather than alarmed.
It was lonesome when they were all gone. Eudora Chapman went to a
"finishing school" this autumn, and Doris accompanied her--poor Doris,
who had not mastered fractions, and whose written arithmetic could not
compare with Betty's. She had achieved a pair of stockings after
infinite labor and trouble. They did look rowy, being knit tighter and
looser. But Aunt Priscilla gave her a pair of fine merino that she had
kept from the ravages of the moths. Miss Recompense declared that she
had no one else to knit for.
There were expert knitters who made beautiful silk stockings, and Uncle
Winthrop said buying helped along trade, so why should Doris worry when
there were so many more important matters?
The little girl and her uncle kept track of what was going on in the
great world. Napoleon the invincible had been driven back from Russia by
cold and famine, forced to yield by the great coalition and losing step
by step until he was compelled to accept banishment. Then England
redoubled her efforts, prepared to carry on the war with us vigorously.
Towns on the Chesapeake were plundered and burned, and General Ross
entered Washington, from which Congress and the President's family had
fled for their lives. America was again horror stricken, but gathering
all her energies she made such a vigorous defense as to convince her
antagonist that though cast down she could never be wholly defeated.
But this attack gave us the inspiration of one of our finest deathless
songs. A Mr. Francis S. Key, a resident of Georgetown, had gone down
from Baltimore with a flag of truce to procure the release of a friend
held as prisoner of war, when the bombardment of Fort McHenry began. All
day long he watched the flag as it floated above the ramparts. Night
came on and it was still there. And at midnight he could see it only by
"the rockets' red glare," while he and his friends tremulously inquired
if the "flag still waved o'er the Land of the Free." Oh, what joy must
have been his when it "caught the gleam of the morning's first beam." He
had put the night watch and the dawn in a song that is still an
inspiration.
And now convinced, the enemy withdrew. There were talks of peace, though
we did not abate our energies. And the indications of a settlement
brought about another wedding at the Royall house.
Miss Alice had been a great favorite with the young men, and her ardent
patriotism had inspired more than one, as it had Cary Adams, with a
desire to rush to his country's defense. There were admirers too, but
most of them had been kept at an intangible distance. At last she had
yielded to the eloquence of young Oliver Sargent, who was in every way
acceptable. Grandmother Royall expected to give her an elegant wedding
along in the winter.
The Government was to send out another commissioner to consult with
those already at Ghent, and Mr. Sargent had been offered the post of
private secretary. He was to sail from New York, but he obtained leave
to spend a few days in Boston to attend to some affairs. He went at once
to Madam Royall and laid his plans before her. He wanted to marry Alice
and take her with him, as he might be gone a long while. Alice was
nothing loath, for the journey abroad was extremely tempting.
But what could one do in such a few days? And wedding clothes----
"Save the wedding gear until we come back," said the impatient young
lover. "Alice can get clothes enough abroad."
It was quite a new departure in a wedding. Invitations were always sent
out by hand, even for small evening parties, and often verbally given. A
private marriage would not have suited old Madam Royall. So the house
was crowded at eleven in the morning, and the bride came through the
wide hall in a mulberry-colored satin gown and pelisse that had been
made two weeks before for ordinary autumn wear. But her bonnet was white
with long streamers, and her gloves were white, and she made a very
attractive bride, while young Sargent was manly and looked proud enough
for a king. At twelve they went away with no end of good wishes, and an
old slipper was thrown after the carriage.
Mrs. Morris Winslow had two babies, and was already growing stout. But
the departure of Alice made a great break.
"But it is the way of the world and the way of God that young people
should marry," said Madam Royall. "I was very happy myself."
"Oh," exclaimed Doris eagerly that evening, her eyes aglow and her
cheeks pink with excitement--"oh, Uncle Win, do you think there will be
peace?"
"My little girl, it is my prayer day and night."
"And then Cary will come home."
It had been a long while since they had heard. Cary had been transferred
from the United States, that had lain blockaded in a harbor many weary
weeks. But where he was now no one could tell.
People began to take heart though the fighting had not ceased. And it
was odd that a dozen years before everybody had looked askance at
dancing, and now no one hesitated to give a dancing party. The
contra-dance and cotillions were all the rage. Sometimes there was great
amusement when it was a draw dance, for then you had to accept your
partner whether or no.
Whole families went, grandmothers and grandchildren. There were cards
and conversation circles for those who did not care to join the mazy
whirls. And the suppers were quite elegant, with brilliant lamps and
flowers, plate and glass that had come through generations. Fruits and
melons were preserved as long as possible, and a Turkish band in fine
Oriental costume was often a feature of the entertainment.
Doris had charming letters from Betty, a little stilted we should call
them now, but very interesting. Mr. King was confident of peace. Doris
used to read them to Aunt Priscilla, who said Betty was very frivolous,
but that she always had a good time, and perhaps good times were not as
wicked as people used to think.
Mrs. Leverett went to Salem in November. Her namesake had taken a cold
and had some fever, and she asked for grandmother continually. Mercy did
finely at housekeeping, and so the weeks ran along, the invalid being
better, then worse, and just before Christmas the frail little life
floated out to the Land of Rest.
"Oh, poor little Elizabeth!" cried Doris. "If she could have been real
happy! But there never seemed any time. Uncle Win, they are not so poor
that they have to work so hard, are they?"
"No, dear. Mr. Manning has money out at interest, besides his handsome
farm. But a great many people think there is solid virtue in working and
saving. I suppose it makes them happy."
Doris was puzzled. She said the same thing to Aunt Priscilla, who took
off her glasses, rubbed them with a bit of old silk and wiped the tears
out of her eyes.
"I think we haven't had quite the right end of it," she began after a
pause. "I was brought up that way. But then people had to spin and weave
for themselves, and help the men with the out-of-doors work. The
children dropped corn, and potatoes, and there was always weeding. There
was so much spring work and fall work, and folks couldn't be
comfortable if they saw a child playing 'cat's cradle.' They did think
Satan was going about continually to catch up idle hands. Well maybe if
I'd had children I'd 'a' done the same way."
"Oh, you wouldn't, Aunt Priscilla, I know," said Doris with the sweetest
faith shining in her eyes. "Elizabeth thought you such a comfortable old
lady. She said you never worried at anyone."
"That is because I have come to believe the worrying wrong. The Lord
didn't worry at people. He told them what to do and then he let them
alone. And Foster Leverett was about the best man I ever knew. He didn't
even worry when times were so bad. Everybody said his children would be
spoiled. They were out sledding and sliding and skating, and playing tag
in summer. They've made nice men and women."
"Oh, I remember how friendly he looked that day he came on the vessel.
And how he said to Captain Grier, 'Is there a little girl for me that
has come from Old Boston?' He might have said something else, you know.
'A little girl for me' was such a sweet welcome, I have never forgotten
it."
"Yes--I was here the night you came. We had been waiting. And the red
cloak and big bonnet with the great bow under your chin, and a silk
frock----"
"Did I look very queer?" Doris laughed softly.
"You looked like a picture, though that wan't my idea of what children
should be."
"Miss Recompense has them put away to keep. I outgrew them, you know.
What would you have done with me?"
Aunt Priscilla's pale face wrinkled up and then smoothed out.
"I've come to the conclusion the Lord knows his business best and is
capable of attending to it. When we meddle we make a rather poor fist
of it. Betty has a lot of morning-glories out there," nodding her head,
"and I said to her 'They're poor frail things: why not put out a hop
vine or red beans? They can't stand a bit of sun, like Jonah's gourd.'
But she only laughed--her father had that way when he didn't want to
argue. When they came to bloom they were sights to behold, like the
early morning when the sun is rising, and you see such beautiful colors.
They used to nod to each other and swing back and forth, like people
coming to call, then they said good-by and were off. The Lord meant 'em
just to look pretty and they did."
"Uncle Win likes them so much. Miss Recompense had a whole lattice full
of them. Oh, did you mean I was like a morning glory? Haven't I some
other uses?"
"You're always fresh and blossoming every day. That's a use. You come in
with a little greeting that warms one's heart. You were a great delight
to Uncle Leverett, and I don't know what Uncle Winthrop would have done
without you, Cary being away. And how Solomon took to you, when he was
awful shy of strangers! He must have liked you uncommon to be willing to
stay in a strange place, for cats cannot bear to be moved about. Maybe
'twould been the same if you had not been so pretty to look at, but the
Lord made you the way he wanted you, and you haven't spoiled yourself a
bit."
Doris blushed. Compliments were quite a new thing with Aunt Priscilla.
"What would you have done with me?" Doris asked again, after a long
pause.
"You won't like to hear it. I ought to confess it because it was a sin,
a sort of meddling with the Lord's plans. You see, I'd taken it in my
head that someone would have to give you a home. It didn't seem as if
that old ma'shland would be good for anything, and I knew your father
wasn't rich. Winthrop Adams was one of the finicky kind and quite put
about to know what to do with you. So I thought if there didn't any
place open, for Elizabeth Leverett was quite wrapped up in her
grandchildren, that"--hesitatingly--"when things were straightened out a
bit, I'd offer----"
"That would have been good of you----"
"No, it wasn't goodness," interrupted Aunt Priscilla. "I thought I
should want someone, with Polly getting old. I'd have expected you to
work, though I'd have done the fair thing by you, and left you some
money in the end. I was a little jealous when everybody took to you so.
I was sure you'd be spoiled. And, though you've got that music thing and
go among the quality, and are pretty as a pink, and Winthrop Adams
thinks you a nonesuch, you come in here in plain everyday fashion and
talk and read and make it sunshiny for everybody. So, you see, the Lord
knew, and it is just as if he said, 'Priscilla Perkins, your way doesn't
suit at all. There's something in the world besides work and saving
money. There's room enough in the world for a hill of potatoes and a
morning-glory made of silk and dew if it doesn't bloom but just one
morning. It's a smile, and there are others to follow, and it is a
thousand times better than frowns.'"
"And if there had been no money, and I had wanted a home, would you have
given me one?" she asked in a soft, tremulous tone.
"Yes, child. And I couldn't have worked you quite like poor little
Elizabeth was worked. I didn't think there was so much money, or that
that lady in England would have left you a legacy or that Winthrop Adams
would come to believing that he couldn't live without you."
"Then you were kind to have a plan about it, and I am glad to know it."
She had been sitting on Aunt Priscilla's footstool, but she rose and
twined her arms about the shrunken neck, and kissed the wrinkled
forehead. She saw a homeless little girl going to sheltering care, with
a kindly remembrance at the last. Someone else might have thought of the
exactions.
"You make the thing look better than it was," Aunt Priscilla cried with
true humility. "But the Lord put you in the right place."
She saw the mean and selfish desire, the wish to get rid of a faithful
old woman who might prove a burden. It was a sin like the finery she had
longed for and bought and laid away. She had not worn the finery, she
had not sent away the poor black soul, she had not been a hard
taskmistress to the child, but early training had added the weight of
possible sins to the actual ones.
Christmas morning Doris was surprised by a lovely gift. In a small box
by her plate, with best wishes from Uncle Winthrop, lay a watch and
chain, a dainty thing with just "Doris" on the plain space in the center
that overlay another name that had once been there. It had undergone
some renovation at the jeweler's hands, after lying untouched more than
twenty years. Winthrop Adams had kept it for a possible granddaughter,
but he knew now no one could cherish it more tenderly than Doris.
January, 1815, came in. People counted the days. But it was not until
the middle of February that Boston town was one morning electrified by
the ringing of bells and the shouts of men and boys, who ran along the
streets crying "Peace! Peace! Peace!" Windows were raised; people ran
out, so eager were they. Of all glorious words ever uttered none fell
with such music on the air. Could it be true?
Uncle Winthrop put on his surtout with the great fur collar. Then he
looked at Doris.
"Wrap yourself up and come along," he said huskily.
Already people were hanging flags out of the windows and stringing them
across the streets. Every sled and sleigh had some sort of banner, if
nothing more than white or brown paper with the five welcome letters,
and everybody was shouting. Some men were carrying high banners with the
words in blue or red on a white ground. When they came to State Street
it was impassable. Cornhill was jammed. The Evening Gazette office had
the announcement, thirty-two hours from New York (there was no telegraph
or railroad train then):
     "Sir: I hasten to acquaint you for the information of the public of
     the arrival here this afternoon of H. Br. M. sloop of war
     Favorite, in which has come passenger Mr. Carroll, American
     Messenger, having in his possession A Treaty of Peace."
They passed that word from the nearest, standing by the bulletin, to the
farther circles, and in five minutes the crowd knew it by heart. On the
Commons the drums were beating, the cannons firing, and people shouting
themselves hoarse.
Mr. Adams went around to the Royall house, and that looked like a hotel
on a gala day, and was nearly as full of people. The treaty had been
signed on Christmas Eve. The President had now to issue a decree
suspending hostilities. But one of the most brilliant battles had been
fought on the 8th of January at New Orleans, under General Jackson--a
farewell shot.
For a week no one could think or talk of anything else. Then the
official accounts having been received from Washington, there were plans
for a grand procession. An oratorio was given at the Stone Chapel in the
morning. Madam Royall had managed to obtain seats for Mr. Winthrop and
Doris with her party. The church was crowded. American and British
officers in full uniform were side by side,--as happy to be at peace as
the rulers themselves,--chatting cordially with each other.
The State House was decorated with transparencies, and there were to be
fireworks in the evening. The procession marched around the Common, with
the different trades drawn on sleds. Printers struck off hand-bills with
the word "Peace!" printed on them and distributed them among the crowd.
The carpenters were erecting a Temple of Peace. The papermakers had long
strips of red, white, and blue: every trade had hit upon some
signification of the general joy.
Uncle Win sent Cato round for Mercy and Warren Leverett to come to tea,
and then they went out to see the illumination and the fireworks. Old
Boston had suffered a great deal from the war, and her rejoicing was as
broad as her sorrow had been deep.
As if that was not enough, there was to be a grand Peace Ball. The
gentry did not so often patronize public balls, but this was an
exception. Uncle Winthrop procured a ticket for Warren and his wife.
Mrs. Gilman was shocked, and Mercy like a modern woman declared she had
nothing to wear. But Aunt Priscilla brought out her last remnant of
gorgeousness, a gray satin that looked very youthful draped with sheer
white.
"I feel just as if I was going to be married over again," Mercy declared
laughingly; and Warren said she had never looked so beautiful.
Uncle Winthrop left Doris' adornments to Madam Royall and Mrs. Chapman.
She and Eudora had the same kind of gowns--sheer, dotted muslin trimmed
with rows of white satin ribbon, and the bodice with frills of lace and
bows of ribbon.
The hairdresser did her hair in a multitude of puffs and curls that made
her look quite like a young lady. She was still very slim, but growing
tall rapidly. In fact, as Uncle Winthrop looked at her he realized that
she could not always remain a little girl.
Concert Hall was brilliantly illuminated and decorated with flags and
flowers. A platform surrounded the floor, and many people preferred to
be spectators or just join in the march. There were some naval as well
as military officers, and Doris kept a sharp watch, for it almost seemed
as if she might come upon Cary. Oh, where would he hear the declaration
of peace!
The dancing was quite delightful to most of the young people. Even those
who just walked about, looked happy, and little knots chatted and
smiled, adding a certain interest to the scene. The supper was very
fine, and after that many of the quality retired, leaving the floor to
those who had come to dance.
Doris looked bright the next morning as she came to breakfast in her
blue flannel frock and lace tucker, and her hair tied up high with a red
ribbon, which with her white skin "made the American colors," Helen
Chapman said.
"I am glad to get back my little girl," Uncle Winthrop exclaimed, as he
placed his hands lightly on her shoulders. "You looked strange to me
last night. Doris, how tall you are growing!" in half-surprise.
"That is an Adams trait, Aunt Priscilla would say. And do you remember
that I am fifteen?"
"Isn't there some way that girls can be set back?" he asked with feigned
anxiety.
"I've heard of their being set back after they reached thirty or forty,"
said Miss Recompense.
"I don't want to wait so long," returned Uncle Winthrop with a smile.
"There were some beautiful old ladies there last night," said Doris.
"The one with black velvet and diamonds--Madam Bowdoin. Is that Aunt
Priscilla's friend?"
"I suppose so. Mr. Perkins was held in high esteem, and Aunt Priscilla
used to go about in her carriage then."
"And Madam Scott! Uncle Win, to think she was John Hancock's wife, and
he signed the Declaration of Independence!"
"And after that I wouldn't have married anybody," declared Miss
Recompense with haughty stiffness.
The enthusiasm did not die out at once. When men or women met they had
to talk over the good news. Warren Leverett declared that business was
reviving. Mercy told Uncle Winthrop that she had never expected to see
so many famous people under such grand conditions as a Peace Ball, and
that it would be something to talk about when she was an old lady. Aunt
Priscilla listened to the accounts with deep interest.
"And I looked like a real young lady," said Doris. "I was frightened
when I came to think about it. I would like to stay a little girl for
years and years. But I would not have missed the ball for anything. I do
not believe there will ever be such a grand occasion again."
CHAPTER XXII
CARY ADAMS
It took a good while in those days for the news of peace to go around
the world. But there was a general reign of peace. The European
countries had mostly settled their difficulties; there was royalty
proper again on the throne of France. Napoleon swept through his hundred
brilliant days, and was banished for life to the rocky isle of St.
Helena; the young King of Rome was a virtual prisoner to Austria, and
Russia and Prussia began to breathe freely once more.
The United States had won a standing among the nations. Her indomitable
courage, her successes against tremendous odds, had impressed Europe
with her vitality and determination.
One by one the ships came back to home ports. Mr. Adams and Doris
watched and listened to every bit of news eagerly.
The old apothecary's shop on Washington Street, to begin a famous
history a decade later as "The Old Corner Bookstore," was even then a
rendezvous for the news of the day. People paused going up and down, and
each one added his bit to the general fund, or took with him the
knowledge he was eagerly seeking.
And when someone said, "Heard from your son yet, Mr. Adams?" he could
only make a negative gesture.
"If there isn't some word of Cary Adams soon, his father will never live
to welcome him home," said Madam Royall to her daughter. "He grows
thinner every day. What a perfect Godsend Doris has been!"
Madam Royall was hale and hearty though she had lived through many
sorrows.
The coveted news came first from Betty. She had written a letter to send
by a private messenger, and opened it to add this postscript:
"Mr. Bowen is waiting for this letter. Mr. King has just come in with
the news that two ships have arrived at Portsmouth. Among the officers
is 'Lieutenant Cary Adams.' That is all we know."
"Oh, Uncle Win!" Doris' eyes swam in tears of joy. "Read Betty's
postscript." Then she ran out of the room and had a good cry by herself,
though why anyone should want to cry over such joyful news she could not
quite understand.
Afterward she tied on her hat and ran over to Madam Royall's and then up
to Sudbury Street. For in those days people were wont to say to their
neighbors, "Come, rejoice with me!"
When she returned home the house was very quiet. Solomon came and rubbed
against her in mute inquiry. No one was in the study. She went out to
the kitchen.
"Don't disturb your uncle, Doris," said Miss Recompense. "The news quite
overcame him. He has gone to lie down."
After dinner she went out again for some lessons. Oh, how bright the
world looked, though it was a day in later March, but the wind had a
Southern softness. Soon the wild flowers would be out. There was a very
interesting new study, botany, that the previous autumn had taken groups
of girls out in the lanes and fields, and some had ventured to visit the
Botanic Gardens at Harvard University. Doris was much interested in it.
Uncle Winthrop came to supper, and Doris played and sang for him during
the evening. For though Cary was the uppermost thought in both hearts,
they could not talk about him.
It was a tedious post journey from Washington to Boston. One had to
possess one's soul in patience. But the letter came at length.
Cary had to go to Washington, as there was some prize money and claims
to be inquired into. He had handed in his resignation, and should
hereafter be a private citizen of dear old Boston. There was much more
that gladdened his father's heart and betrayed a manly spirit.
Betty returned home, though Mrs. King declared she only lent her for a
visit. She was very stylish now, and was studying French, for it might
be possible that Mr. King would go abroad and take his wife and Betty.
"I do wonder if you will ever settle down?" exclaimed Mrs. Leverett
anxiously. That meant marriage and housekeeping.
Betty laughed. "You know I have settled to be the old maid aunt," she
returned. "But I am going to have a good young time first. And, mother,
you can hardly realize what a fine, generous, broad-minded man Mat King
has made."
There were lovely odds and ends of attire, dainty slippers, long gloves
that came to your very shoulders, vandyke capes of beautiful lace,
buckles that looked like diamonds, ribbons and belts and sashes. Mercy
said Betty could go down to Washington Street and open a fancy-goods
store. And, oh, the delightful things she had seen and done, the skating
parties in the winter, the sleigh rides when one stopped at a cozy,
well-kept tavern and had a dainty supper and a dance. The drives down
around the Battery and Bowling Green, and the promenades. There were
still a good many military men in New York, but it had not suffered as
much from the war as Boston.
But Boston was growing beautiful by the hour, with her pretty private
gardens and hundreds of fruit trees blooming everywhere, and the great
Common where people went for walks on sunny afternoons.
Miss Recompense had a gorgeous tulip bed and some lilies of the valley,
which were quite a new thing. Cato trimmed and trained the roses and
vines, and the old Adams house was quite a bower of beauty.
One April afternoon Doris sat by the study window doing some lace work,
while Solomon lay curled up on the sill. She kept glancing out. People
were quite given to going around this corner to get into Common Street.
She liked to see them. Now and then a friend nodded. Uncle Win had been
reading aloud from "Jerusalem Delivered," but Doris thought it rather
prosy, and strayed off into her own thoughts.
A tall, soldierly fellow came up the street, looked, hesitated, opened
the gate softly, and glanced down at the tulips. He was quite imposing
as to figure, and his complexion was bronzed, the ends of his brown hair
rather long and curling. He was in citizen clothes, and Doris wondered
why she should think of Lieutenant Hawthorne. She had expected Cary in
all the glory of a naval uniform--a slim, fair, boyish person with a
light springy walk. It never could be Cary!
"Oh, Uncle Win, quick!" as the step sounded on the porch. "It
is--someone----" She was so little certain she could not utter a name.
Uncle Winthrop went out, opened the door, and his son put his arms about
the father's neck. If there had been need of words neither could have
uttered them for many minutes.
When Miss Recompense cleaned house a week or two before the piano had
been moved into the parlor. The door stood open so that it could have
the warmth of the hall fire. The two entered it when they had found
their voices.
"It is Cary," thought Doris with a sense of disappointment, though why
she could not have told.
Half an hour afterward they came out to the study.
"Oh, Doris!" Cary cried, "how you have changed and grown. I shouldn't
have known you! I've been carrying about with me the remembrance of a
little girl. In my mind you have been no taller, no older, and yet I
might have known--why, we shall have to get acquainted all over again."
Doris blushed. "I am sure I have not changed as much as you. I did not
think it could be you."
"Someone at Annapolis before we went out designated me as 'That
consumptive-looking young fellow.' But I have grown strong and hearty,
and no doubt I shall come to fourscore. I do not mean that it shall be
all labor and sorrow, either."
Then Cary made the rounds of the house. Miss Recompense was as much
amazed as Doris had been. Cato and Dinah were overjoyed. He had hardly
dared dream that nothing would be changed, that more than the old love
would be given back. He had gone away a boy, nurtured in the restraints
of wise Puritanism that made a lasting mark on New England character; he
had come home a man of experience, of deeper thought, of higher
understanding and stronger affection. He was proud that he had done his
duty as a citizen of the republic, but he knew now that neither naval or
military life was to his taste. Henceforth he was to be a son in the old
home.
Doris left them talking when she went to bed, a little hurt and jealous
that she was no longer first, that she could not be all to Uncle Win. It
gave her a kind of solitary feeling.
The old house took on an aspect of intense interest. There was a
continual going and coming and enough congratulations for a wedding
feast. All Cary's friends vied with each other in warm welcomes, and
Madam Royall claimed him with the old time cordiality.
Was there any disappointment about Alice?
He had a boy's thought the first few months about winning glory for her,
of coming back to her, and perhaps laying his triumphs at her feet. But
the real work, the anxieties, the solemn fact of taking one's life in
one's hands and realizing how near death might be, had changed him month
by month, until he had only one prayer left--that he might see his
father again. If she was happy--she surely had her heart's choice--he
was satisfied. They had never really been lovers.
When the first excitement of welcome was over there were many things to
think about. His interrupted career was one. Governor Gore had been
chosen United States Senator the year before, but he still kept his
office, and very kindly greeted the return of his student, offering him
still greater advantages. Here the young Daniel Webster, a lad fresh
from the country, had won the friendship of his master, and after a
brief trial in New Hampshire had returned to Boston.
Boston town began to experience the beneficent power of peace.
Languishing industries revived. Commerce had been crippled by the war,
but the inhabitants of New England had learned the value of their own
ingenuity and industry to supply needs, and now they were roused to the
fact there was an outside world to supply as well.
Improvements started up on every side. There was even talk of
transforming the town into a city. Indeed, it had never been a formally
incorporated town. The Court of Assistants one hundred and seventy years
before had changed the name from Tri-Mountain to Boston, and it had
taken the privileges of a town. But there were many grave questions
coming to the front.
The family party at the Adams house this year seemed to include half of
Boston. One by one the old relatives had dropped out. Some of the
younger ones had gone to other cities.
Madam Royall came over to be mistress of ceremonies. For besides the
ovation to the returned lieutenant, Miss Doris Adams was to be presented
as a full-fledged young lady, and she wore her pretty gown made for the
Peace Ball, and pink roses. Miss Betty Leverett was quite a star as
well. Miss Helen Chapman was engaged, and Eudora was a favorite with the
young gentlemen.
"I shall be so sorry when they are all gone," declared Madam Royall. "I
do love young people, but I am afraid my fourth generation will not grow
up in time for me to enjoy them. You must keep good watch over Doris
lest some wolf enters the fold and carries off the sweet child."
Uncle Win smiled and then looked grave. Doris carried off--oh, no, he
could never spare her!
Cary Adams had not forgotten how to dance, and every girl he asked was
delighted with the opportunity. It seemed rather queer to Doris to
accept or decline on her own responsibility.
A week or two later, when they had settled to quite regular living, Cary
came out and sat on the step one evening.
"Doris," he began, "do you remember the letter I sent you by a
Lieutenant Hawthorne--that first letter----" What a flood of
remembrances it brought!
"Oh, yes." She had begun to feel very much at home with Cary--his little
sister, as he called her. "And I must tell you a queer thing--the day
you came home--when I looked down the path--I thought of him. You had
changed so. I don't know what sent him to my mind."
"That was odd. He is in town. He called on me to-day. For the last year
he has been Captain Hawthorne, and he is a splendid fellow. He has been
sent to the Charlestown Navy Yard, and may be here the next three
months, for now the Government is considering a navy. Well--we did some
splendid fighting with the old ships. But oh, Doris, you can't imagine
how homesick I was. I had half a mind to show the white feather and
come home."
"Oh, you couldn't have done it, Cary!"
"No, I couldn't when it came to the pinch. But if I had gone with
father's consent! I understood then what it would be never to see him
again. I think I shall be a better son all my life for the lesson."
"Yes," in her gentle approving fashion.
"Hawthorne wants to come over here," Cary said presently. "I think my
father would like him, though I notice he has an aversion to military or
naval men. But I shall never go away again unless the country is in
great danger."
"I should like to see him. I wonder if he has changed as much as you?"
"I think not," and Cary laughed. "He was twenty-four then, and sort of
settled into manhood, while I was a rather green stripling."
"You are losing some of the 'sea tan,' as Madam Royall calls it. I am
glad of it. I like you best fair."
"Captain Hawthorne is a very handsome man. I ought to feel flattered to
be mistaken for him."
"Is he?" returned Doris simply.
"Don't you remember him?"
"I remember that he asked me for a rose and I gave it to him. It was the
last one on the bush. I was so glad to get the letter I couldn't think
of anything else."
So Cary brought him over to tea one afternoon. Doris noted then that he
was extremely good-looking and very entertaining. Besides, he had a fine
tenor voice and they sang songs together.
Uncle Winthrop was troubled at first. Captain Hawthorne's enthusiasm for
his profession was so ardent that Mr. Adams was alarmed lest it might
turn Cary's thoughts seaward again. But he found presently that Cary's
enlisting had been that of a patriotic, high-spirited boy, and that he
had no real desire for the life.
What a summer it was! Betty was over often, Eudora was enchanted with
the Adams house, and there was a bevy of girls who brought their sewing
and spent the afternoon on the stoop. Sometimes Uncle Win came out and
read to them. There were several new English poets. A Lord Byron was
