During the three months that he had 
remained at Cocker 's after her consent to 
their engagement, she had often asked her 
self what it was that marriage would be able 
to add to a familiarity so final. Opposite 
there, behind the counter of which his 
superior stature, his whiter apron, his more 
clustering curls and more present, too 
present, h 's had been for a couple of years 
the principal ornament, he had moved to and 
fro before her as on the small sanded floor 
of their contracted future. She was conscious now of the improvement of not having 
to take her present and her future at once. 
They were about as much as she could 
manage when taken separate. 

She had, none the less, to give her mind 
steadily to what Mr. Mudge had again 
written her about, the idea of her applying 
for a transfer to an office quite similar she 
couldn't yet hope for a place in a bigger 
under the very roof where he was foreman, 
so that, dangled before her every minute of 
the day, he should see her, as he called it, 
"hourly," and in a part, the far N. W. 
district, where, with her mother, she would 
save, on their two rooms alone, nearly three 
shillings. It would be far from dazzling to 
exchange Mayfair for Chalk Farm, and it 
was something of a predicament that he so 
kept at her; still, it was nothing to the old 
predicaments, those of the early times of 
their great misery, her own, her mother 's 
and her elder sister 's the last of whom had 
succumbed to all but absolute want when, 
as conscious, incredulous ladies, suddenly 
bereaved, betrayed, overwhelmed, they had 
slipped faster and faster down the steep 
slope at the bottom of which she alone had 
rebounded. Her mother had never rebounded 
any more at the bottom than on 
the way; had only rumbled and grumbled 
down and down, making, in respect of caps 
and conversation, no effort whatever, and 
too often, alas, smelling of whisky. 



II 

It was always rather quiet at Cocker 's 
while the contingent from Ladle 's and 
Thrupp 's and all the other great places 
were at luncheon, or, as the young men used 
vulgarly to say, while the animals were 
feeding. She had forty minutes in advance 
of this to go home for her own dinner ; and 
when she came back, and one of the young 
men took his turn, there was often half an 
hour during which she could pull out a bit of 
work or a book a book from the place where 
she borrowed novels, very greasy, in fine 
print and all about fine folks, at a ha penny 
a day. This sacred pause was one of the 
numerous ways in which the establishment 
kept its finger on the pulse of fashion and 
fell into the rhythm of the larger life. It 
had something to do, one day, with the particular vividness marking the advent of a 
lady whose meals were apparently irregular, 
yet whom she was destined, she afterwards 
found, not to forget. The girl was blaste; 
nothing could belong more, as she perfectly 
knew, to the intense publicity of her profession ; but she had a whimsical mind and 
wonderful nerves ; she was subject, in short, 
to sudden flickers of antipathy and sympathy, 
red gleams in the grey, fitful awakings and 
followings, odd caprices of curiosity. She 
had a friend who had invented a new career 
for women that of being in and out of 
people 's houses to look after the flowers. 
Mrs. Jordan had a manner of her own of 
sounding this allusion; "the flowers," on 
her lips, were, in happy homes, as usual as 
the coals or the daily papers. She took 
charge of them, at any rate, in all the rooms, 
at so much a month, and people were quickly 
finding out what it was to make over this 
delicate duty to the widow of a clergyman. 
The widow, on her side, dilating on the 
initiations thus opened up to her, had been 
splendid to her young friend over the way 
she was made free of the greatest houses, 
the way, especially when she did the dinner- 
tables, set out so often for twenty, she felt 
that a single step more would socially, would 
absolutely, introduce her. On its being 
asked of her, then, if she circulated only in 
a sort of tropical solitude, with the upper 
servants for picturesque natives, and on her 
having to assent to this glance at her limitations, 
she had found a reply to the girl 's 
invidious question. "You've no imagination, 
my dear!" that was because the social door 
might at any moment open so wide. 

Our young lady had not taken up the 
charge, had dealt with it good-humouredly, 
just because she knew so well what to think 
of it. It was at once one of her most cher 
ished complaints and most secret supports 
that people didn' t understand her, and it 
was accordingly a matter of indifference to 
her that Mrs. Jordan shouldn t; even though 
Mrs. Jordan, handed down from their early 
twilight gentility and also the victim of 
reverses, was the only member of her circle 
in whom she recognized an equal. She was 



   

perfectly aware that her imaginative life was 
the life in which she spent most of her time ; 
and she would have been ready, had it been 
at all worth while, to contend that, since her 
outward occupation didn' t kill it, it must be 
strong indeed. Combinations of flowers and 
green stuff forsooth? What she could handle 
freely, she said to herself, was combinations 
of men and women. The only weakness in 
her faculty came from the positive abundance 
of her contact with the human herd; 
this was so constant, had the effect of becoming so cheap, that there were long stretches 
in which inspiration, divination and interest, 
quite dropped. The great thing was the 
flashes, the quick revivals, absolute accidents 
all and neither to be counted on nor to be 
resisted. Some one had only sometimes to 
put in a penny fora stamp, and the whole 
thing was upon her. She was so absurdly 
constructed that these were literally the 
moments that made up made up for the 
long stiffness of sitting there in the stocks, 
made up for the cunning hostility of Mr. 

Buckton and the importunate sympathy of 
the counter-clerk, made up for the daily, 
deadly, flourishy letter from Mr. Mudge, 
made up even for the most haunting of her 
worries, the rage at moments of not knowing how her mother did "get it." 

She had surrendered herself moreover, of 
late, to a certain expansion of her conscious 
ness; something that seemed perhaps vulgarly 
accounted for by the fact that, as the 
blast of the season roared louder and the 
waves of fashion tossed their spray further 
over the counter, there were more impressions 
to be gathered and really for it came 
to that more life to be led. Definite, at 
any rate, it was that by the time May was 
well started the kind of company she kept 
at Cocker 's had begun to strike her as a 
reason a reason she might almost put for 
ward for a policy of procrastination. It 
sounded silly, of course, as yet, to plead 
such a motive, especially as the fascination 
of the place was, after all, a sort of torment. 
But she liked her torment; it was a torment 
she should miss at Chalk Farm. She was 
ingenious and uncandid, therefore, about 
leaving the breadth of London a little longer 
between herself and that austerity. If she 
had not quite the courage, in short, to say 
to Mr. Mudge that her actual chance for a 
play of mind was worth, any week, the three 
shillings he desired to help her to save, she 
yet saw something happen in the course of 
the month that, in her heart of hearts at 
least, answered the subtle question. This 
was connected precisely with the appearance 
of the memorable lady. 



She pushed in three bescribbled forms 
which the girl 's hand was quick to appropriate, 
Mr. Buckton having so frequent a perverse instinct for catching first any eye that 
promised the sort of entertainment with 
which she had her peculiar affinity. The 
amusements of captives are full of a desperate 
contrivance, and one of our young 
friend 's ha penny worths had been the 
charming tale of Picciola. It was of course 
the law of the place that they were never to 
take no notice, as Mr. Buckton said, whom 
they served ; but this also never prevented, 
certainly on the same gentleman 's own part, 
what he was fond of describing as the under 
hand game. Both her companions, for that 
matter, made no secret of the number of 
favourites they had among the ladies ; sweet 
familiarities in spite of which she had 
repeatedly caught each of them in stupidities 
and mistakes, confusions of identity and lapses of observation that never failed to 
remind her how the cleverness of men ended 
where the cleverness of women began. 
"Marguerite, Regent Street. Try on at six. 
All Spanish lace. Pearls. The full length. 
That was the first; it had no signature. 
"Lady Agnes Orme, Hyde Park Place. 
Impossible to-night, dining Haddon. Opera 
to-morrow, promised Fritz, but could do play 
Wednesday. Will try Haddon for Savoy, 
and anything in the world you like, if you 
can get Gussy. Sunday, Montenero. Sit 
Mason Monday, Tuesday. Marguerite awful. 
Cissy." That was the second. The third, 
the girl noted when she took it, was on a 
foreign form: "Everard, Hotel Brighton, 
Paris. Only understand and believe. 22nd 
to 26th, and certainly 8th and 9th. Perhaps 
others. Come. Mary." 

Mary was very handsome, the handsomest 
woman, she felt in a moment, she had ever 
seen or perhaps it was only Cissy. Perhaps it was both, for she had seen stranger 
things than that ladies wiring to different 
persons under different names. She had 
seen all sorts of things and pieced together 
all sorts of mysteries. There had once been 
one not long before who, without winking, sent off five over five different signatures. Perhaps these represented five 
different friends who had asked her all 
women, just as perhaps now Mary and Cissy, 
or one or other of them, were wiring by 
deputy. Sometimes she put in too much 
too much of her own sense; sometimes 
she put in too little ; and in either case this 
often came round to her afterwards, for she 
had an extraordinary way of keeping clues. 
When she noticed, she noticed; that was 
what it came to. There were days and days, 
there were weeks sometimes, of vacancy. 
This arose often from Mr. Buckton 's devilish and successful subterfuges for keeping 
her at the sounder whenever it looked as if 
anything might amuse ; the sounder, which 
it was equally his business to mind, being 
the innermost cell of captivity, a cage within 
the cage, fenced off from the rest by a frame 
of ground glass. The counter-clerk would 
have played into her hands; but the counter- 
clerk was really reduced to idiocy by the 
effect of his passion for her. She flattered 
herself moreover, nobly, that with the un 
pleasant conspicuity of this passion she 
would never have consented to be obliged to 
him. The most she would ever do would 
be always to shove off on him whenever she 
could the registration of letters, a job she 
happened particularly to loathe. After the 
long stupors, at all events, there almost 
always suddenly would come a sharp taste 
of something; it was in her mouth before 
she knew it ; it was in her mouth now. 

To Cissy, to Mary, whichever it was, she 
found her curiosity going out with a rush, 
a mute effusion that floated back to her, like 
a returning tide, the living colour and splen 
dour of the beautiful head, the light of eyes 
that seemed to reflect such utterly other 
things than the mean things actually before 
them; and, above all, the high, curt 
consideration of a manner that, even at bad 
moments, was a magnificent habit and of 
the very essence of the innumerable things 
her beauty, her birth, her father and mother, 
her cousins and all her ancestors that its 
possessor couldn' t have got rid of if she had 
wished. How did our obscure little public 
servant know that, for the lady of the telegrams, this was a bad moment? How did 
she guess all sorts of impossible things, such 
as, almost on the Very spot, the presence of 
drama, at a critical stage, and the nature of 
the tie with the gentleman at the Hotel 
Brighton? More than ever before it floated 
to her through the bars of the cage that this 
at last was the high reality, the bristling 
truth that she had hitherto only patched up 
and eked out one of the creatures, in fine, 
in whom all the conditions for happiness 
actually met and who, in the air they made, 
bloomed with an unwitting insolence. What 
came home to the girl was the way the 
insolence was tempered by something that 
was equally a part of the distinguished life, 
the custom of a flower-like bend to the less 
fortunate a dropped fragrance, a mere 
quick breath, but which in fact pervaded and 
lingered. The apparition was very young, 
but certainly married, and our fatigued 
friend had a sufficient store of mythological 
comparison to recognise the port of Juno. 
Marguerite might be "awful," but she knew 
how to dress a goddess. 

Pearls and Spanish lace she herself, with 
assurance, could see them, and the "full 
length" too, and also red velvet bows, which, 
disposed on the lace in a particular manner 
(she could have placed them with the turn 
of a hand), were of course to adorn the front 
of a black brocade that would be like a dress 
in a picture. However, neither Marguerite, 
nor Lady Agnes, nor Haddon, nor Fritz, nor 
Gussy were what the wearer of this garment 
had really come in for. She had come in 
for Everard and that was doubtless not his 
true name either. If our young lady had 
never taken such jumps before, it was 
simply that she had never before been so 





affected. She went all the way. Mary and 
Cissy had been round together, in their 
single superb person, to see him he must 
live round the corner; they had found that, 
in consequence of something they had come, 
precisely, to make up for or to have another 
scene about, he had gone off gone off just 
on purpose to make them feel it; on which 
they had come together to Cocker 's as to 
the nearest place; where they had put in 
the three forms partly in order not to put in 
the one alone. The two others, in a manner, 
covered it, muffled it, passed it off. Oh yes, 
she went all the way, and this was a speci 
men of how she often went. She would 
know the hand again any time. It was as 
handsome and as everything else as the 
woman herself. The woman herself had, on 
learning his flight, pushed past Everard 's 
servant and into his room ; she had written 
her missive at his table and with his pen. 
All this, every inch of it, came in the waft 
that she blew through and left behind her, 
the influence that, as I have said, lingered. 

And among the things the girl was sure 
of, happily, was that she should see her 
again. 



IV 

She saw her in fact, and only ten days 
later; but this time she was not alone, and 
that was exactly a part of the luck of it. 
Being clever enough to know through what 
possibilities it could range, our young lady 
had ever since had in her mind a dozen con 
flicting theories about Everard 's type; as to 
which, the instant they came into the place, 
she felt the point settled with a thump that 
seemed somehow addressed straight to her 
heart. That organ literally beat faster at 
the approach of the gentleman who was this 
time with Cissy and who, as seen from 
within the cage, became on the spot the 
happiest of the happy circumstances with 
which her mind had invested the friend of 
Fritz and Gussy. He was a very happy cir 
cumstance indeed as, with his cigarette in 
his lips and his broken familiar talk caught 
by his companions, he put down the half- 





dozen telegrams which it would take them 
together some minutes to despatch. And 
here it occurred, oddly enough, that if, 
shortly before, the girl 's interest in his com 
panion had sharpened her sense for the 
messages then transmitted, her immediate 
vision of himself had the effect, while she 
counted his seventy words, of preventing 
intelligibility. His words were mere num 
bers, they told her nothing whatever; and 
after he had gone she was in possession of 
no name, of no address, of no meaning, of 
nothing but a vague, sweet sound and an 
immense impression. He had been there 
but five minutes, he had smoked in her face, 
and, busy with his telegrams, with the tap 
ping pencil and the conscious danger, the 
odious betrayal that would come from a mis 
take, she had had no wandering glances nor 
roundabout arts to spare. Yet she had taken 
him in ; she knew everything ; she had made 
up her mind. 

He had come back from Paris; everything 
was rearranged ; the pair were again shoulder 





to shoulder in their high encounter with life, 
their large and complicated game. The fine, 
soundless pulse of this game was in the air 
for our young woman while they remained 
in the shop. While they remained? They 
remained all day, their presence continued 
and abode with her, was in everything she 
did till nightfall, in the thousands of other 
words she counted, she transmitted, in all 
the stamps she detached and the letters she 
weighed and the change she gave, equally 
unconscious and unerring in each of these 
particulars, and not, as the run on the little 
office thickened with the afternoon hours, 
looking up at a single ugly face in the long 
sequence, nor really hearing the stupid 
questions that she patiently and perfectly 
answered. All patience was possible now, 
and all questions stupid after his all faces 
ugly. She had been sure she should see the 
lady again ; and even now she should per 
haps, she should probably, see her often. 
But for him it was totally different; she 
should never, never see him. She wanted 





it too much. There was a kind of wanting 
that helped she had arrived, with her rich 
exp rience, at that generalisation ; and there 
was another kind that was fatal. It was 
this time the fatal kind ; it would prevent. 

Well, she saw him the very next day, and 
on this second occasion it was quite differ 
ent; the sense of every syllable he de 
spatched was fiercely distinct; she indeed 
felt her progressive pencil, dabbing as if 
with a quick caress the marks of his own, 
put life into every stroke. He was there a 
long time had not brought his forms filled 
out, but worked them off in a nook on the 
counter; and there were other people as 
well a changing, pushing cluster, with 
every one to mind at once and endless right 
change to make and information to produce. 
But she kept hold of him throughout; she 
continued, for herself, in a relation with 
him as close as that in which, behind the 
hated ground glass, Mr. Buckton luckily con 
tinued with the sounder. This morning 
everything changed, but with a kind of 





dreariness too ; she had to swallow the rebuff 
to her theory about fatal desires, which she 
did without confusion and indeed with abso 
lute levity; yet if it was now flagrant that 
he did live close at hand at Park Cham 
bers and belonged supremely to the class 
that wired everything, even their expensive 
feelings (so that, as he never wrote, his 
correspondence cost him weekly pounds 
and pounds, and he might be in and out five 
times a day,) there was, all the same, 
involved in the prospect, and by reason of 
its positive excess of light, a perverse mel 
ancholy, almost a misery. This was rapidly 
to give it a place in an order of feelings on 
which I shall presently touch. 

Meanwhile, for a month, he was very con 
stant. Cissy, Mary, never reappeared with 
him ; he was always either alone or accom 
panied only by some gentleman who was 
lost in the blaze of his glory. There was 
another sense, however and indeed there 
was more than one in which she mostly 
found herself counting in the splendid 
creature with whom she had originally con 
nected him. He addressed this correspond 
ent neither as Mary nor as Cissy; but the 
girl was sure of whom it was, in Eaton 
Square, that he was perpetually wiring to 
and so irreproachably! as Lady Bradeen. 
Lady Bradeen was Cissy, Lady Bradeen was 
Mary, Lady Bradeen was the friend of Fritz 
and of Gussy, the customer of Marguerite 
and the close ally, in short (as was ideally 
right, only the girl had not yet found a 
descriptive term that was,) of the most mag 
nificent of men. Nothing could equal the 
frequency and variety of his communica 
tions to her ladyship but their extraordinary, 
their abysmal propriety. It was just the 
talk, so profuse sometimes that she wondered 
what was left for their real meetings, of the 
happiest people in the world. Their real 
meetings must have been constant, for half 
of it was appointments and allusions, all 
swimming in a sea of other allusions still, 
tangled in a complexity of questions that 
gave a wondrous image of their life. If 
Lady Bradeen was Juno, it was all certainly 
Olympian. If the girl, missing the answers, 
her ladyship 's own outpourings, sometimes 
wished that Cocker 's had only been one of 
the bigger offices where telegrams arrived 
as well as departed, there were yet ways in 
which, on the whole, she pressed the ro 
mance closer by reason of the very quantity 
of imagination that it demanded. The days 
and hours of this new friend, as she came to 
account him, were at all events unrolled, 
and however much more she might have 
known she would still have wished to go 
beyond. In fact she did go beyond; she 
went quite far enough. 

But she could none the less, even after a 
month, scarce have told if the gentlemen 
who came in with him recurred or changed ; 
and this in spite of the fact that they too 
were always posting and wiring, smoking in 
her face and signing or not signing. The 
gentlemen who came in with him were noth 
ing, at any rate, when he was there. They 
turned up alone at other times then only 





perhaps with a dim richness of reference. 
He himself, absent as well as present, was 
all. He was very tall, very fair, and had, 
in spite of his thick preoccupations, a good- 
humour that was exquisite, particularly as it 
so often had the effect of keeping him on. 
He could have reached over anybody, and 
anybody no matter who would have let 
him ; but he was so extraordinarily kind that 
he quite pathetically waited, never waggling 
things at her out of his turn or saying Here ! 
with horrid sharpness. He waited for pot 
tering old ladies, for gaping slaveys, for the 
perpetual Buttonsesfrom Thrupp s; and the 
thing in all this that she would have liked 
most unspeakably to put to the test was the 
possibility of her having for him a personal 
identity that might in a particular way 
appeal. There were moments when he 
actually struck her as on her side, arranging 
to help, to support, to spare her. 

But such was the singular spirit of our 
young friend that she could remind herself 
with a sort of rage that when people had 





awfully good manners people of that class 
you couldn't tell. These manners were for 
everybody, and it might be drearily unavail 
ing for any poor particular body to be over 
worked and unusual. What he did take for 
granted was all sorts of facility ; and his high 
pleasantness, his relighting of cigarettes 
while he waited, his unconscious bestowal 
of opportunities, of boons, of blessings, were 
all a part of his magnificent security, the 
instinct that told him there was nothing 
such an existence as his could ever lose by. 
He was, somehow, at once very bright and 
very grave, very young and immensely com 
plete ; and whatever he was at any moment, 
it was always as much as all the rest the 
mere bloom of his beatitude. He was some 
times Everard, as he had been at the Hotel 
Brighton, and he was sometimes Captain 
Everard. He was sometimes Philip with 
his surname and sometimes Philip without 
it. In some directions he was merely Phil, 
in others he was merely Captain. There 
were relations in which he was none of these 
things, but a quite different person the 
Count. There were several friends for 
whom he was William. There were several 
for whom, in allusion perhaps to his com 
plexion, he was the Pink Un. Once, 
once only by good luck, he had, coinciding 
comically, quite miraculously, with another 
person also near to her, been Mudge. Yes, 
whatever he was, it was a part of his hap 
piness whatever he was and probably what 
ever he wan' t. And his happiness was a 
part it became so little by little of some 
thing that, almost from the first of her being 
at Cocker's, had been deeply with the girl. 



This was neither more nor less than the 
queer extension of her experience, the double 
life that, in the cage, she grew at last to 
lead. As the weeks went on there she lived 
more and more into the world of whiffs and 
glimpses, and found her divinations work 
faster and stretch further. It was a pro 
digious view as the pressure heightened, a 
panorama fed with facts and figures, flushed 
with a torrent of color and accompanied with 
wondrous world-music. What it mainly 
came to at this period was a picture of how 
London could amuse itself; and that, with 
the running commentary of a witness so 
exclusively a witness, turned for the most 
part to a hardening of the heart. The nose 
of this observer was brushed by the bouquet, 
yet she could never really pluck even a daisy. 
What could still remain fresh in her daily 
grind was the immense disparity, the 
difference and contrast, from class to class, of 
every instant and every motion. There 
were times when all the wires in the country 
seemed to start from the little hole-and- 
corner where she plied for a livelihood, and 
where, in the shuffle of feet, the flutter of 
forms, the straying of stamps and the ring 
of change over the counter, the people she 
had fallen into the habit of remembering 
and fitting together with others, and of 
having her theories and interpretations of, 
kept up before her their long procession and 
rotation. What twisted the knife in her 
vitals was the way the profligate rich scat 
tered about them, in extravagant chatter 
over their extravagant pleasures and sins, 
an amount of money that would have held 
the stricken household of her frightened 
childhood, her poor pinched mother and tor 
mented father and lost brother and starved 
sister, together for a lifetime. During her 
first weeks she had often gasped at the 
sums people were willing to pay for the stuff 
they transmitted the much loves, the 





awful regrets, the compliments and won 
derments and vain, vague gestures that cost 
the price of a new pair of boots. She had 
had a way then of glancing at the people 's 
faces, but she had early learned that if you 
became a telegraphist you soon ceased to be 
astonished. Her eye for types amounted 
nevertheless to genius, and there were those 
she liked and those, she hated, her feeling 
for the latter of which grew to a positive 
possession, an instinct of observation arid 
detection. There were the brazen women, as 
she called them, of the higher and the lower 
fashion, whose squanderings and graspings, 
whose struggles and secrets and love-affairs 
and lies she tracked and stored up against 
them, till she had at moments, in private, a 
triumphant, vicious feeling of mastery and 
power, a sense of having their silly, guilty 
secrets in her pocket, her small retentive 
brain, and thereby knowing so much more 
about them than they suspected or would 
care to think. There were those she would 
have liked to betray, to trip up, to bring 





down with words altered and fatal ; and all 
through a personal hostility provoked by the 
lightest signs, by their accidents of tone and 
manner, by the particular kind of relation 
she always happened instantly to feel. 

There were impulses of various kinds, 
alternately soft and severe, to which she was 
constitutionally accessible and which were 
determined by the smallest accidents. She 
was rigid, in general, on the article of mak 
ing the public itself affix its stamps, and 
found a special enjoyment in dealing, to that 
end, with some of the ladies who were too 
grand to touch them. She had thus a play 
of refinement and subtlety greater, she flat 
tered herself, than any of which she could 
be made the subject; and though most peo 
ple were too stupid to be conscious of this, 
it brought her endless little consolations and 
revenges. She recognised quite as much 
those of her sex whom she would have liked 
to help, to warn, to rescue, to see more of; 
and that alternative as well operated exactly 
through the hazard of personal sympathy, 





her vision for silver threads and moonbeams 
and her gift for keeping the clues and find 
ing her way in the tangle. The moonbeams 
and silver threads presented at moments all 
the vision of what poor she might have made 
of happiness. Blurred and blank as the 
whole thing often inevitably, or mercifully, 
became, she could still, through crevices and 
crannies, be stupified, especially by what, 
in spite of all seasoning, touched the sorest 
place in her consciousness, the revelation of 
the golden shower flying about without a 
gleam of gold for herself. It remained pro 
digious to the end, the money her fine friends 
were able to spend to get still more, or even 
to complain to fine friends of their own that 
they were in want. The pleasures they pro 
posed were equalled only by those they 
declined, and they made their appointments 
often so expensively that she was left won 
dering at the nature of the delights to which 
the mere approaches were so paved with 
shillings. She quivered on occasion into the 
perception of this and that one whom she 





would, at all events, have just simply liked 
to be. Her conceit, her baffled vanity were 
possibly monstrous ; she certainly often threw 
herself into a defiant conviction that she 
would have done the whole thing much 
better. But her greatest comfort, on the 
whole, was her comparative vision of the 
men ; by whom I mean the unmistakable gen 
tlemen, for she had no interest in the spurious 
or the shabby, and no mercy at all for the 
poor. She could have found a sixpence, out 
side, for an appearance of want; but her 
fancy, in some directions so alert, had never 
a throb of response for any sign of the sordid. 
The men she did follow, moreover, she fol 
lowed mainly in one relation, the relation as 
to which the cage convinced her, she be- 
.lieved, more than anything else could have 
done, that it was quite the most diffused. 

She found her ladies, in short, almost 
always in communication with her gentle 
men, and her gentlemen with her ladies, and 
she read into the immensity of their inter 
course stories and meanings without end. 





Incontestibly she grew to think that the men 
cut the best figure ; and in this particular, 
as in many others, she arrived at a philos 
ophy of her own, all made up of her private 
notations and cynicisms. It was a striking 
part of the business, for example, that it was 
much more the women, on the whole, who 
were after the men than the men who were 
after the women ; it was literally visible that 
the general attitude of the one sex was that 
of the object pursued and defensive, apolo 
getic and attenuating, while the light of her 
own nature helped her more or less to con 
clude as to the attitude of the other. Per 
haps she herself a little even fell into the 
custom of pursuit in occasionally deviating 
only for gentlemen from her high rigour 
about the stamps. She had early in the day 
made up her mind, in fine, that they had the 
best manners; and if there were none of 
them she noticed when Captain Everard was 
there, there were plenty she could place and 
trace and name at other times, plenty who, 
with their way of being nice to her, and of 





handling, as if their pockets were private 
tills, loose, mixed masses of silver and gold, 
were such pleasant appearances that she 
could envy them without dislike. They 
never had to give change they only had to 
get it. They ranged through every sugges 
tion, every shade of fortune, which evidently 
included indeed lots of bad luck as well as of 
good, declining even toward Mr. Mudge and 
his bland, firm thrift, and ascending, in wild 
signals and rocket-flights, almost to within 
hail of her highest standard. So, from month 
to month, she went on with them all, through 
a thousand ups and downs and a thousand 
pangs and indifferences. What virtually hap 
pened was that in the shuffling herd that 
passed before her by far the greater part only 
passed a proportion but just appreciable 
stayed. Most of the elements swam straight 
away, lost themselves in the bottomless com 
mon, and by so doing really kept the page 
clear. On the clearness, therefore, what she 
did retain stood sharply out ; she nipped and 
caught it, turned it over and interwove it. 



VI 

She met Mrs. Jordan whenever she could, 
and learned from her more and more how 
the great people, under her gentle shake, 
and after going through everything with the 
mere shops, were waking up to the gain of 
putting into the hands of a person of real 
refinement the question that the shop-people 
spoke of so vulgarly as that of the floral 
decorations. The regular dealers in these 
decorations were all very well; but there 
was a peculiar magic in the play of taste of 
a lady who had only to remember, through 
whatever intervening dusk, all her own little 
tables, little bowls and little jars and little 
other arrangements, and the wonderful thing 
she had made of the garden of the vicarage. 
This small domain, which her young friend 
had never seen, bloomed in Mrs. Jordan 's 
discourse like a new Eden, and she con 
verted the past into a bank of violets by the 







tone in which she said, Of course you always 
knew my one passion! She obviously met 
now, at any rate, a big contemporary need, 
measured what it was rapidly becoming for 
people to feel they could trust her without a 
tremor. It brought them a peace that 
during the quarter of an hour before dinner 
in especial was worth more to them than 
mere payment could express. Mere pay 
ment, none the less, was tolerably prompt ; 
she engaged by the month, taking over the 
whole thing; and there was an evening on 
which, in respect to our heroine, she at last 
returned to the charge. It 's growing and 
growing, and I see that I must really divide 
the work. One wants an associate of one 's 
own kind, don't you know? You know the 
look they want it all to have? of having 
come, not from a florist, but from one of 
themselves. Well, I'm sure you could give 
it because you are one. Then we should 
win. Therefore just come in with me. 

And leave the P. O.? 
