
Vanderbank felt positively more guilty than he would 
have expected. " You think it too much in the manner 
we just mentioned ?" 





  

His friend hesitated. Then with a smile a trifle 
strange :  '' Excuse me ;  I didn't mention —  '' 

" No, you didn't ; and your scruple was magnificent. 
In point of fact," Vanderbank pursued, ''I donH call 
Mrs. Brookenham by her Christian name." 

Mr. Longdon's clear eyes were searching. " Unless in 
speaking of her to others ?" He seemed really to wish to 
know. 

Vanderbank was but too ready to satisfy him. " I 
dare say we seem to you a vulgar lot of people. That's 
not the way, I can see, you speak of ladies at Beccles." 

'' Oh, if you laugh at me — !" And the old man turned 
off. 

"Don't threaten me," said Vanderbank,  ''or I will 
send away the cab. Of course I know what you mean. 
It will be tremendously interesting to hear how the sort 
of thing we've fallen into — oh, we have fallen in ! — strikes 
your fresh ear. Do have another cigarette. Sunk as I 
must appear to you, it sometimes strikes mine. But I'm 
not sure, as regards Mrs. Brookenham, whom I've known 
a long time — " 

Mr. Longdon again took him up. " What do you peo- 
ple call a long time ?" 

Vanderbank considered. " Ah, there you are — ! And 
now we're 'we people'! That's right; give it to us. I'm 
sure that in one way or another it's all earned. Well, 
I've known her ten years. But awfully well." 

" What do you call awfully well ?" 

" We people ?" Vanderbank's inquirer, with his con- 
tinued restless observation, moving nearer, the young man 
had laid on his shoulder the most considerate of hands. 
" Don't you perhaps ask too much ? But no," he added, 
quickly and gayly, " of course you"don't : if I don't look 
out I shall have, on you, exactly the effect I don't want. 
I dare say I don't know lioio well I know Mrs. Brooken- 
ham. Mustn't that sort of thing be put, in a manner, to 





  

the proof ? What I meant to say jnst now was that I 
wouldn't — at least I hope I shonldn t — have named her 
as I did save to an old friend." 

Mr. Longdon looked promptly satisfied and reassured. 
"You probably heard me address her myself." 

"I did, but you have your rights, and that wouldn't 
excuse me. The only thing is that I go to see her every 
Sunday." 

Mr. Longdon pondered ; then, a little to Vanderbank's 
surprise, at any rate to his deeper amusement, candidly 
asked :  '' Only Fernanda ? No other lady ?" 

"Oh yes, several other ladies." 

Mr. Longdon appeared to hear this with pleasure. 
"You're quite right. AYe don't make enough of Sunday 
at Beccles." 

" Oh, we make plenty of it in London !" Vanderbank 
said. "And I think it's rather in my interest I should 
mention that Mrs. Brookenham calls me — " 

His visitor covered him now with an attention that 
just operated as a check. " By your Christian name ?" 
Before Vanderbank could in any degree attenuate, " What 
is your Christian name ?" Mr. Longdon asked. 

Vanderbank felt, of a sudden, almost guilty — as if his 
answer could only impute extravagance to the lady. " My 
Christian name" — he blushed it out — "is Gustavus." 

His friend took a droll, conscious leap. "And she 
calls you Gussy ?" 

"No, not even Gussy. But I scarcely think I ought 
to tell you," he pursued, "if she herself gave you no 
glimpse of the fact. Any implication that she conscious- 
ly avoided it might make you see deeper depths." 

Vanderbank spoke with pointed levity, but his com- 
panion showed him, after an instant, a face just covered 
— and a little painfully — with the vision of the possibility 
brushed away by the joke. "Oh, I'm not so bad as 
that !" Mr. Longdon modestly ejaculated. 





  

" Well, slie doesn't do it always," Vandcrbank lauglicd, 
' and it's nothing, moreover, to what some people are 
called. Why, there was a fellow there — " He pulled up, 
however, and, thinking better of it, selected another in- 
stance. '' The Duchess — weren't you introduced to the 
Duchess? — never calls me anything but 'Vanderbank' 
unless she calls me ' caro mioJ It wouldn't have taken 
much to make her appeal to yo%i with an ' I say, Long- 
don !' I can quite hear her." 

Mr. Longdon, focussing the effect of the sketch, point- 
ed its moral with an indulgent :  '  Oh well, a foreign 
duchess !" He could make his distinctions. 

" Yes, she's invidiously, cruelly foreign," Vanderbank 
concurred : " I've never indeed seen a woman avail her- 
self so cleverly, to make up for the obloquy of that state, 
of the benefits and immunities it brings with it. She has 
bloomed in the hot -house of her widowhood — she's a 
Neapolitan hatched by an incubator." 

''A Neapolitan?" — Mr. Longdon, civilly, seemed to 
wish he had only known it. 

"Her husband was one; but I believe that dukes at 
Naples are as thick as princes at Petersburg. He's dead, 
at any rate, poor man, and she has come back here to live." 

" Gloomily, I should think — after Naples ?" Mr. Long- 
don threw out. 

''Oh, it would take more than even a Neapolitan 
past — ! However," the young man added, catching him- 
self up, '' she lives not in what is behind her, but in what 
is before — she lives in her precious little Aggie." 

" Little Aggie ?" Mr. Longdon took a cautious in- 
terest. 

"I don't take a liberty there," Vanderbank smiled. 
''I speak only of the young Agnesina, a little girl, the 
Duchess's niece, or rather, I believe, her husband's, 
whom she has adopted — in the place of a daughter early 
lost — and has brought to England to marry." 





  

"Ah, to some great man of course." 

Vanderbank thought. "I don't know." He gave a 
vague but expressive sigh. " She's rather lovely, little 
Aggie." 

Mr. Longdon looked conspicuously subtle. "Then 
perhaps you're the man — " 

"Do I look like a great one ?" Vanderbank broke in. 

His visitor, turning away from him, again embraced 
the room. " Oh dear, yes !" 

"Well then, to show how right you are, there's the 
young lady." He pointed to an object on one of the 
tables, a small photograph with a very wide border of 
something that looked like crimson fur. 

Mr. Longdon took up the picture ; he was serious now. 
"She's very beautiful — but she's not a little girl." 

" At Naples they develop early. She's only seventeen 
or eighteen, I suppose ; but I never know how old — or 
at least how young — girls are, and I'm not sure. An 
aunt, at any rate, has of course nothing to conceal. She 
is extremely pretty — with extraordinary red hair and a 
complexion to match ; great rarities, I believe, in that 
race and latitude. She gave me the portrait — frame and 
all. The frame is Neapolitan enough, and little Aggie 
is charming." Then Vanderbank subjoined : "But not 
so charming as little Nanda." 

"Little Nanda ? — have you got herf The old man 
was all eagerness. 

"She's over there beside the lamp — also a present 
from the original." 



II 

Mr. Longdon had gone to the place — little Nanda was 
in glazed white wood. He took her up and held her out ; 
for a moment he said nothing, but presently, over his 
glasses, rested on his host a look intenser even than his 





  

scrntiny of the faded image.  ' Do they give their por- 
traits now ?'' 

'' Little girls — innocent lambs ? Surely, to old friends. 
Didn't they in your time ?" 

Mr. Longdon studied the portrait again ; after which, 
with an exhalation of something between superiority and 
regret, "They never did to me' he replied. 

" Well, you can have all you want now !" Vanderbank 
laughed. 

His friend gave a slow, droll head -shake. "I don't 
want them 'now'!" 

" You could do with them, my dear sir, still," Vander- 
bank continued in the same manner,  '' every bit  I  do !" 

"I'm sure you do nothing you oughtn't." Mr. Long- 
don kept the photograph and continued to look at it. 
"Her mother told me about her —  promised me I should 
see her next time." 

"'You must — she's a great friend of mine." 

Mr. Longdon remained absorbed. " Is she clever ?" 

Vanderbank turned it over. "Well, you'll tell me if 
you think so." 

"Ah, with a child of seventeen — !" Mr. Longdon 
murmured it as if in dread of having to pronounce. 
"This one, too, is seventeen ?" 

Vanderbank again considered. "Eighteen." He just 
hung fire once more, then brought out : " Well, call it 
nearly nineteen. I've kept her birthdays," he laughed. 

His companion caught at the idea. "Upon my honor, 
 I  should like to ! When is the next ?" 

"You've plenty of time — the fifteenth of June." 

"I'm only too sorry to wait." Laying down the ob- 
ject he had been examining, Mr. Longdon took another 
turn about the room, and his manner was such an appeal 
to his host to accept his restlessness that, from the cor- 
ner of a lounge, the latter watched him with encourage- 
ment. " I said to yon just now that I knew the mothers, 





  

but it would have been more to the point to say the 
grandmothers." He stopped before the lounge, then 
nodded at the image of Nanda.  '' I knew hers. She 
put it at something less." 

Vanderbank rather failed to understand. " The old 
lady ? Put what ?" 

Mr. Longdon's face, for a moment, showed him as feel- 
ing his way. '  I'm speaking of Mrs. Brookenham. She 
spoke of her daughter as only sixteen." 

His companion's amusement at the tone of this broke 
out. " She usually does ! She has done so, I think, for 
the last year or two." 

Mr. Longdon dropped upon the lounge as if with the 
weight of something sudden and fresh ; then, from where 
he sat, with a sharp little movement, tossed into the fire 
the end of his cigarette. Vanderbank offered him an- 
other, a second, and as he accepted it and took a light he 
said : " I don't know what you're doing with me — I never, 
at home, smoke so much!" But he puffed away and, 
seated so near him, laid his hand on Vanderbank's arm 
as if to help himself to utter something that was too 
delicate not to be guarded and yet too important not to 
be risked.  '' Now that's the sort of thing I did mean — 
as one of my impressions." Vanderbank continued at a 
loss, and he went on : "I refer — if you don't mind my 
saying so — to what you said just now." 

Vanderbank was conscious of a deep desire to draw 
from him whatever might come ; so sensible was it some- 
how that whatever in him was good was also thoroughly 
personal. But our young friend had to think a minute. 
"I see, I see. Nothing is more probable than that I've 
said something nasty ; but which of my particular hor- 
rors—?" 

''Well, then, your conveying that she makes her 
daughter out younger — " 

 '' To make herself out the same ?" — Vanderbank took 




  

him straight up. " It was nasty my doing that ? I see, 
I see. Yes, yes : I rather gave her away, and you're 
struck by it — as is most delightful you should be — be- 
cause you're, in every way, of a better tradition and, 
knowing Mrs. Brookenham's my friend, can't conceive of 
one's playing on a friend a trick so vulgar and odious. 
It strikes you also probably as the kind of thing we must 
be constantly doing ; it strikes you that, right and left, 
probably, we keep giving each other away. Well, I dare 
say we do. Yes, ' come to think of it ' as they say in 
America, we do. But what shall I tell you ? Prac- 
tically we all know it and allow for it, and it's as broad 
as it's long. What's London life after all ? It's tit for 
tat !" 

" Ah, but what becomes of friendship ?" Mr. Longdon 
earnestly and pleadingly asked, while he still held Van- 
derbank's arm as if under the spell of the vivid explana- 
tion with which he had been furnished. 

The young man met his eyes only the more sociably. 
" Friendship ?" 

'' Friendship." Mr. Longdon maintained the full 
value of the word. 

 'nVell," his companion risked,  'I dare say it isn't in 
London by any means what it is at Beccles. I quite 
literally mean that," Vanderbank reassuringly added ;  '  I 
never really have believed in the existence of friendship 
in big societies — in great towns and great crowds. It's 
a plant that takes time and space and air ; and London 
society is a huge ' squash,' as we elegantly call it — an 
elbowing, pushing, perspiring, chattering mob." 

" Ah, I don't say that of you !" Mr. Longdon mur- 
mured, with a withdrawal of his hand and a visible 
scruple for the sweeping concession he had evoked. 

'' Do say it, then — for God's sake ; let some one say it, 
so that something or other, whatever it may be, may 
come of it ! It's impossible to say too much — it's impos- 


  

sible to say enougli. There isn't anything any one can 
say that I won't agree to." 

"That shows you really don't care," the old man re- 
turned with acuteness. 

''Oh, we're past saving, if that's what you mean!" 
Vanderbank laughed. 

"You don't care, you don't care !" his visitor repeated, 
''and — if I may be frank with you — I shouldn't wonder 
if it were rather a pity." 

" A pity I don't care ?" 

" You ought to, you ought to." Mr. Longdon paused. 
" May I say all I think ?" 

"I assure you  I shall ! You're awfully interesting." 

" So are you, if you come to that. It's just what I've 
had in my head. There's something I seem to make out 
in you — I" He abruptly dropped this, however, going 
on in another way. " I remember the rest of you, but 
why did I never see yoii f 

"I must have been at school — at college. Perhaps 
you did know my brothers, elder and younger." 

"There was a boy with your mother at Malvern. I 
was near her there for three months in — what was the 
year ?" 

"' Yes, I know," Vanderbank replied while his guest 
tried to fix the date. " It was my brother Miles. He 
was awfully clever, but he had no health, poor chap, and 
we lost him at seventeen. She used to take houses at 
such places with him — it was supposed to be for his 
benefit." 

Mr. Longdon listened with a visible recovery. " He 
used to talk to me — I remember he asked me questions I 
couldn't answer and made me dreadfully ashamed. But 
I lent him books — partly, upon my honor, to make him 
think that, as I had them, I did know something. He 
read everything and had a lot to say about it. I used to 
tell your mother he had a great future." 





  

Vanderbank shook his head sadly and kindly. '' So he 
had. And you remember Nancy, who was handsome, 
and who was usually with them ?" he went on. 

Mr. Longdon looked so uncertain that he explained 
he meant his other sister ; on which his companion said : 
 ''Oh, her? Yes, she was charming — she evidently had a 
future too." 

" AYell, she's in the midst of it now. She's married." 

'' And whom did she marry ?" 

" A fellow called Toovey. A man in the City." 

" Oh !" said Mr. Longdon a little blankly. Tlien, as if 
to retrieve his blankness :  ' But why do you call her 
Nancy? Wasn't her name Blanche ?" 

" Exactly — Blanche Bertha Vanderbank." 

Mr. Longdon looked half mystified and half distressed. 
" And now she'  Nancy Toovey ?" 

Vanderbank broke into laughter at his dismay. " That's 
what every one calls her." 

 '' But why?" 

"Nobody knows. You see you were right about her 
future." 

Mr. Longdon gave another of his soft, smothered sighs ; 
he had turned back again to the first photograph, which 
he looked at for a longer time. " Well, it wasn't her 
way." 

"My mother's? No indeed. Oh, my mother's way — !" 
Vanderbank waited, then added gravely : " She was taken 
in time." 

Mr. Longdon turned half round and looked as if he 
were about to reply to this ; but instead of so doing he 
proceeded afresh to an examination of the expressive 
oval in the red plush frame. He took up little Aggie, 
who appeared to interest him, and abruptly observed : 
" Nanda isn't so pretty." 

" No, not nearly. There's a great question whether 
Niinda is pretty at all." 





  

Mr. Longdon continned to inspect her more favored 
friend; which led him after a moment to bring out: 
"She ought to be, you know. Her grandmother was." 

 '  Oh, and her mother," Vanderbank threw in. " Don't 
you think Mrs. Brookenham lovely ?" 

Mr. Longdon kept him waiting a little. " Not so lovely 
as Lady Julia. Lady Julia had — " He faltered ; then, 
as if there were too much to say, disposed of the ques- 
tion.  '' Lady Julia had everything." 

Vanderbank gathered from the sound of the words an 
impression that determined him more and more to diplo- 
macy.  '' But isn't that just what Mrs. Brookenham has ?" 

This time the old man was prompt. " Yes, she's very 
brilliant, but it's a totally different thing." He laid little 
Aggie down and moved away as if without a purpose ; 
but Vanderbank presently perceived his purpose to be 
another glance at the other young lady. As if acciden- 
tally and absently, he bent again over the portrait of 
Nanda. " Lady Julia was exquisite, and this child's ex- 
actly like her." 

Vanderbank, more and more conscious of something 
working in him, was more and more interested. "If 
Nanda's so like her, was she so exquisite ?" he hazarded. 

"Oh yes; every one was agreed about that." Mr. 
Longdon kept his eyes on the face, trying a little, Van- 
derbank even thought, to conceal his own. "She was 
one of the greatest beauties of her day." 

" Then ts Nanda so like her ?" Vanderbank persisted, 
amused at his friend's transparency. 

"Extraordinarily. Her mother told me all about 
her." 

"Told you she's as beautiful as her grandmother ?" 

Mr. Longdon turned it over. "Well, that she has just 
Lady Julia's expression. She absolutely has it — I see it 
here." He was delightfully positive. "She's much more 
like the dead than like the living." 





  

Vanderbank saw in this too many deep tilings not to 
follow them up. One of these was, to begin with, that 
his friend had not more than half saccumbed to Mrs. 
Brookenham's attraction, if indeed, by a fine originality, 
he had not resisted it altogether. That in itself, for an 
observer deeply versed in this lady, was delightful and 
beguiling. Another indication was that he found him- 
self, in spite of such a break in the chain, distinctly pre- 
disposed to Nanda.  '' If she reproduces then so vividly 
Lady Julia," the young man threw out, ' why does she 
strike you as so much less pretty than her foreign friend 
there, who is, after all, by no means a prodigy T' 

The subject of this address, with one of the photo- 
graphs in his hand, glanced, while he reflected, at the 
other. Then with a subtlety that matched itself for the 
moment with Vanderbank's : " You just told me your- 
self that the little foreign person — " 

'  Is ever so much the lovelier of the two ? So I did. 
But you've promptly recognized it. It's the first time," 
Vanderbank went on, to let him down more gently, 
"that Fve heard Mrs. Brookenham admit the girFs 
looks." 

" Her own girl's ? ' Admit ' them ?" 

" I mean grant them to be even as good as they are. I 
myself, I must tell you, extremely like them. I think 
Lady Julia's granddaughter has in her face, in spite of 
everything — " 

" What do you mean by everything ?" Mr. Longdon 
broke in with such an approach to resentment that his 
host's amusement overflowed. 

"You'll see — when you do see. She has no features. 
No, not one," Vanderbank inexorably pursued ; "unless 
indeed you put it that she has two or three too many. 
What I was going to say was that she has in her expres- 
sion all that's charming in her nature. But beauty, in 
London " — and, feeling that he held his visitor's atten- 





  

tion, he gave himself the pleasure of freely unfolding his 
idea — " staring, glaring, obvious, knock-down, beauty, as 
plain as a poster on a wall, an advertisement of soap or 
whiskey, something that speaks to the crowd and crosses 
the foot-lights, fetches such a price in the market that 
the absence of it, for a woman with a girl to marry, in- 
spires endless terrors and constitutes for the wretched 
pair — to speak of mother and daughter alone — a sort of 
social bankruptcy. London doesn t love the latent or the 
lurking, has neither time, nor taste, nor sense for any- 
thing less discernible than the red flag in front of the 
steam-roller. It wants cash over the counter and letters 
ten feet high. Therefore, you see, it's all, as yet, rather a 
dark question for poor Nanda — a question that, in a way, 
quite occupies the foreground of her mother's earnest lit- 
tle life. How loill she look, what will be thought of her 
and what will she be able to do for herself ? She's at the 
age when the whole thing — speaking of her appearance, 
her possible share of good looks — is still, in a manner, in 
a fog. But everything depends on it." 

Mr. Longdon, by this time, had come back to him. 
 '' Excuse my asking it again — for you take such Jumps : 
what, once more, do you mean by everything ?" 

" Why, naturally, her marrying. Above all her marry- 
ing early." 

Mr. Longdon stood before the sofa. "What do you 
mean by early ?" 

" Well, we do, doubtless, get up later than at Beccles ; 
but that gives us, you see, shorter days. I mean in a 
couple of seasons. Soon enough," Vanderbank devel- 
oped, " to limit the strain — " He broke down, in gayety, 
at his friend's expression. 

" What do you mean by the strain ?" 

 ''Well, the complication of her being there." 

 '' Being where ?" 

 ''You do put one through!" Vanderbank laughed. 



  

But he showed himself perfectly prepared. ' Ontof the 
school-room, where she is now. In her mother's drawing- 
room. At her mother's fireside." 

Mr. Longdon stared.  'But where else should she 
be?" 

"At her husband's, don't you see ?" 

Mr. Longdon looked as if he quite saw, yet he was 
nevertheless, as regards his original challenge, not to be 
put off. ''Ah, certainly," he replied with a slight stiff- 
ness, ''but not as if she had been pushed down the chim- 
ney. All in good time." 

Vanderbank turned the tables on him. "What do 
you call good time ?" 

"Why, time to make herself loved." 

Vanderbank wondered. "By the men who come to 
the house ?" 

Mr. Longdon slightly attenuated this way of putting 
it. " Yes — and in the home circle. AVhere's the ' strain ' 
— of her being suffered to be a member of it ?" 




Vanderbank, at this, left his corner of the sofa and, 
with his hands in his pockets, and a manner so amused 
that it might have passed for excited, took several paces 
about the room while his interlocutor, watching him, 
waited for his response. The old man, as this response 
for a minute hung fire, took his turn at sitting down, 
and then Vanderbank stopped before him with a face 
in which something had been still more brightly kindled. 
" You ask me more things than I can tell you. You ask 
me more than I think you suspect. You must come and 
see me again — you must let me come and see you. You 
raise the most interesting questions, and we must sooner 
or later have them all out." 





  

Mr. Longdon looked happy in such a prospect, but he 
once more took out his watch.  '  It wants five minutes 
to midnight. Which means that I must go now." 

 ' Not in the least. There are satisfactions you too 
must give." Vanderbank, with an irresistible hand, con- 
firmed him in his position and pressed upon him another 
cigarette. His resistance rang hollow — it was clearly, he 
judged, such an occasion for sacrifices. His companion's 
view of it, meanwhile, was quite as marked. '' You see 
there's ever so much more you must in common kindness 
tell me." 

Mr. Longdon sat there like a shy singer invited to 
strike up. ''I told you everything at Mrs. Brooken- 
ham's. It comes over me now how I dropped on you." 

'MVhat you told me," Vanderbank returned,  '  ' was ex- 
cellent so far as it went ; but it was only, after all, that, 
having caught my name, you had asked of our friend if 
I belonged to people you had known years before, and 
then, from what she had said, had, with what you were 
so good as to call great pleasure, made out that I did. 
You came round to me, on this, after dinner, and gave 
me a pleasure still greater. But that only takes us part 
of the way." Mr. Longdon said nothing, but there was 
something appreciative in his conscious lapses ; they 
were a tribute to his young friend's frequent felicity. 
This personage indeed appeared more and more to take 
them for that ; which was not without its effect upon his 
spirits. At last, with a flight of some freedom, he 
brought their pause to a close. " You loved Lady Julia." 
Then, as the attitude of his guest, who serenely met his 
eyes, was practically a contribution to the subject, he 
went on with a feeling that he had positively pleased. 
 '' You lost her, and you're unmarried." 

Mr. Longdon's smile was beautiful — it supplied so 
many meanings that when presently he spoke he seemed 
already to have told half his story.  '' Well, my life took 





  

a, form. It had to, or I don't know what would have be- 
come of me, and several things that all happened at once 
helped me out. My father died — I came into the little 
place in Suffolk. M}  sister, my only one, who had mar- 
ried and was older than I, lost within a year or two both 
her husband and her little boy. I offered her, in the 
country, a home, for her trouble was greater than any 
trouble of mine. She came, she staid; it went on and on, 
and we lived there together. We were sorry for each oth- 
er, and it somehow suited us. But she died two years ago." 

Vanderbank took all this in, only wishing to show — 
wishing by this time quite tenderly — that he even read 
into it deeply enough all the unsaid. He filled out an- 
other of his friend's gaps. '' And here you are.'' Then 
he invited Mr. Longdon himself to make the stride. 
 '  Well, you'll be a great success." 

'  What do you mean by that ?" 

 ' Why, that we shall be so infatuated with you that it 
Avill make your life a burden to you. You'll see soon 
enough what I mean by it." 

"Possibly," the old man said; "to understand you I 
shall have to. You speak of something that, as yet — 
with my race practically run — I know nothing about. I 
was no success as a young man. I mean of the sort that 
would have made most difference. People wouldn't look 
at me." 

"Well, we shall look at you," Vanderbank declared. 
Then he added : " What people do you mean ?" And be- 
fore his friend could reply : " Lady Julia ?" 

Mr. Longdon's assent was mute. "Ah, she was not 
the worst ! I mean that what made it so bad," he con- 
tinued, "was that they all really liked me. Your mother, 
I think — as to that, the dreadful, consolatory ' liking ' — 
even more than the others." 

"My mother?" — Vanderbank was surprised. "You 
mean there was a question — ?" 





  

" Oh, but for half a minnte. It didn t take her long. 
It was five years after your father's death' This ex- 
planation was very delicately made.    She could marry 
again." 

"And I suppose you know she did," Vanderbank re- 
plied. 

"I knew it soon enough" With this, abruptly,. Mr. 
Longdon pulled himself forward. " Good-night, good- 
night." 

''Good-night," said Vanderbank. "But wasn't that 
after Lady Julia ?" 

On the edge of the sofa, his hands supporting him, 
Mr. Longdon looked straight. "There was nothing 
after Lady Julia." 

"I see." His companion smiled. "My mother was 
earlier." 

" She was extremely good to me. I'm not speaking of 
that time at Malvern — that came later." 

"Precisely — I understand. You're speaking of the 
first years of her widowhood." 

Mr. Longdon just faltered. "I should call them 
xather the last. Six months later came her second mar- 
riage." 

Vanderbank's interest visibly improved. " Ah, it was 
then? That was my seventh year." He called things 
back and pieced them together. " But she must have 
been older than you." 

" Yes — a little. She was kindness itself to me, at all 
events, then and afterwards. That was the charm of the 
weeks at Malvern." 

" I see," the young man laughed. " The charm was 
that you had recovered." 

"Oh dear, no !" Mr. Longdon, rather to his mystifica- 
tion, exclaimed. " I'm afraid I hadn't recovered at all 
— hadn't, if that's what you mean, got over my misery 
and my melancholy. She knew I hadn't — and that was 





  

what was nice of her. She was a person with whom I 
could talk about her." 

Vanderbank took a moment to clear up the ambiguity. 
"Oh, yon mean you could talk about the other! You 
hadn't got over Lady Julia." 

Mr. Longdon sadly smiled at him. "I haven't got over 
her yet !" Then, however, as if not to look too Avoful, 
he took pains to be lucid. " The first wound was bad — 
but from that one always comes round. Your mother, 
dear woman, had known how to help me. Lady Julia 
was at that time her intimate friend — it was she who in- 
troduced me there. She couldn't help what happened — 
she did her best. What I meant just now was that, in 
the after-time, when opportunity occurred, she was the 
one person with whom I could always talk and who al- 
ways understood." Mr. Longdon appeared to lose him- 
self an instant in the deep memories to which, now, he 
alone survived to testify ; then he sighed out, as if the 
taste of it all came back to him with a faint sweetness : 
 '  I think they must both have been good to me. At the 
period at Malvern — the particular time I just mentioned 
to you — Lady Julia Avas already married, and during 
those first years she was whirled out of my ken. Then 
her own life took a quieter turn ; we met again ; I went, 
for a long time, often to her house. I think she rather 
liked the state to which she had reduced me, though she 
didn't, you know, in the least presume upon it. The 
better a woman is — it has often struck me — the more she 
enjoys, in a quiet way, some fellow's having been rather 
bad, rather dark and desperate, about her— for her. I 
dare say, I mean, that, though Lady Julia insisted I 
ought to marry, she wouldn't really have liked it much 
if I had. At any rate it was in those years that I saw 
her daughter just cease to be a child — the little girl who 
was to be transformed by time into the so different per- 
son with whom we dined to-night. That comes back to 





  

me when I hear you speak of the growing up, in turn, of 
that person's own daughter." 

   I follow you with a sympathy !" Vanderbank replied. 
'  The situation's reproduced." 

" Ah, partly — not altogether. The things that are un- 
like — well, are so very unlike." Mr. Longdon, for a mo- 
ment, on this, fixed his companion with eyes that be- 
trayed one of the restless little jumps of his mind.  ' I 
told you just now that there's something I seem to make 
out in you." 

''Yes, that was meant for better things?" — Vander- 
bank gaily took him up. '' There is something, I really 
believe — meant for ever so much better ones. Those are 
just the sort I like to be supposed to have a real affinity 
