     SUFFERER
       C. H.

There was not room for the whole name, but, as I told my fellow-mourners
when I read the inscription to them, since we all knew it, the omission
was of no consequence. I could have wished that the slate had broken
straight, so that the inscription would have gone in better. However,
one cannot control circumstance when it takes the shape of a fracture.

Within twenty-four hours after Caspar Hauser's decease he was succeeded
by Bay. His name in its entirety, was Baffin's Bay. The alliterative
unctuousness of the title pleased me, as Mary 'Liza pronounced it
smoothly in her geography lesson, the day on which Hamilcar, the
carriage driver, drove over a young "old hare" in the road, and knocked
one of the poor thing's eyes out. It was taken up for dead, but
presently began to kick, and the ownership reverted to me. It lived a
week, and for hours at a time was so nearly comfortable as to eat
sparingly of milk, lettuce, cabbage, and clover, with which I supplied
it lavishly twice a day. I likewise treated the wounded eye with
balsam-capeiva and balm of Gilead ointment, sovereign appliances for the
bruises and cut fingers of that generation. A lemon box, with slats
nailed across the front by faithful Barratier, was the hospital in which
I laid Bay up for repairs. Him, too, I carried daily into the garden,
for change of air. He condescended to approve of the parsley patch,
limping through it as gracefully as the long tape tied to his right hind
leg would allow.

When, upon the third day of his residence in civilized quarters, he had
a convulsion in the very middle of the parsley patch, I thought it a
playful antic, and was amused and gratified thereat. The second time
this happened, James, the gardener, chanced to witness the performance
and informed me, brutally, that "that old hyar had throwed a fit, and
was boun' to die 'fore long.

"That 'ar lick on de side o' de hade done de bizness fur him, sure. De
brain am injerred. Mighty easy thing fur to injer a Molly Cottontail's
brain. He ain't got much, an' hit lies close to de top o' de hade."

For forty-eight hours before Bay died, the spasms were distressingly
frequent, but I would not have him killed. James might be wrong. Good
nursing and plenty of fresh air might bring my patient around. For fear
my parents might insist that he should be put out of his misery, I
removed the hospital to the playhouse, and gave him the range of the
place, forbidding the colored children to tell what was going on. His
agonies were nearly over when, in the distraction of anxiety, I took
Cousin Frank Morton into confidence. He had ridden over with a message
from Cousin Molly Belle.

(Have I mentioned that they had been married for six months?)

The message was to the effect that I must spend the day and night with
her. My mother gave ready consent.

"Molly has been too pale for several days, and has little or no
appetite," she said, looking affectionately at me. "The change will do
her good, and there is no other place where she enjoys a visit more than
at your house. Molly! can't you thank Cousin Frank for taking the
trouble to come for you?"

Strained by conflicting emotions, I fidgeted awkwardly about Cousin
Frank's chair, pinching the hem of my apron into folds, and shifting
from one foot to the other.

"I want to go dreadfully!" I got out at length, almost ready to cry.
"But--Cousin Frank--wouldn't you like to look at Bay? He's an old hare
that I am taming."

While speaking, I started for the door, and he came after me. My mother
exclaimed, provoked, yet laughing, that I was "getting more ridiculous
every day," but I knew my man, and did not stop.

Bay was throwing a particularly hard fit when we got to him. His cries
had something humanlike in them that pierced ears and heart.

"My dear child!" uttered the shocked visitor. "How long has this been
going on?"

Upon hearing that the poor thing had never seemed really well from the
day he was hurt, and had been "going on like this for four days,
hand-running," he was quite angry--for him.

"I wonder that your mother let you keep him when he was in this state,"
he said seriously; and, seeing the tears I could not drive back, he sat
down on my chair and drew me up to him. "It would be better to kill the
poor creature, at once, dear. He can never be better."

I begged him not to tell my mother about Bay's sickness. I had become
very fond of him, and he was so sweet and patient--and tame,--and I just
couldn't bear to have him killed. Whether he would have granted my
petition or not was not to be tested. While I was speaking, Bay uttered
a shrill scream, leaped up high in the air, and fell over on his back,
dead.

We hurried on the funeral that I might go home with Cousin Frank that
evening. I pulled up the tombstone from the head of Caspar Hauser's
grave and made an epitaph on the other side for Bay. There might not be
another slate broken in the family for months. At the present rate of
mortality among my pensioners, it behooved me to be economical. I had
not time to indite such an elaborate testimonial to the worth of the
deceased as graced Caspar Hauser's last resting-place. Yet I thought
the tribute not amiss, and the drop into poetry elated me and
electrified my audience. The lines were engraved perpendicularly upon
the slate to give the rhyme effective room:--

   "Alas! and Alack A DAY!
   Poor Litle BAFFINS BAY!"

My visit lasted three days instead of one and a half. I brought back
with me something worthy of the pride that swelled my happy heart to
aching. One of Cousin Frank's men had taken two young hares alive, and
given them to his mistress a week ago, and she and Cousin Frank had
arranged a pleasant surprise for me. Before I had been in the house an
hour I was taken to the dining room to see the dear little things
already housed in a cage, made by the plantation carpenter. None of your
lemon-box makeshifts, but a strong case in the shape of a cottage, of
planed wood, painted white on the outside. There were two rooms in it
with a round door in the dividing wall. One was half full of soft,
sweet-smelling hay for Darby and Joan to sleep upon. Their names were
ready-made, too. The other room was a parlor where they were to eat and
to live in the daytime. Broad leather straps by which the box could be
carried were made to look like chimneys.

The whole family collected to admire my treasures when I got home, and
Mary 'Liza was so much interested in Darby and Joan that she brought up
her cats, Cinderella and Preciosa, to be introduced and make friends
with "their new cousins"--so she said. Cinderella was black-and-white,
Preciosa yellow-and-white, very large, and with long fur as soft and
fine as raw silk. Mary 'Liza put them down close to the cottage.

"You must be very good and never hurt either of the beautiful hares--you
hear?" she said, and we all looked on to see what they would do.

Bless your soul! they walked once around the cottage in a lazy,
indifferent, supercilious way, hardly glancing at their "new cousins,"
then Preciosa yawned, tiptoed back to her place on the rug, doubled her
toes in under her, and half closed her "greenery-yallery" eyes in real,
or simulated slumber. Cinderella purred about her mistress until she
seated herself again to work upon her seventh chemise, then jumped up
into her lap and composed herself to slumber.

After that, I had no fear that the well-fed, pampered creatures would
molest my pets. Everybody sympathized in my good fortune. The weather
was intensely warm, and Uncle Ike's own august hands rigged up a shelf
against the garden fence, making what I called a "situation" for my
cottage. Not even Argus could get at them there, had he been evilly
disposed, and he had excellent principles for a puppy. Darby and Joan
nibbled lettuce and cabbage from my fingers inside of three days, and if
they were in the bedroom when I approached their dwelling, would bustle
out to see if it were milk, or greens, or, maybe, clover blossoms that I
had for them.

The happy, happy days went by, and I announced to my father one evening
as we sat at supper that I really "began to believe the curse was lifted
from my pets."

"The curse! Mary Hobson Burwell! what a word!" cried my mother.

My father held up his hand.

"One moment, if you please, mother! Explain yourself, Molly!"

"I mean," answered I, bravely, "that it used to seem as if a wicked
fairy had cursed a curse upon anything I took a fancy to. Like the girl
in the song, and her tree and flower, and dear gazelle, you know. But
Darby and Joan make me hope--"

The words were blasted upon my tongue by a terrible scream.

[Illustration]




Chapter X

Circumstantial Evidence


[Illustration]

The garden gate was close to the dining-room windows, and the windows
were not high above the ground. I rushed for the nearest. The moon was
bright, and I was in time to see three cats jump down from the shelf on
which the cottage was "situated," and dart away in as many different
directions. One ran close along the wall of the house, and I recognized
Preciosa. Hurling myself over the window-sill, I was the first of our
startled party to reach the scene of the tragedy.

The attack had been made from the three exposed sides of the cottage,
the cats thrusting their claws between the bars and dragging my
darlings up against these.

My father opened the cottage door and took out the mangled, palpitating
bodies.

"Oh, father!" I shrieked. "Are they killed?"

"Yes, my daughter."

Then I went crazy. So raging and raving crazy that when I came partially
to my senses, I did not recollect what I had been saying or doing since
I heard the awful truth. I had been removed from the dark and bloody
ground in some way and by somebody, for I was lying on my mother's bed.
The consciousness of where I was had in it some drops of the oil of
consolation. Next to the close embrace of the mother's arms there is no
other resting-place on earth that so aptly typifies the safety and
healing grace of Heaven to the child of whatever age, as Mother's Bed.

In our house, to be laid upon that miracle of elastic fluffiness was to
become, in fancy, a blessèd ghost, cradled upon a cloud. The sick
child, the hurt child, the repentant child--were received into that holy
asylum without other certificate than his or her need.

Finding myself there made me feel that there might still be something
worth living for, and to care for. My mother was by me and her arm was
under my head; my father stood at the foot of the bed, kind and
compassionate; Mam' Chloe was putting a bottle of hot water to my feet,
and there was a strong smell of cologne in the air. I was very weak; my
head felt queer and light, and although I was not crying, something
seemed to grab me inside and shake me every little while--a short, sharp
shake that made me gasp. Before I could open my eyes I heard my mother's
voice say:--

"I wish the dear child did not take things so much to heart. It will
bring her a great deal of sorrow in her future life."

Ah, blessèd mother of mine! for so many years beyond the sight and
hearing of the vicissitudes of that life, then new and all
untried--yours was but a partial prophecy. Against the sorrows born of
"taking things so much to heart," I set a wealth of joy and beauty and
love that have been made mine own by the same nature and habit.

What she said or meant was little to me at that moment, for as I blinked
confusedly about me, I saw Mary 'Liza, neat and upright, in her own
especial chair by the window, and Preciosa was on her lap.

An electric bolt quivered through me. I started up and pointed at the
placid pair, my hand shaking like a leaf, my voice thick with
spluttering wrath:--

"She did it! I want her killed."

"Dear child, lie down, don't talk, you are dreaming," cooed my mother,
trying to force me gently down to the pillow.

I put her aside, and tried to form articulate words.

"That, cat, did, it! I saw her. I'll kill her! Let me get up."

My father came to my mother's help.

"Take the cat out of the room, Mary Eliza," he ordered calmly. And to
me--"Now, Molly, we will hear what you have to say."

He heard and weighed the evidence before I was put to bed in my own
room. My head still went around queerly when I raised it, but my mind
was clear. He sat by me and stroked my hand gently while he got my
testimony. His kindness to his orphaned niece was unfailing, but he
seldom caressed her, and nobody ever romped with her. He listened to my
story first, and as patiently as if he were not to hear any other.

I was hotly positive that the big cat I had seen jump from the shelf and
dash by the window so close to me that I could have touched her by
leaning over the sill, was Preciosa. There was no other cat of her size
and color on the plantation. Beyond this conviction the prosecution had
not a scrap of testimony to offer. On the side of the accused were the
record of a blameless life; the lack of motive, inasmuch as the accused
was fed abundantly with daily bread far more convenient for her than the
raw flesh she had never desired before,--and, as a "clincher," an alibi
was set up by Preciosa's mistress, who, coming into the chamber a few
minutes after the disaster, had found the cat sleeping upon the rug just
as she had left her when the supper bell rang,--and with never a speck
of blood on her paws and fur.

"She had licked it off, then!" I stormed. "I tell you I did see her! I
did! I did! I DID! Father! you know I wouldn't tell a story about
it--don't you?"

"I believe that you think you saw her, my daughter. We all believe that.
But you may have been mistaken. You were very much excited, and the cat
ran fast, and it was in the night, recollect, and the moon is not as
bright as the day. Altogether, we must take it for granted that Preciosa
is not guilty, and keep a sharp lookout for the strange cat that did
the mischief."

"It was Preciosa--hateful old thing!" I insisted, angry and sullen. "She
ought to be killed!"

My father arose with decision that showed the case was concluded.

"Mother! you will see that our little daughter does not talk any more
about this to-night? She will, I hope, feel differently in the morning."

I did not. In saying my prayers at bedtime I pointedly omitted--"Forgive
us our trespasses as we forgive those who trespass against us." I did
not mean to forgive Preciosa. Furthermore, I was not at peace with her
mistress and advocate. The more I mused, the hotter the fire burned,
until I was ready to convict my father of injustice, and my mother of
rank favoritism for the alien. I sulked violently at breakfast, and as I
was not reproved, grew so stubborn and disrespectful over my lessons
that I was sent to my room to stay there until dinner was ready. The
term of banishment had still an hour to run, and I was leaning, listless
and wretched, out of the window when Mam' Chloe and Uncle Ike met in the
yard directly beneath, and part of the low dialogue reached me.

"Ef I could onct ketch that Precious-O-sir in some o' her tricks, you'd
see the fur fly,--mind!" said the butler.

"I suttinly is mighty sorry for po' Miss Molly," answered his wife.
"Looks-if hur heart is pretty nigh broke. It's right down pitiful to see
how much sto' she sot by them young old hyars. You mus' see ef you can't
get her some mo'."

I dropped my head on the window-sill and cried out the tears that
scalded my lids at the unexpected touch of sympathy. Then I fell to
thinking and with a purpose.

I went down to dinner with a tolerably composed countenance, a good
appetite, and a well-digested scheme of vengeance in my mind. Uncle Ike
was my only co-conspirator. I think I can see him now as he rolled back
against the garden fence to laugh as I unfolded my design.

"Ef you ain't the beater!" he chuckled, his pepper-and-salt poll
tilted to one shoulder, and eyeing me with undisguised admiration. "An'
you say nobody ain' put it into your hade?"

"I haven't said a word about it to anybody else, Uncle Ike. You'll help
me,--won't you?"

He doubled himself up like a dyspeptic jack-knife, the ingenuity of the
plot gaining upon his imagination.

I pressed my advantage:--

"And don't tell Mam' Chloe--please! She'll think it is cruel. But it
isn't. It's just only justice. And it can't bring them back."

I clenched my fists, and my eyes filled.

"That's so, Miss Molly, that's so," sobering instantly. "It is mighty
hard on you--powerful hard."

"And, Uncle Ike,"--hurrying to get it out lest my voice should
fail,--"please don't let anybody give me any more old hares, or any
'live things to keep. They'll just die, or be murdered by other folks'
cats--or something. It's no use making myself happy for a little while
just to be sorry for ever and ever so long afterward."

With which epigram I ran away, afraid to try to utter another word.

That evening we were all on the front porch. The air was breezeless, the
moon as yellow as brass through sultry fogs. My mother, in a white
dress, lay back in her rocking-chair and fanned herself languidly. My
father smoked his Powhatan pipe upon the steps, leaning against one
pillar of the roof. Mary 'Liza in pale-blue lawn, occupied the other end
of the step. Her hands were in her lap. Cinderella dozed upon a fold of
her skirt. Dorinda had been undressed and rocked to sleep at sunset.
Preciosa had gone upstairs at the same time. I saw her lying upon the
foot of our bed after supper, her eyes narrowed to slender slits with
sleep or slyness. I had a shrewd impression that if I were to go
upstairs now I should not find her in the same place. Instead of
verifying the surmise in this way I stole noiselessly out of the family
group, sauntering along carelessly until I turned the corner of the
house, after which I ran like a lapwing to the garden gate, the
rendezvous agreed upon between Uncle Ike and myself.

He was there with the various "properties" I had ordered.

Imprimis, a big dish-pan; second, a monstrous black pot from which
steam arose into the hot night; third, a stout twine, to one end of
which was attached a brick; a lump of raw liver dangled at the other. By
my directions the pan was balanced upon the shelf where the cottage had
stood, so that a slight pull would overset it, the brick was laid in the
bottom, the string with the liver attachment hanging over the side.
Lastly, Uncle Ike mounted upon the stool I was wont to use when I
visited my murdered dears, and filled the pan from the pot. All being
ready, we conspirators withdrew to the unlighted dining room, and
stationed ourselves at a window.

Our watch was not tedious. I was the first to discern a moving speck in
the dim vista of the walk leading from the gate far down the garden. It
enlarged and assumed a definite form, slowly. Evidently it was a scout,
and the advance a reconnoissance. Feline artifice was in every line and
motion. A ray of misty moonlight lay athwart the entrance to the garden.
The gate was propped open. As the cat crossed it, we recognized a wily
and wicked old Tom from the stable, a disreputable plebeian prowler,
never tolerated in the house grounds. I hardly smothered an ejaculation
as dainty Preciosa glided into the illuminated area and took part in the
furtive inspection of the preparations made for the reception of last
night's marauders. A third, and yet a fourth, miscreant joined the
first two, and heads were laid together in a council of war.

The liver hung high. Tom rose upon his hind feet, clawed the air
futilely and came down sheepishly upon all fours. Next, a small, nimble
black cat jumped and fell short of the bait. Uncle Ike snickered, and I
drew in my breath excitedly, as the pampered exquisite, My Lady
Preciosa, tripped mincingly into the open. The moon shone out obligingly
to let us see her fall into position, her head upraised toward the
tempting morsel--(pig's liver, and none too fresh at that)--her
crouching body thrown well back upon the haunches, her tail, enlarged to
double the usual size, waving sinuously from side to side in leisurely
calculation of distance and chances. Suddenly she launched her supple
body into space like a catapult, caught the meat between her claws,
swung in the air for a victorious half-second--and then, the deluge!

A chorus of screeches, a frantic stampede in all directions, and the
arena was clear of all except the home-made infernal machine,--the empty
dish-pan upside down on the ground, the brick, the string, and the raw
meat lying under it.

The caterwauling, Uncle Ike's "ky-yi!" and my scream of laughter,
brought the porch-party to the spot. By previous agreement neither of us
mentioned Preciosa's name. I had to pinch myself violently to contain
the unseemly mirth bottled up in my wicked soul when Mary 'Liza was "so
glad the horrible creatures were punished," and "hoped" gently "that
Molly was convinced, now, that poor, dear Preciosa was innocent."

"By the way, where is Preciosa?" asked my father.

"She seemed so sleepy that I gave her her supper, and put her to bed,
when I took Dorinda upstairs," said her surety.

Perhaps my father partly interpreted the gleam in my eyes and the
quivering muscles about my uncontrollable mouth, for he glanced keenly
at me and made as if he would let the inquiry drop. Not so my mother.
She bade Mary 'Liza run upstairs and make sure that Preciosa was there.

"I want my dear little girl to be entirely satisfied that her cousin was
right, and that she did the cat an injustice," she said with judicial
mildness.

Preciosa was not in our room, and she stayed out all night, greatly to
her owner's alarm and distress. Her habits were so regular, her
deportment was always so impeccable that the circumstance assumed the
proportions of an Event by breakfast time. My mother was anxious, Mary
'Liza sorrowful, and my father shook his head more gravely than the
occasion seemed to warrant.

"Molly may not have been so far wrong after all," he observed to my
mother, "in spite of the array of circumstantial evidence against her."

My mother was unconvinced.

"Previous good behavior should count for much in such a case," she
urged. "And our little Molly is too apt to jump at conclusions. We
cannot be too careful how we accuse others of sins which they may never
have committed."

I understood what they said perfectly. They never talked down to us.
That was one reason we were called "old-fashioned" and "precocious" by
people who had one set of words for their own use, and another for
children. My parents considered, and I think rightly, that the best and
most correct forms of speech should be taught to mere infants, that it
is as easy to train a child to be grammatical as to let it lapse into
all sorts of slovenly inaccuracies that must be unlearned at school, and
in society. So, when they talked of "circumstantial evidence" I had a
fair inkling of what the phrase conveyed. Preciosa was upon trial for
misdemeanor, and I for backbiting.

I ate away industriously to keep from "answering back,"--a cardinal
offence in nursery government. Mary 'Liza had no appetite, but she,
also, remained silent, and there was moisture under her eyelids.

"We will suspend judgment--" began my father, and interrupted himself to
ask--"What have you got there, Ike?"

The butler grinned from ear to ear, and broke into uncontrollable
cachinnations in depositing his burden upon the floor.

"One of the stable-boys foun' it in the lof', suh."

He could say no more, and would not have been heard had he gone on, for
my father roared, my mother fairly shrieked with laughter, and I went
into hysterics, while Mam' Chloe and Gilbert joined in the general
racket from the doorway.

An abject nondescript cringed at Mary 'Liza's feet, whimpering
piteously. The devil's broth concocted by Uncle Ike, according to my
receipt, was warm starch, made blue with indigo. A few red peppers were
boiled in it to dissuade the cats from licking it off before it could
dry. It adhered to every individual hair of Preciosa's body. She looked
like an azure porcupine. I had thought, at first, of using soot as
coloring matter, but the thought of the blue appealed to my sense of the
congruous ridiculous. I was more than content with the result. Why a
blue cat should be more mirth-provoking than a yellow may not be
explicable, but the fact remains. Even Mary 'Liza shrank from contact
with the absurd object, and the moisture condensed into falling drops.

"Oh, Aunt Mary! do you think it can be Preciosa? It looks like
a--monster!"

With tears running down his cheeks, and his sides shaking with gusts of
merriment, my father took me upon his knee, and gave me the funniest
kiss I ever had--a jerky kiss, as if a bee had bobbed against my mouth.

"You'll be the death of me yet, child!" And after another series of
side-shakings--"So much for circumstantial evidence!"

[Illustration]




Chapter XI

Frankenstein


The morning was biting cold. A northwest wind had been busy for hours
sweeping and dusting the sky until, now that it was resting from its
labors, the blue vault was as clean and bright as our mahogany
dining-table after Uncle Ike had polished it with beeswax and rosin.

At the breakfast-table the butter splintered off under the knife, and
the milk was frozen so hard that Mary 'Liza and I sugared it and made
believe it was ice-cream. When Gilbert, the under dining-room servant,
brought in the buckwheat cakes and waffles from the kitchen, he had to
cover them with a hot plate, and then run as hard as he could go across
the yard to the house, to keep them from chilling on the way.

There are no buckwheat cakes nowadays, like those that Aunt 'Ritta
made--glossy brown, all of a size, and porous as a sponge. It was great
fun to butter them, and then press them with the flat of a knife-blade,
to see spurts and spouts rise from the surface like so many hot oil
geysers.

That was the morning when I made the eight-cakes-and-one-sausage speech
that passed into a family proverb. The night before I had thrown a
candle-end, four inches long, into the fire, and my mother had told me
it was a Christian duty to be economical, defining the word for me.
Bent, as usual, upon practising what I learned, I divided my sausage
into eight bits, and ate one with each cake.

Cousin Molly Belle and Cousin Frank Morton had stayed all night with us,
and the talk at table was so lively that nobody noticed what I was
about. We were not allowed to chatter during meals when others than the
family were present, or, indeed, at any other time if grown people were
talking, until invited by them to take part in the conversation. So I
waited for a lull in the chat to say aside to my mother at whose left
hand I sat:--

"Mother! I have made one sausage do for eight buckwheat cakes. Wasn't
that economical?"

Even Cousin Molly Belle laughed, the "aside" being more audible than I
meant to have it. True, she hugged me the next minute, her chair being
next to mine on the other side, but her eyes were lively with amusement,
and I saw that she was ready to break out again.

My poor dainty mother actually blushed. It was not fashionable then for
ladies, and little girls who were going to be ladies, to have hearty
appetites. School-girls were instructed that no well-bred young lady
ever ate more than two biscuits at breakfast or supper, and one was more
refined than two. The pinion of a partridge sufficed the Lydia Languish
of that day for the meat course of a dinner, and to be hungry was to be
coarse. My mother was a sensible matron who did not lean to extreme
views on any subject, but she did not rise superior to a mortification
such as this. When she said distressfully:--

"Molly! Eight cakes! I am ashamed that you should be so greedy!" I
comprehended that my offence was rank, and that not her taste alone, but
her sensibilities, suffered.

I got hot all over, as was my custom when self-convicted of sin, and sat
abashed, appetite and spirits put to flight together.

My father pulled his face straight.

"Never mind this time, mother! Better pay meat bills than doctor's
bills. And, on a cold day, a restless little body like hers needs a
great deal of carbon to keep the fires going. Eight buckwheat cakes and
a thumping big sausage represent just so much animal heat."

By and by, when I got a chance to speak to him alone, I asked him what
carbon was, and what he meant by the fires and animal heat. He was at
work at his table in "the office" in the yard, the Mortons having gone
home, but he put down his pen and talked to me for quite a while upon
nutrition and food values. He did not use those terms. They had not come
into vogue even with medical men and writers upon anatomy. Still, his
simple lecture made me comprehend that what I ate kept me alive and warm
and active, and how certain kinds of food made blood, and others,
muscle, and others were of little or no use in keeping up animal heat,
without which there could be no life.

I asked him if we could keep a dead thing warm if it would come to life
again. I was thinking of all my dead pets. It was pathetic,--the
familiarity of a seven-year-old with death and dissolution,--but of this
I was not aware.

He answered very gravely:--

"We cannot keep dead things warm, daughter. When animal heat goes, life
goes."

"And when animal heat comes, does life come?" I queried. "Is that what
makes things alive?"

"Yes, dear. I have not time to explain it to you now. I am very busy.
Some other time we will talk more about it."

I carried a spandy new idea, and a stirring, into the garden with me at
noon, as a chicken runs away to a corner with a crumb. The sun shone
brightly, and I easily kept comfortable by skipping up and down a long
walk, bordered on the northern side by an arbor-vitæ hedge. I did not
know that resinous evergreens really give out warmth, but I had found
out, for myself, that this was the warmest nook of the grounds in
winter, and haunted it exceedingly.

"When animal heat comes, life comes," I repeated aloud, in dancing
along.

The sentence sounded important, and pleased my ears. Presently, I would
set about getting all the meaning I could extract from it, and
experiment upon my acquisition. All my mental currency went into active
circulation.

An odd-looking thing lay in the middle of the path, that was not there
when I came down awhile ago. I thought, at the first glance, that it was
a hedgehog. I had seen pictures of the animal, and knew that when hunted
so closely that it cannot escape it rolls itself into a prickly ball.
This queer object was an oblong roll, about six inches in length and two
inches thick, and covered with very coarse brown fur or wool. I picked
it up. It was very cold. Then it could not be alive. It was light as a
puffball. Then it was empty. For the rest it was a puzzle. I ran with it
to Mam' Chloe, who was getting Bud to sleep in my mother's chamber.

She cast a look at my "find," and sniffed impatiently.

"Always huntin' and foolin' long some trash or nuther! Fetchin' er ole
dade sunflower in ter show me when I'm doin' my bes' ter git this
blessèd sugar-plum pie to sleep so's I ken git to my mendin'. Go 'long,
Miss Molly!"

I was used to her moods, clement and adverse, and I stood my ground.

"Are you sure it's a sunflower, mammy?"

"What you take me fur, chile? Don' I know a sunflower that's run ter
seed las' summer, an' is empty an' dade as Furious [Pharaoh] now? I got
no time to steddy 'bout sech foolishness."

I walked off,--not crestfallen, but blithe. One word had shunted my
ideas upon a new track. She called this nondescript--which might, or
might not, be the dried and warped disk of a sunflower that had cast its
seeds--"dead." What should hinder me from making it alive? It looked
like a hedgehog, or some other animal. It should be an animal! Food of
the right kind, and plenty of heat, were all it needed.

"Carbon and animal heat!" uttered I, consequentially, swelling with the
prospective joy of creation.

Already I foresaw, in imagination, the tremor of the coming breath
running through the uncouth body that would then put out, from
mysterious hiding-places, head and limbs and tail, as buds unfold into
flowers. I would confide to nobody what I was going to undertake. But I
would do it! I would keep up animal heat, hour after hour, day after
day, until my--Creature--breathed and moved and grew!

Without delay I hied me to the kitchen, and begged a cold sausage and a
pone of corn-bread from Aunt 'Ritta. She made no objection beyond asking
why I "wanted sassage 'n' corn-bread in de middle o' de mawnin', 'stead
o' piece o' cake, or somethin' sweet."

"Because the weather is so cold," I replied briefly, and got what I
wished with a grunt of "Dat's so, honey!" Negroes are constitutionally
averse to winter and cold, and recognize, without knowing why, the
carboniferous properties of pork and pone. I bore my treasures off to
the dining room, shut the door, and began my experiment in the hottest
flare of the fireshine.

[Illustration: MOLLY'S EXPERIMENT.

"I hied me to the kitchen and begged a cold sausage and a pone of
corn-bread from Aunt 'Ritta."]

The sunflower disk was a curiosity to me. It had curled inward upon
itself, leaving a considerable cavity within. I stuffed this with the
bread and sausage, crumbled fine, ruminating, the while, upon the
probability that the sausage and cakes I had devoured presented the like
appearance by the time they reached my stomach. When the variegated and
viscid compound was tucked away, I wound a soft string about the disk to
keep it in shape, and enveloped it, first in raw cotton, then in a bit
of red flannel. In my uncertainty as to which end would bourgeon into a
head, and from which would be evolved the tail, I left both ends open
that IT might be able to breathe when breath came. Lastly, I secreted it
under my cricket. It was what was known as "a box cricket," and the
enclosing sides came to within three inches of the floor. It stood at
the warmest corner of the hearth, and I was well-nigh roasted by the
time I had sat upon it long enough to read the chapter in Sandford and
Merton that tells of poor soft Tommy's choice of the shorter end of
the pole on which the load was hung, as likely to be the lighter. I
guessed that it was now time for me to expect to hear the birth-cry of
my Creature, or at least to detect some thrill of life. Lifting a corner
of the mufflings, I insinuated a tentative finger.

IT was warm! And before I withdrew my finger from the rough brown coat I
was confident that I felt a throb like a pulse heave ITS sides. It is
not an exaggeration to say that I was faint with excitement as I
replaced the wrappings. I had never heard of Pygmalion and his statue.
It was thirty years thereafter before I read Mary Shelley's
Frankenstein. When I did read it I could not fail to recall the
picture of the country-bred child, palpitating with awed delight in the
belief that she had wrested Something from Nothing. Youth alone is
absolutely fearless. The presumption of ignorance is akin to sublimity.

I sat down again to ecstatic dreamings. IT would be all my own when IT
was made--a pet so much better worth the having and holding than any
that had preceded it in my affections, that I thought of them--even of
the ever-lamented Darby and Joan--with compassionate contempt. I
pictured to myself the astonishment of the household, white and colored,
in beholding the miracle; the sensation in the neighborhood and county
when the news of what had come to pass was bruited abroad. From the
outermost border of Powhatan, from Chesterfield, and mayhap from over
the river separating Powhatan from Goochland, people would flock to see
me and wonder. Grown-uppers, who had never heard my name until now,
would tell other strangers what Mary Hobson Burwell, aged seven, had
done. I should be CELEBRATED!

I sat and roasted, shifting my position occasionally that another side
might get "done," and seemed to pore over my book until dinner was
ready.

"You are eating next to nothing, Molly," remarked my mother, casually,
during the meal. "Have you been to see 'Ritta since breakfast?"

"Yes, ma'am," I answered meekly; and she did not observe that I colored
uneasily.

Back to my watch I went when the table was cleared, and the others had
quitted the room. Uncle Ike replenished the fire, and commended my good
sense in "huggin' the chimbley-corner in sech cole weather," before he
left me to solitude, to Sandford and Merton, and to "Frank." I had
resolved to name him for my dear cousin-in-law. When I came to read
Frankenstein I marvelled at the coincidence. Frank continued warm, as
I ascertained by quarter-hourly pokes, but he did not stir. I must be
patient. Precious things were slow of growth.

Full as my mind and heart were of thoughts and hopes too big for
expression, my behavior was so nearly normal that no troublesome
questions were propounded. I had no difficulty in keeping my secret.
Imaginative children have more secrets to guard than adults ever think
of harboring.

I took Frank to bed with me, smuggling him under my pillow, and going to
sleep with my hand on him. He was getting warmer every hour.

At midnight a cry--a series of cries--aroused the slumbering household,
and drew my father and mother to my room. I had been awakened from sleep
too sound for dreams by the bite of sharp teeth upon the thick of my
thumb. Even the certainty that Frank had evolved a mouth, and that it
was in good working order, could not cheat me into forgetfulness of the
terror and pain of that awakening. I jerked my hand from under the
pillow and shook Something off upon the floor. I heard it fall, and I
heard it run. Frankenstein could not have conceived more intense horror
and loathing for his foul, misshapen offspring than overpowered me at
that terrible instant. The light in my father's hand showed blood
streaming from my thumb and dripping upon the coverlet.

"A mouse, or maybe a young rat, has bitten her," my mother pronounced
without hesitation. "And no wonder! See how greasy her hand is! Faugh!
How very careless in Chloe to put the child to bed in such a state! Be
quiet, Molly! This should be a lesson to you not to go to bed again
without washing your hands. You are old enough to think of such things
for yourself. My dear child, can't you stop crying? It is not like you
to make so much noise over a little hurt."

"She is frightened out of her senses," said my father. "And you must
admit that it was rather startling to be aroused by feeling a mouse's
teeth nibbling at her hand."

I clung to his neck, shivering with fright and cold. My sobs were
uncontrollable.

"It wasn't a mo-use!" I got out, presently. "Nor a ra-at, either!"

"Not a mouse or a rat! How do you know? Did you see it?"

"It was Fra-a-nk!" I gulped. "Oh! I'm afraid to stay here! He is in
the room somewhere! He will come after me again!"

The scene was ended by my going in my father's arms to my mother's bed
for the rest of the night. My mother stayed upstairs with Mary 'Liza.

"But I did not sleep well," was her grieved report at breakfast. "The
pillows smelled horribly of sausage, I suppose because Molly's hands
were so greasy. Marthy! see that the pillow-cases are changed this
morning."

Before Marthy got upstairs, I mustered and dragooned sufficient courage
to enable me to visit the room. Still trembling and full of loathing at
what I must see, I turned over the pillow. The red flannel was
there--and the raw cotton--and inside of all, IT--Frank no longer--as
cold as a stone!

I took it up with the tongs and threw it out of the window--and said
never a word about it to anybody.

[Illustration]




Chapter XII

My Prize Beet


[Illustration]

I had been seven years old for so long that I alluded to myself
habitually as "almost eight." We had our governess now, Miss Davidson, a
handsome, amiable, and somewhat sentimental Bostonian recommended by a
Richmond friend of my father. Four other girls studied with us. Two of
them, Paulina and Sarah Hobson, were our second cousins. They stayed at
our house from Monday morning until Friday evening, going home for
Sunday, unless the weather were bad. Madeline and Rosa Pemberton were
day scholars, the Pemberton plantation adjoining ours.

I was the youngest of the six, and while I fancy that I was rather a
favorite with Miss Davidson, I endured much from the girls on account of
my inferiority in age, as well as because of my "old-fashioned,
conceited ways." That was one reason I spoke of being almost eight. I
was trying to grow up to what they complained of as "getting above"
myself.

The frank brutality of school children of both sexes, as contrasted with
the unselfish forbearance (or the show of it) and the suave courtesy of
well-bred men and women, is an instructive study in the evolution of
ethics. The youngest boy or girl in class or college is the weakest wolf
in the pack, the under dog in the fight. I had all of a little girl's
natural desire for new playfellows and the dreamer's passion for more
material for castle-building. The prospect of "the school" was
ravishing. I constructed scenes and rehearsed conversations, with the
cast of coming actors, until the quartette must have been super-or
sub-human, had they come up to one tithe of my requirements.

In plain and very homely fact, they were four commonplace, provincial
girls of average natural intelligence, in age varying from twelve to
fourteen. They studied because they would be called upon to recite, and
recited fairly well for fear of reproof and bad marks should they be
derelict. Out of school, books and bookish thoughts were cast to the
four winds of heaven. Their talk was cheery chatter, as brainless as the
rattle of grasshoppers in the summer grass.

Mary 'Liza towered above them in scholastic attainments, although the
junior of the youngest of them, keeping at the head of every class with
unostentatious ease. I am afraid that I may have done my orphaned cousin
seeming injustice in former chapters of this autobiography. Her temper
was even, and her nature was finer than her prim, priggish ways would
have led the casual acquaintance to suppose. She was
ultra-conscientious, and naturally so exemplary that her good behavior
was a snare. She could not sympathize with my temptations to naughtiness
and many falls from good-girlhood. I mention this to introduce what was
a surprise to me at the time. She never joined in the persecutions of me
that were the labor and the pastime of the other girls. It would have
been asking too much to expect her to champion me openly. I was
affectionately grateful to her for holding herself aloof when baiting me
was the amusement of the hour.

My mother had lamented that I took life so much to heart. It took itself
to my heart now, uninvited. I was headstrong and headlong, hot in love,
and honest in hatred; with a brain full of absurd fancies, all of which
were beloved by their author. I had browsed at will in my father's
library, poring by the hour over books twenty years too old for me, yet,
by mental cuticular absorption, taking in and assimilating much that
contributed to the formation of taste and character. My familiar use of
language that sounded pedantic because I got it from books, my frequent
references to characters I had known in print, were gibberish and
vanity of vanities to my new associates. My very plays were
unintelligible to girls who had never heard of William Wallace, and
Robert Bruce, and Thaddeus of Warsaw, or read, on Sunday afternoons, of
Tobias and the Angel, Judith and Holofernes, and Christiana and her
children.

Not one of the four had an intellectual ambition. Mary 'Liza's
scholarship did not excite their envy because she was quiet and
inoffensive. Proficiency in her studies was "one of her ways." I was
talkative and aggressive, and needed taking down. They set themselves
systematically about the performance of the duty. The work was done
deftly and discreetly, out of the sight and hearing of our elders. Young
and raw as I was, I was too wise to tell tales on them. By the time I
was four years old that lesson was rubbed into my consciousness by the
gruesome rhyme:--

   "Tell-tale tit!
   Your tongue shall be slit,
   And every dog in our town
   Shall have a little bit!"

This apparently tedious preamble yet leads by an air-line to the first
Agricultural Fair ever held at Powhatan Court House. The date was
October fifteenth, and all the gentlemen and ladies in the county were
entreated to send exhibits of plantation products and feminine
handiwork. Enthusiasm ran from homestead to homestead with the speed and
heat of a March fire in pine woods. Cattle, tobacco, grain, vegetables,
fruit, flowers, bedquilts, poultry, bees, knitting,
embroideries,--nothing was talked of but the finest specimens of these
that would be "in strong and beauteous order ranged," upon the important
day.

