"You're going to be seasick. You'll hardly be able to appear at the
dinner table."

"It makes me sick to think of eating," said Dodger, feebly.

As he sank back into his berth, all thoughts of his unexpected
position gave way to an overpowering feeling of seasickness.

He had never been tried in this way before, and he found the sensation
far from agreeable.

"If only the vessel would stop pitching," he groaned. "Oh, how happy I
should be if I were on dry land."

But the vessel wouldn't stop--even for a minute.

The motion, on the other hand, seemed to increase, as was natural, for
they were getting farther and farther from land and were exposed to
the more violent winds that swept the open ocean.

There is something about seasickness that swallows up and draws away
all minor cares and anxieties, and Dodger was too much affected to
consider how or why it was that he so unexpectedly found himself a
passenger to California.

"Lie flat on your back," said the steward. "You will feel better if
you do."

"How long is it going to last?" groaned Dodger, feeling quite
miserable.

"Oh, you'll feel better to-morrow. I'll bring you some porridge
presently. You can get that clown, and it is better to have something
on your stomach."

He was right. The next day Dodger felt considerably better, and
ventured to go upon deck. He looked about him in surprise.

There had been a storm, and the waves were white with foam.

As far as the eye could see there was a tumult and an uproar.

The ship was tossed about like a cockle shell. But the sailors went
about their work unruffled. It was no new sight for them.

Though his head did not feel exactly right, the strong wind entered
Dodger's lungs, and he felt exhilarated. His eyes brightened, and he
began to share in the excitement of the scene.

Pacing the deck was a stout, bronzed seaman, whose dress made it clear
even to the inexperienced eyes of Dodger that he was the captain.

"Good-morning, Master Grant," he said, pleasantly. "Are you getting
your sea legs on?"

The name was unfamiliar to Dodger, but he could see that the remark
was addressed to him.

"Yes, sir," he answered.

"Ever been to sea before?"

"No, sir."

"You'll get used to it. Bless me, you'll stand it like an old sailor
before we get to 'Frisco."

"Is it a long voyage, captain?" asked Dodger.

"Five months, probably. We may get there a little sooner. It depends
on the winds and weather."

"Five months," said Dodger to himself, in a tone of dismay.

The captain laughed.

"It'll be a grand experience for a lad like you, Arthur!" said the
captain, encouragingly.

Arthur! So his name was Arthur! He had just been called Master Grant,
so Arthur Grant was his name on board ship.

Dodger was rather glad to have a name provided, for he had only been
known as Dodger heretofore, and this name would excite surprise. He
had recently felt the need of a name, and didn't see why this wouldn't
answer his purpose as well as any other.

"I must write it down so as not to forget it," he resolved. "It would
seem queer if I forgot my own name."

"I shouldn't enjoy it much if I were going to be seasick all the
time," he answered.

"Oh, a strong, healthy boy like you will soon be all right. You don't
look like an invalid."

"I never was sick in my life."

"But your guardian told me he was sending you on a sea voyage for your
health."

"Did Mr. Waring say that?"

"Yes; didn't you know the object of your sea trip?" asked Capt.
Barnes, in surprise.

"No."

"There may be some tendency to disease in your system--some hereditary
tendency," said the captain, after a pause.

"Were your parents healthy?"

"They--died young," answered Dodger, hesitatingly.

"That accounts for your guardian's anxiety. However, you look strong
enough, in all conscience; and if you're not healthy, you will be
before the voyage ends."

"I don't know what I am to do for clothes," said Dodger, as a new
source of perplexity presented itself. "I can't get along with one
shirt and collar for five months."

"You will find plenty of clothes in your valise. Hasn't it been given
you?"

"No, sir."

"You may ask the steward for it. You didn't think your guardian would
send you on a five-months' voyage without a change of clothing, did
you?"

And the captain laughed heartily.

"I don't know Mr. Waring very well," said Dodger, awkwardly.

As he went downstairs to inquire about his valise, this question
haunted him:

"Why did Curtis Waring send him on a sea voyage?"




Chapter XXII.
The Other Passenger.


Dodger sought the steward, and asked for his valise.

"Isn't it in your stateroom?" asked that functionary.

"I haven't seen it."

"I remember now. It was put with the luggage of the other passenger. I
will show it to you."

He took Dodger to a part of the ship where freight was stored, and
pointed to a sizable valise with a card attached to it on which was
inscribed the name: "Arthur Grant."

"This must be yours," he said.

"Yes, I suppose so," answered Dodger, glad to have found out the new
name which had been given him, otherwise he would have supposed the
valise belonged to some other person.

He took the valise to his stateroom, and, finding a key tied to the
handles, he opened it at once.

It proved to contain a very fair supply of underclothing, socks,
handkerchiefs, etc., with a tooth brush, a hair brush and comb, and a
sponge. Never in his life had Dodger been so well supplied with
clothing before. There were four white shirts, two tennis shirts, half
a dozen handkerchiefs and the same number of socks, with three changes
of underclothing.

"I begin to feel like a gentleman," said Dodger to himself,
complacently.

That was not all. At the bottom of the valise was an envelope, sealed,
on which was inscribed the name: "Dodger."

"That is for me, at any rate," thought our hero. "I suppose it is from
Curtis Waring."

He opened the envelope, and found inclosed twenty-five dollars in
bills, with a few lines written on a half-sheet of paper. These Dodger
read, with interest and curiosity. They were as follows:

    "Dodger:--The money inclosed is for you. When you reach
    California you will find it of use. I have sent you out there
    because you will find in a new country a better chance to
    rise than in the city of New York. I advise you to stay there
    and grow up with the country. In New York you were under the
    influence of a bad man, from whom it is best that you should
    be permanently separated. I know something of the early
    history of Tim Bolton. He was detected in a crime, and fled
    to escape the consequences. You are not his son, but his
    nephew. Your mother was his sister, but quite superior to
    himself. Your right name is Arthur Grant, and it will be well
    for you to assume it hereafter. I have entered you in the
    list of passengers under that name.

    "I thought you had taken the will from my uncle's desk, but I
    am inclined to think you had nothing to do with it. If you
    know where it is, or whether Bolton has it, I expect you to
    notify me in return for the money I have expended in your
    behalf. In that case you can write to me, No. -- Madison
    Avenue.

                                                 "Curtis Waring."

Dodger read the letter over twice, and it puzzled him.

"He seems from the letter to take an interest in me," he soliloquized.
"At any rate, he has given me money and clothes, and paid my passage
to California. What for, I wonder? I don't believe it is to get me
away from the bad influence of Tim. There must be some other reason."

There was another part of the letter with which Dodger did not agree.

Curtis asserted positively that he was the nephew of Tim Bolton, while
he was positive that there was no relationship between them.

In that case Curtis must have been an early acquaintance of Tim's. At
any rate, he seemed to know about his past life.

Dodger now comprehended his present situation fully. He was a
passenger on the ship Columbia, and there was no chance of leaving
it. He had ascertainel on inquiry that the vessel would not put in
anywhere, but would make the long voyage direct. It would be over four
months, at any rate, before he could communicate with Florence, and in
the meantime, she and Mrs. O'Keefe, whom he recognized as a good
friend, would conclude that he was dead.

It was very provoking to think that he could not even telegraph, as
that would relieve all anxiety, and he felt sure that Florence was
enough his friend to feel anxious about him.

He had just closed up his valise, when a young man of dark complexion
and of an attractive, intellectual expression, entered the cabin.

He nodded pleasantly to Dodger, and said:

"I suppose this is Arthur Grant?"

"Yes, sir," answered Dodger, for he had decided to adopt the name.

"We ought to become close friends, for we are, I believe, the only
passengers."

"Then you are a passenger, too?" said Dodger, deciding, after a brief
scrutiny, that he should like his new acquaintance.

"Yes. My name is Randolph Leslie. I have been, for the last five
years, a reporter on leading New York daily papers, and worked so
closely that my health has become somewhat affected. My doctor
recommended a sea voyage, and I have arranged for a pretty long one."

"What papers have you worked for?"

"Oh, all the leading ones--Tribune, World, Herald, and Sun--
sometimes one, and sometimes another. Your reason for taking this trip
can hardly be the same as mine. You don't look as if your health
required you to travel."

"No," answered Dodger, smiling; "but I understand that the gentleman
who engaged my passage said I was going to sea for my health."

"If I were as robust as you, I shouldn't give much thought to my
health. Do you intend to remain in California?"

"I don't know what I do intend," replied Dodger. "I didn't know I was
going to California at all until I woke up in my stateroom."

The young man looked surprised.

"Didn't you know the destination of the vessel when you came on
board?" he asked.

"I was brought aboard in my sleep."

"This is curious. It looks to me as if you had a story to tell.

"Of course, I don't want to be curious, but if there is anyway in
which I can help you, by advice, or in any other way, I am quite ready
to do so."

Dodger paused, but only briefly. This young man looked friendly, and
might help him to penetrate the mystery which at present baffled him.

At any rate, his experience qualified him to give friendly advice, and
of this Dodger felt that he stood in need.

"I ought to tell you, to begin with," he said, "that I am a poor boy,
and made my living as best I could, by carrying baggage, selling
papers, etc."

"I don't think any the worse of you for that. Did you live at the
lodging houses?"

"No; until lately I lived with a man who keeps a saloon on the Bowery,
and tended bar for him."

"What was his name? As a reporter I know the Bowery pretty well."

"Tim Bolton."

"Tim Bolton? I know his place well. I think I must have seen you
there. Your face looked familiar to me as soon as I set eyes on you."

"Very likely. A good many people came into Tim's. I couldn't pretend
to remember them all."

"Was Tim a relative of yours?"

"I don't believe he was. I always thought that he got hold of me when
I was a kid. I don't remember the time when I wasn't with him."

"I suppose you have always lived in New York?"

"No; I lived for several years in Australia. Tim was in the same
business there. I came on with him a year or more since."

"Do you think you ever lived in New York before?"

"Yes; Tim has told me that I was born in New York."

"I understand that you have left Tim now?"

"Yes."

"Why, may I ask?"

"Because I didn't like the business he was in. But I liked it better
than the one he wanted me to go into."

"What was that?"

"Burglary."

The young reporter started in surprise.

"Well," he said, "this is a new tack for Tim. However, I never looked
upon him as a man who would shrink from any violation of the laws,
except murder. I don't think he would do that."

"No; Tim isn't quite so bad. He isn't the worst man alive, though he
is a rather hard customer. It was his wanting me to enter a house on
Madison Avenue and open a desk that led to me going on this trip."

"Tell me about it, if you don't mind."

Thus invited, Dodger told his story to Randolph Leslie, keeping
nothing back.

He finished by showing him the letter he had found in the valise.




Chapter XXIII.
Through The Golden Gate.


"Well, this is certainly a remarkable letter," said the reporter, as
he handed it back to Dodger. "I am at a loss to understand the
interest which this man appears to feel in you."

"I look upon him as my enemy," said Dodger. "But an enemy doesn't
spend so much money upon another as he has."

"Unless he has object in it," amended Leslie, shrewdly. "Do you know
of any connection this man has with you?"

"No; I never heard of him until I entered his house," and Dodger
flushed as he thought that his entrance into the mansion on Madison
Avenue had been as a burglar.

"It seems to me that he knows more about you than you do about him. It
also seems to me that he is anxious to get you out of New York, the
farther the better."

"But what harm could I do him in New York?" asked Dodger, puzzled.

"That is the question which I cannot answer. You say he was
instrumental in getting his Cousin Florence out of the house?"

"Yes; he wanted to marry her."

"And she would not consent?"

"No; I think she hates him."

"How old is she?"

"Seventeen."

"And he?"

"He looks about thirty-five."

"The difference in years isn't great enough to constitute an obstacle,
provided she loved him. I am thirty years old."

"I am sure Florence would prefer you to Curtis Waring."

"Don't flatter me. I am vain enough already. The time may come when I
may ask your good offices with Miss Linden. What I was about to ask
was: Is Miss Linden also entitled to a share in her uncle's estate?"

"She is just as nearly related to him as Mr. Waring."

"Then I can understand his wishing to get rid of her. I don't know why
he should want to send you to a distance. I suppose there can't be any
relationship?"

"Is it likely that I--a poor street boy--should be related to a rich
man like Mr. Linden?"

"It doesn't seem likely, I admit," said Leslie, musingly. "Well, I
suppose," he continued, after a pause, "there is no use in speculating
about the matter now. The important point is, what are we to do with
ourselves during the four or five months we must spend on shipboard?"

"I don't know what I can do," said Dodger. "I can't sell papers, and I
can't smash baggage."

"And there appears to be no need of your doing either, as you are
provided with board and lodging till we reach shore."

"That seems strange to me, for I've always had to hustle for a
living."

"I was about to make a proposal to you. But first let me ask you about
your education. I suppose you are not an accomplished scholar?"

"I'm about as ignorant as they make 'em," answered Dodger, drolly.
"Tim was afraid to send me to college, for fear I'd get to know too
much for my business."

"Tending bar does not require an acquaintance with Latin and Greek.
Would you like to know more?"

"I wish I did. Florence was teaching me nights when I was in New York.
Now I've got to give up all that."

"Not necessarily. Listen to me, Arthur. Before I came to New York to
go into journalism, I taught school for two years; and I believe I may
say that I was tolerably successful. Suppose I take you as a scholar?"

"I should like it very much, Mr. Leslie, but I'm afraid I haven't got
money enough to pay you."

"That is true. You will need all the money you have when you land in
California. Twenty-five dollars won't go far--still you have all the
money that is necessary, for I do not intend to charge you anything."

"You are very kind to me, Mr. Leslie, considerin' you don't know me,"
said Dodger, gratefully.

"On the contrary, I think I know you very well. But about the kindness
--my motives are somewhat mixed. I should like to do you a service,
but I should also like to find employment for myself that will make
the days less monotonous. I have a collection of books in my trunk,
enough for our needs, and if you will agree we will commence our
studies to-morrow."

"I should like it very much. I'd like to show Florence, when I see
her, that I have improved. Till I saw her I didn't care much, but when
I talk with her I feel awfully ignorant."

"In four months a great deal can be accomplished. I don't know how
quick you are to learn. After we have had one or two lessons I can
judge better."

Two days later Mr. Leslie pronounced his opinion, and a favorable one.

"You have not exaggerated your ignorance," he said to Dodger. "You
have a great deal to learn, but on the other hand you are quick, have
a retentive memory, and are very anxious to learn. I shall make
something of you."

"I learn faster with you than with Florence," said Dodger.

"Probably she would succeed better with girls, but I hold that a male
teacher is better for boys. How long are you willing to study every
day?"

"As long as you think best."

"Then we will say from two to three hours. I think you have talent for
arithmetic. I don't expect to make you fit for a bookkeeper, but I
hope to make you equal to most office boys by the time we reach San
Francisco. What do you intend to do in California?"

"I don't know. I should like to go back to New York, but I shall not
have money enough."

"No; twenty-five dollars would go but a little way toward the passage.
Evidently Mr. Waring did not intend to have you return, or he would
have provided you with more."

"That is just why I should like to go back. I am afraid he will do
some harm to Florence."

"And you would like to be on hand to protect her?"

"Yes."

Randolph Leslie smiled.

"You seem to take a great deal of interest in Florence, if I may make
as free with her name as you do."

"Yes; I do, Mr. Leslie."

"If you were only a little older I might suspect the nature of that
interest."

"I am older than she is."

"In years, yes. But a young lady of seventeen, brought up as she has
been, is older by years than a boy of eighteen. I don't think you need
apprehend any harm to Miss Linden, except that Mr. Waring may cheat
her out of her rightful share of the inheritance. Is her uncle in good
health?"

"No, sir; he is a very feeble man."

"Is he an old man?"

"Not so very old. I don't believe he is over sixty."

Really Mr. Linden was but fifty-four, but, being a confirmed invalid,
he looked older.

"Should you say that he was likely to live very long?"

"No," answered Dodger. "He looks as if you could knock him over with a
feather. Besides, I've heard Florence say that she was afraid her
uncle could not live long."

"Probably Curtis Waring is counting upon this. If he can keep Florence
and her uncle apart for a few months, Mr. Linden will die, and he will
inherit the whole estate. What is this will he speaks of in the letter
you showed me?"

"I don't know, sir."

"Whatever the provisions are, it is evident that he thinks it
important to get it into his possession. If favorable to him, he will
keep it carefully. If unfavorable, I think a man like him would not
hesitate to suppress it."

"No doubt you are right, sir. I don't know much about wills," said
Dodger.

"No; I suppose not. You never made any, I suppose," remarked the
reporter, with a smile.

"I never had nothing to leave," said Dodger.

"Anything would be a better expression. As your tutor I feel it
incumbent upon me to correct your grammar."

"I wish you would, Mr. Leslie. What do you mean to do when you get to
San Francisco?"

"I shall seek employment on one of the San Farncisco daily papers. Six
months or a year so spent will restore my health, and enable me to
live without drawing upon my moderate savings."

"I expect I shall have to work, too, to get money to take me back to
New York."

And now we must ask the reader to imagine four months and one week
passed.

There had been favorable weather on the whole, and the voyage was
unusually short.

Dodger and the reporter stood on deck, and with eager interest watched
the passage through the Golden Gate. A little later and the queen city
of the Pacific came in sight, crowning the hill on which a part of the
city is built, with the vast Palace Hotel a conspicuous object in the
foreground.




Chapter XXIV.
Florence In Suspense.


We must now return to New York to Dodger's old home.

When he did not return at the usual hour, neither Florence nor Mrs.
O'Keefe was particularly disturbed.

It was thought that he had gone on some errand of unusual length, and
would return an hour or two late.

Eight o'clock came, the hour at which the boy was accustomed to repair
to Florence's room to study, and still he didn't make his appearance.

"Dodger's late this evening, Mrs. O'Keefe," said Florence, going up to
the room of her landlady.

"Shure he is. It's likely he's gone to Brooklyn or up to Harlem, wid a
bundle. He'll be comin' in soon."

"I hope he will be well paid for the errand, since it keeps him so
long."

"I hope so, too, Florence, for he's a good boy, is Dodger. Did I tell
you how he served the rapscallion that tried to stale my apples the
other day?"

"No; I would like to hear it."

"A big, black-bearded man came along, and asked me for an apple.

"'You can have one for two pennies,' says I.

"'But I haven't got them,' says he.

"'Then you must go widout it,' says I.

"'We'll see about that,' says he.

"And what do you think?--the fellow picked out one of my biggest
apples, and was walkin' away! That made me mad.

"'Come back, you thafe of the worruld!' says I.

"'Silence, you old hag!' says he.

"Actilly he called me an old hag! I wanted to go after him, but there
was two hoodlums hangin' round, and I knew they'd carry off some of my
apples, when, just as I was at my wits' end, Dodger came round the
corner.

"'Dodger,' I screamed, 'go after that man! He's taken one of my
apples, widout lave or license!'

"Upon that, Dodger, brave as a lion, walked up to the man, and, says
he:

"'Give back that apple, or pay for it!'

"'What's that to you, you impudent young rascal?' says the man,
raisin' the apple to his mouth. But he didn't get a chance to bite it,
for Dodger, with a flip of his hand, knocked it on the sidewalk, and
picked it up.

"Wasn't the man mad just?"

"'I'll smash you, boy,' he growled.

"'I'm a baggage-smasher myself,' says Dodger, 'and I can smash as
well as you.'

"Wid that the man up with his fist and struck at Dodger, but he dodged
the blow, and gave him one for himself wid his right. Just then up
came a cop.

"'What's all this?' says he.

"'That man tried to run off wid one of my apples,' says I.

"'Come along,' says the cop. 'You're wanted at the station-house.'

"'It's a lie,' says the man. 'I paid the woman for the apple, and
that young rascal knocked it out of my hand.'

"'I know the boy,' says the cop, 'and he ain't one of that kind. I'll
let you go if you buy five apples from the lady, and pay for 'em.'

"The man made up an ugly face, but he didn't want to be locked up, and
so he paid me a dime for five apples."

"Dodger is very brave," said Florence. "Sometimes I think he is too
daring. He is liable to get into trouble."

"If he does he'll get himself out of it, never you fear. Dodger can
take care of himself."

Nine o'clock came, and Florence became alarmed. She had not been aware
how much she had depended upon the company of her faithful friend,
humble as his station was.

Again she went into Mrs. O'Keefe's room. The apple-woman had been out
to buy some groceries and had just returned.

"I am getting anxious about Dodger," said Florence. "It is nine
o'clock."

"And what's nine o'clock for a boy like him? Shure he's used to bein'
out at all hours of the night."

"I shall feel relieved when he comes home. What should I do without
him?"

"Shure I'd miss him myself; but it isn't the first time he has been
out late."

"Perhaps that terrible Tim Bolton has got hold of him," suggested
Florence.

"Tim isn't so bad, Florence. He isn't fit company for the likes of
you, but there's worse men nor Tim."

"Didn't he send out Dodger to commit a burglary?"

"And if he hadn't you'd never made Dodger's acquaintance."

"That's true; but it doesn't make burglary any more excusable. Don't
you really think Tim Bolton has got hold of him?"

"If he has, he won't keep him long, I'll make oath of that. He might
keep him over night, but Dodger would come back in the morning."

Florence was somewhat cheered by Mrs. O'Keefe's refusal to believe
that Dodger was in any serious trouble, but she could not wholly free
herself from uneasiness. When eleven o'clock came she went to bed very
unwillingly, and got very little rest during the night. Morning came,
and still Dodger did not show up. As we know, he was fairly started on
his long voyage, though he had not yet recovered consciousness.

Florence took a very light breakfast, and at the usual time went to
Mrs. Leighton's to meet her pupil. When the study hour was over, she
did not remain to lunch, but hurried back, stopping at Mrs. O'Keefe's
apple-stand just as that lady was preparing to go home to prepare
dinner.

"Have you seen anything of Dodger, Mrs. O'Keefe?" asked Florence,
breathlessly.

"No, I haven't, Florence. I've had my eye out watchin' for him, and he
hasn't showed up."

"Is there anything we can do?" asked Florence, anxiously.

"Well, we might go around and see Tim--and find out whether he's got
hold of him."

"Let us go at once."

"Shure I didn't know you cared so much for the boy," said Mrs.
O'Keefe, with a shrewd look at Florence's anxious face.

"Why shouldn't I care for him? He is my only friend."

"Is he now? And what's the matter wid Bridget O'Keefe?" asked the
apple-woman.

"Excuse me, Mrs. O'Keefe. I know very well you are my friend, and a
kind friend, too. I should not have forgotten you."

"It's all right, Florence. You're flustrated like, and that's why you
forget me."

"I have so few friends that I can't spare one," continued Florence.

"That's so. Come along wid me, and we'll see what Tim has to tell us."

A short walk brought the two strangely assorted companions to the
entrance of Tim Bolton's saloon. "I'm afraid to go in, Mrs. O'Keefe,"
said Florence.

"Come along wid me, my dear, I won't let anything harm you. You ain't
used to such a place, but I've been here more than once to fill the
growler. Be careful as you go down the steps, Florence."

Tim Bolton was standing behind the bar, and as he heard steps he
looked carelessly toward the entrance, but when he saw Florence, his
indifference vanished. He came from behind the bar, and advanced to
meet her.

"Miss Linden," he said.

Florence shrank back and clung to her companion's arm.

"Is there anything I can do for you? I am a rough man, but I'm not so
bad as you may think."

"That's what I told her, Tim," said Mrs. O'Keefe. "I told Florence
there was worse men than you."

"Thank you, Mrs. O'Keefe. Can I offer you a glass of whiskey?"

The apple-woman was about to accept, but she felt an alarmed tug at
her arm, and saw that Florence would be placed in an embarrassing
position if she accepted. So, by an exercise of self-denial--for Mrs.
O'Keefe was by no means insensible to the attractions of whiskey,
though she never drank to excess--she said:

"Thank you kindly, Mr. Bolton. I won't take any just now; but I'll
remind you of your offer another day."

"Have it your own way, Mrs. O'Keefe. And now, what can I do for you
and Miss Linden?"

"Oh, Mr. Bolton," broke in Florence, unable to bear the suspense
longer, "where is Dodger?"




Chapter XXV.
Finding The Clew.


Tim Bolton looked at Florence in undisguised astonishment.

"Dodger!" he repeated. "How should I know? I supposed that you had
lured him away from me."

"He didn't like the business you were in. He preferred to make a
living in some other way."

"Then why do you ask me where he is?"

"Because he did not come home last night. Shure he rooms at my house,"
put in Mrs. O'Keefe, "and he hasn't showed up since----"

"And you thought I might have got hold of him?" said Bolton,
inquiringly.

"Then you are mistaken. I haven't seen the boy for weeks."

Tim Bolton spoke so straightforwardly that there was no chance to
doubt his word.

"When he was living with you, Mr. Bolton," continued Florence, "did he
ever stay away like this?"

"No," answered Bolton. "Dodger was always very regular about comin'
home."

"Then something must have happened to him," said Florence, anxiously.

"He might have got run in," suggested the apple-woman. "Some of them
cops is mighty officious."

"Dodger would never do anything to deserve arrest," Florence said,
quickly.

"Thrue for you, Florence, but some innersent parties are nabbed. I
know of one young man who was standin' on a strate corner waitin' for
the cars, when a cop came up and arristed him for disorderly conduct."

"But that is shameful!" said Florence, indignantly.

"Thrue for you, my dear. We might go round to the police headquarters
and inquire if the boy's been run in."

"What do you think, Mr. Bolton?" asked Florence.

Tim Bolton seemed busy thinking. Finally he brought down his hand
forcibly on the bar, and said: "I begin to see through it."

Florence did not speak, but she fixed an eager look of inquiry on the
face of the saloon-keeper.

"I believe Curtis Waring is at the bottom of this," he said.

"My cousin!" exclaimed Florence, in astonishment.

"Yes, your cousin, Miss Linden."

"But what can he have against poor Dodger! Is it because the boy has
taken my part and is a friend to me?"

"He wouldn't like him any better on account of hat; but he has another
and a more powerful reason."

"Would you mind telling me what it is? I cannot conceive what it can
be."

"At present," answered Bolton, cautiously, "I prefer to say nothing on
the subject. I will only say the boy's disappearance interferes with
my plans, and I will see if I can't find out what has become of him."

"If you only will, Mr. Bolton, I shall be so grateful. I am afraid I
have misjudged you. I thought you were an enemy of Dodger's."

"Then you were mistaken. I have had the boy with me since he was a
kid, and though I've been rough with him at times, maybe, I like him,
and I may some time have a chance to show him that old Tim Bolton is
one of his best friends."

"I will believe it now, Mr. Bolton," said Florence, impulsively,
holding out her hand to the burly saloon-keeper.

He was surprised, but it was evident that he was pleased, also, and he
took the little hand respectfully in his own ample palm, and pressed
it in a friendly manner.
