will be until we reach that pitch of universal luxury 
and sloth and vice which extinguished Rome. That 
commercial and financial pursuits should make a man 
less a man is the very acme of absurdity. If our men 
were drawn into a righteous war to-morrow or a hundred years hence, they would fight to the glory of their 
country and their own honor. But if they swagger 
out to whip a decrepit and wheezy old man, when the 
excitement is over they will wish that the whole episode 
could be buried in oblivion. And I would be willing 
to wager anything you like that if this war does come 
off, so false is its sentiment that it will not inspire one 
great patriotic poem, nor even one of merit, and that 
the only thing you will accomplish will be to drag Cuba 
from the relaxing clutches of one tyrant and fling her 
to a horde of politicians and greedy capitalists." 

But, except when politics possessed it, her brain 
seldom ceased, no matter how crowded her environ- 




ment, from pondering on the events of the summer, 
and pondering, it sobered and grew older. 

She had engaged in a conflict with the Unseen 
Forces of life and been conquered. She had been 
obliged to stand by and see these forces work their 
will upon a helpless being, who carried in solution the 
vices of civilizations and men persisting to their logical 
climax, almost demanding aloud the sacrifice of the victim to death that this portion of themselves might be 
buried with her. Despite her intelligence, nothing else 
could have given her so clear a realization of the eternal persistence of all acts, of the sequential symmetrical links they forge in the great chain of Circumstance. 
It was this that made her hope more eager that the 
United States would be guided by its statesmen and 
not by hysteria, and it was this that made her think 
deeply and constantly upon her future relation with 
Senator North. 

The danger was as great as ever. Her brain had 
sobered, but her heart had not. Separation and the 
absence of all communication they had agreed not 
to correspond had strengthened and intensified a love 
that had been half quiescent so long as its superficial 
wants were gratified. Troubled times were coming 
when he would need her, would seek her whenever 
he could, and yet when their meetings must be short 
and unsatisfactory. When hours are no longer possible, minutes become precious, and the more precious 
the more dangerous. If she were older, if tragedy and 
thought had sobered and matured her character, if 
she were deprived of the protection of the lighter 
moods of her mind, would not the danger be greater 
still? The childish remnant upon which she had 



 

instinctively relied had gone out of her, she had a 
deeper and grimmer knowledge of what life would be 
without the man who had conquered her through her 
highest ideals and most imperious needs ; and of what 
it would be with him. 

She had no intention of making a problem out of 
the matter, constantly as her mind dwelt upon the 
future. Senator North had told her once that problems fled when the time for action began. She supposed that one of two things would happen after her 
return to Washington : great events would absorb his 
mind and leave him with neither the desire nor the 
time for more than an occasional friendly hour with 
her ; or after a conscientious attempt to take up their 
relationship on the old lines and give each other the 
companionship both needed, all intercourse would 
abruptly cease. 




" I AM going to have my salon, or at all events the 
beginning of it, at once," said Betty to Sally Carter on 
the afternoon of her arrival, " and I want you to help 
me." 

"I am ready for any change," said Miss Carter. 
Her appearance was unaltered, and she had spoken of 
Emory's death without emotion. Whether she had put 
the past behind her with the philosophy of her nature, 
or whether his marriage with a woman for whose breed 
she had a bitter and fastidious contempt had killed her 
love before his death, Betty could only guess. She 



 

made no attempt to learn the truth. Sally's inner life 
was her own; that her outer was unchanged was 
enough for her friends. 

" I am going to give a dinner to thirty people on the 
sixth of January. Here is the list. You will see that 
every man is in official life. There are eight Senators, 
five members of the House, the British Ambassador, 
and the Librarian of Congress. Some of them know 
my desire for a salon and are ready to help me. I 
shall talk about it quite freely. In these days you 
must come out plainly and say what you want. If you 
wait to be too subtle, the world runs by you. I am 
determined to have a salon, and a famous one at that. 
This is an ambitious list, but half-way methods don't 
appeal to me." 

" Nobody ever accused you of an affinity for the 
second best, my dear; but you may thank your 
three stars of luck for providing you with the fortune 
and position to achieve your ambitions : beauty and 
brains alone wouldn't do it. Senator North," she 
continued from the list in her hand : " Mrs. North is 
wonderfully improved, by the way; has not been so 
well in twenty years. Senator Burleigh : he is out flat- 
footed against free silver since the failure of the bi- 
metallic envoys, and his State is furious. Senator 
Shattuc is for it, so they probably don't speak. Sena- 
tor Ward might be induced to fall in love with Lady 
Mary and turn his eloquence on the Senate in behalf 
of a marriage between Uncle Sam and Britannia. 
There is no knowing what your salon may accomplish, 
and that would be a sight for the gods. Senator Max- 
well will inveigh in twelve languages against recognizing 
the belligerency of the Cubans. Senator Ffrench will 



 

supply the distinguished literary element. Senator 
March represents the conservative Democrat who is 
too good for the present depraved condition of his 
State. If you want to immortalize yourself, invent a 
political broom. Senator Eustis : he thinks the only 
fault with the Senate is that it is too good-natured and 
does not say No often enough. Who are the Repre- 
sentatives ? The only Speaker, the immortal Chairman 
of the Committee on Ways and Means don't place 
me near him, for I've just paid a hideous bill at the 
Custom House and I 'd scratch his eyes out. Mr. 
Montgomery: he and Lady Mary are getting almost 
devoted. Trust a clever woman to pinch the memory 
of any other woman to death. The redoubtable Mr. 
Legrand, also of Maine, upon whom the shafts of an 
embittered minority seem to fall so harmlessly; and 
Mr. Armstrong who is he? I thought I knew as 
much about politics as you, by this time, but I don't 
recall his name." 

" I met him at Narragansett, and had several talks 
with him. He is a Bryanite, but very gentlemanly, and 
his convictions were so strong and so unquestionably 
genuine that he interested me. I want the best of all 
parties. We can't sit up and agree with each other." 

" Don't let that worry you, darling. Mr. North has 
been contradicting everybody in the Senate for twenty 
years. Your devoted Burleigh quarrels with everybody 
but yourself. Mr. Maxwell snubs everybody who pre- 
sumes to disagree with him, and Ffrench is so superior 
that I long for some naughty little boys to give him a 
coat of pink paint. Your salon will probably fight like 
cats. If the war cloud gets any bigger, your mother 
will go to bed early on salon nights and send for a 



 

policeman. I look forward to it with an almost painful joy. I want to go in to dinner with Mr. March, by 
the way. He is the noblest-looking man in Congress 
looks like what the statues of the founders of the 
Republic would look like if they were decently done. 
I'll paint the menu cards for you, and I'll wear a new 
gown I 've just paid ninety-three dollars duty on I 
certainly shall tear out the eyes of 'the honorable 
gentleman from Maine.' " 



III 

WHEN Sally had gone, after an hour of consultation on 
the various phases of the dinner, Betty sat for some 
moments striving to call up something from the depths 
of her brain, something that had smitten it disagreeably as it fell, but sunk too quickly, under a torrent of 
words, to be analyzed at the moment. It had made 
an extremely unpleasant impression, painful perhaps 
would be a better word. 

In the course of ten minutes she found the sentence 
which had made the impression : " Mrs. North is wonderfully improved, by the way ; has not been so well in 
twenty years." 

The words seemed to hang themselves up in a row 
in her mind ; they turned scarlet and rattled loudly. 
Betty made no attempt to veil her mental vision ; she 
stared hard at the words and at the impression they 
had produced. Mrs. North was out of danger, and 
the fact was a bitter disappointment to her. In spite 
of the resolute expulsion of the very shadow of Mrs. 



 

North from her thought, her sub-consciousness had 
conceived and brought forth and nurtured hope. 
What had made her content to drift, what had made 
her look with an almost philosophical eye on the 
future, was the unadmitted certainty that in the 
natural course of events a woman with a shattered 
constitution must go her way and leave her husband 
free. Had he thought of this? He must have, she 
concluded. She was beginning to look facts squarely 
in the face ; it was an old habit with him, older than 
herself. There never was a more practical brain. 

For the first time in her life she almost hated 
herself. She had done and felt many things which 
she sincerely regretted, but this seemed incomparably 
the worst. And despite her protest, her bitter self- 
contempt, the sting of disappointment remained ; she 
could not extract it. 

She went out and walked several miles, as she 
always did when nervous and troubled. She came 
to the conclusion that she was glad to have heard 
this news to-day. She and Senator North were to 
meet in the evening for the first time in five months. 
She had looked forward to this meeting with such a 
mingling of delight and terror that several times she had 
been on the point of sending him word not to come. 
But the impression Sally's information had made had 
hardened her. She was so disappointed in herself, so 
humiliated to find that a mortal may fancy himself 
treading the upper altitudes, only to discover that the 
baser forces in the brain are working independently of 
the will, that she felt in anything but a melting mood. 
She knew that this mood would pass ; she had watched 
the workings of the brain, its abrupt transitions and 



 

its reactions, too long to hope that she suddenly had 
acquired great and enduring strength. The future 
had not expelled one jot of its dangers, perhaps 
had supplemented them, but for the hour she not 
only was safe from herself, but the necessity to turn 
him from her door had receded one step. 

She had intended to receive him in the large and 
formal environment of the parlor, but in her present 
mood the boudoir was safe, and she was glad not to 
disappoint him ; she knew that he loved the room. 
And if her brain had sobered, her femininity would 
endure unaltered for ever. She wore a charming new 
gown of white crepe de chine flowing over a blue 
petticoat, and a twist of blue in her hair. She had 
written to him from New York when to call, and he 
had sent a large box of lilies of the valley to greet 
her. She had arranged them in a bowl, and wore only 
a spray at her throat. Women with beautiful figures 
seldom care for the erratic lines and curves of the 
floral decoration. 

She heard him coming down the corridor and 
caught her breath, but that was all. She did not 
tremble nor change color. 

When he came in, he took both her hands and 
looked at her steadily for a moment. They made no 
attempt at formal greeting, and there was no need of 
subterfuge of any sort between them. No two mortals 
ever understood each other better. 

" I see the change in you," he said. " I expected 
it. You have given me a great deal, and your last 
survival of childhood was not the least. The serious 
element has developed itself, and you look the 
embodiment of an Ideal." 



 

He dropped her hands and walked to the end of 
the room. When he returned and threw himself into 
a chair, she knew that his face had changed, then 
been ordered under control. 

"What shall I talk to you about?" he asked with 
an almost nervous laugh. " Politics ? Comparatively 
little happened in the Senate before the holidays. 
The President's message was of peculiar interest to 
me, inasmuch as it indicated that he is approaching 
Spain in the right way and will succeed in both relieving the Cubans and averting war if the fire-eaters 
will let him alone. The Cubans probably will not 
listen to the offer of autonomy, for it comes several 
years too late and their confidence in Spain has gone 
forever; but I am hoping that while this country is 
waiting to see the result, it will come to its senses. 
The pressure upon us has been intolerable. Both 
Houses have been flooded with petitions and memorials 
by the thousands : from Legislatures, Chambers of 
Commerce, Societies, Churches, from associations of 
every sort, and from perhaps a million citizens. The 
Capitol looks like a paper factory. If autonomy fails 
soon enough, or if some new chapter of horrors can 
be concocted by the Yellow Press, or if the unforeseen 
happens, war will come. The average Congressman 
and even Senator does not resist the determined pressure of his constituents, and to do them justice they 
have talked themselves into believing that they are as 
excited as the idle minds at home who are feeling 
dramatic and calling it sympathy. And the average 
mind hates to be on the unpopular side. 

" Forgive me if I am bitter," he said, standing up 
suddenly and looking down on her with a smile, " but 



 

a good many of us are, just now. We can't help it. 
A great and just war would be met unflinchingly and 
with all pride ; but the prospect of this hysterical row 
between a bull pup and a senile terrier fills us with 
impatience and disgust. The President must feel that 
he is expiating all the sins of the human race. The 
only man in the United States to be envied, so far, is 
the Speaker of the House ; it is almost a satisfaction 
to think that he looks like the monument he is ; and 
for the time being his importance overshadows the 
President's. If the President can hold on, however, 
he will negotiate Spain out of this hemisphere in less 
than a year." 

" I knew you were worried about it," she said softly. 
" I felt that so keenly that I never lost an opportunity 
to war against the war. I made enemies right and 
left, and acquired a reputation for heartlessness." 

" Our minds are much alike," he said, staring down 
at her and dropping his voice for a moment. " You 
may have done it for me, but you are as sincere as I 
am. I have stimulated your mind, that is all. How 
much you can do here in Washington among the 
men who legislate I cannot say. A woman who 
takes a high and definite stand is always an influence 
for good ; but the women who influence men's votes 
are not of your type. They are women who sacrifice anything to gain their ends, or those who have 
educated themselves to play upon the vanity and other 
petty qualities of men ; every peg in their brain is 
hung with a political trick. The only men who at- 
tract you are too strong to vote under the influence of 
any woman, even if they loved her. If Shattuc were 
not as obstinate as a mule," he added more lightly, 



 

" I should ask you to convert him to the principles of 
sound currency. That is another ugly cloud ahead: 
there is going to be an attempt made to pass through 
both Houses a concurrent resolution advocating the 
free and unlimited coinage of silver and to pay the 
public debt with it. As far as our honor goes, the 
passing of such a resolution would affect us as deeply 
as if it were to become a law. We should stand be- 
fore the world as willing and ready to violate the 
national honor, ignore our pledges and recklessly impair our credit. I don't think the resolution will pass 
the House, the Republican majority is too strong there, 
but I am afraid it will pass the Senate ; although we 
are in the majority, a good many Republicans are 
Western men and Silverites. A certain number on 
both sides of the Chamber are voting merely to please 
their constituents, feeling reasonably sure that the 
resolution will fail in the House. They appear to 
care little for the honor of the Senate ; they certainly 
have not the backbone to defy their constituents if they 
do care for it. To the outside world the Senate is a 
unit ; every resolution that passes it might come out 
of one gigantic skull at peace with itself. This one 
will be passed by a small majority who have not 
imagination enough to read the works of future historians, nor even to grasp public opinion as unex- 
pressed by their constituents. 

"There is one fact that the second-rate politician 
never grasps," he said, walking impatiently up and 
down ; Betty had never seen him so restless. " That 
is, that the true American respects convictions; no 
matter how many fads he may conceive nor how loud 
he may clamor for their indulgence, when his mind 



 

begins to balance methodically again, he respects the 
man who told him he was wrong and imperilled his 
own re-election rather than vote against his convictions. 
Many a Senator has lost re-election through yielding to 
pressure, for elections do not always occur at the height 
of a popular agitation ; and when men have had time 
to cool off and think, they despise and distrust the 
waverer. If you will read the biographies in the 
Congressional Directory, you will see that with a very 
few exceptions the New Englanders are the only men 
who come back here to both Houses term after 
term. They practically are here for life; and the 
reason is that they belong to the same hard-headed, 
clear-thinking, unyielding, and puritanically upright 
race as the men who elect them to office. They 
have their faults, but they represent the iron backbone 
of this country, and in spite of fads and aberrations, 
and gales in general on the political sea, they will 
remain the prevailing influence. If I speak seldom in 
the Senate, I certainly make a good many speeches to 
you. But I want you to understand all I can teach 
you and to do what you can." 

" Yes," she said, rising abruptly, " I want an object in 
life, a vital interest. I need it ! A year ago I took 
up politics out of curiosity and ennui; to-day they 
represent a safeguard as well as a necessity. I cannot 
write books nor paint pictures ; charities bore me and 
I never shall marry. My heart must go to the wall, 
and my brain is very active. The more one studies 
and observes politics the more absorbing they become. 
But that is only a part of it. I want to be of some use 
to the country, to accomplish something for the public 
good ; and it will be a form of happiness to think that 



 

I am working with you for I certainly agree with 
you in all things, whatever the cause. When the time 
comes that we meet in public only, I can have that 
much happiness at least; and I always shall know 
where I can help you " 

" The mere fact that you are alive is help enough 
and torment enough. I shall go now. We have 
gotten through this first meeting better than I had 
hoped." 

They both laughed a little as they shook hands, for 
politics had cleared the air. 



IV 

HE came in again on Sunday, but Burleigh and other 
men were there; and as the Senate had adjourned 
until the fifth, there was no excuse for him to call at 
the late hour when she was sure to be alone ; so he 
dropped in twice to luncheon, and they went for a long 
walk in Rock Creek Park afterward. On one of these 
occasions Sally Carter joined them ; and on the other, 
although but for the occasional passer-by they were 
alone for two hours in the wild beauty of rocky gorges 
and winter woods, they talked of war and Spain. He 
left her at the door. 

On Thursday night she was to have her dinner, and 
in spite of her stormy inner life she felt a pleasurable 
nervousness as the hour approached ; for on its results 
depended the color of her future. With love or without it she had to live on, and if she could see the way 
to serve her country, to preserve some of its higher 



 

ideals as well as to win a distinguished position, she 
had no doubt that in time she should find resignation. 

All her invitations but one had been accepted : the 
British Ambassador was attending a diplomatic dinner, 
but would come in later. Betty was not altogether 
regretful, for the question of precedence, with all her 
personages, was sufficiently complicated. The Speaker 
ranked the Senators, but there were eight Senators to 
be disposed of with tact; they might overlook a 
mistake, but their wives or daughters would not. 

She had spared no pains to honor her guests. She 
still scorned the plutocratic multiplication of flowers 
until they seemed to rattle like the dollars they stood 
for, but the table looked very beautiful, and the silver 
and china and crystal had endured through several 
generations. Some of it had been used in the White 
House in the days when it was an honor to have a 
President in one's family. Her father's wine-cellar 
had been celebrated, and she had employed connoisseurs in its replenishment ever since the duties of 
entertaining had devolved upon her. She also had her 
own chef, and knew with what satisfaction he filled the 
culinary brain-cells of the patient diner out in Washington. All the lower house was softly lit with candles ; 
except her boudoir, which was dark and locked. 

She wore a gown of apple-green satin which looked 
simple and was not. Mrs. Madison was like an exquisite miniature, in satin of a pinkish gray hue, 
trimmed with much Alencon, a collar of diamonds, and 
a pink spray in her soft white hair. Her blue eyes were 
very bright, and there was a pink color in her cheeks, 
but she looked better than she felt. She was, indeed, 
hot and cold by turns, and she held herself with a 



 



majesty of mien which only a tiny woman can 
accomplish. 

Sally Carter was the first to arrive, and looked remarkably well in her black velvet of Custom House 
indignities. The Montgomerys followed, and Lady 
Mary wore the azure and white in which she appeared 
harmless and undiplomatic. No one was more than 
ten minutes late, and at eight o'clock the party was 
seated about the great round table in the dining- 
room. 

Senator North sat on Betty's right, Senator Ward on 
her left. Next to that astute diplomatist was the lady 
in azure and white, whom he admired profoundly and 
understood thoroughly. She never knew the latter 
half of his attitude, however. He was a gallant Amer- 
ican, and delighted to indulge a pretty woman in her 
fads and ambitions. Mrs. Madison achieved resignation between the Speaker of the House and Senator 
Maxwell, and Sally Carter was paired with Senator 
March. 

Betty had meditated several hours over the placing 
of her guests, and had invited as many pretty and 
charming women as the matrimonial entanglements of 
her statesmen would permit. Fortunately it was early 
in the year, and a number of wives had tarried behind 
their husbands. The family portraits on the dark old 
walls had not looked down upon so brilliant a gathering 
for half a century, and Betty's eyes sparkled and she 
lifted her head, her nostrils dilating. The light in her 
inner life burned low, and her brain was luminous with 
the excitement of the hour. And as he was beside her, 
there really was no cause for repining. 

At once the talk was all of war. Washington, like 


the rest of the country, did not rise to its highest 
pitch of excitement until after the destruction of the 
Maine , but no other subject could hold its interest for 
long. In ordinary conditions politics are barely mentioned when the most political city in the world is in 
evening dress, but war is a microbe. 

" I am for it," announced Lady Mary, " if only to 
give you a chance to find out who your friends are." 

" There is nothing in the history of human nature 
or of nations to disprove that our friends of to-day 
may be our enemies of to-morrow," observed Senator 
North. 

" I believe you hate England." 

" On the contrary, I am probably the best friend she 
has in the Senate. My mission is to forestall the hate 
which leads so many ardent but ill-mated couples into 
the divorce courts." 

" Well, you will see," said Lady Mary, mysteriously. 

" I do not doubt it," said Senator North, smiling. 
" And we shall be grateful. If the circumstances ever 
are reversed, we shall do as much for her." 

"How much?" 

" That will depend upon the quality of statesman- 
ship in both Houses." 

" I wish you would explain what you mean by that." 
Lady Mary's wide voice was too well trained to 
sharpen. Her cold blue eyes wore the dreamy expression of their most active moments. 

" I wish I knew whether the statesmen of the future 
were to be Populists or Republicans." 

" Well, whatever you mean you have no sentiment." 

" I have no sentimentalism." 

Lady Mary shrugged her shoulders and turned to 



 

Senator Ward. She knew better than to talk politics 
to him before dinner was two thirds over, but she bent 
her pretty head to him, and gave him her distinguished 
attentions while he reinvigorated his weary brain. He 
smiled encouragingly. 

"The statesmen of the future will be Populists, 
Senator," announced Betty's last recruit, a man with a 
keen sharply cut face and a slightly nasal though not 
displeasing voice. He was forty and looked thirty. 

" The Populist will have called himself so many 
things by that time that ' statesman ' will do as well 
as any other," growled the Speaker. "'The States- 
men's Party ' would sound well, and would be worthy of 
the noble pretensions of your leader." 

"Well, they are noble," said Armstrong tartly, but 
glad of the opportunity to talk back to the personage 
who treated him in the House as a Czar treats a 
minion. "We are the only party that is ready to 
cling to the Constitution as if it were the rock of 
ages." 

" Well, you 've clung so hard you 've turned it up-
side down, and the new inventions and patent improvements you 've stuccoed it with will do for the 
' Statesmen's Party,' but not for the United States 
Madam?" 

Mrs. Madison had touched his arm timidly, and 
asked him if he liked terrapin. Her color was 
deeper, but she exerted herself to keep the attention 
of this huge personality whom a poor worm might be 
tempted to assassinate. 

Senator Burleigh's voice rose above the chatter. 
"Who would be a Western Senator?" he said plaintively. " My colleague and I received a document 



 

to-day, signed by two thousand of our constituents, 
the entire population of an obscure but determined 
town, in which we were ordered to acknowledge the 
belligerency of the Cubans at once or expect to be 
tarred and feathered upon our return. The climate 
of my State is excellent for consumption, but bad for 
nerves. Doubtless most of these men come of good 
New England stock, whose relatives * back East ' would 
never think of doing such a thing ; but the intoxicating 
climate they have been inhaling for half a generation, 
to say nothing of the raw conditions, makes them want 
to fight creation." 

Senator Maxwell, who had more of the restlessness 
of youth than the repose of age, threw back his silver 
head and gave his little irritated laugh. "That is it," 
he said. " It is the lust of blood that possesses the 
United States. They don't know it. They call it 
sympathy; but their blood is aching for a fight, so 
that they can read the exciting horrors of it in the 
newspapers. You might as well reason with mad 
dogs." 

" I shall not attempt to reason with my kennel," 
said Burleigh. " In the present congested state of the 
mails this particular memorial has gone astray." 

"The trials of a Senator!" cried Sally Carter. 
"Petitions and lobbyists, election clouds, fractious 
and dishonest legislatures, unprincipled bosses and 
the country gone mad ! " 

"I can give you a list as long as my arm," said 
Senator March, grimly; "and you may believe it or 
not, but it is all I can do to walk in my Committee- 
room and I haven't.a chair to sit on. I live under a 
snow-storm of petitions, memorials, and resolutions. I 



 

expect to see them come flying through the window, 
and I dream of nothing else." 

Betty had taken part in the general conversation until the last few moments, but as it concentrated on the 
subject of Cuban autonomy and her guests ceased to 
appeal to her, she fell into conversation with Senator 
North, who she knew would be willing to dispense 
with politics for a few moments. 

"You have no idea how I miss Jack Emory," she 
said. " He half lived with us, you know, and I am 
always expecting to meet him in the hall. When I 
was writing my invitations I caught myself beginning a 
note, ' Dear Jack.' It is uncanny." 

" It is the only revenge the dead have  and doubtless it is this vivid after life of theirs in memory that 
is at the root of the belief in ghosts. You say that you 
are going to open your salon every year with a dinner 
to the original members. It will be interesting to 
watch the two faces in some of the seats if you at- 
tempt to fill the vacant chairs." 

Betty pressed her handkerchief against her lips, for 
she knew they had turned white. She was but twenty- 
eight, and if her salon was the success it promised to be 
she would sit at the head of this table for twenty-eight 
years to come, and then have compassed fewer years 
than the man beside her. She had refused resolutely 
to permit her thought to dwell on the tragic difference 
in their ages, a difference that had no meaning now, 
but would symbolize death and desolation hereafter ; 
but her mind had moments of abrupt insight that no 
Will could conquer, and not long since she had gasped 
and covered her face with her hands. 

"That was brutal of me," he said hurriedly. 



 

" Your dinner is the brilliant success that it deserves 
to be, and you should be permitted to be entirely 
happy. There is not a bored face, and if they are all 
jabbering about the everlasting subject, so much the better for you. It gives your salon its political character 
at once ; you would have had a hard time getting them 
to begin on bimetallism and the census perish the 
thought ! Ward is now making Lady Mary think that 
she is a greater diplomatist than himself. Maxwell and 
the Speaker are wrangling across your mother, who looks 
alarmed ; Burleigh is flirting desperately with Miss Alice 
Maxwell, who is purring upon his senatorial vanity; 
your Populist is breaking out into the turgid rhetoric of 
Mr. Bryan ; Ffrench has persuaded that charming English girl that he is the most literary man in America, 
and Miss Carter is condoling with March about an ungrateful State. So be happy, my darling, be happy." 

His voice had dropped suddenly. She made an involuntary movement toward him. 

" I am," she said below her breath. I am." She 
added in a moment, "Will you always come to my 
Thursday evenings, no matter what happens?" 

"Always." 

He had turned slightly, and one hand was on his 
knee. She slipped hers into it recklessly ; they were 
safe in the crowd, and her hand ached for his. It 
ached from the grasp it received, for he was a man 
whose self-control was absolute or non-existent. But 
she clung to him as long as she dared, and when she 
withdrew her hand she sought for distraction in her 
company. 

It looked as gay and happy as if war had been invented to animate conversation and make a bored 



 

people feel dramatic. Death was close upon the 
heels of two of the distinguished men present; but 
even though the eyes of the soul be raised everlastingly 
to the world above, they are blind to the portal. The 
busy member who had incurred Miss Carter's disap- 
proval and the brilliant Librarian of Congress were 
among the liveliest at the feast. 

It was Senator Ward at one end of the table and 
Burleigh at the other, who finally started the topic of 
Miss Madison's intended salon, not only that those unacquainted with her ambition might be enlightened, 
but that the great intention should receive a concrete 
form without further delay. A half-hour later, when the 
women left the table, Betty had the satisfaction of knowing that whatever the final result of her venture, her 
stand was as fully recognized as if she had written a 
book and found a publisher and critics to advertise 
her. 



BETTY went to the Senate Gallery on the following 
day at the request of Armstrong, and heard an exposition of the Populist religion by the benevolent-looking 
bore from Nebraska. He was followed by an arraignment of the "gold standard Administration " and the 
Republican party, from the leading advocate of bi- 
metallism with-or-without-the-concurrence-of-Europe. 
The utterances of both gentlemen were delivered with 
the repose and dignity peculiar to their body, and 
Patriotism and the Constitution would appear to be their 
watchword and fetich. Burleigh came up to the gallery as the Silver Senator sat down, and smiled wearily 
at Betty's puzzled comments. 

" Of course they sound well," he replied. " In the 
first place there is always much to be said on both 
sides of any question, and a clever speaker can make 
his side dwarf the other. And of course no party 
could exist five minutes unless it had some good in it. 
There are several admirable principles in the Populist 
creed ; there are enough windy theories to upset the 
Constitution of which they prate ; and, by the way, the 
more wrong-headed a would-be statesman is the more 
hysterically does he plead for the Constitution. As to 
the other Senator I sympathize as deeply with the 
farmer as any man, and I hoped against hope for the 
success of the bimetallic envoys ; but the farmer is of 
considerably less importance than the national honor ; 
and if a man is not statesman enough to take the 
national view when he comes to the Senate, he had 
better stay at home and become a party boss." 

" Are you in trouble at home ? I saw that you made 
a speech just before you left." 

" They are furious, and elections are imminent ; but 
I never have believed that it paid in the end to be a 
politician, and I propose to hold to that view. If I am 
not re-elected this time, I will venture to say that I 
shall be six years later " 

" Oh, I should be sorry ! I should be sorry ! Your 
heart is in the Senate. How could you settle down 
contentedly to practise law in a Western city for six 
years?" 

" I certainly should have very little to offer a woman," 
he said bitterly. His frank handsome face had lost 
the expression of gayety which had sat so gracefully 



 

upon the determination of its contours; he looked 
harassed and a trifle cynical. "There is only one 
thing I hate more than leaving the United States 
Senate and God knows I love it and its traditions : 
what that is I feel I now have no right " 

" Oh, yes, you have ; for if I loved you I would live 
at the North Pole with you, and I hate cold weather. 
I don't want you to put me in that sort of position, 
both for the sake of your own pride and for our 
friendship." 

" That is like you, and I shall take you at your word. 
Perhaps you can imagine what it cost me to come out 
and declare myself in a State howling for Silver, when 
I knew that to leave Washington meant losing my 
chance with you. For if I am not re-elected I must go 
out there and stay. I could afford to live here, of 
course I hope you know that I have plenty of money 
but my political future is there. Even if you made it 
a condition, I should not pull up stakes, for a man who 
despised himself for abandoning his ambitions and his 
power for usefulness could not be happy with any 
woman." 

" I should not make such a condition. As I said, I 
willingly would go West with you if I loved you." 

" Would to God you did ! What I meant was that 
in going I lose my chance." 

Betty looked at him and shook her head slowly. 

"Yes!" he said. "Yes! Yes! I believe, I know 
that I could win you with time. And now that the 
future looks dark I want you more than ever." 

" Ah, I wish I could love you," she exclaimed fervently. " I have enough of feminine insight to know 
that a woman is really happy only when she is making 



 

a man happy, and that she is almost ready to bless the 
troubles which give her the opportunity to console 
him." 

She was looking straight down at Senator North as 
she spoke. Her voice was impassioned as she finished, 
and she forgot the man at her side. But he never had 
suspected that she loved another man. His face flushed 
and he lowered his head eagerly. 
