had said about our troubled lady? Yes, precisely. That was the torch
of my analogy. What I showed you in the one case seemed to tell you what
to look for in the other. You thought it over. I accuse you of nothing
worse than of having thought it over. But you see what thinking it
over does for it."

The way I said this appeared to amuse him. "I see what it does for
you!"

"No, you don't! Not at all yet. That's just the embarrassment."

"Just whose?" If I had thanked him for his patience he showed that he
deserved it. "Just yours?"

"Well, say mine. But when you do----!" And I paused as for the rich
promise of it.

"When I do see where you are, you mean?"

"The only difficulty is whether you can see. But we must try. You've
set me whirling round, but we must go step by step. Oh, but it's all in
your germ!"--I kept that up. "If she isn't now beastly unhappy----"

"She's beastly happy?" he broke in, getting firmer hold, if not of the
real impression he had just been gathering under my eyes, then at least
of something he had begun to make out that my argument required. "Well,
that is the way I see her difference. Her difference, I mean," he
added, in his evident wish to work with me, "her difference from her
other difference! There!" He laughed as if, also, he had found himself
fairly fantastic. "Isn't that clear for you?"

"Crystalline--for me. But that's because I know why."

I can see again now the long look that, on this, he gave me. I made out
already much of what was in it. "So then do I!"

"But how in the world----? I know, for myself, how I know."

"So then do I," he after a moment repeated.

"And can you tell me?"

"Certainly. But what I've already named to you--the torch of your
analogy."

I turned this over. "You've made evidently an admirable use of it. But
the wonderful thing is that you seem to have done so without having all
the elements."

He on his side considered. "What do you call all the elements?"

"Oh, it would take me long to tell you!" I couldn't help laughing at the
comparative simplicity with which he asked it. "That's the sort of thing
we just now spoke of taking a day for. At any rate, such as they are,
these elements," I went on, "I believe myself practically in possession
of them. But what I don't quite see is how you can be."

Well, he was able to tell me. "Why in the world shouldn't your analogy
have put me?" He spoke with gaiety, but with lucidity. "I'm not an idiot
either."

"I see." But there was so much!

"Did you think I was?" he amiably asked.

"No. I see," I repeated. Yet I didn't, really, fully; which he presently
perceived.

"You made me think of your view of the Brissenden pair till I could
think of nothing else."

"Yes--yes," I said. "Go on."

"Well, as you had planted the theory in me, it began to bear fruit. I
began to watch them. I continued to watch them. I did nothing but watch
them."

The sudden lowering of his voice in this confession--as if it had
represented a sort of darkening of his consciousness--again amused me.
"You too? How then we've been occupied! For I, you see, have watched--or
had, until I found you just now with Mrs. Server--everyone, everything
but you."

"Oh, I've watched you," said Ford Obert as if he had then perhaps
after all the advantage of me. "I admit that I made you out for myself
to be back on the scent; for I thought I made you out baffled."

To learn whether I really had been was, I saw, what he would most have
liked; but I also saw that he had, as to this, a scruple about asking
me. What I most saw, however, was that to tell him I should have to
understand. "What scent do you allude to?"

He smiled as if I might have fancied I could fence. "Why, the pursuit of
the identification that's none of our business--the identification of
her lover."

"Ah, it's as to that," I instantly replied, "you've judged me baffled?
I'm afraid," I almost as quickly added, "that I must admit I have
been. Luckily, at all events, it is none of our business."

"Yes," said my friend, amused on his side, "nothing's our business that
we can't find out. I saw you hadn't found him. And what," Obert
continued, "does he matter now?"

It took but a moment to place me for seeing that my companion's
conviction on this point was a conviction decidedly to respect; and even
that amount of hesitation was but the result of my wondering how he had
reached it. "What, indeed?" I promptly replied. "But how did you see I
had failed?"

"By seeing that I myself had. For I've been looking too. He isn't here,"
said Ford Obert.

Delighted as I was that he should believe it, I was yet struck by the
complacency of his confidence, which connected itself again with my
observation of their so recent colloquy. "Oh, for you to be so sure, has
Mrs. Server squared you?"

"Is he here?" he for all answer to this insistently asked.

I faltered but an instant. "No; he isn't here. It's no thanks to one's
scruples, but perhaps it's lucky for one's manners. I speak at least for
mine. If you've watched," I pursued, "you've doubtless sufficiently seen
what has already become of mine. He isn't here, at all events," I
repeated, "and we must do without his identity. What, in fact, are we
showing each other," I asked, "but that we have done without it?"

"I have!" my friend declared with supreme frankness and with something
of the note, as I was obliged to recognise, of my own constructive joy.
"I've done perfectly without it."

I saw in fact that he had, and it struck me really as wonderful. But I
controlled the expression of my wonder. "So that if you spoke therefore
just now of watching them----"

"I meant of course"--he took it straight up--"watching the Brissendens.
And naturally, above all," he as quickly subjoined, "the wife."

I was now full of concurrence. "Ah, naturally, above all, the wife."

So far as was required it encouraged him. "A woman's lover doesn't
matter--doesn't matter at least to anyone but himself, doesn't matter to
you or to me or to her--when once she has given him up."

It made me, this testimony of his observation, show, in spite of my
having by this time so counted on it, something of the vivacity of my
emotion. "She has given him up?"

But the surprise with which he looked round put me back on my guard. "Of
what else then are we talking?"

"Of nothing else, of course," I stammered. "But the way you see----!" I
found my refuge in the gasp of my admiration.

"I do see. But"--he would come back to that--"only through your having
seen first. You gave me the pieces. I've but put them together. You gave
me the Brissendens--bound hand and foot; and I've but made them, in that
sorry state, pull me through. I've blown on my torch, in other words,
till, flaring and smoking, it has guided me, through a magnificent
chiaroscuro of colour and shadow, out into the light of day."

I was really dazzled by his image, for it represented his personal work.
"You've done more than I, it strikes me--and with less to do it with. If
I gave you the Brissendens I gave you all I had."

"But all you had was immense, my dear man. The Brissendens are immense."

"Of course the Brissendens are immense! If they hadn't been immense they
wouldn't have been--nothing would have been--anything." Then after a
pause, "Your image is splendid," I went on--"your being out of the cave.
But what is it exactly," I insidiously threw out, "that you call the
'light of day'?"

I remained a moment, however, not sure whether I had been too subtle or
too simple. He had another of his cautions. "What do you----?"

But I was determined to make him give it me all himself, for it was
from my not prompting him that its value would come. "You tell me," I
accordingly rather crudely pleaded, "first."

It gave us a moment during which he so looked as if I asked too much,
that I had a fear of losing all. He even spoke with some impatience. "If
you really haven't found it for yourself, you know. I scarce see what
you can have found."

Then I had my inspiration. I risked an approach to roughness, and all
the more easily that my words were strict truth. "Oh, don't be
afraid--greater things than yours!"

It succeeded, for it played upon his curiosity, and he visibly imagined
that, with impatience controlled, he should learn what these things
were. He relaxed, he responded, and the next moment I was in all but
full enjoyment of the piece wanted to make all my other pieces
right--right because of that special beauty in my scheme through which
the whole depended so on each part and each part so guaranteed the
whole. "What I call the light of day is the sense I've arrived at of her
vision."

"Her vision?"--I just balanced in the air.

"Of what they have in common. His--poor chap's--extraordinary
situation too."

"Bravo! And you see in that----?"

"What, all these hours, has touched, fascinated, drawn her. It has been
an instinct with her."

"Bravissimo!"

It saw him, my approval, safely into port. "The instinct of sympathy,
pity--the response to fellowship in misery; the sight of another fate as
strange, as monstrous as her own."

I couldn't help jumping straight up--I stood before him. "So that
whoever may have been the man, the man now, the actual man----"

"Oh," said Obert, looking, luminous and straight, up at me from his
seat, "the man now, the actual man----!" But he stopped short, with his
eyes suddenly quitting me and his words becoming a formless ejaculation.
The door of the room, to which my back was turned, had opened, and I
quickly looked round. It was Brissenden himself who, to my supreme
surprise, stood there, with rapid inquiry in his attitude and face. I
saw, as soon as he caught mine, that I was what he wanted, and,
immediately excusing myself for an instant to Obert, I anticipated, by
moving across the room, the need, on poor Briss's part, of my further
demonstration. My whole sense of the situation blazed up at the touch of
his presence, and even before I reached him it had rolled over me in a
prodigious wave that I had lost nothing whatever. I can't begin to say
how the fact of his appearance crowned the communication my interlocutor
had just made me, nor in what a bright confusion of many things I found
myself facing poor Briss. One of these things was precisely that he had
never been so much poor Briss as at this moment. That ministered to the
confusion as well as to the brightness, for if his being there at all
renewed my sources and replenished my current--spoke all, in short, for
my gain--so, on the other hand, in the light of what I had just had from
Obert, his particular aspect was something of a shock. I can't present
this especial impression better than by the mention of my instant
certitude that what he had come for was to bring me a message and that
somehow--yes, indubitably--this circumstance seemed to have placed him
again at the very bottom of his hole. It was down in that depth that he
let me see him--it was out of it that he delivered himself. Poor Briss!
poor Briss!--I had asked myself before he spoke with what kindness
enough I could meet him. Poor Briss! poor Briss!--I am not even now sure
that I didn't first meet him by that irrepressible murmur. It was in
it all for me that, thus, at midnight, he had traversed on his errand
the length of the great dark house. I trod with him, over the velvet and
the marble, through the twists and turns, among the glooms and glimmers
and echoes, every inch of the way, and I don't know what humiliation,
for him, was constituted there, between us, by his long pilgrimage. It
was the final expression of his sacrifice.

"My wife has something to say to you."

"Mrs. Briss? Good!"--and I could only hope the candour of my surprise
was all I tried to make it. "Is she with you there?"

"No, but she has asked me to say to you that if you'll presently be in
the drawing-room she'll come."

Who could doubt, as I laid my hand on his shoulder, fairly patting it,
in spite of myself, for applause--who could doubt where I would
presently be? "It's most uncommonly good of both of you."

There was something in his inscrutable service that, making him almost
august, gave my dissimulated eagerness the sound of a heartless
compliment. I stood for the hollow chatter of the vulgar world, and
he--oh, he was as serious as he was conscious; which was enough. "She
says you'll know what she wishes--and she was sure I'd find you here. So
I may tell her you'll come?"

His courtesy half broke my heart. "Why, my dear man, with all the
pleasure----! So many thousand thanks. I'll be with her."

"Thanks to you. She'll be down. Good-night." He looked round the
room--at the two or three clusters of men, smoking, engaged, contented,
on their easy seats and among their popped corks; he looked over an
instant at Ford Obert, whose eyes, I thought, he momentarily held. It
was absolutely as if, for me, he were seeking such things--out of what
was closing over him--for the last time. Then he turned again to the
door, which, just not to fail humanly to accompany him a step, I had
opened. On the other side of it I took leave of him. The passage, though
there was a light in the distance, was darker than the smoking-room, and
I had drawn the door to.

"Good-night, Brissenden. I shall be gone to-morrow before you show."

I shall never forget the way that, struck by my word, he let his white
face fix me in the dusk. "'Show'? What do I show?"

I had taken his hand for farewell, and, inevitably laughing, but as the
falsest of notes, I gave it a shake. "You show nothing! You're
magnificent."

He let me keep his hand while things unspoken and untouched, unspeakable
and untouchable, everything that had been between us in the wood a few
hours before, were between us again. But so we could only leave them,
and, with a short, sharp "Good-bye!" he completely released himself.
With my hand on the latch of the closed door I watched a minute his
retreat along the passage, and I remember the reflection that, before
rejoining Obert, I made on it. I seemed perpetually, at Newmarch, to be
taking his measure from behind.

Ford Obert has since told me that when I came back to him there were
tears in my eyes, and I didn't know at the moment how much the words
with which he met me took for granted my consciousness of them. "He
looks a hundred years old!"

"Oh, but you should see his shoulders, always, as he goes off! Two
centuries--ten! Isn't it amazing?"

It was so amazing that, for a little, it made us reciprocally stare. "I
should have thought," he said, "that he would have been on the
contrary----"

"Visibly rejuvenated? So should I. I must make it out," I added. "I
shall."

But Obert, with less to go upon, couldn't wait. It was wonderful, for
that matter--and for all I had to go upon--how I myself could. I did so,
at this moment, in my refreshed intensity, by the help of confusedly
lighting another cigarette, which I should have no time to smoke. "I
should have thought," my friend continued, "that he too might have
changed back."

I took in, for myself, so much more of it than I could say! "Certainly.
You wouldn't have thought he would have changed forward." Then with an
impulse that bridged over an abyss of connections I jumped to another
place. "Was what you most saw while you were there with her--was this
that her misery, the misery you first phrased to me, has dropped?"

"Dropped, yes." He was clear about it. "I called her beastly unhappy to
you though I even then knew that beastly unhappiness wasn't quite all
of it. It was part of it, it was enough of it; for she was--well, no
doubt you could tell me. Just now, at all events"--and recalling,
reflecting, deciding, he used, with the strongest effect, as he so often
did in painting, the simplest term--"just now she's all right."

"All right?"

He couldn't know how much more than was possible my question gave him to
answer. But he answered it on what he had; he repeated: "All right."

I wondered, in spite of the comfort I took, as I had more than once in
life had occasion to take it before, at the sight of the painter-sense
deeply applied. My wonder came from the fact that Lady John had also
found Mrs. Server all right, and Lady John had a vision as closed as
Obert's was open. It didn't suit my book for both these observers to
have been affected in the same way. "You mean you saw nothing whatever
in her that was the least bit strange?"

"Oh, I won't say as much as that. But nothing that was more strange than
that she should be--well, after all, all right."

"All there, eh?" I after an instant risked.

I couldn't put it to him more definitely than that, though there was a
temptation to try to do so. For Obert to have found her all there an
hour or two after I had found her all absent, made me again, in my
nervousness, feel even now a trifle menaced. Things had, from step to
step, to hang together, and just here they seemed--with all
allowances--to hang a little apart. My whole superstructure, I could
only remember, reared itself on my view of Mrs. Server's condition; but
it was part of my predicament--really equal in its way to her own--that
I couldn't without dishonouring myself give my interlocutor a practical
lead. The question of her happiness was essentially subordinate; what I
stood or fell by was that of her faculty. But I couldn't, on the other
hand--and remain "straight"--insist to my friend on the whereabouts of
this stolen property. If he hadn't missed it in her for himself I
mightn't put him on the track of it; since, with the demonstration he
had before my eyes received of the rate at which Long was, as one had to
call it, intellectually living, nothing would be more natural than that
he should make the cases fit. Now my personal problem, unaltered in the
least particular by anything, was for me to have worked to the end
without breathing in another ear that Long had been her lover. That was
the only thing in the whole business that was simple. It made me cling
an instant the more, both for bliss and bale, to the bearing of this
fact of Obert's insistence. Even as a sequel to his vision of her
change, almost everything was wrong for her being all right except the
one fact of my recent view, from the window, of the man unnamed. I saw
him again sharply in these seconds, and to notice how he still kept
clear of our company was almost to add certitude to the presumption of
his rare reasons. Mrs. Server's being now, by a wonderful turn, all
right would at least decidedly offer to these reasons a basis. It would
be something Long's absence would fit. It would supply ground, in short,
for the possibility that, by a process not less wonderful, he himself
was all wrong. If he was all wrong my last impression of him would be
amply accounted for. If he was all wrong--if he, in any case, felt
himself going so--what more consequent than that he should have wished
to hide it, and that the most immediate way for this should have seemed
to him, markedly gregarious as he usually was, to keep away from the
smokers? It came to me unspeakably that he was still hiding it and
was keeping away. How, accordingly, must he not--and must not Mrs.
Briss--have been in the spirit of this from the moment that, while I
talked with Lady John, the sight of these two seated together had given
me its message! But Obert's answer to my guarded challenge had meanwhile
come. "Oh, when a woman's so clever----!"

That was all, with its touch of experience and its hint of philosophy;
but it was stupefying. She was already then positively again "so
clever?" This was really more than I could as yet provide an
explanation for, but I was pressed; Brissenden would have reached his
wife's room again, and I temporised. "It was her cleverness that held
you so that when I passed you couldn't look at me?"

He looked at me at present well enough. "I knew you were passing, but I
wanted precisely to mark for you the difference. If you really want to
know," the poor man confessed, "I was a little ashamed of myself. I had
given her away to you, you know, rather, before."

"And you were bound you wouldn't do it again?"

He smiled in his now complete candour. "Ah, there was no reason." Then
he used, happily, to right himself, my own expression. "She was all
there."

"I see--I see." Yet I really didn't see enough not to have for an
instant to turn away.

"Where are you going?" he asked.

"To do what Brissenden came to me for."

"But I don't know, you see, what Brissenden came to you for."

"Well, with a message. She was to have seen me this evening, but, as she
gave me no chance, I was afraid I had lost it and that, so rather
awkwardly late, she didn't venture. But what he arrived for just now, at
her request, was to say she does venture."

My companion stared. "At this extraordinary hour?"

"Ah, the hour," I laughed, "is no more extraordinary than any other part
of the business: no more so, for instance, than this present talk of
yours and mine. What part of the business isn't extraordinary? If it
is, at all events, remarkably late, that's her fault."

Yet he not unnaturally, in spite of my explanation, continued to wonder.
"And--a--where is it then you meet?"

"Oh, in the drawing-room or the hall. So good-night."

He got up to it, moving with me to the door; but his mystification,
little as I could, on the whole, soothe it, still kept me. "The
household sits up for you?"

I wondered myself, but found an assurance. "She must have squared the
household! And it won't probably take us very long."

His mystification frankly confessed itself, at this, plain curiosity.
The ground of such a conference, for all the point I had given his
ingenuity, simply baffled him. "Do you mean you propose to discuss with
her----?"

"My dear fellow," I smiled with my hand on the door, "it's she--don't
you see?--who proposes."

"But what in the world----?"

"Oh, that I shall have to wait to tell you."

"With all the other things?" His face, while he sounded mine, seemed to
say that I must then take his expectation as serious. But it seemed to
say also that he was--definitely, yes--more at a loss than consorted
with being quite sure of me. "Well, it will make a lot, really----!" But
he broke off. "You do," he sighed with an effort at resignation, "know
more than I!"

"And haven't I admitted that?"

"I'll be hanged if you don't know who he is!" the poor fellow, for all
answer, now produced.

He said it as if I had, after all, not been playing fair, and it made me
for an instant hesitate. "No, I really don't know. But it's exactly what
I shall perhaps now learn."

"You mean that what she has proposed is to tell you?"

His darkness had so deepened that I saw only now what I should have seen
sooner--the misconception that, in my excessive estimate of the distance
he had come with me, I had not at first caught. But it was a
misconception that only enriched his testimony; it involved such a
conviction of the new link between our two sacrificed friends that it
immediately constituted for me the strongest light he would, in our
whole talk, have thrown. Yes, he had not yet thrown so much as in this
erroneous supposition of the source of my summons. It took me of course,
at the same time, but a few seconds to remind myself again of the
innumerable steps he had necessarily missed. His question meanwhile,
rightly applied by my own thought, brought back to that thought, by way
of answer, an immense suggestion, which moreover, for him too, was
temporarily answer enough. "She'll tell me who he won't have been!"

He looked vague. "Ah, but that----"

"That," I declared, "will be luminous."

He made it out. "As a sign, you think, that he must be the very one she
denies?"

"The very one!" I laughed; and I left him under this simple and secure
impression that my appointment was with Mrs. Server.




XII


I went from one room to the other, but to find only, at first, as on my
previous circuit, a desert on which the sun had still not set. Mrs.
Brissenden was nowhere, but the whole place waited as we had left it,
with seats displaced and flowers dispetalled, a fan forgotten on a
table, a book laid down upon a chair. It came over me as I looked about
that if she had "squared" the household, so large an order, as they
said, was a sign sufficient of what I was to have from her. I had quite
rather it were her doing--not mine; but it showed with eloquence that
she had after all judged some effort or other to be worth her while. Her
renewed delay moreover added to my impatience of mind in respect to the
nature of this effort by striking me as already part of it. What, I
asked myself, could be so much worth her while as to have to be paid for
by so much apparent reluctance? But at last I saw her through a vista of
open doors, and as I forthwith went to her--she took no step to meet
me--I was doubtless impressed afresh with the "pull" that in social
intercourse a woman always has. She was able to assume on the spot by
mere attitude and air the appearance of having been ready and therefore
inconvenienced. Oh, I saw soon enough that she was ready and that one of
the forms of her readiness would be precisely to offer herself as having
acted entirely to oblige me--to give me, as a sequel to what had already
passed between us, the opportunity for which she had assured me I should
thank her before I had done with her. Yet, as I felt sure, at the same
time, that she had taken a line, I was curious as to how, in her
interest, our situation could be worked. What it had originally left us
with was her knowing I was wrong. I had promised her, on my honour, to
be candid, but even if I were disposed to cease to contest her
identification of Mrs. Server I was scarce to be looked to for such an
exhibition of gratitude as might be held to repay her for staying so
long out of bed. There were in short elements in the business that I
couldn't quite clearly see handled as favours to me. Her dress gave,
with felicity, no sign whatever of preparation for the night, and if,
since our last words, she had stood with any anxiety whatever before her
glass, it had not been to remove a jewel or to alter the place of a
flower. She was as much under arms as she had been on descending to
dinner--as fresh in her array as if that banquet were still to come. She
met me in fact as admirably--that was the truth that covered every
other--as if she had been able to guess the most particular curiosity
with which, from my end of the series of rooms, I advanced upon her.

A part of the mixture of my thoughts during these seconds had been the
possibility--absurd, preposterous though it looks when phrased here--of
some change in her person that would correspond, for me to the other
changes I had had such keen moments of flattering myself I had made out.
I had just had them over in the smoking-room, some of these differences,
and then had had time to ask myself if I were not now to be treated to
the vision of the greatest, the most wonderful, of all. I had already,
on facing her, after my last moments with Lady John, seen difference
peep out at me, and I had seen the impression of it confirmed by what
had afterwards happened. It had been in her way of turning from me after
that brief passage; it had been in her going up to bed without seeing me
again; it had been once more in her thinking, for reasons of her own,
better of that; and it had been most of all in her sending her husband
down to me. Well, wouldn't it finally be, still more than most of
all----? But I scarce had known, at this point, what grossness or what
fineness of material correspondence to forecast. I only had waited there
with these general symptoms so present that almost any further
development of them occurred to me as conceivable. So much as this was
true, but I was after a moment to become aware of something by which I
was as strongly affected as if I had been quite unprepared. Yes,
literally, that final note, in the smoking-room, the note struck in
Obert's ejaculation on poor Briss's hundred years, had failed to achieve
for me a worthy implication. I was forced, after looking at Grace
Brissenden a minute, to recognise that my imagination had not risen to
its opportunity. The full impression took a minute--a minute during
which she said nothing; then it left me deeply and above all, as I felt,
discernibly conscious of the prodigious thing, the thing, I had not
thought of. This it was that gave her such a beautiful chance not to
speak: she was so quite sufficiently occupied with seeing what I hadn't
thought of, and with seeing me, to make up for lost time, breathlessly
think of it while she watched me.

All I had at first taken in was, as I say, her untouched splendour; I
don't know why that should have impressed me--as if it had been probable
she would have appeared in her dressing-gown; it was the only thing to
have expected. And it in fact plumed and enhanced her assurance,
sustained her propriety, lent our belated interview the natural and
casual note. But there was another service it still more rendered her:
it so covered, at the first blush, the real message of her aspect, that
she enjoyed the luxury--and I felt her enjoy it--of seeing my perception
in arrest. Amazing, when I think of it, the number of things that
occurred in these stayed seconds of our silence; but they are perhaps
best represented by the two most marked intensities of my own sensation:
the first the certitude that she had at no moment since her marriage so
triumphantly asserted her defeat of time, and the second the conviction
that I, losing with her while, as it were, we closed, a certain
advantage I should never recover, had at no moment since the day before
made so poor a figure on my own ground. Ah, it may have been only for
six seconds that she caught me gaping at her renewed beauty; but six
seconds, it was inevitable to feel, were quite enough for every purpose
with which she had come down to me. She might have been a large, fair,
rich, prosperous person of twenty-five; she was at any rate near enough
to it to put me for ever in my place. It was a success, on her part,
that, though I couldn't as yet fully measure it, there could be no doubt
of whatever, any more than of my somehow paying for it. Her being there
at all, at such an hour, in such conditions, became, each moment, on the
whole business, more and more a part of her advantage; the case for her
was really in almost any aspect she could now make it wear to my
imagination. My wealth of that faculty, never so stimulated, was thus,
in a manner, her strength; by which I mean the impossibility of my
indifference to the mere immense suggestiveness of our circumstances.
How can I tell now to what tune the sense of all these played into my
mind?--the huge oddity of the nameless idea on which we foregathered,
the absence and hush of everything except that idea, so magnified in
consequence and yet still, after all, altogether fantastic. There
remained for her, there spoke for her too, her vividly "unconventional"
step, the bravery of her rustling, on an understanding so difficult to
give an account of, through places and times only made safe by the sleep
of the unsuspecting. My imagination, in short, since I have spoken of
it, couldn't do other than work for her from the moment she had, so
simply yet so wonderfully, not failed me. Therefore it was all with me
again, the vision of her reasons. They were in fact sufficiently in the
sound of what she presently said. "Perhaps you don't know--but I
mentioned in the proper quarter that I should sit up a little. They're
of a kindness here, luckily----! So it's all right." It was all right,
obviously--she made it so; but she made it so as well that, in spite of
the splendour she showed me, she should be a little nervous. "We shall
only take moreover," she added, "a minute."

I should perhaps have wondered more what she proposed to do in a minute
had I not felt it as already more or less done. Yes, she might have been
twenty-five, and it was a short time for that to have taken. However,
what I clutched at, what I clung to, was that it was a nervous
twenty-five. I might pay for her assurance, but wasn't there something
of mine for which she might pay? I was nervous also, but, as I took in
again, with a glance through our great chain of chambers, the wonderful
conditions that protected us, I did my best to feel sure that it was
only because I was so amused. That--in so high a form--was what it came
to in the end. "I supposed," I replied, "that you'd have arranged; for,
in spite of the way things were going, I hadn't given you up. I haven't
understood, I confess," I went on, "why you've preferred a conference so
intensely nocturnal--of which I quite feel, however, that, if it has
happened to suit you, it isn't for me to complain. But I felt sure of
you--that was the great thing--from the moment, half an hour ago, you so
kindly spoke to me. I gave you, you see," I laughed, "what's called
'rope.'"

"I don't suppose you mean," she exclaimed, "for me to hang myself!--for
that, I assure you, is not at all what I'm prepared for." Then she
seemed again to give me the magnificence of her youth. It wasn't,
throughout, I was to feel, that she at all had abysses of irony, for she
in fact happily needed none. Her triumph was in itself ironic enough,
and all her point in her sense of her freshness. "Were you really so
impatient?" But as I inevitably hung fire a little she continued before
I could answer; which somewhat helped me indeed by showing the one flaw
in her confidence. More extraordinary perhaps than anything else,
moreover, was just my perception of this; which gives the value of all
that each of us so visibly felt the other to have put together, to have
been making out and gathering in, since we parted, on the terrace, after
seeing Mrs. Server and Briss come up from under their tree. We had, of
a truth, arrived at our results--though mine were naturally the ones for
me to believe in; and it was prodigious that we openly met not at all
where we had last left each other, but exactly on what our subsequent
suppressed processes had achieved. We hadn't named them--hadn't alluded
to them, and we couldn't, no doubt, have done either; but they were none
the less intensely there between us, with the whole bright, empty scene
given up to them. Only she had her shrewd sense that mine, for reasons,
might have been still more occult than her own. Hadn't I possibly
burrowed the deeper--to come out in some uncalculated place behind her
back? That was the flaw in her confidence. She had in spite of it her
firm ground, and I could feel, to do her justice, how different a
complacency it was from such smug ignorance as Lady John's. If I didn't
fear to seem to drivel about my own knowledge I should say that she had,
in addition to all the rest of her "pull," the benefit of striking me as
worthy of me. She was in the mystic circle--not one of us more; she
knew the size of it; and it was our now being in it alone together, with
everyone else out and with the size greater than it had yet been at
all--it was this that gave the hour, in fine, so sharp a stamp.

But she had meanwhile taken up my allusion to her having preferred so to
wait. "I wanted to see you quietly; which was what I tried--not
altogether successfully, it rather struck me at the moment--to make you
understand when I let you know about it. You stared so that I didn't
quite know what was the matter. Nothing could be quiet, I saw, till the
going to bed was over, and I felt it coming off then from one minute to
the other. I didn't wish publicly to be called away for it from this
putting of our heads together, and, though you may think me absurd, I
had a dislike to having our question of May up so long as she was
hanging about. I knew of course that she would hang about till the very
last moment, and that was what I perhaps a little clumsily--if it was my
own fault!--made the effort to convey to you. She may be hanging about
still," Mrs. Briss continued, with her larger look round--her looks
round were now immense; "but at any rate I shall have done what I could.
I had a feeling--perfectly preposterous, I admit!--against her seeing us
together; but if she comes down again, as I've so boldly done, and finds
us, she'll have no one but herself to thank. It's a funny house, for
that matter," my friend rambled on, "and I'm not sure that anyone has
gone to bed. One does what one likes; I'm an old woman, at any rate, and
I do!" She explained now, she explained too much, she abounded,
talking herself stoutly into any assurance that failed her. I had
meanwhile with every word she uttered a sharper sense of the pressure,
behind them all, of a new consciousness. It was full of everything she
didn't say, and what she said was no representation whatever of what was
most in her mind. We had indeed taken a jump since noon--we had indeed
come out further on. Just this fine dishonesty of her eyes,
moreover--the light of a part to play, the excitement (heaven knows what
it struck me as being!) of a happy duplicity--may well have been what
contributed most to her present grand air.

It was in any case what evoked for me most the contrasted image, so
fresh with me, of the other, the tragic lady--the image that had so
embodied the unutterable opposite of everything actually before me. What
was actually before me was the positive pride of life and expansion, the
amplitude of conscious action and design; not the arid channel forsaken
by the stream, but the full-fed river sweeping to the sea, the volume of
water, the stately current, the flooded banks into which the source had
swelled. There was nothing Mrs. Server had been able to risk, but there
was a rich indifference to risk in the mere carriage of Grace
Brissenden's head. Her reference, for that matter, to our discussed
subject had the effect of relegating to the realm of dim shades the lady
representing it, and there was small soundness in her glance at the
possibility on the part of this person of an anxious prowl back. There
was indeed--there could be--small sincerity in any immediate
demonstration from a woman so markedly gaining time and getting her
advantages in hand. The connections between the two, certainly, were
indirect and intricate, but it was positive to me that, for the
spiritual ear, my companion's words had the sound of a hard bump, a
contact from the force of which the weaker vessel might have been felt
to crack. At last, merciful powers, it was in pieces! The shock of the
brass had told upon the porcelain, and I fancied myself for an instant
facing Mrs. Briss over the damage--a damage from which I was never, as I
knew, to see the poor banished ghost recover. As strange as anything was
this effect almost of surprise for me in the freedom of her mention of
"May." For what had she come to me, if for anything, but to insist on
her view of May, and what accordingly was more to the point than to
mention her? Yet it was almost already as if to mention her had been to
get rid of her. She was mentioned, however, inevitably and none the less
promptly, anew--even as if simply to receive a final shake before being
quite dropped. My friend kept it up. "If you were so bent on not losing
what I might have to give you that you fortunately stuck to the ship,
for poor Briss to pick you up, wasn't this also"--she roundly put it to
me--"a good deal because you've been nursing all day the grievance with
which I this morning so comfortably furnished you?"

I just waited, but fairly for admiration. "Oh, I certainly had my
reasons--as I've no less certainly had my luck--for not indeed deserting
our dear little battered, but still just sufficiently buoyant vessel,
from which everyone else appears, I recognise, to s'être sauvé. She'll
float a few minutes more! But (before she sinks!) do you mean by my
grievance----"

"Oh, you know what I mean by your grievance!" She had no intention,
Mrs. Briss, of sinking. "I was to give you time to make up your mind
that Mrs. Server was our lady. You so resented, for some reason, my
suggesting it that I scarcely believed you'd consider it at all; only I
hadn't forgotten, when I spoke to you a while since, that you had
nevertheless handsomely promised me that you would do your best."

"Yes, and, still more handsomely, that if I changed my mind, I would
eat, in your presence, for my error, the largest possible slice of
humble pie. If you didn't see this morning," I continued, "quite why I
should have cared so much, so I don't quite see why, in your different
way, you should; at the same time that I do full justice to the good
faith with which you've given me my chance. Please believe that if I
could candidly embrace that chance I should feel all the joy in the
world in repaying you. It's only, alas! because I cling to my candour
that I venture to disappoint you. If I cared this morning it was really
simple enough. You didn't convince me, but I should have cared just as
much if you had. I only didn't see what you saw. I needed more than
you could then give me. I knew, you see, what I needed--I mean before I
struck! It was the element of collateral support that we both lacked. I
couldn't do without it as you could. This was what I, clumsily enough,
tried to show you I felt. You, on your side," I pursued, "grasped
admirably the evident truth that that element could be present only in
such doses as practically to escape detection." I kept it up as she had
done, and I remember striking myself as scarce less excitedly voluble. I
was conscious of being at a point at which I should have to go straight,
to go fast, to go it, as the phrase is, blind, in order to go at all. I
was also conscious--and it came from the look with which she listened to
me and that told me more than she wished--I felt sharply, though but
instinctively, in fine, that I should still, whatever I practically had
lost, make my personal experience most rich and most complete by putting
it definitely to her that, sorry as I might be not to oblige her, I
had, even at this hour, no submission to make. I doubted in fact whether
my making one would have obliged her; but I felt that, for all so much
had come and gone, I was not there to take, for her possible profit, any
new tone with her. She would sufficiently profit, at the worst, by the
old. My old motive--old with the prodigious antiquity the few hours had
given it--had quite left me; I seemed to myself to know little now of my
desire to "protect" Mrs. Server. She was certainly, with Mrs. Briss at
least, past all protection; and the conviction had grown with me, in
these few minutes, that there was now no rag of the queer truth that
Mrs. Briss hadn't secretly--by which I meant morally--handled. But I
none the less, on a perfectly simple reasoning, stood to my guns, and
with no sense whatever, I must add, of now breaking my vow of the
morning. I had made another vow since then--made it to the poor lady
herself as we sat together in the wood; passed my word to her that
there was no approximation I pretended even to myself to have made. How
then was I to pretend to Mrs. Briss, and what facts had I collected on
which I could respectably ground an acknowledgment to her that I had
come round to her belief? If I had "caught" our incriminated pair
together--really together--even for three minutes, I would, I sincerely
considered, have come round. But I was to have performed this
revolution on nothing less, as I now went on to explain to her. "Of
course if you've got new evidence I shall be delighted to hear it; and
of course I can't help wondering whether the possession of it and the
desire to overwhelm me with it aren't, together, the one thing you've
been nursing till now."

Oh, how intensely she didn't like such a tone! If she hadn't looked so
handsome I would say she made a wry face over it, though I didn't even
yet see where her dislike would make her come out. Before she came out,
in fact, she waited as if it were a question of dashing her head at a
wall. Then, at last, she charged. "It's nonsense. I've nothing to tell
you. I feel there's nothing in it and I've given it up."

I almost gaped--by which I mean that I looked as if I did--for surprise.
"You agree that it's not she----?" Then, as she again waited, "It's
you who've come round?" I insisted.

"To your doubt of its being May? Yes--I've come round."

"Ah, pardon me," I returned; "what I expressed this morning was, if I
remember rightly, not at all a 'doubt,' but a positive, intimate
conviction that was inconsistent with any doubt. I was
emphatic--purely and simply--that I didn't see it."

She looked, however, as if she caught me in a weakness here. "Then why
did you say to me that if you should reconsider----"

"You should handsomely have it from me, and my grounds? Why, as I've
just reminded you, as a form of courtesy to you--magnanimously to help
you, as it were, to feel as comfortable as I conceived you naturally
would desire to feel in your own conviction. Only for that. And now," I
smiled, "I'm to understand from you that, in spite of that immense
allowance, you haven't, all this while, felt comfortable?"

She gave, on this, in a wonderful, beautiful way, a slow, simplifying
headshake. "Mrs. Server isn't in it!"

The only way then to take it from her was that her concession was a
prelude to something still better; and when I had given her time to see
this dawn upon me I had my eagerness and I jumped into the breathless.
"You've made out then who is?"

"Oh, I don't make out, you know," she laughed, "so much as you! She
isn't," she simply repeated.

I looked at it, on my inspiration, quite ruefully--almost as if I now
wished, after all, she were. "Ah, but, do you know? it really strikes me
you make out marvels. You made out this morning quite what I couldn't. I
hadn't put together anything so extraordinary as that--in the total
absence of everything--it should have been our friend."

Mrs. Briss appeared, on her side, to take in the intention of this.
"What do you mean by the total absence? When I made my mistake," she
declared as if in the interest of her dignity, "I didn't think
everything absent."

"I see," I admitted. "I see," I thoughtfully repeated. "And do you,
then, think everything now?"

"I had my honest impression of the moment," she pursued as if she had
not heard me. "There were appearances that, as it at the time struck me,
fitted."

"Precisely"--and I recalled for her the one she had made most of. "There
was in especial the appearance that she was at a particular moment using
Brissenden to show whom she was not using. You felt then," I ventured
to observe, "the force of that."

I ventured less than, already, I should have liked to venture; yet I
none the less seemed to see her try on me the effect of the intimation
that I was going far. "Is it your wish," she inquired with much
nobleness, "to confront me, to my confusion, with my inconsistency?" Her
nobleness offered itself somehow as such a rebuke to my mere logic that,
in my momentary irritation, I might have been on the point of assenting
to her question. This imminence of my assent, justified by my horror of
her huge egotism, but justified by nothing else and precipitating
everything, seemed as marked for these few seconds as if we each had our
eyes on it. But I sat so tight that the danger passed, leaving my
silence to do what it could for my manners. She proceeded meanwhile to
add a very handsome account of her own. "You should do me the justice to
recognise how little I need have spoken another word to you, and how
little, also, this amiable explanation to you is in the interest of
one's natural pride. It seems to me I've come to you here altogether in
the interest of yours. You talk about humble pie, but I think that,
upon my word--with all I've said to you--it's I who have had to eat it.
The magnanimity you speak of," she continued with all her grandeur--"I
really don't see, either, whose it is but mine. I don't see what account
of anything I'm in any way obliged to give."

I granted it quickly and without reserve. "You're not obliged to give
any--you're quite right: you do it only because you're such a large,
splendid creature. I quite feel that, beside you"--I did, at least,
treat myself to the amusement of saying--"I move in a tiny circle.
Still, I won't have it"--I could also, again, keep it up--"that our
occasion has nothing for you but the taste of abasement. You gulp your
mouthful down, but hasn't it been served on gold plate? You've had a
magnificent day--a brimming cup of triumph, and you're more beautiful
and fresh, after it all, and at an hour when fatigue would be almost
positively graceful, than you were even this morning, when you met me as
