
" Oh, in Tuskingum ! And who were the men 
there that amounted to anything? A lot of young 
lawyers, and two students of medicine, and some 
railroad clerks. There wasn 't one that would com 
pare with Mr. Breckon for a moment." 

"All the more reason why he can 't really care 
for Ellen. Now see here, Sarah! You know I 
don 't interfere with you and the children, but I 'm 
afraid you 're in a craze about this young fellow. 
He 's got these friends of his who have just turned 
up, and we 'll wait and see what he does with them. 
I guess he appreciates the young lady as much as 
he does Ellen." 


Mrs. Kenton 's heart went down. " She doesn 't 
compare with Ellen!" she piteously declared. 

"That 's what we think. He may think differ 
ently." 

Mrs. Kenton was silenced, but all the more she 
was determined to make sure that Mr. Breckon 
was not interested in Miss Rasmith in any measure 
or manner detrimental to Ellen. As for Miss Ras- 
mith herself, Mrs. Kenton would have had greater 
reason to be anxious about her behavior with Boyne 
than Mr. Breckon. From the moment that the 
minister had made his two groups of friends ac 
quainted, the young lady had fixed upon Boyne 
as that member of the Kenton group who could 
best repay a more intimate friendship. She was 
polite to them all, but to Boyne she was flattering, 
and he was too little used to deference from ladies 
so greatly his- senior not to be very sensible of her 
worth in offering it. To be unremittingly treated 
as a grown-up person was an experience so dazzling 
that his vision was blinded to any possibilities in 
the behavior that formed it; and before the day 
ended Boyne had possessed Miss Rasmith of all 
that it was important for any fellow-being to know 
of his character and history. He opened his heart 
to eyes that had looked into others before his, less 
for the sake of exploiting than of informing him 
self. In the rare intelligence of Miss Rasmith he 
had found that serious patience with his problems 
which no one else, not Ellen herself, had shown; 
and after trying her sincerity the greater part of 



 

the day he put it to the supreme test, one evening, 
with a book which he had been reading. Boyne 's 
literature was largely entomological and zoological, 
but this was a work of fiction treating of the fort 
unes of a young American adventurer, who had 
turned his military education to account in the 
service of a German princess. Her Highness 's do 
minions were not in any map of Europe, and per 
haps it was her condition of political incognito 
that rendered her the more fittingly the prey of a 
passion for the American head of her armies. 
Boyne 's belief was that this character veiled a real 
identity, and he wished to submit to Miss Kasmith 
the question whether in the exclusive circles of New 
York society any young millionaire was known 
to have taken service abroad after leaving West 
Point. He put it in the form of a scoffing in 
credulity which it was a comfort to have her take 
as if almost hurt by his doubt. She said that such 
a thing might very well be, and with rich American 
girls marrying all sorts of titles abroad, it was 
not impossible for some brilliant young fellow to 
make his way to the steps of a throne. Boyne de 
clared that she was laughing at him, and she pro 
tested that it was the last thing she should think 
of doing ; she was too much afraid of him. Then he 
began to argue against the case supposed in the 
romance; he proved from the book itself that the 
thing could not happen; such a princess would not 
be allowed to marry the American, no matter how 
rich he was. She owned that she had not heard of 



 

just such an instance, and he might think her very 
romantic; and perhaps she was; but if the princess 
was an absolute princess, such as she was shown 
in that story, she held that no power on earth could 
keep her from marrying the young American. For 
herself she did not see, though, how the princess 
could be in love with that type of American. If 
she had been in the princess 's place she should have 
fancied something quite different. She made Boyne 
agree with her that Eastern Americans were all, 
more or less, Europeanized, and it stood to reason, 
she held, that a European princess would want some 
thing as un-European as possible if she was falling 
in love to please herself. They had some contention 
upon the point that the princess would want a 
Western American; and then Miss Easmith, with a 
delicate audacity, painted an heroic portrait of 
Boyne himself which he could not recognize openly 
enough to disown; but he perceived resemblances 
in it which went to his head when she demurely 
rose, with a soft " Good-night, Mr. Kenton. I sup 
pose I mustn 't call you Boyne ?" 

" Oh yes, do !" he entreated. " I 'm I 'm not grown 
up yet, you know." 

"Then it will be safe," she sighed. "But I 
should never have thought of that. I had got so 
absorbed in our argument. You are so logical, Mr. 
Kenton Boyne, I mean thank you. You must 
get it from your father. How lovely your sister 
is!" 

"Ellen?" 



 

" Well, no. I meant the other one. But Miss 
Kenton is beautiful, too. You must be so happy 
together, all of you." She added, with a rueful 
smile, " There 's only one of me ! Good-night." 

Boyne did not know whether he ought not in 
humanity, if not gallantry, to say he would be a 
brother to her, but while he stood considering, she 
put out a hand to him so covered with rings that 
he was afraid she had hurt herself in pressing his 
so hard, and had left him before he could decide. 

Lottie, walking the deck, had not thought of bid 
ding Mr. Pogis good-night. She had asked him half 
a dozen times how late it was, and when he answer 
ed, had said as often that she knew better, and 
she was going below in another minute. But she 
stayed, and the flow of her conversation supplied 
him with occasion for the remarks of which he 
seldom varied the formula. When she said some 
thing too audacious for silent emotion, he called 
out, " Oh, I say!" If she advanced an opinion too 
obviously acceptable, or asked a question upon some 
point where it seemed to him there could not be 
two minds, he was ready with the ironical note, 
" Well, rather !" At times she pressed her studies 
of his character and her observations on his man 
ner and appearance so far that he was forced 
to protest, "You are so personal!" But these mo 
ments were rare ; for the most part, " Oh, I say !" 
and "Well, rather!" perfectly covered the ground. 
He did not generally mind her parody of his poverty 
of phrase, but once, after she had repeated " Well, 



 

rather !" and " Oh, I say !" steadily at everything he 
said for the whole round of the promenade they 
were making, he intimated that there were occasions 
when, in his belief, a woman 's abuse of the freedom 
generously allowed her sex passed the point of 
words. 

"And when it passes the point of words," she 
taunted him, " what do you do ?" 

"You will see," he said, "if it ever does," and 
Lottie felt justified by her inference that he was 
threatening to kiss her, in answering: 

"And if I ever see, I will box your ears." 

" Oh, I say!" he retorted. " I should like to have 
you try." 

He had ideas of the rightful mastery of a man in 
all things, which she promptly pronounced brutal, 
and when he declared that his father 's conduct tow 
ards his wife and children was based upon these 
ideas, she affirmed the superiority of her own 
father 's principles and behavior. Mr. Pogis was 
too declared an admirer of Judge Kenton to ques 
tion his motives or method in anything, and he 
could only generalize, " The Americans spoil their 
women." 

"Well, their women are worth it," said Lottie, 
and after allowing the paradox time to penetrate 
his intelligence, he cried out, in a glad transport : 

" Oh, I say!" 

At the moment Boyne 's intellectual seance with 
Miss Rasmith was coming to an end. Lottie had 
tacitly invited Mr. Pogis to prolong the compari- 



 

son of English and American family life by stopping 
in front of a couple of steamer-chairs, and con 
fessing that she was tired to death. They sat down, 
and he told her about his mother, whom, although 
his father 's subordinate, he seemed to be rather 
fonder of. He had some elder brothers, most of 
them in the colonies, and he had himself been out 
to America looking at something his father had 
found for him in Buffalo. 

"You ought to come to Tuskingum," said Lot 
tie. 

"Is that a large place?" Mr. Pogis asked. "As 
large as Buffalo?" 

" Well, no," Lottie admitted. " But it 's a growing 
place. And we have the best kind of times." 

" What kind ?" The young man easily consented 
to turn the commercial into a social inquiry. 

" Oh, picnics, and river parties, and buggy-rides, 
and dances." 

" I 'm keen on dancing," said Mr. Pogis. " I hope 
they 'll give us a dance on board. Will you put me 
down for the first dance?" 

" I don 't care. Will you send me some flowers ? 
The steward must have some left in the refriger 
ator." 

" Well, rather ! I 'll send you a spray, if he 's got 
enough." 

"A spray? What 's a spray?" 

" Oh, I say ! My sister always wears one. It 's 
a long chain of flowers reachin from your shoulder 
diagonally down to your waist." 



 

" Does your sister always have her sprays sent 
to her?" 

"Well, rather! Don 't they send flowers to girls 
for dances in the States?" 

"Well, rather! Didn 't I just ask you?" 

This was very true, and after a moment of baffle 
Mr. Pogis said, in generalization, "If you go with 
a young lady in a party to the theatre you send her 
a box of chocolates." 

" Only when you go to the theatre ! I couldn 't 
get enough, then, unless you asked me every night," 
said Lottie, and while Mr. Pogis was trying to 
choose between " Oh, I say !" and something spe 
cific, like, "I should like to ask you every night," 
she added, "And what would happen if you sent 
a girl a spray for the theatre and chocolates for 
a dance? Wouldn 't it jar her?" 

Now, indeed, there was nothing for him but to 
answer, " Oh, I say !" 

" Well, say, then ! Here comes Boyne, and I must 
go. Well, Boyne," she called, from the dark nook 
where she sat, to her brother as he stumbled near, 
with his eyes to the stars, "has the old lady 're 
tired?" 

He gave himself away finely. "What old 
lady!" 

"Well, maybe at your age you don 't consider 
her very old. But I don 't think a boy ought to sit 
up mooning at his grandmother all night. I know 
Miss Kasmith 's no relation, if that 's what you 're 
going to say!" 



 

"Oh, I say!" Mr. Pogis chuckled. "You are 
so personal." 

"Well, rather!" said Lottie, punishing his pre 
sumption. "But I don 't think it 's nice for a kid, 
even if she isn t." 

" Kid !" Boyne ground through his clenched teeth. 

By this time Lottie was up out of her chair 
and beyond repartee in her flight down the gang 
way stairs. She left the two youngsters con 
fronted. 

"What do you say to a lemon-squash?" asked 
Mr. Pogis, respecting his friend 's wounded dignity, 
and ignoring Lottie and her offence. 

"I don 't care if I do," said Boyne, in gloomy 
acquiescence. 



XV 



FEW witnesses of the fact that Julia Easmith 
and her mother had found themselves on the same 
steamer with the Kev. Hugh Breckon would have 
been of such a simple mind as to think they were 
there by accident, if they had also been witnesses 
of their earlier history. The ladies could have urged 
that in returning from California only a few days 
before the Amstel sailed, and getting a state-room 
which had been unexpectedly given up, they had 
some claim to a charitable interpretation of their 
behavior, but this plea could not have availed them 
with any connoisseur of women. Besides, it had 
been a matter of notoriety among such of Mr. Breck- 
on 's variegated congregation as knew one another 
that Mrs. Rasmith had set her heart on him, if 
Julia had not set her cap for him. In that pied 
flock, where every shade and dapple of doubt, from 
heterodox Jew to agnostic Christian, foregathered, 
as it had been said, in the misgiving of a blessed 
immortality, the devotion of Mrs. Rasmith to the 
minister had been almost a scandal. Nothing had 
saved the appearance from this character but Mr. 
Breckon 's open acceptance of her flatteries and 



 

hospitalities; this was so frank, and the behavior 
of Julia herself so judicious under the circum 
stances, that envy and virtue were, if not equally 
silenced, equally baffled. So far from pretending not 
to see her mother 's manoauvres, Julia invited public 
recognition of them; in the way of joking, which 
she kept within the limits of filial fondness, she 
made fun of her mother 's infatuation to Breckon 
himself, and warned him against the moment when 
her wiles might be too much for him. Before other 
people she did not hesitate to save him from her 
mother, so that even those who believed her in the 
conspiracy owned that no girl could have managed 
with more cleverness in a situation where not every 
one would have refused to be placed. In this situ 
ation Julia Rasmith had the service of a very clear 
head, and as was believed by some, a cool heart; 
if she and her mother had joint designs upon the 
minister, hers was the ambition, and her mother 's 
the affection that prompted them. She was a long, 
undulant girl, of a mixed blondness that left you 
in doubt, after you had left her, whether her hair 
or her complexion were not of one tint; but her 
features were good, and there could be no question 
of her captivating laugh, and her charming mouth, 
which she was always pulling down with demure 
irony. She was like her mother in her looks, but 
her indolent, drolling temperament must have been 
from her father, whose memory was lost in that 
antiquity which swallows up the record of so many 
widows husbands, and who could not have left 



 

her what was left of her mother 's money, for none 
of it had ever been his. It was still her mother s, 
and it was supposed to be the daughter 's chief 
attraction. There must, therefore, have been a good 
deal of it, for those who were harshest with the 
minister did not believe that a little money would 
attract him. Not that they really thought him 
mercenary; some of his people considered him gay 
to the verge of triviality, but there were none that 
accused him of insincerity. They would have liked 
a little more seriousness in him, especially when 
they had not much of their own, and would have 
had him make up in severity of behavior for what 
he lacked, and what they wished him to lack, in 
austerity of doctrine. 

The Amstel had lost so much time in the rough 
weather of her first days out that she could not 
make it up with her old-fashioned single screw. 
She was at best a ten -day boat, counting from 
Sandy Hook to Boulogne, and she had not been 
four days out when she promised to break her 
record for slowness. Three days later Miss Ras- 
mith said to Breckon, as he took the chair which 
her mother agilely abandoned to him beside her: 
" The head steward says it will be a twelve-day trip, 
and our bedroom steward thinks more. What ia 
the consensus of opinion in the smoking-room? 
Where are you going, mother? Are you planning 
to leave Mr. Breckon and me alone again? It isn 't 
necessary. We couldn 't get away from each other 
if we tried, and all we ask Well, I suppose age 



 

must be indulged in its little fancies," she called 
after Mrs. Kasmith. 

Breckon took up the question she had asked him. 
" The odds are so heavily in favor of a fifteen- 
days run that there are no takers." 

" Now you are joking again," she said. " I 
thought a sea-voyage might make you serious." 

" It has been tried before. Besides, it 's you that 
I want to be serious." 

"What about? Besides, I doubt it." 

" About Boyne." 

" Oh ! I thought you were going to say some one 
else." 

" No, I think that is very well settled." 

"You 'll never persuade my mother," said Miss 
Rasmith, with a low, comfortable laugh. 

" But if you are satisfied " 

" She will have to resign herself ? Well, perhaps. 
But why do you wish me to be serious about 
Boyne?" 

" I have no doubt he amuses you. But that doesn 't 
seem a very good reason why you should amuse 
yourself with him." 

"No? Why not?" 

"Well, because the poor boy is in earnest; and 
you 're not exactly contemporaries." 

" Why, how old is Boyne ?" she asked, with affect 
ed surprise. 

"About fifteen, I think," said Breckon, gravely. 

" And I 'm but a very few months past thirty. I 
don 't see the great disparity. But he is merely a 



 

brother to me an elder brother and he gives me 
the best kind of advice." 

" I dare say you need it, but all the same, I am 
afraid you are putting ideas into his head." 

" Well, if he began it ? If he put them in mine 
first?" 

She was evidently willing that he should go fur 
ther, and create the common ground between them 
that grows up when one gives a reproof and the 
other accepts it ; but Breckon, whether he thought 
that he had now done his duty, and need say no more, 
or because he was vexed with her, left the subject. 

" Mrs. Rasmith says you are going to Switzer 
land for the rest of the summer." 

"Yes, to Montreux. Are you going to spend it 
in Paris?" 

" I 'm going to Paris to see. I have had some 
thoughts of Etretat; I have cousins there." 

" I wish that I could go to the sea-side. But this 
happens to be one of the summers when nothing 
but mountains can save my mother 's life. Shall 
you get down to Rome before you go back?" 

" I don 't know. If I sail from Naples I shall 
probably pass through Rome." 

"You had better stop off. We shall be there in 
November, and they say Rome is worth seeing." 
She laughed demurely. " That is what Boyne un 
derstands. He 's promised to use his influence with 
his family to let him run down to see us there, if 
he can 't get them all to come. You might offer 

to personally conduct them." 
 



 

"Yes," said Breckon, with the effect of clo- 
ture. " Have you made many acquaintances on 
board?" 

"What! Two lone women? You haven 't intro 
duced us to any but the Kentons. But I dare say 
they are the best. The judge is a dear, and Mrs. 
Kenton is everything that is motherly and matronly. 
Boyne says she is very well informed, and knows all 
about the reigning families. If he decides to marry 
into them, she can be of great use in saving him 
from a mesalliance. I can 't say very much for 
Miss Lottie. Miss Lottie seems to me distinctly of 
the minx type. But that poor, pale girl is adorable. 
I wish she liked me." 

" What makes you think she doesn 't like you ?" 
Breckon asked. 

" What ? Women don 't require anything to con 
vince them that other women can 't bear them. They 
simply know it. I wonder what has happened to 
her?" 

"Why do you think anything has happened to 
her?" 

" Why ? Well, girls don 't have that air of melan 
choly absence for nothing. She is brooding upon 
something, you may be sure. But you have had 
so many more opportunities than I! Do you mean 
that you haven 't suspected a tragical past for 
her?" 

"I don 't know," said Breckon, a little restively, 
" that I have allowed myself to speculate about her 
past." 



 

" That is, you oughtn 't to have allowed yourself 
to do so. Well, there I agree with you. But a wom 
an may do so without impertinence, and I am sure 
that Miss Kenton has a story. I have watched 
her, and her face has told me everything but the 
story." 

Breckon would not say that some such revelation 
had been made to him, and in the absence of an 
answer from him Miss Rasmith asked, " Is she 
cultivated, too?" 

"Too?" 

"Like her mother." 

" Oh ! I should say she had read a good dsal. 
And she 's bookish, yes, in a simple-hearted kind of 
way." 

" She asks you if you have read the book of the 
year, and whether you don 't think the heroine is 
a beautiful character?" 

" Not quite so bad as that. But if you care to be 
serious about her " 

"Oh, I do!" 

"I doubt it. Then, I should say that she seems 
to have grown up in a place where the interests 
are so material that a girl who was disposed to be 
thoughtful would be thrown back upon reading for 
her society more than in more intellectual centres 
if there are such things. She has been so much 
with books that she does not feel odd in speaking 
of them as if they were the usual topics of con 
versation. It gives her a certain quaintness." 



 

"And that is what constitutes her charm?" 

"I didn 't know that we were speaking of her 
charm." 

" No, that is true. But I was thinking of it. 
She fascinates me. Are they going to get off at 
Boulogne?" 

" No, they are going on to Rotterdam." 

" To be sure ! Boyne told me. And are yon 
going on with them?" 

"I thought we talked of my going to Paris." 
Breckon looked round at her, and she made a 
gesture of deprecation. 

"Why, of course! How could I forget? But 
I 'm so much interested in Miss Kenton that I can 't 
think of anything else." 

"Not even of Miss Rasmith?" 

"Not even of Miss Rasmith. I know that she 
has a history, and that it 's a sad one." She paused 
in ironical hesitation. " You ve been so good as to 
caution me about her brother and I never can 
be grateful enough and that makes me almost free 
to suggest " 

She stopped again, and he asked, hardily, 
"What?" 

" Oh, nothing. It isn 't for me to remind my pas 
tor, my ghostly adviser " she pulled down her 
mouth and glanced at him demurely "and I will 
only offer the generalization that a girl is never 
so much in danger of having her heart broken 
as when she 's had it broken Oh, are you leaving 
me?" she cried, as Breckon rose from his chair. 



 

" Well, then, send Boyne to me." She broke into a 
laugh as he faltered. " Are you going to sit down 
again? That is right. And I won 't talk any more 
about Miss Kenton." 

"I don 't mind talking of her," said Breckon. 
"Perhaps it will even be well to do so if you 
are in earnest. Though it strikes me that you have 
rather renounced the right to criticise me." 

"Now, is that logical? It seems to me that in 
putting myself in the attitude of a final friend at 
the start, and refusing to be anything more, I 
have established my right to criticise you on the 
firmest basis. I can 't possibly be suspected of in 
terested motives. Besides, you ve just been criti 
cising me, if you want a woman 's reason." 

" Well, go on." 

" Why, I had finished. That 's the amusing part. 
I should have supposed that I could go on forever 
about Miss Kenton, but I have nothing to go upon. 
She has kept her secret very well, and so have 
the rest of them. You think I might have got it 
out of Boyne? Perhaps I might, but you know I 
have my little scruples. I don 't think it would 
be quite fair, or quite nice." 

" You are scrupulous. And I give you credit 
for having been more delicate than I ve been." 

"You don 't mean you ve been trying to find 
it out!" 

"Ah, now I 'm not sure about the superior deli 
cacy." 

" Oh, how good!" said Miss Rasmith. " What a 



 

pity you should be wasted in a calling that limits 
you so much." 

"You call it limiting? I didn 't know but I 
had gone too far." 

"Not at all! You know there 's nothing I like 
so much as those little digs." 

" I had forgotten. Then you won 't mind my say 
ing that this surveillance seems to me rather more 
than I have any right to from you." 

" How exquisitely you put it ! Who else could 
have told me to mind my own business so delight 
fully? Well, it isn 't my business. I acknowledge 
that, and I spoke only because I knew you would 
be sorry if you had gone too far. I remembered 
our promise to be friends." 

She threw a touch of real feeling into her tone, 
and he responded, " Yes, and I thank you for it, 
though it isn 't easy." 

She put out her hand to him, and, as he ques- 
tioningly took it, she pressed his with animation. 
" Of course it isn 't ! Or it wouldn 't be for any 
other man. But don 't you suppose I appre 
ciate that supreme courage of yours? There is 
nobody else nobody! who could stand up to an 
impertinence and turn it to praise by such humil 
ity." 

"Don 't go too far, or I shall be turning your 
praise to impertinence by my humility. You 're 
quite right, though, about the main matter. I 
needn 't suppose anything so preposterous as you 
suggest, to feel that people are best left alone 



 

to outlive their troubles, unless they are of the most 
obvious kind." 

" Now, if I thought I had done anything to stop 
you from offering that sort of helpfulness which 
makes you a blessing to everybody, I should never 
forgive myself." 

" Nothing so dire as that, I believe. But if you ve 
made me question the propriety of applying the 
blessing in all cases, you may have done a very 
good thing." 

Miss Easmith was silent and apparently serious. 
After a moment she said, "And I, for my part, 
promise to let poor little Boyne alone." 

Breckon laughed. "Don 't burlesque it! Besides, 
I haven 't promised anything." 

" That is very true," said Miss Rasmith, and she 
laughed, too. 



XVI 

IN one of those dramatic reveries which we all 
hold with ourselves when fortune has pressingly 
placed us, Ellen Kenton had imagined it possible 
for her to tell her story to the man who had so 
gently and truly tried to be her friend. It was 
mostly in the way of explaining to him how she 
was unworthy of his friendship that the story was 
told, and she fancied telling it without being scan 
dalized at violating the conventions that should 
have kept her from even dreaming of such a thing. 
It was all exalted to a plane where there was no 
question of fit or unfit in doing it, but only the 
occasion; and he would never hear of the unworthi- 
ness which she wished to ascribe to herself. Some 
times he mournfully left her when she persisted, 
left her forever, and sometimes he refused, and 're 
mained with her in a sublime kindness, a noble 
amity, lofty and serene, which did not seek to be 
come anything else. In this case she would break 
from her reveries with self-accusing cries, under 
her breath, of "Silly, silly! Oh, how disgusting!" 
And if at that moment Breckon were really coming 
up to sit by her, she would blush to her hair, and 
wish to run away, and failing the force for this, 



 

would sit cold and blank to his civilities, and have 
to be skilfully and gradually talked back to self- 
respect and self -tolerance. 

The recurrence of these reveries and their con 
sequence in her made it difficult for him to put 
in effect the promise he had given himself in Miss 
Rasmith 's presence. If Ellen had been eager to 
welcome his coming, it would have been very simple 
to keep away from her, but as she appeared anxious 
to escape him, and had to be entreated, as it were, 
to suffer his society, something better than his curi 
osity was piqued, though that was piqued, too. He 
believed that he saw her lapsing again into that 
morbid state from which he had seemed once able 
to save her, and he could not help trying again. 
He was the more bound to do so by the ironical 
observance of Miss Easmith, who had to be defied 
at first, and then propitiated; certainly, when she 
saw him apparently breaking faith with her, she 
had a right to some sort of explanation, but certain 
ly also she had no right to a blind and unreasoning 
submission from him. His embarrassment was 
heightened by her interest in Miss Kenton, whom, 
with an admirable show of now finding her safe 
from Breckon 's attractions, she was always wishing 
to study from his observation. What was she really 
like? The girl had a perfect fascination for her; 
she envied him his opportunities of knowing her, 
and his privileges of making that melancholy face 
light up with that heart-breaking smile, and of 
banishing that delicious shyness with which she 



 

always seemed to meet him. Miss Rasmith had 
noticed it; how could she help noticing it? 

Breckon wished to himself that she had been 
able to help noticing it, or were more capable of 
minding her own business than she showed herself, 
and his heart closed about Ellen with a tenderness 
that was dangerously indignant. At the same time 
he felt himself withheld by Miss Rasmith 's witness 
from being all to the girl that he wished to be, 
and that he now seemed to have been in those first 
days of storm, while Miss Rasmith and her mother 
were still keeping their cabin. He foresaw that it 
would end in Miss Rasmith 's sympathetic nature 
not being able to withhold itself from Ellen 's need 
of cheerful companionship, and he was surprised 
as little as he was pleased, one morning, when he 
came to take the chair beside her to find Miss Ras 
mith in it, talking and laughing to the girl, who 
perversely showed herself amused. Miss Rasmith 
made as if to offer him the seat, but he had to 
go away disappointed, after standing long enough 
before them to be aware that they were suspending 
some topic while he stayed. 

He naturally supposed the topic to be himself, 
but it was not so, or at least not directly so. It 
was only himself as related to the scolding he had 
given Miss Rasmith for trifling with the innocence 
of Boyne, which she wished Miss Kenton to under 
stand as the effect of a real affection for her brother. 
She loved all boys, and Boyne was simply the most 
delightful creature in the world. She went on to 



 

explain how delightful he was, and she showed such 
an appreciation of the infantile sweetness mingled 
with the mature severity of Boyne 's character that 
Ellen could not help being pleased and won. She 
told some little stories of Boyne that threw a light 
also on their home life in Tuskingum, and Miss 
Easmith declared herself perfectly fascinated, and 
wished that she could go and live in Tuskingum. 
She protested that she should not find it dull ; Boyne 
alone would be entertainment enough; and she fig 
ured a circumstance so idyllic from the hints she 
had gathered, that Ellen 's brow darkened in silent 
denial, and Miss Kasmith felt herself, as the chil 
dren say in the game, very hot in her proximity 
to the girl 's secret. She would have liked to know 
it, but whether she felt that she could know it when 
she liked enough, or whether she should not be 
so safe with Breckon in knowing it, she veered sud 
denly away, and said that she was so glad to have 
Boyne 's family know the peculiar nature of her de 
votion, which did not necessarily mean running 
away with him, though it might come to that. She 
