Town to the lake, and Jim said, "I'll tell you what, Pony! The way to do
will be to get into a canal-boat, somehow, and that will take you to the
reservation without your hardly having to walk a step; and you can have
fun on the boat, too."
Pony agreed that this would be the best way, but he did not really like
the notion of living so long among the Indians that he would not remember
his father and mother when he saw them; he would like to stay till he was
pretty nearly grown up, and then come back in a chief's dress, with eagle
plumes all down his back and a bow in his hand, and scare them a little
when he first came in the house and then protect them from the tribe and
tell them who he was, and enjoy their surprise. But he hated to say this
to Jim Leonard, because he would think he was afraid to live with the
Indians always. He hardly dared to ask him what the Indians would do to
him if they did not adopt him, but he thought he had better, and Jim said:
"Oh, burn you, maybe. But it ain't likely but what they'll adopt you; and
if they do they'll take you down to the river, and wash you and scrub
you, so's to get all the white man off, and then pull out your hair, a
hair at a time, till there's nothing but the scalp-lock left, so that your
enemies can scalp you handy; and then you're just as good an Indian as
anybody, and nobody can pick on you, or anything. The thing is how to find
the canal-boat."
The next morning at school it began to be known that Pony Baker was going
to run off on a canal-boat to see the Indians, and all the fellows said
how he ought to do it. One of the fellows said that he ought to get to
drive the boat horses, and another that he ought to hide on board in the
cargo, and come out when the boat was passing the reservation; and another
that he ought to go for a cabin-boy on one of the passenger-packets, and
then he could get to the Indians twice as soon as he could on a
freight-boat. But the trouble was that Pony was so little that they did
not believe they would take him either for a driver or a cabin-boy; and he
said he was not going to hide in the cargo, because the boats were full
of rats, and he was not going to have rats running over him all the time.
Some of the fellows thought this showed a poor spirit in Pony, and wanted
him to take his dog along and hunt the rats; they said he could have lots
of fun; but others said that the dog would bark as soon as he began to
hunt the rats, and then Pony would be found out and put ashore in a
minute. The fellows could not think what to do till at last one of them
said:
"You know Piccolo Wright?"
"Yes."
"Well, you know his father has got a boat?"
"Yes. Well?"
"Well, and he's got a horse, too; and everything."
"Well, what of it?"
"Get Piccolo to hook the boat and take Pony to the reservation."
The fellows liked this notion so much that they almost hurrahed, and they
could hardly wait till school was out and they could go and find Piccolo
and ask him whether he would do it. They found him up at the canal basin,
where he was fishing off the stern of his father's boat. He was a pretty
big boy, though he was not so very old, and he had a lazy, funny face and
white hair; and the fellows called him Piccolo because he was learning to
play the piccolo flute, and talked about it when he talked at all, but
that was not often. He was one of those boys who do not tan or freckle in
the sun, but peel, and he always had some loose pieces of fine skin
hanging to his nose.
All the fellows came up and began holloing at once, and telling him what
they wanted him to do, and he thought it was a first-rate notion, but he
kept on fishing, without getting the least bit excited; and he did not say
whether he would do it or not, and when the fellows got tired of talking
they left him and began to look round the boat. There was a little cabin
at one end, and all the rest of the boat was open, and it had been
raining, or else the boat had leaked, and it was pretty full of water; and
the fellows got down on some loose planks that were floating there, and
had fun pushing them up and down, and almost forgot what they had come
for. They found a long pump leaning against the side of the boat, with its
spout out over the gunwale, and they asked Piccolo if they might pump, and
he said they might, and they pumped nearly all the water out after they
had got done having fun on the planks.
Some of them went into the cabin and found a little stove there, where
Pony could cook his meals, and a bunk where he could sleep, or keep in out
of the rain, and they said they wished they were going to run off, too.
They took more interest than he did, but they paid him a good deal of
attention, and he felt that it was great to be going to run off, and he
tried not to be homesick, when he thought of being down there alone at
night, and nobody near but Piccolo out on the towpath driving the horse.
The fellows talked it all over, and how they would do. They said that
Piccolo ought to hook the boat some Friday night, and the sooner the
better, and get a good start before Saturday morning. They were going to
start with Pony, and perhaps travel all night with him, and then get off
and sleep in the woods, to rest themselves, and then walk home; and the
reason that Piccolo ought to hook the boat Friday night was that they
could have all Saturday to get back, when there was no school.
If the boat went two miles an hour, which she always did, even if she was
loaded with stone from Piccolo's father's quarry, she would be fifteen
miles from the Boy's Town by daybreak; and if they kept on travelling
night and day, and Pony drove the horse part of the time, they could reach
the Indian reservation Monday evening, for they would not want to travel
Sunday, because it was against the law, and it was wicked, anyway. If they
travelled on Sunday, and a storm came up, just as likely as not the boat
would get struck by lightning, and if it did, the lightning would run out
along the rope and kill the horse and Piccolo, too, if he was riding. But
the way for Piccolo to do was always to come aboard when it began to
rain, and that would keep Pony company a little, and they could make the
horse go by throwing stones at him.
Pony and Piccolo ought to keep together as much as they could, especially
at night, so that if there were robbers, they could defend the boat
better. Of course, they could not make the horse go by throwing stones at
him in the dark, and the way for them to do was for Pony to get out and
ride behind Piccolo. Besides making it safer against robbers, they could
keep each other from going to sleep by talking, or else telling stories;
or if one of them did doze off, the other could hold him on; and they must
take turn about sleeping in the daytime.
But the best way of all to scare the robbers was to have a pistol, and
fire it off every little once in a while, so as to let them know that the
boat was armed. One of the fellows that had a pistol said he would lend it
to Pony if Pony would be sure to send it back from the reservation by
Piccolo, for he should want it himself on the Fourth, which was coming in
about three weeks. Another fellow that had five cents, which he was saving
up till he could get ten, to buy a pack of shooting-crackers, said he
would lend it to Pony to buy powder, if he only felt sure that he could
get it back to him in time. All the other fellows said he could do it
easily, but they did not say how; one of them offered to go and get the
powder at once, so as to have it ready.
But Pony told him it would not be of any use, for he had promised his
mother that he would not touch a pistol or powder before the Fourth. None
of the fellows seemed to think it was strange that he should be willing to
run away from home, and yet be so anxious to keep his promise to his
mother that he would not use a pistol to defend himself from robbers; and
none of them seemed to think it was strange that they should not want
Piccolo, if he hooked his father's boat, to travel on Sunday with it.
After a while Piccolo came to the little hatch-door, and looked down into
the cabin where the boys were sitting and talking at the tops of their
voices; but in about a minute he vanished, very suddenly for him, and they
heard him pumping, and then before they knew it, they heard a loud, harsh
voice shouting, "Heigh, there!"
They looked round, and at the open window of the cabin on the land-side
they saw a man's face, and it seemed to fill the whole window. They knew
it must be Piccolo's father, and they just swarmed up the gangway all in a
bunch. Some of them fell, but these hung on to the rest, somehow, and they
all got to the deck of the cabin together, and began jumping ashore, so
that Piccolo's father could not catch them. He was standing on the basin
bank, saying something, but they did not know what, and they did not stop
to ask, and they began to run every which way.
They all got safely ashore, except Jim Leonard; he fell over the side of
the boat between it and the bank, but he scrambled up out of the water
like lightning, and ran after the rest. He was pretty long-legged, and he
soon caught up, but he was just raining water from his clothes, and it
made the fellows laugh so that they could hardly run, to hear him swish
when he jolted along. They did not know what to do exactly, till one of
them said they ought to go down to the river and go in swimming, and they
could wring Jim Leonard's clothes out, and lay them on the shore to dry,
and stay in long enough to let them dry. That was what they did, and they
ran round through the backs of the gardens and the orchards, and through
the alleys, and climbed fences, so that nobody could see them. The day was
pretty hot, and by the time they got to the river they were all sweating,
so that Jim's clothes were not much damper than the others. He had nothing
but a shirt and trousers on, anyway.
After that they did not try to get Piccolo to hook his father's boat, for
they said that his father might get after them any time, and he would have
a right to do anything he pleased to them, if he caught them. They could
not think of any other boat that they could get, and they did not know
how Pony could reach the reservation without a canal-boat. That was the
reason why they had to give up the notion of his going to the Indians; and
if anybody had told them that the Indians were going to come to Pony they
would have said he was joking, or else crazy; but this was really what
happened. It happened a good while afterwards; so long afterwards that
they had about forgotten he ever meant to run off, and they had got done
talking about it.
VI
HOW THE INDIANS CAME TO THE
BOY'S TOWN AND JIM LEONARD
ACTED THE COWARD
Jim Leonard was so mad because he lost his chip-hat in the canal basin,
when he fell off the boat (and had to go home bareheaded and tell his
mother all about what happened, though his clothes were dry enough, and he
might have got off without her noticing anything, if it had not been for
his hat) that he would not take any interest in Pony. But he kept on
taking an interest in Indians, and he was the most excited fellow in the
whole Boy's Town when the Indians came.
The way they came to town was this: The white people around the
reservation got tired of having them there, or else they wanted their
land, and the government thought it might as well move them out West,
where there were more Indians, there were such a very few of them on the
reservation; and so it loaded them on three canal-boats and brought them
down through the Boy's Town to the Ohio River, and put them on a
steamboat, and then took them down to the Mississippi, and put them on a
reservation beyond that river.
The boys did not know anything about this, and they would not have cared
much if they had. All they knew was that one morning (and it happened to
be Saturday) three canal-boats, full of Indians, came into the basin.
Nobody ever knew which boy saw them first. It seemed as if all the fellows
in the Boy's Town happened to be up at the basin at once, and were
standing there when the boats came in. When they saw that they were real
Indians, in blankets, with bows and arrows, warriors, squaws, papooses,
and everything, they almost went crazy, and when a good many of the
Indians came ashore and went over to the court-house yard and began to
shoot at quarters and half-dollars that the people stuck into the ground
for them to shoot at, the fellows could hardly believe their eyes. They
yelled and cheered and tried to get acquainted with the Indian boys, and
ran and got their arrows for them, and everything; and if the Indians
could only have stayed until the Fourth, which was pretty near now, they
would have thought it was the greatest thing that ever happened. Jim
Leonard said they belonged to a tribe that had been against the British in
the last war, and were the friends of the Long Knives, as they called the
Americans. He said that he read it in a book; and he hunted round for Pony
Baker, and when he found him he said: "Come here, Pony; I want to tell you
something."
Any other time all the other fellows would have crowded around and wanted
to know what it was, but now they were so much taken up with the Indians
that none of them minded him, and so he got a good chance at Pony alone.
Pony was afraid that Jim Leonard wanted him to run off with the Indians,
and this was just what he did want.
He said: "You ought to get a blanket and stain your face and hands with
walnut juice, and then no one could tell you from the rest of the tribe,
and you could go out with them where they're going and hunt buffaloes.
It's the greatest chance there ever was. They'll adopt you into the tribe,
maybe, as soon as the canal-boats leave, or as quick as they can get to a
place where they can pull your hair out and wash you in the canal. I tell
you, if I was in your place, I'd do it, Pony."
Pony did not know what to say. He hated to tell Jim Leonard that he had
pretty nearly given up the notion of running off for the present, or until
his father and mother did something more to make him do it.
Ever since the boys failed so in trying to get Piccolo to hook his
father's boat for Pony to run off in, things had been going better with
Pony at home. His mother did not stop him from half so many things as she
used to do, and lately his father had got to being very good to him: let
him lie in bed in the morning, and did not seem to notice when he stayed
out with the boys at night, telling stories on the front steps, or playing
hide-and-go-whoop, or anything. They seemed to be a great deal taken up
with each other and not to mind so much what Pony was doing.
His mother let him go in swimming whenever he asked her, and did not make
him promise to keep out of the deep water. She said she would see, when he
coaxed her for five cents to get powder for the Fourth, and she let him
have one of the boys to spend the night with him once, and she gave them
waffles for breakfast. She showed herself something like a mother, and she
had told him that if he would be very, very good she would get his father
to give him a quarter, so that he could buy two packs of
shooting-crackers, as well as five cents' worth of powder for the Fourth.
But she put her arms around him and hugged him up to her and kissed his
head and said:
"You'll be very careful, Pony, won't you? You're all the little boy we've
got, and if anything should happen to you--"
She seemed to be almost crying, and Pony laughed and said: "Why, nothing
could happen to you with shooting-crackers"; and she could have the powder
to keep for him; and he would just make a snake with it Fourth of July
night; put it around through the grass, loose, and then light one end of
it, and she would see how it would go off and not make the least noise.
But she said she did not want to see it; only he must be careful; and she
kissed him again and let him go, and when he got away he could see her
wiping her eyes. It seemed to him that she was crying a good deal in those
days, and he could not understand what it was about. She was scared at any
little thing, and would whoop at the least noise, and when his father
would say: "Lucy, my dear girl!" she would burst out crying and say that
she could not help it. But she got better and better to Pony all the time,
and it was this that now made him ashamed with Jim Leonard, because it
made him not want to run off so much.
He dug his toe into the turf in the court-house yard under the
locust-tree, and did not say anything till Jim Leonard asked him if he was
afraid to go off and live with the Indians, because if he was going to be
a cowardy-calf like that, it was all that Jim Leonard wanted to do with
him.
Pony denied that he was afraid, but he said that he did not know how to
talk Indian, and he did not see how he was going to get along without.
Jim Leonard laughed and said if that was all, he need not be anxious. "The
Indians don't talk at all, hardly, even among each other. They just make
signs; didn't you know that? If you want something to eat you point to
your mouth and chew; and if you want a drink, you open your mouth and keep
swallowing. When you want to go to sleep you shut your eyes and lean your
cheek over on your hand, this way. That's all the signs you need to begin
with, and you'll soon learn the rest. Now, say, are you going with the
Indians, or ain't you going? It's your only chance. Why, Pony, what are
you afraid of? Hain't you always wanted to sleep out-doors and not do
anything but hunt?"
Pony had to confess that he had, and then Jim Leonard said: "Well, then,
that's what you'll do if you go with the Indians. I suppose you'll have to
go on the warpath with them when you get out there; and if it's against
the whites you won't like it at first; but you've got to remember what the
whites have done to the Indians ever since they discovered America, and
you'll soon get to feeling like an Indian anyway. One thing is, you've got
to get over being afraid."
That made Pony mad, and he said: "I ain't afraid now."
"I know that," said Jim Leonard. "But what I mean is, that if you get hurt
you mustn't hollo, or cry, or anything; and even when they're scalping
you, you mustn't even make a face, so as to let them know that you feel
it."
By this time some of the other fellows began to come around to hear what
Jim Leonard was saying to Pony. A good many of the Indians had gone off
anyway, for the people had stopped sticking quarters into the ground for
them to shoot at, and they could not shoot at nothing. Jim Leonard saw the
fellows crowding around, but he went on as if he did not notice them.
"You've got to go without eating anything for weeks when the medicine-man
tells you to; and when you come back from the warpath, and they have a
scalp-dance, you've got to keep dancing till you drop in a fit. When they
give a dog feast you must eat dog stew until you can't swallow another
mouthful, and you'll be so full that you'll just have to lay around for
days without moving. But the great thing is to bear any kind of pain
without budging or saying a single word. Maybe you're used to holloing
now when you get hurt?"
Pony confessed that he holloed a little; the others tried to look as if
they never holloed at all, and Jim Leonard went on:
"Well, you've got to stop that. If an arrow was to go through you and
stick out at your back, or anywhere, you must just reach around and pull
it out and not speak. When you're having the sun-dance--I think it's the
sun-dance, but I ain't really certain--you have to stick a hook through
you, right here"--he grabbed Pony by the muscles on his shoulders--"and
let them pull you up on a pole and hang there as long as they please.
They'll let you practise gradually so that you won't mind hardly anything.
Why, I've practised a good deal by myself, and now I've got so that I
believe if you was to stick me with--"
All of a sudden something whizzed along the ground and Jim Leonard stooped
over and caught one of his feet up in his hand, and began to cry and to
hollo: "Oh, oh, oh! Ow, ow, ow! Oh, my foot! Oh, it's broken; I know it
is! Oh, run for the doctor, do, Pony Baker! I know I'm going to die! Oh,
dear, oh dear, oh dear!"
All the boys came crowding around to see what the matter was, and the men
came, too, and pretty soon some one found an arrow in the grass, and then
they knew that it was a stray arrow that had hit Jim Leonard on the side
of the foot, after missing one of the dimes that was stuck in the ground.
It was blunt, and it had not hurt him that anybody could see, except
rubbed the skin off a little on the ankle-bone. But Jim Leonard began to
limp away towards home, and now, as the Indians had all gone back to their
boats, and the fellows had nothing else to do, they went along with him.
Archy Hawkins held him up on one side, and Hen Billard on the other, and
Archy said, "I tell you, when I heard Jim yell, I thought it was a real
Indian," and Hen said:
"I thought it was the scalp-halloo."
Archy said, "The way I came to think it was a real Indian was that a real
Indian never makes any noise when he's hurt," and Hen said:
"I thought it was the scalp-halloo, because Jim was stooping over as if he
was tearing the scalp off of a white man. He's been practising, you know."
"Well, practice makes perfect. I reckon if Jim hasn't got so far that he
would smile when you scalped him, or just laugh if you shot an arrow
through him, or would let you stick a hook into him, and pull him up to
the top of a pole, it's because he's begun at the other end. I'll bet he
could eat himself full of dog stew, and lay around three days without
stirring."
Jim Leonard thought the fellows had come along to pity him and help him;
but when he heard Archy Hawkins say that, and Hen Billard began to
splutter and choke with the laugh he was holding in, he flung them off and
began to fight at them with his fists, and strike right and left blindly.
He broke out crying, and then the fellows made a ring around him and
danced and mocked him.
"Hey, Jim, what'd you do if they pulled your hair out?"
"Jimmy, oh, Jim! Would you hollo much louder if they tomahawked you?"
"Show your uncle how to dance till you drop, Jim."
They kept on till Jim Leonard picked up stones to stone them, and then
they all ran away, jumping and jeering till they got out of sight. It was
about dinner-time, anyway.
No one was left but Pony Baker. He stooped down over Jim when he sat
crying over his foot. "Does it hurt you much, Jimmy?" he asked.
"Yes, it hurts dreadfully, Pony. The skin's all rubbed off. I'm afraid
it's broken my leg."
"Well, let me help you home," said Pony. "Your mother can tie it up,
then."
He made Jim lean on him, and keep trying his foot, and pretty soon they
found he could walk with it nearly the same as the other foot, and before
they got to Jim's house they were talking and laughing together.
After that, Pony Baker gave up running off to the Indians. He about gave
up running off altogether. He had a splendid Fourth of July. His mother
would not let him stay up the whole of the night before, but she let him
get up at four o'clock, and fire off both his packs of shooting-crackers;
and though she had forbidden him to go down to the river-bank where the
men were firing off the cannon, he hardly missed it. He felt sleepy as
soon as his crackers were done, and another fellow who was with him came
into the parlor, and they both lay down on the carpet and went to sleep
there, and slept till breakfast-time. After breakfast he went up to the
court-house yard, with some other fellows, and then, after dinner, when
they all came round and begged, and the big fellows promised to watch out
for Pony, his mother let him go out to the second lock with them, and go
in swimming in the canal. He did not know why this should be such a great
privilege, but it was. He had never been out to the second lock before. It
was outside of the corporation line, and that was a great thing in itself.
After supper, Pony's mother let him fire off his powder-snake, and she
even came out and looked at it, with her fingers in her ears. He promised
her that it wouldn't make any noise, but she could not believe him; and
when the flash came, she gave a little whoop, and ran in-doors. It shamed
him before the boys, for fear they would laugh; and she acted even worse
when his father wished to let him go up to the court-house yard to see the
fireworks.
A lot of the fellows were going, and he was to go with the crowd, but his
father was to come a little behind, so as to see that nothing happened to
him; and when they were just starting off what should she do but hollo to
his father from the door where she was standing, "Do be careful of the
child, Henry!" It did not seem as if she could be a good mother when she
tried, and she was about the afraidest mother in the Boy's Town.
All the way up to the court-house the boys kept snickering and whispering,
"Don't stump your toe, child," and "Be careful of the child, boys," and
things like that till Pony had to fight some of them. Then they stopped.
They were afraid his father would hear, anyway.
But the fireworks were splendid, and the fellows were very good to Pony,
because his father stood in the middle of the crowd and treated them to
lemonade, and they did not plague, any more, going home. It was ten
o'clock when Pony got home; it was the latest he had ever been up.
The very Fourth of July before that one he had been up pretty nearly as
late listening to his cousin, Frank Baker, telling about the fun he had
been having at a place called Pawpaw Bottom; and the strange thing that
happened there, if it did happen, for nobody could exactly find out. So I
think I had better break off again from Pony, and say what it was that
Frank told; and after that I can go on with Pony's running off.
VII
HOW FRANK BAKER SPENT THE FOURTH
AT PAWPAW BOTTOM, AND SAW
THE FOURTH OF JULY BOY
It was the morning of the Fourth, and Frank was so anxious to get through
with his wood-sawing, and begin celebrating with the rest of the boys,
that he hardly knew what to do. He had a levvy (as the old Spanish real
used to be called in southern Ohio) in his pocket, and he was going to buy
a pack of shooting-crackers for ten cents, and spend the other two cents
for powder. He had no pistol, but he knew a fellow that would lend him his
pistol part of the time, and he expected to have about the best Fourth he
ever had. He had been up since three o'clock watching the men fire the old
six-pounder on the river-bank; and he was going to get his mother to let
him go up to the fireworks in the court-house yard after dark.
But now it did not seem as if he could get wood enough sawed. Twice he
asked his mother if she thought he had enough, but she said "Not near,"
and just as Jake Milrace rode up the saw caught in a splinter of the tough
oak log Frank was sawing and bumped back against Frank's nose; and he
would have cried if it had not been for what Jake began to say.
He said he was going to Pawpaw Bottom to spend the Fourth at a fellow's
named Dave Black, and he told Frank he ought to go too; for there were
plenty of mulberries on Dave's father's farm, and the early apples were
getting ripe enough to eat, if you pounded them on a rock; and you could
go in swimming, and everything. Jake said there was the greatest
swimming-hole at Pawpaw Bottom you ever saw, and they had a log in the
water there that you could have lots of fun with. Frank ran into the house
to ask his mother if he might go, and he hardly knew what to do when she
asked him if there was wood enough yet to get dinner and supper. But his
Aunt Manda was spending the summer with his mother, and she said she
reckoned she could pick up chips to do all the cooking they needed, such
a hot day; and Frank ran out to the cow-house, where they kept the pony,
because the Bakers had no stable, and saddled him, and was off with Jake
Milrace in about a minute.
The pony was short and fat and lazy, and he had to be whipped to make him
keep up with Jake's horse. It was not exactly Jake's horse; it was his
sister's husband's horse, and he had let Jake have it because he would not
be using it himself on the Fourth of July. It was tall and lean, and it
held its head so high up that it was no use to pull on the bridle when it
began to jump and turn round and round, which it did every time Frank
whipped his pony to keep even with Jake. It would shy and sidle, and dart
so far ahead that the pony would get discouraged and would lag back, and
have to be whipped up again; and then the whole thing would have to be
gone through with the same as at first. The boys did not have much chance
to talk, but they had a splendid time riding along, and when they came to
a cool, dark place in the woods they pretended there were Indians; and at
the same time they kept a sharp eye out for squirrels. If they had seen
any, and had a gun with them, they could have shot one easily, for
squirrels are not afraid of you when you are on horseback; and, as it was,
Jake Milrace came pretty near killing a quail that they saw in the road by
a wheat-field. He dropped his bridle and took aim with his forefinger, and
pulled back his thumb like a trigger; and if his horse had not jumped, and
his finger had been loaded, he would surely have killed the quail, it was
so close to him. They could hear the bob-whites whistling all through the
stubble and among the shocks of wheat.
Jake did not know just where Dave Black's farm was, but after a while they
came to a blacksmith's shop, and the blacksmith told them to take a lane
that they would come to on the left, and then go through a piece of woods
and across a field till they came to a creek; then ford the creek and keep
straight on, and they would be in sight of the house. It did not seem
strange to Frank that they should be going to visit a boy without knowing
where he lived, but afterwards he was not surprised when Dave Black's
folks did not appear to expect them. They kept on, and did as the
blacksmith told them, and soon enough they got to a two-story log-cabin,
with a man in front of it working at a wheat-fan, for it was nearly time
to thresh the wheat. The man said he was Dave Black's father; he did not
act as if he was very glad to see them, but he told them to put their
horses in the barn, and he said that Dave was out in the pasture hauling
rails.
Frank thought that was a queer way of spending the Fourth of July, but he
did not say anything, and on their way out to the pasture Jake explained
that Dave's father was British, and did not believe much in the Fourth of
July, anyway. They found Dave easily enough, and he answered Jake's
"Hello!" with another when the boys came up. He had a two-horse wagon, and
he was loading it with rails from a big pile; there were two dogs with
him, and when they saw the boys they came towards them snarling and
ruffling the hair on their backs. Jake said not to mind them--they would
not bite; but they snuffed so close to Frank's bare legs that he wished
Dave would call them off. They slunk away, though, when they heard him
speak to the boys; and then Jake Milrace told Dave Black who Frank was,
and they began to feel acquainted, especially when Jake said they had come
to spend the Fourth of July with Dave.
He said, "First rate," and he explained that he had his foot tied up the
way they saw because he had a stone-bruise which he had got the first day
he began to go barefoot in the spring; but now it was better. He said
there was a bully swimming-hole in the creek, and he would show them where
it was as soon as he had got done hauling his rails. The boys took that
for a kind of hint, and they pulled off their roundabouts and set to work
with him.
Frank thought it was not exactly like the Fourth, but he did not say
anything, and they kept loading up the rails and hauling them to the edge
of the field where Dave's father was going to build the fence, and then
unloading them, and going back to the pile for more. It seemed to Frank
that there were about a thousand rails in that pile, and they were pretty
heavy ones--oak and hickory and walnut--and you had to be careful how you
handled them, or you would get your hands stuck full of splinters. He
wondered what Jake Milrace was thinking, and whether it was the kind of
Fourth he had expected to have; but Jake did not say anything, and he
hated to ask him. Sometimes it appeared to Frank that sawing wood was
nothing to it; but they kept on loading rails, and unloading them in piles
about ten feet apart, where they were wanted; and then going back to the
big pile for more. They worked away in the blazing sun till the sweat
poured off their faces, and Frank kept thinking what a splendid time the
fellows were having with pistols and shooting-crackers up in the Boy's
Town; but still he did not say anything, and pretty soon he had his
reward. When they got half down through the rail-pile they came to a
bumblebees' nest, which the dogs thought was a rat-hole at first. One of
them poked his nose into it, but he pulled it out quicker than wink and
ran off howling and pawing his face and rubbing his head in the ground or
against the boys' legs. Even when the dogs found out that it was not rats
they did not show any sense. As soon as they rubbed a bee off they would
come yelping and howling back for more; and hopping round and barking; and
then when they got another bee, or maybe a half-dozen (for the bees did
not always fight fair), they would streak off again and jump into the air,
and roll on the ground till the boys almost killed themselves laughing.
The boys went into the woods, and got pawpaw branches, and came back and
fought the bumblebees till they drove them off. It was just like the
battle of Bunker Hill; but Frank did not say so, because Dave's father was
British, till Dave said it himself, and then they all pretended the bees
were Mexicans; it was just a little while after the Mexican War. When they
drove the bees off, they dug their nest out; it was beautifully built in
regular cells of gray paper, and there was a little honey in it; about a
spoonful for each boy.
Frank was glad that he had not let out his disappointment with the kind of
Fourth they were having; and just then the horn sounded from the house for
dinner, and the boys all got into the wagon, and rattled off to the barn.
They put out the horses and fed them, and as soon as they could wash
themselves at the rain-barrel behind the house, they went in and sat down
with the family at dinner. It was a farmer's dinner, as it used to be in
southern Ohio fifty years ago: a deep dish of fried salt pork swimming in
its own fat, plenty of shortened biscuit and warm green-apple sauce, with
good butter. The Boy's Town boys did not like the looks of the fat pork,
but they were wolf-hungry, and the biscuit were splendid. In the middle of
the table there was a big crock of buttermilk, all cold and dripping from
the spring-house where it had been standing in the running water; then
there was a hot apple-pie right out of the oven; and they made a pretty
fair meal, after all.
After dinner they hauled more rails, and when they had hauled all the
rails there were, they started for the swimming-hole in the creek. On the
way they came to a mulberry-tree in the edge of the woods-pasture, and it
was so full of berries and they were so ripe that the grass which the
cattle had cropped short was fairly red under the tree. The boys got up
into the tree and gorged themselves among the yellow-hammers and
woodpeckers; and Frank and Jake kept holloing out to each other how glad
they were they had come; but Dave kept quiet, and told them to wait till
they came to the swimming-hole.
It was while they were in the tree that something happened which happened
four times in all that day, if it really happened: nobody could say
afterwards whether it had or not. Frank was reaching out for a place in
the tree where the berries seemed thicker than anywhere else, when a
strong blaze of light flashed into his eyes, and blinded him.
"Oh, hello, Dave Black!" he holloed. "That's mean! What are you throwin'
that light in my face for?"
But he laughed at the joke, and he laughed more when Dave shouted back, "I
ain't throwin' no light in your face."
"Yes, you are; you've got a piece of look-in'-glass, and you're flashin'
it in my face."
"Wish I may die, if I have," said Dave, so seriously that Frank had to
believe him.
"Well, then, Jake Milrace has."
"I hain't, any such thing," said Jake, and then Dave Black roared back,
laughing: "Oh, I'll tell you! It's one of the pieces of tin we strung
along that line in the corn-field to keep the crows off, corn-plantin'
time."
The boys shouted together at the joke on Frank, and Dave parted the
branches for a better look at the corn-field.
"Well, well! Heigh there!" he called towards the field. "Oh, he's gone
now!" he said to the other boys, craning their necks out to see, too. "But
he was doing it, Frank. If I could ketch that feller!"
"Somebody you know? Let's get him to come along," said Jake and Frank, one
after the other.
"I couldn't tell," said Dave. "He slipped into the woods when he heard me
holler. If it's anybody I know, he'll come out again. Don't seem to notice
him; that's the best way."
For a while, though, they stopped to look, now and then; but no more
flashes came from the corn-field, and the boys went on cramming themselves
with berries; they all said they had got to stop, but they went on till
Dave said: "I don't believe it's going to do us any good to go in swimming
if we eat too many of these mulberries. I reckon we better quit, now."
The others said they reckoned so, too, and they all got down from the
tree, and started for the swimming-hole. They had to go through a piece of
woods to get to it, and in the shadow of the trees they did not notice
that a storm was coming up till they heard it thunder. By that time they
were on the edge of the woods, and there came a flash of lightning and a
loud thunder-clap, and the rain began to fall in big drops. The boys saw a
barn in the field they had reached, and they ran for it; and they had just
got into it when the rain came down with all its might. Suddenly Jake
said: "I'll tell you what! Let's take off our clothes and have a
shower-bath!" And in less than a minute they had their clothes off, and
were out in the full pour, dancing up and down, and yelling like Indians.
That made them think of playing Indians, and they pretended the barn was a
settler's cabin, and they were stealing up on it through the tall shocks
of wheat. They captured it easily, and they said if the lightning would
only strike it and set it on fire so it would seem as if the Indians had
done it, it would be great; but the storm was going round, and they had to
be satisfied with being settlers, turn about, and getting scalped.
It was easy to scalp Frank, because he wore his hair long, as the town
boys liked to do in those days, but Jake lived with his sister, and he had
to do as she said. She said a boy had no business with long hair; and she
had lately cropped his close to his skull. Dave's father cut his hair
round the edges of a bowl, which he had put on Dave's head for a pattern;
the other boys could get a pretty good grip of it, if they caught it on
top, where the scalp-lock belongs; but Dave would duck and dodge so that
they could hardly get their hands on it. All at once they heard him call
out from around the corner of the barn, where he had gone to steal up on
them, when it was their turn to be settlers: "Aw, now, Jake Milrace, that
ain't fair! I'm an Indian, now. You let go my hair."
"Who's touchin' your old hair?" Jake shouted back, from the inside of the
barn. "You must be crazy. Hurry up, if you're ever goin' to attack us. I
want to get out in the rain, myself, awhile."
Frank was outside, pretending to be at work in the field, and waiting for
the Indians to creep on him, and when Jake shouted for Dave to hurry, he
looked over his shoulder and saw a white figure, naked like his own, flit
round the left-hand corner of the barn. Then he had to stoop over, so that
Dave could tomahawk him easily, and he did not see anything more, but Jake
yelled from the barn: "Oh, you got that fellow with you, have you? Then
he's got to be settler next time. Come on, now. Oh, do hurry up!"
Frank raised his head to see the other boy, but there was only Dave Black,
coming round the right-hand corner of the barn.
"You're crazy yourself, Jake. There ain't nobody here but me and Frank."
"There is, too!" Jake retorted. "Or there was, half a second ago."
But Dave was busy stealing on Frank, who was bending over, pretending to
hoe, and after he had tomahawked Frank, he gave the scalp-halloo, and Jake
came running out of the barn, and had to be chased round it twice, so that
he could fall breathless on his own threshold, and be scalped in full
sight of his family. Then Dave pretended to be a war-party of Wyandots,
and he gathered up sticks, and pretended to set the barn on fire. By this
time Frank and Jake had come to life, and were Wyandots, too, and they all
joined hands and danced in front of the barn.
"There! There he is again!" shouted Jake. "Who's crazy now, I should
like to know?"
"Where? Where?" yelled both the other boys.
"There! Right in the barn door. Or he was, quarter of a second ago,"
said Jake, and they all dropped one another's hands, and rushed into the
barn and began to search it.
They could not find anybody, and Dave Black said: "Well, he's the quickest
feller! Must 'a' got up into the mow, and jumped out of the window, and
broke for the woods while we was lookin' down here. But if I get my hands
onto him, oncet!"
They all talked and shouted and quarrelled and laughed at once; but they
had to give the other fellow up; he had got away for that time, and they
ran out into the rain again to let it wash off the dust and chaff, which
they had got all over them in their search. The rain felt so good and cool
that they stood still and took it without playing any more, and talked
quietly. Dave decided that the fellow who had given them the slip was a
new boy whose folks had come into the neighborhood since school had let
out in the spring, so that he had not got acquainted yet; but Dave allowed
that he would teach him a few tricks as good as his own when he got at
him.
The storm left a solid bank of clouds in the east for a while after it was
all blue in the western half of the sky, and a rainbow came out against
the clouds. It looked so firm and thick that Dave said you could cut it
with a scythe. It seemed to come solidly down to the ground in the woods
in front of the hay-mow window, and the boys said it would be easy to get
the crock of gold at the end of it if they were only in the woods. "I'll
bet that feller's helpin' himself," said Dave, and they began to wonder
how many dollars a crock of gold was worth, anyhow; they decided about a
million. Then they wondered how much of a crock full of gold a boy could
get into his pockets; and they all laughed when Jake said he reckoned it
would depend upon the size of the crock. "I don't believe that fellow
could carry much of it away if he hain't got more on than he had in front
of the barn." That put Frank in mind of the puzzle about the three men
that found a treasure in the road when they were travelling together: the
blind man saw it, and the man without arms picked it up, and the naked man
put it in his pocket. It was the first time Dave had heard the puzzle, and
he asked, "Well, what's the answer?" But before Frank could tell him, Jake
started up and pointed to the end of the rainbow, where it seemed to go
into the ground against the woods.
"Oh! look! look!" he panted out, and they all looked, but no one could see
anything except Jake. It made him mad. "Why, you must be blind!" he
shouted, and he kept pointing. "Don't you see him? There, there! Oh, now,
the rainbow's going out, and you can't see him any more. He's gone into
the woods again. Well, I don't know what your eyes are good for, anyway."
He tried to tell them what he had seen; he could only make out that it
must be the same boy, but now he had his clothes on: white linen
pantaloons and roundabout, like what you had on May day, or the Fourth if
you were going to the Sunday-school picnic. Dave wanted him to tell what
he looked like, but Jake could not say anything except that he was very
smiling-looking, and seemed as if he would like to be with him; Jake said
he was just going to hollo for him to come over when the rainbow began to
go out; and then the fellow slipped back into the woods; it was more like
melting into the woods.
"And how far off do you think you could see a boy smile?" Dave asked,
scornfully.
"How far off can you say a rainbow is?" Jake retorted.
"I can say how far off that piece of woods is," said Dave, with a laugh.
He got to his feet, and began to pull at the other boys, to make them get
up. "Come along, if you're ever goin' to the swimmin'-hole."
The sun was bright and hot, and the boys left the barn, and took across
the field to the creek. The storm must have been very heavy, for the creek
was rushing along bank-full, and there was no sign left of Dave's
swimming-hole. But they had had such a glorious shower-bath that they did
not want to go in swimming, anyway, and they stood and watched the yellow
water pouring over the edge of a mill-dam that was there, till Dave
happened to think of building a raft and going out on the dam. Jake said,
"First rate!" and they all rushed up to a place where there were some
boards on the bank; and they got pieces of old rope at the mill, and tied
the boards together, till they had a good raft, big enough to hold them,
and then they pushed it into the water and got on it. They said they were
on the Ohio River, and going from Cincinnati to Louisville. Dave had a
long pole to push with, like the boatmen on the keel-boats in the early
times, and Jake had a board to steer with; Frank had another board to
paddle with, on the other side of the raft from Dave; and so they set on
their journey.
The dam was a wide, smooth sheet of water, with trees growing round the
edge, and some of them hanging so low over it that they almost touched it.
The boys made trips back and forth across the dam, and to and from the
edge of the fall, till they got tired of it, and they were wanting
something to happen, when Dave stuck his pole deep into the muddy bottom,
and set his shoulder hard against the top of the pole, with a "Here she
goes, boys, over the Falls of the Ohio!" and he ran along the edge of the
raft from one end to the other.
Frank and Dave had both straightened up to watch him. At the stern of the
raft Dave tried to pull up his pole for another good push, but it stuck
fast in the mud at the bottom of the dam, and before Dave knew what he was
about, the raft shot from under his feet, and he went overboard with his
pole in his hand, as if he were taking a flying leap with it. The next
minute he dropped into the water heels first, and went down out of sight.
He came up blowing water from his mouth, and holloing and laughing, and
took after the raft, where the other fellows were jumping up and down, and
bending back and forth, and screaming and yelling at the way he looked
hurrying after his pole, and then dangling in the air, and now showing his
black head in the water like a musk-rat swimming for its hole. They were
having such a good time mocking him that they did not notice how his push
had sent the raft swiftly in under the trees by the shore, and the first
thing they knew, one of the low branches caught them, and scraped them
both off the raft into the water, almost on top of Dave. Then it was
Dave's turn to laugh, and he began: "What's the matter, boys? Want to help
find the other end of that pole?"
Jake was not under the water any longer than Dave had been, but Frank did
not come up so soon. They looked among the brush by the shore, to see if
he was hiding there and fooling them, but they could not find him. "He's
stuck in some snag at the bottom," said Dave; "we got to dive for him";
but just then Frank came up, and swam feebly for the shore. He crawled out
of the water, and after he got his breath, he said, "I got caught, down
there, in the top of an old tree."
"Didn't I tell you so?" Dave shouted into Jake's ear.
"Why, Jake was there till I got loose," said Frank, looking stupidly at
him.
"No, I wasn't," said Jake. "I was up long ago, and I was just goin' to
dive for you; so was Dave."
"Then it was that other fellow," said Frank. "I thought it didn't look
overmuch like Jake, anyway."
"Oh, pshaw!" Dave jeered. "How could you tell, in that muddy water?"
"I don't know," Frank answered. "It was all light round him. Looked like
he had a piece of the rainbow on him, or foxfire."
"I reckon if I find him," said Dave, "I'll take his piece of rainbow off'n
him pretty quick. That's the fourth time that feller's fooled us to-day.
Where d'you s'pose he came up? Oh, I know! He got out on the other side
under them trees, while we was huntin' for Frank, and not noticin'. How'd
he look, anyway?"
"I don't know; I just saw him half a second. Kind of smiling, and like he
wanted to play."
"Well, I know him," said Dave. "It's the new boy, and the next time I see
him--Oh, hello! There goes our raft!"
It was drifting slowly down towards the edge of the dam, and the boys all
three plunged into the water again, and swam out to it, and climbed up on
it.
They had the greatest kind of a time, and when they had played castaway
sailors, Frank and Jake wanted to send the raft over the edge of the dam;
but Dave said it might get into the head-race of the mill and tangle
itself up in the wheel, and spoil the wheel.
So they took the raft apart and carried the boards on shore, and then
tried to think what they would do next. The first thing was to take off
their clothes and see about drying them. But they had no patience for
that; and so they wrung them out as dry as they could and put them on
again; they had left their roundabouts at Dave's house, anyway, and so had
nothing on but a shirt and trousers apiece. The sun was out hot after the
rain, and their clothes were almost dry by the time they got to Dave's
house. They went with him to the woods-pasture on the way, and helped him
drive home the cows, and they wanted him to get his mother to make his
father let him go up to the Boy's Town with them and see the fireworks;
but he said it would be no use; and then they understood that if a man was
British, of course he would not want his boy to celebrate the Fourth of
July by going to the fireworks. They felt sorry for Dave, but they both
told him that they had had more fun than they ever had in their lives
before, and they were coming the next Fourth and going to bring their guns
with them. Then they could shoot quails or squirrels, if they saw any, and
the firing would celebrate the Fourth at the same time, and his father
could not find any fault.
It seemed to Frank that it was awful to have a father that was British;
but when they got to Dave's house, and his father asked them how they had
spent the afternoon, he did not seem to be so very bad. He asked them
whether they had got caught in the storm, and if that was what made their
clothes wet, and when they told him what had happened, he sat down on the
wood-pile and laughed till he shook all over.
Then Frank and Jake thought they had better be going home, but Dave's
mother would not let them start without something to eat; and she cut them
each a slice of bread the whole width and length of the loaf, and spread
the slices with butter, and then apple-butter, and then brown sugar. The
boys thought they were not hungry, but when they began to eat they found
out that they were, and before they knew it they had eaten the slices all
up. Dave's mother said they must come and see Dave again some time, and
she acted real clever; she was an American, anyway.
They got their horses and started home. It was almost sundown now, and
they heard the turtle-doves cooing in the woods, and the bob-whites
whistling from the stubble, and there were so many squirrels among the
trees in the woods-pastures, and on the fences, that Frank could hardly
get Jake along; and if it had not been for Jake's horse, that ran whenever
Frank whipped up his pony, they would not have got home till dark. They
smelt ham frying in some of the houses they passed, and that made them
awfully hungry; one place there was coffee, too.
When they reached Frank's house he found that his mother had kept supper
hot for him, and she came out and said Jake must come in with him, if his
family would not be uneasy about him; and Jake said he did not believe
they would. He tied his horse to the outside of the cow-house, and he came
in, and Frank's mother gave them as much baked chicken as they could hold,
with hot bread to sop in the gravy; and she had kept some coffee hot for
Frank, so that they made another good meal. They told her what a bully
time they had had, and how they had fallen into the dam; but she did not
seem to think it was funny; she said it was a good thing they were not all
drowned, and she believed they had taken their deaths of cold, anyway.
Frank was afraid she was going to make him go up stairs and change his
clothes, when he heard the boys begin to sound their call of "Ee-o-wee" at
the front door, and he and Jake snatched their hats and ran out. There
was a lot of boys at the gate; Hen Billard was there, and Archy Hawkins
and Jim Leonard; there were some little fellows, and Frank's cousin Pony
was there; he said his mother had said he might stay till his father came
for him.
Hen Billard had his thumb tied up from firing too big a load out of his
brass pistol. The pistol burst, and the barrel was all curled back like a
dandelion stem in water; he had it in his pocket to show. Archy Hawkins's
face was full of little blue specks from pouring powder on a coal and
getting it flashed up into his face when he was blowing the coal; some of
his eye-winkers were singed off. Jim Leonard had a rag round his hand, and
he said a whole pack of shooting-crackers had gone off in it before he
could throw them away, and burned the skin off; the fellows dared him to
let them see it, but he would not; and then they mocked him. They all said
there had never been such a Fourth of July in the Boy's Town before; and
Frank and Jake let them brag as much as they wanted to, and when the
fellows got tired, and asked them what they had done at Pawpaw Bottom, and
they said, "Oh, nothing much; just helped Dave Black haul rails," they set
up a jeer that you could hear a mile.
Then Jake said, as if he just happened to think of it, "And fought
bumblebees."
And Frank put in, "And took a shower-bath in the thunder-storm."
And Jake said, "And eat mulberries."
And Frank put in again, "And built a raft."
And Jake said, "And Dave got pulled into the mill-dam."
And Frank wound up, "And Jake and I got swept overboard."
By that time the fellows began to feel pretty small, and they crowded
round and wanted to hear every word about it. Then Jake and Frank
tantalized them, and said of course it was no Fourth at all, it was only
just fun, till the fellows could not stand it any longer, and then Frank
jumped up from where he was sitting on his front steps, and holloed out,
"I'll show you how Dave looked when his pole pulled him in," and he acted
it all out about Dave's pole pulling him into the water.
Jake waited till he was done, and then he jumped up and said, "I'll show
you how Frank and me looked when we got swept overboard," and he acted it
out about the limb of the tree scraping them off the raft while they were
laughing at Dave and not noticing.
As soon as they got the boys to yelling, Jake and Frank both showed how
they fought the bumblebees, and how the dogs got stung, and ran round
trying to rub the bees off against the ground, and your legs, and
everything, till the boys fell down and rolled over, it made them laugh
so. Jake and Frank showed how they ran out into the rain from the barn,
and stood in it, and told how good and cool it felt; and they told about
sitting up in the mulberry-tree, and how twenty boys could not have made
the least hole in the berries. They told about the quails and the
squirrels; and they showed how Frank had to keep whipping up his pony,
and how Jake's horse kept wheeling and running away; and some of the
fellows said they were going with them the next Fourth.
Hen Billard tried to turn it off, and said: "Pshaw! You can have that kind
of a Fourth any day in the country. Who's going up to the court-house yard
to see the fireworks?"
He and Archy Hawkins and the big boys ran off, whooping, and the little
fellows felt awfully, because their mothers had said they must not go.
Just then, Pony Baker's father came for him, and he said he guessed they
could see the fireworks from Frank's front steps; and Jake stayed with
Frank, and Frank's father came out, and his aunt and mother leaned out of
the window, and watched, while the Roman candles shot up, and the rockets
climbed among the stars.
They were all so much taken up in watching that they did not notice one of
the neighbor women who had come over from her house and joined them, till
Mrs. Baker happened to see her, and called out: "Why, Mrs. Fogle, where
did you spring from? Do come in here with Manda and me. I didn't see you,
in your black dress."
"No, I'm going right back," said Mrs. Fogle. "I just come over a minute to
see the fireworks--for Wilford; you can't see them from my side."
"Oh," said Mrs. Baker, softly. "Well, I'm real glad you came. You ought to
have heard the boys, here, telling about the kind of Fourth they had at
Pawpaw Bottom. I don't know when I've laughed so much."
"Well, I reckon it's just as well I wasn't here. I couldn't have helped in
the laughing much. It seems pretty hard my Wilford couldn't been having a
good time with the rest to-day. He was always such a Fourth-of-July boy."
"But he's happy where he is, Mrs. Fogle," said Mrs. Baker, gently.
"Well, I know he'd give anything to been here with the boys to-day--I
don't care where he is. And he's been here, too; I just know he has;
I've felt him, all day long, teasing at me to let him go off with your
Frank and Jake, here; he just fairly loved to be with them, and he never
done any harm. Oh, my, my! I don't see how I used to deny him."
She put up her apron to her face, and ran sobbing across the street again
to her own house; they heard the door close after her in the dark.
"I declare," said Mrs. Baker, "I've got half a mind to go over to her."
"Better not," said Pony Baker's father.
"Well, I reckon you're right, Henry," Mrs. Baker assented.
They did not talk gayly any more; when the last rocket had climbed the
sky, Jake Milrace rose and said in a whisper he must be going.
After he was gone, Frank told, as if he had just thought of it, about the
boy that had fooled them so, at Pawpaw Bottom; and he was surprised at the
way his mother and his Uncle Henry questioned him up about it.
"Well, now," she said, "I'm glad poor Mrs. Fogle wasn't here, or--" She
stopped, and her brother-in-law rose, with the hand of his sleepy little
son in his own.
"I think Pony had better say good-night now, while he can. Frank, you've
had a remarkable Fourth. Good-night, all. I wish I had spent the day at
Pawpaw Bottom myself."
Before they slept that night, Pony's mother said: "Well, I'd just as soon
you'd kept that story to yourself till morning, Henry. I shall keep
thinking about it, and not sleep a wink. How in the world do you account
for it?"
"I don't account for it," said Pony's father.
