
tunes of her family was ever made before her, and if 
she was in total ignorance of the state of affairs, she 
was at least spared the humiliation of hearing that the 
palace was for sale, and might be sold any day, to any 
one who would pay the price asked. 

From time to time the Baroness said she hoped that 
Sabina had good news of her mother, but showed no curi- 
osity in the matter, and the girl always answered that she 
believed her mother to be quite well. Indeed she did 
believe it, for she supposed that if the Princess were 
ill some one would let her know. She wrote stiff little 
letters herself, every Sunday morning, and addressed 
them to her uncle's place in Poland ; but no one ever 
took the least notice of these conscientious communica- 
tions, and she wondered why she sent them, after all. 
It was a remnant of the sense of duty to her parents 
instilled into her in the convent, and she could not help 
clinging to it still, from habit. 

She had a few friends of her own age, and they came 
to see her now and then. They were mostly companions 
of her recent convent days, and they asked her many 
questions, to most of which she had no answer. She 
noticed that they looked surprised, but they were well 
brought up girls, and kept their reflections to themselves, 
until they were at home. 

The Conti had fewer near relations than most Roman 
families, for of late they had not been numerous. The 
Prince's only sister had died childless, the dowager 
Princess was a Pole, and her daughter-in-law was a 
Tuscan. Sabina and her generation had therefore no 





first cousins ; and those who were one degree or more 
removed were glad that they had not been asked to 
take charge of the girl after the catastrophe. It would 
have been all very well merely to give her a room and 
a place at table, but the older ones shook their heads, 
and said that before long the Baroness Volterra would 
have to dress her too, and give her pocket-money. Her 
good-for-nothing brother would not do anything for 
hex, if he could, and the Princess, who was amusing 
herself in Poland, if not in Paris, was capable of for- 
getting her existence for a year at a time. 

All these things greatly enhanced tlie outward ajid 
visible merit of the Volterra. couple, but made Sabina's 
position daily less endurable. So the Baroness laid up 
treasures in heaven while Sabina unwillingly stored 
trouble on earth. 

She was proud, to begin with. It was bad enough 
to have been ordered by her mother to accept the hos- 
pitality of people she did not like, but it was almost 
unbearable to realize by degrees that she was living on 
their effusive charity. If she had been as vain as she 
was proud, she would probably have left thdx house 
to take refuge in her sister's convent, for her vanity 
could not have borne the certainty that all society 
knew what her position was. The foundation of pride 
is the wish to respect oneself, whatever others may 
think ; the mainspring of vanity is the craving for the 
admiration of others, no matter at what cost to one's 
self-respect. In the Conti family these qualities and 
defects were unevenly distributed, for while pride 



 

seemed to have beeaa left out in the character of 
Sabina'a brother, who was vain and arrogant, she her- 
self was as unspoilt by vanity as she was plentifully 
supplied with the characteristic which is said to have 
caused Lucifer's fall, but which baa been the mainstay 
of many a greatly-tempted man and woman. Perhaps 
what is a fault in angels may seem to be almost a virtue 
in humanity, compared with the meanness of worse 
failings. 

Sabina was not smspicious, yet she could not help 
wondering why the Baroness had been so very anxious 
to take her in, and sometimes she thought that the 
object might be to marry her to one of Vol terra's two 
sons. One was in a cavalry regiment stationed in 
Turin, the other was in the diplomacy and was now 
in WEishrngton. They were both doing very well in 
their careers and their father and mother often talked 
of them. 

The Baron was inclined to be playful now and then. 

"Ah, my dear young lady," he would cry, shaking 
one fat finger at Sabina across the dinner table, " take 
care, take care ! You will lose your heart to both my 
boys and sow discord in my family L " 

At this he never failed to laugh, and his wife re- 
sponded with a smile of motherly pride, followed by a 
discreet side glance at Sabina'a delicate face. Then 
the finely-pencilled eyebrows were just the least bit 
more arched for a second, and the slender neck grew 
slightly straighter, but that was all, and the Baron did 
not even see the change. Sometimes Sabina said noth- 





ing, but sometimes she asked if the sons were coming 
home on leave. No, they were not coming at present. 
In the spring Volterra and his wife generally spent a 
few weeks in Turin, to see the elder son, on their way 
to Aix and Paris, but his brother could hardly expect 
to come home for another year. Then the couple would 
talk about both the young men, until Sabina's attention 
wandered, and she no longer heard what they were 
saying. 

She did not believe that they really thought of try- 
ing to marry her to one of the sons. In her own 
opinion they could gain nothing by it; she had no 
dowry now, and her mother had always talked of mar- 
riage as a business transaction. It did not occur to 
her that they could care to be allied with a ruined 
family, and that her mere name could be worth any- 
thing in their scale of values. They were millionaires, 
of course, and even the dowry which she might for- 
merly have expected would have been nothing com- 
pared with their fortune; but her mother had always 
said that rich people were the very people who cared 
the most for money. That was the reason why they 
were rich. This explanation was so logical that Sabina 
had accepted it as the true one. 

Her knowledge of the world was really limited to 
what she had learned from her mother, after she had 
come back from the convent six months before the 
crash, and it was an odd mixture of limitations and 
exaggerations. When the Princess was in a good 
humour she believed in everybody ; when she was not. 



 

whicli was when she had no money to throw away, she 
attributed the basest motives to all mankind. Accord- 
ing to her moods, she had encouraged Sabina to look 
forward to a life of perpetual pleasure, or had assured 
her with energy that all men were liars, and that the 
world was a wretched place after all. It was true that 
the Princess entertained the cheerful view more often 
than not, which was perhaps fortunate for her daugh- 
ter ; but in her heart the young girl felt that she would 
have to rely on her own common sense to form any 
opinion of life, and as her position became more diffi- 
cult, while the future did not grow more defined, she 
tried to think connectedly about it all, and to reach 
some useful conclusion. 

It was not easy. In her native city, living under 
the roof of people who held a strong position in the 
society to which she belonged, though they had not 
been born to it, she was as completely isolated as if she 
had been suddenly taken away and set down amongst 
strangers in Australia. She was as lonely as she could 
have been on a desert island. 

The Volterra couple were radically, constitutionally, 
congenitally different from the men and women she 
had seen in her mother's house. She could not have 
told exactly where the 'difference lay, for she was too 
young, and perhaps too simple. She did not instinc- 
tively like them, but she had never really felt any 
affection for her mother either, and her own brother 
and sister had always repelled her. Her mother had 
sometimes treated her like a toy, but more often as a 





nuisance and a hindrance in life, to be kept out of the 
way as much, as possible, and married off on the first 
opportunity. Yet Sabina knew that far down in her 
nature there was a mysterious tie of some sort, an in- 
tuition that often told her what her mother would say 
or do, though she herself would have spoken and acted 
otherwise. She had felt it even with her brother and 
sister, but she could not feel it at all with the Baron 
or his wife. She never could guess what they might 
do or say under the most ordinary circumstances, nor 
what things they would like and dislike, nor how they 
would regard anything she said or did; least of all 
could she understand why they were so anxious to 
keep her with them. 

It was alt a mystery, but life itself was mysterious, 
and she was little more than a child in years though she 
had never had what one calls a real childhood. 

She often used to sit by her window, the sliding 
blinds partly drawn together, but leaving a sj^ce 
through which she could look down at the city, with a 
glimpse of Saint Peter's in. the distance against the 
warm haze of the low Campagna. Rome seemed as far 
from her then as if she saw it in a vision a thousand 
miles away, and the very faint sounds from the distance 
were like voices in a dream. Then, if she closed her 
eyes a moment^ she could see the dark streets about the 
Palazzo Conti, and the one open corner of the palace, 
high up in the sunlight ; she could smell the acrid air 
that used to come up to her in the early morning when 
the panes were opened, damp and laden with odours not 



 

sweet but familiar in the heart of Rome ; odours com- 
pounded of cabbages, stables, cheese and mud, and 
occasionally varied by the fumes of roasting coffee, or 
the sour vapours from a wine cart that was unloading 
stained casks, all wet with red juice, at the door of the 
wine shop far below, a dark little wine shop with a dry 
bush stuck out through a smoky little grated window, 
and a humble sign displaying the prices of drink in 
roughly painted blue and red figures. For her room 
had looked upon the narrowest and darkest of the 
streets, though it had been stately enough within, and 
luxuriously furnished, besides containing some objects 
of value and beauty over which there would be much 
bidding and squabbling of amateurs and experts when 
the great sale took place. 

It had been gloomy and silent and loveless, the life 
down there ; and yet she would have gone back to it if 
she could, from the sunshine of the Via Ludovisi, and 
from the overpowering freshness of the Volterra house, 
where everything was modern, and polished, and var- 
nished, and in perfect condition, suggesting that things 
had been just paid for. She had not liked the old life, 
but she liked her present surroundings even less, and 
at times she felt a furious longing to leave them sud- 
denly, without warning ; to go out when no one would 
notice her, and never to come back ; to go she knew 
not where, out into the world, risking she knew not 
what, a high-born, penniless, fair-haired girl not yet 
eighteen. 

What would happen, if she did ? She rarely laughed. 





but she would laugh at that, when she thought of the 
consternation her flight would produce. How puzzled 
the fat Baron would look, how the Baroness's thin mouth 
would be drawn down at the corners ! How the invis- 
ible silk bellows would puff as she ran up and down 
stairs, searching the house for Sabina! 

There was more than one strain of wild blood in the 
delicate girl's veins, and the spring had come suddenly, 
with a bursting out of blossom and life and colour, and 
a twittering of nesting birds in the old gardens, and a 
rush of strange longings in her heart. 

Then Sabina told herself that there was nothing to 
keep her where she was, but her own will, and that no 
one would really care what became of her in the wide 
world ; certainly not her mother, who had never written 
her so much as a line, nor sent her a message, since they 
had parted on the day of the catastrophe ; certainly not 
her brother ; probably not even her sister, whose whole 
being was absorbed in the tyrannical government of 
what she called her soul. Sabina, in her thoughts, 
irreverently compared Clementina's soul to a race-horse, 
and her sister to a jockey, riding it cruelly with whip 
and spur to the goal of salvation, whether it liked it 
or not. 

Sabina rose from her seat by the window, when she 
thought of liberty, and she walked up and down her 
room, driven by something she could not understand, 
and yet withheld by something she understood even 
less. For it was not fear, nor reflection, nor even com- 
mon sense nor the thought of giving pain to any one 



 

that hindered her from leaving the house at such mo- 
ments. It was not even the memory of the one human 
being who had hitherto loved her, and for whom she 
had felt affection and gratitude,— one of the nuns at the 
convent school, a brave, quiet little lady who made her 
believe in good. She meant to do no harm if she were 
free, and the nun would not really blame her, if she 
knew the truth. 

It was not that. It was the secret conviction that 
there was harm in the world from which mere courage 
could not protect her ; it was the sort of instinct that 
warns young animals not to eat plants that are poison- 
ous ; it was the maiden intuition of a strange and 
unknown danger. 

She sat down again disconsolately. It was absurd, 
of course, and she could not run away. Where could 
she go? She had no money, and she would have to 
starve or beg before one day was out. She would be 
homeless, she would be driven to some house of charity, 
for a meal and a place to sleep, or else to sleep out under 
the sky. That would be delightful for once. She had 
always longed to sleep out of doors, to feel the breeze 
playing with her feathery hair in the dark, to watch the 
constellations turning slowly westwards, to listen to the. 
night sounds, to the low rhythmical piping of the tree 
toad, the sorrowful cry of the little southern owl and 
the tolling of the hour in a far-off belfry. 

But it might rain. At the idea, Sabina laughed 
again. It would be very unpleasant to be caught in a 
shower while napping on a bench in a public garden. 





Besides, if the policemen found her there, an extremely 
young lady, extremely well dressed but apparently be- 
longing td no one, they would in all likelihood ask her 
name, and she would haye to tell them who she was ; 
and then she would be brought back to Baron Volterra's 
house, unless they thought it more prudent to take her 
to a lunatic asylum. 

At that stage in her imaginings it was generally 
time to go out with the Baroness for the daily drive, 
which began with the leaving of cards and notes, then 
led to the country or one of the villas, and generally 
ended in a turn or two through the Corso before 
coming home. The worst part of the daily round 
was dinner when the Baron was at home. It was 
then that she felt most strongly the temptation to 
slip out of the house and never to come back. Often, 
however, he and his wife dined out, and then Sabina 
was served alone by two solemn men-servants, so ex- 
tremely correct that they reminded her a little of her 
old home. These were the pleasantest evenings she 
spent during that spring, for when dinner was over 
she was free to go to her own room and curl herself 
up in a big armchair with a book, and read or dream 
still bedtime, as she pleased. 

When she was alone, her life seemed less objectless, less 
inexplicably empty, less stupidly incomprehensible, less 
lonely than in the company of those excellent people 
with whom she had nothing in common, but to whom 
she felt that she was under a great obligation. In 
their company, it was as if her life had stopped sud- 



 

denly at the beginning and was never to go on again, 
as if she had stuck fast like a fly in a drop of amber, 
as if nothing of interest could ever happen to her 
though she might live a hundred years. 

She could hardly remember anything which had 
given her great pleasure. She did not remember to 
have been ever radiantly happy, though she could not 
recall much unhappiness since she had left the convent 
school. The last thing that had really hurt her had 
been the death of her pet canary, and she had kept her 
feelings to herself as well as she could, with the old 
aristocratic instinct of hiding pain. 

It was all idle and strangely empty, and yet hard to 
understand. She would have been much surprised if 
she could have guessed how much its emptiness inter- 
ested other people in Rome ; how the dowagei's chat- 
tered about her over their tea, abusing her mother and 
all her relations for abandoning her like a waif ; how 
the men reasoned about Baron Volterra's deep-laid 
schemes, trying to make out that his semi-adoption 
of Sabina, as they called it, must certainly bode ruin 
to some one, since he had never in his life done any- 
thing without a financial object ; how the young girls 
unanimously declared that the Baroness wanted Sabina 
for one of her sons, because she was such a dreadful 
snob; how Cardinal Delia Crusca shook his wise old 
head knowingly, as he, who knew so much, always did 
on the rare occasions when he knew nothing about the 
matter in hand ; how a romantic young English secre- 
tary of Embassy christened her the Princess in the 





Tower; and how old Pompeo Sassi went up to Ms 
vineyard on Monte Mario every Sunday and Thursday 
and sat almost all the afternoon under the chestnut- 
tree thinking about her and making unpractical plans 
of his own. 



CHAPTER IV 

If Baron Volterra did not choose to sell the Palazzo 
Conti to the first comer, he doubtless knew his own 
business best, and he was not answerable to every one 
for his opinion that the fine old building was worth a 
gpod deal more than the highest offer he had yet re- 
ceived. Everybody knew that the palace was for sale, 
and some of the attempts made to buy it were openly 
discussed. A speculator had offered four hundred 
thousand francs for it, a rich South American had 
offered half a million; it was rumoured that the 
Vatican would give five hundred and fifty thousand, 
provided that the timbers of the carved ceilings were 
in good condition, but Volterra steadily refused to 
allow any of the carvings to be disturbed in order to 
examine the beams. During several days a snuffy 
little man with a clever face poked about with a light 
in dark places between floors, trying to find out 
whether the wood were sound or rotten, and asking 
all sorts of questions of the old porter, and of two 
workmen who went with him, and who had been em- 
ployed in repairs in the palace, as their fathers had 
been before them, perhaps for generations. But their 
answers were never quite satisfactory, and the snuffy 
man disappeared to the mysterious regions beyond the 

Tiber, and did not come back. 
 





Some people, knowing tlie ways of the Romans, 
might have inferred that the two workmen, a mason 
and a carpenter, had not been treated by Baron Vol- 
terra in such a way as to make them give a favourable 
report ; and as he seemed perfectly indifferent about 
the result this is quite possible. At all events the 
carpenter made out that he could not get at the beams 
in question, without moving the decorations which 
covered them, and the mason affirmed that it was 
quite impossible to get a view of the foundations of 
the north-west corner of the palace, which were said to 
be weak, without knocking a hole through a wall upon 
which depended such solidity as there was. It was 
useless, he said. The snuffy gentleman could ask the 
Baron, if he pleased, and the Baron could do what he 
liked since the property now belonged to him : but he, 
the mason, would not lay hand to pick or crowbar with- 
out the Baron's express authorization. The Baron was a 
Senator of the Kingdom, said the mason, and could there- 
fore of course send him to penal servitude in the galleys 
for life, if he pleased. That is the average Roman work- 
man's idea of justice. The snuffy expert, who looked 
very much like a poor priest in plain clothes, though 
he evidently knew his business, made no reply, nor 
any attempt to help the mason's conscience with money. 

But he stood a little while by the wall, with his 
lantern in his hands, and presently put his ear to the 
damp stones, and listened. 

" There is running water somewhere not far off," he 
said, looking keenly at the workman. 



 

" It is certainly not wine," answered the man, with a 
rough laugh, for he thought it a very good joke. 

"Are there any 'lost waters' under the palace?" 
asked the expert. 

"I do not know," replied the mason, looking 
away from the lantern towards the gloom of the 
cellars. 

" I believe," said the snuffy gentleman, setting down 
his lantern, and taking a large pinch from a battered 
silver snuff-box, on which the arms of Pius Ninth were 
still distinguishable, " I believe that the nearest ' lost 
water' to this place is somewhere under the Vicolo 
dei Soldati." 

" I do not know." 

The expert skilfully inserted the brown dust into 
his nostrils with his right thumb, scarcely wasting a 
grain in the operation. 

"You do not seem to know much," he observed 
thoughtfully, and took up his lantern again. 

" I know what I have been taught," replied the mason 
without resentment. 

The expert glanced at him quickly, but said nothing 
more. His inspection was finished, and he led the way 
out of the intricate cellars as if he knew them by heart, 
though he had only passed through them once, and he 
left the palace on foot when he had brushed some of 
the dust from his shabby clothes. 

The porter looked enquiringly at the two men, as 
they filled little clay pipes that had cane stems, stand- 
ing under the deep entrance. 





" Not even the price of half a litre of wine," said the 
mason in answer to the mute question. 

" Church stuff," observed the carpenter discontentedly. 

The porter nodded gravely, and the men nodded to 
him as they went out into the street. They had noth- 
ing more to do that day, and they turned into the dark 
little wine shop, where the withered bush stuck out of 
the blackened grating. They sat down opposite each 
other, with the end of the grimy board of the table be- 
tween them, and the carpenter made a sign. The host 
brought a litre measure of thin red wine and set it down 
between them with two tumblers. He was ghastly pale, 
flabby and sullen, with a quarter of an inch of stubbly 
black beard on his unhealthy face. 

The carpenter poured a few drops of wine into one of 
the tumblers, shook it about, turned it into the other, 
shook it again, and finally poured it on the unctuous 
stone floor beside him. Then he filled both glasses to 
the brim, and both men drank in silence. 

They repeated the operation, and after the second 
glass there was not much left in the measure. The 
flabby host had retired to the gloomy vaults within, 
where he played cards with a crony by the light of a 
small smoking lamp with a cracked chimney. 

"That was the very place, was it not?" asked the 
carpenter at last, in a low tone, and almost without 
moving his lips. 

The mason said nothing, but shrugged his shoulders, 
in a sort of enigmatic assent. Both drank again, and 
after a long time the carpenter smiled faintly. 



 

" He was looking for the ' lost water,' " he said, in a 
tone of contempt. 

The faint smile slowly reflected itself in the mason's 
face. The two finished their wine, lit their pipes again, 
left the price of their drink on the table without dis- 
turbing the host and went away. 

So far as any outsider could have judged, the expert's 
curiosity and the few words exchanged by the work- 
men referred to the so-called " lost water," which might 
be somewhere under the north-west corner of the Pa- 
lazzo Conti, and no one unacquainted with subterranean 
Rome could possibly have understood what any of the 
three meant. 

The " lost waters " of Rome are very mysterious. 
Here and there, under old streets and far down amongst 
the foundations of ancient palaces, there are channels 
of running water which have no apparent connection 
vy;ith any of the aqueducts now restored and in use. It 
is a water that comes no one knows whence and finds 
its way to the Tiber, no one knows how. It is gener- 
ally clear and very cold, and in the days when the aque- 
ducts were all broken and most people drank of the 
river, the " lost water " was highly prized. It appears 
in the most unexpected places, sometimes in great quan- 
tities and seriously interfering with any attempt to lay 
the foundations of a new building, sometimes black and 
silent, under a huge flagstone in an old courtyard, some- 
times running with an audible rush through hidden 
passages deeper than the deepest cellars. It has puz- 
zled archseologists, hydraulic engineers and architects 





for generations, its presence has never been satisfac- 
torily explained, there seems not to be any plan of the 
city which shows its whereabouts, and the modern im- 
provements of the Tiber's banks do not appear to have 
affected its occult courses. By tradition handed down 
from father to son, certain workmen, chiefly masons 
and always genuine Romans, claim to know more about 
it than other people ; but that is as much as can be said. 
It is known as the " lost water," and it rises and falls, 
and seeks different levels in unaccountable ways, as 
water will when it is confined under the earth but is 
here and there confronted by the pressure of the air. 

But though the old-fashioned Roman workman still 
looks upon all traditional information about his trade 
as secret and never to be revealed, that fact alone might 
seem insufficient to account for the behaviour of Gigi 
the carpenter and of Toto the mason under the particu- 
lar circumstances here narrated, still less for the con- 
tempt they showed for the snuffy expert who was 
apparently looking for the "lost water." An invisible 
witness would have gathered that they had something 
of more importance to conceal. To the expert, their 
conduct and answers must have been thoroughly un- 
satisfactory, for the Vatican was even said to have 
refused to pay the additional fifty thousand francs, on 
the ground that the state of the foundations was doubt- 
ful and that the timbers of the upper story were not 
sound. 

Baron Volterra's equanimity was not in the least dis- 
turbed by this. On the contrary, instead of setting the 



 

price lower, he frankly told all applicants, through his 
agent, that he was in no hurry to sell, as he had reason 
to believe that the land about the Palazzo Conti would 
soon rise in value. He had settled with the represen- 
tatives of the Conti family, and it was said that he had 
behaved generously. The family had nothing left after 
the crash, which might partially account for such an 
exhibition of generosity ; but it was hinted that Baron 
Volterra had given them the option of buying back the 
palace and some other property upon which he had 
foreclosed, if they should be able to pay for it in ten 
years. 

Soon after the visit of the snuffy expert, Volterra's 
agent informed the porter that a gentleman had taken 
the small apartment on the intermediate story, which 
had formerly been occupied by a chaplain but had been 
disused for years. It had been part of the Conti's folly 
that they had steadily refused to let any part of the 
vast building since the old Prince's death. 

On the following day, the new-comer moved in, with 
his belongings, consisting of a small quantity of new 
furniture, barely sufficient for himself and his one ser- 
vant, and a number of very heavy cases, which turned out 
to be full of books. Gigi, the carpenter, was at once 
sent for to put up plain shelves for these, and he took 
stock of the lodger while the latter was explaining what 
he wanted. 

" He is a gentleman," said Gigi to Toto, that very 
evening, as they stood filling their pipes at the corner 
of the Vicolo del Soldati. "His name is Malipieri. 





He is as black as the horses at a funeral of the first- 
class, and he is not a Roman." 

" Who knows what race of animal this may be ? " 
Toto was not in a good humour. 

" He is of the race of gentlemen," asserted Gigi 
confidently. 

"Then he will end badly," observed Toto. "Let 
us go and drink. It is better." 

" Let us go and drink," repeated Gigi. " You have 
a sensible thought sometimes. I think this man is an 
engineer, or an architect. He wants- a draughtsman's 
table." 

"Evil befall his little dead ones, whatever he is," 
returned the other, by way of welcome to the young 
man who had moved into the palace. 

" He advanced me ten francs to buy wood for the 
shelves," said Gigi, who was by far the more cheerful 
of the two. 

" Come and drink," returned Toto, relevantly or 
irrelevantly. " That is much better." 

So they turned into the wine shop. 



CHAPTER V 

Baron Volterea introduced Marino Malipieri to 
the two ladies. The guest had come punctually, for 
the Baron had looked at his watch a moment before 
he was announced, and it was precisely eight o'clock. 

Malipieri bowed to the Baroness, who held out her 
hand cordially, and then to Sabina. 

"Donna Sabina Conti," said the Baron with extreme 
distinctness, in order that his guest should be quite 
sure of the young girl's identij;y. 

Sabina looked down modestly, as the nuns had told 
her to do when a young man was introduced to her. 
At the same moment Malipieri's eyes turned quietly 
and quickly to the Baron, and a look of intelligence 
passed between the two men. Malipieri understood 
that Sabina was one of the family in whose former 
palace he was living. Then he glanced again at the 
young girl for one moment, before making a common- 
place remark to the Baroness, and after that Sabina 
felt that she was at liberty to look at him. 

She saw a very dark man of average height, with 
short black hair that grew rather far back from his 
very white foreliead, and wearing a closely clipped 
black beard and moustache which did not by any 
means hide the firm lines of the mouth and chin. 







From the strongly marked eyebrows downward Ms 
face was almost of the colour of newly cast bronze, 
and the dusky hue contrasted oddly with the clear 
whiteness of his forehead. He was evidently a man 
who had lately been, living much out of doors under 
a burning sun. Sabina thought that his very bright 
black eyes and boldly curved features suggested a 
young hawk, and he had a look of compact strength 
and a way of moving which betrayed both great 
energy and extreme quickness. 

But there was something more, which Sabina recog- 
nized at the first glance. She felt instantly that he 
was not like the Baron and his wife ; that he belonged 
in some way to the same variety of humanity as her- 
self ; that she would understand him when he spoke, 
that she would often feel intuitively what he was 
going to say next, and that he would understand her. 

She listened while he talked to the Baroness. He 
had a slight Venetian accent, but his voice had not 
the soft Venetian ring. It was a little veiled, and 
though not at all loud it was somewhat harsh. Sabina 
did not dislike the manly tone, though it was not 
musical, nor the Venetian pronunciation, although that 
was unfamiliar. In countries like Italy and Germany, 
which have had many centres and many historical 
capital cities, almost all educated people speak with 
the accents of their several origins, and are rather 
tenacious of the habit than anxious to get rid of it, 
generally maintaining that their own pronunciation is 
the right one. 



 

"Signer Malipieri," said the Baron to Sabina, as 
they went in to dinner, "is the celebrated archseolo- 
gist." 

" Yes," Sabina answered, as if she knew all about 
him, though she had never heard him mentioned. 

Malipieri probably overheard the Baron's speech, 
but he took no notice of it. At dinner, he seemed 
inclined to be silent. The Baron asked him questions 
about his discoveries, to which he gave rather short 
answers, but Sabina gathered that he had found some- 
thing extraordinary in Carthage. She did not know 
where Carthage was, and did not like to ask, but she 
remembered that Marius had sat there among some 
ruins. Perhaps Malipieri had found his bones, for no 
one had ever told her that Marius did not continue to 
sit among the ruins to his dying day. She connected 
him vaguely with ^neas and another person called 
Regulus. It was all rather uncertain. 

What she saw clearly was that the Baron wished to 
make Malipieri feel at his ease, but that Malipieri's 
idea of being at his ease was certainly not founded on 
a wish to talk about himself. So the conversation 
languished for some time. 

The Baroness, who knew about as much about 
Carthage as Sabina, made a few disconnected remarks, 
interspersed with laudatory allusions to the young 
man's immense learning, for she wished to please her 
husband, though she had not the slightest idea why 
Malipieri was asked to dinner. Finding that he was 
not perceptibly flattered by what she said, she began 





to talk about the Venetian aristocracy, for she knew 
that his name was historical, and she recognized in 
him at once the characteristics of the nobility she 
worshipped. Malipieri smiled politely, and in answer 
to a direct question admitted that his mother had been 
a Gradenigo. 

The Baroness was delighted at this information. 

" To think," she said, " that by a mere accident you 
and Donna Sabina should meet here, the descendants of 
two of the oldest families of the Italian aristocracy ! " 

" I am a republican," observed Malipieri quietly. 

" You ! " cried the Baroness in amazement. " You, 
the offspring of such races as the Malipieri and the 
Gradenigo a republican, a socialist, an anarchist I " 

" There is a difference," said Malipieri with a smile. 
" A republican is not an anarchist ! " 

"I can never believe it," answered the Baroness 
solemnly. 

She ate a few green peas and shook her head. 

"I went to Carthage because I was condemned to 
three years' confinement in prison," replied Malipieri 
with calm. 

" Prison ! " exclaimed the Baroness in horror, and 
she looked at her husband, mutely asking why in the 
world he had brought a convict to their table. 

The Baron smiled benignly, as he disposed of an 
ample mouthful of green peas, before he spoke. 

" Signer Malipieri," he said, when he had swallowed 
the last one, " founded and edited a republican news- 
paper in the north of Italy." 



 

" And you were sent to prison for that ? " asked 
Sabina with indignation. 

" It is one thing to send a man to prison," said 
Malipieri. "It is another to make him go there. I 
escaped to Switzerland, and I came back to Italy quite 
lately, after the amnesty." 

" I am amazed ! " The Baroness looked at the ser- 
vants timidly, as if she expected the butler and the 
footman to express their disapprobation of the guest. 

" I have left politics for the present," Malipieri re- 
plied, looking at Sabina and smiling. 

" Of course ! " cried the Baroness. " But — " 
she stopped short. 

" My wife," said the financier with a grin, " is afraid 
