To-day an idea occurred to me, one that 
should have occurred before. Once upon a time 
I was introduced to the editor of the . Per- 
haps he will not remember it, I said. But any- 
how, why not try? I will take him The Captive 
— perhaps he can use it in the magazine — who 
knows? 

Iknew nothing better to do, so I went there. 
He was very polite — he did remember my face. 
He was fearfully busy, it seemed. He did not 
think there was much likelihood of a magazine's 
publishing a blank-verse tragedy; but I told him 
how I had worked, and he said he'd read it. 

And so there's one chance more! 

My poor, foolish heart is always ready to 
tremble with new hope. But faith in that book 
was so ground into it! 


— I asked him to read it at once, I explained 
that I was in great haste. I think he understood 
what I meant. My clothes show it. 

I have been hoarding my money — counting 
every cent. I dread the world so! Now that I 
am so broken, so laden with misery, it sounds 
about me as one jeer of mockery. But I shall 
have to be hunting a place soon — you never can 
tell how long it may take you, and the chances are 
so terrible. 

I will not do anything until I hear from this 
one man, however. He promised to let me know 
in a week. 

I did not see him at the publisher's — he has 
another office besides. He had huge piles of pa- 
pers and books about him; he is an important 
man, I guess; can it be that he will be the one to 
save me? 

I think: "Oh if he knew, he would!" I 
find myself thinking that of all the world — if 
I could only make them understand! Poor, 
impotent wretch, if I could only find the 
word! 

— Or is it simply my blind egotism that 
makes me think that? 







February 6th. 

I do not think that what I write can be of 
much interest. It must be monotonous — all this 
despair, this endless crying out, this endless repe- 
tition of the same words, the same thought. 

Yet that is all that my life is! That is just 
what I do every day — whenever I am not read- 
ing a book to forget myself. 

It is all so simple, my situation! That is the 
most terrible thing about it, it is the same thing 
always and forever. 

I have lived so much agony through this 
thing — it would not startle me if I saw that my 
hair had turned white. I know I feel like an old 
man. I am settled down into mournfulness, into 
despair; I can do nothing but gaze back — I have 
lived my life — I have spent my force — I am tired 
and sick. 

I! I! I! — do you get tired of hearing it? 
It was not always like that; once you read a 
little about a book. 

February 8th. 
This is the fifth day. I am counting the days, 
I have been counting the very hours. He said 



he would be a week. And I — only think of it — 
I have but two dollars and sixty cents left! 

Hurry up ! Hurry up ! 

— And then I say with considerable scorn in 
my voice: " Haven't you learned enough about 
that manuscript yet? And about publishers 
yet?" 

February loth. 

Just imagine ! I went to see him to-day, and 
he stared at me. " Why, sure enough, Mr. Stir- 
hng! — It had slipped my mind entirely! " 

I have learned to bear things. I asked him 
calmly to let me know as soon as possible. He 
said: "I am honestly so rushed that I do not 
know where to turn. But I will do the best I 
possibly can." 

I said — poor, pitiful cringing, is it not ter- 
rible? — that I'd be up his way again in three 
days, and did he think he could have it read 
by then. He said he was not sure, but that 
he'd try. 

And so I went away. Now I have two dollars 
and twenty-three cents. I have to pay my rent 
to-morrow, and that will leave me a dollar and a 
half. I can make that do me seven or eight days 
— I have one or two things at home. I'll wait 






the three days — and then I'll have to set out in 
earnest to find something to do. 

Oh, the horror of not knowing if you can pay 
your next week's room rent in this fearful city! 

February nth. 
I sat and looked at myself to-day. I said: 
" When a soul is crushed like this, can it ever get 
up again? Can it ever be the same, no matter 
what happens? Don't you see the fact, that 
you've been tamed and broken — that you've 
given in! And how will you ever rise from the 
shame of it, how will you ever forget it? All this 
skulking and trembling — how will you ever dare 
look yourself in the face again! Will not it mock 
your every effort? Why, you poor wretch, 
you've got a broken back! " 

February 12th. 

And to-morrow again I must go there, trem- 
bling and nervous, hanging on a word! 

There is not much sense in it, but I have 
learned to hate all men who have ease and power. 

February 13th. 
I knew it! I could have told it beforehand. 
" I am awfully sorry, Mr. Stirling, but it is no 

use talking, I simply can not! I will write you 
just as soon as ever I get it read." 

And so I came out. I had a dollar and twenty 
cents. My rent would be due in four days again. 
So even if I got some work at once I should have 
to pawn something. 

— Thus I began my search for a situation. 
I could not choose — I was willing to take any- 
thing. 

I fear I look like a tramp; but I have several 
letters from places where I have worked. Still, I 
could not find anything. I have tramped all 
day until I could hardly move. I bought a 
paper, but everything advertised was gone by 
that time. 

If it would only snow again, so that I could 
shovel some more! 

February 14th. 

Again I have been pacing the streets the 
whole endless day, beaten back and rebuffed at 
every turn. I have been drilled for this, this is 
the climax! First take every gleam of heart out 
of me, and then set me to pacing the streets in 
the cold, to be stared at and insulted by every 
kind of a man ! 

And still nothing to do. 






February 15th. 
I take my lunch with me — I have cut myself 
down to twenty cents a day for food. I walk and 
walk, and I am so hungry I can not do on less 
than that. I have but sixty cents left to-night. 
I failed again to-day. 

February i6th. 

It is not as desperate as it sounds, because I 
have a few books and things that I can sell — I do 
not believe that I will actually starve — I have 
always done my work well, and have gotten 
references. But O God, the shame of it — the 
endless, heapedrup bitterness! 

I have sunk into a beast of burden. I trudge 
on with my mind torpid — I take whatever comes 
to me, and go on mechanically. Oh it cows me, 
it wears me down! I have learned to bear any- 
thing — anything! A man might kick me and I 
would not mind. 

I think I went to fifty places yesterday. 
Nothing to do — nothing. To-day is Sunday, but 
I tried even to-day. I came home to get some 
dinner. — I might have been a porter in a hotel, 
and carried trunks — that was my one chance. 
But I have not the physical power for that. 


— And then after all — toward evening — when 
I was so tired I was almost wild — I had an offer 
at last! And guess what it was — of all the things 
that I had made up my mind I could not bear 
— to be a waiter! 

It is, I believe, what a man should call a rare 
opportunity. It is a fairly good restaurant just 
ofif Broadway; and I get ten dollars and tips. 
Poor me! My heart bounded for a moment, and 
then I asked myself. And what do you want with 
money any more? I took the place, and I am to 
begin the day after to-morrow. I am so tired I 
can hardly move. 

February 17th. 

Was it not irony? I have watched day by day 
for snow; and now that I have taken the other 
place — behold, to-day it snows a foot! 

— I went to see the editor in the afternoon. 
I was desperate at the thought of to-morrow. I 
said I would tell him! — But when I got there I 
only had the courage to inquire about the 
poem. He had not read it. I feared he seemed 
annoyed. 

I shall not go there again for a week. I can 
not make him hurry. 







Februai-y i8th. 

To-day I had to begin by apologizing to my 
landlady, and begging her to let me pay her a 
week later. I had to go into an elaborate expla- 
nation — she wanted to know why I had not been 
working all these months, and so on. She has a 
red face, and drinks, I think. 

Then I had to take a load of my best books — 
my poor, few precious books that I have loved 
— and sell them at a second-hand bookstore. 
When I had sold them I had to hire a waiter's 
suit for a week, until I had money to buy it. And 
then with that awful thing on I went down to the 
restaurant. 

Can you imagine how a pure woman would 
feel if she had to go into a brothel to live? That 
was just how I felt — just how! Oh my God, the 
indignity of it! Is there anything that I could do 
more humiliating? 

— But I have lost the power of getting angry. 
Only my heart is one great sob. 

February 20th. 
Oh, that hellish place! What is there in this 
whole city more brutal than that restaurant? 
Day and night, day and night, to see but one 


thing — to see flashy, overdressed, fat and vulgar 
men and women gorging themselves! Oh, this 
will teach me to feel — this at least! I go about 
with my whole being one curse of rage — I could 
throttle them ! And to bow and smirk and lackey 
them — all day! All day! Oh, what shall I do — 
how shall I bear it? 

They offer me tips. At first I thought I 
should refuse; but no, I dare not do that, even if 
I wanted to. And since I have stooped to do it, 
I will take all I can get. To get money is my one 
passion now. Oh my God, how can I bear it! 

February 21st. 

I said to-day, I must fight this thing — I must, 
or it will kill me; I can not let myself go to wreck 
in this fashion — Vve got to fight! 

And so I got my note-book; and I fell to 
work to drive myself as of old. The effort that it 
cost me made me ill, but I did it. I shall keep on 
doing it — I am like a man faced by a fiend — I 
must keep on — I must! 

But then, why do you want to have new lan- 
guages? Do you not know enough now to keep 
you in reading matter for all the time you are ever 
likely to have? 







February 24th. 

Oh, one can get used to even a flashy restau- 
rant ! It is your fate — you take it. This is how 
I pass all my time there. I struggle to resist the 
deadening of it, and the horror of it; while I am 
going about the loathsome grind I try to think — 
try to have some idea in my head. And some- 
thing comes to me — something beautiful, per- 
haps; and then in a few moments, in the clatter 
and confusion, I lose it; and after that I go about 
haunted, restless, feeling that I have lost some- 
thing, that I ought to be doing something. 
What the thing is, I do not even know — but so it 
drives me and drives me! 

I spend literally hours that way. 

February 25th. 
When are you going to read that poem — 
when? The week was gone yesterday — but I 
will not trouble you, even now! I wait, I wait! 

February 27th. 
There is another torment about this fearful 
place that I am in, one that you could not im- 
agine. I had thought that it would be a pleas- 
ure, but it tears my soul. They have music in the 


evening; and fancy a person in my state listening 
to a violin ! 

Chiefly, of course, they play trash; but some- 
times there comes something beautiful, perhaps 
only a phrase. But it takes hold of my soul, it 
makes my eyes grow dim, it makes me shudder. 
It is all my pent-up agony, it is all my sleeping 
passion — why, it overwhelms me! And I am 
helpless — I can not get away from it! 

Remember that I have not heard any music 
for a year. It is like the voice of a dead love to 
me. I thought to-night that I could not bear it. 

March ist. 

To-day I had a day ofif, and I went to see 
the editor. I have been waiting, day by day, 
for a letter; it has been a month since I left 
it with him, and I found that he had not read 
it yet! 

" Mr. Stirling," he said, " it is not my fault, it 
has simply been impossible. Now I will tell you 
what to do. I am going out of the city Sunday 
week, and I shall have a little leisure then. I do 
not see how I can get to it before that, so you 
take it and see if you can find some one else to 
read it meanwhile. If you will bring it to me. 






Saturday, a week from to-day, I will promise you 
faithfully to read it on Sunday." 

So I took the manuscript. I tried four pub- 
lishing houses, but I could not find one that 
would read it in a week. I had to take the manu- 
script home. 

March 3d. 

To-morrow ends my second week at the res- 
taurant. It took me five days to find that place, 
but I am going to give it up to-morrow. I could 
not bear it, if it were to save my life. I can not 
bear the noise and the grease and the dirt, and the 
endless, endless vulgarity; but above all I can 
not bear the music. 

I can bear almost any degradation, I have 
found; but not when I have to listen to music! 

Besides, I can afiford to give it up. I have 
made a fortune. I shall have over thirty dollars 
when I leave! 

I have always been paid, I find, in proportion 
to the indignities I bore — in proportion to the 
amount I humiliated myself before the rich and 
the vulgar. These vile, bejeweled, befeathered 
women, these loathsome, swinish men — these 
are the people who have money to spend. They 


go through the world scattering their largess 
with royal hand; and you can get down and 
gather it up out of the mud beneath their feet. 

I come home at night worn out and weak, 
sometimes almost in a stupor; but I am never 
too ill to brood over that hideous state of afifairs. 
I gaze at it and I wring my hands, and I cry: Oh 
my Father in heaven, will it always be like this? 

Think of it — this money that these people 
squander — do you know what it is? It is the toil 
of society ! That is what it is, — it is my toil — it is 
the toil of the millions that swarm in the tene- 
ments where I live — it is the toil of the laborers, 
the beasts of burden of society, in the cities and 
in the country. 

Think about it, I cry, think about it! — Can I 
not find any word, is there nothing I can do or say 
now or at any time, to make men see it? Why, 
you take it for granted — I have taken it for grant- 
ed all my days — that money should belong to the 
brutal rich to squander in whatever inanity may 
please them! But it never dawns upon you that 
this money is the toil of the human race! Money 
is the representation of all that human toil cre- 
ates — of all value; it is houses that laborers build, 


it is grain that farmers raise, it is books that 
poets \Tite! And see what becomes of it — see! 
sec' Or are you blind or mad, that you zvill not 
see? Have you no more faith in man, no more 
care about the soul? 

You think that I have been made sick by my 
work in that one haunt of vice. But it is not 
only that, it is not only that fever district where 
all the diseases of a city gather. I have been 
all ozer the city, and it is everywhere the same. 
Go to the opera-house any night and you may 
see blasphemous vanity enough to feed the starr- 
ing of this city for a year. Walk up Fifth Ave- 
nue and see them driving; or go to Xeport and 
see them there, why, I read in the papers once 
of a woman who gave a ball — and the little fact 
has stuck in my mind ever since that she wore 
a dress trimmed with lace that cost a thousand 
dollars a meter! I do not speak of the infinite 
%ailgarity of the thing — it is the monstrous crime 
of it that cries to me. These people — why, they 
have society by the throat! 

I bury my face in my pillow and sob : but then 
I look up and pray for faith. I say we are 



only at the beginning of civilization, we can 
see but the first gleams of a social conscience; 
but it will come — it must come! Am I to be- 
lieve that mankind will always submit to toil 
and pant to make lace at a thousand dollars a 
meter to cover the pride-swollen carcase of a 
society dame? 

How is it to be managed? I do not know. 
I am not a political economist — I am a seeker 
after righteousness. But as a poet, and as a clear- 
eyed soul, I stand upon the heights and I cry out 
for it, I demand it. I demand that society shall 
come to its own, I demand that there shall be in- 
telligence in the world! I demand that the toil 
of the millions shall not be for the pride of the 
few! I demand that it shall not be to buy dia- 
monds and dresses and banquets, horses and car- 
riages, palaces and yachts! I demand that it 
shall be for the making of knowledge and power, 
of beauty and light and love! 

Oh, thou black jungle of a world! — What 

know you of knowledge and power, of beauty 

and light and love? What do you dream of these 

things? The end of man as you know it is to fight 







and struggle like a maniac, and grab for his own 
all that he can lay his claws upon. And what is 
your social ideal — but to lavish, each man upon 
himself, all that he can lavish before he dies? And 
whom do you honor save him who succeeds in 
that? And whom do you scorn save him who 
fails? 

Oh thou black jungle of a world! — I cry it 

once again — 

Where savage beasts through forest midnight roam, 
Seeking in sorrow for each other's joy ! 

I sit alone and think of these things, until my 
breath comes hard with rage. I say: " It is these 
that I serve — it is these who own the fruits of my 
toil — it is these for whom I am starved and 
crushed — it is these by whom my God-given 
power is trampled into annihilation! " 

March 4th. 
I gave the place up this morning. I have 
thirty-one dollars. I think such a sum of money 
never made me less happy. 

I have nothing to do but drag myself back to 
my room and wait there until the eighth, to take 
back my manuscript. It will be five weeks that 
he has kept me — I suppose that is not his fault. 


And then I say: " Fool, to torment yourself 
with such hopes! Don't you know that he will 
say what all the rest have said? He is a clever 
man, and he knows everything; but what use is 
he going to have for your poetry? " 

I wandered about almost all of to-day, or sat 
stupid in my room. I have lost all my habits of 
efifort — I have forgotten all that I ever knew, all 
my hopes, all my plans. I said: " I will study! " 
But then I added: " Why should I? Shall I not 
only make myself miserable, get myself full of 
emotion, and to no purpose but the carrying of 
dishes? " 

It is terrible to me to have to acknowledge 
any change in my way of living — I never did that 
before. Compromises! Concessions! Surren- 
ders! — words such as those set me mad. But 
what am I to do? What can I do? I writhe 
and twist, but there is no escape. I struggle up- 
ward, but I am only beaten back and back? How 
should I not stop striving? 

Circumstances made no difiference to a man. 
So I used to prate! 




No difference! Why, I was a giant in my 
soul, swift and terrible as the lion. I leaped 
upon my task, I seized upon everything that 
came my way. I passed whole classes of men 
at a bound, I saw, I felt — I bore the world in 
my soul. I would dare everything, learn every- 
thing, live everything — take it all into myself. 
And every day I was stronger, every day I was 
more ! — 

And now see me ! You have penned me here, 
you have starved me, stunted me, crushed me — 
I sit shivering and staring at my own piteousness! 
Why, I can not even be angry any more — I am 
too shrunken, too impotent for that! And was 
it my fault? Have I not fought till I was ill? 

— But never did I put forth a hope that it 
was not withered in the bud! My every enthusi- 
asm you stamped into the ground; every ad- 
vance that I made — why you smote me in the 
face! And all my ardor, my confidence, my 
trust — has it ever met with anything but jeers? 

— Yes, and now you turn away — this revolts 
you! This is bare, painful egotism — this is whi- 
ning — this is querulous misery. It offends you 
like the sight of raw flesh! 


— It is my raw soul. My poor little naked, 
pitiful, beaten soul! — groveling, and begging, 
too! 

— But whose fault is it — merciful Heaven, 
whose fault is it? It is my nature to live in my- 
self — to live from myself. And this that is un- 
bearable egotism, why, it would have been exult- 
ing power! Joy in a vision! Mastery of a life 
and an art ! 

But here you shut me up! You crush me 
down! I try to escape — I cry out: " I am not an 
egotist — I am a worshiper! I want nothing in 
the world so much as to forget myself — my 
rights, my claims, my powers, my talents! I 
want to think of God! Only give me a chance — 
only give me a chance to do that, and I care 
not what you do with me ! Here I stand with my 
poor little work, begging, pleading for some one 
to heed it! Thinking of it only, living for it 
only, insisting upon it day and night! But do 
you think that I do that of choice? My God, 
no — you are mad — I only want to go on! Give 
me but the chance to go on — and do you think 
that I would care whether any man admired my 
work? " 


— Why, I would not even know it — I would 
be out in the mountains alone! 

" But for what had you your pride in the 
morning, and in the evening your submission? " 

Can you guess how that jeer rings in my ears, 
how it goads me? 

March 5th. 
Sinking down! Sinking down! To see your- 
self one of the losing creatures, to know that 
there is no help for you in this world — that no 
one will heed you, no one will stretch out a hand! 
To see yourself with every weakness, to see your- 
self as everything that you hate — to be mad with 
rage against yourself, and still to be able to do 
nothing! 

— Understand what I mean — poor fools, do 
not think it is for myself that I fear. If I 
wanted to fight a way for myself — I could do it 
yet — never fear. But ah, you will save the 
mother and not her child! What I weep for, 
what I die for, is my ART! 

My vision, my life, my joy, my fire! These 
are the things that are dying! And when the 
soul is dead do you think that I shall care about 



the body? Do you think that I will stay in this 
world a shell, a mockery, a corpse? Stay either 
to putrefy with pleasure or to be embalmed in 
dulness? Nay, you do not know me! 

— I said to myself to-night, " If I perish in 
this world it will be because I was too far ahead 
of my environment — that and that only. It will 
be because I was pure, single-hearted, conse- 
crated, and because of such you neither know 
nor care." Do I fear to say that? I am done 
with shame — I think that I am dying — let me 
speak the truth. 

— And I have really said the word then — the 
word that can not be recalled — that my hope is 
dead, that I give up — that I can not live my life? 
Nay — I do not have to say the word, the word 
says itself. 

March 6th. 
To-day I shook myself together. I could not 
stand such wretchedness. I said, I will get a 
novel, and I will put myself into it — grimly — I 
will read in spite of everything. 

And such a book as I lighted on by chance! 
— Once I had whole yawning vistas of books 






toward which I stretched out my arms; but 
somehow I had forgotten them all to-day. I 
could do no better than pick up a book by 
chance. — 

I picked up Tess of the D'Urbervilles, and 
I found myself in the midst of the same misery 
that haunts me here. I read it, but it did not 
help me. 

— It is strange what poverty has ground into 
my soul. I find myself reading such a book with 
but one feeling, one idea crying out in me. I 
discover that my whole being is reduced to the 
great elemental, primitive instinct of self-preser- 
vation. Love is dead in me, generosity, humani- 
ty, imagination is dead, — everything but one 
wild-beast passion; and I find myself panting as 
I read: " Get some money! Get some money! 
Hold on to it! " 

— After a while I think suddenly: "And I 
am a poet! " That brings a moan from me and 
I sit shuddering. 

March 7th. 
Tess of the D'Urbervilles is one of the most 
unconvincing books I ever read. I neither be- 
lieved in it nor cared about it in the slightest. 


I am shown a " pure woman," and by and by 
I learn, to my perplexity, that she has been se- 
duced; after which she continues the " pure wom- 
an " again, and I am asked to agonize over her 
troubles! But all the time I keep saying, " This 
is not a woman that you are showing me at all — 
a woman with a soul; it is a puppet figure that 
you suppose ' seduced ' for the sake of the story." 

It is our absurd English ideas of " propriety " 
that make possible such things. If the author 
had had to show the seduction of " Tess " the 
weakness of the thing would have been plain in 
an instant. That he did not show it was his lack 
of conscience. There is no propriety in art but 
truth. 

March 8th. 

I took the manuscript to the editor again to- 
day. He told me to come in on Monday. 

Deep in my soul I can have no more disap- 
pointments about it. I take it about from habit. 
I sat and looked it over last night, but one can 
not read emotional things in cold blood. I said. 
Is this true? Is it natural? Is there any use 
in it? 

I was tempted to cut out one or two things; 
but I decided to let it stay as it was. 


March loth. 
I have been sitting to-night in my room, 
half-dazed, or pacing about the streets talking to 
myself in a frenzy. I can hardly believe that it 
is true, I can hardly realize it! I laugh with ex- 
citement, and then I cry. 

I went to-day to get back my manuscript. 
And the editor said : " Mr. Stirling, it is a most 
extraordinary piece of work. It is a most inter- 
esting thing, I like it very much." 

I stared at him gasping. Then I waited 
to hear him say — " But I regret " — But he 
didn't! 

" I can't tell you anything definite about it," 
he said. " I want to submit it to the firm. I 
wouldn't undertake to accept any such unusual 
thing for the magazine without consulting them, 
and especially seeing if they will bring it out 
afterward " 

" You are thinking of using it in the maga- 
zine ! " I cried. 

" As I tell you, I can't say positively. I can 
only tell you what I think of it. I will have them 
read it at once " 

" I will take it to them to-day! " I put in. 


" No," he said, " you need not, for I am going 
there this afternoon, and I will take it, and ask 
them to read it immediately." 

I can't remember what else he said. I was 
deaf, crazy! I rushed home, talking to myself in- 
coherently. I remember sitting here in a chair 
and saying aloud, "Oh, it can't be! It is im- 
possible! That it should be good enough to pub- 
lish in a magazine like that! It is some mistake 
— it will all come to nothing. It's absurd! " 

So I sat, and I thought what such a thing 
would mean to me — it would make my reputa- 
tion in a day — I should be free — free! But I 
thought of it and it did not make me happy; I 
only sat staring at myself, shuddering. The end- 
less mournfulness that is in my heart surged up 
in me like a tide, and suddenly I began to cry 
like a child. 

" It has come to me too late," I exclaimed, 
"too late! I can't believe it — it doesn't mean 
anything to me. I don't care anything about it 
— I mean the poem! I don't believe in it myself! " 

God, do you know I said that, and meant it? 
I said more — I sat and whispered it to myself: 
" Let them take it, yes, let them! I don't care — 






it will set me free — I shall have some money! 
But they're fools to do it, they're fools! " 

March nth. 

I tremble with excitement all the day, dream- 
ing about that thing. I go about half-mad. 
" Oh, just think of it," I whisper, " just think 
of it! " 

I linger about it hungrily ! He spoke as if he 
really meant to make them take it. 

March 13th. 

I went to see him to-day to ask. No, they 
had not let him know yet, but they had the manu- 
script. He would write me. 

I made up my mind that I would not bother 
him again. I will wait, hard as it is. 

I sat asking myself to-day, " Do you really 
mean that you believe that poem is going to stir 
the world — this huge, heedless world you see 
about you? Have you truly that blind, unrea- 
soning faith that you try to persuade yourself 
you have? " 

Ah, I don't know what I believe now. Only, 
once I had my young courage, — I feared not the 

world, I could do anything. Now I am but one 
among a million. 

March i6th. 

I force myself to read these things that half- 
interest me; but I think I spend a quarter of my 
time wandering about whispering that they are 
going to publish it. I cry out, " Oh, they 
must!" I go into the library and stare at the 
magazine and think of it there. I walk past the 
publishers', and think of it there! I have been 
inquiring all about publishing, about terms and 
all that sort of thing. It makes my brain reel — 
why, they might pay me five hundred dollars for 
it! Think of it — five hundred dollars! — I could 
