subscription. The thick one with the delicate superscription from Clara
Gage.

It was long, and about family affairs. They had been a good deal
worried over a mortgage that the holder had threatened to foreclose. But
her sister's lover had insisted upon taking it up, and would come home
to live. Her brother had obtained a good position as bookkeeper in a
mill. The youngest girl would always be an invalid from a spinal
trouble; Margaret, the eldest, sang in church and gave music lessons,
and thus had some time for home occupations. Mrs. Gage was quite
disabled from rheumatism at times. But now Clara felt the dependent ones
were in good hands, and she would not only go abroad cheerfully, but
gladly. Her hesitation had been because she felt they might need her at
home, or near by, where they could call upon her in illness or
misfortune. "You have been very kind to wait until I could see my way
clear," she wrote, "and my gratitude in time to come will be your
reward."

Mrs. Van Dorn felt a little pricked in her conscience. She could have
settled all this herself, and made things easy for them, but Clara had
not suggested any money trouble. Mrs. Van Dorn paid her a generous
salary. Down in her heart there had been a jealous feeling that her
money could not buy everything, could not buy this girl from certain
home obligations.

But the letter pleased her very much in its frankness and its
acknowledgment of favors. Yet her old heart seemed strangely desolate.
How could she obtain the love she really desired? For if you did favors
there was gratitude, but was that love?

Did anybody care to love an old woman? She sometimes longed to have
tender arms put about her neck, and fond kisses given. But her cheeks
were made up with the semblance of youth, her lips had a tint that it
was not well to disturb. Oh, to go back! To be fifty only, and have
almost fifty more years to live. The money would last out all that time,
even.

But here was a chance with this new girl. Clara might marry. She, Mrs.
Van Dorn, had been rather captious about admirers. It wasn't given to
every girl to make a good marriage at five and thirty. In three years
Helen would be seventeen, and with a good education, very companionable.
It would be best not to lead her to hope for anything beyond the
education, she might grow vain and be puffed up with expectations of
great things to come. Let the great things be a surprise.

There was a little tap at the door.

"Do you want me?" inquired the cheerful voice. "It is a full half hour."

"No, yes. I'll be made ready for bed if you please, little maid," and
her tone was full of amusement. "Then I'll dismiss you and lie here by
the window a while, as I have something to think about, until I get
sleepy. Bring the jewel case."

Helen was quite fascinated with all the adornments. There were dainty
partitions, velvet rooms, Helen called them, boxes in which rings were
dropped, a mound to lay the bracelets, where a tiny ridge kept them from
slipping, a hook for the pendants, and a case for the pins. The girl
placed them in deftly, as only a person who really loved them could. To
her their sparkle seemed the flame of a spirit.

Then the laces were laid in their boxes. Helen hung up the soft silk
gown, the petticoats with their lace and ruffles, the night dress was
donned and a pretty wrapper over it, the slippers exchanged for some
soft knit ones. As for her hair--perhaps she slept in it, for that was
never taken down until after the girl went away.

"Now are you comfortable?"

"Yes. Helen, how did you come by so many pretty ways? I do not believe
they abound in your aunt's house."

"No, they do not." Helen laughed in soft apology. "I think because
everything is nice and dainty here, and everybody is----" How could she
explain it.

"No, you're not quite so much of a chameleon as that. It is something
from the inside, that was born with you. And you must have the
opportunity of developing it. There child, good-night."

Mrs. Van Dorn felt suddenly in a glow. She would do a good deed, help
this girl to her true place, cast some bread upon the waters and have it
return to her presently. Three years. She hoped Helen would grow tall
and keep slim, her eyes were beautiful, her complexion clear and fine if
a little sun-burned. She had nice hands, too, now that she was taking
care of them. She was quick to see any improvement, she had adaptiveness
and a pleasant temper. She would make an attractive young woman at
seventeen, and she would owe it all to her. She must love her
benefactress. Why, this was something to live for!

Helen sat on the far end of the stoop step. There were two rows of
steps. This commanded the kitchen porch, as well as the dining room.
Most of the boarders were up at the other end, where two hammocks were
slung, but this was a favorite nook of hers when she wanted to think.
Mrs. Dayton came out presently, having finished her talk with Joanna.

"Are you homesick or lonesome?" she inquired. "Was everybody glad to see
you to-day."

"The children were. I think Aunt Jane was a little hurt because I didn't
come and stay over Sunday."

"Do you want to go next Saturday? Though what we could do with Mrs. Van
Dorn I don't know."

"I think I do not want to go," Helen made answer slowly. "Oh, Mrs.
Dayton," and she stretched out her hand in entreaty, "can't you sit down
here a few moments. I want to talk to someone. I want to know whether I
am right, or wrong and ungrateful. And I have a half plan if--if----"

"What is it, child?" The girl's tone appealed to her strongly, and she
sat down beside her.

"It seems to me as if I only roused up along in the winter, and began to
study in earnest. Mr. Warfield took such an interest in me. And I began
to love knowledge, to learn how much there was of it in the world. He
thought I ought to go to the High School and study for a teacher, and
then I just knew what I should like best of all things in the world. And
since I've been here I've thought it over and over----"

"And do not know how to compass it?" There was a sound in her voice that
expressed the smile on her face.

"I have even planned for that. If you did not go away all the fall I
should ask you to let me stay and do some work, and try to even it up
next summer when the boarders come. But I've thought maybe there would
be someone else who would be satisfied with what I could do nights and
mornings and Saturdays for my board----"

The tone was breathless and had to stop. She was amazed that she could
say all this.

"My dear child! Have you been studying all this out? Well, you certainly
have a right to education when you are willing to work for it that way.
And I believe it can be compassed."

Helen squeezed the hand nearest her with a joyful eagerness.

"But there's another side to it. I didn't think of that until this
afternoon. I fancied I could go away and study and work until I came to
the place where I could earn money, like Miss Remington, and no one
would have any right to interfere. Aunt Jane thinks I know quite enough,
and has planned for me to go in the shop, Jenny has spoken for the
chance. I should just hate it! I think I should run away. I don't know
why I am different, but I am. I feel it now more than ever. Aunt Jane
doesn't want me to be like my father, and she lays the blame on
education. Oh, Mrs. Dayton, you do not think he ever did anything
absolutely wrong, that one had need to be ashamed of?"

Helen's face was in a blaze of scarlet. How many times she had longed to
ask the question.

"Why no. He had the name of being queer, and holding queer beliefs. But
he was honest as the day, and temperate, and not given to brawling as
the Bible has it. And he paid Aunt Jane for a while. I feel sure he
must be dead."

"And since then they have taken care of me. Aunt Jane thinks I ought to
be very grateful, and I do want to be. I suppose they could have sent me
to the poor-house."

"Oh, no, Uncle Jason wouldn't."

"I don't believe Aunt Jane would. But does that give them the right to
say what I shall do or be, or put me in the shop against my will, when
maybe I could earn my own way somewhere else?"

"Why no, I do not think it does. You were not even given to them. You
certainly have the right to decide some things. And if friends should be
willing to help you----"

"I don't want to be ungrateful. I don't want to be snobbish. But I like
the nice aspects of life so much better than the common things. And I
wonder now why people do not take naturally to the refinements of life.
Yet the other people are very happy in their way, too. I think Aunt Jane
wouldn't enjoy the manner in which you do things here. She would call it
putting on airs."

"Yes, I understand. The world goes on improving, advancing, making life
more kindly and gracious, weeding out the roughnesses. It is just as
honest and true, it calls for more self-control, it is as helpful. Of
course, there are selfish people with a good deal of polish, and there
are ignorant people very obstinate and disagreeable. Education does not
do everything, but it helps. And if there is an easier or better, or
more enjoyable manner of earning one's living, I do not see why one
should not aim at it, and strive to reach it."

"Oh, thank you a thousand times." Helen's voice broke from very joy. "I
kept wondering if I had the right to do what I liked."

"It will take some courage. But you might try it one year. And I am sure
there will be friends to help such an ambitious girl. At present we will
not say anything about it, but don't feel troubled. I believe it will
come out right."

"Oh, how good you are!" Helen pressed the hand she held to her warm,
soft cheek with a mute caress.

It seemed to her as if she might be walking on air, her heart was so
light. And still there was a secret sympathy with her aunt for the
disappointment. Yet, what real difference could it make to Aunt Jane,
whether she taught school, or worked in a shop. She should not feel
better or grander, only more thoroughly satisfied with her lot in life.
And before she took any journeys, she would pay Uncle Jason for these
years of care since her father died. That would be her duty for taking
her own way.

"We are going to take up something solid," said Mrs. Van Dorn, the next
morning. "I am tired of frivolous novels. We will have a little history,
and learn about places and people, and what has been done in the world,
and improve our minds."

Helen looked up with a new and rather surprised interest. "There is so
much in your mind already," she returned with the admiration in her
voice that was so grateful to the elder woman. "Oh, I do wonder if I
shall ever know so many things."

"There are years for you to study in. I did not know all these things at
fourteen."

She would never have confessed how little she knew at that period.

They stopped now and then to discuss some point, but Mrs. Van Dorn was
going over several other considerations. An ordinary country girl with
the sweetest temper in the world would not have given her more than a
passing pleasure. This girl was quite out of the ordinary with her
intelligence and her quick understanding. She would love all the finer
arts of life. Her enthusiasm was really infectious. That was what one
needed when one was going down the other side of the great divide. And
she didn't really belong to anybody. Clara would never forget her mother
and sisters, and if they were ill she would want to fly to them. This
girl was not comfortable in her home, she would not sigh for it. And she
might adore her, for there was a kind of worship in her nature. To be
adored by a young girl who might have been her grandchild, the child of
the daughter she had longed for and never had.

Helen glanced up hesitatingly.

"Oh, I'm not asleep," laughingly. "I was thinking. You have a fine
voice, so strong and clear, and not aggressive. Don't you sing?"

"Oh, yes. When I am out in the fields I sing with the birds."

"But you have never had lessons in elocution?"

"Mr. Warfield taught me that the best reading was entering into the
spirit of the writer, imagining yourself in the scenes that are
described, or taking part in any conversation. And he said when I
recited that last day of school, I must be the Captains and Hervé Riel,
just as if I was leading in the ships."

Her face was in a glow, her eyes luminous.

"How old is Mr. Warfield?"

Helen Grant's father had married one of his young pupils, Mrs. Van Dorn
remembered.

"Oh, I don't know, a real young man. He has only been at the Center a
year."

Mrs. Van Dorn nodded with her chin, a way she had.

"He is quite in earnest about your going to the High School?" she
continued.

"He thinks I could teach, and I should like that so much."

She flushed daintily recalling the other half secret she had touched
upon with Mrs. Dayton.

"The girl is capable of love and all that nonsense," thought Mrs. Van
Dorn. Why should she not come to love her?




CHAPTER VI

HOW THEY ALL PLANNED


"Helen," began Mrs. Dayton, "I was thinking if you would like to go home
on Saturday and make your visit it might be a good thing. We have made
no real plans about the winter as yet, but we might like to presently."

There was a half mirthful, half meaning light in her eyes.

"Oh!" Helen said. She was not longing for the visit. Her cool reception
by her aunt had really hurt her.

"Time is going so fast. Why, here it is only two weeks and a half to
September."

"If you think I had better," very soberly.

"Yes, I do. It would look rather underhand if you went home and said
nothing when we had settled upon certain intentions."

"Yes, I understand."

Mrs. Van Dorn objected, but when she found it was a matter of duty,
rather than delight, she gave in with a few little grumbles. Uncle
Jason was so full of satisfaction he hugged Helen to his heart and
kissed her.

So she said good-by and had a pleasant drive over, heard all the small
on dits of the farm; that two hens had stolen nests and brought off
twenty-three chickens between them; and old Bose, the dog, had died
suddenly, and they had a mastiff pup eight months old; that they were
building a new fence on the back of the barn lot, and that there would
be no end of apples this fall. He really didn't know what they would do
when Jenny went away, and he wished girls didn't want to get married.
But she, Helen, would come home and that would liven up things a bit.

They turned into the lane and when they were by the kitchen she sprang
out. One child carried the news to another, and they huddled about her
so that she could hardly walk.

"Here's Helen, mother!"

"Well, I declare! How do you do, child! You never could come in a better
time! I had a good mind to tell Uncle Jason to bring you home, and I
guess he just scented it. Children, don't eat Helen up, this hot night,"
exclaimed their mother.

"She isn't cooked," said Tom.

"But she'll be stewed or steamed, and there's plenty for supper. We're
going to have a houseful to-morrow. Aunt Sarah and Uncle John and the
girls, and Martha's beau. She's been long enough about it, twenty-five,
if she's a day, and I'd been married six years before I was as old as
that. But she's going to do real well, though he's a widower with two
children. And Joe as usual. Though we all went down there to supper last
Sunday. Jenny's going to have things nice, I tell you! Did you bring
another frock, Helen? I've been making 'Reely wear out your old clothes.
And gracious me! how you have grown! You won't have a thing to wear in
the fall."

"I left my bundle in the wagon," as Aunt Jane made a little halt in her
talk.

"Nat, you run and get it. 'Reely, do begin settin' that table. 'Reely
isn't worth a rye straw about housework. She's Mulford all over, and
you've got to keep pushing the Mulfords along or they'd fall asleep in
their tracks. Here she's past eleven. My, the work I did when I was
eleven! Now Helen, you just put on something commoner and help round a
bit and we'll have supper."

Helen ran upstairs and changed her dress. She was glad of the cordial
welcome. But as she looked around she wondered if she had been really
content here. Did children suddenly come to some mental growth and
understanding? Whom did she take after? It was queer, but when Aunt Jane
said of one child "she was all Cummings, or all Mulford," it was the
same heredity that they discussed at Mrs. Dayton's.

Where did she get her finer instincts from? For she had them long ago,
only she was afraid to bring them out and have them laughed at. Her
little white covered cot at Mrs. Dayton's looked so sweet and wholesome,
everything was put in a closet, the table held a few books, a
work-basket, often a bowl of flowers. This was all littered up, the
candlestick decorated with piles of grease, the faded and worn bed quilt
put on awry, shoes here and there, garments hung anywhere, and Fan's
dolls and stuff of all kinds in the corner. Of course Jenny's room was
more orderly, but it lacked something, the suggestion of refinement.

Uncle Jason and Sam had come in, and it seemed as if the kitchen was
full. They scrambled round the table, pushing and crowding.

"Do keep still, children!" begged their father.

"'Reely, you haven't put on a bit of salt. I think every time you forget
it I ought to make you eat a spoonful," said her mother.

"I haven't any fork!" declared Nathan.

"And if we made her eat a fork, it might disagree with her, and we'd
have one fork less," commented Sam.

"Can't I have a piece of bread and butter? Why can't we have some butter
down here?" cried Tom.

"I'll spread it for you. Sam, will you please pass me the butter?" said
Helen in a quiet tone.

"Me too, Helen," entreated Fanny, holding up her piece of bread.

"It's so nice to have you again," and 'Reely squeezed Helen's arm.

Uncle Jason helped to the meat and potatoes. There was a great clatter
of passing plates, and the confusion of several voices at a time. Aunt
Jane scolded, then she gave Tom a slap.

"There comes Joe and Jen," announced Sam.

Jenny left work at four on Saturday and went to the house. Joe was
keeping himself, and they had a cup of tea, some bread and butter, cold
meat and blackberries together.

"How do, Helen. You're a big stranger. Let's sit out on the porch, Joe.
I'll bring some sewing."

"That's the most industrious girl in the country," said Joe with a
laugh. "I shall have to buy goods by the bale to keep her in work."

Some way they did get through with the meal, Uncle Jason and Sam first,
then one by one straggling out. Helen helped put away the food and said
she would wash the dishes, and Aurelia and Fan might dry them. Why
couldn't Aunt Jane go out on the porch and take a rest?

"I'm tired as a dog. I've gone since half past four this morning. There
was so much to do. I declare, Helen, your coming over was just a special
providence. When I get hold of you again, I'll see that no one coaxes
you away. I was a fool to consent to it. But you'll soon be home now."

"Yes, go out and get cooled off and rested."

Aunt Jane was really glad to. Helen kept the two girls busy until the
things were put away and the kitchen tidied up. The fire was out and
the room getting cooler. The girls clung so to Helen, that she felt as
if she would be torn in two. And sitting on the steps they wanted to
know about the queer old woman, and didn't Mrs. Dayton make a pile of
money? 'Reely thought when she was grown up she would keep boarders and
have a servant. Did Joanna do everything?

"Oh, no. Mrs. Dayton helps, and I do a good many things when Mrs. Van
Dorn does not want me."

"Is she very cross?"

"Oh, no," with a laugh of amusement.

"Not as cross as mother?" with childish frankness.

"You all annoy Aunt Jane so," returned Helen. "If you would go at once
and do as she tells you, and try to remember."

"But I forget so easily," moaned Aurelia. "And I just hate to work."

"What would you like to do?"

"Play, and go out in the woods, and nutting. Oh, when will it be nut
time? And then there's school."

"One can't play forever unless one wants to be a dunce."

"I like dolls," interposed Fanny. "And I'm making clothes for them. Oh,
have you any pretty pieces?"

"It's time you youngsters went to bed," declared their mother.

"Where's Helen going to sleep?"

"Don't you worry about Helen."

The girls came and kissed her. Then she sat in the fragrant dusk and
heard a whippoor-will; and Uncle Jason and Joe Northrup comparing
crops, and telling yields of certain years. Aunt Jane fell asleep in the
quiet. Jenny came down to her step and asked about styles, and what was
in the stores, and if prices had gone down. Joe went home presently, and
Jenny said, "Now come. You're going to sleep with me. This'll be your
room when I'm gone. Oh, dear! I suppose some day you'll be married, too.
Don't you take a fellow unless he has a house to put you in."

Helen felt in a strange whirl, but after awhile she slept. And Sunday
morning was all confusion again. Joe and Jenny and Sam went to church;
the company came, and Helen helped with the dinner, making the table
look so pretty and tidy, that the dining-room was very pleasant. The
four younger children were out in the kitchen, and once Aunt Jane had
to go out and administer slaps all round to quell a riot.

Martha and her lover were very staid and sedate. Jane, the younger
sister, was rather flighty, and plied Helen with innumerable questions
about North Hope. She had heard the young girls went out every day to
see the stores and catch the beaus as they came home from work. And did
the people in her house have dancing parties every Saturday night? She
had read in some magazine that it was the fashion to do so.

The two mothers were much engrossed with the coming marriages. The young
people walked down to see Jenny's house; there was a light supper, and
then they said good-by to each other.

It seemed to Helen she had never been so happy in her life as when she
was once more settled in her round at Mrs. Dayton's. The order and
quietness, the nice adjustment that she was beginning to understand and
appreciate; the bright talk that went to outside subjects and did not
revolve in one small personal round, was so much more interesting. True,
Mrs. Lessing and her daughter discussed clothes, and the other ladies
joined in, but it was on the æsthetic and artistic side. They talked of
so many other things--daily events outside of North Hope. That was not
all their world. It was the larger world that so interested Helen.

She and Mrs. Dayton discussed some possibilities. When Mrs. Dayton went
away, Mr. Conway slept in the house, and took his meals elsewhere, but
even if Helen could attend to the house it would not be possible to
leave her alone in it. Then there would be clothes and various expenses.
It was not as easy a matter to settle as it looked. Of course there was
a sort of adoption of Helen, but Mrs. Dayton was not quite sure she
wanted the responsibility. She had worked through a good deal of
pressure herself, and was now where she could enjoy some of the
pleasures of life as a compensation. There might be found a neighbor who
would be glad of Helen's assistance--she would offer to provide her
clothes.

Helen had settled herself at her reading one morning, when Mrs. Disbrowe
just paused at the door with her baby in her arms, and nodded to Mrs.
Van Dorn.

"Excuse me for interrupting, but there is a young man down on the porch
who wishes to see Helen. He would not come in."

Helen glanced up in amaze, then smiled, as she raised her eyes to Mrs.
Van Dorn.

"I think it is the young man from the library. Perhaps he found the book
you wanted."

"Ah--that is quite likely. Run down and see."

Helen put her marker in, and laid down her book. But when she reached
the porch and the caller rose from the wicker rocker, she stretched out
both her hands with a glad cry of surprise:

"Oh, Mr. Warfield!"

He glanced at her, held her off and studied her again.

"Why, you have grown or changed or something," he exclaimed in surprise.
"And it has only been such a little while! You look as if you were
really glad to see me," and the smile gave him such a cordial
expression.

"Oh, I am. You can't think how glad. And it is so unexpected----"

Her voice was fairly alive with delight.

"I crossed ten days sooner than I had planned. A friend wanted some
papers which were in my possession, and I had to come out here for
them. So I reached the Center just in time for supper, and went over to
your uncle's in the evening."

There was an odd expression in his face--amusement and annoyance it
seemed, and as if he was quite at sea. Then he said almost abruptly,
"Let us sit down. There is a good deal of talking to do--or very little,
as the case may turn," in a rather dry tone.

"Excuse me, while I go up and explain to Mrs. Van Dorn. Oh, I have so
much to say, too. So many things have happened to me."

She was off like a flash, but he noted the grace of her movement; the
air that showed she had capabilities beyond the usual untrained country
girl. Would she have to be wasted on a second or third rate life?

"I suppose you have done nothing with the papers I gave you," he began,
when she returned. "I have heard of your driving around, and your
dissipation."

"Oh, but I have," she replied eagerly. Then she gave a bright infectious
laugh. "You can't think--why it seems now as if I had been at school all
summer. I have learned so many new things about the world and the
people in it. I have read books and papers, and found out about the
places where you have been. Mrs. Van Dorn has been--well, nearly all
over the world, I believe, and she has met musicians and artists, and
people who write books and poems, and has seen kings and queens----"

"Then you haven't spent all the time reading novels? I was afraid you
had. But your aunt--have you any idea of keeping on at school?"

"They do not want me to," she answered gravely. "But Mrs. Dayton thinks
they have no real right to decide for me, if I can do anything for
myself. And why isn't it just as good and honorable for a girl to work
for her education when she is hungry for the knowledges in the world, as
for a boy! And if I can do anything, don't you think they ought to
consent?"

"Well! well! well!" his exclamation points were in full evidence. He
studied her brave eager face, it had in it certain strong earnest lines,
certain lines of prettiness, too. All before her was an unknown country.
No one could truly map out another's life, and be sure of the making,
but he knew he should not mar it as the Mulfords might in their
ignorance of her desires and capabilities. He resolved to take a
decisive hand in it.

"You don't want to go back to the Center?" He knew what her answer would
be, but he desired to see the varying expressions of her face.

"No, I don't. Oh, I can't! I should be fighting with something within me
all the time, and planning how to get out of it all. I want to learn. I
want to teach, too. I want to see some of the great things in the world,
some of the great people, and just live all through, every part of me,
if you can understand."

How her face changed with every new thought.

"Really you have been making strides. Helen, you are not going to be
satisfied with a holiday to see Belle Aurore. You are going to ask
greater things."

"And Hervé Riel ought to have been given greater things when he had
saved the ships for his country. Am I foolish to aim at the greater
things?"

Her eyes were sparkling, and a brilliant color suffused her face, while
the scarlet lips were quivering with emotion and resolve.

"I should like you to reach them. Have you any plans?" His interest was
thoroughly awakened.

"Mrs. Dayton has been so kind, a real friend. I don't mean that Aunt
Jane and Uncle Jason are not real friends. They have been very good to
care for me since father died. Isn't it in not understanding just what
satisfies you down in your soul. Jenny is very happy working in the
factory. I should just hate it. And, oh, I think it would be dreadful
for her to sit and read to Mrs. Van Dorn," laughing with a gay ripple.
"We have talked, but not settled upon anything definite. Mrs. Dayton
thinks she might find someone who would give me my board for what I
could do nights and mornings and Saturdays, and she would help me out
with clothes, for I know Aunt Jane would be very angry if I went against
her wishes. And Mrs. Dayton wouldn't need me. She has Joanna, you know.
Then, too, she goes away in the autumn----"

"Well, I must say you have gone pretty far along in plans. I felt quite
discouraged last night, though I imagine I might have talked Uncle Jason
into doing something for you. But your aunt thinks three years spent in
learning to teach, and not being able to earn a dollar for yourself, is
an awful waste of time. As if that was all there was to it!"
disdainfully. "Helen, I could find it in my heart to wish you were my
sister, then I could come to the rescue."

"Oh!" There was a world of exquisite delight in the tone that touched
him to the very soul. "If I were! Why can't some people be in the places
they would like? Some people are!" with an odd humorous laugh. "And it
is the dissatisfaction that stirs you up; makes you ambitious. What is
it that keeps up the dissatisfaction?" glancing at him with the smile
still on her parted lips, yet full of perplexity.

"The knowledge that you are capable of doing something better, finer. If
you were deficient in that, you could go to work cheerfully in the
factory. You would enjoy associating with the girls."

"And then having a beau and marrying," she laughed. "Oh, I like books so
much better, and knowing about the world."

"What of the examination papers. Have you found any time for them?"

"Oh, yes. There were some books in the library that helped. And such a
splendid encyclopædia! I wrote them out once, and then I read a great
deal more, and wrote them over again. I'll give them to you, and you
must consider how good a chance I have of passing. Oh, if I should
fail!"

"You could go in later on. I do not think you will. I have wondered
about you so many times this summer, and I have always seen you under
the disadvantages of the Center, and the few helps you would have. You
might have written me a letter."

"Oh, did you mean that I should?"

She asked it in sweet, eager unconsciousness, which showed that it would
have been a pleasure. He had not suggested it from a wonder as to
whether Aunt Jane would approve.

"I should have enjoyed an answer about your new life," he replied with
interest. "I am very glad this happened to you instead of an uneventful
summer on the farm and retrograding, I am afraid. And you like
this"--old lady, he was about to say, but checked himself--"this Mrs.
Van Dorn."

"It's something more than like. I cannot describe it in any word, that
I know, unless it is like something I was reading a few days ago,
fascination. When she talks about the places and people she has seen it
seems as if I could listen forever. And then, you may think this queer,"
and she colored vividly, "sometimes I like Mrs. Dayton the best. I wish
I didn't change about so. It is the same with books. Am I very
inconstant, fickle?"

"If we couldn't change our minds, think what fossils we should soon be,"
and he laughed good-humoredly. "Yes, I should like to see her."

She started, then she came back a step. "I have not really talked over
the plan of--of earning my way with her," and her voice fell a little.
"Mrs. Dayton thought it best not to say anything until we had some
certainty. She is going away soon. Her real companion comes next week."

He nodded that he understood the delicate charge. "And where is Mrs.
Dayton?"

"She went to market, and to do various errands. I should like you to
talk to her about it."

"Yes, I want to," he replied decisively.

Helen went upstairs and was gone quite a while. He was thinking of the
bright, earnest, energetic girl, willing to work her way. He must plan
it out with Mrs. Dayton. She was the one girl out of fifty who could
rise above circumstances. Yet her aunt would be more than vexed,
positively angry.

Mrs. Van Dorn experienced a curious pang, when the girl's face brilliant
with a definite emotion, flashed upon her with ardor in every line. What
had moved her so? The eyes were luminous, the voice freighted with a new
depth.

"Yes," she answered stiffly. "I must see this young man--he is young,
isn't he? It seems to me he has been making a long call."

"Oh, we had so much to talk about, my summer here and all its pleasures,
and the knowledge. Why, I told him I felt as if I had been at school all
the time, I had learned so many things from you, and that you----"

She paused and flushed, wondering if the talk had been just right in the
more delicate sense.

"That I was cross and queer, and full of whims----"

"Oh, I couldn't say that. It was about your journeys, and the people you
had met. And he was so interested."

Mrs. Van Dorn was mollified, and added a few touches to her toilet,
picked up a fleecy scarf, came downstairs with her hand on Helen's
shoulder, and was duly presented. The man was young.

But the lady was an agreeable surprise. He had been a little biased by
Aunt Jane, he admitted to himself. She was like some of the fine old
ladies he had met abroad, who carried their age with a serene
unconsciousness.

Mrs. Dayton was coming up the path, and gave them a little nod.

"Perhaps she would like your service a while, Helen," exclaimed Mrs. Van
Dorn. "I should enjoy having a little talk with your friend."

Helen rose reluctantly. She would much rather have stayed. But in five
minutes she was in full flow of an interested confidence with Mrs.
Dayton, and then they sat down on the north corner of the kitchen porch,
and peeled peaches for the luncheon, as it was getting late.

Mr. Warfield meant to suggest several things to Mrs. Van Dorn that could
tend to Helen's benefit presently. She resolved to learn what he
thought of the child's capabilities for advancement. In a certain way,
though, they both parried skillfully, each gained a point, yet it was
not the point Mr. Warfield set out to make.




CHAPTER VII

SUCCESSFUL


They chatted a little after the meal was over, and Mr. Warfield asked
Helen to get her papers, and let him see how she had made out with them.
Mrs. Van Dorn gave him a pleasant good-by, and said she must go and take
her daily nap, the best preventive of old age that she knew. Her smile
was over the fact that she held the winning card, and now she had
resolved to play for the girl. It was more entertaining.

Helen brought her papers, very nicely written, and Mr. Warfield admitted
well prepared. There were but few corrections to be made. Then he
smiled, and said in a tone he meant to be comforting, if the matter was
not:

"Perhaps you know, Helen, you cannot use these. Some were last year's
questions, some I guessed at, though I believe I hit two rightly. You
sit down in the room, at the table, and a list is given you, and you
write out your answers from your own interior knowledge, with no helps
from books or friends."

Helen glanced up in dismay, her rosy cheek paled, her lip had a
suspicious quiver.

"But I thought----" and she looked at the discarded papers, over which
she had taken so much pains.

"My dear child, I wanted you to put in practice what you had already
learned. Vacation is a trying time to the memory, unless one resolves
the subject in one's mind. It would have been better for you to come up
at once for the examination, but I didn't see how it was to be managed.
Indeed, last night I confess I did not see how the plan could be carried
through, and I am surprised at your courage and energy."

"Then the papers are of no use," she commented in a tone of
disappointment.

"They have been of a good deal of use in mental training. You will find
it much easier to write on kindred subjects. And I must say you have had
a fortunate summer; so much better than anything I had anticipated for
you. You have shown commendable courage in taking a step many girls
would have shrunk from. I am sure that you will succeed, and some way
we must all make it possible for you to go through the High School. I
feel confident that Providence will smile on our efforts."

She glanced up soberly.

"You would have gone without hesitation when school closed in the
summer?"

"Oh, yes." Then she laughed. She was the wholesome sort of girl, who
could laugh at herself. "That was because I knew so little. And since I
have found how much knowledge of every kind there is in the world, mine
seems so small. I am afraid I don't want to compare myself with the
people who know less, and those who know more seem so far ahead of me,"
she subjoined frankly.

"That need not take away one's courage. At eight and twenty you will
know a good deal more, at eight and forty if you use life rightly, you
will have discarded a good deal of the youthful knowledge, and taken on
maturer thoughts. Schooldays do not end with the close of a school for
vacation. You observe that goes on after a little rest. And the real
scholars go on. All life is a school. I did some hard studying the
fortnight I was in London. I shall do some more this winter. There is
always something ahead of the one who loves knowledge."

He had a very encouraging smile for those who deserved it. He could
frown as well, she knew, and this particular smile was used with
discrimination; it was not the every-day pleasant look.

"So you will go next Tuesday. Louise Searing did not pass. She will keep
you company. I must leave for New York in the train at four, and cannot
be back before Wednesday. But I shall be thinking of you, and for my
sake you must not fail. You see, it helps or hinders my reputation. I
want all my five candidates to pass. There have never more than three
gone from the Center school before."

"I will try my best," she returned. The thought that she would do
something for him inspired her as well.

So they said good-by, and she went out to the kitchen. Two baskets of
tempting Bartlett pears had come, and Mrs. Dayton, with a big kitchen
apron on, and her sleeves rolled up, was beginning to pare them. As soon
as Joanna had done the dishes she would can.

"If you wouldn't mind helping, Helen. Put that big kitchen sacque over
your dress, and button the sleeves around your wrists. Pear juice
stains dreadfully. And then we will talk about the plans. Mr. Warfield
is a delightful gentleman to meet, and he is very much interested in
you."

If Helen was two or three years older, she might repeat her mother's
destiny, the lady thought, and Mr. Warfield was a much more attractive
man than Addison Grant.

They discussed the examination, and Mrs. Dayton endeavored to inspire
her with hope, and she was confident a place could be found for Helen.

"But how to get the folks at home to consent to any such step will be
the puzzle. As soon as we know about the examination I will have a talk
with your uncle. I think I can persuade him to look upon the plan in the
best light for you, and you can stay here all September."

"But there will be Jenny's wedding about the middle of the month, Aunt
said."

"And on the tenth the High School opens."

"Oh, dear! My schooldays seem a great perplexity," and Helen gave a
vague smile. "Some girls' lives run on so smoothly, but mine appears
full of upsets."

"Take courage and go on. I think it will come out right. But I shall
not make a single plan until you have passed the examination."

Then Mrs. Van Dorn's bell rang.

Helen slipped off her sacque, washed her hands, and suddenly bent down
and kissed Mrs. Dayton's forehead. "Oh," she cried with deep tenderness,
"I wish I had a mother! I wish you were my mother."

Mrs. Dayton looked after her, as she flashed through the dining room.
All her motions were light and rapid, yet she never ran over chairs, or
bumped up against doors or corners. It was a grace born in her, and Mrs.
Dayton wondered that it had not all been wrenched out of her by the
crude bustling life at the Mulfords'. And she wondered how it would seem
to have a daughter growing up who would love her and care for her. Helen
was overflowing with gratitude, and one of the best features of it was
that it abounded in deeds rather than words. She always wanted to do
something in return, she often did it without stopping to inquire, daily
little things that evinced thoughtfulness. After all, her three years'
board would hardly be felt, there would be the summer vacation. Only, if
she should be sent away somewhere to teach afterward. But there would
be three pleasant years. She could afford to do it now, she had gone
past the pinches, and was putting by a little every year.

Mrs. Van Dorn, upstairs on her couch in the comfort of a dressing
sacque, was amusing herself with plans as well. She did like to enjoy
outgeneraling people. And this young Mr. Warfield's confidence rather
piqued her. The same thought had entered her mind that this enthusiastic
girl might repeat her mother's story, and she had a fancy that it had
been one of disappointment.

Years ago the daughter of a cousin, the only relative who had ever
befriended her, after a prosperous married life of a dozen years'
duration, was thrown on her own endeavors for a livelihood, with two
little girls. She had a beautiful house in a pretty, refined town, but
there was a considerable mortgage on it. Mrs. Van Dorn had come to her
assistance; she was not all selfishness. With a little aid, Mrs. Aldred
had established herself in a day and boarding school, had added to her
house, and become the pride of the pretty town of Westchester. One act
of Mrs. Aldred had gone to her old cousin's heart. She had paid the
