 


thought her so strict, so almost queer at 

times, and yet it was wisest, no doubt. 

Her judgment had not brought about 

very good results, she had to confess. If 

she only could have found her mother’s 

beautiful lace ; but it never came to light. 

" Have you read the book I gave you ! ’ ’ 
Dick asked one evening when they were 
in the kitchen making candy. "But of 
course you have, and it’s just splendid, 
isn’t it?” 

Bessie’s eyes dropped and her brow 
flushed, for her cheeks were red as roses 
before. 

I— no, I haven’t,” she answered, 
with much confusion. 

"Why?” and Dick’s bright face was 
full of disappointment. ‘‘Didn’t you 
like to have it, or had you read it 
before?” 




Neither — and I was glad — only I 
did not deserve it, and I am wait- 
ing— ’ ' 

There Bessie broke down into a good 
cry. 

‘ ‘ Yon foolish little girl ! It is all about 
that broken bottle. I was cross at first 
with yon, but I felt sorry, and yon were 
so good—’’ 

‘'No, I wasn’t,” Bessie interrupted, 
wish you would let me tell you all, 
Dick; and maybe you had better take 
the book until some time when I am bet- 
ter. ’ ’ 

Dick looked up in astonishment. Was 
Bessie the author of the mischief, and 
had she told a falsehood? 

‘'Well?” Dick answered. 

So Bessie related her first morning’s 
temptation, and how she had taken out 

 


the bureau drawers to get the hidden 
story. 

‘ ‘ Mother told me to lock up any books 
I might have lying around. I would not 
have thought it of you, Bess, but, oh! 
don’t cry, it wasn’t so very bad, and you 
did not tell any story. ’ ’ 

'‘Yes, I told one to Freddy to account 
for having the drawer out, and acted one 
when you found your clothes so differ- 
ent, for somehow, when you begin—” 
Ah, Bessie, it is well to learn about the 
' Wangled web” early in life, if so be that 
it brings wisdom. 

' ‘ Oh, Bess, how lucky the bottle did not 
break— the one in the drawer, I mean. 
It had nitric acid in it. I was taking out 
a wart with it, and it would have eaten 
everything to pieces wherever it dropped. 
It wasn’t a nice thing to do, to be sure, 

 


but I know you are sorry, and I don’t be- 
lieve you ever would do it again. You 
see, you are so fond of reading, and 
mother doesn’t think it right to waste so 
much time; that is why I lock up my 
books.” 

‘'But you need never again, Dick. And 
I was punishing myself, because I did 
want to read the book so much. ’ ’ 

‘'You are a brave little girl after all. 
Now we will make up, splendid, good 
friends, and shake hands. You are 
never to touch anything in my room that 
you think mother or I would not like you 
to have, and I will not need to put things 
out of sight. There, I’ll trust you until 
you tell me that you have broken your 
word, which I hope will never be. And 
now I want you to begin Little Women 
just as soon as you have leisure.” 

With that they kissed each other and 
went on with the candy making, Bessie 
feeling qnite light of heart. The candy 
was a success, too, and Bessie ran out of 
doors a few minutes to cool her burning 
eyes before she went into the next room, 
where her mother sat sewing while her 
father read his paper. They ate all the 
candy they wanted, and left some for the 
children who were in bed. 




CHAPTER IV 


BESSIE HIGHEK HOUSEKEEPING

The next day Cousin Jane sent word 
that she was coming over for a 
visit, and when Bessie came home 
from school there she found her in her 
favorite window, her pincushion, her box 
of spools and odds and ends, and her 
scissors lying on the window sill; her 
patchwork hag hung on one corner of the 
chair and her knitting bag on the other 
Right in front of her lay a pile of calico, 
and on the lap-board she was sorting and 
doing up. 

< i There, Bessie, ’ ’ she began, as soon as 
she had answered the child's greeting, 
‘HVe been cutting up the bundles of 

pieces, and here are half enough blocks 
for a new quilt. I am so sorry I did not 
come over in vacation, for you might 
have sewed it instead of cantering all 
over as girls do now-a-days. Wh.jy when 
I was twelve years old I had four bed 
quilts of my own pieced, and had knit my 
own stockings for I can’t tell how long. 
I never went to school a day after that. ’ ’ 
Mrs. Collins glanced up to catch Bes- 
sie’s eye, and quietly entreat her not to 
answer her hack sharply, hut Bessie only 
said with a little laugh : 

Girls are not so smart now-a-days. 
Cousin Jane.” 

That’s true enough, true enough. But 
you might improve your time. There’s 
so many to keep at you that I ’m sure you 
have no excuse. And your mother was 
brought up in the old-fashioned way. 




Lotty, let those things alone! Now I 
hope yon are not going to waste this 
whole afternoon, Bessie. 

" Oh, no, indeed ! I have stacks of les- 
sons to learn. I go np in mother 's room, 
where it is qniet, for that,’’ and putting 
away her lunch box, she left the room, 
while Cousin Jane was descanting on the 
folly of studying so many things and 
wasting so much time. 

That evening Bessie brought out her 
stockings. Dick was making ready to 
crack some butternuts, and a plate of 
rosy apples stood on the table. 

There now, Elizabeth,” said Cousin 
Jane, would have darned those stock- 
ings this afternoon if you had given them 
to me. ’ ’ 

Bessie takes a certain share in the 
household work,” replied her mother, 

 


‘‘and I like to have her do it, unless 
something especial prevents.’’ 

Cousin Jane looked them over to see if 
Bessie did them well, hut she could find 
no fault. Afterward Bessie brought out 
a tidy she was crocheting, but as this did 
not, in the elder lady’s estimation, come 
under the head of strictly useful and nec- 
essary things, there was a small lecture, 
which Bessie took very sweetly. 

“Bessie,” her mother said, the follow- 
ing morning, “Mrs. Strong and her sis- 
ter are coming to tea to-night, and I sent 
word for them to bring Addie. Come 
home as soon as you can. ’ ’ 

“How good of you, mother!” and Bes- 
sie clasped her arms fondly about her 
mother’s neck. 

“Elizabeth, I am afraid you are spoil- 
ing that child. They see enough of girls 

 


at school and everywhere, and this hav- 
ing company makes them too much like 
big folks. It isn’t a good plan, and 
you ’LL find it so in the end.” 

Bessie flushed and wanted very much to 
answer, but met her mother’s entreating 
eyes and smiled instead. 

She and Addie and Dick had a splen- 
did time that evening out in the kitchen 
popping corn and laughing, though 
Cousin Jane laid every little inattention 
that occurred for the next three days to 
the fact of having so much company. 

But presently the visit came to an end, 
though Bessie gratified Cousin Jane by 
sewing two evenings on the patchwork, 
and promising to persevere until it was 
finished. 

think my little daughter deserves 
much credit for being so pleasant and 

good-tempered," Mrs. Collins said, the 
next afternoon when they were alone. 

Cousin Jane is trying, but she means 
well, and her spectacles are not of the 
modern sort, so we must excuse her. ' ’ 

" Mamma, how much you have praised 
me lately ! ’ ' 

'‘Bessie, how good and thoughtful you 
have been lately, " her mother said, in al- 
most the same tone, at which they both 
laughed. ‘ ' Ever since you were at your 
grandmother’s.’' 

'Mt wasn’t that,” Bessie returned, 
flushing. 

"Was it your experience at house- 
keeping, then?” 

Yes, mamma, it was, though I was n’t 
half as good as you all thought. And it 
was dreadful?” 

'‘Dick nor your father never made any 

 


complaints, and I found the house in 
pretty good order, except that you al- 
most burnt up one of my baking tins. ' ’ 
was going to scour it, hut I forgot. 
That was not the worst, though. ’ ' 

Don’t you want to tell me all about 
it ? ” her mother asked, in a soft, coaxing 
tone. Though I cannot think it was 
very bad or I should have made some 
discoveries before this.” 

would like to, mamma, for I am 
quite sure that I should never do any of 
the things again. I used to think it 
would be so nice to have my way, and it 
did not seem necessary to work all the 
time, and—” 

‘‘You thought you were wiser than I. 
No uncommon thing for a little girl. T 
believe I was once troubled with the same 
complaint myself. But now for the 

 


story. After I was out of the house 
you— 

Bessie took it up and went on bravely, 
though her cheeks were crimson, and the 
tears came to her eyes. She could n’t see 
how she had ever been so deceitful and 
untrustworthy. Perhaps her mother was 
a little astonished, too, but she saw how 
genuine Bessie’s sorrow was, and under- 
stood how patiently she had worked out 
her own amendment. So she drew her 
to her bosom and kissed her tenderly. 

There are a good many just such 
hard lessons for us to learn through 
life,” she said, kindly. Older people 
are wiser because they have had more 
experience, and have learned the result 
of wrong doing. So they try to warn 
their children, you see. I do not wish to 
deny you any indulgence, Bessie, that it 




would be better for you to have, unless 
it comes at a time to interfere with neces- 
sary work. I give up many pleasures 
for my children’s sake, and try to ask 
them to give up only a few for mine. 
And since we are not rich we must all 
help each other, which will make the 
work light. Besides, I want to guard 
you against selfishness and all its at- 
tendant evils. But I think you have 
learned your lesson pretty well. Like 
Dick, I shall not feel afraid to trust you 
again. ’ ’ 

"If you could only have your pretty 
lace back! Oh, mamma, how can any- 
body—” 

"One sin waits upon another. And 
now, little daughter, we will see how 
much we can help one another in the 
future, and you must believe that I am 

 


always thinking and planning for yonr 
best. ’ ' 

am sure I shall, forever and ever, 
mamma, ’ ’ and she kissed her with 
warmth and sincerity. 

think you have learned a little about 
the higher housekeeping,’' mamma con- 
tinued, softly,— Keep thy heart.” 



OH, dear!'’ Laura Preston sighed, 
impatiently, ‘'there’s the baby 
awake again ! I do wish I 
could have a little time like the other 
girls! They’re all going to Bell Cum- 
mings’s to play croquet, and I meant to 
ask you if I couldn’t go.” 

Laura’s voice choked over a sob. It 
was hard to stay in the house all this 
beautiful weather, to know what fun the 
girls were having, and she out of it all, 
taking care of this tiresome baby. She 
wished there were no such things as 
babies in the world. Saturday, she had 



to give up Annie Graham’s little tea- 
party; Monday afternoon, she had a 
]oretty book, that had to be returned the 
next day, and he wouldn’t let her read a 
line— here it was Wednesday, and it 
seemed to her that she had done nothing 
but take care of him for the last month. 

‘ ' If you could take him in the carriage 
— he’d he so much better for a change 
in the open air.” 

Mrs. Preston uttered this timidly. 
She was so ill and worn, and looked so 
tired, that, at any other time, her little 
daughter ’s heart would have been moved 
with pity. 

‘‘But I couldn’t go there, and I 
shouldn’t want to; they’d all call me 
nurse-maid. I don’t see why Ann can’t 
find some time to take care of the baby. 
She used to, I ’m sure. ’ ’ 


 


“My being sick has made so muck 
more work, you know/’ 

At this the baby gave a cry. Laura 
jerked him up from the cradle, and then 
he screamed. 

‘'You’re aiittle crosspatch.” 

‘‘Bring him to me,” said her mother. 

Laura felt a little ashamed then, and 
cuddled him up between her face and 
neck, and began to whisper softly to him. 
He was very sleepy, and soon shut his 
eyes. 

“I guess he will go to sleep again,” 
she said, in a gentler tone, and began 
walking up and down the room. Yet all 
the time she was thinking of the bright 
sunshine, and the smooth, velvety lawn 
where the girls were going to play cro- 
quet. 

“ Mother,” she said, presently. 


 


couldn’t we have some one come and 
take care of the baby while you are so 
poorly I There’s Jenny Briggs out of a 
place. ’ ’ 

‘‘Mrs. Sayre said Jenny was very 
careless ; that she wouldn ’t trust her with 
a baby. I think I shall be better 
soon. It is real hard for you; I’m 
sorry. ’ ’ 

Something in her mother’s voice 
touched Laura, but she was not in a 
mood to be very tender. Of course, it 
was hard to have to stay in the house all 
the time, and give up everything. 

She laid the baby back in his crib, and 
gave another longing glance out of the 
window. 

“I think you might go,” her mother 
said, presently; “it’s only four now, and 
if you could be back by a little after five. 


Jamie ouglit to take a good long nap; 
he hasn ’t slept hardly any to-day. ’ ’ 

‘ ' Oh ! I should like to so much. ’ ' 

Laura 's conscience checked her. She 
felt that she ought to stay in the house, 
in case she might be needed; hut there 
was Ann downstairs, and if the baby 
would sleep ! 

‘'Yes, you can go.’' 

Mrs. Preston felt that Laura had been 
confined a great deal lately, and the 
frowning face did not promise very 
pleasant companionship. However, it 
cleared up wonderfully now. 

‘‘Oh! thank you, mamma! Ifil be 
back real early. ' ’ 

Laura ran upstairs, and slipped on her 
white dress. Ann had begged her to 
save it nice for another Sunday, “the 
ruffles were so botherin’ to iron”; but it 


was the very ruffles that she liked. Then 
she gave her hair a brush, tied on her 
blue sash, and went down. She ought 
to go in and kiss poor, pale mamma; 
but then she might wake the baby. So 
she stole softly along, lingering a mo- 
ment on the porch. Was that sound the 
little rascal Jamie waking up again? 
No, she guessed not, and down the walk 
she ran. 

They had played one game when she 
reached Bell’s handsome house. She 
was very glad that she had dressed her- 
self so prettily, for here were Bell’s 
cousins, and Mrs. Cummings and some 
lady visitors were looking on. 

'I’m so glad you’ve come !” exclaimed 
Bell; '‘we had to take that stupid Sarah 
Gaines, who hardly knows a mallet from 
a bean-pole. Now, we’ll have some fun.” 



your day out, I suppose, Laura, 
drawled Bessie Livingston. heard 
that you'd turned child’s nurse.” 

That vexed Laura, and a heat flashed 
to her face. 

take care of my little brother some- 
times,” she said, haughtily; yet she 
wished in her heart that she didn’t have it 
to do. 

"Come, Blue, run to your place!” said 
Bell. 

They all went at it in great earnest. 
Laura was a capital player, generally, 
but this afternoon her hand didn’t seem 
very steady. She lost her patience 
easily; she felt flurried, and nervous, 
and warm, and found she was on the 
losing side. And then there was an un- 
comfortable misgiving tugging at her 
heart. If the baby should wake, if Ann 



was busy or out, and poor mamma did 
look unusually pale! She might have 
guessed that mamma had been worrying 
with the baby all day, when she said he 
had not slept any; but just then she did 
not want to think of any one besides 
herself. And now, she couldn’t help 
thinking, and the balls became confused 
in her mind. 

Until ten months before, Laura Pres- 
ton had been an only child, and, of 
course, indulged a good deal. She 
seemed so sweet and good-tempered al- 
ways, but it was because there had been 
nothing to try her. At first, she pro- 
nounced the baby splendid, and cared for 
nothing else— tended him, caressed him, 
did yards of tatting, crocheted him a 
blanket and a cap, and worked him a 
little skirt. Then her interest began to 



flag; he took so much time, and was 
really a great deal of trouble. 

For the last month, Mrs. Preston had 
been quite poorly, and the baby a greater 
charge. Laura grew tired of him, she 
secretly confessed to herself, though it 
did seem wicked. But it was hard to give 
up every moment. 

Mrs. Preston saw with pain that Laura 
was developing many selfish and un- 
amiable traits. Sometimes she won- 
dered whether it would be best to relieve 
her of all charge of the baby, or perse- 
vere until she had learned one of the hard 
lessons of life, to think of others for 
something besides pleasure. Yet, to do 
Laura justice, she had never been quite 
so cross as on this day. 

She didn’t enjoy the playing half as 
much as she expected. Bell thought she 




wasn’t trying at all, and did not care 
liow slie played, and presently the game 
came to an end. Lanra said she must go 
home, but Bell begged her to come in 
and see her new dresses. 

'‘How beautifully yours is made!” 
Mrs. Cummings said. ‘'Bell, Miss Lang 
must see this waist ; I ’d like one of yours 
puffed in that fashion.” 

So Bell took her into the dressmaker, 
and, somehow, the time passed rapidly. 
The clock struck six. 

‘‘Oh! I must go”; and Laura made a 
fresh start. 

Flying out of the gate, her skirt 
caught, and, in her haste, she couldn’t 
stop, so her beautiful dress, that she 
was so glad of having worn five minutes 
ago, now had a great, unsightly rent 
across one breadth. 


 


Laura uttered a passionate cry, more 
in anger than sorrow. The whole day 
had gone wrong, for that matter; but, 
first, a little girl had not been quite right 
in heart. 

The doctor’s carriage was standing 
before the door. He generally came in 
the morning, and a sudden fear seized 
the child. There was one of the neigh- 
bors with little Jamie in her arms. 

"Oh!” she said; ‘‘mamma—!’’ 

“Hush! dear — mamma is much worse; 
she has been bleeding at the lungs. This 
great baby is altogether too much for 
her; the doctor says she must have a 
nurse. ’ ’ 

Poor Laura! She seemed turning to 
stone. If she had not gone out!— and 
now, if mamma died, it would be all her 
fault. 


 


Jamie held out his dimpled hands with 
a smile. It seemed then as if her heart 
would break. Two hours ago she had 
thought him such a trial, and would have 
felt relieved if there had been no Jamie 
in the world— he loved her so much, too. 
She hid her face in his dress, and wept 
bitterly. 

Don’t cry, dear; she isn’t dangerous. 
I don’t exactly know, but if she keeps 
quiet, and isn ’t worried, she will get well 
again. Poor sister! tell her not to cry, 
Jamie.” 

Jamie patted the soft, curly head, and 
said,' '‘Ta-ta, ” as if he would comfort 
her. But Laura’s heart was so full that 
she ran off to her room, and buried her 
face in the pillow of her own little bed, 
wanting to beg God not to punish her as 
she deserved, but afraid even to pray. 

 


Presently, some one called her; it was 
Ann's voice, and, changing her dress, 
she went to the kitchen. 

‘ ' Oh, Miss Laura ! ’ ’ and Ann stopped, 
as she saw the pale, tear-stained face and 
swollen eyes. 

‘'When was mamma taken so hard?" 
she asked. 

‘‘About an hour ago. The baby's 
been very troublesome all day, and he's 
a heavy lift for a sick woman. I was 
going to ask you to do some errands. Miss 
Laura, but if youdl set the table. I'll
go.’ 

Laura was glad enough to do anything. 
Before she was through, the doctor went 
away, and Mrs. Brown came out with the 
baby. Then Laura heard a quick, 
familiar step. She waited with a beat- 
ing heart; but Ann returned, finished 




preparing the supper, and yet papa had 
not left the room. Baby began to worry, 
and Laura took him. When the dear 
little arms tightened round her neck, 
the quick tears rushed to her eyes 
again. How could she have thought 
him a trouble, and been glad to get 
away ! 

When Mr. Preston came in, he kissed 
Laura and Babie Jamie, asleep on her 
shoulder. She couldn’t eat or hardly 
speak, but listened to Mrs. Brown and 
papa. They didn’t seem to think Mrs. 
Preston so very ill, but Laura really was 
afraid she would die before morning — 
and what if she never kissed her again ! 
Then she remembered how she had 
slipped away in the afternoon, and her 
heart smote her bitterly enough. 

A long while after, everything in the 

 


house was quiet— baby sleeping soundly 
in bis crib, Mrs. Brown and the nurse in 
Mrs. Preston’s room, and Ann gone to 
bed — only poor Laura sitting in the 
kitchen alone. 

‘ ‘ My dear child ! ’ ’ her father said, en- 
tering the room. 

‘'Oh, papa!” She sprang up, and 
was clasped to his breast. 

' ‘ Hush ! my darling. Mamma is very 
comfortable, and not in any danger. 
All she needs is good care. She has 
worried too much with the baby, but we 
will have a nurse for him.” 

"Oh, papa! that is what I want 
to talk about. I’ve been so wicked; 
I don’t know as anyone can ever for- 
give me, and if mamma had died, I 
should always have felt as if T had killed 
her. ’ ’ 


 


‘‘Why, my child!’’ Mr. Preston began, 
in astonishment. 

“Yes, I ought to have stayed and taken 
care of the baby. I knew mamma was 
weak and sick, though she didn’t say that 
she had worried with him all day ; but it 
seemed to me that I hadn’t been any- 
where for ever and ever so long, and I 
did want to play croquet with the girls. 
I didn’t enjoy hardly a moment of it, 
though, and now I am so sorry that I 
went. ’ ’ 

Laura’s voice broke down entirely 
then, and she was sobbing in her father ’s 
arms. 

“My little girl,” he said, gravely, 
“this is a hard lesson, indeed. It is 
doubtful if mamma would have been 
quite so bad if she had not overtasked 
herself ; but the doctor said the bleeding 

 


was not from her lungs, and that it is 
really better she should give up, and 
have good care taken of her. We shall 
have a nurse for Master Jamie. I pro- 
posed this some time ago, but mamma 
thought it was best for you to have some 
little charge of him, seeing that he was 
your only brother. But it does confine 
you very much, so long as she is not well. 
Only, my little daughter ought to learn 
to think for others, or she will be in 
danger of growing up a selfish, un- 
amiable woman.’’ 

‘'Oh, papa! I don’t believe I ever 
shall forget again,” sobbed Laura. 
"And if mamma gets well — ” 

think she will. Let us both pray 
earnestly. ’ ’ 

Laura did not ask to see mamma that 
night. She determined to bear bravely 

 


the punishment she had brought upon 
herself, and she prayed a long while that 
she might be kept purer in heart, and 
learn to be unselfish. 

She did not forget the next morning. 
Laura was a neat, handy little girl, and 
could do a great deal when she chose. 
She helped Ann now, and took care of 
her brother in such a pretty, winsome 
manner, that Ann quite forgot the scold- 
ing she meant to give her— for the maid 
felt herself one of the family, she had 
been with them so long. 

Laura was glad at last to be able to 
go in and see her mamma. They had a 
tender talk about the incidents of the day 
before, and Mrs. Preston felt satisfied 
that they would make a lasting impres- 
sion upon her. 

I do not mean that Laura was alto- 


 


getlier perfect after that, for every- 
one has to try daily and honrly as 
long as he or she lives; bnt she tried 
to think of others, and to make them 
haj)py, and she found, as people always 
do, that she was the happier for it her- 
self. 

Mrs. Preston recovered, to Laura’s 
unbounded delight. They had a nurse 
for Jamie, but the little rogue thought 
his sister much to be preferred, and Mrs. 
Preston was thankful to see so cheerful 
a spirit growing up within her. If ever 
she felt tempted to fret, or felt a frown 
rising to her sunny brow, she tried to 
check it immediately by remembering 
the sad night she had passed when 
mamma was so ill. 

Ann could not help scolding about the 
torn dress, and Laura took it very 



meekly. It was part of her lesson, she 
admitted— the one all children have to 
learn— that their own way may not be 
the best, even if they can be indulged 
in it. 



HERE’S something to buy sugarplums 
with,” Uncle Mark said, 
