
"I prefer to stand, Monsieur."

"As you please.  Pardon me, but I am inclined to sit down."

"Will you be brief?"

"As possible."  The vicomte took in a long breath, reached a hand into
his breast and drew out a folded paper, oblong in shape.

At the sight of this madame's eyes first narrowed, then grew wide and
round.

"Begin, Monsieur," a suspicion of tremor in her tones.

"Well, then: fate or fortune has made you free; fate or fortune has
brought you into this wilderness.  Here, civilization becomes less fine
in the grain; men reach forth toward objects brusquely and boldly.
Well, Madame, you know that for the past year I have loved you silently
and devotedly. . . ."

"If that is all, Monsieur . . . !" scornfully.

"Patience!"  He tapped the paper with his hand.  "Is there not
something about the shape of this paper, Madame, that is familiar?
Does it not recall to your mind something of vital importance?"

Madame placed her hand upon the back of the chair and the ends of her
fingers grew white from the pressure.

"The great Beaufort has scrawled negligently across this paper; the
sly, astute Gaston.  My name is here, and so is yours, Madame.  My name
would never have been here but for your beauty, which was a fine lure.
Listen.  As for my name, there lives in the Rue Saint Martin a friend
who plays at alchemy.  He has a liquid which will dissolve ink, erase
it, obliterate it, leaving the paper spotless.  Thus it will be easy
for me to substitute another in place of mine.  Mazarin seeks you,
Madame, either to place your beautiful neck upon the block or to immure
you for life in prison.  Madame, this paper represents two things: your
death-warrant or your marriage contract.  Which shall it be?"




CHAPTER XXI

AN INGENIOUS IDEA AND A WOMAN'S WIT

Madame sat down.  There was an interval of silence, during which the
candles seemed to move strangely from side to side, and the dark face
beyond was blurred and indistinct; all save the eyes, which, like the
lidless orbs of a snake, held and fascinated her.  Vaguely she
comprehended the peril of a confused mind, and strove to draw upon that
secret inward strength which discovers itself in crises.

"How did you obtain that paper, Monsieur?"

The calm of her voice, though he knew it to be forced, surprised him.
"How did I obtain it?  By strategy."

"Ah! not by the sword, then?" leaning upon the table, her fingers alone
betraying her agitation.  "Not by the sword, and the mask, and the grey
cloak?"

As if the question afforded him infinite amusement, the vicomte laughed.

"Would I be here?" he said.  "Would I have ventured into this desert?
Rather would I not have spoken yonder in France?  I shall tell you how
I obtained it . . . after we are married."

Madame raised a hand and nervously tapped a knuckle against her teeth.

"Which is it to be, Madame?" caressing the paper.

"Monsieur, you are not without foresight and reason.  Have you
contemplated what I should become in time, forced into a marriage with
a man whom I should not love, with whom I should always associate the
sword, and the mask, and the grey cloak?"

"I have speculated upon that side of it," easily, "and am willing to
take the risk.  In time you would forget all about the sword and the
cloak, since they can in no wise be associated with me.  Eventually you
would grow to love me."

"Either you understand nothing about women, or you are guilty of gross
fatuity."

"I understand woman tolerably well, and I have rubbed against too many
edges to be fatuous."

"Indeed, I believe you have much to learn."

"If I showed this paper to the governor of Quebec . . ."

"Which you will not do, there being no magic liquid this side of
France."

"It would be simple to cut out the name."

"You would still have to explain to Monsieur de Lauson how you came
into possession of it."

"Madame, the more I listen to you, the more determined I am that you
shall become my wife.  I admire the versatility of your mind, the
coolness of your logic.  Not one woman in a thousand could talk to so
much effect, when imprisonment or death . . ."

"Or marriage!"

". . . faced her as surely as it faces you."

"Permit me to see the paper, Monsieur."

Some men would have surrendered to the seductiveness of her voice; not
so the vicomte.

"Scarcely, Madame," smiling.

"How am I to know that it is genuine?  Allow me to glance at it?"

"And witness you tear it up, or . . . burn it like a love-letter?"
shrewdly.

Madame stiffened in her chair.

"Have you ever burned a love-letter, Madame?" asked the vicomte.

Madame turned pale from rage and shame.  The rage nearly overcame the
fear and terror which she was so admirably concealing.

"Have you?" pitilessly.

"You . . . ?"

"Yes," intuitively.  He touched the particles of burnt paper and
laughed.

"You were in this room?"

"I was.  It was not intentional eavesdropping; my word of honor, as to
that.  I came in here, having an unimportant engagement with a friend.
He was late.  While I waited, in walked Monsieur le Chevalier, then
yourself."

"Monsieur, you might have made known your presence."

"It is true that I might; but I should have missed a very fine comedy.
Madame, I compliment you.  How well you have kept undiscovered, even
undreamt of, this charming intrigue!"

Madame gazed at the door and wondered if she could reach it before he
could.

"So, sometimes you are called 'Diane'?  You are no longer the huntress;
you are Daphne!"

"Monsieur!"

"And you would turn into a laurel tree!  My faith, Madame, it was a
charming scene!  You are as erudite as a student fresh from the
Sorbonne."

"Monsieur, this is far away from the subject."

"Let me see; there was a line worthy of Monsieur de Saumaise at his
best.  Ah, yes!  'I kiss your handsome grey eyes a thousand times'!  Ah
well, let us give the Chevalier credit; he certainly has a handsome
pair of eyes, as many a dame and demoiselle at court will attest.  It
was truly a delightful letter; only the music of it was somewhat
inharmonious to my ears."

"Take care, Monsieur, that I do not choose the block.  I am not wholly
without courage."

"Pardon me!  Jealousy has an evil sting.  I ask you to pardon me.
Besides, it was evident that you had some definite purpose in trifling
with the Chevalier.  Well, he is out of the game."

"Do you know what brought him here?" veering into a new channel to lull
the vicomte's caution.  She had an idea.

"I do; but it would not sound pleasant in your ears."

"He followed . . ."

"A woman?" with quick anticipation.  "I do not say so.  I brought him
into our conversation merely to prove to you that I was more in your
confidence than you dreamed of."

Madame drew her fingers across her brow.

"Does any one else know that you have this paper?"  Madame manoeuvered
her chair, bringing it as close as possible to the table.  Less than
three feet intervened between her and the vicomte.

"You and I alone are in the secret, Madame."

"If I should call for help?"

"Call, Madame; many will hear.  But this paper, and the general fear of
Mazarin since the Fronde, and the fact that I have practically
obliterated my signature by scratching a pen across it . . .  Well, if
you think it wise."

Her arms dropped upon the table, and the despair on her face deceived
him.  "Monsieur, this is unmanly, cruel!"

"All is fair in love and war.  My love compels me to use force.  What
if this document had fallen into D'Hérouville's hands?  He would have
gone about it less gently."

Madame bent her head upon her arms, and the candles threw a golden
sparkle into her hair.  The vicomte's heart beat fast, and his hand
stole forth and hovered above that beautiful head but dared not touch
it.  Presently madame looked up.  There were tears in her eyes, but the
vicomte did not know that they were tears of rage.

"Think, Madame," he said eagerly; "is a dungeon more agreeable to you
than I am, and would not a dungeon be worse than death?"

Madame roughly brushed her eyes.  "You speak of love; I doubt your
sincerity."

"I love you so well that I would kill D'Hérouville and De Saumaise and
Du Cévennes, all of them, rather than that one of them should possess
the right to call you his."

"But can you not see how impossible life with you would be after this
night?  I should hold you in perpetual fear."

"I will find a way to overcome that fear."

"But each time I look at you would recall this humiliating moment.  I
am a proud woman, Monsieur, and I suffer now from humiliation as I
never suffered before;" all of which was true.  "I am a Montbazon; it
is very close to royal blood.  If I were forced to marry you, you would
certainly live to regret it."

"As I said, I am willing to risk it."  Then his voice softened.  "Ah,
but I love you!  'Gabrielle, Gabrielle'!  That name is the ebb and flow
of my heart's blood.  Promise, Madame, promise; for I shall do as I
say.  Will you enjoy the dungeon?  I think not.  Do not doubt that
there is an element of greatness in this heart of mine.  With you as my
wife I shall become great; D'Halluys will be a name to live among those
of the great captains."

Madame locked her hands, her fingers twisting and untwisting . . .  To
gain possession of that paper!

"How often I watched you in Paris," he went on, "wondering at first who
you were, and then, knowing, why you were not at court with your
brilliant mother.  I have seen you so many times in the gardens, just
as twilight dissolved the brightness of day.  I have often followed
you, but always at a respectful distance.  And one night the happiness
was mine to meet you at the hôtel of Monsieur le Comte.  Oh!  I know
perfectly well the rumors you have heard regarding certain exploits.
But remember, I have grown up in camps, and soldiers are neither
careful nor provident.  Poverty dogged my footsteps; and we must live
how we can.  No good woman has ever crossed my path to lighten its
shadows, to smooth its roughness.  Environment is the mold that forms
the man.  I am what circumstance has made me.  You, Madame, can change
all this."

He leaned over the table, his eyes shining, his face glowing with love
which, though half lawless, was nevertheless the best that was in him.
Another woman might have marked the beauty on his face; but madame saw
only the power of it, the power which she hated and feared.  Besides,
his love in no wise lessened his caution.  His left hand was wound
tightly around the paper.

"Monsieur, you are without reason!"

"Love has crowded reason out."

"Your proposal is cruel and terrible."

"It is your angle of vision."

"I had thought to find peace and security; alas!"

"If I were positive that you loved some one else . . ." meditatively.

"Well?"

"I should hunt him out and kill him.  There would then be no obstacle."

"You will do as you say: consign me to imprisonment or death?"

"As much as I love you.  You have your choice."

"Give me but a day," she pleaded.

"Truthfully, I dare not."

"But this paper; I must see it!" wildly.

The vicomte's hand tightened.  "I will place the paper in your hands on
the day of our marriage, unreservedly.  You will then have the power to
commit me, if so you will.  Come, Madame; it grows on toward night.
Which is it to be?  A Montbazon's word is as good as a king's louis."

"Once it has been given!"

As a cat leaps, as the shadow of a bird passes, madame's hand flew out
and grasped the projecting end of the paper.  The short struggle was
nothing; the red marks on her wrists were painless.  Swiftly she rose
and stepped, back, breathing quickly but with triumph.  He made as
though to leap, but in that moment she had smoothed out the crumpled
paper.  A glance, and it fluttered to the table.  Her laughter was very
close to tears.

"Monsieur le Vicomte, what a clever wooer you are!" She fled toward the
door, opened it, and was gone.

The vicomte sat down.

"Truly, that woman must be mine!"

He took up the paper, smoothed it, and laughed.  The paper was totally
blank.




CHAPTER XXII

D'HEROUVILLE THREATENS AND MADAME FINDS A DROLL BOOK

The next morning the vicomte went to the hospital to inquire into the
state of the Comte d'Hérouville's health.  He found that gentleman
walking back and forth in the ward.  There was little of the invalid
about him save for the pallor on his cheeks, which provided proof that
his blood was not yet of its accustomed thickness.  At the sight of the
vicomte he neither frowned nor smiled; the expression on his face
remained unchanged, but he ceased his pacing.  The two men contemplated
each other, and the tableau lasted for a minute.

"Well, Monsieur?" said D'Hérouville, calmly.

The vicomte was genuinely surprised at the strides toward completeness
which D'Hérouville had made.  An ordinary man would still have been
either in bed or in a chair.  But none of this surprise appeared on the
Vicomte's face.  He had come with a purpose, and he went at it directly.

"Count," he replied, "you and I have been playing hide and seek in the
woods, needlessly and purposelessly."

"I scarce comprehend your words or your presence."

"I will explain at once.  Madame de Brissac has made sorry fools of us
all.  She is here in Quebec."

"What?"  The pain caused by the sudden intake of breath stooped
D'Hérouville's shoulders.

"I have the honor, then, of bringing you the news?  Yes," easily,
"Madame de Brissac is in Quebec.  Why, is as yet unknown to me."

"What is your purpose in bringing me this lie?" asked D'Hérouville,
recovering.  "I have been surrounded by lies ever since I stepped foot
in Rochelle.  I shall kill Monsieur de Saumaise a week hence."

"And you do not wish satisfaction from me?" slyly.

A fury leaped into D'Hérouville's eyes, but suddenly died away.  "I am
living only with that end in view.  It was very clever of you to make
them think you were taking up the Chevalier's cause.  You hoodwinked
them nicely."

The vicomte played with the ends of his mustache, as was his habit.

"You say Madame de Brissac is in Quebec ?"

"Yes.  And presently your own eyes shall prove the truth of my
statement."

D'Hérouville glanced at his sword, which hung upon the wall.  "In
Quebec," he mused.  "A lie in this case would be objectless."

"As you see.  And would you believe it, there has been a love intrigue
between her and the Chevalier!  There's a woman, now!  How cleverly she
juggled with us all!"

"The Chevalier?"

"Yes.  How you love that man!  Droll, is it not?  She has been
masquerading, and to this day he hasn't the slightest idea who she is."

"Come, now, Vicomte," with assumed good nature; "your purpose; out with
it."

"I am not a man to waste time, certainly."

"You will give me satisfaction, then?"

"You have but to name the day.  The truth is, under the present
circumstances the world has suddenly contracted."

D'Hérouville nodded.  "That is to say, it is no longer large enough for
both of us.  I comprehend that perfectly."

"As I knew you would.  I am exceedingly chagrined," continued the
vicomte, "at seeing you walking above the sod when, by a little more
care on my part, you would be resting neatly under it.  But at that
time I had no other idea than temporarily to disable you.  Could we but
see into the future sometimes!"

"In your place I should recoil from the gift."  The count was shaking
with rage.  "I shall not lose my temper when next we meet.  If you were
not careful, I was equally careless."

"Within a week's time, Monsieur.  By that date you will be as strong as
a bull.  Your vitality is remarkable.  But listen.  Madame de Brissac
shall be my wife.  First, I love her for herself; and then because De
Brissac left some handsome property."

"Which has Mazarin's seals of confiscation upon it," mockingly.

"They can be removed," imperturbably.  "I tell you frankly that I shall
overcome all obstacles to reach my end.  You are one of the obstacles
which must be removed, and I am here this morning expressly to acquaint
you with this fact."

"Perhaps I shall kill you."

"There will be the Chevalier."

"Measure swords with him?" sneeringly.  "I believe not."

"There will still remain Monsieur de Saumaise, who, for all his rhymes,
handles a pretty blade."

D'Hérouville snapped his fingers.  "His death I have already
determined."

"Besides, if I read the Chevalier rightly he will force you.  You
laughed too loudly."

"I will laugh again, even more loudly."

"He will strike you . . . even as I did."

D'Hérouville spat.  "Leave me, Monsieur.  My wound may open again, and
that would put me back."

"I advise you to take the air to-day."

"I shall do so."

They were very courtly in those old days.

So D'Hérouville went forth to take the air that afternoon and
incidentally to pay his respects in person to Madame de Brissac.
Fortune favored him, for he met her coming down the path from the upper
town.  He lifted his hat gravely and barred her path.

"Madame, my delight at seeing you is inexpressible."

Madame's countenance signified that the delight was his alone; she
shared no particle of it.  She knew that eventually their paths would
cross again, but she had prepared no plans to meet this certainty.  Her
gaze swerved from his and rested longingly on the Henri IV in the
harbor.  She had determined to return to France upon it.  The amazing
episode of the night before convinced her that her safety lay rather in
France than in Canada.  But she had confided this determination to no
one, not even to Anne.

"Have you no welcome, Madame?"

"My husband's friends," she said, "were not always mine; and I see no
reason why you should continue further to address me."

"De Brissac?  Bah!  I was never his friend."

"So much the more doubt upon your honesty;" and she moved as if to pass.

"Madame, D'Halluys told me this morning that he is determined that you
shall be his wife."

"The vicomte's confidence is altogether too large."  She laughed, and
made another ineffectual attempt to pass.  "Monsieur, you are detaining
me."

"That is correct.  I have much to say to you.  In the first place, you
played us all for a pack of fools, and all the while you were carrying
on an intrigue with that fellow who calls himself the Chevalier du
Cévennes."

Madame's lips closed firmly, and a circle of color spotted her cheeks.
There had been times recently when she regretted De Brissac's death.

"What have you to say, Madame?" he demanded.

"To you?  Nothing, save that if you do not at once stand aside I shall
call for aid.  Your impertinence is even greater than Monsieur
d'Halluys'.  I wonder at your courage in thus addressing me."

"I am not a patient man, Madame," coming closer.  "I have publicly
vowed my love for you, and Heaven nor hell shall keep me from you."

"Not even myself?  Come, Monsieur," wrathfully, "you are acting like a
fool or a boy.  Women such as I am are not won in this braggart
fashion.  Certainly you must admit that I have something to say in
regard to the disposition of my hand.  And let me say this at once: I
shall wed no man; and were either you or Monsieur le Comte the last man
in the world, I should run away and hide.  Stand aside."

"And if I should use force?" throwing aside the reins of self-control.

"Force, force!" flinging wide her hands; "you speak to me of force!
Monsieur, you are not a fool, but a madman."

"But we are still tender toward the Chevalier?" snarling.

"The least I can say of Monsieur le Chevalier is that he is a
gentleman."

"A gentleman?  Ho! that is rich.  A gentleman!"

The path was at this point almost too narrow for her to walk around
him; so she waited without replying.

"And do not forget, Madame, that you are a fugitive from justice, and
that a word to Monsieur de Lauson . . ."

"I dare you to speak, Monsieur," with growing anger.  "Have you no
bogus paper to hold over my head?  Are you about to play the vicomte's
trick second-hand?"

"I know nothing about his tricks, but I shall kill him at an early
date."

Madame's shrug said plainly that it mattered nothing to her.  "Once
more, will you stand aside, or must I call?"

"Call, Madame!"  His violence got the better of him, and he seized her
wrist.  "Call to the fellow who calls himself the Chevalier; call!"

"Do I hear some one calling my name?" said a voice not far away.

D'Hérouville looked over madame's shoulder, while madame turned with
relief.  She quickly released her wrist and sped some distance up the
path, passing the Chevalier, who did not stop till he stood face to
face with D'Hérouville.

"You were about to remark?" began the Chevalier, a frank and honest
hatred in his eyes.

The count eyed him contemptuously.  "Stand out of the way, you . . ."

"Do not speak that word aloud, Monsieur," interrupted the Chevalier,
gloomily, "or I will force it down your throat, though we both tumble
over the cliff."

D'Hérouville knew the Périgny blood well enough to believe that the
Chevalier was in earnest.  "It would be your one opportunity," he said;
"for you do not suppose I shall do you the honor to cross swords with
you."

"Most certainly I do.  You laughed that night, and no man shall laugh
at me and boast of it."

"I shall always laugh," and the count's laughter, loud and insulting,
drifted to where madame stood.

There was something so sinister in the echo that she became chilled.
She watched the two men, fascinated by she knew not what.

"You shall die for that laugh," said the Chevalier, paling.

"By the cliff, then, but never by the sword."

"By the sword.  I shall challenge you at the first mess you attend.  If
you refuse and state your reasons, I promise to knock you down.  If you
persist in refusing, I shall slap your face wherever and whenever we
chance to meet.  That is all I have to say to you; I trust that it is
explicit."

D'Hérouville's eyes were full of venom.  "It wants only the poet to
challenge me, and the circle will be complete.  I will fight the poet
and the vicomte; they come from no doubtful source.  As for you, I will
do you the honor to hire a trooper to take my place.  Fight you?  You
make me laugh against my will!  And as for threats, listen to me.
Strike me, and by the gods!  Madame shall learn who you are, or,
rather, who you pretend to be."  The count whistled a bar of music,
swung about cavalierly, and retraced his steps toward the lower town.

The Chevalier stared at his retreating figure till it sank below the
level of the ridge.  He was without redress; he was impotent;
D'Hérouville would do as he said.  God!  He struck his hands together
in his despair, forgetful that madame saw his slightest movement.  When
he recollected her, he moved toward her.  Madame.  D'Hérouville had
called her madame.

On seeing him approach her first desire was to move in the same
direction; that is to say, to keep the distance at its present measure.
A thousand questions flitted through her brain.  She had heard a
sentence which so mystified her that the impulse to flee went as
suddenly as it came.  She succeeded in composing her features by the
time he arrived at her side.

"Madame," he said, quietly, "whither were you bound?"

She looked at him blankly.  For the life of her she could not tell at
that moment what had been her destination!  The situation struck her as
so absurd that she could barely stifle the hysterical laughter which
rushed to her lips.

"I . . . I will return to the château," she finally replied.

"The count was annoying you?" walking beside her.

"Thanks to you, Monsieur, the annoyance is past."

Some ground was gone over in silence.  This silence disturbed her far
more than the sound of his voice.  It gave him a certain mastery.  So
she spoke.

"You said 'Madame'," tentatively.

"Such was the title D'Hérouville applied."  And again he became silent.

"Did he tell you my name?" with a sudden and unexpected fierceness.

"No, Madame; he did not speak your name.  But he knows it; while I, who
love you honorably and more than my life, I must remain in ignorance.
An expedition is to start soon, Madame, and as I shall join it, my
presence here will no longer afford you annoyance."

"Wherefore this rage, Madame, shining in your beautiful eyes, thinning
your lips, widening your nostrils?"

Madame was in a rage; but not even the promise of salvation would have
forced the cause from her lips.  O for Paris, where, lightly and
wittily, she could humble this man!  Here wit was stale on the tongue,
and every one went about with a serious purpose.  She went on, her chin
tilted, her gaze lofty.  The wind tossed her hair, there were phantom
roses on her cheeks which bloomed and withered and bloomed yet again.
Diane, indeed: Diane of the green Aegean sea and the marbles of Athens!

"You need go no farther, Monsieur.  It is quite unnecessary, as I know
the way perfectly."

"I prefer to see you safe inside the château," with quiet determination.

Was this the gallant who had attracted her fancy?  This was not the way
he had made love in former days.  Slyly her eyes revolved in his
direction.  His temples were grey!  She had not noted this change till
now.  Grey; and the face, tanned even in the shaven jaws, was careworn.
There was a gesture which escaped his notice.  Why had she been guilty
of the inexcusable madness, the inexplicable folly, of this voyage?

"Madame, this is your door."

The Chevalier stepped aside and uncovered.

"Monsieur, you have lost a valuable art."  There was a fleeting glance,
and she vanished within, leaving him puzzled and astonished by the
unexpected softening of her voice.  How long he stood there, with his
gaze fixed upon the vacant doorway, he never knew.  What did she mean?

"Well, Paul?"  And Victor, having come up behind, laid his hand on the
Chevalier's arm.  "Do you know her, then?" nodding toward the door.

"Know her?"  The Chevalier faced his comrade.  "Would to God, lad, I
did not, for she has made me the most unhappy of men."

The poet trembled in terror at the light within.  "She is . . . ?"

"Yes, Diane; Diane, whose name I murmur in my dreams, waking or
sleeping."

"She?" in half a whisper.  "Her name?"

"Her name?  No!  I know her as a mystery; as Tantalus thirsting for the
fruit which hangs ever beyond the reach, I know her; as a woman who is
not what she seems, always masked, with or without the cambric.  Know
her?" with a laugh full of despair.

Victor was a man of courage and resource.  "I know where there's a
two-quart bottle of burgundy, Paul.  Bah! life will look cheerful
enough through that mellow red.  Come with me."

The Chevalier followed him to the lower town, where, in a room in one
of the warehouses, they sat down to the wine.

"Let the women go hang, lad, one and all!" cried the Chevalier, after
his sixth and final glass.

"Let them go hang!"  But Victor did not confide; not he, loyal friend!
And when he held his emptied glass on high, sighed, and dropped it on
the earthen floor, the Chevalier did not know that his comrade's heart
lay shattered with the glass.  Gallant poet!


As madame threaded her way through the dim corridor, but one thought
occupied her mind.  It echoed and re-echoed--"Or, rather, what you
pretend to be."  What did D'Hérouville mean by that?  To what did the
Chevalier pretend?  Her foot struck something.  It was a book.
Absently she stooped and picked it up, carrying it to her room.  "Or,
rather, what you pretend to be."  If only she had heard the first part
of the sentence, or what had led to it!  The Chevalier was gradually
becoming as much of a mystery to her as she was to him.  There had been
a sea-change; he was no longer a fop; there was grey in his hair; he
was a man.  In her room there was light from the sun.  Carelessly she
glanced at the book.  It was grey with dust, which she blew away.
Evidently it had lain some time in the corridor.  She flapped the
covers.  The title, dim and worn, smiled drolly up.  She blushed, and
abruptly laid the offending volume on the table.  The merry Vicar of
Meudon was not wholly acceptable to her woman's mind.  To whom did it
belong, this foundling book?  With a grimace which would have caused
Rabelais to smile, she turned back the cover.

"The Chevalier's!"  To what did he pretend?  "I shall send it back to
his room.  Gabrielle, Gabrielle, thou wert a fool, and a fool's folly
has brought you to Quebec!  A nun?  I should die!  Why did I come?  In
mercy's name, why? . . .  A letter?"  An oblong envelope, lying on the
floor, attracted her attention.  She took it up with a deal more
curiosity than she had the book.  "To Monsieur le Marquis de Périgny,"
she read, "to be delivered into his hands at my death."  She studied
the scrawl.  It was not the Chevalier's; and yet, how strangely
familiar to her eyes!  Should she send it directly to the marquis or to
the son?  She debated for several moments.  Then she touched the bell
and summoned the woman whom the governor had kindly placed at her
service.

"Take this book and letter to Monsieur du Cévennes, and if he is not
there, leave it in his room."  Her lack of curiosity saved her.  Some
women would have opened the letter, read, and been destroyed.  But
madame's guiding star was undimmed.

It was just before the evening mess that the Chevalier, on entering his
room, saw the volume and the letter.  He gave his attention immediately
to the letter; and, became strangely fascinated.  It was addressed to
his father!  "To Monsieur le Marquis de Périgny, to be delivered into
his hands at my death."  Whose death?  The Chevalier rested the letter
on the palm of his hand.  How came it here?  He inspected the envelope.
It was unsealed.  He balanced it, first on one hand, then, on the
other.  Was it the wine that caused the shudder?  Whose death? kept
ringing through his brain.  How the gods must have smiled as they
played with the fate of this man!  Terror and tragedy, and only an
opaque sheet of paper between!  Whose death?  The envelope was old, the
ink was faded.  What was written within?  Did the contents in any way
concern him?  It was within a finger's reach.  But he hesitated, as a
blind man hesitates when the guiding hand is suddenly withdrawn.  "To
Monsieur le Marquis de Périgny, to be delivered into his hands at my
death."

"It is his, not mine; let him read it.  Breton, lad, here's your
Rabelais, come back I know not how.  But here is a letter which you
will deliver to Jehan, who in turn will see that it reaches its owner."

Thus, the gods, having had their fill of play, relented.




CHAPTER XXIII

A MARQUIS DONS HIS BALDRIC

They were men, the marquis and his contemporaries.  They were born in
rough times, they lived and died roughly.  They were men who made
France what it was in life and is to-day in history, resplendent.  The
marquis never went about his affairs impetuously; he calculated this
and balanced that.  When he arrived at a conclusion or formed a
purpose, it was definite.  He never swerved nor retreated.  To-night he
had formed a purpose, and he proceeded toward it directly, as was his
custom.

"Jehan, my campaign rapier," he said.

"Campaign rapier, Monsieur!" repeated the astonished lackey.  Monsieur
le Marquis had not worn that weapon in almost ten years.

"Take care, Jehan; you know that I am not particularly fond of
repeating commands.  Certainly my old basket-hilt took the journey with
me."

Jehan went rummaging among his master's personal effects, and soon
returned.  He buckled on the marquis's shoulder a worn baldric pendent
to which was the famous basket-sword which had earned for its owner the
sobriquet of "Prince of a hundred duels."

"It has grown heavy since the last time I put it on," observed the
marquis, thoughtfully, weighing the blade on his palms.  "Those were
merry days," reminiscently.

"Monsieur goes abroad to-night?" essayed the lackey, experiencing an
old-time thrill.

"Yes, but alone.  Now, a cup of wine undiluted.  Monsieur de Leviston
is still in the hospital?"

"Yes, Monsieur."

"Through the kindly offices of Monsieur de Saumaise."

"Who is a gallant fellow."

To this Monsieur le Marquis readily agreed.  "But Monsieur d'Hérouville
is no longer confined.  I saw him abroad this afternoon."

"They say that he is a furious swordsman, Monsieur," ventured Jehan,
trembling.

The marquis threw a keen glance at his servant.  "What did they say of
me, even ten years ago?"

"You had no peer in all France, Monsieur . . . ten years ago."

The marquis smiled.  "I have grown thin in ten years, that is all."

"Shall you leave any commands, Monsieur?"

"You may have the evening to yourself, and don't return till midnight."

Jehan bowed.  There was nothing for him to say.

At dinner the marquis was unusually brilliant and witty.  He dazzled
the governor and his ladies, and unbent so far as to accept four
glasses of burgundy.  On one side sat Anne de Vaudemont, on the other
the governor's son, and directly opposite, Madame de Brissac, an
unnamed mystery to them all save Anne.  Madame, despite her antagonism
and the terror lest she be discovered and unmasked by those remarkable
grey eyes, found herself irresistibly drawn toward and fascinated by
this remarkable exponent of a past epoch.  She forgot the stories she
had heard regarding his past, she forgot the sinister shadow he had
cast over her own life, she forgot all save that without such men as
this there would and could be no history.  And she was quite ignorant
of the fact that her scrutiny was being returned in kind.

"Madame," he asked, "have I not met you somewhere in wide and beautiful
France?"

"France is wide, as you say.  I do not recollect having seen you before
taking passage on the Henri IV."

He felt instinctively that she had immediately erected a barrier
between them; not from her words, but from their hidden sense.  He at
once turned to Anne and recounted an anecdote relating to her
distinguished grandsire.  But covertly he watched madame; watched the
half-drooping eyelids, the shadow of a dimple in her left cheek, the
curving throat, the shimmering ringlet which half obscured the perfect
ear.  He had seen this face before, or one as like it as the reflection
of the moon upon placid water is like the moon itself.  Now and then he
frowned, remembering his purpose.  But why was this young woman, who
was fit to grace a palace, why was she here incognito?  Ah!

"Madame, have you met Monsieur le Chevalier du Cévennes, my son?"

Anne trembled for her friend.

"I have noticed him, Monsieur.  Is he anything like you, as you were in
your youth?"  It was admirable, but not even Anne dreamed of the
delicacy of the thread which held together madame's tones.

"Modesty compels me to remain silent," replied the marquis.

"And how goes Mazarin's foreign policy?" asked De Lauson.

"Politics is a weed which I have cast out of my garden, your
Excellency," said the marquis, laughing.

Madame had a grateful thought for the governor, and she regretted that
she could not express it aloud.  He had changed the current from a
dangerous channel.

It was the marquis who opened the door for the ladies; it was the
marquis who said good night with an inflection which gave it a new
meaning; it was the marquis who intruded into madame's thoughts,
causing her partly to forget the letter and the broken sentence of
D'Hérouville's.

"What an extraordinary man he is, that marquis!" was Anne's comment as
they mounted the stairs.

"Monsieur le Chevalier has yet a good deal to learn from his father.
See the moon, Anne; how beautiful it is!"

"Your Excellency," began the marquis, resuming his seat, "where may I
find Monsieur le Comte d'Hérouville this evening?"

"I am at a loss to say," was the reply, "unless he is at the hospital,
which I understand he left this day."

"He is not here at the château, then?"

"Not at my invitation," tersely.  "I will, however, undertake to find
him for you."

"I shall be grateful."

So the governor despatched an orderly, who returned within half an hour
with the information that Monsieur le Comte was waiting in the
citadel's parade.  The marquis rose.

"Monsieur, my thanks; your Excellency will excuse me, as I have
something important to say to Monsieur d'Hérouville."

