"Miss Holroyd laughed.

"'Now I never imagined that authors were clever except in print,' she
said.

"She was a most extraordinary girl.

"'I suppose,' she observed, after a moment's silence--'I suppose I am
taking you to my father.'

"'Delighted!' I mumbled. 'H'm! I had the honor of meeting Professor
Holroyd in Paris.'

"'Yes; he bailed you and Jack out,' said Miss Holroyd, serenely.

"The silence was too painful to last.

"'Captain McPeek is an interesting man,' I said. I spoke more loudly
than I intended. I may have been nervous.

"'Yes,' said Daisy Holroyd, 'but he has a most singular hotel clerk.'

"'You mean Mr. Frisby?'

"'I do.'

"'Yes,' I admitted, 'Mr. Frisby is queer. He was once a bill-poster.'

"'I know it!' exclaimed Daisy Holroyd, with some heat. 'He ruins
landscapes whenever he has an opportunity. Do you know that he has a
passion for bill-posting? He has; he posts bills for the pure pleasure
of it, just as you play golf, or tennis, or squash.'

"'But he's a hotel clerk now,' I said; 'nobody employs him to post
bills.'

"'I know it! He does it all by himself for the pure pleasure of it.
Papa has engaged him to come down here for two weeks, and I dread it,'
said the girl.

"What Professor Holroyd might want of Frisby I had not the faintest
notion. I suppose Miss Holroyd noticed the bewilderment in my face,
for she laughed and nodded her head twice.

"'Not only Mr. Frisby, but Captain McPeek also,' she said.

"'You don't mean to say that Captain McPeek is going to close his
hotel!' I exclaimed.

"My trunk was there. It contained guarantees of my respectability.

"'Oh no; his wife will keep it open,' replied the girl. 'Look! you can
see papa now. He's digging.'

"'Where?' I blurted out.

"I remembered Professor Holroyd as a prim, spectacled gentleman, with
close-cut, snowy beard and a clerical allure. The man I saw digging
wore green goggles, a jersey, a battered sou'wester, and hip-boots of
rubber. He was delving in the muck of the salt meadow, his face
streaming with perspiration, his boots and jersey splashed with
unpleasant-looking mud. He glanced up as we approached, shading his
eyes with a sunburned hand.

"'Papa, dear,' said Miss Holroyd, 'here is Jack's friend, whom you
bailed out of Mazas.'

"The introduction was startling. I turned crimson with mortification.
The professor was very decent about it; he called me by name at once.
Then he looked at his spade. It was clear he considered me a nuisance
and wished to go on with his digging.

"'I suppose,' he said, 'you are still writing?'

"'A little,' I replied, trying not to speak sarcastically. My output
had rivalled that of 'The Duchess'--in quantity, I mean.

"'I seldom read--fiction,' he said, looking restlessly at the hole in
the ground.

"Miss Holroyd came to my rescue.

"'That was a charming story you wrote last,' she said. 'Papa should
read it--you should, papa; it's all about a fossil.'

"We both looked narrowly at Miss Holroyd. Her smile was guileless.

"'Fossils!' repeated the professor. 'Do you care for fossils?'

"'Very much,' said I.

"Now I am not perfectly sure what my object was in lying. I looked at
Daisy Holroyd's dark-fringed eyes. They were very grave.

"'Fossils,' said I, 'are my hobby.'

"I think Miss Holroyd winced a little at this. I did not care. I went
on:

"'I have seldom had the opportunity to study the subject, but, as a
boy, I collected flint arrow-heads--"

"'Flint arrow-heads!' said the professor coldly.

"'Yes; they were the nearest things to fossils obtainable,' I replied,
marvelling at my own mendacity.

"The professor looked into the hole. I also looked. I could see
nothing in it. 'He's digging for fossils,' thought I to myself.

"'Perhaps,' said the professor, cautiously, 'you might wish to aid me
in a little research--that is to say, if you have an inclination for
fossils.' The double-entendre was not lost upon me.

"'I have read all your books so eagerly,' said I, 'that to join you,
to be of service to you in any research, however difficult and
trying, would be an honor and a privilege that I never dared to hope
for.'

"'That,' thought I to myself, 'will do its own work.'

"But the professor was still suspicious. How could he help it, when he
remembered Jack's escapades, in which my name was always blended!
Doubtless he was satisfied that my influence on Jack was evil. The
contrary was the case, too.

"'Fossils,' he said, worrying the edge of the excavation with his
spade--'fossils are not things to be lightly considered.'

"'No, indeed!' I protested.

"'Fossils are the most interesting as well as puzzling things in the
world,' said he.

"'They are!' I cried, enthusiastically.

"'But I am not looking for fossils,' observed the professor, mildly.

"This was a facer. I looked at Daisy Holroyd. She bit her lip and
fixed her eyes on the sea. Her eyes were wonderful eyes.

"'Did you think I was digging for fossils in a salt meadow?' queried
the professor. 'You can have read very little about the subject. I am
digging for something quite different.'

"I was silent. I knew that my face was flushed. I longed to say,
'Well, what the devil are you digging for?' but I only stared into the
hole as though hypnotized.

"'Captain McPeek and Frisby ought to be here,' he said, looking first
at Daisy and then across the meadows.

"I ached to ask him why he had subpoenaed Captain McPeek and Frisby.

"'They are coming,' said Daisy, shading her eyes. 'Do you see the
speck on the meadows?'

"'It may be a mud-hen,' said the professor.

"'Miss Holroyd is right,' I said. 'A wagon and team and two men are
coming from the north. There's a dog beside the wagon--it's that
miserable yellow dog of Frisby's.'

"'Good gracious!' cried the professor, 'you don't mean to tell me that
you see all that at such a distance?'

"'Why not?' I said.

"'I see nothing,' he insisted.

"'You will see that I'm right, presently,' I laughed.

"The professor removed his blue goggles and rubbed them, glancing
obliquely at me.

"'Haven't you heard what extraordinary eyesight duck-shooters have?'
said his daughter, looking back at her father. 'Jack says that he can
tell exactly what kind of a duck is flying before most people could
see anything at all in the sky.'

"'It's true,' I said; 'it comes to anybody, I fancy, who has had
practice.'

"The professor regarded me with a new interest. There was inspiration
in his eyes. He turned towards the ocean. For a long time he stared at
the tossing waves on the beach, then he looked far out to where the
horizon met the sea.

"'Are there any ducks out there?' he asked, at last.

"'Yes,' said I, scanning the sea, 'there are.'

"He produced a pair of binoculars from his coat-tail pocket, adjusted
them, and raised them to his eyes.

"'H'm! What sort of ducks?'

"I looked more carefully, holding both hands over my forehead.

"'Surf-ducks and widgeon. There is one bufflehead among them--no, two;
the rest are coots,' I replied.

"'This,' cried the professor, 'is most astonishing. I have good eyes,
but I can't see a blessed thing without these binoculars!'

"'It's not extraordinary,' said I; 'the surf-ducks and coots any
novice might recognize; the widgeon and buffleheads I should not have
been able to name unless they had risen from the water. It is easy to
tell any duck when it is flying, even though it looks no bigger than a
black pin-point.'

"But the professor insisted that it was marvellous, and he said that I
might render him invaluable service if I would consent to come and
camp at Pine Inlet for a few weeks.

"I looked at his daughter, but she turned her back. Her back was
beautifully moulded. Her gown fitted also.

"'Camp out here?' I repeated, pretending to be unpleasantly surprised.

"'I do not think he would care to,' said Miss Holroyd, without
turning.

"I had not expected that.

"'Above all things,' said I, in a clear, pleasant voice, 'I like to
camp out.'

"She said nothing.

"'It is not exactly camping,' said the professor. 'Come, you shall see
our conservatory. Daisy, come, dear! You must put on a heavier frock;
it is getting towards sundown.'

"At that moment, over a near dune, two horses' heads appeared,
followed by two human heads, then a wagon, then a yellow dog.

"I turned triumphantly to the professor.

"'You are the very man I want,' he muttered--'the very man--the very
man.'

"I looked at Daisy Holroyd. She returned my glance with a defiant
little smile.

"'Waal,' said Captain McPeek, driving up, 'here we be! Git out,
Frisby.'

"Frisby, fat, nervous, and sentimental, hopped out of the cart.

"'Come,' said the professor, impatiently moving across the dunes. I
walked with Daisy Holroyd. McPeek and Frisby followed. The yellow dog
walked by himself.




XVIII


"The sun was dipping into the sea as we trudged across the meadows
towards a high, dome-shaped dune covered with cedars and thickets of
sweet bay. I saw no sign of habitation among the sand-hills. Far as
the eye could reach, nothing broke the gray line of sea and sky save
the squat dunes crowned with stunted cedars.

"Then, as we rounded the base of the dune, we almost walked into the
door of a house. My amazement amused Miss Holroyd, and I noticed also
a touch of malice in her pretty eyes. But she said nothing, following
her father into the house, with the slightest possible gesture to me.
Was it invitation or was it menace?

"The house was merely a light wooden frame, covered with some
waterproof stuff that looked like a mixture of rubber and tar. Over
this--in fact, over the whole roof--was pitched an awning of heavy
sail-cloth. I noticed that the house was anchored to the sand by
chains, already rusted red. But this one-storied house was not the
only building nestling in the south shelter of the big dune. A hundred
feet away stood another structure--long, low, also built of wood. It
had rows on rows of round port-holes on every side. The ports were
fitted with heavy glass, hinged to swing open if necessary. A single,
big double door occupied the front.

"Behind this long, low building was still another, a mere shed. Smoke
rose from the sheet-iron chimney. There was somebody moving about
inside the open door.

"As I stood gaping at this mushroom hamlet the professor appeared at
the door and asked me to enter. I stepped in at once.

"The house was much larger than I had imagined. A straight hallway ran
through the centre from east to west. On either side of this hallway
were rooms, the doors swinging wide open. I counted three doors on
each side; the three on the south appeared to be bedrooms.

"The professor ushered me into a room on the north side, where I found
Captain McPeek and Frisby sitting at a table, upon which were drawings
and sketches of articulated animals and fishes.

"'You see, McPeek,' said the professor, 'we only wanted one more man,
and I think I've got him--Haven't I?' turning eagerly to me.

"'Why, yes,' I said, laughing; 'this is delightful. Am I invited to
stay here?'

"'Your bedroom is the third on the south side; everything is ready.
McPeek, you can bring his trunk to-morrow, can't you?' demanded the
professor.

"The red-faced captain nodded, and shifted a quid.

"'Then it's all settled,' said the professor, and he drew a sigh of
satisfaction. 'You see,' he said, turning to me, 'I was at my wit's
end to know whom to trust. I never thought of you. Jack's out in
China, and I didn't dare trust anybody in my own profession. All you
care about is writing verses and stories, isn't it?'

"'I like to shoot,' I replied, mildly.

"'Just the thing!' he cried, beaming at us all in turn. 'Now I can see
no reason why we should not progress rapidly. McPeek, you and Frisby
must get those boxes up here before dark. Dinner will be ready before
you have finished unloading. Dick, you will wish to go to your room
first.'

"My name isn't Dick, but he spoke so kindly, and beamed upon me in
such a fatherly manner, that I let it go. I had occasion to correct
him afterwards, several times, but he always forgot the next minute.
He calls me Dick to this day.

"It was dark when Professor Holroyd, his daughter, and I sat down to
dinner. The room was the same in which I had noticed the drawings of
beast and bird, but the round table had been extended into an oval,
and neatly spread with dainty linen and silver.

"A fresh-cheeked Swedish girl appeared from a farther room, bearing
the soup. The professor ladled it out, still beaming.

"'Now, this is very delightful--isn't it, Daisy?' he said.

"'Very,' said Miss Holroyd, with a tinge of irony.

"'Very,' I repeated, heartily.

"'I suppose,' said the professor, nodding mysteriously at his
daughter, 'that Dick knows nothing of what we're about down here?'

"'I suppose,' said Miss Holroyd, 'that he thinks we are digging for
fossils.'

"I looked at my plate. She might have spared me that.

"'Well, well,' said her father, smiling to himself, 'he shall know
everything by morning. You'll be astonished, Dick, my boy.'

"'His name isn't Dick,' corrected Daisy.

"The professor said, 'Isn't it?' in an absent-minded way, and relapsed
into contemplation of my necktie.

"I asked Miss Holroyd a few questions about Jack, and was informed
that he had given up law and entered the consular service--as what, I
did not dare ask, for I know what our consular service is.

"'In China,' said Daisy.

"'Choo Choo is the name of the city,' added her father, proudly; 'it's
the terminus of the new trans-Siberian railway.'

"'It's on the Pong Ping,' said Daisy.

"'He's vice-consul,' added the professor, triumphantly.

"'He'll make a good one,' I observed. I knew Jack. I pitied his
consul.

"So we chatted on about my old playmate, until Freda, the red-cheeked
maid, brought coffee, and the professor lighted a cigar, with a little
bow to his daughter.

"'Of course, you don't smoke,' she said to me, with a glimmer of
malice in her eyes.

"'He mustn't,' interposed the professor, hastily; 'it will make his
hand tremble.'

"'No, it won't,' said I, laughing; 'but my hand will shake if I don't
smoke. Are you going to employ me as a draughtsman?'

"'You'll know to-morrow,' he chuckled, with a mysterious smile at his
daughter. 'Daisy, give him my best cigars--put the box here on the
table. We can't afford to have his hand tremble.'

"Miss Holroyd rose and crossed the hallway to her father's room,
returning presently with a box of promising-looking cigars.

"'I don't think he knows what is good for him,' she said. 'He should
smoke only one every day.'

"It was hard to bear. I am not vindictive, but I decided to treasure
up a few of Miss Holroyd's gentle taunts. My intimacy with her brother
was certainly a disadvantage to me now. Jack had apparently been
talking too much, and his sister appeared to be thoroughly acquainted
with my past. It was a disadvantage. I remembered her vaguely as a
girl with long braids, who used to come on Sundays with her father and
take tea with us in our rooms. Then she went to Germany to school, and
Jack and I employed our Sunday evenings otherwise. It is true that I
regarded her weekly visits as a species of infliction, but I did not
think I ever showed it.

"'It is strange,' said I, 'that you did not recognize me at once, Miss
Holroyd. Have I changed so greatly in five years?'

"'You wore a pointed French beard in Paris,' she said--'a very downy
one. And you never stayed to tea but twice, and then you only spoke
once.'

"'Oh!' said I, blankly. 'What did I say?'

"'You asked me if I liked plums,' said Daisy, bursting into an
irresistible ripple of laughter.

"I saw that I must have made the same sort of an ass of myself that
most boys of eighteen do.

"It was too bad. I never thought about the future in those days. Who
could have imagined that little Daisy Holroyd would have grown up into
this bewildering young lady? It was really too bad. Presently the
professor retired to his room, carrying with him an armful of
drawings, and bidding us not to sit up late. When he closed his door
Miss Holroyd turned to me.

"'Papa will work over those drawings until midnight,' she said, with a
despairing smile.

"'It isn't good for him,' I said. 'What are the drawings?'

"'You may know to-morrow,' she answered, leaning forward on the table
and shading her face with one hand. 'Tell me about yourself and Jack
in Paris.'

"I looked at her suspiciously.

"'What! There isn't much to tell. We studied. Jack went to the law
school, and I attended--er--oh, all sorts of schools.'

"'Did you? Surely you gave yourself a little recreation occasionally?'

"'Occasionally,' I nodded.

"'I am afraid you and Jack studied too hard.'

"'That may be,' said I, looking meek.

"'Especially about fossils.'

"I couldn't stand that.

"'Miss Holroyd,' I said, 'I do care for fossils. You may think that I
am a humbug, but I have a perfect mania for fossils--now.'

"'Since when?'

"'About an hour ago,' I said, airily. Out of the corner of my eye I
saw that she had flushed up. It pleased me.

"'You will soon tire of the experiment,' she said, with a dangerous
smile.

"'Oh, I may,' I replied, indifferently.

"She drew back. The movement was scarcely perceptible, but I noticed
it, and she knew I did.

"The atmosphere was vaguely hostile. One feels such mental conditions
and changes instantly. I picked up a chess-board, opened it, set up
the pieces with elaborate care, and began to move, first the white,
then the black. Miss Holroyd watched me coldly at first, but after a
dozen moves she became interested and leaned a shade nearer. I moved a
black pawn forward.

"'Why do you do that?' said Daisy.

"'Because,' said I, 'the white queen threatens the pawn.'

"'It was an aggressive move,' she insisted.

"'Purely defensive,' I said. 'If her white highness will let the pawn
alone, the pawn will let the queen alone.'

"Miss Holroyd rested her chin on her wrist and gazed steadily at the
board. She was flushing furiously, but she held her ground.

"'If the white queen doesn't block that pawn, the pawn may become
dangerous,' she said, coldly.

"I laughed, and closed up the board with a snap.

"'True,' I said, 'it might even take the queen.' After a moment's
silence I asked, 'What would you do in that case, Miss Holroyd?'

"'I should resign,' she said, serenely; then, realizing what she had
said, she lost her self-possession for a second, and cried: 'No,
indeed! I should fight to the bitter end! I mean--'

"'What?' I asked, lingering over my revenge.

"'I mean,' she said, slowly, 'that your black pawn would never have
the chance--never! I should take it immediately.'

"'I believe you would,' said I, smiling; 'so we'll call the game
yours, and--the pawn captured.'

"'I don't want it,' she exclaimed. 'A pawn is worthless.'

"'Except when it's in the king row.'

"'Chess is most interesting,' she observed, sedately. She had
completely recovered her self-possession. Still I saw that she now had
a certain respect for my defensive powers. It was very soothing to me.

"'You know,' said I, gravely, 'that I am fonder of Jack than of
anybody. That's the reason we never write each other, except to borrow
things. I am afraid that when I was a young cub in France I was not an
attractive personality.'

"'On the contrary,' said Daisy, smiling, 'I thought you were very big
and very perfect. I had illusions. I wept often when I went home and
remembered that you never took the trouble to speak to me but once.'

"'I was a cub,' I said--'not selfish and brutal, but I didn't
understand school-girls. I never had any sisters, and I didn't know
what to say to very young girls. If I had imagined that you felt
hurt--'

"'Oh, I did--five years ago. Afterwards I laughed at the whole thing.'

"'Laughed?' I repeated, vaguely disappointed.

"'Why, of course. I was very easily hurt when I was a child. I think I
have outgrown it.'

"The soft curve of her sensitive mouth contradicted her.

"'Will you forgive me now?' I asked.

"'Yes. I had forgotten the whole thing until I met you an hour or so
ago.'

"There was something that had a ring not entirely genuine in this
speech. I noticed it, but forgot it the next moment.

"Presently she rose, touched her hair with the tip of one finger, and
walked to the door.

"'Good-night,' she said.

"'Good-night,' said I, opening the door for her to pass.




XIX


"The sea was a sheet of silver tinged with pink. The tremendous arch
of the sky was all shimmering and glimmering with the promise of the
sun. Already the mist above, flecked with clustered clouds, flushed
with rose color and dull gold. I heard the low splash of the waves
breaking and curling across the beach. A wandering breeze, fresh and
fragrant, blew the curtains of my window. There was the scent of sweet
bay in the room, and everywhere the subtle, nameless perfume of the
sea.

"When at last I stood upon the shore, the air and sea were all
a-glimmer in a rosy light, deepening to crimson in the zenith. Along
the beach I saw a little cove, shelving and all a-shine, where shallow
waves washed with a mellow sound. Fine as dusted gold the shingle
glowed, and the thin film of water rose, receded, crept up again a
little higher, and again flowed back, with the low hiss of snowy foam
and gilded bubbles breaking.

"I stood a little while quiet, my eyes upon the water, the invitation
of the ocean in my ears, vague and sweet as the murmur of a shell.
Then I looked at my bathing-suit and towels.

"'In we go!' said I, aloud. A second later the prophecy was
fulfilled.

"I swam far out to sea, and as I swam the waters all around me turned
to gold. The sun had risen.

"There is a fragrance in the sea at dawn that none can name.
Whitethorn a-bloom in May, sedges a-sway, and scented rushes rustling
in an inland wind recall the sea to me--I can't say why.

"Far out at sea I raised myself, swung around, dived, and set out
again for shore, striking strong strokes until the necked foam flew.
And when at last I shot through the breakers, I laughed aloud and
sprang upon the beach, breathless and happy. Then from the ocean came
another cry, clear, joyous, and a white arm rose in the air.

"She came drifting in with the waves like a white sea-sprite, laughing
at me, and I plunged into the breakers again to join her.

"Side by side we swam along the coast, just outside the breakers,
until in the next cove we saw the flutter of her maid's cap-strings.

"'I will beat you to breakfast!' she cried, as I rested, watching her
glide up along the beach.

"'Done!' said I--'for a sea-shell!'

"'Done!' she called, across the water.

"I made good speed along the shore, and I was not long in dressing,
but when I entered the dining-room she was there, demure, smiling,
exquisite in her cool, white frock.

"'The sea-shell is yours,' said I. 'I hope I can find one with a pearl
in it.'

"The professor hurried in before she could reply. He greeted me very
cordially, but there was an abstracted air about him, and he called me
Dick until I recognized that remonstrance was useless. He was not
long over his coffee and rolls.

"'McPeek and Frisby will return with the last load, including your
trunk, by early afternoon,' he said, rising and picking up his bundle
of drawings. 'I haven't time to explain to you what we are doing,
Dick, but Daisy will take you about and instruct you. She will give
you the rifle standing in my room--it's a good Winchester. I have sent
for an 'Express' for you, big enough to knock over any elephant in
India. Daisy, take him through the sheds and tell him everything.
Luncheon is at noon. Do you usually take luncheon, Dick?'

"'When I am permitted,' I smiled.

"'Well,' said the professor, doubtfully, 'you mustn't come back here
for it. Freda can take you what you want. Is your hand unsteady after
eating?'

"'Why, papa!' said Daisy. 'Do you intend to starve him?'

"We all laughed.

"The professor tucked his drawings into a capacious pocket, pulled his
sea-boots up to his hips, seized a spade, and left, nodding to us as
though he were thinking of something else.

"We went to the door and watched him across the salt meadows until the
distant sand-dune hid him.

"'Come,' said Daisy Holroyd, 'I am going to take you to the shop.'

"She put on a broad-brimmed straw hat, a distractingly pretty
combination of filmy cool stuffs, and led the way to the long, low
structure that I had noticed the evening before.

"The interior was lighted by the numberless little port-holes, and I
could see everything plainly. I acknowledge I was nonplussed by what I
did see.

"In the centre of the shed, which must have been at least a hundred
feet long, stood what I thought at first was the skeleton of an
enormous whale. After a moment's silent contemplation of the thing I
saw that it could not be a whale, for the frames of two gigantic,
batlike wings rose from each shoulder. Also I noticed that the animal
possessed legs--four of them--with most unpleasant-looking webbed
claws fully eight feet long. The bony framework of the head, too,
resembled something between a crocodile and a monstrous
snapping-turtle. The walls of the shanty were hung with drawings and
blue prints. A man dressed in white linen was tinkering with the
vertebrae of the lizard-like tail.

"'Where on earth did such a reptile come from?' I asked at length.

"'Oh, it's not real!' said Daisy, scornfully; 'it's papier-maché.'

"'I see,' said I; 'a stage prop.'

"'A what?' asked Daisy, in hurt astonishment.

"'Why, a--a sort of Siegfried dragon--a what's-his-name--er, Pfafner,
or Peffer, or--'

"'If my father heard you say such things he would dislike you,' said
Daisy. She looked grieved, and moved towards the door. I
apologized--for what, I knew not--and we became reconciled. She ran
into her father's room and brought me the rifle, a very good
Winchester. She also gave me a cartridge-belt, full.

"'Now,' she smiled, 'I shall take you to your observatory, and when we
arrive you are to begin your duty at once.'

"'And that duty?' I ventured, shouldering the rifle.

"'That duty is to watch the ocean. I shall then explain the whole
affair--but you mustn't look at me while I speak; you must watch the
sea.'

"'This,' said I, 'is hardship. I had rather go without the luncheon.'

"I do not think she was offended at my speech; still she frowned for
almost three seconds.

"We passed through acres of sweet bay and spear grass, sometimes
skirting thickets of twisted cedars, sometimes walking in the full
glare of the morning sun, sinking into shifting sand where
sun-scorched shells crackled under our feet, and sun-browned sea-weed
glistened, bronzed and iridescent. Then, as we climbed a little hill,
the sea-wind freshened in our faces, and lo! the ocean lay below us,
far-stretching as the eye could reach, glittering, magnificent.

"Daisy sat down flat on the sand. It takes a clever girl to do that
and retain the respectful deference due her from men. It takes a
graceful girl to accomplish it triumphantly when a man is looking.

"'You must sit beside me,' she said--as though it would prove irksome
to me.

"'Now,' she continued, 'you must watch the water while I am talking.'

"I nodded.

"'Why don't you do it, then?' she asked.

"I succeeded in wrenching my head towards the ocean, although I felt
sure it would swing gradually round again in spite of me.

"'To begin with,' said Daisy Holroyd, 'there's a thing in that ocean
that would astonish you if you saw it. Turn your head!'

"'I am,' I said, meekly.

"'Did you hear what I said?'

"'Yes--er--a thing in the ocean that's going to astonish me.' Visions
of mermaids rose before me.

"'The thing,' said Daisy, 'is a thermosaurus!'

"I nodded vaguely, as though anticipating a delightful introduction to
a nautical friend.

"'You don't seem astonished,' she said, reproachfully.

"'Why should I be?' I asked.

"'Please turn your eyes towards the water. Suppose a thermosaurus
should look out of the waves!'

"'Well,' said I, 'in that case the pleasure would be mutual.'

"She frowned and bit her upper lip.

"'Do you know what a thermosaurus is?' she asked.

"'If I am to guess,' said I, 'I guess it's a jelly-fish.'

"'It's that big, ugly, horrible creature that I showed you in the
shed!' cried Daisy, impatiently.

"'Eh!' I stammered.

"'Not papier-maché, either,' she continued, excitedly; 'it's a real
one.'

"This was pleasant news. I glanced instinctively at my rifle and then
at the ocean.

"'Well,' said I at last, 'it strikes me that you and I resemble a pair
of Andromedas waiting to be swallowed. This rifle won't stop a beast,
a live beast, like that Nibelungen dragon of yours.'

"'Yes, it will,' she said; 'it's not an ordinary rifle.'

"Then, for the first time, I noticed, just below the magazine, a
cylindrical attachment that was strange to me.

"'Now, if you will watch the sea very carefully, and will promise not
to look at me,' said Daisy, 'I will try to explain.'

"She did not wait for me to promise, but went on eagerly, a sparkle of
excitement in her blue eyes:

"'You know, of all the fossil remains of the great batlike and
lizard-like creatures that inhabited the earth ages and ages ago, the
bones of the gigantic saurians are the most interesting. I think they
used to splash about the water and fly over the land during the
carboniferous period; anyway, it doesn't matter. Of course you have
seen pictures of reconstructed creatures such as the ichthyosaurus,
the plesiosaurus, the anthracosaurus, and the thermosaurus?'

"I nodded, trying to keep my eyes from hers.

"'And you know that the remains of the thermosaurus were first
discovered and reconstructed by papa?'

"'Yes,' said I. There was no use in saying no.

"'I am glad you do. Now, papa has proved that this creature lived
entirely in the Gulf Stream, emerging for occasional flights across an
ocean or two. Can you imagine how he proved it?'

"'No,' said I, resolutely pointing my nose at the ocean.

"'He proved it by a minute examination of the microscopical shells
found among the ribs of the thermosaurus. These shells contained
little creatures that live only in the warm waters of the Gulf Stream.
They were the food of the thermosaurus.'

"'It was rather slender rations for a thing like that, wasn't it? Did
he ever swallow bigger food--er--men?'

"'Oh yes. Tons of fossil bones from prehistoric men are also found in
the interior of the thermosaurus.'

"'Then,' said I, 'you, at least, had better go back to Captain
McPeek's--'

"'Please turn around; don't be so foolish. I didn't say there was a
live thermosaurus in the water, did I?'

"'Isn't there?'

"'Why, no!'

"My relief was genuine, but I thought of the rifle and looked
suspiciously out to sea.

"'What's the Winchester for?' I asked.

"'Listen, and I will explain. Papa has found out--how, I do not
exactly understand--that there is in the waters of the Gulf Stream the
body of a thermosaurus. The creature must have been alive within a
year or so. The impenetrable scale-armor that covers its body has, as
far as papa knows, prevented its disintegration. We know that it is
there still, or was there within a few months. Papa has reports and
sworn depositions from steamer captains and seamen from a dozen
different vessels, all corroborating one another in essential details.
These stories, of course, get into the newspapers--sea-serpent
stories--but papa knows that they confirm his theory that the huge
body of this reptile is swinging along somewhere in the Gulf Stream.'

"She opened her sunshade and held it over her. I noticed that she
deigned to give me the benefit of about one-eighth of it.

"'Your duty with that rifle is this: if we are fortunate enough to see
the body of the thermosaurus come floating by, you are to take good
aim and fire--fire rapidly every bullet in the magazine; then reload
and fire again, and reload and fire as long as you have any cartridges
left.'

"'A self-feeding Maxim is what I should have,' I said, with gentle
sarcasm. 'Well, and suppose I make a sieve of this big lizard?'

"'Do you see these rings in the sand?' she asked.

"Sure enough, somebody had driven heavy piles deep into the sand all
around us, and to the tops of these piles were attached steel rings,
half buried under the spear-grass. We sat almost exactly in the centre
of a circle of these rings.

"'The reason is this,' said Daisy; 'every bullet in your cartridges is
steel-tipped and armor-piercing. To the base of each bullet is
attached a thin wire of pallium. Pallium is that new metal, a thread
of which, drawn out into finest wire, will hold a ton of iron
suspended. Every bullet is fitted with minute coils of miles of this
wire. When the bullet leaves the rifle it spins out this wire as a
shot from a life-saver's mortar spins out and carries the life-line to
a wrecked ship. The end of each coil of wire is attached to that
cylinder under the magazine of your rifle. As soon as the shell is
automatically ejected this wire flies out also. A bit of scarlet tape
is fixed to the end, so that it will be easy to pick up. There is also
a snap-clasp on the end, and this clasp fits those rings that you see
in the sand. Now, when you begin firing, it is my duty to run and pick
up the wire ends and attach them to the rings. Then, you see, we have
the body of the thermosaurus full of bullets, every bullet anchored to
the shore by tiny wires, each of which could easily hold a ton's
strain.'

"I looked at her in amazement.

"'Then,' she added, calmly, 'we have captured the thermosaurus.'

"'Your father,' said I, at length, 'must have spent years of labor
over this preparation.'

"'It is the work of a lifetime,' she said, simply.

"My face, I suppose, showed my misgivings.

"'It must not fail,' she added.

"'But--but we are nowhere near the Gulf Stream,' I ventured.

"Her face brightened, and she frankly held the sunshade over us both.

"'Ah, you don't know,' she said, 'what else papa has discovered. Would
