she was giving no attention to it. She as- 
sented indifferently to his suggestions, and 
sat with listless hands crossed over her black 
skirt. The evening was warm, and she wore 
a white silk waist, which Philip noticed be- 
cause it was so long since he had seen her in 
anything but mourning. She had an unusual 
pallor — perhaps a reflection from the ivory- 
tinted stuff into which her face seemed to 
melt, or out of which it seemed to grow. She 
was so unlike herself that Philip refrained 
from any unnecessary conversation, and with 
his natural delicacy quickly terminated the 
interview, and arose to go. 

" So soon ? " asked Miriam languidly. 

" You seem tired ; I think it 's better." 

" Wait a minute." Miriam uncrossed her 
hands slowly, and, rising, stood tall and still 
in the dim room beside him. He could feel 
how constrained she was. 

" Such a strange thing happened to-day," 
she began. She had not meant to tell him, 



 

nor to tell any one ; in fact, though she could 
hardly have explained why, she felt a poignant 
reluctance to repeating the experience of the 
morning. But she was used to telling things 
to Philip. She always had ; sometimes she 
suspected that most people did. He was that 
kind of a man. His presence in the lonely 
house (deserted now of the whole family ex- 
cepting the old seamstress and Maggie) inde- 
finably soothed her. Suddenly it seemed to 
her necessary to speak, and she told him the 
story. 

Surbridge listened in silence. As she 
talked, he crossed to the open window and 
stood with his hands in his pockets. 

" Go on," he said when she paused. 

" That is all," said Miriam with a sigh of 
relief. 

Philip turned away from the window and 
asked a few quiet questions, naturally enough ; 
but Miriam quickly detected the professional 
instinct beneath the personal sympathy. 

" You cross-examine ! " she cried. 

So Philip laughed and left her. Now, as 
he passed up the street, he came face to face 
with Dr. Steele. 



 

" By the way," said the lawyer carelessly, 
" may I walk a few steps with you ? I want 
to ask you about a certain matter." 

Philip retraced his way, and the two gen- 
tlemen walked back towards the house. Sur- 
bridge spoke in a low voice, and could not 
have been overheard by passers, but as the 
physiologist listened an expression of cold an- 
noyance stiffened his face. Before they came 
to Miss Lauriat's door he halted. 

" Why should I answer these questions ? " 
His lips sharpened. "I am not on the witness 
stand. You will excuse me, Surbridge." 

Surbridge laughed again — he had a sin- 
gularly quiet, pleasant laugh — and walked 
back. He had not gone a block when he ad- 
mitted to himself an unpardonable curiosity. 
He glanced around, and saw Dr. Steele com- 
ing away from Miss Lauriat's house. Plainly 
he had not been admitted. 

" Now," thought Philip, " what 's the mean- 
ing of that t " 

This question Miriam herself could not have 
answered. 

Dr. Steele plunged his hands deep into the 



 

water. He bathed them with something more 
than his usual scrupulousness, repeating the 
act a good many times. As he held his long 
and slender but strong fingers to the light, a 
slight shadow fell upon them from the window 
near which he stood — there was a coo, a whir 
— and some pigeons flew from the sill ; one, 
it seemed, was white. He glanced at it idly. 
The principal thought that it suggested to him 
couched itself in some such words as these : 

" Those Germans have done remarkably in- 
teresting work with the brains of doves." 

" Down ! " A raucous voice jarred from 
the adjoining room. " Down, I say ! " 

There was no mistaking the tone or the 
accent of his assistant. Somehow, it always 
grated on Steele, even now, and after all. He 
turned impatiently, and looked into the labor- 
atory. There, a picture, something new even 
to his wide experience, presented itself. 

A black spaniel of the cocker breed stood 
upon the table before which Bernard was sta- 
tioned. It must have been originally a very 
beautiful spaniel ; its scarred forehead was 
parted with white, and a white ruff like a 
shirt-frill stood out thickly from its breast. It 



 

had large hazel eyes, perhaps also once beau- 
tiful, but now, for reasons and by processes 
known only to these two men, the spaniel's 
expression had become mysteriously dulled. 
Yet a flicker of terror lighted it at the touch 
of Bernard's significant hands. At this mo- 
ment, when Dr. Steele looked up, the little 
creature had raised itself with difficulty, and, 
reaching up, put both arms around the ex- 
perimenter's neck. Bernard unclasped them 
roughly. The dog repeated the piteous ges- 
ture ; he did not cry nor whine, but with the 
inextinguishable trust and tenderness of his 
race entreated the man. But Bernard pushed 
the spaniel off. As he did so he fingered the 
dog-board greedily. 

Steele stood hesitating. The scene annoyed 
him — who should say why ? He had wit- 
nessed a thousand worse. It occurred to him 
that he had never seen that particular pose 
before. Perhaps another thought — but again, 
who could say why there should be any such 
thought? — at that hour, and in that place? 

" Let the dog be for to-day, if you please," 
he said with authoritative courtesy. " Give it 
a rest — for a while." 



 

" What 's the matter with you ? " demanded 
Bernard roughly. He dropped the spaniel 
(who, cowering from him, leaped from the 
table), and turned his sullen face towards his 
superior. 

" I'm going out of town," replied Dr. Steele. 
" I can't go on with these experiments to-day." 

" But I can," urged Bernard, with an evil 
expression. " Vacation 's the time for it — no 
students around." 

" Oblige me by regarding my wishes," per- 
sisted the professor. " I prefer to be present 
when these researches are continued. Send the 
dog back to its cage." 

"All right," answered Bernard, with his 
unpleasant smile. " I understand." 

The released spaniel, moved by God knew 
what impulse, stopped as it passed by the 
young professor of physiology, and tried to 
kiss his hand. An expression which could not 
be interpreted as one of pity, and which was 
far from indicating a sense of regret, but 
which might have been called a conscious- 
ness of discomfort, brushed the face of Olin 
Steele. 

He went directly out from the medical 



 

school, and hurried to the wharf ;. whence he 
took the boat for the familiar shore where 
Miss Lauriat spent her summers. 

The day was hot, — it was July, — and 
Steele, as the little steamer tossed along the 
coast, luxuriously turned his face towards the 
salt wind. He had spent all the morning in 
his laboratory, and felt that he had earned 
his holiday. A faint memory that he had seen 
it spelled another way tapped with muffled 
fingers at his barred imagination. The word 
had some time since gone out of evidence in 
the physiologist's vocabulary ; yet he might 
have said that this, if any, if ever, was holy 
day to him. 

White of soul and fair of body, the woman 
seemed to float through the summer air be- 
fore him, and without a glance, without a 
gesture, silent and maidenly, she drew him 
on. From sounds and sights which would have 
rent her with recoil had she dreamed of them 
in her darkest dream, he turned his hurry- 
ing feet to her, complacently. Red-handed he 
sought her ; iron-willed he hunted her. 

Yet a man who has ever known and cher- 
ished the nobler ideals is haunted by their 




shadows when- he has foresworn their sub- 
stance ; chat which was left of the high and 
the fine in Olin Steele was concentrated with 
a dedication in which there was something 
to be respected, upon his passion. On all 
the altars of his soid the sacrifices were con- 
sumed — only on this one, only for her, the 
fire burned. 

Halfway up the avenue to her summer home 
he met her slowly walking down. She was in 
white from head to foot — a foamy white, with 
ivory laces that stirred in the strong wind. He 
had not seen her dressed like this before, and 
marveled at the sublimation. 

Suddenly contrasting with her mourning 
black, there was a subtle suggestion in the 
happy dress at which his head whirled gid- 
dily. He did not, could not, would not help it. 

" There is something almost bridal about 
these beautiful white costumes," he said, with- 
out preface or apology, as he held out his hand. 

" Forgive me ! " he cried, when he saw the 
expression of her lifted face. It seemed in a 
moment to have fallen away from him, and 
the hand which she had extended heartily 
dropped from his. 



 

A dozen years ago Steele would not have 
said a thing like that ; it occurred to him as 
soon as he had spoken that there was a dif- 
ferent way in which he used to dream that he 
should woo a woman. His face flushed with 
mortification at his faux pas ; Miss Lauriat 
had never seen the doctor blush before, and 
she who winced from every evidence of pain 
in other organisms as if it had been her own, 
melted instantly into a sweet pardon of this 
man to whom she felt imperiously drawn, or 
by whom she was mysteriously disenchanted a 
score of times in every hour that they passed 
together. 

These, that summer, had been already 
many. She had treated him graciously, in- 
deed, with such cordiality that Olin's spirits 
had risen, and his courage with them. He 
needed both for a wooing in which the man 
found himself more at a loss than in any un- 
dertaking on which he had ever deliberately 
entered. Deliberate he was, and determined. 
He meant to win this woman ; and he had 
always done what he had meant to do. But 
she daunted him and taunted him. When he 
advanced, she retreated. When he retraced 




a step, she seemed to stand still. She was as 
elusive as fortune, and as alluring as mystery. 
When he loved her most, he admitted to him- 
self that he understood her least. 

" I thank you for forgiving me," he said 
in a tone so gentle that in another man it 
might have been called humble. This gave 
him an advantage which he was not slow to 
perceive ; adroitly he changed the subject at 
once, and they passed up the wooded avenue, 
chatting of little things. 

As they came in sight of the piazza where 
Mrs. Jeffries, with the expression and manner 
that she reserved for Docking and Cropping 
Tails and Ears, was waiting for them, a kitten 
blew around the corner of the house, head and 
tail slantwise, steering its way in the brisk sea 
wind. So running, it dashed against Miriam, 
and climbed up the lace of her dress. It was 
a maltese kitten, and around its gray neck 
was tied a broad pink ribbon. 

" Professor Steele ! " cried Mrs. Jeffries, 
getting heavily to her feet, " you are faint — 
you are ill ! What ails you, my dear friend ? 
What can we do for you ? What can I " — 

On the palette of her sentence the words ran 



 

together like gamboge and Prussian blue, and 
became a puzzled silence, which was a new color. 

For, at sight of the kitten, Olin Steele had 
blanched as a man does who is smitten with 
ill tidings. He stood staring, as if he saw 
some little animal ghost. When Miss Lauriat 
caressed the kitten and dropped it gently 
though not affectionately to the ground, it 
began to purr loudly. The sound reverberated 
in Steele's ears. It seemed to him to come 
from a great distance. 

He recovered himself quickly, made some 
sort of apology for a passing indisposition, 
and threw the matter off as lightly as it was 
now possible to do. 

" You are over- worked ! " said Mrs. Jeffries 
tenderly. " I revere the consecration of your 
profession, Dr. Steele. You shall not go back 
to town to-night. You are not in a fit con- 
dition to discuss the painful objects of our 
society. The S. P. D. & C. T. & E. can wait 
till you are in a less sensitive state. You shall 
stay and rest until to-morrow." 

With outward languor (as that of the con- 
secrated who is exhausted by devotion to 
sacred duties) but with an inward ecstasy so 



 

powerful that he dared allow no sign of its 
whirlwind to escape his dizzy heart, Dr. 
Steele accepted the invitation. He had now 
resumed himself completely. After dinner he 
hovered over Mrs. Jeffries and the affairs of 
the S. P. D. & C. T. & E. for a conscientious 
hour. Mrs. Jeffries was making the usual 
pudding of her papers, and Miriam occupied 
herself in suggesting that Mr. Surbridge 
ought to be made counsel for the society. 

" Nobody else can handle Aunt Cornelia 
when it comes to papers," she said, looking 
over her shoulder with that mocking smile 
which was the more enchanting because it was 
always unexpected, and clearly at a certain 
variance with her gentleness and sincerity of 
manner. 

Dr. Steele studiously concerned himself with 
what Mrs. Jeffries called " the literature " of 
the society. He separated the circulars on 
Docking from the pamphlets on Cropping 
with a slow and conscientious hand before he 
observed quietly : 

"I have the highest regard for Mr. Sur- 
bridge's professional abilities — there can be 
no two opinions on that. He is a growing 



 

man, and has a future beyond doubt. But I 
confess I have sometimes wondered how so 
young a lawyer came to be in the position he 
occupies in this family ; not that it is in the 
least any business of mine." 

" His father was Mr. Lauriat's counsel," 
explained Mrs. Jeffries, warming promptly to 
the subject of her favorite. " He has inherited 
the position, and I assure you, Professor 
Steele, we count it as one of our best and 
dearest legacies. Mr. Surbridge is a lovely 
fellow. — Miriam ! there 's that kitten again. 
Do send it away. I am sure that cats are un- 
pleasant to our guest. There are people, you 
know, so constituted. Aren't there, Doctor ? " 

Mrs. Jeffries rose, and herself went out of 
the room with the maltese. Miriam and Steele 
could hear her in the hall politely adjuring 
the kitten : 

" Scat ! scat ! scat ! Why don't you scat ? " 

" You don't like cats," began Steele in his 
authoritative tone, " any better than I do. 
Why don't you have a dog ? You need some- 
thing of that kind. You need something to 
love. You are so constituted." 

Miriam walked over to the long, low win- 



 

dow, and stood looking out to sea. Her white 
dress blew straight back around her in the 
rising wind. 

" I lost one," she said in a very low voice. 
" It was a good while ago. I don't want 
another." 

" I have sometimes thought," ventured 
Steele, " if you would allow me " — 

" Scat ! scat ! " plaintively entreated Aunt 
Cornelia on the piazza. " Oh, you have scat- 
ted ! " 

" On no account, whatever." Miriam quick- 
ly turned around. 

" I beg your pardon," said Olin Steele. 

" I am going out on the piazza," observed 
Miss Lauriat coldly. " You can come if you 
like." 

He followed her, distanced and dejected. 
Mysteriously, in the lifting of an eyelid, she 
seemed to have evaded him. Yet in a moment, 
as mysteriously, she seemed to pause and re- 
trace a step or two in his direction. When 
he sat down beside her, silently and unobtru- 
sively, she gave him her sweet and natural 
smile. He began anyhow, hardly knowing 
what he said : 



 

"I have such a fine old dog of my own. 
He 's a St. Bernard — a dear fellow. I should 
like to have you see him." 

" And I should like to," replied Miriam 
heartily. 

" And my mother," ventured Steele, " she 
is an invalid. My sister is not at home ; she 
married. Mother is a lonely woman ; a very 
sweet one. I wish you knew my mother." > 

" I don't know much about mothers," said 
Miriam in an odd tone. " Mine died. I was 
three years old — 

" I am sorry for yours," she added gently. 
" It is hard — to die while you are alive like 
that." 

Her low, vibrant voice, her gentle attitude, 
all the womanliness of her, and the magic of 
her, went to Olin Steele's head like a fine, 
celestial wine — sometime, somehow, to be 
quaffed, but now for the first time tasted at 
the brim. 

" Come down to the shore with me," he 
said suddenly ; " I wish it very much." 

She might have defied, but she yielded. 
She might have daunted him — he never 
knew what she would do — but she gra- 



 

ciously deferred. She might have taunted 
and tantalized, but she melted and bent. 

The moon was at the full, and so was 
the tide. The two walked down the road 
and over the beach silently. Miriam had the 
strong step of a healthy, happy woman ; he 
could not remember that any woman had ever 
kept pace with him before. He looked at her 
with half-blind eyes. In her white laces, with 
the thrilling light on her face, she looked 
remote from him — he could not have ex- 
plained why — and yet how near ! 

" She shall be nearer," thought the man. 

He brought his lips together ; they made a 
mouth of iron. The woman's had a gentle, 
almost a helpless look in contrast. 

The beach, by chance, was quite deserted ; 
it was not a rowing beach, — there was the 
wharf for the boats ; and the summer peo- 
ple were floating dimly on the water, or clus- 
tered darkly on the rocks. 

The wind was going down, and the surf 
with it. The long throb of the third roller 
pulsated regularly, with little agitation and 
less foam, but with a steady and advancing 
force which Miriam sensitively felt. 



 

At once she loved the sea and hated it. 
Sometimes she wished never to look upon its 
face again ; yet it drew her back as the ebb- 
tide sucked the seaweed. The complexity in 
her nature vibrated before inevitable power, 
whose deficiency of mercy repelled and es- 
tranged her, even while she yielded to it. 

Oppressed by the silence that had subtly 
settled down between herself and the man, 
she broke it, half audibly : 

" It will carry you safely anywhere — and 
drown you cordially any time — that's the 
sea." 

Lifted swiftly, her candid eyes snared him 
unawares, and for one troubled moment it 
seemed to her that she saw the ocean in his 
face. 

Most illusions have their spiritual sentries 
whose subtle guardianship may be felt long 
before it is perceived by the soul. There is 
a prefiguration granted to a woman on the ap- 
proach of fate ; in this solemn prescience she 
elects or escapes her lot, with a perfect intel- 
ligence which she can never forget, but which 
she will ignore to her last hour. After such 
a moment she has no accusations to hurl in 



 

the face of life. As Lucifer of hell, so she of 
experience is compelled to answer: "Myself 
am destiny." 

Miriam stood looking quite steadily into 
the eyes of Olin Steele. The man was no- 
thing less than formidable. His passion swept 
around her as the sea heaved about the little 
boat, — it seemed to be leagues away at that 
moment, — crossing the splendor of the daz- 
zling path set from eternity between the moon 
and the sea. The sigh of the surf, the calm 
of the shore, the separateness in which they 
two stood, rose around her solemnly like a 
tide in which she must drown. 

Nothing seemed to her quite real — nothing 
except that she was loved ; she was loved as 
she had dreamed of being loved, as she had 
not hoped to be or even always wished to 
be, — by a man who would scorn denial, and 
laugh at reluctance ; who would hurl her fem- 
inine subterfuges into star-dust, and create 
the planet on which she should be his. Yes, 
and a man who had loved her without wait- 
ing to find out that or why he did, and who 
would love her, whether she yielded or defied, 
as long as he lived, or she. 



 

Before he had spoken a word Miriam knew 
what he would say. She made no effort to 
deter him, but listened gently, when, with a 
quietness that subdued her and astonished 
himself, Steele said : 

" Ever since I saw your face — that first 
day — you have been the only woman in the 
world for me." 

Miriam, casting about blindly for words, 
found none. She turned her agitated face to 
the sea. The surf was rising, and began to 
rage upon the cliff. In the unreal light the 
unreal boat had floated on and away. No- 
thing now obstructed the path between the 
sea and the moon. 

" I have never seen any other woman whom 
I wished to make my wife," said Olin Steele. 
" I did not know that a man could feel like 
this to any woman. I love you. . . . Do you 
understand ? . . . I love you." 

"How much do you love me?" asked 
Miriam in an unsteady voice. She was con- 
scious of the weakness of her words as soon 
as she had uttered them. She did not look at 
him any longer. Steele wished that he could 
have seen her head droop, or her color change. 



 

" Give me the right to show you ! " he cried. 

But Miriam shrank. 

" I cannot — I do not like to — talk about 
it. I do not wish to be what you say. I like 
it better — the way we are." 

Steele laughed. 

" Do you think you can escape me ? . . . 
Try!" ' 

Her beautiful color came now, wave upon 
wave, till her face was lost in the flood of it. 
It was as if she hesitated and swayed towards 
him. 

"Miriam ! " 

A voice that seemed to come from a great 
height, and to be freighted with supernal 
solemnity, dropped like a boulder upon the 
two. Steele wheeled as if he had been struck 
and mangled ; but Miriam — she could not 
help it — laughed. 

" Is it Azrael ? Or Gabriel ? " 

" Atropos, it seems ; " Steele ground his 
teeth. "And you can laugh." He turned upon 
her with a certain brutality ; she had never 
seen anything of the kind in him before. 

" Mir-i-um ? — Look up here. See who has 
come to spend Sunday." 



 

Miriam lifted her beautiful chin. Mrs. 
Percy B. Jeffries, affectionately attached to 
the arm of Philip Surbridge, solidly orna- 
mented the cliff-top. 

" Let us go back," Surbridge was heard to 
urge his clinging client. 

" No," said Miriam distinctly. " Do not go 
away. Come — and bring Atropos with you." 

She dashed at a tear which was creeping 
into her not very happy smile. How should 
a man know that a woman laughs lest she 
should cry, and cries because she has laughed ? 

At that moment Dr. Steele could have 
cheerfully chloroformed Mrs. Jeffries, or ex- 
perimented (without anaesthesia) upon Sur- 
bridge. 

But Olin's face was the finely finished mask 
of a man who has for years had more in his 
life to conceal than to reveal. 

He made no effort to address Miriam again 
that evening, and in the morning took so 
early a train that she was not down. But he 
wrote to her as soon as he reached town — 
madly and powerfully. It was a letter which 
would have brought almost any other woman 
whom he knew to his arms. He wrote without 



 

rereading, without pausing, without reflect- 
ing. He wrote as rivers rush, as fire burns, 
as torrents fall, as nature would and willed — 
yet reverently and even delicately ; almost as 
that sensitive boy might have written, who 
died that a physiologist should live. 



CHAPTER VI 

Miriam was moved by Steele's letter. She 
answered it gently, but, for so young a 
woman, guardedly. She wrote with a fine, 
old-fashioned courtesy, and thanked him for 
the honor that he did her ; begged his tol- 
erance for a state of feeling which made it 
difficult for her to reply with the finality that 
he had a right to expect; expressed her 
preference for the relation of friendship as 
opposed to that which he sought, with the 
naivete given to woman only at such stages 
of experience, admitted that she should be 
sorry to lose this friendship out of her life ; 
distinctly granted nothing more, yet refrained 
from insisting that nothing more could ever 
be possible. 

Olin Steele carried the letter against his 
heart like a boy. When he was alone with it, 
he scorched it with kisses. His step rang, his 
eyes assumed the look that a man wears but 
once in life, and many never. He was like 



 

one who is climbing into a high altitude 
slowly, but of his power to reach the summit 
has no troublesome doubt. 

To power, indeed, as a factor in life, he 
was inclined to give its full mathematical value. 
Sheer strength, simple advantage, seemed to 
him the basis of calculation. The solution of 
most problems he had found to lie in superi- 
ority, mental or even physical. His profes- 
sional existence depended upon the doctrine 
that dominion argued rights rather than obli- 
gations. Almost every day of the last decade 
of his life he had sacrificed the weak to the 
strong, the small to the great. He had become 
accustomed to such a transposition of the 
moral claims, and to such a disarrangement 
of spiritual values, that he had lost the deli- 
cate micrometer by which he was used to 
measure the meaning of things. 

Perhaps he had never distinctly reduced 
his views of the great relation of life to 
words ; but, if he had, they would have been 
something like these : The world is divided 
into the reigning and the subject races ; 
man, clearly, belongs to one of these ; woman, 
plainly, to the other. A man who loves a 



 

woman not easily to be won must gain her 
by some species of force — what, will depend 
upon the specimen of her race with whom he 
has to deal. The chief element in the strug- 
gle will be his personal determination. 

Into this determination Steele now hurled 
his being, as a child drops the boat he has 
carved into Niagara. Miriam Lauriat was a 
woman of intellect ; she deferred to the su- 
premacy of his. She was capable of a pro- 
found and passionate love ; she would yield 
to the torrent of his. She was in so far 
attracted to him that it rested with him- 
self — he now believed — to beleaguer her 
thoroughly, to overcome her absolutely. He 
perceived, indeed, that he had forced his op- 
portunity ; that he had spoken too soon. He 
passed the summer in a confident attempt to 
retrieve the mistake ; for this delay he was 
conscious of purposing that she should some- 
time atone to him. 

Their relation had now become an absorb- 
ing one. They had entered upon the ancient 
warfare for which history has never yet re- 
corded the protocols of peace — that between 
the loving and pursuing man and the at- 



 

tracted but reluctant woman. Steele seemed 
to himself to be steadily gaining upon her re- 
sistance. With hope in his heart and light in 
his eyes he went to her one August after- 
noon. 

He was intending to take the boat, as usual, 
but when he reached the wharf he found it 
crowded with a class of passengers who were 
not agreeable to him. He had no mind to join 
an excursion from the slums, and, suddenly 
changing his purpose, went out by train. 
When he left it at the seaside station he was 
pleased and surprised to see Miss Lauriat's 
black pair, with Matthew on the box ; in the 
carriage, however, there seemed to be other 
guests. Matthew did not stop at the station, 
and as the carriage whirled by, Steele had a 
good opportunity to see that it was filled, and 
filled to overflowing, with women and children 
of the social species that he had left behind 
him on the wharf in town. 

When he arrived at the house, tired and 
dusty from his walk, an unexpected pastel 
greeted him. Framed by the tall trees of the 
avenue where the vistas were cut out, a per- 
spective of sea met a foreground of lawn 



 

party. Rugs were spread, a tent, and tables. 
The shrill crackle of uneducated voices came 
to his ear before he had come near enough 
clearly to see Miss Lauriat's guests. These 
were twenty or thirty in number, and plainly 
they represented her tenants and proteges in 
Blind Alley. Ecstasy was in their voices, and 
adoration in their eyes. Old women were there, 
and children of assorted sizes. Cady's Molly 
was there in her red shirt waist and pink hair- 
ribbons, tastefully relieved by a yellow hat. 
Cady's Molly's father was there, and Dan 
Badger — in fact, the leading social circles 
of Blind Alley were represented. 

Miss Lauriat, in a plain white linen dress, 
moved merrily about among this pathetic 
group. Dr. Steele stood under the trees for a 
moment before he made his presence known. 
A consumptive woman, with a baby in her 
arms, and three little girls rolling over her, 
was sitting on the grass quite near him. At- 
