drags and yachts. On fifty thousand a year these things are
impossibilities. But Annandale, believing himself a born financier,
believed, too, that the day was not remote when they would solidify
into facts. Pending which, Fanny, from her own carriage, distributed
to Annette, Juliette and the rest of them such orders as she liked.

It was in this carriage that Marie had seen her with Loftus. Others
also saw her. Fanny being a little more than a bride and Loftus a good
deal more than a beau, the spectacle caused comment. There were,
though, other things that the future had in charge which were to cause
more. But among those who beheld the particular spectacle was Fanny's
husband.

Annandale was in a hansom with Mr. Skitt, the broker in whose office
he looked over the tape. As Fanny drove by, Annandale raised his hat,
then, with a mimic which he meant to be humorously indignant, he shook
his stick at Loftus much as though he were saying, "Aha! making up to
my wife!"

Loftus entering into the spirit of the jest, ducked his head in
feigned alarm.

"That's a deuced pretty woman," remarked Mr. Skitt when the carriage
had passed.

"It is Mrs. Annandale," his client returned with some hauteur.

"Oh, beg pardon, I didn't know."

"Yes," Annandale resumed, "and that was Loftus, an old friend of
mine."

"Any relation to the Loftus?" Mr. Skitt, glad that the subject was
out of the way, inquired.

"He is the Loftus," Annandale, now entirely mollified, replied.

Others, however, took the spectacle less lightly. To Marie it was
distressing. To Mrs. Price it was absurd. Mrs. Price had not seen it,
but she heard of it. To air a few views on the subject she pounced in
on Fanny the very next day. Loftus, however, was there at the time.
She had to wait until he was gone. Then she let drive.

"Do you fancy," she asked fiercely, "that this is London? Do you?" she
repeated and menacingly pulled off a glove. "Don't you know that you
cannot have men hanging about you, and of all men that man? Great
heavens, if you wanted him you should have taken him at the start."

Fanny lit a cigarette, made a ring of smoke, poked a finger through it
and in a sugary, demure little way which she sometimes affected,
answered serenely: "At the finish perhaps I may yet."

"What!" cried Mrs. Price.

But from the door a servant was announcing Miss Waldron. The girl swam
in. Necessarily, for the time being, the subject was dropped. Later
Mrs. Price got back to it, but without notable result, without
obtaining either any elucidation of Fanny's rather curious remark.

That though, with graver things, the future had in charge. Meanwhile
Fanny, with nine servants and a housekeeper to run them, led the life
of any other young society woman, the life of an objet de luxe.

This form of existence would have been quite to her liking if--Yet is
there not always an If? A poet declaimed on the subject two thousand
years ago. Times have changed, customs with them, but not the human
heart. Barring great wealth and its fanfares and accompaniments, Fanny
had enough to throw the average woman into stupors of envy, enough
also to even satisfy her, if only instead of one man she had married
another. Annandale was very nice. He had but one defect. But that
defect was fatal. He did not happen to be somebody else.

This defect Fanny had fancied that she could overlook. She was young,
therefore ignorant, and, in fancying that she could ignore that fatal
defect, fancied also that she had the ability to order herself about,
to command her nature and dictate to her heart. The fallacy is common.
Many of us have entertained it and kept at it too until the discovery
is made that the heart is a force which we must yield to or break.

Fanny became aware of this shortly after Loftus returned. There in her
existence was the If. As a consequence, although Annandale was quite
perfect to her, his perfection was as nothing to his one defect.

Of this defect Annandale was wholly unconscious. Yet, though he could
not see the mote in his own eye, there was one in Fanny's which,
though he saw, he was unable to define. It is true on the mote
question he was not an expert. A husband, particularly when he happens
to be big and blond, seldom is. Then, too, the effect of the mote was
odd. It affected Fanny's disposition. When he approached her he could
not but notice that she became elusive. He could not but perceive that
she was as afraid of a kiss as of a bee.

"What is the matter with you?" he inquired on one occasion when she
appeared even more tantalizingly intangible than he had seen her yet.

"Women are the very devil," he muttered as, without answering, she
moved yet further away.

The question, though, was very unreasonable. So at least Mrs. Price,
whom he tried to take into his confidence, assured him with fine
scorn. "The idea of a man asking his wife what is the matter with
her!" she exclaimed. "A man ought to know. If he doesn't, how in the
world can he expect her to?"

But that was before the episode with Loftus in the Park. Had Annandale
gone to Mrs. Price then she would have been quite capable of putting a
flea in his ear. That opportunity he neglected. Stocks were soaring.
On paper he was making money hand over fist. He had no time to bother
with women's whims. When men do have time for such things the time has
passed.

Even then it had gone. One night early in May Fanny had a few people
in, among whom were Loftus and Sylvia Waldron.

Sylvia, who long since had let bygones be bygones, was now as sisterly
as ever with Fanny, and with Annandale on terms friendly and frank, an
attitude which, as Fanny put it, "made it so easy, don't you know, all
around." Yet then in putting it in that way Fanny may have been
actuated by the fellow-feeling which makes us all so wondrous kind.
With Loftus she was rather friendly herself.

That, however, by the way. During the dinner a telegram was brought to
Annandale. It concerned the morrow's market and interested him
considerably. As soon as he decently could he got away to confer with
Skitt. Later the other guests began to go. But Loftus lingered.
Presently he and Fanny were alone.

"How is the lady?" Fanny negligently inquired.

Her arms and neck were bare. Her dress, immaterial as cobwebs, was of
starbeams' restful hue. About her throat was a string of opals. They
were colorful, though less so than her eyes and mouth.

She was seated on a sofa. Loftus was standing. As always, he was
superiorly sent out. Other men who got their things at the same places
that he got his never succeeded, however they tried, in appearing
half so well.

"Do you know," Fanny continued, "she has improved vastly since that
day when I saw you trying to pick her up. How did you ever manage?
Tell me."

Loftus, his hands in his pockets, shrugged a shoulder.

"And she is so delightfully disdainful," Fanny ran on. "In Central
Park this afternoon she turned up her nose at me. It is a very pretty
nose, Royal, did you know that?"

"I know that it is a bit out of joint," Loftus condescended at last to
reply.

"Dear me! Fancy that! But then the course of true love never did run
smooth."

Loftus assumed an air of great weariness. "Do drop it," he said. "You
know very well that I have never cared for anyone but you."

"Oh, of course," Fanny promptly and pleasantly retorted. "I may have
had a doubt or two about it. But when you put this lady in a flat
around the corner, then, naturally, you convinced me. It was a rather
circuitous way, though, to go at it, don't you think?"

Beside her on the sofa Loftus flopped. "Why do you always go back to
that?" he asked, with the same affectation of weariness.

Fanny turned from him. "I don't seem to be able to get away from it,"
she answered, but less promptly and pleasantly than before. Her fair
face had grown serious. From her eyes the bantering look had gone.
"Besides," she added after a moment, "you took her to Europe, and that
did seem a trifle steep."

"Would you like her to go back there?" Loftus tentatively inquired.

In and out from Fanny's skirt a white slipper, butterflied with gold,
moved restlessly. "I should have preferred that you had let her alone.
It was not nice of you. It was not nice at all."

From him she had turned to the carpet. She was looking at it still. "I
wonder," she presently resumed, "if you ever suspected how it hurt
me." Pausing a bit she looked up. "But you have been so dense, Royal."

Loftus was about to interrupt. She checked him. "The first time I saw
you I was just fifteen. That is eight years ago. Since then I can
honestly say that until I accepted Arthur I had never thought of
anyone but you. Never. Not once. Can you realize now how this affair
of yours affected me? It hurt. If it had not been for that, do you
suppose I would have taken the prince in the fairy tale? You were my
prince."

"But," Loftus protested, "this affair, as you call it, came about only
faute de mieux, faute de toi. Why cannot I--why cannot we----?"

Fanny checked him again. "No, we cannot. Two years ago you said the
same thing to me. I forgave you then because I loved you. For the same
reason I forgive you now. But, however I care for you, never will I be
your mistress."

"Fanny----"

"No, never. If, as again and again you have told me during the past
few months, you still care for me, either you must love me openly or I
will not permit you to love me at all."

At the sudden horizon Loftus bent to her. "Let us go, then. In Europe
we can love before all the world."

Fanny drew back. "Particularly before all the half-world," she
answered with a sniff. "No. You misunderstand me. Perhaps, too, I
misunderstand you. Let my hand be."

"Fanny, I will do anything----"

"It is rather late to say that. But if I were free now, what would you
do? Would you repeat the invitation you have made?"

Loftus, his wonderful eyes looking deep into hers, answered quickly
and sweetly, "I would beg you to be my wife."

Fanny straightened herself. "Then give that girl her congé, give her a
dot too, send her abroad and let her marry some count."

"Very good, I will do so."

"When you have," said Fanny, "I will ask Arthur for a divorce."

"What?" And Loftus, with those wonderful eyes, stared in surprise. He
was in for it, let in for it, was his first impression. Yet at once,
on looking back, he realized that Fanny was incapable of trick of any
kind. "But," he objected, "supposing he refuses?"

"Then I will apply."

"But you can't, you see. He is good as gold."

"Oh, I don't mean here. I mean out West."

For a moment Loftus said nothing. Even in the West, he reflected,
divorce took time. Yet then, reflecting, too, that it would be very
gentlemanly of Annandale were he to go there and leave the coast free
for him, he smiled and remarked, with what seemed astounding
inappositeness, "I have been selling short."

"Ah!" said Fanny longly. "And what of it?"

"Unless the market turns I shall be out, God knows how much!"

"But what of it?" Yet even as she spoke she understood.
"Fiddlesticks!" she exclaimed with a gesture of annoyance. "I sha'n't
care if you haven't two cents."

To this Loftus had no chance to reply. Annandale came lounging in.

"Do you know what I have done?" he collectively and blandly inquired.
"I told Skitt to buy me, at the opening, 1,000 Atchison and 1,000
Steel. Now I would like a quiet drink."

Loftus stood up. "I am going in the Park for a quiet smoke. But I
thought you had sworn off."

Annandale tugged at his cavalry mustache and laughed. "I haven't
touched a thing for nearly a year. But on a night like this, when the
whole town is mad, I think I might have a drop. Stop, dear boy, won't
you, and have one with me? No? Well--" And, accompanying Loftus to the
door, he whispered to him there, "My compliments to Miss Leroy."

"Don't forget, Royal," Fanny called after him, "that you dine with us
on the ninth."




CHAPTER III

THE GATES OF LIFE


In her sitting-room at the Arundel Marie sat. It was nearly midnight.
Hours before she had dined. Since then she had wandered from one room
to another, from one chair to another, wondering would Loftus come.
Sometimes he did. More often he did not. She never knew beforehand. It
was as it pleased him. Always the uncertainty irked her. But on this
evening it was particularly enervating. She had reached the gates of
her endurance. She could stand no more. She must pass through them,
pass or fall back, where she did not know, but somewhere, to some
plane, in which, though life forsook her, at least its degradation
would be foregone.

At first, in the old days, when he met her in the ex-first lady's den,
it had seemed to her that life would be incomplete without him. Then
it had seemed that with him it would be fulfilled to the tips.
Subsequently the long train of disenchantments had ensued. In Paris
he had pained her greatly. There, after a series of those things,
little in themselves, but which, when massed, become mountainous, she
had been forced to consider not her love for him but the nature of
such love as he had for her. In him there was a reticence which
perplexed, depths which she could not reach. At times his silence was
that of one to whom something has happened, who is suffering from some
constraint, from some pressure or from some long illness of which
traces remain. At others, it had exasperated her, it made her feel
like a piano, on which, a piece played, the cover is shut. She had
seemed to serve as a pastime, nothing more; a toy which now and then
he took up, but only because it was there, beneath his feet. Yet even
then she was not quite unhappy. Even then she had faith. She believed
in him still. Hope had not gone.

Hope has its braveries. Its outposts patrol our lives. Until death
annihilates it and us, always beyond is a sentry. The sentry which she
still discerned was the promise he had made. Latterly it had not been
much of a sentry. It had far more resembled a straw. But it was all
she had. She had clung to it. Hope indeed has its braveries, but it
has its cowardices as well.

This hope, ultimate and forlorn, she knew now was craven, mated to her
degradation, born of her shame. If it were to be realized the
realization must delay no more. She was at the gates. She must pass
through. On that she had decided. When Loftus came she would tell him
so. She would tell him that she would work for him, slave for him,
envelop him with her love, pillow him on her heart. Though he lost his
wretched money what would it matter to her and how should it matter to
him? She could sing him if not into affluence at least into ease.
Tambourini, with whom until recently she had studied, had told her not
once, out of politeness merely, but again and again that in her throat
was a volcano of gold. With Italian exaggeration he had called her
Pasta, Alboni, Malibran, predicting their triumphs for her. If Loftus
would make an honest woman of her those triumphs would be for him. But
as she told herself that she told herself too that such triumphs he
would prefer to avoid. He should have, though, the chance. If he
rejected it she would go. And of its rejection she had little manner
of doubt. But the chance he should have, yes, even though she knew
beforehand that with his usual civility--a civility which she had
learned to hate--he would hand it back. She could see him at it. She
could see his negligent smile. That smile she had learned too to hate.
Always she loved him to distraction, but sometime she hated him to the
death.

From Loftus for a moment her thoughts veered to Tambourini. The week
previous suddenly, without warning, he had told her torrentially that
he adored her. He was a good teacher. Yet, of course, after that she
had been obliged to let him go.

But now her thoughts were interrupted. At the table where she sat she
started, her head drawn abruptly in that attitude which deers have
when surprised. In the door without had come the fumble of a key and,
in the hall, she caught the almost noiseless tread of her lover. As he
entered she got from her seat. Loftus had his hat on. He took it off,
put it down on the table and taking a cigar from his pocket lit it at
the chimney of a lamp that was there.

At the conclusion of the operation he looked at her. Her dress was
canary. From the short loose sleeves lace fell that was repeated at
the neck. There a yellow sapphire had been pinned. As he looked at
her, she looked at him.

"I have something to say to you, Marie," he began.

With an uplift of the chin she answered: "And I, Royal, have something
to say to you."

"The usual thing, I suppose. Well, shy a teacup at me if you like, but
spare me a scene."

As he spoke he seated himself. "Marie," he at once resumed, "I shall
have to take my mother up the Hudson shortly----"

The girl interrupted him. "Does Mrs. Annandale go too?"

The man's cigar had gone out. He relighted it. "No," he replied, "the
last time I saw her she said something about going West."

"Ah!" Marie exclaimed, and immediately with that curious intuition
which women that really love possess she added, "to Dakota?"

"Perhaps," replied Loftus with a puff. The surety of the shot amazed
him, but of the amazement he gave no sign. "Perhaps, though I do not
remember that she said just where she did intend to go." He drew in a
large mouthful of smoke, which leisurely he blew forth. It circled
about her. She moved away. "Oh, excuse me," he said, "I did not
mean--" The girl made a gesture of indifference. "You see," he began
again, "the point is just here. My mother is not well. She rather
wants me with her this summer. In the circumstances I thought you
might like to go abroad."

Marie, through half-closed eyes, cautiously peered at him. "Without
you?" she asked.

Loftus nodded.

"For good?"

To this Loftus made no answer. Provided she went, though it were for
bad, he did not much care.

Marie, who had been standing, crossed the room and recrossed it. A
year before she had suggested the kitten. Where that had been the
leopard had come. In her movements were the same supple ease, the same
grace and alertness. Suddenly at the table where he sat she stopped,
rested a hand on it and bending a little looked him in the face.

"Liar," she muttered. "Liar! I know and so do you. Yes, I knew it
almost from the first, but, though I knew it, I tried as hard to
deceive myself as you did to deceive me. You never intended to marry
me, not for a moment, not even at the moment when you called God to
witness that you would."

Her hand had gone from the table, from it and him she turned away.

Loftus, who at the arraignment had retreated a full inch in his chair,
called after her. "It is untrue; what I said, I meant."

Marie turned back. "Then if you meant it, marry me this night. If you
have any honor, any whatever, a spark of it, you will; if not----"

She paused and looked at him. It was not this at all she had meant to
say. She had meant to entreat him, to picture what their life might
be, to tell him of her enveloping love, and that failing, to go, but
to go without words, without reproaches, without suffering that which
had been between them to be marred by vituperation and, so marred, to
descend to the level of some coarse intrigue. But something, his
manner, the manifest lie about his mother, the apparition of that
other woman, battening on nerves overwrought had irritated her into
entire forgetfulness of what she had meant to do and say.

The pause Loftus noticed. What was behind it he misconstrued. "Don't
mind me," he encouragingly interjected. "Threaten away. It is so nice
and well-bred. Yet I must be allowed to say that while I did intend to
marry you, the intention has been rather weakened through just such
scenes as this. Though, to be frank, it is not so much that I object
to scenes as it is that, if scenes there must be, I prefer to make
them myself."

At the humor of that Marie ran her nails into her hands, dug them in.
Without some such moxa it seemed to her that she might take and hurl
the lamp at him, fire the place and, fate favoring, be calcinated with
him there.

"And now that I have been frank," he went on, "let me be franker. You
and I have ceased to be able to hit it off. The blame for that I will,
if you like, assume."

Then he too paused. But not at all because he did not fully know what
he meant to do and say.

"Marie," he continued, putting a hand in a pocket as he spoke, "in the
past year we have been more than friends. Friends at least let us
remain. Friends do part, and for awhile we must. Your voice, like
yourself, is charming. If I may advise, go and study abroad. Though if
you prefer remain here. But, of course, whatever you do you will need
money. I have brought some."

In his hand now was a card case which he offered her. She took it,
looked at it, opened it, then moving to a window she raised the sash
and threw the card case into the night, yet so quickly and
unexpectedly that Loftus had no time to interfere.

"That is an agreeable way of getting rid of twelve thousand dollars,"
he remarked.

Yet, however lightly he affected to speak, the action annoyed him.
Like all men of large means he was close. It seemed to him beastly to
lose such a sum. He got up, went to the window and looked down. He
could not see the case and he much wanted to go and look for it. But
that for the moment Marie prevented.

"If it were twelve times twelve million," she exclaimed, "I would do
the same! Oh, Royal," she cried, "don't you know it is not your money
I want; don't you know it is you?"

Loftus did know, but he did not care. The flinging away of the money
was all he could think of. It was an act which he could not properly
qualify as plebeian, but which seemed to him crazily courtesanesque.
He returned to the table and picked up his hat. "I am going," he
announced.

Marie sprang at him. "Is that your answer?"

He brushed her aside. She saw that he was going, saw too, or thought
she saw, that he was going never to return, saw also that now at last
she was at the gates.

"My God!" she cried. "My God!"

So resonant was the cry that Loftus turned, not to her but to the
window. He closed it. But already the cry had passed elsewhere.

From regions beyond a fat negress waddled hurriedly in. Her eyes
rolled whitely from the girl to Loftus and then again to the girl.

"Are you sick, miss?"

"Go away," said Loftus, "there is nothing the matter."

"Nothing?" exclaimed Marie. "Nothing!" she repeated in a higher key.
"Nothing!" Then, visibly, anger enveloped her. "Do you call it nothing
to be cheated and decoyed? Nothing to have faith and love and be
gammoned of them by a living lie, by a perjury in flesh and blood? Is
that what you call nothing? Is it? Then tell me what something is?"

At the moment she stared at Loftus, her lips still moving, her breast
heaving, her small hands clenched, her face very white. And Loftus
stared at her. In the vehemence and contempt of her anger he did not
recognize at all the kitten of the year before. But it was very
vulgar, he decided.

That vulgarity Blanche complicated at once. "What has he done, miss?"
she asked, her hands on her hips.

"Done?" Marie echoed. "He has made me drink of shame. Now, tired of
that, he is going."

"Not to leave you, miss?"

"To leave me for another woman."

"Then hanging is too good for him."

Loftus gestured at the negress. "I say," he called. "Did you hear what
I told you? Go away and hold your tongue."

Blanche's eyes that had rolled whitely before were rolling now not
merely whitely but wildly.

"I won't go away, sir. I won't hold my tongue, sir. I am as good as
you, sir. I have a son that's better nor you, sir. He wouldn't treat a
lady as you have her, sir. Staying away from her as you have, sir.
Making her eat her heart out, sir. No, sir, I won't hold my tongue,
sir."

And Blanche, mounting in paroxysms of indignation, shouted: "For the
Lord's sake, sir. Hanging is too good for you, sir. You ought to have
your ghost kicked. Yes, sir."

"Oh, hell!" muttered Loftus between his teeth, and turning on his
heel, he stalked out, flecking from his sleeve as he went an imaginary
speck.




CHAPTER IV

THE RETURN OF THE YELLOW FAY


In Fanny's drawing-room the next evening, at six minutes after eight,
Loftus appeared. Although tolerably punctual, others had preceded him.
On a sofa with Fanny was Sylvia Waldron. On another sofa were Mrs.
Waldron and Melanchthon Orr. Annandale, who seemed to have lost flesh,
was standing in the middle of the floor.

"How are you?" he asked as Loftus entered.

"And you?"

"They did me," Annandale answered. "Atch., U. P., St. Paul, Steel, I
had the list." As he spoke he mopped himself. Then in confidential
aside, he added, "It has affected my stomach. It is as though I had a
hole there. Will you have a sherry and bitters?"

Loftus moved forward to where Sylvia and Fanny sat. Fanny gave him a
finger; Sylvia, a little distant nod. She was dressed in white. About
her neck was a string of pearls. Fanny was in a frock of tender
asparagus green fluttered with lace, very cool to the eye and cut
rather low.

"I hope Arthur isn't hurt much," said Loftus.

"Are you?" Fanny asked.

"No. I have been selling. Today I covered. It was not easy, though.
Everybody was crazy. I have never seen a panic before."

"It will be a generation before you see another," Orr, from across the
room, called out.

At the further end of the room Harris, Annandale's former valet, since
promoted to the position of butler, appeared, smug-faced and solemn,
in silent announcement of dinner.

For the time being the subject was abandoned, but presently when at
table all were seated it was resumed.

"It will cost the country $50,000,000," said Orr. He was at Fanny's
left. At her right was Loftus.

"Well," said Annandale, emptying a glass of Ruinart, "I am glad I
don't have to produce it." Emptying another glass he added, "I have
produced all I could."

"I think I do not quite understand," said Mrs. Waldron, who led a
highly unspeculative life and seldom saw the evening papers.

Orr and Annandale both hastened to enlighten her. Ever since the
Presidential election there had been a boom in the Street, a soaring
market in which the whole community, down to and including messenger
boys and chorus girls, had joined. On this, the ninth of May, it had,
in the slang of the Street, just "busted." Since the great black day
of a generation previous, never had there been such a crash, so many
landed gentry, so much paper profit sunk into such absolute loss.

In the flow of talk Fanny turned to Loftus.

"How is the lady?"

Loftus, whose mouth was full of jellied consommé, did not answer for a
moment. Then he made a slight gesture. "She has gone."

"Already?"

"I had your orders!"

Fanny looked at him wonderingly. "How did she take it?"

"What difference does it make? She has gone. Is not that sufficient?"

"For you, no doubt. But for her! No; really I am sorry. When you told
her that you loved her I am sure she thought you meant forever. I am
sure, too, that you meant for a week. It is a shame to treat a girl
like that and then turn her loose."

Loftus had begun to busy himself with some fish. He put his fork
down. "But, confound it, you told me to."

"Did I? I forgot. Besides, you are not usually so obedient."

Loftus turned to his fish. "It seems to me that there is rather a
change in the temperature. Isn't there?" he asked.

"But, Royal, I cannot help feeling sorry for that girl. I cannot help
feeling, too, that if you can get rid of her in this lively fashion
you might do the same with me."

"In that case it only shows what a simpleton you are. If I have had
anything to do with her at all it was only because I couldn't have
anything to do with you."

"Well, hardly in that way. But you could have asked me to marry you."

"I have since."

"Say, rather, I asked you."

"Anyway, the other evening it was settled. If now you have changed
your mind----"

"Regarding you my mind will never change. I shall speak to Arthur
tonight."

"What's that?" called Annandale who, from the other end of the table,
had caught the mention of his name. "What's that?"

"We were talking stocks," Loftus answered. "Do you know how money was
today?"

"I know it was beastly tight."

"And that seems to me," Fanny with one of her limpid smiles remarked,
"such a vulgar condition for money to be in."

"Did I hear you ask," Orr inquired, "how money was today? It was sixty
per cent."

"Dear me, Melanchthon," Mrs. Waldron exclaimed. "I think I must get
you to speak to the Trust Company. They only give me three. A mouse
could not live in New York on that."

"The time is not distant," said Orr, "when the population of New York
will be exclusively composed of mice and millionaires. Nobody but
plutocrats and paupers will be able to live here. Already it is little
more than a sordid hell with a blue sky. I can remember----"

Orr ran on. He had the table. In the impromptu which ensued other
conversation was swamped. But during it, for a second, Loftus had
Fanny's hand in his. It clasped it and in clasping thrilled. It was
the first time in her life that she had permitted herself--or
him--such a thing. It was the last.

Sylvia, happening at the moment to turn that way, could not help
seeing what was going on. She colored and looked at Annandale.

During Orr's impromptu he had been attempting with plentiful champagne
to fill the hole of which he had complained.

Later, the dinner at an end, the women gone, the hole still unfilled,
he called for whisky and soda and monologued plaintively on the
disasters of the day. As he talked he drank. But the monologue, which
was becoming tedious, Harris interrupted. Mrs. Waldron had sent in to
say that she and Miss Waldron were going, and would Mr. Orr be so good
as to see them home.

At this Annandale got up. With the others he made for the room beyond.
There, shortly, the guests of the evening departed; husband and wife
were alone.

"Do you know, Fanny, how much I have lost today?" that husband began.

"No, Arthur," that wife replied. "Nor do I know that I particularly
care. There is something more important to me than money just now. I
want a divorce."

"Eh?" Annandale had been walking up and down the room, but at this he
stopped short. He did not seem to have heard aright. "Eh?"

"Eh?" Fanny repeated in open mimic. "Yes, I want a divorce."

"A divorce?" Munching the syllables of the word, Annandale put a hand
to his shirt front. "From me?" Had Fanny asked him to make good the
fifty million loss to the country which Orr had mentioned his
bewilderment could not have been more sheer.

He stared at Fanny. She was nodding at him. Influenced by that motion
of her head, slowly, almost laboriously, he sat down. There the
disasters of the day fusing with the alcohol of the night blent with
the demand and bewildered him still more.

"What an odd thing to want," he said at last. Then rallying he added,
"You must be j-joking. Yes--really, for you know you can't tell me
why."

To this, Fanny who had been eyeing him narrowly, retorted severely: "I
wonder are you in a condition to have me tell you anything at all?"

At the imputation the poor chap, after the fashion of poor chaps in
similar shape, flared indignantly. "There is nothing the matter with
me," he protested. Though very much mixed, he managed for the moment
not to appear so. "Nothing," he reiterated.

"Then Arthur, to be quite frank, we are not suited to each other. If
you will give me a divorce it will be nice of you. If not I shall go
to Dakota and get one."

Annandale passed a hand over his forehead. He did not in the least
understand what all this was about. Then suddenly the fumes of wine
disclosed a retrospect of incidents garnered unconsciously, memories
of Fanny and Loftus, the sense of her increasing aloofness, the
knowledge of his constant presence. These things made pictures which
he saw and, seeing, inflamed. At once, in answer not to her but to
them, he got from his seat, pounded violently on an étagère and cried
with the viciousness of drink: "I'll shoot him! I'll shoot Royal
Loftus for the dog that he is!"

"Beg pardon, sir." Through the lateral entrance to the drawing-room
Harris emerged, a tray in his hand. "A necklace, sir. It was under the
dining-room table where Miss Waldron sat, sir."

Annandale strangled an oath. He glared at Fanny, glared at the man,
glared at the pearls, took the latter, thrust them in his pocket,
motioned to Harris, strode from the room, went upstairs, then down and
out from the house, slamming the door after him with a noise in which
there was the clatter of musketry and the din of oaths.

The night was black yet full of stars, the hour homicidal and serene.
Annandale strode on. Before him was the park, about it a fence of high
iron and within phantasmal peace. He did not notice it. He was
wondering angrily what he would do, how he should act.

Had he been sober he would have known at once. When in his sphere of
life a woman wants to go, it is a man's mere duty to open the doors,
open the windows, run ahead, get a divorce and bring it back to her on
a salver. Had he been sober he would have realized that. He would have
recognized too the propriety of Fanny's frank request. After little
more than five months of marriage it was perhaps precipitate. Yet
considered simply as a request it was, in the world in which he moved,
more common than the reverse.

Ordinarily he would have realized that. What is more, he would have
realized that what Fanny had said was true. They were not suited for
each other. When people are not so suited it is best that they should
separate. But people that have bowed when they met might just as well
bow when they part. In the life known as polite big words and little
threats have long since gone out of fashion.

All of which ordinarily Annandale would have known. He was essentially
urbane, of a nature far more inclined to inaction than anger.
Ordinarily, he would have accepted the situation, without joy, no
doubt, but certainly without raising the roof. Whereupon, having so
accepted it, he would have turned in and gone to bed.

But alcohol plays strange tricks. It affects manners and memories. It
affects, too, the imagination. Annandale was drunk. The Yellow Fay
that lurks in liquor awoke in him the manger dog. He told himself that
he was being robbed. And of what? The wife of his bosom! And by whom?
His nearest friend! The outrage and the villainy of that loomed, or
rather, the Yellow Fay aiding, seemed to loom so monstrously, that,
beside it, the disasters of the Street dwindled into nothing, lost in
the sense of this wrong.

It was damnable, he decided.

Putting a hand in a pocket his fingers encountered a string of pearls.
It was not that which he was seeking. Besides, he had forgotten them.
But finding them there it occurred to him that he ought to restore
them at once. Circling the park he entered Irving Place and rang at
Sylvia's door.

There, instead of the usual if brief delay, the door opened at once.
Orr was coming out. Beyond in the hall Sylvia stood. Orr looked at
Annandale, wondering what the dickens he was after. But Annandale
brushed by. Orr passed on. Annandale entered the hall.

As the door closed the light revealed to Sylvia what Orr in the
semi-obscurity of the stoop had not observed and which, had he
observed, would, in view of an anterior episode, have induced his
return.

But Sylvia saw. In face and manner his excitement was obvious. Mindful
of that episode she feared that he was again in his cups. Yet
immediately, though for a moment, a question which he asked reassured
her. She understood, or thought she did, why he had come.

"Did you know that you had lost your pearls?"

Instinctively the girl's hand went to her throat.

"Here they are. They were found somewhere. In the hall, I think."

"Thank you, Arthur. This is very good of you. But tomorrow would have
done."

She did not ask him in and this omission he did not appear to notice.
He looked about the hall and then at the girl. At the look her fear
returned.

"Did you know about Fanny and Loftus?" he suddenly asked. "They're
going to elope." As he spoke he leaned back heavily against the door.
"I shall kill him," he added thickly.

Sylvia wrung her hands. "Oh, Arthur, you have been drinking again. You
promised that you never would."

"I shall kill him," Annandale stubbornly repeated.

"Oh, don't say such things," the girl pleaded. "Don't say them. Go
home."

Annandale turned sullenly, opened the door and looking back, muttered,
"I have no home."

Closing the door after him he started down the steps. They were few
and wide, easy of descent. But they had become unaccountably steep. He
caught at a rail. It steadied him. He stood there a moment. Then, a
bit uncertainly, he zigzagged on.




CHAPTER V

EXIT FANNY


"Murder!"

On the morrow, through the thick streets newsboys were shouting the
word engagingly, as though it were something nice. For further
temptation they bawled, "In Gramercy Park!"

Orr was leaving his office. It was four o'clock. He was on his way
home. But the name detained him. Murder in Gramercy Park was a novelty
which no one aware of its sedateness could comfortably resist. He
bought an extra. There, for his penny, in leaded type it stood. In
ink, appropriately red, meagre details followed. As these sprang at
him, mentally he bolted. Other purchasers were absorbing them
pleasurably. A good old-fashioned crime is so rare! Then, too, of all
crimes murder in Gramercy Park is rarest. Yet when in addition the
victim is a man of fashion what more would you have for a cent?

To Orr the information was excessive. It concerned Royal Loftus, who,
the paper stated, had been found early that morning, near a bench in
the park, doubled in a heap, a bullet through his handsome head.

No clues, no arrests. That was all. But was it not enough? To Orr,
while excessive it was also incredible. Mechanically he read the
account again. On his way uptown he bought other papers, less colorful
but equally clear. Loftus had been identified. There was no mistake.

But the incredibility of it persisted. A man young, rich, handsome,
without apparently an enemy in the world or an idea in his head, to be
done for like that was a matter which Orr could not immediately
digest.

He tried, however. In the effort he reached his house. There a
telephone message awaited him. It asked would he please come to Irving
Place. Presumably it concerned the murder. He went at once.

In the sombre parlor Sylvia stood.

"You know, I suppose," he began. Seeing that she did he added, "It is
very odd."

Sylvia interrupted him. "There is worse."

"How worse? What do you mean?"

"Fanny was going to run off with him."

"With Loftus?"

Sylvia nodded. Her face, always pale, now was white.

"But," Orr expostulated, "you don't fancy that Annandale----?"
