"Caesar?"
"Yes, Miss Hawthorne--"
The Blue Domino swung about and leaned toward me, her hands tense upon
the sides of her chair.
"What name did you say?"--a strained note in her voice.
"Hawthorne," I answered, taking out the slip of pasteboard.  "See! it
says that one blue domino was rented of Monsieur Friard at five-thirty
this afternoon."
"How did you come by that ticket?" she demanded.
"It was a miracle.  I purchased a mask there, and this ticket was
wrapped up in my bundle by mistake."
"It is a curious coincidence,"--her voice normal and unagitated.
I was confused.  "Then I am mistaken?"--my chagrin evident.  (All this
while, mind you, I was wondering if that cellar-door was unlocked, and
how long it would take me to reach it before the dénouement!)
"One way or the other, it does not matter," said she.
"Yet, if I could reach the cellars,"--absently.  Then I bit my tongue.
"Cellars?  Who said anything about cellars?  I meant that this is not
the hour for unmasking or disclosing one's identity,"--coldly.
"And yet, when Caesar whispered 'Beware the ten of hearts' you turned
and shuddered.  What have you to offer in defense?"
"It was the horrid mask he wore."
"Well, it wasn't handsome of him."
"What did you mean by cellars?"--suddenly becoming the inquisitor in
her turn.
"I?  Oh, I was thinking what I should do in case of fire,"--nimbly.
"That is not the truth."
"Well, no, it isn't.  Can you keep a secret?" I whispered.
"If it isn't a terrible one."
"Well, I have no earthly business here.  I am an impostor."
"An impostor!"
"Yes.  And for the past few minutes, since I heard of the robbery, I've
been thinking how I could get out of here upon the slightest notice."
While the reckless spirit was upon me, I produced the fatal card and
showed the back to her.  "You will find that yours is of a different
color.  But I am not the Galloping Dick; it was only a hare-brained
lark on my part, and I had no idea it would turn out serious like this.
I was going to disappear before they unmasked.  What would you advise
me to do?"
She took the card, studied it, and finally returned it.  There followed
an interval of silence.
"I have known the imposition from the first," she said.
"What!"
She touched the signet-ring on my little finger.  "I have seen that
once before to-night.  No," she mused, "you will not blow up the
post-office to-night, nor the police-station."
She lifted the corner of her mask, and I beheld the girl I had met in
Mouquin's!
"You?"
"Silence!  So this is the meaning of your shuffling those cards?  Oh,
it is certainly droll!"  She laughed.
"And are you Miss Hawthorne?"
"I am still in the mask, sir; I shall answer none of your questions."
"This is the finest romance in the world!" I cried.
"You were talking about getting out," she said.  "Shall I lend you my
domino?  But that would be useless.  Such a prestidigitator as Signor
Fantoccini has only to say--Presto! and disappear at once."
"I assure you, it is no laughing matter."
"I see it from a different angle."
An artist's model, and yet a guest at this exclusive function?
A commotion around the stage distracted us.  Presently we saw Teddy
Hamilton mount the stage and hold up his hands.
"Attention, ladies and gentlemen!" he called.
Silence gradually fell upon the motley groups of masqueraders.
"A thief is among us.  I have had all the exits closed.  Everybody will
be so kind as to present cards at the main entrance.  Three ten-spots
of hearts have been tallied on the comparing lists.  We have been
imposed upon.  The police are on the way.  Very sorry to cause you this
annoyance.  The identity of the holders of the cards will be known only
to those of us on the committee."
Silence and then a murmur which soon became a fuzzing like that of many
bees.
The Blue Domino suddenly clutched my arm.
"Please take me away, take me away at once!  I'm an impostor, too!"
Two of us!
This was disaster.  I give you my solemn word, there was nothing I
regretted so much as the fact that I hadn't gone to the theater.
But I am a man of quick thought and resource.  In the inelegant
phrasing of the day, me for the cellars!
"Come," said I to the girl; "There's only one chance in a hundred, but
we'll take it together."
"Together?  Where?"
"Why, to the cellars.  I've a pocketful of matches.  We can make a try.
For, if there's a thief around, and we are caught and proved
impostors--Well, I leave you to imagine!"
"I will go with you," she replied resolutely.
The gods were with us.  The door leading to the cellars was not locked.
I opened it, passed the girl before me, and closed the door.
"I am frightened!" she whispered.
"So am I," I offered, to reassure her.  "You are not afraid of rats,
are you?"
"No-o!"
"Bully!" I cried.  Then I laughed.
"How can you laugh?  It is horrible!" she protested.
"You would come, though I heard your uncle warn you.  Look at it the
way I do.  It's a huge joke, and years from now you'll have great fun
telling it to your grandchildren."
"I wish, at this moment, I could see so far ahead--What was
that?"--seizing my arm.
Click!
Somebody had locked the door behind us!
IV
In other words, we had departed the scene of festivities none too soon.
I could readily understand why the door had been locked: it was not to
keep us in the cellars; rather it was to prevent any one from leaving
the ball-room by that route.  Evidently our absence had not been
noticed, nor had any seen our precipitate flight.  I sighed gratefully.
For several minutes we stood silent and motionless on the landing.  At
length I boldly struck a match.  The first thing that greeted my
blinded gaze was the welcome vision of a little shelf lined with
steward's candles.  One of these I lighted, and two others I stuffed
into the pocket of my Capuchin's gown.  Then we tiptoed softly down the
stairs, the girl tugging fearfully at my sleeve.
There was an earthy smell.  It was damp and cold.  Miles and miles away
(so it seemed) the pale moonshine filtered through a cobwebbed window,
It was ghostly; but so far as I was concerned, I was honestly enjoying
myself, strange as this statement may seem.  Here was I, setting forth
upon an adventure with the handsomest, wittiest girl I had ever laid
eyes upon.  If I extricated her neatly, she would always be in my debt;
and the thought of this was mighty pleasant to contemplate.
"Do you know the way out?"
I confessed that, so far as I knew, we were in one of the fabled
labyrinths of mythology.
"Go ahead," she said bravely.
"I ask only to die in your Highness' service,"--soberly.
"But I do not want you to die; I want you to get me out of this cellar;
and quickly, too."
"I'll live or die in the attempt!"
"I see nothing funny in our predicament,"--icily.
"A few moments ago you said that our angles of vision were not the
same; I begin to believe it.  As for me, I think it's simply immense to
find myself in the same boat with you."
"I wish you had been an anarchist, or a performer in a dime-museum."
"You might now be alone here.  But, pardon me; surely you do not lack
the full allotment of the adventurous spirit!  It was all amusing
enough to come here under false pretenses."
"But I had not reckoned on any one's losing jewels."
"No more had I."
"Proceed.  I have the courage to trust to your guidance."
"I would that it might be always!"--with a burst of sentiment that was
not wholly feigned.
"Let us be on,"--imperatively.  "I shall not only catch my death of
cold, but I shall be horribly compromised."
"My dear young lady, on the word of a gentleman, I will do the best I
can to get you out of this cellar.  If I have jested a little, it was
only in the effort to give you courage; for I haven't the slightest
idea how we are going to get out of this dismal hole."
We went on.  We couldn't see half a dozen feet in front of us.  The
gloom beyond the dozen feet was Stygian and menacing.  And the great
grim shadows that crept behind us as we proceeded!  Once the girl
stumbled and fell against me.
"What's the matter?" I asked, startled.
"I stepped on something that--that moved!"--plaintively.
"Possibly it was a potato; there's a bin of them over there.  Where the
deuce are we?"
"If you swear, I shall certainly scream!" she warned.
"But I can swear in the most elegant and approved fashion."
"I am not inclined to have you demonstrate your talents."
"Aha!  Here is the coal-bin.  Perhaps the window may be open.  If so,
we are saved.  Will you hold the candle for a moment?"
Have you ever witnessed a cat footing it across the snow?  If you have,
picture me imitating her.  Cautiously I took one step, then another;
and then that mountain of coal turned into a roaring tread-mill.
Sssssh!  Rrrrr!  In a moment I was buried to the knees and nearly
suffocated.  I became angry.  I would reach that window--
"Hush!  Hush!  The noise, the noise!" whispered the girl, waving the
candle frantically.
But I was determined.  Again I tried.  This time I slipped and fell on
my hands.  As I strove to get up, the cord of my gown became tangled
about my feet.  The girl choked; whether with coal-dust or with
laughter I could not say, as she still had on her cambric-mask.
"Forgive me," she said.  And then I knew it was not the coal-dust.
"I'll forgive you, but I will not promise to forget."
"Merciful heavens! you must not try that again.  Think of the noise!"
"Was I making any noise?"--rubbing the perspiration from my forehead.
(I had taken off my mask.)
"Noise?  The trump of Judgment Day will be feeble compared to it.
Surely some one has heard you.  Why not lay that board on top of the
coal?"
A good idea.  I made use of it at once.  The window was unlatched, but
there was a heavy wire-screen nailed to the sills outside.  There was
no getting out that way.  The gods were evidently busy elsewhere.
"Nothing doing," I murmured, a bit discouraged.
"And even if there was, you really could not expect me to risk my neck
and dignity by climbing through a window like that.  Let us give up the
idea of windows and seek the cellar-doors, those that give to the
grounds.  I declare I shall leave by no other exit."
"It was very kind of you to let me make an ass of myself like that.
Why didn't you tell me beforehand?"
"Perhaps it's the angle of vision again.  I can see that we shall never
agree.  Seriously, I thought that if you got out that way, you might
find the other exit for me.  I am sorry if my laughter annoyed you."
"Not at all, not at all.  But wouldn't it be wise to save a little
laughter to make merry with when we get out?"
I stepped out of the bin and relieved her of the candle; and we went on.
"You did look funny," she said.
"Please don't!" I begged.
Soon we came to a bin of cabbages.  I peered in philosophically.
"I might find a better head in there than mine," I suggested.
"Now you are trying to be sarcastic," said the girl.
We went on.
"Wait a moment!" she cried.  "Here's a bin of nice apples."
Apples!  Well, my word, she was a cool one!  I picked up one, polished
it on my sleeve, and gave it to her.
"I'm hungry," she said apologetically.
"And plucky, too," I supplemented admiringly.  "Most women would be in
a weeping state by this time."
"Perhaps I am waiting till it is all over."
"You had better take off your mask."  In fact I felt positive that the
sight of her exquisite face would act like a tonic upon my nerves.
"I am doing very well with it on.  I can at least keep my face clean."
She raised the curtain and took a liberal bite of the apple--so
nonchalantly that I was forced to smile.
"Here's a box," said I; "let's sit down while we eat.  We are safe
enough.  If any one had heard the racket in the coal-bin, the cellar
would have been full of police by this time."
And there we sat, calmly munching the apples, for all the world as if
the iron hand of the law wasn't within a thousand miles of us.  It was
all very amusing.
"Are--are you the man they are hunting for?" she asked abruptly.
"I never stole anything more terrible than green apples--and ripe
ones"--with a nod toward the apple-bin.
"Pardon me!  I feel very guilty in asking you such a question.  You
haven't told me your name."
"Haven't I?  My name is Richard Comstalk.  My friends call me Dickey."
"Dickey," she murmured.  "It's a nice name."
"Won't you have another apple?" I asked impulsively.
"My appetite is appeased, thank you."
An idea came to me.  "Hamilton said there were three tens of hearts.
That meant that only one was out of order.  Where did you get your
card?"
"That I shall tell you--later."
"But are you really an impostor?"
"I should not be in this cellar else."
"You are very mystifying."
"For the present I prefer to remain so."
We tossed aside the apple-cores, rose, and went on.  It was the longest
cellar I ever saw.  There seemed absolutely no end to it.  The
wine-cellar was walled apart from the main cellar, and had the
semblance of a huge cistern with a door opening into it.  As we passed
it, the vague perfume of the grape drifted out to us.
"Let's have a bottle," I began.
"Mr. Comstalk!"
"By absent-treatment!" I hastened to add.
"You will make a capital comrade--if we ever get out of this cellar."
"Trust me for that!" I replied gaily.  "Be careful; there's a pile of
empty bottles, yearning to be filled with tomato-catsup.  Give me your
hand."
But the moment the little digits closed over mine, a thrill seized me,
and I quickly bent my head and kissed the hand.  It was wrong, but I
could not help it.  She neither spoke nor withdrew her hand; and my
fear that she might really be offended vanished.
"We are nearly out of it," I said exultantly.  "I see the cellar-stairs
on ahead.   If only those doors are open!"
"Heaven is merciful to the fool, and we are a pair," she replied,
sighing gratefully.  "It seems strange that nobody should be in the
cellar on a night like this.  Hark!  They are playing again up stairs
in the ball-room."
"And wondering a whole lot where that third ten of hearts has gone."
"But, listen.  How are we to get back to the trolley?  We certainly can
not walk the distance in these clothes."
"Oh, that carryall will come to our rescue.  We are weary and are
leaving early, don't you know?  That part is simple; the complicated
thing is to shake the dust of this cellar."
"What a big furnace!" she exclaimed, as we came into view of the huge
heating apparatus.  "And there's more coal."
A man stepped out from behind the furnace, and confronted us.  A red
bandana covered the lower part of his face and his hat was pulled down
over his eyes.  But I recognized him instantly.  It was the fellow with
the villainous pipe!  Something glittered ominously at the end of his
outstretched arm.
"If you make any noise, sir, I'll have to plug you, sir," he said in
polite but muffled tones.
The candle slipped from my fingers, and the three of us stood in
darkness!
V
There was a clicking sound, and the glare of a dark-lantern struck my
blinking eyes.
"Pick up the candle, sir," said the tranquil voice from behind the
light.
I obeyed readily enough.  Fate was downright cruel to us.  Not a dozen
feet away was liberty; and now we were back at the beginning again,
with the end nowhere in sight.
"Shall I light it, sir?" I asked, not to be outdone in the matter of
formal politeness.
"Yes, sir, doubtless you will need it."
I struck a match and touched the candle-wick.
"Burglar?" said I.  (For all my apparent coolness, my heart-beats were
away up in the eighties!)
The girl snuggled close to my side.  I could feel her heart beating
even faster than mine.
"Burglar?" I repeated.
"Indeed, no, sir,"--reproachfully.  "Mine is a political job."
"A political job?"--thunderstruck.
"Yes, sir; I am an inspector of cellars,"--grimly.  "I couldn't get
around to this here cellar earlier in the day, sir, and a fellow's work
must be done."
Here was a burglar with the sense of humor.
"What can I do for you?" I asked blandly.
"Firstly, as they say, you might tell me what you and this lady are
doing in this lonesome cellar."
"Say 'sir,' when you address me."
"Yes, sir."
"The lady and I were playing hide-and-seek."
"Nice game, sir,"--grinning.  "Were you trying to hide under the coal?"
"Oh, no; I was merely exploring it."
"Say 'sir,' when you address me."
"Sir."
"You're a cool hand, sir."
"I am gratified to learn that our admiration is mutual.  But what are
you doing here?"
"I was ascertaining if the law was properly observed, sir," shaking
with silent laughter.
"But what puzzles me," I went on, "is the fact that you could gather
the gems in that garb."  For I was positive that this was the Galloping
Dick every one was looking for.
"I don't understand a word you say, sir.  I'm an inspector of cellars,
sir, not a jeweler.  So you and the lady was playing hide-and-seek?
Come, now, what is your graft?  Is all the push here to-night?"
"That depends,"--cursing under my breath that I wore a gown which
hampered my movements.  For, truth to tell, I was watching him as a cat
watches a mouse.
"Well, sir, we of the profession never interferes with gentlemanly
jobs, sir.  All I want of you is to help me out of here."
"I am not a burglar."
"Oh, I understand, sir; I understand completely.  A gentleman is always
a gentleman, sir.  Now, you can return to that coal-bin.  I was just
about to make for it when you lit that candle."
"Why not leave by the cellar-doors?"
"I have my reasons, sir; most satisfactory reasons, sir.  I prefer
the window.  Get along!"--his tones suddenly hardening.
I got along.
"The lady may sit down, sir," he said courteously.
"Thank you, I will," replied the girl, plumping down on an empty
winecase.  (She afterward confessed that if she had not sat down on the
box, she would have sat down on the cellar-floor, as a sort of
paralysis had seized her knees.)
I stepped into the coal-bin, and rested the candle on the little shelf
for that purpose.  I was downright anxious to see the fellow safely
away.  There wasn't room in that cellar for the three of us.  His
presence doubly endangered us and multiplied the complications.  I was
in no position to force the gems from him.  A man who has ten thousand
dollars' worth of jewels on his person doesn't stop at shooting; and I
possessed a healthy regard for my skin.  I opened the window and caught
it to the ceiling by a hook I found there.
"There is a stout screen, my man."
"Take this, sir, and cut it out,"--handing me a pair of wire-clippers,
holding his lantern under his arm meanwhile.  The muzzle of the
revolver, during all this time, never wavered in its aim at my head.
I went to work at the screen, and presently it fell inward.
"Is that satisfactory?"--with impressive irony.
"You are the most perfect gentleman that I ever see, sir!"
The girl laughed hysterically.
"Now what?"  The fun was beginning to pall on me.
"Step out of the bin and stand aside.  Sit down by the lady.  Maybe
she's a bit frightened."
I obeyed him to the letter.
"Thanks!"  With the agility of a cat he leaped up and wriggled through
the window.  He turned.  "Good night, sir.  Sometime maybe I'll do the
same for you, sir."
"Go to the devil!" I snarled.
"My, my!  What a temper, sir!  I wouldn't have thought it of you, and a
nice lady in speaking distance!"
He disappeared.
The girl laid a hand on my arm.
"You have acted very sensibly, Mr. Comstalk.  If you had not, it is
quite certain he would have shot you."
"It would have been a good thing for me if he had.  He has gone, and
the jewels have gone with him.  I hadn't the least chance; the wretch!
He probably came disguised as a plumber, and nobody suspected him."
"But if he possessed the ten of hearts, why should he have left this
way?"
"Possibly my idea was only an imitation of his.  There must have been
at least a dozen tens of hearts.  My dear young lady, I would give a
good deal if you were well out of this.  I believed my plan was for the
best, and instead I have simply blackened the case against us.  I have
been too adventurous.  The situation looks very serious just now.  Of
course, in the long run, we shall clear ourselves; but it will take
some fine arguing to do it, and possibly half a dozen lawyers."
"It is a terribly embarrassing predicament; but since we started out
together, we'll hang together."  She held out her hand to me.  "It will
be fun to extricate ourselves with full honors."
"You're a brick!"  And I pressed her hand tightly.
"Now, I wonder why the burglar didn't try those cellar-doors?" she
murmured.
"By Jove, I'll soon find out!  Come on.  There's hope yet."
This time we reached the stone steps without interference.  I gave the
candle to the girl, cautiously put a shoulder against one of the doors,
and gave a gentle heave.  It was not locked.  Through the thin crack I
looked out upon the bright world of moonshine and crystal.  Instantly I
permitted the door to settle into its accustomed place.  I readily
understood the burglar's reasons.  Seated upon a box, less than a dozen
feet away, and blissfully smoking one of the club's cigars, sat a burly
policeman.  So they had arrived upon the scene!
"What is it?" asked the girl, as I motioned her to retreat.
"The worst has come: the police!" dramatically.
"Gracious heavens, this is frightful!  We shall never get out now.
Oh dear!  Why did I ever come?  It will be in the papers, with horrid
pictures.  We ought not to have left the ball-room.  Our very actions
will tell heavily against us.  Awful!"
"Now, don't you worry.  They will not take any notice of you, once they
set eyes upon me.  Homo sum!  They are looking for me.  There's
only one superfluous ten of hearts.  I have it."
"But I shall be found with you, and the stupid police will swear I am
an accomplice."  She wrung her hands.
"But no jewels will be found upon us," I argued half-heartedly.
"They will say we have already disposed of them."
"But the real burglar--"
"They will say that he came into the cellar at our bidding."
This girl was terribly reasonable and direct.
"Hang it!  I know Teddy Hamilton, the M. F. H.  He'll go my bail, and
yours, too, for that matter.  Come, let's not give up.  There must be
some other way out."
"I wish I might believe it.  Why did I come?"--a bit of a wail
stealing into the anger in her voice.
"This is Tom Fool's Night, and no mistake," I assented ruefully.
"But I am a bigger fool than you are; I had an alibi, and a good one."
"An alibi?  Why on earth, then, did you follow me?  What is your alibi?"
"Never mind now.  We should still be in this miserable
cellar,"--briefly.  "What a night!  I am so ashamed!  I shall be
horribly compromised."
"I'll take the brunt of it all.  I'm sorry; but, for the love of
Heaven, don't cry, or I shall lose what little nerve I have left."
"I am not crying!" she denied emphatically.  "My inclination is to
shriek with laughter.  I'm hysterical.  And who wouldn't be, with
police officers and cells staring one in the face?  Let us be going.
That policeman outside will presently hear us whispering if we stand
here much longer."
There was wisdom in this.  So, once again I took the candle, and we
marched back.  There wasn't a single jest left in my whole system, and
it didn't look as if there was ever going to be another supply.  We
took the other side of the furnace, and at length came to a flight of
wooden stairs, leading somewhere into the club.  It was our last
chance, or we should indeed be obliged to stay all night in some bin;
for it would not be long before they searched the cellars.  If this
flight led into the kitchen, we were saved, for I could bluff the
servants.  We paused.  Presently we ascended, side by side, with light
but firm step.  We reached the landing in front of the door without
mishap.  From somewhere came a puff of air which blew out the candle.
I struck a match viciously against the wall---and blundered into a
string of cooking-pans!  It was all over, the agony of suspense!
Blang!  Rumpity-bumpity-blang-blang!
I have heard many stage thunders in my time, but that racket beat
anything and everything this side of siege-guns.
Instantly the door opened and a policeman poked his head in.  Before I
had time to move, he grabbed me by the arm and yanked me--into the
ballroom!  The girl and I had made a complete circuit of the cellars,
and had stumbled into the ball-room again by the flight opposite to
that by which we left it.  Cheerful prospect, wasn't it?  The adventure
had ceased to have any droll side to it.
"Aha!" cried the base minion of the law.  "Here you are, then!
Hello, everybody!  Hello!" he bawled.
Caught!  Here we were, the Blue Domino and myself, the Grey Capuchin,
both of us in a fine fix.  Discovery and ejection I could have stood
with fortitude and equanimity; but there was bad business afoot.  There
wasn't any doubt in my mind what was going to happen.  As the girl
said, there would be flaring head-lines and horrid pictures.  We were
like to be the newspaper sensation of the day.  Arrested and lodged in
jail!  What would my rich, doting old uncle say to that, who had
threatened to disinherit me for lesser things!  I felt terribly sorry
for the girl, but it was now utterly impossible to help her, for I
couldn't help myself.
And behold!  The mysterious stranger I had met in the curio-shop, the
fellow who had virtually haunted me for six hours, the fellow who had
masqueraded as Caesar, suddenly loomed up before me, still wearing his
sardonic smile.  At his side were two more policemen.  He had thrown
aside his toga and was in evening dress.  His keen glance rested on me.
"Here he is, Mr. Haggerty!" cried the policeman cheerfully, swinging me
around.
A detective!  And Heaven help me, he believed me to be the thief!  Oh,
for Aladdin's lamp!
VI
I stood with folded arms, awaiting his approach.  Nonchalance is always
respected by the police.  I must have presented a likely picture,
however--my face blackened with coal-dust, cobwebs stringing down over
my eyes, my Capuchin gown soiled and rent.  The girl quietly took her
place beside me.
"So you took a chance at the cellars, eh?" inquired the detective
urbanely.  "Well, you look it.  Will you go with us quietly, or shall
we have to use force?"
"In the first place, what do you and your police want of me?" I
returned coolly.
He exhibited his star of authority.
"I am Haggerty of the Central Office.  I want you for several things."
Several things?  I stared at him stupidly.  Several things?  Then it
came to me, with a jar like an earthquake.  The story in the newspaper
returned to my vision.  Oh, this was too much, altogether too much!  He
took me to be the fashionable thief for whom half the New York police
force were hunting.  My sight swam for a moment in a blur.
"What is it you think I have done?" I demanded.
"You have, or have had, several thousand dollars' worth of gems on your
person to-night."
I shrugged.  The accusation was so impossible that my confidence
returned.
"Mr. Haggerty, you are making a stupid mistake.  You are losing time,
besides.  I am not the man for whom you are hunting.  My name is
Richard Comstalk."
"One name or another, it does not matter."
"Plenty of gall," murmured one of the minions of the law, whom I
afterward learned was the chief of the village police.
"The card by which you gained admittance here," demanded the great
Haggerty truculently.
I surrendered it.  A crowd had by this time collected curiously about
us.  I could see the musicians on the stage peering over the plants.
"The thief you are looking for has gone," said I.  "He escaped by the
coal-window."  By this statement, my feet sank deeper still.
"What did I tell you?" cried Haggerty, turning to his men.  "They had
an accomplice hidden in the cellars."
"I beg to inform you that you are making a mistake that will presently
cost you dear,"--thinking of the political pull my uncle had in New
York.  "I am the nephew of Daniel Witherspoon."
"Worse and worse!" said the chief of police.
"We shall discuss the mistake later and at length.  Of course you can
easily explain how you came to impose upon these people,"--ironically.
"Bah! the game is up.  When you dropped that card in Friard's and said
you were going to a masquerade, I knew your game in a minute, and laid
eyes upon you for the first time since I began the chase.  I've been
after you for weeks.  Your society dodge has worked out, and I'll land
you behind the bars for some time to come, my gay boy.  Come,"--roughly.
"I request Mr. Hamilton to be called.  He will prove to you that you
are greatly mistaken."  Everything looked pretty black, I can tell you.
"You will see whom you please, but only after you are safely landed in
the lockup.  Now, Madame,"--turning swiftly upon the Blue Domino, "what
is your part in this fine business?"
"It certainly has no part in yours,"--icily.
Haggerty smiled.  "My skin is very thick.  Do you know this fellow?"
She shook her head.  He stood undecided for a space.
"Let me see your card."
"I decline to produce it,"--haughtily.
Haggerty seemed staggered for a moment.  "I am sorry to annoy you, but
you must be identified at once."
"And why?"--proudly.  "Was it forbidden to go into the club cellars for
such harmless things as apples?"
Apples!  I looked at her admiringly.
"Apples?" repeated Haggerty.  "Couldn't you have sent a servant for
them?"
She did not reply.
"You were with this clever gentleman in the cellars.  You may or may
not be acquainted with him.  I do not wish to do anything hasty in
regard to yourself, but your position is rather equivocal.  Produce
your card and be identified--if you really can."
"I refuse!"
"Then I shall ask you to accompany us to the room up stairs till the
police-patrol arrives."
"I will go,"--quietly.
"Nonsense!" I objected.  "On my word of honor, I do not know this lady.
Our presence in the cellar was perfectly harmless.  There is no valid
reason for detaining her.  It is an outrage!"
"I am not going to stand here arguing with you," said Haggerty.  "Let
the lady produce her card; let her disclose her identity.  That is
simple enough."
"I have already given you my determination on that subject," replied
the girl.  "I can very well explain my presence here, but I absolutely
decline to explain it to the police."
I didn't understand her at all.  She had said that she possessed an
alibi.  Why didn't she produce it?
So the two of us left the gorgeous ball-room.  Every one moved aside
for us, and quickly, too, as if we had had the plague.  I looked in
vain for Hamilton.  He was a friend in need.  We were taken into the
steward's office and the door was shut and locked.  The band in the
ball-room went galloping through a two-step, and the gaiety was in full
swing again.  The thief had been rounded up!  How the deuce was it
going to end?
"I can not tell you how sorry I am to have mixed you up in this," I
said to the girl.
"You are in no manner to blame.  Think of what might have happened
had you blown up the post-office!"
She certainly was the least embarrassed of the two of us.  I addressed
my next remarks to the great Haggerty.
"Did you find a suitable pistol in Friard's?"
"A man in my business," said Haggerty mildly, "is often found in such
places.  There are various things to be recovered in pawnshops.  The
gentlemen of this club sent me the original ten of hearts, my
presence being necessary at such big entertainments.  And when I saw
that card of yours, I was so happy that I nearly put you on your guard.
Lord, how long I've been looking for you!  I give you credit for being
a clever rascal.  You have fooled us all nicely.  Not a soul among us
knew your name, nor what you looked like.  And but for that card, you
might still be at large.  Until the lady submits to the simple process
of identification, I shall be compelled to look upon her and treat her
as an accomplice.  She has refused the offer I have made her, and she
can not blame me if I am suspicious, when to be suspicious is a part of
my business."  He was reasonable enough in regard to the girl.
He turned to the chief of the village police, who was sitting at the
desk ordinarily used by the club's steward.
"No reporters, mind you."
"Yes, sir.  We'll see that no reporter gets wind of the capture."
The telephone bell rang.  One of the police answered it.
"For you, Mr. Haggerty," he said.
Haggerty sprang to the telephone and placed the receiver to his ear.
"What?" we heard him exclaim.  "You have got the other fellow?  A horse
and carriage at once!"
"Take mine," said the chief excitedly.  "What is it?"
"My subordinate at the railway station has just landed the fellow with
the jewels.  Mighty quick work.  I must hustle into town at once.
There'll be plenty of time to attend to these persons.  Bring them to
town the moment the patrol arrives.  The gems are the most important
things just now."
"Yes, sir.  You can rely upon us, Mr. Haggerty.  Billy, go down with
Mr. Haggerty and show him my rig."
"Good!" said Haggerty.  "It's been a fine night's work, my lads, a fine
night's work.  I'll see that all get some credit.  Permit no one to
approach the prisoners without proper authority."
"Your orders shall be obeyed to the letter," said the chief
importantly.  He already saw his name figuring in the New York papers
as having assisted in the capture of a great thief.
I cursed under my breath.  If it hadn't been for the girl, I am ashamed
to confess, I should have cursed out loud.  She sat rigid and
motionless.  It must have been a cruel ordeal for her.  But what was
puzzling me was the fact that she made not the slightest effort to
spring her alibi.  If I had had one!  Where was Hamilton?  I scarcely
inclined to the idea of sleeping in jail in a dress-suit.
Haggerty departed.  A silence settled gloomily down on us.  Quarter of
an hour passed.  The grim-visaged police watched us vigilantly.  Half
an hour, three-quarters, an hour.  Far away we heard the whistle of an
out-going train.  Would I had been on it!  From time to time we heard
faint music.  At length there was a noise outside the door, and a
moment later Hamilton and two others came in.  When he saw me, he
stopped, his eyes bulging and his mouth agape.
"Dicky Comstalk?" he cried helplessly.  "What the devil does this
mean?"--turning to the police.
"Do you know this fellow, Mr. Hamilton?" asked the chief.
"Know him?  Of course I know him," answered Teddy; "and I'll stake my
last dollar on his honesty."
(Thanks, Teddy!)  I began to breathe.
"But--" began the chief, seized with sudden misgivings.
"It is impossible, I tell you," interrupted Hamilton.  "I know this
gentleman is incapable of the theft.  There is some frightful mistake.
How the dickens did you get here, Dicky?"
And briefly I told him my story, my ass's ears growing inch by inch as
I went along.  Hamilton didn't know whether to swear or to laugh;
finally he laughed.
"If you wanted to come, why didn't you write me for an invitation?"
"I shouldn't have come to your old ball, had I been invited.  It was
just the idea of the lark."
"We shall have to hold him, nevertheless," said the chief, "till
everything is cleared up.  The girl--"
Hamilton looked at the Blue Domino.
"Madame, will you do me the honor to raise your mask?"
She did so; and I saw Hamilton draw in his breath.  Her beauty was
certainly of an exquisite pattern.  He frowned anxiously.
"I never saw this young woman before," he admitted slowly.
"Ha!" cried the chief, glad to find some one culpable.
"Did you receive your invitation through the proper channels?" asked
Hamilton.
"I came here to-night,"--coldly, "on the invitation of Mrs.
Hyphen-Bonds, who sailed for Europe Wednesday."
Here was an alibi that was an alibi!  I was all at sea.  Hamilton
bowed; the chief coughed worriedly behind his hand.  The girl had told
me she was an impostor like myself, that her ten of hearts was as
dark-stained as my own.  I could not make head or tail to it.  Mrs.
Hyphen-Bonds!  She was a law in the land, especially in Blankshire, the
larger part of which she owned.  What did it all mean?  And what was
her idea in posing as an impostor?
The door opened again.
"The patrol has come," said the officer who entered.
"Let it wait," growled the chief.  "Haggerty has evidently got us all
balled up.  I don't believe his fashionable thief has materialized at
all; just a common crook.  Well, he's got him, at any rate, and the
gems."
"You have, of course, the general invitation?" said Hamilton.
"Here it is,"--and she passed the engraved card to him.
"I beg a thousand pardons!" said Hamilton humbly.  "Everything seems to
have gone wrong."
"Will you guarantee this man?" asked the chief of Hamilton, nodding
toward me.
"I have said so.  Mr. Comstalk is very well known to me.  He is a
retired army officer, and to my knowledge a man with an income
sufficient to put him far beyond want."
"What is your name?" asked the chief of the girl, scowling.  It was
quite evident he couldn't understand her actions any better than I.
"Alice Hawthorne," with an oblique glance at me.
I had been right!
"What is your occupation?  I am obliged to ask these questions, Miss."
"I am a miniature painter,"--briefly,
Hamilton came forward.  "Alice Hawthorne?  Pardon me, but are you the
artist who recently completed the miniatures of the Emperor of Germany,
the Princess of Hesse, and Mrs. Hyphen-Bonds?"
"I am.  I believe there is no further reason for detaining me."
"Emperor of Germany?" echoed the now bewildered chief.  "Why didn't you
tell all this to Mr. Haggerty?"
"I had my reasons."
Once again the door opened.  A burly man in a dark business-suit
entered.  His face ruddy and his little grey eyes sparkled with
suppressed ire.  He reminded me of Vautrin, the only difference being
that Vautrin was French while this man was distinctly Irish.  His
massive shoulders betrayed tremendous strength.  He was vastly angry
about something.  He went to the chief's desk and rested his hands upon
it.
"You are a nice specimen for a chief of police, you are!" he began.
"And who the devil are you?" bawled the chief, his choler rising.
"I'll tell you who I am presently."
We all eyed him in wonder.  What was going to happen now?
"Which of you gentlemen is Mr. Hamilton?" asked the new-comer gruffly.
Hamilton signified that he was the gentleman by that name.
"Some ladies at your ball have been robbed of their diamonds, I
understand?"
"About ten thousand dollars' worth."
"Look here, sir," cried the chief, standing up and balling his fist, "I
want you to explain yourself, and mighty quick.  You can't come into my
presence in this manner."
"Bah!  You have just permitted the cleverest rascal in the state to
slip through your butterfingers.  I am Haggerty."
The chief of police sat down suddenly.
VII
The consummate daring of it!  Why, the rascal ought to have been in
command of an army.  On the Board of Strategy he would have been
incomparable!
There followed a tableau that I shall not soon forget.  We all stared
at the real Haggerty much after the fashion of Medusa's victims.
Presently the tension relaxed, and we all sighed.  I sighed because the
thought of jail for the night in a dress-suit dwindled in perspective;
the girl sighed for the same reason and one or two other things; the
chief of the village police and his officers sighed because darkness
had suddenly swooped down on them; and Hamilton sighed because there
were no gems.  Haggerty was the one among us who didn't sigh.  He
scowled blackly.
This big athlete looked like a detective, and the abrupt authority of
his tones convinced me that he was.  Haggerty was celebrated in the
annals of police affairs; he had handled all sorts of criminals, from
titled impostors down to petty thieves.  He was not a man to trifle
with, mentally or physically, and for this reason we were all shaking
in our boots.  He owned to a keen but brutal wit; to him there was no
such thing as sex among criminals, and he had the tenacity of purpose
that has given the bulldog considerable note in the pit.  But it was
quite plain that for once he had met his match.
"I don't see how you can blame me," mumbled the chief.  "None of us was
familiar with your looks, and he showed us his star of authority, and
went to work in a business-like way--By George! and he has run away
with my horse and carriage!"--starting from his chair.
"Never mind the horse.  You'll find it safe at the railway station,"
snarled Haggerty.  "Now, then, tell me everything that has happened,
from beginning to end."
And the chief recounted the adventure briefly.  Haggerty looked coldly
at me and shrugged his broad shoulders.  As for the girl, he never gave
her so much as a single glance.  He knew a gentlewoman without looking
at her twice.
"Humph!  Isn't he a clever one, though?" cried Haggerty, in a burst of
admiration.  "Clever is no name for it.  I'd give a year of my life to
come face to face with him.  It would be an interesting encounter.
Hunted him for weeks, and to-day laid eyes on him for the first time.
Had my clumsy paws on him this very afternoon.  He seemed so willing to
be locked up that I grew careless.  Biff! and he and his accomplice, an
erstwhile valet, had me trussed like a chicken and bundled into the
clothes-press.  Took my star, credentials, playing-card, and
invitation.  It was near eleven o'clock when I roused the housekeeper.
I telegraphed two hours ago."
"Telegraphed!" exclaimed the chief, rousing himself out of a melancholy
dream.  (There would be no mention of him in the morrow's papers.)
"Yes, telegraphed.  The despatch lay unopened on your office-desk.
You're a good watch-dog--for a hen-coop!" growled Haggerty.  "Ten
thousand in gems to-night, and by this time he is safe in New York.
You are all a pack of blockheads.
"Used the telephone, did he?  Told you to hold these innocent persons
till he went somewhere to land the accomplice, eh?  The whistle of the
train meant nothing to you.  Well, that whistle ought to have told you
that there might be a mistake.  A good officer never quits his
prisoners.  If there is an accomplice in toils elsewhere, he makes them
bring him in, he does not go out for him.  And now I've got to start
all over again, and he in New York, a bigger catacomb than Rome ever
boasted of.  He's not a common thief; nobody knows who he is or what
his haunts are.  But I have seen his face; I'll never forget him."
The chief tore his hair, while his subordinates shuffled their feet
uneasily.  Then they all started in to explain their theories.  But the
detective silenced them with a wave of his huge hand.
"I don't want to hear any explanations.  Let these persons go," he
commanded, with a jerk of his head in our direction.  "You can all
return to town but one officer.  I may need a single man," Haggerty
added thoughtfully.
"What are you going to do?" asked the chief.
"Never you mind.  I have an idea; it may be a good one.  If it is, I'll
telephone you all about it when the time comes."
He stepped over to the telephone and called up central.  He spoke so
low that none of us overheard what he said; but he hung up the
receiver, a satisfied smile on his face.
The girl and I were free to go whither we listed, and we listed to
return at once to New York.  Hamilton, however, begged us to remain, to
dance and eat, as a compensation for what we had gone through; but Miss
Hawthorne resolutely shook her head; and as there was nothing in the
world that would have induced me to stay without her, I shook my head,
too.  It seemed to me I had known this girl all my life, so closely
does misfortune link one life to another.  I had seen her for the first
time less than eight hours before; and yet I was confident that as many
years, under ordinary circumstances, would not have taught me her real
worth.
"Mrs. Hyphen-Bonds will never forgive me," said Hamilton dismally, "if
she hears that I've been the cause, indirectly and innocently, of
turning you away."
"Mrs. Hyphen-Bonds need never know," replied the girl, smiling
inscrutably.  "In fact, it would be perfectly satisfactory and
agreeable to me if she never heard at all."
"I will call a conveyance for you," said the defeated M. F. H.  "I
shall never forgive you, Dicky."
"Yes, you will, Teddy.  A loving-cup, the next time we meet at the
club, will mellow everything."
Quarter of an hour later Miss Hawthorne and I, wrapped in
buffalo-robes, our feet snugly stowed away in straw, slid away, to the
jangle and quarrel of sleighbells, toward Moriarty's Hollywood Inn.
The moon shone; not a cloud darkened her serene and lovely countenance.
The pearly whiteness of the world would have aroused the poetry in the
most sordid soul; and far, far away to the east the black, tossing line
of the sea was visible.
"What a beautiful night!" I volunteered.
"The beginning of the end."
"The beginning of the end?  What does that mean?"
"Why, when you first spoke to me, it was about the weather."
"Oh, but this isn't going to be the end; this is the true beginning of
all things."
"I wish I could see it in that light; but we can not see beauty in
anything when hunger lies back of the eyes.  I haven't had anything to
eat, save that single apple, for hours and hours.  I was so excited at
Mouquin's that I ate almost nothing."
"You are hungry?  Well, we'll fix that when we get to Moriarty's.  I'll
find a way of waking him up, in case he's asleep, which I doubt.  There
will be cold chicken and ham and hot coffee."
"Lovely!"
"And we shall dine with the gods.  And now it is all over and done, it
was funny, wasn't it?"
"Terribly funny!"--with a shade of irony.  "It would have been funnier
still if the real Haggerty hadn't turned up.  The patrol had arrived."
"But it didn't happen.  I shall never forget this night,"--romantically.
"I should be inordinately glad to forget it completely,"--decidedly.
"Where's your romance?" I asked.
"I'd rather have it served to me between book-covers.  As I grow older
my love of repose increases."
"Do you know," I began boldly, "it seems that I have known you all my
life."
"Indeed!"
"Yes.  Why, I might really have known you all my life, and still not
have known you as well as I do this very minute,--and less than a dozen
hours between this and our first meeting.  You are as brave as a
paladin, wise as a serpent, cool, witty--and beautiful!"
"Shall I ask the driver to let me out?"  Then she laughed, a
rollicking, joyous laugh.
"What is so funny?"
"I was thinking of that coal-bin."
"Well, I didn't permit a lonely potato to frighten me," I retorted.
"No, you were brave enough--among the potatoes."
"You are beautiful!"
"I am hungry."
"You are the most beautiful girl--"
"I want something to eat."
"--I ever saw!  Do you think it possible for a man to fall in love at
first sight?"
"Oh, nothing is impossible on Tom Fool's night.  Positive, fool;
comparative, fooler; superlative, foolest.  You are marching on with
your degrees, Mr. Comstalk."
"You might call me Dicky," I said in an aggrieved tone.
"Dicky?  Never!  I should always be thinking of paper collars."
"I wish I were witty like that!"
She snuggled down beneath the robes.
An artist's model, thought I.  Never in this world.  I now understood
the drift of her uncle's remark about her earning capacity.  The Alice
Hawthorne miniatures brought fabulous prices.  And here I was, sitting
so close to her that our shoulders touched: and she a girl who knew
intimately emperors and princesses and dukes, not to mention the
worldly-rich.  I admit that for a moment I was touched with awe.  And
it was beginning to get serious.  This girl interested me marvelously.
I summoned up all my courage.
"Are--are you married?"
"No-o."
"Nor engaged to be married?"
"No-o.  But you mustn't ask all these questions."
"How would you like to ride around in a first-class motor-car the rest
of your days?"
She laughed merrily.  Possibly it was funny.
"Are you always amusing like this?"
"Supposing I were serious?"
"In that case I should say you had not yet slipped off your fool's
motley."
This directness was discouraging.
"I wonder if the ten of hearts is lucky, after all," I mused.
"We are not in jail.  I consider that the best of good fortune."
"Give me your card," said I.
She gave me the card, and I put it with mine.
"Why do you do that?"
"Perhaps I want to bring about an enchantment,"--soberly.
"As Signor Fantoccini, or as Mr. Comstalk?"
"I have long since resigned my position in the museum; it was too
exciting."
She made no rejoinder; and for some time there was no sound but the
music of the bells.
Finally we drew up under the colonial portè-cochere of Hollywood Inn
and were welcomed by the genial Moriarty himself, his Celtic
countenance a mirror of smiles.
"Anything in the house to eat?" I cried, shaking the robes from me.
"Anything ye like, if you like cowld things.  I can hate ye a pot of
coffee on the gasolene-burner, and there's manny a vintage in the
cillars."
"That will be plenty!"--joyfully, helping Miss Hawthorne to alight.
"Sure, and ye are from the Hunt Club!"--noting our costumes.  "Well,
well!  They niver have anny too much grub.  Now, I'll putt ye in a
little room all be yersilves, with a windy and a log-fire; cozy as ye
plaze.  Ye'll have nearly two hours to wait for the car-r from the
village."
We entered the general assembly-room.  It was roomy and quaint, and
somewhere above us was the inevitable room in which George Washington
had slept.  The great hooded fireplace was merry with crackling logs.
Casually I observed that we were not alone.  Over yonder, in a shadowed
corner, sat two men, very well bundled up, and, to all appearances,
