down to wait for his master at the marble steps, and he walked slowly
on the strip of black and white pavement by the water's edge.

At last he stood still, and looked towards Blachernæ, for the skiff
was in sight. Zoë drew her veil across her face and rested her head
against the right-hand side of the open window as if she were very
tired, and she did not move from this position as the boat came near.
Zeno was leaning back in the stern, and could not help seeing her as
he approached the house, but from her attitude he thought she did not
see him, and he looked up at her steadily for two or three seconds.
She was quite motionless.

Omobono stood by the water's edge as Zeno stepped ashore, and asked
permission to say a few words to him at once. Zeno dismissed the boat
by a gesture.

'Has anything happened?' he asked, glancing up at the window again.

Zoë had not moved, but she could see him through her veil. Then the
two men walked up and down, while Omobono spoke in a low tone, but
though she could not hear the words she knew what the substance was.
Then came Zeno's voice, cold and clear.

'Certainly not,' he said decidedly. 'I shall do nothing of the sort!
If she has no appetite send for a doctor. Do you take me for one? Send
for old Solomon the Jewish physician. He is the best, and he is an old
man. If he says the girl needs air, take her out in the boat, her and
the maids, on fine mornings.'

A question from Omobono followed, which Zoë could not hear distinctly.
Zeno was evidently annoyed.

'Omobono, you are a good man,' he said; 'but you have no more sense
than a cackling hen! Never think! It is not your strong point. When
you do just what I tell you, you never make a mistake.'

The secretary's voice was heard again, low and indistinct.

'No,' answered Zeno. 'You need not go and tell her what I have said,
for she has probably heard every word of it herself, from the window.
It is useless ever to tell women anything. They always know before
they are told.'

Thereupon Zeno went in, apparently in a bad temper. If anything can
make a woman angry when she is overhearing a conversation about
herself, it is to hear it said that she is undoubtedly listening. Zoë
had not hidden herself, and Zeno must have meant her to hear what he
was saying, but she felt the more deeply insulted. Her cheek burned,
and she drew back her veil to feel the cool air. So he had no
intention of coming to see her again! A Jewish doctor and an airing in
the boat, with Omobono for company! And she had been told that she had
been listening--it was not to be borne! She threw her veil on one
side, her silk shawl on the other, and then walked up and down the
long room with restless steps, like a young wild animal in a cage.

The little maids picked up the things and watched her uneasily, for
she had always seemed very gentle. They looked at her with wide eyes
now, and their gaze irritated her, till she felt that she wanted to
box their ears, and wished she had the negress's whip in her belt.
Then, without any apparent reason, she threw her arms round the one
that stood nearest and kissed the astonished girl a dozen times,
almost lifting her from the floor. As she let her go, she laughed
nervously at herself.

She was thirsty, and she drank off a tall glass of cold water at a
draught; and all the time she was unconsciously repeating one phrase
to herself.

'He shall pay me for this, he shall pay me for this!'

The words rang in her ears, to a sort of silly tune that would not go
away. There is a vile natural hurdy-gurdy somewhere in our brains, and
when we are angry, or in love, or broken-hearted, or otherwise beside
ourselves, it plays its absurd little tunes at us till we are ready to
go mad. I sometimes think that devil's music may have brought on the
final fatal irritation against life, that has decided the fate of many
half-mad suicides.

'He shall pay me for this!' She heard the words keeping time with her
movements; she walked slower--faster, but it made no difference, for
the infernal little notes took the beat from her steps.

She had not the least notion how Zeno was to pay for having made her
so very angry, and that question did not obtrude itself on her
thoughts till her temper was beginning to subside; then she suddenly
felt how utterly helpless she was, and her wrath boiled up again. The
only way of paying him out that suggested itself was to throw herself
out of the window. Then he would be sorry for what he had done.

Would he? He would probably send Omobono to have her corpse taken away
as quickly as possible. And the day after to-morrow he would go again
to see Giustina Polo in her father's house, and she would have thrown
herself out of the window for nothing. Besides, it would be wicked.

She realised how childish her thoughts were, and she sat down to
think--'like a grown-up woman,' she said to herself. But just then she
remembered Zeno's words to Omobono. 'Never think, for it is not your
strong point,' he had said to his secretary; but he had of course
meant it for her. Everything had been meant for her. She wished she
could hold his brown throat in her hands and dig her little nails into
it.

Appetite, indeed! Was it strange that she should not be hungry? How
could any one eat who lived such a life, shut up between four
walls?--with a tyrant downstairs who did not even take the trouble to
come and look at her, but sent his silly old clerk to keep her
company! He took trouble enough to go and see Giustina Polo!

This was thinking 'like a grown-up woman,' as she had proposed to do!
She was disgusted with herself, and looked about for something to
occupy her thoughts. There were sweetmeats, whole boxes of sweetmeats
of every sort. Twice already they had been emptied and refilled with
fresh ones, since she had been brought to the house. That was Zeno's
idea of what a woman needed to occupy her thoughts and be happy!
Sweetmeats! Preserve of rose-leaves! Figs in syrup! That was all he
knew of her wants!

She lay back among her cushions, her brown eyes gleamed angrily, her
lips were a little parted, and her nostrils quivered now and then as
she drew a sharp breath. Presently, she called Yulia to her side.

'Go to the secretary,' she said, 'and tell him to send me a book.'

'A book?' repeated the slave stupidly, for she had never seen a woman
who could read.

'Yes. A book in Greek, Latin, or Italian; it does not matter which. I
am sick of doing nothing. Tell him to be quick, too,' she added, in a
tone of authority.

The girl tripped away and found Omobono in the counting-house on the
ground floor. He was in a bad humour too, but in his case it took the
form of dignified sorrow. His master had compared him to a fowl, and
to one that cackled.

'What does she want with a book?' he asked, in a dreary tone, looking
up from his accounts.

'To read, I think, sir,' answered the little maid timidly; 'and she
told me to beg you to let her have it soon.'

'As if a slave could read!' He looked about him in a melancholy way,
and rose to take from the shelf above his head a good-sized volume
bound in soft brown leather, with little thongs tied in slip knots,
for clasps, to keep it shut.

'Take her that,' he said, thrusting the book into the girl's hands.

Yulia took it, and before she had left the room Omobono was gravely
busy with his figures again; but each time he added up a column the
sum seemed to be 'cackling hen,' instead of anything reasonable. But
Yulia ran upstairs.

Zoë untied the thongs and opened the book in the middle. An
exclamation of anger and disgust escaped her lips. The secretary, who
did not believe she could really read, though she spoke Latin
fluently, had sent an old volume of accounts in answer to her request.
There were pages and pages of entries and columns of figures, all
neatly written in his small, clear hand, on stout cotton paper. Here
and there some one else had made a note, as if checking his work.

Zoë pushed the book away from her on the divan, and it fell over the
edge and lay face downwards and open on the floor. Then the little
tune began again in her head.

'He shall pay me for this!'

She wished he would open the door noiselessly and be all at once
beside her, as on that first evening. That had been Friday, and to-day
was Wednesday; five days had gone by. Counting Friday there were six,
and six days were practically a week! She had been under his roof a
whole week and he had only cared to see her face once.

'He shall pay me for this!'

The tune went on, and she quite forgot how she had longed for death,
and how his first anticipated coming had been dreadful beyond anything
she had ever suffered, beyond cold, starvation, and misery. Or if she
remembered it at all, she told herself that the man she had seen was
not the kind of man she had expected, and that she had nothing to fear
from him. She was quite sure of that.

She turned on one side, as she half lay on the divan, till she could
reach the account-book to pick it up. One of the maids jumped up from
the carpet to help her.

'Go away!' she exclaimed crossly, for she had got hold of the cover
and had drawn the volume over the edge of the divan. 'I will call if I
want anything.'

The girls slipped away in silence and left her alone. She turned over
the pages with a sort of angry curiosity, half expecting to find an
entry concerning slaves bought and sold like herself. Just then she
could have believed Zeno capable of anything.

But though she found a great many strange words which she did not
understand, and which referred to tonnage, insurance, profit and
loss, and all the complicated matters of an Eastern merchant's
business, there was nothing which could possibly be interpreted to
mean that Zeno had dealt in humanity, as most of the Venetians who
lived in Constantinople certainly did. Sebastian Polo's name occurred
very often. Large sums had been paid to him, and other large sums had
been received from him. It was clear that the two men were in close
relations of business, and constantly made ventures together, dividing
the profits and sharing the losses.

That might account for Zeno's constant visits to his fellow-merchant,
though Zoë was not inclined to admit such a view. On the contrary, she
made herself believe that Zeno dealt with Polo solely in order to make
an excuse for seeing more of the latter's daughter. He should pay for
that, too! The little tune hammered away in her head at a great rate.

She clapped her hands.

'Take this back to the secretary,' she said, giving the book to Yulia.
'Tell him I am not a merchant's clerk, and that I want something to
read.'

Again little Yulia tripped downstairs to the ground floor. But the
counting-house was locked, and the men-servants told her that Omobono
had gone out. She would not leave the book with them, for she had a
superstitiously exaggerated idea of the value of all written things;
therefore, after a moment's hesitation, she turned and carried it
upstairs again, though she did not like the idea of facing her
mistress.

At the first landing she almost ran against the master of the house,
who asked her what she was carrying and where she was going. He spoke
rather sharply, and Yulia was frightened and told him the whole story,
explaining that Zoë seemed to be in a bad temper, and would be angry
with her for bringing back the account-book, but that it was Omobono's
fault. How could he dare to suppose that the Kokóna could not read?
And why was he out? And if he was not out why had the men-servants
told her that he was?

The little slave did as all slaves and servants naturally do when they
wish to gain favour with the master; she hinted that all the other
servants in the house were in league to do evil, and that she only was
righteous. Zeno carelessly looked through the pages of the
account-book as he stood listening to her tale.

'You talk too much,' he observed, when she paused. 'Go upstairs.'

Thereupon he turned his back on her and went in under the heavy
curtain to his own room, taking the book with him and leaving Yulia
considerably disconcerted. She looked at the curtain disconsolately
for a few seconds, and then slowly ascended the second flight of steps
to the women's apartments.

A few minutes later Zeno himself followed her, with another book in
his hand. He knocked discreetly at the outer door, and Lucilla opened,
for Yulia was still explaining to Zoë what had happened. The maid
stood aside to let the master pass through the vestibule which
separated the inner rooms from the staircase. Zeno raised the curtain
and went in.

'I am no great reader,' he said, as he came forward towards the divan,
'but I have brought you this old book. It may amuse you. The man died
more than fifty years ago, and I fancy he was mad; but there must be
something in his poem, for it has been copied again and again. This
was given me by the Emperor Charles when I was with him in Venice.'

Zoë had time to recover from her surprise and to study his face and
manner while he spoke, and again she was convinced that he was a
little shy in her presence. If she changed colour at all he did not
see it, for though he glanced at her two or three times, he looked
more often at the book he held. As he finished speaking he placed it
in her hands and his eyes met hers.

Possibly Zoë had guessed that if she could make a stir in the house by
sending messages to Omobono, the master would at last come in person;
at all events she felt a little thrill of triumph when he was before
her bringing his book and speaking pleasantly, as a sort of
peace-offering for having neglected her so long.

'Thank you,' said she, very sweetly. 'Will it please your lordship to
be seated?'

Yulia had pushed forward a large fold-stool, and Zoë motioned to her
and her companion to sit down in a corner. Zeno thought she had sent
them out of the room, and he looked round and saw them squatting on
their carpet, side by side.

'Shall I send them away?' asked Zoë, with a sweet smile.

'They are not in the way,' Zeno answered coldly; for he felt that
they might be if they understood, but nothing would have induced him
to dismiss them just then.

A little pause followed, during which Zoë opened the manuscript and
read the illuminated title-page.

'It is dull for you, here,' said Carlo awkwardly.

Zoë did not even look up, and affected to answer absently, while she
turned over the pages.

'Oh no!' she said. 'Not in the least, I assure you!' She went back to
the title and read it aloud. '"The Divine Comedy of Dante
Alighieri"--I have heard his name. A Sicilian, was he not? Or a
Lombard? I cannot remember. Have you read the poetry? The paintings
are very pretty, I see. There is much more life in Italian painting
than in our stiff pictures with their gilt backgrounds. Of course,
there is a certain childlike simplicity about them, an absence of
school, of the traditions of good masters, of reverence for the old
art! But they mean something that is, whereas our Greek pictures mean
something that never was. Do you agree with me?'

She had talked on in a careless tone, toying with the book, and only
looking up as she asked a question without waiting for a reply. By the
time she paused she had asked so many that Zeno only noticed the last.

'You would like Venice,' he said, 'but you would like Florence better.
There are good pictures there, I believe.'

'You have not seen them yourself?'

'Oh yes! But I do not understand such things. This man Alighieri
describes some of them in his book. He was a Florentine.'

As Zeno showed himself more willing to talk, Zoë seemed to grow more
indifferent. She laid the book down beside her, leaned back, and
looked out of the window, turning her face half away from him. It was
the first time he had seen her by daylight since she had come, and the
strong afternoon light glowed in her white skin, her eyes, and her
brown hair. He could have seen on her cheek the very smallest
imperfection, had it been as tiny as the point of a pin, but there was
none. He looked at her tender mouth; and in the strong glare he could
have detected the least roughness on her lips, if they had not been as
smooth as fresh fruit. Moreover, the line from her ear to her neck was
really as perfect as it had seemed at first sight. Her nervous,
high-bred young hand lay on the folds of her over-garment, within his
reach, and he felt much inclined to take it and hold it. He did not
remember that any woman's near presence had disturbed him in the same
way, nor had he ever hesitated on the few occasions in his life when
he had been inclined to take a woman's hand. He had the fullest rights
which the laws of the Empire could give him, for Arethusa, as he
called her, was his property out-and-out, and if he died suddenly she
would be sold at auction with the furniture. Yet, for some wholly
inexplicable reason he did not quite dare to touch the tips of her
fingers.

'I have heard that you are a hero,' Zoë observed, without looking at
him. 'Is it true?'

Then she turned her eyes to him and smiled a little maliciously, he
fancied, as if she had guessed his timidity from his silence.

'Who told you such nonsense?' Zeno asked, with a laugh, for her
question had broken the ice--or perhaps had quenched the fire for a
while. 'I am a man like any other!'

'That I doubt, sir,' answered Zoë, laughing too, though not much.

'You have no experience of men,' he said. 'They are all like me, I
assure you. One sheep is not more like another in a flock.'

'I should not have taken you for one of the common herd. Besides, I
know of your deeds in Italy and Greece, and how you fought a Turkish
army for a whole year with a handful of men----'

'I have seen some fighting, of course,' Zeno replied. 'But that is all
in the past. I am a sober, peace-loving Venetian merchant now, and
nothing else.'

'It must be very dull to be a sober, peace-loving Venetian merchant,'
said Zoë, faintly mimicking his tone.

'Making money is too hard work to be dull.'

'I suppose so. And then,' she added, with magnificent calm, 'I have
always heard that avarice is the passion of old age.'

Zeno fell into the trap.

'Dear me!' he cried in astonishment. 'How old do you think I am?'

Zoë looked at him quietly.

'I have no experience of men,' she said, with perfect gravity, 'but
from your manner, sir, I should judge you to be--about fifty.'

Zeno's jaw dropped, for she spoke so naturally and quietly that he
could not believe she was laughing at him.

'I shall be twenty-nine in August,' he answered.

'Only twenty-nine?' Zoë affected great surprise. 'I should have
thought you were much, much older! Are you quite sure?'

'Yes.' Carlo laughed. 'I am quite sure. But I suppose I seem very old
to you.'

'Oh yes! Very!' She nodded gravely as she spoke.

'You are seventeen, are you not?' Zeno asked.

'How in the world should I know!' she enquired. 'Is not my age set
down in the receipt Rustan gave you with me? How should a slave know
her own age, sir? And if we knew it, do you think that any of us could
speak the truth, except under torture? It would not be worth while to
dislocate my arms and burn my feet with hot irons, just to know how
old I am, would it? You could not even sell me again, if I had once
been tortured!'

'What horrible ideas you have! Imagine torturing this little thing!'

Thereupon, without warning, he took her hand in his and looked at it.
She made a very slight instinctive movement to withdraw it, and then
it lay quite still and passive.

'I am sure I could never bear pain,' she said, smiling. 'I should tell
everything at once! I should never make a good conspirator. I suppose
you must have been wounded once or twice, when you were young. Tell
me, did it hurt very much?'

He let her hand fall as he answered, and she drew it back and hid it
under her wide sleeve.

'A cut with a sharp sword feels like a stream of icy-cold water,' he
answered. 'A thrust through the flesh pricks like a big thorn, and
pricks again when the point comes out on the other side. One feels
very little, or nothing at all, if one is badly wounded in the head,
for one is stunned at once; it is the headache afterwards that really
hurts. If one is wounded in the lungs, one feels nothing, but one is
choked by the blood, and one must turn on one's face at once in order
not to suffocate. Broken bones hurt afterwards as a rule, more than at
first, but it is a curious sensation to have one's collar bone smashed
by a blow from a two-handed sword----'

'Good heavens!' cried Zoë. 'What a catalogue! How do you know how each
thing feels?'

'I can remember,' Zeno answered simply.

'You have been wounded in all those different ways, and you are
alive?'

Zeno smiled.

'Yes; and you understand now why I look so old.'

'I was not in earnest,' Zoë said. 'You knew that I was not. You need
only look at yourself in a mirror to see that I was laughing.'

'I was not very deeply hurt by being taken for a man of fifty,' Zeno
answered, not quite truthfully.

'Oh no!' laughed Zoë. 'I cannot imagine that my opinion of your age
could make any difference to you. It was silly of me--only, for a man
who has had so many adventures, you do look absurdly young!'

'So much the better, since my fighting days are over.'

'And since you are a sober, peace-loving merchant,' said Zoë,
continuing the sentence for him. 'But are you so very sure, my lord?
Would nothing make you draw your sword again and risk your life on
your fencing? Nothing?'

'Nothing that did not affect my honour, I truly believe.'

'You would not do it for a woman's sake?' She turned to him, to watch
his face, but its expression did not change.

'Three things can drive a wise man mad,--wine, women, and dice.'

'I daresay! Your lordship reckons us in good company. But that is no
answer to my question.'

'Yes it is,' said Zeno with a laugh. 'Why should I do for a woman what
I would not do for dice or wine?'

'But dice and wine never tempted you,' Zoë objected.

Zeno laughed louder.

'Never? When I was a student at Padua I sold everything, even my
books, to get money for both. It was only when the books were gone
that I turned soldier, and learned the greatest game of hazard in the
world. Compared with that, dice are an opiate, and wine is a
sleeping-draught.'

He only smiled now, after laughing, but there was a look in his face
as he spoke which she saw then for the first time and did not forget,
and recognised when she saw it again. It was subtle, and might have
passed unnoticed among men, but it spoke to the sex in the girl, and
made her young blood thrill. For worlds, she would not have had him
guess what she felt just then.

'Fighting for its own sake would tempt you, if nothing else could,'
she answered quietly.

'Ah--perhaps, perhaps,' he answered, musing.

'But you would need a cause, though ever so slight, and you have none
here, have you?'

'None that I care to take up.'

'You may find something to fight for--over the water,' Zoë suggested,
emphasising the words a little and watching his face.

The phrase meant nothing to him.

'Over the water?' he repeated carelessly. 'At home, in Venice, you
mean. Yes, if Venice needed me, I should not wait to be called twice!'

It was quite clear that he attached no meaning to the words she had
used, and this fact tallied with what the astrologer had told her in
the morning as to his having been deaf to all advances made to him by
the imprisoned Emperor's party.

Zoë leaned back in silence for a while, almost closing her eyes, and
she saw that he watched her, and that an unmistakable look of
admiration stole into his face. She was wondering whether it would
ever turn into something more, and whether she should ever see the
gleam of fight in his eyes, for her sake, that had flashed in them a
moment ago at the mere thought of battle. What did women do, to make
men love them? There is an age when girls believe that love need only
be called, like a tame dove, and that he will fly in at the window;
and there is an age when he comes to them uncalled-for. If only the
ages were the same for all, much trouble might be spared. Zoë was
perhaps between the two, but she still believed that there was some
fixed rule on which clever women acted to make men fall in love with
them, those wicked women who are described to young girls as
'designing,' and are supposed to know precisely the effect they can
produce on men at any moment, to the very nicety of an eyelash.

Zeno broke the long silence with an unexpected speech which roughly
awakened Zoë from her reflection.

'As for this Emperor John whom his son has locked up,' he said, 'his
friends have done their best to interest me in his cause. He has even
sent me messages, begging me to help him to escape. Why? What
difference can it make to me whether he or his son dies in the Amena
tower? They are poor things, both of them, and for all I care John may
starve in his chains before I will lift a finger!'

Zoë sighed and bit her lip to check herself, for his voluntary
declaration had dashed the palace of her hopes to pieces in an
instant.

Then she was ashamed of having even dreamt that he might love her,
since he despised the very cause for which she had wished to win his
love. But this state of mind did not last long, either. She was too
brave to let such a speech pass, as if she agreed with it.

'You are wrong,' she said, quite forgetting that she had set herself
to play the part of the slave. 'You ought to help him, if you can--and
you can, if you will.'

Zeno looked at her in surprise. There was something like authority in
her tone, and the two little maids, whom he had forgotten in their
corner behind him, stared in astonishment at her audacity. Not a word
of the conversation had escaped them.

'I mean,' continued Zoë, before he could find an answer to her plain
statement, 'if you are a true Venetian you should wish to put down the
man whom the Genoese and the Turks have set on the throne. Johannes is
your friend and your country's friend, though he is a weak man and
always will be. Andronicus is an enemy to Venice and a friend to her
enemies. He is even now ready to give the island of Tenedos to
them--the key to the Dardanelles----'

'What?' asked Zeno in a loud and angry tone. 'Tenedos?'

His manner had changed, and he almost rose from his seat as he bent
forwards and seized her wrist in his excitement. She was glad, and
smiled at him.

'Yes,' she answered, 'the Genoese demand it as the price of their
protection, and they will force him to give it to them. But it may not
be easy, for the governor of the island is loyal to Johannes.'

'How do you know these things?' asked Zeno, still holding her wrist
and trying to look into her eyes.

'I know them,' Zoë answered. 'If I am not telling you the truth, sell
me in the market to-morrow.'

  [Illustration: 'I know them,' Zoë answered. 'If I am not telling you
   the truth, sell me in the market to-morrow.']

'By the Evangelist,' swore Zeno, 'you will deserve it.'




CHAPTER IX


A month had passed, and yet, to all outward appearance, Zeno's manner
of living had undergone no change. He rose early and bathed in the
Golden Horn on fine days. He attended to his business in the morning,
and dined with Sebastian Polo twice a week, but generally at home on
the remaining days; and he rode out in the afternoon with a single
running footman, or stayed indoors if it rained. Even his own servants
and slaves hardly noticed any change in his habits, and only observed
that he often looked preoccupied, and sometimes sat on his balcony for
an hour without moving, his eyes fixed on the towers of the Blachernæ
palace.

They did not know how much time he spent with his beautiful Greek
slave; and they found that the two little maids, Yulia and Lucilla,
were not inclined to gossip when they came downstairs on an errand.
Omobono probably knew a good deal, but he kept it to himself, and
stored the fruits of his lively curiosity to enjoy alone the delicious
sensation of the miser gloating over his useless gold. On the whole,
therefore, life in the Venetian merchant's house had gone on much as
usual for a whole month after Zoë had fired a train which was destined
to produce momentous results when it reached the mine at last.

Zeno saw her every day now, and often twice, and she had become a part
of his life, and necessary to him; though he did not believe that he
was in love with her, any more than she would have admitted that she
loved him.

For each was possessed by one dominant thought; and it chanced, as it
rarely chances in real life, that one deed, if it could be performed,
would satisfy the hopes of both. Zeno, born patriot and leader, saw
that the whole influence of his country in the East was at stake in
the matter of Tenedos; Zoë thirsted to revenge the death of Michael
Rhangabé, her adopted father and the idol of her childhood.

If the imprisoned Emperor Johannes could be delivered from the Amena
tower, both would certainly obtain what they most desired. Johannes
would give Tenedos to Venice, in gratitude for his liberty, and the
people of Constantinople would probably tear Andronicus to ribands in
the Hippodrome, on the very spot where Rhangabé had suffered.

They would rally round their lawful sovereign if he could only be got
out of the precincts of the palace, where the usurper was strongly
guarded by his foreign mercenaries, mostly Circassians, Mingrelians,
Avars, and Slavonians. The people would not rise of themselves to
storm Blachernæ, nor would the Greek troops revolt of their own
accord; but as they all feared the soldiers of the foreign legion,
they hated them and their master Andronicus, and the presence of
Johannes amongst them would restore their courage and make the issue
certain.

Such a leader as Carlo Zeno might indeed have successfully besieged
Andronicus in his palace; but he knew, and every man and woman in
Constantinople knew well enough, that Andronicus would make an end of
his father and of his two younger brothers in prison, at the first
sign of a revolution, so that there might be no lawful heir to the
throne left alive but he himself.

Therefore it was the first and the chief object of the patriots to
bring Johannes secretly from his place of confinement to the heart of
the city, or to one of the islands, beyond the reach of danger, till
the revolution should be over and his son a prisoner in his stead;
though it was much more probable that the latter would be summarily
put to death as a traitor.

All this Zeno had understood before Zoë had spoken to him about it;
but he had not known that the Genoese had demanded Tenedos of
Andronicus as the price of their protection against the Turks; for the
negotiations had been kept very secret, and at first Carlo had not
believed the girl, and had deemed that the tale might be a pure
invention.

He had come again to see her on the following day, and again he had
vainly tried to find out who she was, and in what great Fanariote
house she had been brought up. It was impossible to get a word from
her on this subject; and she warned him that what she had told him
must not be repeated in the hearing of any Genoese, nor of any one
connected with the Court. The Genoese meant that no one should know of
the treaty till it was carried out, and until Tenedos was theirs; for
the place was very strong, as they afterwards found by experience,
and Andronicus needed their help too much to risk losing their favour
by an indiscretion.

These injunctions of silence made Carlo still more doubtful as to the
veracity of Zoë's story, and he frankly told her so and demanded
proof; but she only answered as she had at first.

'If it is not true,' she said, 'brand me in the forehead, as they
brand thieves, and sell me in the open market.'

And again he was angry, and swore that he would do so by her indeed if
the story was a lie; but she smiled confidently, and nodded her
assent.

'If you do not save the Emperor,' she said, 'you Venetians will be
driven out of Constantinople before many months; and if Genoa once
holds Tenedos how shall you ever again sail up the Dardanelles?'

Many a time she had heard Michael Rhangabé say as much to his friends,
and she knew that it was wisdom. So did Zeno, and he wondered at the
knowledge of his bought slave. So he came and went, turning over the
great question in his brain; and she awaited his coming gladly,
because she saw that he was roused, and because the longing for just
revenge was uppermost in her thoughts. Thus were the two drawn
together more and more, fate helping. Yet he told her nothing of the
steps he took so quickly after he had once made up his mind to act.

She no longer asked him what he meant to do with her; she did not
again send for the secretary to complain that her existence was dull;
she no longer was impatient with her maids; she seemed perfectly
satisfied with her existence.

She went out when she pleased to go, in the beautiful skiff, in charge
of Omobono, and always with one of the girls; and she sat in the deep
cushioned seat as the great ladies did when they were rowed to the
Sweet Waters, and as she had sat many times in old days, beside Kyría
Agatha. The secretary sat on a little movable seat in the waist of the
boat, which was built almost exactly like a modern Venetian gondola
without the hood, and the slave-girl sat in the bottom at her
mistress's feet. Zoë, the adopted daughter of the Protosparthos, had
gone abroad with uncovered face, but Arethusa, the slave, was closely
veiled, though that was not the general custom. And often, as she
glided along in the spring afternoons, she passed people she had known
only a year ago, or a little more, who wondered why she hid her
features; or told each other, as was more or less true, that she was
some handsome white slave, whose jealous master would not suffer her
beauty to be seen. For it was clear that Omobono was only a
respectable elderly person placed in charge of her.

The two generally conversed in Latin, and the secretary told her of
his search for Kyría Agatha, the children, and old Nectaria. She had
never shown him her face since she had been a slave, and she believed
that he did not connect her with the ragged girl he had seen bending
over the sick woman's bed in the beggars' quarter. She had enjoined
upon him the greatest discretion in case he found the little family,
and with Omobono such an injunction was quite unnecessary, for outward
discretion is the characteristic quality of curiosity, which is
inwardly the least discreet of failings. People who look through
keyholes, listen behind curtains, and read other people's letters are
generally the last to talk of what they learn in that way.

As yet, the secretary's search had been fruitless, but he had long ago
made up his mind that Zoë was Kyría Agatha's daughter. The
bandy-legged sacristan of Saint Bacchus had helped him to this
conclusion by informing him that Rustan Karaboghazji had not come to
perform his devotions in the church for some time; never, in fact,
since that Friday afternoon on which Omobono had inquired after him.

The secretary had searched the beggars' quarter in vain. He remembered
the ruined house very well, and the crazy shutters with bits of
rain-bleached string tied to them for fastenings. There were people
living in it, but they were not the same beggars; it was now inhabited
by the chief physician of the beggars himself, whose business it was
to prepare misery for the public eye, at fixed rates. For among those
who were really starving there lived a small tribe of professional
paupers, who displayed the horrors of their loathsome diseases at the
doors of the churches all over Constantinople. The physician was
skilful in his way, and though he preferred a real cripple, or a real
sore for his art to improve upon, he could produce the semblance of
either on sound limbs and a whole skin, though the process was
expensive. Yet that increased cost was balanced by the ability of his
healthy patients to go alone to a great distance, and thus to vary the
scene of their industry. They thus picked up the charity which should
have reached the real poor, most of whom could hardly crawl as far as
the great thoroughfares more than once or twice a week, at the risk of
their lives. The sham beggar always has a marvellous power of covering
the ground, but you must generally seek the real one in the lair where
he is dying. Omobono had learnt much about beggars which he had not
known before then, and he had found no trace whatever of the people
whom he was seeking.

They seemed very far away when Zoë thought of them. She wondered
whether any of them missed her, except Nectaria, now that they had
warm clothes and plenty to eat. The sacrifice had been very terrible
at first,--it did not seem so now; and she knew that on that very
afternoon when she went home after being out in the boat, she would
listen for Zeno's footstep in the vestibule, and think the time long
till he came.

But Omobono had gathered a good deal of information about her from his
acquaintance, the sacristan, whom he strongly suspected of being in
league with Rustan to inform him when there was anything worth buying
in the beggars' quarter; for the Bokharian was a busy man, and had no
time to spend in searching for unusual merchandise, nor, when there
was any to be had, would it have been to his advantage to be seen
often in its neighborhood. So he paid the sacristan to quarter the
ground continually for him, while he was engaged elsewhere. It is to
the credit of Rustan's splendid business intelligence that the system
he employed has not been improved on in five hundred years; for when
the modern slave-dealers make their annual journeys to the centres of
supply they find everything ready for them, like any other commercial
traveller.

Having understood Rustan's mode of procedure, Omobono had extracted
from the sacristan such information as the latter possessed about Zoë
and Kyría Agatha, but that was not very much after all. They had lived
three or four weeks in the ruined house, or perhaps six; he could not
remember exactly. At first they all came to the church, but they had
sold their miserable clothes and their wretched belongings. The last
time the girl had come, she had been alone, and she had worn a blanket
over her shoulders to keep her warm. That had been at dusk. Then
Rustan had bought her, and soon afterwards they must have gone away,
since the beggars' physician was now installed in the house. Why
should the sacristan take any interest in them? They were gone, and
Constantinople was a vast city. No, the woman had not died, for he
would have known it. When people died they were buried, even if they
had starved to death in the beggars' quarter.

Zoë thanked Omobono for the information, and begged him to continue
her search. He wondered why she did not burst into tears, and
concluded that she was either quite heartless, or was in love with
Zeno, or both. He inclined to the latter theory. Love, he told himself
with all the conviction of middle-aged inexperience, was a selfish
passion. Zoë loved Zeno, and did not care what had become of her
mother.

Besides, he knew that she was jealous. She had heard of Giustina, and
was determined to see her. She insisted that the boat should keep to
the left, going up the Golden Horn, and she made the secretary point
out Sebastian Polo's dwelling. It was a small palace, a hundred yards
below the gardens of Blachernæ, and it had marble steps, like those at
Zeno's house. A girl with dyed hair sat in the shade in an upper
balcony; her hair was red auburn, like that of the Venetian women, and
her face was white, but that was all Zoë could see. She wished she had
a hawk's eyes. Omobono said it might be Giustina, but as the latter
had many friends, it might also be one of them, for most Venetian
women had hair of that colour.

Farther up, they neared Blachernæ, and came first to the great Amena
tower, of which the foundations stood on an escarped pier in the
water. Zoë looked up, trying to guess the height of the upper windows
from the water, but she had no experience, and they were very
high--perhaps a hundred palms, perhaps fifty--Zeno would know. Could
he get up there by a rope? She wondered, and she thought of what she
should feel if she herself were hanging there in mid-air by a single
rope against the smooth wall. Then in her imagination she saw Zeno
half-way up, and some one cut the line above, for he was discovered,
and he fell. A painful thrill ran down the back of her neck and her
spine and through her limbs, and she shrank in her seat.

It was up there, in the highest story, that Johannes had been a
prisoner nearly two years. The windows needed no gratings, for it
would be death to leap out, and no one could climb up to get in. The
pier below the tower sloped to the stream, and its base ran out so far
that no man could have jumped clear of it from above--even if he dared
the desperate risk of striking the water. Bertrandon de la Broquière
saw it, years afterwards, when Zeno was an old man, and you may look
at a good picture of it in his illuminated book.

A solitary fisherman was perched on the edge of the sloping pier,
apparently hindered from slipping off by the very slight projection of
the lowest course of stones, which was perpendicular. His brown legs
were bare far above the knee, he wore a brown fisherman's coat of a
woollen stuff, not woven but fulled like felt; a wide hat of sennet,
sewn round and round a small crown of tarred sailcloth, flapped over
his ears. He angled in the slow stream with a long reed and a short
line.

Zoë looked at him attentively as the boat passed near him, and she saw
that he was watching her, too, from under the limp brim of his queer
hat.

Her left hand hung over the gunwale of the skiff, and when she was
opposite the fisherman she wetted her fingers and carelessly raised
them to her lips as if she were tasting the drops. The man instantly
replied by waving his rod over the water thrice, and he cast his short
line each time. She had seen his mouth and chin and scanty beard below
the hanging brim of his hat, and she had fancied that she recognised
him; she had no doubt of it now. The solitary fisherman was Gorlias
Pietrogliant, the astrologer.

Omobono had scarcely noticed him, for his own natural curiosity made
him look steadily up at the high windows, on the chance that the
imperial prisoner might look out just then. He had seen him once or
twice before the revolution, and wondered whether he was much changed
by his long confinement. But instead of the handsome bearded face the
secretary remembered, a woman appeared and looked towards Pera for a
moment, and drew back hastily as she caught sight of the skiff; she
was rather a stout woman with red cheeks, and she wore the Greek
head-dress of the upper classes. So much Omobono saw at a glance,
though the window was fully ninety feet above him, and she had only
remained in sight a few seconds. He had always had good eyes.

But without seeing her at all Zoë had understood that communication
between the prisoner and the outer world was carried on through
Gorlias, and that by him a message could be sent directly to the
Emperor. She did not speak till the boat had passed the whole length
of the palace and was turning in the direction of the Sweet Waters.

'That astrologer,' she said, 'do you remember him? Why has he never
come again?'

Omobono promised to send for him the very next day. After that there
was silence for a while, and the skiff slipped along upstream, till
the secretary spoke again, to correct what he had last said.

'He had better not come to-morrow. I will tell him to come the next
morning.'

'Why?' Zoë asked, in some surprise.

'To-morrow,' said Omobono, 'Messer Sebastian Polo comes to dine with
the master. There will be confusion in the house.'

'Confusion, because one guest comes to dinner?' Zoë spoke
incredulously.

'I believe,' said Omobono rather timidly, 'that he will not be the
only guest.'

'He brings his daughter with him, then?' Zoë felt that she changed
