"We'll have to watch out that he doesn't try to rob us of our berries,"
whispered Jack, significantly.

"Humph! Up here again, eh?" remarked the big youth, resting on his
oars.

"We are," answered Randy. "I think we can come, if we please."

"Certainly--for all I care," growled Bob.

"We are picking berries, and we intend to watch them, too," put in
Randy, loudly.

At this pointed remark Bob Bangs colored slightly.

"I should think you'd pick your company, Jack Bartlett," he said,
coarsely.

"I do. That is why I am not with you."

"Humph!"

"I consider myself just as good as you, Bob Bangs," said Randy, warmly.
"I may not be as rich, but I never tried to steal a mess of fish from
anybody."

"You shut up!" roared the big boy. And then he started to row away.

"You'll not get a chance to rob us of these berries," called out Jack
after him.

"What do they mean about robbing somebody of fish?" asked one of Bob's
companions.

"Oh, that was only a joke," answered the rich youth. "Just wait--I'll
fix them for it!"

As soon as Bangs and his cronies had disappeared Randy and Jack went
back to their berry picking. They worked steadily until five o'clock in
the afternoon, and by that time had a great number of quarts to their
credit.

"The folks at home will be pleased," said Jack. "My mother loves fresh
berries. She says they are much better than those which are several
days in the market."

"And she is right."

The boys had brought along several large and small kettles, and had
left three of these down near the boat, filled with the fruit. Each
walked to the shore with a kettle full of berries in his hand.

"Well, I never!" cried Jack, in dismay.

"Bob Bangs again!" murmured Randy. "Oh, don't I just wish I had him
here. I'd pummel him good!"

There was good cause for our hero's anger. On the rocks lay the
overturned berry kettles, the berries scattered in all directions and
many of them crushed under foot.

"And look at the boat!" gasped Jack, turning to inspect the craft.

The rowboat was partly filled with water and on the seats and in the
bottom a quantity of mud had been thrown. The oars were sticking in a
mud bank close by.

"Does she leak?" asked our hero, with concern.

"I'll have to find out."

It was soon discovered that the craft was intact, and then they set to
work to clean up the muss. This was no easy job, and the boys perspired
freely, for the day was a warm one. Then Randy looked over the
scattered berries.

"About one-third of them are fit to take along," he said. "The others
are crushed and dirty."

"I'll tell you what I am going to do," said Jack, stoutly. "I am going
to make Bob Bangs pay for dirtying my boat, and he can pay for the lost
berries, too."

"But how can we prove he is guilty?"

"We'll make him own up to it. Nobody else would play such a mean
trick."

The two boys were in no happy frame of mind as they rowed back to
Riverport. They suspected that Bob Bangs would keep out of their sight,
but just as they were landing they caught sight of him peering at them
from behind a dock building.

"There he is!" cried Jack. "After him, Randy!"

"Right you are!" answered our hero, and ran after Bob Bangs with might
and main. Randy was a good sprinter and although the rich youth tried
to get away he was soon brought to a halt.

"Let go of me!" he roared, as Randy caught him by the collar.

"Not just yet, Bob Bangs!" returned Randy. "A fine trick you played this
afternoon."

"I didn't play any trick!"

"Yes, you did."

"I didn't! Let me go!" And now Bob Bangs did his best to get away. He
saw that Randy and Jack were thoroughly angry and was afraid he was in
for a drubbing--or worse. He gave a jerk and then started to run. Randy
put out his foot and the big youth went sprawling full length, his face
violently striking the ground.




CHAPTER V

THE RESULT OF A QUARREL


If any boy was ever humiliated it was Bob Bangs. His face and hands
were covered with dust and so was his elegant suit of clothing, while
the skin was cut on the side of his nose.

"Now, see what you have done!" he spluttered, gazing ruefully at
himself. "My suit is just about ruined!"

"And it serves you right, Bob Bangs," came warmly from Jack.

"That is what you get for trying to run away," added our hero.

"I'll have the law on you, Randy Thompson!"

"Maybe I'll have the law on you, Bob Bangs!"

"You had no right to throw me down in that fashion."

"Then why did you start to run away?"

"Because I didn't want to stay here--and you had no right to stop me."

"We wanted to know about this berry affair," said Jack. "And about the
dirty boat."

"I don't know what you are talking about," answered the big boy, but
his face showed his concern.

"You put mud in my boat and spilled our berries."

"Who says I did that?"

"We know you did."

"Did you see us?"

"No, but we know you did it and nobody else."

"You can't prove it," answered Bob, and now his face showed a sign of
relief. He had been afraid that there had been a witness of his
evil-doing.

"Perhaps we can," said Randy. "Bob Bangs, I think you are the meanest
boy in Riverport!" he continued, with spirit.

"I don't care what you think, Randy Thompson. Who are you, anyway? The
son of a poor carpenter. Why, you haven't got a decent suit of clothing
to your back!"

"For shame, Bob!" broke in Jack. "Randy is a good fellow, even if he is
poor."

"Well, if you think he is so good you can go with him. But I don't want
to associate with such a low fellow," went on the big youth, as he
started to brush himself off with a silk handkerchief.

"So I am a low fellow, am I?" said Randy, in a steady voice, and coming
up close to Bob, who promptly began to back away.

"Ye--as, you--you are," stammered the rich youth.

"I've a good mind to knock you down for saying it, Bob Bangs. I am not
as low as you."

"Humph!"

"I would never do the low things you have done. It was a mean,
contemptible trick that you played on Jack and me. By right you ought
to be made to scrub out the boat and pay for the berries you spoiled."

"Bah! I won't touch the boat, and I won't pay a cent."

"Then you admit that you are guilty?"

"I admit that I had some fun, at your expense, yes," answered Bob
Bangs. "You can't do anything to me, though, for you can't prove it
against me."

"That means, if you were brought up into court, you would lie about
it," said Randy.

"Humph! You needn't get so personal, Randy Thompson."

"For two pins, do you know what I would do, Bob Bangs?"

"What?"

"I'd give you a good thrashing," and Randy pulled up his sleeves, as if
he meant to begin operations at once.

"No! no! Don't you--you dare to touch me!" gasped the rich boy, in
alarm. "If you do, I'll--I'll have the law on you!"

"And we'll have the law on you."

Bob Bangs was more alarmed than ever. He saw that Randy was ready to
pitch into him on the instant. He looked around, saw an opening, and
darted away at his best speed.

"Let him go--the big coward," called out Jack, for Randy had started
after the rich boy. "We can settle with him another time."

"What a mean chap!" cried Randy. "I never saw his equal, never!"

Bob Bangs ran a distance of several rods. Then, seeing a clod of dirt
lying in the road, he picked it up and hurled it at the boys. He was
not a good thrower, but as luck would have it the clod struck Randy on
the shoulder, some of the dirt spattering up into his ear.

"Ha! ha! That's the time you got it!" sang out the rich boy, gleefully.

"And this is the time you are going to get it," returned Randy, and
made a dash after him. Seeing this, Jack followed after the pair.



Bob Bangs could run and fear lent speed to his flying feet. But he was
no match for Randy, who had on more than one occasion won a running
match amongst his schoolfellows. Bob started for home, several blocks
away, but just before he reached his gate Randy came near to him,
caught him by the arm and flung him over on his side. Then, to hold him
down, our hero seated himself on top of the rich boy, who began to
bellow lustily.

"Get off of me!"

"I will not!"

"You are squeezing the wind out of me!"

"What right had you to throw that chunk of dirt at me?"

"I--er--I was only fooling."

"Maybe I am only fooling, too."

"You are breaking my ribs! Oh, let up, I say!"

"Are you sorry for what you did?" demanded Randy.

To this Bob Bangs made no reply.

"I see you've got him," said Jack, running up at that instant.

"Yes, and I am going to give it to him good," answered Randy.

"Let up! Help, somebody! Help!" roared Bob, badly frightened. He began
to kick and struggle, but Randy held him down and as a consequence he
was covered with dust and dirt from head to foot.

In the midst of the mêlée a carriage came along the roadway. It
contained Mrs. Bangs and the man-of-all-work, who was driving.

"Mercy on us! What does this mean?" burst from the fashionable lady's
lips. "Can that be Robert?"

"Help! help!" roared the rich youth, more lustily than ever.

"It certainly is Robert," went on Mrs. Bangs. "John, stop the carriage.
You rude boy, let my son alone!" she went on, in her shrill, hard
voice.

"Hullo, here is Mrs. Bangs," remarked Jack, looking around and
discovering the new arrival.

For the instant Randy did not see the rich woman and continued to hold
down Bob, who struggled violently, sending up a cloud of dust in the
road. Then he noticed the carriage and looked up, and his face fell.

"You scamp! Leave my boy alone!" screamed Mrs. Bangs. "Oh, John,
perhaps you had better run for a policeman!" she added, as Randy let go
his hold and arose.

"You had better not, Mrs. Bangs," said Jack. "Bob deserves what he is
getting."

"I do not believe it! It is disgraceful to throw him down in the road
like this," stormed the fashionable lady.

"He hit Randy with a chunk of dirt."

"I--I didn't do nothing!" howled Bob, as he got up. He was too ruffled
to think of his bad grammar.

"And that elegant suit is about ruined," went on Mrs. Bangs. "I never
heard of such doings before. Boy," she went on, looking at Randy, "you
ought to be locked up!"

"It is Bob ought to be locked up," retorted Randy. "He started this
trouble; I didn't."

"I do not believe it. My son is a gentleman."

"I didn't do a thing," put in the rich boy, feeling safe, now that his
mother and the hired man were on the scene. "They pitched into me for
nothing at all."

"Bob knows better than that," said Jack.

"Yesterday he tried to steal some fish we caught, and to-day he mussed
up Jack's boat and ruined some berries that both of us had picked,"
explained Randy. "I took him to task about it and then he threw the mud
at me. Then I chased him and caught him, as you saw."

"Preposterous! My boy would not steal!" said Mrs. Bangs, tartly. She
looked meaningly at Jack. "I presume you and your family are very
bitter against us now," she added, significantly.

"Bitter against you?" said Jack, puzzled.

"Yes--because of that iron works affair."

"I don't know anything about that, Mrs. Bangs."

"Oh, then you haven't heard yet." The fashionable woman was nonplussed.
"Never mind. You must leave Robert alone."

"Ain't you going to get that policeman and lock them up?" asked the
son, anxiously.

"If I am locked up, you'll be locked up, too," said Randy. "And the
charge against you will be stealing as well as malicious mischief."

"Yes, and we'll prove our case," added Jack. "Bob doesn't know what
witnesses we have."

At this announcement Bob Bangs' face grew pale.

"Yo--you can't prove anything," he faltered.

"You don't know about that," said Randy, taking his cue from Jack.

"I will look into this affair later--just now I have no time," said
Mrs. Bangs, after an awkward pause. "Robert, you had better go into the
house and clean yourself up. John, you can drive on." And then, while
the fashionable woman was driven into her grounds, her son lost no time
in sneaking off into the house. As he entered the door he turned and
shook his fist at our hero and Jack.

"Jack, I don't think we have heard the last of this," remarked Randy,
as he and his companion started away.

"Perhaps not, but I think we have the best of it," answered Jack.

"I don't know about that. Mrs. Bangs is a very high-strung woman and
thinks a good deal of Bob."

"I'd like to know what she meant about the iron works matter," went on
Jack, with a troubled look on his face. "I hope Mr. Bangs hasn't got
the best of father in that deal."

"You had better ask your father when you get home."

"I will."

The two lads hurried back to the boat and placed the craft where it
belonged. Then the berries were divided, and each started for his home
little dreaming of the trouble that was in store for both of them.




CHAPTER VI

THE IRON WORKS AFFAIR


When Jack arrived at home he took the berries around to the kitchen and
then hurried upstairs to the bathroom, to wash and fix up for supper.
He was in the midst of his ablutions when he heard his father come in
and go to the library. An animated talk between his two parents
followed.

"Something unusual is up," thought Jack, and went below as soon as he
was fixed up.

He found his father sitting near the library table, his head resting on
his hand. His face looked careworn. Mrs. Bartlett sat by an open window
clasping her hands tightly. Their earnest talk came to a sudden end as
Jack entered.

"Good-evening, father and mother," said the boy and then halted. "Maybe
I was interrupting you," he added.

"Jack may as well know," said Mrs. Bartlett, looking meaningly at her
husband.

"I suppose so," answered Mr. Bartlett, and gave a long sigh.

"Know what?" asked Jack.

"Your father has had trouble at the iron works," answered his mother.

"What kind of trouble?"

"It is the Bangs affair," answered Mr. Bartlett. "You know a little
about that already. Well, Amos Bangs has forced me into a corner."

"What do you mean by that, father?"

"He has gained control of the company and is going to consolidate with
the Springfield concern."

"Will that harm you much?"

"A great deal, I am afraid, Jack. In the past I have known all that was
going on. Now I will have to rely on Amos Bangs--and I do not care to
do that."

"Don't you think he is honest?"

"Privately, I do not, although I should not care to say so in public.
He and his friends at Springfield are sharpers. They will squeeze what
they can out of the new concern, and I am afraid I shall be left out in
the cold."

"Well, I shouldn't trust Mr. Bangs myself. He and his son are of a
stripe, and I know only too well now what Bob is."

"Have you had trouble with Bob?" questioned Mrs. Bartlett, quickly.

"Yes," answered Jack, and gave the particulars. "How Bob will crow over
me now!" he went on, ruefully.

"This will make Bangs harder on me than ever," remarked Mr. Bartlett.

"Oh, I trust not, father!" cried Jack. "I am sure you have trouble
enough already!"

"The Bangses are a hard family to get along with," said Mrs. Bartlett.
"I have heard that from several who work for them."

"The men at the office are sorry to see Amos Bangs in control," said
Mr. Bartlett. "They know he will drive them more than I have ever
driven them, and he will never raise their wages."

"Are you going to leave the company's office, father?"

"Yes. I am no longer an officer, only a stockholder."

"The company ought to give you a position."

"Bangs said I could be a timekeeper, at fifteen dollars per week."

"How mean! And what will his salary be?"

"I don't know yet--probably a hundred and fifty per week--seven or
eight thousand per year."

"And you've been getting sixty dollars per week, haven't you?"

"Yes."

"Then I'd go elsewhere."

"That is what I shall do--if I can find any opening. What I am worried
about mostly is the capital I have in the iron works, fifteen thousand
dollars. I am afraid Bangs will, sooner or later, wipe me out, and do
it in such a way that I cannot sue him to advantage."

"It's an outrage!"

"The trouble is, I trusted him too much from the start. He has proved
to be a snake in the grass."

"And Bob is exactly like him," said Jack.

The family talked the matter over all during the supper hour and for
some time later. The prospect ahead was a dark one and Mrs. Bartlett
sighed deeply.

"If you cannot get an opening elsewhere I do not know what we are to
do," said she to her husband.

"I'll get something," he replied, bravely. "And remember, I have a
thousand dollars in cash in the bank."

"A thousand dollars won't last long, Philip, after once you begin to
use it up."

"That is true."

"Have you anything definite in view?"

"Not exactly. I am going to write to my friend Mason, in Albany. He may
be able to get me something to do at the iron works there. He is in
charge."

"Well, I hope it is better than the place Amos Bangs offered you."

"There is only one trouble," went on Mr. Bartlett. "If I get work at
Albany we will have to move to that city."

"Well, we can do that."

"Yes, but I hate to go away from Riverport. I wanted to watch Bangs."

"You might go to Albany every Monday and come home Saturday night, at
least for a time."

"Yes, I might do that," answered Philip Bartlett.

On the following morning he went down to the iron works as usual. As
early as it was he found Amos Bangs ahead of him, and sorting out some
papers at one of the desks.

"Morning," said Amos Bangs, curtly.

"Good-morning," answered Mr. Bartlett. "Mr. Bangs, what are you doing
at this desk?"

"Sorting out things."

"Do you not know that this is my private desk?"

"Is it? I thought it belonged to the iron company," answered Amos Bangs
with a sneer.

"The desk does belong to the company, but at present it contains my
private papers as well as some papers of the company."

"Well, it is going to be my desk after this, I'll thank you to take
your personal things away."

"You seem to be in a hurry to get me out."

"I want to get to work here. Things have dragged long enough. I am
going to make them hum."

"I am glad to hear it," answered Philip Bartlett, pointedly. "I presume
we can look for big dividends on our stock next year."

"Well--er--I don't know about that. We have got to make improvements
and they will cost money."

"You didn't want any improvements when I was in charge."

"That was a different thing. The old concern was a small-fry affair. We
are going to make the new concern something worth while," answered Amos
Bangs, loftily.

"I hope you do--for my sake as well as for the sake of the other
stockholders. But what salaries are the new officers to have?"

"That is to be decided later."

"I trust all the profits are not eaten up by the salaries."

"You cannot expect talented men--like myself, for instance--to work for
low salaries."

"You used to be willing to work for fifty dollars a week."

"Those days are past. But I cannot waste time talking now. Clean out
the desk and turn it over to me," concluded Amos Bangs, and walked
away.

With a heavy heart Philip Bartlett set about the task before him. He
was much attached to the iron works and hated to leave it. Presently
his brow grew troubled.

"Mr. Bangs!" he called.

"What do you want now?"

"Did you see anything of some papers with a broad rubber band around
them?"

"Didn't see anything but what is there."

"I had some private papers. They seem to be gone."

"I didn't take them," answered Amos Bangs, coldly.

"It is queer where they can be," went on Philip Bartlett.

"Well, I haven't got them."

Philip Bartlett hunted high and low for the missing documents, but
without success. Then he cleaned out the desk, put his personal things
in a package, said good-by to his former employees, and quit the
office.

"I am well rid of him," said Amos Bangs, to himself. "And I am glad I
got hold of those private contracts. Now I can make a deal with Shaster
and turn the work over to the Springfield concern--and make some
money!"




CHAPTER VII

MORE TROUBLES FOR RANDY


Two days passed quietly, and Randy did not see or hear anything more of
Bob Bangs. Then he learned through Jack that Mrs. Bangs had gone off on
a summer trip, taking her son with her.

"I hear there are great changes at the iron works," said Randy, to his
friend. "Mr. Bangs, they say, is in charge."

"He is, and father is out of it," answered Jack, bitterly. "That is
what Mrs. Bangs meant when she said I must be bitter against the
family."

"Is your father out of it entirely, Jack?"

"Yes, so far as holding a position is concerned. He still has his
stock. But he is afraid that won't be worth much, if Amos Bangs runs
the concern."

"What is your father going to do?"

"He doesn't know yet. He is trying to connect with some other iron
works."

"I hope he strikes something good."

"So do I, Randy."

"I wish I could get something to do, too," went on Randy.

"You mean during the summer?"

"Yes, and maybe later, too."

"Why, isn't your father working?"

"Not to-day. He has been working in a damp cellar and that brought on
his old complaint, rheumatism. He suffers something awful with it. He
ought to have a long rest."

"He certainly ought not to work in a cellar."

"He has already told his boss he couldn't go at it again," answered
Randy.

"Have you had a doctor?"

"Yes, Doctor Case came this morning."

"What does he say?"

"He says rheumatism is hard to cure and that my father will have to
take care of himself," answered Randy. "But I must go on now," he
added. "I must get some things for mother at the store."

What Randy said about his father was true. Louis Thompson was suffering
very much. He rested on a couch in the sitting room of the cottage, and
his wife did what she could to relieve his pain.

Several days passed and the rheumatism, instead of growing better,
became worse, so that neither Mrs. Thompson nor Randy knew what to do
for the sufferer. Then Mr. Thompson's side began to draw up, and in
haste a specialist from the city was called in. He gave some relief,
but said it would be a long time before the sufferer would be able to
go to work again.

"You must keep off your left leg," said the specialist.

A few days after that Louis Thompson tried to walk. But the pain was so
great he could not stand on the rheumatic limb. He sank on his couch
with a groan.

"I cannot do it," he gasped.

"Then do not try," answered his wife.

"But I must get to work, Lucy. I cannot afford to be idle."

"Never mind, Louis; we will get along somehow."

"How much did that specialist charge?"

"Fifty dollars?"

"And what was Doctor Case's bill?"

"Ten dollars."

"Sixty dollars! And we had only ninety dollars in the bank! That leaves
us only thirty dollars."

To this Mrs. Thompson did not answer. She had used up nearly ten
dollars for medicines, but did not wish to worry her suffering husband
by mentioning it.

"If I don't go to work we'll all starve to death!" continued Louis
Thompson.

"We'll manage somehow," answered the wife, bravely.

Nevertheless, she was much discouraged, and that evening, when her
husband was asleep, she and Randy talked the matter over as they sat on
the porch in the darkness.

"Mother," said Randy, earnestly, "I don't want you to feel troubled.
You have labored so long for me that it is now my turn. I only want
something to do."

"My dear child," said the mother, "I do not need to be assured of your
willingness. But I am sorry that you should be compelled to give up
your vacation and maybe your schooling."

"Giving up schooling will not be necessary. I can study in the
evenings. I am wondering what I can find to do."

"I know so little about such things, Randy, that we must consult
someone who is better qualified to give advice in the matter--your
Uncle Peter, for instance."

At this Randy gave a sigh.

"I don't know Uncle Peter. He never comes here."

"That is true," answered Mrs. Thompson, with some hesitation. "But you
know he is a business man and has a great deal to attend to. Besides,
he has married a lady who is exceedingly fashionable, and I suppose he
does not care to bring her to visit such unfashionable folks as we
are."

"Then," said Randy, indignantly, "I don't want to trouble him with any
of my applications. If he doesn't think us good enough to visit we
won't force ourselves upon him."

"My dear boy, you are too excitable. It may be that it is only his
business engagements that have kept him away from us. Besides, you can
go to him only for advice; it is quite different from asking
assistance."

Mother and son discussed the situation for fully an hour and at last,
in the absence of other plans, it was decided that Randy should go to
his uncle the next day and make known his wants. Mr. Thompson was told,
early in the morning, and said Randy could do as he thought best.

"But don't expect too much from your Uncle Peter," said the sick man.

Peter Thompson was an elder brother to Randy's father. Early in life he
had entered a counting room and ever since had been engaged in
mercantile pursuits. At the age of twenty-eight he had married a
dashing lady, who was more noted for her fashionable pretensions than
for any attractive qualities of the heart. She was now at the head of a
very showy establishment, far more pretentious than that over which
Mrs. Bangs presided. She knew little about her husband's relations and
cared still less.

The town of Riverport was twenty miles distant from Deep Haven, where
Peter Thompson resided with his family. A boat ran daily between these
places and several others, but Randy did not wish to spend the
necessary fare, and so borrowed a bicycle from Jack and made the trip
by way of the river road, a safe if not very comfortable highway.

Randy had been to Deep Haven several times in years gone by, but,
strange as it may seem, had never gone near his uncle's residence. But
he knew where the house was located--a fine brick affair, with a swell
front--and leaning his bicycle against a tree, he mounted the stone
steps and rang the bell.

"What's wanted?" demanded the servant who answered the summons, and she
looked Randy over in a supercilious manner, not at all impressed by the
modest manner in which he was attired.

"Is Uncle Peter at home?" asked Randy, politely.

"Who's Uncle Peter?"

"Mr. Peter Thompson?"

"No, he isn't."

"Where is he?"

"At his store, I expect."

"Is Mrs. Thompson at home?"

"I don't know. I'll see. Who shall I say wants to see her?"

"Randy Thompson."

Randy was left standing in the elegantly furnished hallway while the
servant departed. He could not help but contrast such elegance with his
own modest home.

"Come into the drawing room," said the servant, briefly, on returning,
and ushered him into the finest apartment he had ever entered.

Here he was kept waiting for fully quarter of an hour. Then a showily
dressed woman swept into the room with a majestic air and fixed a cold
stare upon our hero.

"Are you my aunt?" he asked, somewhat disconcerted by his chilling
reception.

"Really, I couldn't say--not having seen you before," she answered.

"My name is Randy Thompson. I am the son of Louis Thompson, of
Riverport."

"Ah, I see."

The woman said no more, but seemed to await developments. Randy was
greatly embarrassed. His aunt's coldness repelled him, and he easily
saw that he was not a welcome visitor. A touch of pride came to him and
he resolved that he would be as unsociable as his relative.

"What can he want of me?" thought the woman.

As Randy said nothing more she grew tired of the stillness and drew
herself up once more.

"You must excuse me this morning," she said. "I am particularly
engaged. I suppose you know where your uncle's store is. You will
probably find him there." And then she rang for the servant to show our
hero to the door. He was glad to get out into the open air once more.

"So that is Aunt Grace," he mused. "Well, I don't know as I shall ever
wish to call upon her again. She is as bad as an iceberg for freezing a
fellow. No wonder she and mother have never become friends."




CHAPTER VIII

RANDY AND HIS UNCLE PETER


From his uncle's home Randy rode on his bicycle to Peter Thompson's
store--a fairly large concern, the largest, in fact, in Deep Haven. He
found his uncle behind a desk in the rear, busy over some accounts. For
several minutes he paid no attention to his visitor. Then he stuck his
pen behind his ear and gave Randy a sharp look.

"How do you do, Uncle Peter?" said the youth.

"Why--er--who is this?" stammered Peter Thompson. "I don't seem to
quite know you."

"I am Randy Thompson, your nephew."

"Oh, yes, my younger brother Louis' son, I believe."

"Yes, sir."

"I remember you now." Peter Thompson held out a flabby and cold hand.
"Come to town on business, I suppose."

"In a way, yes, sir. Father is down with rheumatism."

"Hum! Didn't take proper care of himself, I suppose."

"He had to work in a cellar and that put him in bed."

"And you have come to ask help, I suppose." Peter Thompson's face
dropped quickly. "I am sorry, but my family expenses are very large,
and trade is dull. If I were able----"

"You are mistaken," said Randy, a flush mounting to his brow. "I do not
come for assistance. I am old enough to work, if I only knew what to
do. Mother told me to come to you for advice."

Peter Thompson looked relieved when he understood that Randy's visit
meant no demand upon his purse, and he regarded the youth more
favorably than he had done.

"Ah, that's well," he said, rubbing his flabby hands together. "I like
your independence. Now, let me see." He scratched his head. "Do you
know anything about horses?"

"No, sir; but perhaps I could learn."

"The livery-stable keeper wants a boy, but he must know all about
horses."

"How much would he pay a week?"

