them and reproduced any one of them, while most men would hardly
have noticed them all. Yet every woman with whom he talked felt
that his face often said more than his words.

The keen blue light in his eyes softened at Maria’s simple answer
to his contemptuous speech; the strength was in his face still, but
without the brutality. She saw, and remembered why she had loved
him too well, and when he spoke she turned away lest she should
remember more.

‘I beg your pardon for what I said. I am sorry. Please forgive me.’

‘Yes,’ she answered, ‘I can forgive that, for you did not mean it.’

She looked behind her, for she had been expecting Oderisio to come
back at any moment. The booth was so small that she could lift the
curtain without leaving the counter. She looked under it and saw
that Oderisio was gone, and she guessed that he knew something and
had seen Castiglione coming; instead of being grateful to him for
leaving her, she at first resented his going away and bit her lip;
for she was a very womanly woman, and every woman is annoyed that
any man should know any secret of hers which she has not told him.
But later, when she was thinking over what had happened, she felt
that Oderisio had done what a gentleman should, according to his
lights; for he must have known that the two had not seen each other
for years, and that such a meeting could hardly take place without
some show of feeling on one side or the other.

Castiglione thanked her gently for her answer, and was going to say
more, but she interrupted him, and suddenly began to busy herself
with a lemon and a glass.

‘I am making you a lemonade,’ she said in a low voice. ‘There are
some people we know coming to the booth. Do not turn round to look.’

The new-comers were two rather young women and a man who was not
the husband of either. Castiglione knew them too, as Maria was well
aware, and she would not have let them find him there, talking to
her, without so much as a lemonade for an excuse.

But the necessity for the small artifice, the low tone in which she
had been obliged to speak, and, above all, the close connection of
that necessity with the past, had slightly changed the situation.

‘I shall go to your house to-morrow at three o’clock,’ said
Castiglione in a tone which the approaching party could not
possibly have heard. ‘Not much sugar, if you please,’ he added very
audibly and without pausing a second.

Again she bit her lip a little, and she drew a short breath which
he heard, and she shook her head, but it was impossible to answer
him otherwise, for the three new-comers were close to the booth,
and a moment later they were greeting her and Castiglione. The man
was one of the now numerous Saracinesca tribe, a married son of
the gigantic old Marchese di San Giacinto, who was still alive,
and who had married Flavia Montevarchi nearly forty years earlier.
His companions were the Marchesa di Parenzo, the Roman wife of
a gentleman of Bologna, and Donna Teresa Crescenzi, whose wild
husband had been killed in a motor-car accident at last, and who
was supposed to be looking for another. The Marchesa di Parenzo
was Maria Montalto’s most faithful friend, and Donna Teresa was one
of the most accomplished gossips in Rome.

An accomplished gossip is one who tells stories which sound as if
they might be true. This kind is very dangerous.

Neither of these two ladies knew all the truth about Maria and
Castiglione; the difference between them was that the Marchesa
never talked of the story, whereas Donna Teresa had concocted a
tale which she repeated at intervals in the course of years, with
constantly increasing precision of detail and dramatic sequence,
till society had almost accepted it as an accurate account of what
had taken place.

In actual fact there was not a word of truth in it, except that
Maria and Castiglione had loved each other dearly. Donna Teresa was
a tolerably good-natured woman on the whole, however, and her story
gave Maria credit for the most splendid self-sacrifice and the most
saintly life; it represented Baldassare del Castiglione as a hero
worthy of his knightly ancestor and a perfect Galahad, so far as
Maria was concerned; and it threw every particle of the blame on
Montalto, who had left his wife to go and live in Spain, and was
therefore permanently enrolled amongst those absent friends whose
healths are drunk at family gatherings with a secret prayer that
they may remain absent for ever, and whose characters may be torn
to rags and tatters with perfect safety.

Donna Teresa had reached the point of believing her own story.
She said she had been present at almost every crisis in the two
years’ drama which had so completely separated three people that
they apparently meant never to set eyes on one another again; she
had consoled the lovers, she had inspired them with courage to
sacrifice themselves, and had metaphorically dried their scalding
tears; and she had spoken her mind to that monster of brutality,
the Count of Montalto. In fact, she had contributed to his
determination to go away for ever and to leave his poor young wife
to bring up his son in peace.

Maria knew Donna Teresa’s story well, for her friend Giuliana
Parenzo had told it to her; and as Maria was in no way called upon
to make a public denial of it, she simply said nothing and was
grateful to the gossip for treating her so kindly. Giuliana was not
curious, and if she rightly guessed some part of the secret which
her friend had never told her, she would not for worlds have asked
her a question.

The three new-comers were all in the best possible humour, and the
ladies wore perfectly new spring frocks of the very becoming model
that was in fashion that spring; the one was of the palest grey and
the other of the softest dove-colour. Giuliana was a dark woman
with a quiet face; Teresa Crescenzi was very fair, fairer, perhaps,
than all probability, and when she was excited she screamed.

‘Dear Maria!’ she cried in a high key, after the first words of
greeting. ‘You are quite adorable in that costume! The Princess
Campodonico was saying just now that it is a real pleasure to see
you in colours at last. Maria has worn nothing but black and grey
for seven years,’ added the lively lady, turning to Castiglione.

‘We all are dying of thirst,’ said Giuliana, seeing the look of
annoyance in her friend’s face. ‘We all want lemonade, and we all
want it at once. Won’t you let me come inside and help you?’

‘No, dear,’ answered Maria with a grateful look. ‘I really do not
need help, and you do not look at all like a Neapolitan Acquaiola
in that frock! Besides, Oderisio Boccapaduli is supposed to be my
adjutant, but he has gone off to smoke a cigarette.’

She was very busy, and Donna Teresa turned to Castiglione.

‘And where in the world have you been since I met you in Florence
last year?’ she asked. ‘I thought your regiment was coming to Rome
at the beginning of the winter. I am sure you told me so.’

‘You are quite right. My old regiment came to Rome before
Christmas, but I had already exchanged into another.’

In spite of herself Maria glanced at Castiglione as he spoke, but
he was not looking at her, nor even at Donna Teresa. From the
place where the booth was situated he could see a certain clump of
ilex-trees that grow near what has always been called the Piazza di
Siena, I know not why. Maria saw that his eyes were fixed on that
point, and she shivered a little, as if she felt cold.

‘Why did you exchange?’ Donna Teresa asked, with the shameless
directness of a thoroughly inquisitive woman. ‘Did you quarrel with
your colonel, or fight a duel with a brother officer?’

Castiglione smiled and looked at her.

‘Oh, no! Nothing so serious! It was only because I was sure that
you no longer loved me, dear Teresa!’

The younger generation of Romans, who have grown up more
gregariously than their parents did, very generally call each
other by their first names. Even Giuliana laughed at Castiglione’s
answer, and Maria herself smiled quite naturally. Five minutes
earlier she would not have believed that anything could make her
smile while he stood there, and she was displeased with herself for
being amused. It was as if she had yielded a little where she meant
never to yield again.

Donna Teresa herself laughed louder than Giuliana.

‘The impertinence of the man!’ she screamed. ‘As if I did not know
that curiosity is my besetting sin, without being reminded of it in
that brutal way! I, love you, Balduccio? I detest you! You are an
odious man!’

‘You see!’ he answered. ‘I was quite right to exchange! And since
you admit that you find me odious, this is an excellent moment for
me to go away!’

He put down a gold piece on the metal counter to pay for the
lemonade which he had not drunk, for he was a poor man and could
not afford to be mean. As a matter of fact, the lemonade which
Maria had so hastily begun to make for him had been finished for
Teresa Crescenzi, but no one had noticed that, and it was all for
charity.

Donna Teresa protested that it was atrocious of him to go away,
but he was quite unmoved. He only smiled at everybody, took young
Saracinesca’s outstretched hand and lifted his hat in a vague
way to the three ladies without looking particularly at any
of them. Then he turned and went off at a leisurely pace, and
soon disappeared in the crowd. Teresa watched Maria Montalto’s
face narrowly, but she could not detect the slightest change of
expression in it, either of disappointment or of satisfaction.
Maria had recovered herself and the sweet warmth was in her pale
cheeks again.

The spring sun was low and golden, and for a few moments the pretty
scene took more colour; by some inexplicable law of nature the many
laughing voices rang more musically as the light grew richer, just
before it began to fade. It was the last day of the fair, and Maria
knew that she should never forget it.

Then the chill came that always falls just before sunset in Rome,
and the people felt it and began to hurry away. No one would ask
for another lemonade now.

Before Maria went home she put the money she had taken into a
rather shabby grey velvet bag. For a few moments she stood still,
watching the fast-diminishing crowd in the distance and the
changing light on the trunks of the pines. Then her eyes fell
unawares on the ilexes, and she started and instantly bent down her
head so as not to see them, and her hands tightened a little on
the old velvet bag she held. Without looking up again she turned
and went under the curtain to the back of the booth where her
footman was waiting with a long cloak that quite hid her pretty
costume; and she covered her head and the crimson kerchief with a
thick black lace veil, and went away towards the avenue where her
brougham was waiting.

Just before she reached it, and as if quite by accident, Oderisio
Boccapaduli came strolling by. He helped her to get in and begged
her to excuse him if he had not come back to the booth before she
had left it, adding that he had met his mother, which was quite
true, and that she had detained him, which was a stretch of his
imagination.

‘Get in with me,’ Maria answered as he stood at the open door of
the carriage. ‘If you are going away, too, I will take you into
town and drop you wherever you like.’

He thanked her and accepted the invitation with alacrity, though he
wondered why it was given. He could not have understood that she
was physically afraid to be alone with her memory just then.




CHAPTER II


Maria asked her friend Giuliana Parenzo to lunch with her the next
day. If Baldassare Castiglione came at three o’clock, and if it
seemed wiser not to refuse him the door outright, he should at
least not find her alone.

The Countess occupied one floor of a rather small house in the
broad Via San Martino, near the railway station. It was a sunny
apartment, furnished very simply but very prettily. After her
husband had left her she had declined to accept any allowance
from him and had moved out of the old palace, in which the state
apartment was now shut up, while the rest of the great building
was now occupied by a cardinal, an insurance company, and a rich
Chicago widow. Maria lived on her own fortune, which was not large,
but was enough, as she had been an only child and both her parents
were dead.

Giuliana sat on her right at the small square table, and on her
left was seated a sturdy boy over eight years old, and lately
promoted to sailor’s clothes. Why are all boys now supposed to go
to sea between six and eight or nine, or even until ten and twelve?

Leone was a handsome child. He had thick brown hair and a fair
complexion; his bright blue eyes flashed when he was in a rage,
as he frequently was, and his jaw was already square and strong.
Maria was the only person who could manage him, and was apparently
the only one to whom he could become attached. He behaved very
well with Giuliana Parenzo; but though she did her best to make
him fond of her, she was quite well aware that she never succeeded
in obtaining anything more from him than a kind of amusing boyish
civility and polite toleration. As for nurses, he had made the
lives of several of them so miserable that they would not stay in
the house, and Maria had now emancipated him from women, greatly
to his delight. He submitted with a tolerably good grace to being
dressed and taken to walk by a faithful old man-servant who had
been with Maria’s father before she had been born. He was not
what is commonly known as a ‘naughty boy’; he spoke the truth
fearlessly, and did not seek delight in torturing animals or
insects; but his independence and his power of resistance, passive
and active, were amazing for such a small boy, and he seemed not to
understand what danger was. Maria did not remember that he had ever
cried, either, even when he was in arms. Altogether, at the age of
eight, Leone di Montalto was a personage with whom it was necessary
to reckon.

Maria knew that she loved him almost to the verge of weakness, but
she would not have been the woman she was if she had been carried
beyond that limit. He was all she had left in life, and so far
as lay in her she meant that he should be a Christian gentleman.
Nature seemed to have made him without fear; and Maria would have
him reach a man’s estate without reproach. It was not going to be
easy, but she was determined to succeed. It was the least she could
do to atone for her one great fault.

Without reproach he should grow up, for his very being was a
reproach to her. That was the bitterest thing in her lonely
existence, that the sight of what she loved best, and in the best
way, should always remind her of the blot in her own life, of
that moment of half-consenting weakness when she had been at the
mercy of a desperate, daring, ruthless man whom she could not help
loving. It was cruel that her only great consolation, the one
living creature on whom she had a right to bestow every care and
thought of her loving heart, should for ever call up the vision of
her one and only real sin.

There were moments when the mother’s devotion to her child felt
like a real temptation, when she asked herself in self-torment
whether it was all for the boy alone, or whether some part of it
was not for that which should never be, for what she had fought so
hard to thrust out of her heart since the day when she had married
Montalto, seven years ago. For she had loved Castiglione even
then, and before that, when she had been barely seventeen and he
but twenty, and they had danced together one autumn evening at the
Villa Montalto, at a sort of party that had not been considered
a real party, and to which her mother had taken her because she
wished to go to it herself, or perhaps because she wanted Montalto
to see her pretty daughter and fall in love with her before she
was out of the schoolroom.

And that was what had happened. It had all been fated from the
first. On that very night Montalto fell in love with her, and she
with Baldassare del Castiglione, whom she had called Balduccio,
and who had called her Maria, ever since they had known each other
as little children. On that night she had felt that he was a man,
and no longer a boy. It was the first time she had seen him in his
new officer’s uniform, for it was not a week since he had got his
commission. But she had hardly known Montalto, who had been brought
up much more in Spain and Belgium than in Rome, because his mother
was Spanish and his father had been a block of the old school, who
feared the (godless) education of modern Italy.

Giuliana Parenzo was a year or two older than Maria, and the latter
had felt for her the boundless admiration which very young girls
sometimes have for those slightly older ones in whom they see their
ideals. Giuliana had been a thoroughly good girl, had married
happily, was a thoroughly good wife, and was the conscientious
mother of five children; but she was very far from being the
saintly heroine her friend’s imagination had made of her.

She was morally lucky. Without in the least depreciating the
intrinsic value of her virtue, it is quite fair to ask what she
might have done if she had ever been placed in the same situation
as her friend. But this never happened to her, though she was
apparently not without those gifts and qualities that suggest
enterprise on the part of admirers. She had been a very pretty
girl, and in spite of much uneventful happiness and five children
she was considered to be a beautiful woman at nine-and-twenty; and,
moreover, she was extremely smart. In looks she was not at all like
a rigid Roman matron.

But temptation had not come her way; it had passed by on the other
side, and she could hardly understand how it could exist for
others, since it certainly had never existed for her. There are
people who go through life without accidents; they cross the ocean
in utterly rotten steamers without knowing of the danger, they
travel in the last train that runs before the one that is wrecked,
they go out in high-speed motors with rash amateur chauffeurs who
are killed the very next day, they leave the doomed city on the eve
of the great earthquake, and the theatre five minutes before the
fire breaks out.

Similarly, there are women who are morally so lucky that an
accident to their souls is almost an impossibility. Giuliana
Parenzo was one of them, and Maria’s affection gave her credit for
strength because she had never faced a storm. Not that it mattered
much, after all. The important thing was that Maria, even at the
worst crisis of her young life, had always looked upon her spotless
friend as her guide and her ideal. Yet there had been a time when
it would have been only too easy for her to look another way.

To-day Maria had turned to Giuliana naturally in her difficulty. It
was hardly a trouble yet, but Castiglione’s return and his intended
visit were the first incidents that had disturbed her outwardly
peaceful life in all the seven years that had passed since her
husband had left Rome. The rest had been within her.

It would not last long. Castiglione had said that he had only a
fortnight’s leave, and with the most moderate desire to avoid him,
she need not meet him more than two or three times while he was in
Rome. To refuse to receive him once would perhaps look to him like
fear or weakness, and she believed that she was strong and brave;
yet she did not wish to see him alone, not because she was afraid
of him, but because to be alone with him a few moments, even as she
had been yesterday afternoon, brought the past too near, and it
hurt her.

Giuliana often lunched with her friend, and was far from suspecting
that she had been asked for a special reason to-day. The two talked
of indifferent matters, much as usual, and presently went into the
drawing-room. It was warm already, and the blinds were closed to
keep out the blazing sunlight and the reflection from the white
street. The friends sat near each other, exchanging a few words
now and then, and both were preoccupied, which hindered each from
noticing that the other was so.

Leone knelt on a chair at the window looking down into the street
between the slits of the green blinds.

‘Summer is coming!’ he suddenly called out, turning to look at his
mother.

‘Yes,’ she answered, smiling at him merely because he spoke. ‘It
will come soon.’

‘But do you know why? There are two bersaglieri in linen trousers.’

‘Yes, dear. They have probably been drilling.’

‘No,’ answered the small boy. ‘They have no knapsacks and no
rifles, and they are not dusty. It is because summer is coming that
they wear linen trousers. I can’t see them any more. They walk so
fast, you know. When shall I be a bersagliere, mama?’

‘Would you not rather be a sailor?’ asked Giuliana.

‘Oh, no!’ Leone laughed. ‘A sailor? To sit inside an iron box
and shoot off guns at other iron boxes? That’s not fighting! But
the bersaglieri, they charge the enemy and kill them with their
bayonets. And sometimes they are killed themselves. But that
doesn’t matter, for they have had the glory!’

‘What glory?’ inquired Maria, watching the small boy’s flashing
eyes.

‘They kill the enemies of Italy,’ he answered. ‘That’s glory!’

He turned to look through the blinds again, doubtless in the hope
of seeing more soldiers.

‘Your son certainly has a warlike disposition, my dear,’ laughed
Giuliana.

But Maria did not laugh; on the contrary, she looked rather grave.

‘All boys want to be soldiers,’ she answered. ‘I’m sure yours do,
too!’

‘No,’ said Giuliana, rising. ‘My boys are almost too peaceable! I
sometimes wish they had more of Leone’s spirit!’

Maria looked at her thoughtfully, thinking at first of what she had
said, but suddenly realised that she had left her seat.

‘You are not going already?’ Maria cried in real anxiety.

‘Yes, dear, I must. It’s a quarter past two, and I have to allow
five minutes for driving to the Quirinal.’

‘You did not tell me that you had an audience to-day,’ said Maria,
deeply disappointed. ‘I’m so sorry! I had hoped you would stay with
me, and that we might go out together by and by. How long shall you
be there? Can you not come directly back?’

Giuliana was a little surprised; she shook her head doubtfully.

‘I’ll try to come back, but I really have not the least idea how
long I may be kept. You see, it’s a special audience to talk about
my working women’s institute, and I have so much to say. I really
must be going, dear!’

She glanced again at her little watch, which was fastened high up
on the close-fitting dove-coloured body of her frock by a little
jade bar carved to imitate the twist of a rope, and just then
the very latest invention in the way of indispensable nothings.
Giuliana, without the least coquetry and with very little vanity as
to her appearance, always seemed to have everything new just a week
sooner than any one else. The truth was that her husband was in
love with her, and likely to remain so, and as he had spent a good
deal of his youth in women’s society, he thoroughly understood
such matters; and he superintended the docile and pretty Giuliana’s
toilet with quite as much care as he gave to the direction of his
subordinates, though he was Under-Secretary of State for Foreign
Affairs, with a very promising future before him and a good deal to
do.

Giuliana kissed her friend on both cheeks and said good-bye to
Leone, who did not like to be kissed at all, and in a moment she
was gone.

Maria went to the window where the boy was, and, resting one hand
on his shoulder, she bent down beside him and looked through the
blinds.

‘Have you seen any more soldiers?’ she asked, after a moment, and
as if the question were an important one.

‘Only two,’ he answered. ‘They’re all at dinner now. It’s the
time.’

Her face was close to the child’s as she looked out with him;
and just then he moved his head and his short and thick brown
hair brushed her cheek. She started a little nervously and stood
upright, looking down at the top of his head.

‘What is it, mama?’ he asked without taking his eyes from the
blinds, for just then he saw an officer of the Piedmont Lancers
crossing the street, and the beautiful uniform of that regiment was
always an especially delightful sight.

‘Nothing, darling,’ answered Maria.

As she looked at the short and thick brown hair it seemed to draw
her to it, and she bent slowly, as if she were going to kiss it.
But at that very moment, when her lips were quite near it, her eyes
could see through the blinds, and she caught sight of the officer
before he disappeared.

She drew back and quickly covered her lips with her hand, as if to
put it between her mouth and her child’s head. Castiglione had been
in the Piedmont Lancers before he had exchanged, and the uniform
was the one he had worn when he had first danced with her at the
Villa Montalto, and afterwards, when he had first dined with her
and her husband, and later again, and the last time she had seen
him before he had gone away. The handsome dress was associated with
all her life.

She crossed the room quickly and rang a bell, and waited a
moment, listening for the servant. She would say that she did not
receive, no matter who came. Then she heard footsteps outside the
drawing-room door, and it opened wide and Agostino, the old butler,
announced a visitor.

‘Il Signor Conte del Castiglione.’

When Baldassare entered the room a moment later, Leone had left the
window and was at his mother’s side, holding her hand and eyeing
the man he had never seen, and whose name he had never heard, with
a boy’s boldly inquiring stare; and the blue eyes of the man and of
the child met for the first time.

‘I came early,’ said Castiglione as he advanced, ‘for I was afraid
you might be going to the races.’

‘No,’ Maria answered, steadying herself by the table, ‘I am not
going to the races to-day.’

He held out his hand, and she could not well refuse to take it,
before Leone; its touch was quiet and respectful, and only lasted
an instant, but it was even colder than her own.

‘And this is your son,’ he said, in a rather muffled voice, and he
shook hands with the lad. ‘I’m glad to see you,’ he said. ‘I knew
your mother long before you were born, and we were good friends.
But I have been away all these years. That is the reason why you
have never seen me.’

‘I understand,’ Leone answered. ‘Where have you been?’

Castiglione smiled at the direct question and the unhesitating tone.

‘I have been in many cities. I am a soldier, and have to go where I
am sent.’

At this intelligence Leone felt sure that he had found a new
friend. He looked upon all soldiers as his friends, from the poor
little infantryman in his long grey woollen coat to the King when
he appeared in uniform. He at once laid his hand on Castiglione’s
arm and looked up into his face.

‘Are you a bersagliere?’ the boy asked.

Maria still leant against the table, and as she watched the two,
the man and the boy, and saw their bright blue eyes and their
short and thick brown hair, the room began to move, as if it were
going slowly round her. She had never fainted in her life, but she
realised that unless she made a great effort she must certainly
faint now. She did not hear Castiglione’s answer to the boy’s last
question, but she raised her hand to her mouth, and set her small
teeth upon her forefinger and bit it till a tiny drop of blood
came, and the pain brought her back.

When she could speak steadily she sat down near the closed
fireplace, before which there was a glass screen; she pointed to an
arm-chair opposite, and Castiglione took it.

Leone had been taught that when visitors came in the afternoon he
was to go away after a few minutes without being told to do so.
Accordingly, as soon as he saw that his mother and Baldassare were
going to talk, he went up to the latter and held out his hand.

‘Good-bye,’ he said gravely. ‘The next time you come, please wear
your uniform.’

‘If I come again, I’ll wear it,’ answered Castiglione, smiling.

But Maria saw how earnestly his eyes studied the boy’s face, and
how he held the small hand as if he did not wish to let it go.
He watched the sturdy little fellow till the door was shut, and
Maria saw that he checked a sigh. For the first time in years the
two were alone together within four walls, and at first there was
silence between them.

Maria spoke first, very coldly and resentfully, for since Leone had
left the room she had no reason for hiding what she felt.

‘Why have you come?’ she asked. ‘I told you clearly that I did not
wish to see you. You said, too, that you would come at three, and
when you appeared I was just going to tell Agostino that I would
see no one. You came earlier than you said you would, and it was a
trick to catch me. Such things are unworthy.’

Castiglione had clasped his hands on one knee, and he bent his head
while she was speaking. When she had finished he looked up with an
expression she had never seen in his face, and he spoke in a gentle
and almost pleading tone.

‘Let me tell you what I have come to Rome to say.’

‘I would rather not hear it,’ Maria answered coldly. ‘I would
rather that you should say nothing during the few minutes I shall
have to let you stay--for I do not wish any one to think that I
have turned you out of my house.’

Her face was like a mask, and white, for it cost her much to say
the words.

‘I have not come to persecute you, Maria,’ he answered sorrowfully.
‘I have not loved you faithfully all these years to come and pain
you now.’

Maria Montalto’s lip curled.

‘Faithfully!’ The contemptuous tone told all her unbelief.

‘Yes, I mean it. I have loved you faithfully since we parted, as I
loved you before.’

‘I do not believe you; or I do not understand what you mean by
faith.’

‘It is easy to understand. Since you and I parted under the
ilex-trees I have not spoken of love to any woman. I have lived a
clean life.’

Something clutched at the woman’s heart just then, but the next
moment she spoke as coldly as before.

‘It is easy to say such things,’ she answered.

‘What I say is true,’ returned Castiglione quietly. ‘But if I tell
you this of myself, it is not because I hope to bring your love to
life again. I know how dead that is. I know I killed it--yes, I
know!’

He spoke with the tone and accent of a man in great pain, and
looked down at his clasped hands; but Maria turned her face from
him, for she felt the clutching at her heart again. He must not
know that he was wrong, and that she loved him still in spite of
everything. She would force herself not to believe him.

‘How well you act!’ she said, with cruel scorn.

He did not resent even that. He had violently broken and ruined her
whole life long ago; why should she be kind to him?

‘I am not acting, and I am not lying,’ he answered gravely. ‘I have
been faithful to you all these years. It is no credit to me, and I
ask none, for I love you truly.’

‘How am I to believe you?’ Maria asked, not contemptuously now, but
still coldly. ‘Why should I?’

He raised his eyes and met hers steadily, and she saw that there
was no mistaking the truth.

‘I give you my word of honour,’ he said slowly, and waited.

She could not speak then, because her joy was so great, in spite of
herself; and he would not say more; he only waited while she looked
steadily at the mantelpiece, choking down something and hoping
that he could not see her face clearly in the rather dim light. He
would not stoop to ask if she believed his word, and she was dumb.
It was too much, all at once.

Presently, when she thought she could trust her voice, she tried to
speak. It had seemed a long time.

‘It is----’ she began.

But she broke off, for she felt the great cry coming in the word
that should have followed. Therefore instead of speaking she held
out her hand to him and turned her face away from his. They were
just so near that by leaning far forward he could hold her fingers.
He pressed them quietly for one moment, a little hard, perhaps, but
with no attempt to hold them.

‘Thank you,’ he said, not very steadily.

She had regretted the little impulsive action at once, expecting
that he would kiss her hand, as almost any man might have done with
less reason. But she was glad that he had not; glad, and grateful
to him. Perhaps he knew it, but she was able to speak now; he
should not think that he had gained a hairbreadth’s advantage.

‘I am glad that you have lived a good life,’ she said, much
more kindly than she had spoken yet. ‘But you must not call it
faithfulness. You must not mean that you have been faithful to the
memory of a great sin, of the worst deed you ever did. It would
have been much better to forget me.’

‘You do not understand,’ he answered. ‘My sins are on my soul, and
yours with them, if you have any. I am wicked enough to hope that
I may never forget you, and that I may live till I die as I have
lived since we parted. It is the least I can do, not for your sake,
but out of respect for myself and regret for the worst deed I ever
did. Yes, you are right, it was that. The question that fills my
life is this: Can I in any way atone to you for that deed? Can you
ever forgive me so far as not to hate me, and not to despise the
mere thought of me, so far as to be willing that I should live in
the same city with you and see you sometimes?’

He waited for her answer, but it was long before it came. When she
tried to collect her thoughts she was amazed and frightened by the
change that had come over her in the last few minutes. Her impulse
was to confess frankly that she had always loved him, though she
could not forgive him, and to implore him to go away and never to
come near her again; and then she remembered that she had said
those very words to him long ago under the ilex-trees in the Villa
Borghese, with many cruel ones which neither had forgotten. He had
given up his leave then, and had gone back to his regiment in a
distant city, and he had never come near her nor written to her
since.

But there was more than that, much more. He had lived a clean life.
She knew the world well enough now, and she knew what the lives of
most unmarried men are at Castiglione’s age. Had she not a son to
bring up, for whom she prayed daily that he might grow to manhood
without reproach as well as without fear? She knew something of
how men lived, and she could guess, as far as an honest woman
may, at the daily temptations that must assail a good-looking
young officer in the smartest cavalry regiment in the country; she
guessed, too, that one who chose to live very differently from most
of his comrades might not always escape jests which would not turn
to actual ridicule only because Castiglione was not a man to be
laughed at with impunity; not by any means.

She believed him, and though she might tell him that he was
faithful to a sin, to something dangerously near a crime, his faith
had been for her, and she could not deny it to herself. It was for
her sake that he had not lived like the rest.

Then she covered her eyes with her hand and she saw her own past
life clearly, and dared to look at it. The ugly blot was there,
plain enough; but if the fault had really been all his, why should
the stain look so very black after all those years? He believed
that he had sinned against her, not with her; and so she had told
herself--and had told him so with bitter reproaches before they
had parted. Was it quite, quite true? If it was, she had no cause
to reproach herself for the catastrophe. Yet since that hour she
had accused herself daily. Of what? Of having loved Baldassare
del Castiglione? But she had loved him innocently and dearly when
she was seventeen, and ever since. Her mother had known it, but
he was poor, he was no match for a girl who was something of an
heiress. She had done as many other girls did and always will do;
she had yielded to parental pressure, she had promised herself to
forget, thinking it would be easy; she had married Montalto, making
the great marriage of that season; she had begun to be a wife
believing, poor soul, that she had done right in obeying her mother
as a daughter should. But she had not forgotten.

Even that was no sin. It was her misfortune, and the natural
consequence of a false system that sacrificed too much to money, or
to money and name. She had actually been vain of marrying Montalto,
for though he bore only the title of count, he was an authentic
Count of the Empire, which is quite a different matter from being a
Roman ‘conte.’ It had been a very great marriage indeed, and Maria
had really been a little foolishly vain of becoming his wife. He
had two historic castles in Italy as well as an historical palace
in Rome and an historical estate on the Austrian frontier, and
he was heir to historical lands in Spain by his mother; and he
had a great number of historic ancestors who had been Counts of
the Empire and Grandees of Spain, and hereditary Knights of the
Sovereign Order of Malta. Everything about Montalto was historical,
including his grave face and pointed black beard, and he might have
passed for the original of more than one portrait in his historic
gallery. His family even had a well-attested White Lady who
appeared when one of them was going to die!

But all these things could not make the young wife forget
Baldassare del Castiglione, who was only a more or less penniless
officer in the Piedmont Lancers. The worst of it was that Montalto
liked him, instinctively because his name was also so extremely
historical, and fatally because husbands are the last to discover
their wives’ preferences. Montalto had thrown Maria and Castiglione
together.

She had gone to confession again and again, for she had been
brought up to be very devout. Her confessor told her each time
that she must avoid the man she loved and pray to forget him. She
answered that her husband liked him and constantly asked him to
the house; that she could not beg Montalto to change his attitude
towards a friend without giving a good reason; and that the only
reason she had was that she loved Baldassare with all her heart,
though she was told it was wrong now that she was married, and
she prayed that she might forget him and love her husband. Her
confessor, having ascertained by further questions that she and
Castiglione had avowed their love for each other in bygone days,
long before her marriage, bade her appeal to the young man’s
generosity, and beg him to refuse Montalto’s constant invitations
and to see her as little as possible. But the confessor did not
know the man. Maria followed the priest’s advice, but Baldassare
utterly refused to do what she asked, and became more and more
unmanageable from that day. Surely that was not her fault. It was
not with this that she reproached herself. She had been afraid to
tell Montalto, that was true; there had been one day, at last, when
she should have confessed to him, instead of to the priest; she
should have thrown herself upon his mercy and implored him to take
her away. But then she had lacked courage. She had told herself
that her husband loved her devotedly in his silent, respectful
way, and that to tell him the truth would be the ruin of his
happiness. She felt so sure that his honour was safe! And meanwhile
Castiglione grew more passionate every day, more reckless and more
uncontrollable; and she loved him the more, and he knew it, though
she would not tell him so. She accused herself of that. She should
have gone to her husband for protection, for his happiness was far
less to him then than his honour. Some women would have invented
an untruth as a means justified by the end. Maria might have told
Montalto that she was suffering a persecution odious to her; she
would have saved her husband’s honour and happiness together, and
would even have raised her higher in his esteem. But she could not
do it. It would be base, treacherous, and faithless. So she waited
and prayed against her heart, and hoped against Castiglione’s
nature. Then came the evil hour and it was too late; too late even
to lie. She accused herself of having put off too long the one act
that could have saved her. But still, and to the end, she had told
herself that she had been strong, that she had resisted her own
passion as well as the ruthless man who loved her. She had been
innocent, she repeated; and she had told her confessor nothing more
until she believed that she had changed, and that she hated the man
she had loved so well. Then the priest, who was not worldly wise,
warned her gently against anything so un-Christian as hatred, and
counselled her to forget and to grow indifferent and to devote
herself to her husband’s happiness. That sounded very easy to the
poor priest.

After that she had altogether given up asking advice of him, and
she had let herself be guided by her own sense of honour. Besides,
the day soon came when Montalto accused her; and he would not have
believed her if she had thrown the whole blame on her lover, for
she could not lie and say she had never loved him. So she had not
defended herself, and the great wave had gone over her head, and
her husband, broken-hearted, had left her for ever; but he had
done it in such a way that there had been no open scandal. He had
gone to Spain and had come back again, and had gone away again and
had stayed longer; he had spoken to his friends of his mother’s
wretched health; she could not live in Italy, and Maria could not
live in Spain, and he could not be in both places at once. The
separation, so far as the world saw it, came by degrees, till it
was permanent. Montalto and his wife were not the first couple
that had separated quietly, without quarrelling in public, simply
because they did not like each other. People did not always know
where Maria spent her summers with her child, and the good-natured
ones used to say that she saw her husband then; and she lived in
such a way in Rome that the blame was all laid on Montalto, and
Teresa Crescenzi’s story was believed. Montalto was a brute, who
had often struck his wife when he was in one of his fits of anger,
and she was little less than a saint.

Castiglione sat waiting for his answer. Would she tell him that he
might come back and live near her? Or would she grow hard and cold
once more, and bid him go away again, and for ever?

After a long time she raised her head and looked at him quietly.

‘I cannot answer you at once,’ she said; ‘but I promise that I
will. You said yesterday that you had a fortnight’s leave. When I
have made up my mind what to do I shall let you know, and you must
come and see me again.’

Castiglione shook his head gravely and said nothing.

‘What is the matter?’ asked Maria.

‘I suppose you are going to ask advice of your confessor,’ he
answered very sadly, and not at all in contempt.

But Maria lifted her head proudly.

‘No,’ she said, ‘I am going to ask myself what is right. And in my
thoughts my child shall be the man I hope to make him, and I will
ask him what is honourable.’

‘Will you not trust me for that?’ Castiglione asked, and his face
lightened.

‘That I even consent to ask myself shows that I trust you more
than I did when you surprised me here not half an hour ago. And
now please leave me, for I want to be alone. Perhaps I shall send
for you to-morrow, or perhaps not for a week. If we chance to meet
anywhere, come and speak to me, for people will think it strange
if we avoid each other. But I shall ask you to come here for the
answer to your question.’

‘Thank you,’ he answered gratefully.

Their hands touched each other for a moment, but neither spoke
again, and he went quietly out.




CHAPTER III


Maria did not send for Castiglione the next day, nor during a
number of days afterwards, and Giuliana Parenzo saw that she was
