railroads. Nicolas Hofer belonged to the latest type the prolific city
had bred: the son of a millionaire, but a keen man of business, whom the
wildness of the city had never tempted, highly educated, honorable, and
an ardent reformer.

Magdaléna Yorba--Mrs. Trennahan--like most of her old neighbors, still
dwelt in the ancestral mansion, although she had given it a stucco
façade and shaved off the bow-windows. In each, Isabel was sure of
welcome, and she longed particularly to wander through the old Polk
house, where one of her Spanish great-aunts had reigned for a time. Like
all San Franciscans of family, she took more pride in her young-old city
than a Roman in his Rome. Its forty-two square miles had seen so many
changes, its story was so romantic and unique, that its age was not to
be measured by the standards of Time. Her grandfather had stood on this
hill after his Sunday climb and looked over and down a ragged wilderness
to the city bursting out of its shell--a wretched huddle of shacks and
tents by the water's edge. The bay no doubt was crowded with ships from
every corner of the world, many of them deserted, unmanned, forced to
lie idle until the return of the hungry disappointed gold-seekers. That
was less than sixty years ago. In the first ten years of its rapid
growth the city had burned seven times, millions blazing out in an hour.

To-day San Francisco was replete not only with life but with wealth,
talents, and every variety of enterprise; it was as full of fads and
cults and artistic groups as London itself; it had sent forth authors,
artists, mummers, singers--and millionaires by the score. Many of the
art treasures of the world had been brought here and hidden from the
vulgar in those awful impermanent "palatial mansions." Some of the
finest libraries of the world were here. It had its bibliomaniacs, its
collectors, its precieux. And yet what a lonely city it was, stranded on
the edge of the still half-vacant western section of the United States,
with all the Pacific before it. Save for the rim of towns across the
bay, which were little more than a part of itself, it watched the Orient
alone, and was far too gay and careless, too self-absorbed and insolent,
to keep its jaws on the alert. Tact it was much too high-handed to
cultivate. It welcomed the hungry Oriental for so long as he was useful,
and when he outstayed his welcome, incontinently kicked him out. San
Francisco's intensity of independence as well as of civic pride was due
in part no doubt to the isolation which compelled it to be self-centred,
and to its unconscious dislike of the elder breeds beyond the Rocky
Mountains; but largely to the old adventurous reckless gambling spirit
and the habit of sleeping on its pistol. These first causes had
developed individuality to such proportions that the hair of a
Californian bristled when he was alluded to as a "Westerner," or even as
a mere American.

And with time the patriotism of the San Franciscan waxed rather than
waned. It was no longer the fashion to take one's money to New York,
merely because of the higher cost of living that made a millionaire
"feel his oats," and of the allure of the older and more difficult
society to his women. San Franciscans still fled from the winds and fogs
of summer to their beloved Europe, and country-house life gained ground
very slowly, but deserters were few; and of late the rich men had shown
their faith not only by investing the greater part of their capital in
the city--until "improved real estate" was become a current phrase--but
the best of them, including Hofer and the mayor who had preceded the
present figurehead and his omnivorous Boss, were engaged in a desperate
battle with the highly organized gang of political ruffians that owned
and pillaged and dishonored the city in a manner with which nothing in
the history of municipal corruption could compare save the old Tweed
Ring of New York. For at least ten years previous to 1901, San Francisco
had enjoyed a period of not only decent but honorable government. There
was no "graft" in high places, the city was out of debt, it held up its
head with the cleanest municipal governments in the land. But, as ever,
the disinterested grew somnolent with content, and gave no heed to the
burrowing of the hungry recuperated and wiser rats in that prolific
underworld whence never a high-minded citizen emerges. The few that saw
and warned were disregarded; and circumstances, proper in themselves,
swelled the ranks of the petty politicians with thousands of greedy and
insurgent laborers. San Francisco awoke one morning to find herself in
the drag-net of a machine to which old Boss Buckley and the illustrious
Tammany doffed their hats. But the majority still gave little heed, too
content in their various blessings, and the gay light spirit the
climate gave them, to foresee the time when their pleasant city would be
utterly debauched, and life among arrogant thieves, prostitutes, and
socialists have become as impracticable as it already was in Chinatown
or on Barbary Coast.

A group of the more thoughtful and patriotic citizens, assisted by the
one militant editor the city boasted, were doing all that was humanly
possible to prevent the re-election of the mayor, who had already
represented the worst element twice, and to break the power of the Boss.
Isabel in her lonely ranch house, when her chickens were asleep,
followed the fight with a passionate interest, and was tempted to come
forth from her seclusion and meet at least the representative men of her
city. But she was not yet ready to take up her own share of the burden,
and was far too modest to imagine that she could be useful until she had
become a person of importance in San Francisco. Nevertheless, as she
looked down to-day on the sharp outlines of the city under the hard blue
sky, almost glittering in their golden bath, she was impatient to become
a part of its life, or at least to discuss its interests with some one.
Rosewater, which of late years had become virtuous to excess, and almost
blind and deaf with local pride, took no interest in San Francisco
whatever, except as a market for eggs. When driven to the wall it
confessed the superiority of the metropolis in the matter of shops and
theatres; but its politics it invariably dismissed with adjectives more
forcible than elegant.

It was at this point in Isabel's meditations that her eye happened to
rove along the plank walk to the rickety old flight of steps that led
from Taylor Street up Russian Hill. There was something vaguely
familiar about a tall, thin, well-groomed, but by no means graceful,
figure rapidly ascending the steps. In a moment her mind lost its
tensity of projection and she was almost flying down her own long stair.

Gwynne broke into a run as he saw her. She wondered if he intended to
kiss her, but he merely shook her hand for a full minute.

"I never in my life was so glad to see anybody!" he exclaimed, with the
joyousness of a school-boy come home for his first holiday. "It was such
luck to hear that you were in San Francisco."

"But why didn't you telegraph? In a way I am disappointed--glad as I am
to see you. I intended to meet you at Oakland and take you directly up
to Lumalitas, where everything was to have been in gala array. And how
did you know I was in town?"

"While I was taking my lonely breakfast this morning--I arrived late
yesterday afternoon--and glancing over one of your newspapers, my eye
caught your name. I learned that 'the charming and beautiful young
mistress of the old Belmont House on Russian Hill, who had excited so
much interest of late, had come down as usual for Sunday."

"No?" Isabel flushed for the first time within Gwynne's knowledge of
her. "That is the very only time I have been the subject of a newspaper
paragraph--outside of Rosewater, which doesn't count--and I am as
delighted--as I have no doubt you were the first time you saw your name
in print!" she added, defiantly.

There was nothing cynical in Gwynne's smile. "I understand," he said;
and then, as he ceased to smile, the light died out of his face, and
Isabel noticed that it was older and thinner. It had lost more than a
little of its aloof serenity, and his crest was visibly lowered. But on
the whole he was improved, for he had cut his hair, his lilting locks
having been too conspicuous a feature in the cartoons of Punch and
Vanity Fair. But there was something subtly forlorn about him, and
Isabel's maternal promptings, once too active, but long moribund,
suddenly awakened.

They mounted the steep flight of steps to the house slowly, exchanging
ejaculatory remarks. When they reached the porch she motioned to a long
wicker chair.

"It is only ten," she said. "Luncheon will not be ready until one, and
my California hospitality demands that your entertainment shall begin at
once. Make yourself comfortable while I brew you a cup of Spanish
chocolate. I have actually one of the molinillos of our ancestors."

When she returned with the frothy and fragrant beverage he was standing
with his hands in his pockets staring down at the city. He turned
swiftly at the sound of her step on the wood, but something was rushing
to the back of his eyes, and once more Isabel had the singular
impression of hearing his spirit cry: "Oh God! Oh God!" But his lips
were hard pressed and his eyes became suddenly contemptuous, then
smiling.

"This is jolly of you," he said. "I have a weakness for
chocolate--cultivated during the winter I was in Munich with my tutor. I
never cared for beer--don't like anything bitter. Do you remember the
Café Luitpoldt, and all those little tables in the garden of the
Residenz--"

He paused and narrowed his eyes. Isabel had turned white. "I must hear
that story," he said, quietly. "You are my only friend out here. In a
way you have altered the whole course of my life. I shall always have a
sense of relationship with you quite different from anything I have ever
known. So there must be perfect confidence and openness between us. I
told you frankly the unpleasant finish of my episode with Mrs. Kaye. I
hate mystery. I saw you go white once before, when I tried to make you
talk about Munich; and the romantic Flora was full of surmises.
Confession is good for the soul, anyhow. I want the atmosphere
cleared--not out of curiosity--I don't care tuppence about other
people's affairs--but I don't know you! I must know you! I am always
conscious of a wall about you--and in this damned God-forsaken country I
must have one friend!" he burst out.

Isabel had quite recovered herself. "I will tell you everything, but not
now. We must be in the mood. This moment I am interested in nothing but
yourself. Sit down. What has happened to you in all these months?
Something not altogether pleasant. Have you had any adventures? Have you
been recognized?"

He had finished his chocolate, and he clasped his hands behind his head
and leaned back in his chair, giving the railing a slight kick.

"No," he said, grimly, "I have not been recognized. At first I avoided
all the big hotels, lest I might be; then growing more secure, and
disliking the inferior ones, I became quite reckless. The second time I
visited New York I went to the Waldorf-Astoria, and the third time to
the St. Regis. In the smoking-rooms of all the hotels and trains I
talked with any one whom I found disposed to conversation. Not that I
was; but I was perambulating the country for an object and determined to
accomplish it. As you had told me to improve my manners I did my best,
and have reason to believe that, if not effusive, I am almost cynically
approachable. In New York I was at times repelled with a haughty stare
or a negative frigidity which no duke I know could compass. But in
Boston they were more friendly, and farther West so expansive that I was
frequently invited to houses before I had presented my modest card. Very
often I had long talks with newspaper men, and made no attempt to
conceal the fact that I was a Britisher. Once or twice that fact was
commented on, but taken as a matter of course. There are a good many
Britishers in the United States. My identity was never suspected. I
never saw a newspaper paragraph about myself."

He laughed, but looked at her between lids so narrowed that she could
not see the expression of his eyes. She nodded, smiling; and she could
make her smile very sweet and encouraging.

"The time came when I felt like a shipwrecked mariner. Stranded!
Abandoned! Forgotten! Finally--take all the circumstances into
consideration and make due allowance--I felt that I would risk
everything to see my name in print once more. I arrived in Chicago late
one night. There had been a break-down that doubled the time of the
beastly trip. I went to its first hotel and registered myself as Elton
Gwynne. The night clerk, with the haughty indifference of the stage
duke, or the New-Yorker who fancies himself, called a bell-boy and
turned his back on me. I remained in Chicago three days. Not a reporter
sent up his card. Not a line appeared in a newspaper. It was the most
chastening experience of my life. No doubt it did me good. My ego has
actually felt lighter." He smiled. But he added in a moment: "It left a
scar, nevertheless."

"Never mind," said Isabel, consolingly. "All that will read delightfully
in your biography. What on this difficult globe is not difficult, first,
last, and always? The only thing for you to do is to snap your fingers
at everything, as we do out here, and see nothing in the future but
success. How do you like the land of your birth?"

"I hate it!" he said intensely. "Washington is a crude unwieldy village.
New York is like one of those nightmares a certain class of writers
project and label 'Earth in the Year 2000.' Chicago is the entrails of
the universe. The small interior towns and villages of the Eastern
States are open mausoleums for people so old and so dried up that their
end will be not death but desiccation. There is nothing picturesque in
those old towns, for they were dead before they were civilized. Some of
the cities and villages of the South are certainly attractive to look at
and have a background of a sort, but they are as lifeless as their
negroes. The cities of the West are hives, and when you have seen one
you have seen all. Its smaller communities are horrors, pure and simple.
Much of the country is magnificent. The Adirondacks, the Hudson River,
Yellowstone, those great prairies and deserts, atone for a good deal.
The last three weeks I have spent in southern California. It seemed to
me--below Santa Barbara, at least--little more than a reclaimed
desert--and with nothing of the wonderful atmospheric effects of the
great interior deserts; nothing but dirt and a hideous low shrub caked
with prehistoric dust. Precious little of it reclaimed at that. I am
glad that ranch is in good hands. I never want to see the place again.
That eternally grinning sky! That dead atmosphere! It blunted my nerves
for the time, but the reaction is all the worse. However--" He stood up
and leaned over the railing. "I did not expect the earthly paradise. I
am not going to treat you to a continued diatribe--"

"But you must like California--love it!" cried Isabel, in alarm. "Of
course you have hated everything--natural enough--but not California! It
is your State, your home, your future. You must begin by liking it, at
least."

"Very well, mentor, I shall do my best. One might certainly indulge in
an illusion or two up here. I thought as I walked--climbed--through the
city, guided a part of the way by a messenger-boy, who ejaculated at
intervals, 'Say, mister!' and described Nob Hill as the 'millionaire
bunch,' that I had seldom seen so many ugly buildings together; but from
this perch of yours it looks quite beautiful. Still I long for the
country. Can we go to the ranch this afternoon?"

"Why not?" Isabel stifled a sigh. She had intended to ride all round the
city on the electric cars; but she felt as if she had an adopted
homesick child on her hands, and he was a responsibility that she had
deliberately assumed. Moreover, she felt deeply sorry for him.

"You can express all your luggage but a portmanteau, and we will go in
my launch. It is down on the bay side of the Hill. We must start at four
to catch the tide. You have no idea how cosey and pretty your
ranch-house looks, and I have sent out my uncle's law--and
farm--library. I have arranged everything with Judge Leslie, and you
enter his office at once. He is the first lawyer of northern
California. I wrote you that it would be impossible to conceal the truth
from him, as his firm has done all the legal business of the estate for
the last thirty years, and he knows your mother has only one son. But he
is the more interested. No one else knows but Mr. Colton and his son
Tom--your Rosewater bankers and agents. Your secret is safe with them.
Gwynne is not an uncommon name in California, although some of its
letters have been dropped. Lumalitas has been leased for so many years
that your name has ceased to be associated with it in the public mind,
and the deeds are so deeply buried in the archives of St. Peter--the
county-seat--that the most curious would hardly attempt to unearth them.
Of course most townspeople all through the State take in a San Francisco
paper, and your name has doubtless appeared now and again in the
telegrams. But they are not the sort that take the least interest in the
career of a young Englishman--those that do, at all events, are few and
far between. Judge Leslie is deeply interested; so is Tom Colton, the
only son of the bank, so to speak. He is a Democrat, by-the-way--but I
don't suppose you have made up your mind--"

"I have quite made up my mind. In practice one party seems about as bad
as the other, but at least the Democratic ideals more nearly correspond
with my own. Besides, the Democratic party is the under dog, and that
always appeals to me, to say nothing of the fact that it is weak in
strong men, that all its salient leaders are what you so elegantly term
'blatherskites.' If I go in for American politics, I must fight so hard
that I cannot help becoming absorbed body and soul; with only the
present and the future--no past. Let us take a walk over these hills."




III


"Do you run this thing yourself?" asked Gwynne, as they boarded the
launch, which was at anchor by the end of the sea wall at the foot of
Russian Hill.

"Rather. How do you expect me to make a fortune in this paradise of the
labor-union if I don't do things myself? I have a hard time being
economical, and I suspect that where I save once I spend twice, but I
try not to think about it. Theories make life so palatable! This old
launch belonged to Uncle Hiram. I had it repaired, and take my eggs to
the hatcheries and my produce to Rosewater three times a week. There I
deal direct with the San Francisco buyers--and in this launch; it serves
me very well as an office. Then I come down in it every week. The
railroad is exorbitant, and the boats are too slow. It may be that
gasolene and repairs cost more than a railroad fare once a week, but I
have abstained from making a comparison. The trip is so delightful!"

The launch was about twenty feet long with a small cabin and a fresh
coat of brown paint. It shot lightly over the smooth water, and Gwynne
sat on top of the cabin above Isabel swinging his long legs, and looked
with some envy at the hundreds of yachts that skimmed the bay. They
appeared and vanished about the corners of the Islands and promontories
like birds swooping after prey. The Islands and all the mainland had
lost their greens long since, but the burnt grasses shone in the sun
like hammered gold; were tan and brown and fawn on the shadowed eastern
slopes. The chain of mountains beyond the towns across the bay and
facing San Francisco glittered like bronze, but the lofty volcanic peak
of Monte Diablo, farther still, was a pale and misty blue. North of the
Golden Gate and high above the mountains of Marin County, Mount
Tamalpais was so intense and hard a blue, and was cut against the
fleckless sky with so sharp an outline, that it produced in Gwynne a
vague sense of unreality and uneasiness. The Marconi poles on the summit
looked like the masts of a mammoth ship, and every window of The Tavern,
close by them, shone like a plate of brass.

They steered for the southern point of Angel Island, and Gwynne looked
about him with much interest. The mainland of the great northern cove
and the eastern side of the Islands were thick with trees: oaks,
buckeye, willows, madroño. And almost as thickly set, although sometimes
half hidden, were the villas: light and airy of architecture, gayly
painted, with broad verandas and overhanging vines. At the foot of
Belvedere and the little town of Tiburon were house-boats, in which
people lived for eight months of the year.

And everywhere, people, people, people. They swarmed in the yachts, on
the house-boats, on the driveways, the verandas. Gwynne twisted about
and looked at San Francisco. The palaces were on the heights and in the
Western Addition--out towards the Presidio and the Golden Gate; but
hundreds of tiny dwellings clung to the precipitous sides of Telegraph
Hill and Russian Hill as if their foundations were talons. And each had
its bit of garden, or its balcony full of flowers. Telegraph Hill, the
great bluff where the city turned almost at a right angle from north to
south, was given over largely to Mexicans and Italians, and was
uncommonly vivid. And the streets were full of people. The city had
turned itself inside out. Everywhere were bright gowns and parasols,
whizzing cars packed to the rails.

And the wealthy class by no means monopolized the bay with their yachts
and luxurious launches. There were fishing-smacks filled with whole
families of Italians and Chinese; in fact every tongue floated over the
water in the course of a brilliant Sunday afternoon. And at the docks
there were steamers, sailing vessels, from all the ports of the world, a
forest of spars and funnels; odd little Italian craft and even a Chinese
junk. A man-of-war was coming down from Mare Island. Gwynne had seen a
big Australian liner flying the Union Jack enter the Golden Gate as the
launch rounded Angel Island. It made him homesick, and he was not sorry
to lose sight of it.

They passed steamboats crowded with holiday seekers coming home from a
day's outing in Sausalito, San Rafael, Mill Valley, sporting parks; the
majority noisy and vulgar, but a mass of color. It was a scene of
surpassing variety, life, gayety, prosperity, importance. Gwynne, as the
light electrical breeze began to prick his veins, experienced a
sensation of pride in the country where his lines were cast, in those
ancestors of his that had memorably helped to develop its vast
resources: a tremendous concession, for he had barely acknowledged these
ancestors before. A slight meed of resignation descended upon him. He
smiled down upon Isabel, who was frowning at the sun and sighing for
her forgotten veil; she had a tender regard for her complexion. Gwynne
thought her very pretty in her smart crash suit and sailor hat, not
nearly so severe and fateful in appearance as when she had adjusted
herself to the formalities of Capheaton; although he remembered that he
had heard much discussion of her beauty and had not been unappreciative
himself. But he liked her far better here in California. Her eyes were
more alert, her voice was less monotonous; and those little black moles
looked particularly fascinating on the ivory white of her skin, fairly
luminous in the sunlight. He fancied they would drift into matrimony;
and that she appeared to be as indifferent and passionless as she was
handsome and clever but the better suited his present mood. His love for
Mrs. Kaye had died a sudden and violent death, but it had left him
callous, somewhat contemptuous of the charms of woman. He doubted if his
heart would ever beat high in his breast again, but in the course of
events he should need a partner, and Isabel seemed to him fashioned to
be the helpmate of a busy and ambitious statesman.

But all he said was: "You have a little freckle on your nose. I saw it
come."

Isabel shrugged her shoulders and sniffed. He lost interest in her for
the moment, for he distrusted a woman without vanity. He knew girls too
little to suspect that the most business-like were often smitten with a
desire to pose; and were as likely to forget the pose of to-day in the
naturalness of to-morrow. Secretly, Isabel was grievously afflicted at
the thought of the freckle, and did not speak for some time, recalling
the antidotes of her early girlhood, when she and Anabel Leslie
experimented in secret with various beauty recipes cut from the
newspapers. She smiled as she recalled that Anabel, who had pretty
golden hair, had washed it with lye to acquire a reddish tinge, and been
forced to retire for a month; and a semi-tragic experience of her
own--smothered from crown to toe in a blanket taking a hot-air bath for
the benefit of her complexion, the spirit lamp, in a wash-basin under
the chair, exploded, and there was one interminable moment of panic, and
several days of discomfort. She quite forgot her companion in these
lighter reminiscences of a period that seemed far more than ten years
agone.

Gwynne had discovered at Capheaton that one of his cousin's charms was
her absence of effort in conversation and a corresponding indifference
to effort in others. They did not exchange a syllable as they sped up
the wider expanse of the bay east of the Islands, and he watched the
hills and mountains close on his left, with their bright little towns
and sombre depths of forest. Many of the rounded cones of the foothills
were bare, and so was the rocky crest of Tamalpais, but the old redwoods
still held triumphant possession of several of the slopes and all of the
cañons. Here and there factories and warehouses marred the almost
primeval beauty of the scene, but to-day at least there was no smoke to
cobweb the radiant sky. Even the Chinese shrimp-pickers were lounging on
the beach before their little shack village.

They passed the last of the towns. Towers and sharp roofs rose above the
mass of cultivated trees in some private park; the trees a motley
collection of pines and palms, eucalyptus and oak, madroño, laurel,
locust, and acacia. The gardens were full of children and birds. On the
roads horses in old-fashioned buggies danced at automobiles whizzing by.
In the yachts even the men had laid aside their keen anxious look--as
peculiar to the young San Franciscan of business as to the New-Yorker or
Westerner--and were bent upon absolute relaxation for the day. One
millionaire was alone in his big luxurious launch, a broad grin on his
homely ingenuous countenance, and even his mouth open to inhale the
clean and sparkling air. His hands were clasped on his curves.

"He inherited," said Isabel, in reply to Gwynne's comment that he did
not look as if he ever expended his energies in the piling of dollars.
"And he doesn't want any more. But they all look well enough. It is not
only the climate but the cooking."

They left San Francisco Bay and Isabel steered more carefully: the
channel in the Bay of San Pablo is narrow and the current treacherous.
When they reached the drawbridge they were not only alone on the wide
silvery expanse of water, but there was scarcely a country-house to
break the wild loneliness of mountain and cañon. After they entered
Rosewater Creek the mountains with their broken and multiplying ridges
were more imposing still, and before long another range began to taper
northward on the opposite shore. They were in the great tidal marsh now,
green, where all the rest of the world was burnt and dry. At times the
creek was as wide as an ordinary river, at others so contracted that one
could gather grass on either side. Isabel told Gwynne to "watch out for
other boats," for the creek wound and twisted and doubled like a mammoth
brown snake into an infinite perspective, broken here and there by
sailing boats that had the effect of skimming the land. It was a scene
reminiscent of Holland, but far more beautiful, with the wild primeval
character of the landscape and the grandeur of the mountains.

Isabel indicated an island well out in the marsh. It was crowned with a
white house shaded by many trees. Men in duck trousers, and coatless,
were lounging in the shade.

"That is a country club," she said. "Tom Colton will put you up. But if
you are still disinclined to sociabilities you can shoot all the ducks
you want on my place."

"Shoot what?"

"Best duck-shooting in the world is out here--canvas-back, teal, English
widgeon--fancy your not knowing that. It begins on the fifteenth of
October. I have not rented my marsh-lands this year, and intend to shoot
ducks for the market. You can help me and we'll go halves."

Gwynne's eyes were sparkling. He had expected to kill his bear and deer,
but any variety of sport new or old gave him joy. Isabel pointed to many
little shanties on the edge of the marsh.

"The more enthusiastic sit in those and wait for the tide to come back.
I avoid being left high and dry, for if the ducks go elsewhere it is
rather a bore."

The mountains on the left diminished in height, turned off abruptly to
the northwest, following the coast line. Those on the right took form in
the pink mist that enveloped them, for the sun had set. All the lower
sky was pink, melting imperceptibly into the still pale blue of day. Far
to the north other mountains seemed suddenly to heave from the level,
villages appeared, with great stretches of farming land between. Then
the glow faded into the gray of twilight and the vast landscape took on
a sudden aspect of desolation; as of a country stranded, forgotten,
with a heap of stones here and there to mark some ancient civilization.

"There is Rosewater--over there where the lights are coming out; and
here we are," said Isabel.

Gwynne turned with a start and found that Isabel had run her launch up
to a little pier. Behind it was a cluster of low hills set with narrow
fields and tiny white houses. In the foreground was a large house of two
stories and no architecture whatever, although the roof was mercifully
flat. It was painted white and surrounded by a broad veranda. The garden
was full of bare rosebushes and blooming chrysanthemums, but save for
two mournful eucalypti and a naked acacia, there was not a tree in
sight. Just behind were many out-buildings, stark and white.

"Is this where you live?" asked Gwynne, wonderingly. He had vaguely
pictured her in a romantic setting, a bit of California epitomized.

"It was like Uncle Hiram to sell off the prettiest parts, but I don't
bother about anything I can't help, and I have a lovely view opposite.
Where is that boy?" She raised her voice and called, "Chuma! Chuma!" and
in a moment a Japanese boy came running down to the pier.

"The two men spend Sunday in Rosewater, but I have trained my Jap to do
a little of everything," said Isabel, as they walked up to the house.
"He is one of the willing sort; most are not. Chuma is my cook and
butler and chambermaid--"

"Do you mean that you live here without any other woman?"

"Why not? No girl would stay in this lonely place. I should have to send
her in to Rosewater every night and get a second girl to keep her
company. Mac--who was with Uncle Hiram before I was born--sleeps in the
house. It was a hotel forty years ago, by-the-way, and is still known as
Old Inn. That was in the days of picturesque ruffianism, and there are
terrible stories about the house, but no ghosts."

It had been decided that Gwynne should dine with Isabel and spend the
night at the hotel in Rosewater. Isabel had telephoned to her patient
Jap, and there was a log fire in the "parlor"--now transformed into a
comfortable living-room. Gwynne looked about him with considerable
curiosity while Isabel was up-stairs dressing. The walls were "ceiled"
with redwood and hung with the photographs she had accumulated in her
travels, a motley collection of many climes, from the snows of the Alps
to the patios of Seville; all, she had informed him, with a personal
association: "she was no photograph fiend." Several artist's sketches
arrested her guest's attention and he wondered what her life in Paris
had been. He fancied that her three years abroad were full of curious
chapters, most of them untold; but although she mystified him he could
not associate her with license of any sort. There was even a hint of
austerity about her, as if she drew strength from her Puritan
forefathers.

It was patent, however, that she felt herself entitled to physical
comforts after the labors of her day. There were half a dozen
easy-chairs and a big divan covered with cushions. The carpet and
cushions were red, but although the room was delightfully comfortable
and homelike it might have been a bachelor's, so entirely were lacking
all the little devices of femininity. The only ornaments in the room
were an odd assortment of Tyrolese pipes and Indian baskets. On a shelf
above the divan, however, were many books, and Gwynne ran his eye over
them. They included masterpieces of the modern Russian, German, French,
and Italian schools; only three or four volumes of English criticism. A
set of shelves opposite was filled with the standard English and
American histories, essays, and novels, many of them old and bound in
calf. The upper shelf was devoted entirely to the Russian novelists, and
the bindings were new.

When Isabel came down, looking very pretty in a blue evening frock,
simple enough to make her guest feel at ease in his travelling-clothes,
but carefully selected with an eye to effect, she sent him up to her
room to make his own simple toilet.

"I suppose I should furnish a spare room," she remarked. "But if I did I
should have Paula--my adopted sister--and her family here whenever they
happened to want to come, which would be always when I didn't want them.
But you won't mind."

Gwynne made a wry face as he sat down before the dressing-table that he
might reflect his visage while he brushed his hair. Nevertheless, he
cast about a curious and apologetic eye, in the belief that a woman's
bedroom must reveal some secret of her personality. This bedroom was so
simple and girlish that it gave him a vague sense of pleasure. The
windows and dressing-table were covered with white muslin, and there was
a canopy of the same above the little brass bedstead. The flounces were
so full and fluffy that he held his knees back nervously lest he should
disturb a puff. There was no other furniture in the room but two
rocking-chairs, and the only color was in the blue Japanese rugs
scattered over the white matting, and in two immense bows above the
dressing-table and bed. He decided, as he ran down the stairs to the
warm room below, that she understood both taste and comfort, and looked
forward to his own lonely ranch-house with more equanimity than when he
had paid the bill.




IV


There were two miles between Rosewater and Old Inn, but although Isabel
rode briskly and was sensible as ever of the keen buoyant quality of the
morning air that so often filled her with a pagan indifference to the
human side of life, her thoughts were with the pleasant evening by her
fireside, the supper in the low raftered room which once had been the
office of the hotel--a supper of fried chicken, transparent asparagus,
and soda biscuit, which Gwynne had disposed of with a school-boy's
enthusiasm--the hundred and one impersonal topics they had discussed in
a cloud of smoke before the logs, until Abe, the second hired man--who
was to drive Gwynne in to Rosewater--had opened the kitchen door three
times and coughed. Not since Isabel's return to California had she sat
at a fireside and talked to anybody; nor, indeed, with the exception of
her father in his lucid intervals, and her uncle in his rare moments of
expansion, had she ever talked with any one that covered the large range
of her own interests. Gwynne had snapped the lock on his unquiet spirit,
but in that comfortable domestic environment, half lying in an
easy-chair, with his gaze travelling indolently between the fire and the
animated face of his cousin, he had talked of her favorite books and
told her much of lands she had never visited. He had transferred himself
to the buggy with a grumble of disgust, and begged her to come for him
early in the morning. He refused to pay his first visit to his ranch
without her; and she had promised that Abe should go early for his
saddle-horse and meet her at the hotel.

Pleasurable as the evening had been, Isabel was not in a sentimental
frame of mind; she was stirred at the prospect of a companion, and
wondered that she had been content in her solitude so long. Solitude and
complete liberty might be indispensable elements in her ideal of mortal
existence, but desultory companionship might be as necessary to
intensify them.

It was nearly a year since her return, and outside of the bank parlor
and Judge Leslie's office, she had held naught but business converse
with any man. Nor with any woman. Although Rosewater society offered her
nothing and she was glad to live out of town, still she liked her old
school friends and had expected them to call on her. But weeks had
passed and not one of them had paid her the mere civilities. She met
them sometimes on Saturday afternoons, when all the world of Rosewater
shopped on Main Street, and they invariably greeted her with effusion,
and assured her they were "going out soon." Finally, busy and absorbed
as she was, she fell a prey to curiosity. She knew that the young men
had always rather feared her, as she had a forbidding reputation in the
way of "bookishness"; and as most of them had either left Rosewater or
married, in the four years of her absence, she had expected nothing from
them. But the girls? The young married women, who had been her comrades
at the High School? Did they resent her three years abroad and the sense
of superiority implied? It was patent from their manner that they
resented nothing. Did they disapprove of her becoming so energetic a
business woman? It was true that the girls of California's country
towns, except when forced by poverty to work, were the laziest mortals
on earth. But nothing could exceed their good-nature and entire
indifference. Isabel might have started a race-track or opened a
livery-stable and they would have vaguely admired, and been thankful
that themselves were as God made them. Her friend Anabel Colton was in
the south with an ailing child, and Mrs. Leslie was with her, or the
problem would have been quickly solved.

One morning she met the beauty of Rosewater on Main Street, Miss Dolly
Boutts, a girl who had been half grown when she left, but one of her own
rapturous admirers. Main Street was crowded, but Miss Boutts rushed up
and kissed her, protesting that she had been trying for two months to
get out to see her. Isabel guided her firmly to an ice-cream table in
the candy store, and while Miss Boutts, who was a superb specimen of
animal beauty with a corresponding appetite, disposed of two saucers of
the delectable and a plate of cakes, Isabel dived to the heart of the
mystery.

She began by dilating upon her pleasure in being home again, and then
congratulated her handsome friend, with a touch of sarcasm, upon the
overwhelming gayeties of Rosewater.

Miss Boutts stared. "Gayeties?" said she.

"What else? I never knew people so absorbed, although I fail to see why
I should be wholly excluded. Or have the fashions changed, and was I
expected to call first--"

Miss Boutts, who was not particularly quick of apprehension, here threw
back her head and gave a musical laugh, which was out of tune with her
drawling nasal voice and abundant slang.

"You innocent!" she cried. "Where have you been? I suppose you have been
imagining us at dances and dinners and teas and things. Why, we have
only danced twice in two whole years. It's cards, my dear. We are card
mad, the whole bunch of us, old and young, women and girls. Mrs. Leslie
and Anabel Colton are about the only exceptions, at least in our set.
But I fancy the whole town has got it. We play morning, noon, and
night--literally. Those who have no servants--and that question gets
worse instead of better--don't make their beds for days, and their
husbands get dinner at any old hour. Those who have a servant or two
belong to six clubs at least. I belong to every one of them, and two
meet in the morning."

It had been Isabel's turn to stare. The older people had always played
bézique or whist, but rather somnolently of an evening. She wondered if
the old gambling spirit had broken out again, and asked if they were
playing poker or monté. Miss Boutts looked at her with positive scorn.

"You girls that go to Europe and stay there too long get fearfully
behind things. Poker! Monte! We play bridge and five hundred." Then her
genuine affection for Isabel overcame her contempt. "We have spoken
often of asking you to join the clubs," she added, sweetly. "But there
isn't a vacancy at present."

"I couldn't think of it. Chickens and cards don't rhyme. What do you
play for--money?"

"No!" The scorn returned to her voice. "We are still too provincial for
that. San Francisco is ahead of us there. We don't even have real big
prizes--just a dinky little spoon sitting up on the mantel-piece to
excite us as if it was a tiara. I've won a whole bunch of them. They're
better than nothing and mean a lot of fun. I'm as proud as punch of
them."

"And the men?" asked Isabel. Did they play, too? Miss Boutts replied
that they were too busy in the daytime, but were asked once a week to a
"bang-up" affair. Their other evenings they spent at the lodges--"or any
old place," added Miss Boutts, who had no brothers, and a very busy
father. When Isabel asked her if she had not the natural yearning of her
age and sex for beaux, she shrugged her shoulders and replied:

"Rather. But where are you going to find them here? Pa won't live in the
city, and all the young men run away. Once in a while I visit in San
Francisco, and we go down to all the new plays, so I suppose I'll meet
my fate in time. Meanwhile, as there's nothing doing in that line here,
cards are a mighty fine substitute for beaux, and no mistake."

Isabel had been glad to be rid of her, and of her other old friends, who
did call in due course. Anabel had not returned and was the worst of
correspondents. So it had fallen out that she had held no real converse
with youth until Gwynne's advent, and she accepted it with delight, and
shook her head with young triumph in being able to interest him--or in
joy of the sparkling air; she hardly knew which.

       *       *       *       *       *

As Gwynne left his room the Japanese "chambermaid," who had been about
to knock, informed him that Miss Otis awaited him below. He ran
down-stairs and found her still on her horse. Abe held another horse by
the bridle.

"It is nine o'clock--" began Isabel, but Gwynne interrupted her, rarely
apologetic.

"I hardly slept. There was such an infernal racket. A theatrical
troupe--"

"There generally is. How do you like your horse?"

Gwynne examined the horse, and was good enough to remark that it was a
credit to California. Then he added: "It did not occur to me last
night--my luggage is expressed to the ranch and I haven't my
riding-togs--" Then he reddened at Isabel's gay laugh and Abe's
suppressed smile.

"Oh, well," said Isabel, as she sprang from her horse. "The bloods will
be too busy to notice as we ride down Main Street, and after that it
won't matter."

She went with him into the dining-room of the hotel, a room scrupulously
clean, but with no attempt at decoration beyond the various
advertisements of beer on the white walls. There was a long table down
the middle of the room and a great many small ones. Most of the latter
were empty, although two beside the door were covered with steaks and
eggs and coffee and rolls. One man, who had evidently finished, had
swung his chair about, tipped it against the wall, and was addressing a
political monologue to his toothpick.

Gwynne led Isabel to a table in a corner by a window, and indicated the
company occupying more than half of the long table.

"'Busted,' was the word they used, and I cannot think of a better one to
describe them. I talked with the men in the bar, and later wandered into
the parlor where the women were, some tearful, others indignant. One
had an infant, and there were several small children running about,
although it was midnight. The soubrette was chewing gum and
anathematizing Rosewater as the 'jayest town on the slope,' and others
were calling for the blood of the manager, who had absconded with the
receipts of an unprofitable week. They interested me, as all your weird
specimens do, and I found them a surprisingly decent lot, considering
that it is the cheapest sort of a vaudeville troupe. That poor little
woman with the red eyes and the parti-colored hair is the mother of the
infant. I saw one of the children carrying it about the hall as I left
my room. She wears spangled tights--she told me with a lively regret at
the prospect of pawning them--and shoots balls from the head of that
young man that looks like a parson. And the soubrette--all my ideals are
shattered! Look at her."

The soubrette had a lank young body neatly attired in a store suit and
shirt-waist. Her face was sallow and her black hair as lank as her body,
but her eyes were keen and bright, and she was indisputably respectable.
She was drinking her coffee with both elbows on the table and listening
with a sort of indifferent sympathy to an elderly untidy woman who was
sniffling.

"Drop it," she shot out, finally. "'Tain't worth it. The landlord's
given us a free breakfast, anyhow, and it's more'n most of 'em does.
We'll get back to 'Frisco somehow, and will run into Jake first thing.
I'll give him a slice of my mind right in the thickest of the
Tenderloin. You just shut up and be thankful you ain't got no kids."

"She is positively discouraging," said Gwynne, as he attacked his
excellent breakfast. "I thought that the frozen surface of the American
woman thawed on the stratum soubrette."

"The class is not always remarkable for its asceticism," said Isabel,
dryly. "I often lunch here, and see many varieties. The leading lady is
generally a large voluptuous person with a head like a hay-stack seen
through the wrong end of an opera-glass, and some of the soubrettes are
all hats and eyes and wriggling grace. The men are what we call 'tough,'
which is not exactly what you mean by 'toff.' Occasionally, however,
there are the most respectable family parties, including the children
whom they won't be parted from. We have three places of amusement,
including quite a fine opera-house, so they do very well, as a rule. Was
it your sympathy that kept you awake?"

"I am not an ass. But they were in and out of one another's rooms all
night, and of course the baby cried. Then my room was over the
bar--well, what will you? Such is life. I am sorry you cannot eat
another breakfast. This seems to be the land of good cooking. If I did
not scorn to be unoriginal I should dilate upon the pie and doughnuts I
had for breakfast on the other side of your continent."

He seemed still light of heart at the sudden end to his wanderings and
isolation, and they forgot the troupe and chatted about his ranch. He
had much to ask and his sponsor more to tell.

The theatrical party appeared to finish their breakfast simultaneously.
Three, including the soubrette, reached under the table, dislodged the
morsel of gum they had mechanically attached to the under side of the
board, closed on it with a snap, and filed out. Most of them looked
quite cheerful. Several bowed to Gwynne. The soubrette gave him a
haughty suspicious nod.

"She looked at me like that last night," said Gwynne, complainingly.
"What designs does she attribute to me? I never treated any one with
more respect."

"They are all like that when they are respectable. Their fierce
Americanism resents any hint of patronage. Later on they invite it. You
will find these waitresses--the class, as a rule, is thoroughly
decent--much the same in manner."

Two girls, white clad, their extended arms loaded with dishes, were
stalking about the room, anæmic, disdainful. A portly woman, whom Isabel
knew to be the mother of a brood, was far more anxious to please. She
came up to the table in the corner and asked Gwynne affably if his
coffee was "all right" and if he was a stranger in "these parts." He was
under Isabel's amused eye, but he acquitted himself with credit; and
when he rose from the table she thanked him indifferently for his tip,
but her eyes glowed softly. It was rarely thought worth while to tip a
mere waitress.




V


As they rode slowly down the hill towards Main Street Gwynne examined
his cousin from head to foot, but, he prided himself, out of the corner
of his eye. She wore a dust-colored habit with divided skirt, and a soft
felt hat and gloves of the same shade. Her horse was a very light
chestnut, and he was obliged to confess that the effect was harmonious,
although this Western style of riding by no means pleased his fastidious
taste.

Isabel shot him an amused glance. "You don't approve of women riding
astride," she said. "We invented it; although it is now the fashion in
many other parts of America. Necessity is the mother of most fashions.
Wait till you see our mountain roads. They are a disgrace to
civilization--so broken and narrow that even in summer it is dangerous
for a woman to ride a side-saddle, and in winter impossible. I have
forgotten how, and that is the reason I never rode in England.... Here
is the centre of your existence for several years to come. Main Street
is to this section of the country what Wall Street is to the United
States."

They had entered a street that turned abruptly in from the country a
block below them, and rose gently for several hundred yards, when it
straggled unevenly along a higher level, to melt into the older
residence district and then out into the open country again. There was
nothing quite like this Main Street in California. At its southern end
was a long double hitching-rail--as old as the State--already flanked by
several dusty wagons and big strong horses. The long unbroken block had
as many and as various stores as are generally spread over the entire
area of a town. Jammed against one another like cabins opening out of a
steamer's gangway, and yet of no mean size, were banks and saloons;
stores for chicken feed, groceries, fruit, candy, jewelry, clothing,
hats, fancy goods, stationery; and five drug stores with tiled floors.
Many of the windows made a brave display that would not have disgraced
San Francisco. The entire west pavement was roofed, making a promenade
like a ship's deck against rain or the severities of summer; and from
this roof depended an extraordinary number of signs, often eccentric of
color and design. Above the buildings of the opposite side of the street
rose the spars of several fishing-boats; the creek finished at
Rosewater. Gwynne glanced about him with an interest that nothing else
Californian save the Mission and San Francisco had inspired. Here was a
bit of a civilization of a building era, that was almost old, everything
