homelike, as Helen remembered it. But how 
long ago it seemed! Yes, she had loved Daisy 
then. Had she changed so herself? 
After supper Mrs. Bell begged to be ex- 
cused. 
“ I leave you in good hands,’ she said to 
Helen, with a faint smile. “ To-morrow we 
will have our talk.” 
Willard lighted his cigar presently and 
sauntered out. His case would lose nothing 
by this advocate. He had a tender and son- 
like feeling toward both parents in their be- 
reavement. 
Helen sat silent for some moments. Then 
Mr. Bell motioned her beside him, and almost 
without volition, she rose and went. 
He put his arm over her shoulder. 
“ I do not just understand how it is, Helen, 
but you seem so near, so like one of us. Daisy 
had other schoolmate visitors and they were 
nice girls, too, and they went out of our minds, 
but we talked of you so often. You impress 
yourself upon one with an unusual individual- 
ity, or else — yes, I think it is that — you fit 
in a niche that has stood empty waiting for 
you, and no other person could have filled it. 
 
I wish you had been Daisy’s cousin, then when 
your father died, I should have claimed you.’’ 
»“You have always been so tender to me, 
so sympathetic." Her voice trembled a little 
and she could not help thinking of the place 
made for her, that she was reluctant to fill. 
“ I have never felt quite satisfied about 
Daisy’s life,” he went on after a pause, and 
there was a peculiar sound of sadness in his 
voice. “ I think we indulged her too much, 
partly because she was not very strong, and 
partly because of her winsome, coaxing man- 
ner. Every one gave in to her at the end, 
sometimes against his better judgment. 
There is a responsibility in every close rela- 
tion, and one cannot always see clearly to the 
end. If we could not trust in God and leave 
our burdens in His hands, we would go sor- 
rowing all the rest of our lives.” 
“ But her life had many joys in it. She 
gathered up a great deal of love on every 
hand.” 
“ I never felt quite sure hers was the high- 
est love that can come to a woman. The 
other girls seem perfectly mated. One’s de- 
light is the centre of a family; the other one 
is continually reaching out to sow some seed 
in the great world that shall bear fruit, four- 
fold, perhaps. They were so dissimilar, Daisy 
and Harlan Duer. He was always generous 
and indulgent to her, but he was a very thor- 
ough man of the world, and when he married 
he did not give up his old personal desires and 
pleasures. She could have her friends, her 
pleasures, her amusements, and he would take 
his. He gave just so much of himself; they 
were not one, but always two. Perhaps you 
knew we did not quite approve of the mar- 
riage. If we had thwarted it, and she had 
dropped down, gone into a decline, and died 
after a few years, we should have blamed our- 
selves severely. She had her desire, and it 
happened. I hope she never knew she was 
feeding upon husks, yet it was the best Mr. 
Duer had to give. Some women would not 
have minded, would have taken outside pleas- 
ures to fill up the craving, and they would 
have kept themselves morally good, too. But 
I think it fretted Daisy. She was right in be- 
lieving a wife should be all to her husband, 
not only a part of his life. I cannot think they 
were meant for each other in the great allot- 
ment, and yet it seems as if nothing could 
come to pass without God’s guiding hand in 
it. My dear, I ought not sadden you with 
my misgivings — ” 
“ Oh, I think Daisy must have been 
happy!” she cried impulsively, wanting to 
comfort. Yet, she understood what was in 
the father’s heart. 
“ Do you know how dear you are to us, 
Helen?” and Mr. Bell pressed her closer. 
“ But now you must tell me about yourself. 
We were so proud that you went in the 
juniors. One more year, and you will be 
through. You have been happy, I know. I
hope you have not lost the romance of a girl’s 
life. There is so much sweetness that buds 
along these years, and if it does not come to 
blossoming it withers slowly. I want you to 
have all the happiness of a true woman’s life, 
and that is in loving and being loved. I need 
not ask if you have met friends.” 
Helen was quite enthusiastic about her hap- 
penings, her standing, and her hopes for an- 
other year. Willard came in. 
“ It is raining a little,” he said. “ A gentle 
springlike rain, and an old line came into my 
mind : 
“ ‘ Blessed is the corpse that the rain falls on.’ ” 
“ Poor, dear Daisy,” murmured the father. 
CHAPTER IX 
THE HIGH RESOLVES OF YOUTH 
Helen felt she ought to go the next day, 
but Mrs. Bell claimed her. The luggage had 
been sent up. Mr. Duer had refused utterly 
to keep any of the gifts he had made his wife, 
and there were some very beautiful ones. 
Daisy had spoken to her mother of several 
for Helen, and they had been made into a 
parcel with a number Mrs. Bell had added. 
“ I think she kept you nearer her heart than 
almost any one she knew. She was fond of 
variety, and often thought she saw more in 
people than there really was, as she found 
when she knew them well. But during those 
last weeks her heart turned to you. Of course 
it would not have been possible for you to 
give up your plans, nor necessary either, but 
your strength and energy were an inspiration 
to her. I wish, Helen, that it could have been 
so that she had gone to college with you. Her 
health would not have permitted it, but I be- 
lieve it tides many girls over those uncertain 
years and shapes character and matures judg- 
ment. There were two such charming girls 
at our hotel, and one enters college next year. 
I was so glad for Daisy to find friends." 
And though Mrs. Bell was not as outspoken 
as her husband, Helen knew the marriage had 
not been pleasurable to her, though Mr. Duer 
had evinced a good deal of outward tender- 
ness and indulgence through those later weeks. 
It had been a sad winter for the mother. 
Mrs. Hollis came up at noon, and Helen 
spoke of her departure. 
“ Oh,” Mrs. Bell said, with tears in her 
eyes, “ how can I let you go? Yet, I must not 
be selfish in my grief. Helen, you are like a 
child to me, and now that I shall be more at 
liberty we must take up our correspondence 
again. You see I am spoiled by young girls 
and cannot give them up. I shall want to 
know how you progress. If it wasn't for your 
senior examinations I should insist upon keep- 
ing you a month, at least. Then I shall count 
on you in vacation.” 
She was very dear to them, she knew. 
Marjorie wanted her parents to spend the 
month with her in her new home, since it 
would be more convenient to the city and they 
were near the station. She was to remain all 
night, and it did make a little rift in the sad 
home-coming. 
“You see,” Willard said to her late that 
evening, “ how necessary you are to all of us. 
Father really needs you. Think of the hap- 
piness it is in your power to bestow. Is there 
any better work in this world than making 
people happy? Is there anything nobler and 
sweeter and dearer than comforting those in 
sorrow, coming into the very heart of things, 
and to see stretching out before you possibili- 
ties of joy unfolding, to grow richer and ten- 
derer by the using? Oh, Helen, I have been 
trying patience and silence, but the love re- 
mains! And now, oh, you cannot refuse! ” 
Helen had been in a tense and exalted state 
for the two days. Willard’s quiet devotion 
had impressed her. Ought she not to consider 
a return for all the affection these people had 
showered upon her? Was not this the deeper 
meaning, the higher duty, worth more than 
following out one’s desires that would never 
quite satisfy ? She was bewildered as the two 
paths spread out before her. 
‘‘Helen!" Willard came closer, his arms 
seemed to take her prisoner, even against her 
will, and yet she felt powerless to struggle. 
Mr. Bell was crossing the hall. 
“ Father, join your pleading to mine, and 
tell this dear girl that she belongs to us, that 
we cannot let her go.” 
“ Oh, wait! wait!” she cried. “I have 
been so occupied with other matters that I 
have had no time to consider. Love is such 
a sacred thing, and I know nothing about 
it — ” 
She was trembling in every pulse. There 
was a tumult in her heart, as if it were break- 
ing. Could this be love? She glanced from 
one to the other with a blinding consciousness 
of having half-surrendered herself. She 
shrank from it, too, with a kind of terror. 
“ My child,” Mr. Bell said, tenderly. 
Willard drew her to him and kissed her. 
“I must be free until I have graduated;” 
she made the protest in a tremulous voice, 
and seemed to push him away with her hands, 
but he was immovable. She felt his strength 
and power. 
“ Helen,” the father said in a tender tone, 
“ do not be overpersuaded into making a mis- 
take. We all love you, we all want you, and 
you can fill the place of her who has gone. 
*But you must do it of your own free will. 
Love is too sacred to have any counterfeit 
shadowing its face. Willard, you must give 
her time to consider. Let her come to you of 
her own volition.” 
Helen raised grateful eyes, but they were 
well nigh conquered by the longing she saw. 
“ Oh! ” she cried, “ I like you all so much. 
We have been such dear friends. But I am 
not ready even to promise. I do not under- 
stand myself.” 
“ Let the matter rest here.” The father’s 
voice had a certain authority in it. “ You are 
brave enough to admit love when it comes to 
you, and it has not come vet; I can see that. 
 
But you can rest in the consciousness that 
nothing would afford us a greater joy. And 
now, my child, you look weary and we must 
say good night to you. I wish you were not 
going to-morrow, but each day would make 
the parting harder.” 
Willard uttered his good night reluctantly. 
Helen sped up the stairway, but she was not 
through with her trial. Mrs. Bell's sweet 
voice summoned her. 
“ My dear,” she began, “ your visit has not 
been a cheerful one. I understand how neces- 
sary your return is, yet in my heart I wish I 
could keep you. I shall count on you next 
summer. I think we have been thrown to- 
gether for something more than ordinary 
friendship.” 
Helen’s heart beat with unwonted emotion. 
She put the suggestive distance between the 
meanings she could not mistake, and her own 
indecision, which at the moment she consid- 
ered unworthy of herself. 
“ Good night,” she said, softly. 
Just next to her chamber was Daisy’s pretty 
girlhood room that had never been changed. 
 
She was gone for all time. A passion of tears 
flooded Helen's eyes. 
She was very glad Mrs. Hollis was to re- 
main with her mother several days. It soft- 
ened the pang of parting. Willard had to go 
down early in the morning, so there could 
only be a brief good-by. Mr. Bell took her 
to the station later. She was moved to tears 
at the tender blessing invoked upon her. Ah, 
if he had been her real father! If she had 
been born in this family, not more than two 
years older than Daisy ! That would have 
been an ideal life. 
A more self-seeking nature would have been 
flattered beyond measure by these preferences. 
She had once thought that to be an inmate 
of the Wilmarth household would have been 
a divine gift of Providence. And now the 
individual personality pervaded her, the curi- 
ous self that could not be bent or turned save 
for a moment; it flew back like the string of a 
bow. She was Helen Grant again and she 
must go forward on her own path. Oh ! 
could she find the right way? Daisy had 
loved passionately, but it had not brought 
complete happiness to herself, and real satis- 
faction to any one. 
It was soon after midday when she saw the 
massive arched gateway, with its inscription, 
and it seemed like coming to a well-loved 
home. She could have shouted out her satis- 
faction. No doubt a young fellow would 
have done so. The shadowy masses of ever- 
green on both sides were just sending out 
their exquisite, gray, furry tassels, of new 
growth, and there was the avenue with its 
branching elms in tiniest leaves, the maples in 
blooming clusters, some perky and saucy with 
their red crowns, others holding down their 
heads, still others in fringy yellow green. 
Over yonder were the horse-chestnuts with 
their umbrella-like spread of leaves, great 
pansy beds, newly set out, daffodils in golden 
hues, narcissus, the sweetness of violets and 
new grass, the long stems of Java currant, the 
red and white of the japonicas. Would any 
other place afford her this intense satisfaction ? 
She stood motionless, gazing about, and the 
soft under-roof of sky, with drifting blue and 
fleecy clouds, crowned it all exquisitely. 
 
She paused again at the wide hall entrance. 
A group came flying through the corridor, 
grasping hand or arm, and uttering welcomes 
in various keys. Then she ran up-stairs. 
“Oh, Helen!” It was Lorraine Denman, 
mysteriously changed somehow, but charming, 
with lustrous eyes and quivering lips. “ I’ve 
hungered so for you. They didn't want me 
to come back, but I longed to see the girls. I 
can’t pass, of course, and it breaks my heart 
to think I shall not be able to go in the seniors 
with you. But we must keep our friendship, 
whatever betides; ” and her face was radiant 
with the purpose. 
“ You don’t look as if you had been ill,” 
said Helen in joyous surprise. 
“ It’s mostly a case of what might have 
been, but didn't come to pass. To tell the 
truth, I wasn’t real well when I went away. 
I studied hard to make up for the time spent 
in pleasure. I had some cold and a fever 
that the doctor was afraid would be typhoid. 
They were nearly scared to death, and father 
was about to send a long list of inquiries here 
about all the sanitary conditions. Then the 
fever let up. I was on the highroad to return 
when pneumonia set in, and there was an- 
other scare. I did have quite a dreadful 
cough, and stitches all over me when I 
breathed. Then the stitches dropped out, and 
the cough wore away, and father trotted me 
off to Florida, where I had the loveliest time, 
and I’m well and sound, ready for larks and 
study. That is all of this strange moving 
history.” 
Helen laughed at the gaiety. It was in- 
fectious. 
“ And you’ve been having a sorrowful time. 
Here is a queer little bit. There was a 
mother and daughter at our hotel who had 
been spending a month at Bermuda and knew 
your friends quite well. They admired Mrs. 
Bell very, very much. They thought Mr. 
Duer splendid, but rather gay, quite devoted 
to the pleasure of ladies, only he liked a 
crowd of them. There was not any talk about 
him ; ” and she flushed warmly, “ that is, I 
mean scandal. And he was sweet to his wife, 
only she was ill and fretful. They thought 
she had been very pretty. There was always 
a little court about her, for she had the most 
elegant clothes and jewels. It must have been 
awfully hard for her to die ! I suppose she 
was charming when she was well. I've quite 
resolved if I am ever ill a long while to be 
just as lovely as possible, like some of these 
‘ shut-ins ' you read about and every one ad- 
mires. Oh ! are you not glad to come back ? 
I'm afraid college does spoil girls a little bit ” 
— archly. “ There are so many of us here, 
and we have such good times, that it seems 
lonesome at home.” 
There was a rush of steps and taps on the 
door, which was pushed wider open, as a bevy 
of girls entered. 
“ The light of the recitation rooms has 
flickered sadly,” declared one. 
“ We, who salute you, are glad to get you 
back in time for the meets and the contests of 
all sorts. You’re entered for the basket-ball, 
and remember that midge of a Betty Gamier 
will be your dearest foe — sworn rival, in 
plain English.” 
“ And we’ve put you up for one of the 
dashes. Could you run the two-hundred 
heat ? ” 
“ And you juniors are to give us a rousing 
reception, you know. I hope you will leave 
some of the fruit of the tree of knowledge 
behind tucked away in crannies and corners, 
provided you haven’t squeezed it too dry. Is 
it most like apples or oranges?” 
” O dear! " Helen dropped down on a seat. 
“ You are a merry lot! And there are the 
exams ! ” 
“ I have heard it was a good plan not to 
cross bridges until you come to them,” said 
another sententiously. “ I think that wisdom 
dates back to the Ark.” 
“ It has the flavor of antiquity.” 
“ It is only those things that have survived 
the wrack of years that have any value.” 
“ There was once an explorer who un- 
earthed a toad that had been buried a thou- 
sand or so years. He was alive. He was 
only a toad after all.” 
“ An antique, certainly.” 
“ Girls, will you allow me to unpack my 
luggage, and turn my attention to some of the 
great questions of life?" Helen asked laugh- 
ingly. 
“ Come in to my tea after chapel. I have 
some problems that will make your hair stand 
on end and are warranted to turn it white in 
a single night." 
“ No temptation. Make it a pale gold and 
naturally wavy." 
But they tramped down the corridor still 
laughing and bursting into snatches of 
song. 
“ I must see Miss Morse and Miss Van 
Meter," Helen began, “ and learn how far I 
have fallen behind." 
“ Oh, Helen — if you only could — " 
A beseeching smile irradiated the sweet 
face, and the wish spoke in the eyes. 
“ And disappoint Professor Blake when he 
has been so good to me! Pm almost sorry I 
hurried up so. But there could be a post- 
graduate course." 
Helen began to busy herself with putting 
the contents of her suit-case in their places. 
She took out her box of gifts tenderly and 
laid it in her trunk; she could not go over 
them now, and she wondered if she would 
ever want to wear them. 
Then Miss Brooks came in with her wel- 
come, which was most cordial. Helen found 
she had not fallen much behind. Everybody 
seemed very generously inclined. There was 
dinner and chapel, then she went in to the As- 
sociation meeting, and heard the last month’s 
reports, the discussions upon the different 
branches of charitable work they had taken 
up, and which would make the most satisfac- 
tory showing at the close of the year. 
“ I think it ought to be which has done 
the most real good. There is the little girl 
in the Mission school at Beirut. The sub- 
scriptions have fallen off this year. It was a 
junior undertaking, but you can’t really pledge 
yourself for new girls,” and the speaker 
glanced around. 
“ The George, Jr. Republic is my pet. I’ve 
joined with several friends, and two or three 
clubs in my town are caring for a street arab 
who is turning out very well. Of course, they 
ask their friends for contributions.” 
“ There ought to be Lent at least three 
 
times a year, when we should get into the 
mood of making sacrifices, giving up — ” 
“ Fudge and caramels and buttercups and 
jelly rolls and candied fruit and — ” 
“ And running into Bedford for a blowout, 
just as if we didn’t have enough to eat here.” 
“ Are we really learning to fill broader and 
finer places in the world?” said another girl 
seriously. 
“ We are supposed to be fitting ourselves 
for it, for helping to uplift a little. Yet we 
seem to think a great deal about ourselves, 
and our pleasures, and that is not the training 
for a really useful life.” 
“ I wonder how it would be if we took up 
one idea and worked resolutely upon it. 
Some one once said that if every person in 
the world set out to make another happy, the 
world would be transferred into a Para- 
dise.” 
“ False reasoning, though it has the ring 
of philanthropy. Everybody can't. There 
would be no one left to accept your good 
deeds.” 
“ Then the millennium would come in 
earnest. We do not try very hard. I think 
that about taking up the duty nearest is a 
good idea. Things do sometimes come right 
in your way. They are unpleasant, or what 
we call commonplace, SO' we shirk them and 
go off to a more attractive work, and maybe 
there is no real virtue in it. We ought to 
weigh matters more accurately. That is what 
a college training is for.” 
There was a diversity of views and it was 
a good thing to interchange them. Lorraine 
and Helen walked to the Hall together and 
declined the tea invitation. 
“ You look tired,” Lorraine began. “ And 
I promised father I would go to bed at ten. 
I’m beginning to find how much tenderness 
there is in a father's love. I always thought 
that quality belonged almost exclusively to 
mothers. We are not living up to what is 
best in us, unless you do, Helen.’’ 
“No, I do not,” and Helen flushed. “ I 
promised to look over those problems, and I 
dare say the poor girls are hammering their 
brains without making a single spark of light 
fly. I’m all wrought up on the subject of 
 
duties, so I had better go if I want to sleep 
the sleep of the just. Good night, dear.” 
“ Helen, kiss me. Could I ever be to you 
what that poor, pretty Daisy was ? For — I 
love you very much.” 
“ I think in many respects you could be 
more. I am very glad to have your love.” 
“ Thank you.” 
The problems were pretty tough, but Helen 
cheered the discouraged girls with her energy 
and brightness. Then she was so tired that 
she resolutely shut out all other thoughts and 
was soon asleep. 
There followed very busy days ; and such 
glorious afternoons that one positively could 
not stay in, even if a text-book had to be 
taken for a mentor. The basket-ball courts 
were thronged with girls practising; others 
were flying over hurdles. There was field- 
day, the grand out-of-doors concert, and all 
the other events that preceded commence- 
ment. 
Helen had letters from both Mr. and Mrs. 
Bell, which were tenderly sweet. Mrs. Bell 
had gone to Marjorie’s, and was pleased be- 
yond measure with the new home, the pretty, 
refined, old town, and the church. She was 
getting much rested, but the spring days and 
the warm weather gave Mr. Bell a degree of 
lassitude that made them all very anxious. 
They were both counting on her vacation and 
the pleasant summer they would have. She 
must let nothing interfere. She kept Willard's 
letter two days before she opened it. Up to 
this time she had resolutely put out of her 
mind the more serious aspect of the case, but 
now she was compelled to face it. It was not 
the boyish entreaty of a year agone, but a 
calm adjustment, a love-letter with the prom- 
ise of patient waiting, a restful assurance that 
all would go well. He was going to make 
his life and his position worthy of her. There 
were some rhapsodies, to be sure, but he 
would not have been a lover if he had not 
indulged in them. 
Oh, what had she said? What had she 
promised ? The remembrance of that night 
was confusing. She had asked him to wait, 
and he was waiting in a manly fashion. The 
letter was eloquent with a certain tender as- 
 
surance that somehow exercised an influence 
over her that she could not explain to herself. 
She was not ready for such fevers ; she wanted 
girlhood years longer. Was her nature ab- 
normal? Did study leave little play for 
natural feelings? Other girls discussed lovers, 
sighed for them. Miss Bradshaw’s counsel 
haunted her; it was applied to another, to be 
sure, but she could take it to herself. 
How the days ran on with their striving 
and heartburning! She was not trying for 
any superior standing. There were two girls 
in the class who were doing fine work, and she 
would not rival them, even if she could. 
Miss Chardavoyne had sent her a dainty 
packet of poems, exquisite little love poems, 
intended for no eye save her own. It did 
interest Helen as a kind of psychological prob- 
lem. If she had been aggressive, Helen could 
have snubbed her for a foolishly romantic girl. 
Even if she had treated her to expressions of 
devotion, with upraised eyes, singled her out, 
waylaid her, clasped her hand on every occa- 
sion — she had seen these pronounced endear- 
ments among girls and rather despised them 
in what she considered her maturity of wis- 
dom — she could have done so. But Shirley 
Chardavoyne held herself a little aloof, was 
pleasant and sociable with other girls, but not 
effusive. The chief of the Miscellany staff 
declared she could not make her out. 
“ You don’t suppose that dainty little thing 
was a sort of plagiarism that she had labored 
over until she really believed it her own?” 
she said to Helen. “ Miss Brooks is so full of 
graduation papers she can't pay attention 
to a poor little freshman, and I can’t make 
anything out of her. I wanted her to send in 
a poem for our last number, just two verses, 
and she said she had been so full of the prose 
of study she couldn’t think of poetry. I never 
saw a rhymester with such a small modicum 
of vanity.” 
And Helen had just the needed poem lying 
in her desk! 
“ She is a queer sort of child and follows 
out the whim that seems to cross her mind. 
I haven’t had time to study her myself.” 
“ This is my last opportunity, you know,” 
she said, smiling and nodding as if approving 
 
herself. “ I’ve discovered three poets in my 
stay here, and this obdurate little thing might 
have been the fourth.” 
Helen sought Shirley out. “ No, not one 
of the poems shall be sown broadcast. They 
are for your eyes alone.” 
“You will come back next year?” and 
Helen’s voice had a pleading touch in it as she 
smiled into the soft, adoring eyes. 
“ I’m quite sure I'll be allowed to. I’ve 
studied and had some tutoring, and Miss 
Grayson was positive my standing would 
allow that. It would be just awful to be 
dropped. As I said at first, I never expect to 
achieve the seniors. But since you will be here 
next year, I want to come also.” 
“ And I will try to do better for you. I do 
like you very much. I should be sorry to 
stop here. It would be an unfinished poem,” 
and there was a kind of caressing cadence in 
her voice that warmed the young heart. 
“Oh, I am so glad! For when anything 
is finished it must stop.” 
“ But if it comes to full fruition, it may 
bring happiness to both.” 
Shirley seized her hand suddenly and kissed 
it with rapture. Helen pressed her lips to the 
fair forehead. 
Miss Brooks was one of the honor girls, 
and had an essay on the uses of education. 
She was very much engrossed, but she con- 
fided to Helen that she had determined to 
return for another year. She could not resolve 
to bid dear Alma Mater a final good-by. 
“ There are some higher branches I am 
much interested in, and I want to see how you 
and Lorraine prosper, as well as that queer 
little Chardavoyne girl. And now that I’ve 
nothing on my mind — ” she gave a half- 
sigh and ended abruptly, but Helen knew to 
what it referred. 
“ I’m disappointed in you, though. I thought 
you’d try for something,” Leslie said after a 
pause. 
“ I thought I would just keep within the 
ranks this year. I’ve been learning a good 
many things,” and a grave sort of sweetness 
shone in her eyes. 
“ You are not discouraged about anything. 
Your standing is excellent — I’ve learned 
 
that,” with a gleam of pleasure lighting her 
face. “ But I did hope you would take up 
that Shakespeare essay.” 
“ Katherine Bright has been working at it 
with every energy she possesses. And when 
a girl is in such dead earnest, gives up all 
pleasures, it must be a great disappointment. 
I hope she gets the prize.” 
“ I’ve felt better since yesterday, when Pro- 
fessor Blake spoke of you.” 
“Oh! has he been disappointed?” and 
Helen’s heart beat almost audibly. 
“ Miss Van Meter was speaking of you, 
and he said, ‘ I think Miss Grant has acted 
wisely in keeping up to a high standard and 
not striving for anything beyond. She has 
made an excellent record this year.' So I sup- 
pose you think that praise enough.” 
“ I am satisfied with it,” and a glow of 
pleasure stole over her face, irradiating it. 
She was happy, too, when Miss Bright was 
declared winner of the prize. 
But the juniors were defeated at basket-ball, 
and great was the rejoicing thereat. Still, 
they won at the tennis tournament, and in 
several of the field-day sports. Helen was fol- 
lowed by a very close second this year, but she 
triumphed amid the plaudits of the class and 
the spectators. 
She grew quite nervous over commence- 
ment. Willard would come, of course. A 
letter from Miss Craven announced her defec- 
tion. She had been called suddenly to Aldred 
House by the illness of Elma Gartney, and 
just at this crisis it was much better to bring 
her home at once. The fever had taken a turn 
for the worse, and it would be quite impossible 
to leave her. The house was large, she had 
secured an excellent nurse, and this would not 
interfere with Helen's visit. 
“ It has been so long since I have seen you, 
and your letters have been so brief,” she 
wrote, “ that I feel we have a long arrears to 
make up. I am so thankful the sorrow and 
the break have not interfered with your ad- 
vancement.” 
Then Helen felt she had to face the issue 
alone. Willard would come and he would 
make a point of his devotion. She would not 
admit to herself that she was engaged — a 
 
dozen things might happen the next year — 
but she was perilously near it. She hated to 
have the girls suspect and make mysterious 
signals to each other. She ought to tell Miss 
Brooks, since their relations had been so con- 
fidential, and yet, what was there for a real 
confidence? The girls who had lovers were 
so proud and happy, and she was neither, 
though Willard was a young man to be proud 
of. He was making himself very useful to his 
firm ; he was Mr. Loring's right-hand man, 
now that the senior was having considerable 
trouble with his eyes. He might some day be 
offered the junior partnership; that was what 
he was working for, and they all loved her. 
Oh, how could she have drifted into this 
entanglement with herself! Was she unrea- 
sonable, was her nature cold and self-centred? 
Ah, she had always loved her friends dearly, 
warmly. Now she could take Willard to her 
heart as a brother, confide in him, go to him 
frankly in any emergency. Perhaps she was 
formed only for friendship. In a discussion 
that she could recall, there was pointed out a 
one-sided view of college life; the abnormal 
devotion of women to their own sex that re- 
sulted in a kind of confused attitude as to fine 
differences between love and friendship. Was 
a woman of many friendships capable of one 
strong, ardent affection for a person of the 
opposite sex, such as must constitute a well- 
ordered marriage? The arguments had run 
high and been really forcible. Miss Brooks 
never talked of lovers; Lorraine was too 
young. Oh, there was Grace Trevor! Love 
illumined her days, her work, her life. She 
was only an every-day girl; so much educa- 
tion might interfere. 
Llelen leaned down her head and cried. 
CHAPTER X 
UNKNOWN QUANTITIES 
Everything was extravagantly gay. Girls 
in light, airy gowns flitted hither and thither 
with radiant faces and hearts like thistledown. 
They had been successful, and were to be 
moved up to serener heights. Miss Bessie 
Cochran had squeezed through and was 
wildly elated. She had been promised a ten- 
weeks’ trip to Europe, and one would have 
thought she had stepped into the senior row. 
Betty Gamier admitted the “ squeeze.” 
“ There's been so much fun,” she confessed 
in her eager, riotous manner. “ I wouldn’t 
have missed college for anything. I just wor- 
ship the gym and all the out-of-door sports. 
I’m not afraid of being mannish, and one 
needn’t grow coarse. I mean to devote my- 
self more to intellectual pursuits next year, 
and all the deeper joys of math, and lab. and 
trig., and isn't there theory of equation and 
complex variables and sociology and psychol- 
ogy — why there is enough to keep me here 
ten years at least,” and her joyous laugh was 
infectious. 
Some who had not passed took it harder. 
There were grave faces and heavy hearts, 
while a few were loud in condemnation of 
different systems and favoritism. 
As a general thing they soon grew hilarious, 
went about singing class songs, whistled, ran 
races for fun, practised the college yell until 
the woods echoed it round. They buried some 
records, burned others, chanted mournful 
dirges. Examinations were at an end and 
there was a week given over to pleasure. 
Friends and relatives began to pour in, and 
girls ran about to find lodgings for them. 
The seniors were a little graver ; there were 
many partings for them. A few were to re- 
main for some advanced courses. There were 
plans and discussions; here were welcomes to 
those who were to take their places; there 
was the grand out-of-doors concert, the last 
play these seniors would give, and then the 
 
days, the addresses, the sermon, the grand 
crown of all, commencement. 
Helen fingered her letter with a heavy 
heart, upbraiding herself the while. She could 
not lay it by, but she knew what must be in it. 
She cut the end open and slipped the note out. 
It was written on business paper; Willard 
had never used it before and it roused a kind 
of resentment. As she cast her eyes over it 
her sober face changed to one of more satis- 
faction. 
“ I am a mean, ungrateful girl ! ” she said 
to herself, and for an instant she felt as if she 
could join a group of flagellants, so disgusted 
was she with the feeling of relief. 
Willard would not come, and he was deeply 
disappointed. An hour before, word had 
reached the firm that Mr. Loring was needed 
urgently in St. Louis on a great railroad case. 
They were to take the evening train, and he 
had only time for this brief note. 
“It isn't quite as if you were graduating; 
then I should throw up everything and come. 
I shall look out for that beforehand, and I 
shall look to find you in the dear old home 
where I first saw the little girl who captured 
all our hearts.” 
Yes, it was a reprieve. No questions to 
answer, no explanations to make, no protests 
against a hasty decision. Yet, she tried to 
keep the lightness out of her heart, but it rose 
up like a bird suddenly set free. She took 
up her moral philosophy to steady it. She 
tried to see Willard speeding through the night 
and darkness farther and farther away, hurt 
and sore because he was deprived of the pleas- 
ure he had been counting on. Then she rose 
and went down-stairs and joined the girls in 
their merriment. They had respected her sor- 
row for the loss of her dear school friend, and 
she could not confess that it was not all sor- 
row. Still, she disliked make-believes, the 
shuffling along on what seemed the very out- 
side rim of truth. 
“You’ve had good news, haven’t you?” 
cried Lorraine, slipping her arm over Helen’s 
shoulder. “Who is coming? You look as if 
a great anxiety had been lifted.” 
Did she show things so plainly? 
“ There, you needn’t gloom over so quickly. 
I know something has been troubling you, and 
if a friend can’t help she has no right to add 
curiosity to the burden. Don’t you suppose 
I know there are things girls can't tell each 
other because they belong to a third person’s 
confidence? They never trouble me.” 
“ You are a sweet and dear friend. Yes, 
I have had a cause for anxiety, but it is over 
for the present.” 
“ Then come down and help decorate for 
the concert. Oh, I forget — you are in the 
singing! ” 
“ Only in the choruses. There were two 
fine contralto soloists, and I had too much 
other work to do.” 
The seats had been arranged in tiers for 
the audience, the posts had been decorated 
with flags and college colors, the background 
of the stage was a mass of greenery and 
branches of bloom. Girls were putting in 
effective flowers, rich-tinted peonies, pendant 
pink acacias, and yellow laburnum. Helen 
joined eagerly, then she was called to the last 
practice. 
Just at dusk they hung the colored lanterns, 
reserving the white for the edge of the stage. 
It was a veritable fairy-land. Spectators gath- 
ered early and rambled around full of praise 
for the admirable effects. 
Then the singers stole in behind the green- 
ery as noiselessly as if they had been fairies 
dropping into seats, their soft, white gowns 
flowing around them like waves. The con- 
ductor, with her baton, arose. The audience 
studied programmes. There were some grand 
choruses, a Latin hymn from “ Stabat Mater, ’’ 
a soft Sicilian melody, duets and trios, with 
violin and harp accompaniment, and two 
beautiful songs, compositions of the seniors, 
one entitled “ At Dusk,’ the refrain of which 
was full of exquisite melody. There were to 
be no encores, but at the last some special re- 
quests were heeded, and the “ Good Night,’ 
sung over again. 
“ It certainly is the finest concert we have 
had yet! ” declared Miss Van Meter. “ There 
never has been such an excellent musical body 
as this year’s seniors, and I tremble for a 
decadence next year.” 
“ We must endeavor to keep them up to the 
mark. I hope we shall hear a good account 
of our best singers. Miss Van Blascom has 
a fine offer to go abroad as an understudy to 
quite a noted singer, who is to train her. That 
‘ At Dusk ’ was an exquisite little thing. Miss 
