man fly into a towering passion with the cook and then immediately
devour the very dish he has found fault with, to the last scraping. As
for the passion of love, a French proverb says well that happiness makes
an empty stomach. I can only hope, my lord, that in a week's time you
may enjoy your supper as much, with satisfaction for a relish instead of
annoyance. As for me, the mere thought of doing some good in the world
makes me hungry.'

And as he spoke he began to eat another quail which he had already taken
on his plate. But Gambardella was more and more bored, and went to the
point, as soon as the Senator looked up from his plate.

'We understand,' he said, 'that some low-born fellow has carried off a
lady of your lordship's household. Do you know where they are?'

'No. I know nothing, except that they have either left Venice already or
will escape before morning.'

'That means a wide search,' said Gambardella.

'But an easy one,' the Senator replied. 'The man is Alessandro
Stradella, the singer, and may the devil get him!'

'He will be safer in our hands, my lord. The lady's name, and some
description of her, if you please.'

'Ortensia is her name. She is only seventeen years old, but is very
beautiful, for she is fair, and her hair is of a true auburn colour,
such as the lamented Titian often painted. Indeed, the young lady much
resembles that master's "Bella," though younger and thinner. With her is
fled also her nurse, a woman called Filippina, of middle age, with grey
eyes and greyish hair, once not bad-looking, and whose manners are above
her station.'

'I suppose she is commonly called Pina,' observed Gambardella. 'Let us
understand each other, my lord. I presume you wish the young lady and
the woman to be brought back to you, when the singer is dead.'

'Precisely. I shall say that she has been spending a week with a
relation of her mother's who is the Abbess of the Ursuline Nuns in
Ravenna.'

'Did you say the Ursulines in Ravenna, my lord?' asked Gambardella
slowly.

'Yes,' answered Pignaver, at first a little surprised by the question,
for he had spoken clearly, although the whole conversation was carried
on in low tones. The Bravo saw his expression, and hastened to explain.

'My left ear is a little deaf,' he said, turning his head so as to
present the other. 'Nothing remains but to agree on the price of the
service,' he continued in a business-like tone. 'When we are told
exactly where we shall find our man, it is simple enough. But in this
case we may have to travel far. We shall require two gold ducats daily
for our expenses till we find the opportunity we need for such a
difficult business, and five hundred gold ducats when we hand over to
you the young lady and her nurse. One hundred gold ducats must be
advanced before we start, on account of expenses.'

Pignaver's sour face twitched at the mention of such sums.

'You set a high price on your services, gentlemen,' he said.

'"Service" is not precisely the word, my lord,' said Trombin, desisting
from picking the leg of a quail, and staring intently at the masked
Senator. 'It is, as I may say, a false metaphor, which is an outrage
upon elegant speech--forgive me for borrowing your own expressions!'

And suddenly Trombin's eyes glared in such a way that the Senator was
cowed.

'I assure you, I had no intention of giving you offence, Count,' he
said. 'If you will, choose the word you prefer; I will use it with
pleasure.'

'"Benefit," my lord, or, if you prefer the longer form, "benefaction."
Either will do very well.'

Trombin thereupon resumed operations on the leg of the quail, and when
his absurd little mouth showed his teeth the Senator observed they were
as white and sharp as a cat's. It was clear that he was the talker in
the partnership, and left all business arrangements to his companion.

'I have named the sum we require, my lord,' the latter said calmly, 'and
we are not accustomed to argue such matters. You would give ten times as
much for your own life any day, and Alessandro Stradella would certainly
find a thousand or two to save his, if the matter were laid before him.'

Pignaver saw that he must agree to the demand, for if he refused and
sought help elsewhere the Bravi would warn the musician and offer the
latter their protection. The Senator was uncomfortable in their company,
as many of his friends would have been; for if a born coward ever comes
into contact with such men, he regards them much as a timid woman looks
on a loaded gun. Though the two cut-throats behaved with the outward
courtesy of gentlemen, there was something terrifying in their looks
which it would have been hard to define, and the highly refined Venetian
noble, who admired the elegant works of Politian and composed scores of
polished inanities, shuddered from time to time as he glanced at
Gambardella's sinewy brown hand or Trombin's strong pink fingers and
thought of the stains that must often have been on both.

A silence followed the Bravo's last speech, during which Trombin
consumed more pilaf, and his companion thoughtfully salted a small bit
of bread-crust, ate it slowly, and then sipped the old Samian wine from
the blue and white glass beaker which he kept constantly quite full. And
immediately, though he had only drunk a few drops, he re-filled the
glass exactly to the brim. Trombin drank at much longer intervals, but
always emptied his tumbler before replenishing it. Nor were these
opposite habits of the two men mere matters of preference or taste; for
the nose of the one turned up in such a convenient manner that he could
drain the smallest glass or cup with ease, but the other's portentous
beak turned down and then hooked itself in towards his lips, so that
wherever his mouth went, there it was also, always in the way; and if he
ever tried to drink like ordinary people, its tip was wetted before he
had tasted the wine.

The Senator was reflecting before giving an answer which must be final.
Was Ortensia worth the six or seven hundred ducats which the whole
affair would cost him? That was really the question, for he looked upon
the murder of Stradella merely as a necessary and just consequence of
his niece's capture, and though the thought of vengeance was agreeable
to his nature, he would not have been willing to pay such a price for
it. Ortensia herself was certainly not worth so much, in his estimation,
for the sake of her beauty, seeing that he could buy a Georgian girl
almost or quite as pretty, in the Fondaco dei Turchi, for much less.
Besides, though Stradella would be dead and buried, it would always be
humiliating to feel that she had belonged to him first, though the truth
need never be known in Venice.

But there was another consideration, which turned the scale in her
favour. Pignaver had heard her sing his own compositions, after having
been taught by Stradella, and he had dreamed of electrifying Venetian
society at last by her rendering of his immortal works. Hitherto, even
his most industrious flatterers had not given him the very first place
among living poets and musicians; but he was sure that when they heard
Ortensia they would exalt him above all his predecessors and all his
contemporaries; at last he would enjoy that absolute supremacy which is
the prime birthright of genius in all ages, and to which he firmly
believed himself entitled. Ortensia alone could assure to him that final
victory, and beside it all objections, all scruples, all petty questions
of technical honour sank away to nothing. He must marry her himself, of
course, so that he might order her to perform his works whenever he
pleased, and she must be a married woman before propriety would allow
her to sing to his assembled friends; but marriage was a detail and of
no consequence compared with the triumph he expected to gain by it; the
girl's flight with the musician was a childish escapade of little
importance, since it could be kept quite secret, and she might be
supposed to have been spending a few days in a convent in Ravenna to
complete her education. As for any resistance on her part, it was
absurd to think of such a thing; no doubt she would cry her eyes out for
a few weeks, after Stradella was despatched to a better world, but she
would soon see the error of her ways and be only too glad to accept the
magnificent position the Senator offered her, instead of being murdered
herself, or forced to spend her life in a convent.

The two Bravi did not hurry their new acquaintance to a decision, though
Gambardella had flatly declined to discuss the terms of the bargain;
they only made it clear that their offer must be accepted or declined as
it was, and they seemed quite indifferent as to Pignaver's decision.
Trombin continued to eat pilaf in a leisurely way, as if he could go on
for ever, and Gambardella sipped his wine, filled his glass again, and
ate several little morsels of salted crust, while the Senator turned the
matter over in his mind and plied his knife and fork in silence.

'The truth is,' he said at last, 'I should not wish you to start till
the city has been thoroughly searched by the police. As you wisely
observed, I think, a man of Stradella's reputation cannot remain long
concealed, and will be more easily found next week than to-morrow.'

'I believe,' answered Gambardella politely, 'that the remark was yours,
and it is a wise one. Are we then to understand that if the Signors of
the Night do not find the pair, you desire our help on the terms I have
stated?'

'Exactly so,' said Pignaver. 'That will give you time to make your
preparations for the journey at your leisure. Where shall I find you
three days hence, gentlemen?'

'At Benediction in the Church of the Frari, my lord, for the day will be
a Sunday. If you desire it, we will call for paper and pen and set down
the terms of our agreement at once.'

'That will not be necessary, sir,' replied the Senator, who did not care
to put his name to such a document. 'I have confidence in you.'

Trombin at once raised his head and fastened his eyes on Pignaver.

'As between gentlemen, my lord,' he observed, 'it would be more fitting
to say that we have confidence in each other. With your permission I
shall complete your statement by saying that we are willing to trust you
without any written promise. We will leave such sordid dealings to the
lawyers and notaries. You give your word, we give ours, and the matter
is safer for accomplishment than if a contract were engrossed on a dozen
sheepskins and sealed with the Fisherman's Ring!'

'Certainly, certainly,' assented the Senator, who did not like the
Bravo's eyes. 'You have my word, I have yours, and that is enough.'

'My lord,' said Trombin, his manner suddenly becoming extremely affable,
'I have the honour to drink your health!'

'Your health, Count,' responded Pignaver, raising his glass.

'Your health,' said Gambardella, bowing politely, and then sipping his
wine with all the caution required to keep his long nose out of it.

Having settled matters in this way and, moreover, satisfied his appetite
with a good supper, Pignaver took leave of the Bravi with considerable
ceremony, for he perceived that they were as exigent and punctilious as
to all points of courtesy as any noble in Italy, France, or Spain; and
it would not be good to fall out with such touchy gentlemen on a point
of manners. Indeed, as he retraced his steps to the office of the
Signors of the Night, where his gondola was waiting, he really
congratulated himself on having escaped without a quarrel, and hoped
that the next interview would pass off as well.

The three days went by, and at noon on Sunday he received a note from
the Signor of the Night informing him that the runaway pair and the
serving-woman had been in Padua early on the morning after they left
Venice, and had immediately taken an extra post to Rovigo and Ferrara.
They had excited no suspicion, and the spy who had brought the news had
not obtained the information without considerable difficulty, for many
travellers were going and coming, and in a time of peace like the
present more attention was bestowed by the authorities on foreign
travellers than on Italians. But Stradella had brought some of his
belongings with him, which his man had carefully concealed in the
gondola, and amongst other things there was his favourite long lute; the
instrument had been noticed by the ostlers at the postern-house in Padua
on account of its unusual size, and they remembered the four travellers
after hearing the spy's description of three of them, for he knew
nothing of Stradella's servant.

There was therefore no doubt but that the fugitives were now far beyond
the Venetian border in the States of the Church, and Pignaver resolved
to keep the appointment at the Frari, taking with him the hundred gold
ducats which were to be paid in advance.

The Bravi were already there indeed, but he did not see them at once,
and as Vespers were over and the Benediction was about to begin, he
selected a spot a little apart from the common herd and knelt down to
his devotions, for it was of no use to waste time that could be so
profitably employed.

But while he was thus engaged, it being already sunset and the light in
the church failing, the men he sought were earnestly conversing in low
tones with a young Dominican monk in a distant corner; and the monk, it
is needless to say, was the lady whose ring they had taken, and who had
knocked so long in vain at Stradella's door three days earlier.

'Madam,' Gambardella was saying, 'the search may be a long one, but we
will do our best. We shall require two gold ducats daily for our
expenses in travelling, and the payment of five hundred gold ducats in
cash when we deliver to you Master Alessandro Stradella, bound hand and
foot, at your villa on the Brenta.'

'But the woman must die!' protested the lady earnestly.

'That goes without saying, madam,' answered Gambardella. 'You may
regard her as already dead and buried, for you have our word for it.
Nothing remains but that you should place in our hands a hundred gold
ducats on account, which we shall require in order to start.'

The lady was evidently prepared for such a demand, and produced a small
leathern bag from within her monk's frock. But she was evidently a woman
of business.

'Since we are now friends,' she said, putting the bag into Gambardella's
hand, 'you ought to give me back my ring when the thing is done!'

'Madam,' said Trombin, in his grand manner, 'you have our word for that.
In fact, we only meant to borrow it for a day or two, and for your great
kindness in allowing us to do so we have the honour to tender you our
sincerest thanks.'

'It is impossible to be more polite, sir,' answered the lady.

So they parted, for she slipped away into the dusk and soon left the
church by a side door. But Trombin and his companion went forward, and
finding the Senator on his knees, they knelt down, one on each side of
him. He glanced to the right and left, and was surprised at the
improvement in their appearance since he had seen them at supper. They
had been distinctly shabby then, and he would not have liked to be seen
in their company by his friends; but to-day they were dressed with
excellent taste and neatness, in perfectly new clothes. Gambardella wore
a suit of dark purple cloth slashed with velvet of the same colour; but
Trombin wore black velvet and silk, which he considered most becoming to
his infantile complexion and yellow hair. Both had new hats, too, and
their feathers, purple and black respectively, were nothing short of
magnificent. Only their rapiers were unchanged, the same serviceable,
business-like weapons that Pignaver had seen before.

The three men knelt side by side, putting on an air of devotion; and no
one else was very near them.

'Tantum ergo ...' began the choir, somewhere out of sight.

'I presume you mean business, my lord,' said Gambardella so that the
Senator could just hear him.

'They passed through Padua, and took post to Rovigo and Ferrara,'
answered Pignaver. 'You cannot miss them if you go that way.'

'A very convenient place, Ferrara, if they would wait for us there,'
observed Trombin.

'... veneremur cernui,' the choir sang, and many of the people were
joining in the ancient hymn.

'When can you start?' inquired Pignaver.

'As soon as we have funds for the journey,' answered Gambardella
promptly.

'You said one hundred ducats, did you not? Your expenses are to be
counted at two ducats per day, and as much of the first hundred as is
left when you have finished is to be deducted from the final payment of
five hundred. Is that it?'

'Precisely,' said Gambardella.

'It is impossible to be more accurate,' observed Trombin, without
turning his head, and preserving the expression of a devout, fat-cheeked
seraph, which he always put on when at his prayers.

'I have the money with me, gentlemen,' continued Pignaver. 'As soon as
the Benediction is over I will hand it to you, and I hope you will find
it convenient to start at once.'

'We are ready,' Gambardella replied. 'To-morrow night we shall be in
Ferrara, and if your friends are still there, we may be here again on
the third day.'

'Heaven grant us all its favours and a speedy return!' prayed Trombin.

'Amen,' said the Senator, calculating that if only three days were
consumed, the Bravi would have ninety-four ducats in hand, and he would
have to pay them only four hundred and six.

In his pocket his hand grasped the heavy little bag containing the gold,
and he wished that private vengeance and justice were not so dear; but
he was not a miser, though he had a real Venetian's understanding of the
value of money, and did not like to part with it till he was sure that
he was to receive a full equivalent. For the rest, what he was doing was
perfectly justifiable in his eyes: if the couple had been caught within
the territory of the Republic, Alessandro Stradella would have had to
answer to the law for the atrocious crime of carrying off a Senator's
niece and affianced bride who was a minor, and the law would not have
been tender to the Sicilian; the least penalty he would have suffered
would have been to be chained to an oar on a government galley, and it
was quite possible that he might have been hanged. Most people would
prefer to be run through with a rapier, and it was therefore clear that
Stradella ought to be satisfied. As for such weakness as a qualm of
conscience, Pignaver was as far above such childishness as the Bravi
themselves.

He gave them the little bag of ducats and took leave of them by the
monument of Pietro Bernardini, almost on the spot where Ortensia and
Pina had put on their brown cloaks three or four days earlier.

When he was gone, Trombin and Gambardella looked at each other in
silence; the dark man's thin lips, visible on each side of the point of
his nose, but quite shaded by it in the middle, were smiling faintly,
but Trombin's cherubic countenance expressed, or caricatured, the utter
beatitude of one of those painted angels to which his friend always
compared him.

They walked slowly up the church towards the sacristy, and at the door
they met the sacristan, a lay brother, coming out with his long
extinguisher in his hand. They stopped him politely.

'We desire to offer two candles to Saint Francis,' said Gambardella,
'one for each of us. We also desire to leave a gold ducat for masses to
be said for the soul of a departed friend.'

'I will serve you at once, gentlemen,' answered the sacristan. 'What was
your friend's baptismal name, if you please, that I may write it on the
list?'

'Alessandro,' answered Gambardella.

'Do you wish to mention the date of his death, sir?'

'No. It is of no use.'

The lay brother took the money and went into the sacristy to deposit it,
and to fetch the candles, which the Bravi then lighted and put up
themselves.




CHAPTER VII


Trombin had rightly guessed that the fugitives would rest themselves in
Ferrara, where they would be safe within the Pope's dominions, and
beyond the reach of Venetian law. By the old road the city was nearly a
hundred miles from Padua, and it was only by a lavish use of money that
Stradella succeeded in reaching it at midnight, after leaving Padua soon
after sunrise. Ortensia was utterly exhausted, and even Pina, who was
very strong, was beginning to be worn out. They had trouble in getting
into the inn at that hour, and when they at last succeeded, they found
that there was only one room to be had, although, as the sleepy servant
who had let them in added, they might have the whole house to themselves
the next day, for all the travellers would be gone again long before
noon.

Pina slept with her mistress, while Stradella and his man rolled
themselves in their cloaks and lay down outside the door, with valises
for pillows; for they expected to be pursued, and though they had made
good time, they knew that mounted men, with frequent relays of horses,
might overtake them before morning. It was not Stradella's first
adventure, though it was his last, and he fully realised that Pignaver
would use every means to wreak his vengeance. It could not have occurred
to the runaways that three days would be wasted in searching Venice
before the pursuit actually began.

Even that knowledge could not have made Alessandro sleep more soundly,
since the fear of danger to Ortensia could not keep him awake, and he
slept as peacefully on the stone pavement of the corridor as ever he did
in the most luxurious bed.

But his man was awake and was watching for all the four, though he lay
quite still, rolled up in his brown cloak. For Cucurullo was one of
those people who sleep little at the best of times, and generally have
to content themselves with resting their bodies by lying motionless,
while they deaden thought as best they can with those melancholy devices
that are familiar to the sleepless.

The hunchback rested now, but was glad to lie awake, though he was well
aware that he deserved no especial credit for watching while his young
master slept soundly by his side. But he did not try to cheat time by
fancying that he was counting a flock of sheep that crowded through a
narrow gate into a field, or by saying the alphabet backwards, or by
repeating all the prayers he knew, which were many, for he was a
religiously inclined person, nor did he laboriously reckon how many
Apostolic florins there were in seventeen hundred and sixty-three and a
half Venetian ducats. On the contrary, he concentrated his mind to the
best of his ability on a problem which it seemed to him of the very
highest importance to solve at once; for it involved nothing less than
the salvation of Alessandro Stradella's soul.

Now Cucurullo, as I have said, was religiously inclined. He was not
devout in the same sense as the two cut-throats who lighted candles
before the image of Saint Francis for the success of their murderous
enterprise, and paid beforehand for masses to be said for the soul of
the man they were going to kill. He would not have denied that this was
a form of piety too, if any one had asked him his opinion. Everything,
he would have argued, was relative; and if you were going to stab a man
in the back, it was more moral to make an effort to save his soul than
to wish to destroy it with his body. He would have admitted this, for he
was charitable, even to such people as professional murderers. But his
own religion was quite of another sort; he was devotedly attached to his
master, he was deeply concerned for the latter's future welfare, and it
looked just now as if Stradella's chances of salvation would be slender
if any accident carried him off suddenly. Moreover, such an accident
might occur at any moment, for, like Stradella himself, he anticipated
that Pignaver would seek a speedy revenge.

Like the early Christians he was a pessimist about this world and an
optimist about the next; for that is usually the state of mind of those
who labour under any material or bodily disability, from slavery, which
is the worst, to blindness or deformity.

As a pessimist, therefore, Cucurullo thought that his master, Ortensia,
Pina, and himself had a most excellent chance of having their throats
cut within twenty-four hours, and he was rather surprised that it should
not have happened already.

As an optimist, on the other hand, he trusted that by his own exertions
he might so dispose matters as that his master and Ortensia should be
murdered while in a state of grace, and not in mortal sin; to be plain,
he was determined that they should be duly married before Pignaver's
agents despatched them. For he had been constrained to aid and abet his
master in more than one romantic adventure before now, and nothing had
come of any of them that was at all conducive to the young man's
salvation.

Poor Cucurullo knew the whole process of those affairs, as the
conjurer's assistant knows how the tricks are done. Even when Stradella
was at home, in his own room, his man had always been able to tell
whether he was in love or not. When he was not, he industriously
composed oratorios, or motets, or some other kind of serious music; but
when he was, he sang to himself, as a bird does in spring, improvising
both the words and the melody; or else he would sit still for an hour at
a time, doing nothing, but dreaming with open eyes and slightly parted
lips; or he would pace the floor impatiently, and go to the door every
five minutes to listen for a light footfall on the stairs. All this
Cucurullo had observed frequently; often, too, he had carried letters
and tokens, and had brought others back; and not a few times, by night,
he had held cloak and lute and rapier, while his master climbed up to a
balcony or a window high above. Many such things had Cucurullo done, and
had confessed them afterwards as misdeeds. Wretched sinner that he was,
he had even paid flattering compliments to a chambermaid to sweeten her
humour till she promised to take a message to her lady. This had seemed
to him particularly wicked, yet he had done it and would do it again, if
Stradella required such service, simply because he could not help it.

Now, however, all former adventures sank to nothing in comparison with
the present one. So far, the musician had lightly loved and ridden away;
but this time he had not ridden away alone, and, moreover, he was not
carrying off the buxom wife or daughter of some meek citizen who would
appeal in vain to the law and could do nothing without it, and who would
probably let the erring lady return to his home at the trifling price of
a sound beating when Stradella was tired of her. That would have been
bad enough, in all conscience; but this time the hare-brained singer had
done much worse, even from a worldly point of view; and looking at it
from another, Cucurullo thought that the irreparable nature of the deed
made it more wicked, besides the fact that all the persons concerned
might lose their lives by it. He was a very simple person in some ways.
Under the circumstances it seemed necessary before all things to convert
moral wrong into moral right by the simple intervention of a priest and
a wedding ring, after which the question of civil right, as the law
would regard it, would take care of itself well enough.

In the grey dawn Cucurullo's large unshaven face emerged from the ample
folds of his cloak, and his mild blue eyes seemed to review the
situation by daylight as he looked from his master's half-muffled
figure to Ortensia's closed door, and then towards the window at the end
of the passage. Then he sat up cautiously and drew his heels under him,
and because his body was so short and so completely covered up, he
looked as if he had none at all, and as if his big head were lying in a
nest of brown cloth on a pair of folded legs. Then, from just below his
chin, an immensely long arm stole out quietly, and his hand drew up
Stradella's cloak which had slipped from his shoulder; for the morning
air was chilly, though the spring was far advanced. Any one, coming on
him suddenly as he sat there, would have been startled as at the sight
of a supernatural being, consisting of a head, legs, and arms, all
joined together without any body.

The dawn brightened to day, and all sorts of noises began to come up
from below, echoing through the staircase and long passages of the
house; a distant door was opened and shut, then some one seemed to be
dragging a heavy weight over a rough floor; far off, some one else
whistled a tune; and then, all at once, came the clatter of many horses'
feet on the cobble-stones in the yard.

Cucurullo sprang up and ran on tip-toe to the window, instantly fearing
the arrival of mounted pursuers; but he only saw the stablemen leading
out the post-horses to be watered and groomed. When he turned to come
back he saw that he had waked Stradella, who was sitting up, yawning
prodigiously, and rubbing his eyes like a sleepy boy. He raised his hand
to stop his man, and then got up without noise and joined him near the
window.

'What is it?' he asked in a whisper, not without some anxiety.

'Only the post-horses, sir, but I was afraid of something else.'

'I wish we were already in Florence. This is too near Venice!'

'Better still in Rome,' said Cucurullo, gloomily. 'Still better in
Sicily, and altogether much better in Africa; but best of all in heaven,
sir, if you can manage to get there!'

'It is not the first time you and I have run a risk together,' observed
Stradella, slowly moving the back of his hand up and down against his
unshaven cheek.

'It is the first time you have risked the life of a lady,' answered
Cucurullo quietly, for he understood his master very well.

'We had better go down and see about getting horses,' Stradella
answered, and he led the way to the stairs, his man following in his
footsteps.

The sun was rising now, and there was much bustling and clattering in
the yard, and sousing and splashing of cold water about the fountain; a
dozen horses were tied up to rings in the wall on one side, and the
stablemen were grooming some of them industriously while others waited
their turn, stamping now and then upon the cobble-stones, and turning
their heads as far as they could to see what was going on behind them
and on each side. Three men were washing the huge coach that ran to
Rovigo one day and back the next, and several smaller conveyances stood
beyond it in a row, still covered with dust from yesterday, for the
weather had been dry.

As in many inns of that time, the innkeeper was also the postmaster.
Stradella found him under the arched entrance to the yard, giving
instructions to the cook, who was just going to the market accompanied
by a scullion; the latter carried three empty baskets on his head, one
inside of the other.

'You can have no horses to-day,' said the host, in answer to Stradella's
demand, and he shook his head emphatically.

'No horses! It is impossible! It is absolutely necessary that we should
go on at once.'

The innkeeper was a square-shouldered Romagnole with grey hair, red
cheeks, and sharp black eyes. He shook his head again.

'I have not a horse to give you,' he said. 'Everything in my stable was
engaged beforehand for the Nuncio. I cannot give you the Government's
horses from the Rovigo coach, can I? Patience! That is all I can say.'

Stradella began to ask questions. The Nuncio, on his way to Verona and
Austria, had spent three days in the inn, both to rest himself and also
to be sure of having enough horses ahead to go on with, and word had
been sent to Mantua to make all the necessary arrangements. He should
have gone by Modena, but the road was in a bad state. A bridge had
broken down, and he had been forced to pass through Ferrara.

'But surely,' said the musician, 'I can hire a pair of horses of some
sort in the town, by paying a good price for them!'

No. The Nuncio had hired everything. Did the gentleman suppose that a
Papal Nuncio could travel with as few as eight or ten horses? He needed
about fifty in all. That was why he proceeded so slowly. There was not
another animal to be had in the town, horse or mule, that could be put
to a wheeled vehicle--not one! The gentleman might hire a riding-horse
or two, but the innkeeper had been told that he had a lady and her
tire-woman with him. Patience! A day would soon pass, Ferrara was a fine
town, well worth seeing, and he could go on to-morrow morning in the
Bologna coach, which would arrive from that city at noon to-day.

Clearly there was not the smallest possibility of being able to get on
during the next twenty-four hours. Stradella's face was very grave as he
turned away, and Cucurullo was paler than before.

Upstairs Ortensia had wakened just then and had called Pina, who got up
and opened the window wide, letting in the air with the morning sun.
Utterly unprovided as the two women were, they had slept half-dressed,
and as Ortensia rose the nurse threw one of the two brown cloaks over
her bare shoulders and fastened it round her neck.

For a few moments after she had opened her eyes the young girl had not
quite understood where she was, for she had lain down exhausted, and
sleep had come to her as her head touched the pillow. Now, in the broad
daylight, when she had plunged her face into cold water, she realised
everything, and the colour rose slowly to her throat and cheeks. She
went to the window and stood there, turned away from Pina and looked
out. Below her lay the chief public square of the city; on the left rose
the huge castle, the most gloomy and forbidding she had ever seen. She
had never heard of Nicholas Third of Este nor of his wife Parisina,
fair, evil, and ill-fated, nor of handsome Ugo, who died an hour before
her for his sins and hers, in the dark chamber at the foot of the Lion
Tower; but if Pina had known the story and had told it to her in all its
horror, Ortensia would have felt that it must be true, and that only
such tragedies as that could happen within such walls. They were so
stern, so square, so dark; the towers rose so grimly out of the black
waters of the moat! It was of bad augury to look at them, she thought,
and she drew back from the window and sat down where she could see only
the sky.

Pina was making such preparations for her mistress's toilet as were
possible. Being a prudent woman she had brought in her pocket three
objects of the highest usefulness, a piece of white Spanish soap, a
comb, and a shabby little old rolling work-case of yellow leather, in
which there were needles and thread and pins. The figure of a wild
animal, which might have been meant for a bear, was embroidered in black
thread on the outer flap of the case. Pina had used it ever since
Ortensia could remember, and seemed to value it as much as any of her
few possessions. It was a very useful little thing, and she kept it
always well filled with sewing materials.

As the young girl did not move and showed no inclination to dress
herself, Pina came behind her and began to let down and comb her hair,
which she had not even taken down on the previous night, being far too
much exhausted to think of such a thing. She submitted her head
willingly to the skilled hands of her nurse.

'Where is he?' she asked after a time, and she felt that she was
blushing again.

'They slept on the floor in the passage,' Pina answered. 'Perhaps they
are asleep still. You shut your eyes as soon as you lay down, but I
opened the door again and looked out before I went to bed. Signor
Alessandro asked me if we needed anything, and then said good-night.'

'Will you go and see if they are still there, please?'

Pina crossed the room, drew back the bolt, and put out her head, looking
up and down the passage. There was no one to be seen, and she shut the
door again without bolting it. She came back and again began to comb out
the girl's hair.

'They are not there,' she said. 'Probably Signor Alessandro is ordering
the horses. He will come in a few minutes and tell us at what time we
are to start.'

A short silence followed.

'Have you ever been here before?' Ortensia asked presently.

'Yes,' Pina answered, 'I have been here before. I do not like Ferrara.'

'Why not? Have you any particular reason for not liking it?'

'It was here that my thumb was hurt,' said the nurse. 'That is a fair
reason, is it not?' She laughed rather harshly. 'To hate a place because
one has had an accident in it! The men would say that is just like a
woman!'

'I hope I may never come here again, either,' Ortensia answered. 'How
did you hurt your thumb?'

'That is a long story, my lady. But why do you also dislike the place
already? You have only looked out of the window once.'

'I saw the castle, and I thought it was of bad augury, for it looks like
a great prison.'

'There are prisons in it without any light, very deep down,' said Pina
quietly. 'The Pope's Legate lives in the upper part. The Legate is the
Papal Governor, you know, my lady.'

'I did not know. But the ugly castle is not the real reason why I do not
like Ferrara. I could not tell any one else, but I think I can tell you,
Pina.'

She turned her head half round under the nurse's hands, looked up
sideways, and then hesitated. It was not easy to explain.

'What is it, my lady?' asked the serving-woman. 'You can tell old Pina
anything.'

'It is all so different from what I thought it would be,' Ortensia said
in a rather low voice, and again a blush rose in her cheek.

'I think I understand,' Pina said, steadily combing out the heavy auburn
hair.

'You see,' Ortensia explained, 'we all four got into the gondola
together, and there was that long row to the land, and that dreadful
night in the cart on the road to Padua--and then the half-hour at
daybreak, while he was getting the carriage, and then the journey
here--and last night--and now----'

She did not finish the sentence, hoping that Pina would really
understand.

'Yes,' the woman said quietly. 'You have not been alone together for a
moment since we left Venice, and that is not what you expected.'

'No,' Ortensia answered in the hurt tone of a disappointed child, 'I
thought it was going to be quite different! And now we shall start again
and drive all day and half the night, and then it will be just the same,
I suppose!'

'Once in Florence, or even in Bologna, there will be no more hurry,'
said Pina in a consoling tone. 'Besides, my lady, you can be properly
married then.'

'Of course, of course! We shall be married as soon as we can, but all
the same----'

'All the same, it would be pleasant to spend half-an-hour together
without old Pina always listening and looking on!'

The nurse smiled and shook her head, but Ortensia could not see her, and
did not think her tone was very encouraging; it sounded as if 'old Pina'
thought it was going to be her duty to play chaperon two or three days
longer, which was not at all what Ortensia wished.

'If he had even shown that he was a little disappointed, too----' the
girl began, and then she stopped.

'That would not have been good manners, my lady,' Pina said primly.
'When a gentleman has carried off a young lady, with her own consent,
the least he can do is to look pleased, I am sure!'

'I thought you would understand better,' Ortensia answered in a tone of
disappointment.

Some one knocked at the door, not loudly but sharply, and as if in a
hurry; Pina went at once to see who it was, and found Stradella himself
outside.

'May I come in?' he asked quickly.

Beyond Pina, as he looked in, he saw Ortensia in her brown cloak, with
her hair down and all combed out over her shoulders, and without waiting
for an answer he pushed past the nurse and went to her. Instinctively
she drew the cloak more closely round her, but she looked up with a
bright smile, which vanished when she saw his expression in the strong
light. He spoke anxiously, without even a word of greeting.

'There are no horses to be had,' he said. 'I have done my best, but the
Pope's Nuncio is passing through and has engaged everything there was.
There is not even a public coach to Bologna till to-morrow morning. I am
more distressed than I can tell you! I have sent my man out to see if he
can find anything, and he will if there is a beast to be had. If not, we
shall have to wait here.'

While he was speaking, the door had closed softly and Pina was gone.
Ortensia saw her go out and put out one hand timidly between the folds
of the cloak, for her arm was bare, and she tried to cover it. At the
same time the glorious colour rose in her face, the third time since
she had opened her eyes that morning.

'I am glad,' she said simply, as soon as her hand was in his.

He glanced behind him and saw that Pina had disappeared. Then without a
word he drew the lovely girl up to him, and for a while they stood
clasped in each other's arms; and she forgot that hers were bare, and he
scarcely knew it; and if their faces drew back one from the other for a
few seconds, it was that their eyes might meet in one another's depths;
and the broad morning sun shone full upon the two through the open
window, making the girl's auburn hair blaze like dark red gold, and a
white radiance glowed in her pure forehead and snowy arms.

Stradella shivered a little, even in the sunshine, as he let her go, and
she sank upon her chair, finding his hand again and holding it fast as
if she feared lest he should leave her. It had been a strange wooing, in
which song had played a greater part than words; and as for anything
else, he had kissed her twice on that night when he had climbed into the
loggia, and not again till now. Had he loved her less, he would have
laughed at himself for the innocence of such a love-making; but it was
all unlike anything that had ever happened to him before, and, moreover,
he had no time for such reflections at the present moment, since every
hour of delay might mean the nearer approach of danger, not to him only,
but to Ortensia herself.

'We are not far enough from Venice,' he said, when he spoke at last. 'I
would give the world to have you safe in Florence!'

'My uncle will not even try to catch us,' Ortensia said calmly. 'You do
not know him. When he finds out that we are gone together he will fear a
scandal, and he fears ridicule still more. He will tell his friends that
he has sent me to the country, or to a convent, and by and by he will
tell them that I am dead. He dreads nothing in the world so much as
being laughed at!'

She was so sure that she laughed herself as she thought of him, and
almost wished that he might hear her, though he was certainly the very
last person she wished to see just then. But Stradella thought
otherwise.

'No one would laugh at him if he had you assassinated,' he said.

'I am not afraid of that!' Ortensia smiled at the mere idea of such a
thing. 'Why are you standing? Come, bring that chair and sit down beside
me, for we are alone at last!'

He was well used to women's ways, but the ways of grown women of the
world are not those of innocent maidens of seventeen; her perfect
simplicity and fearlessness were quite new to him, and had a wonderful
charm of their own. He drew a chair to the window and sat down close to
her, and afterwards he was glad that he had done as she wished.

It was all very strange, he thought even then. As yet, a love-affair had
mostly meant for him a round of more or less dangerous adventures by
night, such as climbing of balconies, unlocking of forbidden doors with
stolen keys, imprisonment in dark closets and wardrobes, and sometimes
flight in break-neck haste. That had usually been the material side,
whereas now, reckoning up his risks, he had only climbed once to a
loggia at night, and once he had been taken for a thief and chased, and
that was all, excepting the actual escape from Venice, which had been
without danger until now. On the other hand, there had stood to love's
credit, as against those insignificant perils, only two kisses and no
more, exchanged when he had been so drenched with rain that it had been
quite out of the question to put a dripping arm round his lady's waist.

And now, for the first time in his life, he was suddenly alone with an
innocent girl of seventeen who loved him, and whom he loved even to the
point of having carried her off out of her house; he was alone with her,
in her own room, when she had but just risen from sleep, and she was
sitting beside him in the early sunshine, that wove a blaze of glory
round her young beauty, and her soft white hand held his; and he was not
satisfied as she was, but wished it were night instead of day, and
wished the sun were the moon, and that there were sweet silence without
instead of the thousand cries and echoes of a waking Italian city. For
all he had ever known of joy on earth, or ever hoped for, he would not
have wished that Ortensia's face could change into any that had once
been dear to him under the summer moonlight of the south; yet he felt
strangely constrained and awkward, like a schoolboy in love, not knowing
what to do or say in the overwhelming daylight.

'You are not glad, as I am,' Ortensia said after the long silence.

At the sound of her voice he found himself again, and he lifted her hand
and pressed it to his lips.

'I am afraid for you,' he answered. 'When a man has taken the most
precious thing in the whole world, and carries it with him through an
enemy's country, he may well be afraid lest some harm come to it on the
way.'

'But this is not the enemy's country!' laughed Ortensia, too happy to be
serious. 'Are we not a hundred miles from Venice and my uncle?'

'They say the Republic has long arms, love, and the Senator can count on
every one of the Ten to help him. The law cannot touch us merely for
having run away together, it is true, but what if he invents a crime?
What if he swears that we have robbed him? The Pope's Government will
not harbour thieves nor shelter criminals against the justice of Venice!
We should be arrested and given up, that is all, and then sent back!
This is what I fear much more than that he should have us tracked and
murdered by assassins, as many Venetians would do in this civilised
age!'

'But we have taken nothing,' Ortensia objected, quite unable to be
afraid of anything while her hand was in his. 'How can he accuse us of
robbing him? Pina and I have a comb and piece of soap between us! As for
money, she may have a little small change, for all I know, but I have
nothing.'

'I have a good deal,' Stradella answered; 'quite enough to justify such
an accusation as that. But, after all, nothing can hinder such a thing,
