
La Signorina turned upon Hillard. "And you would have done this thing
before my very eyes!"

"I was mad," he panted, shamed. "I love you better than anything else in
God's world, and this man means that I shall lose you."

"And you would have come to me across his blood?" wrathfully.

"I was not thinking of that. The only thought I had was to kill him. God
knows I'm sorry enough." And he was.

"Ah, what a night!" She swayed and pressed her hand over her eyes. "No,
do not touch me," she said. "I am not the kind of woman who faints."

The prince lurched toward Hillard, but fortunately Merrihew heard the
slithering sound of the saber as it left its scabbard. Kitty screamed
and O'Mally shouted. Merrihew, with a desperate lunge, stopped the blow.
He received a rough cut over the knuckles, but he was not aware of this
till the excitement was past. He flung the saber at O'Mally's feet.

"You speak English," said Merrihew, in an ugly temper, half regretting
that he had interfered with Hillard. "You may send your orderly to the
Hotel Italie to-morrow morning, and your saber will be given to him. You
will not carry it back to Florence to-night. Now, it is time to excuse
yourself. We can get along without you nicely."

The prince tore at his mustaches. He would have put them all to the
sword gladly. Meddlers! To return to Florence without his saber was
dishonor. He cursed them all roundly, after the manner of certain
husbands, and turned to La Signorina.

"I am in the way here," he said, controlling his passion with
difficulty. "But listen attentively to what I say: you shall remain my
wife so long as both of us live. I had intended arranging your freedom,
once the estate and moneys were divided, but not now. You shall read my
wife till the end of the book; for unless I meet you half-way, the
marriage contract can not be broken. In the old days it was your
conscience. The still small voice seems no longer to trouble you,"
turning suggestively to Hillard. "You are stopping at the Hotel Italie?"

"I am. You will find me there," returned Hillard, with good
understanding.

"Good! Your Highness, to-morrow night I shall have the extreme pleasure
of running your lover through the throat." He picked up his cap, which
lay on one of the chairs, put it on cavalierly, and took his princely
presence out of their immediate vicinity.

"It will do my soul good to stand before that scoundrel," said Hillard,
stretching out his hands and closing them with crushing force. "He has
felt the power of my hand to-night. I will kill him."

La Signorina laid a hand on his arm. "No, Mr. Hillard, you will fight no
duel."

"And why not? I do not see how it can be avoided."

"You have told me that you love me. As it stands I may sometimes see
you, but if you kill him, never."

"He is far more likely to kill me," said Hillard morosely. "And perhaps
it would be a kind service."

"Shame!" she cried. "Have you no courage? Can you not accept the
inevitable manfully? Think of me. I can fight no duels; I must live on
and on, tied legally to this man. And it is you who will add misery to
my unhappiness? You will not fight him," with the assurance of one who
has offered a complete argument.

"Very well. To be called a coward by a man like that is nothing. I shall
not fight him."

"Thank you." And she gave him her hand impulsively.

"I love you," he murmured as he bent to kiss the hand; "and it is not
dishonorable for you to hear me say so."

"I forbid you to say that!" But the longing of the world was in her eyes
as she looked down at his head. She released her hand. "My friends,
to-morrow our little play comes to an end. This is no longer Eden. We
must go."

"This is what comes of American girls marrying these blamed foreigners,"
growled the tender-hearted O'Mally. "Why did you do it?"

"I am almost Italian, Mr. O'Mally. I had no choice in the matter; the
affair was prearranged by our parents, after the continental fashion."

"I'm sorry I spoke like that," O'Mally said contritely.

"No apologies, if you please. It is only just that you should know
something of the case, considering the manner in which I imposed upon
you all."

"I'll punch Worth's head when I run across him." O'Mally clenched his
fists.

"That would change nothing. He was a part of destiny; he has served his
little turn and has gone. Were we not a happy family together for
weeks?" La Signorina smiled wanly. "To-morrow I am going to write Mr.
Hillard; I am going to tell him the story. From your point of view you
may write me down a silly fool, but one's angle of vision is not
immutable."

"You're the finest woman in the world," declared O'Mally; "and whatever
you have done has been right, I know."

Then Kitty ran up to La Signorina and embraced her; and the eyes of both
of them swam in tears.

"You will be happy, at any rate, Kitty."

"Poor girl!" cried Kitty. Princesses were mortal like other people. "How
I love you! Come back with us to America."

"I must live out the puzzle over here."

When Hillard and La Signorina were at length alone, he asked: "When
shall I see you again?"

"Who knows? Some day, perhaps, when time has softened the sharp edges of
this moment, the second bitterest I have ever known. To-morrow I shall
write, or very soon. Now, give me your promise that you will no more
seek me till I send for you."

"You will send for me?" with eagerness and hope.

"Why not?" proudly. "There is nothing wrong in our friendship, and I
prize it. Promise."

"I promise. Good-by! If I remain any longer I shall be making mad,
regrettable proposals. For a little while I have lived in paradise.
Wherever I may be, at the world's end, you have but to call me; in a
month, in a year, a decade, I shall come. Good-by!" Without looking at
her again, he rushed away.

She remained standing there as motionless as a statue. It seemed to her
that all animation was suspended, and that she could not have moved if
she had tried. By and by she gazed round the room, fast dimming; at the
guttering candles, at the empty chairs, at the vacant doors and hollow
windows.... He had not asked her if she loved him, and that was well.
But there was not at that moment in all the length and breadth of Italy
a lonelier woman than her Highness the Principessa di Monte Bianca.

Meanwhile the prince, raging and out of joint with the world, mounted
his horse. He would have revenge for this empty scabbard, or he would
resign his commission. His throat still ached and pointed lights danced
before his eyes. Eh, well! This time to-morrow night the American should
pay dearly for it. His short laugh had an ugly sound. This American was
just the kind of chivalric fool to accept a challenge. But could he
handle foils? Could he fight? Could any of these damned American
heretics fight, save with their fists? It was the other man's lookout,
not his. He put the duel out of his mind as a thing accomplished.
Shortly he would have compensation commensurate for all these five
years' chagrin. To elude him all this time, to laugh in his face, to
defy him, and then to step deliberately into his power! He never could
understand this woman. The little prude! But for her fool's conscience
he would not have been riding the beggar's horse to-day. She was now too
self-reliant, too intelligent, too cunning; she was her father over
again, soldier and diplomat. Well, the mystery of her actions remained,
but he was no longer the broken noble. So why should he puzzle over the
whys and wherefores of her motives? Ah! and would he not dig his hands
deep into the dusty sacks of gold and silver? Life again, such as he
craved; good cigars and good wine and pretty women who were no ardent
followers of Minerva. To jam part of this money down the throats of his
yelping creditors, to tear up his paper and fling it into the faces of
the greedy Jews! Ha, this would be to live! Paris, or Vienna, or London,
where he willed; for what hold had the army now?

He was an expert horseman, but, like all Italians, he was by nature
cruel. As he passed the gates the horse slid and stumbled to his knees;
he was up instantly, only to receive a hard stroke between the ears.
This unexpected treatment caused the animal to rear and waltz. This was
not the stolid-going campaign mount, but his best Irish hunter, on which
he had won prizes in many a gymkhana. There was a brief struggle, during
which the man became master both of himself and the horse. They were
just passing the confines of the villa when a man darted out suddenly
from the shadows and seized the bridle.

"At last, my prince!"

"Giovanni?"

Instinctively the prince reached for his saber, knowing that he had need
of it, but the scabbard was empty. He cursed the folly which had made
him lose it. This encounter promised to be a bad one. What mouth of hell
had opened to cast this beggar, of all men, in his path? Oddly enough
his thought ran swiftly back to the little  casa  in the Sabine
Hills.... Bah! Full of courage, knowing that one or the other would not
leave this spot alive, he struck his horse with purpose this time, to
run his man down. But Giovanni did not lose his hold; hate and the
nearness of revenge made him strong.

"No, no!" he laughed. "She is dead, my prince. And I, I was not going to
seek  you ; I was going to let hell claim you in its own time. But you
rode by me to-night. This is the end."

"Let go, fool!" roared the prince, slashing Giovanni across the face
with the heavy crop.

Giovanni laughed again and drew his knife. "I shall not miss you this
time!"

The prince, a trained soldier, shifted the reins to his teeth, buried
his knees in the barrel of the horse, unhooked his scabbard and swung it
aloft, deftly catching the reins again in his left hand. But Giovanni
was fully prepared. He released the bridle, his arm went back and the
knife spun through the air. Yet in that instant in which Giovanni's arm
was poised for the cast, the prince lifted his horse on its haunches.
The knife gashed the animal deeply in the neck. Still on its haunches it
backed, wild with the unaccustomed pain. The lip of the road, at this
spot rotten and unprotected, gave way. The prince saw the danger and
tried to urge the horse forward. It was too late. The hind-quarters
sank, the horse whinnied in terror, and the prince tried in vain to slip
from the saddle. There came a grating crash, a muffled cry, and horse
and rider went pounding down the rock-bound gorge.

Giovanni listened. He heard the light, metallic clatter of the empty
scabbard as it struck projecting boulders; he heard it strangely above
the duller, heavier sound. Then the hush of silence out of which came
the faint mutter of the stream. Giovanni trembled and the sweat on his
body grew cold: less from reaction than from the thought that actual
murder had been snatched from his hands. For several minutes he waited,
dreading, but there was no further sound. He searched mechanically for
his knife, recovered it, and then crept down the abrupt side of the
gorge till he found them. They were both dead. A cloud swept over the
benign moon.

"Holy Father, thou hast waited seven years too long!" Giovanni crossed
himself.

He gazed up at the ledge where the tragedy had begun. The cloud passed
and revealed the shining muskets of two  carabinieri , doubtless
attracted by the untoward sounds. Giovanni, agile and muscular as a
wolf, stole over the stream and disappeared into the blackness beyond.
But there was an expression of horror on his face which could not have
been intensified had Dante and Vergil and all the shades of the Inferno
trooped at his heels.




CHAPTER XXV

FREE


It was Merrihew who woke the sleeping cabby, pushed Hillard into a seat,
and gave the final orders which were to take them out of the Villa
Ariadne for ever. He was genuinely moved over the visible misery of his
friend. He readily believed that Hillard's hurt was of the incurable
kind, and so long as memory lasted the full stab of the pain would
recur. So to get him away from the scene at once was the best possible
thing he could do. Merrihew noticed the little group of men collected at
the edge of the road, but he was too deeply absorbed in his own affairs
to stop and make inquiries. The principal thing was to reach Florence
without delay. He smoked two cigars and offered scarcely a dozen words
to Hillard. When they arrived at the white hotel in the Borgognissanti
and the night watchman drew the great bolts to admit them, Merrihew was
glad. And all this to evolve from an unknown woman singing under
Hillard's window but six months ago! And a princess! Truly the world was
full of surprises.

He went to bed, advising Hillard to do the same. Mental repose was
needed before they could sit down and discuss the affair rationally.

At nine in the morning Hillard heard a fist banging on the panels of the
door.

"Open, Jack; hurry!" cried Merrihew outside. There was great agitation
in his voice.

Hillard opened the door. "What's the trouble, Dan?" he asked.

Merrihew closed the door and whispered: "Dead!" As the light from the
window fell upon his face it disclosed pale cheeks and widely opened
eyes.

"Who?" Hillard's heart contracted. "In God's name, who?"

"The prince. They found him and his horse at the bottom of the gorge.
There was a broken place in the road, and over this they had gone. The
concierge says that there has been foul play. Tracks in the dust, a
strange cut in the neck of the horse, and a scabbard minus its saber.
Now, what the devil shall I do with the blamed sword?"

Dead! Hillard sat down on the edge of the bed. Dead! Then she was free,
free.

"What shall I do with it?" demanded Merrihew a second time.

"The sword? You really brought it?"

"Yes. And if they find us with it--"

"Put it in the bottom of the trunk and leave it there till you land in
New York. But the prince dead? You are sure?"

"All Florence is ringing with the story of the ball, the wind-up, and
the tragedy. He's dead, no doubt of it. Shall we go up to the villa this
morning?"

"No, Dan;" but all the weariness went out of Hillard's eyes.

And then Merrihew noticed. Hillard still wore his evening clothes and
the bed was untouched.

"That's very foolish."

"Why? I couldn't have closed my eyes," replied Hillard.

"But won't she need you up there?" Merrihew was obviously troubled.

"If she needs me she'll send for me. But I am not needed, and she will
not send for me. I shall remain here and wait."

"He's dead. Things work out queerly, don't they?"

"She is free. Thank God!"

"You are not sorry, are you?"

"Sorry? In a way, yes. He was a blackleg, but it isn't pleasant to
contemplate the manner of his end."

"Well, I can frankly say that there's no such sentiment on my side. He'd
have cut you down if I hadn't stopped him," said Merrihew, rubbing his
swollen knuckles.

"It was measure for measure: I should have killed him had not you and
O'Mally interfered."

"That's true. But what's back of all this muddle? Why was she
masquerading as an opera singer, when fortune and place were under her
hand?"

"She has promised to write."

"By George!"

"What now?"

"Didn't Giovanni tell us that he had friends in Fiesole, and that he was
going to visit them?"

"Giovanni? I had forgotten. But what had my old valet against the
prince?"

"Giovanni had a daughter," said Merrihew. "His knife left a scar on the
man. The prince carried a long scar on his cheek. Two and two make
four."

"But Giovanni had promised us."

"If this man did not cross his path. It looks as if he did."

Hillard had nothing to offer. He simply began dressing in his
day-clothes, stopping at times and frowning at the walls. Merrihew
wisely refrained from adding any questions. He was human; he knew that
somewhere in Hillard's breast the fires of hope burned anew.

The day passed without additional news. But at night the last of the
American Comic Opera Company straggled into the hotel, plus various
pieces of luggage. O'Mally, verbose as ever, did all the talking and
vending of news.

"You wouldn't know her," he said, referring to La Signorina--for they
would always call her that. "When she heard of that duffer's death I
swear that she believed you had a hand in it. But when she heard that
the accident had occurred before you left the villa, she just collapsed.
Oh, there was a devil of a mess; police agents,  carabinieri ,
inspectors. It was a good thing that there were plenty of witnesses to
prove that the prince had called La Signorina his wife, or she would be
in jail this night, and we along with her. The police were hunting for
the missing saber. Of course we knew nothing about it," with a wink at
Merrihew. "I don't know what would have happened if her lawyer hadn't
hurried up from Rome and straightened out things. Queer business. But
she's a princess, all right; and she doesn't need any foreign handle,
either. Kitty, you stick to America when you think of getting married."

"I shall," said Kitty demurely.

"My opinion," went on O'Mally, "is that the prince beat his nag out of
pure deviltry, and the brute jumped into the gorge with him. The
 carabinieri  claim that they saw a man in the gorge. They gave chase,
but couldn't find hide nor hair of him."

Merrihew looked significantly at Hillard, who signed to him to be
silent.

"I am glad that we can sail Saturday," said Kitty. She was very tired.

"So am I," echoed Smith. "All I want is a heart-to-heart talk with old
Broadway. Never again for mine!"

"Go on!" said O'Mally. "You'll be talking about this for the next ten
years."

"As to that I don't say. But never my name on a foreign contract again,
unless it takes me to London. No more  parle Italiano . Let's go over to
the Grand. There's an American barkeep over there, and he'll sympathize
with us."

"You're on!" said O'Mally willingly.

When they were gone, Hillard asked Kitty if she had any news.

"She said that she would write you, and for you to remain here till you
received the letter."

"Was that all?"

"Yes. Have you seen anything of that wretched man Worth, who is the
cause of all this trouble?"

"No, nor do I care to."

"Suppose the three of us take a stroll along the Lungarno?" suggested
Merrihew. "It will be the last chance together."

"You two go. I am worn out," said Hillard. "I had no sleep last night."

So Kitty and Merrihew went out together. They climbed the Ponte Vecchio,
leaned against the rail back of the bust of Cellini and contemplated the
trembling lights on the sluggish waters.

"I hate to leave him alone," said Merrihew.

Kitty nestled snugly against his arm. "Don't worry about him. It is all
well with him."

"How do you know?"

"I am a woman."

"Oh!" A bell crashed out across the river; it was nine o'clock. "Do you
love me, Kitty Killigrew?"

"Very much, Mr. Merrihew."

"But why did you keep me waiting so long?"

"That's one of the few secrets I shall never tell you."

Merrihew pursued his investigations no further. "We shall have to live
in a flat."

"I should be happy in a hut. What an adventure we have had! I regret
none of it."

"Neither do I." And then, sure of the shadow and the propitiousness of
the moment, he kissed her. Kitty would never have forgiven him if he
hadn't. "I've bought you a cricket to take home."

"A cricket?"

"Yes. These Florentines consider crickets very lucky, that is, the first
you find in May. You put him in a little wire cage and feed him lettuce,
and if he sings, why, there's no doubt about the good luck. Funny little
codger! Looks like a parson in a frockcoat and an old-fashioned stock."

"Good luck always," said Kitty, brushing his hand with her lips.

They were gone, and Hillard was alone. He missed them all sorely,
Merrihew with his cheery laugh, Kitty with her bright eyes, and O'Mally
with his harmless drolleries. And no letter. It would not be true to say
that he waited patiently, that he was resigned; he waited because he
must wait. There had been a great shock, and she required time to
recover her poise. Was there a woman in all the world like her? No. She
was well worth waiting for. And so he would wait. She was free now; but
would that really matter? There was no barrier; but could she love him?
And might not her letter, when it did come, be a valedictory?

Daily he searched the newspapers for news of Giovanni; but to all
appearances Giovanni had vanished, as indeed he had, for ever out of
Hillard's sight and knowledge.

The letter came one week after the departure of his friends. It was
post-marked Venice. And the riddle was solved.




CHAPTER XXVI

THE LETTER


Shall I say that I am sorry? No. I am not a hypocrite. Death in all
forms is horrible, and I shudder and regret, but I am not sorry. Does it
sound cruel and heartless to express my feelings thus frankly? Well, I
am human; I do not pose as being better than I am. I have suffered a
grievous wrong. At the hands of this man I lost my illusions, I learned
the words hate and loathing, shame and despair. Again I say that I
regret the violence of his end, but I am not sorry to be free. If we
wait long enough the scales of Heaven will balance nicely. Some outraged
father or brother, to this alone do I attribute his death.

Let me be as brief as possible; I have no desire to weary you, only the
wish to vindicate in part what appeared to you as a species of madness.

My father was Colonel Grosvenor, of the Confederate army, during the
Civil War. On General Lee's staff was an Italian named the Principi di
Monte Bianca. He was an Arab for wandering. The tumult of battle would
bring him round the world. Rich, titled, a real noble, he was at heart
an adventurer, a word greatly abused these inglorious days. For does not
the word adventurer stand for the pioneer, the explorer, the inventor,
the soldier and the sailor? It is wrong to apply the word to the
impostor. My father was cut from the same pattern, a wild and reckless
spirit in those crowded times. The two became friends such as you and
Mr. Merrihew are. Their exploits became famous. My father was also rich
and a man of foresight. He knew that the stars and bars was a flag of
temporary endurance. All that portion of his wealth which remained in
the South he readily sacrificed with his blood. His real wealth was in
foreign securities, mines, oils, steel, steamships. When the war
terminated, the prince prevailed upon my father to return with him to
Italy. Italy was not new to my father; and as he loved the country and
spoke the language, he finally consented. He saw the shadow of the
reconstruction and dreaded it; and there were no ties of blood to hold
him in the States. Italy itself was in turmoil.  Il Re Galantuomo , that
Piedmontese hunter, Vittorio Emanuele, wished to liberate Venice from
the grasp of Austria, to wrest temporal power from the Vatican, and to
send the French troops back to France. Well, he accomplished all these
things, and both my father and the prince were with him up to the time
he entered the Quirinal. After victory, peace. My father invested in
villas and palaces, added to his fortune through real estate in Rome,
lived in Florence a little while, and settled down to end his days in
the Venetian palace on the Grand Canal. He and the prince met daily at
Florian's and planned futures or dreamed over the noisy past.

Then my father, still young, remember, fell in love with the daughter of
a Venetian noble. It was a happy union. Shortly after the prince also
married. He was, with the exception of my father, the most lovable man I
ever knew. Brave, kindly, impetuous, honorable, witty and wise; it does
not seem possible that such a father should have such a son. Though he
covered it up with all the rare tact of a man of the world, his marital
ties were not happy like my father's.

There came a great day: a young prince was born, and the rough king
stood as his god-father. Later I added my feeble protest, at the cost of
my mother's life. These domestic histories! how far more vital to the
welfare of nations than the flaming pages of war and politics! As I grew
up I became my father's constant companion; we were always out of doors.
By and by he sent me to America to school; for he still loved his
country and was not that fault-finding scold, the expatriate. And I may
as well add that your defense of America pleased me as few things have
in these later years. I returned from America to enter a convent out of
Rome. From there I went to Milan and studied music under the masters. My
father believed in letting youth choose what it would. Music! What
should I have done without it in the dark hours?

One fatal day the old prince and my father put their heads together and
determined that this great friendship of theirs should be perpetuated;
the young prince should marry the young signorina. When will parents
learn not to meddle with the destinies of their children? So they
proceeded to make the alliance an absolute certainty. They drew up the
strangest of wills. Both men were in full control of their properties;
there was no entailed estate such as one finds in England. They could do
as they pleased; and this was before Italy had passed the law requiring
that no art treasures should be sold or transported. Fortunately for me,
my mother's property was considerable.

The impossible clauses in the joint will read that if we two young
people declined the bargain the bulk of the estates should revert to the
crown; again, if we married and separated and were not reunited inside
of five years, the fortunes should become the crown's; if, having
separated from my husband, either for just or unjust reasons, I should
secretly or publicly occupy any villa or palace mentioned in the will,
it would be a tacit admission that I accepted my husband. Was there ever
such an insane tangle kindly meant? We must marry, we must be happy;
that our minds and hearts were totally different did not matter at all.
Do you understand why I went from city to city, living haphazard?
Sometimes I was very poor, for my income from my mother's estate was
paid quarterly, and I did not inherit my father's business ability.
During the recent days in Venice I had to offer my jewels because I
dared not write my attorneys for an advance, for I did not wish them to
know where I was.

Time went on. How young I was in those days! What dreams I dreamed! The
old prince died suddenly, his wife followed. And then my kind and loving
father went the way. I was very, very lonely. But I was taken under the
wing of a duchessa who was popular at court. At this period the young
prince was one of the handsomest men in Europe. Foolish women set about
to turn his head. He was brave, clever and engaging. Dissipation had not
yet enmeshed him. My heart fluttered naturally when I saw him, for he
was permitted to see me at intervals. Young girls have dreams which in
older years appear ordinary enough. He was then to me Prince Charming. I
was really glad that I was to marry him.

On completing my education I decided to live in Rome, where the prince
was quartered. I went into the world with serene confidence, believing
that all men were good like my father and his friend. The old duchessa
mothered the rich American girl gladly; for, though I was half Italian,
they always considered me as the child of my father. I was presented at
court, I was asked to dinners and receptions and balls. I was quite the
rage because the dowager queen gave me singular attention. My head was
in a whirl. In Europe, as you know, till a woman is married she is a
nonentity. I was beginning to live. The older women were so attentive
and the men so gallant that I lost sight of the things that counted. As
I was a fluent linguist, and as I possessed a natural lightness of
heart, my popularity was by no means due to my property. I believe I
sang wherever I went, because I loved music, because it was beautiful to
send one's voice across space in confidence; it was like liberating the
soul for a moment.

The prince by this time seemed changed in some way; but I was blindly
young. A girl of twenty in European society knows less than a girl of
fifteen in the States. Often I noticed the long scar on his cheek. He
had received it, he said, in some cavalry exercise. As the Italians are
reckless horsemen, I accepted this explanation without question. I know
differently now! But he was as courteous and gallant to me as ever.

Now, there was another clause in this will. It was the one thing which
made the present life tolerable and possible to me. We were to be
married without pomp, quietly, first at the magistrate's and then at the
church.

Have you not often seen the carriage pass you in the streets? The bride
in her white dress and veil and the bouquet of roses? The ribbon round
the driver's whip? The good-natured smiles of the idlers, the children
running out and crying for a rose? They say that a rose given by the
bride brings luck. It was thus we passed through the streets to the
magistrate's. I did not know then that I was not in love, that I was
only young and curious. I threw roses to any who asked. The prince sat
beside me in full-dress uniform, looking very handsome and
distinguished. We heard many compliments. The prince smiled, but he was
nervous and not at ease. I thought nothing of this at the time. I
believed his nervousness a part of my own. To be sure there was a fair
gathering at the magistrate's, for the name of Monte Bianca was widely
known. But there was none of our own class present; they would be at the
church.

The magistrate performed his part in the affair. Legally we were man and
wife. We were leaving for the church, when at the very doorway a
handsome woman, sad-eyed, weary, shabbily dressed, touched me on the
arm.

"A rose, Signora!"

I gave it to her, smiling pityingly.

"God pray," she said, "that this man will make you happier than he made
me!"

The prince was at my elbow, pushing me toward the carriage. But
something had been said that could not be lightly passed. I stood firm.

"Let us be on!" said the prince eagerly.

"Wait!" I turned to the woman. "Signora, what do you mean by those
words?"

"His Highness knows." She pointed to the prince, whose face I now saw,
strangely enough, for the first time. It was black with rage and
ugliness.

"What has he been to you?" I demanded.

She answered with a gesture, pathetic but easily translatable. It was
enough for me. I understood. In that moment I became a woman without
illusions. Without looking at the prince I entered the carriage and
closed the door in his face. He stormed, he pleaded, he lied. I was of
stone. There was a scene. He was low enough to turn upon the poor woman
and strike her across the face with his gloves. Even had I loved him,
that would have been the end of the romance. I ordered the driver to
take me home. There would be no wedding at the church that day. There
was a great scandal. Every one took up the prince's cause, with the
exception of the king. But my determination was not to be moved.

The prince was almost bankrupt. He had squandered the liberal fortune
left him independently of the will. He had sold to the Jews half of the
fortune he expected to get after marrying me. He had not the slightest
affection for me; he was desperate and wanted the money. How old and
wise I became during that ride home from the magistrate's! The prince
called, but I was not at home to him. He wrote many times, but I replied
to none of his letters. He struck but one string; I was foolish to let a
little peccadillo of bachelorhood stand in the way; all men were the
same; the position I took was absurd. I never answered. I returned to
Venice. I have seen him but twice since; once at Monte Carlo and that
night at the Villa Ariadne. How he begged, schemed, plotted, and
manoeuvered to regain my favor! But I knew now. I vowed he should never
have a penny; it should all go to the crown.

When at length he found that I was really serious, he became base in his
tactics.  He  was the one who was wronged. He gave life to such rumors
among those I knew that soon I found doors closed to me which had always
been open. No Italian woman could see the matter from my point of view.
I was an American for all that my mother was a Venetian, therefore I was
wrong.

So great was this man's vanity that he truly believed that all he had to
do was to meet me face to face to overcome my objections! I have already
told you that my impulses are as mysterious to me as to others. Why I
went to the Villa Ariadne is not to be explained. I do not know.... A
comic opera singer! But I shall always love those light-hearted
companions, who were cheerful under misfortune, who accepted each new
calamity as a jest by the Great Dramatist. Perhaps the truth is, this
last calamity was brought about by my desire to aid them without letting
them know who I was. I have committed many foolish acts, but innocent
and hurtless. To you I have been perfectly frank. From the first I
warned you; and many times I have given you hurts which recoiled upon my
own head. But all for your good. I wanted you to be clear of the tangle.
There! That is all. There is no more mystery concerning Sonia Hilda
Grosvenor.

       *       *       *       *       *

And so the letter ended. There was not a word regarding any future
meeting; there was nothing to read between the lines. A great loneliness
surged over Hillard. Was this, then, really the end? No! He struck the
letter sharply on his palm. No, this should not be the end. He would
wait here in Florence till the day of doom. He would waste no time in
seeking her, for he knew that if he sought he would not find.

Day after day dragged through the hours, and Florence grew thinned and
torrid. Sometimes he rode past the Villa Ariadne, but he never stopped.
He could not bring himself to enter those confines again alone.

In the meantime he had received a cable from Merrihew, stating that he
and Mrs. Merrihew would be at home after September. He read the line
many times. Good old Dan! He was right; it took patience and persistence
to win a woman.

It was in the middle of June that, one afternoon, the concierge handed
him a telegram. It contained but three words:

"Villa Serbelloni, Bellaggio."




CHAPTER XXVII

BELLAGGIO


The narrowness of the imagination of the old masters is generally
depicted in their canvases. Heaven to them was a serious business of
pearly gates, harps, halos, and aërial flights on ambient pale clouds.
Or, was it the imagination of the Church, dominating the imagination of
the artist? To paint halos, or to starve? was doubtless the Hamletonian
question of the Renaissance. Now Hillard's idea of Heaven--and in all of
us it is a singular conception--was Bellaggio in perpetual springtime;
Bellaggio, with its cypress, copper-beech, olive, magnolia, bamboo,
pines, its gardens, its vineyards, its orchards of mulberry trees, its
restful reaches, for there is always a quality of rest in the ability to
see far off; Bellaggio, with the emerald Lecco on one side and the
blue-green Como on the other, the white villages nestling along the
shores, and the great shadowful Italian Alps.

The Villa Serbelloni stands on the wooded promontory, and all day long
the warm sunshine floods its walls and terraces and glances from the
polished leaves of the tropical plants. The villa remains to-day nearly
as it was when Napoleon's forces were in Milan and stabling their horses
in the monastery of Santa Maria delle Grazia, under the fading  Last
Supper , by Da Vinci. It is a hotel now, the annex of one of the great
hostelries down below in the town. A tortuous path leads up to the
villa; and to climb it is to perform the initial step or lesson to
proper mountain-climbing. Here and there, in the blue distances, one
finds a patch of snow, an exhilarating foretaste of the high Alps north
of Domo d' Ossola and south of the icy Rhone.

The six-o'clock boat from Como puffed up noisily and smokily to the
quay, churning her side-paddles. The clouds of sunset lay like crimson
gashes on the western mountain peaks. Hillard stepped ashore
impatiently. What a long day it had been! How white the Villa Serbelloni
seemed up there on the little hill-top. He gave his luggage to the
porter from the Grand and followed him on foot to the hotel, which was
only a dozen steps from the landing. No, he would not dine at the hotel,
all but empty at this time of year. He was dining at the Villa
Serbelloni above. He dressed quickly, but with the lover's care and the
lover's doubt. Less than an hour after leaving the boat he stepped forth
from the gardens and took the path up to the villa. The bloom on the
wings of the passing swallow, the clouds on the face of the smooth
waters, the incense from the flowers now rising upon the vanished sun,
the tinted crests encircling, and the soft wind which murmured drowsily
among the overhanging branches, all these made the time and place as
perfect as a lover's mind could fancy.

Sonia, Sonia; his step took the rhythm of it as he climbed. Sonia,
Sonia; the very silence seemed to voice it. And she was waiting for him
up there. How would she greet him, knowing that nothing would have
brought him to her side but the hope of love? With buoyant step he
turned by the porter's lodge and strode down the broad roadway to the
villa, a deepening green arch above him.

Handsome he was not; he was more. With his thin, high-bred face, his
fine eyes, his slender, graceful figure, he presented that type of
gentleman to whom all women pay unconscious homage, whether low-born or
high, and in whom the little child places its trust and confidence.

He arrived shortly. As he entered the glass-inclosed corridor the
concierge rose from his chair and bowed. Hillard inclined his head and
went on. There was no one in the dining-room. In the restaurant there
was no one but a lonely Russian countess, who had spent part of the year
at the villa for more than a decade. He doffed his hat as he passed
through the room and gained the picturesque terrace. Afar he saw a table
spread under the great oak. A woman sat by it. She was gazing down the
winding terraces toward the Lecco. It was still daylight, and he would
have known that head of hair among the ten thousand houris of heaven.
Softly, softly! he murmured to his heart, now become insurgent.

Whatever may have been the dream she was following, she dismissed it
upon hearing his step, strangely familiar. She did not rise, but she
extended her hand, a grave inquiry in her slumbrous eyes. With equal
gravity he clasped the hand, but held back the impulse to kiss it. He
was not quite sure of himself just then. He sat down opposite her and,
smiling, whimsically inquired:

"Now, where did we leave off?"

At first she did not understand.

He enlightened her. "I refer to that Arabian Nights entertainment in New
York. Where did we leave off that interesting discussion?"

She smiled brightly. "We shall take up the thread of that discourse with
the coffee."

"Why not countermand the order for dinner? I am not hungry."

"But I am," she replied. She was wholly herself now. The tact with which
he began his address disembarrassed her. For two days, since she
despatched the telegram, she had lived in a kind of ecstatic terror; she
had even regretted the message, once it was beyond recall. "I am human
enough to be hungry, sometimes." She summoned the waiter.

The dinner was excellent, but Hillard scarcely knew what this or that
plate was. All his hunger lay in his eyes. Besides, he did not want to
discuss generalities during the intermittent invasions of the waiter,
who never knew how many times he stood in danger of being hurled over
into the flowering beds of lavender which banked the path of the second
terrace. And when he brought the coffee and lingered for further orders,
it was Hillard who dismissed him, rather curtly.

"Now! Let me see," he said musingly. "We had agreed that it would be
best never to meet again, that to keep the memory of that night fresh in
our minds, a souvenir for old age, it were wisest to part then. Well, we
can keep the memory of it for our old age; it will be a little secret
between us, and we shall talk it over on just such nights as this."

"Isn't this oak the most beautiful you have ever seen?" she remarked,
looking up at the great leafy arms above her head.

"The most beautiful in all the world;" but he was not looking at the
oak.

"Think of it! It's many centuries old. Empires and kingdoms have risen
and vanished. It was here when Michelangelo and Raphael and Titian were
ragamuffins in the populous streets; it was leafing when Petrarch
indited pages to his Laura; when Dante gazed melancholily upon his
Beatrice--Oh, what a little time we have!"

"Then let us make the most of it," he said.

He reached for her hand, which lay upon the cover; but, without apparent
notice of his movement, she drew back her hand.

"I have waited patiently for weeks."

She faced him with an enigmatical smile, lighted a match, blew it out,
and drew a line across the center of the table.

He laughed. "What, again?"

"Observe."

"Why, there is a break in it!" eagerly and joyously.

She leaned over. "So there is;" but there was no surprise in her voice.

"Is it possible for me to come through?"

"There is one way."

"Put the caskets before me, Portia; I shall not be less wise than
Bassanio."

She touched her lips with the knuckle of a finger, in a mood reflective.
"A camel and the needle's eye."

"That referred to the rich man. All the world loves a lover, even the
solemn old prophets."

"Are you sure?" a return of the old malice.

As a rejoinder he smoothed out the telegram she had sent to him. "Why
did you send this to me?"

Her lips had no answer ready; and who can read a woman's heart?

"There can be but one reason," he pursued.

"Friendship."

There was a swish of petticoats, and she was standing at the side of her
chair. The beginning of the night was cool, but the fire of the world's
desire burned in her cheeks, and she was afraid. She stepped to the
railing, faced the purpling mountains, lifted her chin, and sang  Die
