partisanship, which is such a droll fact in women when 
there is any question of their general opposition to men, 
possessed them all, and they stood as one girl for the 
reality of their triumph. This did not prevent them 
from declaring that the men had behaved with out- 
rageous unfairness, and that the only one who fought 
with absolute sincerity from first to last was Mr. 
Verrian. 
Neither their unity of conviction concerning the gen- 
eral fact nor the surprising deduction from it in Ver- 
rian's case operated to make them refuse the help of 
their captives in getting home. When they had bound 
up their tumbled hair, in some cases, and repaired the 
ravages of war among their feathers and furs and 
draperies, in other cases, they accepted the hands of the 
late enemy at difficult points of the path. But they ran 
forward when they neared the house, and they were 
prompt to scream upon Mrs. Westangle that there never 
had been such a success or such fun, and that they were 
almost dead, and soon as they had something to eat they 
were going to bed and never going to get up again. 
In the details which they were able to give at lunch- 
eon, they did justice to Verrian's noble part in the 
whole affair, which had saved the day, not only in 
keeping them up to the work when they had got think- 
ing it couldn't be carried through, but in giving the 
 
combat a validity which it would not have had without 
him. They had to thank him, next to Mrs. Westangle 
herself, whom they praised beyond any articulate ex- 
pression, for thinking up such a delightful thing. They 
wondered how she could ever have thought of it — such 
a simple thing too ; and they were sure that when peo- 
ple heard of it they would all be wanting to have snow 
battles. 
Mrs. Westangle took her praises as passively, if not 
as modestly, as Verrian received his. She made no 
show of disclaiming them, but she had the art, invalu- 
able in a woman who meant to go far in the line she had 
chosen, of not seeming to have done anything, or of 
not caring whether people liked it or not. Verrian 
asked himself, as he watched her twittering back at 
those girls, and shedding equally their thanks and 
praises from her impermeable plumage, how she would 
have behaved if Miss Shirley's attempt had been an 
entire failure. He decided that she would have ignored 
the failure with the same impersonality as that with 
which she now ignored the success. It appeared that in 
one point he did her injustice, for when he went up to 
dress for dinner after the long stroll he took towards 
night he found a note under his door, by which he must 
infer that Mrs. Westangle had not kept the real facts 
of her triumph from the mistress of the revels. 
"Dbae Me. Veeeiait, — I am not likely to see you, 
but I must thank you. M. Shieley. 
" P. S. Don't try to answer, please." 
Verrian liked the note, he even liked the impulse 
which had dictated it, and he understood the impulse; 
but he did not like getting the note. If Miss Shirley 
meant business in taking up the line of life she had 
professed to have entered upon seriously, she had better, 
in the case of a young man whose acquaintance she had 
chanced to make, let her gratitude wait. But when 
did a woman ever mean business, except in the one great 
business ? 
XIV 
To have got that sillily superfluous note to Verrian 
without any one's knowing besides, Miss Shirley 
must have stolen to his door herself and slipped it 
under. In order to do this unsuspected and unseen, 
she must have found out in some sort that would not 
give her away which his room was, and then watched 
her chance. It all argued a pervasiveness in her, after 
such a brief sojourn in the house, and a mastery of 
finesse that he did not like, though, he reflected, he was 
not authorized to like or dislike anything about her. 
He was thirty-seven years old, and he had not lived 
through that time, with his mother at his elbow to 
suggest inferences from facts, without being versed in 
wiles which, even when they were honest, were always 
wiles, and in lures which, when they were of the most 
gossamer tenuity, were yet of texture close enough to 
make the man who blundered through them aware that 
they had been thrown across his path. He understood, 
of course, that they were sometimes helplessly thrown 
across it, and were mere expressions of abstract woman 
with relation to abstract man, but that did not change 
their nature. He did not abhor them, but he believed 
he knew them, and he believed now that he detected 
one of them in Miss Shirley's note. Of course, one 
could take another view of it. One could say to one's 
self that she was really so fervently grateful that she 
could not trust some accident to bring them together in 
a place where she was merely a part of the catering, 
 
as she said, and he was a guest, and that she was ex- 
cusable, or at least mercifully explicable, in her wish 
to have him know that she appreciated his goodness. 
Verrian had been very good, he knew that; he had 
saved the day for the poor thing when it was in danger 
of the dreariest kind of slump. She was a poor thing, 
as any woman was who had to make her own way, and 
she had been sick and was charming. Besides, she 
had found out his name and had probably recognized 
a quality of celebrity in it, unknown to the other young 
people with whom he found himself so strangely as- 
sorted under Mrs. Westangle's roof. 
In the end, and upon the whole, Verrian would rather 
have liked, if the thing could have been made to happen, 
meeting Miss Shirley long enough to disclaim meriting 
her thanks, and to ascribe to the intrinsic value of her 
scheme the brilliant success it had achieved. This 
would not have been true, but it would have been en- 
couraging to her; and in the revery which followed 
upon his conditional desire he had a long imaginary 
conversation with her, and discussed all her other 
plans for the revels of the week. These had not the 
trouble of defining themselves very distinctly in the 
conversation in order to win his applause, and their 
consideration did not carry him with Miss Shirley be- 
yond the strictly professional ground on which they met. 
She had apparently invented nothing for that even- 
ing, and the house party was left to its own resources 
in dancing and sitting out dances, which apparently 
fully sufficed it. They were all tired, and broke up 
early. The women took their candles and went off to 
bed, and the men went to the billiard-room to smoke. 
On the way down from his room, where he had gone to 
put on his smoking-jacket, Verrian met Miss Macroyd 
coming up, candle in hand, and received from her a 
 
tacit intimation that he might stop her for a joking 
good-night. 
" I hope you'll sleep well on your laurels as umpire," 
he said. 
" Oh, thank you," she returned, " and I hope your 
laurels won't keep you awake. It must seem to you as 
if it was blowing a perfect gale in them." 
" What do you mean ? I did nothing." 
" Oh, I don't mean your promotion of the snow bat- 
tle. But haven't you heard ?" He stared. " You've 
been found out!" 
" Found out ?" Verrian's soul was filled with the joy 
of literary fame. 
" Yes. You can't conceal yourself now. You're 
Verrian the actor." 
" The actor ?" Verrian frowned blackly in his dis- 
gust, so blackly that Miss Macroyd laughed aloud. 
" Yes, the coming matinee idol. One of the girls 
recognized you as soon as you came into the house, and 
the name settled it, though, of course, you're supposed 
to be here incognito." 
The mention of that name which he enjoyed in com- 
mon with the actor made Verrian furious, for when the 
actor first appeared with it in New York Verrian had 
been at the pains to find out that it was not his real 
name, and that he had merely taken it because of the 
weak quality of romance in it, which Verrian himself 
had always disliked. But, of course, he could not vent 
his fury on Miss Macroyd. All he could do was to ask, 
" Then they have got my photograph on their dressing- 
tables, with candles burning before it ?" 
" No, I don't believe I can give you that comfort. 
The fact is, your acting is not much admired among the 
girls here, but they think you are unexpectedly nice 
as a private person." 
 
" That's something. And does Mrs. Westangle think 
I'm the actor, too ?" 
" How should Mrs. Westangle know what she thinks ? 
And if she doesn't, how should I ?" 
" That's true. And are you going to give me away ?" 
" I haven't done it yet. But isn't it best to be hon- 
est?" 
" It mightn't be a success." 
" The honesty ?" 
" My literary celebrity." 
" There's that," Miss Macroyd rejoiced. " Well, so 
far I've merely said I was sure you were not Verrian 
the actor. I'll think the other part over." She went 
on up-stairs, with the sound of her laugh following her, 
and Verrian went gloomily back to the billiard-room, 
where he found most of the smokers conspicuously yawn- 
ing. He lighted a fresh cigar, and while he smoked 
they dropped away one by one till only Bushwick was 
left. 
" Some of the fellows are going Thursday," he said. 
" Are you going to stick it out to the bitter end ?" 
Till then it had not occurred to Verrian that he was 
not going to stay through the week, but now he said, 
" I don't know but I may go Thursday. Shall you ?" 
" I might as well stay on. I don't find much doing 
in real estate at Christmas. Do you ?" 
This was fishing, but it was better than openly taking 
him for that actor, and Verrian answered, unresent- 
fully, " I don't know. I'm not in that line exactly." 
" Oh, I beg your pardon," Bushwick said. " I 
thought I had seen your name with that of a West 
Side concern." 
" No, I have a sort of outside connection with the 
publishing business." 
" Oh," Bushwick returned, politely, and it would 
  
have been reassuringly if Verrian had wished not to be 
known as an author. The secret in which he lived in 
that regard was apparently safe from that young, ami- 
able, good-looking real-estate broker. He inferred, from 
the absence of any allusion to the superstition of the 
women as to his profession, that it had not spread to 
Bushwick at least, and this inclined him. the more to 
like him. They sat up talking pleasantly together about 
impersonal affairs till Bushwick finished his cigar. 
Then he started for bed, saying, " Well, good-night. I 
hope Mrs. Westangle won't have anything so active on 
the tapis for to-morrow." 
" Try and sleep it off. Good-night." 
XV 
Veeeiam - remained to finish his cigar, but at the end 
he was not yet sleepy, and he thought he would get 
a book from the library, if that part of the house were 
still lighted, and he looked out to see. Apparently it 
was as brilliantly illuminated as when the company had 
separated there for the night, and he pushed across the 
foyer hall that separated the billiard-room from the 
drawing-room and library. He entered the drawing- 
room, and in the depths of the library, relieved against 
the rows of books in their glass cases, he startled Miss 
Shirley from a pose which she seemed to be taking there 
alone. 
At the instant of their mutual recognition she gave 
a little muted shriek, and then gasped out, " I beg your 
pardon," while he was saying, too, " I beg your pardon." 
After a tacit exchange of forgiveness, he said, " I am 
afraid I startled you. I was just coming for a book to 
read myself asleep with. I — " 
" Not at all," she returned. " I was just — " Then 
she did not say what, and he asked : 
" Making some studies ?" 
" Yes," she owned, with reluctant promptness. 
" I mustn't ask what," he suggested, and he made an 
effort to smile away what seemed a painful perturbation 
in her as he went forward to look at the book-shelves, 
from which, till then, she had not slipped aside. 
" I'm in your way," she said, and he answered, " Not 
at all." He added to the other sentence he had spoken, 
 
" If it's going to be as good as what you gave us to- 
day-" 
" You are very kind." She hesitated, and then she 
said, abruptly : " What I did to-day owed everything to 
you, Mr. Verrian," and while he desisted from search- 
ing the book-shelves, she stood looking anxiously at him, 
with the pulse in her neck visibly throbbing. Her agita- 
tion was really painful, but Verrian did not attribute 
it to her finding herself there alone with him at mid- 
night ; for though the other guests had all gone to bed, 
the house was awake in some of the servants, and an 
elderly woman came in presently bringing a breadth 
of silvery gauze, which she held up, asking if it was 
that. 
" Not exactly, but it will do nicely, Mrs. Stager. 
Would you mind getting me the very pale-blue piece — 
that electric blue ?" 
" I'm looking for something good and dull," Verrian 
said, when the woman was gone. 
" Travels are good, or narratives, for sleeping on," 
she said, with a breathless effort for calm. " I found," 
she panted, " in my own insomnia, that merely the 
broken-up look of a page of dialogue in a novel racked 
my nerves so that I couldn't sleep. But narratives were 
beautifully soothing." 
" Thank you," he responded ; " that's a good idea." 
And stooping, with his hands on his knees, he ranged 
back and forth along the shelves. " But Mrs. West- 
angle's library doesn't seem to be very rich in narrative." 
He had not his mind on the search perhaps, and per- 
haps she knew it. She presently said, " I wish I dared 
ask you a favor — I mean your advice, Mr. Verrian." 
He lifted himself from his stooping posture and 
looked at her, smiling. " Would that take much cour- 
age?" His smile was a little mocking; he was think- 
ing that a girl who would hurry that note to him, and 
would personally see that it did not fail to reach him, 
would have the courage for much more. 
She did not reply directly. " I should have to ex- 
plain, hut I know you won't tell. This is going to 
he my piece de resistance, my grand stunt. I'm going 
to bring it off the last night." She stopped long enough 
for Verrian to revise his resolution of going away with 
the fellows who were leaving the middle of the week, 
and to decide on staying to the end. "lam going to 
call it Seeing Ghosts." 
" That's good," Verrian said, provisionally. 
" Yes, I might say I was surprised at my thinking 
it up." 
" That would be one form of modesty." 
" Yes," she said, with a wan smile she had, " and then 
again it mightn't be another." She went on, abruptly, 
" As many as like can take part in the performance. 
It's to be given out, and distinctly understood before- 
hand, that the ghost isn't a veridical phantom, but just 
an honest, made-up, every-day spook. It may change 
its pose from time to time, or its drapery, but the setting 
is to be always the same, and the people who take their 
turns in seeing it are to be explicitly reassured, one after 
another, that there's nothing in it, you know. The fun 
will be in seeing how each one takes it, after they know 
what it really is." 
" Then you're going to give us a study of tempera- 
ments." 
" Yes," she assented. And after a moment, given to 
letting the notion get quite home with her, she asked, 
vividly, " Would you let me use it ?" 
" The phrase ? Why, certainly. But wouldn't it be 
rather too psychological? I think just Seeing Ghosts 
would be better." 
 
" Better than Seeing Ghosts: A Study of Temperar 
merits? Perhaps it would. It would be simpler." 
" And in this house you need all the simplicity you 
can get," he suggested. 
She smiled, intelligently but reticently. "My idea 
is that every one somehow really believes in ghosts — 
I know I do — and so fully expects to see one that any 
sort of make-up will affect them for the moment just 
as if they did see one. I thought — that perhaps — I 
don't know how to say it without seeming to make 
use of you — " 
" Oh, do make use of me, Miss Shirley !" 
" That you could give me some hints about the set- 
ting, with your knowledge of the stage — " She stopped, 
having rushed forward to that point, while he continued 
to look steadily at her without answering her. She 
faced him courageously, but not convincingly. 
" Did you think that I was an actor ?" he asked, 
finally. 
" Mrs. Westangle seemed to think you were." 
"But did you?" 
" I'm sure I didn't mean — I beg your pardon — " 
" It's all right. If I were an actor I shouldn't be 
ashamed of it. But I was merely curious to know 
whether you shared the prevalent superstition. I'm 
afraid I can't help you from a knowledge of the stage, 
but if I can be of use, from a sort of amateur interest 
in psychology, with an affair like this I shall be only 
too glad." 
" Thank you," she said, somewhat faintly, with an 
effect of dismay disproportionate to the occasion. 
She sank into a chair before which she had been 
standing, and she looked as if she were going to swoon. 
He started towards her with an alarmed " Miss Shir- 
ley!" 
 
She put out a hand weakly to stay him. " Don't !" 
she entreated. " I'm a little — I shall be all right in 
a moment." 
" Can't I get you something — call some one ?" 
" Not for the world !" she commanded, and she 
pulled herself together and stood up. " But I think I'll 
stop for to-night. I'm glad my idea strikes you favor- 
ably. It's merely — Oh, you found it, Mrs. Stager!" 
She broke off to address the woman who had now come 
back and was holding up the trailing breadths of the 
electric-blue gauze. " Isn't it lovely ?" She gave herself 
time to adore the drapery, with its changes of meteoric 
lucence, before she rose and took it. She went with 
it to the background in the library, where, against the 
glass door of the cases, she involved herself in it and 
stood shimmering. A thrill pierced to Verrian's heart ; 
she was indeed wraithlike, so that he hated to have her 
call, " How will that do ?" 
Mrs. Stager modestly referred the question to him by 
her silence. " I will answer for its doing, if it does 
for the others as it's done for me." 
She laughed. " And you doubly knew what it was. 
Yes, I think it will go." She took another pose, and 
then another. " What do you think of it, Mrs. Stager ?" 
she called to the woman standing respectfully abeyant 
at one side. 
" It's awful. I don't know but I'll be afraid to go 
to my room." 
" Sit down, and I'll go to your room with you when 
I'm through. I won't be long, now." 
She tried different gauzes, which she had lying on 
one of the chairs, and crowned herself with triumph 
in the applauses of her two spectators, rejoicing with 
a glee that Verrian found childlike and winning. " If 
they're all like you, it will be the greatest success !" 
" They'll all be like me, and more," he said. " I'm 
really very severe." 
" Are you a severe person ?" she asked, coming for- 
ward to him. " Ought people to be afraid of you ?" 
" Yes, people with bad consciences. I'm rather afraid 
of myself for that reason." 
" Have you got a bad conscience ?" she asked, letting 
her eyes rest on his. 
" Yes. I can't make my conduct square with my 
ideal of conduct." 
" I know what that is !" she sighed. " Do you expect 
to be punished for it?" 
" I expect to be got even with." 
" Yes, one is. I've noticed that myself. But I 
didn't suppose that actors — Oh, I forgot ! I beg your 
pardon again, Mr. Verrian. Oh — Good-night !" She 
faced him evanescently in going out, with the woman 
after her, but, whether she did so more in fear or more in 
defiance, she left him standing motionless in his doubt, 
and she did nothing to solve his doubt when she came 
quickly back alone, before he was aware of having 
moved, to say, " Mr. Verrian, I want to — I have to — 
tell you that — I didn't think you were the actor." Then 
she was finally gone, and Verrian had nothing for it 
but to go up to his room with the book he found he had 
in his hand and must have had there all the time. 
If he had read it, the book would not have eased him 
off to sleep, but he did not even try to read it. He had 
no wish to sleep. The waking dream in which he lost 
himself was more interesting than any vision of slumber 
could have been, and he had no desire to end it. In 
that he could still be talking with the girl whose mystery 
appealed to him so pleasingly. It was none the less 
pleasing because, at what might be called her first 
blushes, she did not strike him as altogether ingenuous, 
 
but only able to discipline herself into a final sincerity 
from a consciousness which had been taught wisdom by 
experience. 
She was still a scarcely recovered invalid, and it was 
pathetic that she should be commencing the struggle 
of life with strength so little proportioned to the de- 
mand upon it ; and the calling she had taken up was of 
a fantasticality in some aspects which was equally 
pathetic. But all the undertakings of women, he mused, 
were piteous, not only because women were unequal to 
the struggle at the best, but because they were ham- 
pered always with themselves, with their sex, their 
femininity, and the necessity of getting it out of the 
way before they could really begin to fight. Whatever 
they attempted it must be in relation to the man's world 
in which livings were made ; but the immemorial con- 
ditions were almost wholly unchanged. A woman ap- 
proached this world as a woman, with the inborn in- 
stinct of tempting it as a woman, to win it to love her 
and make her a wife and mother; and although she 
might stoically overcome the temptation at last, it might 
recur at any moment and overcome her. This was 
perpetually weakening and imperilling her, and she 
must feel it at the encounter with each man she met. 
She must feel the tacit and even unconscious irony 
of his attitude towards her in her enterprise, and the 
finer her make the crueller and the more humiliating 
and disheartening this must be. 
Of course, this Miss Shirley felt Verrian's irony, 
which he had guarded from any expression with gen- 
uine compassion for her. She must feel that to his 
knowledge of life she and her experiment had an ab- 
surdity which would not pass, whatever their success 
might be. If she meant business, and business only, 
they ought to have met as two men would have met, but 
 
he knew that they had not done so, and she must have 
known it. All that was plain sailing enough, but be- 
yond this lay a sea of conjecture in which he found him- 
self without helm or compass. Why should she have 
acted a fib about his being an actor, and why, after the 
end, should she have added an end, in which she re- 
turned to own that she had been fibbing ? For that was 
what it came to ; and though Verrian tasted a delicious 
pleasure in the womanish feat by which she overcame 
her womanishness, he could not puzzle out her motive. 
He was not sure that he wished to puzzle it out. To re- 
main with illimitable guesses at his choice was more 
agreeable, for the present at least, and he was not 
aware of having lapsed from them when he woke so 
late as to be one of the breakf asters whose plates were 
kept for them after the others were gone. 
XVI 
It was the first time that Verrian had come down 
late, and it was his novel experience to find himself in 
charge of Mrs. Stager at breakfast, instead of the but- 
ler and the butler's man, who had hitherto served him 
at the earlier hour. There were others, somewhat re- 
mote from him, at table, who were ending when he 
was beginning, and when they had joked themselves out 
of the room and away from Mrs. Stager's ministrations 
he was left alone to her. He had instantly appreciated 
a quality of motherliness in her attitude towards him, 
and now he was sensible of a kindly intimacy to which 
he rather helplessly addressed himself. 
" Well, Mrs. Stager, did you see a ghost on your way 
to bed?" 
" I don't know as I really expected to," she said. 
" Won't you have a few more of the buckwheats ?" 
" Do you think I'd better ? I believe I won't. 
They're very tempting. Miss Shirley makes a very 
good ghost," he suggested. 
Mrs. Stager would not at first commit herself further 
than to say in bringing him the butter, " She's just 
up from a long fit of sickness." She impulsively 
added, " She ain't hardly strong enough to be doing 
what she is, I tell her." 
" I understood she had been ill," Verrian said. " We 
drove over from the station together, the other day." 
" Yes," Mrs. Stager admitted. " Kind of a nervous 
breakdown, I believe. But she's got an awful spirit. 
 
Mrs. Westangle don't want her to do all she is do- 
ing." 
Verrian looked at her in surprise. He had not ex- 
pected that of the india-nihher nature he had attributed 
to Mrs. Westangle. In view of Mrs. Stager's privity to 
the unimagined kindliness of his hostess, he relaxed 
himself in a further interest in Miss Shirley, as if it 
would now he safe. " She's done splendidly, so far," 
he said, meaning the girl. " I'm glad Mrs. Westangle 
appreciates her work." 
" I guess," Mrs. Stager said, " that if it hadn't 
been for you at the snow-fight — She got hack from 
getting ready for it, that morning, almost down sick, 
she was afraid so it was going to fail." 
" I didn't do anything," Verrian said, putting the 
praise from him. 
Mrs. Stager lowered her voice in an octave of deeper 
confidentiability. " You got the note ? I put it under, 
and I didn't know." 
" Oh yes, I got it," Verrian said, sensible of a re- 
lief, which he would not assign to any definite reason, 
in knowing that Miss Shirley had not herself put it 
under his door. But he now had to take up another 
burden in the question whether Miss Shirley were of 
an origin so much above that of her confidant that she 
could have a patrician fearlessness in making use of 
her, or were so near Mrs. Stager's level of life that she 
would naturally turn to her for counsel and help. Miss 
Shirley had the accent, the manners, and the frank 
courage of a lady; but those things could be learned; 
they were got up for the stage every day. 
Verrian was roused from the muse he found he had 
fallen into by hearing Mrs. Stager ask, " Won't you 
have some more coffee ?" 
" No, thank you," he said. And now he rose from the 
 
table, on which he dreamily dropped his napkin, and 
got his hat and coat and went out for a walk. He had 
not studied the art of fiction so long, in the many pri- 
vate failures that had preceded his one public success, 
without being made to observe that life sometimes dealt 
in the accidents and coincidences which his criticism 
condemned as too habitually the resource of the novelist. 
Hitherto he had disdained them for this reason; but 
since his serial story was off his hands, and he was 
beginning to look about him for fresh material, he had 
doubted more than once whether his severity was not 
the effect of an unjustifiable prejudice. 
It struck him now, in turning the corner of the wood- 
lot above the meadow where the snow-battle had taken 
place, and suddenly finding himself face to face with 
Miss Shirley, that nature was in one of her uninventive 
moods and was helping herself out from the old stock- 
in-trade of fiction. All the same, he felt a glow of 
pleasure, which was also a glow of pity ; for while Miss 
Shirley looked, as always, interesting, she look tired, 
too, with a sort of desperate air which did not otherwise 
account for itself. She had given, at sight of him, a 
little start, and a little " Oh !" dropped from her lips, 
as if it had been jostled from them. She made haste 
to go on, with something like the voluntary hardi- 
ness of the courage that plucks itself from the primary 
emotion of fear, " You are going down to try the 
skating ?" 
" Do I look it, without skates ?" 
" You may be going to try the sliding," she returned. 
" I'm afraid there won't be much of either for long. 
This soft air is going to make havoc of my plans for 
to-morrow." 
" That's too bad of it. Why not hope for a hard 
freeze to-night ? You might as well. The weather has 
 
been known to change its mind. You might even change 
your plans." 
" No, I can't do that. I can't think of anything else. 
It's to bridge over the day that's left before Seeing 
Ghosts. If it does freeze, you'll come to Mrs. West- 
angle's afternoon tea on the pond ?" 
" I certainly shall. How is it to be worked ?" 
" She's to have her table on a platform, with runners, 
in a bower of evergreen boughs, and be pushed about, 
and the people are to skate up for the tea. There are 
to be tea and chocolate, and two girls to pour, just as in 
real life. It isn't a very dazzling idea, but I thought it 
might do; and Mrs. Westangle is so good-natured. 
Now, if the thermometer will do its part !" 
" I am sure it will," Verrian said, but a glance at 
the gray sky did not confirm him in his prophetic 
venture. The snow was sodden under foot; a breath 
from the south stirred the pines to an aeolian response 
and moved the stiff, dry leaves of the scrub-oaks. A 
sapsucker was marking an accurate circle of dots round 
the throat of a tall young maple, and enjoying his work 
in a low, guttural soliloquy, seemingly, yet, dismayingly, 
suggestive of spring. 
" It's lovely, anyway," she said, following his glance 
with an upward turn of her face. 
" Yes, it's beautiful. I think this sort of winter day 
is about the best the whole year can do. But I will 
sacrifice the chance of another like it to your skating- 
tea, Miss Shirley." 
He did not know why he should have made this speech 
to her, but apparently she did, and she said, " You're 
always coming to my help, Mr. Verrian." 
"Don't mention it!" 
" I won't, then," she said, with a smile that showed 
her thin face at its thinnest and left her lip caught on 
 
her teeth till she brought it down voluntarily. It was 
a small but full lip and pretty, and this trick of it 
had a fascination. She added, gravely, " I don't believe 
you will like my ice-tea." 
" I haven't any active hostility to it. You can't 
always be striking twelve — twelve midnight — as you 
will be in Seeing Ghosts. But your ice-tea will do 
very well for striking five. I'm rather elaborate !" 
" Not too elaborate to hide your real opinion. I won- 
der what you do think of my own elaboration — I mean 
of my scheme." 
" Yes ?" 
They had moved on, at his turning to walk with her, 
so as not to keep her standing in the snow, and now she 
said, looking over her shoulder at him, " I've decided 
that it won't do to let the ghost have all the glory. I 
don't think it will be fair to let the people merely be 
scared, even when they've been warned that they're 
to see a ghost and told it isn't real." 
She seemed to refer the point to him, and he said, 
provisionally, " I don't know what more they can 
ask." 
" They can ask questions. I'm going to let each per- 
son speak to the ghost, if not scared dumb, and ask it 
just what they please; and I'm going to answer their 
questions if I can." 
" Won't it be something of an intellectual strain ?" 
" Yes, it will. But it will be fun, too, a little, and 
it will help the thing to go off. What do you think ?" 
" I think it's fine. Are you going to give it out, so 
that they can be studying up their questions ?" 
" No, their questions have got to be impromptu. Or, 
at least, the first one has. Of course, after the scheme 
has once been given away, the ghost-seers will be more 
or less prepared, and the ghost will have to stand it." 
 
" I think it's great. Are you going to let me have a 
chance with a question ?" 
" Are you going to see a ghost ?" 
" To be sure I am. May I really ask it what I 
please ?" 
" If you're honest." 
" Oh, I shall be honest— " 
He stopped breathlessly, but she did not seem called 
upon to supply any meaning for his abruptness. " I'm 
awfully glad you like the idea," she said. " I have had 
to think the whole thing out for myself, and I haven't 
been quite certain that the question-asking wasn't rather 
silly, or, at least, sillier than the rest. Thank you so 
much, Mr. Verrian." 
" I've thought of my question," he began again, as 
abruptly as he had stopped before. " May I ask it 
now ?" 
Cries of laughter came up from the meadow below, 
and the voices seemed coming nearer. 
" Oh, I mustn't be seen !" Miss Shirley lamented. 
" Oh, dear ! If I'm seen the whole thing is given away. 
What shall I do?" She whirled about and ran down 
the road towards a path that entered the wood. 
He ran after her. " My question is, May I come to 
see you when you get back to town ?" 
" Yes, certainly. But don't come now ! You mustn't 
be seen with me ! I'm not supposed to be in the house 
at all." 
If Verrian's present mood had been more analytic, 
it might have occurred to him that the element of 
mystery which Miss Shirley seemed to cherish in re- 
gard to herself personally was something that she could 
dramatically apply with peculiar advantage to the 
phantasmal part she was to take in her projected en- 
tertainment. But he was reduced from the exercise of 
 
his analytic powers to a passivity in which he was 
chiefly conscious of her pathetic fascination. This 
seemed to emanate from her frail prettiness no less 
than from the sort of fearful daring with which she 
was pushing her whole enterprise through; it came as 
much from her undecided hlondness — from her dust- 
colored hair, for instance — as from the entreating look 
of her pinched eyes, only just lighting their convalescent 
fires, and from the weakness that showed, with the grace, 
in her run through the wintry woods, where he watched 
her till the underhrush thickened behind her and hid 
her from him. Altogether his impression was very 
complex, but he did not get so far even as the realiza- 
tion of this, in his mental turmoil, as he turned with 
a deep sigh and walked meditatively homeward through 
the incipient thaw. 
It did not rain at night, as it seemed so likely to do, 
and by morning the cloudiness of the sky had so far 
thinned that the sun looked mildly through it without 
more than softening the frozen surface of the pond, so 
that Mrs. Westangle's ice-tea (as everybody called it, 
by a common inspiration, or by whatever circuitous 
adoption of Verrian's phrase) came off with great suc- 
cess. People from other houses were there, and they 
all said that they wondered how she came to have such 
a brilliant idea, and they kept her there till nearly 
dark. Then the retarded rain began, in a fine drizzle, 
and her house guests were forced homeward, but not 
too soon to get a good, long rest before dressing for 
dinner. She was praised for her understanding with 
the weather, and for her meteorological forecast as much 
as for her invention in imagining such a delightful and 
original thing as an ice-tea, which no one else had ever 
thought of. Some of the women appealed to Verrian 
to say if he had ever heard of anything like it; and 
-  
they felt that Mrs. Westangle was certainly arriving, 
and by no beaten track. 
None of the others put it in these terms, of course; 
it was merely a consensus of feeling with them, and 
what was more articulate was dropped among the iro- 
nies with which Miss Macroyd more confidentially cele- 
brated the event. Out of hearing of the others, in slow- 
ly following them with Verrian, she recurred to their 
talk. " Yes, it's only a question of money enough 
for Newport, after this. She's chic now, and after a 
season there she will be smart. But oh, dear! How 
came she to be chic ? Can you imagine ?" 
Verrian did not feel bound to a categorical answer, 
and in his private reflections he dealt with another 
question. This was how far Miss Shirley was culpable 
in the fraud she was letting Mrs. Westangle practise 
on her innocent guests. It was a distasteful question, 
and he did not find it much more agreeable when it sub- 
divided itself into the question of necessity on her part, 
and of a not very clearly realized situation on Mrs. 
Westangle's. The girl had a right to sell her ideas, and 
perhaps the woman thought they were her own when she 
had paid for them. There could be that view of it all. 
The furtive nature of Miss Shirley's presence in the 
house might very well be a condition of that grand 
event she was preparing. It was all very mysterious. 
XVII 
It rained throughout the evening, with a wailing of 
' the wind in the gables, and a weeping and a sobbing 
of the water from the eaves that Mrs. Westangle's guests, 
securely housed from the storm, made the most of for 
weirdness. There had been a little dancing, which 
gave way to so much sitting-out that the volunteer 
music abruptly ceased as if in dudgeon, and there was 
nothing left but weirdness to bring young hearts to- 
gether. Weirdness can do a good deal with girls loung- 
ing in low chairs, and young men on rugs round a 
glowing hearth at their feet; and every one told some 
strange thing that had happened at first hand, or second 
or third hand, either to himself or herself, or to their 
fathers or brothers or grandmothers or old servants. 
They were stimulated in eking out these experiences not 
only by the wildness of the rain without, but by the 
mystery of being shut off from the library into the 
drawing-room and hall while the preparations for the 
following night were beginning. But weirdness is not 
inexhaustible, even when shared on such propitious 
terms between a group of young people rapidly ad- 
vanced in intimacy by a week's stay under the same 
roof, and at the first yawn a gay dispersion of the 
votaries ended it all. 
The yawn came from Bushwick, who boldly owned, 
when his guilt was brought home to him, that he was 
sleepy, and that as he expected to be scared out of a 
year's growth the next night, and not be able to sleep 
 
for a week afterwards, he was now going to bed. He 
shook hands with Mrs. Westangle for good-night. The 
latest to follow him was Verrian, who, strangely alert, 
and as far from drowsiness as he had ever known him- 
self, was yet more roused by realizing that Mrs. West- 
angle was not letting his hand go at once, but, unless 
it was mere absent-mindedness, was conveying through 
it the wish to keep him. She fluttered a little more 
closely up to him, and twittered out, " Miss Shirley 
wants me to let you know that she has told me about 
your coming together, and everything." 
" Oh, I'm very glad," Verrian said, not sure that it 
was the right thing. 
" I don't know why she feels so, but she has a right 
to do as she pleases about it. She's not a guest." 
" No," Verrian assented. 
" It happens very well, though, for the ghost-seeing 
that people don't know she's here. After that I shall 
tell them. In fact, she wants me to, for she must be 
on the lookout for other engagements. I am going to 
do everything I can for her, and if you hear of any- 
thing—" 
Verrian bowed, with a sense of something offensive 
in her words which he could not logically feel, since 
it was a matter of business and was put squarely on 
a business basis. " I should be very glad," he said, non- 
committally. 
" She was sure from the first," Mrs. Westangle went 
on, as if there were some relation between the fact and 
her request, " that you were not the actor. She knew 
you were a writer." 
" Oh, indeed !" Verrian said. 
" I thought that if you were writing for the news- 
papers you might know how to help her — " 
" I'm not a newspaper writer," Verrian answered, 
 
with, a resentment which, she seemed to feel, for she said, 
with a sort of apology in her tone : 
" Oh ! Well, I don't suppose it matters. She doesn't 
know I'm speaking to you about that ; it just came into 
my head. I like to help in a worthy object, you know. 
I hope you'll have a good night's rest." 
She turned and looked round with the air of distrac- 
tion which she had after speaking to any one, and which 
Verrian fancied came as much from a paucity as from 
a multiplicity of suggestion in her brain, and so left him 
standing. But she came back to say, " Of course, it's 
all between ourselves till after to-morrow night, Mr. 
Verrian." 
" Oh, certainly," he replied, and went vaguely off 
in the direction of the billiard-room. It was light and 
warm there, though the place was empty, and he de- 
cided upon a cigar as a proximate or immediate solu- 
tion. He sat smoking before the fire till the tobacco's 
substance had half turned into a wraith of ash, and 
not really thinking of anything very definitely, except 
the question whether he should be able to sleep after 
he went to bed, when he heard a creeping step on the 
floor. He turned quickly, with a certain expectance in 
his nerves, and saw nothing more ghostly than Bush- 
wick standing at the corner of the table and apparently 
hesitating how to speak to him. 
He said, " Hello !" and at this Bushwick said : 
"Look here!" 
" Well ?" Verrian asked, looking at him. 
" How does it happen you're up so late, after every- 
body else is wrapped in slumber?" 
" I might ask the same of you." 
" Well, I found I wasn't making it a case of sleep, 
exactly, and so I got up." 
" Well, I hadn't gone to bed for much the same 
reason. Why couldn't you sleep ? A real-estate broker 
ought to have a clean conscience." 
" So ought a publisher, for that matter. What do 
you think of this ghost-dance, anyway?" 
" It might be amusing — if it fails." Verrian was 
tempted to add the condition by the opportunity for a 
cynicism which he did not feel. It is one of the privi- 
leges of youth to be cynical, whether or no. 
Busbwick sat down before the fire and rubbed his 
shins with his two hands unrestfully, drawing in a 
long breath between his teeth. " These things get on 
to my nerves sometimes. I shouldn't want the ghost- 
dance to fail." 
" On Mrs. Westangle's account ?" 
" I guess Mrs. Westangle could stand it. Look here !" 
It was rather a customary phrase of his, Verrian noted. 
As he now used it he looked alertly round at Verrian, 
with his hands still on his shins. " What's the use of 
our beating round the bush ?" 
Verrian delayed his answer long enough to decide 
against the aimless pun of asking, " What Bushwick ?" 
and merely asked, " What bush ?" 
" The bush where the milk in the cocoanut grows. 
You don't pretend that you believe Mrs. Westangle has 
been getting up all these fairy stunts ?" 
Verrian returned to his cigar, from which the ashen 
wraith dropped into his lap. " I guess you'll have to 
be a little clearer." But as Bushwick continued silent- 
ly looking at him, the thing could not be left at this 
point, and he was obliged to ask of his own initiative, 
" How much do you know ?" 
Bushwick leaned back in his chair, with his eyes still 
on Verrian's profile. " As much as Miss Macroyd could 
tell me." 
" Ah, I'm still in the dark," Verrian politely re- 
 
gretted, but not without a tacit wish to wring Miss 
Macroyd's neck, which he would not have known how 
to account for. 
" Well, she says that Mrs. Westangle has a profes- 
sional assistant who's doing the whole job for her, and 
that she came down on the same train with herself and 
you." 
" Did she say that she grabbed the whole victoria for 
herself and maid at the station?" Verrian demanded, 
in a burst of rage, " and left us to get here the best 
way we could ?" 
Bushwick grinned. " She supposed there were other 
carriages, and when she found there weren't she hur- 
ried the victoria back for you." 
" You think she believes all that ? I'm glad she has 
