aggression--but something indefinable--merely negative at first, then
more disturbing, sinister, foreboding; something in the very air to
which he was growing more sensitive every day.

By all laws of finance, by all signs and omens, a serious reaction from
the saturnalia of the last few years was already over-due. He had felt
it, without alarm at first, for the men of the West laughed him to scorn
and refused to shorten sail. They still refused. Perhaps they could not.
One thing was certain: he could scarcely manage to take in a single reef
on his own account. He was beginning to realise that the men with whom
rumour was busy were men marked down by their letters; and they either
would not or could not aid him in shortening sail.

For a month, now, under his bland and graceful learning among the
intimates of his set, Dysart had been slowly but steadily going to
pieces. At such moments as this it showed on the surface. It showed now
in his loose jaw and flaccid cheeks; in the stare of the quenched eyes.

He was going to pieces, and he was aware of it. For one thing, he
recognised the physical change setting in; for another, his cool,
selfish, self-centred equanimity was being broken down; the rigorous
bodily régime from which he had never heretofore swerved and which alone
enabled him to perform the exacting social duties expected of him, he
had recently neglected. He felt the impending bodily demoralisation,
the threatened mental disintegration; he suspected its symptoms in a
new nervous irritability, in lapses of self-command, in unaccountable
excesses utterly foreign to his habitual self-control.

Dissolute heretofore only in the negative form, whatever it was that
impended threatening him, seemed also to be driving him into an utter
and monstrous lack of caution, and--God alone knew how--he had at last
done the one thing that he never dreamed of doing. And the knowledge of
it, and the fear of it, bit deeper into his shallow soul every hour of
the day and night. And over all, vague, indefinite, hung something that
menaced all that he cared for most on earth, held most sacred--his
social position in the Borough of Manhattan and his father's pride in
him and it.

       *       *       *       *       *

After a while he stood up in his pale blue silken costume of that
mincing, smirking century which valued a straight back and a well-turned
leg, and very slowly, as though tired, he walked to the door separating
his wife's dressing-room from his own.

"May I come in?" he asked.

A maid opened the door, saying that Mrs. Dysart had gone to Miss Quest's
room to have her hair powdered. He seated himself; the maid retired.

For a while he sat there, absently playing with his gilt-hilted sword,
sombre-eyed, preoccupied, listening to the distant joyous tumult in the
house, until quick, light steps and a breezy flurry of satin at the door
announced his wife's return.

"Oh," she said coolly; "you?"

That was her greeting; his was a briefer nod.

She went to her mirror and studied her face, trying a patch here, a
hint of vermilion there, touching up brow and lashes and the sweet,
curling corners of her mouth.

"Well?" she inquired, over her shoulder, insolently.

He got up out of the chair, shut the door, and returned to his seat
again.

"Have you made up your mind about the D and P securities?" he asked.

"I told you I'd let you know when I came to any conclusion," she replied
drily.

"Yes, I know what you said, Rosalie. But the time is shortening. I've
got to meet certain awkward obligations----"

"So you intimated before."

He nodded and went on amiably: "All I ask of you is to deposit those
securities with us for a few months. They are as safe with us as they
are with the Half-Moon. Do you think I'd let you do it if I were not
certain?"

She turned and scrutinised him insultingly:

"I don't know," she said, "how many kinds of treachery you are capable
of."

"What do you mean?"

"What I say. Frankly, I don't know what you are capable of doing with my
money. If I can judge by what you've done with my married life, I
scarcely feel inclined to confide in you financially."

"There is no use in going over that again," he said patiently. "We
differ little from ordinary people, I fancy. I think our house is as
united as the usual New York domicile. The main thing is to keep it so.
And in a time of some slight apprehension and financial
uneasiness--perhaps even of possible future stress--you and I, for our
own sakes, should stand firmly together to weather any possible gale."

"I think I am able to weather whatever I am responsible for," she said.
"If you do the same, we can get on as well as we ever have."

"I don't believe you understand," he persisted, forcing a patient smile.
"All business in the world is conducted upon borrowed capital. I
merely----"

"Do you need more capital?" she inquired, so bluntly that he winced.

"Yes, for a few months. I may require a little additional
collateral----"

"Why don't you borrow it, then?"

"There is no necessity if you will temporarily transfer----"

"Can you borrow it? Or is the ice in your trust company too rotten to
stand the strain?"

He flushed darkly and the temper began to escape in his voice:

"Has anybody hinted that I couldn't? Have you been discussing my
personal business affairs with any of the pups whom you drag about at
your heels? No matter what your personal attitude toward me may be, only
a fool would undermine the very house that----"

"I don't believe you understand, Jack," she said quietly; "I care
absolutely nothing about your house."

"Well, you care about your own social status, I suppose!" he retorted
sharply.

"Not very much."

"That's an imbecile thing to say!"

"Is it?" She turned to the mirror and touched her powdered hair lightly
with both hands, and continued speaking with her back turned toward him:

"I married you for love. Remember that. There was even something of it
alive in the roots, I think, until within a few days--in spite of what
you are, what you have done to me. Now the thing is dead. I can tell you
when it died, if you like."

And as he said nothing:

"It died when I came in late one evening, and, passing my corridor and a
certain locked door, I heard a young girl sobbing. Then it died."

She turned on him, contemptuously indifferent, and surveyed him at her
leisure:

"Your conduct to me has been such as to deliberately incite me to evil.
Your attitude has been a constant occult force, driving me toward it. By
the life you have led, and compelled me to lead, you have virtually set
a premium upon my infidelity. What you may have done, I don't know; what
you have done, even recently, I am not sure of. But I know this: you
took my life and made a parody of it. I never lived; I have been tempted
to. If the opportunity comes, I will."

Dysart rose, his face red and distorted:

"I thought young Mallett had taught you to live pretty rapidly!" he
said.

"No," she replied, "you only thought other people thought so. That is
why you resented it. Your jealousy is of that sort--you don't care what
I am, but you do care what the world thinks I am. And that is all there
ever was to you--all there ever will be: desperate devotion to your
wretched little social status, which includes sufficient money and a
chaste wife to make it secure."

She laughed; fastened a gardenia in her hair:

"I don't know about your money, and I don't care. As for your wife, she
will remain chaste as long as it suits her, and not one fraction of a
second longer."

"Are you crazy?" he demanded.

"Why, it does seem crazy to you, I suppose--that a woman should have no
regard for the sacredness of your social status. I have no regard for
it. As for your honour"--she laughed unpleasantly--"I've never had it to
guard, Jack. And I'll be responsible for my own, and the tarnishing of
it. I think that is all I have to say."

She walked leisurely toward the door, passing him with a civil nod of
dismissal, and left him standing there in his flower-embroidered
court-dress, the electric light shining full on the thin gray hair at
his temples.

In the corridor she met Naïda, charming in her blossom-embroidered
panniers; and she took both her hands and kissed her, saying:

"Perhaps you won't care to have me caress you some day, so I'll take
this opportunity, dear. Where is your brother?"

"Duane is dressing," she said. "What did you mean by my not wishing to
kiss you some day?"

"Nothing, silly." And she passed on, turned to the right, and met Sylvia
Quest, looking very frail and delicate in her bath-robe and powdered
hair. The girl passed her with the same timid, almost embarrassed little
inclination with which she now invariably greeted her, and Rosalie
turned and caught her, turning her around with a laugh. "What is the
matter, dear?"

"M-matter?" stammered Sylvia, trembling under the reaction.

"Yes. You are not very friendly, and I've always liked you. Have I
offended you, Sylvia?"

She was looking smilingly straight into the blue eyes.

"No--oh, no!" said the girl hastily. "How can you think that, Mrs.
Dysart?"

"Then I don't think it," replied Rosalie, laughing. "You are a trifle
pale, dear. Touch up your lips a bit. It's very Louis XVI. See mine?...
Will you kiss me, Sylvia?"

Again a strange look flickered in the girl's eyes; Rosalie kissed her
gently; she had turned very white.

"What is your costume?" asked Mrs. Dysart.

"Flame colour and gold."

"Hell's own combination, dear," laughed Rosalie. "You will make an
exquisite little demon shepherdess."

And she went on, smiling back at the girl in friendly fashion, then
turned and lightly descended the stairway, snapping on her loup-mask
before the jolly crowd below could identify her.

Masked figures here and there detained her, addressing her in disguised
voices, but she eluded them, slipped through the throngs on terrace and
lawn, ran down the western slope and entered the rose-garden. A man in
mask and violet-gray court costume rose from a marble seat under the
pergola and advanced toward her, the palm of his left hand carelessly
balanced on his gilded hilt.

"So you did get my note, Duane?" she said, laying her pretty hand on his
arm.

"I certainly did. What can I do for you, Rosalie?"

"I don't know. Shall we sit here a moment?"

He laughed, but continued standing after she was seated.

The air was heavy with the scent of rockets and phlox and ragged pinks
and candy-tuft. Through the sweet-scented dusky silence some small and
very wakeful bird was trilling. Great misty-winged moths came whirring
and hovering among the blossoms, pale blurs in the darkness, and
everywhere the drifting lamps of fireflies lighted and died out against
the foliage.

The woman beside him sat with masked head bent and slightly turned from
him; her restless hands worried her fan; her satin-shod feet were
crossed and recrossed.

"What is the matter?" he asked.

"Life. It's all so very wrong."

"Oh," he said, smiling, "so it's life that is amiss, not we!"

"I suppose we are.... I suppose I am. But, Duane"--she turned and looked
at him--"I haven't had much of a chance yet--to go very right or very
wrong."

"You've had chances enough for the latter," he said with an unpleasant
laugh. "In this sweet coterie we inhabit, there's always that chance."

"There are good women in it, good wives. Your sister is in it."

"Yes, and I mean to take her out," said Duane grimly. "Do you think I
want Naïda to marry some money-fattened pup in this set?"

"Where can you take her?"

"Where I'm going in future myself--among people whose brains are not as
obsolete as my appendix; where there still exist standards and
old-fashioned things like principles and religion, and a healthy terror
of the Decalogue!"

"Is anybody really still afraid of the Decalogue?" she asked curiously.

"Even we are, but some of us are more afraid of ennui. Fire and fear are
the greatest purifiers in the world; it's fear of some sort or other,
and only fear, that keeps the world as decent as it is."

"I'm not afraid," she said, playing with her fan. "I'm only afraid of
dying before I have lived at all."

"What do you call living?"

"Being loved," she said, and looked up at him.

"You poor little thing!" he said, only partly in earnest.

"Yes, I'm sorry for the girl I was.... I was rather a nice girl, Duane.
You remember me before I married."

"Yes, I do. You were a corker. You are still."

She nodded: "Yes, outwardly. Within is--nothing. I am very, very old;
very tired."

He said no more. She sat listlessly watching the dusk-moths hovering
among the pinks. Far away in the darkness rockets were rising, spraying
the sky with fire; faint strains of music came from the forest.

"Their Fête Galante has begun," she said. "Am I detaining you too long,
Duane?"

"No."

She smiled: "It is rather amusing," she observed, "my coming to you for
my morals--to you, Duane, who were once supposed to possess so few."

"Never mind what I possess," he said, irritated. "What sort of advice do
you expect?"

"Why, moral advice, of course."

"Oh! Are you on the verge of demoralisation?"

"I don't know. Am I?... There is a man----"

"Of course," he said, coming as near a sneer as he was capable. "I know
what you've done. You've nearly twisted poor Grandcourt's head off his
honest neck. If you want to know what I think of it, it's an abominable
thing to do. Why, anybody can see that the man is in love with you, and
desperately unhappy already, I told you to let him alone. You promised,
too."

He spoke rapidly, sharply; she bent her fair head in silence until he
ended.

"May I defend myself?" she asked.

"Of course."

"Then--I did not mean to make him care for me."

"You all say that."

"Yes; we are not always as innocent as I happen to be this time. I
really did not try, did not think, that he was taking a little
unaccustomed kindness on my part so seriously ... I overdid it; I'd been
beastly to him--most women are rude to Delancy Grandcourt, somehow or
other. I always was. And one day--that day in the forest--somehow
something he said opened my eyes--hurt me.... And women are fools to
believe him one. Why, Duane, he's every inch a man--high-minded,
sensitive, proud, generous, forbearing."

Duane turned and stared at her; and to her annoyance the blood mounted
to her cheeks, but she went on:

"Of course he has affected me. I don't know how it might have been with
me if I were not so--so utterly starved."

"You mean to say you are beginning to care for Delancy Grandcourt?"

"Care? Yes--in a perfectly nice way----"

"And otherwise?"

"I--don't know. I am honest with you, Duane; I don't know. A--a little
devotion of that kind"--she tried to laugh--"goes to my head, perhaps.
I've been so long without it.... I don't know. And I came here to tell
you. I came here to ask you what I ought to do."

"Good Lord!" said Duane, "do you already care enough for him to worry
about your effect on him?"

"I--do not wish him to be unhappy."

"Oh. But you are willing to be unhappy in order to save him any
uneasiness. See here, Rosalie, you'd better pull up sharp."

"Had I?"

"Certainly," he said brutally. "Not many days ago you were adrift. Don't
cut your cable again."

A vivid colour mounted to her temples:

"That is all over," she said. "Have I not come to you again in spite of
the folly that sent me drifting to you before? And can I pay you a truer
compliment, Duane, than to ask the hospitality of your forbearance and
the shelter of your friendship?"

"You are a trump, Rosalie," he said, after a moment's scowling.
"You're all right.... I don't know what to say.... If it's going to give
you a little happiness to care for this man----"

"But what will it do to him, Duane?"

"It ought to do him good if such a girl as you gives him all of herself
that she decently can. I don't know whether I'm right or wrong!" he
added almost angrily. "Confound it! there seems no end to conjugal
infelicity around us these days. I don't know where the line is--how
close to the danger mark an unhappy woman may drift and do no harm to
anybody. All I know is that I'm sorry--terribly sorry for you. You're a
corker."

"Thanks," she said with a faint smile. "Do you think Delancy may safely
agree with you without danger to his peace of mind?"

"Why not? After all, you're entitled to lawful happiness. So is he....
Only----"

"Only--what?"

"I've never seen it succeed."

"Seen what succeed?"

"What is popularly known as the platonic."

"Oh, this isn't that," she said naïvely. "He's rather in love already,
and I'm quite sure I could be if I--I let myself."

Duane groaned.

"Don't come to me asking what to do, then," he said impatiently,
"because I know what you ought to do and I don't know what I'd do under
the circumstances. You know as well as I do where the danger mark is.
Don't you?"

"I--suspect."

"Well, then----"

"Oh, we haven't reached it yet," she said innocently.

Her honesty appalled him, and he got up and began to pace the gravel
walk.

"Do you intend to cross it?" he asked, halting abruptly.

"No, I don't.... I don't want to.... Do you think there is any fear of
it?"

"My Lord!" he said in despair, "you talk like a child. I'm trying to
realise that you women--some of you who appear so primed with doubtful,
worldly wisdom--are practically as innocent as the day you married."

"I don't know very much about some things, Duane."

"I notice that," he said grimly.

She said very gravely: "This is the first time I have ever come very
near caring for a man.... I mean since I married." And she rose and
glanced toward the forest.

They stood together for a moment, listening to the distant music, then,
without speaking, turned and walked toward the distant flare of light
which threw great trees into tangled and grotesque silhouette.

"Tales of the Geneii," she murmured, fastening her loup; "Fate is the
Sultan. Pray God nobody cuts my head off."

"You are much too amusing," he said as, side by side, they moved
silently on through the pale starlight, like errant phantoms of a
vanished age, and no further word was said between them, nor did they
look at each other again until, ahead, the road turned silvery under the
rays of the Lodge acetylenes, and beyond, the first cluster of brilliant
lanterns gleamed among the trees.

"And here we separate," she said. "Good-bye," holding out her hand. "It
is my first rendezvous. Wish me a little happiness, please."

"Happiness and--good sense," he said, smiling. He retained her hand for
a second, let it go and, stepping back, saluted her gaily as she passed
before him into the blaze of light.




CHAPTER XI

FÊTE GALANTE


The forest, in every direction, was strung with lighted lanterns; tall
torches burning edged the Gray Water, and every flame rippled straight
upward in the still air.

Through the dark, mid-summer woodland music of violin, viola, and
clarionet rang out, and the laughter and jolly uproar of the dancers
swelled and ebbed, with now and then sudden intervals of silence slowly
filled by the far noise of some unseen stream rushing westward under the
stars.

Glade, greensward, forest, aisles, and the sylvan dancing floor, bounded
by garlanded and beribboned pillars, swarmed with a gay company.
Torchlight painted strange high lights on silken masks, touching with
subdued sparkles the eyes behind the slanting eye-slits; half a thousand
lanterns threw an orange radiance across the glade, bathing the whirling
throngs of dancers, glimmering on gilded braid and sword hilt, on
powdered hair, on fresh young faces laughing behind their masks; on
white shoulders and jewelled throats, on fan and brooch and spur and
lacquered heel. There was a scent of old-time perfume in the air, and,
as Duane adjusted his mask and drew near, he saw that sets were already
forming for the minuet.

He recognised Dysart, glorious in silk and powder, perfectly in his
element, and doing his part with eighteenth-century elaboration;
Kathleen, très grande-dame, almost too exquisitely real for counterfeit;
Delancy Grandcourt, very red in the face under his mask, wig slightly
awry, conscientiously behaving as nearly like a masked gentleman of the
period as he knew how; his sister Naïda, sweet and gracious; Scott,
masked and also spectacled, grotesque and preoccupied, casting patient
glances toward the dusky solitudes that he much preferred, and from
whence a distant owl fluted at intervals, inviting his investigations.

And there were the Pink 'uns, too, easily identified, having all sorts
of a good time with a pair of maskers resembling Doucette Landon and
Peter Tappan; and there in powder, paint, and patch capered the
Beekmans, Ellises, and Montrosses--all the clans of the great and
near-great of the country-side, gathering to join the eternal hunt for
happiness where already the clarionets were sounding "Stole Away."

For the quarry in that hunt is a spectre; sighted, it steals away; and
if one remains very, very still and listens, one may hear, far and
faint, the undertone of phantom horns mocking the field that rides so
gallantly.

"Stole away," whispered Duane in Kathleen's ear, as he paused beside
her; and she seemed to know what he meant, for she nodded, smiling:

"You mean that what we hunt is doomed to die when we ride it down?"

"Let us be in at the death, anyway," he said. "Kathleen, you're charming
and masked to perfection. It's only that white skin of yours that
betrays you; it always looks as though it were fragrant. Is that
Geraldine surrounded three deep--over there under that oak-tree?"

"Yes; why are you so late, Duane? And I haven't seen Rosalie, either."

He did not care to enlighten her, but stood laughing and twirling his
sword-knot and looking across the glittering throng, where a daintily
masked young girl stood defending herself with fan and bouquet against
the persistence of her gallants. Then he shook out the lace at his
gilded cuffs, dropped one palm on his sword-hilt, saluted Kathleen's
finger-tips with graceful precision, and sauntered toward Geraldine,
dusting his nose with his filmy handkerchief--a most convincing replica
of the bland epoch he impersonated.

As for Geraldine, she was certainly a very lovely incarnation of that
self-satisfied and frivolous century; her success had already excited
her a little; men seemed suddenly to have gone quite mad about her; and
this and her own beauty were taking effect on her, producing an effect
the more vivid, perhaps, because it was a reaction from the perplexities
and tears of yesterday and the passionate tension of the morning.

Within her breast the sense of impending pleasure stirred and fluttered
deliciously with every breath of music; the confused happiness of being
in love, the relief in relaxation from a sterner problem, the noisy
carnival surging, rioting around her, men crowding about her, eager in
admiration and rivalry, the knowledge of her own loveliness--all these
set the warm blood racing through every vein, and tinted lip and cheek
with a colour in brilliant contrast to the velvety masked eyes and the
snow of the slender neck.

Through the gay tumult which rang ceaselessly around her, where she
stood, plying her painted fan, her own laughter sounded at intervals,
distinct in its refreshing purity, for it had always that crystalline
quality under a caressing softness; but Duane, who had advanced now to
the outer edge of the circle, detected in her voice no hint of that
thrilling undertone which he had known, which he alone among men had
ever awakened. Her gaiety was careless, irresponsible, childlike in its
clarity; under her crescent mask the smiles on her smooth young face
dawned and died out, brief as sun-spots flashing over snow. Briefer
intervals of apparent detachment from everything succeeded them; a
distrait survey of the lantern-lit dancers, a preoccupied glance at the
man speaking to her, a lifting of the delicate eyebrows in smiling
preoccupation. But always behind the black half-mask her eyes wandered
throughout the throng as though seeking something hidden; and on her
vivid lips the smile became fixed.

Whether or not she had seen him, Duane could not tell, but presently, as
he forced a path toward her, she stirred, closed her fan, took a step
forward, head a trifle lowered; and right of way was given her, as she
moved slowly through the cluster of men, shaking her head in vexation to
the whispered importunities murmured in her ear, answering each
according to his folly--this man with a laugh, that with a gesture of
hand or shoulder, but never turning to reply, never staying her feet
until, passing close to Duane, and not even looking at him:

"Where on earth have you been, Duane?"

"How did you know me?" he said, laughing; "you haven't even looked at me
yet."

"On peut voir sans regarder, Monsieur. Nous autres demoiselles, nous
voyons très bien, très bien ... et nous ne regardons jamais."

[Illustration: "She dropped him a very low, very slow, very marvellous
courtesy"]

She had paused, still not looking directly at him. Then she lifted her
head.

"Everybody has asked me to dance; I've said yes to everybody, but I've
waited for you," she said. "It will be that way all my life, I think."

"It has been that way with me, too," he said gaily. "Why should we wait
any more?"

"Why are you so late?" she asked. She had missed Rosalie, too, but did
not say so.

"I am rather late," he admitted carelessly; "can you give me this
dance?"

She stepped nearer, turning her shoulder to the anxious lingerers, who
involuntarily stepped back, leaving a cleared space around them.

"Make me your very best bow," she whispered, "and take me. I've promised
a dozen men, but it doesn't matter."

He said in a low voice, "You darling!" and made her a very wonderful
bow, and she dropped him a very low, very slow, very marvellous
courtesy, and, rising, laid her fingers on his embroidered sleeve. Then
turning, head held erect, and with a certain sweet insolence in the
droop of her white lids, she looked at the men around her.

Gray said in a low voice to Dysart: "That's as much as to admit that
they're engaged, isn't it? When a girl doesn't give a hoot what she does
to other men, she's nailed, isn't she?"

Dysart did not answer; Rosalie, passing on Grandcourt's arm, caught the
words and turned swiftly, looking over her shoulder at Geraldine.

But Geraldine and Duane had already forgotten the outer world; around
them the music swelled; laughter and voice grew indistinct, receding,
blending in the vague tumult of violins. They gazed upon each other
with vast content.

"As a matter of fact," said Duane, "I don't remember very well how to
dance a minuet. I only wanted to be with you. We'll sit it out if you're
afraid I'll make a holy show of you."

"Oh, dear," said Geraldine in pretty distress, "and I let you beguile me
when I'm dying to do this minuet. Duane, you must try to remember!
Everybody will be watching us." And as her quick ear caught the
preliminary bars of the ancient and stately measure:

"It's the Menuet d'Exaudet," she said hurriedly; "listen, I'll instruct
you as we move; I'll sing it under my breath to the air of the violins,"
and, her hand in his, she took the first slow, dainty step in the
old-time dance, humming the words as they moved forward:

    "Gravement
      Noblement
    On s'avance;
      On fait trois pas de côté
      Deux battus, un jeté
    Sans rompre la cadence----"

Then whispered, smiling:

"You are quite perfect, Duane; keep your head level, dear:

    "Chassez
    Rechassez
    En mesure!
    Saluez--
      Gravement
      Noblement
    On s'avance
    Sans rompre la cadence.

"Quite perfect, my handsome cavalier! Oh, we are doing it most
beautifully"--with a deep, sweeping reverence; then rising, as he lifted
her finger-tips: "You are stealing the rest of my heart," she said.

"Our betrothal dance," he whispered. "Shall it be so, dear?"

They looked at each other as though they stood there alone; the lovely
old air of the Menuet d'Exaudet seemed to exhale from the tremulous
violins like perfume floating through the woods; figures of masked
dancers passed and repassed them through the orange-tinted glow; there
came a vast rustle of silk, a breezy murmur, the scented wind from
opening fans, the rattle of swords, and the Menuet d'Exaudet ended with
a dull roll of kettle-drums.

A few minutes later he had her in his arms in a deliciously wild waltz,
a swinging, irresponsible, gipsy-like thing which set the blood coursing
and pulses galloping.

Every succeeding dance she gave to him. Now and then a tiny cloud of
powder-dust floated from her hair; a ribbon from her shoulder-knot
whipped his face; her breath touched his lips; her voice, at intervals,
thrilled and caressed his ears, a soft, breathless voice, which mounting
exaltation had made unsteadily sweet.

"You know--dear--I'm dancing every dance with you--in the teeth of
decency, the face of every convention, and defiance of every law of
hospitality. I belong to my guests."

And again:

"Do you know, Duane, there's a sort of a delicious madness coming over
me. I'm all trembling under my skin with the overwhelming happiness of
it all. I tell you it's intoxicating me because I don't know how to
endure it."

He caught fire at her emotion; her palm was burning in his, her breath
came irregularly, lips and cheeks were aflame, as they came to a
breathless halt in the torchlight.

"Dear," she faltered, "I simply must be decent to my guests.... I'm
dying to dance with you again, but I can't be so rude.... Oh, goodness!
here they come, hordes of them. I'll give them a dance or two--anybody
who speaks first, and then you'll come and find me, won't you?... Isn't
that enough to give them--two or three dances? Isn't that doing my duty
as chatelaine sufficiently?"

"Don't give them any," he said with conviction. "They'll know we're
engaged if you don't----"

"Oh, Duane! We are only--only provisionally engaged," she said. "I am
only on probation, dear. You know it can't be announced until I--I'm fit
to marry you----"

"What nonsense!" he interrupted, almost savagely. "You're winning out;
and even if you are not, I'll marry you, anyway, and make you win!"

"We have talked that over----"

"Yes, and it is settled!"

"No, Duane----"

"I tell you it is!"

"No. Hush! Somebody might overhear us. Quick, dear, here comes Bunny and
Reggie Wye and Peter Tappan, all mad as hatters. I've behaved abominably
to them! Will you find me after the third dance? Very well; tell me you
love me then--whisper it, quick!... Ah-h! Moi aussi, Monsieur. And,
remember, after the third dance!"

She turned slowly from him to confront an aggrieved group of masked
young men, who came up very much hurt, clamouring for justice,
explaining volubly that it was up to her to keep her engagements and
dance with somebody besides Duane Mallett.

"Mon Dieu, Messieurs, je ne demanderais pas mieux," she said gaily. "Why
didn't somebody ask me before?"

"You promised us each a dance," retorted Tappan sulkily, "but you never
made good. I'll take mine now if you don't mind----"

"I'm down first!" insisted the Pink 'un.

They squabbled over her furiously; Bunbury Gray got her; she swung away
into a waltz on his arm, glancing backward at Duane, who watched her
until she disappeared in the whirl of dancers. Then he strolled to the
edge of the lantern-lit glade, stood for a moment looking absently at
the shadowy woods beyond, and presently sauntered into the luminous
dusk, which became darker and more opaque as he left the glare of the
glade behind.

Here and there fantastic figures loomed, moving slowly, two and two,
under the fairy foliage; on the Gray Water canoes strung with gaudy
paper lanterns drifted; clouds of red fire rolled rosy and vaporous
along the water's edge; and in the infernal glow, hazy shapes passed and
repassed, finding places among scores of rustic tables, where servants
in old-time livery and powdered wigs hurried to and fro with ices and
salads, and set the white-covered tables with silverware and crystal.

A dainty masked figure in demon red flitted across his path in the
uncanny radiance. He hailed her, and she turned, hesitated, then, as
though convinced of his identity, laughed, and hastened on with a nod
of invitation.

"Where are you going, pretty mask?" he inquired, wending his pace and
trying to recognise the costume in the uncertain cross light.

But she merely laughed and continued to retreat before him, keeping the
distance between them, hastening her steps whenever he struck a faster
gait, pausing and looking back at him with a mocking smile when his
steps slackened; a gracefully malicious, tormenting, laughing creature
of lace and silk, whose retreat was a challenge, whose every movement
and gesture seemed instinct with the witchery of provocation.

On the edge of the ring of tables she paused, picked up a goblet, held
it out to a passing servant, who immediately filled the glass.

Then, before Duane could catch her, she drained the goblet to his health
and fled into the shadows, he hard on her heels, pressing her closer,
closer, until the pace became too hot for her, and she turned to face
him, panting and covering her masked face with her fan.

"Now, my fair unknown, we shall pay a few penalties," he said with
satisfaction; but she defended herself so adroitly that he could not
reach her mask.

"Be fair to me," she gasped at last; "why are you so rough with me
when--when you need not be? I knew you at once, Jack."

And she dropped her arms, standing resistless, breathing fast, her
masked face frankly upturned to be kissed.

"Now, who the devil," thought Duane, "have I got in my arms? And for
whom does she take me?"

He gazed searchingly into the slitted eye-holes; the eyes appeared to be
blue, as well as he could make out. He looked at the fresh laughing
mouth, a young, sensitive mouth, which even in laughter seemed not
entirely gay.

"Don't you really mind if I kiss you?" He spoke in a whisper to disguise
his voice.

"Isn't it a little late to ask me that?" she said; and under her mask
the colour stained her skin. "I think what we do now scarcely matters."

She was so confident, so plainly awaiting his caress, that for a moment
he was quite ready to console her. And did not, could not, with the
fragrant and yielding intimacy of Geraldine still warm in his quickened
heart.

She stood quite motionless, her little hands warm in his, her masked
face upturned. And, as he merely stared at her:

"What is the matter, Jack?" she breathed. "Why do you look at me so
steadily?"

He ought to have let her go then; he hesitated, wondering which Jack she
supposed him to be; and before he realised it her arms were on his
shoulders, her mouth nearer to his.

"Jack, you frighten me! What is it?"

"N-nothing," he continued to stammer.

"Yes, there is. Does your--your wife suspect--anything----"

"No, she doesn't," said Duane grimly, trying to free himself without
seeming to. "I've got an appointment----"

But the girl said piteously: "It isn't--Geraldine, is it?"

"What!"

"You--you admitted that she attracted you--for a little while.... Oh, I
did forgive you, Jack; truly I did with all my miserable heart! I was
so fearfully unhappy--I would have done anything." ... Her face flushed
scarlet. "And I--did.... But you do love me, don't you?" And the next
moment her lips were on his with a sob.

Duane reached back and quietly unclasped her fingers. Then very gently
he forced her to a seat on a great fallen log. Still looking up at him,
droopingly pathetic in contrast to her gay début with him, she naïvely
slipped up the mask over her forehead and passed her hand across her
pretty blue eyes. Sylvia Quest!

The sinister significance of her attitude flashed over him, all doubt
vanished, all the comedy of their encounter was gone in an instant. Over
him swept a startled sequence of emotions--bitter contempt for Dysart,
scorn of the wretchedly equivocal situation and of the society that bred
it, a miserable desire to spare her, vexation at himself for what he had
unwittingly stumbled upon. The last thought persisted, dominated;
succeeded by a disgusted determination that she must be spared the shame
and terror of what she had inadvertently revealed; that she must never
know she had not been speaking to Dysart himself.

"If I tell you that all is well--and if I tell you no more than that,"
he whispered, "will you trust me?"

"Have I not done so, Jack?"

The tragedy in her lifted eyes turned him cold with fury.

"Then wait here until I return," he said. "Promise."

"I promise," she sighed, "but I don't understand. I'm a--a little
frightened, dear. But I--believe you."

He swung on his heel and made toward the lights once more, and a moment
later the man he sought passed within a few feet of him, and Duane knew
him by his costume, which was a blue replica of his own gray silks.

"Dysart!" he said sharply.

The masked figure swung gracefully around and stood still, searching the
shadowy woodland inquiringly.

"I want a word with you. Here--not in the light, if you please. You
recognise my voice, don't you?"

"Is that you, Mallett?" asked Dysart coldly, as the former appeared in
