content for the ten weeks that were left of our vacation. We fell in
with congenial travelling companions in Egypt, joining parties for the
run through Greece and Lower Italy. In Florence, we were reunited to
friends with whom we had crossed the ocean, and did not part from them
until, in Lucerne, they were summoned to Paris, while we planned a stay
of some days in romantic regions endeared to us by former experiences,
when the “Boy” of Loitering in Pleasant Paths was too young to
appreciate the grandeur of mountain passes, snow-capped heights, azure
lakes, and historic cantons.

Anticipation received a cruel blow in the beautiful lakeside city in
which we had passed the heart of a memorable summer, fifteen years
before. My son was stricken down with appendicitis in Lucerne, and
I knew not a human creature beside himself in all Switzerland! By
rare good-fortune, I recalled the name of a physician with whom my
husband had become acquainted in our former stay here, and sent for
him at once. He had retired from the active duties of his profession,
resigning his practice to his son, who was, I learned, at the head of
the hospital in Lucerne.

To my infinite relief, he informed me that there would be no need of an
operation unless more serious symptoms should intervene. I subjoin the
addenda to the verdict for the benefit of those whom it may concern:

“You Americans are too fond of the knife! It is not always necessary to
cut out an inflamed appendix. In my hospital we have had four hundred
cases of appendicitis within the last ten years, and have operated just
forty times! The patients recovered without the use of the knife.”

If I had ever leaned, never so slightly, to misanthropic judgment of my
fellow-mortals, I must have been shamed out of them by the incidents
of the next fortnight of cruel anxiety, and what would have been
unutterable loneliness but for the exceeding and abounding charity of
the strangers by whom I was surrounded.

“It is my opinion,” pronounced the patient, when, on Easter morning,
his chamber was fragrant with flowers and brightened by cards
and messages of cheer and sympathy—“my decided and well-grounded
conviction—that this Canton is peopled by the posterity of the Good
Samaritan. Even the innkeeper has taken a hand in the mission to the
traveller on the Jericho Road!”

The last remark was drawn out by the opening of a great box of violets,
richly purple, and so freshly gathered that the odor floated into the
air, like clouds of incense, with the lifting of the cover.

And, as a sudden thought struck him: “Have the blasted Britishers
spoken yet?”

“No! Their conversation is confined to their own party.”

I had brought the like report every day for a week. “The blasted
Britishers,” for whom he had no milder name, were a young man, his
wife, and sister, who were at the end of my table and my nearest
neighbors. The hotel was very full. A fair sprinkling of Americans,
a few English, and a mixture of French, Swiss, Germans, and Italians
made up a crowd that changed daily in some of its features. From the
proprietor down to the porter, there was not an employé or official
connected with the house who did not inquire, whenever I showed myself
in hall or salle à manger, “how the young gentleman was getting on?”
and express the hope of his early recovery. The entire working-staff of
the Hotel de Cygne was at our feet, and the guests in the house were
assiduous in offers of assistance and assurances of sympathy. Strangers
inquired across the table as to the patient’s condition, and if there
were any way in which they could be of service. The “B. B.’s”—as
the object of this kindly solicitude contemptuously abbreviated the
appellation—held aloof, apparently ignorant of my existence, much less
of the cause of inquiry and response. They chatted together pleasantly,
in subdued, refined tones betokening the gentle-folk they were, but,
for all the sign they gave of consciousness of the existence of the
afflicted Americans, they might have been—to quote again from the
indignant youth above-stairs—“priest and Levite, rolled into one mass
of incarnate selfishness.”

So matters went on until next to the last day we spent in Lucerne.
My patient was on his feet in his room, and had been down-stairs
twice to drive for an hour, and test his strength for the journey to
Paris, which he was impatient to begin. I had heard that there was a
sleeping-car—a “wagon-au-lit,” as the Swiss put it—upon one train
each day. This I wished to take, if possible, and to break the journey
by stopping overnight at least once, in the transit of fifteen hours
that separated us from the French capital. It so chanced that the talk
of the “B. B.’s” at luncheon that day turned upon this train, and,
forgetful, for the moment, of their discourteous reserve, I addressed
the man of the party with—“Pardon me! but can you tell me at what hour
that train leaves Lucerne, and when it reaches Basle?”

“With great pleasure!” turning an eager face upon me. “But may I
ask, first, how your son is to-day? We have inquired constantly of
the proprietor, and of the doctor, when we could see him, how he was
getting on. We were delighted to hear that he is improving, etc., etc.,
etcetera”—while I was getting my breath, and rallying my fluttered
wits. With this preamble, he proceeded to tell me all he knew of
trains that were likely to be of service, volunteering to make direct
inquiries at the station that afternoon, and begging to know in what
way he could forward my purpose.

When I could escape, I carried a bewildered face and soul up to the
convalescent.

Then it was that I made the remark I quoted in a former chapter,
apropos of New England “incommunicableness”:

“The ice is broken, and there is warm water under it!”

We had not finished discussing the idiosyncrasies of Old and New
England when, half an hour later, there came a gentle tap at the door.
I opened it, and nearly swooned with an access of amazement when I saw
the young Englishman.

He had a paper in his hand, and began without preface:

“I have made so bold as to look up the trains, don’t you know? And—oh,
I say”—breaking off as he espied the figure on the lounge through the
half-opened door—“mayn’t I come in and see him? We are both young men,
you know!”

He was at the sofa by this time, and shaking hands with the occupant.
“Awfully glad to see you are doing so well! Oh, by Jove!” interrupting
himself anew, with the frank boyishness that had marked his entrance.
“I believe you are taller than I!”

He surveyed the recumbent figure with undisguised admiration.

“Six feet, two-and-a-half, gymnasium measure!” rejoined the other,
laughing.

It was impossible to resist the cordial bonhommie of the self-invited
guest.

“And I six, three!” complacently. “But a fellow looks longer when he is
on his back. May I sit down?” drawing up a chair for me, and one for
himself. “And would it tire you to talk a bit about routes and so on?
Do you think you are really fit for the jaunt?”

The “bit” of talk lasted an hour, and the invalid brightened with every
minute. The “Britisher” was an army man, at home on leave, after ten
years in India. He had travelled far and used all his senses while en
route. He was eloquent in praise of India, and so diligently was the
time improved by both the young men that, in leaving, the elder exacted
a promise that, when the other should visit India, he would apply to
him—the “B. B.”—for letters of introduction to “some fellows” who might
be of use to him. He gave us his card, lest he might not see us again.
It bore the name of a fashionable London hotel, at which he “hoped to
see” his new acquaintance, since he was going to London within the
month. He did see us again, calling on the morrow to ask if there were
anything he could do to facilitate our departure. He brought, also,
the compliments and good wishes of his wife and sister for our safe
journey. The schedule of travel he had arranged for us was so carefully
drawn up that a fool could not err therein.

We never saw or heard from him again. It was not convenient for Bert
to call during the brief stay we made in London, on the very eve of
sailing for home. And we have never yet been to India. The “B. B.”
seemed not to be able to conceive the possibility that any one who
could get to that end of the earth could refrain from going.

I have seen enough of the English since to comprehend that this was
not a phenomenal illustration of native reserve, that waits for the
initiative from the other party to the meeting, and, like the traveller
in the fable of the contest between the wind and sun, throws away the
cloak of strangerhood as soon as the first step is taken by another. I
have heard other anecdotes descriptive of a characteristic which belies
the depth and warmth of the underlying heart, but none that bring it
more prominently into view. It is strange—and interesting—to us of a
more emotional race, to see the sudden leap of the unsealed fountain.

During the summer and autumn succeeding our return to America, I
utilized much of the “material” collected in the East in a series of
lectures delivered in seven different States. For two summers preceding
my tour abroad, I had, in conjunction with Mrs. Margaret E. Sangster,
conducted what we called “Women’s Councils”, in various Summer Schools
modelled upon the famous Chautauquan Assemblies. I had hardly settled
in the peaceful home-nest when applications from similar organizations
began to arrive. Upon former expeditions, my husband, and sometimes
our son, and Mrs. Sangster’s nephew, Bert’s classmate and chum, had
accompanied us, and when the “Council” adjourned, we made up a jolly
party to Mackinac Island (in which beautiful spot I laid the scene of
With the Best Intentions), to Niagara Falls, the Adirondacks, and
divers other summer resorts. Mrs. Sangster had no share in my present
lecture engagements, and neither my husband nor son could spare the
time to accompany me. In the comparatively secluded and carefully
sheltered life of to-day, I marvel at the courage that enabled me to
journey for thousands of miles, unattended, and to face audiences
that numbered from one to two thousand women, with never a misgiving
as to my reception, and perfect security from annoyance. Wherever I
went, doors and hearts were opened to me. But once, in a series that
comprised twenty towns and villages, was I ever allowed to stay at
a hotel, and that was for a single night. The friends made then are
cherished to this hour.

Time would fail me and the patience of the reader be exhausted, were
I to attempt even a catalogue of the localities in which I talked, as
woman to woman, of what I had seen and heard in those seven months
of wandering and study. If I had never loved women before, and held
in especial and tender regard those of my own country, I must have
learned the sweet lesson in the unescorted itineraries from Syracuse,
N.Y., to Chicago; from Vermont to Michigan; from Richmond, Va., to
Cincinnati. And in all the thousands of miles, and in the intercourse
with tens of thousands of people whose faces I had never seen before, I
had, in the three lecture seasons in which I took part, not one unkind
word—received nothing but kindness, and that continually. Hospitality
and brotherly (and sisterly) love have had new and deeper meaning to
me, ever since. I permit myself the recital of two “happenings” in
Ohio, that have historic interest in consideration of subsequent events.

After fulfilling a delightful engagement at Monona Lake—near Madison,
Wisconsin—I set out for Lakeview, Ohio, where I was to hold a Women’s
Council for the next week, beginning Monday. This was Saturday noon,
and I was to travel all night. Dr. T. De Witt Talmage, whom I had seen
at Monona Lake, had told me of a branch road connecting the station,
at which I was to leave the main line, early Sunday morning, with
Lakeview. I would reach that place, he said, by seven o’clock, and have
a quiet Sunday to myself. This was preferable to passing it in Chicago
or any other large town. In the Madison station I was so fortunate
as to meet Mr. Hamilton W. Mabie and Dr. Francis Maurice Egan, at
that time Professor of English Literature in the Georgetown (R. C.)
University, and, subsequently, United States Minister to Denmark. Both
of these distinguished men had been lecturing at Monona Lake Assembly.
The rest of the day passed swiftly and brightly. Mr. Mabie left us in
Chicago, where we were detained until midnight, on account of some
delay in incoming trains. Doctor Egan, whose spirits never flagged,
proposed a walk through the illuminated streets, and a supper together,
which “lark” we enjoyed with the zest of two school-children. Then we
returned to the waiting train, and bade each other “Good-bye.”

The journey had begun so auspiciously that I alighted from the sleeper
in the early dawn, feeling, what the sporting Englishman would call
“uncommonly fit,” and with no prevision of what lay before me.

For not a symptom of the promised branch line was to be seen, as far as
eye could reach. There were two houses at the terminus of my railway
journey. One was the usual station and freight-house; the other, a
neat cottage a stone’s-throw away, was, I found, the dwelling of the
station-agent. He was the one and only human thing in sight. Beyond lay
woods and cultivated fields.

The man was very civil, but positive in the declaration that the branch
line connecting with the Assembly grounds was ten miles further
on; also, that no trains ran over it on Sunday. As at Monona Lake,
admission was denied to the public on that day. Otherwise, the ground
would be overrun by the rabble of curious sight-seers. There was no
hotel within five miles, and no conveyance to take me to it, or to
Lakeview.

The predicament was serious, yet it provoked me to mirth. Doctor
Talmage’s directions to alight at this particular point (as he “had
done not a week ago”); my cheerful confidence that the day would be as
yesterday, if not more abundant in enjoyment; the immediate prospect of
starvation and discomfort, since all the accommodations I could command
were that one room of the country station—made up a picture at which
any woman must laugh—or cry. The station-master looked relieved that I
did not weep, or whine. When I laughed, he smiled sympathetically:

“If you will sit here for a few minutes,” leading the way into the room
behind us, “I’ll step over and talk to my wife.”

From that moment I had no apprehension of further misadventures.

If I had indulged a fleeting misgiving, it would have been dissipated
by the sight of the woman to whom I was introduced when I had accepted
the invitation to “step over” to the neat cottage a few rods down the
road.

It was a veritable cottage—low-browed and cosey, vine-draped, and
simply but comfortably furnished. The mistress met me in the door with
a cordial welcome, and took me into her bedroom to wash away the dust
of travel and lay off my hat. For I was to breakfast with them, after
which her husband would get up the horse and buggy, and she would drive
me over to the Assembly grounds. She looked, moved, and spoke like a
gentlewoman. Against the background of my late predicament, she wore
the guise of a ministering angel. The breakfast was just what she
had prepared for her husband. She proved the quality of her breeding
there, too, in not lisping a syllable of apology. None was required
for a meal so well-cooked and served, but few women would have let the
occasion pass of informing the stranger within their gates how much
better they might have done had they been notified of the coming of
“company.” On the road she told me that she had a season-ticket for
the Summer School, and that she had attended the sessions regularly
during the week that had passed since it opened. She was a pretty
little body, becomingly attired, and intelligent beyond her apparent
station. I was to learn more in time of the minds and manners of the
average Ohio woman and man, and to be moved to wondering admiration
thereby. The road, level as a floor for most of the way, lay between
fields, orchards and vineyards so well cultivated that they recalled
the husbandry of older lands. My companion was au fait to the
agricultural interests of her native State, and descanted upon the
resources of the region with modest complacency. The weather was
delicious, the drive a pleasure. Not until we were in sight of the
lake, on the shores of which the camp was located, did she suggest
the possible difficulty of gaining admission to the grounds. She had
her ticket, which would pass her on Sunday, as on week-days. Perhaps
I had one? I said, “No,” frankly. Were the rules very strict? She was
“afraid they were.” It was evident that she had wholesome respect for
the regulation barring out unlicensed intruders. My credentials, in the
form of letters and contract, were in the trunk the station-master had
engaged to send over on Monday. Up to this moment I was an anonymous
wayfarer to my hosts, and I did not care to owe their hospitality to
any prestige that might attach to an advertised name. So I said we
would postpone uneasiness until I was actually refused admittance
by the gate-keeper. When he halted us, my companion produced her
passport, and I offered, as warrant of my eligibility, to send for
Doctor Lewis, the superintendent of the Assembly, to vouch for me. He
gave me a searching glance, and stood back to let us pass.

I recognized my guardian angel in my audience on Monday, and made it my
business and pleasure to seek her out at the conclusion of the lecture.

“We made up our minds last night, as we were talking it over, who you
were,” she remarked, quietly. “I had my list of the speakers, and you
were set down for to-day. I wished, then, that I had guessed the truth
before.”

I did not echo the wish. My first taste of Ohio hospitality would have
lost the fine flavor that lingers in my memory, like the aroma of old
Falernian wine. A duchess of high degree might have taken lessons in
breeding and Christian charity from the station-keeper’s wife.

During the week spent at Lakeview I had an opportunity, which I prize
now beyond expression, of meeting Mr. McKinley, then the Governor of
Ohio. He passed a day at the principal hotel of the place with his
wife, and visited the Assembly. I was invited, with other visitors, to
dine with him, and afterward to drive into the country with himself and
Mrs. McKinley.

“The future President of the United States!” a friend had said to me
when I told her of the projected drive.

“I don’t think so,” was my answer. “But a good man and an honest
politician.”

As he lifted his invalid wife into the carriage, a packet of letters
was handed to me.

In taking his place on the front seat he begged me to open them:

“Home letters should never be kept waiting.”

“I will avail myself of your kind permission so far as to look into
one,” I answered. “It is the daily bulletin from my husband. A glance
at the first paragraph will tell me how matters are at home.”

“A daily bulletin!” repeated Mr. McKinley, as I refolded the epistle
after the satisfactory glance.

“Yes—and we have been married nearly forty years!”

“A commendable example—” he began, when his wife caught him up:

“Which he does not need! He never fails to write to me every day when
he is away; but when he was in Washington, some years ago, and I was
not well enough to go with him, he telegraphed every morning to know
how I was, besides writing a long letter to me in the afternoon.”

Laughingly putting the remark aside, he leaned forward to direct my
attention to a row of hills on the horizon, and to talk of certain
historical associations connected with that part of the State. She
resumed the topic, awhile later, descanting in a low tone upon his
unwearied regard for her health, his tender solicitude, his skill as
a nurse, and similar themes, drawn on by my unfeigned interest in the
story, until he checked her, with the same light laugh:

“Ida, my dear! you are making Mrs. Terhune lose the finest points in
the landscape we brought her out to admire.”

“Permit me to remind you that there are moral beauties better worth my
attention,” retorted I.

He lifted his hat, with a bright look that went from my face to
dwell upon that of the fragile woman opposite him, with affectionate
appreciation, and full confidence that I would comprehend the feeling
that led her to praise him—a flashing smile, I despair of describing as
it deserves. It transfigured his face into beauty I can never forget.
In all my thoughts of the man who became the idol of his compatriots,
dying, like a martyr-hero, with a plea for mercy for the insane
assassin upon his lips, I recur to that incident in my brief personal
acquaintanceship with him, as a revelation of what was purest and
sweetest in a nature singularly strong and gentle.

In relating the little by-play to my dear friend, Mrs. Waite, the widow
of the Chief-Justice, then living in Washington, I said that it was a
pity to see a man in Mr. McKinley’s exalted and responsible position
tied to the arm-chair of a hopeless invalid, who could contribute
nothing to his usefulness in any relation of life.

“He owes more to her than the public will ever suspect,” was the reply.
“We knew him from a boy, and watched his early struggles upward. His
wife was his guiding star, his right hand. She was, then, a woman of
unusual personal and mental gifts, more ambitious for him than he
was for himself. My husband often said that she was Mr. McKinley’s
inspiration. Those who have never known her except as the fragile,
nerveless creature she is now, cannot imagine what she was before the
deaths of her children and her terrible illness left her the wreck you
see. But he does not forget what she was, and what she did for him.”

I treasured the tribute gratefully, and I never failed to
quote it when I heard—as was frequent during Mr. McKinley’s
administration—contemptuous criticism of the helpless, sickly woman—the
poor shade of the First Lady of the Land—whose demands upon his time
and care were unremittent and heavy. He was held up to the world by his
eulogists as a Model Husband, a Knight of To-day, whose devotion never
wavered. As my now sainted mentor said, few of the admiring multitude
guessed at his debt of gratitude and at his chivalrous remembrance of
the same.




XLVIII

THE CLOUDS RETURN AFTER THE RAIN—ABROAD AGAIN—HEALING AND
HEALTH—IDYLLIC WINTER IN FLORENCE


WHAT one of Doctor Terhune’s biographers has alluded to as his
“splendid vitality,” had been cruelly taxed by his professional labors
in his first charge in Brooklyn. With a strong man’s aversion to the
acknowledgment of physical weakness, he had fought, with heroic courage
and reserve, the inroads of a disease that was steadily sapping his
constitution and vigor. None except his physician and myself dreamed
of the gnawing pain that was never quiet during his waking hours, and
robbed the nights of rest. The services of Sunday left him as weak as
a child, and stretched him upon the rack all of that night. When, the
work he had assigned to himself soon after accepting the pastorate
of the Bedford Avenue Church having been accomplished, he resigned
the position, and quoted his physician’s advice that he should take a
few months of rest and change of scene—the information was couched in
terms so light that, with the exception of two or three of his chosen
and most faithful friends, his parishioners had no suspicion of his
real condition. The public press hazarded the wildest and most absurd
guesses at the causes that had stirred the nest he had builded wisely
and well during the last seven years.

Perhaps the theory that amused us most, and flew most widely from the
mark, was “that his wife—known to the public as ‘Marion Harland’—took
no interest in church-work—in fact, never attended church at all.” My
class of forty-four splendid “boys”—the youngest being twenty-one years
of age—begged to be allowed to look up the imaginative reporter and, as
the Springfield member of the Church Militant had proposed, “fire him
out.” Calmer counter-statements from older heads, and hearts as loyal,
met the assertion in print and in private. To me, it weighed less than
a grain of dust in the greater solicitude that engrossed my thoughts.
For, in a week after the formal resignation of his office, the patient
sufferer was under the surgeon’s knife.

They called it “a minor operation,” and enjoined complete rest, for
a month or so, that ought to bring recuperation of energies so sadly
depleted that those who knew him best were urgent in the entreaty that
the mandate should be obeyed. He “rested” in the blessed quiet of
Sunnybank for a couple of months; then set out for a leisurely jaunt
westward. He had been invited to preach in Omaha, and thought that he
would “take a look at the country” which he had never visited. He got
no further than Chicago, falling in love with the warm-hearted people
of a church which he agreed to supply for “a few weeks.” The weeks
grew into seven months of active and satisfying work among his new
parishioners. Our eldest daughter was with him part of the time, and I
went to him for a visit of considerable length, returning home with the
sad conviction, deep down in my soul, that to accept the offered “call”
to a permanent pastorate would be suicidal. He could never do half-way
work, and he loved the duties of his profession with a love that never
abated. By the beginning of the next summer, he was forced to admit to
himself that his physical powers were inadequate to the task laid to
his hand. Yet, on the way home, he was lured into agreeing to supply
the pulpit of a friend, a St. Louis clergyman, during the vacation of
the latter, preaching zealously and eloquently for five weeks, and
this in the heat of a Missourian summer.

It was but a wreck of his old, buoyant self that he brought back to
us. Confident in his ability to rise above “temporary weakness,” he
insisted that “Sunnybank and home-rest were all he needed to set him up
again as good as new.”

I had said once, jestingly, in his hearing, after his quick recovery
from a short and sharp attack of illness:

“It is hard to kill a Terhune. Nothing is really effectual except a
stroke of lightning, and that will paralyze but one side. None of them
die under ninety!”

He reminded me of the foolish speech, many and many a time, in the
weeks that dragged themselves by us who watched the steady ebb of vital
forces and the pitiable failure of all remedial agencies. He was the
finest horseman I have ever known, and, as I have already said, sat his
saddle as if he were a part of the spirited animal he bestrode. “Let
me once get into the saddle again, and all will be right,” had been
his hopeful prognostication in every illness prior to this mysterious
disorder. He mounted his horse a few times after he got home, and
rode for a mile or two, but listlessly and with pain. Then he ceased
to ask for the old-time tonic that had acted like a magic potion upon
the exhausted body, in answer to the indomitable spirit. The spring of
desire and courage was not broken, but it bent more and more visibly
daily, until it was a gray wraith of the former man that lay, hour
after hour, upon the library sofa, uncomplaining and patient, utterly
indifferent to things that once brought light to the eyes and ring to
the voice. Even his voice—a marvel up to seventy-five, for sweetness,
resonance, and strength—quavered and broke when he forced himself to
speak.

In this, our sore and unprecedented extremity, we who watched him took
counsel together and urged him to go to the city and consult Doctor
McBurney, the ablest specialist and surgeon in New York, and with no
superior in America. The patient offered feeble opposition. It was
easier to do as we wished, than to argue the point. Our eldest daughter
was living in New York, and not far from the surgeon. We lost no time
in securing an appointment, and the surgeon was prompt in decision.
“The minor operation,” in which he had had no hand, was well enough
as far as scalpel and probe had gone, but the seat of the malady was
left untouched. There was a malignant internal growth which had already
poisoned the blood. To delay a “major operation” a fortnight, would be
to forfeit the one and only chance of life. It might already be too
late.

In three days the almost dying man was in the Presbyterian Hospital,
and under the knife.

I hasten past the month that followed. With clean blood, a temperate
life, and a superb constitution as his backers, my brave husband stood
once more upon his feet, and was apparently upon the highroad to
recovery. When he was restored to our home-circle in season for the
Christmas festivities, we rejoiced without a prevision of possible
further ill from the hateful cause, now forever removed, as we fondly
believed. Early in January, I had a sudden and violent hemorrhage
from the lungs, superinduced, we were told by the eminent specialist
summoned immediately, by the long-continued nervous strain and general
weakening of the entire system.

Doctor Terhune took me to the train when I set out upon the southern
trip prescribed strenuously by consulting practitioners. My dearest and
faithful brother was to meet me on the last stage of my easy journey.
When the late invalid waved his hat to me from the platform as the
train began to move, I noted with pride and devout gratitude, how clear
were his blue eyes, how healthful his complexion, and, looking back as
far as I could catch sight of him, that his step had the elasticity of
a boy of twenty.

He wrote daily to me, and in the old, lively fashion, for three weeks.
Then a letter dictated by him to Christine told of a boil upon his
wrist that hindered pen-work. I “was not to be uneasy. It was probably
a wholesome working out of the virus of original sin. He would be all
the better when the system was freed from it.”

I wrote at once, begging that nothing might be concealed from me, and
setting a day for my return.

A telegram from my husband forbade me to stir until the time originally
named as the limit of my visit. And the daily letters continued to
arrive. One, I recollect, began:

    “A second rising, farther up the arm, is ‘carrying on the
    work of purification.’ So says the poor Pater, with a rueful
    glance at his bandaged hand and arm. If it were only the
    left, and not the right hand, he would not have to put up
    with this unworthy amanuensis.”

Those six weeks in Richmond stand out in memory like sunlighted
peaks seen between clouds that gathered below and all around it. My
brother’s wife, the cherished girl-friend of our Newark life, was so
far from well that we enacted the rôles of semi-invalids in company.
Sometimes we breakfasted in her room, sometimes in mine, as the humor
seized us. I lounged in one easy-chair, and she in another, all the
forenoon, making no pretence of occupation. Had we not been straitly
commanded to do nothing but get well? We drove out in company, every
moderately fine day. When we tired of talking (which was seldom), we
had our books. I sent to a book-store for a copy of Barrie’s Margaret
Ogilvie—the matchless tribute of the brilliant son to the peasant
woman from whom he drew all that was noblest and highest in himself—and
gave it to my fellow-invalid to read. Then we talked it over—we two
mothers—tenderly and happily, as befitted the parents of grown children
who were fulfilling our best hopes for them. I repeated to her once, in
the twilight of a winter afternoon, as we sat before the blazing fire
of soft coal that tinted the far corners of the library a soft, dusky
red—a stanza of Elizabeth Akers Allen’s Rock Me to Sleep, Mother:

    “Over my heart in the days that have flown,
     No love like mother-love ever has shone;
     No other worship abides and endures,
     Faithful unselfish, and patient like yours.”

“That is one of my husband’s favorite songs,” I said. “I often sing it
to him and to Bert in the twilights at home.” And with a little laugh,
I added: “My boy asked me once to emphasize ‘patient.’ He says that is
the strongest characteristic of the mother’s love.”

“They repay us for it all!” was the fervent reply.

And I returned as feelingly, “Yes, a thousandfold.”

She was ever the true, unselfish woman, generous in impulse and in
action, sweet and sound to the very core of her great heart. We had
loved each other without a shadow of changing for over thirty years.
In all our intercourse there is nothing upon which I dwell with such
fondness as on the days that slipped by brightly and smoothly, that
late January and early February. If I observed with regret that I
rallied from my sudden seizure more rapidly than she threw off the
languor and loss of appetite which, she assured us, over and over,
“meant next to nothing”—I was not seriously uneasy at what I saw. She
had not been strong for the last year. Time would restore her, surely.
She had just arisen on the morning of my departure, when I went into
her room to say, “Good-bye.” She smiled brightly as I put my arms
about her and bade her, “Hurry up and return my visit.”

“You will see me before long,” she said, confidently. “As soon as I
can bear the journey I shall go to Newark. My native air always brings
healing on its wings.”

My beloved friend Mrs. Waite had passed from earth, six months before.
The visit I paid at her house, on the way back to New York, was the
first I had made there since the beauty of her presence was withdrawn.

On the morning after my arrival I had a long letter from Christine. It
began ominously:

    “I have a confession to make. Father has been far more
    indisposed than I would let you think. Do not blame me.
    I have acted under orders from him and from the doctor.
    Neither would hear of your recall. Not that this relapse is
    a dangerous matter. The ‘boils’ were a return of the old
    trouble. He has not left his bed for a fortnight. I thought
    it best to prepare you for seeing him there.”

An hour later I had a telegram from my brother:

    “M. is decidedly worse. We apprehend heart-failure.”

Again I say, I would shorten the recital of how the clouds returned
after the rain which we had believed would clear the atmosphere.

I was seated at the bedside of my husband, who aroused himself with
difficulty to speak to me, as one shakes off a stupor, relapsing into
slumber with the murmured welcome on his fevered lips, when a dispatch
was brought to me from Richmond.

My sister-in-love had died that afternoon.

Five months to a day, from the beginning of my husband’s serious
illness, he was brought down-stairs in the arms of a stalwart
attendant, and lifted into a carriage for his first ride. We drove to
the neighboring Central Park, and were threading the leafy avenues
before the convalescent offered to speak. Then the tone was of one
dazed into disbelief of what was before his eyes:

“The last time I was out of doors, the ground was covered with snow. I
am like those that dream. I never knew until now what a beautiful place
the world is!”

It was glorious in July verdure when we got him back to Sunnybank.
There was no talk now of the saddle, and the briefest of drives
fatigued him to faintness. Whatever the doctors might say as to the
ultimate elimination of the hidden poison they had found so difficult
to drive out, watchers, who had more at stake in the issue of his
protracted illness, failed to see the proof that skill had effected
what they claimed. After the glow of pleasure at getting home again
subsided, he relapsed into the old lassitude and sad indifference to
what was going on about him; his eyes were dull; his tone was lifeless;
he seemed to have forgotten that he had ever had appetite for food.

At last, one day, as I sat fanning him, while he lay on the wicker
sofa on the vine-clad veranda, regarding neither lake nor mountain,
and smiling wanly at my chatter of the seven birds’-nests in the
honeysuckle, from which the last fledgling had been coaxed away by
their parents that morning—an inspiration came to me. I laid my hand on
his to make sure that he would be aroused to listen, and stooped to the
ear that shared in the deadening of the rest of the body.

“What do you say to going abroad again—and very soon?”

He opened his eyes wide, lifting his head to look directly at me.

“What did you say?”

I repeated the query.

He lay back with closed lids for so long I thought he was asleep. Then
an echo of his own voice, as it was in the olden time, said:

“I think, if I could once more hear the rush of the waves against the
keel of the steamer, and feel the salt air on my face, it would bring
me back to life. But—where’s the use of dreaming of it? I shall never
be strong enough to go on board.”

“You will, and you shall! You saved my life by taking me abroad. We
will try the efficacy of your own prescription.”

I think that not one of the crowd of friends who came down to the
steamer to see us off, had any hope of seeing again his living face.
I heard, afterward, that they said as much among themselves, when the
resolutely cheerful farewells had been spoken, and they stood watching
the vessel’s slow motion out of the dock, the eyes of all fixed upon
one figure recumbent in a deck-chair, a thin hand responding to the
fluttering handkerchiefs above the throng on the end of the pier.

Our son was there with his betrothed, who wrote to me afterward that he
was “depressed to despondency.” Belle, with her husband and boys, would
occupy Sunnybank while we were away. Christine had insisted that it was
not kind or safe to leave to me the sole care of the invalid. In the
three weeks that elapsed between the “inspiration” and our embarkation,
the brave girl had wound up all affairs that would detain her in
America, and made herself and two sons ready to accompany us. The party
was completed by the faithful maid who had nursed her children from
infancy, and who was quite competent to aid me in nursely offices to
the patient for whose sake the desperate expedition was undertaken.

He averred, in later life, that he felt an impulse of new life with
the first revolution of the paddle-wheel. Certain it is that he showed
signs of rallying before twenty-four hours had passed, spending all
the daylight hours upon deck, and, before the voyage was half over,
joining in our promenades from bow to stern. Always an excellent
sailor, he drank in the sea-breeze as he might have quaffed so much
nectar. The only complaint that escaped him was that, “whereas he had
been promised an eleven days’ voyage, we steamed up the Clyde on the
afternoon of the ninth day.”

A series of jaunts in Scotland and England was the prelude to our
settling down in Florence for the winter.

Had I no other reason to urge for my deep and abiding love for that
fairest and dearest of Italian cities, it would suffice me to recollect
the unutterable peace and full content of that memorable half-year.

Friends, old and new, clustered about us, and lent the charm of home
to the cosey apartment in Via San Giuseppe, where the gentle flow of
domestic life was bright with the shining of present happiness and
rekindled hope of the future. We learned to know “La Bella” at her best
in those halcyon days. The boys were at a day-school; thanks to our
efficient “padrona,” there were no household anxieties, and we seniors
were free to enjoy to the full all that makes up the inestimable riches
of the storied city.

Doctor Terhune and I claimed the privilege of convalescent and
custodian, in declining to accept invitations to evening functions,
thus securing opportunity for what we loved far better than the gayest
of “entertainments”—long, quiet hours spent in our sitting-room “under
the evening lamp,” I, busy with needle-work or knitting, while he read
aloud, after the dear old fashion, works on Florentine history, art,
and romance, all tending to enfold us more closely with the charméd
atmosphere of the region. It would be laughable to one who has never
fallen under the nameless spell of Florence to know how often, that
season, we repeated aloud, as the book was laid aside for the night:

    “With dreamful eyes
     My spirit lies
     Under the walls of Paradise.”

Letters from home were frequent and regular. Much was happening across
the water while we revelled in our dreams. The Spanish War was on. It
was begun and ended during our peace-fraught exile. In January, our boy
took unto himself the young wife to whom he had been troth-plight for a
year, and we were the easier in mind for the knowledge that this, the
last of our unwedded bairns, was no longer without a home of his own.

In the spring we travelled at pleasure through Switzerland and Belgium,
and so to England—my husband and I now in the solitude à deux belovéd
by congenial souls. Christine and her sons were left in Switzerland for
a longer tour of that country.

Still wandering, lingering, and dreaming, in the long, delicious calm
succeeding the darkest and stormiest period our united lives were ever
to know, we revisited English villages and towns, and made acquaintance
in Scotland with new and enchanting scenes, until the September day
when we took passage from Glasgow for New York.

We steamed into our harbor on Sunday afternoon, just as the news of
peace between the warring nations was acclaimed through the megaphone
to incoming craft, and thundered from the mouths of rejoicing cannon.




XLIX

THE GOING-OUT OF A YOUNG LIFE—PRESENT ACTIVITIES—“LITERARY
HEARTHSTONES”—GRATEFUL REMINISCENCES


AS upon our return from foreign lands nearly twenty years before this
home-coming, Sunnybank was now our pied á terre. Our daughter, Mrs.
Van de Water, and her family had occupied it during our absence. It
was, therefore, not merely swept and garnished for our reception, but
the spirit of Home, sweet, radiant, and indescribable, was in full
possession. We were settled in the nest within an hour after we drove
up to the open door. A week later, the happy circle was widened by the
arrival of our son and his young wife from the Adirondacks. A second
attack of appendicitis had made an operation imperatively necessary. It
was performed in July, and as soon as the patient was strong enough to
travel, he was sent to the mountains for recuperation. The pair were
our guests for four weeks. Then they returned to town to prepare for
the housekeeping upon which they had planned to enter in October. Happy
letters, telling of the preparations going briskly forward, and filled
with domestic details, than which nothing in the wide world was more
fascinating to the little wife, reminded us of the contented cooings
of mating pigeons, or, as I told the prospective housewife, of the
purring of the kittens she loved to fondle under the honeysuckles of
the veranda, while with us.

On October 5th an unexpected telegram brought the news of the
premature birth of a baby daughter, and that “mother and child were
doing well.” Four days later, a second dispatch summoned us to New
York. The tiny girl was but four days old when her gentle mother passed
quietly out of the life, so rich in love and hope that, up to the hour
when she laid herself down cheerfully upon her couch of pain, she was,
to use her own words, “almost frightened at her own happiness.”

She was married on January 10, 1898. We bore her to her last home
October 12th of the same year. She sleeps in the quiet “God’s Acre,”
back of the old colonial church in Pompton, in the heart of the
fairest of New Jersey valleys. A peaceful spot it is, cradled by the
everlasting hills. There were but three graves in our family plot when
we took her there. There are five, now.

We spent that winter in the city, and our boy was again one of our
small household. But for the care and the blesséd comfort of the
baby daughter, the light and life of hearts and house, we might
have fancied the events of the last five years a dream, and that we
were once more the busy trio with whom time had sped so swiftly and
brightly while “Bert” was in college. We were busy now as then. Doctor
Terhune preached with tolerable regularity in different churches,
and he was ever a diligent student. Bert wrought faithfully in his
chosen profession of journalism, and I accepted in, 1901, the charge
of a Woman’s Syndicate page established by The North American, in
Philadelphia. I had never been idle. Month after month, work was laid
to my hands that pleased my taste, and occupied all the time I could
devote to literary tasks. When I agreed to take on the new burden, it
was with no forecasting of what proportions it might assume.

“What do these women write to you about?” asked the proprietor of the
paper under the auspices of which the syndicate was carried on.

I answered, laughingly, “Everything—from Marmalade to Matrimony.”

When he put the question, I was representing the need of an assistant,
since I was getting twenty letters per diem. Four years later, a
secretary and a stenographer shared the labor of keeping in touch with
writers who poured in upon my desk an average mail of one hundred
letters a day. Two years afterward, the average was over a thousand a
week.

I have been asked often why I expend energies and fill my days in what
my critics are pleased to depreciate as “hack-work.” Nobody believes
my assertion that I heartily enjoy being thus brought into intimate
association with the women of America. The Syndicate has extended its
territory into twenty-five States, and it is still growing. Women,
boys, and girls, and housefathers—no less than housemothers—tell me of
their lives, their successes, their failures, their trials, and their
several problems. From the mighty mass of correspondence I select
letters dealing with topics of general interest, or that seem to call
for free and friendly discussion, and base upon them daily articles for
the Syndicate public. Thousands of letters contain stamps for replies
by mail. Out of this germ of “hack-work” has grown “The Helping-Hand
Club,” an informal organization, with no “plant” except my desk and
the postal service that transports applications for books, magazines,
and such useful articles as correspondents know will be welcome to the
indigent, the shut-in, the aged, charitable societies and missions
in waste places. Quietly, and without parade, our volunteer agents
visit the needy, and report to us. We distribute, by correspondence,
thousands of volumes and periodicals annually; we bring together supply
and demand, “without money and without price,” and in ways that would
appear ridiculous to some, and incredible to many.

“For Love’s Sake” is our motto, and it is caught up eagerly, from
Canada to California. “The Big Family,” they call themselves—these dear
co-workers of mine whose faces I shall never see on earth. When, as
happens daily, I read, “Dear Mother of us all,” from those I have been
permitted to help in mind, body, or estate, I thank the Master and take
courage.

After eight years’ active service in the field so strangely appointed
to me that I cannot but recognize (and with humble gratitude) the
direct leading of the Divine Hand, I say, frankly, that I have never
had such fulness of satisfaction in any other sphere of labor.

“But it is not Literature!” cried a friend to me, the other day,
voicing the sentiment of many.

“No,” I answered, “but it is Influence, and that of the best kind.”

I have, with all this, made time—or it has been made for me—to write
half a dozen books in the last ten years.

Where Ghosts Walk (1898) was a joy in the writing, as was the
collection of material. It reproduces for me—as I turn the pages, in
maternal fashion, lingering upon a scene here, and snatching a phrase
there—our strayings in storied climes, rambles into enchanted nooks
untrodden by the conventional tourist, but full of mystery and charm
for us. In those dim paths I still walk with the ghosts that were once
visible and sentient things like ourselves.

Literary Hearthstones (1899-1902) was, even more emphatically, a
labor of delight. I had made studies of Charlotte Brontë and Hannah
More, of John Knox and William Cowper, in the homes and haunts they
glorified into shrines for the reading and the religious world. Other
hallowed names are yet on my memorandum-book, and in my portfolio are
the notes made in other homes and haunts, and pictures collected for
the illustrations of four more volumes of the series.

If I live and hold my strength and health of body and of mind, I shall,
please God, complete the tale of worthies I have singled out for study.
If not—they are yet mine own brain-children. None may rob me of the
pleasure of having and of holding them—until death us do part.

I should be ungrateful, and do my own feelings a wrong, were I to fail,
