great fancy to him. And some of the boys are 
very chivalrous. What are the outside amuse- 
ments ? ” 
“ I suppose there will be a baseball club.” 
“And isn’t there a tennis court? We girls 
did almost everything. Shall I startle you by 
saying we had running contests, leaping, jump- 
ing, basketball, outdoor exercise as well as the 
gymnasium ? ” and there was a touch of daring 
amusement in her tone. 
“ You are a good exponent of the regimen,” 
and she colored under the gaze that seemed 
almost examination, yet was in no wise 
presuming. 
“ Here we are. I will fasten the horses so 
you will not be run away with. Do you ride ? 
You can drive, of course?” 
“ Yes, we even learned to ride at college. 
We had theories about cooking, though I be- 
lieve there is to be a branch for that. But most 
of us could mend and darn in case we were re- 
duced to that for an occupation, or married,” 
raising laughing eyes. 
It did not take long to transact his business 
in a satisfactory manner, and Mr. Hildreth re- 
joined her. 
“ Now we will take a spin,” he said, “ and 
cross the upper bridge.” 
The sky was aflame with the glory of a 
brilliant sunset that fairly gilded the trees. 
And the dew, though scarcely perceptible, filled 
the air with innumerable fragrances. Helen’s 
pulse grew buoyant, and the perplexities van- 
ished. After crossing the bridge they went 
on to the upper road, the back road in the town 
parlance. They came down then to Milford 
Street, and at the gate he paused. 
“ You have given me a most delightful 
afternoon, and I thank you very much. 
Don’t disturb yourself,” and she sprang 
out lightly. 
“ It has been a great pleasure to me. And 
if there comes any trouble I beg most earnestly 
that you will let me know. I feel to a degree 
answerable for your comfort. Good-evening.” 
She went around to the side gate where a 
porch ran across the end of the dining-room, 
and a door opened into it. 
“Oh, Miss Grant! We thought maybe you 
had gone home with Mrs. Underwood to dinner. 
She was asking for you.” 
“Was she? I took a walk; crossed the 
bridge to see what was on the other side.” 
“ It’s rather late to be out alone. Still I 
must say we are very free from tramps. We 
had a workhouse two or three years ago and 
after that the gentry gave us a wide berth. 
But the other side belongs to a different 
county and we cannot answer for that.” 
Helen felt her face flush. Was her ride 
quite within the bounds of propriety, she won- 
dered. It had been so unexpected, and she 
felt so entirely friendly with Mr. Hildreth. 
Lilian was in the kitchen helping her aunt, as 
 
the domestic had gone home to spend the night 
with her sick mother. 
“ I do not know that it was quite good judg- 
ment,’ Helen replied gravely. “ But, you see, 
I was brought up in the country and used to 
going about without a thought. It makes a 
person rather fearless. Oh, I hope you were 
not anxious ! ” 
“ We thought you at the Underwoods’, of 
course.” 
Helen wondered if it was quite right to 
allow the matter to rest that way. Yet she 
was not supposed to give an account of her 
comings and goings. She was a young woman 
quite on her own responsibility. Still she did 
not want to give cause for any foolish gossip. 
But Mr. Hildreth was delightful in that 
elderly, sensible fashion, like the professors. 
A young lad could be proffered the run of the 
house, the acquaintanceship with the books. 
She could almost envy the imaginary young 
lad. 
“ Supper is all ready,” announced the niece. 
Helen ran upstairs and laid off her hat; she 
longed to put on a fresh shirtwaist, but she 
would not keep Mrs. Stirling waiting, and she 
had seen the omelet brought in. They kept to 
the old-fashioned midday dinner, but there 
was always some tidbit for supper. 
“ Oh, Miss Grant, are you not glad the 
school week has ended?” asked Lilian. “It 
has seemed such a long week.” 
“ A short week to me. I haven’t made 
the progress I meant to or thought quite pos- 
sible. And I want us all to start in next week 
in good earnest and accomplish something.” 
Lilian sighed. “ It is going to be hard 
work. Do you think the Latin will be of any 
service to me? I do not believe half the 
teachers study it.” 
“ You see the high school course is laid out 
partly for college entrance and the higher edu- 
cation. It helps in various ways in training 
the mind. You are very good in some 
branches. When you get into the regular 
groove you will not find it so hard.” 
“ I should never teach it.” 
“Why not take the kindergarten course? 
And there are other things — office work, 
stenography, typewriting, bookkeeping.” 
“ I like school-teaching because you have 
your Saturdays. And there is the long vaca- 
tion, the being with other people.” 
“ And as you have taken it up, Lilian,” said 
her aunt, “ I would go on. I shall be glad to 
have you here, so you need not worry about a 
home. And educated people do rank a little 
higher in the social scale, though that should 
not be the highest incentive,” smiling a little. 
“ Try it for a year,” subjoined Helen. 
“ I’m glad Miss Parker is not my teacher. 
She looks as if she might be quite cross. Miss 
Jaynes is very pleasant,” Lilian remarked after 
a while. 
Miss Jaynes was the assistant. A round, 
rosy, smiling girl of four or five and twenty, 
with an easy, attractive manner. Helen 
thought she should like her as well. 
They were just through supper when a lad 
came with a note for Miss Grant. 
Mrs. Underwood wished her to come to 
luncheon the next day and meet Miss Parker. 
Just a plain informal matter, to talk “ shop ” a 
little. 
Helen returned an acceptance. They had a 
pleasant, quiet evening, she comfortably en- 
sconced in the corner of the commodious sofa, 
while Mrs. Stirling talked of the changes in 
Westfield since her coming and the legends 
that had grown up around some of the old set- 
tlers. The Stirlings had been among these, 
nearly two hundred years before. She had a 
very pleasant voice, and though tinctured with 
some formalisms was really an interesting 
talker. 
CHAPTER IV 
MISS PARKER 
The Underwoods lived in a pretty cottage 
not far from the school, but some distance be- 
low Milford Street. Helen was ushered into 
the parlor by the hostess, who looked really 
very girlish in her white gown much be- 
ruffled. 
“Of course you have met Miss Parker, but 
I thought it would be nice to take a meal to- 
gether. You see I dispense with a maid. They 
are a good deal of vexation and awfully ex- 
pensive nowadays. We take our dinner out at 
night, it saves a great deal of planning. Break- 
fast and lunch I don’t mind, ours are rather 
simple affairs. Saturday is my guest day, as 
I have a woman all the morning.” 
“ That must make the wheels of housekeep- 
ing run very smoothly,” said Helen. “ I ad- 
mire the plan.” 
“ Only if your guest was a busy housekeeper 
herself ” remarked Miss Parker. “ For 
us who have Saturdays off it is very con- 
venient.” 
“ But, you see, I don’t give big dinners and 
all that. It may be selfish to plan your life 
with direct reference to your own convenience, 
but why shouldn't one? You have to live your 
own life, no friend can live it for you. I 
always stay at home one day in the week un- 
less something special occurs, so my friends 
know just when to find me. The other days 
I am at liberty to go out.” 
“ One would not fancy you so methodical,” 
commented Miss Parker. 
She did not look like it with her merry face 
and her gay voice, and a certain offhand air. 
Now she laughed lightly. 
“ I’ve been trained into it. Mr. Underwood 
likes a settled routine. You know just where 
to find yourself. I did protest at first, but I 
found it was a real saving of nervous force, 
And perhaps it will keep me young. I should 
hate to wear out before my time.” 
“ It is fortunate that you can take life 
yO HELEN GRANT, TEACHER 
this way. Now if you were the school- 
teacher ” 
“Ah! You see I had no grand ideas of 
renovating the world in those youthful days. 
I wanted a home and a pleasant life, a husband 
not too exigent. Miss Grant, is this heresy to 
your thinking? ” 
Helen smiled. “ It sounds very pleasant,” 
she said. 
“What is pleasant?” Mr. Underwood 
entered the room and shook hands first with 
Helen, as she was nearest. “ If it is the past 
week, you are made of excellent material.” 
“ Indeed it is not,” protested his wife. “ I 
was airing my ideas of setting out with the 
ordinary aim, not demanding too much, and 
working with all your mind and heart to get 
the thing you merit.” 
“ I suppose, then, Miss Grant agreed with 
you.” 
“ Every one may not have the same aim or 
be satisfied with the same — shall we call it 
destiny ? But I think it a good plan to set out 
earnestly for some particular thing.” 
“ In my case it was the husband.” 
She looked up at him with a merry glint in 
her eyes. 
“ And you see how well she succeeded.’ 
“ I shall advise them to go and do like- 
wise.” 
“ I don’t know how I would manage with- 
out Miss Parker. But if the man was admir- 
able in every respect ” 
“ They are not all admirable,” Miss Parker 
returned rather shortly, with a touch of 
disgust. 
“ The banquet waits,” announced Mrs. Un- 
derwood at a signal from her impromptu maid. 
“ I sent word to Miss Grant that you would 
talk shop. It won’t bore me at all. I know 
you must want to compare notes.” 
Mr. Underwood seated the ladies. The 
dainty oysters at each place looked tempting. 
“ Did you find it very severe, Miss Grant ? 
I looked for you to offer a word of condolence, 
but you disappeared so suddenly. And no 
one seemed to know where you had gone.” 
Helen flushed a little at the thought of her 
escapade, if indeed it was that. 
“ Why,” hesitatingly, “ I had not counted 
 
on tranquil seas and smooth sailing. We were 
all strangers and I had to learn, or at least 
make allowance for their ways and training of 
which I knew next to nothing.” 
“ And the heat was enough to drive one 
half crazy,” added Miss Parker. “ I don’t 
know that we ever had such a bad begin- 
ning. There were five new children from 
over the river, but I sincerely wish they had 
not been granted the privilege. I do not be- 
lieve they can keep their standing.” 
“ Scholarship is not very high over there,” 
nodded Mr. Underwood. “ There is a Miss 
Winters, Georgia Winters, who graduated and 
has spent a year in a private school. Can you 
recall her, Miss Grant?” 
Helen thought a moment. “ My mind is 
not quite a directory yet,” she returned laugh- 
ingly. 
“ A tall girl, with rather pretty chestnut hair 
that just missed being red. Her mother con- 
siders her a very fine scholar, quite proficient 
in Latin and French.” 
“ Oh ! I think I can recall her. She must 
be sixteen at least.” 
“ Yes. Her mother thought a year in the 
high school would enable her to graduate.’’ 
“ The first form in Latin is going to be 
rather full,” began Helen dryly. “ Un- 
less ” 
“ They must be rated according to their 
attainments. We cannot begin by lowering 
oar standard. And you will not be able to 
find their exact places at once.” 
“ And how do you like boys?” asked Miss 
Parker. 
Helen flushed. “ I have known a good 
many and grew up with some of them.” 
“ But a woman’s college must be very dif- 
ferent from — well, a public school.” 
Miss Parker had a little soreness of heart. 
She wished she had been able to fill the place. 
There had been no room for college in her 
busy life. She had taught eighteen years, 
working up from a primary grade in the larger 
town of Camden. She had been here eight 
years. Mr. Underwood soon learned her 
capabilities and had her promoted. Last year 
she could have been principal in a smaller 
school but there was no higher salary. She 
 
liked to work with Mr. Underwood, and he 
thoroughly appreciated her. She was a fine 
disciplinarian, an excellent teacher. 
“ I should like to see you at the head of this 
new school,” he had said to her, ‘‘but I 
should miss you tremendously. We pull to- 
gether so harmoniously, we fall so into each 
other’s methods. But they have decided upon 
a graduate fresh from college. I suppose it is 
needed. We go in for the higher things now- 
adays, and we do want to turn out first-class 
scholarship.” 
“ Yes, I should be proud to fill such a posi- 
tion. But I couldn’t construe a page of Latin 
or write an hexameter, and I have just a smat- 
tering of several ’ologies. I had a vague idea 
once that I would study up in the higher 
branches, but I guess my knowledge will suf- 
fice me. When I get sufficient money saved 
I shall retire,” with an abrupt and rather 
scornful laugh, “ or some inconsolable wid- 
ower may take pity on me and offer me a 
home.” 
Marcia Parker’s sad little romance had 
leaked out. Some friend who had known her 
 
told it to her credit. There had been a par- 
tially paralyzed mother and an old father, and 
two brothers who felt free to marry as soon 
as they were in any position to support a wife. 
She had struggled along until the old father 
dropped out of life. For years a lover had 
waited and then his ardor cooled. A bright 
young girl had captured him. Marcia had come 
to Westfield with her mother to get away 
from the gossip and the sympathy that grated 
horribly on her nerves. Three years after 
Mr. Underwood came she found herself free 
from care, and had met with honest apprecia- 
tion in her work. Now she kept two rooms 
and took her meals with the family, truly glad 
of the relief from housekeeping. 
Miss Grant’s credentials had been of so high 
an order there could be no question as to her 
capabilities. Mr. Hildreth was too wise a 
man to arouse any opposition by undue praise. 
“ She is very young for the position,” the 
principal said, in a tone of surprise. But she 
had been asked and accepted. 
Miss Parker was more than surprised at 
the meeting. She had fancied her six or seven 
and twenty, with her post-graduate course and 
her high endorsement. This was what came 
of a free and untrammeled early womanhood. 
A certain jealousy tore her heart that she had 
trained to a grudging acceptance of fate. Not 
so much of the girl, bright, eager, glowing 
with health and courage, as all the events and 
prosperity that had made it possible for her to 
achieve so much in youth. 
“ She will never do ! ” she had said to Mr. 
Underwood on the second day. “ The big 
boys will run over her. It isn’t altogether 
knowledge, — some experience is needed.” 
But by Friday she had changed her mind a 
little, though a certain disbelief still held 
sway. 
Mrs. Underwood had planned the luncheon. 
She was curious to see more of Miss Grant. 
“ Why, yes,” answered Helen after a mo- 
ment’s thought, to Miss Parker’s remark. 
“ And my only experience is that of a little 
country girl who was studying with all her 
might to be able to enter the high school at 
Hope. But I think there is not so much dif- 
ference in the requirements. Boys and girls 
 
must stand on the same level, if they ask to be 
admitted to almost any college.” 
“ There are two or three boys you will find 
rather tough subjects,’ Miss Parker said, with 
a secret feeling of gratulation. Then she 
checked herself and added, — “ I’m sorry Dick 
Eastman has entered. Couldn’t you have ” 
“ I tried my best to persuade his father to 
leave him where he was. But his mother in- 
sisted on having him here. Her contention 
was that a mother’s influence was a great safe- 
guard for a growing boy; her town argument, 
that they were paying a good deal of taxes and 
they had but one child to reap any benefit 
from it.” 
“ Light, street improvements, fire protec- 
tion, and all that do not count, I suppose,” 
commented Miss Parker dryly. 
“ Miss Grant, this isn’t exactly a conference 
meeting, but it may be termed a confidence. 
We are banded together for the best interests 
of the school, I hope, and in some respects to 
recompense Mr. Hildreth for his trouble and 
generosity. So we must put shoulder to 
shoulder, and help over the rough places. 
yS HELEN GRANT, TEACHER 
What do you think of Eastman's scholarship? 
He just squeezed through the grammar school. 
Miss Parker and I absolutely coached him. 
But his parents would have been offended if 
he had not passed. He was the ringleader in 
all sorts of mischief. Of course he is older 
now and I hope he has outgrown his boyish 
pranks. How does he stand ? ” 
Helen colored and looked up with deprecat- 
ing eyes. 
“ Oh, you need not be afraid. I am an 
excellent father confessor, Miss Parker will 
certify.” 
“ I thought he must have been a dull student 
not to have made any greater progress. There 
is a lame boy I like a good deal, Allen Millard. 
He loves to acquire.” 
“ Yes. He was injured by a fall from a 
bicycle. A drunken fellow toppled him over. 
They were afraid at first he would lose his leg. 
He is a fine lad and it is a thousand pities. 
The Millards are some of our best citizens. 
The father and a grown-up son by a first mar- 
riage are excellent men. In the second 
family are two daughters , one older, one 
 
younger than Allen. The older one is a 
promising art student.” 
“ And so far he is very promising. Oh, 
you know, one can hardly tell in this little 
while. They are mostly anxious to reach the 
highest standard whether they are fitted for it 
or not. That savors of ambition.” 
“ Or vanity,” annotated Miss Parker rather 
sarcastically. “ Don’t let them deceive you.” 
“ I do not depend wholly on first impres- 
sions,” and she smiled. 
“ Only with grown-up people whose opin- 
ions are settled,” said Mrs. Underwood. 
“But do you not think people change? It 
is not all in yourself. You find they have 
taken up different ideas and beliefs that sur- 
prise you.” 
“ Miss Grant is right there. And it is 
rather consoling to know the change is not all 
in ourselves,” said Mr. Underwood. 
The serving had gone on beautifully. Mrs. 
Underwood made no fuss of any kind, yet the 
luncheon was rather ornate for the simple 
announcement. 
“ About discipline, now,” began the host, 
when the dessert had come in. “ How did 
they keep so many girls in the strait and 
narrow path ? ” 
“ Oh, they didn’t always ! ” laughed Helen. 
“ But we were self-governing, put on our 
honor. After the freshman year there was 
very little trouble as far as regarded real col- 
lege rules.” 
“ Then it wasn’t so easy to break them in? ” 
Mr. Underwood’s eyes gleamed with a sense 
of amused gratification. 
“ Quite a number come for the fun, not 
meaning to remain more than a year. They do 
prove troublesome. It seems really foolish to 
do that. Others find the studies and the train- 
ing too severe. So a number drop out of their 
own accord. A few are dropped because the 
faculty find they have not kept up to even the 
lowest grade of standing. The college is for 
education, not amusement. The girls who 
enter the sophomore class the first year are' 
those who are in real earnest.” 
It was easy to see that she had been, by her 
eyes so alight with remembered interest and 
her clear, convincing voice. 
“ I suppose girls never stray in forbidden 
paths?” Mr. Underwood half asserted in a 
doubtful tone. 
“ With nearly a thousand girls gathered 
from everywhere it would be quite impossible 
to have perfection. But there gets to be a 
certain esprit de corps. Then for some trans- 
gressions they are deprived of the privileges 
of certain clubs for a while, certain amuse- 
ments. They are compelled to decline of 
their own volition. Nothing is said publicly, 
but girls soon guess.” 
“ It isn’t quite all rose-color then? ” 
“ It depends on how much you want your 
roses,” she answered archly. 
They had been lingering over their coffee; 
now the hostess rose. 
“ I told husband he might talk shop to you 
a while, now I am going to have my innings. 
I don’t care for Latin and Greek, nor biology 
or zoology — I never can tell one from the 
other,” and she laughed gayly. “ Let us talk 
over novels that we like, or the neighbors you 
have met so far. Westfield people are rather 
clannish. Some of the families have been 
here a long while and fancy they have made 
and own the town.” 
“ Laura ! Laura ! ” exclaimed her husband 
warningly. 
“Isn’t it so? I suppose if I had come 
straight out of the ark to Westfield I should 
be telling what they did there and how much 
better it was than the world outside. It is an 
excellent thing for people to change about, I 
think, and find how many nice intelligent peo- 
ple there are in the world. Most of us who 
read enjoy Mrs. Gaskell’s ‘ Cranford but we 
wouldn’t care to live there. And did you ever 
read Hardy’s ‘ Under the Greenwood Tree ’ ? 
There are just such short-sighted, opinionated 
old men here, who once owned the farms, and 
even when they were all run down bewailed 
the fact that they were cut up into building 
lots. And elderly women, who scout a sewing 
machine or any modern invention.” 
“ But they must be amusing,” said Helen, 
with a sense of mirth. 
“ They are. An old man comes here to put 
the garden in order, and tells me how fine it 
was in his grandfather’s time, before all the 
 
new people came in and ruined the place. 
Every year now it gets ruined still more, but 
the new people bring a sort of saving grace 
with them. You’ll find some very nice ones. 
Now Mrs. Stirling is midway between, but 
she wasn't to the manner born. The Stirlings 
have mostly all died out or gone away. She 
is a lady of the old school with some modern 
ways. But the house is most like a museum 
with its old furniture, and ever so much more 
packed in the garret. I felt glad about the 
niece coming. I hope she will prove a real 
comfort. She wants to teach — has taught, I 
believe.” 
“ Yes,” answered Helen. 
“ She will find the demands much greater 
than in an out-of-the-way country school,” said 
Miss Parker. 
“ Will her experience do her much good ? ” 
asked Mr. Underwood. 
“ She will have to begin at the foundation 
in most things. She is a good mathematician, 
spells and reads excellently, has a good general 
knowledge of modern history, knows nothing 
at all about analysis and many of the branches 
 
taught to-day. I suppose a high school educa- 
tion is best for her if she means to teach.” 
“ Oh, certainly. She couldn’t stand any- 
where without it, unless she went out west to a 
new settlement, and then she would marry in 
six months,” said the principal, with a half 
laugh. 
“ It would be a good plan to send more of 
them out,” declared Miss Parker. “ Marrying 
a ranchman, or a man who has preempted his 
tract, would be the best destiny for them.” 
“ Then there’s the Hildreth house. You 
didn’t see much of it the day you were here,” 
began Mrs. Underwood, returning to her own 
subject. “ Part of it is very old, though even 
that has been a good deal remodeled. The 
kitchen has the old Dutch rafters and is big 
enough for two rooms, though it has the 
modern appliances. Then back of the library 
is a room of curiosities. One of the old 
Hildreths was a sea-faring man, never 
married, and lived with the old uncle. This 
one’s father married, but the wife, I believe, 
was rather gay and would not live in the coun- 
try. After she died he came back with his lit- 
 
tie boy. The captain was lost at sea, the father 
of the little boy died away somewhere, and 
this Mr. Hildreth was at school and college, and 
then went abroad. His uncle died suddenly, 
but he did not return at once. He was the 
only heir. When he did come improvements 
had begun. He gave the land for the street at 
the side of the house, Elm Street, sold off a 
good deal of the property, almost rebuilt the 
house, and lives in solitary state with the 
housekeeper.” 
“ He is a splendid public-spirited citizen, 
and has done more for the town than any half 
dozen other men,” declared her husband. 
“ I’m not saying anything against him. I 
like him immensely. Only some woman ought 
to share the splendid old house with him. He 
is a man’s man. Now and then he has a lot 
of savants and professors ” 
“ And they are splendid to meet. I am glad 
of my share of them,” interrupted Mr. Under- 
wood. “ Every year or two he takes a run 
abroad and comes home primed with no end of 
new things. The woman might interfere with 
all this. I am truly glad to have some single 
. 
men and some single women in the world, even 
if home and love are the uplifts to life. All 
the marriages are not happy.” 
“ Still he seems the kind of man to have a 
family about him,” persisted the wife. 
“ Can you find a finer man, with such world- 
wide interests, doing the best for his own town 
and education, and the training of future citi- 
zens? He is just right as he is.” 
“ Well, we will go on to the Goulds. There 
are characters for you! Miss Grant, did you 
ever entertain the idea of writing a book? ” 
“ I should like to write one on astronomy. 
That bewitches me.” returned Helen earnestly. 
“ Bah ! I like the points of people brought 
out in high light. The moon and stars will go 
on in their courses without any help from us, 
though they did fight against Sisera, I believe. 
There are three Gould women, smart, bright, 
and energetic, and all past seventy. At that 
time of life they are really old maids.” 
“ Laura, you do gossip beyond measure.” 
Mrs. Underwood tossed back her head with 
a gay laugh, and her eyes brimmed over with 
fun. 
“ Didn’t some famous English physician tell 
a patient that what she needed most was a 
good gossip? I often speak of good points 
that no one else thinks worth mentioning, and 
I keep no end of harmful things to myself. 
These women are amusing. Miss Grant, they 
will call on you some day. They live in one 
of the big old houses and each one keeps house 
by herself. Miss Mary is a strict vegetarian; 
Miss Eliza believes in fish and eggs as brain 
food; Miss Hetty eats everything and is round 
and rosy. They are not quarrelsome women. 
They speak of each other’s peculiarities as if 
they were something to be proud of. They 
all go to different churches. It seems to re- 
quire a good deal of the grace of God to agree 
about religion when each one differs in the 
mode. Now haven’t I given them a good 
character?” looking up mischievously at her 
husband. 
“ They are good women and a credit to any 
community. I wish there were more like 
them,” he returned. 
“ Why, that is charming,” declared Helen 
enthusiastically. “ I shall like to see them. 
They really are worthy to be perpetuated in a 
book.” 
“ But you must wait until they call upon 
you. They are quite sticklers for propriety 
and they consider they owe that much to the 
newcomers.” 
“ Will they surely call? ” the girl asked. 
“ Oh, yes. They are warm friends with 
Mrs. Stirling. They are not at all exclusive, 
but they never say harm of any one. Miss 
Hetty is a Methodist, and it would almost 
convert you to hear her play and sing the old 
camp meeting and revival hymns. She goes 
to camp meeting every summer, but she does 
bewail their worldliness. Now I am going to 
leave you to your own devices a little while,” 
and she bowed herself gracefully out of the 
room. 
Their devices were school matters, around to . 
which they soon veered. Helen had some ques- 
tions to ask and she found Miss Parker pre- 
served a golden mean where she fancied she 
would be rather pessimistic. She spoke of 
some of the promotions, of the girls who were 
slow in several things. 
 
“I suppose you haven’t tutored any?” she 
ventured. 
“ Not as a business. There were some girls 
depending on it. But you always find some 
one to help out of the Slough of Despond.” 
“ I can see that it would be a good practice. 
Teaching is so different from the theory of it 
that you are sometimes at your wit’s end. 
The theory doesn’t take in the dull and obsti- 
nate pupils.” 
“ You do not look as if you were easily 
made nervous,” said Mr. Underwood. “ That 
is a great thing.” 
“ Nerves were not cultivated,” laughed 
Helen. “ You see fresh air and brisk exercise 
outside of the gymnasium were strongly in- 
sisted upon. The statistics are compared at 
the close of every semester to see if any girl 
has fallen back physically. They generally 
improve. There is so much going on all the 
time between work and play. You get heartily 
tired. I have missed my walks this week. Of 
course there will be some games ” rather 
hesitatingly. 
“ What should you advise ? ” 
“ There ought to be a tennis court — and — 
basketball.” 
“ Some of the girls play tennis. About 
half a mile away are the golf links and baseball 
grounds. But the boys and the grown people 
occupy them. There are matches played. We 
have quite a fine team here. Oh, you will find 
we are not behind in everything, ’ Miss Parker 
answered with some spirit. 
“ We will have to talk to Mr. Hildreth about 
a tennis court for the girls,” said Mr. Under- 
wood. “ I am a believer in athletics when it is 
not carried too far and does not interfere with 
lessons. For the chief end of school days is 
education, fitting boys and girls to take up the 
real work of life.” 
“ And then we put in a lot of non-es- 
sentials,” Miss Parker said, with some as- 
perity. 
“ We will try to discriminate.” 
“ There might be a botany class while 
pleasant weather lasts,” Helen proposed. 
“ That will take us out of doors.” 
“ A good thing if you can find time. You 
must get all the assistance out of Miss Jaynes 
 
that you can. We cannot be a college quite 
yet, however.” 
Helen listened to some plans with much at- 
tention. Then Mrs. Underwood returned and 
brought out a book of fine photographs they 
had collected in their summer journeying. 
“ For we spend all vacation in trips here and 
there. So we have no beautiful garden to 
display, June roses and honeysuckle in pro- 
fusion, and a tulip bed in the front yard. 
Consequently we do not mourn over what is 
left behind.” 
Helen had visited some of the places, and 
they could talk them over. Miss Parker gener- 
ally went to a quiet seaside resort, where she 
bathed and slept, and came back with the con- 
sciousness that she had made no inroads in her 
savings. Something about her suggested Miss 
Carr. And when Helen had heard her story 
a while later, she could not help sympathizing 
inwardly with the hard life. Would any one 
dare offer it outwardly, she wondered? 
“ I am so glad you asked me to come,” 
Helen said to her hostess. “ I think your 
housekeeping is charming. Pve had a delight- 
 
ful day — it has been almost a day,” smiling 
a little. “ And I hope to be friends with Miss 
Parker, and win your good esteem as well.” 
“ I think you will please husband, though 
you are very young for the place. If three 
big boys were out of it, there would be clear 
sailing. Come in when you can. It seems as 
if you might get rather lonesome at Mrs. Stir- 
ling’s, but you will soon make friends about. 
I think you are rather of that kind.” 
“ I like people. I am interested in their 
lives, their aims, their joys and sorrows. I 
couldn’t ever live alone.” 
“ Oh, you’ll be married some day, and it’s 
best for any woman, though husband thinks 
the single women are of great service to the 
world. So are the mothers. The children 
make the school possible, you see. Come in 
any time, you will not bore me for you can 
talk,” nodding and laughing. 
Mr. Underwood’s good-by was pleasant. 
“ We will meet on Monday, but not at Philippi, 
though there may be some battles,” he said 
rather mirthfully. 
Helen did not go directly home, but wan- 
 
dered through the street of stores. In one of 
the confectioneries she saw some schoolgirls 
regaling themselves with cream. It almost 
gave her a homesick pang. 
Here was a stationery and book store. She 
went in and bought some magazines. Then 
she sauntered through a dry-goods store. Oh, 
there was the library, also ! 
Mrs. Vail studied her a moment. “ Oh, 
isn’t it Miss Grant, the new high school 
teacher? I remember you were here several 
weeks ago. I hope you will come in often. 
Mr. Hildreth has just made us such a nice 
donation of reference books and a new ency- 
clopedia. He wishes me to keep a list of books 
called for. He is so interested in the school.” 
Helen looked the list over and found them 
excellent. But the sun was making long 
shadows and it would soon be supper time. 
It had been a very entertaining day. Would 
it do to trust Mrs. Underwood, she wondered ? 
She certainly was bright and amusing. Miss 
Parker’s good-by had been very formal. 
Well, she was not in a hurry to decide upon 
friends. 
CHAPTER V 
A SKIRMISH ALONG THE LINE 
By the end of the second week Helen had 
gauged her school work and quite correctly. 
If it were only next year and she had them 
regulated to her liking, she thought. 
She felt the three oldest boys, who had spent 
the two years in other high schools, were 
likely to make trouble. Not in any overt 
fashion. They could look the very picture of 
innocence. Eastman had a way of saying 
veiled insolent things, of half correcting some 
of her methods by a comparison with his other 
years’ experiences. Two or three points were 
referred to Mr. Underwood. 
“ Miss Grant is right. That method has 
been discarded. I really wonder at any one 
teaching it now,” he commented quietly, and 
the assured tone settled the boy. 
The younger children she found more 
 
thorough, more tractable, better disciplined 
under Miss Parker’s training. Many of them 
were really eager to pursue the new path. 
Miss Jaynes was proving herself very efficient. 
If there was a ringleader among the boys 
there was also a head among the girls, and 
this turned mostly upon social position. One 
was the daughter of the first physician in the 
town, the other the daughter of the justice, 
Judge Ford, who lived in very handsome style. 
They snubbed some of the less prominent girls; 
they were quite indifferent to perfect recita- 
tions. Miss Ford was decidedly poor in 
higher algebra. 
“ Do you know anything in particular about 
the Eastmans ? ” Miss Grant asked of Mrs. 
Stirling one evening. “ What is their home 
influence? I have heard Mr. Eastman spoken 
of very highly.” 
“ Mr. Eastman is a fine man, rather easy it 
is thought; Mrs. Eastman is very proud of her 
son and very indulgent. He has everything he 
wants and plenty of money to spend. People 
think it will be the ruin of him. There is a 
whisper that he came near being expelled at 
Ridgewood. I’m truly sorry you have to undertake 
him. I am averse to gossip, but it 
may be better for you to know it.” 
“ Yes. Thank you,” Helen returned. She 
wondered a little that Mr. Underwood had not 
admitted this. 
One morning he had been particularly re- 
miss in several things. His Latin translation 
was bad to a degree. 
“ You will remain this afternoon and go 
over this,” she said with quiet authority. 
“ You have not had one thoroughly good 
exercise since you have been here.” 
“ Your methods are different,” he replied 
rather shortly. “ I don’t seem to get into 
them.” 
“You remember what Mr. Underwood 
said.” 
“ One can’t get changed about in a minute,” 
rather crossly, shrugging his shoulders. 
She gave him back the exercise. 
He did not come in the afternoon. 
“ Last week he did the same thing and 
brought no excuse. I asked him for it two 
days in succession, but I quite resolved I 
should not do it again since this is the rule. 
And his Latin grows worse. His geometry is 
like a beginner’s,” she said to the principal. 
“ He certainly does know better. They 
have good training at Ridgewood.” 
” I should like to put him back with the 
fourth grade.” 
“ There would be a fight,” Mr. Underwood 
laughed. 
“ Do his parents or the teachers rule the 
school ? ” 
“ Are you prepared for a fight ? ” 
“ I think I am prepared to do what is right, 
to uphold the authority of the school.” 
Helen glanced at him fearlessly, and he ap- 
proved of her. What a fine, clear-headed girl 
she was. 
“Of course you know I stand back of you 
in the matter of rules,” he replied decisively. 
