when I married your father, I did not love 
him, either, but I admired him, and any girl 
can admire a duke." 
Sally shook her head. She was thinking 
of the man with laughing eyes. Thinking, 
too, of his attentions to Maud Barhyte, a 
New York girl whom she also knew, and 
whom she envied greatly. 
"I don't know," she answered at last. 
"But I do," retorted Mrs. Kandy. "Now 
ring for Perkins and go to bed." 
Sally did ring. A wooden-faced maid 
appeared. Later, when the woman was 
brushing the girl's hair, Sally said to 
her: 
"I am engaged to a duke." 
"Yes, mem." 
Had Sally said she was engaged to a baboon, the reply would have been the same. 
Perkins knew her business. It was not for 
her to manifest any interest in anything con 
cerning her employers. It was for her to 
 
attend to her duties. She did attend to them, 
and attended to them well. 
"But I will keep you, Perkins." 
"Thank you, mem." 
The brushing continued. Presently Perkins said: "If you please, mem, I m to be 
married too." 
In the mirror before her Sally looked at 
the woman in whose face there was not a 
vestige of expression. 
"His name is Arris, mem. He's butler 
and valet, mem, and been only in the best 
houses." 
"Harris!" Sally repeated. "Well, per 
haps, I may take him when I have a house 
of my own, but you will be Perkins just the 
same." 
"Thank you, mem." 
Such was Sally's wooing. The marriage 
was equally enchanting. 
Before it occurred, Malakoff, apprised by 
his avoue of the terms of Sam Kandy's will, 
laughed. It was not a pleasant laugh. Had 
Mrs. Kandy seen him at that moment, she 
would have been alarmed. Could she have 
read his thoughts, she would have known 
that her alarm was justified. 
There was the Due de Chose, who had 
bagged the booty of despoiled Venezuela; 
de la Deche, who had got the loot of the 
wreckage of the railways of the United 
States; Prince Eugene, the most obscure of 
the obscurest Napoleonides, who had gob 
bled the heiress of Monte Carlo's perfumed 
hell; Solferino, who had pocketed the prize 
American dot; d Ostende, who had received 
with his bride a ton of brewery guineas ; and 
he, Malakoff, who was as good as any of 
them, was done, done again, and out a beggarly million at that! 
He could still desist, and would have, but 
an idea occurred to him. It was then that he 
laughed. 
In accordance with local usage, the civil 
 
ceremony, which precedes the religious rites, 
took place at the Mairie of the precinct in 
which Malakoff resided. The formalities, 
brief in themselves, became exasperating by 
reason of a long delay which intervened. 
Afterward, at the Elysee Hotel, Malakoff 
requested a word with Mrs. Kandy. 
"Madam," he began, when Sally had 
gone, "in asking the hand of your daughter, 
I said it was not merely that I might have her 
for wife, but in order, also, that I might have 
you for mother-in-law. Do you recall it?" 
Mrs. Kandy, laced to the point of suf 
focation, wished that he would hurry and 
go. But, manfully, from a red and gilt 
armchair in which she squirmed, she 
smiled. 
"I do, indeed. I thought it very gracious." 
Malakoff smiled also that smile in which 
the eyes have no part, and which consists in 
showing the teeth. 
"You are most amiable. But at the time 
I hardly supposed you would leave me in 
the cold." 
"In the cold!" Mrs. Kandy, shifting un 
easily, repeated. 
"In the street, if you prefer. For that is 
what it amounts to. You told me that your 
daughter has a million. It is true. But the 
income only. That is insufficient." 
Mrs. Kandy raised her lorgnette. "But 
you knew this before. Mr. Ridgeway " 
Malakoff bowed. "That is also true. 
This Ridgeway, your lawyer, acquainted my 
man of business with the facts. But enamoured as I was, and am of your daughter, I 
did not sufficiently consider them. This 
morning, during the delay which I regret 
you should have experienced at the Mairie, 
I had the fullest opportunity to do so, and 
I have concluded to proceed no further." 
"What!" 
Malakoff plucked at his beard. "I have 
concluded not to marry your daughter." 
 
At the outrageousness of that, Mrs. Kan- 
dy forgot her stays. She realised only that 
she was the mother of a duchess, the potential 
grandmother of a prince, and dismissing 
grammar, she cried: "But you are; you 
have." 
Malakoff looked at her much as though 
she were a wriggling worm, and it was with 
utter indifference to her anguish that he answered: "Not by the Church, and in my 
world it is only the religious ceremony that 
counts." 
"And you mean to say!" Mrs. Kandy 
screamed. Then, English failing, she soared 
into French. "Mais, c est indigne! You 
leave my child neither fish, flesh nor fowl." 
Malakoff caught the statement and with 
a shrug of his shoulders tossed it back. 
"It is only what you leave me. In the 
Americas, I am aware, matters arrange 
themselves otherwise. There a man may 
work. I believe a man is even expected to. 
Here it is different. A man, such as I am 
at least, not only is not expected to work, 
but would not be tolerated if he tried. Imagine to yourself the Due de Malakoff, grocer, stockbroker even! Alors, quoi?" 
From purple, Mrs. Kandy turned livid. 
"I shall appeal to the embassy. I will 
send for my lawyer!" 
Malakoff took up his hat. "I earnestly 
recommend you to do both. Meanwhile 
favour me by conveying my homage to 
your daughter. I have had the honour to bid 
you good-day." 
But when he had gone, and Mrs. Kandy 
had loosened her stays, she felt better and 
thought better, at least of one of her threats. 
The embassy could do nothing. To appeal 
there would be but to bill the whole ridiculous story to all the cynical world. She 
telephoned instead to Ridgeway, who shortly 
was announced. 
Mr. Ridgeway's mouth was full of gold 
teeth. While listening to her tale, he exhib 
ited them very freely. He was thinking 
what an amazing fool she was. 
"Of course/ he said at last, placing as he 
spoke a forefinger in the middle of his forehead, "the marriage has not been consumma 
ted, and an action to nullify the contract can 
be brought. Even otherwise, the attitude 
of this gentleman has been foreseen. It 
constitutes what the Code terms a sevice 
grave, and a divorce can be had. But any 
proceedings in the matter will cause a 
scandal, one that unfortunately will reflect on your daughter. Now it is 
evident that this gentleman wants money. 
They all do, the majority of the aristos 
that is, and they rarely marry unless 
they get it. My advice is, give it to 
him. Probably a hundred thousand francs 
will suffice. I will see his avoue and let 
you know." 
"It is outrageous," said Mrs. Kandy, sniffling and snuffing at a vinaigrette. "No 
lady was ever so treated." 
Mrs. Kandy was then in a loose flowing 
robe, tenderly pink, which lace befluttered. 
In spite of her plaint, she felt better. 
The relief was transient. Mr. Bidgeway 
on visiting Malakoff's attorney found that a 
hundred thousand was a mere fraction of the 
amount required. Malakoff demanded five 
million francs. 
When these figures were recited to Mrs. 
Kandy, instantly the woman in that tender 
gown was ousted by a female. She grimaced 
queerly. Epilepsy of the epiglottis attacked 
her. Instead of employing the language of 
the ornate, she dropped into that of the fish 
wife. 
"Pay a man a million dollars to sleep with 
my daughter! Never!" 
Never is a long word. Before the inter 
view was concluded, she decided to do 
so. 
 
"I am ruining myself," she sobbed. 
"It is very noble of you," said Mr. Ridgeway, who, for that remark of his, and for 
that other of hers, charged extra. 
When the five million francs had been paid 
and Sally Kandy became definitely Sally 
Malakoff, an act interrelated with the drama 
of her life was occurring in New York. 
There in the library of a large house, situ 
ated in that part of Madison avenue, which, 
with Gramercy Park, still represents what 
residential New York used to be, a man was 
talking to a girl. 
The man was Welden, the girl was Maud 
Barhyte. She was standing. He was seated. 
Beside him was a table on which was an 
Oxford edition, in Greek, of the old Sicilian 
poets. At the moment, it was the only book 
that the library contained. Opposite was a 
 
mantel, above it, a mirror. To the right was 
a piano, at the left a sofa. On the walls were 
pictures of former Barhytes, women with 
pointed bodices and powdered hair; men in 
vermilion with swords and lace jabots. In 
addition to the book, the table had on it a 
buvard, an elaborate service for writing, and 
a jewelled bag of gold mesh, which the girl 
had put down. 
A little before, letting herself in with a 
latch-key, as was her custom, she had come 
from a drive. She wore a costume of light 
cloth, faintly blue, exquisitely embroidered. 
Beneath was silk and mousseline de soie, less 
durable, and more costly than the garment. 
On her head was a hat for which she had 
been charged eighty dollars. She had worn 
it once before, and might wear it once 
again. 
The girl was not on that account a fool. 
She read Plato in the original, and what is 
less lovely and more difficult, she read Kant. 
What is unusual, she thought; what is ex 
ceptional, she meditated; what is remark 
able, she prayed. 
She prayed that she might do nothing that 
should not charm, say nothing that should 
not please. 
Generally the prayer was granted, and 
sometimes more fully than she wished. Men 
on first meeting her forgot that they were 
conventional beings, and remembered that 
they were men. 
"That ought not to be allowed," the wit 
of a ball-room had remarked, when in shim 
mering white, this girl had passed. For in 
her eyes that were violet, in the rich orange 
of her hair, in the contour of her lips, that 
seemed meeting for love, in the oval of her 
perfect face, and in her figure that pulsated 
with health and with life, there was a charm 
too alluring, almost aphrodisiac. 
Of the emotions that it aroused, the girl 
was aware. It mortified her extremely, and 
 
through her demeanour she tried to attenuate 
it. But from her voice, which was naturally 
low, she could not always banish caresses. 
She could not always eliminate the incandescence from her eyes. The more demure 
she tried to appear, the more desirable she 
became. Her prayer was, perhaps, only too 
fully granted. 
Now, on this late mid- April afternoon, 
there came through the open windows the 
surrenders of spring, and the metallic roar 
of the city. 
"If you won't marry me, tell me why?" 
Welden was saying. 
With that air of being somebody which 
certain New Yorkers occasionally attain, he 
sat, supple and vigorous, looking hungrily 
at her. The hunger, a hunger for her, for a 
year and a day he had tried to appease, but 
hitherto quite vainly. 
In and about the girl's lips a smile hov 
ered deliciously. 
"Supposing you wearied of me, what 
then?" 
Welden laughed. "I never could." 
The hovering smile fluttered and fled. 
"Supposing, then, I wearied of you!" 
Welden laughed again. "I would not let 
you." 
To that, the girl, with a movement of her 
head, assented. 
"Perhaps. But does it not rather seem 
that affection is a thing which cannot be commanded? It seems so to me. It seems to 
me that it commands us. It seems to me too, 
that, the quantity being limited, some day it 
must give out. When it does, love ends. No 
effort can prevent it." 
Welden nodded. "Some day, yes. But 
a hundred years with you would be insufficient for me. I could love you all through 
this life, and all through another." 
The smile which momentarily had gone 
from the girl, rejoined her. 
 
" In seternum te adorabo, " she quoted. 
"I know. I have heard it before. I have 
heard it said by people who, when I next 
heard of them, were applying for a divorce. 
I heard Rivers swear it to Beatrix Leroy. 
Where are they now?" 
"In the hands of their lawyers, I believe." 
"Yet, almost the day before yesterday, 
they were apparently mad about each other, 
quite as much as we are, and probably more. 
Now, as you put it, they are in the hands of 
their lawyers. Then there are, or were, the 
Cottings, the Colvilles, the Methuens, the 
Lennox Joneses. Where are they?" 
"In the same box, I suppose. But what 
of it? What have their various deviltries to 
do with us?" 
"Everything. We might get in the same 
box ourselves." 
"Ce n est pas la mer a boire," Welden 
lapsing into French, as certain New Yorkers 
sometimes will, replied. 
Again the girl assented. "For a man, 
certainly not. But for a woman, it rather 
proclaims the fact that she has put her love 
and life into the hands of an individual who 
has destroyed the one and ruined the other. 
Women endure much, and I could endure 
that on condition, however, that I alone were 
aware of it. But, to have it known, printed, 
discussed; to have my private misfortunes 
public property, no, I would rather " 
The girl hesitated as though at loss for a 
simile. Before she could find one, provided, 
that is, she wanted to, Welden cut in. 
"But, Maud, are you not putting the tilbury before the tandem? That people do 
get divorces is obvious and in the majority 
of cases the reason is obvious also. Men 
here, as a rule, marry too young. They marry because they cannot decently get the girl 
otherwise, and as they afterward discover, 
it is not the girl, but a girl that they have got. 
To me, you are not a girl; you are the 
 
girl, the one girl in the whole wide world." 
Maud looked the matter over as it reached 
her, and indicated the flaw in it with a smile. 
"We are taught that experience teaches, 
and I may suppose that you have had yours, 
many experiences, I dare say. In that case, 
you have had a liberal education, which I 
have lacked. Your experiences have qualified you as an expert, and it is as such that 
you are able to decide that I am the one girl 
in the world for you. That is very gratifying. But what is there to enable me to deter 
mine that you are the one man? You may 
be. Probably you are. But how can I tell? 
How can I?" 
Sagaciously Welden answered: "Try 
me." 
Maud turned away, and with her two 
hands made a pass in the air. It was as 
though in some rite known but to herself, 
she were interrogating the invisible lap of 
the indifferent gods. 
Then, looking suddenly at him, she ex 
claimed: "I have a great mind to." 
In spite of a gesture meant to stay him, 
Welden sprang at the girl, caught her in 
his arms, and pressing his lips to hers-, so hent her with the embrace, that she fell back 
ward on the sofa. 
At once, freeing herself, she pushed him 
away. 
"Oblige me by sitting where you were." 
As she spoke, she went to the mirror, readjusted her hat, patted her frock. These 
operations concluded, she turned again. 
"We may as well say that we are engaged. 
In that manner we can be together whenever 
we like. Come to dinner to-morrow. I will 
speak to my father to-night,you can speak to 
him then." 
She moved back. "Don't kiss me here. 
Don t. Now you must go. I have to dress." 
Welden passed from the library into a 
reception room which adjoined it, and from 
 
there to the marble flagging of the hall. 
Near the entrance stood a man, an old 
family servant who had known Welden 
throughout the year and the day of the siege 
and who now handed him his hat and stick. 
Welden, considering him with laughing 
eyes, fumbled in his waistcoat and said: 
"William, put that in your pocket and 
don't be surprised if you hear any news." 
"Thank you, sir. Thank you, Mr. Wel 
den," the man answered knowingly. "I 
shan't be surprised; no, sir." 
Opening the door, he held it open until 
Welden reached the street. 
That night, when some guests had gone, 
Maud spoke, as she said she would speak, to 
her father. They were in the drawing-room 
which, after a New York fashion of long 
ago, was frescoed, furnished in yellow and 
black, fitted with enormous mirrors and with 
chandeliers almost as big, equally ancient. 
"I am engaged to Gerard Welden." 
General Barhyte, who had taken up an 
evening paper, put it down and removed his 
glasses. He had bushy white hair, a white 
cavalry moustache, and a fierce red face 
which suddenly could become indulgent. 
It became so then. The Weldens had 
been identified with New York as long as 
the Barhytes, possibly longer. Welden him 
self represented all that was locally desirable 
in addition to the fact that he was personally 
agreeable, pleasant to the eye, liked by men, 
admired by women, a man of means, an 
M. F. H., President of the Swordsmen Club. 
These items considered, the general replaced his glasses and looked up at his 
daughter. 
"He is not in business, is he?" 
Maud, who had been standing, seated her 
self on an S in upholstery. 
"Well? And you? You are not either." 
For a moment the general considered the 
point. "That's another story. I think now- 
 
adays a man should have some occupation." 
Maud smiled, displaying the nacre of her 
teeth. "So do I. He will have me. It will 
be enough for him." 
"Or for anybody," laughed the general. 
"When is it to be?" 
"When is what to be?" 
"Why, God bless my soul, the wedding, 
of course." 
From under the girl's skirt a white slip 
per, butterflied with gold, moved in and out. 
"Oh, not for a long time yet." 
"Why?" 
"Because." 
The general laughed again. "That is the 
best reason in the world. Well, puss, you 
have my consent and your mother's money. 
You have been a good girl and I hope to God 
that you will be happy. He means to say a 
word to me, doesn't he?" 
Maud stood up. "To-morrow. I have 
asked him to dinner." 
General Barhyte, gathering again the 
evening paper, nodded. The match was 
everything he could wish. The more he considered it, the more he was pleased. 
The following evening, when Maud had 
left the table and Welden had said the promised word, that pleasure he expressed. 
"I hope," he added, "that after you are 
married you will be willing to live here. 
Why, God bless my soul, the house is big 
enough for a dozen of you. I always break 
fast in my rooms, usually I have luncheon at 
the Athenaeum, and I have always wanted 
to dine there." 
"You are very kind, General," Welden, 
sitting, smiling and supple, before him, replied. "Personally I shall like nothing bet 
ter, particularly as my own house has gone 
the way the rest of New York will go engulfed by office buildings and department 
stores." 
"Yes, yes. They are making the town impossible. God bless my soul, if I did not 
know better, I should think I was in Chicago. But there is Maud looking in. Don't 
let me detain you." 
Welden stood up, shook hands with the 
old gentleman, thanked him again, and fol 
lowed the girl into the faded splendours of 
the drawing-room. 
"I have something for you," she an 
nounced. 
From a little box she took a sapphire, flat 
and oblong. About it was a thin gold band 
and at one end a clasp. On the band was 
engraved: Aultre n auray. 
" None but you, " she translated as he 
examined the device which, long ago, a girl 
wove for a king. 
"Now," she resumed, "if you will put that 
on the stem of your watch, it will not be offensive, will it?" 
"On the contrary. But how odd!" 
"I meant it to be. It is a token between 
us. If you ever change your mind, do not 
let me see that you have and do not tell me. 
Send this to me." 
"It will go with me to my grave," Welden 
answered. 
Drawing her to him, he kissed her, longly 
at first, then so penetratingly that the least 
pulses of her being shook. 
Slowly, in her low, caressing voice, the girl 
said to him: "Dearest, I adore you." 
In the way we live now, the income derived from two million dollars is better than 
nothing, but, for a duke and a duchess, it is 
little more. Yet in Paris, provided one 
know, money may be made to do double the 
duty that it can effect elsewhere. 
Malakoff did know. The last price of 
anything, the real value of no matter what, 
he thoroughly understood. It was a boast 
of his that no one could do him, and apart 
from the welshings in the steeplechase, it is 
probable that he had never been jockeyed in 
his life. On the perhaps meagre income he 
succeeded, consequently, in setting up an establishment which, if not princely, was not 
bourgeois. He succeeded even in setting up 
two of them, one at Deauville for the villegiatura, another for town life in the Avenue 
Malakoff "my avenue," as he, with what 
perhaps was pardonable pride, described it. 
The house there or, to speak French, the 
hotel, had been obtained at a rental relatively low. Situated between court and garden, 
it had a vanilla frontage, variegated at the 
windows by a touch of green, at the balcony 
by another of pink, which gave it vaguely the 
appearance of a Neapolitan ice. 
Sally did not take to it nor did she take 
to her existence there. In the unholy rites of 
the marriage, each one of which had set a 
separate mark upon her, she felt cheated of 
her girlhood and, in this house, she felt 
cheated, too, of happiness and love. Many 
are without suspecting it, many others cheat 
themselves. But Sally had been thrown 
blindfolded into the arms of a man who did 
not care for her, who did not want to care 
 
for her, and she had been so thrown for no 
other earthly reason than that a stupid 
woman might be related to a duke. Sally 
hated her mother for it with a hatred which 
equalled, when it did not exceed, the loathing 
which she felt for her husband. 
Ordinarily the results of a husband's in- 
considerateness are but temporary. Given 
but time and the bride forgets and forgives, 
and Sally, who was not only shallow, but, 
like all shallow people, impulsive, might 
have ended by loving the man whom she 
loathed, had not his inconsiderateness been 
succeeded by defection. Barely a wife, she 
ceased to be one, and that, while distinctly 
a blessing, aborted the possibility of anything further between them, anything, that 
is, except indifference on his part and an 
tipathy on hers. 
Her thoughts at this time were not, therefore, very gay, and their lack of gaiety was 
complicated by the fact that she had not 
many of them. But she found compensations, among these a curious one in Mme. 
Oppensheim, who, for obvious reasons, had 
determined that Sally should like her, and 
who succeeded in that which, other things 
being equal, would have been an impossible 
task. Sally did like her, or perhaps it will 
be more exact to say that she relished the at 
tentions shown her by this woman of the 
world, who, not content with being merely 
gracious to an inexperienced American, took 
the trouble to form her, to teach her the tone, 
the ways and manners of the Parisian, in 
particular that desir de plaire which gives to 
the speech and bearing of the mondaine her 
untranslatable charm. 
Sally at first was necessarily unaware of 
the relations that existed between this woman 
and Malakoff. When she was better in 
formed, as she promptly became, she felt 
grateful to her for standing between them. 
The gratitude was very feline. Though 
 
Sally purred, she could scratch. But mean 
while discovering, moreover, as she also did, 
that in the special world in which she moved, 
the situation, far from being exceptional, 
was the reverse, she felt not merely grateful 
but Parisian, and in that state of advancement, dispensed both with the sense of dig 
nity which should be natural to the married 
woman, and with the sense of morality which 
usually is instinctive in the young. 
Incidentally it amused her to be duchess. 
She was glad to be rid of her mother. She 
liked to drive without her, and view land 
scapes of modes. Moreover, in the Avenue 
Malakoff, she received detachments from 
what is called All-Paris the glittering and 
rakish ship of fashion, in which the distaff- 
side of the Faubourg Saint-Germain does 
not always deign to sail. But though the 
feminine portion of the old nobility has its 
reserves, the men are less punctilious and 
even otherwise there are always others quite 
as agreeable and frequently more so, the 
cosmopolitan leaders of life and sport, who 
nowhere else are as enterprising. Of these, 
many made up to her, a circumstance of 
which, quaintly enough, she complained to 
Mme. Oppensheim. 
"But, ma toute belle," the latter remonstrated. "When a man delays more than 
fifteen minutes in making up to me, I regard 
him as insulting." 
"You are so beautiful," Sally replied. 
But she thought her simply fantastic, and 
that not through any straight-lacedness, but 
because she did not yet understand how a 
woman can permit any man, save the man 
of all men, to attempt an approach however 
circuitous, to the heart's tender places. In 
that respect, Malakoff's treatment of her 
had been beneficial, and while in the antipathy incited, it had necessarily failed to reveal what love may be, none the less it had 
suggested possibilities which were then accentuated by Welden's presence in Paris. 
Prior to her marriage, she had fancied her 
self in love with him. Now, in looking hack, 
she realised that she had not known the 
meaning of the word. It still held its secrets, 
mysteries unrevealed, the esoteric love of a 
doctrine which only life can impart, only life 
and a lover. But the latter term had also its 
shadings, between which Sally wavered, not 
through any loyalty to Malakoff, she owed 
him none; nor through any loyalty to her 
self, she was unaware that she owed any, but 
because Welden was an inaccessible person. 
At a five-o'clock in that amiable region 
which is known as the American colony, 
Sally made him such little tentative advances as a woman may. Agilely he extracted 
himself from her ambuscades. Ordinarily, 
he might have stormed them. That would 
have been only civil. But what ordinarily 
would have been civil, in this instance, would 
have been base. He was bound by bonds 
that to certain natures are the strongest of 
all. Apart from which he had no desire to 
encourage Sally. Maud left him none. 
A fortnight after the episode of the little 
token, the girl and her father sailed for Paris. 
Welden accompanied them and it was in 
Paris that the consummation of the agreement occurred. 
Previously the matter was somewhat debated. Maud Barhyte knew many things, 
among others, that once upon a time it had 
been heretical to think, heretical, also, to love. 
She knew, furthermore, that since then progress had liberated thought without, however, 
completely emancipating the heart. But, 
she had argued, the right to think and the 
right to love being both fundamental in human nature, one is as clear as the other, and 
while, to the bigot, any freedom in love may 
be heretical still, none the less, such liberty is 
permissible, provided the appearances are 
preserved, and no one else is injured. 
 
These views she put before Welden. 
Their fallacy was patent to him. For while 
the whole moral value of marriage may subsist in a union which is contracted solely in 
the consciences of those who enter into it, 
and while such a union may not only present 
but preserve the entire and eternal law of 
Right, yet, when such a union is contracted 
in conditions such as? theirs, there is an in 
jury to others. There is an injury, though 
it be but potential, to the unborn. There is 
a further injury, and a grave one, to the 
woman, often, also, to the man. A woman 
is never completely woman except in the 
family, and there can be no family once 
certain conventions are contravened. These 
conventions, which jurists did not invent, or 
codes originate, are exterior to woman, superior to man, and, when disregarded, inimical to both of them. 
But, though the fallacy of the girl's views 
was patent to Welden, the fallacy of refuting them was patent as well. The rare gifts 
of the gods should be piously accepted, never 
refused. Apart from which, in the way we 
live now, men of the world do not recite 
moral maxims after the manner of Confucius. Welden was too modern for that, and 
incidentally too hungry. But he saved his 
conscience. 
"Your views," he declared, "are as ador 
able as they are advanced; but they would 
be still more adorable were they antiquated 
enough to induce you to marry me." 
"Dearest," she replied, "have we not been 
all over that?" 
They had indeed. At the time they were 
in New York. In the after joy which love 
and life in Paris brought, neither, between 
them, could have discovered a regret, the 
vain desire merely that it should never end, 
never! and in a world where all things must 
and do. 
Meanwhile felicity was theirs, one so full, 
 
so absorbing, so intense and eager that some 
times from their commingled breath, rose the 
deceiving image of felicities larger and more 
fair. Sometimes, from the fountain of de 
light, a clear jet falling in drizzling sheaves, 
shook stars in their eyes and ears. Some 
times the pulsations of love swept over them 
like tides. Sometimes the waters lifted them, 
sank them, lowered them deeper, caught, carried and drifted them, hour long, unappeasably, from night to dawn. Once, 
from the mysterious affinities that similarise the flesh and spirit, a fear seemed to 
mount and warn of a catastrophe unknown, 
yet near. 
The latter impression, wholly momentary 
and immediately forgot, came later. At the 
time being, their clear sky was cloudless. In 
termediately, for general convenience, they 
were but another engaged couple, and it 
was by the simple expedient of announcing 
the engagement that Welden, at a five- 
o'clock in the Avenue Marceau, extricated 
himself from Sally's ambuscades. 
"To Maud Barhyte!" exclaimed Sally, 
who certainly took her defeat very well, "how 
perfectly dear! I was thinking of her only 
the other day." 
Sally, like her mother, sometimes spoke 
truly. In this instance, what she said was 
exact. She had been thinking of a resemblance that existed between Mme. Oppensheim and Maud. 
"Where is she?" she continued. "And 
where are you? I want you both to dinner." 
"Thank you," Welden replied. "Maud 
is at the Mirifique, in the rue de la Paix, 
and I am across the street." 
"How nice and convenient that is. Well, 
tell her with my love, that I am coming to 
see her at once." 
Sally smiled and nodded and turned. 
"Bonjour, Madame de Chose!" she said to 
a woman. "Bonjour, Prince!" she repeated 
 
to a man. "How sweet youU06& v Pinkey !" 
she added to a girl. "BonjourJ E^iijjoo.r!" 
Sally certainly took her defeat very well. 
In the crowded salons of Mrs. Cawtree, her 
hostess, a New Yorker who had lived so 
long in Paris, that she was unaware how 
Parisian New York has become; in the spacious and peopled rooms she looked far more 
victorious than vanquished, and incidentally 
very sweet. "But too animated," Mrs. Cawtree, to whom such attenuations were pleasing, afterward declared. 
Welden fell back and away. Presently in 
a motor-cab he was sailing down the Champs 
Elysees, and on to the Cercle de TEscrime, 
a fencing club, of which he was a member, 
where, when in Paris, he usually went for 
a bout each day. 
The bout served a double purpose. It 
combined practice and pleasure. It did 
more. It helped to keep him in that condition of supple vigour which it is the mere 
duty of ah idler and particularly of a lover 
:to maintain. To this condition other causes 
were contributory. He had a hack for the 
Bois and near Longchamp he kept a hunter, 
one that he had bought, not indeed for any 
immediate sport, but for future runs on 
Long Island. This horse, Irish by birth, 
and Blazes by name, was strong enough to 
carry a house. He had short legs, a short 
back, prodigious quarters, shoulders like the 
top of a haystack, and an impudent eye. 
He had cost a pretty figure, but Welden, 
who knew as much about horses as any one 
can, except a vet., felt that he had got him 
cheap, and to his Longchamp groom, a 
middle-aged, weasel-faced man, he gave 
these simple and sound instructions : "Mind 
you, now, plenty of oats and plenty of 
work." 
On this afternoon, in the salle d armes, 
he found, among other members, Louis Le 
Hillel,a Franco- American, to whom, through 
 
his grandmother, he was vaguely related, 
and with whom he had long been on terms 
of agreeable, though not oppressive, intimacy. Le Hillel had the face of a prelate, 
the manners of a debutante, and a wildcat's 
fearless agility. 
After a bout with him, after a shower 
bath, and after dressing for the evening in 
the club, as is customary there, Welden 
sailed away in another cab to dine with Maud 
and her father. 
The Mirifique, where they lodged, had 
been considered smart in the days of Balzac's beaux, and that distinction it had contrived to maintain. But then it had not 
succumbed to the general teutonising of such 
places. The management was not German, 
the servants were not Swiss, the chef was a 
chef. Though situated on that most cosmopolitan of streets, which the rue de la Paix 
is, it remained really Parisian. Guests 
there were not considered fit merely to be 
robbed, but patrons to be pleased. Mainly 
these patrons were Russians, than which, in 
the managerial eye, there is nothing superior, 
save only those appertaining to some 
grrande famille Americaine, for that is the 
ideal, and that is what the Barhytes were. 
The suite which they occupied was on 
what Italians call the noble floor, and which 
the French, less translatably, describe as the 
first above. It gave on the street, and consisted of a vestibule, a frescoed salon, a tapestried dining-hall, and the usual sleeping 
rooms. The general's quarters, and those of 
his daughter, were separated by the dining 
room and salon. But Maud's had that which 
the general's lacked, a private entrance. It 
gave on a stairway at the rear, and though 
it was supposed to be used only by Maud's 
maid, Maud herself made use of it when returning unduly from Welden. 
When he entered that evening, there was 
mounting from the street its odour of verbena and absinthe. Following that, were 
the cries of the hawkers who are never still. 
Then at once there was a waiter announcing 
dinner. 
Already Welden had been greeted by the 
general. For a moment he had held Maud's 
hand in his. Slender, white and very cool, 
it burned him. The contour of her figure 
and her too alluring looks, burned him still 
more. At the pressure of his hand on hers, 
she, too, must have burned. A faint flame 
leaped to her face, coloured it charmingly, 
and sank slowly away. 
"And where, may one inquire, have you 
been?" she asked, with that clinging intonation of hers, which was a caress in itself, 
and which lent to her simplest words the effect of a kiss. "We rather fancied that we 
should see you." 
"So we did," said the general. "But dinner appears to be ready. Welden, will you 
take Maud out?" 
"I have been talking to a friend of yours," 
Welden presently remarked, unfolding, as 
he spoke, a beautifully folded napkin. 
"Sugar Candy, she wants us to dine." 
"That is Sam Kandy's daughter, isn't 
it?" the general interjected. "Let me see, 
she married " 
"A very good looking man, I hear," Maud 
answered. "Have you met him?" she asked, 
turning to Welden. 
"That reminds me, Maud," the general 
ran on. "At the Visitors Club to-day, a 
Frenchman, a painter, was introduced to 
me. It appears that he has seen you some 
where. God bless my soul! What an extravagant mood you put him in! He wants 
to paint your portrait and he says that if he 
may, it will be the clou what do you call it 
in English the success? Yes, the success 
of the Salon. A most extravagant chap. 
It was Colonel Floyd who introduced him. 
By the way, Floyd wants us to go to Frascati's. He is to be there for July and he 
says " 
"Frascati's at Havre?" said Maud. 
"Yes, where else should it be? Now how 
devilish good that fish is, isn't it? They do 
do you well here, don't they? Floyd says " 
The general rambled on. Dishes perfectly cooked, perfectly served, succeeded each 
other. Coffee came. Finally the general 
stood up. 
"Welden," he said, "don't let me disturb 
you. Stop and keep Maud company." 
He turned to the girl. "I have an engagement with Floyd. Shall you be up when I 
return?" 
"AJh! that depends." 
"God bless my soul! Of course it does. 
I hardly believe I shall be late, though. 
Good night, Welden." 
The old gentleman passed on and out, 
wondering a little, as he occasionally did, 
why, as yet, no date had been set for the 
wedding. Had he known, apoplexy would 
have seized him. But he did not know, and 
fortunately never learned. Fortunately for 
us all there are mysteries that we never elucidate. In its inscrutable ways the Inscru 
table is beneficent. 
The multiple brilliancies of the table were 
punctuated by goblets which lackeys in silk 
stockings, knee breeches and the saffron liveries of the Malakoffs replenished with 
gloved hands. A maitre d hotel, after presenting a sturgeon from the Volga, was supervising its service. Through the hum of 
talk, the tinkle of silver on Sevres, above 
the glittering table, rose the rich voice of the 
duke. 
At his right was Mme. de Solferino, gor 
geous and golden. At his left was Mme. de 
Cerisy, a massive brunette, outwardly at 
tentive, but inwardly blaspheming. Next 
to her was de Dol, a sportsman with racing 
stables at Chantilly. Farther down was 
Welden. Opposite de Dol was Aquaviva, 
an Italian, master of the Roman hunt. At 
his right sat Maud. Beyond, at the other 
end of the table, was Sally, a Turkish legate 
on one side, a Russian prince on the other. 
Between Sally and Malakoff, were eight 
other guests, or sixteen in all, a number relatively restricted, but, afterward, there was 
to be a sauterie, a little frisk, to which a 
hundred more were coming. 
Mme. de Cerisy, outwardly smiling, but 
inwardly cursing her couturiere, wore a confection that matched her name. It did not 
do and the consciousness that it did not was 
increased doubly, first by the glitter of Mme. 
de Solferino, again by the picture presented 
by Maud, who, with the ivory of her neck 
and arms, the rich orange of her hair, her 
incandescent eyes and too alluring looks, 
