was ever said to me. Oh, I thank you. I can't tell you how 
I thank you." 

Did ever a girl receive an offer of a man in such a spirit ? 
Yet there was something lacking. He could not open" a 
door to the rush of feeling in himself. She was no nearer 
him, even further it might be, than she was before. He 
wanted to stretch out his hands to her, but that seemed use- 
less, she was really so far away. But she was glad, and yet 
it was for some reason he had not fathomed and even, it ap- 
peared, not due to him at all. 

" Thank you," she said again, shyly, it seemed, this 
time. 

"Then," said Hunter, and now the nervous tension of it 
all made him laugh a little, " then, Bess, I 'm accepted." 

She started back a pace. 

" Oh, no," said she, " not that. It couldn't be that any- 
way, but it 's lovely of you to ask me. That 's what I 
mean." 



 





Hunter felt the irony of it a little, as he had years ago 
when, in the testing of his various powers, he had sent an 
article to a magazine and received it again with expressions 
of gratitude almost profuse. 

" What are you so mighty pleased for," said he, " if you 
won't have me ? " 

Bess looked at him, in a soft implication that she was still 
thankful and he would understand. 

" Of course I couldn't do it," she repeated. " But you see 
you think I 'm worth it. Fit for it, I mean." 

" Fit to marry me ? Why, Bess, you 'd have to stoop to 
me. 

He meant that fiercely ; she saw it, but she shook her 
head. 

" Oh, no," she said, in her tone of certainty. " You see 
I 'm not a lady, and you 're splendid." 

Was ever flattery so beguilingly given because it was so 
honest ? Hunter felt his face reddening, and suddenly he 
wanted to laugh. He began to have for her the feeling Winter- 
bourne had, that she was the simplest, most delicious instance 
of unconscious humor the world had yet produced. 

" Don't chaff," said he. Then his tone softened into the 
lovingest one possible, because the clear look of her eyes 
seemed so appealing to him. " What do you want to say 
you 're not a lady for, when you 're what you are ?" 

" Oh, I don't even speak good grammar," she assured 
him eagerly. "I don't know how to do the things ladies 
do, and if I did know I shouldn't do 'em. They 'd just 
bother me." 

"What things, Bess?" 

He was beginning to be diverted now. Passionate love was 
retiring a pace in favor of an unstinted amusement at her de- 
licious queerness. 



 





"Making calls," she answered promptly, "and talking 
about books. I like to do things with my hands, and be alone, 
and take care of houses. You see, I 'm not a lady." 

If Hunter had ever doubted that he wanted her, the doubt 
would have fled now pursued by his unconquerable laughter. 
She looked at him in mild reproach, not seeing he was think- 
ing how she would enliven every hour from the morning until 
the evening with her clear candor. 

" I shouldn't think you 'd laugh," said she reproachfully. 

Then he sobered. 

" Bess," said he, " you 're a very beautiful lady." 

She bent her head a little, involuntarily, as if it felt a 
crown. 

"Thank you," said she. "It means a good deal coming 
just now." 

" Then you see," he said craftily, addressing himself to her 
conceit, if she had any, "you have something very few people 
have. You 've a beautiful voice." 

She looked at him in quick suspicion, in blank discourage- 
ment. 

" It isn't on account of that you 're asking me," she said, 
" because I can sing ? ". 

" Oh, no," he hastened to assure her. " I should love you 
if you were dumb as an owl." 

" Because I couldn't bear that again." 

" Bess," said Hunter, for he felt things had gone far 
enough for him to venture a bribe, "you say you're not 
what you 'd like to be. Now you marry me, and we'll go to 
Europe and talk grammar all day long." 

" Oh, no," she said innocently. " I don't have to go to 
Europe to learn things. He 'd teach me." 

"Winterbourne?" 

"Yes," she said, her clear gaze upon him. "He knows 



 





everything. Oh, I can learn things, if I only get a mite of 
time." 

" Bess," he ventured guardedly, " you 're fond of Winter- 
bourne ? " 

" Oh, yes," she answered fervently, " he 's everything to 
me. I read something the other day that told what he was : 
' Your father and mother and brother and sister.' Celia is my 
sister and she's everything to me, but he's everything, 
too." 

Hunter advanced upon her and caught up both her 
hands in his and held them until they were hurt. That he 
knew, and meant it. 

"Well," he said, "there's one thing he's not. He's not 
your lover." She looked at him in a new-born haughtiness. 
"And I am," he hastened. "And he 's not your husband. 
And that I 'm going to be. Remember." 

She pulled her hands away and he was ready to let them 
go, not quite sure himself of the prudence of restraint, and 
she looked ruefully at their bruised plumpness. He thought 
she was angry, but to his amaze she suddenly smiled up at 
him. 

" That 's all right," she said. " I 'm glad you hurt me. 
Once, you know — " 

"Well, out with it." 

She was ashamed, but she answered humbly. 

"Once I struck you. I wasn't a lady." 

" We 're quits then, Bess." 

But she had talked enough about these matters. There 
was just one thing more to say. 

"But I wish you'd go to Europe," she assured him. 
" You ought to make the most of yourself. It isn't enough 
for a young man like you to be driving round on an ex- 
press cart here in Clyde." 



 





"What if I like it? Just as you like not making calls?" 

" Oh, there 's other things," she assured him. " He says 
you 're the King of Clyde. You ought to know all the 
things there are in the world, so you'll be a good king." 

He was profoundly touched. 

" Ought I ? " he said, and put out his hand to her. Bess 
gave him hers frankly, and before she could think what was 
befalling her, he had kissed it. "' Ought I ? " he asked 
again. " Well, you ought to yourself. Good-night, Queen 
of Clyde." 

Then he went without delay, and Bess was left holding 
her hand behind her, shut tight because it was so shy over 
the touch upon it. Bess did not know what to think of 
herself. She was a little, a very little happier, even if Celia 
was going to be strangely married to-morrow, and she knew 
it was because so splendid a person had thought her worth 
his name. 

And this was how Winterbourne had done his errand to 
Tim. He had walked up to the Ramsay door and opened 
it and gone in. But Tim was not, as he expected, lying on 
the sofa, where he spent so much of his lazy life. He was 
sitting under a lamp with a dingy chimney, absorbedly out- 
lining a pond lily in white on a breadth out of a discarded 
petticoat. There were long stitches for water and soft shaded 
blooms. It was Japanese. There was illusion in it. But 
Winterbourne's casual glimpse at it, before Tim tossed it 
guiltily behind the sofa, only tended to confirm his theory 
that Tim was a poor trumpery thing. 

"Get up," said Winterbourne. He grasped his stick the 
tighter. " Get up and come with me." 

Tim did not move. 

" That you, Jackie ? " he inquired. Winterbourne read 
the uneasiness in his voice. " Have a chair." 



 





" Get up," said Winterbourne, and reached down to him, 
putting a hand by chance upon his collar. 

Then Tim rose and followed him out of the house and 
down the path. There he stopped and faced about. 

" Say, Jackie, what is it ? " he asked fretfully. " I 've got 
a cold." 

"Timothy Ramsay," said Winterbourne, "you are a 
sneak and a liar, and the worst of it is, you 're a fool. And 
I came up here to-night to thrash you like a little boy, but 
I won't do it, for your mother 's a good and a pathetic woman, 
and she 's sold all she 's got for dross, and your father 's to 
be pitied. So I bid you mend your ways, and be honest, 
man, honest. And — " here the warmth in him came burst- 
ing out — " when Mr. Gregory and I 've got our manufac- 
turing in order, maybe we'll send you out to sell a bill of 
goods: for you 're a pretty lad and you could talk the legs 
off a brass pot. Good-night, and mend your ways." And 
he took the road home and muttered to himself, " I 'm a 
fool, a putty-hearted fool." 

Bess sat on his steps waiting for him. She got up and 
walked in before him, pausing then in the hall because she 
had just one thing to say. Winterbourne had to look at 
her steadily to be sure the dim light even had not blinded 
him, for here she was all of a radiance who had been so cast 
down. 

" Daddy," said she. 

She whispered, and he whispered mysteriously back, 
"Yes, kiddie." 

" Mr. Hunter has asked me to many him. So I wanted 
to tell you I'll study all the books you say, because I 've 
got to be different." 

"Lord above us!" said Winterbourne. "So he's got 
ye." 



 





" No, no," said Bess, in great surprise that , he could 
think it. " Why, no ! only if he says I 'm good enough for 
that, why, I 've got to make something of myself. He 
thinks I 'm a lady. It 's wonderful. I 've got to be one." 

So she ran upstairs, having shared her deep conclusion
and left him pondering. 



 



XXXII 

THE strangeness of the next morning was all one 
with Celia's conception of it. At ten o'clock she 
came downstairs, Bess, her face overspread with what 
seemed apprehension, beside her, and Lovell was waiting at 
the stair-foot. Inside the room were the others, — the young 
parson, eager to please, making conversation out of local 
nothings, and Catherine, dead white in a pretty nigligij 
looking as if the sky had fallen. Winterbourne, out of pity 
for her, because she incredibly considered it so important
stood by her clad in his seldom-worn best, and amid this 
hush of circumstance, Celia was married and kissed, and 
walked out of the house with Lovell, who alone looked what 
weddings should induce in mortal man. The little parson 
stayed briefly and expressed his sympathy for Mrs. Winter- 
bourne, who, it began to dawn upon him, looked very ill 
indeed ; and then he went, and Catherine rose to go to her 
own room but turned instead and, crying silently, leaned 
upon Winterbourne's shoulder, where he endeavored to re- 
suscitate her by large pats of a gentle hand and mumbled 
kindnesses. 

Bess, apparently not seeing them, her own face sad with 
wakefulness and the misery of it all, moved about setting 
back chairs to an exact line, and now, having felt so much, 
feeling nothing Catherine was talking wildly among her 
sobs. 

" She never loved me, John. She never had a spark of 
love for me. She never told me she. was engaged to him — " 

"You've been sick," Winterbourne reminded her. He 



 





was most unaffectedly sorry for her, and his shoulder was 
getting wet with tears which gave him a comical distaste. 
" Of course she didn't bring you a hue and cry like that.' 

" She walked out of the house as if I were a stranger 
to her. When I kissed her, it was like kissing a marble 
image — " 

Bess was before them, speaking tremblingly but with reso- 
lution. 

" It isn't because she isn't thankful to you. We 're both 
thankful." 

Catherine was recalled. 

" No, no," she murmured. " That 's not it. It was be- 
cause I wanted her to love me. I 've loved her so much." 
Then Bess turned away, and left them, and Catherine had 
more to say. " Nobody has ever loved me," she averred, 
standing there shuddering in the circle of her husband's 
arm. " No one. You know it, John." 

Winterbourne was silent for a moment, the big kind hand 
stroking her shoulder. This was emotion, unsummoned by 
its object, undesired. He had the natural man's desire to 
run. But he called upon himself, with some echo of the 
voices he had been evoking out of the night to rule his being, 
to meet her trouble for her because she was, for this earthly 
span, his destiny. 

" Catherine," said he. There was authority in his voice, 
something new also, in that it implied he had been listening 
to her. " You 're a goose," said Winterbourne. " You waste 
your time brooding over this thing we call love. Don't you 
do it. Look at the leaves. Look at the sky. Why, they 're 
enough to spend a lifetime over. You get well. Kit, and 
we'll take a walk. We'll take one every day, and see how 
the world 's getting on. But we mustn't fret like this over 
people's not loving us. It's — we can't, that's all." 



 





She withdrew a pace and looked at him. The words were 
kindly. They were not warm, yet there was an implication 
somewhere that she was to share his life. She felt a little 
nearer him. 

" Sec here, Catherine," said he. " I 've been watching a 
deaf man hear. I suppose I can imagine what it would be 
for a blind man to see. Now you and I 've got all our senses. 
So the world 's ours. Wake up, girl. Stop dreaming about 
old dreams. Let's see if we can get busy the few years there 
are left to us." 

"You mean," she said timidly, "for others?" 

Winterbourne put his hand in his pocket and grasped his 
pipe. He held it hard. It seemed to help him, when there 
were formulated altruisms in the air. 

" No," said he, " you bet I don't, I mean, worship the 
sun when he comes up and thank him when he goes to bed, 
and read a book and not think so very much about what we 
wish we had. That's the devil's own work. Cat. It fevers 
your mind up. If you were nursing children it would make 
them sick with the taint of it." 

She knew that. Her mind, when she mused over what 
she desired, grew muddy and heaved like an unquiet lake. 
She looked at him with adoration in her eyes, fear, too, the 
fear we feel before those we greatly love. 

" You show me," she besought humbly. 

Winterbourne shook his head. 

" No," said he, "I can't. It 's unnatural. It's the woman 
that 's got to make the pace. You think it over. You see if 
it isn't. Now run upstairs. This afternoon we'll have a 
walk." 

She went, without another demanding look at him. Climb- 
ing the stairs slowly, she heard Bess moving about in Mrs. 
Ramsay's room. What did Bess think, she wondered, of 



 



4i6 JOHN WINTERBOURNE'S; FAMILY 

Celia's marriage ? She felt something deeply, for her face 
showed it, but she went about her tasks unchanged. Was 
that the secret of her power, that she demanded nothing and 
fed other minds without disturbing them ? In her own room 
Catherine did not throw herself down to rest as she' had 
thought she must. She sat wondering whether, for the first 
time, she could enter Winterbourne's house of life and live 
there. She had never for a moment before contemplated that. 
It had seemed to her that his domain was on the ground 
floor, where a hundred rude servitors could come in at any 
minute with their muddy boots. His boots too were muddy, 
for he was always tramping out into the world and plunging 
back with its clay upon him. She wanted him to live with her 
in her tower near the stars, and when he wouldn't come she 
cried and ran down to his ground floor to beseech him. But 
if she loved him, couldn't she love him in his own house of 
life ? He wouldn't climb to hers. And yet, was it climbing? 
Was she, after all, anything but the harsh creditor who in- 
sisted on the fulfilment of a bond? He had said, all those 
years ago, that he adored her, and she was insisting he should 
adore her still. 

Catherine had to formulate, even now when she had re- 
solved to live and formulate no more. She had to be head- 
long, too, and because it seemed to her that Bess won love, 
she would be like Bess. So she dressed carefully, in a shirt 
waist and short skirt, and trembling a good deal, because 
she was really tired and not yet less than half an invalid, 
went downstairs and appeared beside Bess in the dining-room 
where she was putting a cupboard in order, preparatory to 
leaving when her chance should come. For Bess suddenly 
had her plans, and they all had to do with leaving Catherine 
the sway of her own house, and herself travelling the diflfi- 
cult road that meant becoming a lady 



 





" Bess," said Catherine, "will you give me something to 
do?" 

Bess looked about at her, startled. Then her mind righted 
itself, understanding that this was one step upward in a sick 
woman's climb. 

" You could sit here and dust these cups," she said. " I'll 
put them up." 

Celia had walked with her husband to their little' house, 
which Mary Manahan had spent the night cleaning and 
Lovell fastidiously refining in its previous orderly array. He 
opened the door for her, and she went in. Then the bride- 
groom's transport of heaven attained came upon him, and 
he took her in his arms and kissed her. This Celia suffered ; 
but she grew whiter and, he felt, trembled. That seemed 
beautiful to him ; her remoteness made a part of her charm. 
But she took off her hat, and began gayly now to play the 
game of householding here for an interval until the big house 
should be ready. 

Lovell, in a hidden way, was wild with the delight of it. 
His poor drab life had turntd into a miracle. Here was no 
fruit of effort ; he was being surfeited with good fortune big 
enough for heroes. He had played the coward's part, with- 
drawn from deeds and the desire of them; but destiny had 
plucked the golden apple and tossed it down to him. He 
could do household tasks, and set out their luncheon, laugh- 
ing at himself for having the wit to do it, — salad and wine 
and berries, with a cup of coffee after. But he felt no dispar- 
agement of his lenten fare. He had lived simply so long that 
it seemed the most fastidious way, and she, he knew, must 
be one with him. After luncheon they went into the big house, 
and she wakened to some real animation over its beauty, the 
lovely panelling, the perfect consistency of it all. It seemed 



 





to her ready to begin living in at once; but he explained 
to her the practical needs of a place so long vacant. Then 
they came back and found the invisible Mary had washed 
their dishes and again tidied up, and the charm of it began 
to envelop Celia. It was like living in a fairy house. 

They ate their supper, bread and milk, and this frugality 
Lovell laughed at with no shame, but told her she should 
have servants as soon as there was room for them. And then, 
as she sat in her chair by the west window, wondering at the 
way things were moving, her mind ready to turn hither or 
yon as the rein of chance should guide it, Lovell came and 
threw himself on the floor beside her and laid his face upon 
her knee. He was suddenly, she saw, profoundly moved, and 
the overwhelmingness of it all came upon her in a rush. He 
was madly in love with her, and she was his wife. She sat 
there thinking this, growing cold to her finger-tips, wishing 
she dared touch his hair, for that would be some sort of an- 
swer, and knowing she could not, and suddenly he lifted his 
ardent eyes to hers. What he saw there sobered him and 
calmed the transport of possession. She had paled. She trem- 
bled. He liked that, because she was to be won. But there 
was something he did not like. 

"What is it, Celia?" he asked her quietly. 

She answered at once, in a low voice, without emotion. 

" I am afraid." 

"Afraid? of what?" 

"Of you." 

For It had come upon her, sitting there while he trembled 
with love of her, that she was in the presence of a very big 
thing indeed. Whatever it might mean to her to be beloved, 
to him it meant infinitely to love her, and some response was 
born in her, if only that of wonder and an involuntary re- 
spect as at the presence of something incomprehensible. By 



 





a great leap, her mind compassed fealty as something she 
owed him. He was smiling now, in his lover's confidence. 

" You are so beautiful," he said irrationally. " Dearest ! " 
That seemed to him a sufficient answer to her fears. But now 
he rushed a whole length on his headlong way. " Say you 
love me," he besought her. " Say the words." 

Celia answered instantly, afraid, indeed, to hesitate. 

" I can't." 

He rose to his knees now and put his arms about her and 
his face to hers. 

" Say it," he commanded. He laughed at the pretty play 
of it all. " Say you love me." 

" I can't," said Celia, in a dull despair. " I don't suppose 
I do." 

He drew back, stung by the lash of it, his face suddenly 
changed. He got on his feet and took a chair within arm's 
length of her. 

"What is it?" he entreated her, now with a studied and 
extreme gentleness. "Celia, what 's the matter.?" 

She wrenched the words out and seemed to throw them at 
him. 

" I don't know what love is." 

He considered. 

" Don't you love your sister ? " This he asked her gently, 
seeking, it seemed, to find the first steps toward leading her 
in the lovely way she surely meant to go. 

A flash came over her face, brightening in the eyes, quiv- 
ering over the mouth. She was remembering what it is to be 
condemned by one beloved as she had been by Bess. 

" It is diflFerent," she managed to say- " She is a girl. You 
are a man." 

"And you don't love me?" 

It was not spoken in harshness. She seemed to have 



 





dragged it forth, and he who really knew nothing of her inner 
mind, could not guess what passion of dawning loyalty toward 
his love for her lay in the effort she was making to set him 
right. He got up and walked across the room once and back 
again. The golden apple had not, it seemed, dropped into his 
treasury. Destiny was more exact. What he had thought a 
fairy fortune was nothing but a big challenge over again, and 
he who had failed a challenge once might be on the verge of 
double failure. In the midst of his tumultuous passion he 
had the calm to remind himself of that. He spoke, with a 
considered quiet. 

" Then — why are we here ? " 

She shook her head, and he waited for her to answer. 
Suddenly it seemed to her the basest possible deed that she 
should have taken advantage of his warm belief and that they 
were here. He was still waiting for her to speak. 

"I have treated you," she said in a low voice, " horribly." 

Lovell considered. He considered her, her beauty chiefly, 
which seemed the index of purity alone. 

" You puzzle me," he said then, but more, it was evident, 
to his own mind than to her. There they sat, a world between 
them, Celia conscious of a stronger emotion than she had 
ever felt in her life before. Come what would of it, she must 
not deceive him in the slightest breath. He looked to her 
entirely unlike the man who had made love to her a week 
ago. He had become her judge. If she had to pay the pen- 
alty of ill deeds, it would be by insisting that he know her 
fully. It would be tearing down the fabric of his house of 
life, with hers. Celia had been like Bess, shy in her dreams 
of what love might be ; but now, without warning, the vision 
of it came upon her and she saw it in its adorable simplicity, 
its morning tints. She saw herself suddenly as she might have 
been, a young creature caught up on the wings of a man's 



 





devotion and swept away to an enchanted paradise. But she 
had manipulated, juggled, and therefore she was jaded before 
her time. And every minute she grew colder and looked 
colder also, so that he began, studying her face, to wonder at 
her. 

" Celia," said he, at length, " I can't make you out." 

She laughed a little, a note of derision in the sound. 

" No," she said. " Shall I tell you ? Do you want to know 
why I am in disgrace with the Winterbournes ? " 

He considered for a moment. In the first impulse of 
chivalrous partisanship he had meant not to listen ; but she 
was on a dark road, he saw, where, if he was to carry light, 
he must be with her. 

" I think you 'd better tell me," he said then. 

Now it was Celia who deliberated. She could have laughed 
at the task before her. Again she thought how funny it would 
be to say, — 

" I said I didn't know where an ear-trumpet was. I did 
know." 

She remembered, in the quickness of the mind that heels 
on great emotion, that Winterbourne had once said we are 
never angry because of the little thing that sets us off. It is 
all the accretion of old wrongs. In other homely words, the 
last straw breaks the back. She had not lied about an ear- 
trumpet merely. She had seen things as they were and shown 
them as they were not. She had said, " I love," when she 
had not loved, and now the swift insistency of the truth eluded 
her. Best not to meddle with facts, for then would come in 
the ear-trumpet again and the irony of it. 

" I tell lies," said Celia, speaking as simply now as Bess 
might have done. That was the first step of her calvary. She 
drew a heavy breath, reflecting that the next one might be 
easier. 



 





But Lovell was not one inch away from his perplexity. He 
held out his hands to her. 

"Come, Celia," he said. " Come here. It will be easier to 
talk so." 

She shook her head, and he tried argument. 

" It isn't a lie that we love each other, is it?" 

She could not answer. How did she know now exactly 
what the truth of this 'had come to be? He was smiling at 
her. The beautiful mouth his mother and sister had loved 
was very sweet. 

" Well," said he, " it 's true we 're married. What did we 
marry for ? " 

Celia shook her head. 

" I almost don't know," she said, seeking to be exact. " I 
suppose I wanted to get away — from them." 

" Not from Bess ? " 

" I wanted a home for Bess. I wanted her to stop work- 
ing — and study — and sing." 

" You thought I would give her a home ? " 

She nodded, not looking at him. 

"Well," said Lovell, "I will." He spoke without bitter- 
ness, anxious only, it appeared, to get on to matters more 
immediate to themselves. "How about you, Celia? We won't 
think about Bess. She shall come to you. How about you? 
When you married me, didn't you think you — loved me?" 
He said it humbly, as if, fully as he had believed it to be true, 
the assurance of it would be incredible. 

Celia shook her head. 

"How do I know?" she said, and then in a despairing 
irritability, "Oh, how tired I am ! " 

Lovell rose at once. He had become the solicitous host. 
The summer night had been gathering, and now she was 
little more to him than a voice in the darkness, yet much 



 





more, the warm presence of her, the indeterminate shape 
toward which all his blood seemed tending. But of this, the 
compelling power of her, he must not think. He lighted 
candles now, and in the ray of them she stole a look at him 
and saw how pale he was and how set his mouth had grown. 
She had not known in the least what sort of a man it was she 
juggled with. He began to seem a very potent force indeed. 
He had taken a candle, and seemed waiting for her. 

" Let me show you your room," he said now. " The bed- 
room there. You mustn't be afraid, though it's the ground 
floor. I shall be out here." 

Celia rose wearily. She was stiff with tiredness,and hermus- 
cles ached. Midway to take the candle from him, she paused 
and stretched her arms to heaven, overcome with the con- 
tradictions of her lot. She was homesick, and yet she had no 
home. She was passionately anxious to be loved — was not 
the vanity Winterbourne had credited her with the obverse 
side of true desire? — and here was a man who, but a minute 
ago, had loved her. She wanted with every fibre of her to be 
approved, and if ever woman had been admired, she had 
been. Yet it did her no good because she had become hate- 
ful to herself. She stood there now looking past him, her 
great eyes widening. 

"The trouble is — "she said. 

" Well," said Lovell, " the trouble is ? " 

The trouble was, her fighting soul was crying, if she had 
made so many veils between her and the truth, should she 
ever see it ? But she put out her hand and took the candle 
from him. 

" Good-night," she said. The door closed behind her and 
Lovell went back to the mantel, put out the candles, and sat 
down in his chair by the window. 

And there he sat all night and thought chiefly, it seemed 



 





to him for no reason, of his ancestor, the soldier, whose life 
had been devoted to a woman — the wife who never left her 
bed, who was beset with peevishness from the reaction of torn 
nerves, and to whom he hastened in every absence from af- 
fairs, as to the perfect mate. That was love fulfilled. But this, 
too, was more than the winning of the woman creature, the 
transcendent bride; it was the challenge of life itself "I 
must keep my head," he kept commanding himself above 
that tumult of the mind. " I must keep my head." But what 
gibes beset him in the darkness. He was paying penalty, as 
he always did in actual life, for the creative nature, the seeing 
eye, the quick comparison, the too responsive nerve. What- 
ever Lovell might accomplish, he was of those who look upon 
life, recoil from it perhaps, suffer horribly with what seems 
at times the disease of it, and recreate it in some form of art. 
All the phantoms that understand how to rend and tear 
thronged upon him ; here, a thousand voices told him, was 
another joke on him out of the unexpectedness of the general 
comedy. He was Time's fool. But a savage conviction had 
been strengthening in him, in this fallow, silent interval, that 
it is of no use to see, or even write, if you cannot also get your 
grip on circumstance, the jade, and whirl her about to be your 
handmaid. The one real stint is to be a man. And again he 
told himself " I must keep my head." 



 



XXXIII 

CELIA was so tired that she slept ail night, waking 
only once, for a minute or two of homesick terror; 
but before the mind could rouse itself really, she 
was off again, and it was the late morning before she woke 
for good. Then care leaped upon her. Grief had her by 
the throat, and she succumbed to that sickness of the mind 
which is the young's own and the old are never likely to feel 
again, the blessed old who have learned " this too will pass." 
But here she was, every nerve on fire and her blood hurry- 
ing to augment the flame. Something had to be done. As 
she dressed she thought intently. Nothing, it seemed, would 
make the place where she found herself in any slight degree 
better save to take herself away. When she went out, Lovell 
was waiting, and the table, fastidiously laid, was ready. He 
turned at once, after their good-morning, to the spirit-lamp, 
and asked her in the tone of the camping chum how she 
