Deering was silent. He stood a little way off, twisting an unlit
cigarette in his hand, and looking down at her with a gaze that was both
hesitating and constrained.

She, too, felt the constraint of the situation, the impossibility of
finding words that, after what had passed between them, should seem
neither false nor heartless; and at last she exclaimed, standing up:
“Poor little Juliet! Can’t I go to her?”

“Juliet is not here. I left her at St.-Raphael with the relations with
whom my wife was staying.”

“Oh,” Lizzie murmured, feeling vaguely that this added to the difficulty
of the moment. How differently she had pictured their meeting!

“I’m so--so sorry for her!” she faltered out.

Deering made no reply, but, turning on his heel, walked the length of
the studio, and then halted vaguely before the picture on the easel. It
was the landscape he had begun the previous autumn, with the
intention of sending it to the Salon that spring. But it was still
unfinished--seemed, indeed, hardly more advanced than on the fateful
October day when Lizzie, standing before it for the first time, had
confessed her inability to deal with Juliet. Perhaps the same thought
struck its creator, for he broke into a dry laugh, and turned from the
easel with a shrug.

Under his protracted silence Lizzie roused herself to the fact that,
since her pupil was absent, there was no reason for her remaining any
longer; and as Deering again moved toward her she said with an effort:
“I’ll go, then. You’ll send for me when she comes back?”

Deering still hesitated, tormenting the cigarette between his fingers.

“She’s not coming back--not at present.”

Lizzie heard him with a drop of the heart. Was everything to be changed
in their lives? But of course; how could she have dreamed it would be
otherwise? She could only stupidly repeat: “Not coming back? Not this
spring?”

“Probably not, since are friends are so good as to keep her. The fact
is, I’ve got to go to America. My wife left a little property, a few
pennies, that I must go and see to--for the child.”

Lizzie stood before him, a cold knife in her breast. “I see--I see,”
 she reiterated, feeling all the while that she strained her eyes into
impenetrable blackness.

“It’s a nuisance, having to pull up stakes,” he went on, with a fretful
glance about the studio.

She lifted her eyes slowly to his face. “Shall you be gone long?” she
took courage to ask.

“There again--I can’t tell. It’s all so frightfully mixed up.” He met
her look for an incredibly long, strange moment. “I hate to go!” he
murmured as if to himself.

Lizzie felt a rush of moisture to her lashes, and the old, familiar
wave of weakness at her heart. She raised her hand to her face with an
instinctive gesture, and as she did so he held out his arms.

“Come here, Lizzie!” he said.

And she went--went with a sweet, wild throb of liberation, with the
sense that at last the house was his, that she was his, if he wanted
her; that never again would that silent, rebuking presence in the room
above constrain and shame her rapture.

He pushed back her veil and covered her face with kisses. “Don’t cry,
you little goose!” he said.



III


THAT they must see each other again before his departure, in someplace
less exposed than their usual haunts, was as clear to Lizzie as it
appeared to be to Deering. His expressing the wish seemed, indeed, the
sweetest testimony to the quality of his feeling, since, in the first
weeks of the most perfunctory widowerhood, a man of his stamp is
presumed to abstain from light adventures. If, then, at such a moment,
he wished so much to be quietly and gravely with her, it could be only
for reasons she did not call by name, but of which she felt the sacred
tremor in her heart; and it would have seemed incredibly vain and vulgar
to put forward, at such a crisis, the conventional objections by means
of which such little-exposed existences defend the treasure of their
freshness.

In such a mood as this one may descend from the Passy omnibus at the
corner of the Pont de la Concorde (she had not let him fetch her in a
cab) with a sense of dedication almost solemn, and may advance to meet
one’s fate, in the shape of a gentleman of melancholy elegance, with an
auto-taxi at his call, as one has advanced to the altar-steps in some
girlish bridal vision.

Even the experienced waiter ushering them into an upper room of the
quiet restaurant on the Seine could hardly have supposed their quest
for seclusion to be based on sentimental motives, so soberly did Deering
give his orders, while his companion sat small and grave at his side.
She did not, indeed, mean to let her private pang obscure their hour
together: she was already learning that Deering shrank from sadness.
He should see that she had courage and gaiety to face their coming
separation, and yet give herself meanwhile to this completer nearness;
but she waited, as always, for him to strike the opening note.

Looking back at it later, she wondered at the mild suavity of the hour.
Her heart was unversed in happiness, but he had found the tone to lull
her apprehensions, and make her trust her fate for any golden wonder.
Deepest of all, he gave her the sense of something tacit and confirmed
between them, as if his tenderness were a habit of the heart hardly
needing the support of outward proof.

Such proof as he offered came, therefore, as a kind of crowning
luxury, the flower of a profoundly rooted sentiment; and here again the
instinctive reserves and defenses would have seemed to vulgarize what
his trust ennobled. But if all the tender casuistries of her heart were
at his service, he took no grave advantage of them. Even when they sat
alone after dinner, with the lights of the river trembling through their
one low window, and the vast rumor of Paris inclosing them in a heart
of silence, he seemed, as much as herself, under the spell of
hallowing influences. She felt it most of all as she yielded to the arm
he presently put about her, to the long caress he laid on her lips and
eyes: not a word or gesture missed the note of quiet union, or cast a
doubt, in retrospect, on the pact they sealed with their last look.

That pact, as she reviewed it through a sleepless night, seemed to have
consisted mainly, on his part, in pleadings for full and frequent news
of her, on hers in the assurance that it should be given as often as
he asked it. She had felt an intense desire not to betray any undue
eagerness, any crude desire to affirm and define her hold on him. Her
life had given her a certain acquaintance with the arts of defense:
girls in her situation were commonly supposed to know them all, and
to use them as occasion called. But Lizzie’s very need of them had
intensified her disdain. Just because she was so poor, and had always,
materially, so to count her change and calculate her margin, she would
at least know the joy of emotional prodigality, would give her heart
as recklessly as the rich their millions. She was sure now that Deering
loved her, and if he had seized the occasion of their farewell to give
her some definitely worded sign of his feeling--if, more plainly, he
had asked her to marry him,--his doing so would have seemed less like
a proof of his sincerity than of his suspecting in her the need of a
verbal warrant. That he had abstained seemed to show that he trusted
her as she trusted him, and that they were one most of all in this deep
security of understanding.

She had tried to make him divine all this in the chariness of her
promise to write. She would write; of course she would. But he would be
busy, preoccupied, on the move: it was for him to let her know when he
wished a word, to spare her the embarrassment of ill-timed intrusions.

“Intrusions?” He had smiled the word away. “You can’t well intrude, my
darling, on a heart where you’re already established, to the complete
exclusion of other lodgers.” And then, taking her hands, and looking up
from them into her happy, dizzy eyes: “You don’t know much about being
in love, do you, Lizzie?” he laughingly ended.

It seemed easy enough to reject this imputation in a kiss; but she
wondered afterward if she had not deserved it. Was she really cold and
conventional, and did other women give more richly and recklessly? She
found that it was possible to turn about every one of her reserves
and delicacies so that they looked like selfish scruples and petty
pruderies, and at this game she came in time to exhaust all the
resources of an over-abundant casuistry.

Meanwhile the first days after Deering’s departure wore a soft,
refracted light like the radiance lingering after sunset. He, at any
rate, was taxable with no reserves, no calculations, and his letters
of farewell, from train and steamer, filled her with long murmurs and
echoes of his presence. How he loved her, how he loved her--and how he
knew how to tell her so!

She was not sure of possessing the same aptitude. Unused to the
expression of personal emotion, she fluctuated between the impulse to
pour out all she felt and the fear lest her extravagance should amuse or
even bore him. She never lost the sense that what was to her the central
crisis of experience must be a mere episode in a life so predestined as
his to romantic accidents. All that she felt and said would be subjected
to the test of comparison with what others had already given him: from
all quarters of the globe she saw passionate missives winging their way
toward Deering, for whom her poor little swallow-flight of devotion could
certainly not make a summer. But such moments were succeeded by others
in which she raised her head and dared inwardly to affirm her conviction
that no woman had ever loved him just as she had, and that none,
therefore, had probably found just such things to say to him. And this
conviction strengthened the other less solidly based belief that
he also, for the same reason, had found new accents to express his
tenderness, and that the three letters she wore all day in her shabby
blouse, and hid all night beneath her pillow, surpassed not only in
beauty, but in quality, all he had ever penned for other eyes.

They gave her, at any rate, during the weeks that she wore them on her
heart, sensations even more complex and delicate than Deering’s actual
presence had ever occasioned. To be with him was always like breasting
a bright, rough sea, that blinded while it buoyed her: but his letters
formed a still pool of contemplation, above which she could bend, and
see the reflection of the sky, and the myriad movements of life
that flitted and gleamed below the surface. The wealth of his hidden
life--that was what most surprised her! It was incredible to her now
that she had had no inkling of it, but had kept on blindly along the
narrow track of habit, like a traveler climbing a road in a fog, who
suddenly finds himself on a sunlit crag between blue leagues of sky and
dizzy depths of valley. And the odd thing was that all the people about
her--the whole world of the Passy pension--were still plodding along the
same dull path, preoccupied with the pebbles underfoot, and unconscious
of the glory beyond the fog!

There were wild hours when she longed to cry out to them what one saw
from the summit--and hours of tremulous abasement when she asked herself
why her happy feet had been guided there, while others, no doubt as
worthy, stumbled and blundered in obscurity. She felt, in particular,
a sudden urgent pity for the two or three other girls at Mme.
Clopin’s--girls older, duller, less alive than she, and by that very
token more appealingly flung upon her sympathy. Would they ever know?
Had they ever known?--those were the questions that haunted her as she
crossed her companions on the stairs, faced them at the dinner-table,
and listened to their poor, pining talk in the dim-lit slippery-seated
salon. One of the girls was Swiss, the other English; the third, Andora
Macy, was a young lady from the Southern States who was studying French
with the ultimate object of imparting it to the inmates of a girls’
school at Macon, Georgia.

Andora Macy was pale, faded, immature. She had a drooping Southern
accent, and a manner which fluctuated between arch audacity and fits of
panicky hauteur. She yearned to be admired, and feared to be insulted;
and yet seemed tragically conscious that she was destined to miss both
these extremes of sensation, or to enjoy them only at second hand in the
experiences of her more privileged friends.

It was perhaps for this reason that she took a wistful interest in
Lizzie, who had shrunk from her at first, as the depressing image of her
own probable future, but to whom she had now suddenly become an object
of sentimental pity.



IV


MISS MACY’s room was next to Miss West’s, and the Southerner’s knock
often appealed to Lizzie’s hospitality when Mme. Clopin’s early curfew
had driven her boarders from the salon. It sounded thus one evening
just as Lizzie, tired from an unusually long day of tuition, was in the
act of removing her dress. She was in too indulgent a mood to withhold
her “Come in,” and as Miss Macy crossed the threshold, Lizzie felt that
Vincent Deering’s first letter--the letter from the train--had slipped
from her loosened bodice to the floor.

Miss Macy, as promptly noting the fact, darted forward to recover the
letter. Lizzie stooped also, fiercely jealous of her touch; but the
other reached the precious paper first, and as she seized it, Lizzie knew
that she had seen whence it fell, and was weaving round the incident a
rapid web of romance.

Lizzie blushed with annoyance. “It’s too stupid, having no pockets! If
one gets a letter as she is going out in the morning, she has to carry
it in her blouse all day.”

Miss Macy looked at her with swimming eyes. “It’s warm from your heart!”
 she breathed, reluctantly yielding up the missive.

Lizzie laughed, for she knew better: she knew it was the letter that had
warmed her heart. Poor Andora Macy! She would never know. Her bleak
bosom would never take fire from such a contact. Lizzie looked at her
with kind eyes, secretly chafing at the injustice of fate.

The next evening, on her return home, she found Andora hovering in the
entrance hall.

“I thought you’d like me to put this in your own hand,” Miss Macy
whispered significantly, pressing a letter upon Lizzie. “I couldn’t
bear to see it lying on the table with the others.”

It was Deering’s letter from the steamer. Lizzie blushed to the forehead,
but without resenting Andora’s divination. She could not have breathed
a word of her bliss, but she was not altogether sorry to have it guessed,
and pity for Andora’s destitution yielded to the pleasure of using it
as a mirror for her own abundance. DEERING wrote again on reaching New
York, a long, fond, dissatisfied letter, vague in its indication of his
own projects, specific in the expression of his love. Lizzie brooded
over every syllable of it till they formed the undercurrent of all
her waking thoughts, and murmured through her midnight dreams; but
she would have been happier if they had shed some definite light on the
future.

That would come, no doubt, when he had had time to look about and
get his bearings. She counted up the days that must elapse before she
received his next letter, and stole down early to peep at the papers,
and learn when the next American mail was due. At length the happy date
arrived, and she hurried distractedly through the day’s work, trying to
conceal her impatience by the endearments she bestowed upon her pupils.
It was easier, in her present mood, to kiss them than to keep them at
their grammars.

That evening, on Mme. Clopin’s threshold, her heart beat so wildly that
she had to lean a moment against the door-post before entering. But on
the hall table, where the letters lay, there was none for her.

She went over them with a feverish hand, her heart dropping down
and down, as she had sometimes fallen down an endless stairway in a
dream--the very same stairway up which she had seemed to fly when she
climbed the long hill to Deering’s door. Then it suddenly struck her
that Andora might have found and secreted her letter, and with a spring
she was on the actual stairs and rattling Miss Macy’s door-handle.

“You’ve a letter for me, haven’t you?” she panted.

Miss Macy, turning from the toilet-table, inclosed her in attenuated
arms. “Oh, darling, did you expect one to-day?”

“Do give it to me!” Lizzie pleaded with burning eyes.

“But I haven’t any! There hasn’t been a sign of a letter for you.”

“I know there is. There must be,” Lizzie persisted, stamping her foot.

“But, dearest, I’ve watched for you, and there’s been nothing,
absolutely nothing.”

Day after day, for the ensuing weeks, the same scene reenacted itself
with endless variations. Lizzie, after the first sharp spasm of
disappointment, made no effort to conceal her anxiety from Miss Macy,
and the fond Andora was charged to keep a vigilant eye upon the postman’s
coming, and to spy on the bonne for possible negligence or perfidy.
But these elaborate precautions remained fruitless, and no letter from
Deering came.

During the first fortnight of silence Lizzie exhausted all the
ingenuities of explanation. She marveled afterward at the reasons she
had found for Deering’s silence: there were moments when she almost
argued herself into thinking it more natural than his continuing to
write. There was only one reason which her intelligence consistently
rejected, and that was the possibility that he had forgotten her, that
the whole episode had faded from his mind like a breath from a mirror.
From that she resolutely turned her thoughts, aware that if she suffered
herself to contemplate it, the motive power of life would fail, and she
would no longer understand why she rose up in the morning and laydown at
night.

If she had had leisure to indulge her anguish she might have been unable
to keep such speculations at bay. But she had to be up and working: the
blanchisseuse had to be paid, and Mme. Clopin’s weekly bill, and all
the little “extras” that even her frugal habits had to reckon with.
And in the depths of her thought dwelt the dogging fear of illness and
incapacity, goading her to work while she could. She hardly remembered
the time when she had been without that fear; it was second nature now,
and it kept her on her feet when other incentives might have failed. In
the blankness of her misery she felt no dread of death; but the horror of
being ill and “dependent” was in her blood.

In the first weeks of silence she wrote again and again to Deering,
entreating him for a word, for a mere sign of life. From the first she
had shrunk from seeming to assert any claim on his future, yet in
her aching bewilderment she now charged herself with having been
too possessive, too exacting in her tone. She told herself that his
fastidiousness shrank from any but a “light touch,” and that hers had
not been light enough. She should have kept to the character of the
“little friend,” the artless consciousness in which tormented genius may
find an escape from its complexities; and instead, she had dramatized
their relation, exaggerated her own part in it, presumed, forsooth, to
share the front of the stage with him, instead of being content to serve
as scenery or chorus.

But though to herself she admitted, and even insisted on, the episodical
nature of the experience, on the fact that for Deering it could be no
more than an incident, she was still convinced that his sentiment for
her, however fugitive, had been genuine.

His had not been the attitude of the unscrupulous male seeking a vulgar
“advantage.” For a moment he had really needed her, and if he was silent
now, it was perhaps because he feared that she had mistaken the nature
of the need and built vain hopes on its possible duration.

It was of the very essence of Lizzie’s devotion that it sought
instinctively the larger freedom of its object; she could not conceive
of love under any form of exaction or compulsion. To make this clear
to Deering became an overwhelming need, and in a last short letter
she explicitly freed him from whatever sentimental obligation its
predecessors might have seemed to impose. In this studied communication
she playfully accused herself of having unwittingly sentimentalized
their relation, affirming, in self-defense, a retrospective astuteness,
a sense of the impermanence of the tenderer sentiments, that almost
put Deering in the fatuous position of having mistaken coquetry for
surrender. And she ended gracefully with a plea for the continuance of
the friendly regard which she had “always understood” to be the basis of
their sympathy. The document, when completed, seemed to her worthy of
what she conceived to be Deering’s conception of a woman of the world,
and she found a spectral satisfaction in the thought of making her final
appearance before him in that distinguished character. But she was never
destined to learn what effect the appearance produced; for the letter,
like those it sought to excuse, remained unanswered.



V


THE fresh spring sunshine which had so often attended Lizzie Weston
her dusty climb up the hill of St.-Cloud beamed on her, some two years
later, in a scene and a situation of altered import.

The horse-chestnuts of the Champs-Elysees filtered its rays through
the symmetrical umbrage inclosing the graveled space about Daurent’s
restaurant, and Miss West, seated at a table within that privileged
circle, presented to the light a hat much better able to sustain its
scrutiny than those which had sheltered the brow of Juliet Deering’s
instructress.

Her dress was in keeping with the hat, and both belonged to a situation
rich in such possibilities as the act of a leisurely luncheon at
Daurent’s in the opening week of the Salon. Her companions, of both
sexes, confirmed and emphasized this impression by an elaborateness of
garb and an ease of attitude implying the largest range of selection
between the forms of Parisian idleness; and even Andora Macy, seated
opposite, as in the place of co-hostess or companion, reflected, in coy
grays and mauves, the festal note of the occasion.

This note reverberated persistently in the ears of a solitary gentleman
straining for glimpses of the group from a table wedged in the remotest
corner of the garden; but to Miss West herself the occurrence did not
rise above the usual. For nearly a year she had been acquiring the habit
of such situations, and the act of offering a luncheon at Daurent’s
to her cousins, the Harvey Mearses of Providence, and their friend Mr.
Jackson Benn, produced in her no emotion beyond the languid glow which
Mr. Benn’s presence was beginning to impart to such scenes.

“It’s frightful, the way you’ve got used to it,” Andora Macy had wailed
in the first days of her friend’s transfigured fortune, when Lizzie
West had waked one morning to find herself among the heirs of an old
and miserly cousin whose testamentary dispositions had formed, since her
earliest childhood, the subject of pleasantry and conjecture in her own
improvident family. Old Hezron Mears had never given any sign of life to
the luckless Wests; had perhaps hardly been conscious of including
them in the carefully drawn will which, following the old American
convention, scrupulously divided his hoarded millions among his kin. It
was by a mere genealogical accident that Lizzie, falling just within
the golden circle, found herself possessed of a pittance sufficient to
release her from the prospect of a long gray future in Mme. Clopin’s
pension.

The release had seemed wonderful at first; yet she presently found that
it had destroyed her former world without giving her anew one. On the
ruins of the old pension life bloomed the only flower that had ever
sweetened her path; and beyond the sense of present ease, and the
removal of anxiety for the future, her reconstructed existence
blossomed with no compensating joys. She had hoped great things from the
opportunity to rest, to travel, to look about her, above all, in
various artful feminine ways, to be “nice” to the companions of her less
privileged state; but such widenings of scope left her, as it were, but
the more conscious of the empty margin of personal life beyond them. It
was not till she woke to the leisure of her new days that she had the
full sense of what was gone from them.

Their very emptiness made her strain to pack them with transient
sensations: she was like the possessor of an unfurnished house, with
random furniture and bric-a-brac perpetually pouring in “on approval.”
 It was in this experimental character that Mr. Jackson Benn had fixed
her attention, and the languid effort of her imagination to adjust him
to her requirements was seconded by the fond complicity of Andora and
the smiling approval of her cousins. Lizzie did not discourage these
demonstrations: she suffered serenely Andora’s allusions to Mr. Benn’s
infatuation, and Mrs. Mears’s casual boast of his business standing.
All the better if they could drape his narrow square-shouldered frame and
round unwinking countenance in the trailing mists of sentiment: Lizzie
looked and listened, not unhopeful of the miracle.

“I never saw anything like the way these Frenchmen stare! Doesn’t it
make you nervous, Lizzie?” Mrs. Mears broke out suddenly, ruffling her
feather boa about an outraged bosom. Mrs. Mears was still in that stage
of development when her countrywomen taste to the full the peril of
being exposed to the gaze of the licentious Gaul.

Lizzie roused herself from the contemplation of Mr. Benn’s round baby
cheeks and the square blue jaw resting on his perpendicular collar. “Is
some one staring at me?” she asked with a smile.

“Don’t turn round, whatever you do! There--just over there, between the
rhododendrons--the tall fair man alone at that table. Really, Harvey,
I think you ought to speak to the head-waiter, or something; though I
suppose in one of these places they’d only laugh at you,” Mrs. Mears
shudderingly concluded.

Her husband, as if inclining to this probability, continued the
undisturbed dissection of his chicken wing; but Mr. Benn, perhaps
aware that his situation demanded a more punctilious attitude, sternly
revolved upon the parapet of his high collar in the direction of Mrs.
Mears’s glance.

“What, that fellow all alone over there? Why, he’s not French; he’s an
American,” he then proclaimed with a perceptible relaxing of the facial
muscles.

“Oh!” murmured Mrs. Mears, as perceptibly disappointed, and Mr. Benn
continued carelessly: “He came over on the steamer with me. He’s some
kind of an artist--a fellow named Deering. He was staring at me, I
guess: wondering whether I was going to remember him. Why, how d’ ‘e do?
How are you? Why, yes, of course; with pleasure--my friends, Mrs. Harvey
Mears--Mr. Mears; my friends Miss Macy and Miss West.”

“I have the pleasure of knowing Miss West,” said Vincent Deering with a
smile.



VI


EVEN through his smile Lizzie had seen, in the first moment, how changed
he was; and the impression of the change deepened to the point of pain
when, a few days later, in reply to his brief note, she accorded him a
private hour.

That the first sight of his writing--the first answer to
his letters--should have come, after three long years, in the shape of
this impersonal line, too curt to be called humble, yet confessing to a
consciousness of the past by the studied avoidance of its language! As
she read, her mind flashed back over what she had dreamed his letters
would be, over the exquisite answers she had composed above his name.
There was nothing exquisite in the conventional lines before her; but
dormant nerves began to throb again at the mere touch of the paper he
had touched, and she threw the little note into the fire before she
dared to reply to it.

Now that he was actually before her again, he became, as usual, the one
live spot in her consciousness. Once more her tormented throbbing self
sank back passive and numb, but now with all its power of suffering
mysteriously transferred to the presence, so known, yet so unknown, at
the opposite corner of her hearth. She was still Lizzie West, and he was
still Vincent Deering; but the Styx rolled between them, and she saw his
face through its fog. It was his face, really, rather than his words,
that told her, as she furtively studied it, the tale of failure and
slow discouragement which had so blurred its handsome lines. She kept
afterward no precise memory of the actual details of his narrative: the
pain it evidently cost him to impart it was so much the sharpest fact
in her new vision of him. Confusedly, however, she gathered that
on reaching America he had found his wife’s small property gravely
impaired; and that, while lingering on to secure what remained of it,
he had contrived to sell a picture or two, and had even known a brief
moment of success, during which he received orders and set up a studio.
But inexplicably the tide had ebbed, his work remained on his hands, and
a tedious illness, with its miserable sequel of debt, soon wiped out his
small advantage. There followed a period of eclipse, still more vaguely
pictured, during which she was allowed to infer that he had tried
his hand at divers means of livelihood, accepting employment from
a fashionable house-decorator, designing wall-papers, illustrating
magazine articles, and acting for a time, she dimly understood, as the
social tout of a new hotel desirous of advertising its restaurant.
These disjointed facts were strung on a slender thread of personal
allusions--references to friends who had been kind (jealously, she
guessed them to be women), and to enemies who had darkly schemed against
him. But, true to his tradition of “correctness,” he carefully avoided
the mention of names, and left her trembling conjectures to grope dimly
through an alien crowded world in which there seemed little room for her
small shy presence.

As she listened, her private pang was merged in the intolerable sense of
his unhappiness. Nothing he had said explained or excused his conduct to
her; but he had suffered, he had been lonely, had been humiliated,
and she suddenly felt, with a fierce maternal rage, that there was no
conceivable justification for any scheme of things in which such facts
were possible. She could not have said why: she simply knew that it hurt
too much to see him hurt.

Gradually it came to her that her unconsciousness of any personal
grievance was due to her having so definitely determined her own future.
She was glad she had decided, as she now felt she had, to marry Jackson
Benn, if only for the sense of detachment it gave her in dealing
with the case of Vincent Deering. Her personal safety insured her the
requisite impartiality, and justified her in dwelling as long as
she chose on the last lines of a chapter to which her own act had
deliberately fixed the close. Any lingering hesitations as to the
finality of her decision were dispelled by the imminent need of making
it known to Deering; and when her visitor paused in his reminiscences to
say, with a sigh, “But many things have happened to you too,” his words
did not so much evoke the sense of her altered fortunes as the image of
the protector to whom she was about to intrust them.

“Yes, many things; it’s three years,” she answered.

Deering sat leaning forward, in his sad exiled elegance, his eyes gently
bent on hers; and at his side she saw the solid form of Mr. Jackson
Benn, with shoulders preternaturally squared by the cut of his tight
black coat, and a tall shiny collar sustaining his baby cheeks and hard
blue chin. Then the vision faded as Deering began to speak.

“Three years,” he repeated, musingly taking up her words. “I’ve so often
wondered what they’d brought you.”

She lifted her head with a quick blush, and the terrified wish that he
should not, at the cost of all his notions of correctness, lapse into
the blunder of becoming “personal.”

“You’ve wondered?” She smiled back bravely.

“Do you suppose I haven’t?” His look dwelt on her. “Yes, I daresay that
was what you thought of me.”

She had her answer pat--“Why, frankly, you know, I didn’t think of
you.” But the mounting tide of her poor dishonored memories swept it
indignantly away. If it was his correctness to ignore, it could never be
hers to disavow.

“ Was that what you thought of me?” she heard him repeat in a tone
of sad insistence; and at that, with a quick lift of her head, she
resolutely answered: “How could I know what to think? I had no word from
you.”

If she had expected, and perhaps almost hoped, that this answer would
create a difficulty for him, the gaze of quiet fortitude with which he
met it proved that she had underestimated his resources.

“No, you had no word. I kept my vow,” he said.

“Your vow?”

“That you shouldn’t have a word--not a syllable. Oh, I kept it through
everything!”

Lizzie’s heart was sounding in her ears the old confused rumor of the
sea of life, but through it she desperately tried to distinguish the
still small voice of reason.

“What was your vow? Why shouldn’t I have had a syllable from you?”

He sat motionless, still holding her with a look so gentle that it
almost seemed forgiving.

Then abruptly he rose, and crossing the space between them, sat down in
a chair at her side. The deliberation of his movement might have implied
a forgetfulness of changed conditions, and Lizzie, as if thus viewing
it, drew slightly back; but he appeared not to notice her recoil, and
his eyes, at last leaving her face, slowly and approvingly made the
round of the small bright drawing-room. “This is charming. Yes, things
have changed for you,” he said.

A moment before she had prayed that he might be spared the error of
a vain return upon the past. It was as if all her retrospective
tenderness, dreading to see him at such a disadvantage, rose up to
protect him from it. But his evasiveness exasperated her, and suddenly
she felt the inconsistent desire to hold him fast, face to face with his
own words.

Before she could reiterate her question, however, he had met her with
another.

“You did think of me, then? Why are you afraid to tell me that you
did?”

The unexpectedness of the challenge wrung an indignant cry from her.

“Didn’t my letters tell you so enough?”

“Ah, your letters!” Keeping her gaze on his in a passion of unrelenting
fixity, she could detect in him no confusion, not the least quiver of a
sensitive nerve. He only gazed back at her more sadly.

“They went everywhere with me--your letters,” he said.

“Yet you never answered them.” At last the accusation trembled to her
lips.

“Yet I never answered them.”

“Did you ever so much as read them, I wonder?”

All the demons of self-torture were up in her now, and she loosed them
on him, as if to escape from their rage.

Deering hardly seemed to hear her question. He merely shifted his
attitude, leaning a little nearer to her, but without attempting, by the
least gesture, to remind her of the privileges which such nearness had
once implied.

“There were beautiful, wonderful things in them,” he said, smiling.

She felt herself stiffen under his smile.

“You’ve waited three years to tell me so!”

He looked at her with grave surprise. “And do you resent my telling you
even now?”

His parries were incredible. They left her with a breathless sense of
thrusting at emptiness, and a desperate, almost vindictive desire to
drive him against the wall and pin him there.

“No. Only I wonder you should take the trouble to tell me, when at the
time--”

And now, with a sudden turn, he gave her the final surprise of meeting
her squarely on her own ground.

“When at the time I didn’t? But how could I--at the time?”

“Why couldn’t you? You’ve not yet told me?”

He gave her again his look of disarming patience. “Do I need to? Hasn’t
my whole wretched story told you?”

“Told me why you never answered my letters?”

“Yes, since I could only answer them in one way--by protesting my love
and my longing.”

There was a long pause of resigned expectancy on his part, on hers, of
a wild confused reconstruction of her shattered past. “You mean, then,
that you didn’t write because--”

“Because I found, when I reached America, that I was a pauper; that my
wife’s money was gone, and that what I could earn--I’ve so little gift
that way!--was barely enough to keep Juliet clothed and educated. It was
as if an iron door had been suddenly locked and barred between us.”

Lizzie felt herself driven back, panting upon the last defenses of her
incredulity. “You might at least have told me--have explained. Do you
think I shouldn’t have understood?”

He did not hesitate. “You would have understood. It wasn’t that.”

“What was it then?” she quavered.

“It’s wonderful you shouldn’t see! Simply that I couldn’t write you
that. Anything else--not that!”

“And so you preferred to let me suffer?”

There was a shade of reproach in his eyes. “I suffered too,” he said.

It was his first direct appeal to her compassion, and for a moment it
nearly unsettled the delicate poise of her sympathies, and sent them
trembling in the direction of scorn and irony. But even as the impulse
rose, it was stayed by another sensation. Once again, as so often in
the past, she became aware of a fact which, in his absence, she always
failed to reckon with--the fact of the deep irreducible difference
between his image in her mind and his actual self, the mysterious
alteration in her judgment produced by the inflections of his voice, the
look of his eyes, the whole complex pressure of his personality. She had
phrased it once self-reproachfully by saying to herself that she “never
could remember him,” so completely did the sight of him supersede the
counterfeit about which her fancy wove its perpetual wonders. Bright and
breathing as that counterfeit was, it became a gray figment of the mind
at the touch of his presence; and on this occasion the immediate result
was to cause her to feel his possible unhappiness with an intensity
beside which her private injury paled.

“I suffered horribly,” he repeated, “and all the more that I couldn’t
make a sign, couldn’t cry out my misery. There was only one escape from
it all--to hold my tongue, and pray that you might hate me.”

The blood rushed to Lizzie’s forehead. “Hate you--you prayed that I
might hate you?”

He rose from his seat, and moving closer, lifted her hand gently in
his. “Yes; because your letters showed me that, if you didn’t, you’d be
unhappier still.”

Her hand lay motionless, with the warmth of his flowing through it, and
her thoughts, too--her poor fluttering stormy thoughts--felt themselves
suddenly penetrated by the same soft current of communion.

“And I meant to keep my resolve,” he went on, slowly releasing his
clasp. “I meant to keep it even after the random stream of things swept
me back here in your way; but when I saw you the other day, I felt that
what had been possible at a distance was impossible now that we were
near each other. How was it possible to see you and want you to hate me?”

He had moved away, but not to resume his seat. He merely paused at
a little distance, his hand resting on a chair-back, in the transient
attitude that precedes departure.

Lizzie’s heart contracted. He was going, then, and this was his farewell.
He was going, and she could find no word to detain him but the senseless
stammer “I never hated you.”

He considered her with his faint grave smile. “It’s not necessary, at
any rate, that you should do so now. Time and circumstances have made me
so harmless--that’s exactly why I’ve dared to venture back. And I wanted
to tell you how I rejoice in your good fortune. It’s the only obstacle
between us that I can’t bring myself to wish away.”

Lizzie sat silent, spellbound, as she listened, by the sudden evocation
of Mr. Jackson Benn. He stood there again, between herself and Deering,
perpendicular and reproachful, but less solid and sharply outlined than
before, with a look in his small hard eyes that desperately wailed for
reembodiment.

Deering was continuing his farewell speech. “You’re rich now, you’re
free. You will marry.” She vaguely saw him holding out his hand.

“It’s not true that I’m engaged!” she broke out. They were the last
words she had meant to utter; they were hardly related to her conscious
thoughts; but she felt her whole will suddenly gathered up in the
irrepressible impulse to repudiate and fling away from her forever the
spectral claim of Mr. Jackson Benn.



VII


IT was the firm conviction of Andora Macy that every object in the
Vincent Deerings’ charming little house at Neuilly had been expressly
designed for the Deerings’ son to play with.

The house was full of pretty things, some not obviously applicable to
the purpose; but Miss Macy’s casuistry was equal tothe baby’s appetite,
and the baby’s mother was no match for them in the art of defending her
possessions. There were moments, in fact, when Lizzie almost fell in
with Andora’s summary division of her works of art into articles safe
or unsafe for the baby to lick, or resisted it only to the extent of
occasionally substituting some less precious or less perishable object
for the particular fragility on which her son’s desire was fixed. And
it was with this intention that, on a certain fair spring morning--which
wore the added luster of being the baby’s second birthday--she had
murmured, with her mouth in his curls, and one hand holding a bit of
Chelsea above his dangerous clutch: “Wouldn’t he rather have that
beautiful shiny thing over there in Aunt Andorra’s hand?”

The two friends were together in Lizzie’s little morning-room--the room
she had chosen, on acquiring the house, because, when she sat there, she
could hear Deering’s step as he paced up and down before his easel
in the studio she had built for him. His step had been less regularly
audible than she had hoped, for, after three years of wedded bliss, he
had somehow failed to settle down to the great work which was to result
from that privileged state; but even when she did not hear him she knew
that he was there, above her head, stretched out on the old divan from
Passy, and smoking endless cigarettes while he skimmed the morning
papers; and the sense of his nearness had not yet lost its first keen
edge of bliss.

Lizzie herself, on the day in question, was engaged in a more arduous
task than the study of the morning’s news. She had never unlearned the
habit of orderly activity, and the trait she least understood in her
husband’s character was his way of letting the loose ends of life hang
as they would. She had been disposed at first to ascribe this to the
chronic incoherence of his first menage; but now she knew that, though
he basked under the rule of her beneficent hand, he would never feel any
active impulse to further its work. He liked to see things fall
into place about him at a wave of her wand; but his enjoyment of her
household magic in no way diminished his smiling irresponsibility, and
it was with one of its least amiable consequences that his wife and her
friend were now dealing.

Before them stood two travel-worn trunks and a distended portmanteau,
which had shed their contents in heterogeneous heaps over Lizzie’s rosy
carpet. They represented the hostages left by her husband on his somewhat
precipitate departure from a New York boarding-house, and indignantly
redeemed by her on her learning, in a curt letter from his landlady,
that the latter was not disposed to regard them as an equivalent for the
arrears of Deering’s board.

Lizzie had not been shocked by the discovery that her husband had left
America in debt. She had too sad an acquaintance with the economic
strain to see any humiliation in such accidents; but it offended her
sense of order that he should not have liquidated his obligation in
the three years since their marriage. He took her remonstrance with his
usual disarming grace, and left her to forward the liberating draft,
though her delicacy had provided him with a bank-account which assured
his personal independence. Lizzie had discharged the duty without
repugnance, since she knew that his delegating it to her was the result
of his good-humored indolence and not of any design on her exchequer.
Deering was not dazzled by money; his altered fortunes had tempted him
to no excesses: he was simply too lazy to draw the check, as he had been
too lazy to remember the debt it canceled.

“No, dear! No!” Lizzie lifted the Chelsea figure higher. “Can’t you find
something for him, Andora, among that rubbish over there? Where’s the
beaded bag you had in your hand just now? I don’t think it could hurt
him to lick that.”

Miss Macy, bag in hand, rose from her knees, and stumbled through the
slough of frayed garments and old studio properties. Before the group of
mother and son she fell into a raptured attitude.

“Do look at him reach for it, the tyrant! Isn’t he just like the young
Napoleon?”

Lizzie laughed and swung her son in air. “Dangle it before him, Andora.
If you let him have it too quickly, he won’t care for it. He’s just like
any man, I think.”

Andora slowly lowered the shining bag till the heir of the Deerings
closed his masterful fist upon it. “There--my Chelsea’s safe!” Lizzie
smiled, setting her boy on the floor, and watching him stagger away with
his booty.

Andora stood beside her, watching too. “Have you any idea where that bag
came from, Lizzie?”

Mrs. Deering, bent above a pile of dis-collared shirts, shook an
inattentive head. “I never saw such wicked washing! There isn’t one
that’s fit to mend. The bag? No; I’ve not the least idea.”

Andora surveyed her dramatically. “Doesn’t it make you utterly miserable
to think that some woman may have made it for him?”

Lizzie, bowed in anxious scrutiny above the shirts, broke into an
unruffled laugh. “Really, Andora, really--six, seven, nine; no, there
