Here was Warner, a man of twenty-four, and of a 
devout, if somewhat dull and plodding conscientious- 
ness ; and the last eight or nine years of his life had 
been one torment because of the cravings of lust. He 
had never committed an act of unchastity or at least 
he told Thyrsis that he had not. But he was never free 
from the impulse, and he had no conception of the possi- 
bility of being free. His desire was a purely brute 
one untouched by any intellectual or spiritual, or even 
any sentimental color. He desired woman, as woman 
it mattered not what woman. How low his impulses 
took him Thyrsis realized with a shudder from one re- 
mark that he made that his poverty did not help him 
to live virtuously, for about the docks and in the 
workingmen's quarters there were women who would sell 
themselves for fifty cents a night. 

This man's whole life was determined by that crav- 
ing ; in fact it seemed to Thyrsis that his God had made 
the universe with relation to it a heaven to reward him 
if he abstained, and a hell to punish him if he yielded. 
It was because of this that he clung to the church, and 
shrunk from any dallying with "rationalism". He dis- 



 

approved of the theatre, because it appealed to these 
cravings ; he disapproved of all pictures and statues of 
the nude human form, because the sight of them over- 
mastered him. For the same reason he shrunk from all 
impassioned poetry, and from dancing, and even from 
non-religious music. Pie was rigid in his conformance 
to all the social conventions, because they served the 
purpose of saving him and his young women-friends 
from temptation ; and he looked forward to the com- 
pletion of a divinity-course as his goal, because then 
he would be able to settle down and marry, and so at 
last to gratify his desires. He stated this quite baldly, 
quoting the authority of St. Paul, that it was "better 
to marry than to burn." 

This conversation brought Thyrsis to a realization 
that there was a great deal in the world that was not 
found in the poetry of Tennyson and Longfellow; and 
so he began to pry into the souls of others of his fel- 
low-students. 

8. WAIINER had given him the religious attitude; 
ind now he went after the scientific. There was a tall, 
eager-faced young man, who proclaimed himself a 
disciple of Haeckel and Herbert Spencer, and even went 
so far as to quote Schopenhauer in class. Walking 
home together one day, these two fell to arguing the 
freedom of the will, and the nature of motives and de- 
sires, and what power one has over them; and so 
Thyrsis made the startling discovery that this young 
man, having accepted the doctrine of "determinism," 
had drawn therefrom the corollary that he had to do 
what he wanted to do, and so was powerless to resist 
his sex-impulses. For the past year this youth, a fine, 
intellectual and honest student, had gone at regular 



 

intervals to visit a prostitute; and with entirely scien- 
tific and cold-blooded precision he outlined to Thyrsis 
the means he took to avoid contracting disease. Thyrsis 
listened, feeling as he might have felt in a slaughter- 
house ; and when, returning to the deterministic hy- 
pothesis, he asked how it was that he had managed to 
escape this "necessity", he was told that it must be be- 
cause he was of a weaker and less manly constitution. 

And there was yet another type: a man with whom 
there was no difficulty in bringing up the subject, for 
the reason that he was always bringing it up himself. 
Thyrsis sat next to him in a class in Latin, and noticed 
that whenever the text contained any hint at matters of 
sex which was not infrequent in Juvenal and Horace 
this man would look at him with a grin and a sly wink. 
And sometimes Thyrsis would make a casual remark in 
conversation, and the man would twist it out of its 
meaning, or make a pun out of it to find some excuse 
for his satyr's leer. So at last Thyrsis was moved to 
say to him "Don't you ever realize what a state you've 
got your mind into?" 

"How do you mean?" asked the man. 

"Why, everything in the world seems to suggest 
obscenity to you. You're always looking for it and 
always finding it you don't seem to care about any- 
thing else." 

The other was interested in that view of it, and he 
acknowledged with mild amusement that it was true ; 
apparently it was a novelty to him to discuss such 
matters seriously. He told Thyrsis that he could not 
remember having ever restrained a sexual impulse in 
his life. He thought of lust in connection with every 
woman he met, and his mind was a storehouse of smut. 
And yet he was not a bad fellow, in other ways ; he 






 

was handsome, and a good deal of an athlete, and was 
planning to be a physician. "You'll find most all the 
fellows are the same," he said. 

Not long after this, Thyrsis was selected to repre- 
sent his college on a debating-team, and he went away 
to another city and was invited to a fraternity-house ; 
and here, suddenly, he discovered how much of "college- 
life" he had been missing. This was a fashionable 
university, and he met the sons of wealthy parents. 
About a score of them lived in this fraternity-house, 
without any sort of supervision or restraint. They ate 
in a beautiful oak-panelled dining-room adorned with 
drinking-steins ; and throughout the meal they treated 
their visitor to such an orgy of obscenity as he had 
never dreamed of in his life before. Thyrsis was 
trapped and could not get away ; and it seemed to him 
when he rose from the table that there was nothing 
left clean in all God's universe. These boys appeared 
to vie with each other in blasphemous abandonment; 
and it was not simply wantonness it was sprawling and 
disgusting filthiness. 

One of this group took Thyrsis driving, and was 
led to talk. Here was a youth whose father was the 
president of a great manufacturing-enterprise, and 
supplied him with unlimited funds ; which money the boy 
used to divert himself in the pursuit of young women. 
Sometimes he had stooped so low as manicure-girls and 
shop-clerks and stenographers ; but for the most part 
he sought actresses and chorus-girls they had more 
intelligence and spirit, he explained, they were harder 
to win. He had his way with them, partly because he 
was handsome and clever, but mainly because he was 
the keeper of the keys of opportunity. It was his 
to dispense auto-rides and champagne-suppers, and 



 

flowers and jewels, and all 'things else that were desir- 
able in life. 

Thyrsis was appalled at the hardness and the utter 
ruthlessness of this man he saw him as a young 
savage turned loose to prey in a civilized community. 
He had the most supreme contempt for his victims 
that was what they were made for, and he paid them 
their price. Nor was this just because they were 
women, it was a matter of class ; the young man had 
a mother and sisters, to whom he applied quite other 
standards. But Thyrsis found himself wondering how 
long, with this contagion raging among the fathers 
and the sons, it would be possible to keep the mothers 
and the daughters sterilized. 

9. THESE discoveries came one by one ; but Thyrsis 
saw enough at the outset to make it clear that the time 
had come for him to gird up his loins. The choice 
of Hercules 'was before him ; and he did not intend that 
the course of his life was to be decided by these cravings 
of the animal within him. 

From the grosser sorts of temptation he was always 
saved by the fastidiousness of his temperament; the 
thought of a woman who sold herself for money could 
never bring him anything but shuddering. But all 
about his lodging-house lived the daughters of the poor, 
and these were a snare for his feet. It seemed to him 
as if this craving came to a man in regular pulses; 
he could go for weeks, serene and happy in his work 
and then suddenly would come the restlessness, and he 
would go out into the night and wander about the 
streets for hours, impelled by a futile yearning for he 
knew not what the hope of something clean in the 
midst of uncleanliness, of some adventure that would be 



 

not quite shameful to a poet's fancy. And then, after 
midnight, he would steal home, baffled and sick at heart, 
and wet his pillow with hot and bitter tears ! 

So unbearable to him was the thought of such perils 
that he was impelled to seek his old friend the clergy- 
r an, who had lost him over the ancient Hebrew my- 
,' ologies, and now won him back by his living moral 
rurce. With much embarrassment and stammering 
Thyrsis managed to give a hint of what troubled him; 
and the man, whose life was made wholly of love for 
others, opened his great heart and took Thyrsis in. 

He told him of his own youthful struggle -a struggle 
which had resulted in victory, for he had never known a 
woman. And he put all the facts before the boy, made 
clear to him the all-determining importance of the issue : 

"Choose well, your choice is 
Brief and yet endless !" 

On the one hand was slavery and degradation and 
disease; and on the other were all the heights of the 
human spirit. For if one saved and stored this mighty 
sex-energy, it became transmuted to the gold of intel- 
lectual and emotional power. Such was the universal 
testimony of the masters of the higher life 

"My strength is as the strength of ten 
Because my heart is pure." 

And this was no bh'nd asceticism ; it was simply a choos- 
ing of the best. It was not a denial of love, but on 
the contrary a consecration of love. Some day Thyrsis 
would meet the woman he was to cleave to, and he would 
expect her to come to him a virgin ; and he must honor 



 

her as much he must save the fire and fervor of his 
young desire for his life's great consummation. 

Such was the ideal ; and these two men made a com- 
pact between them, that once every month Thyrsis 
would write and tell of his success or failure. And this 
amateur confessional was a mighty motive to the lad 
he knew that he could never tell a lie, and the thought 
of telling the truth was like a sword hanging over hmi. 
There were hours of trial, when he stood so close to the 
edge of the precipice that this alone was what kept 
him clear. 

10. THE summer had come, and Thyrsis had gone 
away to live in a country village, and was reading 
Keats and Shelley, and the narrative poems of Scott. 
There came a soft warm evening, when all the world 
seemed a-dream ; and he had been working hard, and 
there came to him a yearning for the stars. He went 
out, and was strolling through the streets of the village, 
when he saw a girl come out of one of the houses. She 
was younger than he, graceful of form, and pretty. 
The lamp-light flashed on her bright cheeks, and she 
smiled at him as she passed. And Thyrsis' heart gave 
a great leap, and the blood surged to his face ; he 
turned and looked, and saw that she was gazing over 
her shoulder at him. 

He stopped, and turned to follow, his meditations 
all gone, and gone his resolutions. A trembling seized 
him, and every nerve of him tingled. He could. feel 
his heart as if it were underneath his throat. 

In a moment more he was beside the girl. "May I 
join you?" he asked, and she replied with a nod. 

Thyrsis moved beside her and took her arm in his. 
A moment later they came to a place where the road 



 

was dark, and he put his arm about her waist ; she 
made no resistance. 

"I I've seen you often before," she said. 

"Yes," he replied, "I have seen you." And he sud- 
denly remembered a remark that he had heard about 
her. There was a large summer-hotel in this neighbor- 
hood, which as usual had brought all the corruptions 
of the city in its train ; and a youth whom Thyrsis had 
met there had pointed out the girl with the remark, 
"She's a little beast." 

And this idea, as it came to him, swept him away 
in a fierce tide of madness ; he bent suddenly down and 
whispered into her ear. They were words that never 
in Thyrsis' life had passed his lips before. 

The girl pushed him away ; but she laughed. 

"You don't mind, do you?" exclaimed Thyrsis, his 
heart thumping like a hammer. 

"Listen," he whispered, bending towards her. "Let 
us go and take a walk. Let us go where no one will 



see us.' 



"Where?" she asked. 

"Out into the country," he said. 

"Not now," she replied. "Some other time." 

"No, now !" exclaimed Thyrsis, desperately. "Now !" 

They had been moving slowly ; they came to a place 
where a great tree hung over the road, shadowing it ; 
and there they stopped, as by one impulse. 

"Listen to me," he whispered, swiftly. "Listen. 
You don't know how anxious I have been to meet you. 
It's true indeed it's true !" 

He paused. "Yes," said the girl, "and I have been 
wanting to meet you. Didn't you ever see me nod to 
you?" 

And suddenly Thyrsis put his arms about her, and 





pressed her to him. The touch of her bosom sent the 
blood driving through his veins in torrents of fire; he 
no longer knew or cared what he said, or what he did. 

"Listen to me," he raced on. "Listen to me! No- 
body will know ! And you are so beautiful, so beautiful ! 
I love you !" The words burned his lips, but he forced 
himself to say them, again and again "I love you !" 

The girl was gazing around her nervously. "Not 
now," she exclaimed. "Not to-night. To-morrow I 
will meet you, to-morrow night, and go with you." 

"No," cried Thyrsis, "not to-morrow night, but 
now!" And he clasped her yet more tightly, with all 
his strength. "Listen," he panted, his breath on her 
cheek. "I love you ! I cannot wait till to-morrow 
I could not bear it. I am all on fire! I should not 
know what to do !" 

The girl gazed about her again in uncertainty, and 
Thyrsis swept on in his swift, half-incoherent exclama- 
tions. He would take no refusal ; for half his madness 
was terror of himself, and he knew it. And then sud- 
denly, as he cried out to her, the girl whispered, faintly, 
"All right!" And his heart gave a throb that hurt 
him. 

"I'll tell you," she went on, hastily, "I was going to 
the store for something, and they expect me home. 
But wait here till I get back, and then I'll go with 
you." 

"You mean it?" whispered Thyrsis. "You mean it?" 

"Yes, yes," she answered. 

"And it will be soon?" 

"Yes, soon." 

"All right," said he. "But first give me a kiss." 
As she held up her face, Thyrsis pressed her to him, 
and kissed her again and again, until her cheeks were 



 

aflame. At last he released her, and she turned swiftly 
and darted up the street. 

11. AND after she was gone the boy stood there 
motionless, not stirring even a hand. A full minute 
passed, and the color went out of his cheeks, and the 
fire out of his veins, and he could hardly stand erect. 
His head sunk lower and lower, until suddenly he whis- 
pered hoarsely, under his breath, "Oh, my God! Oh, 
my God !" 

He looked up at the sky, his face ghastly white; 
and there came from his throat a low moan, like that 
of a wounded animal. Suddenly he turned, and fled 
away down the street. 

He went on and on, block after block; but then, all 
at once, he stopped again and faced about. He gripped 
his hands until the nails cut him, and shut his teeth 
together like a steel-trap. "No, no !" he muttered. "No 
you coward !" 

He turned and began to march, grimly, as a soldier 
might ; he went back, and stopped on the spot from 
which he had come; and there he stood, like a statue. 
So one minute passed, then another ; and at last a 
shadow moved in the distance, and a step came near. It 
was the girl. 

"Here I am," she whispered, laughing. 

"Yes," said Thyrsis. "I have something I must say 
to you, please." 

She noticed the change in a flash, and she stopped. 
"What's the matter?" 

"I don't know just how to tell you," said Thyrsis, 
in a low, quivering voice. "I've been a hound, and now 
I don't want to be a cad. But I'm sorry for what 
we were talking about." 



 

"You mean what you were talking about, don't you?" 
demanded the girl, her eyes flashing. 

Thyrsis dropped his glance. "Yes," he said. "I am 
a cur. I beg your pardon. I am so ashamed of myself 
that I don't know what to do. But, oh, I was crazy. 
I couldn't help it! and I I'm so sorry!" There were 
tears in his voice. 

"Humph," said the girl, "it's all right." 

"No," said Thyrsis, "it's all wrong. It's dreadful 
it's horrible. I don't know what I should have 
done " 

"Well, you better not do it any more, that's all," 
said she. "I'm sure you needn't worry about me I'll 
take care of myself." 

Thyrsis looked at her again ; she was no longer 
beautiful. Her face was coarse, and her anger did not 
make it any better. His humility made no impression. 

"It is so wrong " he began ; but she interrupted 
him. 

"Preaching won't help it any," she said. "I don't 
want to hear it. Good-bye." 

So she turned and walked away ; and Thyrsis stood 
there, white, and shuddering, until at last he started 
and strode off. Clear through the town he went, and 
out into the black country beyond, seeing nothing, 
caring about nothing. He flung himself down by the 
roadside, and lay there moaning for hours : "My God, 
my God, what shall I do?" 



12. IT was nearly morning when he came back and 
crept upstairs to his room ; and here he sat by the bed- 
side, gazing at the haggard face in the glass. At such 
times as this he discovered a something in his features 
that filled him with shuddering; he discovered it in his 



 

words, and in the very tone of his voice the sins of the 
fathers were being visited upon the children! What an 
old, old story it was to him this anguish and remorse ! 
These ecstasies of resolution that vanished like a cloud- 
wrack these protestations and noble sentiments that 
counted for naught in conduct ! And his was to be 
the whole heritage of impotence and futility ; he, too, 
was to struggle and agonize and to finish with his foot 
in the trap ! 

This idea was like a white-hot goad to him. After 
such an experience there would be several months of 
toil and penance, and of savage self-immolation. It 
was hard to punish a man who had so little ; but Thyrsis 
managed to find ways. For several months at a time 
he would go without those kinds of food that he liked ; 
and instead of going to bed at one o'clock he would 
read the New Testament in Greek for an hour. He 
would leap out of bed in the morning and plunge into 
cold water ; and at night, when he felt a longing upon 
him, he would go out and run for hours. 

He took to keeping diaries and writing exhortations 
to himself. Because he could no longer use the theo- 
logical prayers he had been taught, he fashioned new 
invocations for himself : prayers to the unknown sources 
of his vision, to the new powers of his own soul "the 
undiscovered gods," as he called them. Above all he 
prayed to his vision of the maiden who waited the issue 
of this battle, and held the crown of victory in her 
keeping 

"Somewhere beneath the sun, 

Those quivering heart-strings prove it, 
Somewhere there must be one 
Made for this soul to love it 



 

Some one whom I could court 

With no great change of manner, 

Still holding reason's fort, 

While waving fancy's banner !" 

All of which things made a subtle change in his atti- 
tude to Corydon, whom he still met occasionally. Cory- 
don was now a young lady, beautiful, even stately, 
with an indescribable atmosphere of gentleness and 
purity about her. All things unclean shrunk from her. 
presence ; and so in times of distress he liked to be with 
her. He would drop vague hints as to sufferings and 
temptations, and told her that she seemed like a "god- 
dess" to him. 

Corydon received this with some awe, but with more 
perplexity. She could not understand why anyone 
should struggle so much, or why a youth should take 
such a sombre view of things. But she was perfectly 
willing to seem like a "goddess" to anyone, and she was 
glad if that helped him. She was touched when he 
read her a poem of his own, a poem which he held very 
precious. He called it 



'A song of the young-eyed Cherubim 
In the days of the making of man.' 



And in it he had set forth the view of life that had 
come to him 



it. 



The quest of the spirit's gain 
Lured by the graces of pleasure, 

And lashed by the furies of pain. 

Thy weakness shall sigh for an Eden, 

But the sword shall flame at the gate; 
For far is the home of thy vision 

And strong is the hand of thy fate!" 



 

13. THOUGH Thyrsis had no time to realize it, it 
was in this long and bitter struggle that he won what- 
ever power he had in his future life. It was here that 
he learned "to hold his will above him as his law", and 
to defy the world for the sake of his ideal. And then, 
too, this toil was the key that opened to him the 
treasure-house of a new art which was music. 

Until he was nearly * out of college Thyrsis had 
.scarcely heard any music at all. Church-hymns he 
had learned, and a few songs in school. But now in 
poetry and other books he met with references to com- 
posers, and to the meaning of great music ; and the 
things that were described there were the things he 
loved, and he began to feel a great eagerness to get 
at them. As a first step he bought a mandolin, and 
set to work to teach himself to play, a task at which 
he wrought with great diligence. At the same time 
a friend had bought a guitar, and the two set to work 
to play duets. The first preliminary was the getting 
of the instruments in tune ; and not knowing that the 
mandolin is an octave higher than the guitar, they spent 
a great deal of time and broke a great many guitar- 
strings. 

As the next step, Thyrsis went to hear a great 
pianist, and sat perplexed and wondering. There was 
a girl next to him who sobbed, and Thyrsis watched her 
as he might have watched a house on fire. Only once 
the pianist pleased him when he played a pretty little 
piece called somebody's "impromptu", in which he got 
a gleam of a "tune." Poor Thyrsis went and got that 
piece, and took it home to study it, with the help of 
the mandolin; but, alas, in the maze of notes he could 
not even find the "tune." 

But if he could not understand the music, he could 



 

read books about it ; he read a whole library criticism 
of music, analysis of music, histories of music, com- 
posers of music ; and so gradually he learned the differ- 
ence between a sarabande and a symphony, and began 
to get some idea of what he went out for to hear. At 
first, at the concerts, all he could think of was to crane 
his neck and recognize the different instruments ; he 
heard whole symphonies, while doing nothing but watch- 
ing for the "movements," and making sure he hadn't, 
skipped any. One heartless composer ran two move- 
ments into one, and so Thyrsis' concert came out one 
piece short at the end, and he sat gazing about him in 
consternation when the audience rose to go. After- 
wards he read long dissertations about each symphony 
before he went, and he would note down the important 
points and watch for them. The critic would expatiate 
upon "the long-drawn dissonance forte, that marks the 
close of the working-out portion" ; and Thyrsis would 
watch for that long-drawn dissonance, and be wonder- 
ing if it was never coming when suddenly the whole 
symphony would come to an end! Or he would read 
about a "quaint capering measure led off by the bas- 
soons," or a "frantic sweep of the violins over a trom- 
bone melody," and he would watch for these events with 
eyes and ears alert, and if he found them eureka! 

But such things could not last forever ; for Thyrsis 
had a heart full of eagerness and love, and of such 
is the soul of music. And just then was a time when 
he was sick and worn when it seemed to him that the 
burden of his life was more than he could bear. He 
was haunted by the thought that he would lose his 
long battle, that he would go under and go down ; and 
then it was that chance took him to a concert which 
closed with the great "C-Minor Symphony." 



 

Thyrsis had read a life of Beethoven, and he knew 
that here was one of the hero-souls a man who had 
grappled with the fiends, and passed through the valley 
of death. And now he read accounts of this titan 
symphony, and learned that it was a battle of the 
human spirit with despair. He read Beethoven's words 
about the opening theme "So knocks fate upon the 
door !" And a fierce and overwhelming longing pos- 
sessed him to get at the soul of that symphony. 

He went to the concert, and heard nothing of the 
rest of the music, but sat like a man in a dream ; and 
when the time came for the symphony, he was trembling 
with excitement. There was a long silence; and then 
suddenly came the first theme those fearful hammer- 
strokes that cannot be thought without a shudder. 
They beat upon Thyrsis' very heart-strings, and he sat 
appalled; and straight out he went upon the tide of 
that mighty music-passion without knowing it, with- 
out knowing how. He forgot that he was trying to 
understand a symphony ; he forgot where he was, and 
what he was ; he only knew that gigantic phantoms 
surged within him, that his soul was a hundred times 
itself. He never guessed that an orchestra was play- 
ing a second theme; he only knew that he saw a light 
gleam out of the storm, that he heard a voice, pitiful, 
fearful, beautiful beyond utterance, crying out to the 
furies for mercy; and that then the storm closed over 
it with a roar. Again and again it rose; Thyrsis did 
not know that this was the "working-out portion" that 
had forever been his bane. He only knew that it strug- 
gled and fought his fight, that it pleaded and sobbed, 
and rose higher and higher, and began to rejoice 
and that then, came the great black phantom-shape 
sweeping over it ; and the iron hammer-strokes of Fate 



 

beat down upon it, crushed it and trampled it into 
annihilation. Again and again this happened, while 
Thyrsis sat clutching the seat, and shaking with wonder 
and excitement. Never in his experience had there been 
anything so vast, so awful ; "t was more than he could 
bear, and when the first movement came to an end 
when the soul's last hope was dead he got up and 
rushed out. People who passed him on the streets 
must have thought that he was crazy ; and afterwards, 
that day and forever, he lived all his soul's life in 
music. 

As a result of this Thyrsis paid all his bank-account 
for a violin, and went to see a teacher. 

"You are too old," the teacher said. 

But Thyrsis answered, "I will work as no one ever 
worked before." 

"We all do that," replied the other, with a smile. 
And so they began. 

And so all day long, with fingers raw, and arms and 
back shuddering with exhaustion, Thyrsis sat and 
practiced, the spirit of Music beckoning him on. It 
was in a boarding-house, and there was a nervous old 
man in the next room, and in the end Thyrsis had to 
move. By the time he went away to the country, he 
was able to play a melody in tune; and then he would 
take some one that had fascinated him, and practice 
it and practice it night and day. He would take his 
fiddle every morning at eight and stride out into the 
forest, and there he would stay all day with the squir- 
rels. They told him once how a new arrival, driving 
over in the hotel 'bus at early dawn, had passed an old 
Italian woman toiling up a hill and singing for dear 
life the "Tannhauser March." It chanced that the new 
arrival was a musician, and he leaned out and asked 



 

the old woman where she had learned it. And this was 
her explanation; 

"Dey ees a crazy feller in de woods he play it all 
day for tree weeks !" 

14. BY this time Thyrsis had finished at college, 
passing comfortably near the bottom of his class, and 
had betaken himself to a university as a graduate 
student. He was duly registered for a lot of courses, 
and spent his time when he should have been at the 
lectures, sitting in a vacant class-room reading the 
book that had fascinated him last. His note-book be- 
gan at that time to show two volumes a day on an 
average, and once or twice he stopped at night to 
wonder how it had actually been possible for him to 
read poetry fourteen hours a day for a whole week and 
not be tired. 

He taught himself German, and that led to another 
great discovery he made the acquaintance of Goethe. 
The power of that mighty spirit took hold of him, so 
that he prayed to him when he was lonely, and kept the 
photograph of the young poet in his pocket, to gaze 
at it as at a lover. The great eyes came to haunt him 
so that one night he awoke crying out, because he had 
dreamed he was going to meet Goethe. 

In the* catalog of the university there were listed a 
number of courses in "rhetoric and English composi- 
tion". They were for the purpose of teaching one 
how to write, and the catalog set forth convincingly 
the methods whereby this wai done. Thyrsis wished 
to know all there was to know about writing, and so 
he enrolled himself for an advanced course, and went 
for an hour every day and listened to expositions of 
the elements of sentence-structure by Prof. Osborne, 



 

author of "American Prose Writers" and "The Science 
of Rhetoric". The professor would give him a theme, 
and bid him bring in a five-hundred word composition. 
Perhaps it was that Thyrsis was lacking in the play- 
spirit ; at any rate he could not write convincingly on 
the subject of "The Duty of the College Man to Sup- 
port Athletics." He struggled for a month against 
his own impotence, and then went to see his instructor. 

"I think," he said, "I shall have to drop Course A." 

The professor gazed over his spectacles at him. 

"Why?" 

"I don't think I am getting any good out of it." 

"But how can you tell what good you are getting?" 

"I don't seem to feel that I am," said Thyrsis, 
deprecatingly. 

"It is not to be supposed that you would feel it," 
said the other "not at this early stage. You must 
wait." 

"But I don't like the method, sir." 

"What's wrong with the method?" 

Thyrsis was embarrassed. He was not sure, he said ; 
but he did not think that writing could be taught. 
Anyway, one had first to have something worth say- 



mg- 



"Are you laboring under the delusion that you know 
anything about writing?" demanded the professor. (He 
had written across Thyrsis' last composition the words, 
"Feeble and trivial".)* 

"Why, no," began the boy. 

"Because if you are, let me disabuse your mind at 
once. There is no one in the class who knows less 
about writing than yourself." 

"I think," said Thyrsis, "it's because I can't bring 



 

myself to write in cold blood. I have to be interested. 
I'm sure that is the trouble." 

"I'm sure,", said the other, "that the trouble is that 
you think you know too much." 

"I'm sorry, sir," said Thyrsis, humbly. "I've tried 
my best " 

"It is my business to teach students to write. I've 
given my life to that, and I think I know something 
about it. But you think you know more than I do. 
That's all." 

And so they parted. Thyrsis kept a vivid recollec- 
tion of this interview, for the reason that at a later 
stage of his career he came into contact with Prof. 
Osborne again, and got another glimpse of the authori- 
tarian attitude towards the art of letters. 

15. THYRSIS had not many friends at college, and 
none at all at the university. He had no time to make 
any ; and besides, there was a certain facetious senior 
who had caught him hurrying through the corridors 
one day, declaring in excitement that 

"Banners yellow, glorious, golden, 
On its roof did float and flow!" 

But he had long ago ceased to hope for a friend, 
or to care what anybody thought about him ; it was 
clear to him by this time that he had made himself 
into a poet, and was doomed to be unhappy. His 
mother had given up all hope of seeing him a bishop, 
and they had compromised upon a judgeship ; but here 
at the university there was a law-school, and he met 
the students, and saw that this, too, could not be. 
These "lawyers" were not seeking knowledge for the 
love of it they were studying a trade, by which they 



 

could rise in the world. They were not going out to 
do battle for truth and justice they were perfecting 
themselves in cunning, so that they might be of help 
in money-disputes ; they were sharpening their wits, 
to make them useful tools for the opening of treasure- 
chests. And this attitude to life was written all over 
their personalities ; they seemed to Thyrsis a coarse 
and roistering crew, and he shrunk from them in re- 
