and turns of history must have been more frequent than any dull avenue
or easy sequence. Lady Sandgate was shiningly modern, and perhaps at no
point more so than by the effect of her express repudiation of a mundane
future certain to be more and more offensive to women of real quality
and of formed taste. Clearly, at any rate, in her hands, the clue to
the antique confidence had lost itself, and repose, however founded, had
given way to curiosity--that is to speculation--however disguised. She
might have consented, or even attained, to being but gracefully stupid,
but she would presumably have confessed, if put on her trial for
restlessness or for intelligence, that she was, after all, almost
clever enough to be vulgar. Unmistakably, moreover, she had still, with
her fine stature, her disciplined figure, her cherished complexion, her
bright important hair, her kind bold eyes and her large constant smile,
the degree of beauty that might pretend to put every other question by.

Lord John addressed her as with a significant manner that he might have
had--that of a lack of need, or even of interest, for any explanation
about herself: it would have been clear that he was apt to discriminate
with sharpness among possible claims on his attention. “I luckily find
you at least, Lady Sandgate--they tell me Theign’s off somewhere.”

She replied as with the general habit, on her side, of bland
reassurance; it mostly had easier consequences--for herself--than the
perhaps more showy creation of alarm. “Only off in the park--open to-day
for a school-feast from Dedborough, as you may have made out from the
avenue; giving good advice, at the top of his lungs, to four hundred and
fifty children.”

It was such a scene, and such an aspect of the personage so accounted
for, as Lord John could easily take in, and his recognition familiarly
smiled. “Oh he’s so great on such occasions that I’m sorry to be missing
it.”

“I’ve had to miss it,” Lady Sandgate sighed--“that is to miss the
peroration. I’ve just left them, but he had even then been going on for
twenty minutes, and I dare say that if you care to take a look you’ll
find him, poor dear victim of duty, still at it.”

“I’ll warrant--for, as I often tell him, he makes the idea of one’s duty
an awful thing to his friends by the extravagance with which he always
overdoes it.” And the image itself appeared in some degree to prompt
this particular edified friend to look at his watch and consider. “I
should like to come in for the grand finale, but I rattled over in a
great measure to meet a party, as he calls himself--and calls, if you
please, even me!--who’s motoring down by appointment and whom I think I
should be here to receive; as well as a little, I confess, in the hope
of a glimpse of Lady Grace: if you can perhaps imagine that!”

“I can imagine it perfectly,” said Lady Sandgate, whom evidently no
perceptions of that general order ever cost a strain. “It quite sticks
out of you, and every one moreover has for some time past been waiting
to see. But you haven’t then,” she added, “come from town?”

“No, I’m for three days at Chanter with my mother; whom, as she kindly
lent me her car, I should have rather liked to bring.”

Lady Sandgate left the unsaid, in this connection, languish no
longer than was decent. “But whom you doubtless had to leave, by her
preference, just settling down to bridge.”

“Oh, to sit down would imply that my mother at some moment of the day
gets up----!”

“Which the Duchess never does?”--Lady Sand-gate only asked to be allowed
to show how she saw it. “She fights to the last, invincible; gathering
in the spoils and only routing her friends?” She abounded genially in
her privileged vision. “Ah yes--we know something of that!”

Lord John, who was a young man of a rambling but not of an idle eye,
fixed her an instant with a surprise that was yet not steeped in
compassion. “You too then?”

She wouldn’t, however, too meanly narrow it down. “Well, in this house
generally; where I’m so often made welcome, you see, and where----”

“Where,” he broke in at once, “your jolly good footing quite sticks out
of you, perhaps you’ll let me say!”

She clearly didn’t mind his seeing her ask herself how she should deal
with so much rather juvenile intelligence; and indeed she could only
decide to deal quite simply. “You can’t say more than I feel--and am
proud to feel!--at being of comfort when they’re worried.”

This but fed the light flame of his easy perception--which lighted for
him, if she would, all the facts equally. “And they’re worried now,
you imply, because my terrible mother is capable of heavy gains and of
making a great noise if she isn’t paid? I ought to mind speaking of
that truth,” he went on as with a practised glance in the direction of
delicacy; “but I think I should like you to know that I myself am not a
bit ignorant of why it has made such an impression here.”

Lady Sandgate forestalled his knowledge. “Because poor Kitty Imber--who
should either never touch a card or else learn to suffer in silence, as
I’ve had to, goodness knows!--has thrown herself, with her impossible
big debt, upon her father? whom she thinks herself entitled to ‘look to’
even more as a lovely young widow with a good jointure than she formerly
did as the mere most beautiful daughter at home.”

She had put the picture a shade interrogatively, but this was as nothing
to the note of free inquiry in Lord John’s reply. “You mean that our
lovely young widows--to say nothing of lovely young wives--ought by this
time to have made out, in predicaments, how to turn round?”

His temporary hostess, even with his eyes on her, appeared to decide
after a moment not wholly to disown his thought. But she smiled for it.
“Well, in that set----!”

“My mother’s set?” However, if she could smile he could laugh. “I’m much
obliged!”

“Oh,” she qualified, “I don’t criticise her Grace; but the ways and
traditions and tone of this house----”

“Make it”--he took her sense straight from her--“the house in England
where one feels most the false note of a dishevelled and bankrupt elder
daughter breaking in with a list of her gaming debts--to say nothing of
others!--and wishing to have at least those wiped out in the interest of
her reputation? Exactly so,” he went on before she could meet it with a
diplomatic ambiguity; “and just that, I assure you, is a large part of
the reason I like to come here--since I personally don’t come with any
such associations.”

“Not the association of bankruptcy--no; as you represent the payee!”

The young man appeared to regard this imputation for a moment almost
as a liberty taken. “How do you know so well, Lady Sandgate, what I
represent?”

She bethought herself--but briefly and bravely. “Well, don’t you
represent, by your own admission, certain fond aspirations? Don’t
you represent the belief--very natural, I grant--that more than one
perverse and extravagant flower will be unlikely on such a fine healthy
old stem; and, consistently with that, the hope of arranging with our
admirable host here that he shall lend a helpful hand to your commending
yourself to dear Grace?”

Lord John might, in the light of these words, have felt any latent
infirmity in such a pretension exposed; but as he stood there facing
his chances he would have struck a spectator as resting firmly enough on
some felt residuum of advantage: whether this were cleverness or luck,
the strength of his backing or that of his sincerity. Even with the
young woman to whom our friends’ reference thus broadened still a
vague quantity for us, you would have taken his sincerity as quite
possible--and this despite an odd element in him that you might have
described as a certain delicacy of brutality. This younger son of
a noble matron recognised even by himself as terrible enjoyed in
no immediate or aggressive manner any imputable private heritage
or privilege of arrogance. He would on the contrary have irradiated
fineness if his lustre hadn’t been a little prematurely dimmed. Active
yet insubstantial, he was slight and short and a trifle too punctually,
though not yet quite lamentably, bald. Delicacy was in the arch of his
eyebrow, the finish of his facial line, the economy of “treatment”
 by which his negative nose had been enabled to look important and his
meagre mouth to smile its spareness away.

He had pleasant but hard little eyes--they glittered, handsomely,
without promise--and a neatness, a coolness and an ease, a clear
instinct for making point take, on his behalf, the place of weight and
immunity that of capacity, which represented somehow the art of living
at a high pitch and yet at a low cost. There was that in his satisfied
air which still suggested sharp wants--and this was withal the
ambiguity; for the temper of these appetites or views was certainly,
you would have concluded, not such as always to sacrifice to form. If he
really, for instance, wanted Lady Grace, the passion or the sense of his
interest in it would scarce have been considerately irritable.

“May I ask what you mean,” he inquired of Lady Sandgate, “by the
question of my ‘arranging’?”

“I mean that you’re the very clever son of a very clever mother.”

“Oh, I’m less clever than you think,” he replied--“if you really think
it of me at all; and mamma’s a good sight cleverer!”

“Than I think?” Lady Sandgate echoed. “Why, she’s the person in all our
world I would gladly most resemble--for her general ability to put what
she wants through.” But she at once added: “That is if--!” pausing on
it with a smile.

“If what then?”

“Well, if I could be absolutely certain to have all in her kinds of
cleverness without exception--and to have them,” said Lady Sandgate, “to
the very end.”

He definitely, he almost contemptuously declined to follow her. “The
very end of what?”

She took her choice as amid all the wonderful directions there might be,
and then seemed both to risk and to reserve something. “Say of her so
wonderfully successful general career.”

It doubtless, however, warranted him in appearing to cut insinuations
short. “When you’re as clever as she you’ll be as good.” To which he
subjoined: “You don’t begin to have the opportunity of knowing how good
she is.” This pronouncement, to whatever comparative obscurity it might
appear to relegate her, his interlocutress had to take--he was so prompt
with a more explicit challenge. “What is it exactly that you suppose
yourself to know?”

Lady Sandgate had after a moment, in her supreme good humour, decided
to take everything. “I always proceed on the assumption that I know
everything, because that makes people tell me.”

“It wouldn’t make we,” he quite rang out, “if I didn’t want to! But as
it happens,” he allowed, “there’s a question it would be convenient
to me to put to you. You must be, with your charming unconventional
relation with him, extremely in Theign’s confidence.”

She waited a little as for more. “Is that your question--whether I
am?”

“No, but if you are you’ll the better answer it”

She had no objection then to answering it beautifully. “We’re the best
friends in the world; he has been really my providence, as a lone woman
with almost nobody and nothing of her own, and I feel my footing here,
as so frequent and yet so discreet a visitor, simply perfect But I’m
happy to say that--for my pleasure when I’m really curious--this doesn’t
close to me the sweet resource of occasionally guessing things.”

“Then I hope you’ve ground for believing that if I go the right way
about it he’s likely to listen to me.”

Lady Sandgate measured her ground--which scarce seemed extensive. “The
person he most listens to just now--and in fact at any time, as you must
have seen for yourself--is that arch-tormentor, or at least beautiful
wheedler, his elder daughter.”

“Lady Imber’s here?” Lord John alertly asked.

“She arrived last night and--as we’ve other visitors--seems to have set
up a side-show in the garden.”

“Then she’ll ‘draw’ of course immensely, as she always does. But her
sister won’t be in that case with her,” the young man supposed.

“Because Grace feels herself naturally an independent show? So she well
may,” said Lady Sandgate, “but I must tell you that when I last noticed
them there Kitty was in the very act of leading her away.”

Lord John figured it a moment. “Lady Imber”--he ironically enlarged the
figure--“can lead people away.”

“Oh, dear Grace,” his companion returned, “happens fortunately to be
firm!”

This seemed to strike him for a moment as equivocal. “Not against
me, however--you don’t mean? You don’t think she has a beastly
prejudice----?”

“Surely you can judge about it; as knowing best what may--or what
mayn’t--have happened between you.”

“Well, I try to judge”--and such candour as was possible to Lord John
seemed to sit for a moment on his brow. “But I’m in fear of seeing her
too much as I want to see her.”

There was an appeal in it that Lady Sandgate might have been moved to
meet “Are you absolutely in earnest about her?”

“Of course I am--why shouldn’t I be? But,” he said with impatience, “I
want help.”

“Very well then, that’s what Lady Imber’s giving you.” And as it
appeared to take him time to read into these words their full sense,
she produced others, and so far did help him--though the effort was in
a degree that of her exhibiting with some complacency her own unassisted
control of stray signs and shy lights. “By telling her, by bringing it
home to her, that if she’ll make up her mind to accept you the Duchess
will do the handsome thing. Handsome, I mean, by Kitty.”

Lord John, appropriating for his convenience the truth in this, yet
regarded it as open to a becoming, an improving touch from himself.
“Well, and by me.” To which he added with more of a challenge in it:
“But you really know what my mother will do?”

“By my system,” Lady Sandgate smiled, “you see I’ve guessed. What your
mother will do is what brought you over!”

“Well, it’s that,” he allowed--“and something else.”

“Something else?” she derisively echoed. “I should think ‘that,’ for an
ardent lover, would have been enough.”

“Ah, but it’s all one Job! I mean it’s one idea,” he hastened to
explain--“if you think Lady Imber’s really acting on her.”

“Mightn’t you go and see?”

“I would in a moment if I hadn’t to look out for another matter too.”
 And he renewed his attention to his watch. “I mean getting straight at
my American, the party I just mentioned------”

But she had already taken him up. “You too have an American and a
‘party,’ and yours also motors down----?”

“Mr. Breckenridge Bender.” Lord John named him with a shade of elation.

She gaped at the fuller light “You know my Breckenridge?--who I hoped
was coming for me!”

Lord John as freely, but more gaily, wondered. “Had he told you so?”

She held out, opened, the telegram she had kept folded in her hand since
her entrance. “He has sent me that--which, delivered to me ten minutes
ago out there, has brought me in to receive him.”

The young man read out this missive. “‘Failing to find you in Bruton
Street, start in pursuit and hope to overtake you about four.’” It did
involve an ambiguity. “Why, he has been engaged these three days
to coincide with myself, and not to fail of him has been part of my
business.”

Lady Sandgate, in her demonstrative way, appealed to the general rich
scene. “Then why does he say it’s me he’s pursuing?”

He seemed to recognise promptly enough in her the sense of a menaced
monopoly. “My dear lady, he’s pursuing expensive works of art.”

“By which you imply that I’m one?” She might have been wound up by her
disappointment to almost any irony.

“I imply--or rather I affirm--that every handsome woman is! But what he
arranged with me about,” Lord John explained, “was that he should
see the Dedborough pictures in general and the great Sir Joshua in
particular--of which he had heard so much and to which I’ve been thus
glad to assist him.”

This news, however, with its lively interest, but deepened the
listener’s mystification. “Then why--this whole week that I’ve been in
the house--hasn’t our good friend here mentioned to me his coming?”

“Because our good friend here has had no reason”--Lord John could treat
it now as simple enough. “Good as he is in all ways, he’s so best of
all about showing the house and its contents that I haven’t even thought
necessary to write him that I’m introducing Breckenridge.”

“I should have been happy to introduce him,” Lady Sandgate just
quavered--“if I had at all known he wanted it.”

Her companion weighed the difference between them and appeared to
pronounce it a trifle he didn’t care a fig for. “I surrender you that
privilege then--of presenting him to his host--if I’ve seemed to you
to snatch it from you.” To which Lord John added, as with liberality
unrestricted, “But I’ve been taking him about to see what’s worth
while--as only last week to Lady Lappington’s Longhi.”

This revelation, though so casual in its form, fairly drew from Lady
Sandgate, as she took it in, an interrogative wail. “Her Longhi?”

“Why, don’t you know her great Venetian family group, the
What-do-you-call-’ems?--seven full-length figures, each one a gem, for
which he paid her her price before he left the house.”

She could but make it more richly resound--almost stricken, lost in her
wistful thought: “Seven full-length figures? Her price?”

“Eight thousand--slap down. Bender knows,” said Lord John, “what he
wants.”

“And does he want only”--her wonder grew and grew--

“What-do-you-call-’ems’?”

“He most usually wants what he can’t have.” Lord John made scarce more
of it than that. “But, awfully hard up as I fancy her, Lady Lappington
went at him.”

It determined in his friend a boldly critical attitude. “How
horrible--at the rate things are leaving us!” But this was far from the
end of her interest. “And is that the way he pays?”

“Before he leaves the house?” Lord John lived it amusedly over. “Well,
she took care of that.”

“How incredibly vulgar!” It all had, however, for Lady Sandgate, still
other connections--which might have attenuated Lady Lappington’s
case, though she didn’t glance at this. “He makes the most scandalous
eyes--the ruffian!--at my great-grandmother.” And then as richly to
enlighten any blankness: “My tremendous Lawrence, don’t you know?--in
her wedding-dress, down to her knees; with such extraordinarily
speaking eyes, such lovely arms and hands, such wonderful flesh-tints:
universally considered the masterpiece of the artist.”

Lord John seemed to look a moment not so much at the image evoked, in
which he wasn’t interested, as at certain possibilities lurking behind
it. “And are you going to sell the masterpiece of the artist?”

She held her head high. “I’ve indignantly refused--for all his pressing
me so hard.”

“Yet that’s what he nevertheless pursues you to-day to keep up?”

The question had a little the ring of those of which the occupant of a
witness-box is mostly the subject, but Lady Sandgate was so far as this
went an imperturbable witness. “I need hardly fear it perhaps if--in
the light of what you tell me of your arrangement with him--his pursuit
becomes, where I am concerned, a figure of speech.”

“Oh,” Lord John returned, “he kills two birds with one stone--he sees
both Sir Joshua and you.”

This version of the case had its effect, for the moment, on his fair
associate. “Does he want to buy their pride and glory?”

The young man, however, struck on his own side, became at first but the
bright reflector of her thought. “Is that wonder for sale?”

She closed her eyes as with the shudder of hearing such words. “Not,
surely, by any monstrous chance! Fancy dear, proud Theign------!”

“I can’t fancy him--no!” And Lord John appeared to renounce the effort.
“But a cat may look at a king and a sharp funny Yankee at anything.”

These things might be, Lady Sandgate’s face and gesture apparently
signified; but another question diverted her. “You’re clearly a
wonderful showman, but do you mind my asking you whether you’re on such
an occasion a--well, a closely interested one?”

“‘Interested’?” he echoed; though it wasn’t to gain time, he showed, for
he would in that case have taken more. “To the extent, you mean, of my
little percentage?” And then as in silence she but kept a slightly grim
smile on him: “Why do you ask if--with your high delicacy about your
great-grandmother--you’ve nothing to place?”

It took her a minute to say, while her fine eye only rolled; but when
she spoke that organ boldly rested and the truth vividly appeared.
“I ask because people like you, Lord John, strike me as dangerous to
the--how shall I name it?--the common weal; and because of my general
strong feeling that we don’t want any more of our national treasures
(for I regard my great-grandmother as national) to be scattered about
the world.”

“There’s much in this country and age,” he replied in an off-hand
manner, “to be said about that,” The present, however, was not the
time to say it all; so he said something else instead, accompanying it
with a smile that signified sufficiency. “To my friends, I need scarcely
remark to you, I’m all the friend.”

She had meanwhile seen the butler reappear by the door that opened to
the terrace, and though the high, bleak, impersonal approach of this
functionary was ever, and more and more at every step, a process to defy
interpretation, long practice evidently now enabled her to suggest, as
she turned again to her fellow-visitor a reading of it. “It’s the friend
then clearly who’s wanted in the park.”

She might, by the way Banks looked at her, have snatched from his hand
a missive addressed to another; though while he addressed himself to her
companion he allowed for her indecorum sufficiently to take it up where
she had left it. “By her ladyship, my lord, who sends to hope you’ll
join them below the terrace.”

“Ah, Grace hopes,” said Lady Sandgate for the young man’s encouragement.
“There you are!”

Lord John took up the motor-cap he had lain down on coming in. “I rush
to Lady Grace, but don’t demoralise Bender!” And he went forth to the
terrace and the gardens.

Banks looked about as for some further exercise of his high function.
“Will you have tea, my lady?”

This appeared to strike her as premature. “Oh, thanks--when they all
come in.”

“They’ll scarcely all, my lady”--he indicated respectfully that he
knew what he was talking about. “There’s tea in her ladyship’s tent;
but,” he qualified, “it has also been ordered for the saloon.”

“Ah then,” she said cheerfully, “Mr. Bender will be glad--!” And she
became, with this, aware of the approach of another visitor. Banks
considered, up and down, the gentleman ushered in, at the left, by the
footman who had received him at the main entrance to the house. “Here
he must be, my lady.” With which he retired to the spacious opposite
quarter, where he vanished, while the footman, his own office performed,
retreated as he had come, and Lady Sandgate, all hospitality, received
the many-sided author of her specious telegram, of Lord John’s
irritating confidence and of Lady Lappington’s massive cheque.




II

Having greeted him with an explicitly gracious welcome and both hands
out, she had at once gone on: “You’ll of course have tea?--in the
saloon.”

But his mechanism seemed of the type that has to expand and revolve
before sounding. “Why; the very first thing?”

She only desired, as her laugh showed, to accommodate. “Ah, have it the
last if you like!”

“You see your English teas--!” he pleaded as he looked about him, so
immediately and frankly interested in the place and its contents that
his friend could only have taken this for the very glance with which he
must have swept Lady Lappington’s inferior scene.

“They’re too much for you?”

“Well, they’re too many. I think I’ve had two or three on the road--at
any rate my man did. I like to do business before--” But his sequence
dropped as his eye caught some object across the wealth of space.

She divertedly picked it up. “Before tea, Mr. Bender?”

“Before everything, Lady Sandgate.” He was immensely genial, but a
queer, quaint, rough-edged distinctness somehow kept it safe--for
himself.

“Then you’ve come to do business?” Her appeal and her emphasis melted
as into a caress--which, however, spent itself on his large high person
as he consented, with less of demonstration but more of attention, to
look down upon her. She could therefore but reinforce it by an intenser
note. “To tell me you will treat?”

Mr. Bender had six feet of stature and an air as of having received
benefits at the hands of fortune. Substantial, powerful, easy, he shone
as with a glorious cleanness, a supplied and equipped and appointed
sanity and security; aids to action that might have figured a pair of
very ample wings--wide pinions for the present conveniently folded, but
that he would certainly on occasion agitate for great efforts and spread
for great flights. These things would have made him quite an admirable,
even a worshipful, image of full-blown life and character, had not
the affirmation and the emphasis halted in one important particular.
Fortune, felicity, nature, the perverse or interfering old fairy at his
cradle-side--whatever the ministering power might have been--had simply
overlooked and neglected his vast wholly-shaven face, which thus showed
not so much for perfunctorily scamped as for not treated, as for neither
formed nor fondled nor finished, at all. Nothing seemed to have been
done for it but what the razor and the sponge, the tooth-brush and
the looking-glass could officiously do; it had in short resisted
any possibly finer attrition at the hands of fifty years of offered
experience. It had developed on the lines, if lines they could be
called, of the mere scoured and polished and initialled “mug” rather
than to any effect of a composed physiognomy; though we must at the
same time add that its wearer carried this featureless disk as with the
warranted confidence that might have attended a warning headlight or
a glaring motor-lamp. The object, however one named it, showed you at
least where he was, and most often that he was straight upon you. It
was fearlessly and resistingly across the path of his advance that Lady
Sandgate had thrown herself, and indeed with such success that he
soon connected her demonstration with a particular motive. “For your
grandmother, Lady Sandgate?” he then returned.

“For my grandmother’s mother, Mr. Bender--the most beautiful woman
of her time and the greatest of all Lawrences, no matter whose; as you
quite acknowledged, you know, in our talk in Bruton Street.”

Mr. Bender bethought himself further--yet drawing it out; as if the
familiar fact of his being “made up to” had never had such special
softness and warmth of pressure. “Do you want very, very much----?”

She had already caught him up. “‘Very, very much’ for her? Well, Mr.
Bender,” she smilingly replied, “I think I should like her full value.”

“I mean”--he kindly discriminated--“do you want so badly to work her
off?”

“It would be an intense convenience to me--so much so that your telegram
made me at once fondly hope you’d be arriving to conclude.”

Such measure of response as he had good-naturedly given her was the
mere frayed edge of a mastering detachment, the copious, impatient range
elsewhere of his true attention. Somehow, however, he still seemed kind
even while, turning his back upon her, he moved off to look at one of
the several, the famous Dedborough pictures--stray specimens, by every
presumption, lost a little in the whole bright bigness. “‘Conclude’?” he
echoed as he approached a significantly small canvas. “You ladies want
to get there before the road’s so much as laid or the country’s safe! Do
you know what this here is?” he at once went on.

“Oh, you can’t have that!” she cried as with full authority--“and
you must really understand that you can’t have everything. You mustn’t
expect to ravage Dedborough.”

He had his nose meanwhile close to the picture. “I guess it’s a bogus
Cuyp--but I know Lord Theign has things. He won’t do business?”

“He’s not in the least, and can never be, in my tight place,” Lady
Sandgate replied; “but he’s as proud as he’s kind, dear man, and
as solid as he’s proud; so that if you came down under a different
impression--!” Well, she could only exhale the folly of his error with
an unction that represented, whatever he might think of it, all her
competence to answer for their host.

He scarce thought of it enough, on any side, however, to be diverted
from prior dispositions. “I came on an understanding that I should find
my friend Lord John, and that Lord Theign would, on his introduction,
kindly let me look round. But being before lunch in Bruton Street I
knocked at your door----”

“For another look,” she quickly interposed, “at my Lawrence?”

“For another look at you, Lady Sandgate--your great-grandmother wasn’t
required. Informed you were here, and struck with the coincidence of my
being myself presently due,” he went on, “I despatched you my wire, on
coming away, just to keep up your spirits.”

“You don’t keep them up, you depress them to anguish,” she almost
passionately protested, “when you don’t tell me you’ll treat!”

He paused in his preoccupation, his perambulation, conscious evidently
of no reluctance that was worth a scene with so charming and so hungry
a woman. “Well, if it’s a question of your otherwise suffering torments,
may I have another interview with the old lady?”

“Dear Mr. Bender, she’s in the flower of her youth; she only yearns for
interviews, and you may have,” Lady Sandgate earnestly declared, “as
many as you like.”

“Oh, you must be there to protect me!”

“Then as soon as I return----!”

“Well,”--it clearly cost him little to say--“I’ll come right round.”

She joyously registered the vow. “Only meanwhile then, please, never a
word!”

“Never a word, certainly. But where all this time,” Mr. Bender asked,
“is Lord John?”

Lady Sandgate, as he spoke, found her eyes meeting those of a young
woman who, presenting herself from without, stood framed in the doorway
to the terrace; a slight fair grave young woman, of middle, stature and
simply dressed, whose brow showed clear even under the heavy shade of
a large hat surmounted with big black bows and feathers. Her eyes
had vaguely questioned those of her elder, who at once replied to the
gentleman forming the subject of their inquiry: “Lady Grace must know.”
 At this the young woman came forward, and Lady Sandgate introduced the
visitor. “My dear Grace, this is Mr. Breckenridge Bender.”

The younger daughter of the house might have arrived in preoccupation,
but she had urbanity to spare. “Of whom Lord John has told me,” she
returned, “and whom I’m glad to see. Lord John,” she explained to his
waiting friend, “is detained a moment in the park, open to-day to a big
Temperance school-feast, where our party is mostly gathered; so that if
you care to go out--!” She gave him in fine his choice.

But this was clearly a thing that, in the conditions, Mr. Bender wasn’t
the man to take precipitately; though his big useful smile disguised his
prudence. “Are there any pictures in the park?”

Lady Grace’s facial response represented less humour perhaps, but more
play. “We find our park itself rather a picture.”

Mr. Bender’s own levity at any rate persisted. “With a big Temperance
school-feast?”

“Mr. Bender’s a great judge of pictures,” Lady Sandgate said as to
forestall any impression of excessive freedom.

“Will there be more tea?” he pursued, almost presuming on this.

It showed Lady Grace for comparatively candid and literal. “Oh, there’ll
be plenty of tea.”

This appeared to determine Mr. Bender. “Well, Lady Grace, I’m after
pictures, but I take them ‘neat.’ May I go right round here?”

“Perhaps, love,” Lady Sandgate at once said, “you’ll let me show him.”

“A moment, dear”--Lady Grace gently demurred. “Do go round,” she
conformably added to Mr. Bender; “take your ease and your time.
Everything’s open and visible, and, with our whole company dispersed,
you’ll have the place to yourself.”

He rose, in his genial mass, to the opportunity. “I’ll be in
clover--sure!” But present to him was the richest corner of the pasture,
which he could fluently enough name. “And I’ll find ‘The Beautiful
Duchess of Waterbridge’?”

She indicated, off to the right, where a stately perspective opened, the
quarter of the saloon to which we have seen Mr. Banks retire. “At the
very end of those rooms.”

He had wide eyes for the vista. “About thirty in a row, hey?” And he was
already off. “I’ll work right through!”




III

Left with her friend, Lady Grace had a prompt question. “Lord John
warned me he was ‘funny’--but you already know him?”

There might have been a sense of embarrassment in the way in which, as
to gain time, Lady Sandgate pointed, instead of answering, to the small
picture pronounced upon by Mr. Bender. “He thinks your little Cuyp a
fraud.”

“That one?” Lady Grace could but stare. “The wretch!” However, she made,
without alarm, no more of it; she returned to her previous question.
“You’ve met him before?”

“Just a little--in town. Being ‘after pictures’” Lady Sandgate
explained, “he has been after my great-grandmother.”

“She,” said Lady Grace with amusement, “must have found him funny! But
he can clearly take care of himself, while Kitty takes care of Lord
John, and while you, if you’ll be so good, go back to support father--in
the hour of his triumph: which he wants you so much to witness that
he complains of your desertion and goes so far as to speak of you as
sneaking away.”

Lady Sandgate, with a slight flush, turned it over. “I delight in
his triumph, and whatever I do is at least above board; but if it’s a
question of support, aren’t you yourself failing him quite as much?”

This had, however, no effect on the girl’s confidence. “Ah, my dear, I’m
not at all the same thing, and as I’m the person in the world he least
misses--” Well, such a fact spoke for itself.

“You’ve been free to return and wait for Lord John?”--that was the
sense in which the elder woman appeared to prefer to understand it as
speaking.

The tone of it, none the less, led her companion immediately, though
very quietly, to correct her. “I’ve not come back to wait for Lord
John.”

“Then he hasn’t told you--if you’ve talked--with what idea he has come?”

Lady Grace had for a further correction the same shade of detachment.
“Kitty has told me--what it suits her to pretend to suppose.”

“And Kitty’s pretensions and suppositions always go with what
happens--at the moment, among all her wonderful happenings--to suit
her?”

Lady Grace let that question answer itself--she took the case up further
on. “What I can’t make out is why this should so suit her!”

“And what I can’t!” said Lady Sandgate without gross honesty and
turning away after having watched the girl a moment. She nevertheless
presently faced her again to follow this speculation up. “Do you like
him enough to risk the chance of Kitty’s being for once right?”

Lady Grace gave it a thought--with which she moved away. “I don’t know
how much I like him!”

“Nor how little!” cried her friend, who evidently found amusement in the
tone of it. “And you’re not disposed to take the time to find out? He’s
at least better than the others.”

“The ‘others’?”--Lady Grace was blank for them.

“The others of his set.”

“Oh, his set! That wouldn’t be difficult--by what I imagine of some of
them. But he means well enough,” the girl added; “he’s very charming and
does me great honour.”

It determined in her companion, about to leave her, another brief
arrest. “Then may I tell your father?”

This in turn brought about in Lady Grace an immediate drop of the
subject. “Tell my father, please, that I’m expecting Mr. Crimble; of
whom I’ve spoken to him even if he doesn’t remember, and who bicycles
this afternoon ten miles over from where he’s staying--with some people
we don’t know--to look at the pictures, about which he’s awfully keen.”

Lady Sandgate took it in. “Ah, like Mr. Bender?”

“No, not at all, I think, like Mr. Bender.”

This appeared to move in the elder woman some deeper thought “May I ask
then--if one’s to meet him--who he is?”

“Oh, father knows--or ought to--that I sat next him, in London, a month
ago, at dinner, and that he then told me he was working, tooth and
nail, at what he called the wonderful modern science of
Connoisseurship--which is upsetting, as perhaps you’re not aware, all
the old-fashioned canons of art-criticism, everything we’ve stupidly
thought right and held dear; that he was to spend Easter in these parts,
and that he should like greatly to be allowed some day to come over and
make acquaintance with our things. I told him,” Lady Grace wound
up, “that nothing would be easier; a note from him arrived before
dinner----”

Lady Sandgate jumped the rest “And it’s for him you’ve come in.”

“It’s for him I’ve come in,” the girl assented with serenity.

“Very good--though he sounds most detrimental! But will you first just
tell me this--whether when you sent in ten minutes ago for Lord John
to come out to you it was wholly of your own movement?” And she followed
it up as her young friend appeared to hesitate. “Was it because you knew
why he had arrived?”

The young friend hesitated still. “‘Why ‘?”

“So particularly to speak to you.”

“Since he was expected and mightn’t know where I was,” Lady Grace said
after an instant, “I wanted naturally to be civil to him.”

“And had he time there to tell you,” Lady Sand-gate asked, “how very
civil he wants to be to you?”

“No, only to tell me that his friend--who’s off there--was coming; for
Kitty at once appropriated him and was still in possession when I came
away.” Then, as deciding at last on perfect frankness, Lady Grace went
on: “If you want to know, I sent for news of him because Kitty insisted
on my doing so; saying, so very oddly and quite in her own way, that she
herself didn’t wish to ‘appear in it.’ She had done nothing but say to
me for an hour, rather worryingly, what you’ve just said--that it’s
me he’s what, like Mr. Bender, she calls ‘after’; but as soon as
he appeared she pounced on him, and I left him--I assure you quite
resignedly--in her hands.”

“She wants”--it was easy for Lady Sandgate to remark--“to talk of you to
him.”

“I don’t know what she wants,” the girl replied as with rather a tired
patience; “Kitty wants so many things at once. She always wants money,
in quantities, to begin with--and all to throw so horribly away; so that
whenever I see her ‘in’ so very deep with any one I always imagine her
appealing for some new tip as to how it’s to be come by.”

“Kitty’s an abyss, I grant you, and with my disinterested devotion to
your father--in requital of all his kindness to me since Lord Sandgate’s
death and since your mother’s--I can never be too grateful to you, my
dear, for your being so different a creature. But what is she going to
gain financially,” Lady Sand-gate pursued with a strong emphasis on
her adverb, “by working up our friend’s confidence in your listening to
him--if you are to listen?”

“I haven’t in the least engaged to listen,” said Lady Grace--“it will
depend on the music he makes!” But she added with light cynicism:
“Perhaps she’s to gain a commission!”

“On his fairly getting you?” And then as the girl assented by silence:
“Is he in a position to pay her one?” Lady Sandgate asked.

“I dare say the Duchess is!”

“But do you see the Duchess producing money--with all that Kitty, as
we’re not ignorant, owes her? Hundreds and hundreds and hundreds!”--Lady
Sandgate piled them up.

Her young friend’s gesture checked it. “Ah, don’t tell me how many--it’s
too sad and too ugly and too wrong!” To which, however, Lady Grace
added: “But perhaps that will be just her way!” And then as her
companion seemed for the moment not quite to follow: “By letting Kitty
off her debt.”

“You mean that Kitty goes free if Lord John wins your promise?”

“Kitty goes free.”

“She has her creditor’s release?”

“For every shilling.”

“And if he only fails?”

“Why then of course,” said now quite lucid Lady Grace, “she throws
herself more than ever on poor father.”

“Poor father indeed!”--Lady Sandgate richly sighed it

It appeared even to create in the younger woman a sense of excess.
“Yes--but he after all and in spite of everything adores her.”

“To the point, you mean”--for Lady Sandgate could clearly but
wonder--“of really sacrificing you?”

The weight of Lady Grace’s charming deep eyes on her face made her
pause while, at some length, she gave back this look and the interchange
determined in the girl a grave appeal. “You think I should be
sacrificed if I married him?”

Lady Sandgate replied, though with an equal emphasis, indirectly.
“Could you marry him?”

Lady Grace waited a moment “Do you mean for Kitty?”

“For himself even--if they should convince you, among them, that he
cares for you.”

Lady Grace had another delay. “Well, he’s his awful mother’s son.”

“Yes--but you wouldn’t marry his mother.”

“No--but I should only be the more uncomfortably and intimately
conscious of her.”

“Even when,” Lady Sandgate optimistically put it, “she so markedly likes
you?”

This determined in the girl a fine impatience. “She doesn’t ‘like’ me,
she only wants me--which is a very different thing; wants me for
my father’s so particularly beautiful position, and my mother’s so
supremely great people, and for everything we have been and have done,
and still are and still have: except of course poor not-at-all-model
