
"Yes.... Do you feel restless? Do you want to lift your head?"

She moved a little but made no reply. He could see only the full, smooth
curve of her cheek against his shoulder. It was rather colourless.

"I believe you are worn out," he said.

"I have not rested for weeks."

"On account of that Trust business?"

"Yes.... But I was tired before that--I had done too much--lived too
much--and I've felt as though I were being hunted for so long.... And
then--I was unhappy about you."

"Because I had joined in the hunt," he said.

"You were different, but--you made me feel that way, too--a little----"

"I understand now."

"Do you really?"

"Yes. It's been a case of men following, crowding after you, urging,
importuning you to consider their desires--to care for them in their
own way--all sorts I suppose, sad and sentimental, eager and exacting,
head-long and boisterous--all at you constantly to give them what is
not in you to give--what has never been awakened--what lies stunned,
crippled, perhaps mangled in its sleep----"

"Killed," she whispered.

"Perhaps." He raised his eyes and looked absently out across the
sparkling water. Sunlight slanted on his shoulder and her hair, gilding
the nape of her white neck where the hair grew blond and fine as a
child's. And like a child, still confused by memories of past terror,
partly quieted yet still sensitive to every sound or movement, Strelsa
lay close to the arm that sheltered her, thinking, wondering that she
could endure it, and all the while conscious that the old fear of him
was no longer there.

"Do you--know about me?" she asked in a still, low voice.

"About the past?"

"About my marriage."

"Yes."

"Everything?"

"Some things."

"You know what the papers said?"

"Yes.... Don't speak of it--unless you care to, Strelsa."

"I want to.... Do you know this is the first time?"

"Is it?"

"The first time I have ever spoken of it to anybody.... As long as my
mother lived I did not once speak of it to her."

She rested in silence for a while, then:

"Could I tell you?"

"My dear, my dear!--of course you can."

"I--it's been unsaid so long--there was nobody to tell it to. I've done
my best to forget it--and for days I seem to forget it. But sometimes
when I wake at night it is there--the horror of it--the terror sinking
deeper into my breast.... I was very young. You knew that?"

"Yes."

"You knew my mother had very slender means?"

"Yes."

"I wouldn't have cared; I was an imaginative child--and could have lived
quite happy with my fancies on very, very little.... I was a sensitive
and affectionate child--inclined to be demonstrative. You wouldn't
believe it, would you?"

"I can understand it."

"Can you? It's odd because I have changed so.... I was quite romantic
about my mother--madly in love with her.... There is nothing more to
say.... In boarding-school I was perfectly aware that I was being given
the best grooming that we could afford. Even then romance persisted. I
had the ideas of a coloured picture-book concerning men and love and
marriage. I remember, as a very little child, that I had a picture-book
showing Cinderella's wedding. It was a very golden sort of picture. It
coloured my ideas long after I was grown up."

She moved her head a little, looked up for an instant and smiled; but at
his answering smile she turned her cheek to his shoulder, hastily, and
lay silent for a while. Presently she continued in a low voice:

"It was when we were returning for the April vacation--and the platform
was crowded and some of the girls' brothers were there. There were two
trains in--and much confusion--I don't know how I became separated from
Miss Buckley and my schoolmates--I don't know to this day how I found
myself on the Baltimore train, and Gladys Leeds's brother laughing and
talking and the train moving faster and faster.... There is no use
saying any more. I was as ignorant as I was innocent--a perfect little
fool, frightened, excited, even amused by turns.... He had been
attentive to me. We both were fools. Only finally I became badly scared
and he talked such nonsense--and I managed to slip away from him and
board the train at Baltimore as soon as we arrived there.... If he
hadn't found me and returned to New York with me, it might not have been
known. But we were recognised on the train and--it was a dreadful thing
for me when I arrived home after midnight...."

She fell silent; once or twice he looked down at her and saw that her
eyes were closed. Then, with a quick, uneven breath:

"I think you know the rest, don't you?"

"I think so."

But she went on in a low, emotionless voice: "I was treated like a
damaged gown--for which depreciation in value somebody was to be made
responsible. I suffered; days and nights seemed unreal. There were
lawyers; did you know it?"

"No."

"Yes," she said wearily, "it was a bad dream--my mother, others--his
family--many people strange and familiar passed through it. Then we
travelled; I saw nothing, feeling half dead.... We were married in the
Hawaiian Islands."

"I know."

"Then--the two years began."

After a long while she said again: "That was the real nightmare. I
passed through the depths as in a trance. There was nothing lower, not
even hell.... We travelled in Europe, Africa, and India for two
years.... I scarcely remember a soul I saw or one single object. And
then--that happened."

"I know, dear."

A slight shudder passed over her:

"I've told you," she whispered--"I've told you at last. Shall I tell you
more?"

"Not unless----"

"I don't know whether I want to--about the gendarmes--and that terrible
woman who screamed when they touched her with the handcuffs--and how ill
I was----"

She had begun to tremble so perceptibly that Quarren's arm tightened
around her; and presently she became limp and motionless.

"This--what I have told you--is a very close bond between us, isn't it?"
she said.

"Very close, Strelsa."

"Was I much to blame?"

"No."

"How much?"

"You should have left him long before."

"Why, he was my husband! I had made a contract; I had to keep it and
make the best of it."

"Is that your idea?"

"That was all I could see to do about it."

"Don't you believe in divorce?"

"Yes; but I thought he'd be killed; I thought he was a little insane. If
he'd been well mentally and merely cruel and brutal I would have left
him. But one can't abandon a helpless person."

"Every word you utter," he said, "forges a new link in my love for you."

"You don't mean--love?"

"We mean the same I think--differing only in degree."

"Thank you. That is nice of you."

He nodded, smiling to himself; then, graver:

"Is your little fortune quite gone, Strelsa?"

"All gone--all of it."

"I see.... And something has got to be done."

"You know it has.... And I'm old before my time--tired, worn out. I
can't work--I have no heart, no courage. My heart and strength were
burnt out; I haven't the will to struggle; I have no capacity to endure.
What am I to do?"

"Not what you plan to do."

"Why not? As long as I need help--and the best is offered----"

"Wouldn't you take less--and me?"

"Oh, Rix! I couldn't use you!"

She turned and looked up at him, blushed, and dis-engaged herself from
his arm.

"I--I--you are my friend. I couldn't do that. I have nothing to give
anybody--not even you." She smiled, tremulously--"And I suspect that as
far as your fortune is concerned, you can offer me little more.... But
it's sweet of you. You are generous, having so little and wishing to
share it with me----"

"Could you wait for me, Strelsa?"

"Wait? You mean until you become wealthy? Why, you dear boy, how can
I?--even if it were a certainty."

"Can't you hold on for a couple of years?"

"Please tell me how? Why, I can't even pay my attorneys until I sell my
house."

He bit his lip and frowned at the sunlit water.

"Besides," she said, "I haven't anything to offer you that I haven't
already given you----"

"I ask no more."

"Oh, but you do!"

"No, I want only what you want, Strelsa--only what you have to offer of
your own accord."

They fell silent, leaning forward on their knees, eyes absent, remote.

"I don't see how it can be done; do you?" she said.

"If you could wait----"

"But Rix; I've told him that I would marry him."

"Does that count?"

"Yes--I don't know. I don't know how dishonest I might be.... I don't
know what is going to happen. I'm so poor, Rix--you don't realise--and
I'm tired and sad--old before my time--perplexed, burnt out----"

She rested her head on one slender curved hand and closed her eyes.
After a while she opened them with a weary smile.

"I'll try to think--after you are gone.... What time does your train
leave?"

He glanced at his watch and rose; and she sprang up, too:

"Have I kept you too long?"

"No; I can make it. We'll have to walk rather fast----"

"I'd rather you left me here."

"Would you? Then--good-bye----"

"Good-bye.... Will you come up again?"

"I'll try."

"Shall we write?"

"Will you?"

"Yes. I have so much to say, now that you are going. I am glad you came.
I am glad I told you everything. Please believe that my heart is
enlisted in your new enterprise; that I pray for your success and
welfare and happiness. Will you always remember that?"

"Yes, dear."

"Then--I mustn't keep you a moment longer. Good-bye."

"Good-bye."

They stood a moment, neither stirring; then he put his arms around her;
she touched his shoulder once more, lightly with her cheek--a second's
contact; then he kissed her clasped hands and was gone.




CHAPTER XI


Quarren arrived in town about twilight. Taxis were no longer for him nor
he for them. Suit-case and walking-stick in hand, he started up
Lexington Avenue still excited and exhilarated from his leave-taking
with Strelsa. An almost imperceptible fragrance seemed to accompany him,
freshening the air around him in the shabby streets of Ascalon; the
heat-cursed city grew cooler, sweeter for her memory. Through the
avenue's lamp-lit dusk passed the pale ghosts of Gath and the phantoms
of the Philistines, and he thought their shadowy forms moved less
wearily; and that strange faces looked less wanly at him as they grew
out of the night--"clothed in scarlet and ornaments of gold"--and
dissolved again into darkness.

Still thrilled, almost buoyant, he walked on, passing the high-piled
masonry of the branch Post-Office and the Central Palace on his left.
Against high stars the twin Power-House chimneys stood outlined in
steel; on the right endless blocks of brown-stone dwellings stretched
northward, some already converted into shops where print-sellers,
dealers in old books, and here and there antiquaries, had constructed
show-windows.

Firemen lounged outside the Eighth Battalion quarters; here and there a
grocer's or wine-seller's windows remained illuminated where those who
were neither well-to-do nor very poor passed to and fro with little
packages which seemed a burden under the sultry skies.

At last, ahead, the pseudo-oriental towers of a synagogue varied the
flat skyline, and a moment later he could see the New Thought Laundry,
the Tonsorial Drawing Rooms, the Undertaker's discreetly illuminated
windows, and finally the bay-window of his own recent Real-Estate
office, now transmogrified into the Dankmere Galleries of Old Masters,
Fayre and Quarren, proprietors.

The window appeared to be brilliantly illuminated behind the drawn
curtains; and Quarren, surprised and vexed, concluded that the little
Englishman was again entertaining. So it perplexed and astonished him to
find the Earl sitting on the front steps, his straw hat on the back of
his head, smoking. At the same moment from within the house a confused
and indescribable murmur was wafted to his ears as though many people
were applauding.

"What on earth is going on inside?" he asked, bewildered.

"You told me over the telephone that Karl Westguard might have the
gallery for this evening," said the Englishman calmly. "So I let him
have it."

"What did he want of it? Who has he got in there?"--demanded Quarren as
another ripple of applause sounded from within.

Dankmere thought a moment: "I really don't know the audience,
Quarren--they're not a very fragrant lot."

"What audience? Who are they?"

"You Americans would call them a 'tough-looking bunch--except
Westguard and Bleecker De Groot and Mrs. Caldera----"

[Illustration: "A high and soulful tenor was singing 'Perfumes of
Araby.'"]

"Cyrille Caldera and De Groot! What's that silly old Dandy doing down
here?"

"Diffusing sweetness and light among the unwashed; telling them that
there are no such things as classes, that wealth is no barrier to
brotherhood, that the heart of Fifth Avenue beats as warmly and
guilelessly as the heart of Essex Street, and that its wealth-burdened
inhabitants have long desired to fraternise with the benchers in
Paradise Park."

"Who put Westguard up to this?" asked Quarren, aghast.

"De Groot. Karl is writing a levelling novel calculated to annihilate
caste. The Undertaker next door furnished the camp-chairs; the corner
grocer the collation; Westguard, Mrs. Caldera, and Bleecker De Groot the
mind-food. Go in and look 'em over."

The front door was standing partly open; the notes of a piano floated
through; a high and soulful tenor voice was singing "Perfumes of Araby,"
but Quarren did not notice any as he stepped inside.

Not daring to leave his suit-case in the hallway he kept on along the
passage to the extension where the folding doors were locked. Here he
deposited his luggage, locked the door, then walked back to the front
parlour and, unobserved, slipped in, seating himself among the battered
derelicts of the rear row.

A thin, hirsute young man had just finished scattering the perfumes of
Araby; other perfumes nearly finished Quarren; but he held his ground
and gazed grimly at an improvised platform where sat in a half-circle
and in full evening dress, Karl Westguard, Cyrille Caldera and Bleecker
De Groot. Also there was a table supporting a Calla lily.

Westguard was saying very earnestly: "The world calls me a novelist. I
am not! Thank Heaven, I aspire to something loftier. I am not a mere
scribbler of fiction; I am a man with a message--a plain, simple,
earnest, warm-hearted humanitarian who has been roused to righteous
indignation by the terrible contrast in this miserable city between
wealth and poverty----"

"That's right," interrupted a hoarse voice; "it's all a con game, an'
the perlice is into it, too!"

"T'hell wit te bulls! Croak 'em!" observed another gentleman thickly.

Westguard, slightly discountenanced by the significant cheers which
greeted this sentiment, introduced Bleecker De Groot; and the rotund old
Beau came jauntily forward, holding out both immaculate hands with an
artlessly comprehensive gesture calculated to make the entire East Side
feel that it was reposing upon his beautifully laundered bosom.

"Ah, my friends!" cried De Groot, "if you could only realise how great
is the love for humanity within my breast!--If you could only know of
the hours and days and even weeks that I have devoted to solving the
problems of the poor!

"And I have solved them--every one. And this is the
answer!"--grasping dauntlessly at a dirty hand and shaking it--"this!"
seizing another--"and this, and this! And now I ask you, what is this
mute answer which I have given you?"

"De merry mitt," said a voice, promptly. Mr. De Groot smiled with
sweetness and indulgence.

"I apprehend your quaint and trenchant vernacular," he said. "It is
the 'merry mitt'--the 'glad glove,' the 'happy hand'! Fifth Avenue
clasps palms with Doyers Street----"

"Ding!" said a weary voice, "yer in wrong, boss. It's nix f'r the Tongs
wit us gents. We transfer to Avenue A."

Mr. De Groot merely smiled indulgently. "The rich," he said, "are not
really happy." His plump, highly coloured features altered; presently a
priceless tear glimmered in his monocle eye; and he brushed it away with
a kind of noble pity for his own weakness.

"Dear, dear friends," he said tremulously, "believe me--oh, believe me
that the rich are not happy! Only the perspiring labourer knows what is
true contentment. The question of poverty is a great social question.
With me it is a religion. Oh, I could go on forever on this subject,
dear friends, and talk on and on and on----"

Emotion again checked him--or perhaps he had lost the thread of his
discourse--or possibly he had attained its limit--but he filled it out
by coming down from the platform and shaking hands so vigorously that
the gardenia in his lapel presently fell out.

Cyrille Caldera rose, fresh and dainty and smiling, and discoursed
single-tax and duplex tenements, getting the two subjects mixed but not
minding that. Also she pointed at the Calla lily and explained that the
lily was the emblem of purity. Which may have had something to do with
something or other.

Then Westguard arose once more and told them all about the higher type
of novel he was writing for humanity's sake, and became so interested
and absorbed in his own business that the impatient shuffling of shabby
feet on the floor alone interrupted him.

"Has anybody," inquired De Groot, sweetly, "any vital question to
ask--any burning inquiry of deeper, loftier import, which has perhaps
long remained unanswered in his heart?"

A gentleman known usually as "Mike the Mink" arose and indicated with
derisive thumb a picture among the Dankmere collection, optimistically
attributed to Correggio:

"Is that Salome, mister?" he inquired with a leer.

De Groot looked at the canvas, slightly startled.

"No, my dear friend; that is a picture painted hundreds of years ago by
a great Italian master. It is called 'Danaë.' Jupiter, you know, came to
her in a shower of gold----"

"They all have to come across with it," remarked the Mink.

Somebody observed that if the police caught the dago who painted it
they'd pinch him.

To make a diversion, and with her own fair hands, Cyrille Caldera
summoned the derelicts to sandwiches and ginger-ale; and De Groot,
dashing more unmanly moisture from his monocle, went about resolutely
shaking hands, while Westguard and the hirsute young man sang "Comrades"
with much feeling.

Quarren, still unrecognised, edged his way out and rejoined Dankmere on
the front stoop. Neither made any comment on the proceedings.

Later the derelicts, moodily replete, shuffled forth into the night,
herded lovingly by De Groot, still shaking hands.

From the corner of the street opposite, Quarren and Dankmere observed
their departure, and, later, they beheld De Groot and Mrs. Caldera slip
around the block and discreetly disappear into a 1912 touring-car with
silver mountings and two men in livery on the box.

Westguard, truer to his principles, took a tram and Quarren and the Earl
returned to their gallery with mixed emotions, and opened every window
top and bottom.

"It's all right in its way, I suppose," said Quarren. "Probably De Groot
means well, but there's no conversation possible between a man who has
just dined rather heavily, and a man who has no chance of dining at
all."

"Like preaching Christ to the poor from a Fifth Avenue pulpit," said
Dankmere, vaguely.

"How do you mean?"

"A church on a side street would seem to serve the purpose. And the poor
need the difference."

"I don't know about those matters."

"No; I don't either. It's easy, cheap, and popular to knock the
clergy.... Still, somehow or other, I can't seem to forget that the
disciples were poor--and it bothers me a lot, Quarren."

Quarren said: "Haven't you and I enough to worry us concerning our own
morals?"

Dankmere, who had been closing up and piling together the Undertaker's
camp-chairs, looked around at the younger man.

"What did you say?" he asked.

"I said that probably you and I would find no time left to criticise
either De Groot or the clergy, if we used our leisure in
self-examination."

His lordship went on piling up chairs. When he finished he started
wandering around, hands in his pockets. Then he turned out all the
electric lamps, drew the bay-window curtains wide so that the silvery
radiance from the arc-light opposite made the darkness dimly lustrous.

A little breeze stirred the hair on Quarren's forehead; Dankmere dropped
into the depths of an armchair near him. For a while they sat together
in darkness and silence, then the Englishman said abruptly:

"You've been very kind to me."

Quarren glanced up surprised.

"Why not?"

"Because nobody else has any decent words to say to me or of me."

Quarren, amused, said: "How do you know that I have, Dankmere?"

"A man knows some things. For example, most people take me for an
ass--they don't tell me so but I know it. And if they don't take me for
an ass they assume that I'm something worse--because I have a title of
sorts, no money, an inclination for the stage and the people who make a
living out of it."

"Also," Quarren reminded him, "you are looking for a wealthy wife."

"God bless my soul! Am I the only chap in America who happens to be
doing that?"

"No; but you're doing it conspicuously."

"You mean I'm honest about it?"

Quarren laughed: "Anyway perhaps that's one reason why I like you. At
first I also thought it was merely stupidity."

Dankmere crossed his short legs and lighted his pipe:

"The majority of your better people have managed not to know me. I've
met a lot of men of sorts, but they draw the line across their home
thresholds--most of them. Is it the taint of vaudeville that their wives
sniff at, or my rather celebrated indigence?"

"Both, Dankmere--and then some."

"Oh, I see. Many thanks for telling me. I take it you mean that it was
my first wife they shy at."

Quarren remained silent.

"She was a bar-maid," remarked the Earl. "We were quite happy--until she
died."

Quarren made a slight motion of comprehension.

"Of course my marrying her damned us both," observed the Earl.

"Of course."

"Quite so. People would have stood for anything else.... But she
wouldn't--you may think it odd.... And I was in love--so there you are."

For a while they smoked in the semi-darkness without exchanging further
speech; and finally Dankmere knocked out his pipe, pocketed it, and put
on his hat.

"You know," he said, "I'm not really an ass. My tastes and my caste
don't happen to coincide--that's all, Quarren."

They walked together to the front stoop.

"When do we open shop?" asked the Earl, briskly.

"As soon as I get the reports from our experts."

"Won't business be dead all summer?"

"We may do some business with agents and dealers."

"I see. You and I are to alternate as salesmen?"

"For a while. When things start I want to rent the basement and open a
department for repairing, relining and cleaning; and I'd like to be
able to do some of the work myself."

"You?"

"Surely. It interests me immensely."

"You're welcome I'm sure," said Dankmere drily. "But who's to keep the
books and attend to correspondence?"

"We'll get somebody. A young woman, who says she is well recommended,
advertised in Thursday's papers, and I wrote her from Witch-Hollow to
come around Sunday morning."

"That's to-morrow."

Quarren nodded.

So Dankmere trotted jauntily away into the night, and Quarren locked the
gallery and went to bed, certain that he was destined to dream of
Strelsa. But the sleek, narrow head and slightly protruding eyes of
Langly Sprowl was the only vision that peered cautiously at him through
his sleep.

The heated silence of a Sunday morning in June awoke him from a somewhat
restless night. Bathed and shaved, he crept forth limply to breakfast at
the Founders' Club where he still retained a membership. There was not a
soul there excepting himself and the servants--scarcely a person on the
avenues and cross-streets which he traversed going and coming, only one
or two old men selling Sunday papers at street-stands, an old hag
gleaning in the gutters, and the sparrows.

Clothing was a burden. He had some pongee garments which he put on,
installed himself in the gallery with a Sunday paper, an iced lime
julep, and a cigarette, and awaited the event of the young lady who
had advertised that she knew all about book-keeping, stenography,
and typewriting, and could prove it.

[Illustration: "She came about noon--a pale young girl, very slim in her
limp black gown."]

She came about noon--a pale young girl, very slim in her limp black
gown, and, at Quarren's invitation, seated herself at the newly
purchased desk of the firm.

Here, at his request she took a page or two of dictation from him and
typed it rapidly and accurately.

She had her own system of book-keeping which she explained to the young
man who seemed to think it satisfactory. Then he asked her what salary
she expected, and she told him, timidly.

"All right," he said with a smile, "if it suits you it certainly suits
me. Will you begin to-morrow?"

"Whenever you wish, Mr. Quarren."

"Well, there won't be very much to do for a while," he said laughingly,
"except to sit at that desk and look ornamental."

She flushed, then smiled and thanked him for giving her the position,
adding with another blush that she would do her best.

"Your best," he said amiably, "will probably be exactly what we
require.... Did you bring any letters?"

She hesitated: "One," she said gravely. She searched in her reticule,
found it, and handed it to Quarren who read it in silence, then returned
it to her.

"You were stenographer in Mr. Sprowl's private office?"

"Yes."

"This letter isn't signed by Mr. Sprowl."

"No, by Mr. Kyte, his private secretary."

"It seems you were there only six months."

"Six months."

"And before that where were you?"

"At home."

"Oh; Mr. Sprowl was your first employer!"

"Yes."

"Why did you leave?"

The girl hesitated so long that he thought she had not understood, and
was about to repeat the question when something in her pallor and in her
uplifted eyes checked him.

"I don't know why I was sent away," she said in a colourless voice.

He thought for a while, then, carelessly: "I take it that there was
nothing irregular in your conduct?"

"No."

"You'd tell me if there was, wouldn't you?"

She lifted her dark eyes to his. "Yes," she said.

How much of an expert he was at judging faces he did not know, but he
was perfectly satisfied with himself when she took her leave.

And when Dankmere came in after luncheon he said:

"I've engaged a book-keeper. Her name is Jessie Vining. She's evidently
unhappy, poor, underfed, and the prettiest thing you ever saw out of a
business college. So, being unhappy, poor, underfed and pretty, I take
it that she's all to the good."

"It's a generous world of men," said Dankmere--"so I guess she is
good."

"I'm sure of it. She was Sprowl's private stenographer--and he sent her
away.... There are three reasons why he might have dismissed her. I've
taken my choice of them."

"Did he give her a letter?"

"No."

"Oh. Then I've taken my choice, too."

"Kyte ventured to give her a letter," said Quarren. "I've heard that
Kyte could be decent sometimes."

"I see."

Nothing further was said about the new book-keeper. His lordship went
into the back parlour and played the piano until satiated; then mixed
himself a lime julep.

That afternoon they went over the reports of the experts very carefully.
From these reports and his own conclusions Quarren drafted a catalogue
while Dankmere went about sticking adhesive labels on the frames, all
numbered. And, as he trotted blithely about his work, he talked to
himself and to the pictures:

"Here's number nine for you, old lady! If I'd had a face like that I'd
have killed the artist who transferred it to canvas!... Number sixteen
for you there in your armour! Somebody in Springfield will buy you for
an ancestor and that's what will happen to you.... And you, too, in a
bag-wig!--you'll be some rich Yankee's ancestor before you know it!
That's the way you'll end, my smirking friend.... Hello! Tiens! In
Gottes namen--whom have we here? Why, it's Venus!... And hot weather is
no excuse for going about that way!... Listen to this, Quarren, for an
impromptu patter-song--

    "'Venus, dear, you ought to know
      What the proper caper is--
    Even Eve, who wasn't slow,
      Robbed the neighbours' graperies!
    Even Mænads on the go,
    Fat Bacchantes in a row--
    Even ladies in a show
      Wear some threads of naperies!
    Through the heavens planet-strewn
      Where a shred of vapour is
    Quickly clothes herself the Moon!
    Get you to a modiste soon
      Where the tissue-paper is,
    Cut in fashions fit for June--
      Wear 'em, dear, for draperies----'"

"Good heavens!" protested Quarren--"how long can you run on like
that?"

"Years and years, my dear fellow. It's in me--born in me! Can you beat
it? Though I appear to be a peer appearance is a liar; cast for a part
apart from caste, departing I climb higher toward the boards to bore the
hordes and lord it, sock and buskin dispensing sweetness, art, and light
as per our old friend Ruskin----"

"Dankmere!"

"Heaven-born?"

"Stop!"

"I remain put.... What number do I stick on this gentleman with streaky
features?"

"Eighteen. That's a Franz Hals."

"Really?"

"Yes; the records are all here, and the experts agree."

His lordship got down nimbly from the step-ladder and came over to the
desk:

"Young sir," he said, "how much is that picture worth?"

"All we can get for it. It's not a very good example."

"Are you going to tell people that?"

"If they ask me," said Quarren, smiling.

"What price are you going to put on it?"

"Ten thousand."

"And do you think any art-smitten ass will pay that sum for a thing like
that?"

"I think so. If it were only a decent example I'd ask ten times
that--and probably get it in the end."

Dankmere inspected the picture more respectfully for a few moments, then
pasted a label on an exquisite head by Greuze.

"She's a peach," he said. "What price is going to waft her from my
roof-tree?"

"The experts say it's not a Greuze but a contemporary copy. And there's
no pedigree, either."

"Oh," said the Earl blankly, "is that your opinion, too?"

"I haven't any yet. But there's no such picture by Greuze extant."

"You don't think it a copy?"

"I'm inclined not to. Under that thick blackish-yellow varnish I believe
I'll find the pearl and rose texture of old Greuze himself. In the
meantime it's not for sale."

"I see. And this battle-scene?"

"Wouverman's--ruined by restoring. It's not worth much."

"And this Virgin?"

"Pure as the Virgin Herself--not a mark--flawless. It's by 'The Master
of the Death of Mary.' Isn't it a beauty? Do you notice St. John holding
the three cherries and the Christ-child caressing the goldfinch? Did you
ever see such colour?"

"It's--er--pretty," said his lordship.

And so during the entire afternoon they compiled the price-list and
catalogue, marking copies for what they were, noting such pictures as
had been ruined by restoring or repainted so completely as to almost
obliterate the last original brush stroke. Also Quarren reserved for his
own investigations such canvases as he doubted or of which he had
hopes--a number that under their crocked, battered, darkened or
discoloured surfaces hinted of by-gone glories that might still be
living and only imprisoned beneath the thick opacity of dust, soot,
varnish, and the repainting of many years ago.

And that night he went to bed happier than he had ever been in all his
life--unless his moments with Strelsa Leeds might be termed happy ones.

       *       *       *       *       *

Monday morning brought, among other things, a cloudless sun, and little
Miss Vining quite as spotless and radiant; and within ten minutes the
click of the typewriter made the silent picture-plastered rooms almost
gay.

In shirtwaist and cuffs she took her place behind the desk with a sort
of silent decision which seemed at once to invest her with suzerainty
over all that corner of the room; and Dankmere coming in a little later,
whistling merrily and twirling his walking-stick, sheered off
instinctively on his breezy progress through the rooms, skirting Jessie
Vining's domain as though her private ensign flew above it and
earthworks, cannon and trespass notices flanked her corner on every
side.

In the back parlour he said to Quarren: "So that is the girl?"

