
On the morrow he left for New York. Before going he sent a cablegram to
the address which the paper had supplied:

    Am just apprised of the studied insult of your engagement to
    some foreign cad. Leaving for Paris at once.

As he signed it, deeply, beneath the breath, he swore. “That will show
her,” he added.

It so happened that it showed her nothing. Leilah was not then in the
rue François Premier, but in the rue de la Pompe, where the message
followed, but only to be received by Barouffski, who read it with a
curious smile.

Already he hated Verplank, who had not yet acquired a hatred for him.
But though that hatred had not been acquired, it developed tumultuously
when, on arriving in New York, he learned that not merely the report of
the engagement was true, but that the engagement had since resulted in
a marriage, which itself had been preceded by a Nevada divorce.

In comparison to all that had occurred, the divorce seemed at the time
almost negligible. It was the crowning infamy of this marriage which,
in renewing the primitive passions, aroused in Verplank a determination
not merely to seek and overwhelm the woman, but to seek and destroy the
man. The marriage, he decided could be but the result of an anterior
affair, there was no other explanation of it. The idea that had come to
him at Coronado, the possibility that she might have left him because
informed of some affair of his own and which since then he had examined
again and again, fell utterly away. It was not because of errors of his
that she had gone, but for turpitudes of her own. Then to his anger at
her was added a hatred of Barouffski, whom he had never seen, and who,
without having seen Verplank, hated him also, hated him retrospectively
and prospectively, hated him because clearly Leilah had been his
and--where women are concerned, all things being possible--might be
again.

But though Barouffski hated Verplank actively, he hated him vaguely,
as one must when one hates the unknown. It was the cablegram which, in
supplying the personal element, made the hate concrete.

“Foreign cad, eh?” he repeated, with a curious smile. “Eh bien, nous
verrons, we shall see.”

Presently the opportunity occurred. For it was in these circumstances,
a fortnight after the receipt of the cablegram, that, directed by the
young Baronne de Fresnoy, he turned and saw Verplank entering the room
where he stood.




IV


With the unerring instinct of the man of the world, Verplank, on
entering the crowded salon, divined immediately, among all the women
present, the hostess whom he had never seen.

As he bent over her hand, the duchess, who had not an idea how he came
there, said in her fluted voice:

“This is really so nice of you. I did not know you were in Paris.”

“Nor did I--until this moment,” answered Verplank, looking as he spoke
into the eyes of his hostess who, after the one imperceptible glance
with which the mondaine judges and classifies, was wondering in what
manner, this man, with his virile face and impeccable presence, had
forced Leilah Barouffska to leave him.

“But,” he added, “Monsieur de Joyeuse whom I saw this afternoon told
me that you would be at home, and assured me that I might venture to
present my homages.”

The duchess displayed her tireless smile. “I am only sorry not to have
had them sooner.” She paused. Between her smile, the edges of her
teeth showed, false but beautiful. “There is Lady Silverstairs trying
to get you to look at her, and very well worth looking at she is.”

Camille de Joyeuse turned for a moment to the reticent young prince who
in his diffident way still lingered at her side.

Beyond, at the farther end of the room, notes rippled. Standing near
a grand piano, the Roumanian with the flowing hair was preluding a
fantasy of his own.

In the hush that succeeded, Verplank moved to where Violet sat.

Smilingly, without speaking, she gave him her hand and indicated a seat
beside her. Then, raising a fan, she whispered:

“Demon! What have you done? Where do you spring from? How long have you
been in Paris?”

Verplank, seating himself, answered:

“I got here this morning. Why am I a demon?”

From behind the fan, Violet asked:

“What did you do to Leilah? Why did she leave you?”

Verplank folded his gloved hands. “That is what I am here to find out.”

“Do you mean to tell me that you don’t know!”

“I have not an idea--unless it was because of this Count Thingumagig.”

Violet Silverstairs furled her fan, looked at him, looked away, looked
about the room. At one end her husband, accompanied by de Joyeuse,
Tempest, de Fresnoy, and the others, had entered. At the further end
the Roumanian dominated. Supported en sourdine by an accompanist, he
massed sounds and dispersed them, concentrating fulgurations of notes
from which echoing showers fell. Presently, resuming an abandoned
measure, he caressed a largo, infinitely sweet, that swooned in the
languors of the finale. At once to a murmur of bravos, the applause of
gloved hands and a cry of “Bis!” raising violin and bow above his head,
he bent double to the duchess, his flowing hair falling like a veil
before him.

“He may play again,” said Violet. “I want to talk to you. Let us go
into the next room.”

As Verplank rose at her bidding, others who had been seated, rose also.
Interrupted conversations were more animatedly resumed. A servant
announced additional names. The first salon now was thronged. The
second was filled. Verplank and Violet passed on.

Beyond was a gallery. At the entrance stood a woman, her face averted,
talking to a man. As the others approached, she turned.

At sight of her and of the man, Violet would have turned also. It was
too late.

“Leilah!” Verplank exclaimed.

For a second, in tragic silence, two beings whom love had joined and
fate had separated, stood, staring into each other’s eyes.

For a second only. At once the man interposed himself between them.

“Monsieur!” he insolently threw out. “My name is Barouffski.”

With superior tact Lady Silverstairs intervened. “Good evening, Count.
It never occurred to us that we were interrupting a tête-à-tête.”

She paused. Hostilely the two men were measuring each other. In
Verplank’s face there was a threat, in Barouffski’s there was a jeer,
in Leilah’s there was an expression of absolute terror. Of the little
group Violet alone appeared at ease.

“Leilah,” she added, “don’t forget that you are to have luncheon with
me to-morrow. Good night, my dear. Silverstairs and I will be going
soon. Good night, Barouffski.”

She smiled, nodded, took Verplank’s arm, took him away. But the arm
beneath her hand was shaking and she realised that it shook with rage.

Sympathetically she looked up at him. “I thought they were in the other
room and it was just to avoid a thing of this sort that I got you out
of it. You won’t do anything, will you?”

Verplank now had got control of himself, his arm no longer shook,
and it was the smile of a man of the world, the smile of one to whom
nothing is important and much absurd, that he answered:

“Why, yes; it was very civil of this chap to introduce himself. I shall
leave a card on him. Hello! Here’s Silverstairs! I wonder if he will
introduce himself, too.”

The young earl was advancing, his hand outstretched. “I say! I saw a
man marching off with the missis, but I had no idea it was you. Where
are you stopping? Will you dine with us Tuesday?”

“Yes, do.” Violet threw in. “Rue François Premier at eight.”

“I shall be very glad to,” Verplank answered. He turned to Silverstairs.
“I am at the Ritz. Stop by there to-morrow noon, won’t you, and let me
take you somewhere for luncheon?”

Lady Silverstairs laughed and employing a darkyism, said: “You don’t
say turkey to me. There!” she exclaimed as Verplank was about to
protest. “I could not anyway.”

From the salon beyond came a woman’s voice, clear and rich, rendering,
in a lascive contralto, a song of love and passion.

The Silverstairs and Verplank approached. Meanwhile, from the diva’s
mouth, notes darted like serpents on fire. In mounting fervour the aria
developed, trailing, as it climbed, words such as amore, speranza,
morir. A breath of brutality passed. The atmosphere became charged
with emanations in which the perfume of women mingled with the desires
of men. Still the aria mounted, it coloured the air, projecting, like a
magic lantern, visions of delight, imperial and archaic, that ascended
in glittering scales.

Verplank, detaching himself from the Silverstairs, felt his dumb rage
renewed. At the moment he conceived an insane idea of going below,
waiting without until Barouffski and Leilah appeared and he saw
himself, confronting the man, tearing the woman from him, carrying her
off and making her his own.

The impulse fell from him. The rage that he felt at the man deflected
into rage at this woman who had made his life a vacant house and for
what, good God! And why?

In a cascade of flowers and flames the song was ending. There was new
applause, the discreet approbation of worldly people, easily pleased,
as easily bored and with but one sure creed: Not too much of anything.

Verplank must also have had enough. When presently the Silverstairs
looked about for him he had gone.

Already Violet had summarised the situation to her lord. Now, perplexed
at Verplank’s abrupt disappearance, she said:

“You don’t suppose that anything will happen, do you?”

Silverstairs, bored by the entertainment, anxious only to get away
where he could have a quiet drink, tugged at his moustache and with
unconscious reminiscence answered:

“I don’t know and I don’t care. I don’t care what happens as long as it
doesn’t happen to me.”




V


“There are too many of us,” Verplank, the day following, found himself
saying to Silverstairs.

The two men were lunching at Voisin’s.

The charming resort which, since the passing of Véry, of Véfour and the
Maison Dorée, has become the ultimate refuge of the high gastronomic
muse of Savarin and of Brisse was, on this forenoon, filled with its
usual clientèle:--old men with pink cheeks, young women with ravishing
hats, cosmopolitan sportsmen, ladies of both worlds, assortments of
what Paris calls High Life and pronounces Hig Leaf.

Without, a fog draped the windows, blurred the movement of the street,
transforming it into a cinematograph of misty silhouettes. But within,
the brilliant damask, the glittering service, the studied excellence of
everything, produced an atmosphere of wealth and ease.

Silverstairs, after swallowing a glass of Chablis, meditatively lit a
cigar. But meditation was not his forte. The twentieth of his name, he
was tall and robust. He had straw-coloured hair, blue eyes, a skin
of brick, and an appearance of simple placidity. At the moment he was
mentally fondling certain reminiscences of the Isis and certain bouts
with bargees there.

“You know,” he said at last, “if I were you I would just march up to
him and knock him down.”

Verplank nodded. “I dare say. But not if he had taken your wife.”

The suggestion, penetrating the earl’s placidity, punctured it. He
threw back his head. “By George! If he had, I’d kill him.”

“There, you see!”

Silverstairs puffed at his cigar. His placidity now was reforming
itself.

“Yes,” he answered. “But then in taking yours, he did it after she was
divorced. You can’t have him out for that.”

“All the same there are one too many of us.”

Silverstairs filled his mouth with smoke. Longly, with an air of
considering the situation he expelled it. Then he said:

“It is what I call damned awkward. But what the deuce can you do?”

“What can I do?” Verplank with an uplift of the chin repeated. “Why, if
only for the manner in which he acted last night--”

“I know,” Silverstairs interrupted. “The missis told me. He behaved
like a fidgety Frenchman. I grant you that. But there were no words,
nothing that you could put a finger on.”

Through an adjacent door a man strolled in. He had his hat on and in
one gloved hand he held a thin umbrella of which the handle was studded
with gold nails. With the other hand he smoothed a black moustache.
Through a monocle he was surveying the room. He looked careless and
cynical.

Deferentially a maître d’hôtel addressed him. Ignoring the man he waved
his umbrella at Silverstairs.

Silverstairs waved his hand. He turned to Verplank. “Here’s de Fresnoy.
He can put us straight. Let’s ask him to join us.”

Rising, he greeted the Parisian, invited him to the table, introduced
Verplank, speaking as he did so in French, with an accent frankly
barbarous which de Fresnoy seemed to enjoy.

The latter raised his hat to Verplank, confided it to the maître
d’hôtel, gave him the umbrella also, while another waiter drew up for
him a chair.

“Thanks,” he said in an interval of these operations. “I see you have
breakfasted. If you don’t mind my eating while you smoke--”

Seating himself he turned to the waiter, a man short and stout,
completely bald, with large dyed whiskers and an air of repressed
satisfaction.

“Listen, Léopold, and note well what I say. To begin with do not
attempt to tell me what you wish me to eat. You have heard? Good!
Listen again. A dozen Ostendes, an omelette, a pear. Nothing else. Not
a crumb. Yes, some Eau de Vals. Allez!”

Léopold bowed. “Perfectly, monsieur le baron. I shall have the honour
of serving monsieur le baron with what he has been good enough to be
willing to desire.”

Again the waiter bowed. But behind the oleaginousness of his speech
a severity had entered, one which intimated that in this preserve of
gastronomics such an order was unworthy.

“These gentlemen?” he added, his eyes moving from Verplank to
Silverstairs. “Some coffee? A liqueur?”

But now, in fluent French, Verplank was addressing de Fresnoy.
“Silverstairs and I have been having an argument. In your quality of
Parisian, will you tell us whether a man can have another out for
looking impertinently at him?”

De Fresnoy adjusted his collar, patted his neck-cloth. “But certainly,
most assuredly. To look impertinently at a man constitutes an attack
on his self esteem, which in itself is an integral part of his moral
wealth. To omit to return a man’s bow, to neglect to take his proffered
hand, to regard him in an offensive manner, are one and all so many
assaults on his dignity.”

Verplank, pleased with this view of things, smiled. “Thanks. Mine has
been assailed and I was in doubt how to rebuke the aggressor.”

“It is simple as Good day. You have only to select two representatives
and get them to put themselves in communication with him. If then he
refuses to have friends of his meet yours, or if, afterward, he will
neither apologise or fight, he is outlawed.”

De Fresnoy, as he spoke, made a gesture, a wide movement of the arm
which indicated, or was intended to indicate, the uttermost limits of
the world.

“It is Barouffski,” Silverstairs, with some idea that de Fresnoy might
be aware of the anterior complication, threw out.

“Barouffski!” de Fresnoy repeated, his head held appreciatively a
little to one side. “In a bout he is very clever. Barring d’Arcy,
Helley-Quetgen”--and myself he was about to add, but throwing the
veil he desisted--“I don’t know his equal. How he is on the field,
personally I cannot say. But there, the absence of buttons, the
absence of masks, the inevitable emotion, the sight of the other
man, the consciousness of an injury to be maintained or avenged, the
consciousness too of the definite character of any thrust you may give
and particularly of any thrust you may receive, these things have such
an effect that often the cleverest acts like a fool. On the boards,
fencing is an exercise, it is an amusement. On the field, it is another
man’s blood--or yours. Though, after all, one is rarely killed except
by one’s seconds.”

He turned to Verplank. “You fence? Or is it that you shoot?”

Verplank leaned back in his chair. “Oh, I suppose I can fire a gun.”

Silverstairs laughed. “I say now! You are too modest by half.” He
looked at de Fresnoy. “Verplank is one of the crack shots of America.”

De Fresnoy turned again to Verplank. “You should demand pistols then.
Barouffski draws well, but at twenty paces he is less sure of himself.
Have you selected your seconds?”

“I suppose I may count on Silverstairs for one----”

The young earl nodded. “That’s of course, and perhaps you, de Fresnoy,
will act with me.”

The Parisian smoothed his moustache. “I shall be much honoured. In that
case, however, as necessary preliminary, I shall have to ask to be made
acquainted with all the circumstances.”

But now Léopold, bearing a dish on which were oysters green as stagnant
scum, approached and with an air of infinite tenderness, much as though
it were a baby, placed it before de Fresnoy.

Leisurely he began to eat.

Verplank, who had been looking out of the window, leaned forward. “The
circumstances are evangelical in their simplicity. Last evening I was
about to speak to Madame Barouffska when he put himself between us and
eyed me in the manner which I have described.”

De Fresnoy, considering him over an oyster, said:

“You were at the Joyeuses then?”

Verplank nodded.

“And there Barouffski objected to your speaking to his wife?”

“Yes.”

De Fresnoy swallowed the oyster. “In that case he was guilty not only
of a grave offense to you, but to Madame de Joyeuse as well. The duke
would be the first to resent it.”

With an idea of making it all very clear, Silverstairs put an oar in:
“Madame Barouffska, you know, was formerly Madame Verplank.”

De Fresnoy bent a little. It may be that because of Silverstairs’ ultra
English accent he had not understood. “Pardon?”

But here Verplank intervened. “This lady had been divorced from me
before she married Barouffski.”

De Fresnoy, over another oyster, turned to him again. Yet any surprise
he may have experienced he was too civil to display.

“Ah, indeed!” he replied. He looked as though he were about to add
something, but refraining, he paused.

Verplank helped him out. “You are thinking perhaps that there may
have been circumstances that rendered further acquaintance between us
inadmissible. I may assure you that there are none and, without wishing
to intrude my private affairs, I may assure you also that to this hour
I am unaware why the divorce was obtained. This lady had no grievance
of any kind against me and I had none whatever against her.”

Pontifically, in his deepest note, Silverstairs threw out: “In the
States they give you a divorce for a Yes or a No.”

“For married people,” de Fresnoy remarked, yet so pleasantly that the
sarcasm was lost, “America is the coming country.”

As he spoke, the fat waiter, after supervising the removal of the
first dish, produced, with the air of a conjurer, another. It was an
omelette, golden without, frothy within.

De Fresnoy glanced up. “Countermand the pear. Instead, bring me paper
and ink.”

“Perfectly, monsieur le baron.”

Slowly de Fresnoy attacked the food. After a mouthful he said to
Silverstairs:

“When the writing materials come we can get off a note to Barouffski.
If he has any explanation he can advance it. Otherwise--on guard!”

After another mouthful he said to Verplank:

“You have fought before?”

“I have not had the occasion.”

“Nor I,” interjected Silverstairs. “It is against the law in England.”

Gravely, as though he were receiving valuable information de Fresnoy
bowed. “So it is here. But with us it is custom that rules, not law.
No jury would convict an honourable man for fighting a fair fight.
Besides, dueling is in our blood. It will not disappear as chivalry
has. It will last as long as there are French men--and French women.
And yet, in saying that chivalry has disappeared, I am in error. Not
later than the week before last a cousin of mine, a young man truly
charming, married a monster.”

He pushed aside his plate. “Well, then, Léopold, am I to sit here the
entire day?”

Serviceably, a buvard in his hand, the waiter approached. “I have
subventioned a new pen for the use of monsieur le baron.”

“There, Léopold, your sins are remitted. See at once if the chasseur is
free.”

De Fresnoy looked at Silverstairs. “With your permission, in our joint
names, I write.”

He looked at Verplank. “Will you pardon me if I ask how your name is
spelled?”

Verplank, getting at his case, extracted a card.

De Fresnoy glanced at it. Then, taking that new pen, he read, as he
wrote, aloud.

    M. le Comte Barouffski.

    Monsieur: M. Verplank has requested the Earl of Silverstairs
    and myself to arrive at an understanding with two of your
    friends concerning an incident which occurred last evening in
    the Avenue Cours la Reine.

    Lord Silverstairs and I will be obliged if, as soon as
    possible, you will ask one of your friends to appoint a meeting
    at which we may deliberate.

    Receive, Monsieur, the expression of my distinguished
    sentiments.

    Baron de Fresnoy

He looked over at Silverstairs. “Is that to your liking? Good! We will
send it to the Little Club where the answer is to be left and we will
have a reply to-day. En attendant, there are matters that claim me.”

With a movement of the chin he summoned the waiter.

A little byplay followed; the presentation of the bill, the click of
gold on porcelain, the carelessly gathered change, the meagre tip, the
reappearance of the hat, the bowing waiters, the craning necks, and the
departure of de Fresnoy, an umbrella under his arm, a cigar between his
teeth.

Verplank, emptying a glass of Chablis, looked out of the window. A
panorama was forming. He saw the room at Coronado, Leilah as she told
him of her love, his brief absence, his harrowing return, the hunt for
her that had extended over half the globe, a hunt that divorce had not
terminated, which her re-marriage had not stopped and which, had he
not at last discovered her, nothing could have stayed save his death
or hers or the reason of the implacable Why. An obstacle to the Why
or, it might be, the incarnation of it, was Barouffski, and Verplank
saw himself standing somewhere with Barouffski before him. There was a
command, the call of numbers, a detonation and the sight of Barouffski
turning, swaying, falling down.

The panorama faded. A picture had appeared. Before the window, arrested
by a congestion of traffic, a motor was stopping. In it and the mist
was Leilah.

Verplank sprang to his feet. With the idea of going out to her there
and forcing an explanation, he looked about for his hat.

Silverstairs also got up. He had not seen. He too was looking for his
hat. Placidly he remarked:

“I have an appointment with a chap named Tempest. Will you come with
me?”

But now, the congestion relieved, the motor shot on. Verplank had the
spectacle of a face fading instantly in the fog and the future.

“Will you?” Silverstairs repeated.

“Will I what?”

“I have to see a man about a horse. He lives just off the Bois de
Boulogne, in the rue de la Pompe. Will you come up there with me?”

“Yes, if you will go on foot. In that case I’ll leave you there and
walk back. I need the exercise. I feel like what you described as a
fidgety Frenchman.”

Silverstairs pulled at his moustache. “It’s no end of a walk. But no
matter, I’ll go with you.”




VI


That morning Leilah had two appointments, one with a modiste, the other
with Violet Silverstairs. She did not feel equal to either. The episode
of the previous evening had been to her like the supreme torture which
medieval legislation devised. It was all she could bear--and more!

When, abruptly, she found herself face to face with Verplank, it was
as though she were confronted by the dead. The sense of it numbed her,
and the numbness was heightened by a horror that has no name. Into the
seats of thought there entered the realisation that, in spite of all,
she still loved him, that in spite of all he still loved her. In the
core of these convictions fear entered, fear of him, fear of herself,
a sensation of common peril and mutual perdition so blinding that
Barouffski’s rudeness she barely noticed, and it was with a look the
damned may have that she saw Verplank turn with Violet Silverstairs,
and go.

As they passed, Barouffski, with the air of one commenting on a
triviality, remarked:

“How odd it is that the Joyeuses should care to hobnob with demi-castors.
Shall we go?”

That demi-castors meant bounders generally, and, in this instance,
specifically, she would, ordinarily, have been insufficiently familiar
with the slang of the boulevards to know. But she did not hear.
Moreover, the remark required no reply. Even otherwise she was unable
to speak, and it was not until Barouffski reiterated his suggestion
that mechanically she acceded to it with a movement of the head.

Her demeanor then in traversing the salons, her leave-taking of the
duchess, her bearing in descending the stairs, were as mechanical as
her reply to Barouffski, and it was not until after the motor had
dropped him, as he had asked that it should, at the door of the Little
Club, that, at last alone, the mental anchylosis fell by.

At once in a sort of retrograde vision, she relived the past. There
had been the flight from Coronado, the halt at Salt Lake, the descent
into Nevada, the divorce, the journey abroad, the platonic marriage
to Barouffski. These--the succeeding episodes in the drama of her
life--were so many hostages to joy, barricades thrown one after another
between Verplank and herself, and unavailingly thrown, since, with but
a look, they were almost destroyed.

They had seemed wholly impregnable, but she knew then that unless
reinforced by surer bars, they would one and all collapse. At the
foreknowledge of that she appreciated what the heroines in the old
tragedies endured, when circled by the seven-times-twisted coil of
fate. Yet, though they had yielded, she would not yield, and it was
with this determination that she alighted in the rue de la Pompe.

The house there had a church for neighbour, and stood between a court
and a garden. Before the court was a high, white wall. The garden
extended back to the parallel street, where, also, was a wall. The
entrance to the court was a double doorway, the entrance to the garden
was an iron gate. Between the gate and the house were large urns,
a marble bench, a marble chair, most noticeably the kennels of two
mastiffs, pets of Barouffski who, at whatever hour he returned at
night, had them loosed. They were, he declared, a great protection, as
indeed they were--for him. Apart from the occasional barking of these
dogs, barring also occasional music from the church, usually the garden
was quiet. But that was in the order of things. It lacked both stable
and garage. These had been secured elsewhere.

Except for that detail, the arrangements generally were satisfactory.
The house was commodious, agreeably furnished. On the ground floor were
the usual offices, beneath which the servants slept. On the floor above
were the salons and dining hall. Above these were the bedrooms. On this
upper floor the apartment which Barouffski occupied gave on the street,
while Leilah’s overlooked the garden.

Adjacent to her suite was a stairway designed for servants, but which,
because of its convenience, she occasionally used. It led directly to
the dining hall, and from there she could descend into the garden.

It had a superior advantage. It enabled her to avoid the hazards of the
main stairway, which was used by Barouffski, whom nearer acquaintance
had discovered to her without the mask--without one mask, that is--for
histrion that he was, he had many, but the best, the feigned nobility
of noble pride, the assumed parage, had gone.

In its place was a smile, constant, equivocal, ambiguous, a smile such
as the consciously damned may display. It gave Leilah little creeps.
She dreaded it, dreaded him, dreaded both, what is worse she dreaded
instinctively, without knowing why. The man was amiable, serviceable,
gallant. He wore his domino not faultlessly perhaps but with the fine
air of a bravo who, when the time comes, will knife you, yes, but who
in so doing will rather require that you admire the chasing on the
handle of the blade. As yet the knife was concealed. But Leilah felt
that it was there. He knew it was. Occasionally he fingered the point.

Hitherto he had lived by expedients. A golden six had been tossed him.
He had pocketed it. For him the economic problem of life was solved.
He asked little else, merely that the solution should endure and that
his dignity, of which he had a humorous conception, be outwardly
preserved. In addition to his dignity, or to his idea of it, he had
another attribute. He was not exacting. It is a great charm in any one.
But with him it did not extend to money. Freely he demanded it, freely
she gave and it was precisely when he demanded it that she felt, and he
felt, too, the point of the knife.

On this evening when, after the usual din at the doors, the motor
entered the court and she alighted at the perron, two footmen busied
themselves in aiding her.

Leilah passed through the dining room to the garden where for a while
she walked along the path that led from the house to the gate.

The garden was cloistered, the night serene. The influences of both
affected her. The darkness put her thoughts into relief, the solitude
relaxed the tension of her nerves.

Another thing was helpful, the determination which she had reached,
though for that determination to be maintained there must, she saw, be
further hostages, new barricades. But what further hostages could she
give she wondered, what firmer barricades was it possible to erect?
Barring flight or an appeal to Verplank, some message begging him to
leave Paris, she could not imagine any. Flight she had already tried,
but not flight to some one of the world’s far away places where any
one may be lost forever. It was a miserably dismal thing to do, she
reflected, a thing so dismal and so miserable that she doubted her
ability to do it.

As she thought it over she wondered if in some former existence she
could have injured Verplank and whether it were by way of retribution
that he had the power to tempt and torture her now. Tenets of this
character the Vidyâ advanced and as she had told Tempest, she had
come to believe in that Scripture as many do in the Bible, though as
many also do without being able to accept it entirely, without being
able to accept for instance stories such as that of Jonah and the
whale which none the less all would accept were it known how profound
is the symbolism behind them. With like reservations, Leilah accepted
the Vidyâ. She was very ignorant as women in her station generally
are and the reservations were due to that ignorance and also to the
demand which the doctrine made on her imagination. But though she was
ignorant she was conscious of it and consciousness of ignorance is
usually the condition precedent to enlightenment.

Now, in considering the episode of the evening, she asked herself
whether she was warranted in accepting this creed of past lives. At the
Joyeuses, during the announcements of resonant names, Tempest had said
that unless we swallow the ridiculous dogma of a soul specially created
at every birth and unless too we are indecent enough to fancy the Deity
waiting for that purpose on the passions and caprices of man, we have
to accept it, have to accept with it the corollary of past actions
and their consequences, have to accept, too, the deduction that,
in accordance with our past actions, it is we who reward or punish
ourselves, we who become avenging furies or angels of light.

Leilah wished that she could have discussed the matter more fully
with Tempest yet she felt that what he had said was logical, but if
it were true, then the parallel doctrine that all misdeeds and with
them all misfortunes spring from desire must be true also, in which
case, before their consequences can be effaced, all misdeeds must be
atoned. But how can they be atoned? she asked herself. Presently she
remembered. According to the Vidyâ, any desire no matter what, desire
for pleasure, for gain, for attainments, for honours, even the desire
for spiritual perfection, even the desire for the lack of desire, must
be extinguished before old scores are paid. That was the way she saw,
the only way. The debtor must sacrifice himself to himself.

But, uncertain still, she went over the matter again, putting to it
little tests, passably naïf yet serviceable to her. She had ardently
desired to marry Verplank, then, desiring as ardently a barricade
against him, she had married Barouffski. In the one case the result had
been catastrophic; in the other, calamitous. Doubtless she had sinned
in the past and these disasters, brought about by her own desires,
were her punishment. There were other things that she had desired. She
had wanted to be loved, she had wanted to be thought a beauty, and not
only her love had shamed her but soon she might be ashamed to show
her face. At the thought of these things she realised anew and more
profoundly than ever that selfish desire is the root of evil and that
only in its extirpation may peace be had. But coincidently she realised
also that any such extirpation was beyond her. Heredity, environment,
the circumstances of her life, had given an impetus to desire which
she could not arrest. She liked wealth, ease, pretty clothes, becoming
hats, the society of agreeable people. She liked the world and in
liking it she feared that she liked also the flesh, it might be even
that she liked, too, the devil. Yet, she must not, she knew.

In telling herself that, she thought of the Church. The Church was so
much more comfortable. There you were not asked impossibilities, the
one requirement was to throw yourself in her arms and repent. As the
facile process occurred to her she recalled George Moore’s story of
Evelyn Innes. That masterwork seemed to tell her to do as the heroine
had done and go in a convent.

Perhaps she might, she thought. Perhaps she must.

Several times already she had crossed and recrossed the garden. Now she
found herself at the farther end facing the iron gate. Leilah opened
it, walked to the corner and returned.

The little tentative evasion had been successful. At any time, unseen
even by a servant, she could leave the house, disappear utterly, be
forever ingulfed. But the knowledge that she could escape into darkness
and be lost there, offered little more than a choice between tears. It
presented a form of suicide which was superior only to actual death.
She hoped she might be spared it. She hoped an appeal to Verplank would
suffice, though in what manner it could best reach him, or, for that
matter, reach him at all, she found it difficult to decide. To make it
personally was impossible. To attempt it through Violet Silverstairs
would involve an explanation and that was impossible also. The idea
of employing one of her women occurred to her. There were manifest
objections to such a course, though the particular woman whom she had
in view she trusted entirely.

Slowly she returned to the house and went to her room. There, when at
last the servants had gone and she was alone, she knelt on a prie-dieu
and, to the Watchers of the Seven Spheres, prayed for the earthly peace
of her soul and of his. She knew that no prayer could affect them, she
knew that they are not to be propitiated or coerced, but it soothed
her as prayer, in raising the vibrations, does soothe the distressed.
The prayer concluded she began another. She prayed that sometime she
might be somewhere, on some plane, where all things broken are made
complete and found again things vanished.

Then, the solace of it still upon her, suddenly she saw by what the
prayer had been induced. The consciousness confused and presently,
in the melancholy sotto-voce of thought, she told herself that to
extinguish that desire, she would have to be in Dharmakaya--the mystic
state where there is oblivion of all things here.

“Here!” she caught herself repeating. For, at once, a passage from the
Upanishads prompting, she remembered that here means Myalba, which is
hell, the greatest of all hells and, for those of this evolution, the
only hell there is.




VII


It was on the morning succeeding these incidents that Leilah felt
unequal for the appointments she had made. But however she felt, she
always did what she had planned. In this instance nature punished her.
On the way to the first appointment, a malaise overtook her, enveloped
her, beat at her and although, gradually, it fell by, she was still
conscious of it when, in the rue Cambon, the motor stopped at the
modiste’s door.

“The fitting of madame la comtesse Barouffska!” a fair young girl in
black immediately and authoritatively announced.

Before landscapes of silk, in the delight of new modes, customers were
sunning themselves. At the announcement they turned, while Leilah,
conducted by another girl who had advanced to meet her, crossed the
laboratory of enchantments and entered an adjoining room.

But, for the moment, the fitting was delayed. The première was
elsewhere occupied. When presently she appeared she excitedly
exclaimed:

“I hope I have not detained madame. I am desolated if I have. But!
But! If madame knew! One is literally torn to pieces! All day long it
is nothing but Ernestine that dress! Ernestine, that robe! Ernestine,
that costume! Ernestine this! Ernestine that! Truly madame, there are
moments when I say I die! I go crazy!”

Abruptly dropping her voice, she added: “But pardon, I monologue.”

At once, indicating a gown which an assistant had brought, she
exclaimed again:

“It will ravishingly become madame.”

The gown, a work of the best Parisian art, suggested something of the
immateriality of a moonbeam, and as the assistant, a girl with a tired
face and circled eyes, held it for inspection, it gleamed.

Leilah looked at it, wondering the while where she would wear it,
whether indeed she would wear it at all. Then, before a sheet that had
been placed on the floor and on which the assistant arranged the gown
in a circle she proceeded to undress.

To the amateur in feminine beauty, there are few spectacles more
attractive than that of an attractive woman clothed in lingerie and a
hat. This spectacle Leilah presented.

The première exclaimed at it. “Madame la comtesse has a figure truly
divine. But! But! Who could have laced her?”

“I was not very well this morning,” Leilah replied. “I told my women
not to make me too tight. But you can take me in I think about an inch.”

“Marguerite,” said the première, “draw the stays a little closer.”

The girl with the tired face undid the corset and pulled at the
strings. But she pulled awkwardly, perhaps too suddenly.

Leilah gasped, turned, sat down and fell forward. The première hurried
to her. She had fainted.

“The smelling salts!” the première cried. “The smelling salts! Cognac!
Get some cognac!”

With one hand she was supporting Leilah, with the other she gesticulated
at Marguerite who, hurriedly from the mantel, fetched a vinaigrette
which Ernestine then took and sniffed at.

“She’s coming to,” said the assistant.

Ernestine waved the vinaigrette. “The gods be praised!”

For Leilah now had opened her eyes. Wearily she looked about,
straightened herself and sighed.

“I must have fainted.”

“It is nothing madame,” Ernestine anxiously protested. “Truly nothing
and yet so modish. Yesterday the Princesse de Solférino fainted. The
day before it was the turn of the young Duchesse de Malakoff. Such a
good augury for these ladies! Like them madame is perhaps----”

But Leilah now was making an effort to rise.

Abandoning the vinaigrette Ernestine aided her.

“Madame will perhaps wish the fitting postponed. Yes, is it not? It
might further fatigue madame. To-morrow--no, to-morrow I regret but
in the afternoon I have three appointments and in the morning there
is the trousseau of Miss Smith of New York who is to marry an English
lord. Marguerite!” she interrupted herself to exclaim. “The costume of
madame!”

Then, as the assistant also assisted Leilah, reflectively the première
resumed:

“I hear that every New York young lady loves a lord. But----”

