“ Maybe you can’t see much of Pittsburg on 
account of the smoke,” said Chan dryly. 
True enough,” laughed his father. 
‘‘ What a sight we must have been in the sum- 
mer ! ” exclaimed Prim. Didn’t we howl fear- 
fully? And we were not over clean.” 
“ I know I shall cry at night,” said Tip lugu- 
briously. 
Oh, no, you won’t,” interposed Linn. “ You 
are getting to be a big boy, and there’s nothing to 
cry for. There’ll be Mrs. Alden and Cap and 
Dan and the horses and dogs and the peacocks.” 
Tip roused himself and considered. 
“ And you must all be on your best behavior 
and obey Mrs. Alden, who will be mother while I 
am gone. Rilla will hear lessons and Cap will 
give you three good meals a day.” 
And you will have so many new things to 
tell us when you come back. So we will wish you 
bon voyage — is that right when the journey is on 
land ? ” and Goldie hugged her mother. 
Mrs. Mann had talked the matter over with 
Mrs. Alden, who insisted that she should take the 
journey. She had at first thought she could not, 
but her husband was resolute. 
As if you had not earned many a holiday,” 
he said with great tenderness. Think what you 
have given them out of your life, and now a little 
of it belongs to me.” 
They said good-night with a lingering tender- 
ness. 
‘‘ She’s our mother just the same,” Amaryllis 
explained, “ but she’s father’s wife, too. We 
haven’t all the right to her.” 
Linn and Chan gave her a fond good-by. Tip 
and Rhoda were undecided whether they liked it or 
not. 
It was a fine winter morning. Mother looked 
nice in her soft brown suit, her fur scarf and muff. 
Mr. Mann kept saying amusing things. ‘‘ And 
it would be funny if I found when we reached 
New York that I didn’t have to go,” he said. But 
we may be in Philadelphia this evening.” 
We’ll just make believe a little while that 
they will come back,” Goldie remarked. 
They performed their small household duties, 
then they went to the playroom and studied, break- 
ing into talks every now and then. And lunch- 
time came speedily, they thought. 
Prim was fond of history and adventure and 
learning about countries. In figures and penman- 
ship she was lamentable. Marigold was more of 
a real student, and longing for the time when they 
should go to a real school again. Amaryllis was 
rather slow, but painstaking; and though no one 
badgered Laurel about learning, she picked up 
many bits from her blocks and her Mother 
Goose.’’ 
Cap had sung over her washing, but was afraid 
the air was too soft for much drying. Then it 
did seem queer to have no father or mother at 
dinner. 
They’re in Philadelphia now,” Linn said at 
nine o’clock. Mother’s never been at a big hotel 
before. Oh, how many new things she’ll see ! ” 
They all went to bed in a sober frame of mind, 
but even Tip didn’t cry, for Linn told him some- 
thing funny about a boy at school. 
Rhoda was all ready for school the next morn- 
ing when Tip said : 
I’m sort of homesick, and don’t feel like les- 
sons. I think I’ll go out and get Dan to finish 
my boat and make b’lieve it’s Saturday.” 
''Tip!” exclaimed Amaryllis. “Oh, what 
shall we do ? ” in dismay at the first defection. 
“Call Mrs. Alden?” 
Dan was surprised, but settled the matter. He 
couldn’t work on the boat at all that day. And 
if all the children were very good, he would take 
them out in the afternoon. The Bachmans were 
moving into the little old red house, and they 
would call on them. So, after a little thought. Tip 
decided he would go, after all. 
They had a fine ride. Yes, there were signs of 
life about the house, and Mrs. Bachman came out 
to invite them in. Already it looked cozy, and 
the stove was sending out a cheerful heat. 
“ We came yesterday,” she said in her broken 
fashion. “ It is so nice. And, oh, so much room ! 
And you leave so many nice things. It is like a 
great fortune coming when you could not even 
dream of it. I want to sing, I am so happy.” 
It looked a little queer to them. They had 
taken the boys’ room for the shop, and a long 
counter had been placed just under the window. 
Everything had foreign touches. 
“ And now I wish I had the things we left be- 
hind, but nein, nein,” shaking her head, “ we 
could not bring so much. But the good Lord had 
put it into the happy mother’s heart to make it 
up to them by her gifts. Oh, they would be so 
happy ! ” 
The two children were rather shy, though Tip 
brought out his best endeavors. 
Then Mrs. Bachman would make them take a 
piece of some German “ brod.” It was very 
dark, but it had a sweet, spicy taste, and they did 
enjoy it. 
“ And the stove it bake so fine and brown. I 
most burn my things last night. Oh, it is so nice 
and we are so happy ! ” 
“ It’s just lovely to have them so pleased,” said 
Rilla. Only it doesn’t seem as if we had lived 
there. Oh, Dan, how splendid you have made 
things look ! ” 
We’ll have the outside fixed up when the 
weather gets pleasant. Your mother will have a 
nice tenant who will take care of things.” 
' When they reached home they saw three girls 
coming down the steps, and they paused. 
‘‘ Oh, it’s Jennie and Myrtle Read — and ” 
Rilla sprang out. The other was Cassie Ray. 
“ Oh, I’m so glad! ” cried Jennie. We waited 
a while, and then we thought we must go, but we 
had a special errand.” 
They were Sunday-school girls, and had prom- 
ised to call. 
Oh, come back, please ! ’’ entreated Rilla. 
So they all entered the house together. 
“ Oh, how splendid it is to have horses and 
sleighs and carriages!” said Jennie. “I do so 
hope you will come to school. There are twenty 
of us girls who go in the trolley, and we have 
real fun. The Dawsons have a governess. It is 
stylish, I suppose, but it is a great deal more jolly 
to be with a lot of boys and girls. And you can’t 
guess what we came for. Mother is going to let 
us have a party on Friday evening. It’s my birth- 
day. Myrtle’s is next week. One year it is mine ; 
the next year, hers. Not a high-up affair, but 
plays and some refreshments. And mother said 
— but we want you and your two brothers.” 
“ Oh, I am sorry when you have been so kind. 
But father and mother are away, and are coming 
home on Friday evening, and we’d want to see 
them ” 
‘‘If you could come afterward! It’s just an 
‘ asking ’ party — no notes — I’d have to write 
them,” laughing. “ I’m so sorry. You’d see the 
girls who go to school.” 
“ I think we will go when the new term com- 
mences. The boys like it very much.” 
“ And we wanted your brothers. Linn is cap- 
ital. I don’t know the other one as well.” 
‘‘ You see, there’d be no one to ask. And we 
would want to welcome mother home.’' 
We’re awful sorry. We have one little 
brother and he’s a great bother. I’d like to have a 
big brother.” 
Then he’d want to be going with young 
ladies,” exclaimed Cassie Ray. Oh, wouldn’t I 
like to be regularly grown up and invited out to 
nice things ! ” 
But there are so many things to learn,” said 
Rilla hesitatingly. 
“ Oh, you get that at school, and then I guess 
it comes natural, watching other people. I’d like 
to skip the years and be just ready to be graduated 
from the high school the coming June. Think of 
the flowers and the compliments and attentions ! ” 
‘‘ Cassie and I are chums,” and Jennie Read 
placed her arm over her friend’s shoulder. We 
are going to keep step all along. Oh, are those 
the twins ? ” — as the little ones peered into the 
room. 
‘‘ Why, one Is ever so much bigger than the 
other,” exclaimed Cassie. 
I’m bigger,” announced Rhoda proudly. 
I’m older. I’ll be six in June. I go to school, 
and I can read and do sums.” 
Then you can’t be twins.” 
Oh, yes, we are. Maybe Lai will catch up 
some time. We have a splendid playrooiti. 
Would you like to see it? ’’ 
Rilla had tried to check her, but in vain. 
‘‘What a funny child! Yes, we would — can 
we ? ” appealing to Amaryllis. 
“ It’s Lai who is funny,” went on Rhoda, lead- 
ing the way. “ She can’t talk plain yet, so she 
can’t go to school.” 
They all walked through the library, and Cassie 
took quick glances around. 
“ Is this lovely place just for you two little 
girls?” 
“ Oh, no,” explained Amaryllis. “ It is for all 
of us. We couldn’t have the library kept in a 
litter. Every one has some closet shelves, and 
the schoolbooks are here. The twins have each 
a corner to themselves. And next winter we shall 
have the wdndow full of flowers.” 
“We have one window where we keep a few,” 
said Myrtle, “ but this is just royal.” 
“If you were going to take off your things and 
stay to tea I’d get out my pretty Christmas 
dishes. I keep ’em in a box so’s Lai sha’n’t break 
’em.” 
“ Don’t breaken ’em, needer. Don’t want ’em,” 
up spoke Lai. “ Cap gives me some.” 
We’re sorry we can’t stay. Cassie, we must 
go, for there are two more invitations to give 
out. Oh, I am so sorry you can’t come. We’ve 
had a lovely call, and now you must return it. 
You and your brother come some Friday evening. 
That’s our holiday.” 
Goldie and Prim had disappeared upstairs, 
rather abashed at the big girls. So Amaryllis had 
to do duty for the family, and half promised to 
come. 
Well, isn’t that odd ! ” cried Cassie, when they 
were in the street. Amaryllis is real lady-like, 
but those twins! That little Rhoda is too funny 
with her big airs. Laurel is prettier, and hasn’t 
she a sweet name ? And the house is fine, though 
the furniture isn’t like the Gedneys’. People won- 
dered what a single man wanted of such a great 
house. But he must be real rich. Amaryllis has 
a stylish winter suit, but the other two are not at 
all fine. You know Denby people are not con- 
sidered very much over here. Those old farmers 
talk a positive jargon.” 
Pm truly sorry Amaryllis and the two boys 
can’t come to my party. I like Linn ever so 
much. And Mr. Evans thinks Chandler may 
make a mint of money by and by with his 
voice,” 
Then they reached their next calling-place, and 
Cassie made much of their interview at the 
Manns’. 
Rilla went out to the dining-room, where Mrs. 
Alden sat crocheting a bead purse, and told her of 
the visit. 
I think I wouldn’t have wanted to go. I 
shouldn’t know what girls did at real nice parties. 
And I wonder if I ought to have called you in 
mother’s place — you see, I don’t just know Graf- 
ton manners,” with a faint laugh. 
No, dear. It was your call with your friends, 
and there was no question to decide. I think you 
did very well.” 
Then Amaryllis went to the piano. She was 
getting over her fright a little, and beginning to 
use her fingers quite easily. 
After dinner they sat round the library-table 
reading and studying. They generally took an 
hour in Chan’s room for this purpose, but it didn’t 
seem quite the thing to leave the others. Rhoda 
studied over by the corner. Laurel’s rag doll had 
been clothed again. 
Dan brought in four post-cards that had come 
in the last mail. The travelers had reached Phila- 
delphia at four on Monday, had settled themselves 
at a pleasant hotel, and gone to a fine concert in 
the evening. The next morning they had spent 
doing the city, and there news had to stop. 
Laurel was talking in a low tone. 
“ Muver’s gone away, Dolly, to Philly some- 
thin’. It’s a hard word and I can’t say it. There’s 
a big bell and she and father are going to ring it, 
only we can’t hear, it’s so far, far away, like 
' happy land.’ I’m getting real plain in my talk, 
Dolly, so’s you can mistand, ’cause bimeby I’m 
goin’ to school. You can’t go ’cause you don’t 
know how to talk yet, but I didn’t when I was lit- 
tle like you. And Christmas Doll can talk, only 
dest say two talks ’n’ then you must pull a string. 
An’ I love you best ’cause I’ve had you many 
hundred years.” 
Linn and Prim glanced up with a funny light 
in their eyes, but would not laugh aloud. Goldie 
had found a new industry. Mrs. Alden had 
taught her to crochet, and she was deeply inter- 
ested in the possibilities opening before her. 
It doesn’t seem quite right without mother,” 
said Chan when the twins had gone to bed. 
“ Well, no, it isn’t right, but — but it is best just 
now,” returned Prim. “ And we haven’t groaned. 
I’m reading up about Philadelphia. In the early 
days people hollowed out caves and lived in them.” 
Nonsense ! ” 
“ It’s a fact.” Prim found a book and read 
aloud. 
“ And some people lived in caves out in Arizona, 
but they died long ago.” 
“ Which proves cave-dwelling is dangerous,” 
commented Marigold sententiously. 
“ Come, let’s go to bed,” said Linn, “ and rise 
with the lark in the morning.” 
Oh, do you suppose there will be robins and 
bluebirds and thrushes over here?” asked Mari- 
gold. “ Chan, do you remember how we used to 
sing their songs ? ” 
‘‘ That’s what little Arthur liked so much. I 
couldn’t do it as well without you. But I’ve 
grown fond of beautiful words. Oh, I am learn- 
ing such a glorious sort of anthem. Mr. Evans is 
teaching me, and he wants me to sing it at Easter. 
I let it float through my brain as I am going to 
sleep.” 
Then they put up their books and kissed each 
other good-night. Two days had gone and Tip 
hadn’t cried. 
CHAPTER XIV 
THE COURAGE OF ENDEAVOR 
“ I NEVER cried a word last night/’ announced 
Tip at the breakfast-table. 
Good boy ! And no bear came to disturb your 
slumbers,” laughed Chan. 
'' There aren’t any bears in Grafton. Dan said 
so. 
Oh, I do wonder if we will have a letter to- 
day, not just post-cards.” 
“ I’m going over to the little old house this 
afternoon. Tip, would you like to go? ” 
Oh, take most of us,” cried Prim. We’ll 
be lonesome by that time.” 
And Cap declared there was nothing to do. It 
was getting lonesome. 
But they studied and read, and Prim told Laurel 
funny stories. Tip ran all the way home, for 
Rhoda was going to a girl’s house. So Dan 
packed them into the sleigh, and even found room 
for Cap, who thought if she could ride to Cross- 
roads she’d like to see Abe’s sister, who was liv- 
ing there, and she wouldn’t mind walking back. 
“ Maybe we can pick you up,” said Dan when 
they let her out. 
Mrs. Bachman looked very orderly now, and 
was fairly brimming over with satisfaction. Mr. 
Bachman sat on his board, counter ” Goldie 
called it, for it looked something like that with 
its piles of goods, its boxes of trimmings and but- 
tons, its spools of silk and thread. 
It is a great pleasure to work now,” he said. 
I shall not be homesick any more. And we 
have bought two hens and the sister gave us two. 
We had our own eggs for breakfast. Yes, we are 
very happy.” 
Greta talked quite freely. Yes, they were going 
to school now. It was a long way, but they didn’t 
mind. The teacher was very nice. 
Tip had to go out and see the hens. Fritz 
chopped the wood and was very proud of doing 
something. 
“ The queer thing,” said Tip afterward, “ is 
that the children talk Dutch to their father and 
mother. How do you suppose they learned it ? ” 
“ Why, it’s their native tongue,” said Goldie. 
‘‘But how do people have two tongues? We 
have but one.” 
“ Why, the Dutch, as you call it, is just the 
same as our English. They learned it first in 
Germany, just as we learn our own, and if we 
went to Germany to live we would have to learn 
German.” 
But German is so hard and queer. English 
is so much easier and nicer. And — and they act 
just as if it was their house,” rather grudgingly. 
“ And we act just as if Mr. Mann’s house was 
ours,” said Prim. 
“ Well — so it is. He wanted us all to come, 
and he’s our new father. Don’t children always 
live in their fathers’ houses ? ” 
“ Oh, Tip, you get twisted up,” laughed Prim- 
rose. 
They overtook Cap, and then let her out near 
the house, as they were going down to the station. 
Yes, there was the letter sure enough, and some 
picture post-cards, and Goldie begged him to hurry 
off home. 
Oh, what a delight it was, though it was brief, 
and could only touch upon things; the rest was 
saved up to tell when she came home. That even- 
ing they would start for Pittsburg. 
They read it to Mrs. Alden, and then went to 
the kitchen and read it to Cap. They were all so 
jubilant they could hardly eat their dinner. Rilla 
thought she ought to have scolded Rhoda for go- 
 
ing away without permission, but she didn’t know 
how to begin, and Rhoda was so pleasant. 
But the boys had to study a little. Chan com- 
plained of the drawing. 
“ I can’t make the lines go straight. I can’t 
think of it as I do the music. I don’t see why 
you must do what you can’t do ! ” 
Chan, let’s shake pinkies,” and Prim held out 
her rosy little finger. “ It’s so with my writing. 
The loop letters look like an army in retreat, every 
man for himself, and scared out of his wits. 
Learning doesn’t come easy in every branch.” 
“If at first you don’t succeed, 
Try, try again,” 
sang Marigold. 
But when it’s the fortieth time 
And I like drawing machinery so much. It 
just bewitches me. I’d like to invent something 
father could patent. Gee! Wouldn’t that be 
fine ! ” said Linn. 
Cap stood in the doorway looking with longing 
eyes. 
‘‘ Oh, come in,” exclaimed Linn. “ Aren’t you 
lonesome? We are, but we don’t dare admit it.” 
She dropped into a chair near the door. 
I declare to man I reely felt the creeps out 
there in the kitchen. Your ma ain’t the noisy, 
hus’lin’ kind, but you jest miss her all round. 
An’ your pa’s the cheerfullest, with that smile of 
his’n. The house ain’t the same place athout ’em. 
An’ it seems as if there wasn’t much to do. I’ve 
sewed patchwork the hull afternoon, an’ now I do 
wonder if you have any bright sort of snips about? 
I’m out of colors. An’ I like spry sort of things, 
not drabs an’ such.” 
“ There might be some over to the old house. 
You see, we had to mend, and mother covered over 
a quilt last winter, both sides. We gave the rub- 
bish to Mrs. Bachman.” 
I’ll ask Dan to get me some when he goes in 
town.” 
“ See here, why can’t I get it to-morrow at 
Ridgewood ? Do you want clear red ? ” and Linn 
glanced up with interest. 
Well, I’d like red figgers runnin’ over it, or 
some nice bright blue thing. Mom would think 
it awful extravagant to buy calico to cut up that 
way, but what you goin’ to do when you’ve got 
lights an’ no darks? Then it’s my money, an’ I 
can’t be wastin’ time.” 
You don’t seem to waste much,” said Mrs. 
Alden with a smile. 
Well, it kinder rouses you up when you’re 
keepin’ stiddy company. An’ our house is about 
skinned out with the girls marryin’. Patty’s goin’ 
to stay in the creamery after she’s married. Poor 
Phene thinks it’s awful to take the brunt of every- 
thing! Father used to groan over a lot of girls, 
an’ wish he had a boy to plow an’ harrer an’ 
plant ’taters — an’ Pve dropped ’em many a time 
for him. An’ now he’s sayin’ that when girls get 
so they can help they go off to help some other 
man. I don’t see why they shouldn’t, if it’s to 
make a home for theirselves. An’ he’s got his 
two boys growing up, an’ now let him get help out 
of them. Pm happy an’ content here, but I shall 
be powerful glad to see your ma come home, now 
I tell you. So now Fll go to bed. Good-night to 
you all.” 
“ I suppose we are all trying not to feel lone- 
some,” said Marigold, “ but we do miss father 
awfully. I think it almost as bad as missing 
mother. And what a time we made when she 
went to Aunt Kitty’s funeral! Why, it seems 
ages ago. Listen, is that rain? ” 
Linn ran out to the door. 
Rain, sure enough; a soft, fragrant kind of 
rain that seemed like a breath of spring. But it 
stopped before morning, and the sky was of a 
splendid, inspiriting blue. 
Marigold came in with some snowdrops and 
violets, her cheeks aglow with pleasure. 
Why, I looked yesterday,” said Chan, and 
not one was open.” 
'' They are wood violets, not the sweet ones. If 
we could have some out of our own garden for 
Friday night! ” 
Only one day more; think of it! ” 
But there is all to-day.” 
A delightful surprise came with it, a letter 
from father when they had not dreamed of such 
a thing. There were bits of fun over which they 
laughed heartily. 
Linn came home with some very pretty, 
gay calico, just the thing to brighten up patch- 
work. 
“ Why, I couldn’t have done better myself,” 
said Cap. An’ it’s good quality. You’re first- 
class.” 
I’ve sold calicoes,” he returned laughingly. 
Cap would sweep, though it was not Friday. 
She declared there was nothing else to do. Rilla 
dusted and put things in order. All the evening 
they studied up Pittsburg, and found it a remark- 
able place, a veritable hive of industry. 
They made the house ring the next morning. 
Tip wondered why they didn’t wish each other 
‘‘ Merry Christmas.’’ Cap began to bake enough 
for a regiment, Mrs. Alden said. 
Chan came home waving his card high in the 
air. 
That’s the best I’ve had yet, but I’ve studied 
until my brain fairly seethed. It’s hard work for 
me. 
“ I can sympathize with you,” said Rilla. We 
are not going to be the scholars of the family. 
Where’s Linn?” 
Oh, he said he had to go somewhere. And I 
thought of the nice music practice I could have. 
Linn is all for the boys.” 
“ And a telegram has come. They will be here 
on the 8.10 train from the city.” 
“ Oh, not until nine o’clock,” cried Prim dis- 
consolately. 
“ We must have dinner by ourselves,” said Mrs. 
Alden. ‘‘ We cannot wait until nine o’clock, and 
they will have had something.” 
Linn entered and put down a box on the stand 
in the reception room. 
What is in that ? ” asked Rilla. 
“ Oh, it is a little surprise. I hadn’t wanted any- 
thing this week, and so saved my quarter. Next 
to the store where I bought Cap’s calico there’s a 
florist. I’ve looked in the window when I have 
passed, and yesterday I went in and had a little 
talk. He’s such a nice, pleasant man. I told him 
I wanted a few flowers for my mother, who was 
coming home to-day. Flowers are very dear.” 
“ Oh, Linn,” she interrupted, and there was a 
touch both of delight and regret in her voice. “ I 
had some money, and would have been glad to 
help.” 
I didn’t think of that. Then I went in to- 
day and he gave me the four beautiful carnations 
and this white stuff with the fern leaves. We had 
a talk ” 
“ Oh, you’re a darling ! ” and Rilla kissed him. 
I told him we were going to have a window 
garden next year, and he said such a funny thing,” 
and the boy laughed. ‘‘ ‘ There was a man over to 
Grafton who married a woman with eight chil- 
dren. I wonder if you are one of them.’ ” 
‘‘How could he have guessed?” 
“ Well, I had told him my name the day before. 
And then he asked about us, and said Mr. Mann 
must have been uncommon fond of children to 
shoulder the whole eight. People seem to think 
eight so many, don’t they? ” 
“ I used almost to wish the twins had not come, 
and it was so hard to take care of two babies, with 
father dead and all, but Lai is so sweet and cun- 
ning and our new father is so fond of her. And 
Miss Raynor said Rhoda was the smartest child of 
her age that she had ever seen.” 
She is too smart,” laughed Linn. Oh, how 
different we are ! ” 
Then Rilla found a tall glass vase and put the 
flowers in water, but they decided not to bring 
them to the table, but to keep them out there 
where it was cooler. 
There was a ring at the doorbell, and Linn 
opened the door. 
It was Mr. Evans. 
“ I hardly thought the folks would be home,” he 
began, but I was passing by ” 
Lm so glad,” exclaimed Chan, who was sit- 
ting at the piano. “ Won’t you please sing this 
measure through with me? I’m afraid I have it a 
little wrong.” 
They went over it several times, and Linn told 
about the post-cards and letters. And when Mr. 
Evans said he must go, Chan besought him to 
stay to dinner, and even Rilla added her persua- 
sion. 
But I might inconvenience Mrs. Alden.” 
Amaryllis went to inquire. '' We ought to have 
asked you first,” with rising color. 
‘‘ Never mind, dear. You are going to be the 
young lady of the house. Go and tell Mr. Evans 
that I shall be pleased to have him stay to dinner.” 
“ Em glad,” began Tip, “ for it’s awful lone- 
some not to have had any mother or father for 
five years.” 
Five days, you mean,” corrected Marigold. 
“ No, I mean five years,” decisively. Every 
day has been a year long, and that makes it,” 
glancing around in triumph. 
“And have you grown five years older?” in- 
quired Mr. Evans with a lurking smile. 
Tip was nonplussed for a moment. 
“ It’s this way, you see. It isn’t the outside 
years with winter and summer, but the clock beat- 
ing inside of you, and it takes a great many hours 
to fill up the days when you are waiting and 
waiting. They turn into years.” 
“ Pretty well reasoned out, Tippecanoe. I 
think you will make a philosopher.” 
They had a merry time at the dinner, spicing it 
with conundrums. Prim asked a funny one that 
they all gave up. 
“ I really don’t know myself,” she acknowledged 
gravely. “ It popped into my head before I had 
time to think up an answer. .If one of you gave a 
good one I was prepared to adopt it at once. 
Some day I may write a book of conundrums.” 
Or poems/’ interposed Linn. I am afraid 
your superlative genius may peter out with high 
living and everyday thinking. You ought to 
celebrate the return of the travelers, and our joys 
and sorrows, hopes and fears.” 
“ Oh, yes, do. Miss Primrose,” pleaded Mr. 
Evans. 
“ But they have not returned yet.” 
“ Then our sorrows.” 
Prim turned very red. “ I’ve been studying 
Lear’s ‘ Nonsense Verses,’ but somehow my 
Pegasus won’t trot at that fascinating pace.” 
Your own will be better. Please do,” from 
Mr. Evans. 
It’s all foolishness, you know ” 
'' Oh, Prim, don’t be silly ! Go on,” com- 
manded Linn. 
“Eight little orphan babes are we, 
Father and mother gone to see " 
That’s too big a poetic license,” interrupted 
Chan. “ They have not as much as said ‘ how-de- 
do ’ to a boat, let alone the sea.” 
“ Cities and towns and many a thing 
That can to the wise enjoyment bring, — ” 
she went on triumphantly, while Mr. Evans’ 
eyes had a mirthful twinkle as he looked over to 
Chan. 
“ No one will find us in the wood, 
No one will cover us warm and good, 
No little birds will come and sing, 
Or berries or rose leaves kindly bring; 
’Cause we’ll be safe at home, you see, 
When they come back to you and me. 
And now the machine has run down, beloved 
audience. I read the other day that when you had 
used up a brain cell it died out. I couldn’t under- 
stand whether a new one grew in its place, but if 
it doesn’t, that’s the knell of my departing genius.” 
Oh, let us hope it will grow again, and the 
next time I come you will be ready to celebrate 
some other event.” 
Oh, Mr. Evans, please don’t make fun of us. 
In the benighted region of Denby we did 
ridiculous things to entertain each other, and we 
haven’t reached the point of Grafton ways and 
manners.” 
Mr. Evans laughed heartily. “ I have been 
wonderfully well entertained, and thank you for it. 
I must have you all over to the rectory to tea 
some time, and you must be on your j oiliest be- 
havior.” 
But wouldn’t we set Miss Evans crazy ? ” 
asked Linn. 
‘‘ I will prepare her beforehand. And now, 
orphan babies, I leave you with great regret, but 
duty calls. Present my congratulations to your 
parents when they return from the dangers that 
beset the unwary traveler and meet with the 
delightful welcome you will give them.” 
Mr. Evans rose and bowed in a grandiose 
manner, and they all rose as well. 
“ He’s splendid,” began Marigold. “ Prim, 
how can you think up such funny nonsense? I 
had to study to get my two lines in that ‘ Mon- 
arch of all I survey ’ business, and then I wrote 
it out, for I knew I never could do it a second 
time.” 
You can get so close to Mr. Evans,” said 
Chan. He seems to understand boys — children 
— and somehow you feel a little afraid of Mr. 
Burnham — well, not quite that, either — but Mr. 
Evans is like a big brother.” 
Cap put the table in order while they adjourned 
to the library. The twins had been playing out- 
of-doors, and now a small, languid voice piped up, 
I so sleepy, I wis’ I could go to bed.” 
“ And not see mother? ” 
“ Mother’ll stay till to-morrow,” and Laurel 
fixed a cushion for a pillow. 
“ I’m going to stay up,” announced Rhoda. “ I 
want to see mother and father, and maybe they’ll 
bring us something.” 
Oh, Rhoda, you are always thinking of the 
loaves and fishes,” Goldie said reprovingly. 
I don’t want fishes, neither, and Cap can make 
bread. I want something nice.” 
“ I just want them to bring themselves,” de- 
clared Primrose. 
Amaryllis put her little sister to bed. Tip 
crawled up in the corner of the sofa. Chan set- 
tled himself at his beloved piano. He never 
played noisily. 
Linn, would you have gone to the party if 
mother had been home ? ” Rilla asked presently. 
“ Why, yes, I think so. They’ll have a jolly 
time. Oh, Rilla, I’ll be glad when you go to 
school and get to know girls of your own age. 
It’s so different from Denby, ever so much nicer. 
I like Jennie Read, and she’s a good student — full 
of fun, too.” 
“ I’m almost afraid, though the girls are nice in 
Sunday-school.” 
You must not feel that way. Rilla, you have 
improved ever so much, and now you don’t have 
to be mother to us all. It does make a difference 
when you live in a nice house and a pretty town. 
But I don’t want us to be stuck up, as Denby folks 
say.” 
Prim was looking up some big words in the die- 
tionary. Rhoda played a little while, then leaned 
up in the corner and kept staring at various things. 
She wasn’t a bit sleepy, but by and by everything 
seemed to rush downhill, and though she clutched 
at something she toppled over also. 
They kept watching the clock and listening. 
Were moments ever so slow! Oh, there was the 
trot of the horse, and they all rushed out on the 
porch. 
They almost smothered their mother. Oh, 
children, children I ” but the clinging arms and 
fond kisses were delightful when one had been 
without five days. 
Tip roused and began to cry, “ Why didn’t some 
one wake me up ? ” 
“ Never mind, now. You are awake, and here 
is mother.” 
Prim and Chan were hanging on to their father. 
What a welcome it was — worth more than any 
fortune ! 
Rhoda slept on serenely. Even when Mr. 
Mann picked her up her head dropped on his 
shoulder. 
Carry her upstairs,” said the mother, and I’ll 
lay aside my wraps. Rilla, will you come and help 
undress her? Then we’ll have a cup of tea and 
some talk.” 
And there’s a lovely surprise for you,” said 
Prim. Hurry down again.” 
Rhoda made no demur at being undressed. 
And there was darling little Lai, sweet and rosy. 
Mrs. Mann was very tired, and would have liked 
to drop down beside her, but she smoothed her 
hair and wiped the dust of travel off her face. 
The children were in the hall and escorted them 
through to the dining-room. They were to be 
company to-night, and she was to sit by father. 
There was her sweet bouquet. 
“ Oh, how delightful ! ” and she glanced around. 
“ It is due to Linn,” declared Amaryllis. You 
see, we were not used to having flowers in winter, 
and he brought them from Ridgewood, but next 
time we’ll join.” 
Thank you, my son,” and her smile repaid 
him, but Prim added an amusing little speech. 
Yes, we had a splendid time,” said their 
father. To-morrow your mother will tell you 
about it. She is very tired now. And we are so 
glad to find you all well and happy, and that you 
haven’t worn Mrs. Alden to a thread, nor driven 
away Cap by some of your misdemeanors.” 
Cap was as full of delight as the children. 
They have been very good,” said Mrs. Alden. 
I think you can venture on another journey.” 
But not in a long, long while,” cried Goldie. 
They told her about Tip’s five years, and could 
have talked all night, they were so glad and ex- 
cited, but it was near midnight, so they kissed all 
round and trooped upstairs to bed, thinking how 
they would welcome to-morrow. 
CHAPTER XV 
MR. COLLAMORE 
The little mother found the next day that the 
house had gone on very well without her, and that 
Cap’s lamentations were quite amusing. The 
work had been done up so well that Cap said it 
didn’t seem a bit like Saturday. There was a 
shelf full of pies, and the cake-box hardly allowed 
the cover to shut down tight. 
It was a hardship for Mr. Mann to go to the 
city and leave the joyous throng. No one wished 
to go with him ; even Dan lost his fascination ; and 
when the box came up by express they were all 
hovering round to view its contents. 
There were a number of splendid photographs 
and illustrated books; a very beautiful vase that 
made Amaryllis’s eyes sparkle with joy; then a set 
of dainty cups and saucers so well packed that no 
misfortune had befallen them. 
Yes, she had been here and there in Phila- 
delphia, and seen some of the beautiful places, and 
had a drive in the Park, in which clumps of beauti- 
ful evergreens took off the cheerlessness. Rhoda 
was quite indignant that she had not been com- 
pletely waked up. Laurel kept hold of her 
mother’s gown, saying frequently : 
“ I’s so glad you come back, Mommy.” 
The day was very fine. Dan went at some 
clearing up and rose trimming, uncovering some 
of the hardier plants. The snow man had been 
battered so much that now he was merely a heap, 
a poor remnant of former greatness. The chil- 
dren found some more snowdrops and violets. 
'Mf this weather holds on I’ll make a pansy 
hotbed next week,” he said. 
There are so many beautiful things that I am 
all impatience to see them bloom,” said Marigold 
as they were out taking an inventory. 
Mr. Gedney had spared no money, certainly. 
Besides the shrubbery, there were two large oval 
rosebeds whose stalks proclaimed their thriftiness. 
Can’t we all have a little garden to our- 
selves ? ” asked Linn. 
Mr. Mann was out with them. 
Why, yes,” he made answer. Suppose each 
of you took a plot and raised one thing. I like 
masses. Rilla, you shall have first choice. What 
will it be?” 
“ I like China pinks. There is such a variety to 
them. I had a few last summer. They bloom 
and bloom.’' 
I believe I do not know them very well. I 
didn’t garden much last summer,” Mr. Mann ad- 
mitted. 
I’ll take those lovely big velvety pansies,” said 
Prim. 
‘‘ Goldie must have a bed of marigolds of every 
degree and shade. They are the only flowers I 
had in my boyhood. They seem so cheerful and 
hardy.” 
Goldie had made a wry face first. Now she said. 
Yes, I’ll take them,” and she slipped her hand 
in his. 
“ Mine will be a bed of poppies of every shade 
and color,” said Chan. “ They are so gorgeous.” 
Did any one ever have a heliotrope bed out-of- 
doors ? ” inquired Linn. “ I saw one at the 
florist’s.” 
Dan was consulted. Yes. One must buy the 
plants, however. Heliotropes come from seed so 
slowly.” 
Somewhere there’s a long row of foxgloves, 
and an iris bed. They were gorgeous.” 
Oh, when can we begin ? ” 
Mr. Mann laughed. '' March is an uncertain 
old fellow. I really think it is growing cooler 
now. May will be early enough, unless April is 
very pleasant.” 
“ Oh, what a long while to wait ! ” said Prim. 
What are you watching so intently. Father? ” 
“ That grayish lavender cloud coming up in the 
south. When I was a boy, farmers called it a 
snowcloud. If it kept rising up and remained 
steady, it was a sure sign of snow, but if it went 
to pieces that was the end of it.” 
How funny to tell by a cloud ! ” 
“ That looks rather solid,” said Dan. 
Then a gust of wind came up, and they all shiv- 
ered. Father said they had better go in. The 
warmth of the library was comforting, and there 
was the table spread out with the photographs. 
The twins had been setting their table in the 
playroom. They had some dainty finger slices 
of bread, some cake, and apples cut in small bits, 
and called by various names. 
If we only had some candy ! ” said Rhoda, 
whose appetite for this refreshment was insatiable. 
“ Don’t you s’pose mother brought home some last 
night ? I did get asleep, it was so late. And we’d 
all been real good. Cap said so.” 
“ Yes,” returned Laurel, big-eyed. She 
oughter brought us home somefin.” 
Prim said Laurel, having no ideas of her own. 
followed blindly. Yet she was occasionally 
roused to protest. 
“ Lai, suppose you go and ask her real nice. 
She’s upstairs mending the frock Prim teared. 
And father’s there and I guess he’ll say yes.” 
Lai started off joyfully. Mr. Mann was in 
Chan’s room, commending his boy for the im- 
provement in his card. Mrs. Mann had just fin- 
ished the frock. 
Please, Muver, we’m playin’ tea, and can’t we 
have some candy? Didn’t you bring home 
some for good little girls? Cap said we was 
good.” 
The tone was very coaxing. The mother bent 
and kissed her, then said quietly : 
Did Rhoda send you ? ” 
“ Yes’m,” glancing up with eager eyes. 
“ Go and tell Rhoda that mother hasn’t any 
candy for little girls, but that she is glad they have 
been good.” 
‘‘ Oh, Muver, just a tiny little bit.” 
‘‘ No, dear, not this afternoon.” 
Laurel turned away reluctantly. When she was 
going downstairs, Mr. Mann said: 
Bessy, how could you be so hardhearted ? ” 
