ity to known how much it hurt. 
"Marilla! Marilla!’ she called. 
"Oh, Miss Florence, something dreadful has 
happened to Aunt Hetty, and I'm fast with 
her. 
She came up. 'Oh, she looks as if she was 
dying or dead. Let's put her on the lounge 
and you go for Bridget.’’ 
'What is the matter with the children.” 
"Oh, go, quick! I’ll tell you afterward.” 
The child summoned Bridget and just 
ran in to comfort and kiss the babies. 
"Oh, Jack, you never — oh, look at their 
poor little hands! You bad, wicked boy!” 
'If you say much. I’ll give you some ” 
Marilla snatched at the strap and flung it 
upon a high shelf. Jack wiped his eyes and 
went out to play. Marilla ran upstairs again. 
They were fanning Aunt Hetty and bathing 
her face and head. 
"Marilla, will you go to the parlor and ask 
that lady to come up here, — Mrs. Henderson. 
Bridget thinks — oh, and we ought to have a 
doctor! I must telephone.'' 
"And then can I stay with the babies?’ ' 
"Yes, yes.” 
'Toor babies! Marilla fairly stopped them 
with witch hazel. Their little fat hands and 
their shoulders were swollen already. She 
kissed them, but she couldn’t take them both 
and they wanted to be cuddled. So she sat 
down and hugged them and really cried her- 
self. 
Bridget came down, "She isn’t dead but 
she’s a mighty hard faint on her. And what 
happened to the children?” 
Marilla explained in a broken voice. 
"Oh, the murtherin’ little devil! You take 
one and I’ll comfort ’tother. But you can’t 
lift her.” 
No; Marilla couldn’t lift such a dead weight. 
Bridget walked the floor and patted Pansy 
and crooned over her, but the hurt was pretty 
deep. 
Aunt Florence came down. 
"She's over the faint. Mrs. Henderson is 
going to stay a while. Oh, poor babies 
must look after my meat or it’ll burn,” 
and she gave the baby to Miss Florence. 
sit in the rocking chair and you put her 
in my lap, I think she’s hurt more than Violet. 
You see, I ran upstairs when Miss Hetty’s 
bell rang, and she fell on my shoulder, and 
I never thought ” 
gave it to him good, and his father’ll fin- 
ish him tonight. Oh, dear! Well, there comes 
their mother.” 
There was a hubhub with both babies 
crying again. Mrs. Borden laid aside her hat 
and coat and took up Violet, sent Marilla 
for a pitcher of milk and both babies were 
comforted with a drink. 
"Sit on the floor and hold them. They’re 
so heavy. Poor sweet babies.” 
The sobs ceased after a while. Violet fell 
asleep. Pansy was bathed again and grew 
quieter. The doctor came and said it was a 
bad fainting spell but that Mrs. Vanderveers 
heart was weak from age. 
Marilla fixed Pansy’s supper, fed her and 
undressed her, and her mother laid her in the 
crib. Then she said — 
“You may go and help Bridget a little with 
the dinner.’
Marilla arranged the table and the master 
of the house came in. Jack sneaked in, also. 
Mrs. Henderson staid, so no explanations were 
made. Jack was very quiet and behaved 
beautifully, but he wanted to go to bed at 
once. Violet woke and had her supper and 
quiet was restored. Then a man came in 
to consult Mr. Borden about some business. 
“It was awful that Jack should go at the 
babies so,'' said Mrs. Borden to her sister. 
“I don't know about telling his father. 
You gave him one whipping 
“And a good hard one. I'm afraid of boys 
getting so used to that mode of punishment 
that they don't mind it. But father brought 
up four boys in that manner and they have 
all made nice men. I don't see where Jack 
gets his badness from.'’ 
Jack's mother sighed. “And yet he can be 
so lovely.” 
“I 've been considering,” rejoined Florence. 
''Suppose we hold this over his head for a while. 
I might talk to him." 
"Well, we can try it.’
So Aunt Florence talked to him very se- 
riously, and said if he wasn’t a better boy they 
would have to send him off somewhere in the 
country where there were no children. She 
would not tell his father just now, but if he 
ever struck or pinched the babies again she 
certainly would, and he would be punshed 
twice over. He must remember that. 
He put his arms around her neck, and kissed 
her. "I’m awful sorry. I didn’t think it hurt 
so,” he said naively. 
'Papa will hurt you a great deal more than 
I did,” was her reply. 
And then Jack had a sudden accession of 
goodness. His teacher was proud of him. How 
much was due to his pretty face and winsome 
manner, one couldn’t quite tell, but the 
nursery had a lovely rest and Marilla didn’t 
have to watch out every moment. 
Mrs. Borden secretly wished the twins were 
prettier. They were too fat, and when she 
tried to diet them a little they made a ter- 
rible protest. Here they were fourteen 
months old and couldn’t walk yet, but they 
were beginning to say little words under their 
nurse’s steady training. 
Aunt Hetty made light of her attack and 
was soon about as usual, but she did not take 
long walks and laid on the lounge a good deal. 
Tolks can’t stay young forever,” she said, 
"and I’m getting to be quite an old lady.” 
Then they began to plan for a summering. 
Last year they had not gone anywhere. 
Advertisements were answered, and Florence 
visited several places. They would take 
Marilla of course, she was coming to have a 
thin, worn look. Aunt Hetty would visit a 
grand niece, who had been begging her to 
come. Bridget would stay in the house, she 
had no fancy for cantering about. Mrs. 
Borden would live at home through the week 
and rejoin them on Saturday afternoons. 
They must get off soon after school closed. 
There was no end of sewing. Some pretty 
skirts were altered over for Marilla, as there 
was enough for full dresses in them. 
The place was on Long Island, a country 
house with only two other boarders. It was 
barely a quarter of a mile from the seashore, 
with a great orchard and grass all about, 
shady places for hammocks and numerous 
conveniences, besides moderate board. 
Jack had not been an angel all the time. 
Some days he wouldn't study. Then he 
had two fights with boys. He threw stones 
at cats — sometimes dogs, and broke two or 
three windows which he didn't set out to do. 
He was getting tired of school and the weather 
was warm. 
So one afternoon he thought he would 
take a walk instead. He would go out to the 
park where they went on Sundays. It was so 
warm in school. He was getting quite tired 
of the confinement. 
He found a group of children and played 
with them awhile. Then they ran off home 
and he rambled on and on until he came to a 
street up a few steps. A wagon was standing 
there and two little boys were hanging on 
behind. 
'Come on, its real fun," sang out one of 
them. ‘‘You get a good ride.’
Jack thought it would be. They showed him 
how to hold on. The driver had been busy 
with an account book and now he touched up 
the horses. ''Hanging wasn’t so easy 
Jack found, and you had to swing your legs 
underneath. The man paused again at a 
saloon and he dropped off; his hands were 
very tired. The man went in the place and 
when he came out one of the boys said — 
"Hi! Mister, won’t you give us a ride?” 
The man laughed. "Where you want to 
go? I’m for Roselands.” 
'We want to go there,” was the reply. 
' Well, crawl up here. Two of you’ll have to 
sit on the wagon bottom.” 
'I’m going to sit with the driver, ’cause 
I asked.” 
It wasn’t a very clean floor to sit on, Jack 
thought, and the wagon bumped a good deal, 
the beer kegs rattled against each other. But 
the boys laughed and called it fun. There was 
another stop and then the driver asked who 
they were going to see in Roselands. 
''Oh, no one. We’re going just for fun.” 
"Where’d you live?” 
The boys all lived at Newton. 
"Jiminy; then you better get out and trot 
back. I’m going over the mountain where 
I put up for the night. Mebbe you can get 
a ride back. It's two miles down to the place 
where I took you in.” 
"Yes, we better get out,” replied the biggest 
boy. "Oh, we can soon foot it back. Much 
obliged for the ride, Mister.” 
The man nodded. 
They sat off quite cheerily. Automobiles 
passed them and carriages containing ladies, 
one or two loaded trucks. Jack began to get 
very tired and lagged. "Come, hurry up,” 
the biggest boy said. Jack ran a little distance 
for a change. He began to wish he was back 
in school. Presently a farm wagon came jog- 
ging along. 
"Give us a ride?” The biggest boy’s name 
was Dick and he seemed the spokesman. 
"Yes — where ye want to go?” 
"To Newton.” 
turn off at the crossroads, ye kin ride 
that fur.” 
That was a great relief. They were quite 
jolly again, though Jack didn’t understand the 
fun. But when they dismounted, Dick asked 
him where he lived. 
'In Arch Street.” 
I was very comfortable. She was getting a bit sleepy. 
'Well, that’s clear over there,’ indicating it 
with his head. "Ta ta, little sonny.” 
They both laughed and Jack felt rather 
affronted. Over there seemed a long way. 
Then it was clouding up and night was coming 
on. He went straight along, but now he was 
hungry, and his little legs ached. He had been 
instructed if he was ever lost to ask the way 
to Arch Street. So he asked now. 
"Oh, sonny, you’re a long way from Arch 
Street. Keep straight on until you come to 
Taylor, then ask again.” 
Here was a bakery with a pleasant, motherly 
woman. He went in. 
'Please ma’am, would you give me a bun? 
I’m lost and I can’t find my way back to Arch 
Street.” 
"You poor child! Yes, and here’s a cake, 
beside. Arch Street isn’t far from the eastern 
end of the park. Sit and get rested. Who’s 
your father?” 
"Mr. John Borden.” 
The woman shook her head. 
"Thank you, very much.” Jack rose. 
"You go straight down three blocks. Then 
ask a policeman. Oh, I guess you’ll get home 
safely.” 
Jack walked his three blocks. Then there 
was a low rumble of thunder. Oh, dear! He 
began to cry. Was there never a policeman! 
"What's the matter bub?'' asked a kindly 
voice. 
'I’m lost. I can't find my way home." 
'Where is home?" 
"Arch Street.” 
"Come on. Well find it. It's bad to be 
lost. Where have you been?” 
"Oh, I can't tell all the places,” sobbingly. 
They entered the park. Even that was large 
enough to get lost in. It grew darker and dark- 
er and there was a sprinkle of rain. Jack held 
tight to the man’s hand, and it seemed as if 
the park was full of bears. He was so frighten- 
ed. They came to one of the entrances. 
"Now you keep straight on and you will 
come to Arch Street. Good-bye little lad. 
It’s raining quite fast. Hook it along.” 
Jack did run. Houses began to look familiar. 
Yes, here was his own street. Oh, how glad 
he was. He almost flew. And his father ran 
down the steps and caught his little wet boy 
in his arms. 
“Oh, Jack! Jack! Amy,” he cried through the 
open hall door, “he’s here! he’s here!” 
There had been a great commotion, for Jack 
had been instructed to come straight home 
from school even if he went out afterward. 
And when it came dinnertime with no Jack, 
and the dreadful things that one could con- 
jure up — being run over, being kidnapped — 
for he was such a pretty little fellow! Mr. 
Borden telephoned to the Police Precinct, to 
two hospitals, went out to search, inquiring 
of the neighboring children. No, he had not 
been playing with them. Mrs. Borden was 
wild with terror. Aunt Florence said some boy 
had coaxed him off somewhere, but »he was 
desperately afraid that he laid crushed 
in some hospital. And now they all hugged 
and kissed him ; and what with the fatigue, 
theiright and all. Jack really had an hysteric. 
They rubbed him and put him in some dry 
clothes and gave him a dose of aromatic 
ammonia to steady his nerves, and then some 
supper. And he said he went to the park and 
came out somewhere, and a man took him and 
two other boys for a ride. Dick was such a 
nice, big fellow. He said nothing about hanging 
on behind, he had a feeling that wouldn't re- 
dound to the story. And the man took them 
out to Roselands and wasn’t coming back — ” 
"Roselands,’ cried his mother. "Oh, Jack 
you might have been kidnapped. Never, 
never go riding with any strange man. And 
how did you get back?” 
"We walked some, then another man rode 
us a little way, and the boys went off 
and I got lost more and more and couldn’t 
find a cop, and asked every so many people, 
and a woman gave me a bun and a cake, and 
then a man took me across the park and told 
me to go straight along. And I was afraid of 
the thunder and all, and I was wet, and oh, 
dear!” 
"Never mind. Jack. You’re safe home now. 
You must come straight home from school, 
you have always been told that.” 
And he hadn’t been to school at all! 
But he was very sleepy and his mother put 
him to bed and kissed him a dozen times. The 
scoldings would save until tomorrow. 
Jack was rather languid the next morning 
and a little afraid. But he was the best boy 
in school, and brought home a note from his 
teacher, never suspecting his sin would find 
him out so soon. 
Miss Collins asked his mother if she would 
send the reason why Jack was not at school 
yesterday afternoon, as they were required to 
put it down in the record book. 
"Oh, Jack! You didn't go to school yester- 
day afternoon! What were you doing?" 
Jack hung his head, took a little walk, 
and then — and then — I was afraid it was late, 
and some children were playing — 
"Oh, you naughty boy! That is playing 
truant. I don't know what your father 
will say!’’ 
don’t want to any more. I’d rather go to 
school. It wasn’t funny a bit. And I don’t 
want to ride in any old wagon that jounces 
and jounces, and I did get so tired. What 
did the teacher say?” 
'They have to put the true reason down in 
the record book. And there it will stay always. 
My nice little boy was a truant-player. And 
we shall all be so ashamed. What will your 
father say? And he was so afraid last night 
that you were killed!” 
''Oh, mama, I never will do it again, never!” 
Jack hung round his mother’s neck and cried 
and she cried with him, thinking of her tumult 
of agony last night. And she had him safe — 
her little boy! 
"Jack,’ she began presently, '‘can't you 
be brave enough to tell papa how it began. 
Climb up in his lap and tell him how sorry 
and ashamed you are.'’ 
'Will he strap me?" 
"You deserve it I think. But he surely would 
if I told him. And when people do wrong they 
must bear the punishment. 
"But I never will do it again.’’ 
"Tell him that, too.” 
Of course they talked it over at dinner time. 
Jack was not at all vainglorious. Afterward, 
he hung around and presently climbed up in 
his father’s lap. . 
"My dear little son,” and his father kissed 
him. 
“But papa, I was badder than all that.” 
Badder seemed to admit more enormity 
than simply bad, “I — I went in the park to 
walk and I staid so long that — that ” 
“That you were ashamed to go back?” 
“Well” — Jack had spasms of direct truth 
tellings now and then, like most children. 
“I didn’t feel so ’shamed then as when 
teacher spoke of it this afternoon. It looked 
so pleasant I thought I'd go on. Some of the 
boys said it was funny to play hookey, but I 
don't want to do it ever again. And if I had 
been killed somewhere!" Jack began to cry. 
The father held him close for some minutes. 
"Jack," he said at length, "you have been 
a very bad boy, and I am glad it wasn't a 
happy afternoon. I hope you never will 
play truant again. Think how mama and I 
suffered not knowing what had happened 
to you and afraid our little boy might be 
brought home dead. You ought to be pun- 
ished but you seem to have suffered somewhat, 
and I am going to trust you, only, you can't 
go walking with me on Sunday, and maybe 
there are some other pleasures you will 
be deprived of. I'm awfully sorry and mor- 
tified that your name must go on record 
down at City Hall as a truant from school. 
Some of my friends may see it. These things 
are sure to get to daylight and make your 
family ashamed of them, and your teachers; 
just try to think of that when you do the things 
you know are wrong, for even a little boy will 
know that. Didn’t something tell you 
staying from school was wrong?” 
Jack crept closer in his father’s arms. He 
was too young for much reasoning, and the 
man wondered if he would have been so peni- 
tent if he had had what boys call a real good 
time. 
They let the matter go at that. Jack looked 
very wistful when his father took the babies 
out Sunday morning and said no word to him. 
He followed Marilla round as she dusted up 
the rooms and wanted to know about Bethany 
Home. 
"Were the children always good?” 
'Oh, no. There were a good many bad ones 
among them.” 
"Did they have a strap?” 
"Yes, a bigger one than your father’s.” 
' Will papa get a bigger one when I’m big?” 
'Oh, Jack, I hope you won’t need any strap. 
Why can’t you be a good boy?” 
Jack gave a long sigh. "Sometimes badness 
comes into your mind just sudden like.” 
After a pause — "Did you like Bethany 
Home?” 
"Not as well as being here. I’ve told you 
 
that forty times. , And there were no little 
babies. And no dessert, only a teeny little bit 
on Sunday. And just a sweet cracker for tea." 
''What makes you like the babies? They 
can't talk nor do anything. And they are not 
as pretty as I am. Folks used to say when I 
was real little, 'Oh, what a lovely child.  ” 
Marilla laughed. Jack did know that he 
was very good looking. 
"They'll be pretty by and by. And they are 
real sweet. I like babies. I like kittens and 
little chickens.’
"I like a dog. Cats scratch. 
"Not unless you torment them. Now I 
am going down stairs to put the dishes on the 
table. Then I must go and help Bridget.’’ 
"Bridget won’t let me come down in the 
kitchen. She chases me out with a stick.” 
"Children are a bother in the kitchen. They 
ask so many questions.” 
Then his mother and Aunt Florence came 
home from church, and his father with both 
babies asleep. He carried them upstairs. 
Marilla was getting to be quite a handy 
table maid for all but the heavy dishes. She 
placed them on the dumb waiter and started 
them down stairs. Mrs. Borden took off the 
others. When the babies were awake Marilla 
had to stay up with them. 
Mrs. Borden dished the cream. "Jack will 
not have any today,' his mother said. 
Jack sat still with his eyes full of tears but 
said not a word. 
But he went to Sunday school with Ma- 
rilla and behaved beautifully. 
"If he was always as good as this,' the 
child thought, ‘'how I should love him." He 
did not even tease for a walk, a thing she was 
quite afraid he would do. 
CHAPTER IV 
POOR CINDERELLA 
Oh, how busy they were and the babies took 
this opportunity to begin the cutting of teeth. 
The auto came for Aunt Hetty. Some of the 
parlor furnishings were packed away, every- 
thing swathed in linen. The closing exercises 
of the kindergarten took place and Jack dis- 
tinguished himself by repeating a pretty little 
poem. In September he would be six. 
Then came the last week. They would go 
on Saturday. Sunday was Fourth of July but 
it would be held on Monday. Trunks were 
packed, the last bit of shopping done. The 
babies fretted and Marilla took them out 
morning and afternoon with strict injunctions 
to keep on the shady side of the street. It 
seemed to grow hotter and hotter. The child 
lost her appetite and could not eat Bridgets 
choice tid-bits. Oh, how her little legs ached, 
and her back felt sometimes as if it would 
fall apart. 
'It's good you are going,’’ declared Bridget. 
"You’re almost a skeleton. Goodness knows 
I shall miss you enough, and just be thinking 
of your coming back.'' 
Jack had gone down town with his mother 
to get some sandals and slippers. She was 
very glad, for sometimes his talking almost 
set her crazy, and she really was afraid to be 
impatient with him. 
She had found a beautiful quiet street 
with great trees that fairly met in the middle 
of it. Many of the families were away. She 
sat on one special stoop where the house 
was all shut up tight. There were no children 
in the street. 
It seemed this day, Thursday, as if she would 
never get there. The babies were so heavy. She 
sat down on the second step, leaning against 
the stone column and pushed the carriage 
to and fro. Curious shadows went dancing 
before her eyes, sometimes whe could not 
see at all. And she was so sleepy! 
Pansy threw her rattle out and cried for 
it. Marilla stepped down to pick it up and 
fell on the sidewalk. What was the matter 
with her legs? they seemed to have lost their 
strength. She crawled up again. All the world, 
the trees and houses went flying round and 
all was dark. She was falling down — down — 
Poor little Cinderella! 
The babies missed the soft soothing voice. 
They cried louded and louder, then howled. 
Some children came to see what was the matter 
two quite big boys among them. The police- 
man looked down from the comer and paced 
with his slow tread. 
"What’s the row here?'’ he asked. 
A lady came down one of the stoops on the 
opposite side of the street; a rather tall, slim 
woman in a soft gray dress and hat with 
violets around the crown. She crossed over. 
The policeman had taken the girl by the 
shoulder and given her a rough shake. 
"Those children howl enough to wake the 
dead, and she's asleep here.’ 
But as he partly raised her Miss Armitage 
saw that her face was deadly white. 
"Oh, poor child she cried. 'What can be 
the matter? And whose babies are these? 
'They're Jack Borders little sisters — twins. 
And thats the nuss gal,’' said one of the big 
boys. 
you know where they live?” 
"Round in Arch street/’ 
"Could you take them there?” 
'Well — yes’m.” 
"Then take them,” rejoined the lady. 
The carriage being moved she sat down on 
the step and took the girl in her arms. 
“She isn’t dead — I see the flutter in the 
temple.” 
“Better go to the hospital,” proposed the 
policeman. 
Marilla opened her eyes and glanced up 
but did not seem to notice anything; then the 
lids fell and the beautiful long lashes shadowed 
her cheeks. 
“Carry her to my house across the street,” 
and she led the way. 
He picked up the light burden as if it had 
been a feather. She opened the door and asked 
him to take the child upstairs and lay heron 
the couch. 
“I am obliged to you,” she said. “In a 
way I am in Settlement work. We’ll have a 
doctor and see what is the matter. Then I’ll 
decide about the hospital. And I will find out 
about those people.” 
"You’re a good sort, ma'am,' and he 
touched his hat brim to her. 
"Jane,’ she called. "This poor child isn’t 
exactly in a faint, but something is the matter. 
Get a warm bath ready and we’ll put her in. 
I’ll telephone to Dr. Richards.” 
"Yes — he was just going out. Would be up 
for a first call.” 
Miss Armitage undressed her. She was 
clean and neat, but the poor little body was 
painfully thin. Then they carried her to the 
bath. Jane rubbed her softly and she gave 
some responsive sighs. 
"What a pretty lot of little curls and fine 
as silk. I do wonder who she can be?” 
"She’s the little nurse girl who brings those 
babies, twins I suppose they are, and sits on 
the stoop over opposite.” 
"What happened?” 
"Well it’s some sort of a collapse. Now I’ll 
find a nice nightgown, and we’ll see what the 
doctor says.” 
Marilla opened her eyes. They were a 
sort of blueish gray, but now very heavy and 
dull. Her lips moved, but the tone was very 
low. It sounded as if she said "fairy god- 
mother” and Miss Armitage smiled. 
"Oh, poor little thing!” 
Dr. Richards flew around in his auto. 
‘Ohj I thought something had happened 
to you,” he began. 
'It has,” and she detailed the simple story. 
He followed her up to the room. It was 
such a lovely, restful room. A white bed in 
the alcove, white window drapery, a carpet 
with considerable light blue in it, a dressing 
case, a writing desk, some books and pictures, 
mostly Madonnas. 
'Poor child,” he said. "She’s been worked 
too hard. All her strength seems gone. And 
a case of heat prostration. It's been an awful 
day. Who is she?” 
Miss Armitage told over the incident. 
"I have seen her sitting there several times. 
It is shady in the afternoon.” 
"Two fat babies,” and he laughed. "I 
should think one would be enough for such 
a child to manage. Overwork and underfeeding 
I think, and the heat. Ifll see if I can rouse 
her.” 
Marilla opened her eyes and the lids 
seemed to fall from absolute weariness. The 
lips moved but made no sound. 
'It is a kind of comatose state. Not know- 
ing all that is back of it I can't quite make 
up my mind. If this awful heat would let 
up! I'll leave some drops to be given to her 
and will come in one my first round in the 
morning. I haven't been to the Settlement 
House yet.'' 
"Oh, you must go. That little Mary Burns 
died at noon, and her mother is half crazy 
over it. Poor little thing, deformed and all 
that. This child has a nice straight body and 
a fine smooth skin. Ill go round in Arch 
street and see what I can learn about her.’’ 
"She looks worth saving if life really holds 
anything for her. Poor things! Why are so 
many sent into the world 'just to toil.’ ” 
was going over ” 
"Never mind now. I’ll attend to it all, and 
see the Burns’ priest. Don’t be worried. 
These drops will keep up her strength,'' 
nodding to Manila. ''And I will report in 
the morning.” 
Dr. Richards went his way. Miss Armitage 
sat and considered. Perhaps it would be as 
well to go to Mrs. Borden's. They would be 
feeling much alarmed, no doubt. She explained 
to Jane and put on her hat again and picked 
up her sun umbrella, for some streets were 
still in a glow. This was the best part of the 
city however, and there were some fine trees. 
She stopped and looked in a directory. 
There was only one Borden living on Arch 
street, a Mr. John Borden, lawyer. She made 
a note of the number. Arch street was some 
distance farther west, and then only a block 
or so. A very nice looking three-story brick 
with a stone stoop. She mounted and rang 
the bell. There certainly was a child or 
children crying. 
A young woman much distraught answered 
the door. And now positive howls greeted 
her ears. 
are in such trouble,’’ apologized the 
woman. 
am Miss Armitage and live in Loraine 
place, nearly opposite where the little girl 
fainted. Did the babies get home safely?” 
‘Dh, we are so glad! Won’t you please 
come up-stairs for my sister can’t leave the 
children. We have been almost crazy! One 
boy said she fell off the steps. Is she much 
hurt?’ 
"She had a bad fainting spell. The doctor 
came and he hardly knows what to think 
until tomorrow. The policeman proposed 
sending her to the Hospital, but I am one 
of the managers of the Settlement House 
in Beacon street, so I had her brought over 
to my house. A fall, you said?’’ 
"That was what a boy said — that she 
tumbled off the step. Oh, Pansy dear, do 
hush! You miss Marilla, don’t you? The best 
little nurse in all the world. Oh, what can we 
do without her!” 
Mrs. Borden was pacing the floor with the 
baby’s head against her shoulder and gently 
patting her. She did not scream now, but 
sobbed in a very sleepy fashion. 
"You see, we are to start on Saturday noon, 
and we shall not come back until the middle 
of September. We thought it would be so 
nice for Marilla, too, she’d kind of run down 
though she wasn’t at all ill. Bridget worried 
that she ate so little and she was growing 
thin.” 
“How long has she been with you?” 
took her from an institution — the Beth- 
any Home — about the middle of October. She 
was just twelve, the Matron said. I think she 
was very glad to come. She’s had a good home 
and plenty to eat. And one funny thing is 
that Bridget took such a fancy to her, and 
though Bridget’s good as gold, she has some 
queer streaks.” 
Mrs. Borden sat down and drew a long 
breath. Pansy had fallen asleep at last. 
'And we never let her lift the children or 
carry them up and down. I think babies are 
sometimes injured for life that way in falling 
They used to sit on the rug and she’d tell them 
stories. I think she must have made them out 
of her head — funny things and she’d act them 
off and the babies would laugh and laugh — 
it was as good as a play. They seemed to 
understand every word. Marilla was a born 
nurse girl. But what can we do? We must 
have someone, and there’s only such a little 
time.” 
Miss Armitage was thinking. 
'Perhaps I might help you out,” she said 
kindly. "There is a young girl with us who 
worked in a factory until she gave out. We 
sent her to the Rest House in the country and 
she did improve, but they wouldn't take her 
back in the factory. She's a nice pleasant 
girl about seventeen.” 
"Oh, how good of you to think of it! But 
I can't pay high wages, for there'll be her board 
and it won't be hard. When the babies are 
well they are as good as kittens though they 
can't scamper around so much. And they're 
so fat they won't walk very soon. It'll just 
be sitting round and amusing them and looking 
after their food. I couldn't give more than 
three dollars a week — we are not at all rich,” 
with a short laugh of apology. 
think Ellen would come for awhile,” 
‘And I should want Marilla as soon as she 
was well enough. You see she's bound-out to 
me, and we all like her so much. I don't see 
what could have happened to her. She has 
been out in the fresh air most of the time and 
we always tell her to go slow with the babies, 
not rush along in the heat. What did she say?” 
‘'Oh, she hasn't spoken at all. She lies just 
unconscious.” 
"Good gracious! Oh, you don't think she 
will die?''and Mrs. Borden really turned pale 
with fright. 
person sometimes lies that way for 
days when overcome with the heat. The 
doctor can tell better tomorrow.’ 
"Oh, poor little Marilla! She is so sweet- 
tempered. And you were so good not to send 
her off to a hospital. How ever should we 
have found her! There is so little time. When 
shall we hear about this other girl?'' 
will telephone as soon as I go home and 
tell them to send her in the morning,' and 
Miss Armitage rose. 
'‘We are so much obliged.'' She followed 
her visitor out in the hall. 
"Do not come down,’ said Miss Annitage. 
"And I hope the babies will improve.” 
"Thank you — for everything.” 
The sun was going down and some stray 
wafts of wind wandered along, which made 
the heat rather more endurable. 
"Jane,” she said as she walked into the room, 
"did you notice any bruise on the child’s 
head while you were bathing her. She fell off 
of the steps it seemed.” 
'There was none on her forehead. Her hair 
is very thick and I really did not look only to 
see that it was in a nice, clean condition. She 
hasn't suffered for want of cleanliness.'' 
Then she told Jane all she had learned, 
adding: 
'They seem very nice kind of people. But 
oh! those babies!” 
Miss Armitage telephoned to the settle- 
ment House, stating the case. 
"Yes, Ellen Day was still there and would be 
very glad of the position. She would go the 
first thing in the morning.” 
Jane insisted on bringing in a cot and sleep- 
ing beside the little girl who lay quite as still 
as if she were dead. Now and then she gave 
her the drops and fanned the air about her. 
The morning came and the city was astir 
again. But it was quiet in Loraine place. So 
many had gone away and there were no 
trolleys nearby. 
They looked over Manila’s head and found 
one spot above the ear that had a small bit 
of discoloration, but it was not in a dangerous 
place. The doctor came in. 
did not think there would be much 
change,’ he said. Then he tried to rouse her. 
Jane held her up while they gave her a little 
milk which she swallowed without difficulty. 
She opened her eyes and closed them again, 
then lay quiet. 
He listened to Miss Armitage’s interview 
and nodded as she went along. 
"The child is terribly run down. I think 
she has worked harder than any one imagined. 
But they seem to have appreciated her.” 
No one could guess the strain of talking so 
incessantly to amuse the babies, of reading to 
Jack, of having eyes all over to see that he 
did not torment the little ones, push their 
playthings out of the way, give them sly 
pinches or tweak their hair. She did hate to 
tell tales on him. And when he coaxed to 
go out with her he was a constant care. 
School had been closed for a fortnight. Oh, 
how tired she was every night! 
“You don’t eat more than a bird,” Bridget 
would complain. 
“But I’m never hungry now, I shall be so 
glad when we get to the real country, and 
grass, and everything. I’m so tired of the 
rows and rows of red brick houses, and they 
all seem so hot.' 
And now Bridget was almost heart broken. 
Ellen Day came in to tell Miss Armitage 
how glad she was that a good word had been 
spoken for her. "And she was sure she should 
like the ladies and the pretty little boy. But 
how fat the babies were and not a bit pretty. 
They were to start at twelve tomorrow.'' 
It was still hot, but in the afternoon it 
clouded up and the evening brought a most 
refreshing shower. The hot wave was broken. 
Sunday afternoon they had rolled the couch 
over by the window. Miss Armitage sat 
reading. Jane had gone out for a walk. The 
child seemed to have grown thinner in these 
few days. 
She opened her eyes slowly and looked in- 
tently at the woman sitting there in her soft, 
white attire. She was so sweet and pretty. 
"Are you a fairy godmother?'’ Marilla 
asked in a weak, wandering tone. 
"A — what?" smiling in surprise. 
'A fairy godmother. You don't look like 
the other one, but then it was night and we 
went to the King's ball. Oh, it was so 
splendid!" 
'When was that?’’ in a soft, persuasive tone. 
“Oh, a long time ago. I was Cinderella, and 
every new Cinderella dances with the Prince, 
you know. Only they can’t dance but once 
with him.” 
It was something the child had read, 
doubtless. 
“Do you feel better?” she asked tenderly. 
Marilla glanced around and sighed. Then 
she said in a frightened tone — 
“Oh, where am I? And where are the 
babies? I heard them cry.” 
“You are all safe and right. And the babies 
and all the family went down on Long Island.” 
“It’s so queer.” 
The eyelids drooped again and she fell 
asleep. 
An hour later she woke, and seemed to 
study the room and the lady. 
“I never was at fairyland but that once,” 
she said slowly. “Then there was such lovely 
music and dancing and everybody was so 
gay. It’s beautiful here and you are very 
sweet. I don’t know how I came here. Must 
I go back?” 
"Not until you are well. You have been 
ill. And you were brought here 
can’t think. There were the babies. I 
went to get something and stumbled and 
everything looked so queer, blue and red and 
full of stars, and then I went down and down 
and all was dark and I kept going down ” 
"You fainted and were brought over here. 
The babies were taken home. And you have 
been ill, but now you are going to get well.” 
'I 've never been real ill. There were the 
measles once in the home and we had to stay 
in bed. I was so hungry. Oh, do you know 
where Bridget is? She was so good to me.” 
"She is at Mr. Borden’s.” 
"Could I please to have a drink?” 
Miss Armitage brought a glass of milk. 
' Would you like something to eat — a bit 
