jealous of me.  You will tell him that you are ready to lead him to my
hiding-place."

"No, Miss Kathlyn; that will not do at all," declared Bruce
emphatically.

To this Ahmed agreed with a slow shake of the head.

"Let me finish," said Kathlyn.  "You will tell him, Pundita, that he
must come alone.  He will promise, but by some sign or other he will
signify to his men to follow.  Well, the guard may follow.  Once
Umballa steps inside the bungalow we will seize and bind him.  His life
will depend upon his writing a note to the council to liberate my
father.  If he refuses, the leopard."

"The leopard?"

"Yes; why not?  A leopard was the basic cause of all this misery and
treachery.  Let us give Umballa a taste of it.  Am I cruel?  Well, yes;
all that was gentle and tender in me seems either to have vanished or
hardened.  He has put terror into my heart; let me put it into his."

"It is all impractical," demurred Bruce.

"He will never follow Pundita," said Ahmed.

"Then shall we all sit down and wait?" Kathlyn asked bitterly.  "At
least let me try.  He will not harm Pundita, since it is I he wants."

"She is right," averred Pundita.  "A woman can do more at this moment
than a hundred men.  I will go, Mem-sahib; and, more, I will bring him
back."

"But if he should hold you as a hostage?" suggested the harried Ahmed.
"What then?"

"What will be will be," answered Pundita with oriental philosophy.

"You shall go, Pundita," said Ramabai; "and Durga Ram shall choke
between these two hands if he harms a hair of your head."

"And now to bed," said Ahmed.

Well for Kathlyn that she had not the gift of clairvoyance.  At the
precise moment she put her head upon the pillow her father was writhing
under the lash; but never a sound came from his lips.  Kit was free.
Kit was free!

"To-morrow and to-morrow's to-morrow you shall feel the lash," cried
Umballa when he saw that his victim could stand no more.  "Once more,
where is the filigree basket?"

Feebly the colonel shook his head.

"To-morrow, then!  Up till now you have known only neglect.  Now you
shall feel the active hatred of the man you robbed and cheated.  Ah,
rubies and pearls and emeralds; you will never see them."

"Nor shall you!"

"Wait and see.  There's another way of twisting the secret from you.
Wait; have patience."  Umballa laughed.

And this laughter rang in the colonel's ears long after the door had
closed.  What new deviltry had he in mind?

The next morning Kathlyn came into the living-room dressed, for the
first time in weeks.  She felt strangely uncomfortable.  For so long a
time her body had been free that the old familiar garments of
civilization (are they civilized?) almost suffocated her.

"You are not afraid, Pundita?"

"No, Mem-sahib.  Ahmed will have me carried to within a few yards of
the gate, and after that it will be easy to find Durga Ram.  Ah,
Mem-sahib, if you but knew how I hate him!"

After Pundita had departed Ahmed brought in the leopard.  Kathlyn
petted it and crooned, and the magic timbre of her tones won over the
spotted cat.  He purred.

And now they must wait.  An hour flew past.  Kathlyn showed signs of
restlessness, and this restlessness conveyed itself to the leopard, who
began to switch his tail about.

"Mem-sahib, you are losing your influence over the cat," warned Ahmed.
"Go walk; go talk elephant; and you, Bruce Sahib, go with her.  I'll
take care of the cat."

So Bruce and Kathlyn went the rounds of the cages.  She was a veritable
enigma to Bruce.  Tigers lost their tenseness and looked straight into
her eyes.  A cheetah with cubs permitted her to touch the wabbly
infants, whereas the keeper of this cage dared not go within a foot of
it.  By the time she reached the elephants a dozen keepers were
following her, their eyes wide with awe.  They had heard often of the
Mem-sahib who calmed the wild ones, but they had not believed.  With
the elephants she did about as she pleased.

"Miss Kathlyn, I am growing a bit afraid of you," said Bruce.

"And why?"

"I've never seen animals act like that before.  What is it you do to
them?"

"Let them know that I am not afraid of them and that I am fond of them."

"I am not afraid of them and am also fond of them.  Yet they spit at me
whenever I approach."

"Perhaps it is black art."  The shadow of a smile crossed her lips.
Then the smile stiffened and she breathed deeply.  For the moment she
had forgot her father, who stood chained to a pillar in a vile cell.
She put her hand over her eyes and swayed.

"What is it?" he cried in alarm.

"Nothing.  I had almost forgot where I am."

"I, too.  I am beginning to let Ahmed think for me.  Let us get back to
the bungalow."

He loved her.  And he feared her, too.  She was so unlike any young
woman he had ever met that she confused his established ideas of the
sex.  The cool blood of her disturbed him as much as anything.  Not a
sign of that natural hysteria of woman, though she had been through
enough to drive insane a dozen ordinary women.  He loved the fearless
eye of her, the flat back, the deep chest, the spring with which she
measured her strides.  Here at last was the true normal woman.  She was
of the breed which produced heroes.

He loved her, and yet was afraid of her.  A wall seemed to surround
her, and nowhere could he discover any breach.  Vaguely he wondered how
the Viking made love to the Viking's daughter.  By storm, or by guile?
Yes, he was afraid of her; afraid of her because she could walk alone.
He locked up his thoughts in his heart; for instinct advised him to say
nothing now; this was no time for the declaration of love.

"It is best," said Ahmed, "that we all remain inside the bungalow.
Ramabai, have you any plan in case Pundita does not return?"

Ramabai's breast swelled.  "Yes, Ahmed.  I have a thousand friends in
yonder city, ready at my call.  Only, this is not the time.  Still, I
can call to them, and by to-morrow there will not be a stone of the
palace upon another.  Be not alarmed.  Pundita will return, but mayhap
alone."

So they waited.

Now, Pundita, being a woman, was wise in the matter of lure.  She
entered the city unquestioned.  She came to the palace steps just as
Umballa was issuing forth.  She shivered a little--she could not help
it; the man looked so gloomy and foreboding.  The scowl warned her to
walk with extreme care.

He stopped when he saw her and was surprised into according her the
salute one gave to a woman of quality.

"Ah!"

"Durga Ram," she began, "I am seeking you."  Her voice trembled ever so
little.

"Indeed!  And why do you seek me, who am your enemy, and who always
will be?"

"A woman loves where she must, not where she wills."

Umballa seemed to ponder over this truth.

"And why have you sought me?"

"A woman's reasons.  My husband and the Mem-sahib----"

"You know, then, where she is?" quickly.

"Aye, Durga Ram; I alone know where she is hiding."

He sent a shrewd glance into her eyes.  Had she wavered, ill would have
befallen her.

"Tell me."

"Follow."

He laughed.  Near by stood two of the palace guards.  "All women are
liars.  Why should I trust you?"

"That is true.  Why indeed should you trust me?"  She turned and with
bowed head started to walk away.

"Wait!" he called to her, at the same time motioning to the guards to
follow at a distance.

"If I lead you to the Mem-sahib, it must be alone."

"You say that you alone know where she is?"

"I meant that I alone will lead you to her.  And you must decide
quickly, Durga Ram, for even now they are preparing for night, and this
time they will go far."

"Lead on."

"Send the guards back to the palace."

Umballa made a sign with his hand, but another with his eyes.  The
guards fell back to the palace steps, understanding perfectly that they
and others were to follow unseen.  Umballa knew instinctively that this
was a trap.  He would apparently walk into it unsuspectingly; but those
who sprung the trap would find no rat, but a tiger.  And after the
manner of hungry tigers, he licked his chops.  A trap; a child could
have discerned it.  But having faith in his star he followed Pundita.
Only once during the journey did he speak.

"Pundita, remember, if you have lied you will be punished."

"Durga Ram, I have not lied.  I have promised to lead you to her, and
lead you to her I shall."

"Durga Ram," he mused.  She did not give him his title of prince;
indeed, she never had.  She was really the rightful heir to this crown;
but her forbears had legally foresworn.  Ah! the Colonel Sahib's camp.
Good!  He knew now that in Kathlyn's escape he had the man Ahmed to
reckon with.  Presently.

"She is there, Durga Ram."

"And what more?" ironically.

His coolness caused her some uneasiness.  Had he, by means unknown to
her, signed to the guards to follow?

Umballa entered the living-room of the bungalow.  It was apparently
deserted.  He cast a quick glance about.  The curtains trembled
suspiciously, and even as he noted it, Bruce, Ramabai and Ahmed sprang
forth, carrying ropes.  Umballa made a dash for the door, but they were
too quick for him.  Struggling, he was seized and bound; but all the
while he was laughing inwardly.  Did they dream of trapping him in this
childish fashion?  By now twenty or thirty of his paid men were drawing
a cordon about the camp.  All of them should pay the full penalty for
this act.  What mattered a few ropes?  He was rather puzzled as to the
reason of their leaving his right arm free.

Next, the curtains were thrown back, and Kathlyn stood revealed.  Near
her a leopard strained impatiently on the leash.  Umballa eyed her
wonderingly.  She was like the woman who had arrived weeks ago.  And
yet to him she seemed less beautiful than when he paid five thousand
rupees for her in the slave mart.  He waited.

"Umballa, write an order for my father's release."

"And if I refuse?" Umballa wanted to gain time.

"You shall be liberated at the same time as this leopard.  You have had
experience with leopards.  Do you not recall the one my father killed,
saving the life of your benefactor?"

"I will free him in exchange for yourself."

"Write."

She offered the pen to him.

He shrugged and made no effort to take it.

"Very well," said Kathlyn.  "Leave us."  Once alone she said: "Can you
run as fast as this cat?"  She approached and began at the knots of the
ropes.

He saw by the thin determined line of her lips that she meant to do
exactly as she threatened.  He concluded then to sign the paper.  His
men would arrive before a messenger could reach the city.

"I will sign," he said.  "For the present you have the best of me.  But
what of the afterwards?"

"We are going to hold you as hostage, Umballa.  When my father arrives
we intend to escort you to the frontier and there leave you."

"Give me the pen."  His men were drawing nearer and nearer.  He signed
the order of release.  He knew that even if it reached the council it
would not serve, lacking an essential.

Kathlyn joyfully caught up the order and called to her friends.
Ramabai smiled and shook his head.  It was not enough, he said.  He
took the jeweled triangle from Umballa's turban.

"Go, Ramabai," said Kathlyn, strangely tender all at once; "go bring my
father back to me.  Rest assured that if aught happens to you, Umballa
shall pay."

"With his head," supplemented Bruce.  "Look not so eagerly toward the
west, Umballa.  Your troopers will remain at the edge of the clearing.
They have been informed that a single misstep on their part and their
master dies."

Umballa sat up stiffly in the chair.  They had beaten him by a point.
The heat of his rage swept over him like fire, and he closed his eyes.

Ramabai passed the guards, giving them additional warning to remain
exactly where they were.  The captain shrugged; it was all in a day's
work, women were always leading or driving men into hell.

When Ramabai appeared before the council he did so proudly.  He
salaamed as etiquette required, however, and extended the written order
for Colonel Hare's release.  At first they refused to regard it as
authentic.  Ramabai produced the jeweled triangle.

"The prince has made this order imperative," he said.  "Colonel Hare
will proceed in my custody."

"Where is Durga Ram?"

"At the bungalow of Colonel Hare, where he found the daughter."

Ah, that cleared up everything.  Umballa had some definite plan in
releasing Colonel Hare.  It would confuse the public, who had been
given to understand that the hunter was dead; but they would claim that
it was an affair of state, in nowise concerning the populace.  So
Colonel Hare was brought up.  Ramabai instantly signaled him to smother
his joy.  But it was not necessary for the colonel to pretend
dejection.  He was so pitiably weak that he could scarcely stand and
only vaguely understood that he was to follow this man Ramabai, whom he
did not recognize.

Ramabai, comprehending his plight, gave him the support of his arm, and
together they left the palace.  So far all had gone smoothly.

The council had no suspicions.  Twenty men had followed Durga Ram and
without doubt they were at this moment with him.

"Free!" breathed the colonel, as Ramabai beckoned to a public litter.

"Hush!  You are supposed to be my prisoner.  Make no sign of
jubilation."  Ramabai helped the broken man into the litter and bade
the coolies to hurry.  "Elephants will be ready to start the moment we
reach your camp.  This time I believe we can get away in safety."

"And Umballa?"

"Shall go with us as hostage."

But Umballa did not go with them as hostage.  On the contrary, the
moment they left him alone he quickly undid his bonds.  He tiptoed past
the leopard which flew at him savagely, ripping the post from its
socket and wrecking the banisters.  Umballa, unprepared for this
stroke, leaped through the window, followed by the hampered leopard.
It would have gone ill with Umballa even then had not some keepers
rushed for the leopard.  In the ensuing confusion Umballa escaped.

"He is gone!" cried Bruce.  "Ahmed, send a runner to warn Ramabai to
head for my camp!  Quick!  Get the elephants ready!  Come, Kathlyn;
come, Pundita!"  He hastened them toward the elephants.  "Umballa made
his escape east; it will take him some minutes to veer round to his
men.  Come!"

They waited at Bruce's camp an hour.  A litter was seen swaying to and
fro, with coolies on the run.  Ahmed ran forward and hailed it.  A
moment later Kathlyn and her father were reunited.

"In God's name, Bruce, let us get out of this damnable country; I am
dying for want of light, air, food!"

They lifted the colonel into a howdah and started south, urging the
elephants at top speed.  No sooner had they left the river than some
native boats landed at the broken camp, gleefully picking up things
which had been left behind in the rush.

"Our troubles are over, father."

"Perhaps!  So long as I remain in India, there is that curse.  Ah, I
once laughed at it; but not now."

Umballa at length found his captain.

"Follow me'" he cried in a fury.

He led them back to the colonel's camp, but those he sought had flown.
He reasoned quickly.  The trail led toward the camp of Bruce Sahib, and
along this he led his men, arriving in time to find the native boatmen
leaving for their boats.

A hurried question or two elicited the direction taken by the
fugitives.  Umballa commandeered the boats.  There was some protest,
but Umballa threatened death to those who opposed him, and the
frightened natives surrendered.  The soldiers piled into the boats and
began poling down-stream rapidly.  A mile or two below there was a ford
and to go south the pursued must cross it.

Later, pursuer and pursued met, and a real warfare began, with a death
toll on both sides.  Bruce and Ahmed kept the elephants going, but in
the middle of the ford a bullet struck Kathlyn, and she tumbled
headlong into the water.

The curse had not yet lifted its evil hand.




CHAPTER XI

THE WHITE ELEPHANT

It was the shock of the bullet rather than the seriousness of the wound
that had toppled Kathlyn into the river.  In the confusion, the rattle
of musketry, the yelling of the panic-stricken pack coolies who had
fled helter-skelter for the jungle, the squealing of the elephants, she
had forgot to crouch low in the howdah.  There had come a staggering
blow, after which sky and earth careened for a moment and became black;
then the chill of water and strangulation, and she found herself
struggling in the deepest part of the ford, a strange deadness in one
arm.  She had no distinct recollection of what took place; her one
thought was to keep her head above water.

Instantly the firing ceased; on one side because there were no more
cartridges, on the other for fear of hitting the one person who had
made this pursuit necessary.

Kathlyn struggled between the elephant which carried Ramabai and
Pundita and the boat or barge which held the eager Umballa and his
soldiers.  The mahout, terrorized, had slid off and taken to his heels
ingloriously.  Thus, Ramabai could do nothing to aid Kathlyn.  Nor
could the elephant ridden by the colonel and Bruce be managed.

Umballa was quick to see his advantage, and, laughing, he urged his men
toward the helpless girl.  The colonel raised his rifle and aimed at
Umballa, but there was no report, only a click which to the frantic
man's ears sounded like the gates of hell closing in behind him.

"Forward!" shouted Umballa.

She was his again; he would have the pleasure of taking her from under
the very eyes of her father and lover.  His star never faltered.

Bruce stood up in the howdah, ready to dive; but the colonel restrained
him.

"Don't waste your life!  My God, we can't help her!  Not a bullet in
either gun.  God's curse on all these worthless stones men call
guns! . . .  There, he's got her!  Not a shell left!  Kit!  Kit!"  The
colonel broke down and cried like a child.  As for Bruce, hot irons
could not have wrung a tear from his eyes; but Kit, in the hands of
that black devil again!

"Colonel," said Bruce, "I'd going to get some cartridges."

He realized then that Kathlyn's future depended upon him alone.  The
colonel was a broken man.  So he struck the elephant, who lumbered
ashore.  The moment Kathlyn was safe in the barge Umballa would
probably give orders to resume firing.  He could do so now with
impunity.

The soldiers drew Kathlyn into the barge.  Umballa saw that she was
wounded in the fleshy part of the arm.  Quickly he snatched off the
turban of one of the soldiers, unwound it and began to bandage
Kathlyn's arm.

The man, for all his oriental craftiness, was still guileless enough to
expect some sign of gratitude from her; but; as he touched her she
shrank in loathing.  His anger flamed and he flung her roughly into a
seat.

"Suffer, then, little fool!"

Meantime the colonel and Bruce dismounted and tried to stem the tide of
fleeing coolies; but it was no more effective than blowing against the
wind.  They found, however, an abandoned pack containing cartridge
cases, and they filled their pockets, calling to Ramabai and Pundita to
follow them along the river in pursuit of Umballa's barge, which was
now being rapidly poled up-stream.  They might be able to pick off
enough soldiers, sharpshooting, to make it impossible to man the barge.
They were both dead shots, and the least they could do would be to put
the fight on a basis of equality so far as numbers were concerned.

The colonel forgot all about how weak he was.  The rage and despair in
his heart had once more given him a fictitious strength.

"The curse, the curse, always the curse!"

"Don't you believe that, Colonel.  It is only misfortune.  Now I'm
going to pot Umballa.  That will simplify everything.  Without a head
the soldiers will be without a cause, and they'll desert Kathlyn as
quickly as our coolies deserted us."

"Where is Ahmed?"

"Ahmed?  I had forgot all about him!  But we can't wait now.  He'll
have to look out for himself.  Hark!"

Squealing and trumpeting and thunderous crashing in the distance.

"Wild elephants!" cried the colonel, the old impulse wheeling him
round.  But the younger man caught hold of his arm significantly.

The soldiers poled diligently, but against the stream, together with
the clumsiness of the barge, they could not make headway with any
degree of speed.  It was not long before Bruce could see them.  He
raised his rifle and let go; and in the boat Umballa felt his turban
stir mysteriously.  The report which instantly followed was enough to
convince him that he in particular was being made a target.  He
crouched behind Kathlyn, while two or three of the soldiers returned
the shot, aiming at the clump of scrub from which a film of pale blue
smoke issued.  They waited for another shot, but none came.

The reason was this: the herd of wild elephants which Bruce and the
colonel had heard came charging almost directly toward them, smashing
young trees and trampling the tough underbrush.  Some of them made for
the water directly in line with the passing boats.  Kathlyn, keenly
alive to the fact that here was a chance, jumped overboard before
Umballa could reach out a staying hand.

To Kathlyn there was only death in the path of the elephants; to remain
on the barge was to face eventually that which was worse than death.
Her arm throbbed painfully, but in the desperate energy with which she
determined to take the chance she used it.  Quite contrary to her
expectations, her leap was the best thing she could have done.  Most of
the barges were upset and the great beasts were blundering across the
river between her and the barges.

Bruce witnessed Kathlyn's brave attempt and dashed into the water after
her.  It took him but a moment to bring her to land, where her father
clasped her in his arms and broke down again.

"Dad, dad!" she whispered.  "Don't you see our God is powerfulest?  I
believed I was going to be trampled to death, and here I am, with you
once more."

They hurried back as fast as Kathlyn's weakness would permit to where
they had left their own elephants, doubting that they should find them,
considering that it was quite probable that they had joined their wild
brethren.  But no; they were standing shoulder to shoulder, flapping
their ears and curling their trunks.  So many years had they been
trained to hunt elephants that they did not seem to know what to do
without some one to guide them.

Bruce ordered one of them to kneel, doubtfully; but the big fellow
obeyed the command docilely, and the colonel and Bruce helped the
exhausted girl into the howdah.  The colonel followed, while Bruce took
upon his own shoulders the duties of mahout.  Pundita got into the
other howdah and Ramabai imitated Bruce.  The elephants shuffled off,
away from the river.  For the time being neither Bruce nor Ramabai gave
mind to the compass.  To make pursuit impossible was the main business
just then.

Later Umballa, dulled and stupefied from his immersion, stood on the
shore, with but nine of the twenty soldiers he had brought with him.
Evidently, his star had faltered.  Very well; he would send for the
other sister.  She was the Colonel Sahib's daughter, and young; she
would be as wax in his hands.  A passion remained in Umballa's heart,
but it was now the passion of revenge.

When he had recovered sufficiently he gave orders to one of the
soldiers to return to the city, to bring back at once servants,
elephants and all that would be required for a long pursuit.  The
messenger was also to make known these preparations to the council, who
would undertake to forward the cable submitted to them.  All these
things off his mind, Umballa sat down and shivered outwardly, while he
boiled within.  He was implacable; he would blot out his enemy, kith
and kin.  Colonel Hare should never dip his fingers into the filigree
basket--never while he, Durga Ram, lived.

Quite unknown, quite unsuspected by him, for all the activity of his
spies, a volcano was beginning to grumble under his feet.  All tyrants,
the petty and the great, have heard it: the muttering of the oppressed.

Perhaps the fugitives had gone thirty miles when suddenly the jungle
ended abruptly and a desert opened up before them.  Beyond stood a
purple line of rugged hills.  Ramabai raised his hand, and the
elephants came to a halt.

"I believe I know where I am," said Ramabai.  "Somewhere between us and
yonder hills is a walled city, belonging to Bala Khan, a Pathan who
sometimes styles himself as a rajah.  He has a body of fierce fighting
men; and he lives unmolested for two reasons: looting would not be
worth while and his position is isolated and almost impregnable.  Now,
if I am right, we shall find shelter there, for he was an old friend of
my father's and I might call him a friend of mine, since I sell sheep
for him occasionally."

"Bala Khan?" mused Bruce, reminiscently.  "Isn't he the chap who has a
sacred white elephant?"

"It is the same," answered Ramabai.  "We can reach there before
sundown.  It would be wise to hasten, however, as this desert and those
hills are infested with lawless nomadic bands of masterless
men--brigands, you call them.  They would cut the throat of a man for
the sake of his clothes."

"Let us go on," said the colonel.  "I don't care where.  I am dead for
want of food and sleep."

"And I, too," confessed Kathlyn; "My arm pains me badly."



"My poor Kit!" murmured her father gloomily.  "And all this because I
told you half a truth, because in play I tried to make a mystery out of
a few plain facts.  I should have told you everything, warned you
against following in case I failed to turn up."

"I should have followed you just the same."

"Shall I rebind the arm?" asked Bruce, turning.

"No, thanks." She smiled down at him.  "This bandage will serve till we
reach Bala Khan's."

"By the way, Colonel, is there a pair of binoculars in the howdah?"

"Yes.  Do you want them?"

"No.  Just to be sure they were there.  We may have occasion to use
them later, in case this place Ramabai is taking us to should turn out
hostile.  I like to know what is going on ahead of me."

"Poor Kit!" reiterated the colonel.

"Never mind, dad; you meant it all for the best; and you must not let
our present misfortunes convince you that that yogi or guru cast a
spell of evil over you.  That is all nonsense."

"My child, this is the Orient, Asia.  Things happen here that are
outside the pale of logic.  Bruce, am I not right?"

"I have seen many unbelievable things here in India," replied Bruce
reluctantly.  "Think of yesterday and to-day, Miss Kathlyn."

"Yes; but the curse of a priest who believes in different gods, who
kotows before a painted idol!  I just simply can't believe anything so
foolish.  Dad, put the thought out of your mind for my sake.  So long
as we have the will to try we'll see California again before many
weeks."

"Do you feel like that?" curiously.

"In my soul, dad, in my soul."  She stared dreamily toward the
empurpling hills.  "I can't explain, but that's the way I feel.  Some
day we shall be free again, reenter the life we have known and all this
will resolve itself into an idle dream.  Ahmed has said it."

"No, he is alive somewhere back there."

Bruce turned to look at her again, but Kathlyn was still gazing at the
hills without seeing them.

"A white elephant," mused the colonel.  "Do you know it for a fact that
this Bala Khan has a white elephant?" he called across to Ramabai.

"I have never seen it Sahib.  It is what they say."

"A pair of mottled ears is the nearest I ever came to seeing a white
elephant, and I've hunted them for thirty years, here, in Ceylon, in
Burma, in Africa.  There was once a tiger near Madras that hadn't any
stripes.  The natives would not permit him to be killed because they
held that, being unique, he was sacred.  A sacred white elephant!  Poor
simple-minded fools!"  The colonel felt in his pockets, then dropped
his hands dispiritedly.  How long since he had tasted tobacco?  "Bruce,
have you got a cheroot in your pocket?  I think a smoke would brace me
up."

Bruce laughed and passed up a broken cigar, which the colonel lighted
carefully.  The weariness seemed to go out of his face magically.

"This Bala Khan should be Mohammedan," said Bruce.  "The Pathan
despises the Hindu."

"There are Hindus in yonder city; quite as many," said Ramabai, "as
there are Mohammedans.  Even the Pathan expects that which he can not
understand."

"Isn't that the wall behind that sand-hill?  Let me have the glasses a
moment.  Colonel. . . .  H'm!  The walled city, all right.  Some people
moving about outside.  Dancers, I should say."

"Professional," explained Ramabai.

"Nothing religious, then?  By George!"

"What is it?" asked the colonel.

"Take a look.  There's an elephant being led into the city gates."

The colonel peered eagerly through the glasses.

"The sun is shining on him. . . .  No! he is . . . white!  A white
elephant!  I'd give ten thousand this minute to own it.  There, it's
entered the gate.  Well, well, well!  And I've lived to see it!  Poor
old Barnum, to have carried around a tinted pachyderm!  He's white as
any elephant flesh could be.  Those dancing chaps are going in, too.
What caste would those dancers be, Ramabai?"

"Pariahs, quite possibly; probably brigands."

The rim of the sun was sinking rapidly as Bruce drew his elephant to a
halt before the gate of the white walled city.  The guard ran out,
barring the way.

"I am Ramabai, a friend of Bala Khan.  I am come to pay him a visit.
Direct me to his house or his palace."

The authority in Ramabai's voice was sufficient for the guard, who gave
the necessary directions.  The party continued on into town.  It was an
odd place for a walled city.  There wasn't a tree about, not a sign of
boscage, except some miles away where the hills began to slope upward.
Bruce wondered what the inhabitants fed upon.  It was more like an
Egyptian village than anything he had ever seen in India.  Bruce asked
for his rifle, which he laid carelessly in the crook of his arm.  One
never could tell.

Presently they came upon a group in the center of which were the
dancers at their vocations.  They ceased their mad whirlings at the
sight of the two elephants.  There were nine of these men, fierce of
eye and built muscularly.  No effeminate Hindus here, mused Bruce, who
did not like the looks of them at all.  The surrounding natives stared
with variant emotions.  Many of them had never seen a white man before.
Their gaze centered upon the colonel.  Kathlyn was almost as dark as
Pundita, and as for Bruce, only his European dress distinguished him
from Ramabai, for there was scarcely a shade difference in color.  But
the colonel, having been weeks in prison, was as pale as alabaster and
his hair shone like threads of silver.

On through the narrow streets, sometimes the sides of the elephants
scraping against the mud and plaster of the buildings, and one could
easily look into the second stories.  No one seemed hostile; only a
natural curiosity was evinced by those standing in doorways or leaning
out of windows.

The house of Bala Khan was not exactly a palace, but it was of
respectable size.  A high wall surrounded the compound.  There was a
gateway, open at this moment.  A servant ran out and loudly demanded
what was wanted.

"Say to your master, Bala Khan, that Ramabai, son of Maaho Singh, his
old friend, awaits with friendly greetings."

"Kit," whispered Kathlyn's father, "this chap Ramabai wouldn't make a
bad king.  And look!" excitedly.  "There's the sacred elephant, and if
he isn't white, I'll eat my hat!"

Kathlyn sighed gratefully.  That her father could be interested in
anything was a good sign for the future.  A few days' rest and
wholesome food would put him half-way on his legs.  Her own vitality
was an inheritance from her father.  The male line of the family was
well known for its recuperative powers.

The servant ran back into the compound and spoke to a dignified man,
who proved to be a high caste Brahmin, having in his charge the care of
the white elephant.  He disappeared and returned soon with the Khan.
The pleasant face, though proudly molded, together with the simplicity
of his appearance, conveyed to Kathlyn the fact that here was a man to
be trusted, at least for the present.  He greeted Ramabai cordially,
struck his hands and ordered out the servants to take charge of what
luggage there was and to lead away the elephants to be fed and watered.

Courteously he asked Kathlyn how she had become injured and Ramabai
acted as interpreter.  He then ushered them into his house, spread rugs
and cushions for them to sit upon and mildly inquired what had brought
the son of his old friend so far.

Colonel Hare spoke several dialects fluently and briefly told (between
sips of tea and bites of cakes which had been set out for the guests)
his experiences in Allaha.

"The rulers of Allaha," observed Bala Khan, "have always been half mad."

Ramabai nodded in agreement.

"You should never have gone back," went on Bala Khan, lighting a
cigarette and eying Kathlyn with wonder and interest.  "Ah, that Durga
Ram whom they call Umballa!  I have heard of him, but fortunately for
him our paths have not crossed in any way."  He blew a cloud of smoke
above his head.  "Well, he has shown wisdom in avoiding me.  In front
of me, a desert; behind me, verdant hills and many sheep and cattle,
well guarded.  I am too far away for them to bother.  Sometimes the
desert thieves cause a flurry, but that is nothing.  It keeps the
tulwar from growing rusty," patting the great knife at his side.

Bala Khan was muscular; his lean hands denoted work; his clear eyes,
the sun and the wind.  He was in height and building something after
the pattern of the colonel.

"And to force a crown on me!" said the colonel.

"You could have given it to this Umballa."

"That I would not do."

"In each case you showed forethought.  The Durga Ram, when he had you
where he wanted you----"  Bala Khan drew a finger suggestively across
his throat.  "Ramabai, son of my friend, I will have many sheep for you
this autumn.  What is it to me whether you Hindus eat beef or not?"  He
laughed.

"I am not a Hindu in that sense," returned Ramabai.  "I have but one
God."

"And Mahomet is His prophet," said the host piously.

"Perhaps.  I am a Christian."

Bruce stirred uneasily, but his alarm was without foundation.

"A Christian," mused Bala Khan.  "Ah, well; have no fear of me.  There
is no Mahdi in these hills.  There is but one road to Paradise and
argument does not help us on the way."

Lowly and quickly Pundita translated for Kathlyn so that she might miss
none of the conversation.

"The Colonel Sahib looks worn."

"I am."

"Now, in my travels I have been to Bombay, and there I dressed like you
white people.  I have the complete.  Perhaps the Colonel Sahib would be
pleased to see if he can wear it?  And also the use of my barber?"

"Bala Khan," cried the colonel, "you are a prince indeed!  It will
tonic me like medicine.  Thanks, thanks!"

"It is well."

"You have a wonderful elephant out there in the compound," said Bruce,
who had remained a silent listener to all that had gone before.

"Ah!  That is a curiosity.  He is worshiped by Hindus and reverenced by
my own people.  I am his official custodian.  There is a saying among
the people that ill will befall me should I lose, sell, or permit him
to be stolen."

"And many have offered to buy?" inquired the colonel.

"Many."

When the colonel appeared at supper, simple but substantial, he was a
new man.  He stood up straight, though his back still smarted from the
lash.  Kathlyn was delighted at the change.

After the meal was over and coffee was drunk, the Khan conducted his
guests to his armory, of which he was very proud.  Guns of all
descriptions lined the walls.  Some of them Bruce would have liked to
own, to decorate the walls of his own armory, thousands of miles away.

The colonel whispered a forgotten prayer as, later, he laid down his
weary aching limbs upon the rope bed.  Almost immediately he sank into
slumber as deep and silent as the sea.

Kathlyn and Bruce, however, went up to the hanging gardens and remained
there till nine, marveling over the beauty of the night.  The Pathan
city lay under their gaze with a likeness to one of those magic cities
one reads about in the chronicles of Sindbad the Sailor.  But they
spoke no word of love.  When alone with this remarkable young woman,
Bruce found himself invariably tongue-tied.

At the same hour, less than fifty miles away, Umballa stood before the
opening of his elaborate tent, erected at sundown by the river's brink,
and scowled at the moon.  He saw no beauty in the translucent sky, in
the silvery paleness of the world below.  He wanted revenge, and the
word hissed in his brain as a viper hisses in the dark of its cave.

Dung fires twinkled and soldiers lounged about them, smoking and
gossiping.  They had been given an earnest against their long
delinquent wages; and they were in a happy frame of mind.  Their dead
comrades were dead and mourning was for widows; but for them would be
the pleasures of swift reprisals.  The fugitives had gone toward the
desert, and in that bleak stretch of treeless land it would not be
difficult to find them, once they started in pursuit.

Midnight.

In the compound the moonlight lay upon everything; upon the fat sides
and back of the sacred white elephant, upon the three low caste
keepers, now free of the vigilant eye of their Brahmin chief.  The
gates were barred and closed; all inside the house of Bala Khan were
asleep.  Far away a sentry dozed on his rifle, on the wall.  The three
keepers whispered and chuckled among themselves.

"Who will know?" said one.

"The moon will not speak," said another.

"Then, let us go and smoke."

The three approached the elephant.  A bit of gymnastics and one of them
was boosted to the back of the elephant to whom this episode was more
or less familiar.  Another followed; the third was pulled up, and from
the elephant's back they made the top of the wall and disappeared down
into the street.  Here they paused cautiously, for two guards always
patrolled the front of the compound during the night.  Presently the
three truants stole away toward the bazaars which in this desert town
occupied but a single street.  Down they went into a cellar way and the
guru's curse stalked beside them.  For opium is the handmaiden of all
curses.

Perhaps twenty minutes later slight sounds came from the front of the
compound wall.  A rifle barrel clattered upon the cobbles.  Then, over
the wall, near the elephant, a head appeared, then a body.  This was
repeated four times, and four light-footed nomads of the desert lowered
themselves into the compound.  They ran quickly to the gate and
