the day before. Claire was lifted out in a cushioned chair and insisted
that Lilian should sit next. Miss Benson was on the other side and took
a turn with Lilian.
"Yes, she had worked her way through college. She had studied
type-writing and done work for the professors and copied essays for the
girls and coached backward girls, and trimmed hats, as she had a genius
for millinery. Then, in vacation she had been a sort of summer governess
when parents wanted to take journeys. It had all been very interesting,
too, but it had taken longer, and now she was studying medicine in New
York and teaching some hours a day."
"I like to teach but I don't believe I want to be a doctor, I think I
should like to go to college."
"It is a fine discipline and broadens out one's mind. It makes excellent
teachers, as well, and you do have many happy times. Think of a
settlement of hundreds of girls!"
"Mrs. Barrington will only have twenty boarders and there are about
twenty day scholars."
"Not a very large family to be sure, but enough to give you some
variety. You look as if you might be a good student."
Lilian colored.
Mrs. Trenham was entertaining the mother.
She had been a widow twelve years, but was left with a small competency.
Claire had been thrown out of a carriage by a runaway horse when she was
barely five and very seriously injured so that for two years she was
entirely helpless and now held her life on a very frail tenure, but she
was a happy child and they made her life as entertaining as possible.
"You are blest in your daughter," said Mrs. Trenham. "She is so bright
and eager and vigorous, and has so much character. Well, I have Edith
who has always been a great comfort, and I suppose one gets used to a
burden when it is a pleasant one. Claire is very loving and we try to
keep all sad things from her."
Lilian thought it a delightful afternoon. These were the kind of people
you could get close to. She saw that her mother was enjoying it as well.
Wasn't it rather monotonous for her at Mrs. Barrington's? At Laconia
there had been neighbors dropping in, some who had known her early life
and sympathized with her misfortunes, and here, no one. She was glad to
have been taken in this kindly family.
"Oh, won't you come often?" pleaded Claire. "I like you so much, and if
you could come some Saturday mamma and Edith might go out together. An
old lady does come in when they go to church, but she isn't any real
company. She hasn't any ideas. Don't you think old people get sort of
stupid?" Lilian laughed.
Miss Benson expressed a good deal of pleasure at meeting such an
ambitious girl and hoped to keep in touch with her for sometime; she
might be able to counsel her or perhaps direct her on her way.
"It has been just delightful," she said when they reached their own
rooms.
She did not go in to sing but read to her mother. Yes, she would try in
the future to share more of her life with the colorless one. She had
resolved to make the great sacrifice when she found she could not go on
with school, and lo, this had been the outcome. They were delightfully
sheltered, there were no hardships, only pin pricks and she would be
silly to mind those. There was a sudden commotion through the place on
Monday morning. Such glad bursts of welcome, such joyous laughter and
absolute peans of delight.
For Zaidee Crawford had come. She, Lilian, was not in it and she
wondered if at any time or in any place there would be such unalloyed
gladness at her coming.
A girl of fifteen, bewilderingly pretty in the changes that passed over
her mobile face. A complexion that was pink and pearl, golden hair that
was a mass of waves and shining rings that seemed to ray off sunshine
with every movement of the head that had a bird-like poise; a low broad
Clytie brow and eyes that were the loveliest violet color, sometimes
blue, sometimes the tenderest, most appealing gray. Her smile was
captivating, disarming. It played about her lips that shut with dimples
in the corners, it quivered in her eyes and made the whole face radiant.
Why Zaidee Crawford wasn't spoiled by the indulgence and adulation was
quite a mystery. She had been longed for before her birth--one brother
was seven the other nine years older. Major Crawford thought the tie
between father and daughter was one of the choicest of heaven's
blessings. He was proud of his sons whose straightforward, honorable
careers in the lines they had chosen, to his great satisfaction, gave
him profound happiness. Connected with Zaidee's birth had been the great
sorrow of their lives that had cost Mrs. Crawford years of excruciating
suffering and at first it seemed hopeless invalidism. In one of the
Indian skirmishes the Major had been severely wounded in the leg that
had left it lame and rather stiff. He resigned from the army to devote
himself to his wife and the old residence that had been in his family
for generations. And at this period a relative died and left him a large
fortune. Beyond improving his estate and having the best medical
attendance for his wife there was no real change in their living. They
were both too sensible not to know how easily boys might be led astray
by unwise indulgence in money. They were both high minded with a fine
sense of right and justice. Both had gone down the dark valley and
looked death in the face and thereafter walked humbly before God.
Zaidee Crawford had been a day scholar except at intervals when her
mother had been taken away for medical treatment. Oddly enough, Mrs.
Crawford as a girl, had been educated by Mrs. Barrington, then a young
and childless widow, with an ardent desire for some useful aim in life,
and they had remained the warmest of friends. Mrs. Barrington's comfort
and faith had cheered many an hour of despondency.
But the Major had once said--"Margaret, while you can endure the
suffering, always think that I would much rather have you as you are
than to have lost you in that terrible time, and God has spared us our
two fine sons and our sweet daughter."
Yes, there was much joy still left to life.
Zay went to her classes as a visitor this morning. There were many
smiles of welcome. After all, she had not fallen so far behind, but her
brother had been coaching her. There were four new scholars in the Latin
class. The Kirklands, Louie Howe, who had been promoted, and a Miss
Boyd, who roused a peculiar interest; but then her rendering in the
translation was exceedingly fine.
"Who is that tall girl with the bronzy gold hair? And isn't she a fine
reader?" exclaimed Zaidee.
They were in a little group of old friends. Louie Howe laughed. Phillipa
made a funny face.
"Well?" and flushing a little she glanced up, inquiringly.
"The caretaker's daughter. We are democratic this year," announced May
Gedney.
"The caretaker--"
"A Mrs. Boyd, a pale little nonentity, but she darns in the most elegant
fashion you ever saw. She had to bring her daughter you see, and the
daughter is to be a teacher--is a sort of charity scholar, looks after
the laggards in the evening, but she keeps her place pretty well. Of
course she lives over on that side," nodding her head.
"See here," began Phillipa, "that girl has puzzled me with an elusive
resemblance to somebody, Zay, it really is you. Her hair and eyes are
darker, she's larger every way, she is not such a peerless maid--"
"I shouldn't feel complimented by that! Oh the idea! A girl from--well
somewhere from the wild and woolly west--"
Much as Phillipa Rosewald loved her friends and she confessed to adoring
Zaidee, she never stopped at a little fling.
"The compliment, of course, is to Miss Boyd. She has a temper of her
own, you can catch a flash of it in her eyes, and I dare say her iron
rule is what makes her mother so meek. She pets up that Nevins girl who
is a--well they are called Beauty and the Beast. How she managed to
slip in here puzzles me."
"That girl is my horrid familiar, my bete noire. She has the room next
to mine and you ought to see it. Miss Davis marked her down for
untidyness, and Mrs. Barrington put her on a diet, her complexion was so
horrid, but she manages to get a lot of sweets and chocolates. And the
way she dresses! A modiste in New York sends her clothes and told her
the color of one's frocks must match the hair or the eyes, and no one
could match those gray blue green eyes, so it has to be the hair."
"I wouldn't want that dull brown hair. I don't suppose she ever brushes
it. At home the maid looked after her. The mother is traveling for her
health, and they are very rich."
"Oh, is she making a confidante of you, too?" laughed May Gedney. "I
thought it rather funny at first, I didn't believe half she said, but
her father is quite an important man in banking circles it seems, and
there are diamonds galore, but he wouldn't let her wear only that
diamond birthday ring at school. She was wildly in love with Miss Boyd
but the girl was too hard hearted to return it. She is a regular icicle
and stony hearted and all that! Yes, her heart is irretrievably gone
about the girl. They did have a kissing match one night but they don't
do it any more in public! I don't know what they do in private, but the
Boyd shut down on gifts which almost broke her heart, and she had spent
two dollars for two orchids."
"That certainly speaks well for Miss Boyd," Zay exclaimed.
May flushed. Lately she had been the recipient of some gifts.
"Of course she is here to train the younger minds in the paths of
knowledge while her mother mends their clothes."
"Well, is that to be despised?" asked Zay with spirit.
"Why, no, but of course you don't associate with your dressmaker's
daughter, nor the store clerks though they are nice enough for the
places they have to fill in life. If it wasn't for the mother she might
pass muster, and you know this is the most select of schools. That is
one reason mother sent me here there was no chance of making undesirable
acquaintances. For one thing, the terms are too high," and Louie Howe
bridled.
"Is this Miss Nevins at the highwater mark?" and there was a touch of
sarcasm in Zay's tone.
"Oh let's quit the higher criticism," said another. "I want to hear Zay
talk, and you've been to Berlin and that picturesque Dresden. Did you
see the shepherdesses with their crooks, and Corydon making love to
them, and Holland--that funny place of canals and windmills and stumpy
dutchmen."
"And, oh, did you see the Kaiser?"
Zay laughed. "Yes, mounted on a fine horse, and the Empress and her
pretty daughter in a state carriage. And Willard went to some sort of
review with the Ambassador and was presented to the Kaiser who asked him
about Annapolis, and some of the training. He thought the great Emperor
very affable. Father has been at a few of the functions and seen the
royal ladies in their state dresses. Then, there are some splendid
professors and scientists--"
"But you didn't go to Paris?"
"No. Father and Willard spent ten days there while Aunt Kate and I staid
with mother. Then she could cross the room without a cane, even. Now she
can walk some distance. Oh, girls, its splendid not to have her go on
crutches! And she thinks in two years or so we may go to Paris for quite
a stay. You know real young girls don't understand fine pictures and all
that! Willard begins his three-years cruise early in January, and in the
summer Vincent will graduate and perhaps be sent off somewhere. The
doctors wanted her to spend the whole winter about the Mediterranean,
but she thought it would be so lovely to have our Christmas together."
"Oh, Zaidee Crawford, you're a girl to be envied! None but the rich,
etc.," with sundry upturnings of the chin.
"Well, I hope I'll be able to go abroad on a wedding tour. Otherwise I
won't have him!" announced Phillipa with great solemnity at which they
all laughed.
"Young ladies do you know it is time to go out for exercise," said Miss
Arran.
"Oh, let us go over to Crawford House," cried Zay. "Why, you will hardly
know it. The two parlors are to be thrown into one--a regular drawing
room, and I'm to have the prettiest study off of my bedroom. I have to
decide what color I shall have them done in."
"We'll all help you."
"I just can't have blue and I like it so, but it is the one idea of
blondes, therefore I avoid it."
"It seems Miss Boyd's favorite color," said Louie. "And she's not so
very blondy, either."
CHAPTER V
ZAIDEE
They were the usual lot of girls in a sort of hubbub together. With the
exception of the Kirklands they were not taking life seriously as yet.
They studied and sang, painted, wrote verses, sometimes were caught on
trigonometry and occasionally made awful translations in Latin and
French. They changed their ideals, they vowed friendship and fell out
with each other, they were spiteful and willful and sweet and penitent,
and if "a boy's will's the wind's will," a young girl's will in the
unformed years is not much better.
Phillipa Rosewald was a sort of leader. A kind of charming girl with
many varieties, fascinating, making you like her when she chose and then
giving you pin pricks instead of caresses. Before she put on long
dresses boys were quarrelling about her and she seemed to sandwich love
affairs in with her lessons; she had fine taste in dressing, she could
tie a bow, or trim a hat, or furbish up an evening waist in a manner
that filled her comrades with envy, and she was a fairly good scholar as
well.
But Zaidee with her graciousness and sweet temper won all hearts. Every
one was eager to have some little claim upon her. Her mother's sad
accident and her father being one of the survivors of a fierce Indian
battle made her a sort of heroine. She was not quite an angel but very
human and with the peculiar sweetness that always disarms criticism.
And although it was considered a rather aristocratic school there were
the usual feuds and bits of jealousy inseparable from a crowd of girls,
the days in the main passed delightfully, and now they were all
interested in the rehabilitation of Crawford House, the coming of the
young midshipman and the lovely mother who at last had an almost
miraculous restoration to health and strength.
Crawford House was full of workmen. Aunt Kate was supervisor. Willard
was staying with his parents.
The house stood on a little eminence and had two terraces that were a
mass of bloom in the summer. A broad portico ran on two sides and at the
end fronting the south there was an imposing tower, many windows. Back
of it was a flower garden, a vegetable garden, barns, carriage house and
a useful little green-house.
"Dear, I hope the workmen will be through early in December," said Aunt
Kate. "Then there is all the furnishing. Only about six weeks. Does
school seem natural, Zay? Have the girls gone way ahead of you?"
"I hardly know yet," was the laughing reply. "Mrs. Barrington hasn't
really set me at work."
"Are there many new scholars?"
"Not in our department, but it seems nice to be a school girl again and
not a globe trotter."
"But you didn't go quite round the world."
"I'm glad there's something left. Look girls, this is my room with the
southern and western exposure. I think I'll have it done in pale green
and pink, Aunt Kate. That will tone down the summer sunshine. Phil and I
have been discussing colors."
"That will be pretty, and you can stand green. It would turn some
complexions yellow," returned Aunt Kate.
"How short the days are growing! And it gets dark so soon. Girls, we had
better hurry off home."
"Shall I order samples of green, Zaidee?"
"Yes, Aunt Kate, if you please."
It was quite a treat to sit down at the table with a group of girls.
Madame Eustice talked to them in French and Zay surprised her with her
readiness and improved pronunciations.
"And I am quite a proficient in German as far as talking goes, I've
heard so much of it, and it seemed so funny at first. Though a good many
of the servants and waiters speak a little English."
Zay glanced down at the other table. She singled out Miss Nevins who had
quite a fancy hair dressing and a pink bow. But she saw no one she
thought Miss Boyd. Then there was a full hour to the study period.
Lilian and her mother often took this meal which was only a kind of high
tea in their room. Mrs. Boyd could not overcome a half fear of Mrs.
Dane. Then she read to her mother until it was time to go to the study.
Often she left her mother asleep in the big easy chair. Oh, for some one
to listen and to respond! But the practice was good for her if no one
listened.
Zay kept glancing furtively down at the table of the younger class. Yes,
there was Miss Boyd. She went toward a pupil, as a small hand was held
up. There was something interesting in the face, and the young student
would glance up and smile. Was there any resemblance, she wondered? The
hair was darker, but the complexion was certainly fine. Miss Nevins had
a peevish look tonight and said something rather cross. Miss Boyd
preserved her serenity.
Lilian was having quite a delightful new interest in the Trenhams. Her
exercise hour led to a walk down there and an engaging half visionary
talk with Claire who had wonderful adventures with a pretty squirrel who
ran up and down a tree in range with her window. Or it was some belated
bird who had lost his way south and had to hide to keep out of the way
of the hunters.
"Why do they let them go out and kill the poor birdies?" she asked
plaintively. "I should think it would be braver to go to Africa and
shoot lions and tigers and those cruel animals that eat up human beings,
and the dear pretty little squirrels!"
"Why, indeed?" Lilian had often thought of it herself.
Or it would be a story of a fairy who had a long search for a charmed
ring that would bestow a wonderful power over everything in the forest
and give the animals the gift of speech. Claire told one, Lilian must
take the next.
"Edith comes home so tired sometimes. You are always fresh," the child
said.
Then the girl would meet Edith who would turn about and walk with her
and listen to the hopes and ambitions and dreams she could tell to no
one else. So she had a comforting secret life.
Zaidee Crawford made two or three slight advances, but they were
distantly received, and Zay was not used to being rebuffed. She was not
much of an analyst and thought Miss Boyd very cold natured. But now and
then the enthusiasm of the true student broke out in some class
recitation and it transfigured her.
"Our pupil teacher quite distinguished herself today," said Phillipa
Rosewald, "though I must say it was in exceedingly bad taste."
"Why bad taste?" asked Zay. "I thought it fine."
"She might have been a little more modest. You see, my dear child, we
are not preparing for teachers nor to vulgarly distinguish ourselves. I
thought Miss Grayson did not quite like it. Are you really growing fond
of your double? But I can't imagine you standing up in that bold
fashion."
Zay was silent. It always annoyed her to have Miss Boyd called her
double. The figure and manner was so different. Zay was so light and
airy, she seemed rather to skim over space than to walk, and every
motion was replete with grace, while Miss Boyd was stately, and when
critical eyes were upon her, sometimes seemed awkward.
Miss Nevins certainly was improving. Thanks to Mrs. Barrington's regimen
her complexion had cleared up, she kept her hair in a tidier fashion.
May Gedney had insisted upon her wearing something beside the dismal
browns.
"Send this to your dressmaker and have a green suit trimmed with bands
of gray fur--if it won't be too extravagant."
"Oh, father will pay the bill. He hasn't much idea of what things cost."
"See here--I know a lovely dressmaker in Livingston. I sometimes go
there. Mrs. Barrington would let us go over with Miss Davis, I am sure,
and as she keeps samples we could choose, and she could take your
measure. I don't believe it would cost half as much, and will be
prettier. Your clothes are too old."
"Oh, you are an angel," and May had to submit to an embrace.
Mrs. Barrington agreed. She gave Miss Nevins some money.
"As they are going on your business you must pay their expenses," she
said.
Miss Nevins felt really grand. This was a true friend.
One evening she thrust a note in Lilian's hand. She had taken a seat on
the other side of the table.
Lilian read it in her room. She smiled, yet she felt a little hurt after
all she had done for Alice.
"I hope you won't feel bad because I changed my seat. Some of those
hateful girls called us Beauty and the Beast. I know I am not handsome,
but then rich people seldom are, and I don't think you are so very. I
have a new dear friend who really does care for me and is going to plan
about my clothes. Of course you don't know how the real style ought to
dress, and I don't think mamma would like me to be intimate with a girl
whose mother was caretaker here. It's such a pity she is, for if she
wasn't here you wouldn't need to say anything about it and would be more
respected. I hope you won't be mad.--Alice."
"I won't be ashamed of her, poor dear mother," Lilian said resolutely.
But if she were like Mrs. Trenham, and the change would not be so very
great, she mused.
Miss Nevins avoided her for the next few days. Lilian did not seem to
notice it.
Mrs. Barrington called the girls together one evening.
"Young ladies," she began, "I have a plan to lay before you. There have
always been some Hallowe'en plays and tricks that often seem both
childish and reprehensible. I am going to propose you lay aside all
these and instead let me give you a party with music, dancing and some
refreshments. I will invite the young gentlemen of the neighborhood,
many of whom you have met at church and elsewhere. What do you say?"
"Oh, Mrs. Barrington, that is utterly lovely."
Phillipa Rosewald sprang up and clasped both hands. There was a bevy of
girls about her and they all talked at once.
"Understand, there are to be no tricks played in each other's rooms. You
have been making very good progress so far this year and I am sincerely
pleased. As many of you will go away on Saturday there can be no
Christmas festivities, but this may be quite as pleasant."
"Oh, Mrs. Barrington, it will be just delightful!" cried Phillipa with
enthusiasm. "Thank you a dozen times for thinking of it."
"You have accepted some invitations from outside and it seems the thing
to return them. Every girl will be at her liberty to ask one guest and
there are several I wish to invite. I hope you will have a happy time."
"Oh, we are sure of that."
"And now I hope your scholarship will be excellent at the winter
examinations. It will be the last year for some of you and for your
parents' sake I hope you will stand high."
The leisure of the next two days was spent working out lists.
"Oh," declared May Gedney, "I'd like to invite at least four. Ally and
Archie Holmes, and the Pridhams. I suppose we can ask a young
gentleman?"
"Let us make a list and divide up. Archie Holmes is such a delightful
dancer, and Allie is so full of fun, and so many of us were at her
birthday party."
"Do you suppose the smaller fry will invite their friends?"
"I think not, though they may be allowed to come in as spectators."
"That Nevins girl is a pretty dancer. What lots of fancy things she
knows."
"I don't imagine we will have any high flings," laughing.
"Well, May, you ask Ally, and Nelly White ask Archie. That's the way we
must pair off, and divide up the Pridhams. We must only ask one girl in
a family. I'm afraid we won't have boys enough to go round."
"Then some of the girls will have to play Knights as we do in the
practices."
After much study they presented their list to Mrs. Barrington who
thought it very judicious. She said she had several gentlemen to add.
Then there was a time about the frocks. Miss Nevins unpacked two party
gowns that had remained in her trunk when it was taken up stairs. A
pretty rather simple white cluna silk and a pink satin.
"Oh, the satin is altogether too ornate, too really old," declared
Phillipa.
"But it's so much prettier," longingly.
"I don't know about that, and I can tell you Mrs. Barrington will hustle
it back in the box mighty quick. The party is for the older girls. You
will simply be allowed in to look and partake of the treat if you are
well behaved little girls."
Miss Nevins pouted.
Her new winter suit had come home and it was really admirable, making
her look like quite a different girl.
"I don't see what that New York dressmaker can be thinking about. She
makes a regular guy of her. And since Mrs. Barrington shut down on so
much sweet stuff how her complexion has improved. But the morning baths
are a terror to her. She is sure she can keep clean on a wash once a
week."
"And girls, every time her mother wrote she enclosed five dollars. She
didn't give any account of that for awhile, and Mrs. Barrington was
quite affronted when her mother advised her to go to a restaurant now
and then to get a good meal. I must say our living here is of the very
best."
There was no dissenting voice.
They were all in a gale about the party. There was always a lawn fete
when school closed in June at which the girls invited relatives and
friends. Hallowe'en had been devoted to tricks in each other's room,
sewing up sheets, sprinkling cayenne pepper and rice, and occasionally
putting a toad in the bed if one could be found, or an artificial one
would answer the purpose. Mrs. Barrington had made some appeals, but
this new plan was a decided success. The girls were gay and eager with
delight, and wonder who of the young men of the town would be asked.
Mrs. Barrington called Lilian in her room and spoke of the party, giving
her a special invitation.
"It is very kind of you," the girl answered, "and I hope you will not
think me ungrateful if I decline. I am not used to gayeties of this
kind, and"--with a smile--"I have no party dress."
"That can easily be remedied. I really think you are making a mistake by
effacing yourself so readily on all occasions. You are becoming a fine
scholar and I am much interested in your welfare. Your hour in the study
room is not at all detrimental--"
"There are other things. Oh, Mrs. Barrington let me keep to my own
sphere. I have always been poor, I have not been much among what are
called better class girls, but I do know they have better advantages and
are trained in pretty and attractive society ways. Public schools are
more on a level. I am not finding fault. My heart is full of gladness
for this lovely offer that came to my mother and me. Some of the young
ladies have been very kind. Believe me I am happy, but I should feel out
of place in a gay party."
She looked really beautiful standing there, the bright flush coming and
going over her face, her mouth with its winsome curves, her eyes so full
of gratitude and candor. What was the elusive remembrance?
"You shall do as you like in this matter," returned Mrs. Barrington.
"But at the beginning of the new term I propose to have matters on a
somewhat different footing. You will end by being my best scholar."
"Oh, thank you a thousand times for taking so much interest in me. I
hope I shall be able to repay you."
"My dear child some of the best things in the world are done without
pay. Appreciation is better and you have a great deal of that."
The party was a great success. Several of the older graduates were asked
in. There was music, some conversational plays where quick wit was
necessary and in this Phillipa excelled. Then the dancing was charming
to the young crowd. They were very merry over the refreshments, then
dancing again.
"It's been just delightful! I never had such a good time in my life. Oh,
Mrs. Barrington, how can we ever thank you," and a dozen other glad
acknowledgments. They were all tired enough to tumble into bed, with no
thought of tricks to disturb them.
Miss Nevins admitted that she had a first class time. "Only I wish I had
been up in more dances. And if they'd had some fancy dances! I do love
them so!"
"Hardly at such a party," said Phillipa, dryly. "And the maid of the
evening who did not come. Do you suppose she was asked?" inquired Louie
Howe.
"Oh, she would have come quick enough if she'd had anything to wear,"
subjoined Miss Gedney. "Well, I'm glad she didn't or wasn't. It would
have been rather embarrassing."
"When I meet her abroad in the capacity of attendant to some charming
young lady I should not know her, of course."
There was a laugh at that.
Then began the mouth of real study though there were a few heart
burnings that Miss Boyd should come up to the best in some of the
classes.
November was unusually beautiful and the week of Indian summer a dream
for a poet. Lilian's afternoon hour out of doors was the concentration
of delight. The handsome town, the picturesque houses, where late
blooming flowers were a delight on many a lawn, the peaceful winding
river whose shadows seemed to depict a fascinating underworld, the
rising ground beyond with its magnificent trees, its tangled nooks of
shrubbery with scarlet berries, so stirred Lilian's fine nature that she
felt as if she must burst into poesy.
No, she would never give up the splendid, inspiriting dreams of youth.
Ambitious and noble natures are often haunted by romantic ideals and
glimpses of the future reaching up to unharmful standards that did seem
possible. These dreams were better than the feverish, vitiating novels
some of the girls poured over in private.
She was making a warm friend of Edith Trenham, who was often puzzled by
her. How did she get this wonderful insight into such a beautiful world
full of possible endeavor.
The simple prettiness of the Trenham home was very charming to her. This
was what she would make for her mother, only there would be a little
more. Portfolios of engravings, a vase from Japan, a curious Indian
ornament with ages back of it. Already Barrington House was shaping her
taste in many matters.
Then it was a pleasure to talk to the imaginative Claire who reveled in
the Knights of Arthur's time, the tastes of Mythology which she twisted
about to suit her fancy.
"I like Miss Lilian so much," she would say. "She has traveled in so
many countries. She knows all about Eskimo babies and little Chinese
girls who can't go anywhere because they have such crooked feet. And we
play at going to see them, and they give us such curious things to eat.
And there are real little Greek children, who lived in Bible times. Oh,
it's just lovely!"
"You make Claire very happy," Edith would say in a fond tone.
"I like to make her happy, and I want to make my mother happy. She has
had such a hard life."
"You are a dear daughter."
Was she being a dear daughter to her mother? Mrs. Boyd seemed to grow
more distant, more dreary and absent. Sometimes between classes she
would run in and take her mother's work, read to her evenings, but then
she always fell asleep; but the girl went on. It was more company to
read aloud. Just now she was deep in the making of Beautiful Florence.
Oh, would she ever get to know all the famous cities of the world?
How the time sped on! There was one snow storm, not a very deep one, but
enough to call out the sleighs, and what a fairyland it made of Mount
Morris. Saturday all the girls chipped in and hired a big sleigh and a
laughing crew of ten had what they thought the merriest time of their
lives.
Just as they were getting out Louie Howe caught her skirt on something
and there was a tear.
"Oh, girls! My best Sunday skirt! And we--some of us are invited to Mrs.
Westlake's to dinner, and she goes away on Monday. Oh, I wonder if Mrs.
Boyd can mend it fit to be seen! I can't take it to the tailors now."
"She darns beautifully."
"Well, that's what she's here for; mender in general."
"But it seems dreadful to ask her to do it in the evening, and the
daylight is almost gone."
Louie hated to give up whatever her mind was set upon. She hurriedly
changed her frock and put on a light evening dress. With her skirt in
hand she crossed the hall. The door stood open. The house was always
warm. Mrs. Boyd sat in an easy chair. Helen on one of the fancy stools
under the gas burner with a book in her hand. Louie swept past her.
"Oh, Mrs. Boyd. I want you to mend my skirt. I've given it a dreadful
tear. I can't take it to the tailors and four of us are invited out to
dinner after church, so I must have it."
Mrs. Boyd rose and examined it. "It is a bad tear, but if you must
have it--"
"Yes, I surely must. O, I think you can do it. There's the whole
evening."
Then she turned away. Lilian's temper flared up at white heat.
"Oh, mother, why didn't you tell her you could not? She has other
dresses to wear. Let me take it back to her--"
"No, dear, I'll do it. Light the lamp for me. Why you know that's part
of my business," and Mrs. Boyd gave a tremulous little laugh.
"I think Mrs. Barrington would not have such a thing done on Saturday
night," was her resolute reply, but she lighted the lamp and brought her
mother's work table with its handy cabinet.
"You see a good part of it will go under this plait. Oh Lilian, do not
mind such little things."
The insolent manner had hurt the girl keenly. Louie was on the promotion
list and would graduate in June. She held her head very high. Her father
had promised her a handsome watch with a beautiful neck chain that could
be detached when required and she felt sure of it now.
Mrs. Boyd basted the tear on a piece of cloth and began her work.
"Lilian," she said, "will you go and see if there is an iron on the
range, and ask cook if I can come down by and by."
Then she began her work. The underneath part at first, but somehow her
hand trembled. Lilian watched with an indignant, aching heart. After
awhile her mother leaned back with a sigh.
"I believe I shall have to get glasses," she said wearily. "I cannot do
fine work in the evening. I am afraid I shall spoil it, and I've always
been such a neat worker."
"Let me finish," said the girl. Every inch of her protested, but it was
for her mother's sake. Lately she had done several things to ease her.
"Yes, let me," she went on, taking the work from her mother's hands.
"You know I can darn nicely."
Lilian took infinite pains. It was slow work, but at last it was
accomplished.
"You are such a dear, good daughter, and it is said booky people are
never anything with a needle, but you could get your living with it."
Then she took her work down stairs and came back flushed and smiling.
"Look, Lilian," in a tone of pride, "it hardly shows! Cook said she
never saw more beautiful darning and that in a big city I could make a
fortune at lace mending. Will you take it to Miss Howe?"
"No, mother," and Lilian spoke in a dignified but not unkindly manner.
"We are not here to run and wait on the girl. Let Miss Howe come for
it."
Mrs. Boyd felt disappointed. She wanted some one beside cook to praise
her handiwork.
Louie fidgeted about her skirt. She and Zay were in Phil's room talking
over the coming Christmas and Mrs. Crawford's return.
"I wonder why that girl doesn't bring my skirt. Maybe they've spoiled
it."
"Have you sent a maid?"
"Why no. I meant Miss Boyd. She oughtn't be above such things."
"Still, she isn't here to run on errands. I think Mrs. Barrington treats
her quite as if she were a scholar, and she's a fine one, too."
"Some day she'll brag of having been educated here, though Mount Morris
doesn't set out to furnish teachers, but the training of young ladies.
Mother likes it because there was no opportunity of making undesirable
acquaintances," and Louie gave her head a toss.
"Is Miss Nevins so very desirable?" asked Zay with a flash of mirth in
her eye.
"Still, if you met her abroad as a rich banker's daughter or heard of
her being presented to the Queen--"
"Girls, don't quarrel about either one of them. Alice Nevins is a fool
and always will be. Lilian Boyd is smart and ambitious but there is
the bar sinister. Her mother isn't the sort of person to come up in the
world and when Miss Lilian gets there she'll ship off her old mother,
put her in an Old Woman's Home. I despise that toss of her head, just as
if she was up to the highest mark already; but they are not worth
disputing about."
Zaidee Crawford drew a long breath. She had almost courage enough to
stand up for her, then she remembered some one had said you were never
sure that some disgraceful thing might come out. Who knew anything about
her father? There was a good deal of pride of birth at Mount Morris as
is apt to be the case where well to do people have lived for a century
or so.
Louie sent a maid for her skirt and admitted that a tailor couldn't have
done it better.
"Only a week" the girls said with their good night to each other.
Not that they were so tired of school, but Christmas was a joyous
occasion, and going home a treat.
CHAPTER VI
AN ESCAPADE AND WHAT CAME OF IT
The closing week of school was full of girlish excitements. Friday and
Saturday most of the girls would go home. Christmas came on the
following Monday. The Miss Kirklands were going to remain and devote the
time to study. Alice Nevins and Elma Ransome had no homes to go to at
present. Mrs. Barrington generally took this for a resting-up time.
Louie rushed into Phillipa's room, breathless and eyes full of wonder.
There was some fancy things strewn around. Phil and Zaidee were at some
gifts.
"What now? Has there been a mistake in the calendar and is Christmas put
off and are we to be aliens from the family bosom?"
Louie laughed and fanned herself vigorously.
"I've been hearing wonderful things about that Clairvoyant. Do you
really know what clairvoyance is? It isn't mere fortune telling. Madge
Hayne went the other day and she was told some really remarkable things.
They had not heard from that brother in a year and didn't know whether
he was dead or alive. She said they would hear from him and that he
would return soon with a fortune, and this very morning the letter came.
He's been in Alaska and British Columbia and goodness knows where all,
and he's tired of rambling and hardships. So he's coming home as he has
made his pile, which I suppose means a fortune. They are all just wild
with joy, and there are to be two marriages this year."
"Then Madge's lover will get his promotion. That is what she is waiting
for," laughed Phil. "But I have heard that the woman told some wonderful
things."
"And while we were abroad in the summer Aunt Kate and I took little
tours around; we were at a Fair in a small town where there were some
real Romany gypsies and one insisted on reading Aunt Kate's future. She
spoke of mamma's walking without crutches, which we couldn't believe and
said after we came home something mysterious would happen to us, that a
member of the family would come from a great distance, that the person
who had her in charge would die, but Aunt Kate laughed and said we had
had no mysterious marriages nor sudden disappearances, so that could
hardly come true."
Phillipa had been considering. "Girls let's go," she exclaimed. "Mrs.
Barrington didn't actually forbid it. She said: 'Girls I hope none of
you will be foolish enough to spend your money on such nonsense. Those
people are generally impostors.' I'd like to have a peep into the
future. There's a young man I am interested in. Now, if he's all fair
and square and means business--"
"You're always on the anxious seat of lovers," said Louie, "and you seem
to have them by dozens."
"I want the very best and richest. Girls, my mother was married when she
was seventeen, and I'll be nineteen in June; but she didn't go to
boarding school for three years and waste her time."
"And I want a tour abroad--a winter or summer in Paris--which is most
attractive, and there may be a little chance of some one leaving father
a fortune. Oh, let us go--just for the fun if nothing else," and Louie
glanced up in her radiant prettiness.
There is something tempting to the young in a peep in the wide
mysterious future. Joys and the so-called good luck are delights to hope
for and it is seldom that any dark pages are unfolded to youth. So the
girls talked and agreed to go the next afternoon.
Examinations were in the morning and the girls had the afternoon to
themselves. Four were going to a musicale, half a dozen to do some last
shopping.
"We'll put on something out of the ordinary line," said Phil. "Hoods and
veils and I'll wear my old gray coat. Mother would make me bring it and
I've not had it on once. We'll trot across the park, shortest route, and
hold our heads down."
"And then run round to Crawford House and have some hot chocolate," said
Zay.
It was a winter when Tam o' Shanters were all the rage. Zay had a white
one with two fluffy rose-colored rosettes. As she passed through the
hall she saw Clara Arnold's blue one lying on the bed. She had always
tabooed blue. Now with a sudden impulse she put it on. Clara had gone to
the musicale and would not be home until late. Then she gathered up her
curls and stuffed them in the crown. Yes, she did suggest the Boyd girl.
The resemblance teased her, and the girls had found that out. She wound
a veil around her head and they stole through the hall when it was
deserted and went scuddering through the Park.
It was a cloudy afternoon, not one to go out for pleasure, and then
everybody had wanted to go down town. Mrs. Trenham lived in the corner
house. There was a garden space between, then a high fence. Phillipa
rang the bell.
A rather unkempt, middle-aged woman answered it.
"Could we see the Clairvoyant?"
"Well," hesitatingly. "All of you? I'm rather--yes, walk in."
The room was untidy, the books on the table dusty, and some clothing
thrown over several chairs.
"Young girls always want a peep in the future," and she gave an abrupt
laugh. "You don't any of you look as if you needed medical advice. My, I
seldom see such rosy, good looking girls. Now, I'll tell you--it's a
dollar if I go into a trance and see you inside, up and down and I can
tell to a T whether there's anything the matter. But I don't believe you
want that. S'pose I just run over the cards and see what kind of a
Christmas you're going to have and how many lovers and who's going to
wear a diamond. That's fifty cents."
"That's enough to spend on such foolery," laughed Phillipa.
She pushed out some chairs and took up a pack of cards, threw them
aside and took a clean pack off of the mantlepiece. "Now you try first,"
motioning to Phillipa. "Why I can see by your face there's lots of
fortune coming to you. You're the kind of girl men quarrel over."
She had become a very astute reader of faces and could tell by the
brightening of an eye or the movement of a feature whether she was on
the right tack.
"Your home isn't here and you are going to it in a few days. You
see--here's the house and there's a distance between," pointing out the
cards. "They are making a big time and lots of company, a great
Christmas dinner, and a dance in the evening, and you'll get kissed
under the mistletoe--but you won't marry that man. There's two of
them--three of them and two offers of marriage. Some one you haven't
seen much of, and there'll be talk of a diamond."
She shuffled the cards and ran over them again, enlarging upon the
lovers and jealous girls as well as men, presents and fun. "But you're
going to turn your back on it all and you don't want to a bit, and
you're going to have some trouble, and a journey with a trunk, and--why
you'll be in school and you'll be most crazy to hear from the young man
with the diamond, but you just keep your faith, he'll be all right and
there'll be a wedding before the leaves fall. Oh, you'll be as happy as
a queen."
Phillipa laughed and nodded.
"Now, you next," to Zaidee.
Zay hesitated, but took the chair Phillipa vacated.
At first she seemed a puzzle to the fortune teller. "She had traveled a
good deal. Some one was coming across water that she would be glad to
see--three people, a fair lady who had had a great deal of trouble,
sickness, but was well now. Why they would soon be here and all have
Christmas dinner together. There would be a great surprise with a fair
young man who cared a great deal for her, and there were wonderful
surprises that wouldn't make her happy at first. Here was a strange
girl--but she doesn't want to come. Gifts and friends, and this stout
man--your father," and she knew by Zay's face she had guessed right. "He
is very fond of you--oh, you needn't ever be afraid any one will crowd
you out. Plenty of lovers, too, when it comes your time; a happy
marriage and children, and prosperity. A little sickness, but nothing to
be alarmed about."
Louie's fortune did not seem so serene. "She was at school and would go
home to keep Christmas. This was elaborated in very agreeable styles.
Then she would come back, but she would be troubled about a prize, be
disappointed in a girl friend who would try to injure her and who would
say mean things, but she must not mind them. Then there were journeys
and pleasures and lovers, but she would not marry very young and would
be engaged twice, and oddly enough be married the second time."
Then they rose, gathered up their wraps and the fortune teller her
money, with profuse wishes for their happiness and a merry Christmas,
and shut the door. Zay was leading and opened the hall door, stepping
out on the stoop.
"Oh, my goodness! There's the Dane across the way! Let us run out back
and across lots" and they started in a huddle, opening the door that led
to another room.
"You can't come in here," declared a voice but they pushed through to
the outer door, flew down the path and across a space over to the next
street, but did not stop until they had reached the side gate to
Crawford House.
"It's only three of us girls," exclaimed Zay. "We are going to my
room."
Then they stood in breathless terror, looking in each other's faces.
Phillipa gave a half hysterical laugh, dropped into a chair and went on
laughing.
"I don't see anything funny," said Louie. "And to come so near being
caught! Do you suppose the Dane was watching out--suspecting? And that
horrid smell in the room, and the girl holding up one of those boys who
was struggling for breath--"
"You had a good view, Louie," sarcastically.
"Well, I was behind. Oh, what if it was small pox?" and Louie was white
as a ghost.
"Small pox! Louie don't be an idiot! See here, we'd heard a thing like
that quick enough. Now I'll tell you--Zay have you any aromatic ammonia?
Let's all take a dose to quiet our nerves and ward off whatever it may
be, and get a lump of gum camphor to take to bed with us tonight, and
Louie if you dare to act suspicious I'll murder you."
"I don't think it was just the thing for her to let us in if there was
any sickness."
"I wanted a real Clairvoyant. They do tell you wonderful things, but
she hit a good deal about you, Zay. I wonder who is coming to try to
oust you out? Oh, maybe your brother will bring home a wife."
"I shouldn't like that," the girl said frankly. "And maybe he will be
sent on a three years' cruise and leave her with us!"
"Nonsense! Don't bother your pretty curly head. Here let us all take our
composing draught and then wend our way to school with a bold front.
Only we must have some other hats."
"I'll wear my Gainsborough, and you, Phil, shall have my brown turban
with the bunch of plumes. Louie--"
"Let me wear the black straw with those yellow daisies. I almost grudge
that to you."
"Then take it as a Christmas gift."
The cook stopped them in the hall and said they must have a cup of hot
chocolate. The wind was blowing up cold.
Then they started home in very good spirits. It was well they had
changed their headgear. Mrs. Dane sat in the hall looking over some
mail. She glanced up and nodded, but she had some suspicions and she
meant to see who came home wearing a light blue Tam.
Zay flung her borrowed article on Miss Arnold's bed. She had not come
home from the musicale yet.
Lilian Boyd had gone out for her usual walk. She wanted to see some
pretty things Claire was making for Christmas, but before she reached
the corner she saw Edith Trenham coming rapidly from her mother's, so
she halted.
"Oh, Lilian--don't go. You can't see Claire--"
"Is she ill?" in affright.
"No, no, only--come with me to the druggist; I can't tell you just
now--oh, I'll write you a note. You cannot go there this week. Mother
has a friend staying with her and I have gone to Mrs. Lane's to board
for a week, there is so much school work just now."
"How very mysterious you are," studying her while she colored under the
scrutiny.
"Well, it threatens snow and it would be easier for me there. Don't
worry about us--I'll write this evening and tell you the 'whys;' and now
dear, don't feel vexed if I leave you. I have a number of errands to do,
and I'll surely see you on Sunday."
She had taken a few steps, then she turned and said: "Lilian, do not
mention meeting me today; I ask it as a favor. I will explain it all to
you. Trust me."
What did it mean? Was Claire ill? She had never seen Miss Trenham so
confused. Evidently she could not have her come to the house. Lilian
felt curiously dismal. There were the shops in holiday attire, but she
said she did not feel joyous, Christmasy. She rambled about a little.
There was the Clairvoyant's sign. Could any one tell about the future,
even another's health? For, somehow it seemed as if her mother had been
curiously distraught of late. If she could know about the future! Oh,
her mother must live the year out, and she was learning a great many
things. She would do for an under teacher then, and by the time she was
twenty--
It was cloudy and raw and she hurried up a little. A merry group of
girls passed her laughing and chatting. Why, she had never felt so
alone, not even back in Laconia. Last Christmas had been gay and
pleasant with girls in Sunday and everyday school.
She went in at the side entrance. She could have taken the other but
this was nearer. She had the right to a good many privileges that under
some circumstances she would have claimed, but the supercillious nod or
the lifting of the brows cut like a knife. Her place was on her
mother's side.
Mrs. Dane opened her door on the landing and crossed the hall.
"Oh, you have returned. Did you see your friend, Miss Trenham?" There
was something curious in the tone.
"I did not go to the house." Yet she colored as if it was a
prevarication.
"No?" was all the comment in the same tone.
But her mother was not so easily put off.
"Did you see your pretty invalid friend and her Christmas work?"
"No, I did not go in."
"That's queer. I thought you were going there. Where, then, did you go?"
"Oh, I only walked around and said over French verbs. It's grown very
chilly."
"Yes. Miss Arran came in and opened a window. I felt so cold--I wish
people would let you have your room as you want it. They can swing
their's wide open if they want to."
She was lying on the bed. She looked old and gray and wrinkled.
"Do you feel poorly, mother?"
"No, not when I am good and warm."
"Shall we have tea together here?"
"I don't want any, I'm very comfortable now. You go and get yours."
But Lilian sent for it, yet she could not persuade her mother to taste
the toast or the bit of broiled steak. She was hungry.
Afterward she took up her book to study as she was not due down stairs.
Then there was a tap at the door.
"Mrs. Barrington would like to see you in her room," was the message.
She walked thither. Mrs. Dane sat there in her austerest fashion.
"Miss Boyd," she said, "were you at your friend's, Mrs. Trenham's, this
afternoon?"
Lilian flushed at the repeated question.
"I was not," she said rather hesitatingly. "I meant to go, but"--then
she paused. She must not say she met Edith.
Mrs. Barrington's penetrating eyes were fixed on her face and brought a
vivid color to it.
"Were you at any other person's house?"
"No, I was not," she answered quietly. Oh, what does it all mean?
"Do you mean to deny that you were at the Clairvoyant's from half past
four to about five?" Mrs. Dane said in her most judicial manner.
Lilian flushed indignantly but her voice was unsteady as she said--"I
was not there, if you"--then she paused.
"Think again. I saw you walking about nearly at the corner. I went to
make a call on a friend who is ill. When I came out I walked a few
doors, when I saw the Clairvoyant's door open and a girl stepped out on
the stoop. I think there was some one behind her. She saw me and bolted
back in the hall. There are just two girls in the school who have light
blue Tams. Miss Arnold went to a musicale and found hers lying on the
bed just where she left it. I watched, but you did not come out again.
Then I walked around to the rear but saw no one. I had a fair glance at
your face, I think I cannot be mistaken."
Lilian was speechless with amazement.
"I met Miss Trenham at the side of the park and we walked together a
short distance. Believe it or not, I went to no one's house."
"It is important for us to know the truth on account of the terrible
ending," said Mrs. Barrington gravely. "Two boys have been ill with what
their mother thought was measles. The doctor was not sent for until
noon, and did not get there until nearly six. He found one boy dead of
malignant scarlet fever, the other dying and one girl seriously ill. So
you see we cannot afford to have contagion brought in the house!"
"Oh, what a horrible thing!" Lilian cried. Then she faced Mrs. Dane.
"Oh, you are mistaken, as God hears me, I was not in that house nor on
that side of the street," and she almost gasped for breath.
