"It might be very serious," I said. "I really 
ought to have a talk with the doctor." 



 



 

The nurse went out, and I drew up a chair 
and sat by the crib, watching the infant go back 
to sleep. I was glad to be alone, to have a chance 
to get myself together. But suddenly I heard a 
rustle of skirts in the doorway behind me, and 
turned and saw a white-clad figure; an elderly 
gentlewoman, slender and fragile, grey-haired 
and rather pale, wearing a soft dressing-gown. 
Aunt Varina! 

I rose. "This must be Mrs. Abbott," she 
said. Oh, these soft, caressing Southern voices, 
that cling to each syllable as a lover to a hand 
at parting. 

She was a very prim and stately little lady, 
and I think she did not intend to shake hands; 
but I felt pretty certain that under her coating 
of formality she was eager for a chance to rhap- 
sodize. "Oh, what a lovely child!" I cried; and 
instantly she melted. 

"You have seen our babe!" she exclaimed; 
and I could not help smiling. A few months 
ago "the httle stranger," and now "our babe"! 

She bent over the cradle, with her dear old 
sentimental, romantic soul in her eyes. For a 
minute or two she quite forgot me; then, look- 
ing up, she murmured, "It is as wonderful to me 
as if it were my own!" 

"All of us who love Sylvia feel that," I 
responded. 



 

She rose, and suddenly remembering hospital- 
ity, asked me as to my present needs. Then 
she said, "I must go and see to sending some 
telegrams." 

"Telegrams?" I inquired. 

"Yes. Think what this news will mean to 
dear Douglas! And to Major Castleman!" 

"You haven't informed them?" 

"We couldn't send any smaller boat on ac- 
count of the storm. We must telegraph Dr. 
Overton also, you understand." 

"To tell him not to come?" I ventured. "But 
don't you think, Mrs. Tuis, that he may wish 
to come anyhow?" 

"Why should he wish that?" 

"I'm not sure, but — I think he might." How 
I longed for a httle of Sylvia's skill in social 
lying! "Every newly-born infant ought to be 
examined by a speciallst, you know; there may 
be a particular regime, a diet for the mother — 
one cannot say." 

"Dr. Perrin didn't consider it necessary." 

"I am going to have a talk with Dr. Perrin 
at once," I said. 

I saw a troubled look in her eyes. "You don't 
mean you think there's anything the matter?" 

"No — no," I lied. "But I'm siire you ought 
to wait before you have the laimch go. Please 
do." 

"If you insist," she said. I read bewilder- 
ment in her manner, and just a touch of resent- 
ment. Was it not presumptuous of me, a stranger. 



 

and one — well, possibly not altogether a lady? 
She groped for words; and the ones that came 
were: "Dear Douglas must not be kept waiting." 
I was too polite to offer the suggestion that 
"dear Douglas" might be finding ways to amuse 
himself. The next moment I heard steps ap- 
proaching on the veranda, and turned to meet the 
nurse with the doctor. 



 



 

"How do you do, Mrs. Abbott?" said Dr. 
Perrin. He was in his dressing-gown, and had 
a newly-awakened look. I started to apologize, 
but he replied, "It's pleasant to see a new face 
in om- soUtude. Two new faces!" 

That was behaving well, I thought, for a man 
who had been routed out of sleep. I tried to 
meet his mood. "Dr. Perria, Mrs. van Tuiver 
tells me that you object to amateur physicians. 
But perhaps you won't mind regarding me as 
a midwife. I have three children of my own, 
and I've had to help bring others into the world." 

"All right," he smiled. "We'll consider you 
qualified. What is the matter?" 

"I wanted to ask you about the chUd's eyes. 
It is a wise precaution to drop some nitrate of 
silver into them, to provide against possible 
infection." 

I waited for my answer. "There have been 
no signs of any sort of infection in this case," 
he said, at last. 

"Perhaps not. But it is not necessary to 
wait, in such a matter. You have not taken 
the precaution?" 

"No, madam." 

"You have some of the drug, of course?" 

Again there was a pause. "No, madam, I 
fear that I have not." 



 

I winced, involuntarily. I could not hide my 
distress. "Dr. Penin," I exclaimed, "you came 
to attend a confinement-case, and you omitted 
to provide something so essential!" 

There was nothing left of the little man's 
affability now. "In the first place," he said, 
"I must remind you that I did not come to 
attend a confinement-case. I came to look after 
Mrs. van Tuiver's condition up to the time of 
confinement." 

"But you knew there would always be the 
possibility of an accident!" 

"Yes, to be sure." 

"And you didn't have any nitrate of silver!" 

"Madam," he said, stiffly, "there is no use for 
this drug except in one contingency." 

"I know," I cried, "but it is an important 
precaution. It is the practice to use it in all 
maternity-hospitals." 

"Madam, I have visited hospitals, and I think 
I know something of what the practice is." 

So there we were, at a deadlock. There was 
silence for a space. 

"Would you mind sending for the drug?" I 
asked, at last. 

"I presume," he said, with hamteur, "it will do 
no harm to have it on hand." 

I was aware of an elderly lady watching us, 
with consternation written upon every senti- 
mental feature. "Dr. Perrin," I said, "if Mrs. 
Tuis will pardon me, I think I ought to speak 
with you alone." The nurse hastily withdrew; 



 

and I saw the elderly lady draw herself up with 
terrible dignity — and then suddenly quail, and 
turn and follow the nurse. 

I told the little man what I knew. After he 
had had time to get over his consternation, he 
said that fortimately there did not seem to be 
any sign of trouble. 

"There does seem so to me," I rephed. "It 
may be only my imagination, but I think the 
eyehds are inflamed." 

I held the baby for him, while he made an 
examination. He admitted that there seemed to 
be ground for imeasiness. His professional dig- 
nity was now gone, and he was only too glad to 
be human. 

"Dr. Perrin," I said, "there is only one thing 
we can do — to get some nitrate of silver at the 
earliest possible moment. Fortimately the laimch 
is here." 

"I will have it start at once," he said. "It 
will have to go to Key West." 

"And how long will that take?" 

"It depends upon the sea. In good weather 
it takes us eight hours to go and return." I 
could not repress a shudder. The child might 
be blind in eight hours! 

But there was no time to be wasted in fore- 
boding. "About Dr. Overton," I said. "Don't 
you think he had better come?" I ventured to 
add the hint that Mr. van Tuiver would hardly 
wish expense to be considered in such an emer- 
gency; and in the end, I persuaded the doctor 



 

not merely to telegraph for the great surgeon, 
but to ask a hospital in Atlanta to send the near- 
est eye-specialist by the first train. 

We called back Mrs. Tuis, and I apologized 
abjectly for my presumption, and Dr. Perrin 
announced that he thought he ought to see Dr. 
Overton, and another doctor as well. I saw 
fear leap into Aunt Varina's eyes. "Oh, what is 
it?" she cried. "What is the matter with oiu- 
babe?" 

I heli)ed the doctor to answer poUte nothings 
to all her questions. Oh, the poor, dear lady! 
I thought to myself. The poor, dear lady! 
What a tearing away of veils and sentimental 
bandages was written in her book of fate for 
that night! 



 



 

I FIND myself lingering over these prelimi- 
naries, dreading the plunge into the rest of my 
story. We spent our time hovering over the 
child's crib; and in two or three hours the little 
eyeUds had become so inflamed that there could 
no longer be any doubt what was happening. 
We apphed alternate hot and cold cloths, we 
washed the eyes in a solution of boric acid, and 
later, in our desperation, with bluestone. But 
we were dealing with the virulent gonococcus, and 
we neither expected nor obtained much result 
from these measures. In a couple of hours more 
the eyes were beginning to exude pus, and the 
poor infant was wailing in torment. 

"Oh, what can it be? Tell me what is the 
matter?" cried Mrs. Tuis. She sought to catch 
the child in her arms, and when I quickly pre- 
vented her, she turned upon me in anger. "What 
do you mean?" 

"The child must be quiet," I said. 

"But I wish to comfort it!" And when I 
.still insisted, she burst out, wildly, "What right 
have you?" 

"Mrs. Tuis," I said, gently, "it is possible the 
infant may have a very serious infection. If 
so, you would be apt to catch it." 

She answered with a hysterical cry: "My 
precious innocent! Do you think I would be 
afraid of anything it could have?" 




"You may not be afraid, but we are. We 
should have to take care of you, and one case 
is more than enough." 

Suddenly she clutched me by the arm. "Tell 
me what this awful thing is! I demand to 
know!" 

"Mrs. Tuis," said the doctor, interfering, "we 
are not yet sure what the trouble is, we only 
wish to take precautions. It is really imperative 
that you should not handle the child, or even 
go near it. There is nothing you can possibly 
do." 

She was willing to take orders from him: he 
spoke the same dialect as herself, and with the 
same quaint statehness. A charming little South- 
em gentleman — I could realize how Douglas van 
Tuiver had picked him out for his social qual- 
ities. In the old-fashioned Southern medical 
college where he had got his training, I suppose 
they had taught him the old-fashioned idea of 
gonorrhea. Now he was acquiring our extrava 
gant modem notions in the grim school of ex- 
perience. 

It was necessary to put the nurse on her guard 
as to the risks we were running. We should 
have had concave glasses to protect our eyes; 
and we spent part of our time washing our hands 
in bichloride solution. 

"Mrs. Abbott, what is it?" whispered the 
woman. 

"It has a long name," I rephed — "ophthalmia 
neonatorum." 



 

"And what has caused it?" 

"The original cause," I responded, "is a man." 
I was not sure if that was according to the ethics 
of the situation; but the words came. 

Before long the infected eye-sockets were two 
red and yeUow masses of inflammation, and the 
infant was screaming like one of the damned. 
We had to bind up its eyes; I was tempted to 
ask the doctor to give it an opiate, for fear lest 
it should scream itself into convulsions. Then, 
as poor Mrs. Tuis was pacing the floor, wringing 
her hands and sobbing hysterically. Dr. Perrin 
took me to one side and said, "I think she will 
have to be told." 

The poor, poor lady! 

"She might as well understand now as later," 
he continued. "She will have to help keep the 
situation from the mother." 

"Yes," I said; and then, "Who shall tell her?" 

"I think," he replied "that she might prefer 
to be told by a woman." 

So I shut my lips together, and took the dis- 
tracted lady gently by the arm, and led her to 
the door. We stole like two criminals down the 
veranda, and along the path to the beach; and 
near the boat-house we stopped, and I began. 

"Mrs. Tuis, you may remember a circumstance 
which yoiu* niece mentioned to me — that just 
before her marriage she urged you to have cer- 
tain inquiries made as to Mr. van Tuiver's health, 
his fitness for marrie?" 

Never shall I forget her face at that moment. 
"Sylvia told you that!" 



 

"The inquiries were made," I went on, "but not 
carefully enough, it seems. Now you behold the 
consequence of this negligence." 

I saw her blank stare. I added, "The one to 
pay for it is the child." 

"You — you mean — " she stammered, her voice 
hardly a whisper. "Oh — it is impossible!" 
Then, with a flare of indignation, "Do you realize 
what you are implying — that Mr. van Tuiver " 

"There is no question of implying," I said, 
quietly. " It is the facts we have to face now, and 
you will have to help us to face them." 

She cowered and swayed before me, hiding her 
face in her hands. I heard her sobbing, and 
murmuring incoherent cries to her god. I took 
the poor lady's hand, and bore with her as long 
as I could; until, being at the end of my patience 
with prudery and purity and chivalry, and all 
the rest of the highfalutin romanticism of the 
South, I said: "Mrs. Tuis, it is necessary that you 
should get yourself together. You have a serious 
duty before you — that you owe both to Sylvia and 
her child." 

"What is it?" she whispered. The word "duty " 
had motive-power for her. 

" At all hazards, Sylvia must be kept in ignorance 
of the calamity for the present. If she were to 
learn of it, it would quite possibly throw her into 
a fever, and cost her life or the child's. You must 
not make any sound that she can hear, and you 
must not go near her, imtil you have completely 
mastered your emotions." 



 

"Very well," she murmiired. She was really 
a brave little body; but I, not knowing her, and 
thinking only of the peril, was cruel in hammering 
things into her consciousness. Finally I left her, 
seated upon the steps of the deseri«d boat-house, 
rocking back and fori;h and sobbing softly to her- 
self — one of the most pitiful figures it has ever 
been my fori;une to encounter in my prilgrimage 
through a worid of sentimentallty and incompe- 
tence. 


I WENT back to the house, and because we feared 
the soimds of the infant's crying might carry, we 
hung blankets before the doors and windows of the 
room, and sat in the hot enclosure, shuddering, 
silent, grey with fear. After an hour or two, 
Mrs. Tuis rejoined us, stealing in and seating 
herself at one side of the room, staring from one to 
another of us with wide eyes of fright. 

By the time the first signs of dawn appeared, 
the infant had cried itself into a state of exhaustion. 
The faint Ught that got into the room revealed 
the three of us, listening to the pitiful whimpering. 
I was faint with weakness, but I had to make an 
effort and face the worst ordeal of all. There 
came a tapping at the door — the maid, to say that 
Sylvia was awake, and had heard of my arrival, 
and wished to see me. I might have put off our 
meeting for a while, on the plea of exhaustion; 
but I preferred to have it over with, and braced 
myself and went slowly to her room. 

In the doorway I paused for an instant, to 
gaze at her. She was exquisite, lying there 
with the flush of sleep still upon her, and the 
ecstasy of her great achievement in her face. 
I fled to her, and we caught each other in our arms. 

"Oh, Mary, Mary! I'm so glad you've come!" 
And then, "Oh, Mary, isn't it the loveliest baby !" 

"Perfectly glorious!" I exclaimed. 



 

"Oh, I'm so happy — so happy as I never 
dreamed! I've no words to tell you about it." 

"You don't need any words — I've been through 
it," I said. 

"Oh, but she's so beautiful! Tell me — honestly 
— isn't that really so?" 

"My dear," I said, "she is like you." 

"Mary," she went on, half whispering, "I 
think it solves all my problems — all that I wrote 
you about. I don't believe I shall ever be unhappy 
again. I can't believe that such a thing has really 
happened — that I've been given such a treasure. 
And she's my own! I can watch her little body 
grow, and help to make it strong and beautiful! 
I can help mould her little mind — see it opening 
up, one chamber of wonder after another! I can 
teach her all the things I have had to grope so to 
get!" 

"Yes," I said, trying to speak with conviction. 
I added, hastily, "I'm glad you don't find mother- 
hood disappointing." 

"Oh, it's a miracle!" she exclaimed. "A woman 
who could be dissatisfied with anything afterwards 
would be an ingrate!" She paused, then added, 
"Mary, now she's here in the flesh, I feel she'll 
be a bond between Douglas and me. He must 
see her rights, her claim upon life, as he couldn't 
see mine." 

I assented gravely. So that was the thing she 
was thinking most about — a bond between her 
husband and herself! A moment later the 
niue appeared in the door-way, and Sylvia set 



 

up a cry, "My baby I Where's my baby? I want 
to see my baby I" 

"Sylvia, dear," I said, "there's something about 
the baby that has to be explained." 

Instantly she was alert. "What is the matter?" 

I laughed. "Nothing, dear, that amounts to 
anything. But the little one's eyes are inflamed — 
that is to say, the lids. It's something that 
happens to newly-bom infants." 

"Well, then?" she said. 

"Nothing, only the doctor's had to put some 
salve on them, and they don't look very pretty." 

"I don't mind that, if it's all right." 

"But we've had to put a bandage over them, 
and it looks forbidding. Also, the child is apt to 
cry." 

"I must see her at once!" she exclaimed. 

"Just now she's asleep, so don't make us disturb 
her." 

"But how long will this last?" 

"Not very long. Meantime you must be sen- 
sible and not mind It's something I made the 
doctor do, and you mustn't blame me, or I'll be 
sorry I came to you." 

"You dear thing," she said, and put her hand 
in mine. And then, suddenly, 'Why did you take 
it into your head to come, all of a sudden?" 

"Don't ask me," I smiled. "I have no excuse. 
I just got homesick, and had to see you." 

"It's perfectly wonderful that you should be 
here now," she declared. "But you look badly. 
Are you tired?" 



 

"Yes, dear," I said. (Such a difficult person 
to deceive!) "To tell the truth, I'm pretty 
nearly done up. You see I was caught in the 
storm, and I was desperately sea-sick." 

"Why, you poor dear! Why didn't you go to 
sleep?" 

"I didn't want to sleep. I was too much 
excited by everything. I came to see one Sylvia, 
and I found two!" 

"Isn't it absurd," she cried, "how she looks 
like me? Oh, I want to see her again. How long 
will it be before I can have her?" 

"My dear," I said, "you mustn't worry " 

"Oh, don't mind me, I'm just playing. I'm 
so happy, I want to squeeze her in my arms all 
the time. Just think, Mary, they won't let me 
nurse her yet — a whole day now! Can that be 
right?" 

"Nature will take care of that," I said. 

"Yes, but how can you be sure what Nature 
means? Maybe it's what the child is crying 
about; and it's the crying that makes its eyes 
red." 

I felt a sudden spasm grip my heart. "No, 
dear, no," I said, hastily. "You must let Dr. 
Perrin attend to these things, for I've just had to 
interfere with his arrangements, and he'll be get- 
ting cross pretty soon." 

"Oh," she cried, with laughter in her eyes. 
"You've had a scene with him? I knew you 
would! He's so quaint and old-fashioned!" 

"Yes," I said, "and he talks exactly like yoiu* 
aunt." 




"Oh! You've met her too! I'm missing all 
the fim!" 

I had a sudden inspiration — one that I was 
proud of. "My dear girl," I said, "maybe you 
call it fun!" And I looked really agitated. 

"Why, what's the matter?" she cried. 

"What could you expect?" I asked. "I fear, 
my dear Sylvia, I've shocked your aunt beyond 
all hope." 

"What have you done?" 

"I've talked about things I'd no business to — 
I've bossed the learned doctor — and I'm sure 
Aunt Varina has guessed I'm not a lady." 

"Oh, tell me about it!" cried Sylvia, full of 
deUght. 

But I could not keep up the game any longer. 
"Not now, dear," I said. "It's a long story, and 
I really am exhaiisted. I must go and get some 
rest." 

I rose; and she caught my hand, whispering, 
" I shall be happy, Mary! I shall be really happy 
now!" And then I turned and fled, and when I 
was out of sight of the doorway, I literally ran. 
At the other end of the veranda I sank down upon 
the steps, and wept softly to myself. 



 



 

Thde launch arrived, bringing the nitrate of 
silver. A solution was dropped into the baby's 
eyes, and then we could do nothing but wait. 
I might have lain down and really tried to rest; 
but the maid came again, with the announcement 
that Sylvia was asking for her aunt. Excuses 
woxild have tended to excite her suspicions; so 
poor Mrs. Tuis had to take her turn at facing the 
ordeal, and I had to drill and coach her for it. 
I had a vision of the poor lady going in to her 
niece, and suddenly collapsing. Then there would 
begin a cross-examination, and Sylvia would worm 
out the truth, and we might have a case of puer- 
peral fever on our hands. 

This I explained afresh to Mrs. Tuis, having 
taken her into her own room and closed the door 
for that purpose. She clutched me with her shak- 
ing hands and whispered, "Oh, Mrs. Abbott, you 
will never let Sylvia find out what caused this 
trouble?" 

I drew on my reserve-supply of patience and 
answered, "What I shall let her find out in the 
end, I don't know. We shall be guided by circum- 
stances, and this is no time to discuss the matter. 
The point is now to make sm-e that you can go in 
and stay with her, and not let her get an idea 
there's anything wrong." 

"Oh, but you know how Sylvia reads people!" 
she cried, in sudden dismay. 



 

"I've fixed it for you," I said. "I've provided 
something you can be agitated about." 

"What is that?" 

"It's me." Then, seeing her look of bewilder- 
ment, "You must tell her that I've affronted you, 
Mrs. Tuis; I've outraged your sense of propriety. 
You're indignant with me and you don't see how 
you can remain in the house with me " 

"Why, Mrs. Abbott!" she exclaimed, in horror. 

"You know it's true to some extent," I said. 

The good lady drew herself up. "Mrs. Abbott, 
don't tell me that I have been so rude " 

"Dear Mrs. Tuis," I laughed, "don't stop to 
apologize just now. You have not been lacking 
in courtesy, but I know how I must seem to you. 
I am a Sociallst. I have a raw, Western accent, 
and my hands are big — I've lived on a farm all 
my life, and done my own work, and even plowed 
sometimes. I have no idea of the charms and 
graces of life that are everything to you. What is 
more than that, I am forward, and thrust my 
opinions upon other people " 

She simply could not hear me. She was 
a-tremble with a new excitement. Worse even 
than ophthalmia neonatorum was plain speaking 
to a guest! "Mrs. Abbott, you humiliate me!" 

Then I spoke harshly, seeing that I would 
actually have to shock her. "I assure you, Mrs. 
Tuis, that if you don't feel that way about me, 
it's simply because you don't know the truth. 
It is not possible that you would consider me a 
proper person to visit Sylvia. I don't believe 



 

in your religion; I don't believe in anything that 
you woiild call religion, and I argue about it at 
the least provocation. I deliver violent harangues 
on street corners, and have been arrested during a 
strike. I believe in woman's suffrage, I even 
argue in approval of window-smashing. I believe 
that women ought to earn their own livings, and 
be independent and free from any man's control. 
I am a divorced woman — I left my husband 
because I wasn't happy with him; what's more, 
I believe that any woman has a right to do the 
same — I'm hable to teach such ideas to Sylvia, 
and to urge her to follow them." 

The poor lady's eyes were wide and large. "So 
you see," I went on, "you really couldn't 
approve of me. Tell her all this; she knows it 
already, but she will be horrified because I have 
let you and the doctor find it out!" 

Whereupon Mrs. Tuis started to ascend the 
pedestal of her dignity. "Mrs. Abbott, this may 
be your idea of a jest " 

"Now come," I cried, "let me help you fix your 
hair, and put on just a wee bit of powder — not 
enough to be noticed, you understand " 

I took her to the wash-stand, and poured out 
some cold water for her, and saw her bathe her 
eyes and face, and dry them, and braid her thin 
grey hair. While with a powder puff I was trying 
deftly to conceal the ravages of the night's crying, 
the dear lady turned to me, and whispered in a 
trembling voice, "Mrs. Abbott, you really don't 
mean that dreadful thing you said just now?" 



 

"Which dreadful thing, Mrs. Tuis?" 
"That you would tell Sylvia it could possibly 
be right for her to leave her husband?" 



 



 

In the course of the day we received word that 
Dr. Gibson, the specialist for whom we had tele- 
graphed, was on his way. The boat which brought 
his message took back a letter from Dr. Perrin 
to Douglas van Tuiver, acquainting him with 
the calamity which had befallen. We had talked 
it over and agreed that there was nothing to be 
gained by telegraphing the information. We did 
not wish any hint of the child's illness to leak into 
the newspapers. 

I did not envy the great man the hour when he 
read that letter; although I knew that the doctor 
had not falled to assiu"e him that the victim of his 
misdeeds should be kept in ignorance. Already 
the little man had begun to drop hints to me on 
this subject. Unfortunate accidents happened, 
which were not always to be blamed upon the 
husband; nor was it a thing to contemplate 
lightly, the breaking up of a family. I gave a 
non-committal answer, and changed the subject 
by asking the doctor not to mention my presence 
in the household. If by any chance van Tuiver 
were to carry his sorrows to Claire, I did not want 
my name brought up. 

We managed to prevent Sylvia's seeing the child 
that day and night; and the next morning came 
the specialist. He held out no hope of saving 
any remnant of the sight; but the child might be 



 

so fortunate as to escape disfigurement — it did 
not appear that the eyeballs were destroyed, as 
happens generally in these cases. This bit of 
consolation I still have; that little Elaine, who 
sits by me as I write, has left in her pupils a faint 
trace of the soft red-brown — just enough to remind 
us of what we have lost, and keep fresh in our minds 
the memory of these sorrows. If I wish to see 
what her eyes might have been, I look above my 
head to the portrait of Sylvia's noble ancestress, 
a copy made by a "tramp-artist" in Castleman 
County, and left with me by Sylvia. 

There was the question of the care of the 
mother — the efforts to stay the ravages of the 
germ in the tissues broken and weakened by the 
strain of child-birth. We had to invent excuses 
for the presence of the new doctor — and yet others 
for the presence of Dr. Overton, who came a 
day later. And then the problem of the nourishing 
of the child. It would be a calamity to have to 
put it upon the bottle; but on the other hand, 
there were many precautions necessary to keep 
the infection from spreading. 

I remember vividly the first time that the 
infant was fed: all of us gathered roimd, with 
matter-of-course professional air, as if these 
elaborate hygienic ceremonies were the universal 
custom when newly-born infants first taste their 
mothers' milk. Standing in the background, 
I saw Sylvia start with dismay as she noted how 
pale and thin the poor little one had become. 
It was hunger that caused the whimpering, so 



 

the nurse declared, busying herself in the mean- 
time to keep the tiny hands from the mother's 
face. The latter sank back and closed her eyes — 
nothing, it seemed, could prevail over the ecstasy 
of that first marvelous sensation; but afterwards 
she asked that I might stay with her — and as 
soon as the others were gone, she unmasked the 
batteries of her suspicion upon me. "Mary — 
what in the world has happened to my baby?" 

