tended abdomen. 

After all there was an odd resemblance be 
tween himself and Madam Death. He had 
been born to fulfill one function, it appeared. 
So had she. And now, in his case as in hers, 
death was immediately to follow. This was 
sentirnentj not science the blind lobe of the 
German brain balancing grotesquely the rea 
soning lobe. 

The voices below had ceased. Presently he 
heard a cautious step on the stair. 

He had a little pill-box in his pocket. Me 
thodically, without haste, he drew it out, chose 





 



one white pellet, and, holding it between his 
bony thumb and forefinger, listened. 

Yes, somebody was coming up the stairs, 
very careful to make no sound. 

Well there were various ways for a Death's 
Head Hussar to die for his War Lord. All 
were equally laudable. God the God of Ger 
many the celestial friend and comrade of his 
War Lord would presently correct him if he 
was transgressing military discipline or the eti 
quette of Kultur. As for the levelled rifles of 
the execution squad, he preferred another way. 
. . . This way! . . . 

His eyes were already glazing when the 
burly form of Sticky Smith filled the door 
way. 

He looked down at Madam Death under the 
tumbler beside him, then lifted his head and 
gazed at Smith with blinded eyes. 

"Swine!" he said complacently, swaying 
gently forward and striking the floor with his 
face. 



CHAPTER XXIV 

 

An east wind was very likely to bring gas 
to the trenches north of the Sainte Lesse sa 
lient. A north wind, according to season, 
brought snow or rain or fog upon British, 
French, Belgian and Boche alike. Winds of 
the south carried distant exhalations from 
orchards and green fields into the pitted waste 
of ashes where that monstrous desolation 
stretched away beneath a thundering iron rain 
which beat all day, all night upon the dead 
flesh of the world. 

But the west wind was the vital wind, flow 
ing melodiously through the trees a clean, 
aromatic, refreshing wind, filling the sickened 
world with life again. 

Sometimes, too, it brought the pleasant 
music of the bells into far-away trenches, when 





 



the little bell-mistress of Sainte Lesse played 
the carillon. And when her friend, the great 
bell, Bayard, spoke through the resounding sky 
of France to a million men-at-arms in blue 
and steel, who were steadily forging hell's 
manacles for the uncaged Hun, the loyal west 
ern wind carried far beyond the trenches an 
ominous iron vibration that meant doom for 
the Beast. 

And the Beast heard, leering skyward out 
of pale pig-eyes, but did not comprehend. 

At the base corral down in the meadow, 
mules had been scarce recently, because a 
transport had been torpedoed. But the next 
transport from New Orleans escaped; the 
dusty column had arrived at Sainte Lesse from 
the Channel port, convoyed by American mule 
teers, as usual; new mules, new negroes, new 
Yankee faces invaded the town once more. 

However, it signified little to the youthful 
mistress - of - the - bells, Maryette Courtray, 
called "Carillonnette," for her Yankee lover 
still lay in his distant hospital her muleteer, 
"Djack." So mules might bray, and negroes 
fill the Sainte Lesse meadows with their shout- 









ing laughter; and the lank, hawk-nosed Yankee 
muleteers might saunter clanking into the 
White Doe in search of meat or drink or 
tobacco, or a glimpse of the pretty bell-mis 
tress, for all it meant to her. 

Her Djack lived; that was what occupied 
her mind; other men were merely men even 
his comrades, Sticky Smith and Kid Glenn, 
assumed individuality to distinguish them 
from other men only because they were Djack's 
friends. And as for all other muleteers, they 
seemed to her as alike as Chinamen, leaving 
upon her young mind a general impression 
of long, thin legs and necks and the keen 
eyes of hunting falcons. 

She had washing to do that morning. Very 
early she climbed up into the ancient belfry, 
wound the drum so that the bells would play 
a few bars at the quarters and before each 
hour struck; and also in order that the carillon 
might ring mechanically at noon in case she 
had not returned to take her place at the key 
board with her wooden gloves. 

There was a light west wind rippling through 




 

the tree tops; and everywhere sunshine lay 
brilliant on pasture and meadow under the 
purest of cobalt skies. 

In the garden her crippled father, swathed 
in shawls, dozed in his deep chair beside the 
river-wall, waking now and then to watch the 
quill on his long bamboo fish-pole, stemming 
the sparkling current of the little river Lesse. 

Sticky Smith, off duty and having filled him 
self to repletion with cafe-au-lait at the inn, 
volunteered to act as nurse, attendant, remover of fish and baiter of hook, while Mary- 
ette was absent at the stone-rimmed pool where 
the washing of all Sainte Lesse laundry had 
been accomplished for hundreds of years. 

"You promise not to go away?" she cau 
tioned him in the simple, first-aid French she 
employed in speaking to him, and pausing with 
both arms raised to balance the loaded clothes- 
basket on her head. 

"Wee wee!" he assured her with dignity. 
"Je fume mong peep! Je regard le vieux 
pecher. Voo poovay allay, Mademoiselle 
Maryette." 









She hesitated, then removed the basket from 
her head and set it on the grass. 

"You are very kind, Monsieur Steek-Smeet. 
I shall wash your underwear the very first 
garments I take out of my basket. Thank 
you a thousand times." She bent over with 
sweet solicitude and pressed her lips to her 
father's withered cheek: 

"Au revoir, my father cheri. An hour or 
two at the meadow-lavoir and I shall return 
to find thee. Bonne chance, mon pere! Thou 
shalt surely catch a large and beautiful fish 
for luncheon before I return with my wash." 

She swung the basket of wash to her head 
again without effort, and went her way, fol 
lowing the deeply trodden Bheep-path behind 
the White Doe Inn. 

The path wound down through a sloping pas 
ture, across a footbridge spanning an arm of 
the Lesse which washed the base of the garden 
wall, then ascended a gentle aclivity among 
hazel thicket and tall sycamores, becoming for 
a little distance a shaded wood-path where 
thrushes sang ceaselessly in the sun-flecked 
undergrowth. 





 

But at the eastern edge of the copse the little 
hill fell away into an open, sunny meadow, 
fragrant with wild-flowers and clover, through 
which a rivulet ran deep and cold between 
grassy banks. 

It supplied the drinking water of Sainte 
Lesse ; and a branch of it poured bubbling into 
the stone-rimmed lavoir where generations of 
Sainte Lesse maids had scrubbed the linen of 
the community, kneeling there amid wild flow 
ers and fluttering butterflies in the shade of 
three tall elms. 

There was nobody at the pool; Maryette 
saw that as she came out of the hazel copse 
through the meadow. And very soon she was 
on her knees at the clear pool's edge, bare of 
arm and throat and bosom, her blue wool 
skirts trussed up, and elbow deep in snowy 
suds. 

Overhead the sky was a quivering, royal 
blue; the earth shimmered in its bath of sun 
shine; the west wind blowing carried away 
eastward the reverberations of the distant 
cannonade, so that not even the vibration of 
the concussions disturbed Sainte Lesse. 









A bullfinch was piping lustily in a young 
tree as she began her task; a blackbird an 
swered from somewhere among the hawthorns 
with a bewildering series of complicated trills. 

As the little mistress-of-the-bells scrubbed 
and beat the clothes with her paddle, and 
rinsed and wrung them and soaped them 
afresh, she sang softly under her breath, to 
an ancient air of her pays, words that she 
improvised to fit it vrai chanson de laveuse: 

"A blackbird whistles 

I love! 

Over the thistles 
Butterflies hover, 
Each with her lover 

In love. 
Blue Demoiselles that glisten, 

Listen, I love! 
"Wind of the west, oh, listen, 

I am in love! 

Sing my song, ye little gold bees! 
Opal bubbles around my knees 
All afloat in the soap-sud broth, 
"Whisper it low to the snowy froth ; 
And Thou who rulest the skies above, 
Mary, adored I love I love!" 

Slap-slap! went her paddle; the sud-spume 
flew like shreds of cotton; iridescent foam set 





 

with bubbles swirled in the stone-edged basin, 
constantly swept away down stream by the 
current, constantly renewed as she soaped and 
scrubbed, kneeling there in the meadow grass 
above the pool. 

The blackbird came quite near to watch her; 
the bullfinch, attracted by her childish voice 
as she sang the song she was making, whistled 
bold response, silent only when the echoing 
slap of the paddle startled him where he sat 
on the trembling tip of an aspen. 

Blue dragon flies drifted on glimmering 
wings ; she put them into her song ; the meadow 
was gay with butterflies painted wings; she 
sang about them, too. Cloud and azure sky, 
tree tops and clover, the tiny rivulet dancing 
through deep grasses, the wind furrowing the 
fields, all these she put into her cJiansonnette 
de laveuse. And always in the clear glass of 
the stream she seemed to see the smiling face 
of her friend, Djack her lover who had 
opened her eyes of a child to all things beauti 
ful in the world. 

Once or twice, from very far away, she 
fancied she heard the distant singing of the 








negro muleteers sunning themselves down by 
the corral. She heard, at quarter-hour inter 
vals, her bells melodiously recording time as it 
sped by; then there were intervals of that 
sweet stillness which is but a composite har 
mony of summer the murmur of insects, the 
whisper of leaves and water, capricious sec 
onds of intense silence, then the hushed voice 
of life exquisitely audible again. 

War, wickedness, the rage and cruelty of the 
Beast all the vile and filthy ferocity of the 
ferocious Swine of the North became to her as 
unreal as a tragic legend half -forgotten. And 
death seemed very far away. 

Her washing was done; the wet clothing 
piled in her basket. Perspiration powdered 
her forehead and delicate little nose. 

Hot, flushed, breathing deeply and irregu 
larly from her efforts under a vertical sun, 
she stood erect, loosening the blouse over her 
bosom to the breeze and pushing back the clus 
tering masses of hair above her brow. 

The water laughed up at her, invitingly; the 
last floating castle of white foam swept past 





 



her feet down stream. On the impulse of the 
moment she unlaced her blue wool skirt, 
dropped it around her feet, stepped from it; 
unbuckled both garters, stripped slippers and 
stockings from her feet, and waded out into 
the pool. 

The fresh, delicious coolness of the water 
thrilled and encouraged her to further adven 
ture; she twisted up her splendid hair, bound 
it with her blue kerchief, flung blouse and 
chemisette from her, and gave herself to the 
sparkling stream with a sigh of ecstasy. 

Alders swept the eastern edges of the cur 
rent where the rivulet widened beyond the 
basin and ran south along the meadow's edge 
to the Wood of Sainte Lesse a cool, unruffled 
flow, breast deep, floored with sand as soft as 
silver velvet. 

She waded, floated, swam a little, or, erect, 
roamed leisurely along the alder fringe, ex 
ploring the dim green haunts of frog and 
water-hen, stoat and becassine a slim, wet 
dryad, gliding silently through sun and dap 
pled shadow. 

Where the stream comes to Sainte Lesse 









"Wood, there is a hill set thick with hazel and 
clumps of fern, haunted by one roe-deer and 
numerous rabbits and pheasants. 

She was close to its base, now, gliding 
through the shade like some lithe creature 
of the forest ; making no sound save where the 
current curled around her supple body in 
twisted necklaces of liquid light. 

Then, as she stood, peering cautiously 
through tangled branches for a glimpse of the 
little roe-deer, she heard a curious sound up 
on the hill an inexplicable sound like metal 
striking stone. 

She stood as though frozen ; clink, clink came 
the distant sound. Then all was still. But 
presently she saw a scared cock-pheasant, 
crouching low with flattened neck outstretched, 
run like a huge rat through the hazel growth, 
out across the meadow. 

She remained motionless, scarcely daring to 
draw her breath. Somebody had passed over 
the hill if, indeed, he or she had actually con 
tinued on their mysterious way. Had they? 
But finally the intense quiet reassured her, and 
she concluded that whoever had made that 





metallic sound had continued on toward Sainte 
Lesse Wood. 

She had taken with her a cake of soap. 
Now, here in the green shade, she made her 
ablutions, soaping herself from head to foot, 
turning her head leisurely from time to time 
to survey her leafy environment, or watch the 
flight of some tiny woodland bird, or study 
with pretty and speculative eyes the soap-suds 
swirling in a dimpled whirlpool around her 
thighs. 

The bubbles fascinated her; she played with 
them, capriciously, touching one here, one 
there, with tentative finger to see them explode 
in a tiny rainbow shower. 

Finally she chose a hollow stem from among 
a cluster of scented rushes, cleared it with a 
vigorous breath, soaped one end, and, touch 
ing it to the water, blew from it a prodigious 
bubble, all swimming with gold and purple 
hues. 

Into the air she tossed it, from the end of 
the hollow reed; the breeze caught it and 
wafted it upward until it burst. 

Then a strange thing happened! Before her 









upturned eyes another bubble slowly arose 
from a clump of aspens out of the hazel thick 
ets on the hill a big, pearl-tinted, translucent 
bubble, as large as a melon. Upward it floated, 
slowly ascending to the tree-tops. There the 
wind caught it, drove it east, but it still 
mounted skyward, higher, higher, sailing al 
ways eastward, until it dwindled to the size 
of a thistledown and faded away in mid-air. 

Astounded, the little mistress-of-the-bells 
stood motionless, waist deep in the stream, lips 
parted, eyes straining to pierce the dazzling 
ether above. 

And then, before her incredulous gaze, an 
other pearl-tinted, translucent bubble slowly 
floated upward from the thicket near the asp 
ens, mounted until the breeze struck it, then 
soared away skyward and melted like a snow- 
flake into the east. 

Moving as stealthily as some sinuous crea 
ture of the water-weeds, the girl stole forward, 
threading her way among the rushes, gliding, 
twisting around tussock and alder, creeping 
along fern-set banks, her eyes ever focused on 





 

the clump of aspens quivering against the sky 
above the hazel. 

She could see nobody, hear not a sound from 
the thicket on the little hill. But another bub 
ble rose above the aspens as she looked. 

Naked, she dared not advance into the woods 
scarcely dared linger where she was, yet 
found enough courage to creep out on a car 
pet of moss and lie flat Tinder a young fir, 
listening and watching. 

No more bubbles rose above the aspens; 
there was not a sound, not a movement in the 
hazel. 

For an hour or more she lay there; then, 
with infinite caution, she slipped back into the 
stream, waded across, crept into the meadow, 
and sped like a scared fawn along the bank 
until she stood panting by the stone-rimmed 
pool again. 

Sun and wind had dried her skin; she 
dressed rapidly, swung her basket to her head, 
and started swiftly for Sainte Lesse. 

Before she came in sight of the White Doe 
Tavern, she could hear the negro muleteers 
singing down by the corral. 









Sticky Smith still squatted in the garden 
by the river-wall, smoking his pipe. Her fa 
ther lay asleep in his chair, his wrinkled hands 
still clasping the fishing pole, the warm breeze 
blowing his white hair at the temples. 

She disposed of the wash; then she and 
Sticky Smith gently aroused the crippled bell- 
master and aided him into the house. 

The old peasant woman who cooked for the 
inn had soup ready. The noonday meal in 
Sainte Lesse had become an extremely simple 
affair. 

"Monsieur Steek," said the girl carelessly, 
"did you ever, as a child, fly toy balloons?" 

"Sure, Maryette. A old Eyetalian wop used 
to come round town selling them. He had a 
stick with about a hundred little balloons tied 
to it red, blue, green, yellow all kinds and 
colours. Whenever I had the price I bought 
one." 

"Did it fly?" 

"Yes. The gas in it wasn't much good unless 
you got a fresh one." 

"Would it fly high?" 





 

"Sure. Sky-high. I've seen em go clean out 
of sight when you got a fresh one." 

"Nobody uses them here, do they!" 

"Here? No, it wouldn't be allowed. A spy 
could send a message by one of those toy bal 
loons." 

"Oh," nodded Maryette thoughtfully. 

Smith shook his head : 

"No, children wouldn't be permitted to play 
with them things now, Maryette." 

"Then there are not any toy balloons to be 
had here in Sainte Lesse?" 

"I rather guess not! Farther north there 
are." 

"Where?" 

"The artillery uses them." 

"How?" 

"I don't know. The balloon and flying serv 
ice use em, too. I've seen officers send them 
up. Probably it is to find out about upper air- 
currents." 

"Our flying service?" 

"Yes, ma am." 

"Ballons'd essai" she nodded carelessly. 




But she was not yet entirely convinced regard 
ing the theory she was pondering. 

After lunch she continued to be very busy 
in the laundry for a time, but the memory of 
those three little balloons above the aspens 
troubled her. 

Smith had gone on duty at the corral; Kid 
Glenn sauntered clanking into the bar and was 
there regaled with a bock and a tranche. 

"Monsieur Keed," said Maryette, "are any 
of our airmen in Sainte Lesse today?" 

Glenn drained his glass and smacked his 
lips: 

"No, ma am," he said. 

"No balloonists, either?" 

"I don't guess so, Maryette. We've got the 
Boche flyers scared stiff. They don't come over 
our first lines any more, and our own people 
are out yonder." 

"Keed," she said, winningly sweet, "do you, 
in fact, love me a little for D jack's sake?" 

"Yes m." 

"I borrow of you that automatic pistol. 
Yes!" She smiled at him engagingly. 





 

"Sure. Anything you want! What's the 
trouble, Maryette I" 

She shrugged her pretty shoulders: 

"Nothing. It just came into my cowardly 
head that the path to the lavoir is lonely at 
sundown. And there are new muleteers in 
Sainte Lesse. And I must wash my clothes." 

"I reckon," he said gravely, unbuckling his 
weapon-filled holster and quietly strapping it 
around her shoulder with its pocketed belt of 
clips. 

"You will not require it this afternoon?" 
she asked. 

"No fear. You won't either. Them mule- 
whacking coons is white." 

She understood. 

"Some men who seem whitest are blacker 
than any negro," she remarked. "Eh, bien! 
I thank you, Keed, mon ami, for your com 
plaisance. You are very amiable to submit to 
the whim of a silly girl who suddenly becomes 
afraid of her own shadow." 

Glenn grinned and glanced significantly at 
the cross dangling from her bosom: 

"Sure," he said, "your government decorates 









cowards. That's why it gave you the Legion." 
She blushed but looked up at him seriously: 
"Keed, if I flew a little toy balloon in the 
air, where would the west wind carry it?" 

"Into the Boche trenches," he replied, much 
interested in the idea. "If you've got one, 
we'll paint "To hell with Willie on it and set 
it afloat! But we'll have to get permission 
from the gendarmes first." 
She said, smiling: 

"I'm sorry, but I haven't any toy balloons." 
She picked up her basket with its new load 
of soiled linen, swung it gracefully to her 
head, ignoring his offered assistance, gave him 
a beguiling glance, and went away along the 
sheep-path. 

Once more she followed the deep-trodden and 
ancient trail through copse and pasture and 
over the stream down into the meadow, where 
the west wind furrowed the wild-flowers and 
the early afternoon sun fell hot. 

She set her clothes to soak, laid paddle 
and soap beside them, then, straightening up, 
remained erect on her knees, her intent gaze 
fixed on the distant clump of aspens, delicate 





 



as inist above the hazel copse on the little 
hill beyond. 

It was a whole hour before her eyes caught 
the high glimmer of a tiny balloon. Only 
for a moment was it visible at that distance, 
then it became merged in the dazzling blue 
above the woods. 

She waited. At last she concluded that there 
were to be no more balloons. Then a sudden 
fear assailed her lest she had waited too long 
to investigate; and she sprang to her feet, 
hurried over the single plank used as a foot 
bridge, and sped down through the alders. 

Here and there a pheasant ran headlong 
across her path; a rabbit or two scuttled 
through the ferns. Nearing the hazel copse 
she slackened speed and advanced with cau 
tion, scanning the thicket ahead. 

Suddenly, on the ground in front of her, 
she caught sight of a small iron cylinder. Evi 
dently it had rolled down there from the slope 
above. 

Very gingerly she approached and picked it 
up. It was not very heavy, not too big for 
her skirt pocket. 









As she slipped it into the pocket of her 
blue woolen peasant-skirt, her quick eye caught 
a movement among the hazel bushes on the 
hillside to her right. She sank to the ground 
and lay huddled there. 



CHAPTER XXV 

 

Down the slope, through the thicket, came a 
man. She could see his legs only. He wore 
dust-coloured breeches and tan puttees, like 
Sticky Smith's and Kid Glenn s, only he wore 
no big, clanking Mexican spurs. 

The man passed in front of her, his burly 
body barely visible through the leaves, but 
not his features. 

She rose, turned, ran over the moss, hur 
ried through the ferns of the warren, retracing 
her steps, and arrived breathless at the lavoir. 
And scarcely had she dropped to her knees 
and seized soap and paddle, than a squat, 
bronzed, powerfully built young man appeared 
on the opposite bank of the stream, stepping 
briskly out of the bushes. 

He did not notice her at first. He looked 









about for a place to jump, found one, leaped 
safely across, and came on at a swinging stride 
across the meadow. 

The girl, bending above the water, suddenly 
struck sharply with her paddle. 

Instantly the man halted in his tracks, knee 
deep in clover. 

Maryette, apparently unconscious of his pres 
ence, continued to soap and scrub and slap her 
wash, singing in her clear, untrained voice of 
a child the chansonette she had made that 
morning. But out of the corner of her eyes 
she kept him in view saw him come saunter 
ing forward as though reassured, became 
aware that he had approached very near, was 
standing behind her. 

Turning presently, where she knelt, to pick 
up another soiled garment, she suddenly en 
countered his dark gaze; and her start and 
slight exclamation were entirely genuine. 

"Mon Dieu!" she said, with offended empha 
sis, "one does not approach people that way, 
without a word!" 

"Did I frighten mademoiselle?" he asked, 
in recognizable French, but with an accent 





 



unpleasantly familiar to her. "If I did, I am 
very sorry and I offer mademoiselle a thou 
sand excuses and apologies." 

The girl, kneeling there in the clover, 
flashed a smile at him over her shoulder. 
The quick colour reddened his face and pow 
erful neck. The girl had been right; her 
smile had been an answer that he was not 
going to ignore. 
