German soldiery and explaining that we were held as hostages for their
good behaviour and that a shot fired at a German meant a dead wall and a
squad of execution for us and the destruction of Yslemont for them--" He
flushed, hesitated.
"Continue," said the general.
"While I was still writing the shots were fired. We all went to the
window and we saw Uhlans galloping across the fields after some peasants
who were running into the woods. Afterward two stretchers came by with
Germans lying in them. After that an officer came and cursed us and the
soldiers tied our hands behind our backs. We sat there in the
dining-room until the Uhlans came riding into the street with their
prisoners tied by ropes to their saddles. Then a major of infantry came
into the dining-room and read our sentence to us. Then they marched us
out into the fog."
The general crossed his spurred boots under the desk and lay back in his
chair, looking at Guild all the while.
"So you are American, Mr. Guild?"
"Yes, General."
"In business in New York?"
"Yes."
"What business?"
"Real estate."
"Where?"
"Union Square, West."
"What is the name of the firm in which you are associated?"
"Guild and Darrel."
"Is that your partner's name?"
"Yes. Henry Darrel."
"Why are you here in Belgium?"
"I was making a foot tour in the Ardennes."
"Your business vacation?"
"Yes. I was to meet my partner in Luxembourg and return to New York with
him."
"You and your partner are both absent from New York at the same time?"
"Yes."
"How is that?"
"Real estate in New York is quiet. There is practically no business
now."
The general nodded. "Yes," he said, "much of what you tell me has been
corroborated. In the Seegard Regiment of Infantry Number 569 you were
recognized by several non-commissioned officers and men while you stood
with the hostages awaiting--ah--justice," he added drily.
"Recognized?" repeated Guild.
"The soldiers who recognized you had served in New York hotels as clerks
or waiters, I believe. The captain of that company, in consequence, very
properly reported the matter to Colonel von Eschbach, who telephoned to
me. And I am here to consider the matter."
Then, folding his arms and looking hard at Guild out of narrowing eyes
that began to slant again:
"The hostages of Yslemont have justly forfeited their lives. Two of my
officers have been murdered there in the streets. The law is plain. Is
there any reason why these hostages should not pay the proper penalty?"
"The Burgomaster was in the act of dictating----"
"He should have dictated faster!"
"These gentlemen did not fire the shots----"
"But those over whom they exercised authority did!"
Guild fell silent and his features paled a little. The general watched
him in silence for a moment and an inquiring expression came into his
narrow eyes.
"Well?" he said at length.
Guild lifted his eyes.
"Well, sir," repeated the general. "I have said that there is no reason
why the hostages taken at Yslemont should not be turned over to the
squad of execution outside there in the hallway."
"I heard you say it."
The general looked at him curiously. "You have nothing to say?"
"No."
"Not for yourself?"
"No."
"As a matter of fact, Mr. Guild, what was your ultimate object in
passing through Yslemont?"
"I have already told you that I had intended to make a foot tour through
the Three Ardennes."
"Had intended?"
"Yes."
"Was that still your intention when you were made prisoner?"
After a moment's hesitation: "No," said Guild in a low voice.
"You altered your plan?"
"Yes."
"You decided to employ your vacation otherwise?"
"Yes."
"How?"
"I decided to enlist," said Guild. He was very white, now.
"Enlist?"
"Yes."
"In the British army?"
"The Belgian."
"Oh! So now you do not remind me that, as an American, you claim
exemption from the execution of the sentence?"
"I have said enough," replied Guild. A slight colour showed over his
cheek-bones.
"If I shoot the Burgomaster and the notary and the others in there,
ought I to let you go--on your own representations?"
"I have said enough," repeated Guild.
"Oh! So you refuse to plead any particular exemption on account of your
nationality?"
No answer.
"And you, by your silence, permit yourself to be implicated in the
responsibility of your fellow-hostages?"
No reply.
"Why?--Mr. Guild. Is it, perhaps, after all because you are not an
American in the strictest sense of that often misused term?"
There was no response.
"You were born in America?"
"Yes."
"Your father, perhaps, was born there?"
"Yes."
"Oh! And his father?"
"No."
"Oh! You are, I see, quite candid, Mr. Guild."
"Yes, when necessary."
"I see. Very well, then. Where do you get your Christian name, Kervyn?
Is it an American name?"
"No."
"The name, Guild--is that an American name?"
"Yes."
"But--is it your name?"
"Yes."
"Was it, by chance, ever spelled a little differently--in times gone by,
Mr. Guild?"
"Yes."
"Oh! And how, in times gone by, was it spelled by your--grandfather?"
Guild looked him calmly in the eyes. "It was spelled Gueldres," he said.
"I see, I see. That is interesting. Gueldres, Kervyn Gueldres. Why, it
sounds almost Belgian. Let me see--if I remember--there was such a
family inscribed in the Book of Gold. There was even a Kervyn of
Gueldres--a count, was he not?--Comte d'Yvoir--Count of Yvoir, Hastière,
and Lesse. Was he not--this Kervyn of Gueldres, many, many years ago?"
"I congratulate General von Reiter on his memory for such unimportant
history as that of Belgium," said Guild, reddening.
"Oh, we Germans are studious in our youth--and thorough. Nothing is too
unimportant to ignore and"--he smiled grimly--"nothing is too vast for
us to undertake--and accomplish."
He lifted his hand to his mustache again. "Mr. Guild," he said, "at the
elections in America you--ah--vote of course?"
"No."
"What?"
Guild remained silent.
The general, stroking his mustache, said pleasantly: "The Belgian
nobility always interested me; it is so exclusive and there are so few
families of the classe noble. Except for those ten families who are
independent of Court favour--like the Croys and De Lignes--there seem to
be only about thirty families who possess the privileges of the Golden
Book. Is this not so?"
"General von Reiter appears to know."
The general seemed gratified at this corroboration of his own memory.
"And," he went on amiably, "this Belgian nobility is a real nobility.
Once of it, always a part of it. And, too, its code is so rigid, so
inexorably precise that it seems almost Prussian. For example, the code
of the Belgian aristocracy permits none of its members to go into any
commercial business, any trade--even forbids an entry into high finance.
Only the Church and Army are open to it; and in the Army only the two
Guides regiments and the Lancers are permitted to young men of the
aristocracy." He gazed almost mildly at the young man: "You are in
business, you tell me?"
"Yes."
"Oh! Then of course you have never been a soldier."
Guild was silent.
"Have you ever served in the army?"
"Yes."
"Really! In what American regiment have you served?"
"In a militia regiment of cavalry--the 1st New York."
"How interesting. And--you have never served in the regular army?"
"N--" but Guild hesitated.
General von Reiter watched him intently.
"Did you reply in the negative, Mr. Guild?"
"No, I did not reply at all."
"Oh! Then would you be good enough to reply?"
"If--you insist."
"I insist."
"Very well," said Guild, reddening, "then I have served in the--Belgian
army."
The general nodded without surprise: "In what regiment?"
"In the first regiment of Guides."
"You came from America to do this?"
"Yes."
"When?"
"When I became of military age."
"Noblesse oblige?"
No reply.
"In other words, you are an American with all the Belgian aristocracy's
sense of responsibility to race and tradition. You are a good American,
but there are inherited instincts which sent you back to serve two years
with the colours--to serve a country which for ten hundred years your
race has defended. And--the Guides alone was open to a Gueldres--where,
in America, a Guild was free to choose. Monsieur, you are Belgian; and,
as a Belgian, you were properly seized as a hostage and properly
sentenced to pay the penalty for the murderous misbehaviour of your own
people! I approve the sentence. Have you anything to say?"
"No."
The general regarded him closely, then rose, came around the end of the
desk, walked across the room and halted directly in front of Guild.
"So you see there is no chance for you," he said, staring hard at him.
Guild managed to control his voice and speak clearly: "I see," he said.
"Suppose," said von Reiter, still staring at him, "I ask you to do me a
favour?"
Guild's face was marble, but he managed to force a smile: "You ask a
favour of a prisoner a few moments before his execution?"
"I do. Will you grant it?"
"What is it?"
"Nothing dishonourable to a good--American."
"That is not enough; and you know it."
"Very well. I shall tell you then. I have a daughter in England. I can't
get her away from England--I can't get word to her. I--" suddenly his
dry, blond features twitched, but instantly the man had them under iron
control again, and he cleared his throat: "She is in England near
London. We are at war with England. I want my daughter out of the
country. I can't get her out. Go and get her for me!"
For a full minute the two men gazed at each other in silence. Then von
Reiter said: "I know enough of you. If you say you'll do it I'll free
the Burgomaster and the others in there--" he jerked his bony thumb
toward the hallway outside--"If you say you'll do it--if you say you'll
go to England, now, and find my daughter, and bring her here to me--or
conduct her to whatever point I designate, I'll not have those men shot;
I'll not burn the rest of Yslemont; I'll see that you are conducted to
the Dutch frontier unmolested after you carry out your engagements with
me. Will you do it?"
[Illustration: "'If you say you'll do it, ... I'll not have those men
shot'"]
Guild met his intent gaze with a gaze as searching:
"What is your daughter's name?"
"Her name is Karen."
"Where am I to find her?"
"Thirty miles out of London at Westheath. She is known there as Karen
Girard."
"What!" said Guild sharply.
"She chose to be so known in her profession."
"Her profession?"
"She has been on the stage--against my wishes. She is preparing herself
further--contrary to my wishes. Until she disassociates herself from
that profession she will not use the name of von Reiter."
Guild nodded slowly: "That is why your daughter is known as Karen
Girard?"
"That is why. She is a young girl--nineteen. She went to school in her
mother's country, Denmark. She imbibed notions there--and, later, in
England among art students and others. It is the well-born who succumb
most easily to nonsense once the discipline is relaxed. She has had her
way in spite of my authority. Now it is time for such insubordination to
cease. I wish to have my daughter back. I cannot get her. You
are--American--to all intents and purposes, and you would be under no
suspicion in England. Your appearance, your speech, your manners all are
above suspicion. You can do this. I have made up my mind concerning
you, and I trust you. Will you go to England, find my daughter and bring
her back to me here; or, if I am ordered elsewhere, will you escort her
to my country place in Silesia which is called Rehthal?"
"Suppose I do not find her? Suppose I fail?"
"You will return here and report to me."
"If I fail and I return here and report my failure, does that mean the
execution of the gentlemen in the drawing-room yonder?"
"It does."
"And the destruction of Yslemont?"
"Absolutely."
"And--" the young man smiled--"incidentally it means my own execution,
does it not?"
"It does."
They gazed at each other with intense interest.
"Under such circumstances do you think I'll come back if I am not
successful?" inquired the younger man.
"I am satisfied that you will return if you say you will."
"Return to face my own execution?" repeated Guild, curiously. "You
believe that of me?--of a man about whom you know nothing--a man
who"--his animated features suddenly darkened and he caught his breath a
moment, then--"a man who considers your nation a barbarous one, your
rulers barbarians, your war inexcusable, your invasion of this land the
vilest example of treachery and dishonour that the world has ever
witnessed--you still believe that such a man might consider himself
bound to return here if unsuccessful and face one of your murdering
platoons? Do you?" he repeated, the slightest intonation of violence
beginning to ring in the undertones of his voice.
Von Reiter's dry, blond features had become greyer and more set. His
light blue eyes never left the other; behind their pale, steady scrutiny
he seemed to be considering every word.
He drew in his breath, slowly; his very thin lips receded for a moment,
then the fixed tranquillity returned.
"We Germans," he said drily, "care nothing for what Europe may think of
us or say about us. Perhaps we are vandals, Goths, Huns--whatever you
call them. Perhaps we are barbarians. I think we are! For we mean to
scour the old world clean of its rottenness--cauterize it, cut out the
old sores of a worn-out civilization, scrape its surface clean of the
parasite nations. ... And, if fire be necessary to burn out the last
traces--" His light blue eyes glimmered a very reflection of the
word--"then let fire pass. It has passed, before--God's Angel of the
Flaming Sword has returned again to lead us! What is a cathedral or
two--or pictures or foolish statues--or a million lives? Yes, if you
choose, we are barbarians. And we intend to plow under the accumulated
decay of the whole world, and burn up its rubbish and found our new
world on virgin earth. Yes, we are barbarians. And our Emperor is a
barbarian. And God, who creates with one hand and destroys with the
other--God--autocrat of material creation, inexorable Over-Lord of
ultimate material annihilation, is the greatest barbarian of all! Under
His orders we are moving. In His name we annihilate! Amen!"
A dead silence ensued. And after it had lasted a little while the tall
Prussian lifted his hand absently to his mustache and touched it
caressingly.
"I am satisfied, whatever your opinion may be of me or of my people,
that you will return if you say you will, successful or otherwise. I
promise you immunity if you return with my daughter; I promise you a
wall and a file of men if you return unsuccessful. But, in either event,
I am satisfied that you will return. Will you go?"
"Yes," said Guild, thoughtfully. They stood for a moment longer, the
young man gazing absently out of the window toward the menacing smoke
pall which was increasing above Yslemont.
"You promise not to burn the remainder of the village?" he asked,
turning to look at von Reiter.
"I promise not to burn it if you keep your promise."
"I'll try.... And the Burgomaster, notary, magistrate, and the others
are to be released?"
"If you do what I ask."
"Very well. It's worth trying for. Give me my credentials."
"You need no written ones. Letters are unsafe. You will go to my
daughter, who has leased a small cottage at Westheath. You will say to
her that you come from me; that the question which she was to decide on
the first of November must be decided sooner, and that when she arrives
at Rehthal in Silesia she is to telegraph me through the General Staff
of her arrival. If I can obtain leave to go to Silesia I shall do so. If
not, I shall telegraph my instructions to her."
"Will that be sufficient for your daughter to place her confidence in a
man absolutely strange to her and accompany that man on a journey of
several days?" asked Guild, slightly astonished.
"Not quite sufficient," said von Reiter, his dry, blond visage slightly
relaxing.
He drew a rather plain ring from his bony finger: "See if you can wear
that," he said. "Does it fit you?"
Guild tried it on. "Well enough."
"Is there any danger of its slipping off?"
Guild tried it on another finger, which it fitted snugly.
"It looks like any other plain gold ring," he remarked.
"Her name is engraved inside."
"Karen?"
"Karen."
There came a short pause. Then: "Do you know London?" asked von Reiter.
"Passably."
"Oh! You are likely to require a touring car. You'll find it difficult
to get. May I recommend the Edmeston Agency? It's about the only agency,
now, where any gasoline at all is obtainable. The Edmeston Agency. I use
it when I am in London. Ask for Mr. Louis Grätz."
After a moment he added, "My chauffeur brought your luggage, rücksack,
stick, and so forth, from Yslemont. You will go to the enemies' lines
south of Ostend in my car. One of my aides-de-camp will accompany you
and show you a letter of instructions before delivering you to the
enemies' flag of truce. You will read the letter, learn it by heart, and
return it to my aide, Captain von Klipper.
"There is a bedroom above. Go up there. Food will be sent you. Get what
sleep you can, because you are to leave at sunrise. Is this arrangement
agreeable to you--Monsieur le Comte de Gueldres?"
"Perfectly, General Baron von Reiter."
"Also. Then I have the honour to wish you good night and a pleasant
sleep."
"I thank you and I have the honour to wish you the same," said Guild,
bowing pleasantly.
General von Reiter stood aside and saluted with stiff courtesy as the
young man passed out.
A few moments later a regimental band somewhere along the Yslemont
highway began to play "Polen Blut."
If blood were the theme, they ought to have played it well enough.
                              CHAPTER III
                               TIPPERARY
At noon on the following day Kervyn Guild wrote to his friend Darrel:
    DEAR HARRY:
    Instead of joining you on the Black Erenz for the late August
    trout fishing I am obliged to go elsewhere.
    I have had a most unpleasant experience, and it is not ended,
    and I do not yet know what the outcome is to be.
    From the fact that I have not dated this letter it will be
    evident to you that I am not permitted to do so. Also you will
    understand that I have been caught somewhere in the war zone and
    that is why the name of the place from which I am writing you is
    omitted--by request.
    We have halted for luncheon at a wayside inn--the gentleman who
    is kind enough to accompany me, and I--and I have obtained this
    benevolent gentleman's authorization to write you whatever I
    please as long as I do NOT
    1st. Tell you where I am going.
    2d. Tell you where I am.
    3d. Tell you anything else that does not suit him.
    And he isn't a censor at that; he is just a very efficient,
    polite, and rather good-looking German officer serving as aide
    on the staff of a certain German major-general.
    Day before yesterday, after luncheon, I was playing a quiet game
    of chess with the Burgomaster of a certain Belgian village, and
    was taking a last look before setting out for Luxembourg on
    foot, rücksack, stick, and all, when--well, circumstances over
    which I had no control interrupted the game of chess. It was
    white to go and mate in three moves. The Burgomaster was playing
    black. I had him, Harry. Too bad, because he was the best player
    in--well in that neighbourhood. I opened with a Lopez and he
    replied most irregularly. It certainly was interesting. I am
    sorry that I couldn't mate him and analyze the game with him.
    However, thank Heaven, I did announce mate in three moves, and
    the old gentleman was still defiantly studying the situation. I
    admit he refused to resign.
    I left that village toward evening in a large, grey automobile.
    I and the gentleman who still accompanies me slept fairly well
    that night, considering the fact that a town was on fire all
    around us.
    In the morning we made slow progress in our automobile. Roads
    and fields were greenish grey with troops--a vast horde of them
    possessed the valleys; they enveloped the hills like fog-banks
    turning the whole world grey--infantry, artillery, cuirassiers,
    Uhlans, hussars--all mist colour from helmet to heel--and so are
    their waggons and guns and caissons and traction-engines and
    motor-cycles and armoured cars and aeroplanes.
    The latter are magnificent in an artistic sense--perfect
    replicas of giant pigeon-hawks, circling, planing, sheering the
    air or sailing high, majestic as a very lammergeier, fierce,
    relentless, terrible.
    My efficient companion who is reading this letter over my
    shoulder as I write it, and who has condescended to permit a
    ghost of a smile to mitigate, now and then, the youthful
    seriousness of his countenance, is not likely to object when I
    say to you that what I have seen of the German army on the march
    is astoundingly impressive.
    (He smiles again very boyishly and says he doesn't object.)
    Order, precision, a knowledge of the country absolutely
    unhesitating marks its progress. There is much singing in the
    infantry ranks. The men march well, their physique is fine, the
    cavalry are superbly mounted, the guns--(He shakes his head, so
    never mind the guns.)
    Their regimental bands are wonderful. It is a sheer delight to
    listen to them. They play everything from "Polen Blut" and
    "Sari," to Sousa, "Tannhäuser," and "A Hot Time," but I haven't
    yet heard "Tipperary." (He seems puzzled at this, but does not
    object.) I expect shortly to hear a band playing it. (I have to
    explain to my efficient companion that "Tipperary" is a tune
    which ought to take Berlin and Vienna by storm when they hear
    it. It takes Berlin and Vienna to really appreciate good music.
    He agrees with me.)
    Yesterday we passed a convoy of prisoners, some were kilted. I
    was not permitted to speak to them--but, Oh, those wistful eyes
    of Scottish blue! I guess they understood, for they got all the
    tobacco I had left. (My companion is doubtful about this, but
    finally shrugs his shoulders.)
    There is an awesome noise going on beyond us in--well in a
    certain direction. I think that all the artillery ever made is
    producing it. There's practically no smoke visible against the
    clear blue August sky--nothing to see at all except the feathery
    cotton fleece of shrapnel appearing, expanding, vanishing over a
    hill on the horizon, and two aeroplanes circling high like a
    pair of mated hawks.
    And all the while this earth-rocking diapason continues more
    terrible, more majestic than any real thunder I ever heard.
    We have had luncheon and are going on. He drank five quarts of
    Belgian beer! I am permitted a few minutes more and he orders
    the sixth quart. This is what I have to say:
    In case anything should go wrong with me give the enclosed note
    to my mother. Please see to it that everything I have goes to
    her. My will is in my box in our safe at the office. It is all
    quite clear. There should be no trouble.
    I expressed my trunk to your care in Luxembourg. You wrote me
    that you had received it and placed it in storage to await my
    leisurely arrival. In case of accident to me send it to my
    mother.
    About the business, my share in any deals now on should go to my
    brother. After that if you care to take George in when he comes
    out of Harvard it would gratify his mother and me.
    He's all to the good, you know. But don't do this if the
    business does not warrant it. Don't do it out of sentiment,
    Harry. If he promises to be of use, and if you have no other man
    in view, and if, as I say, business conditions warrant such an
    association with a view to eventual partnership, then if you
    care to take in George it will be all right.
    He has sufficient capital, as you know. He lacks only the
    business experience. And he is intelligent and quick and it
    won't take him long.
    But if you prefer somebody else don't hesitate. George is
    perfectly able to take care of his mother and himself.
    This is all, I think. I'm sorry about the August fishing on the
    Black Erenz. It is a lovely stream and full of trout. All
    Luxembourg is lovely; it is a story-book country--a real land of
    romance. I wish I might have seen it again. Never were such
    forests, such silver streams, such golden glades, such
    wild-flowers--never such hills, such meadows, such skies.
    Well--if I come back to you, I come back. If not--good-bye, old
    fellow--with all it implies between friends of many years.
    Say to your kind friends, the Courlands, who so graciously
    invited you to bring me with you to Lesse Forest, that I shall
    not be able to accept their delightful hospitality, and that my
    inability to do so must remain to me a regret as long as I live.
    (These guns are thundering enough to crack the very sky! I
    really wish I could hear some band playing "Tipperary.")
    Good-bye for a while--or indefinitely. Good luck to you.
                                                       KERVYN GUILD.
"Is that quite acceptable to you?" asked Guild of the young Death's Head
hussar beside him.
"Quite acceptable," replied the officer politely. "But what is there
remarkable in anybody drinking six quarts of beer?"
Guild laughed: "Here is the note that I desire to enclose with it, if I
may do so." And he wrote:
    DEAREST:
    You must not grieve too much. You have George. It could not be
    avoided, honourably. He and I are good Americans; we are,
    perhaps, something else, too. But what the Book of Gold holds it
    never releases; what is written there is never expunged. George
    must do what I did when the time comes. I would have done
    more--was meaning to--was on my way. Destiny has ordered it
    otherwise.
    While I live I think always of you. And it shall be so until the
    last.
    This letter is to be sent to you by Harry Darrel only in the
    event of my death.
    There's a good chance for me. But if things go wrong, then,
    good-bye, dearest.
                                                             KERVYN.
    P. S.
    Tell George that it's up to him, now.
                                                            K.
He held out the letter cheerfully to the hussar, but the latter had read
it, and he merely nodded in respectful silence. So Guild folded it,
sealed it in an envelope, wrote on it, "For my Mother in case of my
death," and inclosed it in his letter to Darrel.
"Any time you are ready now," he said, rising from the little enameled
iron table under the arbour.
The hussar rose, clanking, and set a whistle to his lips. Then, turning:
"I shall have yet one more glass of beer," he said blandly, but his eyes
twinkled.
The grey car rolled up in a few moments. Over it at a vast height
something soared in hawk-like circles. It may have been a hawk. There
was no telling at such a height.
So they drove off again amid the world-shaking din of the guns
paralleling the allied lines toward the west. Ostend lay somewhere in
that direction, the channel flowed beyond; beyond that crouched
England--where bands were playing "Tipperary"--and where, perhaps, a
young girl was listening to that new battle song of which the young
hussar beside him had never even heard.
As the grey car hummed westward over the Belgian road, Guild thought of
these things while the whole world about him was shaking with the
earthquake of the guns.
"Karen," he repeated under his breath, "Karen Girard."
After a while sentinels began to halt them every few rods. The chauffeur
unrolled two white flags and set them in sockets on either side of the
hood. The hussar beside him produced a letter from his grey
despatch-pouch.
"General von Reiter's orders," he said briefly. "You are to read them
now and return the letter to me before the enemies' parlementaire
answers our flag."
Guild took the envelope, tore it open, and read:
    Orders received since our interview make it impossible for me to
    tell you where to find me on your return.
    My country place in Silesia is apparently out of the question at
    present as a residence for the person you are expected to bring
    back with you. The inclosed clipping from a Danish newspaper
    will explain why. Therefore you will sail from London on
    Wednesday or Sunday, taking a Holland liner. You will land at
    Amsterdam, go by rail through Utrecht, Helmond, Halen,
    Maastricht. You will be expected there. If I am not there you
    will remain over night.
    If you return from your journey alone and unsuccessful you
    will surrender yourself as prisoner to the nearest German post
    and ask the officer in charge to telegraph me.
    If you return successful you shall be permitted at Eijsden to
    continue your journey with the person you bring with you, across
    the Luxembourg border to Trois Fontaines, which is just beyond
    the Grand Duchy frontier; and you shall then deliver the person
    in question to the housekeeper of the hunting lodge, Marie
    Bergner. The lodge is called Quellenheim, and it belongs to me.
    If I am not there you must remain there over night. In the
    morning if you do not hear from me, you are at liberty to go
    where you please, and your engagements vis-à-vis to me are
    cancelled.
                                              VON REITER, Maj-Gen'l.
The inclosed newspaper clipping had been translated into French and
written out in long-hand. The translation read as follows:
    Russia's invasion of East Prussia, Posen and Silesia has sent a
    wave of panic over the eastern provinces of the German Empire,
    if reports from Copenhagen and Stockholm are to be credited.
    These reports are chiefly significant as indicating that the
    Russian advance is progressing more rapidly than has been
    asserted even by despatches from Petrograd.
    A correspondent of the Daily Telegraph reports from Stockholm
    that the whole of eastern Germany is upset by the menace of
    Cossack raids. He hears that a diplomatic despatch from Vienna
    contains information that the civilian inhabitants of
    Koenigsberg, East Prussia, and Breslau, in Silesia, are
    abandoning their homes and that only the military will remain in
    these strongholds.
    From Copenhagen it is reported, allegedly from German sources,
    that Silesia expects devastation by fire and sword and that the
    wealthy Prussian landholders, whose immense estates cover
    Silesia, are leading the exodus toward the west. The military
    authorities have done everything possible to check the panic,
    fearing its hurtful influence on Germany's prospects, but have
    been unable to reassure the inhabitants. Many of these have seen
    bands of Cossacks who have penetrated a few miles over the
    border and their warnings have spread like a forest fire.
For a long while the young man studied the letter, reading and
re-reading it, until, closing his eyes, he could repeat it word for
word.
And when he was letter perfect he nodded and handed back the letter to
the hussar, who pouched it.
A moment later the car ran in among a horde of mounted Uhlans, and one
of their officers came galloping up alongside of the machine.
He and the hussar whispered together for a few minutes, then an Uhlan
was summoned, a white cloth tied to his lance-shaft, and away he went on
his powerful horse, the white flag snapping in the wind. Behind him
cantered an Uhlan trumpeter.
Toward sunset the grey automobile rolled west out into open country. A
vast flat plain stretched to the horizon, where the sunset flamed
scarlet and rose.
But it was almost dusk before from somewhere across the plain came the
faint strains of military music.
The hussar's immature mustache bristled. "British!" he remarked. "Gott
in Himmel, what barbarous music!"
Guild said nothing. They were playing "Tipperary."
And now, through the late rays of the afterglow, an Uhlan trumpeter,
sitting his horse on the road ahead, set his trumpet to his lips and
sounded the parley again. Far, silvery, from the misty southwest, a
British bugle answered.
Guild strained his eyes. Nothing moved on the plain. But, at a nod to
the chauffeur from the hussar, the great grey automobile rolled forward,
the two Uhlans walking their horses on either side.
Suddenly, east and west as far as the eye could see, trenches in endless
parallels cut the plain, swarming with myriads and myriads of men in
misty grey.
The next moment the hussar had passed a black silk handkerchief over
Guild's eyes and was tying it rather tightly.
                               CHAPTER IV
                               BAD DREAMS
His first night in London was like a bad dream to him. Lying half awake
on his bed, doggedly, tenaciously awaiting the sleep he needed, at
intervals even on its vision-haunted borderland, but never drifting
across it, he remained always darkly conscious of his errand and of his
sinister predicament.
The ineffaceable scenes of the last three days obsessed him; his mind
seemed to be unable to free itself. The quieter he lay, the more grimly
determined he became that sleep should blot out these tragic memories
for a few hours at least, the more bewildering grew the confusion in his
haunted mind. Continually new details were evoked by his treacherous and
insurgent memory--trifles terrible in their minor significance--the
frightened boy against the wall snivelling against his ragged
shirt-sleeve--the sprawling attitudes of the dead men in the dusty
grass--and how, after a few moments, a mangled arm moved, blindly
groping--and what quieted it.
Incidents, the petty details of sounds, of odours, of things irrelevant,
multiplied and possessed him--the thin gold-rimmed spectacles on the
Burgomaster's nose and the honest, incredulous eyes which gazed through
them at him when he announced checkmate in three moves.
Did that tranquil episode happen years ago in another and calmer
life?--or a few hours ago in this?
He heard again the startling and ominous sounds of raiding cavalry even
before they had become visible in the misty street--the flat slapping
gallop of the Uhlan's horses on the paved way, the tinkling clash of
broken glass. Again the thick, sour, animal-like stench of the unwashed
infantry seemed to assail and sicken him to the verge of faintness; and,
half awake, he saw a world of fog set thick with human faces utterly
detached from limbs and bodies--thousands and thousands of faces
watching him out of thousands and thousands of little pig-like eyes.
His nerves finally drove him into motion and he swung himself out of bed
and walked to the window.
His hotel was the Berkeley, and he looked out across Piccadilly into a
silent, sad, unlighted city of shadows. Only a single line of lighted
lamps outlined the broad thoroughfare. Crimson sparks twinkled here and
there--the lights of cabs.
The great darkened Ritz towered opposite, Devonshire House squatted
behind its grilles and shadowy walls on the right, and beyond the great
dark thoroughfare stretched away into the night, melancholy, deserted
save for the slight stirring of a policeman here and there or the
passage of an automobile running in silence without lights.
He had been standing by the window for ten minutes or so, a lighted
cigarette between his lips, both hands dropped into the pocket of his
pyjamas, when he became aware of a slight sound--a very slight
one--behind him.
He turned around and his eyes fell upon the knob of the door. Whether or
not it was turning he could not determine in the dusk of the room. The
only light in it came through his windows from the starry August
night-sky.
After a moment he walked toward the door, bare-footed across the velvet
carpet, halted, fixed his eyes on the door knob.
After a moment it began to turn again, almost imperceptibly. And, in
him, every over-wrought nerve tightened to its full tension till he
quivered. Slowly, discreetly, noiselessly the knob continued to turn.
The door was not locked. Presently it began to open, the merest fraction
of an inch at a time; then, abruptly but stealthily, it began to close
again, as though the unseen intruder had caught sight of him, and Guild
stepped forward swiftly and jerked the door wide open.
There was only the darkened hallway there, and a servant with a tray who
said very coolly, "Thanky, sir," and entered the room.
"What-do-you-want?" asked Guild unsteadily.
"You ordered whiskey and soda for eleven o'clock, sir."
"I did not. Why do you try to enter my room without knocking?"
"I understood your orders were not to disturb you but to place the tray
on the night-table beside your bed, sir."
Guild regarded him steadily. The servant, clean-shaven, typical,
encountered the young man's gaze respectfully and with no more
disturbance than seemed natural under the circumstances of a not unusual
blunder.
Guild's nerves relaxed and he drew a deep, quiet breath.
"Somebody has made a mistake," he said. "I ordered nothing. And,
hereafter, anybody coming to my door will knock. Is that plain?"
"Perfectly, sir."
"Have the goodness to make it very plain to the management."
"I'm sorry, sir----"
"You understand, now?"
"Certainly, sir."
"Very well.... And, by the way, who on this corridor is likely to have
ordered that whiskey?"
"Sir?"
"Somebody ordered it, I suppose?"
"Very likely the gentleman next door, sir----"
"All right," said Guild quietly. "Try the door while I stand here and
look on."
"Very good, sir."
With equanimity unimpaired the waiter stepped to the next door on the
corridor, placed his tray flat on the palm of his left hand, and, with
his right hand, began to turn the knob, using, apparently, every
precaution to make no noise.
But he was not successful; the glassware on his tray suddenly gave out a
clear, tinkling clash, and, at the same moment the bedroom door opened
from within and a man in evening dress appeared dimly framed by the
doorway.
"Sorry, sir," said the waiter, "your whiskey, sir----"
He stepped inside the room and the door closed behind him. Guild quietly
waited. Presently the waiter reappeared without the tray.
"Come here," motioned Guild.
The waiter said: "Yes, sir," in a natural voice. Doubtless the man next
door could hear it, too.
Guild, annoyed, lowered his own voice: "Who is the gentleman in the next
room?"
"A Mr. Vane, sir."
"From where?"
"I don't know, sir."
"What is he, English?"
"Yes sir, I believe so."
"You don't happen to know his business, do you?"
"No, sir."
"I ask--it's merely curiosity. Wait a moment." He turned, picked up a
sovereign from a heap of coins on his night-table and gave it to the
waiter.
"No need to repeat to anybody what I have asked you."
"Oh, no, sir----"
"All right. Listen very attentively to what I tell you. When I arrived
here this afternoon I desired the management to hire for my use a
powerful and absolutely reliable touring car and a chauffeur. I
mentioned the Edmeston Agency and a Mr. Louis Grätz.
"Half an hour later the management informed me that they had secured
such a car for me from Mr. Louis Grätz at the Edmeston Agency; that I
was permitted sufficient gasoline to take me from here to Westheath,
back here again, and then to the docks of the Holland Steamship Company
next Sunday.
"I've changed my mind. Tomorrow is Wednesday and a steamer sails from
Fresh Wharf for Amsterdam. Tell the management that I'll take that
steamer and that I want them to telephone the Edmeston Agency to have
the car here at six o'clock tomorrow morning."
"Very good, sir."
"Go down and tell them now. Ask them to confirm the change of orders by
telephone."
"Very good, sir."
A quarter of an hour later the bell tinkled in his room: "Are you there,
sir? Thank you, sir. The car is to be here at six o'clock. What time
would you breakfast, Mr. Guild?"
"Five. Have it served here, please."
"Thank you, sir."
Guild went back to bed. Another detail bothered him now. If the man next
door had ordered whiskey and soda for eleven, to be placed on the
night-table beside the bed, why was he up and dressed and ready to open
the door when the jingle of glassware awaited him?
Still there might be various natural explanations. Guild thought of
several, but none of them suited him.
He began to feel dull and sleepy. That is the last he remembered, except
that his sleep was disturbed by vaguely menacing dreams, until he awoke
in the grey light of early morning, scarcely refreshed, and heard the
waiter knocking. He rose, unlocked his door, and let him in with his
tray.
When the waiter went out again Guild relocked his door, turned on his
bath, took it red hot and then icy. And, thoroughly awake, now, he
returned to his room, breakfasted, dressed, rang for his account, and a
few minutes later descended in the lift to find his car and chauffeur
waiting, and the tall, many-medalled porter at salute by the door.
"Westheath," he said to the smiling chauffeur. "Go as fast as you dare
and by the direct route."
The chauffeur touched his peaked cap. He seemed an ideal chauffeur,
neat, alert, smiling, well turned out in fact as the magnificent and
powerful touring car which had been as thoroughly and minutely groomed
as a race-horse or a debutante.
When the car rolled out into Piccadilly the waiter who had mistaken the
order for whiskey, watched it from the dining-room windows. Several
floors above, the man who had occupied the next bedroom also watched the
departure of the car. When it was out of sight the man whose name was
Vane went to the telephone and called 150 Fenchurch Street, E. C. It was
the office of the Holland Steamship Company.
And the waiter who had entered the room unannounced, stood listening to
the conversation over the wire, and finally took the transmitter himself
for further conversation while Vane stood by listening, one hand resting
familiarly on the waiter's shoulder.
After the waiter had hung up the receiver, Vane walked to the window,
stood a moment looking out, then came slowly back.
"Gwynn," he said to the waiter, "this man, Guild, seems to be harmless.
He's known at the American Embassy. He's an American in the real estate
business in New York. It's true that Dart telegraphed from Ostend that
Guild came to our lines in a German military automobile under a white
flag. But he told a straight story. I'll run out to Westheath, and if
his business there is clean and above-board, I think we can give him a
clean bill of health."
Gwynn said, slowly: "I don't like the way he questioned me last night.
Besides, a sovereign is too much even for an American."
"He might have been afraid of robbery."
"He was afraid of something."
"Very well. We've passage on the boat if necessary. I'll go out to
Westheath anyway. If I don't care for what he is doing out there we can
hold him on the dock."
"Another thing," mused Gwynn. "The Edmeston Agency may be quite all
right, but the man's name is Grätz."
"He's been under scrutiny. He seems to be all right."
"All the same--his name is all wrong. What was that chauffeur's name?"
"Bush."
"Busch?"
"He spells it without a c. I saw his signature on the Agency rolls."
"Have you his history?"
"He's Canadian. I've sent for it."
"You'll find that his father spelled his name with a c," remarked
Gwynn, gloomily. But Vane only laughed.
"I'm off," he said. "Stick around where I can get you on the telephone
if necessary. But I don't think it will be necessary."
"I do," muttered Gwynn.
                               CHAPTER V
                                 KAREN
The journey was the usual one through interminable London streets
alternately respectable and squalid; and straight ahead through equally
interminable suburbs with their endless "terraces," semi-detached and
detached villas, and here and there a fine old house behind neglected
garden walls, making its last forlorn stand against the all-destroying
inroad of the London jungle.
There had been a heavy haze in London, but no fog. In the country,
however, beyond the last outstretched suburban tentacle of the inky
octopus the morning sun glimmered low through a golden smother,
promising a glimpse of blue sky.
To Guild, one "heath" has always resembled another, and now, as they
passed through the country at high speed, there seemed to him very
little difference between the several named points which marked his
progress toward Westheath. Hedges alternated with ivy-covered walls on
either side of a wide, fine road; trees were splendid as usual, sheep
fat, cattle sleek. Here and there a common or heath glimmered
bewitchingly where sunlight fell among the whins; birds winged their
way, waters glimmered, and the clean, singing August wind of England
blew steadily in his face strangely reviving within him some ancient,
forgotten, pre-natal wistfulness. Maybe it came from his American
mother's English mother.
Near two villages and once on the open highway policemen leisurely
signalled the chauffeur to stop, and came sauntering around to the
tonneau to question Guild as to his origin, his business, and his
destination; quiet, dignified, civil, respectable men they seemed to be
in their night cloaks and their always smart and business-like helmets
and uniforms.
All seemed satisfied, but all politely suggested that passports were now
becoming fashionable in England. And Guild thanked them pleasantly and
drove on.
"Bush," he said to his chauffeur, "this spy scare was ridiculed by the
newspapers, but it looks to me as though it were being taken rather
seriously after all."
"It is, sir."
"I understand that about thirty thousand German and Austrian reservists
have been arrested in England since war began?"
"I hear so, sir."
"I suppose the country really is swarming with spies. The paper
yesterday said that there was still a great and serious leakage of
military information out of England. One paper, yesterday afternoon,
reported that a number of spies had already been shot in the Tower."
"I have heard so, sir," said the chauffeur smilingly.
He was a blond, good-looking young fellow. Always his lips seemed to
rest in pleasant curves as though his reveries were agreeable.
A few hideously modern detached villas were passed, then hedges, walls,
a wood, a modern bridge.
"How near are we to Westheath now?" asked Guild, leaning forward in his
seat.
"We are there, sir." And the smiling chauffeur slowed the car to a
standstill at a cross-roads where furze and broom grew rankly over the
heath and a few rather tawdry villas appeared among the trees beyond.
Guild looked at his watch. It was only a little after seven, an
unearthly hour for a call upon any young girl, not to mention one to
whom he was personally unknown.
A policeman still wearing his waterproof night cloak, came leisurely
across to learn what was wanted.
"I am looking for the villa of Miss Girard--Miss Karen Girard,"
explained Guild.
"Hyacinth Villa, Number 169. Take the road to the right. It is the only
house."
"Thank you."
The car moved forward, swung to the right. About a quarter of a mile
away stood a small, modern stucco dwelling behind its hedge of privet.
Beyond that there were woods again and dewy uplands glimmering with
furze and brake.
When they arrived they found the driveway closed by a gate.
"Never mind; I'll walk to the house," said Guild.
The smiling chauffeur leaned back and opened the tonneau door; Guild
descended, looked at the iron gate between its ugly stucco posts, peered
through it up the drive with its parallel rows of recently planted lime
trees. Everything about the place was recent if not brand new--ugly with
the ugliness of well-to-do bad taste. Red geraniums and yellow cannas
had been planted in fearsome juxtaposition, salvia flanked a red brick
terrace--a most unholy combination of colour. In the early morning the
sun exposed the place without mercy. It was lonesome and amazingly
depressing.
Glancing up at the gate again he discovered a nickel-plated label
riveted to one of the stucco posts. On it was the name of the place,
"Hyacinth Villa," and its number 169.
There was no lodge, no bell, but the wicket gate was not locked. So
Guild entered.
"Shall I drive up to the house, sir?" inquired the chauffeur.
"No; wait out here."
There seemed to be no sign of life about the house when at last he
arrived in front of it--nobody apparently stirring at that hour. He
