"I am heart-broken."
"One of the tricks of fate.  Glad you got back all right.  We were
mightily worried.  Come over across the hall at nine to-morrow, all of
you, for breakfast.  Don't fuss up.  And we'll talk over the affair and
plan what's to be done.  Good night."
"I like that young man," declared Killigrew emphatically.  "He's the
real article.  American to the backbone; a millionaire who doesn't
splurge.  Well," sighing regretfully, "he was born to it, and I had to
dig for mine.  But I can't get it through my head why he wants to
excavate mummies when he could dig up potatoes with some profit."
"Dad, find me an earl or a duke like Mr. Crawford, and I'll marry him
just as fast as you like."
"Kittibudget, I'm not so strong for dukes as I was.  Your mother will
have a black eye in the morning, or I don't know a shindy when I see
it.  Now, hike off to bed.  I'm all in."
"You poor old dad!  I worry you to death."
She threw her lovely arms about his neck and kissed him.
"Well, you're worth it.  Kitty, I've had a jolt to-night.  You marry
whom you blame please.  I've been doing some tall thinking.  Make your
own romance, duke or dry-goods clerk.  You'd never hook up with
anything that wasn't a man.  You're Irish.  If he happens to be made,
all well and good; if not, why, I'll undertake to make him.  And that's
a bargain.  I don't want any alimony money in the Killigrew family."
She kissed him again and went into her bedroom.  Kind-hearted,
impulsive old dad!  In a week's time he would forget all about this
heart-to-heart talk, and shoo away every male who hadn't a title or a
million, or who wasn't due to fall heir to one or the other.
Nevertheless, she had long since made up her mind to build her own
romance.  That was her right, and she did not propose to surrender it
to anybody.  Her weary head on the pillow, she thought of the voices in
the fog.  "A wager's a wager."
The next morning the fog was not quite so thick; that is, in places
there were holes and punctures.  You saw a man's face and torso, but
neither hat nor legs.  Again, you saw the top of a cab bowling along,
but no horse: phantasmally.
Breakfast in Crawford's suite was merry enough.  Misfortune was turned
into jest.  At least, they made a fine show of it; which is
characteristic of people who bow to the inevitable whenever confronted
by it.  Crawford was passing his cigars, when a page was announced.
The boy entered briskly, carrying a tray upon which reposed a small
package.
"By special messenger, sir.  It was thought you might be liking to have
it at once, sir."  The page pocketed the shilling politely and departed.
"That's the first bit of live work I've seen anybody do in this hotel,"
commented Killigrew, striking a match.
"I have stopped here often," said Crawford, "and they are familiar with
my wishes.  Excuse me till I see what this is."
The quartet at the table began chatting again, about the fog, what they
intended doing in Paris, sunshiny Paris.  By and by Crawford came over
quietly and laid something on the table before his wife's  plate.
It was the Nana Sahib's ruby, so-called.
CHAPTER III
That same morning, at eleven precisely (when an insolent west wind
sprang up and tore the fog into ribbons and scarves and finally blew it
into smithereens, channelward) there stood before the windows of a
famous haberdashery in the Strand a young man, twenty-four years of
age, typically English, beardless, hair clipped neatly about his neck
and temples, his skin fresh colored, his body carefully but thriftily
clothed.  Smooth-skinned he was about the eyes and nose and mouth,
unmarked by dissipation; and he stood straight; and by the set of his
shoulders (not particularly deep or wide) you would infer that when he
looked at you he would look straight.  Pity, isn't it, that you never
really can tell what a man is inside by drawing up your brief from what
he is outside.  There is always the heel of Achilles somewhere; trust
the devil to find that.
Of course you wish to know forthwith who returned the ruby, and why.
As our statesmen say, regarding any important measure for public
welfare, the time is not yet ripe.  Besides, the young man I am
describing had never heard of the Nana Sahib's ruby, unless vaguely in
some Sepoy Mutiny tale.
His expression at this moment was rather mournful.  He was regretting
the thirty shillings the week he had for several years drawn regularly
in this shop.  Inside there he had introduced the Raglan shirt, the
Duke of Westminster four-in-hand, and the Churchill batwing collar.  He
longed to enter and plead for reinstatement, but his new-found pride
refused to budge his legs door-ward.  Thirty shillings, twelve for his
"third floor back," and the rest for clothes and books and simple
amusements.  What a whirl he had been in, this past fortnight!
He pulled at his chin, shook his head and turned away.  No, he simply
could not do it.  What! suffer himself to be laughed at behind his
back?  Impossible, a thousand times no!  At the first news stand he
bought two or three morning papers, and continued on to his lodgings.
He must leave England at once, but the question was--How?
It was a comfortable room, as "third floor backs" go.  He read the
"want" advertisements carefully, and at length paused at a paragraph
which seemed to suit his fancy perfectly.  "Cabin stewards
wanted--White Star Line--New York and Liverpool."  He cut out the
clipping, folded it and stored it away.  Then he proceeded to pack up
his belongings, not a very laborious affair.
Manuscripts.  He riffled the pages ruefully.  Sonnets and chant-royals
and epics, fine and lofty in spirit; so fine indeed that they easily
sifted through every editorial office in London.  There was even a
bulky romance.  He had read so much about the enormous royalties which
American authors received for their work, and English authors who were
popular on the other side, that his ambition had been frenetically
stirred.  The fortunes such men as Maundering and Piffle and Drool
made!  And all he had accomplished so far had been the earnest support
of the postal service.  Far back at the beginning he had been
unfortunate enough to sell a sonnet for ten shillings.  Alack!  You
sell your first sonnet, you win your first hand at cards, and then the
passion has you.
Poetry was a drug on the market.  Nobody read it (or wrote it) these
days; and any one who attempted to sell it was clearly mad.  Oh, a
jingle for Punch might pass, you know; something clever, with a snapper
to it.  But epic poetry?  Sonnets?  Why, didn't you know that there
wasn't a magazine going that did not have some sub-editor who could
whack out fourteen lines in fourteen minutes, whenever a page needed
filling up?  These things he had been told times without number.  And
Maundering, Piffle and Drool had long since cornered the romance
market.  The King's Highway had become No Thoroughfare.
America.  He would go to the land of the brave (when occasion demanded)
and the free (if you were imaginative).  Having packed his trunk and
valise, he departed for Liverpool.  Besides, America was all that was
left; he was at the end of his rope.
What a rollicking old fraud life was!  Swung out of his peaceful orbit,
by the legerdemain of death; no longer a humble steady star but a
meteor; bumping as yet darkly against the planets; and then this
monumental folly which had returned him to the old orbit but still in
meteoric form, without peace or means of livelihood!  An ass, indeed,
if ever there was one.
He eventually arrived at his destination, lied blithely to the chief
steward, and was assigned to the first-class cabins on the promenade
deck, simply because his manner was engaging and his face pleasing to
the eye.  The sea?  He had never been on it but once, and then only in
a rowboat.  A good sailor?  Perhaps.  Chicken and barley broths at
eleven; the captain's table in the dining-saloon, breakfast, luncheon
and dinner; cabin housekeeper and luggage man at the ports; and always
a natty, stiffly starched jacket with a metal number; and "Yes, sir!"
and "No, sir!" and "Thank you, sir!" his official vocabulary.  Fine job
for a poet!
It was all in the game he was going to play with fate.  A chap who
could sell flamingo ties to gentlemen with purple noses, and shirts
with attached cuffs to coal-porters ought not to worry over such a
simple employment as cabin-steward on board an ocean liner.
Early the next morning they left port, with only a few first-class
passengers.  The heavy travel was coming from the west, not going that
way.  The series of cabins under his stewardship were vacant.
Therefore, with the thoroughness of his breed, he set about to learn
"ship"; and by the time the first bugle for dinner blew, he knew port
from starboard, boat-deck from main, and many other things, some
unknown to the chief-steward who had made a hundred and twenty voyages
on this very ship.
Beautiful weather; a mild southwest blow, with a moderate beam-sea;
only the deck would come up smack against the soles of his boots in a
most unexpected and aggravating manner.  But after the third day out,
he found his sea-legs and learned how to "lean."  From two till five
his time was his own, and a very good deal of this time he devoted to
Henley and Morris and Walt Whitman, an ancient brier between his teeth
and a canister of excellent tobacco at his elbow.  Odd, isn't it, that
an Englishman without his pipe is as incomplete as a Manx cat, which,
as doubtless you know, has no tail.  After all, does a Manx cat know
that it is incomplete?  Let me say, then, as incomplete as a small boy
without pockets.
Toward his fellow stewards he was friendly without being companionable;
and as they were of a decent sort, they let him go his way.
Several times during the voyage he opened his trunk and took out the
manuscripts.  Hang it, they weren't so bally bad.  If he could still
re-read them, after an hour or two with Henley, there must be some
merit to them.
One afternoon he sat alone on the edge of his bunk.  The sun was
pouring into the porthole; intermittently it flashed over him.
Suddenly and alertly he got up, looked out, listened intently, then
stepped back into the cabin and locked the door.  Again he listened.
There was no sound except the steady heart-beats of the great engines
below.  He sat down sidewise, took out the chamois bag which hung
around his neck, and poured the contents out on the blanket.  Blue
stones, rather dull at first; but ah! when the sun awoke the fires in
them: blue as the flower o' the corn, the flame of burning sulphur.  He
gathered them up and slowly trickled them through his fingers.
Sapphires, unset, beautiful as a woman's eyes.  He replaced them in the
chamois bag; and for the rest of the afternoon went about his affairs
preoccupiedly, grave as a bishop under his miter.  For, all said and
done, he had much to be grave about.
In one of the panels of the partition which separated the cabin from
the next, there was a crack.  A human eye could see through it very
well.  And did.
My young poet had "signed on" under the name of Thomas Webb.  It was
not assumed.  For years he had been known in the haberdashery as Webb.
There was more to it, however; there was a tail to the kite.  The
English have an inordinate fondness for hyphens, for mother's family
name and grandmother's family name and great-grandmother's, with the
immediate paternal cognomen as a period.  Thomas' full name was a
rosary, if you like, of yeomen, of soldiers, of farmers, of artists, of
gentle bloods, of dreamers.  The latest transfusion of blood is always
most powerful in effect upon the receiver; and as Thomas' father had
died in penury for the sake of an idea, it was in order that the son
should be something of a dreamer too.  Poetry is but an expression of
life seen through dreams.
His father had been a scholar, risen from the people; his mother had
been gentle.  From his seventh year the boy had faced life alone.  He
had never gone with the stream but had always found lodgment in the
backwaters.  There is no employment quieter, peacefuller than that of a
clerk in a haberdashery.  From Mondays till Saturdays, calm; a perfect
environment for a poet.  You would be surprised to learn of the vast
army of poets and novelists and dramatists who dispense four-in-hands,
collars, buttons and hosiery six days in the week and who go
a-picnicking on the seventh, provided it does not rain.
Thomas had an idea.  It was not a reflection of his lamented father's;
it was wholly his own.  He wanted to be loved.  His father's idea had
been to love; thus, humanity had laughed him into the grave.  So it
will be seen that Thomas' idea was the more sensible of the two.
The voyage was uneventful.  Blue day followed blue day.  When at length
the great port of New York loomed in the distance, Thomas felt a
thrilling in his spine.  Perhaps yonder he might make his fortune; no
matter what else he did, that remained to be accomplished, for he was a
fortune-hunter, of the ancient type; that is, he expected to work for
it.  Shore leave would be his, and if during that time he found
nothing, why, he was determined to finish the summer as a steward; and
by fall he would have enough in wages and tips to give him a start in
life.  At present he could jingle but seven-and-six in his pocket; and
jingle it frequently he did, to assure himself that it was not wearing
away.
An important tug came bustling alongside.  By the yellow flag he knew
that it carried the quarantine officials, inspectors, and a few
privileged citizens.  Among others who came aboard Thomas noted a
sturdy thick-chested man in a derby hat--bowler, Thomas called it.
Quietly this man sought the captain and handed him what looked to
Thomas like a cablegram.  The captain read it and shook his head.
Thomas overheard a little of their conversation.
"You're welcome to look about, Mr. Haggerty; but I don't think you'll
find the person you seek."
"If you don't mind, I'll take a prowl.  Special case, Captain.  Mr.
Killigrew thought perhaps I'd see a face I knew."
"Valuable?"
"Fine sapphires.  A chance that they may come int' this port.  They
haven't yet."
"Your customs inspectors ought to be able to help you," observed the
captain, hiding a smile.  "Nothing but motes can slip through their
fingers."
"Sometimes they're tripped up," replied Haggerty.  "A case like this is
due t' slip through.  I'll take a look."
Thomas heard no more.  A detective.  Unobserved, he went down to his
stuffy cabin, took off the chamois bag and locked it in his trunk.  So
long as it remained on board, it was in British territory.
The following day he went into the great city of man-made cliffs.  He
walked miles and miles.  Naturally he sought the haberdashers along
Broadway.  No employment was offered him: for the reason that he failed
to state his accomplishments.  But he was in nowise discouraged.  He
would go back to Liverpool.  The ship would sail with full cabin
strength, and this trip there would be tips, three sovereigns at least,
and maybe more, if his charges happened to be generous.
He tied the chamois bag round his neck again, and turned in.  He was
terribly tired and footsore.  He slept fitfully.  At half after nine he
sat up, fully awake.  His cabin-mate (whom he rather disliked) was not
in his bunk.  Indeed, the bunk had not been touched.  Suddenly Thomas'
hand flew to his breast.  The chamois bag was gone!
CHAPTER IV
Iambic and hexameter, farewell!  In that moment the poet died in
Thomas; I mean, the poet who had to dig his expressions of life out of
ink-pots.  Things boil up quickly and unexpectedly in the soul;
century-old impulses, undreamed of by the inheritor; and when these
bubble and spill over the kettle's lip, watch out.  There is an island
in the South Seas where small mud-geysers burst forth under the
pressure of the foot.  Fate had stepped on Thomas.
As he sprang out of his bunk he was a reversion: the outlaw in
Lincoln-green, the Yeoman of the Guard, the bandannaed smuggler of the
southeast coast.  Quickly he got into his uniform.  He went about this
affair the right way, with foresight and prudence; for he realized that
he must act instantly.  He sought the purser, who was cordial.
"I'm not feeling well," began Thomas; "and the doctor is ashore.
Where's there an apothecary's shop?"
"Two blocks straight out from the pier entrance.  You'll see red and
blue lights in the windows.  Tummy?"
"I'm subject to dizzy spells.  Where's Jameson?"  Jameson was the surly
cabin-mate.
"Quit.  Gone over to the Cunard.  Fool.  Like a little money advanced?
Here's a bill, five dollars."
"Thank you, sir."  Twenty shillings, ten pence.  "Doesn't Jameson take
his peg a little too often, sir?"
"He's a blighter.  Glad to get rid of him.  Hurry back.  And don't stop
at Mike's or Johnny's,"--smiling.
"I never touch anything heavier than ale, sir."  Mike's or Johnny's; it
saved him the trouble of asking.  Tippling pubs where stewards
foregathered.
His uniform was his passport.  Nobody questioned him as he passed the
barrier at a dog-trot.  Outside the smelly pier (sugar, coffee and
spices, shipments from Killigrew and Company) he paused to send a short
prayer to heaven.  Then he approached a snoozing stevedore.
"Where's Mike's?"
"Lead y' there, ol' scout!"
"No; tell me where it is.  Here's a shilling."
Explicit directions followed; and away went Thomas at a dog-trot again:
the lust to punish, maim or kill in his heart.  He was not a university
man; he had not played cricket at Lord's or stroked the crew from
Leander; but he was island-born, a chap for cold tubbings, calisthenics
and long tramps into the country on pleasant Sundays.  Thomas was
slender, but sound and hard.
Jameson was not at Mike's nor at Johnny's; but there were dozens of
other saloons.  He did not ask questions.  He went in, searched, and
strode out.  In the lowest kind of a drinking dive he found his man.  A
great wave of dizziness swept over Thomas.  When it passed, only the
bandannaed smuggler remained, cautious, cunning, patient.
The quarry was alone in a side-room, drinking gin and smiling to
himself.  For an hour Thomas waited.  His palms became damp with cold
sweat and his knees wabbled, but not in fear.  Four glasses of ale,
sipped slowly, tasting of wormwood.  In the bar-mirror he could watch
every move made by Jameson.  No one went in.  He had evidently paid in
advance for the bottle of gin.  Thomas ordered his fifth glass of ale,
and saw Jameson's head sink forward a little.  Thomas' sigh almost
split his heart in twain.  Jameson's head went up suddenly, and with a
drunken smile he reached for the bottle and poured out a stiff potion.
He drank it neat.
Thomas wiped his palms on his sleeves and ordered a cigar.
"Lonesome?" asked the swart bartender.  This good-looking chap was
rather a puzzle to him.  He wasn't waiting for anybody, and he wasn't
trying to get drunk.  Five ales in an hour and not a dozen words; just
an ordinary Britisher who didn't know how to amuse himself in Gawd's
own country.
Jameson's head fell upon his arms.  With assured step Thomas walked
toward the corridor which divided the so-called wine-rooms.  At the end
of the corridor was a door.  He did not care where it led so long as it
led outside this evil-smelling den.  He found the room empty opposite
Jameson's.  He went in quietly.  The shabby waiter followed him,
soft-footed as a cat.
"A bottle of Old Tom," said Thomas.
The waiter nodded and slipped out.  He saw the sleeper in the other
room, and gently closed the door.
"Gink in number two wants a bottle o' gin.  He's th' kind.  Layer o'
ale an' then his quart.  Th' real souse."
"So that's his game, huh?" said the bartender.  "How's th' gink in
number four?"
"Dead t' th' world."
"Tip th' Sneak.  There may be a chancet t' roll 'em both.  Here y' are.
Soak 'im two-fifty."
Half an hour longer Thomas waited.  Then he rose and tiptoed to the
door, drawing it back without the least sound.  Jameson's had not
latched.  Taking a deep long breath (strange, how one may control the
heart by this process!) Thomas crossed the corridor and entered the
other room; entered prepared for any emergency.  If Jameson awoke, so
much the worse for him.  The gods owe it to the mortals they keep in
bondage to bestow a grain of luck here and there along the way to
Elysium or Hades.  His cabin-mate's stentorian breathing convinced the
trespasser that it was the stupidest, heaviest kind of sleep.
For a moment he looked down at the man contemptuously.  To have
befuddled his brain at such a time!  Or was it because the wretch knew
that he, Thomas, would not dare cry out over his loss?  He stepped
behind the sleeping man.  He wanted to fall upon him, beat him with his
fists.  Ah, if he had not found him!
The night, fortunately, was warm and thick.  Jameson had carelessly
thrown open his coat and vest.  Underneath he wore the usual
sailor-jersey.  Thomas steeled his arms.  With one hand he pulled the
roll collar away from the man's neck and with the other sought for the
string: sought in vain.  The light, the four drab walls, the haze of
tobacco smoke, all turned red.
"Where is it, you dog?  Quick!"  Thomas shook the man.  "Where is it?
Quick, or I'll throttle you!"
"Lemme 'lone!"  Jameson sagged toward the table again.
Thomas bent him back ruthlessly and plunged a hand into the inside
pocket of the man's coat.  The touch of the chamois-bag burned like
fire.  He pulled it out and transferred it to his own pocket and made
for the door.  He did not care now what happened.  Found!  Woe to any
one who had the ill-luck to stand between him and the exit.
Outside the door stood the shabby waiter, grinning cheerfully.  He was
accompanied by a hulking, shifty-eyed creature.
"Roll 'im, ol' sport?  Caught in th' act, huh?" gibed the waiter.
Thomas had the right idea.  He struck first.  The waiter crashed
against the wall.  The hulking, shifty-eyed one fared worse.  He went
down with his face to the cracks in the floor.  Thomas dashed for the
exit.
CHAPTER V
Outside he found himself in a kind of court.  He ran about wildly, like
a rat in a trap.  He plumped into the alley, accidentally.  Down this
he fled, into the street.  A voice called out peremptorily to him to
stop, but he went on all the faster, swift as a hare.  He doubled and
circled through this street and that until at last he came out into a
broad, brilliant thoroughfare.  An iron-pillared railway reared itself
skyward and trains clamored past.  Bloomsbury: millions of years and
miles away!  He would wake up presently, with the sunlight (when it
shone) pouring into his room, and the bright geraniums on the outside
window-sill bidding him good morning.
He was on the point of rushing up the station stairway, when he espied
a cab at the far corner.  A replica of a London cab, something which
smacked of home; he could have hugged for sheer joy the bleary-eyed
cabby who touched his rusty high hat.
"Free?"
"Free 's th' air, bo.  Where to?"
"Pier 60, White Star Line.  How much?"--quite his old-time self again.
"Two dollars,"--promptly.
"All right.  And hurry!"  Thomas climbed in.  He was safe.
As the crow flies it was less than a ten-minutes' jog from that corner
to Pier 60.  Thomas had not gone far; he had merely covered a good deal
of ground.  Cabby drove about for three-quarters of an hour and then
drew up before the pier.
Back to his cabin once more, weak as a swimmer who had breasted a
strong tide.  He opened his trunk and rammed the chamois-bag into the
toe of one of his patent-leather boots.  In the daytime he would wear
it about his neck, but each night back into the shoe it must go.  He
flung himself on the bunk, not to sleep, but to think and wonder.
Meantime there was great excitement in the dive.  The waiter was
rocking his body, wailing and holding his jaw.  His companion was
sitting on the floor.  In the wine-room two policemen and a thick-set,
black-mustached man in a derby hat were asking questions.
"Robbed!" moaned Jameson.
The man in the derby hat shook him roughly.  "Robbed o' what, y' soak?"
"Robbed!"
"Mike," said the man in the derby, "put th' darbies on th' Sneak.
We'll get something for our trouble, anyhow.  An' tell that waiter t'
put th' brakes on his yawp.  Bring him in here.  Now, you, what's
happened?"
"Why, the gink in uniform comes in . . ."
The bartender interrupted.  "A gink dressed like a ship-steward comes
in an' orders ale.  Drinks five glasses.  Goes out int' th' wine-room
'cross th' hall an' orders a bottle o' gin.  An' next I hears Johnny
howlin' murder.  Frame-up, Mr. Haggerty.  Nothin' t' do with it, hones'
t' Gawd!  Th' boss ain't here."
Jameson lurched toward the bartender.  "Young lookin'?  Red cheeks?
'Old himself like a sojer?"
"That's 'im," agreed the bartender.
"What were y' robbed of?" demanded Haggerty.
Jameson looked into a pair of chilling blue eyes.  His own wavered
drunkenly.  "Money."
"Y' lie!  What was it?"  Haggerty seized Jameson by the collar and
swung him about.  "Hurry up!"
"I tell you, my money.  Paid off t'dy.  'E knew it.  Sly."  Jameson had
become almost sober.  Out of the muddle one thing loomed clearly: he
could not be revenged upon his cabin-mate without getting himself into
deep trouble.  Money; he'd stick to that.
"Who is he?"
"Name's Webb; firs'-class steward on th' Celtic.  Damn 'im!"
"Lock this fool up till morning," said Haggerty.  "I'll find out what
he's been robbed of."
"British subject!" roared Jameson.
"Not t'night.  Take 'im away.  Think I saw th' fellow running as I came
by.  Yelled at him, but he could run some.  Take 'im away.  Something
fishy about this.  I'll call on my friend Webb in th' morning.  There
might be something in this."
And Haggerty paid his call promptly; only, Thomas saw him first.  The
morning sun lighted up the rugged Irish face.  Thomas not only saw him
but knew who he was, and in this he had the advantage of the encounter.
One of the first things a detective has to do is to surprise his man,
and then immediately begin to bullyrag and overbear him; pretend that
all is known, that the game is up.  Nine times out of ten it serves,
for in the same ratio there is always a doubtful confederate who may
"peach" in order to save himself.
Thomas never stirred from his place against the rail.  He drew on his
pipe and pretended to be stolidly interested in the sweating
stevedores, the hoist-booms and the brown coffee-bags.
A hand fell lightly on his shoulder.  Haggerty had a keen eye for a
face; he saw weak spots, where a hundred other men would have seen
nothing out of the ordinary.  The detective always planned his campaign
upon his interpretation of the face of the intended victim.
"Webb?"
Thomas lowered his pipe and turned.  "Yes, sir."
"Where were you between 'leven an' twelve last night?"
"What is that to you, sir?"  (Yeoman of the Guard style.)
"What did Jameson take away from you?"
"Who are you, and what's your business with me?"  The pipe-stem
returned with a click to its ivory vise.
"My name is Haggerty, of th' New York detective force; American
Scotland Yard, 'f that'll sound better.  Better tell me all about it."
"I'm a British subject, on board a British ship."
"Nothing doing in m' lord style.  When y' put your foot on that pier
you become amenable t' th' laws o' th' United States, especially 'f
you've committed a crime."
"A crime?"
"Listen here.  You went int' Lumpy Joe's, waited till Jameson got
drunk, an' then you rolled him."
"Rolled?"--genuinely bewildered.
"Picked his pockets, if you want it blunt.  Th' question is, did he
take it from you 'r you from him?  I can arrest you, Mr. Webb, British
subject 'r not.  'S up t' you t' tell me th' story.  Don't be afraid of
me; I don't eat up men.  All y' got t' do is t' treat me on th' level.
You won't lose anything 'f you're honest."
"Come with me, sir."  (The smuggler was, in his day, a match in cunning
for any or all of His Majesty's coast-guards.)
Haggerty followed the young man down the various companionways.
Instinctively he knew what was coming, the pith of the matter if not
the details.  Thomas pulled out his trunk, unlocked it, threw back the
lid, and picked up an old leather box.
"Look at this, sir.  It was my mother's.  And I'd be a fine chap, would
I not, to let a drunken scoundrel steal it and get away with it."
It was a Neapolitan brooch, of pink coral, surrounded by small pearls.
Haggerty balanced it on his palm and appraised it at three or found
hundred dollars.  He glanced casually into the leather box.  Some faded
tin-types, some letters, a very old Bible, and odds and ends of a young
man's fancy: Haggerty shrugged.  It looked as if he had stumbled into a
mare's-nest.
"He said you took money."
"He lied,"--tersely.
"Do y' want t' appear against him?"
"No.  We sail at seven to-morrow.  So long as he missed his shot, let
him go."
"Why didn't y' lodge a complaint against him?"
"I'm not familiar with your laws, Mr. Haggerty.  So I took the matter
in my own hands."
"Don't do it again.  Sorry t' trouble you.  But duty's duty.  An'
listen.  Always play your game above board; it pays."
"Thanks."
Haggerty started to offer his hand, but the look in the gray eyes
caused him to misdoubt and reconsider the impulse.  So Thomas made his
first mistake, which, later on, was to cost him dear.  Coconnas shook
hands with Caboche the headsman, and escaped the "question
extraordinary."  Truth is, Thomas was not an accomplished liar.  He
could lie to the detective, but he could not bring himself to shake
hands on it.
On the way down the plank Haggerty mused: "An' I thought I had a hunch!"
Thomas sighed.  "Play your game above board; it pays."  Into what a
labyrinth of lies he was wayfaring!
That same night, on the other side of the Atlantic, the ninth Baron of
Dimbledon sailed for America to rehabilitate his fortunes.  He did and
he didn't.
CHAPTER VI
Thomas was a busy man up to and long after the hour of sailing.  His
cabins were filled with about all the variant species of the race: two
nervous married women with their noisy mismanaged children, three young
men on a lark, and an actress who was paying her husband's expenses and
gladly announced the fact over and through the partitions.  Three bells
tingled all day long, and the only thing that saved Thomas from the
"sickbay" was the fact that the bar closed at eleven.  And a rough
passage added to his labors.  No Henley this voyage, no comfy loafing
about the main-deck in the sunshine.  A busy, miserable, dejected young
man, who cursed his folly and yet clung to it with that tenacity which
makes prejudice England's first-born.
Night after night, stretched out wearily on his bunk, the sordid
picture of Lumpy Joe's returned to him.  By a hair's breadth!  It was
always a source of amazement to recall how quickly and shrewdly his
escape had been managed.  He felt reasonably safe.  Jameson would never
dare tell what he knew, to incriminate himself for the sake of revenge.
To have got the best of him and to have pulled the wool over the eyes
of a keen American detective!
In Liverpool he deliberately threw away a full sovereign in
motion-pictures and music-halls.  But he drank nothing, not even his
customary ale.  Not so long ago he had tasted his first champagne; very
expensive, something more than two hundred pounds.  Stupid ass!  And
yet . . .  The very life he had always been longing for, dreaming of,
behind his counters: to be free, to rove at will, to seek adventure.
"Then," said Sir Tristram, "I will fight with you unto the uttermost."
"I grant," said Sir Palomides, "for in a better quarrel keep I never to
fight, for and I die of your hands, of a better knight's hands may I
not be slain." . . .
Off for America again; and the Book of Marvelous Adventures, to be
opened wide by a pair of Irish blue eyes, deep as the sea, glancing as
the sunlight on its crests.
"You are my steward, I believe?"
In his soul of souls Thomas hoped so.  "Yes, miss--indeed, yes, if you
occupy this cabin."
"Here are the tickets"; and the young lady signed the slip of paper he
gave her: Mr. and Mrs. Daniel Killigrew, Miss Killigrew and maid.  "I
shall probably keep you very busy."  There was a twinkle in her eyes,
but he was English and did not see it.
"That is what I am here for, miss."  He smiled reassuringly.
"Never ask my father if he wishes tea and toast"--gravely.
"Yes, miss"--with honest gravity.  Thomas knew nothing of women, young
or old.  With the habits and tastes of the male biped he was tolerably
familiar.  He was to learn.
"Hot water-bottles for my mother every night, and a pot of chocolate
for myself.  I shall always have my breakfast early in the saloon.  I'm
a first-rate sailor."
A rush, a whir.
"Kitty, you darling!  They have put us on the other side of the ship."
Thomas was genuinely glad of it.  With a goddess and a nymph to wait
upon, heaven knew how many broken dishes he'd have to account for.
Never in the park, never after the matinees, never in all wide London,
had he seen two such lovely types: Titian and Greuse.
"No!" said the Greuse.
"Stupid mistake at the booking-office," replied the Titian.  "Come up
on deck.  They are putting off."
"Just a moment.  Put the small luggage, Mr. . . ."
"Webb."
"Mr. Webb.  Put the small luggage on the lounge.  Never mind the
straps.  That is all."
"Yes, miss."
The two young women hurried off.  Thomas stared after them, his brows
bent in a mixture of perplexity, dazzlement and diffidence.
"A very good-looking steward."
"Kitty, you little wretch!"
"Why, he is good-looking."
"Princes, dukes, waiters, cabbies, stewards; all you do is look at
them, and they become slaves.  You've more mischief in you than a dozen
kittens."
"I have met cabbies whom I much prefer to certain dukes."
"But I've a young man picked out for you.  He's an artist."
"Good night!" murmured Kitty.  "If there is one kind of person in the
world dad considers wholly useless and incompetent, it's an artist or a
poet."
"But this artist makes fifteen thousand and sometimes twenty thousand
the year."
"Then he's no artist.  What is his name?"
"Forbes, J. Mortimer Forbes."
"Oh.  The pretty-cover man."
"My dear, he is one of the nicest young men in New York.  His family is
one of the best, and he goes everywhere.  And but for his
kindness. . . ."
"What?"
"Some day I'll tell you the story.  Here we go!  Good-by, England!"
"Good-by, sapphires!" said Kitty, so low that the other did not hear
her.
At dinner Thomas was called to account by the chief steward for
permitting his thumb to connect with the soup.  But what would you,
with Titian and Greuse smiling a soft "Thank you!" for everything you
did for them?
     *     *     *     *     *     *
"Night, daddy."
"Good night, Kittibudget."
Crawford smiled after the blithe, buoyant figure as it swung
confidently down the deck.
"I don't know what I'm going to do," mused Killigrew, looking across
the rail at the careening stars.
"What about?"
"That child.  I can't harness her."
"Somebody's bound to"--prophetically.
"It's got to be a whole man, or he'll wish he'd never been born.  She's
had her way so long that she's spoiled."
"Not a bit of it."
"Yes, she is.  I told her not to wear those sapphires that night.  And,
by the way, I've been hoping they'd turn up like that ruby of yours.
How do you account for that?"
The coal of Crawford's cigar waxed and waned and the ash lengthened.
"I've no doubt that you've been mighty curious since that morning.
Perhaps you read the tale in the newspapers.  I know of only one man
who would return the Nana Sahib's ruby.  Sentiment; for I believe the
poor devil was really fond of me.  A valet.  With me for ten years.  He
was really my comrade; always my right-hand on my exploration trips;
back-boned, fearless, reliable in a pinch, and a scholar in a way;
though I can't imagine how and where he picked up his learning.  He
saved my life at least twice by his quick wit.  In those days I was
something of a stick; never went out.  I hired him upon his word and
because he looked honest.  And he was for ten years.  He gave his name
as Mason, said he was born in central New York.  We got along without
friction of any sort.  And I still miss him.  Stole a hundred thousand
dollars' worth of gems; hid them in the heels of my old shoes and
nearly got away with them.  Haggerty, the detective, thought for weeks
that I was the man.  I still believe that I was the innocent cause of
Mason's relapse; for Haggerty was certain that somewhere in the past
Mason had been a criminal.  You see, I had a peculiar fad.  I used to
buy up old safes and open them for the sport of it.  Crazy idea, but I
found a good deal of amusement in it."
"You don't say!" gasped Killigrew, who had never heard of this phase
before.
"It's my belief that Mason got his inspiration from watching me.  I am
devilish sorry."
"Then you believe that he is up to his old tricks again?"
"Yes,"--reluctantly.  "The man who took my wife's ruby, took your
daughter's sapphires.  It needed a clever mind to conceive such a
coup.  Three other carriages were entered, with more or less success.
In a dense fog; a needle in a haystack.  And they'll never find him."
"It's up to you to put the detectives on the right track."
"I suppose I'll have to do it."
"If he returns to America he'll be caught.  I'll give Haggerty the tip."
"I have my doubts of Mason committing any such folly.  He picked up a
small fortune that night.  Strange mix-up."
"Here, try one of these," urged Killigrew, as the butt of Crawford's
cigar went overboard.
"Thanks."
Thomas moved away from the ventilator.  Mix-up, indeed!  He stole down
to the promenade deck, where the stewardess informed him that Miss
Killigrew had just ordered her chocolate.  He flew to the kitchens.  It
was a narrow escape.  To have been found wanting the first night out!
"Come in," said a voice in answer to his knock.
He set the tray down on the stool, his heart insurgent and his fingers
all thumbs.  He might live to be a steward eighty years old, but he
never would get over the awe, the embarrassment of these invasions by
night.  Each time he saw a woman in her peignoir or kimono he felt as
though he had committed a sacrilege.  True, he understood their
attitude; he was merely a serving machine and for the time wiped off
the roster of mankind.
A long blue coat of silk brocade enveloped Kitty from her throat to her
sandals; sleeves which fell over her hands; buttoned by loops over
corded knots.  An experienced traveler could have told him that it was
the peculiar garment which any self-respecting Chinaman would wear who
was in mourning for his grandfather.  Kitty wore it because of its
beauty alone.
"Thank you," she said, as Thomas went out backward, court style.  Kitty
smiled across at her maid who was arranging the combs and brushes
preparatory to taking down her mistress' hair.  "He looked as if he
were afraid of something, Celeste."
Celeste smiled enigmatically.  "Ma'm'selle shoult haff been born in
Pariss."
This was translatable, or not, as you pleased.  Kitty sipped the
chocolate and found it excellent.  At length she dismissed the maid,
switched off the lights, and then remembered that there was no water in
the carafe.  She rang.
Thomas replied so promptly that he could not have been farther off than
the companionway.  "You rang, miss?"
"Yes, Webb.  Please fill this carafe."
"Is it possible that it was empty, miss?"
"I used it and forgot to ring for more."
All this in the dark.
Thomas hurried away, wishing he could find some magic spring on board.
For what purpose he could not have told.
As for Kitty, she remained standing by the door, profoundly astonished.
CHAPTER VII
Third day out.
Kitty smiled at the galloping horizon; smiled at the sunny sky; smiled
at the deck-steward as he served the refreshing broth; smiled at the
tips of her sensible shoes, at her hands, at her neighbors: until Mrs.
Crawford could contain her curiosity no longer.
"Kitty Killigrew, what have you been doing?"
"Doing?"
"Well, going to do?"--shrewdly.
Kitty gazed at her friend in pained surprise, her blue eyes as innocent
as the sea--and as full of hidden mysterious things.  "Good gracious!
can't a person be happy and smile?"
"Happy I have no doubt you are; but I've studied that smile of yours
too closely not to be alarmed by it."
"Well, what does it say?"
"Mischief."
Kitty did not reply to this, but continued smiling--at space this time.
On the ship crossing to Naples in February their chairs on deck had
been together; they had become acquainted, and this acquaintance had
now ripened into one of those intimate friendships which are really
sounder and more lasting than those formed in youth.  Crawford had
heard of Killigrew as a great and prosperous merchant, and Killigrew
had heard of Crawford as a millionaire whose name was very rarely
mentioned in the society pages of the Sunday newspapers.  Men recognize
men at once; it doesn't take much digging.  Before they arrived in
Naples they had agreed to take the Sicilian trip together, then up
Italy, through France, to England.  The scholar and the merchant at
play were like two boys out of school; the dry whimsical humor of the
Scotsman and the volatile sparkle of the Irishman made them capital
foils.
Killigrew dropped his Rodney Stone.
"Say, Crawford," he began, "after seeing ten thousand saints in ten
thousand cathedrals, since February, I'd give a hundred dollars for a
ringside ticket to a scrap like that one,"--indicating the volume on
his knee.
Crawford lay back and laughed.
"Well," said his wife, with an amused smile, "why don't you say it?"
"Say what?"
"'So would I!'"
"Men are quite hopeless," sighed Mrs. Killigrew, when the laughter had
subsided.
"You oughtn't object to a good shindy, Molly," slyly observed her
husband.  "You'll never forgive me that black eye."
"I'll never forgive the country you got it in,"--grimly.  "But what's
the harm in a good scrap between two husky fellows, trained to a hair
to slam-bang each other?"
"It isn't refined, dad," said Kitty.
He sent a searching glance at her; he never was sure when that girl was
laughing.  "Fiddle-sticks!  For four months now I've been shopping
every day with you women, and you can't tell me prize-fights are
brutal."
Crawford applauded gently.
"By the way, Crawford, you know something about direct charity."
Killigrew threw back his rug and sat up.  "I've got an idea.  What's
the use of giving checks to hospitals and asylums and colleges, when
you don't know whether the cash goes right or wrong?  I'm going to let
Molly here start a home-bureau to keep her from voting; a lump sum
every year to give away as she pleases.  I'm strong for giving boys
college education.  Smooths 'em out; gives them a start in life; that
is, if they are worth anything at the beginning.  Like this: back the
boy and screw up his honor and interest by telling him that you expect
to be paid back when the time comes.  There's no better charity in the
world than making a man of a boy, making him want to stand on his own
feet, independent.  When you help inefficient people, you throw your
money away.  What do you think of the idea?"
"A first-rate one.  I'd like to come in."
"No; this is all my own and Molly's.  But how'll I start her off?"
"Get an efficient young man to act as private secretary; a fairly good
accountant; no rich man's son, but some one who has had a chance to
observe life.  Make him a buffer between Mrs. Killigrew and the whining
cheats.  And above all, no young man who has social entrée to your
house.  That kind of a private secretary is always a fizzle."
"Any one in mind?"
"No."
"I have," said Kitty, rising and going toward the companion-ladder to
the lower decks.
"What now?" demanded Killigrew.
"Let her be; Kitty has a sensible head on her shoulders, for all her
foolery."  Mrs. Killigrew laid a restraining hand on her husband's arm.
But Mrs. Crawford smiled a replica of that smile which had aroused her
curiosity in regard to Kitty.  And then her face grew serious.
Kitty had a mind like her father's.  Her ideas were seldom nebulous or
slow in forming.  They sprang forth, full grown, like those
mythological creatures: Minerva was an idea of Jove's, as doubtless
Venus was an idea of Neptune's.  Men with this quality become
captains-general of armies or of money-bags.  In a man it signifies
force; in a woman, charm.
Kitty searched diligently and found the object of her quest on the
main-deck, starboard, leaning against one of the deck supports and
reading from a book which lay flat on the broad teak rail, in a blue
shadow.  The sea smiled at Kitty and Kitty smiled at the sea.  Men are
not the only adventurers; they have no monopoly on daring.  And what
Kitty proposed doing was daring indeed, for she did not know into what
dangers it might eventually lead her.
"Mr. Webb?"
Thomas looked up.  "You are wanting me, miss?"
"If you are not too busy."
"Really, no.  I have been reading."  He closed the book, loose-leafed
from frequent perusals.  "I am at your service."
"Do you read much, Mr. Webb?"
The reiteration of the prefix to his name awakened him to the marvelous
fact that for the present he was no longer the machine; she was
recognizing the man.
"Perhaps, for a man in my station, I read too much, Miss Killigrew."
Kitty's scarlet lips stirred ever so slightly.  It was the first time
he had added the name to the prefix: he in his turn was recognizing the
woman.  And this rather pleased her, for she liked to be recognized.
"May I ask what it is you are reading?"
He offered the book to her.  Morte d'Arthur.  Kitty's eyebrows, a
hundred years or more ago, would have stirred to tender lyrics the
quills of Prior and Lovelace and Suckling: arched when interested, a
funny little twist to the inner points when angered, and when laughter
possessed her. . . .  Let Thomas indite the sonnet!  Just now they were
widely arched.
"I am very fond of the book," explained Thomas diffidently.  "I love
the pompous gallantry of these fairy chaps.  How politely they used to
hack each other into pieces!"
"Are you by chance a university man?"
"No.  I am self-educated, if one may call it that.  My father was a
fellow at Trinity.  For myself, I have always had to work."
"Do you like your present occupation?"
"It was the best I could find."  How he would have liked to throw
discretion to the winds and tell her the whole miserable story!
"Are you good at accounting?"
"Fairly."  What was all this about?  He began to riffle the leaves of
the book, restively.
"Could you tell an honest man from a dishonest one?"
"I believe so."  Thomas had eyebrows, too, but he did not know how to
use them properly.  Tell an honest man from a dishonest one, forsooth!
Kitty found the situation less easy than she had anticipated.  The more
questions she asked, the more embarrassed she grew; and it angered her
because there was no clear reason why she should become embarrassed.
And she also remarked his uneasiness.  However, she went on
determinedly.
"Have you ever had any contact with real poverty?"
"Yes,"--close-lipped.  "Pardon me, Miss Killigrew, but . . ."
"Just a moment, Mr. Webb," she interrupted.  "I dare say my questions
seem impertinent, but they have a purpose back of them.  My mother and
I are looking for a private secretary for a charitable concern which we
are going to organize shortly.  We desire some one who is educated, who
will be capable of guarding us from persons not worthy of benefactions,
who will make recommendations, seek into the affairs of those
considered worthy.  We shall, of course, expect to find room for you.
It will not be a chatter-tea-drinking affair.  You will have the
evenings to yourself and all of Sundays.  The salary will be two
hundred a month."
"Pounds?" gasped Thomas.
"Oh, no; dollars.  I do not expect your answer at this moment.  You
must have time to think it over."
"It is not necessary, Miss Killigrew."
"You decline?"
"On the contrary, I accept with a good deal of gratitude.  On
condition," he added gravely.
"And that?"
"You will ask me no questions regarding my past."
Kitty looked squarely into his eyes and he returned the glance steadily
and calmly.
"Very well; I accept the condition,"
Thomas was mightily surprised.
CHAPTER VIII
He had put forward this condition, perfectly sure that she would refuse
to accept it.  He could not understand.
"You accept that condition?"
"Yes."  Having gone thus far with her plot, Kitty would have died
rather than retreated; Irish temperament.
Thomas was moved to a burst of confidence.  "I know that I am poor, and
to the best of my belief, honest.  Moreover, perhaps I should be
compelled by the exigencies of circumstance to leave you after a few
months.  I am not a rich man, masquerading for the sport of it; I am
really poor and grateful for any work.  It is only fair that I should
tell you this much, that I am running away from no one.  Beyond the
fact that I am the son of a very great but unknown scholar, a farmer of
mediocre talents who lost his farm because he dreamed of humanity
instead of cabbages, I have nothing to say."  He said it gravely,
without pride or veiled hauteur.
"That is frank enough," replied Kitty, curiously stirred.  "You will
not find us hard task-masters.  Be here this afternoon at three.  My
father will wish to talk to you.  And be as frank with him as you have
been with me."
She smiled and nodded brightly, and turned away.  He had a glimpse of a
tan shoe and a slim tan-silk ankle, which poised birdlike above the
high doorsill; and then she vanished into the black shadow of the
companionway.  She afterward confessed to me that her sensation must
have been akin to that of a boy who had stolen an apple and beaten the
farmer in the race to the road.
We all make the mistake of searching for our drama, forgetting that it
arrives sooner or later, unsolicited.
Bewitched.  Thomas should have been the happiest man alive, but the
devil had recruited him for his miserables.  Her piquant face no longer
confronting and bewildering him, he saw this second net into which he
had permitted himself to be drawn.  As if the first had not been
colossal enough!  Where would it all end?  Private secretary and two
hundred the month--forty pounds--this was a godsend.  But to take her
orders day by day, to see her, to be near her. . . .  Poverty-stricken
wretch that he was, he should have declined.  Now he could not; being a
simple Englishman, he had given his word and meant to abide by it.
There was one glimmer of hope; her father.  He was a practical merchant
and would not permit a man without a past (often worse than a man with
one) to enter his establishment.
Thomas was not in love with Kitty.  (Indeed, this isn't a love story at
all.)  Stewards, three days out, are not in the habit of falling in
love with their charges (Maundering and Drool notwithstanding).  He was
afraid of her; she vaguely alarmed him; that was all.
For seven years he had dwelt in his "third floor back"; had breakfasted
and dined with two old maids, their scrawny niece, and a muscular young
stenographer who shouted militant suffrage and was not above throwing a
brickbat whenever the occasion arrived.  There was a barmaid or two at
the pub where he lunched at noon; but chaff was the alpha and omega of
this acquaintance.  Thus, Thomas knew little or nothing of the sex.
The women with whom he conversed, played the gallant, the hero, the
lover (we none of us fancy ourselves as rogues!) were those who peopled
his waking dreams.  She was La Belle Isoude, Elaine, Beatrice,
Constance; it all depended upon what book he had previously been
reading.  It is when we men are confronted with the living picture of
some one of our dreams of them that women cease to dwell in the
abstract and become issues, to be met with more or less trepidation.
Back among some of his idle dreams there had been a Kitty, blue-eyed,
black-haired, slender and elfish.
Kitty sat down in her chair.  "Well," she said, "I have found him."
