loved the poetry which was the best in his youth, though he did not deny
me the belief that the poetry of mine was better still; his gentle
intelligence could follow me where his liking failed, and he modestly
accepted my opinions. His interest had once been absorbed mostly, but
not wholly, by the faith which he had imbibed from his reading of
Swedenborg, but when I began to know him as a boy may know his elder, he
was more and more concerned in the national struggle with the
pro-slavery aggression. Politics had always been his main worldly
interest, and not only as to measures; he passionately favored certain
men, because he liked the nature of them, as well as because he believed
them right. It seems to me now that he took a personal interest in
conventions and nominations, but I am not sure, for I myself took no
interest whatever in them; their realities did not concern me so much as
the least unrealities of fiction; and I can only make sure of my
father's interest in the elections after the nominations. I suppose that
he was not very skilled in practical politics, as log-rolling and
wire-pulling have come to be called, though in a village which was the
home of a United States Senator, a Congressional Representative, a State
Senator, and a Legislative Representative, with the full corps of county
office-holders, and a Common Pleas Judge, the science might well have
forced itself upon his study. Many years after our coming to the Western
Reserve he was sent to the State Senate by a war-majority larger than
any majority which had yet returned a candidate, or yet has; but long
before that he began to find his way beyond the local favor or disfavor,
and was chosen one of the House clerks in the State Legislature. That
must have been when I was eighteen years old, but he seems to have left
our newspaper to my sole charge without misgiving, and fortunately no
trouble came of his trust in me. I was then taking my civic and social
opinions from the more Tory of the English quarterlies, but nobody knew
what I meant by them; I did not know myself, and I did no harm with
them.

In the mean time our Congressman was writing for us every week from
Washington a letter full of politics far more intelligible to our
readers than mine were to me. He was that Joshua R. Giddings, early one
of the paladins of anti-slavery in a series of pro-slavery Congresses,
where he represented and distinguished his district for twenty years
after his resignation under a vote of censure and his overwhelming
re-election. But in a fatal moment of that fatigue which comes to
elderly people, he finally let fall an expression of indifference to
office. The minor and meaner men of his party who were his enemies
promptly seized the chance of defeating him for the nomination which was
equivalent to an election in our district, and an inferior good man was
named in his place. His friends would have had him contest the decision
of the convention, but he would not, and he passed into private life,
where he remained till the favor of Lincoln sought him out, and he died
Consul-General to Canada after he had lived to write several books and
to tell the story of the Civil War up to its penultimate year. Neither
he nor Wade was of that Connecticut lineage which almost exclusively
peopled the Western Reserve, and especially in Ashtabula County desired
power and place to itself. Wade was from western Massachusetts, and
Giddings was from western Pennsylvania, but in the new country where
they met, they joined their forces as partners in the law, and remained
together till politics separated them in the same cause. They still
remained fellow-citizens of the little town where they spent the summer
leisure of the Congressional adjournments, but without, somehow I
imagine, seeing much of each other. Giddings was far more freely about
the place, where his youth had been passed in the backwoods, and where
he made himself familiarly at home. The very simplicity of the place
seemed to comport with his statesman-like presence, his noble head, and
his great Johnsonian face, when he came out of his large old-fashioned
dwelling, sole rival of the Wade mansion; and he had no need to stoop in
being fellow-citizen with the least of his constituents. For myself, I
cannot recall any passage of words with him after a forgotten
introduction, and I wish it had been otherwise. I wish now I could have
known him even as a boy in his middle teens may know a man of his make;
though he might not have said anything to me worth remembering, or
inspired me to any expression worthier the event than that of a
Louisianian whom long later I saw introduced to him in Columbus, at his
own request. The Southerner stared at the giant bulk of the man who must
have long embodied to his imagination a demoniacal enmity to his
section, and could think of nothing better to say than, "Very pretty
day, Mr. Giddings," and when Giddings had assented with, "Yes, sir, a
fine day," the interview ended.

    "Giddings, far rougher names than thine have grown
     Smoother than honey on the lips of men,"

Lowell wrote in one of those magnanimous sonnets of his, when he bent
from his orient height to the brave Westerner, and though it has not yet
come quite to that honeyed utterance, the name cannot be forgotten when
the story of our Civil War, with its far or near beginnings, is told.


XIV

That winter of my editorship wore away to the adjournment of the
legislature and my father's return home, after J. W.'s withdrawal into
the vague of Wisconsin. But now another beloved friend had come to us.
He had learned his trade with us in southern Ohio, where he lived with
our family like one of ourselves, as brotherly as if he had been of our
blood. In those days he and I read the same books and dreamed the same
dreams, but he was nearer my eldest brother in age, and was as much his
companion as mine. After he left us to live the wander-years of the
journeyman printer, we heard from him at different points where he
rested, and when the Civil War began in Kansas, five years before it
began in South Carolina, we knew of him fighting and writing on the Free
State side. In this time, my brother made it his romance to promote a
correspondence between H. G. and a young girl of the village, which
ended in their engagement. It was taking too great a risk in every way,
but they were fitly mated in their tastes, and their marriage was of
such lasting attachment that when she survived him and lay suffering in
her last sickness, she prayed every night that she might die before she
woke and be with him in the everlasting morning. Romance for romance, I
think their romance of the greatest pathos of any I have known, and it
had phases of the highest tragedy. H. G. was among the first to
volunteer for the great war, and quickly rose from the ranks to be
captain, but somehow he incurred the enmity of a superior officer who
was able to have him cashiered in dishonor from the army. The great war
which we look back upon as hallowed by a singleness of patriotic purpose
was marked by many private wrongs which were promptly revenged, or kept
for ultimate vengeance, sometimes forgone at last through the wearing
out of the hate which cherished them. I am glad to think this was so
with H. G.; his memory is very dear to me, and our friendship was of a
warmth of affection such as I did not know for J. W., though he had so
much greater charm for me, and in the communion of our minds I was so
much more intimate with him.

Earlier in his absence, I had grown more and more into intellectual
companionship with the eldest of my sisters, who was only little more
than a year younger than myself. We had gone to the village parties and
dances and sleigh-rides together, but she was devoted to my mother and
the helper in her work, and gave herself far less than I to the
pleasures which had palled upon me; she may never have cared for them
much; certainly not so much as for the household life. It is one of
those unavailing regrets which gather upon us if we question memory as I
am doing now, and try to deal honestly with the unsparing truth of its
replies, that I ignored so long her willingness to be my companion in
the things of the mind. With my mother it was a simple affair; I was
bound to her in an affection which was as devoted throughout my youth as
it had been in my childhood; she was herself the home which I suffered
such longing for if I ever left it; and I am now, in my old age, humbly
grateful for the things I was prompted to do in my love of her. I could
not, without an effect of exaggeration unworthy of her dear memory,
express my sense of her motherly perfection within the limits of her
nature, which I would not now have had different through worldly
experience or privilege. She had, like my father, the instinct of
poetry; and over what was left of her day's work for the long evenings
which we spent reading or talking or laughing together, while my father
selected copy for his paper without losing the fun we all made, she was
gay with the gayest of us. Often I had savagely absented myself from the
rest, but when I came out of my little study, dazed with my work, after
the younger children had gone to bed, I have the vision of her rolling
her sewing together in her lap, and questioning me with her fond eyes
what I was thinking of or had been trying to do.

I believe she did not ask; that was forbidden by my pride and shame. I
did not read to any of them what I had been writing; they would not have
been hard enough upon it to satisfy me, though if they had criticized it
I should have been furious. In fact, I was not an amiable or at least a
reasonable youth; it was laid upon me to try solitarily for the things I
had no help in doing, and I seldom admitted any one to the results until
that sister of mine somehow passed my ungracious reserves. I do not know
just how this happened; but perhaps it was through our confiding to each
other, brokenly, almost unspokenly, our discontent with the village
limit of our lives. Within our home we had the great world, at least as
we knew it in books, with us, but outside of it, our social experience
dwindled to the measure of the place. I have tried to say how uncommon
the place was intellectually, but we disabled it on that side because it
did not realize the impossible dreams of that great world of wealth, of
fashion, of haughtily and dazzlingly, blindingly brilliant society,
which we did not inconveniently consider we were altogether unfit for.
The reader may or may not find a pathos in our looking at the
illustration on the front of a piece of tawdry sheet-music, and
wondering whether it would ever be our high fortune to mingle with a
company of such superbly caparisoned people as we saw pictured there,
playing and singing and listening.

Vanity so criminal as ours, might have been for a just punishment
lastingly immured in that village which the primeval woods encircled
like a prison wall; and yet almost at that moment, when we had so
tardily discovered ourselves akin in our tastes, our hopes and despairs,
we were nearer the end of our imprisonment than we could have imagined.
Whether we were punished in our enlargement which we were both so near,
I cannot say; my own life since that time has been such as some know and
any may know who care, and of hers I may scarcely speak. After a few
happy weeks, a few happy months of our common escape, she went back to
those bounds where her duty lay; and when after many years she escaped
from them again it was to circumstances where she was so willingly
useful as to feel herself very happy. Her last dream, one of being
usefuler yet to those dearest to her, ended in a nightmare of
disappointment; but that too had wholly passed before she woke to the
recompense which we try to believe that death shall bring to all who
suffer here to no final good.

Now it was life full beyond our fondest expectations, if not our fancies
of its possibilities, which lured us forward. We were making the most of
our mutual interest in the books we were reading, and she was giving, as
sisters give so far beyond the giving of brothers, her sympathy to me in
what I was trying to write. It was some time since I had turned, upon
the counsel of J. W., from Greek to German, I forget from just what
reasoning, though I think it was because he said I could study Greek any
time, and now we could study German together. I had gone so far with it
that I was already reading Heine and trying to write like him, instead
of reading my Spanish poets and trying to imitate them in their own
meters. But there is scarcely any definite memory of my sister's
literary companionship left me. I remember her coming to me once with
the praise, which I shame-facedly refused, of the neighbor who had
pointed to a row of Washington Irving's works in her house, and said
that some day my books would fill a shelf like that. For the rest, I am
dimly aware of our walking summer evenings down a certain westward way
from our house, and of her helping me dream a literary future. If she
had then a like ambition she kept it from me, and it was not till twenty
years later that she sent me a play she had written, with village
motives and village realities, treated with a frankness which I still
had not the intelligence to value. The play never came to the stage, and
in that farther time, it was the fruition of hopes which had not defined
themselves, that when my father's scheme was realized, not only I, but
she too, was to return to Columbus with him. It would be easy to
pretend, and I can easily believe that we had always, at the bottom of
our hearts, thought of Columbus with distinct longing; but I am not sure
that there was more in our remembrance of it than a sense of its
greatness as the state capital to give direction to our ambition for
some experience of the world beyond our village. There was no part for
her in our journalistic plan; probably the affair for her was an outing
which she had won by her unselfish devotion to the duties of her narrow
lot; but what I am sure of, and what I am glad of now, amidst my
compunctions for not valuing her loving loyalty at its true worth, is
that she did have this outing.




III


Throughout his later boyhood and into his earlier manhood the youth is
always striving away from his home and the things of it. With whatever
pain he suffers through the longing for them, he must deny them; he must
cleave to the world and the things of it; that is his fate, that is the
condition of all achievement and advancement for him. He will be many
times ridiculous and sometimes contemptible, he will be mean and selfish
upon occasion; but he can scarcely otherwise be a man; the great matter
for him is to keep some place in his soul where he shall be ashamed. Let
him not be afraid of being too unsparing in his memories; the instinct
of self-preservation will safeguard him from showing himself quite as he
was. No man, unless he puts on the mask of fiction, can show his real
face or the will behind it. For this reason the only real biographies
are the novels, and every novel, if it is honest, will be the
autobiography of the author and biography of the reader.


I

It was doubtless a time of intense emotion for our whole family when my
sister and I set out for the state capital with my father on his return
to his clerical duties at the meeting of the legislature in 1856. If I
cannot make sure that Columbus had become with those of us old enough to
idealize it, a sort of metropolis of the mind to which we should repair
if we were good enough, or, failing that, if fortune were ever kind
enough, I am certain that my father's sojourn there, with his several
visits to us during the winter before, had kept the wonder of it warm in
my heart. The books that he brought me at each return from the State
Library renewed in me the sense of a capital which he had tried to
implant in me when we lived there, and my sister could not have dreamt
of anything grander or gayer. Perhaps we both still saw ourselves there
in scenes like that in the title-page of that piece of sheet-music; but
anything so definite as this I cannot be sure of.

What I can be sure of is the substantial nature and occasion of our
going, so far as I was concerned. "We were to furnish," my father and I,
as I have told in My Literary Passions, "a daily letter giving an
account of the legislative proceedings, which I was mainly to write from
material he helped me get together. The letters at once found favor with
the editors, who agreed to take them, and my father then withdrew from
the work, after telling them who was doing it." My sister of course had
no part in the enterprise, and for her our adventure was pure pleasure,
the pleasure we both took in our escape from the village, and the
pleasure I did not understand then that she had in witnessing my
literary hopes and labors.

In like manner I am belatedly sensible of the interest which our dear H.
G. took in our going, and the specific instructions which he gave me for
my entry into the great world; as if he would realize in my prosperous
future the triumphs which fortune had denied him in his past. He adjured
me not to be abashed in any company, but face the proudest down and make
audacity do the part of the courage I was lacking in. Especially he
would have me not distrust myself in such a social essential as
dancing, which was a grace I was confessedly imperfect in, but to
exhaust the opportunities of improving it which the Saturday evening
hops at our hotel would give me. He advised me not to dress poorly, but
go to the full length of Polonius's precept--

    "Costly thy habit as thy purse can buy"--

though what advantages his own experiences in these matters had won him
could not have been very signal. He knew my ambition in that way, and
how it had been defeated by the friendly zeal of our home-tailor; and we
both held that with the clothing-stores of High Street open to my money
all I had to do was to fix my mind upon a given suit which would fit me
as perfectly as the Jew said, and then wear it away triumphantly
appareled for the highest circles. We did not know that the art of
dressing well, or fashionably, comes from deep and earnest study, and
that the instinct of it might well have been blunted in me by my Quaker
descent, with that desire to shine rather in the Other World than in
this which had become a passion with my grandfather.

No fact of my leaving home upon the occasion which I must have felt so
tremendous remains with me. I cannot even say whether it was through the
snow or the mud that we drove ten miles from the county-seat to the
railroad station at Ashtabula; whatever the going, it was over the
warped and broken boards of the ancient plank-road which made any
transit possible in that region of snow and mud, and remained till
literally worn away even in the conception of the toll-taker. Without
intervening event, so far as my memory testifies, or circumstance, any
more than if we had flown through the air, we were there in Columbus
together, living in an old-fashioned hotel on the northward stretch of
High Street, which was then the principal business street, and for
anything I know is so yet. The hotel was important to the eye of our
village strangeness, but it was perhaps temperamentally of the sort of
comfortable taverns which the hotels had come to displace. My father had
gone to live there because he knew it from our brief sojourn when we
came to the city from the country five or six years before, and because
it was better suited to his means; but one of the vividest impressions
of his youth had been the building of the National Road, a work so
monumental for the new country it traversed, and he poetically valued
the Goodale House for facing upon this road, which in its course from
Baltimore to St. Louis became High Street in Columbus.

Not even in this association could it be equaled with the Neil House,
then the finest hotel in the West, without a peer even in Cincinnati.
Dickens, in his apparently unreasoned wanderings, paused in it over a
day, and admired its finish in black-walnut, the wood that came
afterward to be so precious for the ugliest furniture ever made. All
visitors of distinction sojourned there, and it was the resort of the
great politicians who held their conclaves in its gloomy corridors and
in its office and bar on the eve of nominating conventions or the
approach of general elections. I have a vision, which may be too fond,
of their sitting under its porches in tilted arm-chairs as the weather
softened, canvassing the civic affairs which might not have been brought
to a happy issue without them. But however misled I may be in this I
cannot err in my vision of the stately conflagration which went up with
the hotel one windless night, a mighty front of flame hooded with somber
smoke. I watched it with a vast crowd from the steps of the State House
which it was worthier to face than any other edifice of the little city;
but this was long after that winter of ours in the Goodale House, which
I remember for the boundless abundance of its table and for those
society events which on Saturday nights crowned the week.

I dare say they were not so fashionable as H. G. imagined them, or I,
with a heart too weak and feet too untutored ever to join in them, but
the world was present in other sophistications in our pleasant hotel
which I could not so easily shun. Chief of these was the tipping, which
there first insisted on my acquaintance by many polite insinuations, and
when I would have withdrawn became explicit. The kind colored waiter who
used to cumber me with service at table as his anxieties mounted once
took courage to whisper in my ear that he thought he would like to go to
the theater that evening, and it grieves me yet to think that I resented
this freedom, and denied him the quarter he suggested. Since then life
has been full of the experiences of tipping, always so odious, though
apparently more rapacious than it really is, but I have never again been
able to deny a tip, or to give so little as I would often like to give.
I know that some better citizens, or wiser, than myself, punish the
neglect or ingratitude of service by diminishing or withholding the tip,
but I have never been able to perform this public-spirited duty, perhaps
because, though I loathe tipping, I do not believe any fellow-creature

    "As meek and mere a serving-man,"

as may be, would take a tip if he were paid a just wage, or any wage,
without it.

But all these incidents and interests were far in the future of that
brave and happy time when I was intending and attempting the conquest of
the whole field of polite learning from so many sides, in the studies
which as at home now went on far into the night. These even included an
Icelandic grammar, for the reason that, as I had read, the meter of
Hiawatha was derived from that literature, but I do not know that I
got so far as to identify it. My reading, now entirely from the State
Library, included all the novels of Bulwer, which I was not ashamed to
enjoy after my more distinguished pleasure in Thackeray; the critical
authorities would not then have abashed me in it, as they would now. The
other day I saw on my shelves the volume of Percy's Reliques which my
sister and I read together that winter; and I was so constantly and
devotedly reading Tennyson and Shakespeare that I cannot understand how
I had time for an equal constancy and devotion to Heine. I saw how much
he had profited by the love of those English ballads which I was proud
to share with him; and there were other German poets of his generation
whose indebtedness to them I perceived and enjoyed. I was now, in fact,
reading German to the entire neglect of Spanish; as for Latin and Greek,
I had no more time or relish for them than those cultivated gentlemen
who believe they read some Latin or Greek author every day before
breakfast.


II

The life and the letters continued on terms which I should not have
known how to wish different. I had a desk appointed me on the floor of
the Senate as good as any Senator's, for my convenience as a reporter;
and my father gave me notes of the proceedings in the House, so that I
could make a fair report of each day's facts which we so early abandoned
the pretense of his making. Every privilege and courtesy was shown the
press, which sometimes I am afraid its correspondents accepted
ungraciously. Either the first winter or the next one of them was
expelled from the floor of the House for his over-bold criticisms of
some member, and I espoused his cause with quite outrageous zeal. I had,
indeed, such a swollen ideal of the rights and duties of the press that
I spared no severity in my censure of Senators I found misguided. I was,
perhaps, not wholly fitted by my nineteen years to judge them, though
this possibility did not occur to me at the time with its present force;
but if I was not impressed with the dignity of the Senate, the dignity
of the Senate Chamber was a lasting effect with me, as, in fact, that of
the whole Capitol was. I seemed to share personally in it as I mounted
the stately marble stairway from the noble rotunda or passed through the
ample corridors from the Senate to the House where it needed not even a
nod to the sergeant-at-arms to gain me access to the floor; a nonchalant
glance was enough. But the grandeur of the interior, which I enjoyed
with the whole legislative body, was not more wonderful than its
climate, which I found tempered against the winter to a summer warmth by
the air rushing from the furnaces in the basement through gratings in
the walls and floors. These were for me the earliest word of the comfort
that now pervades our whole well-warmed American world, but I had
scarcely imagined them even from my father's report. How could I imagine
them or fail to attribute to myself something like merit from them? I
enjoyed, in fact, something like moral or civic ownership of the whole
place, which I penetrated in every part on my journalistic business: the
court-rooms, the agricultural department, the executive offices, and how
do I know but the very room of the Governor himself? The library was of
course my personal resort; as I have told, I was always getting books
from it, and these books had a quality in coming from the State Library
which intensified my sense of being of, as well as in, the capital of
Ohio.

Whether the city itself shared my sense of its importance in the same
measure I am not sure. There were reasons, however, why it might have
done so. It was then what would be now a small city, say not above
twenty thousand, and though it had already begun to busy itself with
manufacturing and had two or three railroads centering in it, the
industries and facilities which have now swollen its population to
almost a quarter of a million were then in their beginning. Its
political consciousness may have been the greater, therefore; it may
indeed have been subjectively the sovereign city which I so objectively
felt it. In that time, in fact, a state capital was both comparatively
and positively of greater reality than it has been since. With the Civil
War carried to its close in the reconstituted Union, the theory of State
Rights forever vanished, and with this the dignity which once clothed
the separate existence of the states. Their shadowy sovereignty had
begun to wane in the anti-slavery North because it was the superstition
of the pro-slavery South, yet I can remember a moment when there was
much talk, though it never came to more than talk, of turning this
superstition to a faith and applying it to the defeat of the Fugitive
Slave Law. If it was once surmised that the decisions of the Ohio courts
might nullify a law of the United States I do not believe that this
surmise ever increased the political consciousness of our state capital.
It remained a steadily prospering town like other towns, till now
perhaps it may not feel itself a capital at all. Perhaps it could be
restored to something like the quality I valued in it by becoming the
residence of envoys from the other state capitals, and sending a
minister to each of these. I have the conviction that public-spirited
citizens could be found to take such offices at very moderate salaries,
and that their wives would be willing to aid in restoring the shadow of
state sovereignty by leaving cards upon one another.


III

The winter of 1856-57 passed without my knowing more of the capital than
its official world. Even the next year, when I began to make some
acquaintance with the social world, it was with an alien or adoptive
phase of it, as I realize with tardy surprise. There were then so many
Germans in Ohio that an edition of the laws had to be printed in their
language, and there was a common feeling that we ought to know their
language, if not their literature, which was really what I cared more to
know. I carried my knowledge of it so far as to render a poem of my own
into German verse which won the praise of my teacher; and I wish I could
remember who he was, gentle, tobacco-smoked shade that he has long since
become, or who the German editor of what republikanische Zeitung was
that sometimes shared my instruction with him. There were also two
blithe German youths who availed with me in the loan of Goethe's
Wahlverwandschaften, and gave me some fencing lessons in their
noonings. I forget what employ they were of, but their uncle was a
watchmaker and jeweler, and my father got him to gold-plate his silver
watch, or dye it, as he preferred to say. When the Civil War came he
went into it and was killed; and many years afterward, in my love and
honor of him, I turned his ghost into a loved and honored character in
A Hazard of New Fortunes. He was a political refugee, of those German
revolutionists who came to us after the revolts of 1848, and he still
dwells venerable in my memory, with his noble, patriarchally bearded
head.

But it all appears very fantastic in the retrospect, that Teutonic
period of my self-culture, and I am not sure that one fact of it is more
fantastic than another. Such was my zeal for everything German that I
once lunched at one of the German beer-saloons which rather abounded in
Columbus, on Swiss cheese with French mustard spread over it and a tall
glass of lager beer, then much valued as a possible transition from the
use of the strong waters more habitual with Americans than now; but it
made me very sick, and I was obliged to forego it as an expression of my
love for German poetry. To a little earlier period must have belonged
the incident of my going to see "Die Räuber" of Schiller, which I
endured with iron resolution from the beginning to the end. It was
given, I believe, by amateurs, and I tried my best to imagine that I
understood it as it went on, but probably I did not, though I would have
been loath to own the fact to any of the few German families who then
formed my whole acquaintance with society. I never afterward met them at
American houses; the cleavage between the two races in everything but
politics was absolute; though the Germans were largely anti-slavery, and
this formed common ground for them and natives of like thinking who did
not know them socially.

In those first winters my knowledge of American society was confined to
the generalized hospitality of the large evening receptions which some
of the leading citizens used to give the two Houses of the legislature,
including the correspondents and reporters attached to them. I cannot
say just how or when I began to divine that these occasions were not of
the first fashion, though the hosts and hostesses might have been so.
There were great suppers, mainly of oysters, to which our distance from
the sea lent distinction, and ice-cream, and sometimes, if I may trust a
faint reverberation from the past as of blown corks, champagne. There
was also dancing, and when some large, old-fashioned house was not large
enough, a wooden pavilion was improvised over the garden to give the
waltzes and quadrilles verge enough. I recall my share in the suppers,
if not in the dancing, but my deficiency was far more than made up by
the excess of a friend, who must then have been hard upon sixty years of
age, yet was of a charming gaiety and an unimpaired youthfulness. He
stood up in every quadrille, and he danced to the end of the evening,
with a demure smile on his comely, smooth-shaven, rosy face, and a
light, mocking self-consciousness in his kind eyes, as if he would agree
as to any incongruity the spectator might find in his performance. He
was one of the clerks of the House, an old politician, and the editor of
a leading Cleveland newspaper, which he chose to leave for the pleasures
of the capital. From his experience of the system which he was part of
he whimsically professed to believe that as great legislative wisdom
could be assembled by knocking down every other man in a crowd and
dragging him into the House or Senate as by the actual method of
nomination and election. At times he would support the theory of a
benevolent despotism, and advocate the establishment of what he called a
one-man power as the ideal form of government. I owed him much in the
discharge of duties which my finding the most important in the world
must have amused him, and when he went back to his newspaper he left me
to write the legislative letters for it.

This gentle reactionary was the antithesis of another very interesting
man, known to his fellow-legislators as Citizen Corry, in recognition of
his preference for the type of French Red Republicanism acquired in
Paris during his stay through the academic republic of 1848-50. Such a
residence would alone have given him a distinction which we can hardly
realize in our time, but he was, besides, a man of great natural
distinction, and of more cultivation than any of his fellow-legislators.
He was one of the Representatives from Cincinnati, and when another
Cincinnati Representative of his own party struck a member from the
Western Reserve, Citizen Corry joined the Republicans in voting his
expulsion. But he had already made a greater sensation, and created an
expectation of the unexpected in all he did by proposing an amendment to
the Constitution abolishing the system of dual chambers in the
legislature, and retaining only the House of Representatives. I think
that in Greece alone is this the actual parliamentary form, but I
believe that it was in that short-lived French republic of 1848 that
Corry saw its workings and conceived the notion of its superiority.
Under the present system he held that the House was merely a committee
at the bar of the Senate, and the Senate a committee at the bar of the
House, with a great waste of time and public advantage through the
working of a very clumsy machinery. His proposition was not taken
seriously by the Ohio House of Representatives, but to my young
enthusiasm it seemed convincing by its mere statement, and the arguments
on the other side, to the effect that the delays which he censured gave
time for useful reflection, appeared to me very fallacious. Citizen
Corry was not re-elected to the next legislature, and his somewhat
meteoric history did not include any other official apparition. But
while he was passing through the orbit of my world I was fully aware of
his vivid difference from the controlled and orderly planets, and he
dazzled in me an imagination always too fondly seeking the bizarre and
strange. I do not think I ever spoke with him, but I tingled to do so; I
created him citizen of that fine and great world where I had so much of
my own being in reveries that rapt me from the realities of the life
about me.


IV

The first winter of my legislative correspondence began with a letter to
my Cincinnati newspaper in which I

[Illustration: The Ohio State House at Columbus viewed from High
Street]

described the public opening of the new State House. I remember the
event vividly because I thought it signally important, and partly
because, to relieve myself from the stress of the crowd passing through
the doorways, I lifted my arms and was near having my breath crushed
out. There were a ball and a banquet, but somewhere, somehow, amidst the
dancing and the feeding and smoking, I found a corner where I could
write out my account of the affair and so escaped with my letter and my
life.

Much as I might have wished to share socially, with such small splendor
as might be, in this high occasion, the reporter's instinct was first
with me. I was there as the representative of a great Cincinnati
newspaper, and I cared more to please its management than to take any
such part as I might in the festivity. My part was to look on and tell
what I saw, and I must have done this in the manner of my most approved
good masters, no doubt with satirically poetic touches from Heine and
bits of worldly glitter from Thackeray. I should like to see that letter
now, and I should like to know how I contrived to get it, more or less
surreptitiously, into the hands of the express agent for delivery to my
newspaper. In those days there was a good deal of talk, foolish talk, I
am since aware, of having the post-office superseded in its functions by
the express companies. Now the talk and the fact are all the other way;
but then the mail was slow and uncertain, and if my letter was of the
nature of manuscript the express might safely carry it and deliver it in
time for the next day's paper. That was rightful and lawful enough, but
there was a show of secrecy in the transaction which was not unpleasing
to the enterprise of a young reporter.

My letters, as they went on from day to day, contented the managers of
the Gazette so well that when the session of the legislature ended
they gave me an invitation which might well have abused my modesty with
a sense of merit. This invitation was to come and be their city editor,
which then meant the local reporting, at a salary twice as great as that
which I had been getting as their legislative correspondent. I do not
know whose inspiration the offer was, but I should like to believe it
was that of the envoy from the paper who made it in person, after
perhaps more fully satisfying himself of my fitness. He is long since
dead, but if he were still alive I hope he would not mind my describing
him as of less stature than myself even, wearing the large, round
glasses which give certain near-sighted persons a staring look, and of
speech low almost to whispering, so that I could not quite be sure that
the incredible thing he was proposing was really expressed to me. I like
to recall the personal fact of him because he was always my friend, and
he would have found me another place on the paper if he could when I
would not take the one he had offered. He did make room for me in his
own department for as long as he could, or as I would stay, when I went
down to Cincinnati to look the ground over, and he kept me his guest as
far as sharing his room with me in the building where we worked
together, and where I used to grope my way toward midnight up a stairway
entirely black to his door. There I lighted the candle-end which I found
within and did what I could to sleep till he came, hours later, when the
paper went to press. I have the belief that the place was never swept or
dusted, and that this did not matter to the quiet, scholarly man whose
life was so wholly in his work that he did not care how he lived.

He was buoyed up, above all other things, by the interest of journalism,
which for those once abandoned to it is indeed a kind of enchantment. As
I knew it then and afterward, it has always had far more of my honor
and respect than those ignorant of it know how to render. One incident
of it at this time so especially moved me that I will give it place in
this wayward tale, though it is probably not more to the credit of the
press than unnumbered others which others could cite. A miserable man
came late one night to ask that a certain report which involved his good
name, and with it the good name of a miserable woman, and the peace of
their families, might be withheld. He came with legal counsel, and
together they threshed the matter out with our editorial force upon the
point whether we ought or ought not to spare him, our contention being
that as a prominent citizen he was even less to be spared than a more
unimportant person. Our professional conscience was apparently in that
scruple; how it was overcome I do not remember, but at last we promised
mercy and the report was suppressed.

It was one of the ironies of life that after the only suspected avenue
to publicity had been successfully guarded, the whole fact should have
cruelly come out in another paper the next morning. But I cannot feel
even yet that the beauty of our merciful decision was marred by this
mockery of fate, or that the cause of virtue was served by it, and I
think that if I had been wiser than I was then I would have remained in
the employ offered me, and learned in the school of reality the many
lessons of human nature which it could have taught me. I did not remain,
and perhaps I could not; it might have been the necessity of my morbid
nerves to save themselves from abhorrent contacts; in any case, I
renounced the opportunity offered me by that university of the streets
and police-stations, with its faculty of patrolmen and ward politicians
and saloon-keepers. The newspaper office was not the Capitol of Ohio; I
was not by the fondest imputation a part of the state government, and I
felt the difference keenly. I was always very homesick; I knew nobody
in the city, and I had no companionship except that of my constant
friend, whom I saw only in our hours of work. I had not even the poor
social refuge of a boarding-house; I ate alone at a restaurant, where I
used sadly to amuse myself with the waiters' versions of the orders
which they called down a tube into the kitchen below. The one which
cheered me most was that of a customer who always ordered a double
portion of corn-cakes and was translated as requiring "Indians, six on a
plate."

Nearly all the frequenters of this restaurant were men from their stores
and offices, snatching a hasty midday meal, but a few were women, clerks
and shop-girls of the sort who now so abound in our towns and cities,
but then so little known. I was so altogether ignorant of life that I
thought shame of them to be boldly showing themselves in such a public
place as a restaurant. I wonder what they would have thought, poor,
blameless dears, of the misgivings in the soul of the conscious youth as
he sat stealing glances of injurious conjecture at them while he overate
himself with the food which was the only thing that could appease for a
moment the hunger of his homesick heart. If I could not mercifully
imagine them, how could I intelligently endure the ravings of the
drunken woman which I heard one night in the police-station where my
abhorred duties took me for the detestable news of the place? I suppose
it was this adventure, sole of its sort, which clinched my resolve to
have no more to do with the money-chance offered to me in journalism. My
longing was for the cleanly respectabilities, and I still cannot think
that a bad thing, or if experience cannot have more than the goodly
outside in life, that this is not well worth having. There was a relief,
almost an atonement, or at least a consolation in being sent next day
to report a sermon, in fulfilment of my friend's ideal of journalistic
enterprise, and though that sermon has long since gone from me and was
perhaps at the time not distinctly with me, still I have a sense of
cleansing from the squalor of the station-house in listening to it. If
all my work could have been the reporting of sermons, with intervals of
sketching the graduating ceremonies of young ladies' seminaries, such as
that where once a girl in garnet silk read an essay of perhaps no
surpassing interest, but remained an enchanting vision, and the material
of some future study in fiction; if it could have been these things,
with nothing of police-stations in it, I might have tried longer to
become a city editor. But as it was I decided my destiny in life
differently.


V

I must not conceal the disappointment which my father delicately
concealed when I returned and took up my old work in the
printing-office. He might well have counted on my help in easing him of
his load of debt, from the salary I had forgone, but there was no hint
of this in the welcome given me in the home where I was again so doubly
at home with my books and manuscripts. Now and then my friend of the
Gazette management managed to have some sketch of mine accepted for
it, and my life went on in my sister's literary companionship on much
the same terms as before our venture into the world the winter before.
My father's clerkship had ended with the adjournment of the legislature
in the spring, but in the autumn, when it grew toward winter, I asked
again for the correspondence of the Gazette. I got this by favor of my
friend, and then I had courage to ask for that of the Cleveland
Herald, which the interest of the blithe sexagenarian sufficed to
secure me, and I returned to the capital with no pretense that I was
not now writing the letters solely and entirely myself. But almost
before my labors began my health quite broke under the strain of earlier
over-study and later overwork. I gave up my correspondence for both
those honored newspapers to my father, who wrote it till the close of
the session, and at his suggestion the letters of the Gazette fell the
next winter to the fit and eager hands of a young man who had just then
sold his country newspaper and had come to try his fortune in the
capital. His name was Whitelaw Reid, in the retrospect a tall, graceful
youth with an enviable black mustache and imperial, wearing his hair
long in the Southern fashion, and carrying himself with the native ease
which availed him in a worldly progress uninterrupted to the end. He
wrote the legislative letters so acceptably that when the Civil War
broke out the Gazette people were glad to make him their correspondent
in the field, where he distinguished himself beyond any other war
correspondent in the West, or the East for what I knew. The world knows
how riches and honors followed him all his days, and how when he died
the greatest Empire sent his dust home to the greatest Republic in such
a war-ship as the war correspondent of those years could not have
dreamed of. From time to time we saw each other, but not often; he was
about his business in the State House, and now I was about mine in the
office of the Ohio State Journal, the organ of the Republican party,
which had been newly financed and placed on a firm footing after rather
prolonged pecuniary debility.

I was at home in the autumn, as I had been all the summer, eating my
heart out (as I would have said in those days) when the call to a place
on the Journal's editorial staff incredibly, impossibly came, and I
forgot my ills, and eagerly responded. I hardly know how to justify my
inconsistency when I explain that this place was the same which I had
rejected at twice the salary on the Cincinnati Gazette. Perhaps I
accepted it now because I could no longer endure the disappointment and
inaction of my life. Perhaps I hoped that in the smaller city the duties
would not be so odious or so onerous; perhaps it was because I would
have been glad to return to Columbus on any terms; in any case it fell
out that the duties of the place were undertaken by another who doted on
them, and quite different and far more congenial functions were assigned
to me.

My chief was Henry D. Cooke, the successful editor and proprietor of a
newspaper in northern Ohio, and brother of the banker Jay Cooke, once
nationally noted in our finance and himself afterward Governor of the
District of Columbia, the easiest of easy gentlemen, formed for
prosperity and leisure, with an instinct for the choice of subordinates
qualified to do the journalistic work he soon began to relinquish in his
preoccupation with the politics of the capital. I have had no sweeter
friend in a life abounding in friends, and after fifty years I think of
his memory with gratitude for counsels which availed me much when given
and would avail me still if I should ever again be a youth of
twenty-one, proposing to do and say the things I then proposed. He
rarely blamed anything I did in the stirring and distracted period of
our relation, but one morning he brought me a too graphic paragraph,
about a long-forgotten homicide done by an injured husband, and said,
"Never, never write anything you would be ashamed to read to a woman,"
and so made me lastingly ashamed of what I had done, and fearful of ever
doing the like again, even in writing fiction. It seems not to be so now
with our novelists, begun or beginning; they write many things they
ought to be ashamed to read to women, or if they are of that sex,
things they should be ashamed to read to men. But perhaps they are
ashamed and only hold out writing so for art's sake; I cannot very well
speak for them; but I am still very Victorian in my preference of
decency.

Mr. Cooke must have been often of a divided mind about his assistants,
or about their expression of the opinions which he reticently held in
common with them. He was a thorough Republican; he undoubtedly believed
that the time had come for calling black black, but his nature would
have been to call it dark gray, at least for that day or for the next.
He would have oftenest agreed with us in what we said of the pro-slavery
party and partisans, North and South, though he held it not honesty to
have it thus set down. He would have liked better the milde Macht of a
Hahnemannian treatment, while we were blistering and cauterizing, and
letting blood wherever we saw the chance, and there were every day
chances enough. I had been made news editor, and in the frequent
intervals of our chief's abeyance I made myself the lieutenant of the
keen ironical spirit who mostly wrote our leaders, but did not mind my
dipping my pen in his ink when I could turn from the paste and scissors
which were more strictly my means of expression. My work was to look
through the exchange newspapers which flocked to us in every mail, and
to choose from them any facts that could be presented to our readers as
significant. I called my column or two "News and Humors of the Mail,"
and I tried to give it an effect of originality by recasting many of the
facts, or, when I could not find a pretext for this, by offering the
selected passages with applausive or derisive comment. We had French and
Spanish and German exchanges, and I sometimes indulged a boyish vanity
by prefacing a paragraph from these with such a sentence as, "We
translate from the Courrier des États Unis," or, "We find in La
Cronaca of New York," or "We learn from the Wachter am Erie," as the
case might be. Why I should have been suffered to do this without
admonition from our chief or sarcasm from my senior I do not know;
perhaps the one thought it best to let youth have its head when the head
was harmlessly turned; and perhaps the other was too much occupied with
his own work to trouble himself with mine; but certainly if I had caught
a contemporary in such folly I should have tried what unsparing
burlesque could do to make him wiser.

The reader who has no follies to own will probably not think me wise in
owning mine, but from time to time I must do so; there were so many. It
is with no hope of repairing these follies now that I confess the pride
I felt in the poor little Spanish, German, and French which it had cost
me so much to acquire unaided and unguided, and I was willing that my
acquirements should shed luster on the newspaper I loved almost as much
as I loved myself. I admired it even more, and I wished to do all that I
could to make it admirable, even enviable, with others. I think now that
I was not using one of the best means to do it; I only contend that it
was one of the best I could think of then. If any contemporary had
turned it against us, I hope I should have been willing to suffer
personally for it, but I cannot now be sure.


VI

We aspired at least tacitly to a metropolitan character in our
journalism; there were no topics of human interest which we counted
alien to us anywhere in the range of politics, morals, literature, or
religion; and I was suffered my say. The writer who was more habitually
and profitably suffered his say was, I still think, a man of very
uncommon qualities and abilities. He was a journalist who could rightly
be called a publicist, earnest if things came to that, of a faithful
conscience and of a mocking skill in the chances pretty constantly
furnished us by our contemporaries, especially some of our Southern
contemporaries whom it was difficult to take as seriously as they took
themselves. When they made some violent proclamation against the North,
or wreaked themselves in some frenzy of pro-slavery ethics, we took our
pleasure in shredding the text into small passages and tagging each of
these with a note of open derision or ironical deprecation. We called it
"firing the Southern heart," in a phrase much used at the time. It was
not wise, it was not well, but it was undeniably amusing, and we carried
it to any lengths that the very intermittent supervision of our nominal
chief would allow. We may have supposed that it would help laugh away
the madness of the South which few in the North believed more than a
temporary insanity, but the uneasy honesty which always lurks somewhere
in my heart to make me own my errors must acquit my fellow-editor of the
worst excesses in this sort, so mainly literary with me. He was not only
a man of high journalistic quality, of clear insight, shrewd judgment,
and sincere convictions, but I do not believe that in the American press
of the time he was surpassed as a clear thinker and brilliant writer.
All the days of journalism are yesterdays; and the name of Samuel R.
Reed will mean nothing to these oblivious morrows, even in Ohio, but all
the more I wish to do his memory such honor as I may. We were of course
daily together in our work, and often in our walks on the Sundays which
were as other days to his steadfast agnosticism. The word was not yet,
but the thing has always been, and especially it always was in the
older West, where bold surmise of the whence and whither of life often
defied the authority of Faith, then much more imperative than now.
Reed's favorite author, whom he read as critically as if he were not his
favorite, was Shakespeare; but his far more constant reading was the
Bible, especially the Old Testament. I could not say why he read it so
much, but he may have felt in it the mystical power which commands the
imagination of men and holds them in respectful contemplation of a
self-sufficing theory of the universe such as nothing in science or
philosophy affords. He quoted it for a peculiar joy in the fitness of
its application to every circumstance; he quoted Dickens, as everybody
did then; he quoted Shakespeare a great deal more both in his talking
and in his writing; and later in his life, long after mine had parted
from it, he amused the spare moments of his journalistic leisure by a
study of Shakespeare's women whom he did not take at the generally
accepted critical appraisement.

I am tempted out of the order of these confessions to follow him to the
end which death put to the long kindness between us, and I recall with
tenderness our last meeting near New York where he was hesitating
whether to continue on his way to Europe. He had at last given up his
work in Cincinnati where he had spent the many years after the few years
we spent together in Columbus. He owned that he had worn himself out in
that work, toiling incessantly through many homicidal Cincinnati
summers, and he blamed himself for the sacrifice. He felt that he had
turned from it too late; and in fact he died at sea soon after. He
accepted his impending doom with the stoical calm which he always kept,
and which I had once seen him keep so wonderfully after the war began,
when a Southern Unionist, the formerly famous, now forgotten Parson
Brownlow of Tennessee, came to reproach him for the part which he held
that such writing as Reed's had borne in bringing on the strife. Reed
suffered the good man's passion almost with compassion, and when
Brownlow was gone he would not let me blame him, but said that he had
played a noble part in the struggle to hold his region in the Union. He
always kept a countenance of bland calm, lit by pale-blue eyes which
gave no hint of the feeling within, and if I had not loved him so much
