himself into the Balfame house determined to find the pistol before
morning. He knew the police would get round to the inevitable search
some time on the following day.
CHAPTER XXI
Alys Crumley entertained four of the newspaper women at a picnic lunch
in her studio. She was grateful for the distraction from her own
thoughts and diverted by their theories. None had seen Mrs. Balfame save
through the medium of the staff artist, and they were inclined to accept
the primâ facie evidence of her guilt. When Alys fetched a photograph
from the house, however, they immediately reversed their opinion, for
the pictured face was that of a lovely cold and well-bred woman without
a trace of hardness or predisposition to crime. They fell in love with
it and vowed to defend her to the best of their ability, Miss Crumley
promising to exert her influence with the accused to obtain an interview
for the new devotees.
Before wrapping the photograph for its inevitable journey to New York,
Alys gave it a moment of study herself, wondering if she may not have
misinterpreted what she saw that morning. No one had worshipped at that
shrine more devoutly than she, even during these later years of
metropolitan concordance.
"What is your theory?" asked Miss Austin of The Evening News. "They
say that a lot of those men at the Elks know, but never will come
through. Do you think it was any of those girls? It might have been some
woman he knew in New York who followed him here for the first time--who
would not have been recognised if seen, and got away in a waiting
automobile."
"As likely as not," said Miss Crumley indifferently. "I have heard so
many theories advanced and rejected that I am almost as confused as the
police. Jim Broderick says that the simplest explanation is generally
the correct one, but while he believes Mrs. Balfame to be the natural
solution, I happen to know her better than he does, and a good deal more
of this community. Three or four men and one or two women would be still
simpler explanations. Possibly--" She turned cold and almost lost her
breath, but the impulse to put a maddening possibility into verbal form
was irresistible. "Perhaps some man that is in love with Mrs. Balfame
did it." And then she hated herself, for she felt as if she had thrown
Dwight Rush to the lions.
"But who? Who?" the girls were demanding, more excited over this
picturesque solution than they had been since "the story broke." Even
Miss Austin, who disdained to write "sob stuff" and was a graduate of
the Columbia School of Journalism, was almost on her feet, while Miss
Lauretta Lea, who wept vicariously for fifty thousand women three times
a week, shrieked without shame.
"Oh, fine!" "How truly enchanting!" "Dear Miss Crumley--Alys--who, who
is the man?"
"Oh, as to that, I've not an idea. Mrs. Balfame always has rather
disdained men, and even if she were susceptible is far too
straight-laced to permit any man to pay her compromising attentions, or
to meet him secretly. But of course she is very pretty, still young to
look at, so there is the possibility--"
"But just run over all the marriageable men in the community--"
"Oh, he might be married, you know." Alys struggled to keep the alarm
out of her voice.
"But in that case there would still be the wife to dispose of, and now,
at least, he'd never dare kill her, or even divorce her. No, I don't
hold to that theory. It's more like the reckless act of the unchastened
bachelor still young enough for illusions. You must have a theory, Alys.
Stand and deliver." Miss Austin spoke with quick insistence. She had
detected her hostess' suppressed excitement and was convinced that the
hint had not been thrown out at random. She also had been conscious of
an indefinable change in her old associate, and now she noticed it in
detail. She might be too self-respecting to dip her pen in bathos, but
she was nevertheless young, and her imagination began playing about
possibilities like lightning over a wire fence.
The heat which confused Alys Crumley's brain was expressed by a dull
glow in her strange olive-colored eyes, but she made a desperate effort
to look impersonal and rather bored.
"No, I have no theory: certainly it could not be any of the men
hereabouts. Mrs. Balfame has known all of them from infancy up. Perhaps
she met some one in New York; I don't know that she ever went to any of
the tea-tango places--she doesn't dance; but she might have gone with
Mrs. Gifning or Mrs. Frew, and just met some one that fell in love with
her--Oh, you mustn't take a mere idea of mine too seriously."
"Hm!" said Miss Austin. "It doesn't sound plausible. A man she met now
and then at a tea-room! She's not the sort to drive men to distraction
in the casual meeting--not the type. And I can't see the men that
frequent afternoon tea-rooms working themselves up to the point of
murder. No, if there is a man in the case, he is here; if not in
Elsinore, then in the county; and it is some man who has known her long
enough and seen her often enough to descend from mere admiration for her
rather chilling type of beauty into the most desperate desire for
possession--"
Alys burst into a ringing peal of laughter. "Really, Sarah, I wonder you
are not already famous as a fiction-story writer. How much longer do you
propose to stick to prosaic journalism?"
"I've had two stories accepted by leading magazines this month, I'd have
you know; but your memory is short if you think journalism prosaic. It
germinates pretty nearly all the fiction microbes that later ravage the
popular magazines. That was what was the matter with the old
magazines--no modern symptoms, let alone fevers--only antidotes that
somehow didn't work. But if you won't tell, Alys, I'll find out for
myself. If I don't find out, Jim Broderick will, and I'd give my eyes to
get ahead of him. But we've got to catch our train, girls."
They took the short cut through the hall of the dwelling, and as they
passed the open door of the living-room, Miss Lauretta Lea exclaimed
with pleasure at its conceit of a cool green wood. Alys could do no less
than invite them in. While the three other reporters were walking about
observing the charming room in detail and envying its owner, Miss Sarah
Austin walked directly over to a framed photograph of Dwight Rush that
stood on a side-table. He had given it to Mrs. Crumley; and Alys, who
spared her mother all unnecessary anxiety, had not yet conceived a
logical excuse for its removal.
"Whom have we here?" demanded the searching young realist. "Don't tell
me, Alys, that here is the secret of your desertion of the New York
press. I'd forgive you, though, for he is precisely the type I most
admire. The modern Samson before Delilah cuts off what little hair his
barber leaves. But the same old Samson looking round for the same old
Delilah--"
"Really, Sarah, are you insinuating that I am a Delilah? That is too
much!" Alys put her arm round Miss Austin's waist and smiled teasingly.
"No wonder your newspaper stories are so bitingly realistic; the
restraints you force upon your imagination must put it quite out of
commission for the time being. That is Mr. Dwight Rush, quite a well
known lawyer in Brabant already, although he has only been here about
two years."
"I thought you said all your young men had grown up in the community."
"I had quite forgotten him."
"Ha! Is he married?"
"Oh, no. And he was born and brought up over in Rennselaerville, by the
way, but went West to some college or university and practised out there
for several years."
"How old is he?"
"Oh, about thirty-three or thirty-four."
"Must have been away a good many years. Would return quite fresh--must
have had a lot made over him here--looks clever and built for
success--that concentrated driving type that always gets there--"
"He goes very little into society and no one possibly could lionise
him."
"Is he interesting to talk to or just another specialist?"
"That's about it. But he was more a friend of mother's than mine. That
is her picture."
"Oh! He likes older women, then? Looks as if he might. Never would take
the trouble, that type, to adapt himself to girls, try to understand
them. Could it be--Alys, you must know if he knows Mrs. Balfame!"
Alys was cold again but laid violent hands on her nerves. "No better
than he knew any one else, if as well, for Mrs. Balfame never talked to
the younger men. She doesn't attract them, anyhow. Do you realise, dear,
that you are asking if Mr. Rush committed murder?"
"With that jaw and those nostrils, he could--oh, rather! And it is one
of those cast-iron, passionate faces; when those men do let go--"
"Oh, really!" Alys dropped her arm, and her subtle face expressed
disdain. "Mr. Rush is quite too steel clad to be carried away even if he
were capable of committing a low and cowardly murder. He happens to be a
gentleman and about as astute and poised as they are made. Do please
send your romantic imagination off on another flight."
"Not I. I'm going to account for every moment he spent that night."
"Would you like to see Mr. Rush go to the chair?" asked Miss Crumley
sternly.
"Oh, good Lord no." Miss Austin turned pale. "I don't believe in capital
punishment, anyhow. No, I'll not tell a thing if I find him out. But
how interesting to know! I'd write a corking story--fiction--about it.
Those deep glimpses into life--into those terrible abysses of the human
heart--no writer can become great without them."
"Well, don't waste your time trying to find the criminal in this
excellent citizen. You might set some of the newspaper men on his trail
and blacken his name while you discovered nothing. Better get on the
track of the potential woman in New York."
"Not half so interesting. Just one of those apartment-house
misalliances. No, I'm out for Mr. Rush, and when I have the proof, I'll
extract a confession; but I'll dig a little grave in my brain and bury
his secret--then when it has ripened, exhume and toss it into that
crucible through which facts pass and come out--fiction. Get me, dear?"
"You talk like a literary ghoul. But I know you don't mean a word of it.
Good-bye, girls. Do drop in whenever you are over on the case." She
kissed them all, and Miss Lauretta Lea exclaimed innocently:
"You've lost that lovely dusky colour you had awhile ago, dear. You look
more like old ivory than ever--old ivory and olive. I wonder all the
artists don't paint you. I suppose every young man in Elsinore is in
love with you. Marry, my dear, marry. I've been in this game twelve
years. Show me a willing would-be husband and I'd take him so quick he'd
never know what struck him. Give my hopes of being a man in the next
incarnation for ten babies to weep over when they had croup or got lost
in the woods of New York City. Hate sob stuff. Cut it out, kid, before
you begin it."
She talked all the way to the gate and for several yards down the
avenue, waving a final farewell with a somewhat tragic smile.
"Why doesn't that girl marry?" she asked as they walked rapidly to the
station. "Still fresh, if she is twenty-six. I'm only thirty-four and I
look like a hag beside her."
"Maybe she can't get the man she wants," replied the potential novelist,
who was thinking deeply.
CHAPTER XXII
Alys borrowed a horse and cart from her cousin Mr. Phipps, Chief of
Police in Elsinore, who kept a livery stable, and took the shortest cut
into the country. She wanted to think out many things and think them out
alone. She drove rapidly until she came within sight and sound of the
sea. Then she let the lines lie loosely on the back of her old friend
Colonel Roosevelt, who had been named in his fiery colt-hood, but in
these days, save under compulsion, was as slow as American law. He
ambled along, and Alys, in the booming stillness and the fresh salt air,
felt the humid waves roll out of her brain. She saw clearly, but she was
aghast and depressed.
Presented by nature with an odd and arresting exterior, in color and
feature as well as in subtlety of expression, sketched and flattered by
such artists as she met, she had, ever since old enough for
introspection, striven for uncommon personal developments that should
justify her obverse and set her still farther apart from mere woman. If
not born with an intense aversion from the commonplace (and it is safe
to say that no one is), she had conceived it early enough to train a
rarely plastic mind to striking viewpoints, while a natural tact saved
her from isolation. If she had been as original as she thought herself,
she would have antagonised many people.
Assuredly a certain nobility of nature and a revulsion from all that
was base were innate; although, soon learning of the many pitfalls
yawning for humanity, she had assiduously cultivated these her higher
inclinations, an enterprise measurably assisted by the equable temper,
the feminine charm, the bright intelligence and the quick sympathies
that made her many friends. Moreover, her freedom from the usual
yearnings of her sex in the matter of riches and subservience to the
race, which wreck the lives of so many women, and her love of the arts
and delight in her own little talent, all served to deponderate the
burden of life.
She had liked many men as friends, and was proud of the fact that only
the more intelligent were attracted to her, but she had arrived at the
age of twenty-six without even imagining herself seriously in love, so
intense was her idealism. This was another of her deliberate
cultivations, for here also was she resolute that as nature had done so
much for her, marking her as a girl apart, so should she insist upon
having an uncommon mate. It was to this end even more than for the
barren satisfaction of pleasing Mother Nature that she had tilled the
garden of her mind with both science and imagination. When she loved, it
should be like a woman, of course; she had no delusions about making
over human nature to suit passing fashions in woman; but while she never
ignored the vital passions that formed the basis of her unique
personality and strong will, she was determined that they should be
quickened only by a man who would make equal demands upon all that was
fine in her character and aspiring in her mind.
The awful collapse of this cherished structure, her spiritual house,
under her hopeless and violent passion for Dwight Rush had almost
demoralised her. After she had won herself to reason once more, she
still had sat, stunned, among the ruins. It was true that Rush was all
that she had demanded of man and that he emanated a promise of happiness
along strictly modern lines--which was all she asked, being no romantic
fool; but not only had she loved him unasked, sacrificing the first and
perhaps the dearest of her dreams, to be wooed and awakened and
surprised, but, accepting the inevitable (the man being overburdened,
like most busy young Americans, and unselfconscious), she deliberately
had set herself to awaken him--and for nought. For worse than nought:
he had instantly taken fright and withdrawn.
Of the terrific upheaval of that time, like some graveyard of the sea
flung putrid and phosphorescent to the surface by submarine vulcanism,
she had ceased to think as soon as her will was reinstated in command.
Immediately she had striven to rebuild her house lest she be swamped in
mere femaleness, so permanently demoralised that life would be quite
unendurable. She had cultivated the heights too long. She might tumble
off occasionally, but in no other atmosphere could she breathe deeply
and realise herself, find any measure of content. It had occurred to her
that if she had been born in the gutter and grown to adolescence with no
ennobling influence, she would have developed into a notable force for
evil. At all events, she liked to think so; many women of stainless
lives do.
She guessed this, having a saving sense of humour, but did not expand
upon it, not being inclined to humour at the moment. Accompanying her
resolution to be finer and better than ever, to fortify herself against
life with some degree of satisfaction in herself, was the hope of
complete deliverance from what she called the Dwight Rush Idea. In due
course she had conquered the obsession, for pride and self-disgust
served her like first-aid surgeons on the battlefield; and although she
felt amputated and scarred, she had lost her sense of humiliation. But
her heart still accelerated its beats when she met Rush, and no will is
strong enough to prevent the recurrence of the mental image; only time
can dim it. But it was not until Broderick had left her alone in her
studio with the poisons of fear and jealousy implanted that she had
admitted she still loved him, probably must continue to love him for
years to come.
In that hour she had hated Mrs. Balfame, although she neither believed
her guilty nor was tempted to the dastardly course of helping to force
the appearance of guilt upon her. And for a time that night she had
hoped she hated Dwight Rush also, so utterly disgusted and indignant was
she that he could prefer a faded woman of forty-odd to a unique and
beautiful girl like herself.
But once more Miss Crumley's sense of proportion enforced itself, and
she reflected sternly that men had fallen in love with women older than
themselves since the world began, and that some of those
transcendent--and lasting--passions had made history. She was no green
village girl to be astounded at the least common phase of the sexual
adventure. It was then she had given way to tears, for although she
might be intelligent enough to admit this most unpardonable of nature's
informalities, she could regret it with bitterness and despair.
Later had come her fear for Rush's safety. Not for a moment did she
suspect him of the crime, but if accused of it during the process of
elimination, there was the appalling doubt that he could prove an alibi.
As likely as not he had missed his man in Brooklyn--she knew that he had
expected to dine and spend the evening at the Country Club--or had not
gone there; knowing Balfame's ugly temper when drunk, what more natural
than that he should hide in the grounds to be near at hand in case the
man were disposed to wreak vengeance on his wife for his own
humiliation. It was Alys's theory that the murder was political.
Until to-day! From the moment that she saw Mrs. Balfame empty and rinse
the vial, she was convinced that Broderick was right in his deductions
and that for some reason the terrible woman had changed her mind and
used the revolver. It was a stupider act than she would have expected of
Mrs. Balfame, for Dave was a man whose sudden death would excite little
suspicion, nor would Mrs. Balfame be the woman to use a common poison.
Her intimacy with Dr. Anna would put her on the track of one of those
organic potions that were too subtle for chemical analysis. She had
heard doctors talk of them herself.
Then abruptly she recalled the sinister change in Mrs. Balfame's smiling
countenance on that day she sketched her at the Friday Club; her mind
opened and closed on the conviction that in that moment Mrs. Balfame had
conceived the purpose of murder.
But why the change of method? She dismissed the riddle. It was not for
her to unravel. Nor did she care. The fact was enough. This good friend
of her family was an abominable creature from whom in even mental
contact she shuddered away with a spasm of spiritual nausea.
But that was not her own problem. No doubt Mrs. Balfame would be
acquitted; Alys hoped so, at all events, for she wanted no such a stain
on Elsinore, where, she thanked God, she lived, although she sought
knowledge and income in the City of New York. For the same reason, she
had no desire that the guilty woman should pay her debt by even a brief
term in Auburn; but all that was beside the point. What Alys felt she
would give her soul to ravish from this thrice accursed woman, so
formidable in her peril, were the services of Dwight Rush. If he were
Mrs. Balfame's chief counsel he would see her constantly, and alone--for
hours on end, perhaps, for he must consult with her, rehearse her,
instruct her, keep up her spirits, console her. This might not be the
whole duty of counsel, but in the circumstances no doubt she had
underestimated, if anything. And even if he believed her guilty, he
might in that intimacy love her the more; not only would he pity her
profoundly and see himself her natural protector, but he would be heart
and soul in the great case, and it would not be long before the case and
the woman were one.
If, however, Rush could be made to believe now that the woman was a
murderess, would he not decline to take the case? He was hardly the man
to defend man or woman whom from the outset he knew to be guilty,
although when immersed in the case he would keep on, whatever the
revelations. Alys believed that it was possible for her to convince him.
She could inform him of the needle-witted Mr. Broderick's suspicions and
of her own confirmations; and she could tell him of her certain
knowledge that Mrs. Balfame had a revolver; she had seen it eight months
ago, when Balfame brought it home from New York and told his wife to
discharge it in the air if, when alone, she heard a man breaking in.
It had signified little to her at the moment that Mrs. Balfame had
denied to police and reporters that she possessed a revolver, for it
might by chance be a .41, and it was not to be expected that even an
innocent woman would challenge public doubt and possible arrest. But her
denial and probable concealment of the weapon were significant to Alys
now. She remembered that Dr. Anna had spent the early hours of Sunday
alone with Mrs. Balfame. No doubt the wicked woman had found both relief
and counsel in confessing to a friend like Anna Steuer, a creature so
strong and staunch that the secret would be as safe as in her own guilty
soul. Anna, of course, had taken the pistol and dropped it in the marsh
when she visited Farmer Houston's wife later in the day. If she could
but get Dr. Anna to speak.
Alys raised her eyes under their bent and frowning brows and looked up
to where the Brabant Hospital stood on rising ground beside the sea. She
gave a gasp as she found herself turning the horse's head in that
direction. What did she intend to do? Denounce Mrs. Balfame to Dwight
Rush? She fancied she heard an inner crash. Could she do this and escape
final demoralisation? Heretofore she had at least committed no act
involving moral degradation; her upheavals had affected herself alone
and were her inviolate secret; but if she made a last desperate throw to
win Dwight Rush by first filling him with loathing of her rival, she
would be committed to a course of conduct from which there would be no
escape for months, perhaps years to come. For if she won him,--toward
which end she must plan with every female art she knew,--she never could
ease her soul with confession. Her only chance of keeping a man like
that, after the first effulgence had merged into the healthy
temperateness of practical married life, was to avoid the major
disillusions.
And if she by her own deliberate act went to pieces morally, could she
play up? Should she even want to play up? Could one deliberately knock
the foundations from under one's cherished spiritual structure, reared
with infinite pains upon natural inclinations, and continue to be even a
pale reflection of one's higher self? She might, after the first
excitement of striving to achieve her immediate object was over, hate
herself too deeply to love or even to live.
She drew her brows more closely and expelled her breath through her
teeth. For the moment, at least, she felt all female, ready to defy the
future and her own soul to obtain possession of her mate. That he was
her mate she obstinately believed, temporarily deflected from his
natural progress toward herself by one of those powerful delusions that
afflict every man in the course of his life. And if she did not open his
eyes at once, the temporary deflection would merge into the straight
course toward marriage with a she-demon....
She drove into the hospital yard, threw the reins over Colonel
Roosevelt's back and asked for the superintendent, Mrs. Dissosway, who
happened to be her aunt.
CHAPTER XXIII
An hour later, Alys was driving through Elsinore, her mind a trifle less
personal, as it dwelt upon her brief interview with the superintendent
of the hospital. Mrs. Dissosway, who was devoted to her niece and
believed her to be as exceptional as Miss Crumley in her most aspiring
moments could have wished, had confided that she was sure poor dear Anna
knew something about that awful crime, for in her delirious moments she
kept uttering Enid Balfame's name in very odd tones indeed. She had
assured and reassured the patient that there was no clue to the
murderer; and if she kept on and asked to see Mrs. Balfame,--which,
significantly, she had not done,--they of course would tell her that the
friend who should have hastened to her bedside had suffered a nervous
breakdown or sprained her ankle. It was a blessing that she was in no
condition to testify against her idol, for it would kill her, just as it
might be fatal now if she knew that Enid was in the County Jail.
After some delicate insistence, Mrs. Dissosway had admitted that Dr.
Anna must convince any one who listened attentively to her mutterings
that her belief in her friend's guilt was positive, whether she had
exact knowledge or not.
"'Oh, Enid! Oh, Enid!' she kept repeating in such a tone of anguish
and reproach, and then muttered: 'Poor child! What a life!' She also
once said something about a pistol in a tone of dismay, but the other
words I couldn't make out.
"The nurses on her case," Mrs. Dissosway had concluded, "will pay no
attention. They are too accustomed to fever patients to listen to
ravings, and the two she will have are from other parts of the State,
anyhow. They never heard of Mrs. Balfame before. But I have been in and
out all day, and I know she is worrying in her poor hot mind both over
her friend's crime and her danger--"
"Then you believe Mrs. Balfame did it?" Miss Crumley had interrupted.
"Yes, I do--now, anyhow; and I never was daffy about her. She barely
remembers I am alive, living out here for the last fifteen years as I
have done, and I am your mother's sister. I don't call her a snob; it's
just that she don't seem to take any interest in people that ain't in
her own set. But the Lord knows I'd never tell on her if I had the proof
in my hand, for I don't want any of our grand old families disgraced,
and she's been good to your mother. No, she can go free, and welcome,
but I wish poor Anna could have been spared the knowledge of her crime,
for it's going to be all the harder to nurse her well, and she has a bad
case. If she has to go, she shall go in peace. I'll see to that. But
when Enid Balfame is out, I'll take good care to let her know that she
has another crime to carry on her conscience--if she's got one."
Alys had not asked to see the patient, knowing that it would be useless,
but Mrs. Dissosway had walked out to the cart with her, and pointing to
a window on the first floor of the wing devoted to paying patients,
remarked: "That's where she is, poor dear." Alys had wondered if she
should fall low enough before this accursed case were finished to
describe the position of that room to Broderick and insinuate what he
might find there if he chose to hide in the little balcony and enter the
room when the night nurse had gone out for the midnight supper. He was
quite capable of it.
But not if she could win Rush from the case, nor unless, Mrs. Balfame
discharged, he were arrested and committed for the crime. She wished now
that he had been arrested instead of Mrs. Balfame, for then she could
have saved him from both punishment and the other woman without this
awful sense of sliding slowly down-hill to choke in a poisonous slime.
She might have been obliged to exercise a certain amount of sophistry
even then, but she could have stood it.
She was driving slowly down Atlantic Avenue when she heard her name
called in accents of mystery and excitement. Her modest rig was passing
the imposing mansion of Elisha Battle, bank president, and like all the
newer homes of Elsinore the grounds were unconfined and the shallow lawn
ended at the pavement. From one of the drawing-room windows Lottie
Gifning slanted, and as she met Miss Crumley's eye, she beckoned
peremptorily. The desire for solitude was still strong upon Alys, but as
she had no excuse to advance, she wound the lines round the whip and
went slowly up the brick walk.
Mrs. Gifning opened the front door and swept her into the drawing-room,
where six or seven other women with tense excited faces sat on the
expensive furniture. Mrs. Battle, herself upholstered in shining
black-and-white satin, and further clad in invisible armour, occupied a
stately and upright chair. This throne had been made to order;
consequently her small feet in their high-heeled pumps touched the
floor. The large room, upon which much money had been spent, was not
tasteless; it merely had no individuality whatever. Like many another in
Elsinore, it set Miss Crumley's teeth on edge, but compensated her
to-day as ever by inspiring her with a sense of remote superiority.
"Dear Alys--so glad to see you!" Mrs. Battle did not rise. She was fond
of Alys, but thought her of no consequence whatever. "Lottie saw you and
called you in as you have always been such a friend of poor dear Enid's,
and you know those horrid reporters, and we want to impress upon you the
necessity of putting them off the track. We are talking the whole
dreadful business over and trying to decide what to do."
"Do?" Alys, more interested, disposed her limber uncorseted young figure
into a low chair and for a moment diverted envious attention from the
momentous subject in hand. "What can we do? Has bail been accepted?"
"No, nor likely to be. Isn't it too awful?"
"Yes, it's awful." Alys stared at the floor, but although her words
might have been uttered by any of the ladies present, her tone was
almost conventional. No one noticed this defection, however, and Mrs.
Battle--after Mrs. Gifning had tiptoed to all the doors, opened them
suddenly and closed them again,--proceeded in so low a tone that there
was an immediate hitching of chairs over the Persian rug:
"What we were debating when you came in, Alys, was whether--oh, it's too
awful!--she did it or not. Did she or didn't she? She has a perfectly
beautiful character--but the provocation! Few women have been tried
more severely. And we all know what human nature is under the influence
of sudden tremendous passion." Mrs. Battle, who never had been ruffled
by any sort of passion, leaned against the high back of her chair, and
elevated her eyebrows and one corner of her mouth.
"Could such a crime have been unpremeditated?" asked Alys. "You forget
that whoever did it was waiting in the grove for Balfame to come home
from Sam's, and evidently timed to shoot as he reached the gate."
"Passion, my dear child," said Mrs. Bascom, wife of the Justice for
Brabant, speaking softly and with some diffidence, for she disliked the
word, "can endure for quite a while once the blood is up and pounding in
the head. It would take a good deal to work up dear Enid, but when a
woman like that does rise to the pitch under many and abominable
provocations, well, I guess she could stay at that pitch a good bit
longer than all of us put together. I've thought of nothing else for
three days and nights,--the Judge won't discuss it with me,--and I feel
convinced that she did it."
"So have and so am I," contributed Mrs. Battle, sepulchrally.
"I'm afraid she did!" Mrs. Gifning heaved an abysmal sigh. "I suspected
it when I consulted her about her mourning. She was much too cool. A
woman who could think of two kinds of blouses she wanted the very
morning after the tragedy, and he not out of the house, must have been
exercising a suspicious restraint or else have reverted to the
cold-bloodedness with which she planned the deed."
"Dear Lottie, you are so psychological," murmured Mrs. Frew admiringly;
but Mrs. Battle interrupted sharply:
"I maintain that she did it in a moment of overwhelming passion. She
would be inexcusable if she had done it in cold blood."
"Well, of course I didn't mean that!" said Mrs. Gifning with asperity.
"I guess I'm as fond of Enid Balfame as anybody in this room, and I
guess I know what she must have gone through. What I really meant was
that she has more courage than most folks."
"Oh, that indeed!" exclaimed Mrs. Lequer, who was quite happy with her
husband, the fashionable doctor of Brabant. "Matrimony is a terrible
trial at best, and it's a wonder more women don't--well, it's too
horrible to say. But I'm afraid--well, you know."
There was no dissenting voice. Alys raised her eyes and glanced about
the room. Mrs. Cummack was not present. No doubt she had been carefully
omitted from the conference. So had four members of the inner twelve who
were comparative newcomers in Elsinore. All of these women had known
Enid Balfame from childhood, consistently admired her; when she was in a
position to make her social ambitions felt, had quite naturally fallen
into line.
"Isn't it rather a hasty conclusion?" Alys asked. "There are a good many
others who might have done it, you know."
"Everybody suspected has one grand alibi." Mrs. Gifning's sigh was
rather hypocritical this time. "We'd be only too glad to think there was
any one else likely to be arrested. No hope! No hope!"
"I suppose"--Miss Crumley's tones were tentative, although the
irresistible words almost cost her her breath--"that there was no man in
love with Mrs. Balfame?"
"Alys Crumley!" All the women had shrieked the name, and Mrs. Battle
swung herself to her pointed toes. "I'm most mad enough to put you right
out. The idea of insinuating--"
"Dear me, Mrs. Battle, it never occurred to me that it was worse for a
married woman to have a man in love with her than to commit murder. I
did not insinuate or even imagine she cared for any man, or even
encouraged one. But such things have happened."
"Not to her. And while I could forgive her for shooting a perfectly
loathsome husband under the influence of sudden passion, I'd never
forgive her--Enid Balfame!--if she had stooped to anything so paltry and
common and sinful as philandering; for believe me, a man doesn't
commit murder for a woman's sake unless he is reasonably certain that he
will have his due rewards. That is life. And how can he be certain, if
there has been no philandering. No!" Mrs. Battle was once more
magisterial in her chair, and in command of her best Friday Club
vocabulary. "But there is this much to be said: Enid did not necessarily
shoot to kill,--merely to wound perhaps,--for nothing would have
punished Dave Balfame more than a month or two in bed on gruel and
custard. Or maybe she just didn't know what she was doing--just fired to
relieve her feelings. I am sure it would have relieved mine after that
scene at the Club."
"Oh--I apologise. Let us assume then that Mrs. Balfame did it. How do
you propose to act in the matter? Of course you will not accuse her,
but shall you cut her?"
"Neither the one nor the other!" Mrs. Battle brought her plump little
hands down on the arms of the chair with a muffled but emphatic smack.
"Never outside of this room shall we breathe our convictions, or our
certain knowledge that she kept a revolver in her room--may I not speak
for all?" There was a hissing murmur caused by the letter s. "And it
will be no negative defence, either. We'll stand by her publicly, visit
her constantly, keep up her spirits, never give her a hint of our
suspicions, and attend the trial in a body. Our attitude cannot fail to
impress the world. We are the representative women of Elsinore; we have
known her all our lives; it is our duty to flaunt our faith in the eyes
of the public. The moral effect will be enormous--also on the jury."
"It is very splendid of you." Alys sighed. Their motives were mixed, of
course, poor dears; brains were not their strong point, and they were
all feeling young again with their sense of participation in the great
local drama, but there was no questioning their loyalty, even that of
Mrs. Battle, who would inherit the reins of leadership were Mrs. Balfame
forced to retire. Alys wished she could be swept along with them, but
her indorsement of their programme was from the head alone.
"What do the men think?" she asked.
"I guess they don't know what to think," said Mrs. Battle complacently.
"They're not as clever as we are, and besides, they never could
understand that type of woman. Whatever they think, though,--that is to
say, if they do suspect her,--they'll never let on. They weren't any too
fond of Dave these last years, and they're no more anxious than we are
to have Elsinore disgraced--especially with all those lots on the edge
of the West End unsold. They're hoping for a boom every minute. The
trial will be bad enough. And those terrible reporters! They've been
here a dozen times."
"That reminds me," interrupted Alys. "I promised four of the best of the
women reporters I would try to get them an interview with Mrs. Balfame.
Do you think you could manage it? She might not listen to me.
And--and--if she is a murderess, I don't think I can see her just yet."
"Youth is so hard!" Mrs. Battle sighed. "But I suppose it is as well
that you, an unmarried young woman, and with your way to make, should
keep in the background. But why should she see those women? Answer me
that. It would be more dignified for her to ignore the press hereafter."
"Perhaps. But they are predisposed in her favour, being women, and would
write her up in such a way as to make friends for her among the public.
It is important, if she is to be tried for her life, that she should not
be thought a monster, that she should make all the friends possible. The
jury might convict her, and it would then be necessary, appeals also
failing, to get up a petition."
"You always did have brains, Alys!" It was Mrs. Frew who expressed
herself with emphasis. "I'll persuade her myself. Don't you really think
it would be wise, Letitia?"
"I guess you're both right." Mrs. Battle stood up. "Now let's go out
and have tea. I ordered it for five-thirty. New York's got nothing on
us."
But Alys, protesting that her mother was old-fashioned and still
prepared supper for half past six, excused herself and left the house.
She found that Colonel Roosevelt had gone home and was not sorry to
cover the half-mile to her own, briskly, on foot. What course she
eventually should take was still unformulated, but she was glad that she
had not parted with any of her deeper knowledge to those kindly women
who, perhaps, would have found it the straw too many. Let Enid Balfame
keep her friends if she could. Let her have the whole State on her side
if she could, so long as she lost Dwight Rush!
CHAPTER XXIV
The police, nettled by the sensational coup of the press, made a real
effort to discover the identity of the man or woman who had fired the
second pistol. For a time they devoted their efforts to implicating
Frieda and young Kraus, but the pair emerged triumphantly from a
grilling almost as severe as the third degree; furthermore, there was an
absolute lack of motive. Conrad had never evinced the least interest in
politics; and that Old Dutch should have commissioned the son of whom he
was so proud to commit murder when gun-men could be hired for
twenty-five dollars apiece was unthinkable to any one familiar with the
thoroughly decent home life of the family of Kraus.
Old Dutch's establishment was more of a beer garden than a common
saloon, and responsible for a very small proportion of the inebriety of
the County Seat. He and his sons drank their beer at the family board,
but nothing whatever behind the bar. As for Conrad, Jr., industrious,
ambitious, persistent, but without a spark of initiative, obstinate and
quick-tempered but amiable and rather dull, his tastes and domestic
ideals as cautious as his expenditures, it was as easy to trump up a
charge of murder against him because he happened to have seen Mrs.
Balfame leave her house by the kitchen door a few moments before he
heard the shot that killed her husband, as it was to fasten the crime
upon the unlovely Frieda because she ran home untimely with a toothache.
Frieda confessed imperturbably to her attempt to blackmail Mrs. Balfame,
adding (in free translation) that while she had no desire to see her
arrested and punished, she saw no reason why she should not turn the
situation to her own advantage. When Papa Kraus was asked if he had
counselled the girl to demand five hundred dollars as the price of her
silence, he repudiated the charge with indignation, but admitted that he
did remark in the course of conversation that no doubt a woman who had
killed her husband would be pleased to rid herself of a witness on such
easy terms, and that it was Frieda's pious intention--and his own--that
the blood-money should justify itself in the coffers of the German Red
Cross.
All this was very reprehensible, of course; but an imperfect sense of
the minor social and legal immoralities was no argument that such
blundering tactics were the natural corollary of a specific murder. To
be sure, there were those that asserted with firm lips and pragmatical
eyes that "anybody who will blackmail will do anything," but the police
were accustomed to this line of ratiocination from the layman and knew
better.
Their efforts in every direction were equally futile. Behind the Balfame
Place was a lane; Elsinore Avenue was practically the eastern boundary
of the town, which had grown to the south and west. There were two or
three lowly dwellers in this lane, and in due course the memory of one
old man was refreshed, and he guessed he remembered hearing somebody
crank up a machine that night, but at what time he couldn't say. It was
after seven-thirty, anyhow, for he turned in about then, and he had
heard the noise just before dropping off. That might have been any time
up to eight or nine, he couldn't say, as he slept with his windows shut
and couldn't hear the town clock. His cottage was directly across from a
point where the second assailant, running out of the grove and grounds,
would have climbed the fence to the lane if he had kept in a reasonably
straight line. But there had been heavy rains between the night of the
shooting and the awakening of the old man's memory, and not a track nor
a footstep was visible.
The police also searched the Balfame house from top to bottom for the
pistol the prisoner indubitably had carried from the house to the grove;
nor did they neglect the garden, yard and orchard, or any of the old
wells in the neighbourhood. They even dragged a pond. Their zeal was but
a further waste of time. It was then they concluded that Mrs. Balfame
had gone out deliberately to meet a confederate and that he had carried
off both pistols. But who was the confederate and how did he know at
what hour Balfame would reach his front gate? It was as easily
ascertained that Mrs. Balfame had telephoned no message--from her own
house--that night as that she had received one from her husband which
would give her just the opportunity she wanted. But how had she advised
the other guilty one? The poor police felt as if they were lashed to a
hoop driven up and down hill by a mischievous little girl. All the men
who had been at Cummack's when Balfame called up his wife had left the
house before he did, and proved their alibis. Even Cummack, who had
"sweat blood" during the elimination process, had finally discovered
that the janitor of his office-building had seen him go in and come out
on that fatal night. Did Mrs. Balfame go forth some time after Dr. Anna
brought her home from the Country Club, find her partner in crime and
secrete him in the grove? If so, why did she not remain in the grove
with him instead of returning to the house to leave it again by the
devious route that delivered her almost into the arms of young Kraus?
Above all, who was the man?
It was at this point that the police gave up, although they still
maintained a pretence of activity. Not so the press. Almost daily there
were interviews with public men, authors, dramatists, detectives,
headed: "Did Mrs. Balfame Do It?" "What Did She Do With the Pistol?"
"Was She Perchance Ambidexterous? Could She Have Fired Both Pistols at
Once?" "Will She Be Acquitted?" "Was It a German Plot?" "If Guilty,
Would She Be Wise to Confess And Plead Brain Storm?" The interviews and
symposiums that illuminated the Sunday issues were conducted by men, but
the evening papers had at least one interview or symposium a week on the
subject between a sister reporter and some woman of local or national
fame. Nothing could have been more intellectual than the questions asked
save, possibly, the answers given.
Upon the subject of the defendant's guilt public opinion fluctuated, and
was not infrequently influenced by news from the seat of war: when it
looked as if the Germans were primed for a smashing victory, the
doubting centred firmly upon the family of Kraus and Miss Frieda Appel;
but when once more convinced that the Germans were fighting the long and
losing game, the hyphenated were banished in favour of that far more
interesting suspect, Mrs. Balfame. Certainly there was nothing more
amusing than trying and condemning a prisoner long before she had time
to reach judge and jury, and tearing her to shreds psychologically. In
Spain the people high and low still have the bull-fight; other countries
have the prize-ring, these being the sole objective outlets in times of
peace for that lust of blood and prey which held the spectators in a
Roman arena spellbound when youths and maidens were flung to the lions.
But in the vast majority of Earth's peoples this ancestral craving is
forced by Civilisation to gratify itself imaginatively, and it is this
cormorant in the human mind that the press feeds conscientiously and
often.
In Elsinore the subject raged day and night, and the opinion of the man
in the street may be summed up in the words of one of them to Mr. James
Broderick of the New York News:
"Brain storm, nothin'. She ain't that sort. She done it and done it as
deliberately as hell. I ain't sayin' that she didn't have some excuse,
for I despised Dave Balfame, and I guess most of us would let her off if
we served on the jury, if only because we don't want this county
disgraced, especially Elsinore. But that ain't got nothin' to do with
it. And there's an awful lot of men who think more of their consciences
than they do even of Brabant, let alone of Elsinore, where like as not
all of 'em won't have been born--the jurors, I mean. I'm just
wonderin'!"
Mr. Broderick met Mrs. Phipps one afternoon at Alys Crumley's. She was
not a member of the inner twelve, but a staunch admirer of Mrs. Balfame,
although by no means sure of her innocence.
"Maybe she did," she admitted, "since you are not interviewing me for
print. But it's yet to be proved, and if she does get off, I don't fancy
she'll lose many of her friends--she wouldn't anyhow, but then if she
went up, they'd have so much further to call! As for wars," she
continued with apparent irrelevance, "there's this much to be said: a
lot of good men may get killed, but when you think of the thousands of
detestable, tyrannical, stingy, boresome husbands--well, it is to be
imagined that a few widows will manage to bear up. If women all over the
world refuse to come forward in one grand concerted peace movement,
perhaps we can guess the reason why."
None of these seditious arguments reached Mrs. Balfame's ears, but as
her friends' protestations waxed, she inferred that their doubts kept
pace with those of the public. But she was more deeply touched at this
unshaken loyalty than she once would have believed possible. She had
assumed they would drop off, as soon as the novelty of the affair had
worn thin; but not a day passed without a visit from one of them, or
offerings of flowers, fruit, books and bonbons. She knew that whatever
their private beliefs, the best return she could make for their
passionate loyalty was to maintain the calm and lofty attitude of a Mary
Stuart or Marie Antoinette awaiting decapitation. She shed not a tear in
their presence. Nor did she utter a protest. If she looked tired and
worn, what more natural in an active woman suddenly deprived of physical
exercise (save in the jail yard at night), of sunlight, of freedom--to
say nothing of mortification: she, Mrs. Balfame of Elsinore, shut up in
a common jail on the vulgar charge of murder?
But in spite of the amiable devotion of her friends and their
assurances that no jury alive would convict her, and in spite of her
complete faith in Dwight Rush, the prospect of several months in jail
was almost insupportable to Mrs. Balfame, and haunted by horrid fears.
She made up her mind again and again not to read the newspapers, and she
read them morning and night. She knew what this terrible interest in her
meant. Not a talesman in the length and breadth of Brabant County who
could swear truthfully that he had formed no opinion on the case. Other
murder cases had been tossed aside after a few days' tepid sensation,
unnoticed thereafter save perfunctorily. It was her unhappy fate to
prove an irresistible magnet to that monster the Public and its keeper
the Press. Her hatred of both took form at times in a manner that
surprised herself. She sprang out of bed at night muttering curses and
pulling at her long braids of hair to relieve the congestion in her
brain. She tore up the newspapers and stamped on them. She beat the bars
before her windows and shook them, the while aware that if the doors of
the jail were left open and the guards slept, she would do nothing so
foolish as to attempt an escape.
Sometimes she wondered, dull with reaction or quick with fear, if she
were losing her reason; or if she was, after all, a mere female whose
starved nerves were springing up in every part of her like poisonous
weeds after a long drought. Well, if that were the case, her admiring
friends should never be the wiser.
But there were other moods. As time wore on, she grew to be humbly
grateful to these friends, a phenomenon more puzzling than her attacks
of furious rebellion. Even Sam Cummack, possibly the only person who
had sincerely loved the dead man and still stricken and indignant, but
carefully manipulated by his wife, maintained a loud faith in her, and
announced his intention to spend his last penny in bringing the real
culprit to justice. Left to himself, he would in time no doubt have
shared the opinion of the community, but his wife was a member of the
grand army of diplomatists of the home. She was by no means sure of her
sister-in-law's innocence, but she was determined that the family
scandal should go no further than a trial, if Mr. Cummack's considerable
influence on his fellow citizens could prevent it; and long practice
upon the non-complex instrument in Mr. Cummack's head enabled her to
strike whatever notes her will dictated. Mr. Cummack believed; and he
not only convinced many of his wavering friends, but talked "both ways"
to notable politicians in the late Mr. Balfame's party. Most of these
gentlemen were convinced that "Mrs. B. done it," and were inclined to
throw the weight of their influence against her if only to divert
suspicion from themselves, several having experienced acute discomfort;
but they agreed to "fix the jury" if Mr. Cummack and several other
eminent citizens whom they inferred were "with him" would "come through
in good shape." There the matter rested for the present.
Above all was Mrs. Balfame deeply, almost--but not quite--humbly
grateful to Dwight Rush. Her interviews with him so far had been brief;
later he would have to coach her, but at present his time was taken up
with a thousand other aspects of the case, which promised to be a cause
celèbre. He made love to her no more, but not for an instant did she
doubt his intense personal devotion. He had, after consultation with
two eminent criminal lawyers whom he could trust, decided that she
should deny in toto the Kraus-Appel testimony, and stick to her original
story. After all, it was her word, the word of a lady of established
position in her community and of stainless character, against that of a
surly German servant and her friends, all of them seething with hatred
for those that were openly opposed to the cause of the Fatherland. He
knew that he could make them ridiculous on the witness stand and was
determined to secure a wholly American jury.
It was some three weeks after Mrs. Balfame's arrest that another blow
fell. Dr. Anna's Cassie suddenly remembered that a fortnight or so
before the murder Mrs. Balfame had called at the cottage one morning and
asked permission to go into the living-room and write a note to the
doctor. A moment or two after she had shut herself in, Cassie had gone
out to the porch with her broom, and as she wore felt slippers and the
front door stood open, she had made no noise. It was quite by accident
that she had glanced through the window, and there she had seen Mrs.
Balfame standing on a chair before a little cupboard in the chimney
placing a bottle carefully between two other bottles. She had fully
intended to tell her mistress of this strange performance, but as the
doctor those days came home for but a few hours' sleep and too tired to
be spoken to, not even taking her meals there, Cassie had postponed her
little sensation and finally forgotten it.
When she did recall the incident under the pressure of the general
obsession, she told it to a friend, who told it to another, who again
imparted it, so that in due course it reached the ears of the alert Mr.
Broderick. It was then he informed the public of the lost glass of
lemonade and all the incidents pertaining thereto that had come to his
knowledge. Mrs. Balfame's slightly "absurd explanation" was emphasised.
Once more the police were "on the job." The restored bottle was analysed
and, ominously, found to contain plain water. Every bottle in the house
of Mrs. Balfame was carried to the chemist. Mrs. Balfame laughed grimly
at these sturdy efforts, but she knew that the story diminished her
chance of acquittal. The public now condemned her almost to a man. The
evidence would not be allowed in court,--Rush would see to that,--but
every juror would have read it and formed his own opinion. Somewhat to
her surprise Rush asked her for no explanation of this episode, and she
thought it best not to volunteer one. To her other friends she dismissed
the whole thing casually as a lie, no doubt inspired.
As the skies grew blacker, however, her courage mounted higher. Knitting
calmed her nerves, and she had many long and lonely hours for
meditation. Her friends kept her supplied with all the new novels, but
her mind was more inclined to the war books, which she read seriously
for the first time. On the whole, however, she preferred to knit for the
wretched victims, and to think.
No one can suffer such a sudden and extreme change in his daily habits
as a long sojourn in jail on the charge of murder without forming a new
and possibly an astonished acquaintance with his inner self, and without
undergoing what, superficially, appear to be strange changes, but are
merely developments along new-laid tracks in sections of the brain
hitherto regarded as waste lands.
Mrs. Balfame of Brabant County Jail was surprised to discover that she
looked back upon Mrs. Balfame of Elsinore as a person of small aims, and
rather too smugly bourgeoise. The world of Elsinore!
And all those artificial interests and occupations! How bored she really
must have been, playing with subjects that either should have interested
her profoundly or not at all. And for what purpose? Merely to keep a
step ahead of other women of greater wealth or possible ambitions. Her
astonishment at not finding herself all-sufficient, as well as her new
sense of gratitude, bred humility which in turn shed a warm rain upon a
frozen and discouraged sense of humour. While giving her friends all
credit for their noble loyalty, she was quite aware that they were
enjoying themselves solemnly and that no small proportion of their
loyalty was inspired by gratitude. She recalled their composite
expression in the hour of her arrest. They had fancied themselves deeply
agitated, but as a matter of fact they were dilated with pride.
Why had she cared so much to lead these women in all things, to be Mrs.
Balfame of Elsinore? To return to such an existence was unthinkable.
In spite of the fact that her own tragedy dwarfed somewhat her interest
in the great war, she saw life in something like its true proportions;
she knew that if acquitted she would be capable for the first time of a
broad impersonal outlook and of really developing her intellect. With
more than a remnant of the cold-blooded and inexorable will which had
condemned David Balfame to death by the medium of Dr. Anna's secret
poison, she seriously considered taking advantage of young Rush's
infatuation, changing her notorious name for his and receiving the
protection that her awakened femininity craved. At other times she was
equally convinced that she would marry no man again. She could live in
Europe on her small income, travel, improve her mind. Europe would be
vastly interesting after the war, if one avoided beggars and impromptu
graveyards.
But although she was deeply interested in herself, and gratified that
she possessed real courage, and that it had come through the fire
tempered and hardened, there were moments, particularly in the night,
and if the profound stillness were rent with the shrieks of drunken
maniacs, when she was terribly frightened; and in spite of the American
tradition which has set at liberty so many guilty women, she would stare
at the awful vision of the electric chair and herself strapped in it.
CHAPTER XXV
Rush wheeled and looked sharply behind him. For several weeks he had
experienced the recurrent sensation of being followed, but until
to-night he had been too absorbed to give a vague suspicion definite
form. He stood still, and was immediately aware that somebody else had
halted, after withdrawing into the shade of one of the trees that lined
Atlantic Avenue. He approached this figure swiftly, but almost at his
first step it detached itself and strolled forward. Rush saw that it was
a woman, and then recognised Miss Sarah Austin of the New York Evening
News. He recalled that she had approached him several times with the
