
you've kept so. I was afraid you wouldn't turn 
out perhaps so thoroughly the sort of thing I 
liked to think — for I hadn't much more to go 
upon than what she said, you know. However," 
Mr. Betterman wound up as with due comfort, 
"it's by what she says that I've gone — and I 
want her to know that I don't feel fooled." 

If Gray's wonderment could have been said to 
rest anywhere, hour after hour, long enough to 
be detected in the act, the detaining question 
would have been more than any other perhaps 
that of whether Miss Gaw would "come up." 
Now that she did so however, in this quiet way, 
it had no strangeness that his being at once glad 
couldn't make but a mouthful of; and the recent 
interest of what she had lately written to him 
was as nothing to the interest of her becoming 
personally his uncle's theme. With which, at 
the same time, it was pleasanter to him than any- 
thing else to speak of her himself. "If you allude 
to Rosanna Gaw you'll no doubt understand how 
tremendously I want to see her." 

The sick man waited a little — but not, it quite 
seemed, from lack of understanding. "She wants 
tremendously to see you, Graham. You might 
know that, of course from her going to work so." 
Then again he gathered his thoughts and again 
after a little went on. "She had a good idea, 
and I Jove her for it; but I'm afraid my own 
hasn't been so very much to give her the satis- 

i°5 



 

faction. I've wanted it myself, and — well, here 
I am getting it from you. Yes," he kept up, his 
eyes never moving from his nephew, "you couldn't 
give me more if you had tried, from so far back, 
on purpose. But I can't tell you half!" He ex- 
haled a long breath — he was a little spent. "You 
tell me. You tell me." 

"I'm tiring you, sir," Gray said. 

"Not by letting me see — you'd only tire me 
if you didn't." Then for the first time his eyes 
glanced about. "Haven't they put a place for 
you to sit? Perhaps they knew," he suggested, 
while Gray reached out for a chair, "perhaps 
they knew just how I'd want to see you. There 
seems nothing they don't know," he contentedly 
threw off again. 

Gray had his chair before him, his hands on 
the back tilting it a little. "They're extraordi- 
nary. I've never seen anything like them. They 
help me tremendously," he cheerfully confessed. 

Mr. Betterman, at this, seemed to wonder. 
"Why, have you difficulties?" 

"Well," said Gray, still with his chair, "you 
say I'm different — if you mean it for my being 
alien from what I feel surrounding me. But if 
you knew how funny all that seems to me," he 
laughed, "you'd understand that I clutch at 
protection." 

"'Funny'?" — his host was clearly interested, 
without offence, in the term. 





 

"Well then terrific, sir!" 

"So terrific that you need protection ?" 

"Well," Gray explained, gently shaking his 
chair-back, "when one simply sees that nothing 
of one's former experience serves, and that one 
doesn't know anything about anything !" 

More than ever at this his uncle's look might 
have covered him. "Anything round here — no! 
That's it, that's it," the old man blandly repeated. 
That's just the way — I mean the way I hoped. 
She knows you don't know — and doesn't want 
you to either. But put down your chair," he 
said; and then after, when Gray, instantly and 
delicately complying, had placed the precious 
article with every precaution back where it had 
stood: "Sit down here on the bed. There's 
margin." 

"Yes," smiled Gray, doing with all consider- 
ation as he was told, "you don't seem anywhere 
very much a I'etroit." 

"I presume," his uncle returned, "you know 
French thoroughly." 

Gray confessed to the complication  "Of 
course when one has heard it almost from the 
cradle—!" 

"And the other tongues too?" 

He seemed to wonder if, for his advantage, he 
mightn't deny them. "Oh a couple of others. 
In the countries there they come easy." 

"Well, they wouldn't have come easy here — 




 

and I guess nothing else would; I mean of the 
things we principally grow. And I won't have 
you tell me," Mr. Betterman said, "that if you 
had taken that old chance they might have done 
so. We don't know anything about it, and at 
any rate it would have spoiled you. I mean for 
what you are." 

"Oh," returned Gray, on the bed, but pressing 
lightly, "oh what I 'am' !" 

"My point isn't so much for what you are as 
for what you're not. So I won't have anything 
else; I mean I won't have you but as I want 
you," his host explained. "I want you just this 
way." 

With which, while the young man kept . his 
arms folded, and his hands tucked away as for 
compression of his personal extent and weight, 
they exchanged, at their close range, the most 
lingering look yet. Extraordinary to him, in the 
gravity of this relation, his deeper impression of 
something beautiful and spreadingly clear — very 
much as if the wide window and the quiet clean 
sea and the finer sunset light had all had, for assis- 
tance and benediction, their word to say to it. 
They seemed to combine most to remark together 
"What an exquisite person is your uncle!" This 
is what he had for the minute the sense of taking 
from them, and the expression of his assent to it 
was in the tone of his next rejoinder. "If I could 

only know what it is you'd most like !" 





 



««T 



'Never mind what I most like — only tell me, 
only tell me," his companion again said: "You 
can't say anything that won't absolutely suit me; 
in fact I defy you to, though you mayn't at all 
see why that's the case. I've got you — without 
a flaw. So!" Mr. Betterman triumphantly 
breathed. Gray's sense was by this time of his 
being examined and appraised as never in his 
life before — very much as in the exposed state 
of an important "piece," an object of value picked, 
for finer estimation, from under containing glass. 
There was nothing then but to face it, unless 
perhaps also to take a certain comfort in his 
being, as he might feel, practically clean and in 
condition. That such an hour had its meaning, 
and that the meaning might be great for him, 
this of course surged softly in, more and more, 
from every point of the circle that held him; but 
with the consciousness making also more at each 
moment for an uplifting, a fantastic freedom, a 
sort of sublime simplification, in which nothing 
seemed to depend on him or to have at any time 
so depended. He was really face to face thus 
with bright immensities, and the handsome old 
presence from which, after a further moment, a 
hand had reached forth a little to take his own, 
guaranteed by the quietest of gestures at once 
their truth and the irrelevance, as he could only 
feel it, of their scale. Cool and not weak, to his 
responsive grasp, this retaining force, to which 





 

strength was added by what next came. "It's 
not for myself, it's not for myself — I mean your 
being as I say. What do I matter now except 
to have recognised it? No, Graham — it's in an- 
other connection." Was the connection then with 
Rosanna ? Graham had time to wonder, and 
even to think what a big thing this might make 
of it, before his uncle brought out: "It's for the 
world." 

"The world ?" — Gray's vagueness again reigned. 

"Well, our great public." 

"Oh your great public !" 

The exclamation, the cry of alarm, even if also 
of amusement in face of such a connection as 
that, quickened for an instant the good touch of 
the cool hand. "That's the way I like you to 
sound. It's the way she told me you would — I 
mean that would be natural to you. And it's 
precisely why — being the awful great public it 
is — we require the difference that you'll rriake. 
So you see you're for our people." 

Poor Graham's eyes widened. "I shall make 
a difference for your people ?" 

But his uncle serenely went on. "Don't think 
you know them yet, or what it's like over here 
at all. You may think so and feel you're pre- 
pared. But you don't know till you've had the 
whole thing v.p against you." 

"May I ask, sir," Gray smiled, "what you're 
talking about?" 

no 



 

His host met his eyes on it, but let it drop. 
"You'll see soon enough for yourself. Don't 
mind what I say. That isn't the thing for you 
now — it's all done. Only be true," said Mr. Bet- 
terman. "You are and, as I've said, can't help 
yourself." With which he relapsed again to one 
of his good conclusions. "And after all don't 
mind the public either." 

"Oh," returned Gray, "all great publics are 
awful." 

"Ah no no — I won't have that. Perhaps they 
may be, but the trouble we're concerned with is 
about ours — and about some other things too." 
Gray felt in the hand's tenure a small emphasiz- 
ing lift of the arm, while the head moved a little 
as off toward the world they spoke of— which 
amounted for our young man, however, but to a 
glance at all the outside harmony and prosperity, 
bathed as these now seemed in the colour of the 
flushed sky. Absurd altogether that he should 
be in any way enlisted against such things. His 
entertainer, all the same, continued to see the 
reference and to point it. "The enormous pre- 
ponderance of money. Money is their life." — 

"But surely even here it isn't everyone who 
has it. Also," he freely laughed, "isn't it a good 
thing to have?" 

"A very good thing indeed." Then his uncle 
waited as in the longest inspection yet. "But 
you don't know anything about it." 

in 



 

"Not about large sums," Gray cheerfully ad- 
mitted. 

"I mean it has never been near you. That 
sticks out of you — the way it hasn't. I knew it 
couldn't have been — and then she told me she 
knew. I see you're a blank — and nobody here's 
a blank, not a creature I've ever touched. That's 
what I've wanted," the old man went on — "a 
perfect clean blank. I don't mean there aren't 
heaps of them that are damned fools, just as 
there are heaps of others, bigger heaps probably, 
that are damned knaves; except that mostly the 
knave is the biggest fool. But those are not 
blanks; they're full of the poison — without a 
blest other idea. Now you're the blank I want, 
if you follow — and yet you're not the blatant 
ass." 

"I'm not sure I quite follow," Gray laughed, 
"but I'm very much obliged." 

"Have you ever done three cents' worth of 
business?" Mr. Betterman judicially asked. 

It helped our young man to some ease of de- 
lay. "Well, I'm afraid I can't claim to have had 
much business to do. Also you're wrong, sir," 
he added, "about my not being a blatant ass. 
Oh please understand that I am a. blatant ass. 
Let there be no mistake about that," Gray touch- 
ingly pleaded. 

"Yes — but not on the subject of anything but 
business." 





 

"Well — no doubt on the subject of business 
more than on any other." 

Still the good eyes rested. "Tell me one thing, 
other than that, for which you haven't at least 
some intelligence." 

"Oh sir, there are no end of things, and it's 
odd one should have to prove that — though it 
would take me long. But I allow there's nothing 
I understand so little and like so little as the mys- 
tery of the 'market' and the hustle of any sort.". 

"You utterly loathe and abhor the hustle ! 
That's what I blissfully want of you," said Mr. 
Betterman. 

"You ask of me the declaration ?" Gray 

considered. "But how can I know, don't you 
see ? — when I am such a blank, when I've never 
had three cents' worth of business, as you say, 
to transact?" 

"The people who don't loathe it are always 
finding it somehow to do, even if preposterously 
for the most part, and dishonestly. Your case," 
Mr. Betterman reasoned, "is that you haven't 
a grain of the imagination of any such interest. 
If you had had," he wound up, "it would have 
stirred in you that first time." 

Gray followed, as his kinsman called it, enough 
to be able to turn his memory a moment on this. 
"Yes, I think my imagination, small scrap of a 
thing as it was, did work then somehow against 
you." 

"3 



 

"Which was exactly against business" — the 
old man easily made the point. "I was business. 
I've been business and nothing else in the world. 
I'm business at this moment still — because I can't 
be anything else. I mean I've such a head for 
it. So don't think you can put it on me that I 
haven't thought out what I'm doing to good 
purpose. I do what I do but too abominably 
well." With which he weakened for the first 
time to a faint smile. "It's none of your af- 
fair." 

"Isn't it a little my affair," Gray as genially 
objected, "to be more touched than I can ex- 
press by your attention to me — as well (if you'll 
let me say so) as rather astonished at it?" And 
then while his host took this without response, 
only engaged as to more entire repletion in the 
steady measure of him, he added further, even 
though aware in sounding it of the complacency 
or fatuity, of the particular absurdity, his ques- 
tion might have seemed to embody: "What in 
the world can I want but to meet you in every 
way?" His perception at last was full, the great 
strange sense of everything smote his eyes; so 
that without the force of his effort at the most 
general amenity possible his lids and his young 
lips might have convulsively closed. Even for 
his own ear "What indeed ?" was thus the ironic 
implication — which he felt himself quite grimace 
to show he should have understood somebody 





 

else's temptation to make. Here, however, where 
his uncle's smile might pertinently have broadened, 
the graver blandness settled again, leaving him 
in face of it but the more awkwardly assured. 
He felt as if he couldn't say enough to abate the 
ugliness of that — and perhaps it even did come 
out to the fact of beauty that no profession of 
the decent could appear not to coincide with the 
very candour of the greedy. "I'm prepared for 
anything, yes — in the way of a huge inheritance": 
he didn't care if it might sound like that when he 
next went on, since what could he do but just 
melt to the whole benignity? "If I only under- 
stood what it is I can best do for you." 

"Do? The question isn't of your doing, but 
simply of your being." 

Gray cast about. "But don't they come to 
the same thing?" 

"Well, I guess that for you they'll have to." 

"Yes, sir," Gray answered — "but suppose I 
should say 'Don't keep insisting so on me'?" 
Then he had a romantic flight which was at the 
same time, for that moment at least, a sincere 
one. "I don't know that I came out so very 
much for myself." 

"Well, if you didn't it only shows the more 
what you are" — Mr. Betterman made the point 
promptly. "It shows you've got the kind of 
imagination that has nothing to do with the 
kind I so perfectly see you haven't. And if you 

US 



 

don't do things for yourself," he went on, "you'll 
be doing them the more for just what I say." 
With which too, as Graham but pleadingly gaped : 
"You'll be doing them for everyone else — that 
is finding it impossible to do what they do. From 
the moment they notice that — well, it will be 
what I want. We know, we know," he remarked 
further and as if this quite settled it. 

Any ambiguity in his "we" after an instant 
cleared up; he was to have alluded but ever so 
sparely, through all this scene, to Rosanna Gaw, 
but he alluded now, and again it had for' Gray 
an amount of reference that was like a great sum 
of items in a bill imperfectly scanned. None the 
less it left him desiring still more clearness. His 
whole soul centred at this point in the need not 
to have contributed by some confused accommo- 
dation to a strange theory of his future.' Strange 
he could but feel this one to be, however simply, 
that is on however large and vague an assump- 
tion, it might suit others, amid their fathomless 
resources and their luxuries or perversities of 
waste, to see it. He wouldn't be smothered in 
the vague, whatever happened, and had now the 
gasp and upward shake of the head of a man in 
too deep water. "What I want to insist on," he 
broke out with it, "is that I mustn't consent to 
any exaggeration in the interest of your, or of 
any other, sublime view of me, view of my ca- 
pacity of any sort. There's no sublime view of 





 

me to be taken that consorts in the least with 
any truth; and I should be a very poor creature 
if I didn't here and now assure you that no proof 
in the world exists, or has for a moment existed, 
of my being capable of anything whatever." 

He might have supposed himself for a little to 
have produced something of the effect that would 
naturally attach to a due vividness in this truth 
— for didn't his uncle now look at him just a shade 
harder, before the fixed eyes closed, indeed, as 
under a pressure to which they had at last really 
to yield ? They closed, and the old white face 
was for the couple of minutes so thoroughly still 
without them that a slight uneasiness quickened 
him, and it would have taken but another mo- 
ment to make a slight sound, which he had to 
turn his head for the explanation of, reach him 
as the response to an appeal. The door of the 
room, opening gently, had closed again behind 
Miss Goodenough, who came forward softly, but 
with more gravity, Gray thought, than he had 
previously seen her show. Still in his place and 
conscious of the undiminished freshness of her 
invalid's manual emphasis, he looked at her for 
some opinion as to the latter's appearance, or 
to the move on his own part next indicated; dur- 
ing which time her judgment itself, considering 
Mr. Betterman, a trifle heavily waited. Gray's 
doubt, before the stillness which had followed 
so great even if so undiscourageable an efFort, 





 

moved him to some play of disengagement; where- 
upon he knew himself again checked, and there, 
once more, the fine old eyes rested on him. "I'm 
afraid I've tired him out," he could but say to 
the nurse, who made the motion to feel her pa- 
tient's pulse without the effect of his releasing his 
visitor. Gray's hand was retained still, but his 
kinsman's eyes and next words were directed to 
Miss Goodenough. 

"It's all right — even more so than I told you 
it was going to be." 

"Why of course it's all right — you look too 
sweet together!" she pronounced. 

"But I mean I've got him; I mean I make 
him squirm" — which words had somehow the 
richest gravity of any yet; "but all it does for 
his resistance is that he squirms right to me." 

"Oh we won't have any resistance!" Miss 
Goodenough freely declared. "Though for all 

the fight you've got in you still !" she in 

fine altogether backed Mr. Betterman. 

He covered his nephew again as for a final or 
crushing appraisement, then going on for Miss 
Goodenough 's benefit: "He tried something a 
minute ago to settle me, but I wish you could 
just have heard how he expressed himself." 

"It is a pleasure to hear him — when he's good !" 
She laughed with a shade of impatience. 

"He's never so good as when he wants to be 
bad. So there you are, sir!" the old man said. 





 

"You're like the princess in the fairy-tale; you've 
only to open your mouth " 

"And the pearls and diamonds pop out!" — 
Miss Goodenough, for her patient's relief, com- 
pleted his meaning. "So don't try for toads and 
snakes!" she promptly went on to Gray. To 
which she added with still more point: "And 
now you must go." 

"Not one little minute more?" His uncle 
still held him. 

"Not one, sir!" Miss Goodenough decided. 

"It isn't to talk," the old man explained. "I 
like just to look at him." 

"So do I," said Miss Goodenough; "but we 
can't always do everything we like." 

"No then, Graham — remember that. You'd 
like to have persuaded me that I don't know 
what I mean. But you must understand you 
haven't." 

His hand had loosened, and Gray got up, turn- 
ing a face now flushed and a little disordered 
from one of them to the other. "I don't pre- 
tend to understand anything!" 

It turned his uncle to their companion. "Isn't 
he fine?" 

"Of course he's fine," said Miss Goodenough; 
"but you've quite worn him out." 

"Have I quite worn you out?" Mr. Better- 
man calmly inquired. 

As if indeed finished, each thumb now in a 




 

pocket of his trousers, the young man dimly- 
smiled. "I think you must have — quite." 

"Well, let Miss Mumby look after you. He'll 
find her there?" his uncle asked of her colleague. 
And then as the latter showed at this her first 
indecision, "Isn't she somewhere round?" he 
demanded. 

Miss Goodenough had wavered, but as if it 
really mattered for the friend there present she 
responsibly concluded. "Well, no — just for a 
while." And she appealed to Gray's indulgence. 
"She's had to go to Mr. Gaw." 

"Why, is Mr. Gaw sick?" Mr. Betterman 
asked with detachment. 

"That's what we shall know when she comes 
back; She'll come back all right," she continued 
for Gray's encouragement. 

He met it with proper interest. "I'm sure I 
hope so!" 

"Well, don't be too sure !" his uncle judiciously 
said. 

"Oh he has only borrowed her." Miss Good- 
enough smoothed it down even as she smoothed 
Mr. Betterman's sheet, while with the same move- 
ment of her head she wafted Gray to the door. 

"Mr. Gaw," her patient returned, "has bor- 
rowed from me before. Mr. Gaw, Graham !" 

"Yes sir?" said Gray with the door ajar and 
his hand on the knob. 

The fine old presence on the pillow had faltered 


 

before expression; then it appeared rather sigh- 
ingly and finally to give the question up. "Well, 
Mr. Gaw's an abyss." 

Gray found himself suddenly responsive. "Isn't 
he, the strange man ? " 

"The strange man — that's it." This summary 
description sufficed now to Mr. Betterman's 
achieved indifference. "/But you've seen him?" 

"Just for an instant." 

"And that was enough?" 

"Well, I don't know." Gray himself gave it 
up. "You're all so fiercely interesting!" 

"I think Rosanna's lovely!" Miss Goodenough 
contributed, to all appearance as an attenuation, 
while she tucked their companion in. 

"Oh Miss Gaw's quite another matter," our 
young man still paused long enough to reply. 

"Well, I don't mean but what she's interest- 
ing in her way too," Miss Good enough's con- 
science prompted. 

' "Oh he knows all about her. That's all right," 
Mr. Betterman remarked for his nurse's benefit. 

"Why of course I know it," this lady candidly 
answered. "Miss Mumby and I have had to 
feel that. I guess he'll want to send her his love," 
she continued across to Gray. 

"To Miss Mumby?" asked Gray, his general 
bewilderment having moments of aggravation. 

"Why no — she's sure of his affection. To 
Miss Gaw. Don't you want," she inquired of 





 

her patient, "to send your love to that poor 
anxious girl ? " 

"Is she anxious?" Gray returned in advance 
of his uncle. 

Miss Goodenough hung fire but a moment. 
"Well, I guess I'd be in her place. But you'll 
see." 

"Then," said Gray to his host, "if Rosanna's 
in trouble I'll go to her at once." 

The old man, at this, once more delivered him- 
self. "She won't be in trouble — any more than 
I am. But tell her — tell her !" 

"Yes, sir" — Gray had again to wait. 

But Miss Goodenough now would have no 
more of it. "Tell her that we're about as fresh 
as we can live!" — the wave of her hand accom- 
panying which Gray could take at last for his 
dismissal. 







Ill 

It was nevertheless not at once that he sought 
out the way to find his old friend; other ques- 
tions than that of at once seeing her hummed 
for the next half-hour about his ears — an interval 
spent by him in still further contemplative mo- 
tion within his uncle's grounds. He strolled and 
stopped again and stared before him without see- 
ing; he came and went and sat down on benches 
and low rocky ledges only to get up and pace 
afresh; he lighted cigarettes but to smoke them 
a quarter out and then chuck them away to 
light others. He said to himself that he was 
enormously agitated, agitated as never in his 
life before, but that, strangely enough, he dis- 
liked that condition far less than the menace of 
it would have made him suppose. He didn't, 
however, like it enough to say to himself "This 
is happiness!" — as could scarcely have failed if 
the kind of effect on his nerves had really con- 
sorted with the kind of advantage that he was 
to understand his interview with his uncle to 
have promised him; so far, that is, as he was 
yet to understand anything. His after-sense of 
the scene expanded rather than settled, became 
an impression of one of those great insistent 





 

bounties that are not of this troubled world; the 
anomaly expressing itself in such beauty and 
dignity, with all its elements conspiring together, 
as would have done honour to a great page of 
literary, of musical or pictorial art. The huge 
grace of the matter ought somehow to have left 
him simply captivated — so at least, all wonder- 
ing, he hung about there to reflect; but excess 
of harmony might apparently work like excess 
of discord, might practically be a negation of 
the idea of the quiet life. Ignoble quiet he had 
never asked for — this he could now with assur- 
ance remember; but something in the pitch of 
his uncle's guarantee of big things, whatever they 
were, which should at the same time be pleasant 
things, seemed to make him an accomplice in 
some boundless presumption. In what light had 
he ever seen himself that made it proper the 
pleasant should be so big for him or the big so 
pleasant? Suddenly, as he looked at his watch 
and saw how the time had passed — time already, 
didn't it seem, of his rather standing off" and 
quaking? — it occurred to him that the last thing 
he had proposed to himself in the whole connec- 
tion was to be either publicly or privately afraid; 
in the act of noting which he became aware again 
of Miss Mumby, who, having come out of the 
house apparently to approach him, was now at 
no great distance. She rffse before him the next 
minute as in fuller possession than ever of his 





 

fate, and yet with no accretion of reserve in her 
own pleasure at this. 

"What I want you to do is just to go over to 
Miss Gaw." 

"It's just what / should like, thank you— and 
perhaps you'll be so good as to show me the way." 
He wasn't quite succeeding in not being afraid 
— that a moment later came to him; since if this 
extraordinary woman was in touch with his 
destiny what did such words on his own part 
represent but the impulse to cling to her and, as 
who should say, keep on her right side? His 
uncle had spoken to him of Rosanna as protective 
— and what better warrant for such a truth than 
that here was he thankful on the spot even for 
the countenance of a person speaking apparently 
in her name ? All of which was queer enough, 
verily — since it came to the sense of his clutch- 
ing for immediate light, through the now gathered 
dusk, at the surge of guiding petticoats, the 
charity of women more or less strange. Miss 
Mumby at once took charge of him, and he learnt 
more things still before they had proceeded far. 
One of these truths, though doubtless the most 
superficial, was that Miss Gaw proposed he 
should dine with her just as he was — he himself 
recognising that with her father suddenly and to 
all appearance gravely ill it was no time for vain 
forms. Wasn't the rather odd thing, none the 
less, that the crisis should have suggested her 





 

desiring company? — being as it was so acute 
that the doctor, Doctor Hatch himself, would 
even now have arrived with a nurse, both of 
which pair of ears Miss Mumby required for her 
report of those symptoms in their new patient 
that had appealed to her practised eye an hour 
before. Interesting enough withal was her ex- 
planation to Gray of what she had noted on 
Mr. Gaw's part as a consequence of her joining 
them at that moment under Mr. Betterman's 
roof; all the more that he himself had then won- 
dered and surmised — struck as he was with the 
effect on the poor man's nerves of their visitor's 
announcement that her prime patient had 
brightened. Mr. Gaw but too truly, our young 
man now learned, had taken that news ill — as, 
given the state of his heart, any strong shock 
might determine a bad aggravation. Such a 
shock Miss Mumby had, to her lively regret, 
administered, though she called Gray's attention 
to the prompt and intelligent action of her re- 
morse. Feeling at once responsible she had taken 
their extraordinary little subject in charge — 
with every care indeed not to alarm him; to the 
point that, on his absolute refusal to let her go 
home with him and his arresting a hack, on the 
public road, which happened to come into view 
empty, the two had entered the vehicle and she 
had not lost sight of him till, his earnest call upon 
his daughter at Mrs. Bradham's achieved, he 




