come on your honour. If you come !" But 

it was as if she couldn't put it. 

He tried to help her. "Without regret ?" 

Ah this wasn't good enough. "If you come 
with desire." 

Ralph stared. "How in the world can I come 
without it if I come for you ?" 

She used again her large ease. "That won't 
help you if you're loyal." 

"Loyal?" he wondered. 

"To the real truth. To your genius." 

"Oh I'll take care of my genius!" 

"You will," she presently returned, "if you 
remember well this: that if you do rejoin me you 
engage to me to stay." 

"Very good I shall remember it well." 

"Good-bye then," said Aurora Coyne. 

She saw him to the door, where he paused for 




  

a last light. "Does that mean you hold you're 
safe?" 

"It means that I hold you are," she answered 
as she turned away.. 







BOOK SECOND 

IT was not till he reached the street that he took 
in all she meant as in particular by those last 
words. Without sense or sight, on leaving the 
house, he turned mechanically to the left and 
went blankly before him. This was not his way 
home, but he had no thought for ways. He 
moved simply because if he didn't there was 
nothing for him but to sit down on the first other 
doorstep. He felt mainly a great weakness felt 
almost nothing else; yet it was a weakness that, 
oddly, sustained him for a long stretch, carried 
him up to the Park, determined his passing in, 
and then made him proceed unheedingly from the 
nearer to the further end. It was only on reach 
ing the distant limit that he so much as noted 
a bench. The one he noted, however, he quickly 
sank upon; and little by little, thereafter, he 
gained a second consciousness. This was a per 
ception of the beauty of the day, the mildest 
mood of March. The windless air, charged with 
spring, was like a brimming cup held still. The 
weather was divine, but the person supposed by 
him an hour before as dear to him as life had 
since then turned him out into the world. Well, 
the world was there to take him. Yes, he in- 





  

creasingly felt, he was there and his bench, placed 
near the top of the spread of a great alley, seemed 
to give him a general view of it. The object in 
deed after a while most distinct in this view was 
Ralph Pendrel himself, who rose there conspicuous 
and held our young friend's eyes. What marked 
him most was that he was a man humiliated. 
Arrange it as he would or as she would he 
had not been good enough. What it really came 
to she might say what she liked was that he 
was not of the type. Who was then ? he could 
but put himself the question. He even presently 
reflected that it might serve her right to find after 
a while there was nobody. Thus it was that 
Ralph Pendrel, with the world taking him, was 
yet thrown back on that gentleman. If he was 
not good enough for her he would be so for this 
alternative friend; and he gathered about him 
in thought for an hour all the merits he could 
muster. One of them precisely was that he had 
another and quite a different passion. He kept 
repeating to himself that just this, for his hard 
mistress, was his defect. He had wondered much 
before he got up whether he had it with such 
intensity as to constitute a vice an inhuman 
side, that is, which she might pardonably dis 
trust. The only thing for him doubtless now 
therefore would be to attest the intensity. He 
at last quitted the place with the step of a man 
proposing to test it on the spot. All this while, 





  

however, the anxiety truly deepest in him was 
about another affair. What in the world had 
happened to her in Europe ? 

It was when he reached the quiet scene which 
the recent lapse of his mother's soft pervasion 
had made so inconsequently, though now the 
abode of a more single state, not wider but nar 
rower, that the next great thing befell him. He 
found on his table a letter from a firm of London 
solicitors, a communication on the face of it 
most harmoniously timed. It appeared that 
under the will of his late kinsman, Mr. Philip 
Augustus Pendrel, he inherited property a fact 
enriched by the further mention, on the part of 
his informants, that should he find it convenient 
to come to England without undue delay his 
being on the spot would contribute to their action 
in his interest. It may immediately be said that 
the light wind of this stroke had even at the 
moment a happy effect on the heat of his wound. 
The event would certainly appeal with no great 
directness to the author of that injury, but its 
connection with the object of his other passion, 
as we have termed this source of inspiration, be 
came at once of the liveliest. He made as rapidly 
as possible his arrangements for a journey to 
London, but he had time, before winding up the 
situation in New York, to hear from his cousin's 
representatives of matters still further concern 
ing him and to receive from them in especial a 








  

letter addressed in that gentleman's hand and 
not at first found among his effects. It contained 
the only words that had, so far as he knew, come 
to any member of the American kinship, for two 
generations, from any member of the English. 
The English, he was perfectly aware, had been 
held by the American to be ofHsh and haughty, 
and the American had stiffened itself to show 
that, since the question was of turning an un 
conscious back, the game was playable wherever 
backs were broad enough to show which they 
made bold to feel themselves in the new country 
too. It was familiar to Ralph Pendrel that his 
father and his grandfather had fairly studied, 
and had practised with consistency, the art of 
the cold shoulder. They had each been more 
than once to England, but had "looked up" no 
body and nothing had clearly not acquainted 
themselves either by inquiry or closer visitation 
with those thin possibilities of something some 
day to their advantage, or to that of their pos 
terity, that might have been dreamed of at the 
best. The property mainly accruing to Ralph 
loomed large now as a house it was described 
as commodious in a fine quarter of the town; 
this remained at first the limit of his charmed 
apprehension. No light, of the dimmest, had 
previously reached him as to the English view 
of what he had always heard called at home 
"the American attitude." He had in growing 





  

older not much believed there could be an English 
view; but it would seem after all that over this 
ground his fancy had too shyly hovered. 

Mr. Pendrel's letter practically expressed the 
unsupposed quantity, and nothing surely could 
have been of more flattering effect. Written to 
be delivered after his death, it explained and 
enhanced, the delightful document shaking the 
tree, as it were, for the golden fruit to fall. What 
it came to was that he had read as an old man 
his young relative's remarkable volume, "An 
Essay in Aid of the Reading of History," and, 
wishing somehow to testify to the admiration he 
felt for it, had come to consider that no symbol 
would be so solid as the old English house form 
ing the sole item, in a long list of heavily ham 
pered possessions, that he was free thus to dispose 
of. It was a mere town tenement, and none of 
the newest, but it was the best repayment of his 
debt he could make. He had nowhere seen the 
love of old things, of the scrutable, palpable past  
nowhere felt an ear for stilled voices, as precious 
as they are faint, as seizable, truly, as they are 
fine, affirm a more remarkable power than in the 
pages that had moved him to gratitude. Unpre 
tending though the title, the spare volume, but 
I in which every word reached the mark, was a 
contribution to causes he had always had much 
at heart, a plea with which he rejoiced that the 
name of their family should have been associated. 





  

There were old things galore in Mansfield Square; 
the past, he considered, held its state there for 
those with the wit to make it out; and, should 
his young kinsman accept his bequest, he would 
find himself master of a scene in which a chapter 
of history obscure, though not so remote as 
might perhaps have been wished would perhaps 
by his intervention step more into the light. 
The generations at least had passed through it, 
clinging indeed as long as they might, and couldn't 
have failed to leave something of their mark, 
which it would doubtless interest Mr. Ralph to 
puzzle out. It was the testator's wish that he 
should do so at his ease. The letter in fine was, 
as Ralph said, a deucedly beautiful gentlemanly 
one, and the turn of the wheel of fortune. The 
material advantage might be uncertain; but it 
was blessedly not for the economic question, it 
was for the historic, the aesthetic, fairly in fact 
for the cryptic, that he cared. A big London 
house sounded in truth on the face of the matter 
less like an aid to research than like an exposure 
to rates and taxes, a legacy of the order vulgarly 
known as thumping. But verily too even London, 
for our rare young man, was within the pale of 
romance. His "other" passion in short had 
soon begun freshly to glow. 

Within a month it had shaken him still harder, 
and all the more that, this time, his impatience 
had fallen and two or three of his illusions with 





  

it: his curiosity had sat down to its feast. He 
had encountered in London more business than 
he expected, but had not encountered what he 
most feared, the display of a swarm of litigants. 
This greatly eased his mind, since if injustice had 
been done it would have taken much from the 
savour of the feast. There was no nearer relative, 
it surprisingly seemed, no counter-claimant, no 
hint in the air of a satisfaction disputed. No 
unfortunate and expropriated person came, in a 
word, to light, and there was therefore neither a 
cause to defend nor a sacrifice to consider. The 
only thing really to consider in such a stroke of 
luck was its violation of the common law of prose. 
Life was at best good prose when it wasn't bad; 
 and Mr. Pendrel's succession was all "town 
tenement" as it might be poetry undefiled. It 
was none the less poetry that the value of the 
property was so easily ascertained to be high. 
Ralph reflected not even for a moment after he 
had been to see it that a fine country estate would 
have been more to his purpose. He had no pur 
pose, he freely recognised, but to begin at once to 
cultivate whatever relation should seem most 
fruitful to his so suddenly acquired "stake" in an 
alien order. The circumstance of its being ex 
actly what it was of no greater extent, yet of no 
less dignity ministered beyond anything else for 
the new master to a sense of close communication 
with the old. It was extraordinary how on this 



  

ground the young man felt himself understood; 
and he reflected endlessly as well as amazedly on 
the fact that it had all been done for him by his 
slim composition of five years before, so timid, so 
futile in the light of his subsequent growth. The 
affair would have been less of a fairytale and 
had indeed thereby less of a charm if Mr. Pen- 
drel's impulse had been determined by such a 
book as he might now write. What a book, what 
books, moreover, should properly proceed, he said 
to himself, from a longer and nearer view of the 
silent secrets of the place ! These were what had 
been bequeathed him, these were what the hand 
of death had placed before him, on the table, 
as in a locked brass-bound box the key of which 
he was to find. It would not be by any weakness 
of his, please God, that a single one of them 
should fail of its message. 

He liked to think, as he took possession, that 
his kinsman was watching, and therewith waiting, 
beyond the grave; though the way he had ab 
stained from restrictive conditions from all, that 
is, save a single one hereafter to be mentioned 
was perhaps the deepest note in his good taste. 
The part played in the whole business by that 
happy principle was in truth at moments almost 
such as to make poor Ralph uneasy. There was 
a roundness in his fortune that might seem too 
much to beguile. Were blessings so unexpected 
ever, beyond a certain point, anything but traps ? 





  

Should he begin to make his way into the secrets, 
as they hovered and hung there, wearing a sort of 
sensible consistency, who could say where he 
might come out, into what dark deeps of knowl 
edge he might be drawn, or how he should "like," 
given what must perhaps at the best stick to him 
of insuperable modern prejudice, the face of some 
of his discoveries ? He encountered however on 
this ground of a possible menace to his peace a 
reassurance that sprang, and with all eagerness, 
from the very nature of his mind. He lived, so 
far as a wit sharpened by friction with the real 
permitted him, in his imagination; but if life was 
for this faculty but a chain of open doors through 
which endless connections danced there was yet 
no knowledge in the world on which one should 
wish a door closed. There was none at any rate 
that in the glow of his first impression of his prop 
erty he didn't desire much more to face than to 
shirk. If he was even in this early stage a little 
disconcerted it came only from the too narrow 

. limits in which Mr. Pendrel's personal image, 
meeting his mind's eye at odd moments on the 
spot and constantly invoked by his gratitude, 
appeared to have arranged to reveal itself. He 
would have been particularly grateful for a por 
trait; but though there were in the house other 
framed physiognomies these were things and not 
unluckily either! of a different order of reference, 
an order in which the friendly photograph 



  

for instance, whether of the late tenant of the 
place or of any other subject, played no part. 
The friendly photograph had been with us for 
half a century, but there was nothing there to 
Ralph's vision so new as that. Number Nine 
Mansfield Square affected that vision, in short, 
to a degree presently to be explained, as with an 
inimitable reserve in respect to the modern world. 
It had crossed the threshold of the century, the 
nineteenth, it had even measured a few steps of 
the portentous prospect, but where it had stopped, 
pulled up very short and as with its head in the 
air it had stopped, one might have surmised, 
with a kind of disgust. It had determined clearly, 
on the apprehension then interchanged, to have 
as little to say to the future as an animated home, 
of whatever period, might get off with. "And 
yet I am the future," Ralph Pendrel mused, "and 
I dream of making it speak.'   

Face to face with it then, when he felt that 
already and quite distinctly it was speaking 
which happened the first time that ever, key in 
hand, he was able to enter it unaccompanied 
there was an inconsequence to note, and one from 
which he drew a fine pleasure. He was thus 
moved more shrewdly to reflect that if he was so 
trusted there must have been something in him 
to inspire it. Was he to such a tune the future ? 
Had not his taste for "research," which was more 
personally his passion for the past, worked rather, 
and despite his comparative youth, to transmute 
him ? On the day he disembarked in England 
he felt himself as never before ranged in that 
interest, counted on that side of the line. It was 
to this he had been brought by his desire to re 
mount the stream of time, really to bathe in its 
upper and more natural waters, to risk even, as 
he might say, drinking of them. No man, he well 
believed, could ever so much have wanted to look 
behind and still behind to scale the high wall 
into which the successive years, each a squared 
block, pile themselves in our rear and look over 
as nearly as possible with the eye of sense into, 
unless it should rather be called out of, the vast 
prison yard. He was by the turn of his spirit 
oddly indifferent to the actual and the possible; 
his interest was all in the spent and the displaced, 
in what had been determined and composed round 
about him, what had been presented as a subject 
and a picture, by ceasing so far as things ever 
cease to bustle or even to be. It was when life 
was framed in death that the picture was really 
hung up. If his idea in fine was to recover the 
lost moment, to feel the stopped pulse, it was to 
do so as experience in order to be again consciously 
the creature that had been, to breathe as he had 
breathed and feel the pressure that he had felt. 
The truth most involved for him, so intent, in 
the insistent ardour of the artist, was that art 
was capable of an energy to this end never yet to 





  

all appearance fully required of it. With an ad 
dress less awkward, a wooing less shy, an embrace 
less weak, it would draw the foregone much closer  
to its breast. What he wanted himself was the 
very smell of that simpler mixture of things that 
had so long served; he wanted the very tick of \^ 
the old stopped clocks. He wanted the hour of 
the day at which this and that had happened, 
and the temperature and the weather and the 
sound, and yet more the stillness, from the street, 
and the exact look-out, with the corresponding 
look-in, through the window and the slant on the 
walls of the light of afternoons that had been. 
He wanted the unimaginable accidents, the little 
notes of truth for which the common lens of his 
tory, however the scowling muse might bury her 
nose, was not sufficiently fine. He wanted evi 
dence of a sort for which there had never been 
documents enough, or for which documents mainly, 
however multiplied, would never be enough. That 
was indeed in any case the artist's method to 
try for an ell in order to get an inch. The diffi 
cult, as at best it is, becomes under such condi 
tions so dire that to face it with any prospect one 
had to propose the impossible. Recovering the 
lost was at all events on this scale much like 
entering the enemy's lines to get back one's dead 
for burial; and to that extent was he not, by his 
deepening penetration, contemporaneous and pres 
ent ? "Present" was a word used by him in a 





  

sense of his own and meaning as regards most 
things about him markedly absent. It was for 
the old ghosts to take him for one of themselves. 
The spirit of gossip governed but little, he had 
promptly seen, the commerce of his friends the 
London solicitors with their clients; they were 
persons of a hard professional and facial surface 
and of settled dull complexion, giving back, on a 
rap of the knuckle, the special sharp answer, but 
not thereby corrupted to any human resonance. 
They betrayed to him in consequence few of Mr. 
Pendrel's secrets, and he shrank on his side from 
giving the measure of his ignorance of the source 
of so large a bounty. This was perhaps the weak 
ness of a slightly lame pride; he had not been 
too proud to accept, but he felt that in asking 
many questions he should show himself indebted 
to a stranger. He accordingly made out little 
more than that his kinsman had read books, 
possibly even pursued studies and entertained 
ideals, had had another habitation, the estate 
of Driffle, in the country, much more frequented, 
and had never, since forming, on the occasion of 
an inheritance in the maternal line, the connec 
tion with Mansfield Square, been disposed to 
pass in London it was even a little odd more 
than two or three weeks together. Odder still, 
though to our young man's but half informed 
view, was it that his visits to town appeared to 
have been almost always of the autumn and the 



  

winter, had indeed often taken place at Christ 
mas and at Easter, the periods, by the rigid Lon 
don law, of gregarious intermission. He had 
been a person, it was clear, of few commonplace 
conformities, a person with a fine sense for his 
own taste and his own freedom, one in whose life 
the accents, as who should say, were not placed 
where people in general place them. There were 
moreover in the history points of indistinctness 
which would doubtless clear up under pressure; 
as the fact for instance that though he had en 
tered into possession in middle life he had yet 
affirmed this possession so thoroughly that con 
fusion and a grey vagueness had already settled 
on the memory of whatever predecessors, who 
seemed to lurk indistinguishable behind him. At 
the same time that he had loved and guarded 
the place, he had none the less, as might have 
been remarked and as was somehow to be divined, 
not admitted it to the last familiarity. This 
went so far as to suggest that in keeping it clear 
and inviolate he had had in view betimes the 
convenience of some other considerable person. 

That beneficiary, in the form of his American 
cousin, so rejoiced in such an inference that, 
during the first few days, he hung about under 
cover of night, and with mingled diffidence and 
pride, before the inexpressive front. The pride 
was for all he was already aware of within, while 
the diffidence was for the caretaker and her hus- 



  

band, a mature and obese but irreproachably 
formal policeman persons of high respectability 
both, placed in charge by Mr. Pendrel's execu 
tors, to whom he feared to show as frivolous in 
knocking yet again. Was he not for that matter 
frivolous actually and sufficiently, he more than 
once asked himself, carried off his intellectual 
feet to such a point by an accident that would 
have had for most people a mere relation to their 
income ? He was conscious enough that what 
had thus caught him up to flights of fancy was 
an object of a class more definable than almost 
any other as of the reverse of extraordinary^ a 
London house of the elder, larger, finer type, of 
an age long anterior to the age of jerry-building, 
but still after all a mere grey square section of a 
street, passed and repassed by cabs and coster- 
mongers, called at by the milkman, numbered 
by the vestryman, and marked by the solicitude 
of this last functionary to the extent exactly of 
an unimpressive street-lamp placed straight, or 
rather in fact placed considerably crooked, before 
the door. The street-lamp was a disfavour to 
the dark backward into which Ralph loved to 
look, and yet he was perhaps a little glad of its 
presence on the two or three occasions just men 
tioned occasions of his patrolling the opposite 
side in covert contemplation. The dusky front 
at these times showed its eyes admirable many- 
paned windows, at once markedly numerous and 





  

markedly interspaced in a manner more re 
sponsive to his own. He had moments of stopping 
when the coast was clear for a longer stare and 
then of going on in pronounced detachment at 
the approach of observation. There was still a 
want of ease in his ecstasy, if it were not rather 
that the very essence of the ecstasy was a cer 
tain depth of apprehension. 

If as he paced he sought to avoid suspicion, 
of what was it at bottom that he was to have 
been suspected ? He would have confessed, had 
the question been put to him, that it was only 
of his thoughts, which he was himself moreover 
the only person to know anything about. If he 
desired so extremely to hide them was it then 
that his conscience was bad about them ? An 
examination of the state of his conscience would 
perhaps in truth have shown him as entertaining 
a hope scarce seriously to be confessed. If he 
had an underhand dream that his house might 
prove "haunted" the result of an inordinate 
conception, in his previous time, of old and doubt 
less foolish tales the thing might after all have 
been forgiven to his so belated freedom. Ex 
perience had lagged with him behind interpre 
tation, and the worst that could have been said 
was that his gift for the latter might do well to 
pause awhile till an increase of the former could 
catch up. By the time it did catch up he might 
perhaps have come to make out for himself that, 





  

as is perfectly known to biases millions, despair 
seldom fails to settle on any surmise that the 
common forces of solicitation in respectable neigh 
bourhoods may be in a given case much tran 
scended. He was sufficiently a man of the world, 
further, not to care to face the smile that would 
greet his having had that lesson to learn. He 
had disembarked with an immense provision of 
prepared sensibility, but had packed into its in 
terstices various fine precautions against his 
passing for a fool. He was slightly ashamed, if 
he truth be told, of the bounds he had honestly 
to set to his reach of reminiscence, and he under 
stood that he should most please himself by 
making his pretensions few. It would be simple 
enough, he seemed to see, to betray on occasion 
his ignorance, but he might find it in general 
awkward to betray some sides of his knowledge. 
He knew too much for a man who had seen so 
little, and nothing could be more fatuous than 
to go about apologising. Of course he exaggerated 
the danger of the perception of either excess in 
so preoccupied a world. He was at any rate 
careful to keep to himself his real reason for 
disgustedly flushing in hours of privacy at the 
thought of the figure his acquisition would make 
at the hands, or at least under the pen, of auc 
tioneers and agents eager to invite him to regard 
it as a source of income. The reason was simply 
that the language of advertisement, the inimitable 





  

catchpenny flourish, depressed him by the per 
fection of its missing of the whole point. The 
whole point, that of the exceptional eligibility 
they panted to express in their terms, was the 
ineffable genius itself of the place, which while 
he kept indirectly raking it, grew upon him day 
by day. He couldn't go so far as to tell anyone 
that he had never seen anything so old so old 
at once and so elaborate as a structure dating 
only from the earlier years of the previous cen 
tury. He couldn't decently cry it on the house 
tops that he had never yet so wetted his lips at 
the founts of romance. It was indeed without 
doubt, as he reflected, in favour of one's not find 
ing people laugh in one's face that he happened 
to be in general little addicted to crying from 
the housetops. 

Just these high considerations were in all prob 
ability the influence most active in his attitude 
toward the only approach to an adverse interest 
with which he was to perceive himself confronted. 
It had been at their first interview made known 
to him by his kinsman's main representative that 
the house stood, for the time, subject to a short 
lease a lease for the "season" given by its late 
proprietor, apparently in one of his rare fits of 
response to the economic motive, the previous 
year; which arrangement constituted in fact but 
the renewal of an understanding arrived at, on 
more than one other occasion, in the same con- 





  

ditions. The tenant bequeathed by Mr. Pendrel 
to his successor had in other words already three 
times enjoyed the tenancy, and though it was 
not impossible the agreement might be amicably 
rescinded it was for this successor to judge whether 
he preferred to sacrifice so substantial a gain. 
The gain, Ralph understood, was of a round 
weekly sum, as to the weight of which in the 
scale he reserved his decision. He had a general 
wish not to begin by a failure to oblige, as well, 
positively quite at first, as an imperfect, almost 
a deprecatory, sense of possession. It pulled 
him up a little on the other hand, after he had 
seen the place, to think of prior possession, so 
far as he was concerned, insisted on and enjoyed 
by a parcel of people whose very name was new 
to him. Mrs. Midmore of Drydown in Hamp 
shire embodied the claim with which he had to 
reckon, but he knew little of Mrs. Midmore, save 
that she had, with her address, as his firm of 
friends called it, rather an old-time imaging 
sound. It was judiciously remarked by the firm 
that she was of a family with which Mr. Pendrel's 
relations appeared, so far as they were traceable, 
to have been close; and moreover that some 
such tradition was needed to account for his 
departure from a custom of indifference to the 
pecuniary argument so patent in other connec 
tions. Except in these instances the house had 
practically never been let within, as might be 





  

said, the modern era. It might be even now, as 
was hinted to Ralph, offered at a much higher 
figure than the rental subscribed to by Mrs.  
Midmore. This last little fact it really was that 
had in its perverse operation most weight with 
our young man. Full of scruples and refinements 
and of the clash of cross-lights in which he saw 
things, he knew the arrangement would have 
troubled him more had a handsomer bargain 
been made for him. If he accepted at all the 
necessity of trafficking in his treasure it was a 
salve to discomfort that the traffic was poor. 

By the time he solemnly entered it had been 
further mentioned to him that the lady's ap 
preciation of the place unless its appeal were 
more especially to her son, or to one or other, if 
not both, of her two daughters had been noted 
as almost extravagant. Signs in short had not 
been wanting of the length to which such an at 
tachment could go. Poor Ralph at the end of 
an hour indeed would have understood any length; 
but it was under this impression precisely that 
he fell into a train of delays. The immediate 
effect of his first visit had been the wish to "move 
in" that afternoon; the next had been a gather 
ing doubt as to whether he had better do so at 
all. The inner scene spoke to him with a hundred 
voices, yet not one of these phrased to him quite 
happily the terms of the single life there. The 
strangest part of this moreover was that his 





  

hesitation which fairly partook of the nature of 
a sort of sacred terror rested not in the least 
on any vision of what was wanting, but wholly 
on the consciousness, almost as strong as a shock, 
of what was impressively, what was tremen 
dously, involved. He tried to put it to himself 
simply, yet was not sure he put it sincerely, in 
pronouncing it impossible he should fill out so 
many rooms. He apprehended at bottom what 
might be going to happen his making up his 
mind on some uncandid basis that temporary 
lodgings elsewhere were his indicated course. 
The want of candour would lie in the plea of 
absurdity the absurdity of his organising, with 
so much else to do, such an establishment as would 
consort with such a setting. It would be swagger, 
it would be vulgar precipitate eagerness, he on 
the one side reasoned, to waste time in the pre 
tence of really "running" such a place; and 
there would be on the other a distinct offence in 
attempting to inhabit it meanly. He should 
have time enough to ask himself what would 
have been his benefactor's idea. The idea would 
come to him in some way of its own: evidently 
it had been thrown out in the offered facts them 
selves; they held it there in reserve and in subtle 
solution. On its appearing he should know it, 
and he mustn't before that make a mistake. 

This was meanwhile in the interest of all the 
things for which in his queer position he wanted 





  

a free hand. His queer position was that, as he 
privately panted, everything had dropped on 
him at once. He saw the face of Aurora Coyne 
whenever he winced with one of those livelier 
throbs of the sense of "Europe" which had begun 
to consume him even before his ship sighted land. 
He had sniffed the elder world from afar very 
much as Columbus had caught on his immortal 
approach the spices of the Western Isles. His 
consciousness was deep and confused, but "Eu 
rope" was for the time and for convenience the 
sign easiest to know it by. It hovered before 
him, this sign, in places as to which signs were 
mainly of another sort; on his dusty Liverpool 
dock, in his rattling train to Euston, when he 
called, betimes, on the Clifford Street tailor recom 
mended to him, when he helped himself at his 
"private hotel" from the inveterate muffin-plate 
that protected at breakfast the tepidity of his 
slop-bowl, and when he swayed, aloft, with the 
movement of the bus that brought him back 
through historic ways from his prime pilgrimage 
to the City. It scarce took even the bus to make 
him sway; he was at the mercy, wherever he 
found himself and to whatever he clung, of such 
incalculable gusts. This was what he meant by 
his almost scared consciousness of the simul 
taneous and the many. He had first of all his 
base arrears to make up, after which he could 
settle with his special relation. He gasped on 





  

reminding himself as his tenth day dawned that 
the glimpse accompanied for him with so much 
ado was yet but a small millionth of the whole. 
The whole waited, for didn't there hang behind 
this troublous foreground the vast vagueness 
which the English themselves spoke of as 
"abroad" ? Ah he was in all conscience already 
abroad enough ! 

It was on the morning of this tenth day that 
he definitely promised his friends in the City the 
expression on the morrow of his final view of 
Mrs. Midmore. He had hung the night before, 
again postponing re-entrance, in front of the 
habitation contingently reserved for her, and 
he had now returned westward with a certain 
gathered and penitent sharpness on the subject 
of action. Action would be to drive straight to 
Mansfield Square, indulge himself with another 
impression, let this impression settle the case 
and then wire to the City the result of it. It 
so befell none the less that he repaired again 
and as if mechanically and in the beguiling in 
tensity of this conclusion to his lodgings, where, 
instead of taking, after a glance at some letters 
that had come in, a prompt fresh start, he dropped 
into a chair and drew it a foot or two nearer the 
fire that a particularly English April seemed 
huskily to have prescribed. The day was dark 
and damp, and it had suddenly occurred to him 
that not once yet, since the hour, at home, of his 





  

sombre station in the Park, had he so much as 
stopped to think. He had in very fact, as we 
make out, not stopped thinking, for what had it 
been but thought that drove him on and kept 
