"Where is it going to land you?" added Esmé impudently.

"Why, I don't know, myself," replied Barres, with a troubled smile.
"The little thing always appealed to me--her loneliness and neglect,
and--and something about the child--I can't define it----"

"Possibilities?" suggested Mandel viciously. "Take it from me, you're
some picker, Garry."

"Perhaps. Anyway, I've given her the run of my place for the last two
years and more. And she has been growing up all the while, and I
didn't notice it. And suddenly, this spring, I discovered her for the
first time.... And--well, look at her to-night!"

"She's your private model, isn't she?" persisted Mandel.

"Entirely," replied Barres drily.

"Selfish dog!" remarked Westmore, with his lively, wholesome laugh. "I
once asked her to sit for me--more out of good nature than anything
else. And a jolly fine little model she ought to make you, Garry.
She's beginning to acquire a figure."

"She's quite wonderful that way, too," nodded Barres.

"Undraped?" inquired Esmé.

"A miracle," nodded Barres absently. "Paint is becoming inadequate. I
shall model her this summer. I tell you I have never seen anything to
compare to her. Never!"

"What else will you do with her?" drawled Esmé. "You'll go stale on
her some day, of course. Am I next?"

"No!... I don't know what she'll do. It begins to look like a
responsibility, doesn't it? She's such a fine little girl," explained
Barres warmly. "I've grown quite fond of her--interested in her. Do
you know she has an excellent mind? And nice, fastidious instincts?
She thinks straight. That souse of a father of hers ought to be
jailed for the way he neglects her."

"Are you thinking of adopting her?" asked Trenor, with the faintest of
sneers, which escaped Barres.

"Adopt a girl? Oh, Lord, no! I can't do anything like that. Yet--I
hate to think of her future, too ... unless somebody looks out for
her. But it isn't possible for me to do anything for her except to
give her a good job with a decent man----"

"Meaning yourself," commented Mandel, acidly.

"Well, I am decent," retorted Barres warmly, amid general laughter.
"You fellows know what chances she might take with some men," he
added, laughing at his own warm retort.

Esmé and Corot Mandel nodded piously, each perfectly aware of what
chance any attractive girl would run with his predatory neighbour.

"To shift the subject of discourse--that girl, Thessalie Dunois,"
began Westmore, in his energetic way, "is about the cleverest and
prettiest woman I've seen in New York outside the theatre district."

"I met her in France," said Barres, carelessly. "She really is
wonderfully clever."

"I shall let her talk to me," drawled Esmé, flicking at his cigarette.
"It will be a liberal education for her."

Mandel's slow, oriental eyes blinked contempt; he caressed his waxed
moustache with nicotine-stained fingers:

"I am going to direct an out-of-door spectacle--a sort of play--not
named yet--up your way, Barres--at Northbrook. It's for the
Belgians.... If Miss Dunois--unless," he added sardonically, "you have
her reserved, also----"

"Nonsense! You cast Thessalie Dunois and she'll make your show for
you, Mandel!" exclaimed Barres. "I know and I'm telling you. Don't
make any mistake: there's a girl who can make good!"

"Oh. Is she a professional?"

It was on the tip of Barres's tongue to say "Rather!" But he checked
himself, not knowing Thessalie's wishes concerning details of her
incognito.

"Talk to her about it," he said, rising.

The others laid aside cigars and followed him into the studio, where
already the gramophone was going and Aristocrates and Selinda were
rolling up the rugs.

       

Barres and Dulcie danced until the music, twice revived, expired in
husky dissonance, and a new disc was substituted by Westmore.

"By heaven!" he said, "I'll dance this with my godchild or I'll murder
you, Garry. Back up, there!--you soulless monopolist!" And Dulcie,
half laughing, half vexed, was swept away in Westmore's vigorous arms,
with a last, long, appealing look at Barres.

The latter danced in turn with his feminine guests, as in duty
bound--in pleasure bound, as far as concerned Thessalie.

"And to think, to think," he repeated, "that you and I, who once
trod the moonlit way, June-mad, moon-mad, should be dancing here
together once more!"

"Alas," she said, "though this is June again, moon and madness are
lacking. So is the enchanted river and your canoe. And so is that gay
heart of mine--that funny, careless little heart which was once my
comrade, sending me into a happy gale of laughter every time it
counselled me to folly."

"What is the matter, Thessa?"

"Garry, there is so much the matter that I don't know how to tell
you.... And yet, I have nobody else to tell.... Is that maid of yours
German?"

"No, Finnish."

"You can't be certain," she murmured. "Your guests are all American,
are they not?"

"Yes."

"And the little Soane girl? Are her sympathies with Germany?"

"Why, certainly not! What gave you that idea, Thessa?"

The music ran down; Westmore, the indefatigable, still keeping
possession of Dulcie, went over to wind up the gramophone.

"Isn't there some place where I could be alone with you for a few
minutes?" whispered Thessalie.

"There's a balcony under the middle window. It overlooks the court."

She nodded and laid her hand on his arm, and they walked to the long
window, opened it, and stepped out.

Moonlight fell into the courtyard, silvering everything. Down there on
the grass the Prophet sat, motionless as a black sphynx in the lustre
of the moon.

Thessalie looked down into the shadowy court, then turned and glanced
up at the tiled roof just above them, where a chimney rose in
silhouette against the pale radiance of the sky.

Behind the chimney, flat on their stomachs, lay two men who had been
watching, through an upper ventilating pane of glass, the scene in
the brilliantly lighted studio below them.

The men were Soane and his crony, the one-eyed pedlar. But neither
Thessalie nor Barres could see them up there behind the chimney.

Yet the girl, as though some unquiet instinct warned her, glanced up
at the eaves above her head once more, and Barres looked up, too.

"What do you see up there?" he inquired.

"Nothing.... There could be nobody up there to listen, could there?"

He laughed:

"Who would want to climb up on the roof to spy on you or me----"

"Don't speak so loud, Garry----"

"What on earth is the trouble?"

"The same trouble that drove me out of France," she said in a low
voice. "Don't ask me what it was. All I can tell you is this: I am
followed everywhere I go. I cannot make a living. Whenever I secure an
engagement and return at the appointed time to fill it, something
happens."

"What happens?" he asked bluntly.

"They repudiate the agreement," she said in a quiet voice. "They give
no reasons; they simply tell me that they don't want me. Do you
remember that evening when I left the Palace of Mirrors?"

"Indeed, I do----"

"That was only one example. I left with an excellent contract, signed.
The next day, when I returned, the management took my contract out of
my hands and tore it up."

"What! Why, that's outrageous----"

"Hush! That is only one instance. Everywhere it is the same. I am
accepted after a try-out; then, without apparent reason, I am told
not to return."

"You mean there is some conspiracy----" he began incredulously, but
she interrupted him with a white hand over his, nervously committing
him to silence:

"Listen, Garry! Men have followed me here from Europe. I am constantly
watched in New York. I cannot shake off this surveillance for very
long at a time. Sooner or later I become conscious again of curious
eyes regarding me; of features that all at once become unpleasantly
familiar in the throng. After several encounters in street or car or
restaurant, I recognise these. Often and often instinct alone warns me
that I am followed; sometimes I am so certain of it that I take pains
to prove it."

"Do you prove it?"

"Usually."

"Well, what the devil----"

"Hush! I seem to be getting into deeper trouble than that, Garry. I
have changed my residence so many, many times!--but every time
people get into my room when I am away and ransack my effects.... And
now I never enter my room unless the landlady is with me, or the
janitor--especially after dark."

"Good Lord!----"

"Listen! I am not really frightened. It isn't fear, Garry. That word
isn't in my creed, you know. But it bewilders me."

"In the name of common sense," he demanded, "what reason has anybody
to annoy you----"

Her hand tightened on his:

"If I only knew who these people are--whether they are agents of the
Count d'Eblis or of the--the French Government! But I can't determine.
They steal letters directed to me; they steal letters which I write
and mail with my own hands. I wrote to you yesterday, because I--I
felt I couldn't stand this persecution--any--longer----"

Her voice became unsteady; she waited, gripping his hand, until
self-control returned. When she was mistress of herself again, she
forced a smile and her tense hand relaxed.

"You know," she said, "it is most annoying to have my little
love-letter to you intercepted."

But his features remained very serious:

"When did you mail that letter to me?"

"Yesterday evening."

"From where?"

"From a hotel."

He considered.

"I ought to have had it this morning, Thessa. But the mails, lately,
have been very irregular. There have been other delays. This is
probably an example."

"At latest," she said, "you should have my letter this evening."

"Y-yes. But the evening is young yet."

After a moment she drew a light sigh of relief, or perhaps of
apprehension, he was not quite sure which.

"But about this other matter--men following and annoying you," he
began.

"Not now, Garry. I can't talk about it now. Wait until we are sure
about my letter----"

"But, Thessa----"

"Please! If you don't receive it before I leave, I shall come to you
again and ask your aid and advice----"

"Will you come here?"

"Yes. Now take me in.... Because I am not quite certain about your
maid--and perhaps one other person----"

His expression of astonishment checked her for a moment, then the old
irresistible laughter rang out sweetly in the moonlight.

"Oh, Garry! It is funny, isn't it!--to be dogged and hunted day and
night by a pack of shadows? If I only knew who casts them!"

She took his arm gaily, with that little, courageous lifting of the
head:

"Allons! We shall dance again and defy the devil! And you may send
your servant down to see whether my letter has arrived--not that maid
with slanting eyes!--I have no confidence in her--but your marvellous
major-domo, Garry----"

Her smile was bright and untroubled as she stepped back into the
studio, leaning on his arm.

"You dear boy," she whispered, with the irresponsible undertone of
laughter ringing in her voice, "thank you for bothering with my woes.
I'll be rid of them soon, I hope, and then--perhaps--I'll lead you
another dance along the moonlit way!"

       

On the roof, close to the chimney, the one-eyed man and Soane peered
down into the studio through the smeared ventilator.

In the studio Dulcie's first party was drawing to an early but jolly
end.

She had danced a dozen times with Barres, and her heart was full of
sheerest happiness--the unreasoning bliss which asks no questions, is
endowed with neither reason nor vision--the matchless delight which
fills the candid, unquestioning heart of Youth.

Nothing had marred her party for her, not even the importunity of Esmé
Trenor, which she had calmly disregarded as of no interest to her.

True, for a few moments, while Barres and Thessalie were on the
balcony outside, Dulcie had become a trifle subdued. But the wistful
glances she kept casting toward the long window were free from meaner
taint; neither jealousy nor envy had ever found lodging in the girl's
mind or heart. There was no room to let them in now.

Also, she was kept busy enough, one man after another claiming her for
a dance. And she adored it--even with Trenor, who danced extremely
well when he took the trouble. And he was taking it now with Dulcie;
taking a different tone with her, too. For if it were true, as some
said, that Esmé Trenor was three-quarters charlatan, he was no fool.
And Dulcie began to find him entertaining to the point of a smile or
two, as her spontaneous tribute to Esmé's efforts.

That languid apostle said afterward to Mandel, where they were
lounging over the piano:

"Little devil! She's got a mind of her own, and she knows it. I've had
to make efforts, Corot!--efforts, if you please, to attract her mere
attention. I'm exhausted!--never before had to make any efforts--never
in my life!"

Mandel's heavy-lidded eyes of a big bird rested on Dulcie, where she
was seated. Her gaze was lifted to Barres, who bent over her in
jesting conversation.

Mandel, watching her, said to Esmé:

"I'm always ready to train--that sort of girl; always on the lookout
for them. One discovers a specimen once or twice in a decade.... Two
or three in a lifetime: that's all."

"Train them?" repeated Esmé, with an indolent smile. "Break them, you
mean, don't you?"

"Yes. The breaking, however, is usually mutual. However, that girl
could go far under my direction."

"Yes, she could go as far as hell."

"I mean artistically," remarked Mandel, undisturbed.

"As what, for example?"

"As anything. After all, I have flaire, even if it failed me this
time. But now I see. It's there, in her--what I'm always searching
for."

"What may that be, dear friend?"

"What Westmore calls 'the goods.'"

"And just what are they in her case?" inquired Esmé, persistent as a
stinging gnat around a pachyderm.

"I don't know--a voice, maybe; maybe the dramatic instinct--genius as
a dancer--who knows? All that is necessary is to discover it--whatever
it may be--and then direct it."

"Too late, O philanthropic Pasha!" remarked Esmé with a slight sneer.
"I'd be very glad to paint her, too, and become good friends with
her--so would many an honest man, now that she's been discovered--but
our friend Barres, yonder, isn't likely to encourage either you or me.
So"--he shrugged, but his languid gaze remained on Dulcie--"so you and
I had better kiss all hope good-bye and toddle home."

       

Westmore and Thessalie still danced together; Mrs. Helmund and Damaris
were trying new steps in new dances, much interested, indulging in
much merriment. Barres watched them casually, as he conversed with
Dulcie, who, deep in an armchair, never took her eyes from his smiling
face.

"Now, Sweetness," he was saying, "it's early yet, I know, but your
party ought to end, because you are coming to sit for me in the
morning, and you and I ought to get plenty of sleep. If we don't, I
shall have an unsteady hand, and you a pair of sleepy eyes. Come on,
ducky!" He glanced across at the clock:

"It's very early yet, I know," he repeated, "but you and I have had
rather a long day of it. And it's been a very happy one, hasn't it,
Dulcie?"

As she smiled, the youthful soul of her itself seemed to be gazing up
at him out of her enraptured eyes.

"Fine!" he said, with deepest satisfaction. "Now, you'll put your hand
on my arm and we'll go around and say good-night to everybody, and
then I'll take you down stairs."

So she rose and placed her hand lightly on his arm, and together
they made her adieux to everybody, and everybody was cordially
demonstrative in thanking her for her party.

So he took her down stairs to her apartment, off the hall, noticing
that neither Soane nor Miss Kurtz was on duty at the desk, as they
passed, and that a pile of undistributed mail lay on the desk.

"That's rotten," he said curtly. "Will you have to change your
clothes, sort this mail, and sit here until the last mail is
delivered?"

"I don't mind," she said.

"But I wanted you to go to sleep. Where is Miss Kurtz?"

"It is her evening off."

"Then your father ought to be here," he said, irritated, looking
around the big, empty hallway.

But Dulcie only smiled and held out her slim hand:

"I couldn't sleep, anyway. I had really much rather sit here for a
while and dream it all over again. Good-night.... Thank you--I can't
say what I feel--but m-my heart is very faithful to you, Mr.
Barres--will always be--while I am alive ... because you are my first
friend."

He stooped impulsively and touched her hair with his lips:

"You dear child," he said, "I am your friend."

Halfway up the western staircase he called back:

"Ring me up, Dulcie, when the last mail comes!"

"I will," she nodded, almost blindly.

Out of her lovely, abashed eyes she watched him mount the stairs, her
cheeks a riot of surging colour. It was some few minutes after he was
gone that she recollected herself, turned, and, slowly traversing the
east corridor, entered her bedroom.

Standing there in darkness, vaguely silvered by reflected moonlight,
she heard through her door ajar the guests of the evening descending
the western staircase; heard their gay adieux exchanged, distinguished
Esmé's impudent drawl, Westmore's lively accents, Mandel's voice, the
easy laughter of Damaris, the smooth, affected tones of Mrs. Helmund.

But Dulcie listened in vain for the voice which had haunted her ears
since she had left the studio--the lovely voice of Thessalie Dunois.

If this radiant young creature also had departed with the other
guests, she had gone away in silence.... Had she departed? Or was
she still lingering upstairs in the studio for a little chat with the
most wonderful man in the world?... A very, very beautiful girl....
And the most wonderful man in the world. Why should they not linger
for a little chat together after the others had departed?

Dulcie sighed lightly, pensively, as one whose happiness lies in the
happiness of others. To be a witness seemed enough for her.

For a little while longer she remained standing there in the silvery
dusk, quite motionless, thinking of Barres.

The Prophet lay asleep, curled up on her bed; her alarm clock ticked
noisily in the darkness, as though to mimic the loud, fast rhythm of
her heart.

At last, and as in a dream, she groped for a match, lighted the gas
jet, and began to disrobe. Slowly, dreamily, she put from her slender
body the magic garments of light--his gift to her.

But under these magic garments, clothing her newborn soul, remained
the radiant rainbow robe of that new dawn into which this man had led
her spirit. Did it matter, then, what dingy, outworn clothing covered
her, outside?

       

Clad once more in her shabby, familiar clothes, and bedroom slippers,
Dulcie opened the door of her dim room, and crept out into the
whitewashed hall, moving as in a trance. And at her heels stalked the
Prophet, softly, like a lithe shape that glides through dreams.

Awaiting the last mail, seated behind the desk on the worn leather
chair, she dropped her linked fingers into her lap, and gazed straight
into an invisible world peopled with enchanting phantoms. And, little
by little, they began to crowd her vision, throng all about her,
laughing, rosy wraiths floating, drifting, whirling in an endless
dance. Everywhere they were invading the big, silent hall, where the
candle's grotesque shadows wavered across whitewashed wall and
ceiling. Drowsily, now, she watched them play and sway around her. Her
head drooped; she opened her eyes.

The Prophet sat there, staring back at her out of depthless orbs of
jade, in which all the wisdom and mysteries of the centuries seemed
condensed and concentrated into a pair of living sparks.




XII

THE LAST MAIL


The last mail had not yet arrived at Dragon Court.

Five people awaited it--Dulcie Soane, behind the desk in the entrance
hall, already wandering drowsily with Barres along the fairy
borderland of sleep; Thessalie Dunois in Barres' studio, her
rose-coloured evening cloak over her shoulders, her slippered foot
tapping the dance-scarred parquet; Barres opposite, deep in his
favourite armchair, chatting with her; Soane on the roof, half stupid
with drink, watching them through the ventilator; and, lurking in the
moonlit court, outside the office window, the dimly sinister figure of
the one-eyed man. He wore a white handkerchief over his face, with a
single hole cut in it. Through this hole his solitary optic was now
fixed upon the back of Dulcie's drowsy head.

As for the Prophet, perched on the desk top, he continued to gaze upon
shapes invisible to all things mortal save only such as he.

       

The postman's lively whistle aroused Dulcie. The Prophet, knowing him,
observed his advent with indifference.

"Hello, girlie," he said;--he was a fresh-faced and flippant young
man. "Where's Pop?" he added, depositing a loose sheaf of letters on
the desk before her and sketching in a few jig steps with his feet.

"I don't know," she murmured, patting with one slim hand her pink and
yawning lips, and watching him unlock the post-box and collect the
outgoing mail. He lingered a moment to caress the Prophet, who endured
it without gratitude.

"You better go to bed if you want to grow up to be a big, sassy girl
some day," he advised Dulcie. "And hurry up about it, too, because I'm
going to marry you if you behave." And, with a last affable caress for
the Prophet, the young man went his way, singing to himself, and
slamming the iron grille smartly behind him.

Dulcie, rising from her chair, sorted the mail, sleepily tucking each
letter and parcel into its proper pigeon-hole. There was a thick
letter for Barres. This she held in her left hand, remembering his
request that she call him up when the last mail arrived.

This she now prepared to do--had already reseated herself, her right
hand extended toward the telephone, when a shadow fell across the
desk, and the Prophet turned, snarled, struck, and fled.

At the same instant grimy fingers snatched at the letter which she
still held in her left hand, twisted it almost free of her desperate
clutch, tore it clean in two at one violent jerk, leaving her with
half the letter still gripped in her clenched fist.

She had not uttered a sound during the second's struggle. But
instantly an ungovernable rage blazed up in her at the outrage, and
she leaped clean over the desk and sprang at the throat of the
one-eyed man.

His neck was bony and muscular; she could not compass it with her
slender hands, but she struck at it furiously, driving a sound out of
his throat, half roar, half cough.

"Give me my letter!" she breathed. "I'll kill you if you don't!" Her
furious little hands caught his clenched fist, where the torn letter
protruded, and she tore at it and beat upon it, her teeth set and her
grey Irish eyes afire.

Twice the one-eyed man flung her to her knees on the pavement, but she
was up again and clinging to him before he could tear free of her.

"My letter!" she gasped. "I shall kill you, I tell you--unless you
return it!"

His solitary yellow eye began to glare and glitter as he wrenched and
dragged at her wrists and arms about him.

"Schweinstück!" he panted. "Let los, mioche de malheur! Eh! Los!--or I
strike! No? Also! Attrape!--sale gallopin!----"

His blow knocked her reeling across the hall. Against the whitewashed
wall she collapsed to her knees, got up half stunned, the clang of the
outer grille ringing in her very brain.

With dazed eyes she gazed at the remnants of the torn letter, still
crushed in her rigid fingers. Bright drops of blood from her mouth
dripped slowly to the tessellated pavement.

Reeling still from the shock of the blow, she managed to reach the
outer door, and stood swaying there, striving to pierce with confused
eyes the lamplit darkness of the street. There was no sign of the
one-eyed man. Then she turned and made her way back to the desk,
supporting herself with a hand along the wall.

Waiting a few moments to control her breathing and her shaky limbs,
she contrived finally to detach the receiver and call Barres. Over the
wire she could hear the gramophone playing again in the studio.

"Please may I come up?" she whispered.

"Has the last mail come? Is there a letter for me?" he asked.

"Yes ... I'll bring you w-what there is--if you'll let me?"

"Thanks, Sweetness! Come right up!" And she heard him say: "It's
probably your letter, Thessa. Dulcie is bringing it up."

Her limbs and body were still quivering, and she felt very weak and
tearful as she climbed the stairway to the corridor above.

The nearer door of his apartment was open. Through it the music of the
gramophone came gaily; and she went toward it and entered the
brilliantly illuminated studio.

Soane, who still lay flat on the roof overhead, peeping through the
ventilator, saw her enter, all dishevelled, grasping in one hand the
fragments of a letter. And the sight instantly sobered him. He tucked
his shoes under one arm, got to his stockinged feet, made nimbly for
the scuttle, and from there, descending by the service stair, ran
through the courtyard into the empty hall.

"Be gorry," he muttered, "thot dommed Dootchman has done it now!" And
he pulled on his shoes, crammed his hat over his ears, and started
east, on a run, for Grogan's.

Grogan's was still the name of the Third Avenue saloon, though Grogan
had been dead some years, and one Franz Lehr now presided within that
palace of cherrywood, brass and pretzels.

Into the family entrance fled Soane, down a dim hallway past several
doors, from behind which sounded voices joining in guttural song; and
came into a rear room.

The one-eyed man sat there at a small table, piecing together
fragments of a letter.

"Arrah, then," cried Soane, "phwat th' devil did ye do, Max?"

The man barely glanced at him.

"Vy iss it," he enquired tranquilly, "you don'd vatch Nihla Quellen by
dot wentilator some more?"

"I axe ye," shouted Soane, "what t'hell ye done to Dulcie!"

"Vat I haff done already yet?" queried the one-eyed man, not looking
up, and continuing to piece together the torn letter. "Vell, I tell
you, Soane; dot kid she keep dot letter in her handt, und I haff to
grab it. Sacré saligaud de malheur! Dot letter she tear herself in
two. Pas de chance! Your kid she iss mad like tigers! Voici--all zat
rests me de la sacré-nom-de sacrèminton de lettre----"

"Ah, shut up, y'r Dootch head-cheese!--wid y'r gillipin' gallopin'
gabble!" cut in Soane wrathfully. "D'ye mind phwat ye done? It's not
petty larceny, ye omadhoun!--it's highway robbery ye done--bad cess to
ye!"

The one-eyed man shrugged:

"Pourtant, I must haff dot letter----" he observed, undisturbed by
Soane's anger; but Soane cut him short again fiercely:

"You an' y'r dommed letter! Phwat do you care if I'm fired f'r this
night's wurruk? Y'r letter, is it? An' what about highway robbery, me
bucko! An' me off me post! How'll I be explaining that? Ah, ye sicken
me entirely, ye Dootch square-head! Now, phwat'll I say to them? Tell
me that, Max Freund! Phwat'll I tell th' aygent whin he comes runnin'?
Phwat'll I tell th' po-lice? Arrah, phwat't'hell do you care,
anyway?" he shouted. "I've a mind f'r to knock the block off ye----"

"You shall say to dot agent you haff gone out to smell," remarked Max
Freund placidly.

"Smell, is it? Smell what, ye dom----"

"You smell some smoke. You haff fear of fire. You go out to see. Das
iss so simble, ach! Take shame, you Irish Sinn Fein! You behave like
rabbits!" He pointed to his arrangement of the torn letter on the
table: "Here iss sufficient already--regardez! Look once!" He laid one
long, soiled and bony finger on the fragments: "Read it vat iss
written!"

"G'wan, now!"

"I tell you, read!"

Soane, still cursing under his breath, bent over the table, reading as
Freund's soiled finger moved:

"Fein plots," he read. "German agents ... disloyal propa ... explo ...
bomb fac ... shipping munitions to ... arms for Ireland can be ...
destruction of interned German li ... disloyal newspapers which ...
controlled by us in Pari ... Ferez Bey ... bankers are duped.... I
need your advi ... hounded day and ni ... d'Eblis or Govern ... not
afraid of death but indignant ... Sinn Fei----"

Soane's scowl had altered, and a deeper red stained his brow and
neck.

"Well, by God!" he muttered, jerking up a chair from behind him and
seating himself at the table, but never taking his fascinated eyes off
the torn bits of written paper.

Presently Freund got up and went out. He returned in a few moments
with a large sheet of wrapping paper and a pot of mucilage. On this
paper, with great care, he arranged the pieces of the torn letter,
neatly gumming each bit and leaving a space between it and the next
fragment.

"To fill in iss the job of Louis Sendelbeck," remarked Freund, pasting
away industriously. "Is it not time we learn how much she knows--this
Nihla Quellen? Iss she sly like mice? I ask it."

Soane scratched his curly head.

"Be gorry," he said, "av that purty girrl is a Frinch spy she don't
look the parrt, Max."

Freund waved one unclean hand:

"Vas iss it to look like somedings? Nodding! Also, you Sinn Fein Irish
talk too much. Why iss it in Belfast you march mit drums und music? To
hold our tongues und vatch vat iss we Germans learn already first!
Also! Sendelbeck shall haff his letter."

"An' phwat d'ye mean to do with that girrl, Max?"

"Vatch her! Vy you don'd go back by dot wentilator already?"

"Me? Faith, I'm done f'r th' evenin', an' I thank God I wasn't pinched
on the leads!"

"Vait I catch dot Nihla somevares," muttered Freund, regarding his
handiwork.

"Ye'll do no dirty thrick to her? Th' Sinn Fein will shtand f'r no
burkin', mind that!"

"Ach, wass!" grunted Freund; "iss it your business vat iss done to
somebody by Ferez? If you Irish vant your rifles und machine guns,
leaf it to us Germans und dond speak nonsense aboud nodding!" He
leaned over and pushed a greasy electric button: "Now ve drink a glass
bier. Und after, you go home und vatch dot girl some more."

"Av Misther Barres an' th' yoong lady makes a holler, they'll fire me
f'r this," snarled Soane.

"Sei ruhig, mon vieux! Nihla Quellen keeps like a mouse quiet! Und she
keeps dot yoong man quiet! You see! No, no! Not for Nihla to make
some foolishness und publicity. French agents iss vatching for her
too--l'affaire du Mot d'Ordre. She iss vat you say, 'in Dutch'! Iss
she, vielleicht, a German spy? In France they believe it. Iss she a
French spy? Ach! Possibly some day; not yet! And it iss for us Germans
to know always vat she iss about. Dot iss my affair, not yours,
Soane."

A heavy jowled man in a soiled apron brought two big mugs of beer and
retired on felt-slippered feet.

"Hoch!" grunted Freund, burying his nose in his frothing mug.

Soane, wasting no words, drank thirstily. After a long pull he shoved
aside his sloppy stein, rose, cautiously unlatched the shutter of a
tiny peep-hole in the wall, and applied one eye to it.

"Bad luck!" he muttered, "there do be wan av thim secret service lads
drinkin' at the bar! I'll not go home yet, Max."

"Dot big vone?" inquired Freund, mildly interested.

"That's the buck! Him wid th' phony whiskers an' th' Dootch get-up!"

"Vell, vot off it? Can he do somedings?"

"And how should I know phwat that lad can do to th' likes o' me, or
phwat the divil brings him here at all, at all! Sure, he's been around
these three nights running----"

Freund laughed his contempt for all things American, including police
and secret service, and wiped his chin with the back of his hand.

"Look, once, Soane! Do these Yankees know vat it iss a police, a
gendarme, a military intelligence? Vat they call secret service, wass
iss it? I ask it? Schweinerei! Dummheit? Fantoches! Imbeciles! Of the
Treasury they haff a secret service; of the Justice Department also
another; and another of the Army, and yet another of the Posts! Vot
kind of foolish system iss it?--mitout no minister, no chef, no
centre, no head, no organisation--und everybody interfering in vot
efferybody iss doing und nobody knowing vot nobody is doing--ach wass!
Je m'en moque--I make mock myself at dot secret service which iss too
dam dumm!" He yawned. "Trop bête," he added indistinctly.

Soane, reassured, lowered the shutter, came back to the table, and
finished his beer with loud gulps.

"Lave us go up to the lodge till he goes out," he suggested. "Maybe
th' boys have news o' thim rifles."

Freund yawned again, nodded, and rose, and they went out to an
unlighted and ill-smelling back stairway. It was so narrow that they
had to ascend in single file.

Half way up they set off a hidden bell, by treading on some concealed
button under foot; and a man, dressed only in undershirt and trousers,
appeared at the top of the stairs, silhouetted against a bright light
burning on the wall behind him.

"Oh, all right," he said, recognising them, and turned on his heel
carelessly, pocketing a black-jack.

They followed to a closed door, which was made out of iron and painted
like quartered oak. In the wall on their right a small shutter slid
back noiselessly, then was closed without a sound; and the iron door
opened very gently in their faces.

The room they entered was stifling--all windows being closed--in
spite of a pair of electric fans whirling and droning on shelves. Some
perspiring Germans were playing skat over in a corner. One or two
other men lounged about a centre table, reading Irish and German
newspapers published in New York, Chicago, and Milwaukee. There
were also on file there copies of the Evening Mail, the Evening
Post, a Chicago paper, and a pile of magazines, including numbers
of Pearson's, The Fatherland, The Masses, and similar
publications.

Two lithograph portraits hung side by side over the fireplace--Robert
Emmet and Kaiser Wilhelm II. Otherwise, the art gallery included
photographs of Von Hindenburg, Von Bissing, and the King of Greece.

A large map, on which the battle-line in Europe had been pricked out
in red pins, hung on the wall. Also a map of New York City, on a very
large scale; another map of New York State; and a map of Ireland. A
dumb-waiter, on duty and astonishingly noiseless, slid into sight,
carrying half a dozen steins of beer and some cheese sandwiches, just
as Soane and Freund entered the room, and the silent iron door closed
behind them of its own accord and without any audible click.

The man who had met them on the stairs, in undershirt and trousers,
went over to the dumb-waiter, scribbled something on a slate which
hung inside the shelf, set the beer and sandwiches beside the skat
players, and returned to seat himself at the table to which Freund and
Soane had pulled up cane-bottomed chairs.

"Well," he said, in rather a pleasant voice, "did you get that letter,
Max?"

Freund nodded and leisurely sketched in the episode at Dragon Court.

The man, whose name was Franz Lehr, and who had been born in New York
of German parents, listened with lively interest to the narrative. But
he whistled softly when it ended:

"You took a few chances, Max," he remarked. "It's all right, of
course, because you got away with it, but----" He whistled again,
thoughtfully.

"Sendelbeck must haff his letter. Yess? Also!"

"Certainly. I guess that was the only way--if she was really going to
take it up to young Barres. And I guess you're right when you conclude
that Nihla won't make any noise about it and won't let her friend,
Barres, either."

"Sure, I'm right," grunted Freund. "We got the goots on her now. You
bet she's scared. You tell Ferez--yess?"

"Don't worry; he'll hear it all. You got that letter on you?"

Freund nodded.

"Hand it to Hochstein"--he half turned on his rickety chair and
addressed a squat, bushy-haired man with very black eyebrows and
large, angry blue eyes--"Louis, Max got that letter you saw Nihla
writing in the Hotel Astor. Here it is----" taking the pasted
fragments from Freund and passing them over to Hochstein. "Give it to
Sendelbeck, along with the blotter you swiped after she left the
writing room. Dave Sendelbeck ought to fix it up all right for Ferez
Bey."

Hochstein nodded, shoved the folded brown paper into his pocket, and
resumed his cards.

