known him when she was in shorter frocks than those then in vogue. Even
as a child she had been ahead of the fashion.

"Do?" Verelst repeated. "Do nothing."

"I am a snob," she resumed, expecting him to contradict her. "I did hope
that Margaret, with her looks, would marry brilliantly."

Peter Verelst bent over his coffee. "The young man next door?"

Out of the corner of an eye Mrs. Austen glanced at Paliser and then back
at Verelst. "Well, something of the kind."

Verelst raised his cup. He had known Lennox' father. He knew and liked
the son. For Margaret he had an affection that was almost--and which
might have been--paternal. But, noting the barometer, he steered into
the open.

"Have Lennox here morning, noon and night. See to it that Margaret has
every opportunity to get sick to death of him. Whereas if you
interfere----"

Mrs. Austen, as though invoking the saints, lifted her eyes. "Ah, I
know! If I had not been interfered with I would not have taken Austen.
Much good it did me!"

Verelst, his hand on the tiller, nodded. "There you are! That locksmith
business is very sound. Love revels in it. But give him his head and
good-bye. Sooner or later he is bound to take to his heels, but, the
more he is welcomed, the sooner he goes. The history of love is a
history of farewells."

Paliser, who had caught the last phrase, felt like laughing and
consequently looked very serious. The spectacle of two antiques
discussing love seemed to him as hilarious as two paupers discussing
wealth. He patted his tie.

"Very interesting topic, Mrs. Austen."

The woman smiled at him. "Love? Yes. How would you define it?"

Paliser returned her smile. "A mutual misunderstanding."

Mrs. Austen's smile deepened. "Would you like to have one?"

"With your daughter, yes."

Et moi donc! thought this lady, who, like others of our aristocracy,
occasionally lapsed into French. But she said: "Why not enter the
lists?"

"I thought they were closed."

"Are they ever?"

But now Verelst addressed the too charming young man. "How is your
father?"

"In his usual poor health, thank you."

"What does he say about the war?"

"Nothing very original--that the Kaiser ought to be sent to Devil's
Island. But that I told him would be an insult to Dreyfus, who was
insulted enough. The proper place for the beast is the zoo. At the same
time, the fellow is only a pawn. The blame rests on Rome--rests on her
seven hills."

Verelst drew back. In the great days, or more exactly in the great
nights, he had been a pal of M. P. That palship he had no intention of
extending to M. P.'s son, and it was indifferently that he asked: "In
what way?"

Kate Schermerhorn, who had been talking to Margaret and to Lennox,
turned. Lennox also had turned. Paliser had the floor, or rather the
table. He made short work of it.

"It was Cæsar's policy to create a solitude and call it peace. That
policy Rome abandoned. Otherwise, that is if she had continued to turn
the barbarians into so many dead flies, their legs in the air, there
would be no barbarian now on the throne of Prussia. There would be no
Prussia, no throne, no war."

You ought to write for the comic papers, thought Verelst, who said:
"Well, there is one comfort. It can't last forever."

With feigned sympathy Mrs. Austen took it up. "Ah, yes, but meanwhile
there is that poor Belgium!"

"By the way," Paliser threw in. "I have a box or two for the Relief Fund
at the Splendor to-night. Would anybody care to go?"

Kate Schermerhorn, who looked like a wayward angel, exclaimed at it:
"Oh, do let's. There's to be a duck of a medium and I am just dying to
have my fortune told."

Verelst showed his handsome false teeth. "No need of a medium for that,
my dear. Your path is one of destruction. You will bowl men over as you
go."

Kate laughed at him. "You seem very upright."

Mrs. Austen turned to Margaret. "If you care to go, we might get our
wraps."

A moment later, when the women had left the room and the men were
reseated, Verelst stretched a hand to Lennox. "Again I congratulate you
and with all my heart."

Keith Lennox grasped that hand, shook it, smiled. The smile illuminated
a face which, sombre in repose, then was radiant. Tall and straight,
hard as nails, he had the romantic figure. In a costume other than
evening clothes, he might have walked out of a tapestry.

With ambiguous amiability, Paliser smiled also. Already Margaret's
beauty had stirred him. Already it had occurred to him that Lennox was
very invitingly in the way.




III


The ballrooms of the Splendor, peopled, as Mrs. Austen indulgently
noted, with Goodness knows who from Heaven knows where, received her and
her guests.

Not all of them, however. At the entrance, Verelst, pretexting a
pretext, sagely dropped out. Within, a young man with ginger hair and
laughing eyes, sprang from nowhere, pounced at Kate, floated her away.

Mrs. Austen, Margaret, Lennox and Paliser moved on.

In one room there was dancing; in another, a stage. It was in the first
room that Kate was abducted. On the stage in the room beyond, a fat
woman, dressed in green and gauze, was singing faded idiocies. Beyond,
at the other end of the room was a booth above which was a sign--The
Veiled Lady of Yucatan. Beneath the sign was a notice: All ye that enter
here leave five dollars at the door.

The booth, hung with black velvet, was additionally supplied with
hierograms in burnished steel. What they meant was not for the profane,
or even for the initiate. Champollion could not have deciphered them.
Fronting the door stood a young woman with a dark skin, a solemn look
and a costume which, at a pinch, might have been Maya.

In those accents which the Plaza shares with Mayfair, she hailed
Margaret. "Hello, dear! Your turn next."

For a moment, the dark skin, the solemn look, the costume puzzled
Margaret. Then at once she exclaimed: "Why, Poppet!" She paused and
added: "This is Mr. Paliser--Miss Bleecker. You know Mr. Lennox."

But now, from the booth, a large woman with high colour, grey hair and a
jewelled lorgnette rushed out and fastened herself on the sultry girl.

"Gimme back my money. Your veiled lady is a horror! Said I'd marry
again!"

She raised her glasses. "Mary Austen, as I'm a sinner! Go in and have
your misfortunes told. How do do Margaret? Marry again indeed! Oughtn't
I to have my money back?"

"Poppet ought to make you pay twice," Mrs. Austen heartlessly retorted
at this woman, the relict of Nicholas Amsterdam, concerning whom a story
had come out and who had died, his friends said, of exposure.

Mrs. Amsterdam turned on Paliser whom she had never seen before. "What
do you say?"

"I am appalled," he answered.

She turned again. "There, Poppet, you hear that? Gimme back my money."

But Miss Bleecker occupied herself with Lennox, who was paying for
Margaret.

Margaret entered the booth where a little old woman, very plainly
dressed, sat at a small deal table. From above hung a light. Beside her
was a vacant chair.

"Sit there, please," the medium, in a low voice, told the girl. "And
now, if you please, your hand."

Margaret, seating herself, removed a glove. The hand in which she then
put hers was soft and warm and she feared that it might perspire. She
looked at the woman who looked at her, sighed, closed her eyes and
appeared to go to sleep. Then, presently, her lips parted and in a voice
totally different from that in which she had just spoken, a voice that
was thin and shrill, words came leapingly.

"You are engaged to be married. Your engagement will be broken. You will
be very unhappy. Later, you will be thankful. Later you will realise
that sorrow is sent to make us nobler than we were."

With an intake of the breath, the medium started, straightened, opened
her eyes.

At the shock of it Margaret had started also. "But----"

The medium, in her former voice, low and gentle, interrupted.

"I can tell you nothing else. I do not know what was said. But I am
sorry if you have had bad news."

Margaret stood up, replacing her glove. She knew, as we all know, that
certain gifted organisms hear combinations of sound to which the rest of
us are deaf. She knew, as many of us also know, that there are other
organisms that can foresee events to which the rest of us are blind. But
she knew too that in the same measure that the auditions of composers
are not always notable, the visions of clairvoyants are not always
exact. The knowledge steadied and partially comforted, but partially
only.

At the entrance, Lennox stood with Miss Bleecker. A little beyond were
Paliser and her mother. Mrs. Amsterdam, minus her money, must have
rushed away.

Poppet Bleecker laughed and questioned: "No horrors?"

Lennox questioned also, but with his eyes.

Margaret hesitated. Then she got it. Taking the girl's hand she patted
it and to Lennox said, and lightly enough: "Do go in. I want to see if
what the medium says to you conforms with what she said to me."

Yet, however lightly she spoke, behind her girdle was that sensation
which only the tormented know.

Beyond on the stage, the fat woman, now at the piano, was accompanying a
girl who was singing a brindisi. The girl was young, good-looking,
unembarrassed, very much at home. Her dress, a black chiffon, became
her.

Then, in a moment, as Lennox entered the booth, Margaret joined her
mother and looked at the girl.

"What is she singing?"

Paliser covered her with his eyes. "Verdi's Segreto per esser
felice--the secret of happiness. Such a simple secret too."

"Yes?" Margaret absently returned. She was looking now at the booth.
Quite as vaguely she added: "In what does it consist?"

"In getting what we do not deserve."

There was nothing in that to offend. But the man's eyes, of which
already she had been conscious, did offend. They seemed to disrobe her.
Annoyedly she turned.

Paliser turned with her. "Verdi's bric-à-brac is very banal. Perhaps you
prefer Strauss. His dissonances are more harmonic than they sound."

Now though there was applause. With a roulade the brindisi had ceased
and the singer as though pleased, not with herself but with the
audience, bowed. The fat woman twisting on her bench, was also smiling.
She looked cheerful and evil.

"I do believe that's the Tamburini," Mrs. Austen remarked. "I heard her
at the Academy, ages ago." The usual touch followed. "How she has gone
off!"

The fat woman stood up, and, preceded by the girl, descended into the
audience.

Margaret looked again at the booth. Lennox was coming out. He said a
word to Miss Bleecker and glanced about the room.

Margaret motioned. He did not notice. The girl who had been singing was
bearing down on him, a hand outstretched and, in her face, an expression
which Margaret could not interpret. But she saw Lennox smile, take her
hand and say--what? Margaret could not tell, but it was something to
which the girl was volubly replying.

"Who's his little friend?" Mrs. Austen in her even voice inquired. "Mr.
Paliser," she added. "Would you mind telling--er--my daughter's young
man that we are waiting."

Margaret winced. She had turned from Paliser and she turned then from
her mother.

Paliser, whom the phrase "my daughter's young man" amused, sauntered
away. He strolled on to where Lennox stood with the girl. The fat woman
joined them.

Lennox must have introduced Paliser, for Margaret could see them all
talking at once. Then Lennox again looked about, saw Margaret and her
mother, and came over.

"Who's your friend?" Mrs. Austen asked.

Lennox' eyes caressed Margaret. Then he turned to her mother. "She is a
Miss Cara. Cassy Cara her name is. I know her father. He is a
violinist."

And my daughter is second fiddle, thought Mrs. Austen, who said: "How
interesting!"

With his sombre air, Lennox summarised it. "She is studying for the
opera. The woman with her, Madame Tamburini, is her coach. You may have
heard of her."

"A fallen star," Mrs. Austen very pleasantly remarked. Quite as
pleasantly she added: "The proper companion for a soiled dove."

The charm of that was lost. Margaret, who had not previously seen this
girl but who had heard of her from Lennox, was speaking to him.

"It was her father, was it?" Then, dismissing it, she asked anxiously:
"But do tell me, Keith, what did the medium say?"

"That I would be up for murder."

Margaret's eyes widened. But, judging it ridiculous, she exclaimed: "Was
that all?"

"All!" Lennox grimly repeated. "What more would you have?" Abruptly he
laughed. "I don't wonder Mrs. Amsterdam wanted her money back."

On the stage, from jungles of underwear, legs were tossing. The
orchestra had become frankly canaille. Moreover the crowd of Goodness
knows who had increased. A person had the temerity to elbow Mrs. Austen
and the audacity to smile at her. It was the finishing touch.

She poked at Margaret. "Come."

As they moved on, a man smiled at Lennox, who, without stopping, gave
him a hand.

He was an inkbeast. But there was nothing commercial in his appearance.
Ordinarily, he looked like a somnambulist. When he was talking, he
resembled a comedian. In greeting Lennox he seemed to be in a pleasant
dream. The crowd swallowed him.

"Who was that?" Mrs. Austen enquired.

"Ten Eyck Jones."

"The writer?" asked this lady, who liked novels, but who preferred to
live them.

Meanwhile Paliser was talking to Cassy Cara and the Tamburini. The
latter listened idly, with her evil smile. Yet Paliser's name was very
evocative. The syllables had fallen richly on her ears.

Cassy Cara had not heard them and they would have conveyed nothing to
her if she had. She was a slim girl, with a lot of auburn hair which was
docked. The careless-minded thought her pretty. She was what is far
rarer; she was handsome. Her features had the surety of an intaglio.
Therewith was an air and a look that were not worldly or even superior,
but which, when necessary as she sometimes found it, could reduce a man,
and for that matter a woman, to proportions really imperceptible.

A little beauty and a little devil, thought Paliser, who was an expert.
But leisurely, in his Oxford voice, he outlined for her a picture less
defined. "You remind me of something."

With entire brevity and equal insolence, she returned it. "I dare say."

"Yes. Of supper."

"An ogre, are you?"

Paliser, ruminating the possibilities of her slim beauty served Régence,
smiled at this girl who did not smile back. "Not Nebuchadnezzar at any
rate. Vegetarianism is not my forte. Won't you and Madame Tamburini take
potluck with me? There must be a restaurant somewhere."

The fallen star moistened her painted lips. "Yes, why not?"

Born in California, of foreign parents, she had neither morals or accent
and spoke in a deep voice. She spoke American and English. She spoke the
easy French of the boulevards, the easier Italian of the operatic stage.
She never spoke of Tamburini. She left him to be imagined, which perhaps
he had been.

From the room they went on into a wide, crowded hall, beyond which was
another room, enclosed in glass, where there were tables and palms.

As they entered, a captain approached. There was a smell of pineapple,
the odour of fruit and flowers. From a gallery came the tinkle of
mandolins. Mainly the tables were occupied. But the captain, waving the
way, piloted them to a corner, got them seated and stood, pad in hand.

Paliser looked at Cassy Cara. She was hungry as a wolf, but she said
indifferently: "A swallow of anything."

"One swallow does not make a supper," Paliser retorted and looked at the
Tamburini who appeared less indifferent.

"Ham and eggs."

Without a quiver, the captain booked it.

"Also," Paliser told him, "caviare, woodcock, Ruinart." From the man he
turned to the girl. "It was very decent of Lennox to introduce me to
you."

Cassy put her elbows on the table. "He could not be anything else than
decent. Don't you know him well?"

Paliser shrugged. "Our intimacy is not oppressive."

"He saved her father's life," the Tamburini put in. "Her father is a
musician--and authentically marquis," she added, as though that
explained everything.

"We are Portuguese," said Cassy, "or at least my father is. He used to
play at the Metro. But he threw it up and one night, when he was coming
home from a private house where he had been giving a concert, he was
attacked. There were two of them. They knocked him down----"

"Before he had time to draw his sword-cane," the fat woman interrupted.

"Yes," Cassy resumed, "and just then Mr. Lennox came along and knocked
them down and saved his violin which was what they were after."

"It's a Cremona," said the Tamburini who liked details.

"But that is not all of it," the girl continued. "My father's arm was
broken. He has not been able to play since. Mr. Lennox brought him home
and sent for his own physician. He's a dear."

"Who is?" Paliser asked. "The physician?"

But now a waiter was upon them with a bottle which he produced with a
pop! Dishes followed to which Cassy permitted the man to help her. Her
swallow of anything became large spoonfuls of rich blackness and the
tenderness of savorous flesh. She was not carnal, but she was hungry and
at her home latterly the food had been vile.

The Tamburini, with enigmatic ideas in the back of her head, ate her
horrible dish very delicately, her little finger crooked. But she drank
nobly.

Paliser too had ideas which, however, were not enigmatic in the least
and not in the back of his head either. They concerned two young women,
one of whom was patently engaged to Lennox and the other probably in
love with him. The situation appealed to this too charming young man to
whom easy conquests were negligible.

He had been looking at Cassy. On the table was a vase in which there
were flowers. He took two of them and looked again at the girl.

"Sunday is always hateful. Couldn't you both dine with me here?"

The former prima donna wiped her loose mouth. She could, she would, and
she said so.

Paliser put the flowers before Cassy.

"Le parlate d'amor," the ex-diva began and, slightly for a moment, her
deep voice mounted.

Cassy turned on her. "You're an imbecile."

With an uplift of the chin--a family habit--Paliser summoned the waiter.
While he was paying him, Cassy protested. She had nothing to wear.

She had other objections which she kept to herself. If it had been
Lennox she would have had none at all. But it was not Lennox. It was a
man whom she had never seen before and who was entirely too free with
his eyes.

"Come as you are," said the Tamburini, who massively stood up.

Paliser also was rising. "Let me put you in a cab and on Sunday----"

Cassy gave him a little unsugared look. "You take a great deal for
granted."

Behind the girl's back the Tamburini gave him another look. Cheerful and
evil and plainer than words it said: "Leave it to me."

Cassy, her perfect nose in the air, announced that she must get her
things.

Through the emptying restaurant Paliser saw them to the entrance. There,
as he waited, the captain hurried to him.

"Everything satisfactory, sir?"

"I want a private dining-room on Sunday."

"Yes, sir. For how many?"

"Two."

"Sorry, sir. It's against the rules."

Paliser surveyed him. "Whom does this hotel belong to? You?"

The captain smiled and caressed his chin. "No, sir, the hotel does not
belong to me. It is owned by Mr. Paliser."

"Thank you. So I thought. I am Mr. Paliser. A private dining-room on
Sunday for two."

But now Cassy and the Tamburini, hatted and cloaked, were returning. The
chastened waiter moved aside. Through the still crowded halls, Paliser
accompanied them to the street where, a doorkeeper assiduously
assisting, he got them into a taxi, asked the addresses, paid the
mechanician, saw them off.

Manfully, as the cab veered, the Tamburini swore.

"You damn fool, that man is rich as all outdoors."




IV


The house in which Cassy lived was what is agreeably known as a walk-up.
There was no lift, merely the stairs, flight after flight, which
constituted the walk-up, one that ascended to the roof, where you had a
fine view of your neighbours' laundry. Such things are not for
everybody. Cassy hated them.

On this night when the taxi, after reaching Harlem, landed her there
and, the walk-up achieved, she let herself into a flat on the fifth
floor, a "You're late!" filtered out at her.

It was her father, who, other things being equal, you might have
mistaken for Zuloaga's "Uncle." The lank hair, the sad eyes, the wan
face, the dressing-gown, there he sat. Only the palette was absent.
Instead was an arm in a sling. There was another difference. Beyond, in
lieu of capricious manolas, was a piano and, above it, a portrait with
which Zuloaga had nothing to do. The portrait represented a man who
looked very fierce and who displayed a costume rich and unusual. Beneath
the portrait was a violin. Beside the piano was a sword-cane. Otherwise,
barring a rose-wood table, the room contained nothing to boast of.

"You're late," he repeated.

His name was Angelo Cara. When too young to remember it, he had come to
New York from Lisbon. With him had come the swashbuckler in oil. He grew
up in New York, developed artistic tastes, lost the oil man, acquired a
wife, lost her also, but not until she had given him a daughter who was
named Bianca, a name which, after elongating into Casabianca, shortened
itself into Cassy.

Meanwhile, on Madison Avenue, then unpolluted, there was a brown-stone
front, a landau, other accessories, the flower of circumstances not
opulent but easy, the rents and increments of the swashbuckler's estate,
which by no means had come from Lisbon but which, the rich and unusual
costume boxed in camphor, had been acquired in the import and sale of
wine.

The fortune that the swashbuckler made descended to his son, who went to
Wall Street with it. There the usual cropper wiped him out, affected his
health, drove him, and not in a landau either, from Madison Avenue, left
him the portrait, the violin, the table and nothing else.

But that is an exaggeration. To have debts is to have something. They
stir you. They stirred him. Besides there was Cassy. To provide for both
was the violin which in his hands played itself. For years it sufficed.
Then, with extreme good sense, he fought with the Union, fought with
Toscanini, disassociated himself from both. Now, latterly, with his arm
in a sling, the wolf was not merely at the door, it was in the
living-room of this Harlem flat which Cassy had just entered.

It was then that he repeated it. "You're late!"

For the past hour he had sat staring at things which the room did not
contain--a great, glowing house; an orchestra demoniacally led by a
conductor whom he strangely resembled; a stage on which, gracile in the
violet and silver of doublet and hose, the last of the Caras bowed to
the vivas.

Then abruptly the curtain had fallen, the lights had gone out, the
vision faded, banished by the quick click of her key.

But not entirely. More or less the dream was always with him. When
to-day is colourless, where can one live except in the future? To-day is
packed with commonplaces which, could we see them correctly, are
probably false for in the future only beautiful things are true. It is
stupid not to live among them, particularly if you have the ability, and
what artist lacks it? In the future, there is fame for the painter,
there is posterity for the poet and much good may it do them. But for
the musician, particularly for the song-bird, there is the vertigo of
instant applause. In days like these, days that witness the fall of
empires, the future holds for the donna, for the prima donna, for the
prima donna assoluta, the grandest of earthly careers.

That career, Angelo Cara foresaw for his daughter, foresaw it at least
in the hypnogogic visions which the artist always has within beck and
call. In the falsifying commonplaces of broad daylight he was not so
sure. Her upper register had in it a parterre of flowers, but elsewhere
it lacked volume, lacked line, lacked colour, and occasionally he
wondered whether her voice would not prove to be a voix de salon and not
the royal organ that fills a house. Yet in the strawberry of her throat,
the orifice was wide, the larynx properly abnormal. In addition the
Tamburini was prophetically comforting.

But did the woman know her trade? He did not believe it. He believed
though that she had no morals, never had had any, even as a child. It
was the same way with Rachel and the fact left him cold. He was
artistically indifferent to what the putana did or omitted, to what
anybody omitted or did. But anybody by no means included his daughter.
At the thought of anything amiss with her, presto! his sad eyes flamed.
Very needlessly too. Cassy was as indifferent to other people's
conceptions of decorum as he was himself. The matter did not touch her.
Clear-eyed, clean-minded, she was straight as a string.

"How did it go?" he asked.

Cassy laughed. She had had a glass of champagne. She had too, what is
far headier, the wine of youth.

"Well, I didn't see any showmen tumbling over each other. Mr. Lennox was
there. He asked after you, and introduced a man who had us out to
supper. It was very good. I did so wish for you, poor dear."

"What man? What is his name?"

"Paliser, I think. Something of the kind. Ma Tamby told me."

"Not old M. P.?"

"Perhaps, I don't know. He has hair like a looking-glass. He did not
seem old; he seemed very impudent. Ma Tamby says he's rich as all
outdoors."

"That's the son then. Don't have anything to do with him. They're a bad
lot."

"As if I cared! Ma Tamby said he could get me an engagement."

"Ha! In vaudeville with acrobats and funny men and little suppers to
follow."

"Why not big ones?"

"Big what?"

"Big goose!" replied Cassy, who removed her gloves, took off her hat,
ran a pin through it, put it down.

Her father stared. Behind the girl stood a blonde brute whom the supper
had evoked. He wore a scowl and a bloody apron. In his hand was a bill.
Behind him was the baker, the candlestickmaker. Behind these was the
agent, punctual and pertinacious, who had come for the rent. Though but
visions, they were real. Moreover, though they evaporated at once,
solidly they would return. He had been staring at her, and through her,
at them. In staring his eyes filled. Immediately they leaked.

Cassy bit her lip. The tumbril and the guillotine would not have made
her weep. Dry-eyed she would have gone from one to the other. Besides,
what on earth was he wowing about? But immediately it occurred to her
that he might be experiencing one of the attacks to which he was
subject. She leaned over him. "You poor dear, is it your heart?"

He brushed his eyes. Dimly they lighted. With artistic mobility his face
creased in a smile. "No, farther down."

Cassy moved back. "What in the world----"

But now his face clouded again. "I am glad you had supper. To-morrow
we'll starve."

The exaggeration annoyed her, she exclaimed at it and then stopped
short. Already she had envisaged the situation. But it was idle, she
thought, to excite him additionally.

"Well?" he almost whinnied.

But as he would have to know, she out with it. "There's the portrait,
there's the violin. Either would tide us over."

In speaking she had approached him again. He shoved her aside. With a
jerk he got to his feet, struck an attitude, tapped himself on the
breast.

"I, Marquis de Casa-Evora, sell my father's picture! I, Angelo Cara,
sell my violin! And you, my daughter, suggest such a thing! But are you
my daughter? Are you--oh!"

It trailed away. The noble anger, real or assumed, fell from him. No
longer the outraged father, he was but a human being in pain.

Cassy hurried to the mantel where, in provision of these attacks, were
glass tubes with amyl in them. She took and broke one and had him inhale
it.

Then, though presently the spasm passed, the wolf remained. But the
beast had no terrors for Cassy. Buoyant, as youth ever is, his fangs
amused her. They might close on her, but they would not hurt, at any
rate very much, or, in any case, very long. Meanwhile she had had supper
and for the morrow she had a plan. That night she dreamed of it. From
the dream she passed into another. She dreamed she was going about
giving money away. The dream of a dream, it was very beautiful, and
sometimes, to exceptional beings, beautiful dreams come true, not in the
future merely, but in a walk-up.




V


In Park Avenue that night there was no dramatic father in waiting. There
were no bills, no scenes, no thought of secret errands; merely a
drawing-room in which a fire was burning and where, presently, Margaret
and Lennox were alone.

"I have letters to write," Mrs. Austen told them.

She had no letters to write, but she did have a thing or two to
consider. What the wolf was to Cassy's father, Lennox was to her.

At dinner, Peter Verelst's advice to do nothing had seemed strategic. At
the Splendor, it had seemed stupid. The spectacle of that girl
hobnobbing with Lennox had interested her enormously. If a spectacle can
drip, that had dripped and with possibilities which, if dim as yet, were
none the less providential, particularly when viewed spaciously, in the
light of other possibilities which Paliser exhaled. Mrs. Austen was a
woman of distinction. You had only to look at her to be aware of it.
Yet, at the possible possibilities, she licked her chops.

Meanwhile, with the seriousness of those to whom love is not the
sentiment that it once was, or the sensation that it has become, but the
dense incarnate mystery that it ever should be, Margaret and Lennox were
also occupied with the future.

In connection with it, Lennox asked: "Can you come to-morrow?"

As he spoke, Margaret released her hand. Her mother was entering and he
stood up.

"Mrs. Austen," he resumed, "won't you and Margaret have tea at my
apartment to-morrow?"

He would have reseated himself but the lady saw to it that he did not.

"You have such pleasant programmes, Mr. Lennox. You are not going
though, are you? Well, if you must, good-night."

It was boreal, yet, however arctic, it was smiling, debonair. As such,
Lennox had no recourse but to accept it. He bent over Margaret's hand,
touched two of Mrs. Austen's fingers. In a moment, he had gone.

Mrs. Austen, smiling still, sat down.

"Nice young man. Very nice. Nice hats, nice ties, nice coats. Then also
he is a theosophist, I suppose, or, if not, then by way of becoming one.
What more could the heart desire? Would you mind putting out one of
those lights? Not that one--the other."

Gowned in grey which in spite of its hue contrived to be brilliant, Mrs.
Austen rustled ever so slightly. Always a handsome woman and well aware
of it, she was of two minds about her daughter's looks. They far
surpassed her own and she did not like that. On the other hand they were
an asset on which she counted.

She rustled, quite as slightly again.

"And such a taking way with him! That little singing-girl whom we saw
to-night, quite a pretty child, didn't you think? She seemed quite
smitten. Then there are others, one may suppose. Yes, certainly, a very
nice young man."

"Mother!"

"Well, what? Young men will be young men. Only a theosophist could
imagine that they would be young girls. I make every allowance from
him--as doubtless he does for others. This is quite as it should be. I
have no patience with model young men. Model young men delight their
mothers' hearts and ruin their wives' temper. They remodel themselves
after marriage. Whereas a young man who is not model at all, one who has
had his fling beforehand, settles down and becomes quite fat. You have
chosen very wisely, my dear. If you had waited you might have had
Paliser and I should not have liked that. He is too good."

Margaret stretched a hand to the fire. She was not cold and the movement
was mechanical. But she made no reply. In Matthew we are told that for
every idle word we utter we shall answer at the day of judgment. That
passage she had longly meditated. She did not believe that Matthew wrote
it and she did not believe in a day of judgment. Matthew was a peasant
who spoke Syro-Chaldaic. It was not supposable that he could write in
Greek. It was not supposable that there can be a specific day of
judgment, since every moment of our days is judged. But through Margaret
had her tolerant doubts, she knew that the message itself was sound. It
did not condemn evil and vulgar words, for they condemn themselves. What
it condemned was idle words and she regretted that her mother employed
them. But theosophy is, primarily, a school of good manners. The Gospel
condemns idle words, theosophy forbids disagreeable ones.

To her mother's remarks, she made therefore no reply. Instead, she
changed the subject.

"Will you care to go with me to his rooms to-morrow?"

With a mimic of surprise and of gentle remonstrance that was admirably
assumed, Mrs. Austen lifted a hand.

"But, my dear! Were you thinking of going alone?"

The remonstrance, however gentle, was absurd and she knew it. Margaret
could go where she liked. It would all be chaste as a piano-recital. But
the flea that she had been trying to put in the girl's ear seemed very
ineffective. She is just as I was at her age, thought this lady, who, in
so thinking, flattered herself extraordinarily.

She shook her head. "For if you were, it would not do. Such things may
pass in London, they don't here. But to-morrow is Saturday, isn't it?
Yes, to-morrow is Saturday. At three I have an appointment with the
dentist. I'll telephone though. That always pains them and, where a
dentist is concerned, I do think turn about is fair play."

It was pleasantly said. To make it pleasanter, she stood up and added:
"Are you to sit here and read? There is a French book lying around
somewhere that belonged to your dear father. I don't remember who wrote
it and I have forgotten the title, but you are sure to like it. There! I
have it. It is called: 'L'art de tromper les femmes.'"

Mrs. Austen moved to the door and looked back.

"But if you don't find it readily, let it go for to-night. Your young
man is sure to have a copy. No nice young man is without one."




VI


Lennox was a broker, a vocation which he practised in Wall Street. Early
on the following afternoon, while returning from there, he sat wedged
between a gunman and a Hun. He was unconscious of either. The uncertain
market; the slump, momentarily undiscernible, but mathematically
inevitable; customers, credulous or sceptical, but always avid; the
pulse of the feverish street which the ticker indifferently registered;
the atmosphere of tobacco and greed; the trailing announcements; "Steel,
three-fourths; Pennsy, a half," these things were forgotten. The train
crashed on. Of that too he was unconscious.

Before him a panorama had unrolled--the day he first saw her, the hour
he first loved her, the moment he first thought she might care for
him--the usual panorama that unfolds before any one fortunate enough to
love and to be loved in return.

"Grand Central!"

The gunman disappeared, the Hun had gone, the car emptied itself on a
platform from which it was at once refilled. Lennox ascended the stair,
reached the street, boarded a taxi, drove to his home.

The latter, situated on the ground floor of an apartment house a step
from Park Avenue, was entirely commonplace, fitted with furniture large
and ugly, yet minutely relieved by a photograph which showed the almost
perfect oval of Margaret's almost perfect face.

The photograph stood on a table in the sitting-room beyond which
extended other rooms that, in addition to being ugly, were dark. But
Lennox had no degrading manias for comfort. Pending the great day he
camped in these rooms, above which, on an upper storey was a duplex
apartment which, if Margaret liked, he proposed to take.

It was for her opinion regarding it that he had asked her to come. In
the forenoon she had telephoned that she and her mother would both be
with him. He had instructed his servant accordingly and now a silver
tea-service that had belonged to his grandmother and which, being
Victorian, was hideous, gleamed at him as he entered the rooms.

Something else gleamed also. On a rug, a puddle of sunlight had spilled.

Above, on the embossed platter, were petits fours, watercress
sandwiches, a sack of sweetmeats, a bunch of violets, a scatter of cups.
Beneath was the puddle.

Lennox looked. It seemed all right.

Harris, his servant, a little man, thin as an umbrella, sidled silently
by. The vestibule took him. From it came the sound of a voice, limpid,
clear, which Lennox knew and knew too was not Margaret's.

"A lady to see you, sir," Harris, reappearing and effacing himself,
announced.

The doorway framed her. There, with her shock of auburn hair, her cameo
face, her slim figure and her costume which, though simple, was not the
ruinous simplicity that Fifth Avenue achieves, Cassy presented a picture
very different from that on the table, a picture otherwise
differentiated by a bundle that was big as a baby.

Lennox did not know but that it might contain a baby and the possibility
alarmed this man who was afraid of nobody.

"Hello!" he exclaimed.

In exclaiming, he stared. He liked the girl. But at the moment she was
in the way. Moreover, why she had come to these rooms of his, where she
had not been invited, and where she had not ventured before, was a
mystery.

"How's your father?" he added.
