
She let down her hair. It was the same soft dusky 
mass as ever. Her teeth were as even and bright; her 
lips had not lost their curves, but they were pink, not 
red. She was aneemic, no doubt. Why, in heaven's 
name, shouldn't she be ? Even Olive, whose major domo, 
driving a Ford, had paid daily visits to the farms and 
brought back what eggs, chickens and other succulences 
the peasants would part with for coin, had lost her brilliant color and the full lines of her beautiful figure. 
She had rouged to-night and looked as lovely as when 
Morsigny had captured her, but her magnificent gown 
had been too hastily taken in by an elderly inefficient 
maid— her young one having patriotically deserted her 
for munitions long since, — and sagged on her bones as she 
expressed it. Sibyl, who was in bed with the flu, had 
offered to lend her one of the new ones she had had the 
forethought to buy in New York before sailing, and was 
only a year old, but Olive had feared the critical eyes of 
French women who had not replenished their evening 
wardrobe since nineteen-f our teen. 

Alexina did not feel particularly consoled because 
others had looked no better than she. Until to-night she 
had given little thought to her looks, but she now felt a 
renewed interest in herself, and the frown was as much 
for this revival as for her wilted beauty. 

Her evening wrap was very warm and she sat down 
in the hard arm-chair and huddled into its folds, covering the lower part of her body with a hideous brown 
quilt. No doubt the sheets were damp, and she knew 
that she could not sleep. Why shiver in bed ? 



 

Was it Gathbroke ? It was long since she had thought 
of him. She had not even seen his photograph for four 
or five years. If it were, he had changed even more 
since that photograph had been taken than after she had 
dismissed him at Kincona. 

She was by no means sure that it was he. The light 
of a briquet was not precisely searching, and for the most 
part he had looked like more than one war-worn British 
officer she had seen during her long residence in Paris. 
... It was something in the eyes . . . she could have 
vowed they were hazel . . . their expression had 
altered; it was that of a somewhat ironic man of the 
world, which had changed as she watched them to the 
piercing alertness of a man of action . . . but after . . . 
was it perhaps an emanation of the personality that had 
so impressed her angry young soul and refused to be 
obliterated ? 

But what of it? He might be married. Love another 
woman. All officers and soldiers during the war had 
looked about eagerly for love, when not already supplied, 
and given themselves up to it, indifferent as they may 
have been before. . . . Life seemed shorter every time 
they went back to the front. 

And if not why should he be attracted to her again? 
He had loved her for a moment when she had been in 
the first flush of her exquisite youth. That was twelve 
years ago. She was now thirty. True, thirty, to-day, 
was but the beginning of a woman's third youth, and a 
few weeks in the California sunshine and nourished by 
the California abundance would restore her looks, no 
doubt of that. But she would look no better as long as 
she remained in Paris. . . . Nor did she wish to return 
to California . . . and be2;ond all question he must have 
forgotten, lost all interest in her long since. 

Still — there had been an eager upspringing light in 
his eyes . . . was it recognition? . . . merely the pacing impulse of flirtation over a match and a briquet? 
... No doubt she would never see him again. 



 



CHAPTER ni 



DID she want to ? 

 She had gone through many and extraordinary 
phases during these years of close personal contact with 
the martial history of Europe, as precisely different from 
the first twenty-six years of her life as peace from war. 

During those months of nineteen-fifteen when she had 
worked in hospitals close to the front as auxiliary nurse, 
all the high courage of her nature which she had inherited from a long line of men who had fought in the 
Civil War, the Revolution, and in the colonial wars 
before that, and the tribal wars that came after, and all 
that she had inherited from those foremothers whose 
courage, as severely tested, had never failed either their 
men or their country; in short, the inheritance of the 
best American tradition ; had risen automatically to sus- 
tain her during that period of incessant danger and 
horror. She had been firm and smiling for the consolation of wounded men when under direct shell fire. She 
had felt so profound a pity for the mutilated patient 
men that it had seemed to cleanse her of every selfish 
impulse fostered by a too sheltered life. She had bathed 
so many helpless bodies that she lost all sense of sex and 
felt herself a part of the eternal motherhood of the 
world. She had once thrown herself over the bed of a 
politely protesting poilu, covering his helpless body with 
her own, as a shell from a taube came through the roof. 

That had been a wonderful, a noble and exalted (not 
to say exhilarating) period; a period that made her 
almost grateful for a war that revealed to her such undreamed of possibilities in her soul. She might smile 
at it in satiric wonder in the retrospect, but at least it 
was ineradicable in her memory. 

If it could but have lasted ! But it had not. Insensibly she accepted suffering, sacrifice, pity, as a matter of 
course, even as danger and death. It had been the 



 

romance of war she had experienced in spite of its 
horrors, and no romance lives after novelty has fled. 
For months nothing seemed to affect her bodily resistance to fatigue, and as exaltation dropped, as the monotony of nursing, even of danger, left her mind more and 
more free, as war grew more and more to seem the normal condition of life, more and more she became conscious of herself. 

 

Life at the front is very primitive. Social relations 
as the world knows them cease to exist. The habits of 
the past are almost forgotten. It is death and blood; 
shells shrieking, screaming, whining, jangling; the boom 
of great guns as if Nature herself were in a constant 
electrical orgasm; hideous stench; torn bodies, groans, 
cries, still more terrible silences of brave men in torment ; 
incessant unintermittent danger. Above all, blood, 
blood, blood. She believed she should smell it as long 
as she lived. She knew it in every stage from the fresh 
dripping blood of men rushed from the field to the 
evacuation hospitals, to the black caked and stinking 
blood of men rescued from No Man's Land endless days 
and nights after they had fallen. 

All that was elementary in her strong nature, inherited from strong, full-blooded, often reckless and 
ruthless men, gradually welled to the surface. She was 
possessed by a savage desire for life, a bitter inordinate 
passion- for life. "Why not, when life might be extinguished at any moment? What was there in life but 
life? Farcical that anything else could ever have 
mattered. 

Civilization — by which men meant the varied and 
pleasant times of peace — seemed incredibly insipid and 
out of date. It had no more relation to this war-zone 
than her youth to this swift and terrible maturity. 

She was in many hospitals — rushed where an indomitable and tireless auxiliary nurse was most in demand — 
some under the direction of the noblesse division of the 
Eed Cross, others under the bourgeois ; and in more than 
one were English and American girls, long resident in 



 

France, or, in the latter ease, come from America like 
herself to serve the country for which they had a 
romantic passion. The majority, of course, were French- 
women, young (in their first freedom), middle-aged, 
elderly. 

Of these some were placid, emotionless, extinguished
consistently noble, selfless, profoundly and simply religious, as correct in every thought and deed as the best 
bourgeois peace society of any land. 

But others ! Alexina had been horrified at first at the 
wanderings off after nightfall of women who had nursed 
like scientific angels by day, accompanied by men who 
were never more men than when any moment might turn 
them into carrion. But with her mental suppleness she 
had quickly readjusted her point of view. There is nothing as sensual as war. It is the quintessential carnality. 
Eenan once wrote a story of the French Eevolution, 
"The Abbess Juarre, " in which his thesis was that if 
warning were given that the world would end in three 
days the entire population of the globe would give itself 
over to an orgy of sex; sex being life itself. It is the 
obsession of the doomed consumptive, the doomed spin- 
ster, the last thought of a man with the rope round his 
neck. 

How much more under the terrific stimulation of war, 
the constant heedless annihilation of life in its flower 
and its maturity? Man's inveterate enemy, death, shrieking its derision in the very shells of man 's one inviolable 
right, the right to drift into eternity through the peace- 
ful corridors of old age. War is a monstrous anachronism and a monstrous miscarriage of justice. The ignorant feel it less. It is the enlightened, the intelligent, 
accustomed to the higher delights of civilization, to the 
perfecting of such endowments, however modest, as their 
ancestors have transmitted and peace has encouraged, 
with ambitions and hopes and dreams, that resent however sub-consciously the constant snarling of death at 
their heels. All the forces of mind and body and spirit 
become formidable in a reckless hatred of the gross in- 
justice of a fate that individually not one of them has 
deserved. 



 

But the moment remains. They compress into it the 
desires of a lifetime. After years of proud individualism they have learned that they are atoms, cogs, helpless, the sport of iron and steel and powder and the 
ambitions and stupidities of men whose lives are never 
risked. Very well, turn the ego loose to find what it can. 
If all they have learned from civilization is as useless in 
this shrieking hell, as impotent as the dumb resentment of the clod, they can at least be animals. 

To talk of the ennobling influences of war is one of the 
lies of the conventionalized mind anxious to avoid the 
truths of life and to extract good from all evil — worthy 
but unintelligent. How can men in the trenches, foul 
with dirt and vermin, stench forever in their nostrils, 
callous to death and suffering, wallowing like pigs in a 
trough, compulsorily obscene, be ennobled? Courage is 
the commonest attribute of man, a universal gift of Nature that he may exist in a world bristling with dangers 
to frail human life ; never to be commended, only to be 
remarked when absent. If men lose it in the city, the 
sedentary life, they recover it quickly in the camp. The 
exceptions, the congenital cowards, slink out of war on 
any pretext, but if drafted are likely to acquit themselves decently unless neurotic. The cases of cowardice 
in active warfare are extremely rare ; a mechanical chat- 
tering of teeth, or shaking of limbs, but practically never 
a refusal to obey the command to advance. But it is this 
very courage which breeds callousness, and, combined 
with bestial conditions, inevitably brutalizes. 

When good people (far, oh far, from the zones of 
danger) can no longer in the face of accumulating evidence, cling to their sentimental theory that war ennobles, they take refuge in the vague but plausible sub- 
stitute that at least it makes the good better and the 
bad worse. Possibly, but it is to be remembered that 
there is bad in the best even where there is no good in 
the worst. 

Indubitably it leaves its indelible mark in a collection 
of hideous memories, on the just and the unjust, alike; 
as it is more difficult (Nature having made human nature 
in an ironical mood) to recall the pleasant moments of 



 

life than the poignantly unpleasant, so is it far more 
difficult to recall the moments of exaltation, of that intense spiritual desire which visits the high and low alike, 
to give their all for the safety of their country and the 
honor of their flag. Moreover, the sublime indifference 
in the face of certain death often has its origin in a still 
deeper necessity to relieve the insufferable strain on 
scarified nerves, and forever. As for the much vaunted 
recrudescence of the religious spirit which is one of the 
recurring phenomena of war, it is merely an instinct of 
the subtle mind, in its subtlest depths called soul, to 
indulge in the cowardice of dependence siace the body 
must know no fear. 

If men who have been temperate and moral all their 
lives, or at the worst indulging in moderation, spend 
their leaves of absence from the front like swine, it is 
not a reaction from the monotony of trench life, or 
from the nerve-racking din of war, but merely an extension of the fearful stimulation of a purely carnal existence, even where the directing mind is ever on the 
alert. 

The aggressors of war should be pilloried in life and 
in history. Men must defend their country if attacked ; 
to do less would be to sink lower than the beasts that 
defend their lairs; and for that reason all pacifists, and 
conscientious objectors, are abject, mean, and shabby. 
In times of national danger no man has a right to indulge his own conscience; it merges, if he be a normal 
courageous man, into the national conscience. But that 
very fact lowers the deliberate seekers of war so far 
below the high plane of civilization as we know it, that 
they should be blotted out of existence. 





As regards women Alexina was not likely to remain 
shocked for long at any erratic manifestations of temperament. Pride and fastidiousness and the steel armor 
fused by circumstances had protected her heretofore 
from any divagations of her own; nor had crystallized 
temptation ever approached her. 



 

But her education had been liberal. Several of her 
intimate friends and more that she associated with daily 
made what she euphemistically termed a cult of men. 
The naive deliberate immorality of young things not 
only in the best society but in all walks of life is far 
more prevalent than the good people of this world will 
ever believe. Those with much to lose seldom lose it; 
the instinct of self-protection envelops them as a mantle ; 
although in small towns, where concealments are less 
simple, the majority of scandals are not about married 
women as in a less sophisticated era, but about girls. 

Alexina had possessed numerous confidences, helped 
more than once to throw dust, amiably replaced the post. 
She had never approved, but she was philosophical. 
She took life as she found it; although the fact stood 
out that Aileen, who was indifferent to men, remained 
always her favorite friend. 

An individualist, she felt it no part of her philosophy 
to criticize the acts of women with different desires, 
weaknesses, temptations, equipment from her own; all 
other things being equal. That was the point. These 
girls who made use of their most secret and personal 
possession as they saw fit were as well-bred as herself, 
honorable in all their dealings with one another and 
with society at large, generous, tolerant, exquisite in 
their habits, often highly intelligent and studious. Sex 
was an incident. 

With the peccadillos of married women who were 
wives she had little tolerance as they were a breach of 
faith, a deliberate violation of contract, and indecent to 
boot. She was quite aware that Sibyl for all her posturings, and avidness for sex admiration, and "acting 
oriental" as the phrase went, was entirely devoted to 
Frank. Such of her married friends as had severed 
all but the nominal and public bond with their legal 
husbands, she placed in the same category as girls as 
far as her personal attitude toward them went. 



IV 

Therefore not only did she understand these young 
women driven by the horrid stimulus of war; women 



 

(or girls) heretofore sheltered, virtuous, romantic, sentimental, now merely filled with the lust of life. They 
were, like herself, devoted and meticulous nurses, brave, 
high-miaded, tender; practically all, if not from the 
upper, at least from the educated ranks of life. But 
they lived under the daily shadow of death. Even when 
safe from the shells of the big guns, the murderous air- 
craft paid them daily visits, singling out hospitals with 
diabolical precision. They were in daily contact with 
young torn human bodies from which had gone forever 
the purpose for which one generation precedes another. 
Life was horror. Blood and death and shattered bodies 
were their daily portion. No matter how brave, they 
heard death scream in every shell. The world beyond 
existed as a mirage. No wonder they became primeval. 
Alexina had met Alice Thorndyke in one of these hospitals and observed her with some curiosity. But Alice 
was, to use her own vernacular, the best little bourgeoise 
of them all. She had had her fling. Men repelled her. 
She never meant to marry, even for substance. When 
the war was over she should live the completely independent life. Nobody would care what economic liberties 
a woman took in the new era. The war had liberalized 
the most conservative old bunch of relatives a girl was 
ever inflicted with. 



As Alexina sat huddled in her warm coat — the peri-
winkle blue to which she was still faithful — her dark 
fine hair, hanging about her, a mantle in itself, she recalled those days when she, too, had vibrated to that 
savage lust for life ; those days of concentrated egoism, 
of deep and powerful passions whose existence she had 
only dimly begun to suspect after she dismissed her 
husband. 

What had held her back? She had had a no more 
fastidious inheritance than most of those wpmen, a no 
more cultivated intelligence, nor proud instinct of selection, nor ingrained habit of self-control. 

She had put it down at first to fastidiousness, possibly 
a still lurking desire to be able to give all to one man ; 
that hope of the complete mating which no woman relinquishes until toothless, certainly not in the mere zone of 
death. 

She had concluded that it was neither of these, or at 
least that they had but played a part, and alone would 
never have won. It was a furious mental revolt at the 
terrific power of the body, the mind, frightened and cornered, determined to dominate; a fierce delight in the 
battle raging behind her serene and smiling mask to the 
accompaniment of that vulgar blare of war where mind 
over matter was as powerless in the death throe as incantations during an eruption of Vesuvius. 

This internal silent warfare between her long reed-like 
body as little sensible to fatigue as if made of flexible 
steel and her extremely cold proud chaste-looking head 
had grown to be of such absorbing interest that the 
knowledge of its cessation was almost a shock. It was 
after a prolonged experience in a hospital where they 
were short of nurses and rest was almost unknown and 
the inroads upon her vitality so severe and menacing 
that she was finally ordered to Paris to rest, and there 
found a complete change of habit in an oeuvre founded 
by the equally exhausted but always valiant Olive de 
Morsigny, that she suddenly realized that somewhere 
sometime the battle had finished and mind and body were 
acting in complete harmony. 



VI 

To-night she wondered if her imagination, turned 
loose, stimulated, had not missed the whole point. There 
had been no man who had made the direct irresistible 
appeal. No concrete temptation. . . . She had after 
all been a degree too civilized . . . or . . . romantic 
idealism ? 

There had been little to stimulate and excite since she 
had settled down to office work in the summer of nineteen-sixteen. Her nerves, always strong, had become too 
case-hardened to be affected by avions or the immense 
uncertainties of Big Bertha; although the light on the 
horizon at night during the last German Drive and the 



 

bellow of the guns had shaken her with a sort of 
reminiscent excitement. 

But for the most part she had felt frozen, torpid, a 
cog in the vast military machine of Prance, dedicating 
herself like hundreds of other women to the succor of 
men she never saw. That extraordinary abominable experience at the front was overlaid, almost forgotten. 
And such news as one had in Paris was quite enough to 
exercise the mind. . . . There had been the downfall of 
the Eussian dynasty . . . the still more sinister downfall of the true revolutionists . . . the Bolshevik monster 
projecting its murderous shadow over all Europe, exposing the instability of the entire social structure. . . . 



Was it? Could such an experience ever be forgotten? 
The grass might grow over the dead on the battlefields, 
but the corruption fed the wheat, and the people of 
France ate the bread. This uninvited thought had in- 
truded itself the first time she had driven by the Marne 
battlefields and seen the numberless crosses in the rich 
abundant fields. 

She smiled, a small, secret, ruthless smile. . . . That 
was her residue : ruthlessness. She may have left behind 
her in the turbulent war-zone the savage elementary lust 
for living at any cost, but she had ineradicably learned 
the value of life, its brevity at best, the still more tragic 
brevity of youth; she had a store of hideous memories 
which could only be submerged first in the performance 
of duty if duty were imperative; then, duty discharged 
and finished, in the one thing that during its brief time 
gave life any meaning, made this earthly sojourn bearable. If she met the man she wanted she would have 
him if she had to fight for him tooth and nail. 

It was four o 'clock. She went to bed. 



 



CHAPTER IV 



THE next day Alexina found herself suddenly free 
of ofiSee duty. A very handsome and wealthy 
American woman who had not been able to visit her 
beloved Paris since the beginning of the World's War, 
and finding the State Department obdurate to the whims 
of pretty women, had induced Mrs. Ballinger Groome, 
on one of whose committees she had worked faithfully, 
to ask her sister-in-law to inform the Department of 
State that her services at the oeuvre in Paris were indispensable. 

Alexina had passed the letter on to the President, 
Madame de Morsigny, and forgotten the incident. Olive 
wrote the necessary letter promptly. Not only did she 
believe that the time had come for Alexina to rest, but 
she longed for a fresh access of energy in the office that 
would in a measure relieve herself. Moreover, Sirs. 
Wallack was wealthy and had many wealthy friends. 
That meant more money for the oeuvre, always in need 
of money. Olive had given large sums herself, but the 
president of a charity is yet to be found who will not 
permit its constant demands to be relieved by the generous public. Sirs. WaUaek had not only promised a 
substantial donation at once, but a monthly contribution. 
This had not been named, but Jladame de Morsigny 
meant that it should be something more than nominal. 
She could do so much for Mrs. Wallack socially, now 
that it was possible to entertain again, that she felt 
reasonably confident of rousing the enthusiasm of any 
ambitious New Yorker. Moreover, Olive had a very insinuating way with her 





Mrs. Wallack presented herself at the imposing head- 
quarters of the oeuvre, radiant, fresh, energetic, beautifully dressed. The war had interested her and com- 
manded her sympathies to some purpose, but nothing 
short of personal afaietion could subdue that inexhaustible vitality, and she seemed to bring into the dark and 
solemn rooms something of the atmospheric gayety and 
sunshine of a land that had done much but suffered 
little. 

By no one was she received with more warmth of 
welcome than by Alexina. The sudden release made her 
realize sharply her lowered vitality. Moreover, the semi- 
yearly income which had just arrived from California 
was her own now and she could replenish her wardrobe 
and feel feminine and irresponsible once more. The reaction was so violent that after inducting Mrs. Wallack 
into the mysteries of her desk she remained in bed, 
prostrate, for two days. Then, feeling several years 
younger, she sallied forth in search of many things. 





There is no such antidote to the migraines of the 
woman soul as clothes. Their only rival is travel and 
there are cases where they know none. Sometimes 
women remember to pity men, that have no such happy 
playground. 

Alexina for all her ramifications, some of them too 
deep, had a light and feminine side. During the following fortnight she gave it full rein; she was absorbed, 
almost happy. She spent quite recklessly and after the 
years of economy and self-denial this alone gave her an 
intense satisfaction. In addition to her income forwarded by Judge Lawton, who had charge of her affairs, her brother Ballinger, who was as fond of her as 
of his own children, and very proud of her — she had 
received two decorations — sent her a large check with 
the mandate to spend it on herself. 



IV 

Even so, she was not always in the shops and the dress- 
makers ' ateliers. She found much amusement in strolling up and down the arcades of the Rue de Rivoli, 
watching the odd throngs at which Paris herself seemed, 
to bend her head and stare. 

Some poet had called Paris the mistress of Europe. 
She looked like an old trollop. She was dirty and 
dreary, unpainted and unwashed. The rain was almost 
incessant and the shop windows were soon denuded of 
the few attractive novelties scrambled together to meet 
the sudden demand after the long drought. 

But under the long arcades the curious sauntering 
throngs were sheltered from the rain and found all 
things in Paris novel. Men in the American khaki, from 
generals to striplings, were there by the hundred; endless streams of young women in the uniform of the Red 
Cross, the Y. M. C. A., the Salvation Army ; British and 
American nurses; members of the fashionable oeuvres 
artlessly watching this novel phase of Paris ; the beautiful violet uniform of Le Bien-Btre du Blesse ; girls with 
worn faces and relaxed bodies fresh from the front, hundreds of them, arriving daily in camions and cars, thanking heaven for the sudden cessation of work, sleeping 
heaven knew where. The American women of the Commission, and others who, like Mrs. Wallack, had invented 
a plausible excuse to get to Paris and looked almost anachronistic in their smart gowns, their fresh faces, their 
bright, curious, glancing eyes. 

There were also officers in the uniform of Britain, and 
Alexina regarded them frankly, with no effort to deceive 
herself. The spirit of adventure was awake in her, now 
that the dark mood had passed, or slept. She hoped to 
meet the man of the embassy again, whether he were 
Gathbroke or another. She had liked his eyes. 

She had met many charming and interesting men dur- 
ing the last two and a half years at Olive de Morsigny's 
table, especially when Andre, convalescent, was at home. 
But their eyes had said nothing to her whatever, if not 
for the want of trying. Alexina 's imagination, torpid 
for many months, ran riot. This man might disappoint 
her, might have nothing in him for her, but she refused 
for more than a moment to contemplate anything so flat. 
Something must come of that adventure, that vital in- 



 

tensely personal moment when their eyes had met above 
flames so tiny the wonder was they could see anything 
but a white blur on the dark. She was as sure of meet- 
ing him again as that she trod on air after she had 
ordered a new gown or brought an inordinately be- 
coming hat. She had forgotten Mortimer's existence. 



CHAPTER V 



ONE day at the Hotel Crillon she thought she had 
found him. 

She had passed the portals of that fortress with some 
delay, for the American Commission protected itself as 
if it dwelt under the shadow of imminent assassination 
and theft ; whereas it was merely exclusive. The sentries 
at the door demanded her permit, and passed her in with 
intense suspicion to the inner guard. This was composed 
of three polite but very young lieutenants in smart new 
uniforms with no blight of war on them, and flagrantly 
of the American aristocracy. 

With these she had less trouble, for they recognized 
her social status and accepted her explanation that she 
had been invited for tea with one of the ladies of the 
Commission. Nevertheless, they knew their duty and 
Alexina was followed up to the door of her hostess' suite 
by another young guardian who watched her entrance 
through the sacred door as carefully as if he suspected 
her of carrying a bomb in her muff. 


The party numbered about thirty, and Alexina, after 
chatting with the few she knew, was standing apart by a 
small table drinking a cup of tea with three lumps of 
sugar in it and consuming cakes like a greedy boarding- 
school girl home for the holidays, when she caught sight 
of a man in the British khaki, a major by his insignia, 



 

a tall man, thin and straight, standing with his back to 
her at the opposite end of the room. He was talking to 
the host and a small group of men. She glimpsed something like half of his profile when he turned from the 
host for a moment. Like all men in khaki, when not 
pronounced brunettes, his complexion and hair looked 
the same color as his uniform. 

Nevertheless ... if she could only see his eyes . . . 
he turned his full profile . . . she had never glanced at 
Gathbroke's profile; he had given her no opportunity! 
. . . Certainly she had not the faintest idea whether the 
man of the embassy had had a snub nose or the thin 
straight feature of this man who would have attracted 
her attention in any ease if only because he did not carry 
his shoulders with the disillusioning obliquity of the 
British Army . . . why did he not turn round ? Alexina 
felt an impulse to throw her cup straight across the room 
at the back of that well-shaped head. 

Suddenly he shook hands with his host, nodded to the 
others and left the room. 





Alexina set her cup and saucer down on the table, 
forebore to interrupt her hostess, T.'ho was known to talk 
steadily in order to avoid questions, and walked quickly 
and deliberately out after him. It is a primitive instinct 
in woman to chase the male; but civilization having 
inithated her into the art of permitting him to chase her, 
Alexina was merely bent upon giving this man his 
chance if the interest had been mutual and existed beyond the moment. 

One lift was descending as she reached the outer corridor and the other was closed. She ran down the wide 
staircase as rapidly as a woman in fashionable skirts 
may. There was no British uniform in the hall below. 



IV 

She stood for a quarter of an hour under the arcade 
before the Crillon waiting for a taxi, staring out into 



 

the dreary mist of rain, at the round soft blurs of light 
in the Place de la Concorde, but in no wise depressed. 
What did it matter if she had not met him to-day ? The 
conviction that she should meet him before long was as 
strong as if she were ever hopeful sixteen. . . . That 
was the real secret of her elation. She felt very young 
and entirely carefree. She reflected that if she had met 
Gathbroke, or whoever he might be, during the last three 
years of the war she would have felt neither joy nor 
elation, however interested she might have been. To love 
and dream and enjoy when men were falling every minute, writhing in agony, gasping out their life, would have 
seemed to her grossly unsesthetic if nothing worse. It 
was not in the picture. The primal impulses she had 
experienced at the front to that harsh music of Death's 
orchestra were natural enough; but safe (comparatively!) in Paris, certainly quiet, the romance of love 
would have been as incongruous and heartless as to go 
out to the great hospital at Neuilly and tango through a 
ward of dying men. 

But now! She had done her part. She could do no 
more. Men still must die, but in every comfort, with 
every consolation. And there would be no more recruits. 

She was free. She was young, young, young again. 

And at this moment her heart emptied itself of song 
and sank like lead in her breast. She pressed her muff 
against her face to hide the sudden grimace she was sure 
contorted it; there had been few moments in her life 
when she had not been mistress of her features, but this 
was one of them. 

Gora Dwight was walking rapidly toward her. 



CHAPTER VI 

I 

DORA did not see her sister-in-law for a moment and 
Alexina had time to recover her poise and make 
sharp swift observations. She had not seen Gora for 



 

four years, nor exchanged a line with her. She had 
almost forgotten her. The changes were more striking 
than in herself, who had been always slight. Gora's 
superb bust had disappeared ; her face was gaunt, throwing into prominence its width and the high cheek bones. 
Her eyes were enormous in her thin brown face; to 
Alexina 's excited imagination they looked like polar seas 
under a gray sky brooding above innumerable dead. 
There were lines about her handsome mouth, closer and 
firmer than ever. How she must have worked, poor 
thing! "What sights, what suffering, what despair . . , 
four long years of it. But she had evidently had her 
discharge. She wore an extremely well-cut brown 
tailored suit, good furs, and a small turban with a red 
wing. 
What was she in Paris for ? . . . What . . . what . . . 



Gora saw her and almost ran forward, that brilliant 
inner light that had always been her chief attraction 
breaking through her cold face . . . sunlight sparkling 
on polar seas ... oh, yes, Gora had her charm ! 

"Alexina! It isn't possible! I was going to ask at 
the American Embassy for your address. I only arrived 
last night." 

Alexina had lowered her muff and her face expressed 
only the warmest surprise and welcome. "Gora! It's 
too wonderful! But I suppose you couldn't go home 
without seeing Paris?" 

"Rather not! It's the first chance I've had, too. 
Where can we have a talk ? ' ' 

"It's too late for tea. Come out to my pension and 
spend the night. Janet and Alice have gone to Nice for 
a few days' rest. You'll be hideously uncomfort- 
able " 

' ' Not any more than where I am — sharing a room with 
three others. Where can I telephone? In here?" 

"Good heavens, no. Take a liberty with a duke, but 
with the American aristocracy, never. Come down to 
the Meurice. Perhaps we can find a cab there. This 



 

seems to be hopeless. Everybody comes to the Crillon 
in a private car or a military automobile. Taxis appear 
to avoid it." 



It only took half an hour to get the telephone connection and another to seize by force a taxi, which, however, 
deposited them at the Etoile. The driver explained unamiably that he wanted his dinner ; and a bribe, unless 
unthinkable, would have been useless. In these days taxi 
drivers made fifty francs a day in tips, and, as a Frenchman knows exactly what he wants and calculates to a 
nicety when he has enough, valuing rest and nutriment 
above even the delights of gouging foolish Americans, 
Alexina knew that it would be useless to argue and did 
not even waste energy in announcing her opinion of him 
for taking a fare under false pretenses. There was no 
other cab in sight and they walked the rest of the way. 
But both were inured to hardships and took their mis- 
hap good-naturedly, trudging the long distance under 
their umbrellas. 

IV 

After a very bad dinner in an airless room as frugally 
lighted they made themselves comfortable in Alexina 's 
room over the oil stove she had bought, and supplied 
through Olive's influence with the higher powers. She 
took off her street clothes and put on a thick dressing 
gown, giving her sister-in-law a quilted red wrapper of 
Janet's, which threw some warmth into Gora's pale 
cheeks. She looked comfortable, almost happy, as she 
smoked her cigarette in the arm-chair. 

Alexina curled up on the bed. 

"Now, Gora," she said brightly, "give an account of 
yourself." 

Gora did not reply for a moment and Alexina examining her again came to the conclusion that she had been 
spared some of the horrors of the front. As a head nurse 
her responsibilities had been too heavy for philanderings, 
and having the literary imagination rather than the personal she had no douht consigned it to a water-tight 
compartment and converted herself into a machine. 

"I don't know that I can talk about it," she said. 
"I feel much like the men. It is too close. I am thankful that I had the experience ; not only to have been of 
actual service, indispensable, as every good nurse was, 
but to have been a part of that colossal drama. But I 
am even more thankful that it is over and if I can possibly avoid it I'll never nurse again." 

'' I suppose you have had no time to write ? ' ' 

'' I should think not ! During the brief leaves of absence I spent most of the time in bed. But I have an 
immense amount of material. I have no idea how much 
fiction has been written about the war ; there might have 
been none, so far as I have had time to discover. I've 
barely read a newspaper." 

"'rhe only reason I want to go back to America is to 
hear the news. I see a New York newspaper once in a 
while, and it is plain they have it all. We have next to 
none in Europe, in France at all events. Shall you recite 
your stories here or go back to California ? That would 
give you the necessary perspective, I should think." 

Alexina's eyes were fixed upon an execrable print 
many inches above the footboard, and Gora, glancing at 
her, reflected that she was as beautiful as ever in spite 
of her loss of flesh and color. Any one would be with 
eyes that were like stars when they looked at you and a 
Murillo madonna's when she lifted them the fraction of 
an inch. Astute as she was she had never penetrated 
below the surface of Alexina, nor suspected the use she 
made of those pliable orbs. Alexina had such an abundance of surface it occurred to few people that she 
might be both subtle and deep. 

"I . . . don't know. ... I rather fear losing the at- 
mosphere . . . the immediate stimulation. Shall you go 
home, now that you are free 1 ' ' 

"I wonder. Could I stand it? I have longed for a 
rest — ached would be a better word. . . . This last year, 
has been full of both nervous strain and desperate monotony. Nineteen-seventeen was bad enough in another 
way : the internal defeatist campaign, the constant menace of mutiny, Soviets in the army, strikes in the muni- 
tion towns, — all the rest of it. . . . But could one stand 
California after such an experience? I know they have 
done splendid work since we entered the war, but I know 
also that they will immediately subside into exactly what 
they were before, settle down with a long sigh of relief 
to enjoy life and forget that war ever was. It could 
not be otherwise in that climate. With that abundance. 
That remoteness. . . . There seems no place out there 
for me. A decorator after this! What funny little resources we thought out in those days. ... I do not see 
myself fitting in anywhere. Tom wants to buy Ballinger 
House for Maria and I fancy I'll let him have it. I can't 
keep it up unaided and I might as well sell as rent it. 
He and Judge Lawton would invest the money and I 
should have quite a decent income. As for Mortimer 
I never want to see him again. He has not done one 
thing for this war — he is utterly contemptible " 

"I've long since given up criticizing Mortimer. My 
