His name appeared in none of them. It was 
useless to look over newspaper files, as editorials were not signed. But he must be writing for one of them. He had his immediate 
living to make. 

What should she do? 

As she groped her way down the dark stair- 
case of the library she remembered the news- 
paper friend, Ralph Holt, who had padded his 
books — so the chambermaid had informed her 
casually — and whom she had met once when 
walking with Masters. He, if any one, would 
know Masters' address. But how meet him? 
He<.did not go in Society, and she had never 
seen him since. She could think of no excuse 
to ask him to call. Nor was it possible — to 
her, at least — to write a note and ask him for 
information outright. 

But by this time she was desperate. See 
Holt she would, and after a few moments' 
hard thinking her feminine ingenuity flashed 



 

a beacon. Holt was one of the sub-editors of 
his newspaper and although he had been about 
to resign and join Masters, no doubt he was 
on the staff still. Madeleine remembered that 
Masters had often spoken of a French restaurant in the neighborhood of the Alta offices, 
patronized by newspaper men. The cooking 
was excellent. He often lunched there himself. 

She glanced at her watch. It was one o'clock. 
She walked quickly toward the restaurant. 



XXVIII 

SHE ENTERED in some trepidation. She 
had never visited a restaurant alone before. 
And this one was crowded with men, the atmosphere thick with smoke. She asked the 
fat little proprietor if she might have a table 
alone, and he conducted her to the end of the 
room, astonished but flattered. A few women 
came to the restaurant occasionally to lunch 
with " their boys,'' but no such lady of the hautton as this. A fashionable woman's caprice, no 
doubt. 

Her seat faced the room, and as she felt the 
men staring at her, she studied the menu carefully and did not raise her eyes until she gave 
her order. In spite of her mission and its tragic 
cause she experienced a fleeting satisfaction that 
she was well and becomingly dressed. She had 
intended dropping in informally on Sibyl 
Forbes, still an outcast, in spite of her intercession, and wore a gown of dove-colored cash- 
mere and a hat of the same shade with a long 
lilac feather. 



 

She summoned her courage and glanced 
about the room, her eyes casual and remote. 
Would it be possible to recognize any one in 
that smoke? But she saw Holt almost immediately. He sat at a table not far from her 
own. She bowed cordially and received as 
frigid a response as Mrs. Abbott would have 
bestowed on Sibyl Forbes. 

Madeleine colored and dropped her eyes 
again. Of course he knew her for the cause 
of Masters' desertion of the city that needed 
him, and the disappointment of his own hopes 
and ambitions. Moreover, she had inferred 
from his conversation the day they had all 
walked together for half an hour that he regarded Masters as little short of a god. He 
was several years younger, he was clever himself, and nothing like Masters had ever come 
his way. He had declared that the projected 
newspaper was to be the greatest in America. 
She had smiled at his boyish enthusiasm, but 
without it she would probably have forgotten 
him. She had resented his presence at the 
time. 

Of course he hated her. But she had come 
too far to fail. He passed her table a few 




moments later and she held out her hand with 
her sweetest smile. 

"Sit down a moment,' she said with her 
pretty air of command j and although his face 
did not relax he could do no less than obey. 

" I feel more comfortable," she said. " I 
had no idea I should be the only lady here. 
But Mr. Masters so often spoke to me of this 
restaurant that I have always meant to visit 
it." She did not flutter an eyelash as she 
uttered Masters' name, and her lovely eyes 
seemed wooing Holt to remain at her side. 

" Heartless, like all the rest of them," 
thought the young man wrathf uUy. " Well, 
I'll give her one straight." 

" Have you heard from him lately? " she 
asked, as the waiter placed the dishes on the 
table. " He hasn't written to one of his old 
friends since he left, and I've often wondered 
what hasf become of him." 

" He's gone to the devil ! " said Holt brutally. " And I guess you know where the blame 
lies — Oh ! — Drink this ! " He hastily 
poured out a glass of claret. " Here ! Drink 
it ! Brace up, for God's sake. Don't give 
yourself away before all these fellows."




Madeleine swallowed the claret but pushed 
back her chair. " Take me away quickly," she 
muttered. "I don't care what they think. 
Take me where you can tell me — " 

He drew her hand through his arm, for he 
was afraid she would fall, and as he led her 
down the room he remarked audibly, "No 
wonder you feel faint. There's no air in the 
place, and youVe probably never seen so much 
smoke in your life before." 

At the door he nodded to the anxious proprietor, and when they reached the sidewalk asked 
if he should take her home. 

" No. I must talk to you alone. There is 
a hack. Let us drive somewhere." 

He handed her into the hack, telling the man 
to drive where he liked as long as he avoided 
the Cliff House Road. Madeleine shrank into 
a comer and began to cry wildly. He regarded 
her with anxiety, and less hostility in his bright 
blue eyes. 

"I'm awfully sorry," he said. "I was a 
brute. But I thought you would know — I 
thought other things — " 

" I knew nothing, but I can't believe it is true. 
There must be some mistake. He is not like 
that." 

"That's what's happened. You see, his 
world went to smash. That was the opportunity of his life, and such opportunities don't 
come twice. He has no capital of his own, and 
he can't raise money in New York. Besides, 
he didn't want a newspaper anywhere else. 
And — and — of course, you know, newspaper 
men hear all the talk — he was terribly hard 
hit. I couldn't help feeling a little sorry for 
you when I heard you were ill and all the rest
but today you looked a^ if you had forgotten 
poor Masters had ever lived — just a Society 
butterfly and a coquette." 

"Oh, I'm not blaming you! Perhaps it 
is all my fault. I don't know! — But that! 
I can't believe it. I never knew a man with 
as strong a character. He — he — always 
could control himself. And he had too much 
pride and ambition." 

" I guess you don't know it, but he had a 
weak spot for liquor. That is the reason he 
drank less than the rest of us — and that did 
show strength of character: that he could drink 
at all. I only saw him half -seas over once. 
.He told me then he was always on the watch 
lest it get the best of him. His father drank 



 

himself to death after the war, and his grand- 
father from mere love of his cups. Nothing 
but a hopeless smash-up, though, would ever 
have let it get the best of him. . . . He was 
terribly high-strung imder all that fine repose 
of his, and although his mind was like 
polished metal in a way, it was full of 
quicksilver. When a man like that lets go — 
nothing left to hold on to — he goes down hill 
at ten times the pace of an ordinary chap. I — 
I — suppose I may as well tell you the whole 
truth. He never drew a sober breath on the 
steamer and he's been drunk more or less ever 
since he arrived in New York. Of course he 
writes — has to — but can't hold down any responsible position. They'd be glad to give him 
the best salary paid if he'd sober up, but he gets 
worse instead of better. He's been thrown off 
two papers already and it's only because he can 
write better drunk than most men sober that he 
sells an article now and again when he has to." 
Madeleine had torn her handkerchief to 
pieces. She no longer wept. Her eyes were 
wide with horror. He fancied he saw awful 
visions in them. Fearing she might faint or 
have hysterics, he hastily extracted a brandy 
flask from his pocket. 





" Do you mind? " he asked diffidently. 
" Sorry I haven't a glass, but this is the first 
time I've taken the cork out.'' 

She lifted the flask obediently and took a 
draught that commanded his respect. 

She smiled faintly as she met his wide-eyed 
regard. " My husband makes me live on this 
stuff. I was threatened with consumption. It 
affected me very little, but it helps me in more 
ways than one." 

" Well, don't let it help you too much. I 
suppose the doctor knows best — but — well, it 
gets a hold on you when you are down on your 
luck." 

" If it ever ^ gets a hold ' on me it will because I deliberately wish it to," she said 
haughtily. " If Langdon Masters — has gone 
as far as you say, I don't believe it is through 
any inherited weakness. He has done it deliberately." 

" I grant that. And I'm sorry if I offended 
-you — " 

" I am only grateful to you. I feel better 
now and can think a little. Something must be 
done. Surely he can be saved." 

" I doubt it. When a man starts scientifically drinking himself to death nothing can be 
done when there is nothing better to offer him. 
May I be frank ? " 

" I have been frank enough ! " 

" Masters told me nothing of course, but I 
heard all the talk. Old Travers let out his 
part of it in his cups, and news travels from
the Clubs like water out of a sieve. We don't 
publish that sort of muck, but there were innuendoes in that blackguard sheet. The Boom. 
They stopped suddenly and I fancy the editor 
had a taste of the horsewhip. It wouldn't be the 
first time. . . . When Masters sent for me and 
told me he was leaving San Francisco for good 
and all, he looked like a man who had been 
through Dore's Hell — was there still, for that 
matter. Of course I knew what had happened; 
if I hadn't Pd have known it the next day when 
I saw the doctor. He looked bad enough, but 
nothing to Masters. He had less reason ! Of 
course Masters threw his career to the winds to 
save your good name. Noblesse oblige. Too 
bad he wasn't more of a villain aAd less of a 
great gentleman. It, might have been better all 
jxnmd. This town certainly needs him." 

'' If he were not a great gentleman nothing 





would have happened in the first place," she 
said with cool pride. " But I asked you if there 
were no way to save him.'' 

" I can think of only two ways. If your 
husband would write and ask him to return to 
San Francisco — " 

" He'd never do that." 

"Then you might — you might — " He 
was fair and blushed easily. Being secretly a 
sentimental youth he was shy of any of the 
verbal expressions of sentiment but he swallowed and continued heroically. " You — 
you — I think you love him. I can see you 
are not heartless, that you are terribly cut up. 
If you love him enough you might save him. 
A man like Masters can quit cold no matter 
how far he has gone if the inducement is great 
enough. If you went to New York — " 

He paused and glanced at her apprehensively, 
but although she had gasped she only shook her 
head sadly. 

" Pll never break my husband's heart and the 
vows I made at the altar, no matter what 
happens." 

" Oh, you good women ! I believe you are 
at the root of more disaster than all the strumpets put together! " 



 

" It may be. I remember he once said some- 
thing of the sort. But he loved me for what 
I am and I cannot change myself." 

" You could get a divorce.'' 

" I have no ground. And I would not if I 
had. He knows that." 

" No wonder he is without hope! But I 
don't pretend to understand women. You'll 
leave him in the gutter then? " 

"Don't!— Don't — " 

" Well, if he isn't there literally he soon will 
be. I've seen men of your set in the gutter 
here when they'd only been on a spree for a 
week, Take Alexander Groome and Jack Bel- 
mont, for instance. And after the gutter it is 
sometimes the calaboose." 

" You are cruel, and perhaps I deserve it. 
But if you will give me his address I will write 
to him." 

" I wouldn't. He might be too drunk to 
read your letter, and lose it. Or he might tear 
it up in a fury. I don't fancy even drink could 
make Langdon Masters maudlin, and the sight 
of your handwriting would be more likely to 
make him empty the bottle with a curse than to 
awaken tender sentiment. Anyhow, it would 




be a risk. Some blackguard might get hold 
of it." 

" Very well, I'll not write. Will you tell the 
man to drive to the Occidental Hotel ? " 

He gave the order and when he drew in his 
head she laid her hand on his and said in her 
sweet voice and with her soft eyes raised to his 
(he no longer wondered that Masters had lost 
his head over her), " I want to thank you for 
the kindness you have shown me and the care 
you took of me in that restaurant. What you 
have told me has destroyed the little peace of 
mind I had left, but at least I'm no longer in the 
dark. I will confess that I went to that restaurant in the hope of seeing you ai^d learning 
something about Masters. Nor do I mind that 
I have revealed myself to you without shame. 
I have had no confidant throughout all this 
terrible time and it has been a relief. I suppose it is always easier to be frank with a 
stranger than with even the best of friends." 

" Thanks. But Pd like you to know that I 
am your friend. I'd do anything I could for 
you — for Masters' sake as well as your own. 
It's an awful mess. Perhaps you'll think of 
some solution." 



 

" I've thought of one as far as I am concerned. I shall drink myself to death." 

"What?" He was sitting sideways, embracing his knees, and he just managed to save 
himself from toppling over. " Have you gone 
clean out of your head?" 

" Oh, no. Not yet. But I shall do as I 
said. If I cannot follow him I can follow his 
example. Why should he go to the dogs and 
I go through life with the respect and approval 
of the world ? He is far greater than I — 
and better. I can at least share his disgrace, 
and I shall also forget — and, it may be, de- 
lude myself that I am with him at times." 

" My God ! The logic of women ! How 
happy do you think that will make your husband? Good old sport, the doctor — and as 
for religion — and vows! " 

" One can stand so much and no more. I 
have reached the breaking point here in this 
carriage. It is that or suicide, and that would 
bring open disgrace on my husband. The other 
would only be suspected. And I'll not last 
long." 

The hack stopped in front of the hotel. She 
gave him her hand after he had escorted her to 



 

the door. " Thank you once more. And I'd 
be grateful if you would come and tell me if 
you have any further news of him — no matter 
what. Will you?'' 

" Yes," he said. " But I feel like going off 
and getting drunk, myself. I wish I hadn't 
told you a thing." 

" It wouldn't have made much difference. 
If you know it others must, and I'd have heard 
it sooner or later. I hope you'll call in any 



case." 



He promised J but the next time he saw her 
it was not in a drawing-room. 



XXIX 

MADELEINE had reached the calmness . 
of despair once more, and this time without a glimmer of hope. Life had showered its 
gifts sardonically upon her before breaking her 
in her youth, and there was still a resource in its 
budget that it had no power to withhold. She . 
was a firm believer in the dogmas of the Church 
and knew that she would be punished hereafter. 
Well, so would he. It might be they would 
be permitted to endure their punishment together. And meanwhile, there was oblivion, 
delusions possibly, and then death. 

It was summer and there were no engagements to break. The doctor was caught in the 
whirlwind of another small-pox epidemic and 
lived in rooms he reserved for the purpose. 
He did not insist upon her departure from town 
as he knew her to be immune, and he thought 
it best she should remain where she could pursue her regimen uninterrupted; and tax her 

strength as little as possible. If he did not 


 

dismiss her from his mind at least he had not 
a misgiving. She had never disobeyed him, 
she appeared to have forgotten Masters at last, 
she took her tonics automatically, and there were 
good plays in town. In a few months she 
would be restored to health and himself. 

He returned to the hotel at the end of six 
weeks. It was the dinner hour but his wife was 
not at the piano. He tapped on the door that 
led from the parlor to her bedroom, and 
although there was no response he turned the 
knob and entered. 

Madeleine was lying on the bed, asleep 
apparently. 

He went forward anxiously; he had never 
known her to sleep at this hour before. He 
touched her lightly on the shoulder, but she did 
not awaken. Then he bent over her, and drew 
back with a frown. But although horrified he 
was far from suspecting the whole truth. He 
had been compelled to break more than one 
patient of too ardent a fidelity to his prescriptions. 

He forced an emetic down her throat, but it 
had no effect. Then he picked her up and 
carried her into the bath room and held her 



 

head under the shower. The blood flowed 
down from her congested brain. She struggled 
out of his arms and looked at him with dull 
angry eyes. 

" What do you mean ? " she demanded. 
" How dared you do such a thing to me ? " 

" You had taken too much, my dear," he said 
kindly. "Or else it affects you more than it 
did — possibly because you no longer need it. 
I shall taper you off by degrees, and then I 
think we can do without it." 

" Without it ? I couldn't live without it. 
I need more — and more — " She looked about 
wildly. 

" Oh, that is all right. They always think so 
at first. In six months you will have forgotten 
it. Remember, I am a doctor — and a good 
one, if I say so myself." 

She dropped her eyes. "Very well," she 
said humbly. " Of course you know best." 

" Now, put on dry clothes and let us have 
dinner. It seems a year since I dined with 
you." 

" I haven't the strength." 

He went into the parlor and returned with a 
small glass of cognac. " This will brace you 



 

up, and, as I said, you must taper off. But I'll 
measure the doses myself, hereafter." 

She put on an evening gown, but with none 
of her old niceness of detail. She merely put 
it on. Her wet hair she twisted into a knot 
without glancing at the mirror. As she entered 
the parlor she staggered slightly. Talbot 
averted his eyes. He may have had similar 
cases, and, as a doctor, become hardened to all 
manifestations of human weakness, but this 
patient was his wife. It was only temporary, 
of course, and a not unnatural sequel. But 
Madeleine ! He felt as a priest might if a 
statue of the Virgin opened its mouth and 
poured forth a stream of blasphemy. 

Then he went forward and put his arm about 
her. "Brace up," he said. "I hear the 
waiters in the dining-room. They must not see 
you like this. Where — where have you taken 
your meals ? " 

" In my bedroom." 

" I hoped so. Has any one seen you ? " 

" I don't know — no. I think not. I have 
been careful enough. I do not wish to disgrace you." 

He was obliged to give her another glass of 



 

cognac, and she sat through the dinner without 
betraying herself, although she would cat 
nothing. She was sullen and talked little, and 
when the meal was over she went directly to 
bed. 

Dr. Talbot followed her, however, and 
searched her wardrobe and bureau drawers. 
He found nothing. When he returned to the 
parlor he locked the cupboard where he kept his 
hospitable stares and put the key in his pocket. 
But he did not go out, and toward midnight he 
heard her moving restlessly about her room. 
She invited him eagerly to enter when he 
tapped. 

" I'm nervous, horribly nervous," she said. 
" Give me some more cognac — anything." 

" You'll have nothing more tonight. I shall 
give you a dose of valerian." 

She swallowed the noxious mixture with a 
grimace and was asleep in a few moments. 



XXX 

THE DOCTOR was still very busy but he 
returned to the hotel four times a day 
and gave her small doses of whatever liquor she 
demanded. In a short time he diluted them 
with Napa Soda water. She was always pacing 
the room when he entered and looked at him 
like a wild animal at bay. But she never mentioned Masters' name, even when her nerves 
whipped her suddenly to hysterics j and although 
he sometimes thought he should go mad with 
the horror of it all, he had faith in his method, 
and in her own pride, as soon as the first torments wore down. She refused to walk out of 
doors or to wear anything but a dressing gown
she took her slender meals in her room. 

But Madeleine's sufferings were more mental 
than physical, although she was willing the 
doctor should form the natural conclusion. 
She was possessed by the fear that a cure would 
be forced upon her j she W2& indifferent even to 
the taste of liquor, and had merely preferred 


 

it formerly to bitter or nauseous tonics  in 
Society it had been a necessary stimulant, when 
her strength began to fail, nothing more. After 
her grim decision she had forced large quan- 
tities down her throat by sheer strength of will. 
But she had found the result all that she had 
expected J she had alternated between exhilaration and oblivion, and was sure that it was 
killing her by inches. Now, she could indulge 
in neither wild imaginings nor forget. And if 
he cured her ! — but her will when she chose 
to exert it was as strong as his, and her resource 
seldom failed her. 

One day in her eternal pacing she paused 
and stared at the keyhole of the cupboard, then 
took a hairpin from her head and tried to pick 
the lock. It was large and complicated and 
she could do nothing with it. She glanced at 
the clock. The doctor would not return for an 
hour. She dressed hastily and went out and 
bought a lump of soft wax. She took an impress of the keyhole and waited with what 
patience she could summon until her husband 
had come and gone. Then she went out again. 
The next day she had the key and that night 
she needed no valerian. 



 

Doctor Talbot paced the parlor himself vintil 
morning. But he did not despair. He had 
had not dissimilar esq^eriences before. He removed his supplies to the cellar of the hotel and 
carried a flask in his pocket from which he 
measured her daily drams. 

The same chambermaid had been on her floor 
for years, and was devoted to her. She sent 
her out for gin on one pretext or another, 
although the woman was not deceived for a 
moment 5 she had "seen how it was" long 
since. But she was middle-aged, Irish, and 
sympathetic. If the poor lady had sorrows let 
her drown them. 

Madeleine was more wary this time. She 
told her husband she was determined to take 
her potions only at noon and at night  in the 
daytime she restrained herself after four o'clock, 
although she took enough to keep up her spirits 
at the dinner-table to which she had thought it 
best to return. 

The doctor, thankful, no longer neglected his 
practice, and left immediately after dinner for 
the Club as she went to her room at once and 
locked the door. There was no doubt of her 
hostility, but that, too, was not unnatural, and 
he was content to wait. 



 

Society returned to town, but she flatly refused to enter it. Nor would she receive any 
one who called. The doctor remonstrated in 
vain. He trusted her perfectly and a glass of 
champagne at dinner would not hurt her. If 
she expected to become quite herself again she 
must have diversions. She was leading an unnatural life. 

She deigned no answer. 

He warned her that tongues would wag. He 
had met several of the women during the summer and told them her lungs were healed. . . . 
No doubt he had been over-anxious, mistaken — 
in the beginning. He wished he had given 
her a tonic of iron arsenic and strychnine, alternated with cod-liver oil. But it was too late for 
regrets, and at least she was well on the road 
to recovery 5 if she snubbed people now they 
would take their revenge when she would be 
eager for the pleasures of Society again. 

Madeleine laughed aloud. 

" But, my dear, this is only a passing phase. 
Of coxu-se your system is depressed but that will 
wear off, and what you need now, even more 
than brandy twice a day, is a mental tonic. By 
the way, don't you think you might leave it 
off now ? " 



" No, I do not. If my system is depressed 
I'd go to pieces altogether without it.'' 

" I'll give you a regular tonic — ^" 

" I'll not take it. You are not disposed to 
use force, I imagine." 

"No, I cannot do that. But you'll accept 
these invitations — some of them ? " He indicated a pile of square envelopes on the table. 
He had opened them but she had not given 
them a passing glance. 

" Society would have the effect of arresting 
my * cure.' I hate it. If you force me to go 
out I'll drink too much and disgrace you." 

" But what shall I tell them ? " he asked in 
despair. " I see some of them every day and 
they'll quiz my head off. They can't suspect 
the truth, of course, but — but — " he paused 
and his ruddy face turned a deep brick red. 
He had never mentioned Masters' name to her 
since he announced his impending departure, 
but he was desperate. " They'll think you're 
pining, that's what! That you won't go out because you take no interest in any one but 
Langdon Masters." 

She was standing by the window with her 
back to him, looking down into the street. She 
turned and met his eyes squarely. 




" That would be quite true," she said. 

" You do not mean that ! " 

" I have never forgotten him for a moment 
and I never shall as long as I live." She averted 
her eyes from his pallid face but went on remorselessly. " If you had been merciful you 
would have let me die when I was so ill. But 
you showed me another way, and now you 
would take even that from me." 

" Do — do you mean to say that you tried 
to drink yourself to death ? " 

" Yes, I mean that. And if you really cared 
for me you would let me do it now." 

"That I'll never do," he cried violently. 
" I'll cure you and you'll get over this damned 
nonsense in time." 

"I never shall get over it. Don't delude 
yourself for an instant." 

He stared at her with a sickening sense of 
impotence — and despair. He thought she had 
never looked more beautiful. She wore a graceful wrapper of pale blue camel's hair and her 
long hair in two pendent braids. She was very 
white and she looked as cold and remote as the 
moon. 

" Madeleine! Madeleine! You have 


changed so completely ! I cannot believe that 
you'll never be the same Madeleine again. 
Why — you — you look as if you were not 
there at all ! " 

" Only my shell is here. The real me is 
with him." 

" Curse the man ! Curse him ! Curse him ! 
I wish Pd blown out his brains!" He threw 
his arms about wildly and she wondered if he 
would strike her. But he threw himself into a 
chair and burst into heavy sobbing. Madeleine 
ran out of the room. 




I TELL you it's true. You needn't pooh- 
pooh at me, Antoinette McLane, I have 
it on the best authority,'' 

" Old Ben Travers, I suppose ! " 

" No, it's not Ben Travers, although he'll find 
it out soon enough. Her chambermaid knows 
my cook. She is devoted to Madeleine, evidently, and cried after she had told it, but — 
well, I suppose it was too good for any mere 
female to keep." 

" Servants' gossip," replied Mrs. McLane 
witheringly. " I should think it would be beneath your self-respect to listen to it. Fancy 
gossiping with one's cook." 

" I didn't," replied Mrs. Abbott with dignity. 
"She told my maid, and if we didn't listen 
to our maids' gossip how much would we really 
know about what goes on in this town ? " 

Mrs. McLane, Mrs. Ballinger, Guadalupe 
Hathaway and Sally Abbott were sitting in Mrs. 
Abbott's large and hideous front parlor after 
1  

luncheon, and she had tormented them throughout the meal with a promise of "something 
that would make their hair stand on end." 

She had succeeded beyond her happy expectations. Mrs. McLane's eyes were flashing. 
Mrs. Ballinger looked like a proud silver poplar 
that had been seared by lightning. Sally burst 
into tears, and Miss Hathaway's large cold 
Spanish blue eyes saw visions of Nina Randolph, 
a brilliant creature of the early sixties, whom 
she had tried to save from the same fate. 

" Be sure the bell boys will find it out," continned Mrs. Abbott unctuously. "And when 
it gets to the Union Club — well, no use for 
us to try to hush it up." 

" As you are trying to do now ! " 

" You needn't spit fire at me. I feel as 
badly as you do about it. If Pve told just you 
four it's only to talk over what can be done." 

" I don't believe there's a word of truth in 
the story. Probably that wretched servant is 
down on her for some reason. Madeleine 
Talbot ! Why, she's the proudest creature that 
ever lived." 

"She might have the bluest blood of the 
South in her veins," conceded Mrs. Ballinger 



 

handsomely. " I pride myself on my imagination but I simply cannot see her in such a condition.'' 

" If it's true, it's Masters, of course," said 
Miss Hathaway. "The only reason I didn't 
fall in love with him was because it was no use. 
But he's the sort of man — there are not many 
of them! — who would make a woman love 
him to desperation if he loved her himself. 
And she'd never forget him." 

"I don't believe it," said Mrs. Ballinger 
coldly. " I never believed that Madeleine was 
in love with Langdon Masters. A good 
woman loves only her husband." 

" Oh, mamma ! " wailed Sally. " Madeleine is young, and the doctor's a dear but he 
wasn't the sort of a man for her at all. He 
^ just attracted her when she was a girl because 
he was so different from the men she knew. 
But Langdon is exactly suited to her. I guessed 
it before any of you did. It worried me dreadfully, but I sympathized — I always admired 
Langdon — if he'd looked at me before I fell 
