"Wanted to see if I could tiun out one all on my 
own," replied Spurlock, looking at McClintock, who 
nodded slightly. "It was the story of a man, so to 
speak, who had left his vitals in his native land and 
wandered strange paths emptily. But never mind 
that. Come along home, Ruth. I'm burning to 
get to work." 
After all those former bitter failures, this cup was 
sweet, even if there was the flavour of irony. At 
least, he would always be able to take care of Ruth. 
The Dawn Pearl ; how well th  had named her ! The 
pearl without price —  his and not his! 
He took her arm and drew it under his; and to- 
gether they went down the veranda steps. Ruth's 
arm trembled and her step faltered, but he was too 
far away in thought to be observant. He saw rifts 
in clouds — sunshine. The future was not so black. 
All the money he earned — serving M cClintock and 
the muse — could be laid away. Then, in a few years, 
he and Ruth might fare forth in comfort and se- 
curity. After five or six years it would not be 
difficult to hide in Italy or in France. No; the 
future was not so dark; there was a bit of dawn 
visible. If this success continued, it would be easy 
to assume the name of Taber. Ruth could not very 
well object, since an air of distinction would go with 
Taber. 
Suddenly he felt Ruth swing violently away from 
him, and he wheeled to learn the cause. 
He beheld a tall gaunt man, his brown face corru- 
gated like a winter's road, grim, stony. His gangling 
body was clothed in rusty twill trousers and a long 
black seersucker coat, buttoned to the throat, around 
which ran a collar which would have marked him the 
world over as a man of the Word. His hand rested 
heavily and cruelly upon Ruth 's shoulder. 
"So, wanton, I have foimd you!" 
"Wanton! Why, you infernal har!" cried Spur- 
lock, striking at the arm. But the free arm of the 
stranger hit  itvi a flail-like blow on the chest and 
sent him sprawling into the yielding sand. Ber- 
serker, Spurlock rose, head down, and charged. 
"Hoddy, Hoddy! .... No, no! This is 
my father!" warned Ruth. 
Spurlock halted in his tracks.   But what does 
he mean by calling you a wanton? —  you, my wife?" 
Enschede's hand slipped from his daughter's 
shoulder. The iron slipped from his face, leaving 
it blank with astonishment. "Your wife?" 
"His lawful wife," said Ruth, with fine dignity. 
For a moment none of them stirred; then slowly 
Enschede turned away. To Spurlock's observing 
eye, Enschede's wrinkles multiplied and the folds in 
his clothes. The young man's imagination suddenly 
pictiu'ed the man as a rock, loosed from its ancient 
bed, crumbling as it fell. But why did he turn away? 
"Wait!" Ruth called to her father. 
The recollection of all her unhappiness, the love- 
less years, the imending loneliness, the injustice of it, 
rolled up to her lips in verbal lava. It is not well 
that a daughter should talk to her father as Ruth 
talked to hers that day. 
The father, granite; the daughter, fire: Spurlock 
saw the one and heard the other, his amazement 
indescribable. Never before had he seen a man like 
Enschede nor heard a voice like Ruth's. But as the 
mystery which surrounded Ruth fell away that which 
enveloped her father thickened. 
 
"I used to cry myself to sleep, Hoddy, I was so 
forlorn and lonely. He heard me; but he never 
came in to ask what was the matter. For fifteen 
years! —  so long as I can remember! All I wanted 
was a little love, a caress now and then. But I 
waited in vain. So I ran away, blindly, knowing- 
nothing of the world outside. Youth! You denied 
me even that," said Ruth, her glance now flashing 
to her father. "Spring! —  I never knew any. I 
dared not sing, I dared not laugh, except when you 
went away. What little happiness I had I was 
forced to steal. I am glad you found me. I am 
out of your life forever, never having been in it. 
Did you break my mother's heart as you tried to 
break mine? I am no longer accpimtable to you for 
anything. Wanton! Had I been one, even God 
would have forgiven me, imderstanding. Some day 
I may forgive you; but not now. No, no! Not 
now!'' 
Ruth turned abruptly and walked toward the 
bungalow, mounted the veranda steps, and vanished 
within. Without a word, without a sign, Enschede 
started toward the beach, where his proa waited. 
For a time Spurlock did not move. This in- 
credible scene robbed him of the sense of locomotion. 
But his glance roved, to the door through which 
Ruth had gone, to Enschede's drooping back. 
Unexpectedly he found himself speeding toward the 
father. 
''Enschede!" he called. 
Enschede halted. ""Well?" he said, as Spurlock 
reached his side. 
  Are you a human being, to leave her thus?" 
''It is better so. You heard her. What she said 
is true." 
"But why? In the name of God, why? Your 
flesh and blood ! Have you never loved anything? " 
"Are you indeed my daughter's lawful husband?" 
Enschede countered. 
"I am. You will find the proof in McClintock's 
safe. You called her a wanton ! " 
"Because I had every reason to believe she was 
one. There was every indication that she fled the 
island in company with a dissolute rogue." Still 
the voice was without emotion; calm, colourless. 
Fired with wrath, Spurlock recounted the Canton 
episode. "She travelled alone; and she is the 
purest woman God ever permitted to inhabit the 
earth. What! —  you know so little of that child? 
She ran away from you. Somebody tricked you 
back yonder —  baited you for spite. She ran away 
from you; and now I can easily understand why. 
What sort of a human being are you, anyhow?" 
Enschede gazed seaward. When he faced Spur- 
lock, the granite was cracked and rived; never had 
Spurlock seen such dumb agony in human eyes. 
"What shall I say? Shall I tell you, or shall I leave 
you in the dark —  as I must always leave her? What 
 
shall I say except that I am accursed of men? Yes; 
I have loved something —  her mother. Not wisely 
but too well. I loved her beyond anything in heaven 
or on earth — to idolatry. God is a jealous God, and 
He turned upon me relentlessly. I had consecrated 
my life to His Work; and I took the primrose path.'' 
''But a man may love his wife!" cried Spurlock, 
utterly bewildered. 
"Not as I loved mine. So, one day, because God 
was wroth, her mother ran away with a blackguard, 
and died in the gutter, miserably. Perhaps IVe 
been mad all these years; I don't know. Perhaps I 
am still mad. But I vowed that Ruth should never 
suffer the way I did — and do. For I still love her 
mother. So I undertook to protect her by keeping 
love out of her life, by crushing it whenever it ap- 
peared, obliterating it. I made it a point to bring 
beachcombers to the house to fill her with horror of 
mankind. I never let her read stories, or have pets, 
dolls. Anything that might stir the sense of love. 
And God has mocked me through it all." 
"Man, in God's name, come with me and tell 
her this!" urged Spurlodc. 
"It is too late. Besides, I would tear out my 
tongue rather than let it speak her mother's infamy. 
To tell Ruth anything, it would be necessary to tell 
her everything; and I cannot and you must not. 
She was always asking questions about her mother 
and supplying the answers. So she built a shrine. 
Always her prayers ended — 'And may my beautiful 
mother guide me!' No. It is better as it is. She 
is no longer mine; she is yours ' 
"What a mistake!'' 
"Yes. But you —  you have a good face. Be kind 
to her. Whenever you grow impatient with her, 
remember the folly of her father. I can now give 
myself to God utterly; no human emotion will ever 
be shuttling in between." 
"And all the time you loved her?" — appalled. 
"Perhaps." 
Enschede stepped into the proa» and the natives 
shoved off. Spurlock remained where he was until 
the sail became an infinitesimal speck in the distance. 
His throat filled; he wanted to weep. For yonder 
went the loneliest man in all God's unhappy world. 
SPURLOCK pushed back his helmet and sat 
down in the white sand, buckling his knees 
and folding his arms around them —  ponder- 
ing. Was he really awake? The arrival and de- 
parture of this strange father lacked the essential 
human touch to make it real. Without a struggle 
he could give up his flesh and blood like that! ' I 
can now give myself to God utterly; no human emo- 
tion will ever be shuttling in between." The mortal 
agony behind those eyes! And all the while he had 
probably loved his child. To take Spring and Love 
out of her life, as if there were no human instincts 
to tell Ruth who t was being denied her! And 
what must have been the man's thought as he 
came upon Ruth wearing a gown of her mother's? — 
a fair picture of the mother in the primrose days? 
Not a flicker of an eyelash; steel and granite out- 
wardly. 
The conceit of Howard Spurlock in imagining 
he knew what mental suffering was! But Enschede 
was right: Ruth must never know. To find the 
true father at the expense of the beautiful fairy tale 
Ruth had woven around the woman in the locket 
was an intolerable thought. But the father, to go 
 
his way forever alone! The iron in the man! —  the 
iron in this child of his! 
Wanting a little love, a caress now and then. 
Spurlock bent his head to his knees. He took into 
his soul some of the father's misery, some of the 
daughter's, to mingle with his own. Enschede, to 
have starved his heart as well as Ruth's because, 
having laid a curse, he knew not how to turn aside 
from it ! How easily he might have forgotten the un- 
worthy mother in the love of the child! And this day 
to hear her voice lifted in a quality of anathema. Poor 
Ruth : for a father, a madman ; for a husband —  a thi  ! 
Spurlock rocked his body slightly. He knew that 
at this moment Ruth lay upon her bed in torment, 
for she was by nature tender; and the reaction of her 
scathing words, no matter how justifiable, would be 
putting scars on her soul. And he, her lawful hus- 
band, dared not go to her and console her ! Accursed 
— all of them —  Enschede, Ruth, and himself. 
"What's the matter, lad, after all the wonderful 
fireworks at lunch?" 
Spurlodc beheld McClintodc istanding beside him. 
He waved a hand toward the sea. 
"A sail?" said McClintock. "What about it?" 
"Enschede." 
"Enschede? — her father? What's happened?" 
McClintock sat down. " Do you mean to tell me he's 
come and gone in an hour? What the devil kind 
if a father is he?" 
 
Spurlock shook his head. 
"What's become of Ruth?" 
"Gone to her room." 
Come, lad; let's have it," said McClintoek. 
'' Anything that concerns Ruth is of interest to me. 
l at happened between Ruth and her father that 
made him hurry off without passing ordinary 
courtesies with me?" 
"I suppose I ought to tell you," said Spurlock; 
"but it is understood that Ruth shall never know 
the truth." 
"Not if it will hurt her." 
"Hurt her? It would tear her to pieces; 
God knows she has had enough. Her mother .   . 
Do you recall the night she showed you the face in 
the locket? Do you remember how she said — 'If 
only my mother had lived'? Did you ever see any- 
thing more tender or beautiful?" 
"I remember. Go on and tell me." 
When Spurlodc had finished the tale, touched here 
and there by his own imagination, McClintoek 
made a negative sign. 
"So that was it? And what the devil are you 
doing here, moping alone on the beach? Why aren't 
you with her in this hour of bitterness?" 
"What can I do?" 
"You can go to her and take her in your arms." 
"I might have been able to do that if you hadn't 
told me . . . she cared." 
''Man, she's your wife!" 
"And I am a thief," 
"You're a damn fool, too!" exploded the trader. 
"I am as God made me." 
"No. God gives us an equal chance; but we 
make ourselves. You are captain of your soul; 
don't forget your Henley. But I see now. That 
poor child, trying to escape, and not knowing how. 
Her father for fifteen years, and you now for the 
rest of her life! Tell her you're a thief. Get it off 
your soul." 
"Add that to what she is now suffering? It's too 
late. She would not forgive me." 
"And why should you care whether she forgave 
you or not?" 
Spurlock jumped to his feet, the look of the 
damned upon his face. "Why? Because I love 
her! Because I loved her at the start, but was too 
big a fool to know it!" 
His own astonishment was quite equal to McClin- 
tock's. The latter began to heave himself up from 
the sand. 
Did I hear you. . . ." began McClintock. 
Yes!" interrupted Spurlock, savagely. "You 
heard me say it! It was inevitable. I might have 
known it. Another labyrinth in hell!" 
A smile broke over the trader's face. It began in 
the eyes and spread to the lips: warm, embracing, 
even fatherly. 
 'Man, man! You're coming to life. There's 
something human about you now. Go to her and 
tell her. Put your arms around her and tell her 
you love her. Dear God, what a beautiful moment ! " 
The fire went out of Spurlodc's eyes and the 
sliadow of hopeless weariness feH upon him.   I 
can't make you understand; I can't make you see 
things as I see them. As matters now stand, I'm 
only a thief, not a blackguard. What ! —  add another 
drop to her cup? Who knows? Any day they 
may find me. So long as matters remain as they 
are, and they found me, there would be no shame 
for Ruth. Can't I make you see?" 
"But I'm telling you Ruth loves you. And her 
kind of love forgives everything and anything but 
infidelity." 
"You did not hear her when she spoke to her 
father; I did." 
"But she would understand you; whereas she 
will never understand her father. Spurlodc: 'tis 
Roundhead, sure enough. Go to her, I say, and 
take her in your arms, you poor benighted Iron- 
sides ! I can't make you see. Man, if you tell her 
you love her, and later they took you away to prison, 
who would sit at the prison gate until your term was 
up? Ruth. Why am I here — thirty years of 
loneliness? Because I know women, the good and the 
bad; and because I could not have the good, I would 
not take the bad. The woman I wanted was another 
man's wife. So here I am, king of all I survey, with 
a predilection for poker, a scorched liver, and a 
piano-player. But you! Ruth is your lawful wife. 
Not to go to her is wickeder than if I had run away 
with my friend's wife. You're a queer lad. With 
your pencil you see into the hearts of all; and without 
your pencil you are dumb and blind. Ruth is not 
another man's wife; she is all your own, for better 
or for worse. Have you thought of the monstrous 
lie you are adding to your theft? " 
''Lie?" said Spurlodc, astounded. 
"Aye — to pretend to her that you don't care. 
That's a most damnable lie; and when she finds 
out, 'tis then she will not forgive. She'll have this 
hour always with her; and you failed her. Gro to 
her." 
"I can't." 
"Afraid?" 
"Yes." 
This shnple admission disarmed McClintock. 
"Well, well; I have given out of my wisdom. I'd 
like to shake you imtil your bones rattled; but the 
bones of a Roundhead wouldn't rattle to any pur- 
pose. Lad, I admire you even in your folly. Mount- 
ains out of molehills and armies out of windmills; 
and you'll tire yourself in one direction and shatter 
yourself in the other. There is strength in you — 
misguided. You will torture yourself and torture 
her all through life; but in the end she will pour the 
  i ine of her faith into a sound chalice. I would 
tlaat you were my own ' 
"I, a thief?" 
 'Aye; thief. Roundhead and all. If a certain 
Isink in your sense of honour will not permit you to 
gjo to her as a lover, go to her as a comrade. Talk 
to her of the new story; divert her; for this day her 
lieart has been twisted sorely." 
McClintock without further speech strode toward 
liis bimgalow; and half an hour later Spurlock, pass-' 
ing, heard the piano-tuning key at work. 
Spurlock plodded through the heavy sand, leaden 
in the heart and mind as well as in the feet. But 
recently he had asked God to pile it all on him; and 
€rod had added this, with a fresh portion for Ruth. 
One thing —  he could be thankful for that —  the peak 
of his misfortunes had been reached; the world might 
come to an end now and not matter in the least. 
Love       to take her in his arms and to 
comfort her: and then to add to her cup of bitterness 
the knowledge that her husband was a thief! For 
himself he did not care; God could continue to 
grind and pulverize him; but to add another grain 
to the evil he had already wrought upon Ruth was 
imthinkable' The future? He dared not speculate 
upon that. 
He paused at the bamboo curtain of her room, 
which was in semi-darkness. He heard Rollo's 
stump beat a gentle tattoo on the floor. 
Silence for a moment. ''Yes. What is it?'' 
"Is there anything I can do?" The idiocy of the 
question filled him with the craving of laughter. 
Was there anything he could do! 
"No, Hoddy; nothing." 
"Would you like to have me come in and talk?" 
How tender that sounded! —  talk! 
"K you want to." 
Bamboo and bead tinkled and slithered behind 
him. The dusky obscurity of the room was twice 
welcome. He did not want Ruth to see his own 
stricken coimtenance; nor did he care to see hers, 
ravaged by tears. He knew she had been weepings 
He drew a chair to the side of the bed and sat down, 
terrified by the utter fallowness of his mind. Filled 
as he was with conflicting emotions, any stretch of 
silence would be dangerous. The fascination of 
the idea of throwing himself upon his knees and 
crying out all that was in his heart! As his eyes 
began to focus objects, he saw one of her arms 
extended upon the counterpane, in his direction, 
the hand clenched tightly. 
"I am very wicked," she said. "After all, he is 
my father, Hoddy; and I cursed him. But all those 
empty years! . . . My heart was hot. I'm 
sorry. I do forgive him; but he will never know 
now. 
Write him," urged Spurlock, finding sx>eech. 
''He would return my letters unopened or destroy 
them' 
That was true, thought Spurlodc. No matter 
what happened, whether the road smoothed out or 
became still rougher, he would always be carrying 
this secret with him; and each time he recalled it, 
the rack. 
"Would you rather be alone?" 
''No, It's kind of comforting to have you there. 
You understand. I sha'n't cry any more. Tell 
me a story — with apple-blossoms in it — about people 
who are happy." 
Miserably his thoughts shuttled to and fro in 
search of what he knew she wanted — a love story. 
Presently he began to weave a tale, sorry enough, 
with all the ancient claptraps and rusted platitudes. 
How long he sat there, reeling oflf this drivel, he 
never knew. When he reached the happy ending, 
he waited. But there was no sign from her. By 
and by he gathered enough courage to lean toward 
her. She had fallen asleep. The hand that had 
been clenched lay open, relaxed; and upon the palm 
he saw her mother's locket. 
CHAPTER XXVI 
SFURIOCK went out on his toes, careful 
lest the bamboo curtain rattle behind him. 
He went into the study and sat down at his 
table, but not to write. He drew out the check and 
the editorial letter. He had sold half a dozen short 
tales to third-rate magazines; but this letter had 
been issued from a distinguished editorial room, of 
international reputation. If he could keep it up — 
style and calibre of imagination —  within a year 
the name of Taber would become widely known. 
Everything in the world to live for! —  fame that he 
could not reap, love that he must not take! What 
was all this pother about hell as a future state? 
By and by things began to stir on the table: 
little invisible things. The life with which he had 
endued these sheets of paper began to beckon im- 
periously. So he sharpened a score of pencils, and 
after fiddling about and rewriting the last page he 
had written the previous night, he plunged into 
work. It was hot and dry. There were mysterious 
rustlings that made him glance hopefully toward the 
sea. He was always deceived by these rustlings 
which promised wind and seldom fulfilled that 
promise. 
''Time to dress for dinner," said Ruth from be- 
Iiind the curtain. "I don't see how you do it, 
SEoddy . It's so stuffy —  and all that tobacco smoke ! " 
He inspected his watch. Half after six. He was 
Astonished. For four hours he had shifted his 
own troubles to the shoulders of these imaginative 
characters. 
''He called me a wanton, Hoddy. That is what 
I don't imderstand." 
"There isn't an angel in heaven, Ruth, purer or 
sweeter than you are. No doubt —  because he did 
not understand you —  he thought you had run away 
with someone. The trader you spoke about: he 
disliked your father, didn't he? Well, he probably 
played your father a horrible practical joke." 
'' Perhaps that was it. I always wondered why he 
bought my mother's pearls so readily. I am dread- 
fully sad." 
''I'll tell you what. I'll speak to McClintock 
to-night and see if he won't take us for a jimket on 
The Tigress. Eh? Banging against the old rollers — 
that'll put some life into us both. Rim along while 
I rig up and get the part in my hair straight." 
''If he had only been my father! —  McClintock!" 
"God didn't standardize human beings, Ruth; no 
grain of wheat is like another. See the new litter of 
Mrs. Pig? By George, every one of them looks like 
the other; and yet each one attacks the source of 
supply with a squeal and an oof that's entirely differ- 
ent from his brothers' and sisters'. Put on that new 
dress — the one that's all white. We'll celebrate that 
check, and let the rest of the world go hang." 
"You are very good to me, Hoddy." 
Something reached down into his heart and 
twisted it. But he held the smile until she turned 
away from the curtain. He dressed mechanically; 
so many moves this way, so many moves that. The 
evening breeze came; the bamboo shades on the 
veranda clicked and rasped; the loose edges of the 
manuscript curled. To prevent the leaves from blow- 
ing about, should a blow develop, he distributed 
paper weights. Still unconscious of anything he did 
physically. 
He tried not to think— of Ruth with her mother's 
lodcet, of her misguided father, taking his lonely way 
to sea. He drew compellingly upon his new char- 
acters to keep him out of this melancholy channel; 
but they ebbed and ebbed; he could not hold them. 
Enschede: no human emotion should ever again 
shuttle between him and God. As if God would not 
continue to mode him so long as his Jbrain held a 
human thought ! God had given him a pearl without 
price, and he had misunderstood until this day. 
McClintock was in a gay mood at dinner that 
night; but he did not see fit to give these children 
the true reason. For a long time there had been a 
standing offer from the company at Copeley's to 
take over the McClintock plantation; and to-day he 
had decided to sell. Why? Because he knew that 
when these two young people left, the island would 
become intolerable. For nearly thirty years he had 
lived here in contented loneliness; then youth had 
to come and fill him with discontent. 
He would give The Tigress a triple coat of paint> 
and take these two on a long cruise, wherever they 
wanted to go —  Roundhead and Seraph, the blim' 
derbus and the flaming angel. And there was an- 
other matter. To have sprung this upon them to- 
night would have been worth a thousand poimds' 
But his lips were honour-locked. 
There was a pint of champagne and a quart of 
mineral water (both taboo) at his elbow. In a tall 
glass the rind of a Syrian orange was arranged in 
spiral form. The wine bubbled and seethed; and the 
exquisite bouquet of oranges permeated the room. 
I sha'n't offer any of these to you two," he said; 
but I know you won't mind me having an imitation 
king's peg. The occasion is worth a dash of the 
grape, lad. You're on the way to big things. A 
thousand dollars is a lot of money for an author to 
earn." 
Spurlock laughed. " Drink your peg; don't bother 
about me. I wouldn't touch the stuff for all the 
pearls in India. A cup of lies. I know all about it." 
' Ruth's eyes began to glow. She had often won- 
dered if Hoddy would ever go back to it. She knew 
now that he never would. 
'' Sometimes a cup of lies is a cheering thing ' 
replied the trader. "In wine there is truth. What 
about that?'' 
"It means that drink cheats a man into telling 
things he ought not to. And there's your liver.'' 
"Ay, and there's my liver. It'll be turning over 
to-morrow. But never mind that,'' said McClintock 
grinning as he drew the dish of bread-fruit toward 
him. "To-morrow I shall have a visitor. I do not 
say guest because that suggests friendship; and I 
am no friend of this Wastrel. I've told you about 
him; and you wrote a shrewd yam on the subject.'' 
"The pianist?'' 
"Yes. He'll be here two or three days. So Mrs. 
Spurlock had better stick to the bimgalow." 
"Ah," said Spurlock; "that kind of a man." 
''Many kinds; a thorough outlaw. We've never 
caught him cheating at cards; too clever; but we 
know he cheats. But he's witty and amusing, and 
when reasonably drunk he can play the piano like a 
Paderewski. He's an interpretative genius, if there 
«ver was one. Nobody knows what his real name is, 
but he's a Hollander. Kicked out of there for 
something shady. A remittance man. A check 
arrives in Batavia every three months. He has a 
grand time. Then he goes stony, and beats his way 
around the islands for another three months. Re- 
tribution has a queer way of acting sometimes. The 
Wastrel — as we call him — cannot play when he's 
sober; hands too shaky. He can't play cards, either  
-when he's sober. Alcohol —  would you believe it? — 
steadies his nerves and keens his brain: which is 
against the laws of gravitation, you might say. He 
has often told me that if he could play sober, he would 
go to America and reap a fortune." 
"You never told me what he is like," said Spur- 
lock. 
"I thought it best that you should imagine him. 
You were wide the mark, physically; otherwise you 
had him pat. He is big and powerful; one of those 
drinkers who show it but little outwardly. Whisky 
kills him suddenly; it does not sap him gradually. 
In his youth he must have been a remarkably hand- 
some man, for he is still handsome. I don't believe 
he is much past forty. A bad one in a rough-and' 
tumble; all the water-front tricks. His hair is oddly 
streaked with gray —  I might say a dishonourable 
gray. Perhaps in the beginning the women made 
fools of themselves over him." 
" That's reasonable. I don't know how to explain 
it," said Spurlock, "but music hits women queerly. 
I've often seen them storming the Carnegie Hall 
stage." 
"Aye, music hits them. I'm thinking that the 
Wastrel was one day a celebrated professional; and 
the women were partly the cause of his fall. Women t 
Pe is always chanting the praise of some discovery; 
sometimes it will be a native, often a white woman 
out of the stews. So it will be wise for Mrs. Spur- 
lock to keep to the bungalow until the rogue goes 
back to Copeley's. Queer world. For every Eden, 
there will be a serpent; for every sheepfold, there will 
be a wolf." 
"What's the matter, Ruth?'' asked Spurlock, 
anxiously. 
"It has been . . . rather a hard day, Hoddy ' 
Ruth answered. She was wan and white. 
So, after the dinner was over, Spurlock took her 
home; and worked far into the night. 
The general office was an extension of the west 
wing of the McClintock bungalow. From one 
window the beach was always visible; from another, 
the stores. Spurlock was invariably at the high desk 
in the early morning, poring over ledgers, and giving 
the beach and the stores an occasional glance. 
Whenever McClintock had guests, he loafed with 
them on the west veranda in the morning. 
This morning he heard voices —  McClintock's and 
the Wastrel's. 
"Sorry," said McClintock, "but I must ask you to 
check out this afternoon before five. I'm having 
some unexpected guests." 
"Ah! Sometimes I wonder I don't run amok and 
kill someone," said the Wastrel, in broken English. 
"I give you all of my genius, and you say — 'Gret out!' 
I am some kind of a dog." 
''Tliat is your fault, none of mine. Without 
whisky,'' went on McClintock, "your irritability is 
l>eyond tolerance. You have said a thousand times 
-that there was no shame in you. Nobody can trust 
you. Nobody can anticipate your next move. We 
tolerate you for your genius, that's a fact. But 
underneath this tolerance there is always the vague 
liope that your manhood will someday reassert itself." 
The Wastrel laughed. "Did you ever hear me 
whine?" 
No," admitted McClintock 
You've no objection to my dropping in again 
later, after your guests go?" 
"No. When I'm alone I don't mind." 
"Very well. You won't mind if I empty this 
gin?" 
"No. Befuddle yourself, if you want to." 
Silence. 
Spurlock mused over the previous night. After 
he had eaten dinner with Ruth, he had gone to Mc- 
Clintock's; and he had heard music such as he had 
heard only in the great concert halls. The pictur- 
esque scoundrel had the true gift; and Spurlock was 
filled with pity at the thought of such genius gone to 
pot. To use it as a passport to card-tables and gin- 
bottles! McClintock wasn't having any guests; at 
any rate, he had not mentioned the fact. 
Spurlock had sensed what had gone completely 
over McClintock's head —  that this was the playing 
of a soul in damnation. His own peculiar genius — 
a miracle key to the hidden things in men's souls — 
had given him this immediate and astonishing 
illumination. As the Wastrel played, Spurlock 
knew that the man saw the inevitable end — death 
by drink; saw the glory of the things he had thrown 
away, the past, once so full of promise. And» 
decently as he could, McClintock was giving the 
man the boot. 
There was, it might be said, a double illumina- 
tion. But for Ruth, he, Howard Spurlock, might 
have ended upon the beach, inescapably damned. 
The Dawn Pearl. After all, the Wastrel was in 
luck: he was alone. 
These thoughts, however, came to a broken end. 
From the window he saw The Tigress faring toward 
Copeley's! Then somebody was coming? Some 
political high muckamuck, probably. Still, he was 
puzzled because McClintock had not spoken. 
Presently McClintock came in. " General inspec- 
tion after limch; drying bins, stores and the yoimg 
palms south-east. It will be hot work, but it must 
be done at once." 
"All right, Mr. McClintock." Spurlock lowered 
his voice. "You are giving that chap the boot 
rather suddenly?" 
"Had to." 
"Somebody coming?" 
"Yes. Top-side insurance people. You know 
all this stuflF is insured. They ll inspect the schooner 
on the way back," McClintock lied> cheerfully. 
" The Wastrel seemed to take it all right.'' 
"Oh, it's a part f the game," said McClintock. 
 ' He knows he had to take it. There are some islands 
upon which he is not permitted to land any more." 
At luncheon, preoccupied in thought, Spurlock did 
not notice the pallor on Ruth's cheeks or the hunted 
look in her eyes. She hung about his chair, followed 
him to the door, touched his sleeve timidly, all the 
while striving to pronounce the words which refused 
to rise to her tongue. 
He patted the hand on his sleeve. '' Could you 
get any of the music last night?" 
''Yes." 
"Wonderful! It's an infernal shame." 
"Couldn't . . . couldn't I go with you this 
afternoon?" 
"Too hot." 
But I'm used to that, Hoddy," she said, eagerly. 
I'd rather you went over the last four chapters, 
which I haven't polished yet. You know what's 
what. Slash and cut as much as you please. I'll 
knock off at tea. By-by." 
The desperate eagerness to go with him — and she 
dared not voice it! She watched him until Mc- 
Clintock joined him and the two made off toward 
the south. She turned back into the hall. Rollo 
began to cavort. 
"No, Rollo; not this afternoon." 
''But I've got to go!" insisted Rollo, in perfectly 
understandable dog-talk. 
"BestiD!'' 
''0h, come along! Tve just got to have my muck 
bath. I'm burning up." 
"Rollo!" 
There were no locks or panelled doors in the 
bungalow; and Rollo was aware of it. He dashed 
against the screen door before she could catch him 
and made the veranda. Once more he begged; 
but as Ruth only repeated her sharp command, he 
spim about and raced toward the jungle. Im- 
mediately he was gone, she regretted that she had 
not followed. 
Hidden menace; a prescience of something dreadful 
about to happen. Ruth shivered; she was cold. 
Alone; not even the dog to warn her, and Hoddy deep 
in the island somewhere. Help — should she need 
it —  from the natives was out of the question. She 
had not made friends with any; so they still eyed her 
askance. 
Yes; she had heard the music the night before. 
She had resisted as long as she could; then she had 
stolen over. She had to make sure, for the peace of 
her mind, that this was really the man. One glance 
through the window at that picturesque head had 
been sufficient. A momentary petrifaction, and ter- 
ror had lent wmgs to her feet. 
He had found her by the same agency her father 
had: native talk, which flew from isle to isle as fast 
as proas could carry it. She was a lone white 
woman, therefore marked. 
What was it in her heart or mind or soul that went 
out to this man? Music — was that it? Was he 
powerless to stir her without the gift? But hadn't he 
fascinated her by his talk, gentle and winning? Ah, 
but that had been after he had played for her. 
She had gone into Morgan's one afternoon for a 
bag of salt. One hour later she had gone back to 
the mission —  without the salt. For the first time in 
her life she had heard music; the door to enchanted 
sounds had been flung wide. For hours after she had 
not been sensible to life, only to exquisite echoes. 
Of course she had often heard sailors hammering 
out their ditties. Sometimes ships would stop three 
or four days for water and repairs; and the men would 
carouse in the back room at Morgan's. 
Day after day —  five, to be exact — she had returned 
to Morgan's; and each time the man would under- 
stand what had drawn her, and with a kindly smile 
would sit down at the piano and play. Sometimes the 
music would be tender and dreamy, like a native 
mother's crooning to her young; sometimes it would 
be so gay that the flesh tingled and the feet were 
urged to dance; again, it would be like the storms 
crashing, thunderous. 
On the fifth day he had ventured speech with her. 
He told her something about music> the great world 
outside. Then he had gone away. But two weeks 
later he returned. Again he played for her; and 
again the eruption of the strange senses that lay 
hidden in her soul. He talked with his manner gen- 
tle and kindly. Shy, grateful in her loneliness for 
this unexpected attention, she had listened. She had 
even confided to him how lonely it was in the island. 
He had promised her some books, for she had voiced 
her hunger for stories. On his third visit to the island 
she had surprised him, that is, she had glanced up 
suddenly and caught the look of the beast in his eyes. 
And it had not shocked her ! It was this appalling 
absence of indignation that had put terror into her 
heart. The same look she had often seen in the 
eyes of the drunken beachcombers her father had 
brought home, and it had not filled her with horror. 
And now she comprehended that the man (she had 
never known him by any name) knew she had sur- 
prised the look and had not resented it. 
Still, thereafter she had avoided Morgan's; partly 
out of fear and partly because of her father's mandate. 
Yet the thing hidden within her called and called. 
Traps, set with peculiar cunning; she had en- 
coimtered them everywhere. By following her he 
had discovered her secret nook in the rocks. Here she 
would find candy awaiting her, bits of ribbon, books. 
She wondered even at this late day how she had been 
able to hold her maddening curiosity in check. 
Books! She knew now what had saved her— her 
mother's hand, reaching down from heaven, had set 
the giver's flaming eyes upon the covers of these 
books. One day she had thrown all the gifts into 
the lagoon, and visited the secret nook no more. 
And here he was, but a hundred yards away, this 
wastrel who trailed his genius through the mud. 
Hoddy! All her fears fell away. Between herself 
and yonder evil mind she had the strongest buckler 
God could give —  love. Hoddy. No other man 
should touch her; she was Hoddy 's, body and soid, 
in this life and after. 
She turned into the study, sat down at the table 
and fingered the pencils, curiously stirred. Lead, 
worth nothing at all until Hoddy picked them up; 
then they became full of magic. She began to read, 
and presently she entered another world, and re- 
mained in it for two hours. She read on and on, now 
thrilled by the swiftly moving drama, now enraptured 
by the tender passages of love. Love . . . He 
could imagine it even if he could not feel it. That 
was the true miracle of the gift; without actual 
experience, to imagine love and hate and greed and 
how they would react upon each other; and theii, 
when these passions had served their temporary 
purpose, to cast them aside for new imaginings. 
She heard the bamboo curtain rattle slightly. She 
looked up quickly. The Wastrel, his eyes full of 
humorous evil, stood inside the room. 
CHAPTER XXVn 
HIS idea, cleverly planned, was to shatter her 
resistance, to confound her suddenly by 
striking her mind with words which would 
rob her coherent thought. Everything in his favour 
—  the luck of the gods! The only white men were 
miles down the coast. She might scream until her 
voice failed; the natives would not come to her aid; 
they never meddled with the affairs of the whites. 
"It is droll," he said. "Your father —  poor im- 
becile! —  believes we ran  -way together. I arranged 
that he should. So that way is closed. You never 
can go back.'' 
There was a roaring in her ears like that of angry 
waters. Wanton! . . . This, then, was what 
her father had meant. And he had gone away with- 
out knowing the truth ! > 
''My proa boys are ready; the wiud is brisk; and in 
an hour we shall be beyond all pursuit. Will you 
come sensibly, or shall I carry you? You are mine!'  
Ruth's peculiar education had not vitiated the 
primitive senses; they were always on guard; and in 
a moment such as this they rushed instantly to the 
surface. Danger, the most terrible she had ever 
faced, was substantially in this room. She must kill 
this man, or kill herself. She knew it. No tricks 
would serve. There would be no mercy in this man. 
Any natural fineness would be numbed by drink. 
To-morrow he might be sorry; but to-day, this 
hour! 
She rose, not quickly, but with a dignity which 
only accentuated her beauty. 
"And you ran away with a weakling! You denied 
me for a puppet!" 
"My lawful husband." 
"Ah, yes, yes; lawfid husbands in these parts are 
those who can take and hold.       As I shall 
take and hold." The Wastrel advanced. 
"If you touch me I will kill you," said Ruth, grasp- 
ing the scissors which lay beside the pencils — 
Hoddy's! 
The Wastrel laughed, still advancing. "Fire! That 
was what drew me to you in the beginnmg. Well. 
kill me. Either we go forth together, or they 
shall bury me." 
"Beast!" 
For a little while they manoeuvred aroimd the 
table. Suddenly the Wastrel took hold of the edge 
and flung the table aside. Even in this dread 
moment Ruth was conscious of a pathetic interest 
in the scattering pencils. 
He reached for her, and she struck savagely. But 
with the skill of a fencer he met the blow and broke 
it, seizing the wrist. 
€t 
SOO The Ragged Edge 
It looks as though we should go together ' he 
said, pulling her toward him. 
Ruth was strong in body and soul. She fought 
him with tooth and nail. Three times she escaped. 
Chairs were overturned. Once she reached the 
bamboo curtain, clutched at it and tore it down 
as his arms went around her waist. The third time 
she escaped she reached the inconsequent barricade 
of the overturned table. 
''If there is any honour in you, stop and think. 
I love my husband. I love him!'' She was weak 
and dizzy: from horror as much as from physical 
exertion. She knew that the next time he caught her 
she would not be able to free herself. "What good 
would it do you to destroy me? For I have courage 
to kill myself.'' 
The Wastrel laughed. He had heard this talk 
before. 
The race began once more; but this time Ruth 
