Rollo Landers Todd, the "Poet of Manhattan," had stalked in with a
Prussian helmet on his head, his girth draped in a rich blue shawl
embroidered and fringed with white, a bitter frown on his jovial round
face; and in his hand a long rod with a large blue bow on the metal
point designed to shut refractory windows.  Helen Vane Baker, a
contribution from Society to the art of fiction, with flowing hair and
arrayed in a long nightgown over her dress, fortunately white, was
assisted to the top of the bookcase on the west wall.  Henry Church, a
famous satirist, muffled in a fur cloak, a small black silk
handkerchief pinned about his lively face, stumped heavily into the
room, fell in a heap on the floor against the opposite wall, and in a
magnificent bass growled out the resentment of Ortrud, while a rising
but not yet prosilient pianist, with a long blonde wig from Miss
Dwight's property chest, threw his head back, shook his hands, adjusted
a cigarette in the corner of his mouth, and banged out the prelude to
Lohengrin with amazing variations.  Elsa, with her profile against
the wall and her hands folded across her breast, sang what of Elsa's
prayer she could remember and with no apparent effort improvised the
rest.  Lohengrin pranced up and down the room barking out German
phonetics (he did not know a word of the language, but his accent was
as Teutonic as his helmet), demanding vengeance and threatening
annihilation.  He brandished his pole in the face of Ortrud, stamping
and roaring, then, bending his knees, waddled across the room and
prodded Elsa, who winced perceptibly but continued to mingle her light
soprano with the rolling bass of Mr. Church and the vociferations of
the poet.  Finally, at the staccato command of Mr. Todd's hoarsening
voice, she toppled over into his arms and they both fell on Ortrud.
The nonsense was over.
No one applauded more spontaneously than Madame Zattiany, and she even
drank a cocktail.  By this time every one in the room had been
introduced to her and she was chatting as if she hadn't a care in the
world.  As far as Clavering could see, she had every intention of
making a Sophisticate night of it.
The pianist, after a brief interval for recuperation, played with
deafening vehemence and then with excruciating sweetness.  Once more
cocktails were passed, and then there was a charade by Todd, Suzan
Forbes and the handsome young English sculptress, which Madame Zattiany
followed with puzzled interest; and was so delighted with herself for
guessing the word before the climax that she clapped her hands and
laughed like a child.
More music, more cocktails, a brief impromptu play full of witty
nonsense, caricaturing several of the distinguished company, whose
appreciation was somewhat dubious, and Miss Dwight led the way down to
supper.  Clavering watched Madame Zattiany go out with the good-looking
young editor of one of the staid old fiction magazines which he had
recently levered out of its rut by the wayside, cranked up and driven
with a magnificent gesture into the front rank of Youth.  She was
talking with the greatest animation.  He hardly recognized her and it
was apparent that she had entered into the spirit of the evening, quite
reconciled to any dearth of intellectual refreshment.
The supper of hot oysters, chicken salad, every known variety of
sandwich, ices and cakes was taken standing for the most part, Madame
Zattiany, however, once more enthroned at the head of the room, women
as well as men dancing attendance upon her.  Prohibition, a dead letter
to all who could afford to patronize the underground mart, had but
added to the spice of life, and it was patent that Miss Dwight had a
cellar.  More cocktails, highballs, sherry, were passed continuously,
and two enthusiastic guests made a punch.  Fashionable young actors and
actresses began to arrive.  Hilarity waxed, impromptu speeches were
made, songs rose on every key.  Then suddenly some one ran up to the
victrola and turned on the jazz; and in a twinkling the dining-room was
deserted, furniture in the large room upstairs was pushed to the wall
and the night entered on its last phase.
Then only did Madame Zattiany signify her intention of retiring, and
Clavering, to whom such entertainments were too familiar to banish for
more than a moment his heavy disquiet, hastened to her side with a sigh
of relief and a sinking sensation behind his ribs.  Madame Zattiany
made her farewells not only with graciousness but with unmistakable
sincerity in her protestations of having passed her "most interesting
evening in New York."
Miss Dwight went up to the dressing-room with her, and Clavering,
retrieving hat and top-coat, waited for her at the front door.  She
came down radiant and talking animatedly to her hostess; but when they
had parted and she was alone with Clavering her face seemed suddenly to
turn to stone and her lids drooped.  As she was about to pass him she
shrank back, and then raised her eyes to his.  In that fleeting moment
they looked as when he had met them first: inconceivably old, wise,
disillusioned.
"Now for it," he thought grimly as he closed the door and followed her
out to the pavement.  "The Lord have mercy----"  And then he made a
sudden resolution.
XXIX
Madame Zattiany did not utter a word during the short walk to her house.
It was evident that she had dismissed the merry evening from her mind and
was brooding on the coming hour.  At the top of the steps she handed him
the latchkey, but still lingered outside for a moment.  As he took her
hand and drew her gently into the house he felt that she was trembling.
"Come," he said, his own voice shaking.  "Remember that you need tell me
nothing unless you wish.  This idea of confession before marriage is
infernal rot.  I have not the least intention of making one of my own."
"Oh!"  She gave a short harsh laugh.  "I should never dream of asking for
any man's confession.  They are all alike.  And I must tell you.  I
cannot leave you to hear it from others."
He helped her out of her wrap and she threw the lace scarf on a chair and
preceded him slowly down the hall.
"I am a coward.  A coward," she thought heavily.  "Have I ever felt moral
cowardice before?  I don't remember.  Not toward any other man who loved
me.  But----  Oh, God!  And I shall never see him again.  How shall I
begin?"
She was totally unprepared for the beginning.  She heard him shut the
library door, and then it seemed to her that her entire body was
encircled by flexible hot bars of iron and her face, her mouth, were
being flagellated.  If he hadn't held her in that vise-like grip she
would have fallen.  She lay back on his arm as he kissed her and for the
moment she forgot the past and the future and was happy, although she
felt dimly that life was being drained out of her.  She was passive in
that fierce possessive embrace.  She had lost all sense of separateness.
"I won't listen to your story," he muttered.  "This is no time for talk."
His voice, hoarse and shaking as it was, broke the spell; with a sudden
lithe movement she twisted herself out of his arms.  Before he realized
what was happening she had run across the room, snatched the key from the
door and locked it on the other side.  He heard her run up the stairs.
Clavering did and said most of the things men do and say when balked in
mid-flight, but in a moment he took the little key from the drawer in the
table and poured himself out a whiskey and soda--he had taken almost
nothing at the party--lit a cigarette and threw himself into a chair.  He
had no desire to stride up and down; he felt as if all the strength had
gone out of him.  But he felt no apprehension that she had left him for
the night.  Nor should he take possession of her again until she had told
her story: he reflected with what humor was left in him that when a woman
had something to say and was determined to say it, the only thing to do
was to let her talk.  Words to a woman were as steam to a boiler, and no
man could control her mind until she had talked off the lid.
She was giving him time to cool off, he reflected grimly, as he glanced
at the clock.  Well, he felt heavy and inert enough--hideous reaction!
He was in a condition to listen to anything.  If she was determined to
work her will on him, at least he had worked his on her for a brief
moment.  She knew now that in the future she might as well try to resist
death itself.  Let her have her last fling.
He rose as she entered, and for the moment his heart failed him.  He had
never seen even her look more like marble, and she did not meet his eyes
as she crossed the room and seated herself so that her profile would be
toward him as she talked.  As she had chosen the large high-backed chair,
Clavering, knowing her love of comfort, hoped that her discourse was to
be brief.
"When I finish," she said in her low vital voice, "I shall leave the room
immediately and I must have your word that you will make no attempt to
detain me, and that you will go at once and not return until Monday
afternoon.  I shall not wish to see you again until you have had time to
deliberate calmly on what I shall tell you.  I do not want any
embarrassed protests from a gallant gentleman--whose confusion of mind is
second only to his chivalrous dismay.  Have I your word?"
"It never takes me long to make up my mind----"
"That may be, but I intend to save you from an embarrassing situation.
You need not come on Monday unless you wish.  You may write--or, for that
matter, if I do not hear from you on Monday by four I shall
understand----"
"I--for God's sake, Mary----"
"You must do as I say--this time.  And--and--you could not overcome me
again tonight.  I can turn myself to stone when I choose."
"Oh!"  He ground his teeth.  His own nerves might be lulled for the
moment, but he had anticipated reaction when she finished her story.
"Very well--but it is for the last time, my dear.  And why Monday?  Why
not this afternoon?"
"You must sleep and write your column, is it not so?  Moreover--and
deliberately--I am lunching with Mrs. Ruyler and dining at the
Lawrences'."
"Very well.  Monday, then.  You have set the stage.  If I must be a
puppet for once in my life, so be it.  But, I repeat, it's for the last
time.  Now, for heaven's sake, go ahead and get it off your chest."
"And you will let me go without a word?  Otherwise I shall not speak--and
I'll leave the room again and not return."
"Very well.  I promise."
"I told part of it the other day at Mrs. Oglethorpe's luncheon--I had
told her before.  But there's so much else.  I hardly know how to begin
with you, and I have not the habit of talking about myself.  But I
suppose I should begin at the beginning."
"It is one of the formulae."
"It is the most difficult of all--that beginning."  And although she had
announced the torpidity of her nerves, her hands clenched and her voice
shook slightly.
"Let me remind you that to begin anywhere you've got to begin somewhere."
And then as she continued silent, he burst out: "For God's sake, say it!"
"Is--is--it possible that the suspicion has never crossed your mind that
I am Mary Ogden?"
"Wh-a-at!"
"Mary Ogden, who married Count Zattiany thirty-four years ago.  I was
twenty-four at the time.  You may do your own arithmetic."
But Clavering made no answer.  His cigarette was burning a hole in the
carpet.  He mechanically set his foot on it, but his faculties felt
suspended, his body immersed in ice-water.  And yet something in his
unconscious rose and laughed . . . and tossed up a key . . . if he had
not fallen in love with her he would have found that key long since.  His
news sense rarely failed him.
"I've told a good many lies, I'm afraid," she went on, and her voice was
even and cool.  The worst was over.  "You'll have to forgive me that at
least.  I dislike downright lying, if only because concessions are
foreign to my nature, and I quibbled when it was possible; but when
cornered there was no other way out.  I had no intention of being forced
to tell you or any one the truth until I chose to tell it."
"Well, you had your little comedy!"
"It did amuse me for a time, but I think I explained all that in my
letter.  I also explained why I came to America, and that if I had not
met you I should probably have come and gone and no one but Judge Trent
been the wiser.  I had prepared him by letter, and to him, I suppose, it
has been a huge comedy--with no tragic sequel.  Be sure that I never
entertained the thought that I could ever love any man again.  But I have
made up my mind to disenchant you as far as possible, not only for your
sake but my own.  I wish you to know exactly whom you have fallen in love
with."
"You grow more interesting every moment," said Clavering politely, "and I
have never been one-half as interested in my life."
"Perhaps you have heard--Mrs. Oglethorpe, I should think, would be very
much disposed to talk about old times--that I was a great belle in New
York--belles were fashionable in those days of more marked individuality.
I suppose no girl ever had more proposals.  Naturally I grew to
understand my power over men perfectly.  I had that white and regular
beauty combined with animation and great sex-magnetism which always
convinces men that under the snow volcanic fires are burning.  I was
experienced, under the frankest exterior, in all the subtle arts of the
coquette.  Men to me were a sort of musical instrument from which I could
evoke any harmony or cacophony I chose.
"What held the men I played with and rejected was my real gift for
good-fellowship, my loyalty in friendship, and some natural sweetness of
disposition.  But such power makes a woman, particularly while young,
somewhat heartless and callous, and I was convinced that I had no
capacity for love myself; especially as I found all men rather
ridiculous.  I met Otto Zattiany in Paris, where he was attached to the
Embassy of the Dual Empire.  He was an impetuous wooer and very handsome.
I did not love him, but I was fascinated.  Moreover, I was tired of
American men and American life.  Diplomacy appealed to my ambition, my
love of power and intrigue.  He was also a nobleman with great estates;
there could be no suspicion that he was influenced by my fortune.  He
followed me back to New York, and although my parents were opposed to all
foreigners, I had my way; there was the usual wedding in Saint Thomas's,
and we sailed immediately for Europe.
"I hated him at once.  I shall not go into the details of that marriage.
Fortunately he soon tired of me and returned to his mistresses.  To him I
was the Galatea that no man could bring to life.  But he was very proud
of me and keenly aware of my value as the wife of an ambitious
diplomatist.  He treated me with courtesy, and concerned himself not at
all with my private life.  He knew my pride, and believed that where he
had failed no man could succeed; in short, that I would never consider
divorce nor elopement, nor even run the risk of less public scandals.
"I was not unhappy.  I was rid of him.  I had a great position and there
was everything to distract my mind.  I was not so interested in the inner
workings of diplomacy as I was later, but the comedy of jealousy and
intrigue in the diplomatic set was amusing from the first.  I was very
beautiful, I entertained magnificently, I was called the best-dressed
woman in Paris, I was besieged by men--men who were a good deal more
difficult to manage than chivalrous Americans, particularly as I was now
married and the natural prey of the hunter.  But it was several years
before I could think of men without a shudder, little as I permitted them
to suspect it.  I learned to play the subtle and absorbing game of men
and women as it is played to perfection in the bolder civilizations.  It
was all that gave vitality to the general game of society.  I had no
children; my establishment was run by a major domo; it bore little
resemblance to a home.  It was the brilliant artificial existence of a
great lady, young, beautiful, and wealthy, in Europe before
nineteen-fourteen.  Of course that phase of life was suspended in Europe
during the war.  All the women I knew or heard of worked as hard as I
did.  Whether that terrible interregnum left its indelible seal on them,
or whether they have rebounded to the old life, where conditions are less
agonizing than in Vienna, I do not know."
She paused a moment, and Clavering unconsciously braced himself.  Her
initial revelation had left the deeper and more personal part of him
stunned, and he was listening to her with a certain detachment.  So far
she had revealed little that Dinwiddie had not told him already, and as
he knew that this brief recapitulation of her earlier life was not
prompted by vanity, he could only wonder if it were the suggestive
preface to that secret volume at which Dinwiddie had hinted more than
once.
As she continued silent, he got suddenly to his feet.  "I'll walk up and
down a bit, if you don't mind," he muttered.  "I'm rather--ah--getting
rather cramped."
"Do," she said indifferently.
"Please go on.  I am deeply interested."
She continued in a particularly level voice while he strode unevenly up
and down: "Of course the time came when ugly memories faded, my buoyant
youth asserted itself and I wanted love.  And when a woman feels a crying
need to love as well as to be loved, her whole being a peremptory demand,
unsatisfied romance quickening, she is not long finding the man.  I had
many to choose from.  I made my choice and was happy for a time.
Although I had been brought up in the severest respectability--just
recall Jane Oglethorpe, Mrs. Vane, Mrs. Ruyler, and you will be able to
reconstruct the atmosphere--several of the women I had known as a girl
had lovers, it seemed to me that American women came to Europe for no
other purpose, and I was now living at the fountain-head of polite
license.  Not that I made any apologies to myself.  I should have taken a
lover if I had wanted one had virtue been the fashion.  And the contract
with my husband had been dissolved by mutual consent.  The only thing
that rebelled was my pride.  I hated stepping down from my pedestal."
Clavering gave a short barking laugh.  "Your arrogance is the most
magnificent thing about you, and that is saying more than I could
otherwise express.  I'll fortify myself before you proceed further, if
you will permit."  He poured himself out a drink, and returned to his
chair with the glass in his hand.  "Pray go on."
She had not turned her head and continued to look into the fire.  She
might have been posing to a sculptor for a bust that would hardly look
more like marble when finished.
"I soon discovered that I had not found happiness.  Men want.  They
rarely love.  I realized that I had demanded in love far more than
passion, and I received nothing else.
"I am not going to tell you how many lovers I have had.  It is none of
your business----"
"Ah!"  Clavering, staring at her, had forgotten his first shock,
everything but her living presence; forgotten also that he had once
apprehended something of the sort, then dismissed it from his mind.  He
spilt the whiskey over the arm of the chair, then sprang to his feet and
began to pace the room once more.
She went on calmly: "Disappointment does not mean the end of
seeking. . . .  They gave me little that I wanted.  They were clever and
adroit enough in the prelude.  They knew how to create the illusion that
in them alone could be found the fulfillment of all aspiration and
desire.  No doubt they satisfied many women, but they could not satisfy
me.  They gave me little I did not find in the mere society of the many
brilliant and accomplished men with whom I was surrounded.  I had a
rapacious mind, and there was ample satisfaction for it in the men who
haunted my salon and were constantly to be met elsewhere.  European men
are instruits.  They are interested in every vital subject,
intellectual and political, despite the itch of amor, their deliberate
cult of sex.  They like to talk.  Conversation is an art.  My mind was
never uncompanioned.  But that deeper spiritual rapacity, one offspring
of passion as it may be, they could not satisfy; for love with them is
always too confused with animalism and is desiccated in the art of
love-making.  Fidelity is a virtue relegated to the bourgeois----"
"What about Englishmen?" demanded Clavering sarcastically.  "I thought
they were bad artists but real lovers."
"I know little of Englishmen.  Zattiany was never appointed to St.
James's, and although, of course, I met many of them in the service on
the continent, and even visited London several times, it must have
happened that I was interested in some one else or in a state of profound
reaction from love at the time--at least so I infer.  It is a long while
ago.  I remember only the fact.
"Those whom I tried to love would soon have tired of me had I not played
the game as adroitly as themselves, and if I had permitted them to feel
sure of me.  The last thing any of them wanted was depth of feeling,
tragic passion. . . .  My most desperate affair was my last--after a long
interval. . . .  I was in my early forties.  I had thought myself too
utterly disillusioned ever to imagine myself in love again.  Men are
gross and ridiculous creatures in the main, and aside from my personal
disappointments, I thought it was time for that chapter of my life to
finish; I was amusing myself with diplomatic intrigue.  I was in the
Balkans at the time, that breeding ground of war microbes, and I was
interested in a very delicate situation in which I played a certain part.
"The awakening was violent.  He was an Austrian, with an important place
in the Government; he came to Belgrade on a private mission.  He was a
very great person in many ways, and I think I really loved him, for he
seemed to me entirely worthy of it.  He certainly was mad enough about me
for a time--for a year, to be exact.  When he returned to Vienna it was
not difficult for me to find an excuse to go also.  Although Zattiany was
a Hungarian, he never visited his Hungarian estates except for the boar
hunting, and spent his time when on leave, or between appointments, in
Vienna, where he had inherited a palace--I must tell you that the city
residence of a nobleman in the Dual Empire was always called a palace,
however much it might look like a house.
"I shall always remember this man with a certain pleasure and respect,
for he is the only man who ever made me suffer.  A woman forgets the
lovers she has dismissed as quickly as possible.  Their memory is hateful
to her, like the memory of all mistakes.  But this man made me suffer
horribly.  (He married a young girl, out of duty to his House, and
unexpectedly fell in love with her.)  Therefore, although I recovered,
and completely, still do I sometimes dwell with a certain cynical
pleasure on the memory of him----"
"Have you never seen him since?" asked Clavering sharply.  He had
returned to his chair.  "How long ago was that?"
"Quite sixteen years ago.  I did not visit Vienna again for several
years; in fact, not until after my husband's death, when I returned there
to live.  But by that time I had lost both youth and beauty.  His wife
had died, but left him an heir, and he showed no disposition to marry
again; certainly he was as indifferent to me as I to him.  We often met,
and as he respected my mind and my knowledge of European affairs, we
talked politics together, and he sometimes asked my advice.
"But to go back.  After that was over I determined to put love definitely
out of my life.  I believed then and finally that I had not the gift of
inspiring love; nor would I ever risk humiliation and suffering again.  I
played the great game of life and politics.  I was still beautiful--for a
few years--I had an increasingly great position, all the advantages,
obvious and subtle, that money could procure.  My maid was very clever.
My gowns, as time went on, were of a magnificent simplicity; all
frou-frous were renounced.  I had no mind to invite the valuation I heard
applied to certain American women in Paris: 'elderly and dressy.'"
Clavering laughed for the first time.  "I wonder you ever made a mistake
of any sort.  I also wonder if you are a type as well as an individual?
I have, I think, followed intelligently your psychological involutions
and convolutions so far.  I am only hoping you will not get beyond my
depth.  What was your attitude toward your past mistakes--beyond what you
have told me?  Did you suffer remorse, as I am told women do when they
either voluntarily renounce or are permitted to sin no more?"
"I neither regarded them as mistakes nor did I suffer remorse.  Every
human being makes what are called mistakes and those happened to be mine.
Therefore I dismissed them to the limbo of the inevitable. . . .  As your
world, I am told, looks upon you as the coming dramatist, it may appeal
to your imagination to visualize that secret and vital and dramatic
undercurrent of what was on the surface a proud and splendid life. . . .
Or, if there are regrets, it is for the weight of memories, the
completeness of disillusion, the slaying of mental youth--which cannot
survive brutal facts.
"I think that for women of my type--what may be called the intellectual
siren--the lover phase is inevitable.  We are goaded not only by the
imperious demands of womanhood and the hope of the perfect companion, but
by curiosity, love of adventure, ennui; possibly some more obscure
complex--vengeance on the husband who has wrecked our first illusions--on
Life itself.  Bringing-up, family and social traditions, have nothing to
do with it.  Only opportunity counts.  Moreover, we are not the product
of our immediate forebears, but of a thousand thousand unknown
ancestors. . . ."
"God!  True enough!"
"Unfortunately, these women who have wasted so much time on love never
realize the tragic futility until Time himself disposes of temptation,
and then it is too late for anything but regrets of another sort.  The
war may have solved the problem for many a desperate spirit.
"My own case has assumed an entirely different complexion.  With my youth
restored I have the world at my feet once more, but safeguarded by the
wisdom of experience--in so far as a mortal ever may be.  The bare idea
of that old game of prowling sex fills me with ennui and disgust.  The
body may be young again, but my mind, reënergized though it is, is packed
with memories, a very Book of Life.  When I found that my beauty was
restored I thought of nothing less than returning to the conquest of men
in the old manner, although quite aware of its powerful aid in the work I
have made up my mind to do in Austria.  Of late, of course, I have
thought of little else but what this recrudescence of my youth means to
you and to myself.  But--please do not interrupt--this I shall not
discuss with you again until Monday--if then.
"But once more I wish to impress you with the fact that I indulge in
nothing so futile as regrets for my 'past.'  'Sack-cloth and ashes'
provokes nothing but a smile from women of my type and class.  Moreover,
I believe that my education would not be complete without that
experience--mine, understand.  I am not speaking for women of other
temperaments, opportunities, of less intellect, of humbler character,
weaker will. . . .  And if I had persisted in virtue at that time I
should probably make a fool of myself today, an even more complete fool
than women do when they feel youth slipping but still are able with the
aid of art and arts to fascinate younger men.
"That almost standardized chapter I renounced peremptorily.  My pride was
too great to permit me to be foolish even in the privacy of my mind over
men half my age.  Nor did I make any of the usual frantic attempts to
keep looking young.  I had seen too much of that, laughed at it too
often.  Nevertheless, I hated the approach of age, the decay of beauty,
the death of magnetism, as bitterly as the silliest woman I had ever met.
"Some women merely fade: lose their complexions, the brightness of their
eyes and hair.  Others grow heavy, solid; stout or flabby; the muscles of
the face and neck loosen and sag, the features alter.  I seemed slowly to
dry up--wither.  There was no flesh to hang or loose skin to wrinkle, but
it seemed to me that I had ten thousand lines.  I thought it a horrid
fate.  I could not know that Nature, meaning to be cruel, had given me
the best chance for the renewal of the appearance as well as the fact of
youth.
"I suppose all this seems trivial to you--this mourning over lost
youth----"
"Not at all.  It must have been hell to a woman like you.  As for women
in general--they may make more fuss about it, but I fancy they hate it
less than men."
"Yes, men are vainer than women," said Madame Zattiany indifferently.
"But I have yet to waste any sympathy on men. . . .
"I suppose I only fully realized that my youth, my beauty, my magnetic
charm, had gone when men ceased to make violent love to me.  They still
paid court, for I was a very important person, my great prestige was a
sort of halo, and I had never neglected my mind.  There was nothing of
significance I had not read during all these years.  I was as profoundly
interested in the great political currents of Europe, seen and unseen, as
any man--or as any intelligent woman of European society.  Moreover, I
had the art of life down to a fine point, and I had not forgotten that
even in friendship men are drawn to the subtle woman who knows how to
envelop herself in a certain mystery.  And European men are always eager
to talk with an accomplished woman, even if she has no longer the power
to stir their facile passions.
"When I realized that my sex power had left me I adopted an entirely new
set of tactics--never would I provoke a cynical smile on the faces I once
had the power to distort!  With no evidence of regret for my lost
enchantment I remained merely the alert and always interested woman of
the world, to whom men, if sufficiently entertaining, were welcome
companions for the moment, nothing more.  I cemented many friendships, I
cultivated a cynical philosophy--for my own private succor--and although,
for a time, there were moments of bewildered groping and of intense
rebellion, or a sudden and hideous sense of inferiority, I twisted the
necks of those noxious weeds thrusting themselves upward into my
consciousness and threatening to strangle it, and trampled them under the
heel of my will.  It was by no means the least happy interval of my life,
for I was very healthy, I took a great deal of outdoor exercise, and
there was a sense of freedom I never had experienced before.  Love is
slavery, and I was no longer a slave.
"After my husband's death, as I told you, I opened the Zattiany palace in
Vienna once more (my nephew and his wife preferred Paris, and I leased it
from them), expecting to follow the life I had mapped out, until I was
too old for interests of any sort.  I had a brilliant salon and I was
something of a political power.  Of course, I knew that the war was
coming long before hatreds and ambitions reached their climax, and
advised this man of whom I have spoken, Mathilde Loyos, and other
friends, to invest large sums of money in the United States.  Judge Trent
arranged the trusteeship in each case----"
"Where is this man?"
"I do not know.  He went down with the old régime, of course, and would
be a pauper but for these American investments and a small amount in
Switzerland.  He has occupied no position in the new Government, although
he was a Liberal in politics.  What he is doing I have no idea.  I have
not seen him for years."
"Well--go on."
"It was only when I became aware of a growing mental lassitude, a
constant sense of effort in talking everlastingly on subjects that called
for constant alertness and often reorientation, that I was really aghast
and began to look toward the future not only with a sense of helplessness
but of intolerable weariness.  I used to feel an inclination to turn my
head away with an actual physical gesture when concentration was
imperative.  I thought that my condition was psychological, that I had
lived too much and too hard, that my memory was over-burdened and my
sense of the futility and meaninglessness of life too overwhelming.  But
I know now that the condition was physical, the result of the
degeneration of certain cells.
"I spent the summer alone on my estate in Hungary, and when it was over I
determined to close the palace in Vienna and remain in the country.  I
could not go back to that restless high-pitched life, with its ceaseless
gaiety on the one hand and its feverish politics and portentous rumblings
on the other.  My tired mind rebelled.  And the long strain had told on
my health.
"I lived an almost completely outdoor life, riding, walking, swimming in
the lake, hunting, but careful not to overtax my returning strength.  I
was not in love with life, far from it!  But I had no intention of adding
invalidism to my other disintegrations.  In the evening I played cards
with my secretary or practised at the piano, with some revival of my old
interest in music.  I read little, even in the newspapers.  I was become,
save perhaps for my music, an automaton.  But, although I did not improve
in appearance, my health was completely restored, and when the war came I
was in perfect condition for the arduous task I immediately undertook.
Moreover, my mind, torpid for a year, was free and refreshed for those
practical details it must grapple with at once.  I turned the Zattiany
palace in Buda Pesth into a hospital.  And then for four years I was
again an automaton, but this time a necessary and useful one.  When I
thought about myself at all, it seemed to me that this selfless and
strenuous interval was the final severance from my old life.  If Society
in Europe today were miraculously restored to its pre-war
brilliancy--indifferent to little but excitement and pleasure--there
would be nothing in it for me.
"Now I come to the miracle."  And while she recapitulated what she had
told the women at Mrs. Oglethorpe's luncheon, Clavering listened without
chaos in his accompanying thoughts.  "Certainly, man's span is too brief
now," she concluded.  "He withers and dies at an age when, if he has
lived sanely--and when a man abuses his natural functions he generally
dies before old age, anyhow--he is beginning to see life as a whole, with
that detachment that comes when his personal hold on life and affairs is
relaxing, when he has realized his mistakes, and has attained a mental
and moral orientation which could be of inestimable service to his fellow
men, and to civilization in general.  What you call crankiness in old
people, so trying to the younger generations, does not arise from natural
hatefulness of disposition and a released congenital selfishness, but
from atrophying glands, and, no doubt, a subtle rebellion against nature
for consigning men to ineptitude when they should be entering upon their
best period of usefulness, and philosophical as well as active enjoyment
of life.
"Science has defeated nature at many points.  The isolation of germs, the
discovery of toxins and serums, the triumph over diseases that once
wasted whole nations and brought about the fall of empires, the arrest of
infant mortality, the marvels of vivisection and surgery--the list is
endless.  It is entirely logical, and no more marvellous, that science
should be able to arrest senescence, put back the clock.  The wonder is
that it has not been done before."
She rose, still looking down at the fire, which Clavering had replenished
twice.  "I am going now.  And I have no fear that you will not keep your
promise!  But remember this when thinking it over: I do not merely look
young again, I am young.  I am not the years I have passed in this
world, I am the age of the rejuvenated glands in my body.  Some day we
shall have the proverb: 'A man is as old as his endocrines.'  Of course I
cannot have children.  The treatment is identical with that for
sterilization.  This consideration may influence you.  I shall use no
arguments nor seductions.  You will have decided upon all that before we
meet again.  Good night."  And she was gone.
XXX
It seemed to Clavering that he had run the gamut of the emotions while
listening to that brief biography, so sterilely told, but there had
also been times when he had felt as if suspended in a void even while
visited by flashes of acute consciousness that he was being called upon
to know himself for the first time in his life.  And in such fashion as
no man had ever been called upon to know himself before.
There was no precedent in life or in fiction to guide him, and he had
realized with a sensation of panic even while she talked that it was
doubtful if any one had ever understood himself since the dawn of time.
Man had certain standards, fixed beliefs, ideals, above all,
habits--how often they scattered to the winds under some unheralded or
teratogenic stress.  He had seen it more than once, and not only in
war.  Every man had at least two personalities that he was aware of,
and he dimly guessed at others.  Some were frank enough to admit that
they had not an idea what they would do in a totally unfamiliar
situation.  Clavering had sometimes emblemized man and his
personalities with the old game of the ivory egg.  A twist and the
outer egg revealed an inner.  Another and one beheld a third.  And so
on to the inner unmanipulatable sphere, which might stand for the
always inscrutable soul.  Like all intelligent men, he had a fair
knowledge of these two outer layers of personality, and he had
sometimes had a flashing glimpse of others, too elusive to seize and
put under the microscopic eye of the mind.
What did he know of himself?  He asked the question again as he sat in
his own deep chair in the early morning hours.  The heat in the hotel
had been turned off and he had lit the gas logs in the grate--symbol of
the artificialities of civilization that had played their insidious
rôle in man's outer and more familiar personality.  Perhaps they struck
deeper.  Habit more often than not dominated original impulse.
His own room, where he was nearly always alone, with its warm red
curtains and rug, the low bookcases built under his direction and
filled with his favorite books, the refectory table and other pieces of
dark old English oak that he had brought from home, and several family
portraits on the wall, restored his equilibrium and his brain was
abnormally clear.  He wondered if he ever would sleep again.  Better
think it over now.
Mary Zattiany as she talked had never changed her expression.  She
might have been some ancient oracle reciting her credo, and she seemed
to have narcotized that magnetic current that had always vibrated
between them.  Nevertheless, he had been fully aware that she felt like
nothing less than an oracle or the marble bust she looked, and that her
soul was racked and possibly fainting, but mastered by her formidable
will.
Formidable.  Did that word best express her?  Was she one of the
superwomen who could find no mate on earth and must look for her god on
another star?  He certainly was no superman himself to breathe on her
plane and mate that incarnate will.  Had she any human weakness?  Even
that subterranean sex-life in her past had not been due to weakness.
She was far too arrogant for that.  Life had been her foot-stool.  She
had kicked it about contemptuously.  Even her readjustments had been
the dictates of her imperious will.  And her pride!  She was a female
Lucifer in pride.
No doubt the men she had dismissed had been secretly relieved; stung
for the only time in their lives perhaps, with a sense of inferiority.
It must have been like receiving the casual favors of a queen on her
throne.  Well, she had got it in the neck once; there was some
satisfaction in that.  He wished he knew the man's name.  He'd hunt him
up and thank him in behalf of his sex.
For an hour he excoriated her, hated her, feared her, dissociating her
from the vast army of womanhood, but congratulating himself upon having
known her.  She was a unique if crucifying study.
With restored youth superimposed upon that exhaustive knowledge of
life--every phase of it that counted in her calculations--the
rejuvenation of all her great natural endowments, she'd probably go
back and rule Europe!  What use could she possibly have for any man?
He made himself a cup of coffee over his electric stove, turned off the
malodorous gas, which affected his head, stood out on his balcony for a
moment, then lit his pipe and felt in a more mellow mood.
After all, she had suffered as only a woman so liberally endowed could
suffer, and over a long period of years.  She had known despair and
humiliation and bewilderment, lethargic hopelessness, and finally a
complete sacrifice of self.  His imagination, in spite of his
rebellious soul, had furnished the background for that bald recital.
And she must have an indomitable soul, some inner super-fine spiritual
essence, with which arrogance and even pride had less to do than she
imagined.  Otherwise, after the life she had led, she would either have
become an imperious uncomfortable old woman or one of those faltering
non-entities crowded into the backwaters of life by a generation which
inspires them with nothing but timidity and disapproval.  Towering
individualities often go down to defeat in old age.
And nothing could alter the fact that she was the most beautiful and
the most wholly desirable woman he had ever known, the one woman who
had focussed every aspiration of his mind, his soul, and his body.  He
knew he must ask himself the inevitable question and face it without
blinking.  Was he appalled by her real age; could he ever get away from
the indubious fact that whatever miracle science may have effected, her
literal age was verging on sixty?  If she were not an old woman she had
been one.  That beautiful body had withered, undesired of all men, that
perfect face had been the battered mirror of an aged ego.  He did not
ask himself if the metamorphosis would last, if the shell might not
wither again tomorrow.  He was abreast of the important scientific
discoveries of his day and was not at all astonished that the problem
of senescence should be solved.  It was no more remarkable than
wireless, the Röntgen Ray, the properties of radium, or any one of the
beneficent contributions of science to the well-being of mankind that
were now too familiar for discussion.  He had heard a good deal of this
particular discovery as applied to men.  No doubt Dinwiddie and Osborne
would soon be appearing as gay young sparks on her doorstep.  It might
be the greatest discovery of all time, but it certainly would work both
ways.  While its economic value might be indisputable, and even, as she
had suggested, its spiritual, it would be hard on the merely young.
The mutual hatreds of capital and labor would sink into insignificance
before the antagonism between authentic youth and age inverted.  On the
other hand it might mean the millennium.  The threat of
overpopulation--for man's architectonic powers were restored if not
woman's; to say nothing of his prolonged sojourn--would at last rouse
the law-makers to the imperious necessity of eugenics, birth control,
sterilization of the unfit, and the expulsion of undesirable races.  It
might even stimulate youth to a higher level than satisfied it at
present.  Human nature might attain perfection.
However, he was in no mood for abstract speculation.  His own problem
was absorbing enough.
He might as well itemize the questions he had to face and examine them
one by one, and dispassionately.  He would never feel more emotionless
than now; and that mental state was very rare that enabled a man to
think clearly and see further than a yard ahead of him.
Her real age?  Could he ever forget it?  Should he not always see the
old face under the new mask, as the X-Rays revealed man's hideous
interior under its merciful covering of flesh?  But he knew that one of
the most beneficent gifts bestowed upon mankind is the talent for
forgetting.  Particularly when one object has been displaced by
another.  Reiteration dulls the memory.  He might say to himself every
hour in the day that she was sixty not thirty and the phrase would soon
become as meaningless as absent-minded replies to remarks about the
weather.
And he doubted if any man could look at Mary Zattiany for three
consecutive minutes and recall that she had ever been old, or imagine
that she ever could be old again.  However prone man may be to dream,
he is, unless one of the visionaries, dominated by the present.  What
he wants he wants now and he wants what he sees, not what may be
lurking in the future.  That is the secret of the early and often
imprudent marriage--the urge of the race.  And if a man is not deterred
by mere financial considerations, still less is he troubled by visions
of what his inamorata will look like thirty years hence or what she
might have looked like had disease prematurely withered her.  He sees
what he sees and if he is satisfied at all he is as completely
satisfied as a man may be.
He made no doubt that Mary Zattiany would have, if she chose, as many
suitors among men of his own age as among her former contemporaries.
They would discuss the phenomenon furiously, joke about it, try to
imagine her as she had been, back water, return out of curiosity,
hesitate, speculate--and then forget it.
No one would forget it sooner than himself.  He had no doubt whatever
that when he went to her house tomorrow afternoon he would remember as
long as she kept him waiting and no longer.  So that was that.
Did he want children?  They charmed him--sometimes--but he had never
been conscious of any desire for a brood of his own.  He knew that many
men felt an even profounder need of offspring than women.  Man's ego is
more strident, the desire to perpetuate itself more insistent, his
foresight is more extended.  Moreover, however subconsciously, his
sense of duty to the race is stronger. . . .  But he doubted if any man
would weigh the repetition of his ego against his ego's demand to mate
with a woman like Mary Zattiany.  He certainly would not.  That was
final.
What was it she demanded in love, that she had sought so ardently and
ever missed?  Could he give it to her?  Was she merely glamored once
more, caught up again in the delusions of youth, with her revivified
brain and reawakened senses, and this time only because the man was of
a type novel in her cognizance of men?  Useless to plead the urge of
the race in her case. . . .  Nevertheless, many women, denied the power
of reproduction fell as mistakenly in love as the most fertile of their
sisters.  But hardly a woman of Mary Zattiany's exhaustive experience!
She certainly should know her own mind.  Her instincts by this time
must be compounded of technical knowledge, not the groping inherited
flashes playing about the shallow soil of youth. . . .  If her
instincts had centred on him there must be some deeper meaning than
passion or even intellectual homology.  After all, their conversations,
if vital, had been few in number.
Perhaps she had found, with her mind's trained antennae, some one of
those hidden layers of personality which she alone could reveal to
himself.  What was it?  She wanted far more than love-making and mental
correspondence.  What was it?  He wished he knew.  Tenderness?  He
could give her that in full measure.  Sentiment?  He was no
sentimentalist, but he believed that he possessed the finer quality.
Fidelity?  That was not worth consideration.  Appreciation of the
deepest and best in her, sympathetic understanding of all her mistakes
and of all that she had suffered?  She knew the answer as well as he
did.  The ability to meet her in many moods, never to weary her with
monotony?  He was a man of many moods himself.  What had saved him from
early matrimony was a certain monotony in women, the cleverest of them.
But there must be something beyond, some subtle spiritual demand,
developed throughout nearly twice as many years as he had dwelt on
earth; born not only of an aspiring soul and terrible disenchantments,
but of a wisdom that only years of deep and living experience, no mere
intelligence, however brilliant, could hope to assemble.  He was
thirty-four.  There was no possible question that at fifty-eight, if he
lived sanely, and his intellectual faculties had progressed unimpaired,
he would look back upon thirty-four as the nonage of life--when the
future was a misty abyss of wisdom whose brink he had barely trod.  She
herself was an abyss of wisdom.  How in God's name could he ever cross
it?  Her body might be young again, but never her mind.  Never her
mind!  And then he had a flash of insight.  Perhaps he alone could
rejuvenate that mind.
Certainly he could make her forget.  Men and women would be aged at
thirty, but for this beneficent gift of forgetting. . . .  He could
make the present vivid enough.
He explored every nook of those personalities of his, determined to
discover if he felt any sense of inferiority to this woman who knew so
much more, had lived and thought and felt so much more, than
himself--whom he still visioned on a plane above and apart.  No woman
was ever more erudite in the most brilliant and informing declensions
of life, whatever the disenchantments, and for thirty years she had
known in varying degrees of intimacy the ablest and most distinguished
men in Europe.  She had been at no pains to conceal her opinion of
their intellectual superiority over American men. . . .
He concluded dispassionately that he never could feel inferior to any
woman.  Women might arrest the attention of the world with their
talents, change laws and wring a better deal out of life than man had
accorded them in the past, but whatever their gifts and whatever their
achievements they always had been and always would be, through their
physical disabilities, their lack of ratiocination, of constructive
ability on the grand scale, the inferiors of men.  The rare exceptions
but proved the rule, and no doubt they had been cast in one mould and
finished in another.
In sheer masculine arrogance he was more than her match.  Moreover,
there were other ways of keeping a woman subject.
Did he love her?  Comprehensively and utterly?  Clear thinking fled
with the last of his doubts. . . .  And when a man detaches himself
from the gross material surface of life and wings to the realm of the
imagination, where he glimpses immortality, what matter the penalty?
Any penalty?  Few had the thrice blessed opportunity.  If he were one
of the chosen, the very demi-gods, jeering at mortals, would hate him.
And then abruptly he fell asleep.
XXXI
He went direct from the office that evening to Mrs. Oglethorpe's house
in Gramercy Park.  During the morning he had received the following
note from her, and he had puzzled over it at intervals ever since.
"Dear Lee:
"Will you dine alone with an old woman tonight--a rather bewildered and
upset old woman?  I suppose to the young nothing is too new and strange
for readjustment, but I have hardly known where I am these last few
days.  You are the only friend I care to talk to on the subject, for
you always understand.  I am probably older than your mother and I look
old enough to be your grandmother, but you are the only person living
with whom I ever feel inclined to lay aside all reserve.  Old men are
fossils and young men regard me as an ancient wreck preserved by family
traditions.  As for women I hate them and always did.  Do come and dine
with a lonely puzzled old woman unless you have an engagement
impossible to break.  Don't bother to dress.
"Your affectionate old friend,
  "JANE OGLETHORPE."
"What's up?" Clavering had thought as he finished it.  "Mary or Janet?"
It was an extraordinary letter to receive from Mrs. Oglethorpe, the
most fearsome old woman in New York.  To Clavering she had always shown
the softer side of her nature and he knew her perhaps better, or at all
events more intimately, than any of her old friends, for she had not
treated him as a negligible junior even when he arrived in New York at
the tender age of twenty-two.  His ingenuous precocity had amused her
and she had discovered a keen interest in the newspaper world of whose
existence she had hardly been aware; no interviewer had ever dared
approach her; and as he grew older, developing rapidly and more and
more unlike her sons and her sons' friends, they had fallen into an
easy pallish intimacy, were frank to rudeness, quarrelled furiously,
but fed each other's wisdom and were deeply attached.  During the war
she had knitted him enough socks and sweaters to supply half his
regiment; and when he had left the hospital after a serious attack of
influenza it had been for the house in Gramercy Park, where he could
have remained indefinitely had he wished.
But in all the years of their intimacy never before had she "broken,"
given a hint that she felt the long generation between them.  He found
her more interesting in talk than any girl, except when he was briefly
in love, and her absence of vanity, her contempt for sentiment in any
of its forms, filled him with a blessed sense of security as he spent
hours stretched out on the sofa in her upstairs sitting-room, smoking
and discussing the universe.  She was not an intellectual woman, but
she was sharp and shrewd, a monument of common sense and worldly
wisdom.  It would be as easy to hoodwink her as the disembodied
Minerva, and it was doubtful if any one made even a tentative attempt.
Clavering wondered which of those inner secret personalities was to be
revealed tonight.
As he stood in the drawing-room waiting for her to come down he
examined for the first time in many years the full-length picture of
her painted shortly before her marriage to James Oglethorpe.  She was
even taller than Mary Zattiany and in the portrait her waist was round
and disconcertingly small to the modern therapeutic eye.  But the whole
effect of the figure was superb and dashing, the poise of the head was
almost defiant, and the hands were long, slender, and very white
against the crimson satin of her gown.  She looked as if about to lead
a charge of cavalry, although, oddly enough, her full sensuous mouth
with its slightly protruding lower lip was pouting.  Beautiful she had
never been; the large bony structure of her face was too uncoverable,
her eyes too sharp and sardonic; but handsome certainly, and, no doubt,
for many years after she had stood for this portrait in the full
insolence of her young womanhood.  She retained not a trace of that
handsomeness today.  Her hands were skinny, large-veined, discolored by
moth patches, and her large aquiline nose rose from her sunken cheeks
like the beak of an old eagle--an indomitable old eagle.  Many women of
sixty-eight had worn far better, but looks need care, spurred by
vanity, and she had a profound contempt for both.  No doubt if she had
made a few of the well-known feminine concessions would have looked at
least ten years younger than her age, for she had never had a day's
illness: eight lyings-in were not, in her case, to be counted as
exceptions.  No doubt, thought Clavering, as he turned to greet her,
she had thought it quite enough to be imposing.
She certainly looked imposing tonight in spite of her old-fashioned
corsets and her iron-gray hair arranged in flat rolls and puffs on the
precise top of her head, for although flesh had accumulated lumpily on
her back, her shoulders were still unbowed, her head as haughtily
poised as in her youth, and the long black velvet gown with yellow old
point about the square neck (the neck itself covered, like the throat,
with net), and falling over her hands, became her style if not the
times.
"Well, Lee!" she said drily.  "I suppose when you got my note you
thought I had gone bug-house, as my fastidious granddaughter Janet
would express it.  But that is the way I felt and that is the way I
feel at the present moment."
"Dear Lady Jane!  Whatever it is, here I am to command, as you see.
There is no engagement I wouldn't have broken----"
"You are a perfect dear, and if I were forty years younger I should
marry you.  However, we'll come to that later.  I want to talk to you
about that damnable little Janet first--we'll have to go in now."
When they were seated at a small table at one end of the immense
dining-room she turned to the butler and said sharply:
"Get out, Hawkins, and stay out except when we can't get on without
you."  And Hawkins, whom a cataclysm would not have ruffled after
forty-five years in Mrs. Oglethorpe's service, vanished.
"Jim said he had a talk with you about Janet, and that you advised him
to spank her," she said.  "Well, he did."
"What?"  Clavering gave a delighted grin.  "I never believed he'd do
it."
"Nor I.  Thought his will had grown as flabby as his body.  But when
she stood up to him and with a cool insolence, which she may or may not
have inherited from me, or which may be merely part and parcel of the
new manner, and flung in his face a good deal more than he knew
already, and asked him what he was going to do about it, he turned her
over his knee and took a hair-brush to her."
"It must have been a tussle.  I suppose she kicked and scratched?"
"She was so astonished that at first she merely ejaculated: 'Oh, by
Jimminy!'  Then she fought to get away and when she found she couldn't
she began to blubber, exactly as she did when she was not so very much
younger and was spanked about once a day.  That hurt his feelings, for
he's as soft as mush, and he let her go; but he locked her up in her
room and there she stays until she promises to behave herself as girls
did in his time.  I'm afraid it won't work.  She hasn't promised yet,
but merely hisses at him through the keyhole.  D'you understand this
new breed?  I'm afraid none of the rest of us do."
"I can't say I've been interested enough to try.  Janet informed me
that they were going the pace because they couldn't hold the men any
other way.  But I fancy it's merely a part of the general unrest which
is the usual aftermath of war.  This was a very long war, and the young
seem to have made up their minds that the old who permitted it are
bunglers and criminals and idiots and that it is up to them to
demonstrate their contempt."
