''Because it is wicked to dance, and the Bible 
never teaches us to do what is wicked." 

"Oh! oh!" returned Anna, laughing — "You 
are like a great many other good people, Aunt 
Mary. You first call a thing good or evil to suit 
some notion of your own, and then make the Bible 
prove it whether it will or no. A convenient 
method, I own, but it doesn't suit my common 
sense notions. But to be serious with you, aunt ; 
— we send our children to dancing school from 
conscientious motives." 

"Conscientious motives! Humph!" 

"It is true. We are satisfied that all external 
graces and accomplishments are so many aids to 
moral culture, if selfish and worldly-minded peo- 
ple pervert them to selfish and worldly purposes, 
that is an evil for which they alone are responsible. 
Shall I, because a glutton makes himself sick on 
dainty food, refuse to eat any thing but the coarsest 
bread ? Or, because my next door neighbor fur- 
nishes her house richly that her taste may be ad- 
mired, refuse to have a carpet upon my floor, or a 
mirror in my parlor  It is the end for which a 
vhing is done that makes it evil or good, aunt. All 
good gifts are from Heaven. There are no positive 
evils, — all that exist are perversions of good." 



 

'''Do you mean to say that the end sanctifies the 
means ?" asked Aunt Mary, quite fiercely. 

" I do, if the means are good ?" 

"What am I to understand by that? You seem 
to be talking riddles." 

" Good means never violate the laws of either 
God or man. You may always be sure that the 
end is bad, if the means used in its attainment are 
so. But to come back to the point from which we 
started. We can see no harm in music and dan- 
cing, abstractly considered." 

" But their effects, Anna. Cannot you see their 
injurious effects upon young people." 

" What are they ?" 

" They make them vain and frivolous, and wean 
their minds from better things." 

" I always find that my children say their 
prayers as earnestly in the evening of the day they 
have taken their dancing lesson, as on any other. 
And, sometimes, I think with a more tender and 
grateful spirit." 

" I shudder to hear you talk so, Anna. You are 
trifling with holy things. Dancing and praying — ' 
Ugh ! It makes my very blood run cold !" 

" I don't see. Aunt Mary, that any good can 
grow out of tliese discussions," remarked Anna, 
gravely. '' The responsibility of our children's 



education rests with James and myself. Our guide 
is the reason that God has given us, illustrated by 
his Revelation. These teach us that it is right to 
bring out into ultimate forms all that is innocent in 
our children. Their buoyant spirits are ever caus- 
ing them to throw their bodies about in every ima- 
ginable attitude. Is it not much better to teach a 
boy like Clarence to dance gracefully to good mu- 
sic, than to let his excessive flow of animal spirits 
lead him to turn summersets, stand on his head, or 
contort his body until it is deformed ? — and to let 
the peevishness of an unhappy temper subside in a 
similar amusement? We, after much careful re- 
flection, have determined that is best." 

" But all amusements are sinful, Anna. How 
can you reconcile that with your duty to your 
children." 

" As I have often said before," replied Mrs. Hart- 
ley, " I do not believe that all amusements are 
sinful. My opinion is that one person may com- 
mit more sin in going to church, than another in 
going to a ball room." 

" Anna !" 

'' It is the motive from which a thing is done 
that makes it good or bad," resumed the niece. 
" If [ go to a ball with a right motive, and that i can 
do, my act is much better than the act of one who 



 

goes to church to be seen and admired, or, as too 
many go, with a pharisaical spirit." 

''' It's no use to talk to you !" Aunt Mary said, 
pettishly. ''You and James are as set in your 
ways as you can be. I pity your children — that's 
what I do. If ever they come lo any thing, it will 
be more from good luck than any thing else. As 
to their ever caring about religion, I give up all 
hopes. Mark my words, Anna, the day will come 
when you will repent of this folly. Young folks 
think old folks fools ; but old folks know young 
folks to be fools. Remember that." 
t Contentions like these did not change in the 
slightest degree the system which Mr. and Mrs. 
Hartley had adopted. They believed that their 
children would be more useful as members of com- 
mon society after they arrived at mature age, if en- 
dowed with every accomplishment of mind and 
manners, than if rude and uncultivated, except ia 
the higher and sterner qualities of the intellect. 
As to the absurd notion that such accomplishments 
were inconsistent with true religion, they were well 
assured that, without such accomplishments, reli- 
gion lost more than half of its means of acting for 
good in common society. 



CHAPTER IV. 

THE SECRET OF GOVERNING CHILDREN. 

Very soon after Mrs. Hartley assumed the re- 
sponsible position of a mother, she became sensible 
that she had really more to do in the correction of 
what was wrong in herself, than in her children. 
To remain undisturbed at their disobedience, and 
unimpassioned when duty called her to administer 
correction, was next, it seemed to her, to impossi- 
ble. A calm admonition she always saw did more 
good than an energetic one — and grief at her child's 
disobedience was ever more effective than anger. 
But anger was too ready to lift its distorted visage, 
and she mourned over this tendency with a real 
sorrow, because she saw that it exerted an unhappy 
influence, especially upon the self-willed, excitable 
Clarence. 

" I believe I have discovered a secret," she re- 
marked to her husband, while they sat conversing 
one evening, about the time that Clarence attained 
his third year. 

" What is that, dear." he asked. 


 

"The secret of governing my children easily." 

" A great secret that. But are you sure you are 
right ?" 

" I think I am. It is to govern myself." 

Mr. Hartley smiled. 

" I believe it is the only true way," returned his 
wife. 

" And so do I, Anna. But the government of 
ourselves is not so easy a matter." 

'" I am well aware of that. No one, it seems to 
ne, can try harder than I do to control my feelings 
when Clarence does wrong. But I cannot do it 
once in ten times that I make the effort. When I 
do succeed, the task of correction is easy and ef- 
fectual. A word, mildly but firmly uttered, or a 
look, is all that is required. The child seems at 
once subdued. I am sometimes astonished at so 
marked a result from what seems so small a 
cause." 

" That you succeed once even in ten efforts, is 
certainly encouraging." 

" It inspires me with the hope that I shall yet 
conquer myself, through the power sent me from 
above. The earnest love I feel for my children, 
shall give me resolution to persevere." 

The manner and words of Mrs. Hartley touched 
her husband. 



 

" For their sakes, persevere, dear Anna !" he 
said with emotion. 

" I will," was her tearful ans\ver — the drops of 
pure feeling were dimming her eyes. 

"There is still another reason why both yoia 
and I should resist every evil tendency of our na- 
tures," said Mr. Hartley. " We are well convinced, 
that our children can have no moral perversions that 
are not inherited from their parents," 

" It is, alas ! but too true. — How sad the reflec- 
tion that we entail a curse upon our offspring." 

" Sad indeed. But what is our duty ?" 

"A very plain one," returned J\lrs, Hartley. 
"To resist evil in ourselves, and put it away, that 
our future offspring, should God add to the number 
of our jewels, may inherit from us tendencies to 
good instead of tendencies to evil. This is the way 
in which we can care best for our children. The 
forms of all uncorrected evils in ourselves must, by 
the immutable law that every thing produced bears 
the likeness and has the qualities of the producing 
cause, be in our children ; and there is enough and 
more than enough surrounding every one to excite 
his latent evils. Every wrong temper, every selfish 
feeling, that we conquer in ourselves, is just so 
much gain of good for our children." 

" Yes, to subdue our own evils is the only sure 



 

way to correct them in our children. We weaken 
them in their transmission, and are in better stales 
to correct them when they begin to appear." 

How very few there are who think on this sub- 
ject as did Mr. and Mrs. Hartley. Parents will 
indulge in all the evil tempers and dispositions of 
an unregenerate nature — will cherish envy and 
pride, hatred, malice, and all manner of selfishness, 
and yet wonder at their existence in their children 
— will indulge these things in secret, and yet be 
angry at their children, who have no motive for 
curbing their passions or hiding what they think 
or feel. It is not to be wondered at, that so few 
are successful in the government of their children, 
when it is seen that they have not learned to go- 
vern themselves. 

From this time both Mr. and Mrs. Hartley felt a 
new motive for striving after the correction in them- 
selves of all perverted moral forms. The result 
was good. Mrs. Hartley found herself growing 
more patient and forbearing. She was able to 
stand, as it were, above her children, so as not to 
be affected by their wrong tempers and dispositions 
with any thing but an earnest and unimpassioned 
desire to correct them. Her love was guided by 
right reason, instead of being obscured by anger, 
&d had often been the case. 

 

Having fairly set forth the principles of action 
which governed Mrs. Hartley in the management 
and education of her children, let us introduce her 
more fully to the reader, that she may be seen in 
the active effort to perform well a mother's part. 
The period already named, twelve years from the 
time of her marriage, will be the best for our 
purpose. 



CHAPTER V. 
A mother's influence. 

"There come the children from school," said 
Aunt Mary, looking from the window. "Just see 
that Clarence ! He'll have Henry in the gutter. 
I never saw just such another boy. Why can't 
he come quietly along like other children. There ! 
— now he must stop to throw stones at the pigs. 
That boy 'll give you the heart ache yet, Anna." 

Mrs. Hartley made no reply, but laid aside her 
work quietly and left the room, to see that their 
dinner was ready. In a few minutes the street door 
was thrown open, and the children came bound- 
ing in, full of life, and noisy as they could be. 



 

" Where is your coat, Clarence ?" she asked, in 
a pleasant tone, looking her oldest boy in the face. 

'' Oh, I forgot !" he replied cheerfully, and turn- 
ing quickly, he ran down stairs, and lifting his 
coat from where, in his thoughtlessness, he had 
thrown it upon the floor, hung it up in its proper 
place, and then sprung up the stairs. 

'' Isn't dinner ready yet ." he said, with fretful 
impatience, his whole manner changing suddenly. 
" I'm hungry." 

" It will be ready in a few minutes, Clarence." 

"I want it now. I'm hungry." 

"Did you ever hear of the man," said Mrs. 
Hartley, in a voice that showed no disturbance of 
mind, '  who wanted the sun to rise an hour before 
its time .'" 

"No, mother. Tell me about it, won't you ?" 

All impatience had vanished from the boy's face. 

" There was a man who had to go upon a jour- 
ney. The stage coach was to call for him at sun- 
rise. More than an hour before it was time for 
the sun to be up, the man was all ready to go, and 
for the whole of that hour he walked the floor im- 
patiently, grumbling at the sun because he di-d not 
rise. ' I'm all ready, and I want to be going,' he 
said. ' It's time the sun was up, long ago.' Don't 
you think he was a very foolish man ." 




Clarence laughed, and said he thought the man 
was very foolish indeed. 

"Do you think he was more foolish than you 
were just now for grumbling because dinner wasn't 
ready ?" 

Clarence laughed again, and said he did not 
know. Just then Hannah, the cook, brought in 
the waiter with the children's dinner upon it.— 
Clarence sprang for a chair, and drew it hastily and 
noisily to the table. 

"" Try and see if you can't do that more orderly, 
my dear," his mother said, in a quiet voice, look- 
ing at him as she spoke, with a steady eye. 

The boy removed his chair, and then replaced it 
gently. 

" That is much better, my son." 

And thus she corrected his disorderly habits, 
quieted his impatient temper, and checked his rude- 
ness, without showing any disturbance. This she 
had to do daily. At almost every meal she found 
it necessary to repress his rude impatience. It was 
line upon line, and precept upon precept. But she 
never tired, anrl rarely permitted herself to show 
that she was disturbed, no matter how deeply 
grieved she was at times over the wild and reck- 
less spirit of her boy. 

On the next day she was not very well. Her 



 

head ached badly all the morning. Hearing the 
children in the passage, when they came in from 
school at noon, she was rising from the bed where 
she had lain down, to attend to them, and give them 
their dinners, when Aunt Mary said, 

" Don't get up. Anna. I will see to the children." 
It was rarely that Irs. Hartley let any one do 
for them wliat she could do herself, for no one else 
could manage the unhappy temper of Clarence. 
But so violent was the pain in her head, that she 
