She could not hope she had done much good, but she had 
done her duty. And it happened that Mr. Van Brunt; 
standing behind the angle of the wall, had heard every word. 
CHAPIEE 
XXXIII. 
Ellen's life had nothing to mark it formanj^ months. The 
rest of the winter passed quietly away, eveiy day being full 
of employment. At home the state of matters was rather 
bettered. Either Miss Fortune was softened by Ellen's gentle 
inoffensive ways, and obedient usefulness ; or she had resolved 
to bear what could not be helped, and make the best of the 
little inmate she could not get rid of. She was certainly resolved to make the most of her. Ellen was kept on the jump 
a great deal of the time ; she was runner of errands and maid 
of all work ; to set the table and clear it was only a trifle in 
the list of her every day duties ; and they were not ended 
till the last supper dish was put away and the hearth swept 
lip. Miss Fortune never spared herself and never spared 
Ellen, so long as she had any occasion for her. 
There were however long pieces of time that were left 
free ; these Ellen seized for her studies and used most diligently. Urged on by a three or four-fold motive. For the love 
of them, and for her own sake, — that John might think she 
had done well, — that she might presently please and satisfy 
Alice, — above all, that her mother's wishes might be answered. 
This thought, whenever it came, was a spur to her efforts ; 
so was each of the others ; and Christian feeling added another and kept all the rest in force. Without this, indolence 
might have weakened, or temptation surprised her resolution ; little Ellen was open to both ; but if ever she found 
herself growing careless, from either cause, conscience was 
sure to smite her ; and then would rush in all the motives 
that called upon her to persevere. Soon faithfulness began 
to bring its reward. With dehght she found herself getting 
the better of difficulties, beginning to see a little through the 
mists of ignorance, making some sensible progress on the 
long road of learning. Study grew delightful ; her lessons 
with Alice one of her greatest enjoyments. And as they 
were a labor of love to both teacher and scholar, and as it 
was the aim of each to see quite to the bottom of every matter, where it was possible, and to leave no difficulties behind 
them on the road which they had not cleared away, no wonder Ellen went forward steadily and rapidly Reading also 
became a wonderful pleasure. Weems' Life of Washington 
was read, and read, and read over again, till she almost knew 
it by heart ; and from that she went to Alice's library, and 
ransacked it for what would suit her. Happily it was a well 
picked one, and Ellen could not light upon many books that 
would do her mischief. For those, Alice's wish was enough ; 
— she never opened them. Furthermore Alice insisted that 
when Ellen had once fairly begun a book she should go 
through with it ; not capriciously leave it for another, nor 
have half-a-dozen about at a time. But when Ellen had read 
it once she commonly wanted to go over it again, and seldom 
laid it aside until she had sucked the sweetness all out of it. 
As for drawing, it could not go on very fast while the cold 
weather lasted. Ellen had no place at home where she could 
spread out her paper and copies without danger of being disturbed. Her only chance was at the parsonage. John had 
put all her pencils in order before he went, and had left her 
an abundance of copies, marked as she was to take them. 
They, or some of them, were bestowed in Alice's desk ; and 
whenever Ellen had a spare hour or two, of a fine morning 
or afternoon, she made the best of her way to the mountain ; 
it made no difterence whether Alice were at home or not ; 
she went in, coaxed up the fire, and began her work. It 
happened many a time that Alice, coming home from a walk or 
a run in the woods, saw the little hood and cloak on the 
settee before she opened the glass door, and knew very well 
how she should find Ellen, bending intently over her desk. 
These runs to the mountain were very frequent ; sometimes 
to draw, sometimes to recite, always to see Alice and be 
happy. Ellen grew rosy and hardy, and in spite of her separation from her mother, she was very happy too. Her extreme and varied occupation made this possible. She had 
no time to indulge useless sorrow ; on the contrary, her 
thoughts were taken up with agreeable matters, either doing 
or to be done ; and at night she was far too tired and sleepy 
to lie awake musing. And besides, she hoped that her 
mother would come back in the spring, or the summer at 
farthest. It is true Ellen had no liking for the kind of business her aunt gave her ; it was oftentimes a trial of temper 
and patience. Miss Fortune was not the pleasantest work- 
mistress in the world, and Ellen was apt to wish to be doing 
somethinof else : but after all this was not amiss. Besides 
the discipline of character, these trials made the pleasant 
things with which they were mixed up seem doubly pleasant ; 
the disagreeable parts of her life relished the agreeable wonderfully. After spending the whole morning with Miss 
Fortune in the depths of housework, how delightful it was 
to forget all in drawing some nice little cottage with a bit of 
stone wall and a barrel in front ; or to go with Alice, in 
thought, to the south of France, and learn how the peasants 
manage their vines and make the wine from them ; or run over 
the Rock of Gibraltar with the monkeys ; or at another time, 
seated on a little bench in the chimney corner, when the fire 
blazed up well, before the candles were lighted, to forget the 
kitchen and the supper and her bustling aunt, and sail round 
the world with Captain Cook. Yes — these things were all the 
sweeter for being tasted by snatches. 
Spring brought new occupation ; household labors began 
to increase in number and measure ; her leisure times were 
shortened. But pleasures were increased too. When the 
snow went off, and spring-like days began to come, and birds' 
notes were heard again, and the trees put out their young 
leaves, and the brown mountains were looking soft and green, 
Ellen's heart bounded at the sight. The springing grass was 
lovely to see ; dandelions were marvels of beauty ; to her 
each wild wood-flower was a never to be enough admired 
and loved wonder. She used to take long rambles with Mr. 
Van Brunt when business led him to the woods, sometimes 
riding part of the way on the ox-sled. Always a basket for 
flowers wt.nt along ; and when the sled stopped, she would 
wander all around seeking among the piled-up dead leaves 
for the white wind-flower, and pretty little hang- head 
Uvularia, and dehcate blood-root, and the wild geranium and 
columbine ; and many others the names of which she did not 
 
know. They were like friends to Ellen ; she gathered them 
affectionately as well as admiringly into her little basket, and 
seemed to purify herself in their pure companionship. Even 
Mr. Van Brunt came to have an indistinct notion that Ellen 
and flowers were made to be together. After he found what 
a pleasure it was-to her to go on these expeditions, he made 
it a point, whenever he was bound to the woods of a fine 
day, to come to the house for her. Miss Fortune might 
object as she pleased ; he always found an answer ; and at 
last Ellen to her great joy would be told, " Well ! go get 
your bonnet and be off with yourself." Once under the 
shadow of the big trees, the dried leaves crackling beneath 
her feet, and alone with her kind conductor, — and Miss 
Fortune and all in the world that was disagreeable was forgotten — forgotten no more to be remembered till the walk 
should come to an end. And it would have surprised anybody to hear the long conversations she and Mr. Van Brunt 
kept up, — he, the silentest man in Thirl wall ! Their talk 
often ran upon trees, among which Mr, Van Brunt was at 
home, Ellen wanted to become acqujiinted with them, as 
well as with the little flowers that grew at their feet ; and 
he tried to teach her how to know each separate kind by the 
bark and leaf and manner of growth. The pine and hemlock and fir were easily learnt ; the white birch too; beyond 
those at first she was perpetually confounding one with another. Mr. Van Brunt had to go over and over his instruc- 
tions ; never weary, always vastly amused. Pleasant lessons 
these were ! Ellen thought so, and Mr. Van Brunt thought 
so too. 
Then there were walks with Alice, pleasanter still, if that 
could be. And even in the house Ellen managed to keep a 
token of spring-time. On her toilet-table, the three uncouth 
legs of which were now hidden by a neat dimity cover, there 
always stood a broken tumbler with a supply of flowers. 
The supply was very varied, it is true ; sometimes only a 
handful of dandelions, sometimes a huge bunch of lilac flowers, which could not be persuaded to stay in the glass without 
the help of the wail, against which it leaned in very undignified style ; sometimes the bouquet was of really dehcate and 
beautiful wild flowers. All were charming in Ellen's eyes. 
As the days grew long and the weather warm, Alice and 
she began to make frequent trips to the Cat's back, and 
French eame very much into fashion. They generally took 
Sharp to ease the long way, and rested themselves with a 
good stay on the mountain. Their coming was always a joy 
to the old lady. She was dearly fond of them both, and delighted to hear from their lips the language she loved best. 
After a time they spoke nothing else when with her. She 
was well qualified to teach them ; and indeed her general 
education had been far from contemptible, though nature had 
done more for her. As the language grew familiar to them, 
she loved to tell and they to hear long stories of her youth 
and native country, — scenes and people so very different from 
all Ellen had ever seen or heard of ; and told in a lively simple style which she could not have given in English, and with 
a sweet coloring of Christian thought and feeling. Many 
things made these visits good and pleasant. It was not the 
least of Alice's and Ellen's joy to carry their old friend something that might be for her comfort in her lonely way of life. 
For even Miss Fortune now and then told Ellen "she might 
take a piece of that cheese along with her;" or "she wondered if the old lady would like a little fresh meat? — she 
guessed she'd cut her a bit of that nice lamb ; she wouldn't 
want but a little piece." A singluar testimony this was to 
the respect and esteem Mrs. Vawse had from everybody. 
Miss Fortune very, very seldom was known to take a bit from 
her own comforts to add to those of another. The ruling 
passion of this lady was thrift ; her next, good housewifery. 
First, to gather to herself and heap up of what the world 
most esteems ; after that, to be known as the most thorough 
house-keeper and the smartest woman in Thirlwall, 
Ellen made other visits she did not like so well. In the 
course of the winter and summer she became acquainted with 
m#st of the neighborhood. She sometimes went with her 
aunt to a formal tea-drinking, one, two, three, or four miles 
off, as the case might be. They were not very pleasant. To 
some places she was asked by herself ; and though the peo- 
ple invariably showed themselves very kind, and did their best 
to please her, Ellen seldom cared to go a seco'id time ; liked 
even home and Miss Fortune better. There were a few exceptions ; Jenny Hitchcock was one of her favorites, and 
Jane Huff was another ; and all of their respective families 
came in, with good reason, for a share of her regard, Mr. 
Juniper indeed excepted. Once they went to a quilting at 
Squire Dennison's ; the house was spotlessly neat and well 
ordered ; the people all kind ; but Ellen thought they did not 
seem to know how to be pleasant. Dan Dennison alone had 
no stiffness about him. Miss Fortune remarked with pride 
that even in this family of pretension, as she thought it, the 
refreshments could bear no comparison with hers. Once they 
were invited to tea at the Lawsons' ; but Ellen told Alice, 
with much apparent disgust, that she never wanted to go 
again. Mrs. Van Brunt she saw often. To Thirlwall Miss 
Fortune never went. 
Twice in the course of the summer Ellen had a very great 
pleasure in the company of little Ellen Chauncey. Once 
Miss Sophia brought her, and once her mother ; and the last 
time they made a visit of two weeks. On both occasions 
Ellen was sent for to the parsonage and kept while they stayed ; 
and the pleasure that she and her little friend had together 
cannot be told. It was unmixed now. Rambling about 
through the woods and over the fields, no matter where, it 
was all enchanting ; helping Alice garden ; helping Thomas 
make hay, and the mischief they did his haycocks by tum- 
bling upon them, and the patience with which he bore it ; the 
looking for eggs ; the helping Margery churn, and the helping each other set tables ; the pleasant mornings and pleasant 
evenings and pleasant mid-days, — it cannot be told. Long 
to be remembered, sweet and pure, was the pleasure of tliose 
summer days, unclouded by a shade of discontent or disa- 
greement on either brow. Ellen loved the whole Marshman 
family now, for the sake of one, the one she had first known ; 
and little Ellen Chauncey repeatedly told her mother in private that Ellen Montgomery was the very nicest girl she had 
ever seen. They met W'ith joy and parted with sorrow, entreating and promising, if possible, a speedy meeting again. 
Amidst all the improvement and enjoyment of these summer months, and they had a great deal of both for Ellen, there 
was one cause of sorrow she could not help feeling, and it began 
to press more and more. Letters, — they came slowly, — and 
when they came they were not at all satisfactory. Those in 
her mother's hand dwindled and dwindled, till at last there 
came only mere scraps of letters from her ; and sometimes 
after a long interval one from Captain Montgomery would 
come alone. Ellen's heart sickened with long-deferred hope. 
She wondered what could make her mother neglect a matter 
so necessary for her happiness ; sometimes she fancied they 
were traveling about, and it might be inconvenient to wi-ite ; 
sometimes she thought, perhaps they were coming home with- 
out letting her know, and would suddenly surprise her some 
day and make her half lose her wits with joy.- But they did not 
come, nor write ; and whatever was the reason, Ellen felt it 
was very sad, and sadder and sadder as the summer went on. 
Her own letters became pitiful in their supplications for letters ; they had been very cheerful and filled with encouraging matter, and in part they were still. 
For a while her mind was diverted from this sad subject, 
and her brow cleared up, when John came home in August. 
As before, Alice gained Miss Fortune's leave to keep her at 
the parsonage the whole time of his stay, which was several 
weeks. Ellen wondered that it was so easily granted, but she 
was much too happy to spend time in thinking about it. Miss 
Fortune had several reasons. She was unwilhng to displease 
Miss Humphreys, and conscious that it would be a shame to 
her to stand openly in the way of Ellen's good. Besides, 
though Ellen's services were lost for a time, yet she said she 
got tired of setting her to work ; she liked to dash round the 
house alone, without thinking what somebody else was doing 
or ought to be doing. In short she liked to have her out of 
the way for a while. Furthermore, it did not please her that 
Mr. Van Brunt and her little handmaid were, as she expressed it, "so thick." His first thought and his last thought, she 
said, she believed were for Ellen, whether he came in or went 
out ; and Miss Fortune was accustomed to be chief, not only 
in her own house, but in the regards of all who came to it. 
At any rate the leave was granted and Ellen went. 
And now was repeated the pleasure of the first week in January. It would have been increased, but that increase was not 
possible. There was only the difference between lovely winter 
and lovely summer weather ; it was seldom very hot in Thirl wall. 
The fields and hills were covered with green instead of white; 
fluttering leaves had taken the place of snow-covered sprays 
and sparkling icicles ; and for the keen north and brisk north- 
wester, soft summer airs were blowing. Ellen saw no othej 
difference, — except that perhaps, if it could be, there was 
something more of tenderness in the manner of Alice and her 
brother towards her. No little sister could have been more 
cherished and cared for. If there was a change, Mr. Hum- 
phrej^s shared it. It is true he seldom took much part in 
the conversation, and seldomer was with them in an}' of their 
pursuits or pleasures. He generally kept by himself in his 
study. But whenever he did speak to Ellen his tone was 
particularly gentle and his look kind. He sometimes called 
her " My little daughter," which always gave Ellen great 
pleasure ; she would jump at such times with double zeal to 
do anything he asked her. 
Now drawing went on with new vigor under the eye of her 
master. A  many things beside. John took a great deal 
of pains wili, her in various ways. He made her read to him ; 
he helped her and Alice with their French ; he went with 
them to Mrs. Vawse's ; and even Mr. Humphreys went there 
too one afternoon to tea. How much Ellen enjoyed that 
afternoon ! They took with them a great basket of provisions, for Mrs. Vawse could not be expected to entertain so. 
large a party ; and borrowed Jenny Hitchcock's pony which 
with old John and Sharp mounted three of the company ; 
they took turns in walking. Nobody minded that. The fine 
weather, the beautiful mountain-top, the general pleasure, 
Mr. Humphreys' uncommon spirits and talkableness, the 
oddity of their way of traveling, and of a tea-party up on the 
" Cat's back," and furthermore, the fact that Nancy stayed at 
home and behaved very well the whole time, all together filled 
Ellen's cup of happiness, for the time, as full as it could 
hold. She never foigot that afternoon. And the ride home 
was the best of all. I'he sun was low by the time they 
reached the plain ; long shadows lay across their road ; the 
soft air just stirred the leaves on the branches ; stillness and 
loveliness were over all things ; and down the mountain and 
along the roads through the open country, the whole way, 
John walked at her bridle ; so kind in his care of her, so 
pleasant in his talk to her, teaching her how to sit in the saddle and hold the reins and whip, and much more important 
things too, that Ellen thought a pleasanter thing could not 
be than to ride so. After that they took a great many rides, 
borrowing Jenny's pony or some other, and explored the 
beautiful country far and near. And almost daily John had 
up Sharp and gave Ellen a regular lesson. She often thought, 
and sometimes looked, what she had once said to him, " I 
wish I could do something for you, Mr. John ;" — but he smiled 
at her and said nothing. 
At last he was gone. And in all the weeks he had been 
at home, and in many weeks before, no letter had come for 
Ellen. The thought had been kept from weighing upon her 
by the thousand pleasures that filled up every moment of his 
stay ; she could not be sad then, or only for a minute ; hope 
threw off the sorrow as soon as it was felt ; and slie forgot 
how time flew. But when his visit was over, and she went 
back to her old place and her old life at her aunt's, the old 
feeling came back in greater strength. She began again to 
count the days and the weeks ; to feel the bitter unsatisfied 
longing. Tears would drop down upon her Bible ; tears 
streamed from her eyes when she prayed that God would make 
her mother well and bring her home to her quickly, — oh 
quickly ! — and little Ellen's face began to wear once more 
something of its old look. 
CHAPTER XXXIV. 
One day in the early part of September, she was standing 
in front of the house at the little wicket that opened on the 
road. With her back against the open gate she was gently 
moving it to and fro, half enjoying the weather and the scene, 
half indulging the melancholy mood which drove her from 
the presence of her bustling aunt. The gurgling sound of the 
brook a few steps off was a great deal more soothing to her 
ear than Miss Fortune's sharp tones. By and by a horseman 
came in sight at the far end of the road, and the brook was 
forgotten. What made Ellen look at him so sharply ? Poor 
child, she was always expecting news. At first she could 
only see that the man rode a white horse ; then, as he came 
nearer, an odd looped-up hat showed itself, — and something 
queer in his hand, — what was it ? who is it ? — The old news- 
man ! Ellen was sure. Yes — she could now see his saddle- 
bags, and the white horse-tail set in a handle with which he 
was brushing away the flies from his horse ; the tin trumpet 
was in his other hand, to blow withal. He was a venerable 
old figure, with all his oddities ; clad in a suit of snuff brown, 
with a neat quiet look about him, he and the saddlebags and 
the white horse jogged on together as if they belonged to 
nothing else in the world but eacli other. In an ecstasy of 
fear and hope Ellen watched the pace of the old hoi se to see if 
it gave any sign of slackening near the gate. Her breath 
came short, she hardlv breathed at all, she was trembling: 
from head to foot. Would he stop, or was he going on ! 
Oh the long agony of two minutes ! — He stopped. Ellen 
went towards him. 
" What little gal is this ?" said he. 
" I am Ellen Montgomery, sir," said Ellen eagerly ; — " Misa 
Fortune's niece — I live here." 
Stop a bit," said the old man, taking up his saddlebags, — 
" Miss Fortune's niece, eh ? Well — I believe — as I've got 
somethin' for her — somethin' here — aunt well, eh ?" 
" Yes sir." 
" That's more than you be, aint it ?" said he, glancing 
sideways at Ellen's face. How do you know but I've got a 
letter for you here, eh ?" 
The color rushed to that face, and she clasped her hands. 
" No, dear, no," said he, — " I ha'n't got Hny for you — it's 
for the old lady — there, run in with it, dear." 
But Ellen knew before she touched it that it was a foreign 
letter, and dashed into the house with it. Miss Fortune 
coolly sent her back to pay the postage. 
" When she came in again her aunt was still reading the 
letter. But her look, Ellen felt, was unpromising. She did 
not venture to speak ; expectation was chilled. She stood 
till Miss Fortune began to fold up the paper. 
" Is there nothing for me ?" she said then timidly. 
-No." 
" why don't she write to me !" cried Ellen, bursting into 
tears. 
Miss Fortune stalked about the room without any particu- 
lar purpose, as far as could be seen. 
" It is very strange !" said Ellen sorrowfully, — " I am 
afraid she is worse — does papa say she is worse ?" 
-No." 
- if she had only sent me a message ! I should think 
she might ; I wish she had ! — three words ! — does papa 
say why she don't write?" 
- No." 
- It is very strange !" repeated poor Ellen. 
" Your father talks of coming home," said Miss Fortune, 
after a few minutes, during which Ellen had been silently 
weeping. 
" Home ! — Then she must be better !" said Ellen with new 
lifd ; "does papa say she is better?" 
" No." 
" But what does he mean ?" said Ellen uneasily ; — " I don't 
see what he means ; he doesn't say she is worse, and he 
doesn't say she is better, — what does he say ?" 
" He don't say much about anything." 
Does he say when they are coming home ?" 
Miss Fortune mumbled something about " Spring," and 
whisked oft" to the buttery ; Ellen thought no more was to 
be got out of her. She felt miserable. Her father and her 
aunt both seemed to act sti angely ; and where to find comfort she scarcely knew. She had one day been telling her 
doubts and sorrows to John. He did not try to raise her 
hopes, but said, " Troubles will come in this woi-ld, Ellie ; the 
best is to trust them and ourselves to our dear Saviour, and 
let trials drive us to him. Seek to love him more and to be 
patient under his will ; the good Shepherd means nothing but 
kindness to any lamb in his flock, — you may be sure of that, 
Ellie." 
Ellen remembered his words and tried to follow them now, 
but she could not be " patient under his will " yet, — not 
quite. It was very hard to be patient in such uncertainty. 
With swimming eyes she turned over her Bible in search of 
