"I can get you the place of clerk in an insurance office, at a salary
of five hundred dollars a year. Will you accept it?"
"Gladly!" The face of the young man brightened as if the sun had shone
upon it suddenly.
"You will have several hours each day, in which to continue your law
reading, and will get admitted to the bar early enough. Keep your
mother and sisters for two or three years, and then they will be in a
condition to sustain you until you make a practice in your profession."
But to this the mother and sisters, when it was mentioned to them,
objected. They were not willing to have Henry's professional studies
interrupted. That would be a great wrong to him.
"Not a great wrong, but a great good," answered Mr. Ellis. "And I will
make this plain to you. Henry, as I learn from yourself, has made some
dangerous associations; and some important change is needed to help him
break away from them. No sphere of life is so safe for a young man as
that which surrounds profitable industry pursued for an end. Temptation
rarely finds its way within this sphere. Two or three years devoted to
the duties of a clerk, with the end of aiding in the support of his
mother and sisters, will do more to give a right direction to Henry's
character--more to make success in after life certain--than any thing
else possible now to be done. The office in which I can get him the
situation I speak of adjoins the one to which I am attached, and I
will, therefore, have him mostly under my own eye. In this new school,
the ardency of his young feelings will be duly chastened, and his
thoughts turned more into elements of usefulness. In a word, sister, it
will give him self-dependence, and, in the end, make a man of him."
The force of all this, and more by this suggested, was not only seen,
but felt, by Mrs. Darlington; and when she found her son ready to
accept the offer made to him, she withdrew all opposition.
Steps preliminary to the contemplated change were immediately taken.
First of all, Edith waited upon a number of their old friends, who had
young children, and informed them that she was, in connection with her
sister, about opening a school. Some were surprised, some pleased, and
some indifferent at the announcement; but a goodly number expressed
pleasure at the opportunity it afforded them of placing their younger
children under the care of teachers in whose ability and character they
had so much confidence. Thus was the way made plain before them.
CHAPTER XII.
A FEW weeks later, and the contemplated change was made. The family
removed into a moderate-sized house, at a lower rent, and prepared to
test the new mode of obtaining a livelihood. A good portion of their
furniture had been sold, besides three gold watches and some valuable
jewelry belonging to Mrs. Darlington and her two eldest daughters, in
order to make up a sum sufficient to pay off the debt contracted during
the last few months of the boarding-house experiment. The real loss
sustained by the widow in this experiment fell little short of a
thousand dollars.
"How many scholars have you now?" asked Mrs. Darlington of Edith, two
months after the school was opened, as they sat at tea one evening,
each member of the family wearing a cheerful face.
"Twenty," replied Edith. "We received two new ones to-day. Mrs. Wilmot
came and entered two of her children; and she said that Mrs. Armond was
going to send her Florence so soon as her quarter expired in the school
she is now attending."
"How much will you receive from your present number of scholars?"
inquired Henry.
"I made the estimate to-day," returned Edith, "and find that the bills
will come to something like a hundred and twenty-five dollars a
quarter."
"Five hundred dollars a year," said Henry; "and my five hundred added
to that will make a thousand. Can't we live on a thousand dollars,
mother?"
"We may, by the closest economy."
"Our school will increase," remarked Edith; "and every increase will
add to our income. Oh! it looks so much brighter ahead! and we have so
much real comfort in the present! What a scene of trial have we passed
through!"
"How I ever bore up under it is more than I can now tell," said Mrs.
Darlington, with an involuntary shudder. "And the toil, and suffering,
and danger through which we have come! I cannot be sufficiently
thankful that we are safe from the dreadful ordeal, and with so few
marks of the fire upon us."
A silence followed this, in which two hearts, at least, were humbled,
yet thankful, in their self-communion--the hearts of Henry and Miriam.
Through what perilous ways had they come! How near had they been to
shipwreck!
"Poor Mrs. Marion!" said Edith, breaking the silence, at length. "How
often I think of her! And the thought brings a feeling of condemnation.
Was it right for us to thrust her forth as we did?"
"Can she still be in?"
"Oh no, no!" spoke up Henry, interrupting his mother. "I forgot to tell
you that I met her and her husband on the street to-day."
"Are you certain?"
"Oh yes."
"Did you speak to them?"
"No. They saw me, but instantly averted their faces. Mrs. Marion looked
very pale, as if she had been sick."
"Poor woman! She has had heart-sickness enough," said Mrs. Darlington.
"I shall never forgive myself for turning her out of the house. If I
had known where she was going!"
"But we did not know that, mother," said Edith.
"We knew that she had neither friends nor a home," replied the mother.
"Ah me! when our own troubles press heavily upon us, we lose our
sympathy for others!"
"It was not so in this case," remarked Edith. "Deeply did we sympathize
with Mrs. Marion. But we could not bear the weight without going under
ourselves."
"I don't know, I don't know," said Mrs. Darlington, half to herself.
"We might have kept up with her a little longer. But I am glad from my
heart that her husband has come back. If he will be kind to his wife, I
will forgive all his indebtedness to me."
A few weeks subsequent to this time, as Miriam sat reading the morning
paper, she came upon a brief account of the arrest, in New Orleans, of
a "noted gambler," as it said, named Burton, on the charge of bigamy.
The paper dropped to the floor, and Miriam, with clasped hands and eyes
instantly overflowing with tears, looked upward, and murmured her
thanks to Heaven.
"What an escape!" fell tremblingly from her lips, as she arose and went
to her room to hold communion with her own thoughts.
Three years have passed, and what has been the result of the widow's
new experiment? The school prospered from the beginning. The spirit
with which Edith and Miriam went to work made success certain. Parents
who sent their children were so much pleased with the progress they
made, that they spoke of the new school to their friends, and thus gave
it a reputation, that, ere a year had elapsed, crowded the rooms of the
sisters. Mrs. Darlington was a woman who had herself received a
superior education. Seeing that the number of scholars increased
rapidly, and made the pressure on her daughters too great, she gave a
portion of her time each day to the instruction of certain classes, and
soon became much interested in the work. From that time she associated
herself in the school with Edith and Miriam.
Three years, as we said, have passed, and now the profits on the school
are more than sufficient to meet all expenses. Henry has left his
clerkship, and is a member of the bar. Of course he has little or no
practice--only a few months having elapsed since his admission; but his
mother and sisters are fully able to sustain him until he could sustain
himself.
"How much better this is than keeping boarders!" said Edith, as she sat
conversing with her mother and uncle about the prospects of the school.
"And how much more useful and honourable!" remarked Mr. Ellis. "In the
one case, you fed only the body, but now you are dispensing food to the
immortal mind. You are moreover independent in your own house. When the
day's work is done, you come together as one family, and shut out the
intruding world."
"Yes, it is better, far better," replied Mrs. Darlington. "Ah, that
first mistake of mine was a sad one!"
"Yet out of it has come good," said Mr. Ellis. "That painful experience
corrected many false views, and gave to all your characters a new and
higher impulse. It is through disappointment, trial, and suffering,
that we grow wise here; and true wisdom is worth the highest price we
are ever called upon to pay for it."
Yes, it is so. Through fiery trials are we purified. At times, in our
suffering, we feel as if every good thing in us was about being
consumed. But this never happens. No good in our characters is ever
lost in affliction or trouble; and we come out of these states of pain
wiser and better than when we entered them, and more fitted and more
willing to act usefully our part in the world.
PLAIN SEWING; OR, HOW TO ENCOURAGE THE POOR.
"Do you know of any poor body who does plain sewing?" asked Mrs. Lander
of a neighbour upon whom she called for the particular purpose of
making this inquiry. "I have a good deal of work that I want done, and
I always like to give my plain sewing to people that need it."
"I think I know of a person who will suit you," replied Mrs. Brandon,
the lady to whom the application had been made. "She is a poor widow
woman, with four children dependent upon her for support. She sews
neatly. Yesterday she brought me home some little drawers and
night-gowns that were beautifully made. I am sure she will please you,
and I know she deserves encouragement."
"What is her name?"
"Mrs. Walton; and she lives in Larkin's Court."
"Thank you, ma'am. I will send for her this morning. You say she is
very poor?"
"You may judge of that yourself, Mrs. Lander. A woman who has four
children to support by the labour of her own hands cannot be very well
off."
"No--certainly not. Poor creature! I will throw all I can in her way,
if her work should please me."
"I am sure that will be the case, for she sews very neatly."
Mrs. Lander having found out a poor woman who could do plain
sewing--she was always more ready to employ persons in extreme poverty
than those who were in more easy circumstances--immediately sent a
summons for her to attend upon her ladyship. Mrs. Walton's appearance,
when she came, plainly enough told the story of her indigence.
"Mrs. Brandon informs me," said Mrs. Lander, "that you do plain sewing
very well, and that you stand in need of work. I always like to
encourage the industrious poor."
The woman inclined her head, and Mrs. Lander went on.
"Do you make shirts?"
"Yes, ma'am, sometimes."
"Do you consider yourself a good shirt maker?"
"I don't call myself any thing very extra; but people for whom I work
seem generally pleased with what I do."
"I have six shirts cut out for Mr. Lander. How soon can you make them?"
"I couldn't make them all in less than a couple of weeks, as I have
other work that must be done within that time."
"Very well. That will do."
The poor woman took the shirts home, feeling grateful to Mrs. Brandon
for having recommended her, and thankful to get the work. In order to
give satisfaction to both her new customer, and those for whom she
already had work in the house, she divided her time between them,
sewing one day for Mrs. Lander and the next on the work received before
hers came in. At the end of a week, three of the shirts were ready,
and, as she needed very much the money she had earned in making them,
she carried them over to Mrs. Lander on Saturday afternoon.
"I have three of the shirts ready," said she, as she handed to the lady
the bundle she had brought.
"Ah! have you?" remarked Mrs. Lander, as, with a grave face, she opened
the bundle and examined the garments. This examination was continued
with great minuteness, and long enough almost to have counted every
stitch in the garments. She found the shirts exceedingly well made;
much better than she had expected to find them.
"When will you have the others ready?" she asked, as she laid them
aside.
"I will try and bring them in next Saturday."
"Very well."
Then came a deep silence. The poor woman sat with the fingers of both
hands moving together uneasily, and Mrs. Lander looked away out of the
window and appeared to be intent upon something in the street.
"Are these made to please you?" Mrs. Walton ventured to ask.
"They'll do," was the brief answer; and then came the same dead
silence, and the same interest on the part of the lady in something
passing in the street.
Mrs. Walton wanted the money she had earned for making the shirts, and
Mrs. Lander knew it.
But Mrs. Lander never liked to pay out money, if she could help it; and
as doing so always went against the grain, it was her custom to put off
such unpleasant work as long as possible. She liked to encourage the
very poor, because she knew they generally worked cheaper than people
who were in easier circumstances; but the drawback in their case was,
that they always wanted money the moment their work was done.
Badly as she stood in need of the money she had earned, poor Mrs.
Walton felt reluctant to ask for it until the whole number of shirts
she had engaged to make were done; and so, after sitting for a little
while longer, she got up and went away. It happened that she had
expended her last sixpence on that very morning, and nothing was due to
her from any one but Mrs. Lander. Two days at least would elapse before
she would have any other work ready to take home, and what to do in the
mean time she did not know. With her the reward of every day's labour
was needed when the labour was done; but now she was unpaid for full
four days' work, and her debtor was a lady much interested in the
welfare of the poor, who always gave out her plain sewing to those who
were in need of encouragement.
By placing in pawn some few articles of dress, and paying a heavy
interest upon the little sum of money advanced thereon, the poor widow
was able to keep hunger from her door until she could finish some work
she had in hand for a lady more considerate than Mrs. Lander. Then she
applied herself with renewed industry to the three shirts yet to make,
which she finished at the time she promised to have them done. With the
money to be received for these, she was to pay one dollar and a half to
get her clothes from the pawnbroker's shop, buy her little boy a pair
of shoes,--he had been from school a week for want of them,--and get a
supply of food for the many mouths she had to feed.
Mrs. Lander received her with that becoming dignity of manner and
gravity which certain persons always assume when money has to be paid
out. She, as it behooved her to do, thoroughly examined every seam,
line of stitching, and hem upon each of the three shirts, and then,
after slowly laying the garments upon a table sighed, and looked still
graver. Poor Mrs. Walton felt oppressed; she hardly knew why.
"Does the work please you?" she ventured to ask.
"I don't think these are as well made as the others," said Mrs. Lander.
"I thought they were better made," returned the woman.
"Oh, no. The stitching on the bosoms, collars, and wristbands isn't
nearly so well done."
Mrs. Walton knew better than this; but she did not feel in any humour
to contend for the truth. Mrs. Lander took up the shirts again, and
made another examination.
"What is the price of them?" she asked.
"Seventy-five cents."
"Apiece?"
"Yes, ma'am."
"Seventy-five cents apiece!"
"I have never received less than that, and some for whom I sew always
pay me a dollar."
"Seventy five cents! It is an imposition. I know plenty of poor women
who would have been glad of these shirts at half the price--yes, or at
a third of the price either. Seventy-five cents, indeed! Oh, no--I will
never pay a price like that. I can go to any professed shirt-maker in
the city, and get them made for seventy-five cents or a dollar."
"I know you can, ma'am," said Mrs. Walton, stung into self-possession
by this unexpected language. "But why should I receive less if my work
is as well done?"
"A pretty question, indeed!" retorted Mrs. Lander, thrown off her
guard. "A pretty question for you to ask of me! Oh, yes! You can get
such prices if you can, but I never pay them to people like you. When I
pay seventy-five cents or a dollar apiece for shirts, I go to regular
shirt-makers. But this is what we generally get for trying to encourage
the poor. Mrs. Brandon said that you were in needy circumstances, and
that it would be a charity to give you work. But this is the way it
generally turns out."
"What are you willing to pay?" asked the poor woman, choking down her
feelings.
"I have had shirts as well made as these for forty cents many and many
a time. There is a poor woman down in Southwark, who sews beautifully,
who would have caught at the job. She works for the shops, and does not
get over twenty-five cents for fine shirts. But as Mrs. Brandon said
you were suffering for work, I thought I would throw something in your
way. Forty cents is an abundance; but I had made up my mind, under the
circumstances, to make it fifty, and that is all I will give. So here
is your money--three dollars."
And Mrs. Lander took out her purse, and counted out six half dollars
upon the table. Only for a few moments did the poor woman hesitate.
Bread she must have for her children; and if her clothes were not taken
out of pawn on that day, they would be lost. Slowly did she take up the
money while words of stinging rebuke were on her tongue. But she forced
herself to keep silence; and even departed, bearing the wrong that had
been laid upon her without uttering a word.
"Did you get my shoes as you promised, mother?" eagerly inquired her
little boy, as she came in, on returning from the house of Mrs. Lander.
"No, dear," replied the heart-full mother, in a subdued voice. "I
didn't get as much money as I expected."
"When will you buy them, mother?" asked the child as tears filled his
eyes. "I can't go to school in this way." And he looked down at his
bare feet.
"I know you can't, Harry; and I will try and get them for you in a few
days."
The child said no more, but shrunk away with his little heart so full
of disappointment, that he could not keep the tears from gushing over
his face. The mother's heart was quite as full. Little Harry sat down
in a corner to weep in silence, and Mrs. Walton took her sewing into
her hands; but the tears so blinded her eyes, that she could not see
where to direct the needle. Before she had recovered herself, there was
a knock at the door, which was opened immediately afterwards by a lady,
who came into the room where the poor widow sat with her little family
around her.
More than an hour had passed since the unpleasant interview with the
poor widow, and Mrs. Lander had not yet recovered her equanimity of
mind nor lost the feelings of indignation which the attempt to impose
upon her by an exorbitant charge had occasioned, when she was favoured
with a visit from Mrs. Brandon, who said familiarly, and with a smile,
as she entered--
"Ah, how do you do, Mrs. Lander? I have just corrected a mistake you
made a little while ago."
"Indeed! what is that?" asked Mrs. Lander, looking a little surprised.
"You only gave poor Mrs. Walton fifty cents apiece for the half dozen
of shirts she made for you, when the lowest price is seventy-five
cents. I always pay a dollar for Mr. Brandon's. The difference is a
very important one to her--no less than a dollar and a half. I found
her in much trouble about it, and her little boy crying with
disappointment at not getting a pair of shoes his mother had promised
him as soon as she got the money for the shirts. He has been from
school for want of shoes for more than a week. So I took out my purse
and gave Mrs. Walton the dollar and a half to make up the sum she had
earned, and told her I would see you about it. I acted right, did I
not? Of course, it was a mistake on your part?"
Mrs. Lander was never more completely out-generalled in her life. The
lady who had corrected her error was one in whose good opinion she had
every reason for desiring to stand high. She could grind the face of
the poor without pity or shame, but for the world she would not be
thought mean by Mrs. Brandon.
"I am very much obliged to you, indeed," she said with a bland smile.
"It was altogether a mistake on my part, and I blame the woman
exceedingly for not having mentioned it at the time. Heaven knows I am
the last person in the world to grind the faces of the poor! Yes, the
very last person. Here is the money you paid for me, and I must repeat
my thanks for your prompt correction of the error. But I cannot help
feeling vexed at the woman."
"We must make many allowances for the poor, Mrs. Lander. They often
bear a great deal of wrong without a word of complaint. Some people
take advantage of their need, and, because they are poor, make them
work for the merest pittance in the world. I know some persons, and
they well off in the world, who always employ the poorest class of
people, and this under the pretence of favouring them, but, in reality,
that they may get their work done at a cheaper rate than it can be made
by people who expect to derive from their labour a comfortable support."
Mrs. Lander was stung to the quick by these words; but she dared not
show the least sign of feeling.
"Surely no one professing to be a Christian can do so," said she.
"Yes, people professing to be Christians do these things," was replied;
"but of course their profession needs a better practice to prove it of
any worth."
When her visitor retired, after having expressed her opinion on the
subject under consideration still more unequivocally, Mrs. Lander did
not feel very comfortable, nor was her good opinion of herself quite so
firm as it had been earlier in the day. But she took good care, in the
future, not to give any more work to Mrs. Walton, and was exceedingly
particular afterwards, in employing poor people, to know whether they
sewed for Mrs. Brandon. There are a good many people in the world who
encourage the poor on Mrs. Lander's principle.
JESSIE HAMPTON.
"WHAT are you doing here, miss?"
The young girl thus addressed was sitting by a centre-table, upon which
stood a lamp, in a handsomely furnished drawing-room. She laid aside
the book she was reading, and, without making any reply, rose up
quickly and retired. Two or three persons, members of the family, were
present. All observed the effect of Mrs. Freeman's words, yet no one
had heard what was said; nor would they have been aware that more than
a request for some service had been made, but for the lady's remark as
the girl left the room.
"I might as well begin at once, and let Jessie know her place."
"What did you say to her, ma?" asked a young lady who sat swinging
herself in a large rocking-chair.
"I simply asked her what she was doing here."
"What did she answer?"
"Nothing. The way in which I put the question fully explained my
meaning. I am sorry that there should have arisen a necessity for
hurting her feelings; but if the girl doesn't know her place, she must
be told where it is."
"I don't see that she was doing any great harm," remarked an old
gentleman who sat in front of the grate.
"She was not in her place, brother," said Mrs. Freeman, with an air of
dignity. "We employ her as a teacher in the family, not as a companion.
Her own good sense should have taught her this."
"You wouldn't have us make an equal of Jessie Hampton, would you, uncle
Edward?" inquired the young lady who sat in the rocking-chair.
"You cannot make her your equal, Fanny, in point of worldly blessings,
for, in this matter, Providence has dealt more hardly with her than
with you. As to companionship, I do not see that she is less worthy now
than she was a year ago."
"You talk strangely, Edward," said Mrs. Freeman, in a tone of dissent.
"In what way, sister?"
