
"Should I?" said Fleda.

"Dear me! I hope mamma will come!" said Constance, with a
comical, fidgety shake of herself; "when I think of those
greenhouses I lose my self-command. And the park!  Fleda,
it's the loveliest thing you ever saw in your life; and it's
all that delightful man's doing; only he wont have a geometric
flower-garden, as I did everything I could think of to
persuade him. I pity the woman that will be his wife  she
wont have her own way in a single thing; but then he will
fascinate her into thinking that his way is the best  so it
will do just as well, I suppose. Do you know, I can't conceive
what he has come over here for. He has been here before, you
know, and he don't seem to me to know exactly what he means to
do; at least, I can't find out, and I have tried."

"How long has he been here?"

"Oh, a month or two  since the beginning of April, I believe.
He came over with some friends of his  a Sir George Egerton
and his family;  he is going to Canada, to be established in
some post there, I forget what; and they are spending part of
the summer here before they fix themselves at the North. It is
easy to see what they are here for  they are strangers, and
amusing themselves; but Mr. Carleton is at home, and not
amusing himself, at least, he don't seem to be. He goes about
with the Egertons, but that is just for his friendship for
them; and he puzzles me. He don't know whether he is going to
Niagara  he has been once already  and 'perhaps' he may go
to Canada  and 'possibly' he will make a journey to the West
 and I can't find out that he wants anything in particular."

"Perhaps he don't mean that you shall," said Fleda.

"Perhaps he don't; but you see that aggravates my state of
mind to a distressing degree. And then I'm afraid he will go
somewhere where I can't keep watch of him!"

Fleda could not help laughing.

"Perhaps he was tired of home, and came for mere weariness."

"Weariness! it's my opinion he has no idea there is such a
word in the language  I am certain, if he heard it, he would
call for a dictionary the next minute. Why, at Carleton, it
seems to me he was half the time on horseback, flying about
from one end of the country to the other; and, when he is in
the house, he is always at work at something; it's a piece of
condescension to get him to attend to you at all; only when he
does, my dear Fleda!  he is so enchanting that you live in a
state of delight till next time. And yet, I never could get
him to pay me a compliment to this minute  I tried two or
three times, and he rewarded me with some very rude speeches."

"Rude!" said Fleda.

"Yes  that is, they were the most graceful and fascinating
things possible, but they would have been rudeness in anybody
else. Where is mamma?" said Constance, with another comic
counterfeit of distress. "My dear Fleda, it's the most
captivating thing to breakfast at Carleton!"

"I have no idea the bread and butter is sweeter there than in
some other parts of the world," said Fleda.

"I don't know about the bread and butter," said Constance,
"but those exquisite little sugar-dishes! My dear Fleda, every
one has his own sugar-dish and cream-ewer  the loveliest
little things!"

"I have heard of such things before," said Fleda.

"I don't care about the bread and butter,"  said Constance 
"eating is immaterial, with those perfect little things right
opposite to me. They weren't like any you ever saw, Fleda 
the sugar-bowl was just a little, plain, oval box, with the
lid on a hinge, and not a bit of chasing, only the arms on the
cover  like nothing I ever saw but a old-fashioned silver
tea-caddy; and the cream-jug, a little, straight, up-and-down
thing to match. Mamma said they were clumsy, but they
bewitched me!"

"I think everything bewitched you," said Fleda, smiling.
"Can't your head stand a sugar-dish and milk-cup?"

"My dear Fleda, I never had your superiority to the ordinary
weaknesses of human nature  I can stand one sugar-bowl, but I
confess myself overcome by a dozen. How we have all wanted to
see you, Fleda! and papa  you have captivated papa!  and he
says "


"Never mind; don't tell me what he says," said Fleda.

"There!  that's your modesty that everybody rave about: I
wish I could catch it. Fleda, where did you get that little
Bible? While I was waiting for you I tried to soothe my
restless anticipations with examining all the things in all
the rooms. Where did you get it?"

"It was given me a long while ago," said Fleda.

"But it is real gold on the outside  the clasps and all. Do
you know it? it is not washed."

"I know it," said Fleda, smiling; "and it is better than gold
inside."

"Wasn't that mamma's favourite, Mr. Olmney, that parted from
you at the gate?" said Constance, after a minute's silence.

"Yes."

"Is he a favourite of yours, too?"

"You must define what you mean by a favourite," said Fleda,
gravely.

"Well, how do you like him?"

"I believe everybody likes him," said Fleda, colouring, and
vexed at herself that she could not help it. The bright eyes
opposite her took note of the fact with a sufficiently wide-
awake glance.

"He's very good!" said Constance, hugging herself, and taking
a fresh supply of butter; "but don't let him know I have been
to see you, or he'll tell you all sorts of evil things about
me, for fear you should innocently be contaminated. Don't you
like to be taken care of?"

"Very much," said Fleda, smiling, "by people that know how."

"I can't bear it!" said Constance, apparently with great
sincerity; "I think it is the most impertinent thing in the
world people can do; I can't endure it, except from  ! Oh, my
dear Fleda, it is perfect luxury to have him put a shawl round
your shoulders!"

"Fleda," said Earl Douglass, putting his head in from the
kitchen, and before he said any more, bobbing it frankly at
Miss Evelyn, half in acknowledgment of her presence, and half,
as it seemed, in apology for his own; "Fleda, will you let
Barby pack up somethin' 'nother for the men's lunch?  my wife
would ha' done it, as she had ought to, if she wa'n't down
with the teethache, and Catherine's away on a jig to Kenton,
and the men wont do so much work on nothin', and I can't say
nothin' to 'em if they don't; and I'd like to get that 'ere
clover-field down afore night: it's goin' to be a fine spell
o' weather. I was a-goin' to try to get along without it, but
I believe we can't."

"Very well," said Fleda. "But, Mr. Douglass, you'll try the
experiment of curing it in cocks?"

"Well, I don't know," said Earl, in a tone of very
discontented acquiescence; "I don't see how anythin' should be
as sweet as the sun for dryin' hay; I know folks says it is,
and I've heerd 'em say it is, and they'll stand to it, and you
can't beat 'em off the notion it is, but somehow or 'nother I
can't seem to come into it. I know the sun makes sweet hay,
and I think the sun was meant to make hay, and I don't want to
see no sweeter hay than the sun makes; it's as good hay as you
need to have."

"But you wouldn't mind trying it for once, Mr. Douglass, just
for me?"

"I'll do just what you please," said he, with a little
exculpatory shake of his head; " 'tain't my concern  it's no
concern of mine; the gain or the loss 'll be your'n, and it's
fair you should have the gain or the loss, whichever on 'em
you choose to have. I'll put it in cocks: how much heft should
be in 'em?"

"About a hundred pounds; and you don't want to cut any more
than you can put up to-night, Mr. Douglass. We'll try it."

"Very good! And you'll send along somethin' for the men. Barby
knows," said Earl, bobbing his head again intelligently at
Fleda; "there's four on 'em, and it takes somethin' to feed
'em: workin' men 'll put away a good deal o' meat."

He withdrew his head and closed the door, happily for
Constance, who went off into a succession of ecstatic
convulsions.

"What time of day do your eccentric hay-makers prefer for the
rest of their meals, if they lunch at three o'clock? I never
heard anything so original in my life."

"This is lunch number two," said Fleda, smiling; "lunch number
one is about ten in the morning, and dinner at twelve."

"And do they gladden their families with their presence at the
other ordinary convivial occasions?"

"Certainly."

"And what do they have for lunch?"

"Varieties. Bread and cheese, and pies, and Quirl-cakes; at
every other meal they have meat."

"Horrid creatures!"

"It is only during haying and harvesting."

"And you have to see to all this, poor little Fleda! I
declare, if I was you, I'd do something "

"No," said Fleda, quietly, "Mrs. Douglass and Barby manage the
lunch between them. I am not at all desperate."

"But to have to talk to these people!"

"Earl Douglass is not a very polished specimen," said Fleda,
smiling; "but I assure you, in some of 'these people' there is
an amount of goodness and wit, and shrewd practical sense and
judgment, that would utterly distance many of those that would
call them bears."

Constance looked a good deal more than she said.

"My dear little Fleda! you're too sensible for anything; but
as I don't like sense from anybody but Mr. Carleton, I would
rather look at you in the capacity of a rose, smiling a gentle
rebuke upon me while I talk nonsense."

And she did talk, and Fleda did smile and laugh, in spite of
herself, till Mrs. Evelyn and her other daughters made their
appearance.

Then Barby said she thought they'd have talked the house down;
and she expected there'd be nothing left of Fleda after all
the kissing she got. But it was not too much for Fleda's
pleasure. Mrs. Evelyn was so tenderly kind, and Miss Evelyn as
caressing as her sister had been, and Edith, who was but a
child, so joyously delighted, that Fleda's eyes were swimming
in happiness as she looked from one to the other, and she
could hardly answer kisses and questions fast enough.

"Them is good-looking enough girls," said Barby, as Fleda came
back to the house after seeing them to their carriage, if they
knowed how to dress themselves. I never see this fly-away one
afore. I knowed the old one as soon as I clapped my eyes onto
her. Be they stopping at the Pool again?"

"Yes."

"Well, when are you going up there to see 'em?"

"I don't know," said Fleda, quietly. And then, sighing as the
thought of her aunt came into her head, she went off to find
her and bring her down.

Fleda's brow was sobered, and her spirits were in a flutter
that was not all of happiness, and that threatened not to
settle down quietly. But as she went slowly up the stairs,
faith's hand was laid, even as her own grasped the balusters,
on the promise 



"All the paths of the Lord are mercy and truth unto such as
keep His covenant and His testimonies."


She set faith's foot down on those sure stepping-stones; and
she opened her aunt's door and looked in with a face that was
neither troubled nor afraid.


CHAPTER III.


"Ant. He misses not much.
Seb. No, he doth but mistake the truth totally."
TEMPEST.


It was the very next morning that several ladies and gentlemen
were gathered on the piazza of the hotel at Montepoole, to
brace minds or appetites with the sweet mountain air while
waiting for breakfast. As they stood there, a young countryman
came by bearing on his hip a large basket of fruit and
vegetables.

"Oh, look at those lovely strawberries!" exclaimed Constance
Evelyn, running down the steps. "Stop, if you please  where
are you going with these?"

"Marm!" responded the somewhat startled carrier.

"What are you going to do with them?"

"I aint going to do nothin' with 'em."

"Whose are they? Are they for sale?"

"Well, 'twon't deu no harm, as I know," said the young man,
making a virtue of necessity, for the fingers of Constance
were already hovering over the dainty little leaf-strewn
baskets, and her eyes complacently searching for the most
promising; "I ha'n't got nothin' to deu with 'ern."

"Constance!" said Mrs. Evelyn, from the piazza, "don't take
that. I dare say they are for Mr. Sweet."

"Well, Mamma," said Constance, with great equanimity, "Mr.
Sweet gets them for me, and I only save him the trouble of
spoiling them. My taste leads me to prefer the simplicity of
primitive arrangements this morning."

"Young man!" called out the landlady's reproving voice, "wont
you never recollect to bring that basket round the back way!"

" 't aint no handier than this way," said Philetus, with so
much belligerent demonstration, that the landlady thought
best, in presence of her guests, to give over the question.

"Where do you get them?" said Mrs. Evelyn.

"How?" said Philetus.

"Where do they come from? Are they fresh picked?"

"Just afore I started."

"Started from where?" said a gentleman, standing by Mrs.
Evelyn.

"From Mr. Rossitur's, down to Queechy."

"Mr. Rossitur's!" said Mrs. Evelyn. "Does he send them here?"

"He doos not," said Philetus  "he doosn't keep to hum for a
long spell."

"Who does send them, then?" said Constance.

"Who doos? It's Miss Fliddy Ringgan."

"Mamma!" exclaimed Constance, looking up.

"What does she have to do with it?" said Mrs. Evelyn.

"There don't nobody else have nothin' to deu with it  I guess
she's pretty much the hull," said her coadjutor. "Her and me
was a-picking 'em afore sunrise."

"All that basketful?"

" 't aint all strawberries  there's garden sass up to the
top."

"And does she send that, too?"

"She sends that teu," said Philetus, succinctly.

"But hasn't she any help in taking care of the garden?" said
Constance.

"Yes, Marm  I calculate to help considerable in the back
garden  she wont let no one into the front where she grows
her posies."

"But where is Mr. Hugh?"

"He's to hum."

"But has he nothing to do with all this? Does he leave it all
to his cousin?"

"He's to the mill."

"And Miss Ringgan manages farm, and garden, and all?" said
Mrs. Evelyn.

"She doos," said Philetus.

And receiving a gratuity, which he accepted without
demonstration of any kind whatever, the basket-bearer, at
length released, moved off.

"Poor Fleda!" said Miss Evelyn, as he disappeared with his
load.

"She's a very clever girl," said Mrs. Evelyn, dismissing the
subject.

"She's too lovely for anything!" said Constance. "Mr.
Carleton, if you will just imagine we are in China, and
introduct a pair of familiar chopsticks into this basket, I
shall be repaid for the loss of a strawberry by the expression
of ecstasy which will immediately spread itself over your
features. I intend to patronize the natural mode of eating in
future. I find the ends of my fingers decidedly odoriferous."

