
"I wish," said she, after a pause, "that we were able to take her. But
we are not."

And she sighed again.

"Mr. Jasper will pay six dollars a week to any one who will take the
entire care of her until she is twelve years of age."

"Will he?" A sudden light had gleamed over the face of Mrs. Claire.

"Yes; he said so this morning."

"Then, why may not we take her? I am willing," was Edith's quick
suggestion.

"It is a great care and responsibility," said Edward.

"I shall not feel it so. When the heart prompts, duty becomes a
pleasure. O yes, dear, let us take the child by all means."

"Can we make room for her?"

"Why not? Her little bed, in a corner of our chamber, will in noway
incommode us; and through the day she will be a companion for Edie.
If you could only have seen how sweetly they played together! Edie has
not been half the trouble to-day that she usually is."

"It will rest altogether with you, Edith," said Claire, seriously. "In
fact, Mr. Jasper proposed that we should take Fanny. I did not give
him much encouragement, however."

"Have you any objection, dear?" asked Edith.

"None. The sum to be paid weekly will more than cover the additional
cost of housekeeping. If you are prepared for the extra duties that
must come, I have nothing to urge against the arrangement."

"If extra duties are involved, I will perform them as a labour of
love. Without the sum to be paid for the child's maintenance, I would
have been ready to take her in and let her share our home. She is now
in the special guardianship of the Father of the fatherless, and he
will provide for her, no matter who become the almoners of his bounty.
This is my faith, Edward, and in this faith I would have freely acted
even without the provision that has been made."

"Let it be then, as you wish, Edith."

"How providential this increase of our income, Edward!" said his wife,
soon afterward, while the subject of taking Fanny into their little
household was yet the burden of their conversation. "We shall gain
here all, and more than all that will be lost in giving up your
situation with Mr. Jasper. Did I not say to you that good would come
of this guardianship; and is there not, even now, a foreshadowing of
things to come?"

"Perhaps there is," replied Edward thoughtfully. "But my eye of faith
is not so clear as yours."

"Let me see for you then, dear," said Edith, in a tender voice. "I
am an earnest confider in the good purposes of our Heavenly Father. I
trust in them, as a ship trusts in its well-grounded anchor. That,
in summing up the events of our life, when the time of our departure
comes, we shall see clearly that each has been wisely ordered or
provided for by One who is infinitely good and wise, I never for an
instant doubt. Oh, if you could only see with me, eye to eye, Edward!
But you will, love, you will--that my heart assures me. It may be some
time yet--but it will come."

"May it come right speedily!" was the fervent response of Edward
Claire.




CHAPTER VII.


"Well, Edward, what does your wife say?" Such was the inquiry of
Jasper, immediately on the return of his clerk from dinner.

"There will be no difficulty, so far as she is concerned," the young
man answered.

"None, did you say, Edward?"

"None. She is willing to take the child, under the arrangement you
propose."

"That is, for three hundred dollars a year, to find her in every
thing?"

"Yes; until she is twelve years of age."

"So I understand it. After that, as the expense of her clothing and
education will increase, we can make a new arrangement. Very well. I'm
glad you have decided to take the child. It won't cost you six dollars
a week, for the present, I am sure: so the additional income will be
quite a help to you."

"I don't know how that will be. At any rate, we are willing to take
the child into our family."

"Suppose then, Edward, we mutually sign this little agreement to that
effect, which I have drawn up."

And Jasper took a paper from his desk, which he handed to Edward.

"I've no objection," said the latter, after he had read it over. "It
binds me to the maintenance of the child until she is twelve years of
age, and you to the payment therefor of three hundred dollars a year,
in quarterly payments of seventy-five dollars each."

"Yes, that is the simple statement of the matter. You see, I have
prepared duplicates: one for you, and one for myself. I will sign them
first."

And Jasper took a pen and placed upon each of the documents his
sign-manual.

Claire did the same; and a clerk witnessed the signatures. Each, then,
took a copy. Thus, quickly and fully, was the matter arranged.

This fact of giving to the contract a legal form, was, under the
circumstances, the very thing Claire most desired. He had already
begun to see difficulties ahead, so soon as he announced his intention
of leaving Jasper's service; particularly, as no reason that he could
give would satisfy the merchant--difficulties growing out of this new
relation as the personal guardian of little Fanny Elder. The signing
of a regular contract for the payment of a certain sum of money,
quarterly, for the child's maintenance, gave him a legal right to
collect that sum, should Jasper, from any change of feeling, be
disposed at some future time to give him trouble. This was something
gained.

It was with exceeding reluctance that Claire forced himself, during
the afternoon, to announce his intention to leave Mr. Jasper. Had
he not promised Mr. Melleville and his wife to do this, it would
certainly have been postponed for the present; perhaps altogether.
But his word was passed to both of them, and he felt that to defer the
matter would be wrong. So, an opportunity offering, he said--

"I believe, Mr. Jasper, that I shall have to leave you."

"Leave me, Edward!" Mr. Jasper was taken altogether by surprise. "What
is the meaning of this? You have expressed no dissatisfaction. What is
wrong?"

The position of Edward was a trying one. He could not state the true
reasons for wishing to leave his present situation, without giving
great offence, and making, perhaps, an enemy. This he wished, if
possible, to avoid. A few days before he would not have scrupled at
the broadest equivocation, or even at a direct falsehood. But there
had been a birth of better principles in his mind, and he was in the
desire to let them govern his conduct. As he did not answer promptly
the question of Jasper as to his reasons for wishing to leave him, the
latter said--

"This seems to be some sudden purpose, Edward. Are you going to
receive a higher salary?"

Still Edward did not reply; but looked worried and irresolute. Taking
it for granted that no motive but a pecuniary one could have prompted
this desire for change, Jasper continued--

"I have been satisfied with you, Edward. You seem to understand
me, and to comprehend my mode of doing business. I have found you
industrious, prompt, and cheerful in performing your duties. These are
qualities not always to be obtained. I do not, therefore, wish to part
with you. If a hundred, or even a hundred and fifty dollars a year,
will be any consideration, your salary is increased from to-day."

This, to Edward, was unexpected. He felt more bewildered and
irresolute than at first. So important an advance in his income, set
against a reduction of the present amount, was a strong temptation,
and he felt his old desires for money arraying themselves in his mind.

"I will think over your offer," said he. "I did not expect this. In
the morning I will be prepared to decide."

"Very well, Edward. If you remain, your salary will be increased to
six hundred and fifty dollars."

To Claire had now come another hour of darkness. The little strength,
just born of higher principles, was to be sorely tried. Gold was
in one scale, and the heavenly riches that are without wings in the
other. Which was to overbalance?

The moment Claire entered the presence of his wife, on returning home
that evening, she saw that a change had taken place--an unfavourable
change; and a shadow fell upon her pure spirit.

"I spoke to Mr. Jasper about leaving him," he remarked, soon after he
came in.

"What did he say?" inquired Edith.

"He does not wish me to go."

"I do not wonder at that. But, of course, he is governed merely by a
selfish regard to his own interests."

"He offers to increase my salary to six hundred and fifty dollars,"
said Edward, in a voice that left his wife in no doubt as to the
effect which this had produced.

"A thousand dollars a year, Edward," was the serious answer, "would
be a poor compensation for such services as he requires. Loss of
self-respect, loss of honour, loss of the immortal soul, are all
involved. Think of this, my dear husband! and do not for a moment
hesitate."

But Edward did hesitate. This unexpected offer of so important an
increase in his salary had excited his love of money, temporarily
quiescent. He saw in such an increase a great temporal good; and
this obscured his perception of a higher good, which, a little while
before, had been so clear.

"I am not so sure, Edith," said he, "that all these sad consequences
are necessarily involved. I am under no obligation to deal unfairly
with his customers. My duty will be done, when I sell to them all I
can at a fair profit. If he choose to take an excess of profit in his
own dealing, that is his affair. I need not be partaker in his guilt."

"Edward!" returned his wife, laying her hand upon his arm, and
speaking in a low, impressive voice--"Do you really believe that you
can give satisfaction to Mr. Jasper in all things, and yet keep your
conscience void of offence before God and man? Think of his character
and requirements--think of the kind of service you have, in too many
instances, rendered him--and then say whether it will be possible to
satisfy him without putting in jeopardy all that a man should hold
dear--all that is worth living for? Oh, Edward! do not let this offer
blind you for a moment to the real truth."

"Then you would have me reject the offer?"

"Without an instant's hesitation, Edward."

"It is a tempting one. And then, look at the other side, Edith. Only
four hundred dollars a year, instead of six hundred and fifty."

"I feel it as no temptation. The latter sum, in the present case,
is by far the better salary, for it will give us higher sources of
enjoyment. What are millions of dollars, and a disquiet mind, compared
to a few hundreds, and sweet peace? If you remain with Jasper, an
unhappy spirit will surely steal into our dwelling--if you take, for
the present, your old place with Mr. Melleville, how brightly will
each morning's sun shine in upon us, and how calmly will the blessed
evening draw around her curtains of repose!"

Edith had always possessed great influence over her husband. He loved
her very tenderly; and was ever loth to do any thing to which she made
opposition. She was no creature of mere impulse--of weak caprices--of
captious, yet unbending will. If she opposed her husband in any thing,
it was on the ground of its non-agreement with just principles; and
she always sustained her positions with the clearest and most direct
modes of argumentation. Not with elaborate reasonings, but rather in
the declaration of things self-evident--the quick perceptions of a
pure, truth-loving mind. How inestimable the blessing of such a wife!

"No doubt you have the better reason on your side, Edith," replied her
husband, his manner very much subdued. "But it is difficult for me to
unclasp my hand to let fall therefrom the natural good which I can see
and estimate, for the seemingly unreal and unsubstantial good that, to
your purer vision, looms up so imposingly."

"Unreal--unsubstantial--Edward!" said Edith, in reply to this. "Are
states of mind unreal?"

"I have not always found them so," was answered.

"Is happiness, or misery, unreal? Oh, are they not our most palpable
realizations? It is not mere wealth that is sought for as an end--that
is not the natural good for which the many are striving. It is the
mental enjoyment that possession promises--the state of mind that
would be gained through gold as a means. Is it not so? Think."

"Yes--that is, undoubtedly, the case."

"But, is it possible for money to give peace and true enjoyment, if,
in the spirit, even though not in the letter, violence is done to
the laws of both God and man? Can ill-gotten gain produce heavenly
beatitudes?--and there are none others. The heart never grows truly
warm and joyous except when light from above streams through the
darkened vapours with which earth-fires have surrounded it. Oh, my
husband! Turn yourself away from this world's false allurements, and
seek with me the true riches. Whatever may be your lot in life--I care
not how poor and humble--I shall walk erect and cheerful by your side
if you have been able to keep a conscience void of offence; but if
this be not so, and you bring to me gold and treasure without stint,
my head will lie bowed upon my bosom, and my heart throb in low,
grief-burdened pulsations. False lights, believe me, Edward, are hung
out by the world, and they lure life's mariner on to dangerous coasts.
Let us remain on a smooth and sunny sea, while we can, and not tempt
the troubled and uncertain wave, unless duty requires the venture.
Then, with virtue at the helm, and the light of God's love in the sky,
we will find a sure haven at last."

"It shall be as you wish, Edith," said Claire, as he gazed with
admiring affection into the bright and glowing face of his wife, that
was lovely in her beautiful enthusiasm.

"No--no, Edward! Don't say as I wish," was her quick reply. "I
cannot bear that you should act merely under my influence as an
external pressure. If I have seemed to use persuasion, it has not been
to force you over to my way of thinking. But, cannot you see that I am
right? Does not your reason approve of what I say?"

"It does, Edith. I can see, as well as feel, that you are right. But,
the offer of a present good is a strong temptation. I speak freely."

"And I thank you for doing so. Oh! never conceal from me your inmost
thoughts. You say that you can see as well as feel that I am right?"

"Yes; I freely acknowledge that."

"Your reason approves what I have said?"

"Fully."

"This tells you that it will be better for you in the end to accept
of four hundred dollars from Mr. Melleville, than to remain with Mr.
Jasper at six hundred and fifty?"

"It does, Edith."

"Then, my husband, let the reason which God has given to you as a
guide, direct you now in the right way. Do not act under influence
from me--for then the act will not be freely your own--but, as a truly
rational, and, therefore, a wise man, choose now the way in which an
enlightened reason tells you that you ought to walk."

"I have chosen, Edith," was the young man's low, but firm reply.

"How?" The wife spoke with a sudden, trembling eagerness, and held her
breath for an answer.

"I will leave my present place, and return to Mr. Melleville."

"God be thanked!" came sobbing from the lips of Edith, as she threw
herself in unrestrained joy upon the bosom of her husband.




CHAPTER VIII.


"I don't just understand this," said Jasper to himself, after the
interview with his clerk described in another chapter. "I thought him
perfectly satisfied. He didn't say he was offered a higher salary. Ah!
guess I've got it now. It's only a bit of a ruse on his part to get
me to increase his wages. I didn't think of this before. Well, it has
succeeded; and, in truth, he's worth all I've offered him. Shrewd,
quick, and sharp; he's a young man just to my mind. Should he grow
restless again, I must tempt him with the idea of a partnership at
some future period. If business goes on increasing, I shall want
some one with me whom I can trust and depend on more fully than on a
clerk."

Thus, in the mind of Jasper, all was settled; and he was fully
prepared, on the next morning, when he met Edward to hear from him
that he would remain in his service. A different decision took him
altogether by surprise.

"Where are you going?" he asked. Edward hesitated a moment ere
replying.

"Back to Mr. Melleville's."

"To Melleville's! Will he give you more salary than I have agreed to
pay?"

"No," was the answer; "but I have reasons for wishing to accept the
place he offers me."

"Well, just as you please," said Jasper, coldly. "Every one must suit
himself."

And, with the air of a person offended, he turned himself from the
young man. Soon after he went out, and did not come back for two or
three hours. When he re-entered the store there was an angry flash in
his eyes, which rested somewhat sternly upon Claire.

"Let me say a word with you, Edward."

There happened to be no customer in to engage the clerk's attention,
and he retired, with his employer, to the back part of the store.
Jasper then turned and confronted him with a stern aspect.

"Well, young man!" said he sharply, "it seems that you have been
making rather free with my good name, of late; representing me as a
cheat and a swindler."

For a few moments the mind of Claire was strongly excited and in a
perfect maze of confusion. The blood mounted to his face, and he felt
a rising and choking sensation in his throat. Wisely he forbore
any answer until he had regained his self-possession. Then, with a
coolness that surprised even himself, he said--

