  will give the above reward for the apprehension of the boy and
  thief, if delivered at Chattanooga. Or, I will give $200 for the boy
  alone; or $100 if confined in any jail in the United States, so that
  I can get him.

                                                    GEORGE O. RAGLAND.

  Chattanooga, June 15, 1852.

From the Capitolian Vis-a-vis, West Baton Rouge, Louisiana, Nov. 1,
1852:

                              $150 REWARD.

  Runaway about the 15th of August last, Joe, a yellow man; small,
  about 5 feet 8 or 9 inches high, and about 20 years of age. Has a
  Roman nose, was raised in New Orleans, and speaks French and
  English. He was bought last winter of Mr. Digges, Banks Arcade, New
  Orleans.

In regard to general intelligence, the reader will recollect that the
writer stated it as a fact which she learned while on a journey through
Kentucky, that a young colored man invented a machine for cleaning hemp,
like that alluded to in her story.

Advertisements, also, occasionally propose for sale artisans of
different descriptions. Slaves are often employed as pilots for vessels,
and highly valued for their skill and knowledge. The following are
advertisements from recent newspapers.

From the South Carolinian (Columbia), Dec. 4th, 1852:

                      VALUABLE NEGROES AT AUCTION.

                          BY J. & L. T. LEVIN.

  WILL be sold, on MONDAY, the 6th day of December, the following
  valuable NEGROES:

  Andrew, 24 years of age, a bricklayer and plasterer, and thorough
  workman.

  George, 22 years of age, one of the best barbers in the State.

  James, 19 years of age, an excellent painter.

  These boys were raised in Columbia, and are exceptions to most of
  boys, and are sold for no fault whatever.

  The terms of sale are one-half cash, the balance on a credit of six
  months, with interest, for notes payable at bank, with two or more
  approved endorsers.

  Purchasers to pay for necessary papers.

                                                     WILLIAM DOUGLASS.

  November 27, 36.

From the same paper, of November 18th, 1852:

  Will be sold at private sale, a LIKELY MAN, boat hand, and good
  pilot; is well acquainted with all the inlets between here and
  Savannah and Georgetown.

With regard to the incidents of George Harris’ life, that he may not be
supposed a purely exceptional case, we propose to offer some parallel
facts from the lives of slaves of our personal acquaintance.

Lewis Clark is an acquaintance of the writer. Soon after his escape from
slavery, he was received into the family of a sister-in-law of the
author, and there educated. His conduct during this time was such as to
win for him uncommon affection and respect, and the author has
frequently heard him spoken of in the highest terms by all who knew him.

The gentleman in whose family he so long resided says of him, in a
recent letter to the writer, “I would trust him, as the saying is, with
untold gold.”

Lewis is a quadroon, a fine-looking man, with European features, hair
slightly wavy, and with an intelligent, agreeable expression of
countenance.

The reader is now desired to compare the following incidents of his
life, part of which he related personally to the author, with the
incidents of the life of George Harris.

His mother was a handsome quadroon woman, the daughter of her master,
and given by him in marriage to a free white man, a Scotchman, with the
express understanding that she and her children were to be free. This
engagement, if made sincerely at all, was never complied with. His
mother had nine children, and, on the death of her husband, came back,
with all these children, as slaves in her father’s house.

A married daughter of the family, who was the dread of the whole
household, on account of the violence of her temper, had taken from the
family, upon her marriage, a young girl. By the violence of her abuse
she soon reduced the child to a state of idiocy, and then came
imperiously back to her father’s establishment, declaring that the child
was good for nothing, and that she would have another; and, as poor
Lewis’ evil star would have it, fixed her eye upon him.

To avoid one of her terrible outbreaks of temper, the family offered up
this boy as a pacificatory sacrifice. The incident is thus described by
Lewis, in a published narrative:

  Every boy was ordered in, to pass before this female sorceress, that
  she might select a victim for her unprovoked malice, and on whom to
  pour the vials of her wrath for years. I was that unlucky fellow.
  Mr. Campbell, my grandfather, objected, because it would divide a
  family, and offered her Moses; * * * but objections and claims of
  every kind were swept away by the wild passion and shrill-toned
  voice of Mrs. B. Me she would have, and none else. Mr. Campbell went
  out to hunt, and drive away bad thoughts; the old lady became quiet,
  for she was sure none of her blood run in my veins, and, if there
  was any of her husband’s there, it was no fault of hers.
  Slave-holding women are always revengeful toward the children of
  slaves that have any of the blood of their husbands in them. I was
  too young—only seven years of age—to understand what was going on.
  But my poor and affectionate mother understood and appreciated it
  all. When she left the kitchen of the mansion-house, where she was
  employed as cook, and came home to her own little cottage, the tear
  of anguish was in her eye, and the image of sorrow upon every
  feature of her face. She knew the female Nero whose rod was now to
  be over me. That night sleep departed from her eyes. With the
  youngest child clasped firmly to her bosom, she spent the night in
  walking the floor, coming ever and anon to lift up the clothes and
  look at me and my poor brother, who lay sleeping together.
  Sleeping, I said. Brother slept, but not I. I saw my mother when
  she first came to me, and I could not sleep. The vision of that
  night—its deep, ineffaceable impression—is now before my mind with
  all the distinctness of yesterday. In the morning I was put into the
  carriage with Mrs. B. and her children, and my weary pilgrimage of
  suffering was fairly begun.

Mrs. Banton is a character that can only exist where the laws of the
land clothe with absolute power the coarsest, most brutal and
violent-tempered, equally with the most generous and humane.

If irresponsible power is a trial to the virtue of the most watchful and
careful, how fast must it develop cruelty in those who are naturally
violent and brutal!

This woman was united to a drunken husband, of a temper equally
ferocious. A recital of all the physical torture which this pair
contrived to inflict on a hapless child, some of which have left
ineffaceable marks on his person, would be too trying to humanity, and
we gladly draw a veil over it.

Some incidents, however, are presented in the following extracts:

  A very trivial offence was sufficient to call forth a great burst of
  indignation from this woman of ungoverned passions. In my
  simplicity, I put my lips to the same vessel, and drank out of it,
  from which her children were accustomed to drink. She expressed her
  utter abhorrence of such an act by throwing my head violently back,
  and dashing into my face two dippers of water. The shower of water
  was followed by a heavier shower of kicks; but the words, bitter
  and cutting, that followed, were like a storm of hail upon my young
  heart. “She would teach me better manners than that; she would let
  me know I was to be brought up to her hand; she would have one
  slave that knew his place; if I wanted water, go to the spring, and
  not drink there in the house.” This was new times for me; for some
  days I was completely benumbed with my sorrow.

                  *       *       *       *       *

  If there be one so lost to all feeling as even to say that the
  slaves do not suffer when families are separated, let such a one
  go to the ragged quilt which was my couch and pillow, and stand
  there night after night, for long, weary hours, and see the bitter
  tears streaming down the face of that more than orphan boy, while
  with half-suppressed sighs and sobs he calls again and again upon
  his absent mother.

            “Say, wast thou conscious of the tears I shed?
            Hovered thy spirit o’er thy sorrowing son?
            Wretch even then! life’s journey just begun.”

He was employed till late at night in spinning flax or rocking the baby,
and called at a very early hour in the morning; and if he did not start
at the first summons, a cruel chastisement was sure to follow. He says:

  Such horror has seized me, lest I might not hear the first shrill
  call, that I have often in dreams fancied I heard that unwelcome
  voice, and have leaped from my couch and walked through the house
  and out of it before I awoke. I have gone and called the other
  slaves, in my sleep, and asked them if they did not hear master
  call. Never, while I live, will the remembrance of those long,
  bitter nights of fear pass from my mind.

He adds to this words which should be deeply pondered by those who lay
the flattering unction to their souls that the oppressed do not feel the
sundering of family ties.

  But all my severe labor, and bitter and cruel punishments, for these
  ten years of captivity with this worse than Arab family, all these
  were as nothing to the sufferings I experienced by being separated
  from my mother, brothers and sisters; the same things, with them
  near to sympathize with me, to hear my story of sorrow, would have
  been comparatively tolerable.

  They were distant only about thirty miles; and yet, in ten long,
  lonely years of childhood, I was only permitted to see them three
  times.

  My mother occasionally found an opportunity to send me some token of
  remembrance and affection,—a sugar-plum or an apple; but I scarcely
  ever ate them; they were laid up, and handled and wept over, till
  they wasted away in my hand.

  My thoughts continually by day, and my dreams by night, were of
  mother and home; and the horror experienced in the morning, when I
  awoke and behold it was a dream, is beyond the power of language to
  describe.

Lewis had a beautiful sister by the name of Delia, who, on the death of
her grandfather, was sold, with all the other children of his mother,
for the purpose of dividing the estate. She was a pious girl, a member
of the Baptist church. She fell into the hands of a brutal, drunken man,
who wished to make her his mistress. Milton Clark, a brother of Lewis,
in the narrative of his life describes the scene where he, with his
mother, stood at the door while this girl was brutally whipped before it
for wishing to conform to the principles of her Christian profession. As
her resolution was unconquerable, she was placed in a coffle and sent
down to the New Orleans market. Here she was sold to a Frenchman, named
Coval. He took her to Mexico, emancipated and married her. After
residing some time in France and the West Indies with him, he died,
leaving her a fortune of twenty or thirty thousand dollars. At her death
she endeavored to leave this by will to purchase the freedom of her
brothers; but, as a slave cannot take property, or even have it left in
trust for him, they never received any of it.

The incidents of the recovery of Lewis’ freedom are thus told:

  I had long thought and dreamed of LIBERTY. I was now determined to
  make an effort to gain it. No tongue can tell the doubt, the
  perplexities, the anxiety, which a slave feels, when making up his
  mind upon this subject. If he makes an effort, and is not
  successful, he must be laughed at by his fellows, he will be beaten
  unmercifully by the master, and then watched and used the harder for
  it all his life.

  And then, if he gets away, who, what will he find? He is
  ignorant of the world. All the white part of mankind, that he has
  ever seen, are enemies to him and all his kindred. How can he
  venture where none but white faces shall greet him? The master tells
  him that abolitionists decoy slaves off into the free states to
  catch them and sell them to Louisiana or Mississippi; and, if he
  goes to Canada, the British will put him in a mine under ground,
  with both eyes put out, for life. How does he know what or whom to
  believe? A horror of great darkness comes upon him, as he thinks
  over what may befall him. Long, very long time did I think of
  escaping, before I made the effort.

  At length, the report was started that I was to be sold for
  Louisiana. Then I thought it was time to act. My mind was made up.

                  *       *       *       *       *

  What my feelings were when I reached the free shore can be better
  imagined than described. I trembled all over with deep emotion, and
  I could feel my hair rise up on my head. I was on what was called a
  free soil, among a people who had no slaves. I saw white men at
  work, and no slave smarting beneath the lash. Everything was indeed
  new and wonderful. Not knowing where to find a friend, and being
  ignorant of the country, unwilling to inquire, lest I should betray
  my ignorance, it was a whole week before I reached Cincinnati. At
  one place where I put up, I had a great many more questions put to
  me than I wished to answer. At another place, I was very much
  annoyed by the officiousness of the landlord, who made it a point to
  supply every guest with newspapers. I took the copy handed me, and
  turned it over, in a somewhat awkward manner, I suppose. He came to
  me to point out a veto, or some other very important news. I thought
  it best to decline his assistance, and gave up the paper, saying my
  eyes were not in a fit condition to read much.

  At another place, the neighbors, on learning that a Kentuckian was
  at the tavern, came, in great earnestness, to find out what my
  business was. Kentuckians sometimes came there to kidnap their
  citizens. They were in the habit of watching them close. I at length
  satisfied them by assuring them that I was not, nor my father before
  me, any slave-holder at all; but, lest their suspicions should be
  excited in another direction, I added my grandfather was a
  slave-holder.

                  *       *       *       *       *

  At daylight we were in Canada. When I stepped ashore here, I said,
  sure enough, I AM FREE. Good heavens! what a sensation, when it
  first visits the bosom of a full-grown man; one born to bondage;
  one who had been taught, from early infancy, that this was his
  inevitable lot for life! Not till then did I dare to cherish, for
  a moment, the feeling that one of the limbs of my body was my own.
  The slaves often say, when cut in the hand or foot, “Plague on the
  old foot” or “the old hand! It is master’s,—let him take care of it.
  Nigger don’t care if he never get well.” My hands, my feet, were now
  my own.

It will be recollected that George, in conversing with Eliza, gives an
account of a scene in which he was violently beaten by his master’s
young son. This incident was suggested by the following letter from John
M. Nelson to Mr. Theodore Weld, given in Slavery as It Is, p. 51.

Mr. Nelson removed from Virginia to Highland County, Ohio, many years
since, where he is extensively known and respected. The letter is dated
January 3d, 1839.

  I was born and raised in Augusta County, Virginia; my father was an
  elder in the Presbyterian church, and was “owner” of about twenty
  slaves; he was what was generally termed a “good master.” His slaves
  were generally tolerably well fed and clothed, and not over-worked;
  they were sometimes permitted to attend church, and called in to
  family worship; few of them, however, availed themselves of these
  privileges. On some occasions I have seen him whip them severely,
  particularly for the crime of trying to obtain their liberty, or for
  what was called “running away.” For this they were scourged more
  severely than for anything else. After they have been retaken I have
  seen them stripped naked and suspended by the hands, sometimes to a
  tree, sometimes to a post, until their toes barely touched the
  ground, and whipped with a cowhide until the blood dripped from
  their backs. A boy named Jack, particularly, I have seen served in
  this way more than once. When I was quite a child, I recollect it
  grieved me very much to see one tied up to be whipped, and I used
  to intercede with tears in their behalf, and mingle my cries with
  theirs, and feel almost willing to take part of the punishment; I
  have been severely rebuked by my father for this kind of sympathy.
  Yet, such is the hardening nature of such scenes, that from this
  kind of commiseration for the suffering slave I became so blunted
  that I could not only witness their stripes with composure but
  myself inflict them, and that without remorse. One case I have
  often looked back to with sorrow and contrition, particularly since
  I have been convinced that “negroes are men.” When I was perhaps
  fourteen or fifteen years of age, I undertook to correct a young
  fellow named Ned, for some supposed offence,—I think it was leaving
  a bridle out of its proper place; he, being larger and stronger than
  myself, took hold of my arms and held me, in order to prevent my
  striking him. This I considered the height of insolence, and cried
  for help, when my father and mother both came running to my rescue.
  My father stripped and tied him, and took him into the orchard,
  where switches were plenty, and directed me to whip him; when one
  switch wore out, he supplied me with others. After I had whipped him
  a while, he fell on his knees to implore forgiveness, and I kicked
  him in the face; my father said, “Don’t kick him, but whip him;”
  this I did until his back was literally covered with welts. I know
  I have repented, and trust I have obtained pardon for these things.

  My father owned a woman (we used to call aunt Grace); she was
  purchased in Old Virginia. She has told me that her old master, in
  his will, gave her her freedom, but at his death his sons had sold
  her to my father: when he bought her she manifested some
  unwillingness to go with him, when she was put in irons and taken by
  force. This was before I was born; but I remember to have seen the
  irons, and was told that was what they had been used for. Aunt Grace
  is still living, and must be between seventy and eighty years of
  age; she has, for the last forty years, been an exemplary Christian.
  When I was a youth I took some pains to learn her to read; this is
  now a great consolation to her. Since age and infirmity have
  rendered her of little value to her “owners,” she is permitted to
  read as much as she pleases; this she can do, with the aid of
  glasses, in the old family Bible, which is almost the only book she
  has ever looked into. This, with some little mending for the black
  children, is all she does; she is still held as a slave. I well
  remember what a heart-rending scene there was in the family when
  my father sold her husband; this was, I suppose, thirty-five years
  ago. And yet my father was considered one of the best of masters. I
  know of few who were better, but of many who were worse.

With regard to the intelligence of George, and his teaching himself to
read and write, there is a most interesting and affecting parallel to it
in the “Life of Frederick Douglass,”—a book which can be recommended to
any one who has a curiosity to trace the workings of an intelligent and
active mind through all the squalid misery, degradation and oppression,
of slavery. A few incidents will be given.

Like Clark, Douglass was the son of a white man. He was a plantation
slave in a proud old family. His situation, probably, may be considered
as an average one; that is to say, he led a life of dirt, degradation,
discomfort of various kinds, made tolerable as a matter of daily habit,
and considered as enviable in comparison with the lot of those who
suffer worse abuse. An incident which Douglass relates of his mother is
touching. He states that it is customary at an early age to separate
mothers from their children, for the purpose of blunting and deadening
natural affection. When he was three years old his mother was sent to
work on a plantation eight or ten miles distant, and after that he never
saw her except in the night. After her day’s toil she would occasionally
walk over to her child, lie down with him in her arms, hush him to sleep
in her bosom, then rise up and walk back again to be ready for her field
work by daylight. Now, we ask the highest-born lady in England or
America, who is a mother, whether this does not show that this poor
field-laborer had in her bosom, beneath her dirt and rags, a true
mother’s heart?

The last and bitterest indignity which has been heaped on the head of
the unhappy slaves has been the denial to them of those holy affections
which God gives alike to all. We are told, in fine phrase, by languid
ladies of fashion, that “it is not to be supposed that those creatures
have the same feelings that we have,” when, perhaps, the very speaker
could not endure one tithe of the fatigue and suffering which the
slave-mother often bears for her child. Every mother who has a mother’s
