by the warmth of your charity, give growth to the Good that is in him?
The cynic, the miser, is not all self. There is a note in that sullen
instrument to make all harmony yet; but it wants a patient and gentle
master to touch the strings.
You point to the words “There is none good.” The truths do not oppose
each other. “There is none good--save one.” And He breathes in all.
In our earthliness, our fleshly will, our moral grasp, we are helpless,
mean, vile. But there is a lamp ever burning in the heart: a guide to
the source of Light, or an instrument of torture. We can make it either.
If it burn in an atmosphere of purity, it will warm, guide, cheer us. If
in the midst of selfishness, or under the pressure of pride, its flame
will be unsteady, and we shall soon have good reason to trim our light,
and find new oil for it.
There is Good in All--the impress of the Deity. He who believes not in
the image of God in man, is an infidel to himself and his race. There is
no difficulty about discovering it. You have only to appeal to it. Seek
in every one the best features: mark, encourage, educate them. There
is no man to whom some circumstance will not be an argument.
And how glorious in practice, this faith! How easy, henceforth, all
the labours of our law-makers, and how delightful, how practical the
theories of our philanthropists! To educate the Good--the good in
All: to raise every man in his own opinion, and yet to stifle all
arrogance, by showing that all possess this Good. In themselves, but
not of themselves. Had we but faith in this truth, how soon should
we all be digging through the darkness, for this Gold of Love--this
universal Good. A Howard, and a Fry, cleansed and humanized our prisons,
to find this Good; and in the chambers of all our hearts it is to be
found, by labouring eyes and loving hands.
Why all our harsh enactments? Is it from experience of the strength of
vice in ourselves that we cage, chain, torture, and hang men? Are none
of us indebted to friendly hands, careful advisers; to the generous,
trusting guidance, solace, of some gentler being, who has loved us,
despite the evil that is in us--for our little Good, and has nurtured
that Good with smiles and tears and prayers? O, we know not how like we
are to those whom we despise! We know not how many memories of kith and
kin the murderer carries to the gallows--how much honesty of heart the
felon drags with him to the hulks.
There is Good in All. Dodd, the forger, was a better man than most of
us: Eugene Aram, the homicide, would turn his foot from a worm. Do
not mistake us. Society demands, requires that these madmen should be
rendered harmless. There is no nature dead to all Good. Lady Macbeth
would have slain the old king, Had he not resembled her father as he
slept.
It is a frequent thought, but a careless and worthless one, because
never acted on, that the same energies, the same will to great vices,
had given force to great virtues. Do we provide the opportunity? Do we
believe in Good? If we are ourselves deceived in any one, is not all,
thenceforth, deceit? if treated with contempt, is not the whole world
clouded with scorn? if visited with meanness, are not all selfish? And
if from one of our frailer fellow-creatures we receive the blow,
we cease to believe in women. Not the breast at which we have drank
life--not the sisterly hands that have guided ours--not the one voice
that has so often soothed us in our darker hours, will save the sex: All
are massed in one common sentence: all bad. There may be Delilahs: there
are many Ruths. We should not lightly give them up. Napoleon lost France
when he lost Josephine. The one light in Rembrandt’s gloomy life was his
sister.
And all are to be approached at some point. The proudest bends to some
feeling--Coriolanus conquered Rome: but the husband conquered the
hero. The money-maker has influences beyond his gold--Reynolds made an
exhibition of his carriage, but he was generous to Northcote, and had
time to think of the poor Plympton schoolmistress. The cold are not all
ice. Elizabeth slew Essex--the queen triumphed; the woman died.
There is Good in All. Let us show our faith in it. When the lazy whine
of the mendicant jars on your ears, think of his unaided, unschooled
childhood; think that his lean cheeks never knew the baby-roundness
of content that ours have worn; that his eye knew no youth of fire--no
manhood of expectancy. Pity, help, teach him. When you see the trader,
without any pride of vocation, seeking how he can best cheat you, and
degrade himself, glance into the room behind his shop and see there his
pale wife and his thin children, and think how cheerfully he meets
that circle in the only hour he has out of the twenty-four. Pity his
narrowness of mind; his want of reliance upon the God of Good; but
remember there have been Greshams, and Heriots, and Whittingtons; and
remember, too, that in our happy land there are thousands of almshouses,
built by the men of trade alone. And when you are discontented with the
great, and murmur, repiningly, of Marvel in his garret, or Milton in his
hiding-place, turn in justice to the Good among the great. Read how John
of Lancaster loved Chaucer and sheltered Wicliff. There have been Burkes
as well as Walpoles. Russell remembered Banim’s widow, and Peel forgot
not Haydn.
Once more: believe that in every class there is Good; in every man,
Good. That in the highest and most tempted, as well as in the lowest,
there is often a higher nobility than of rank. Pericles and Alexander
had great, but different virtues, and although the refinement of the
one may have resulted in effeminacy, and the hardihood of the other in
brutality, we ought to pause ere we condemn where we should all have
fallen.
Look only for the Good. It will make you welcome everywhere, and
everywhere it will make you an instrument to good. The lantern of
Diogenes is a poor guide when compared with the Light God hath set in
the heavens; a Light which shines into the solitary cottage and the
squalid alley, where the children of many vices are hourly exchanging
deeds of kindness; a Light shining into the rooms of dingy warehousemen
and thrifty clerks, whose hard labour and hoarded coins are for wife
and child and friend; shining into prison and workhouse, where sin and
sorrow glimmer with sad eyes through rusty bars into distant homes and
mourning hearths; shining through heavy curtains, and round sumptuous
tables, where the heart throbs audibly through velvet mantle and silken
vest, and where eye meets eye with affection and sympathy; shining
everywhere upon God’s creatures, and with its broad beams lighting up
a virtue wherever it falls, and telling the proud, the wronged, the
merciless, or the despairing, that there is “Good in All.”
HUMAN PROGRESS.
     WE are told to look through nature
       Upward unto Nature’s God;
     We are told there is a scripture
       Written on the meanest sod;
     That the simplest flower created
       Is a key to hidden things;
     But, immortal over nature,
       Mind, the lord of nature, springs!
     Through Humanity look upward,--
       Alter ye the olden plan,--
     Look through man to the Creator,
       Maker, Father, God of Man!
     Shall imperishable spirit
       Yield to perishable clay?
     No! sublime o’er Alpine mountains
       Soars the Mind its heavenward way!
     Deeper than the vast Atlantic
       Rolls the tide of human thought;
     Farther speeds that mental ocean
       Than the world of waves o’er sought!
     Mind, sublime in its own essence
       Its sublimity can lend
     To the rocks, and mounts, and torrents,
       And, at will, their features bend!
     Some within the humblest floweret
       “Thoughts too deep for tears” can see;
     Oh, the humblest man existing
       Is a sadder theme to me!
     Thus I take the mightier labour
       Of the great Almighty hand;
     And, through man to the Creator,
       Upward look, and weeping stand.
     Thus I take the mightier labour,
       --Crowning glory of His will;
     And believe that in the meanest
       Lives a spark of Godhead still:
     Something that, by Truth expanded,
       Might be fostered into worth;
     Something struggling through the darkness,
       Owning an immortal birth!
     From the Genesis of being
       Unto this imperfect day,
     Hath Humanity held onward,
       Praying God to aid its way!
     And Man’s progress had been swifter,
       Had he never turned aside,
     To the worship of a symbol,
       Not the spirit signified!
     And Man’s progress had been higher,
       Had he owned his brother man,
     Left his narrow, selfish circle,
       For a world-embracing plan!
     There are some for ever craving,
       Ever discontent with place,
     In the eternal would find briefness,
       In the infinite want space.
     If through man unto his Maker
       We the source of truth would find,
     It must be through man enlightened,
       Educated, raised, refined:
     That which the Divine hath fashioned
       Ignorance hath oft effaced;
     Never may we see God’s image
       In man darkened--man debased!
     Something yield to Recreation,
       Something to Improvement give;
     There’s a Spiritual kingdom
       Where the Spirit hopes to live!
     There’s a mental world of grandeur,
       Which the mind inspires to know;
     Founts of everlasting beauty
       That, for those who seek them, flow!
     Shores where Genius breathes immortal--
       Where the very winds convey
     Glorious thoughts of Education,
       Holding universal sway!
     Glorious hopes of Human Freedom,
       Freedom of the noblest kind;
     That which springs from Cultivation,
       Cheers and elevates the mind!
     Let us hope for Better Prospects,
       Strong to struggle for the night,
     We appeal to Truth, and ever
       Truth’s omnipotent in might;
     Hasten, then, the People’s Progress,
       Ere their last faint hope be gone;
     Teach the Nations that their interest
       And the People’s good, ARE ONE.
MY WASHERWOMAN.
SOME people have a singular reluctance to part with money. If waited
on for a bill, they say, almost involuntarily, “Call to-morrow,” even
though their pockets are far from being empty.
I once fell into this bad habit myself; but a little incident, which I
will relate, cured me. Not many years after I had attained my majority,
a poor widow, named Blake, did my washing and ironing. She was the
mother of two or three little children, whose sole dependence for food
and raiment was on the labour of her hands.
Punctually, every Thursday morning, Mrs. Blake appeared with my clothes,
“white as the driven snow;” but not always, as punctually, did I pay the
pittance she had earned by hard labour.
“Mrs. Blake is down stairs,” said a servant, tapping at my room-door one
morning, while I was in the act of dressing myself.
“Oh, very well,” I replied. “Tell her to leave my clothes. I will get
them when I come down.”
The thought of paying the seventy-five cents, her due, crossed my mind.
But I said to myself,--“It’s but a small matter, and will do as well
when she comes again.”
There was in this a certain reluctance to part with money. My funds
were low, and I might need what change I had during the day. And so
it proved. As I went to the office in which I was engaged, some small
article of ornament caught my eye in a shop window.
“Beautiful!” said I, as I stood looking at it. Admiration quickly
changed into the desire for possession; and so I stepped in to ask the
price. It was just two dollars.
“Cheap enough,” thought I. And this very cheapness was a further
temptation.
So I turned out the contents of my pockets, counted them over, and found
the amount to be two dollars and a quarter.
“I guess I’ll take it,” said I, laying the money on the shopkeeper’s
counter.
“I’d better have paid Mrs. Blake.” This thought crossed my mind, an
hour afterwards, by which time the little ornament had lost its power of
pleasing. “So much would at least have been saved.”
I was leaving the table, after tea, on the evening that followed, when
the waiter said to me,
“Mrs. Blake is at the door, and wishes to see you.”
I felt a little worried at hearing this; for I had no change in my
pockets, and the poor washerwoman had, of course, come for her money.
“She’s in a great hurry,” I muttered to myself, as I descended to the
door.
“You’ll have to wait until you bring home my clothes next week, Mrs.
Blake. I haven’t any change, this evening.”
The expression of the poor woman’s face, as she turned slowly away,
without speaking, rather softened my feelings.
“I’m sorry,” said I, “but it can’t be helped now. I wish you had said,
this morning, that you wanted money. I could have paid you then.”
She paused, and turned partly towards me, as I said this. Then she moved
off, with something so sad in her manner, that I was touched sensibly.
“I ought to have paid her this morning, when I had the change about
me. And I wish I had done so. Why didn’t she ask for her money, if she
wanted it so badly?”
I felt, of course, rather ill at ease. A little while afterwards I met
the lady with whom I was boarding.
“Do you know anything about this Mrs. Blake, who washes for me?” I
inquired.
“Not much; except that she is very poor, and has three children to feed
and clothe. And what is worst of all, she is in bad health. I think she
told me, this morning, that one of her little ones was very sick.”
I was smitten with a feeling of self-condemnation, and soon after left
the room. It was too late to remedy the evil, for I had only a sixpence
in my pocket; and, moreover, did not know where to find Mrs. Blake.
Having purposed to make a call upon some young ladies that evening, I
now went up into my room to dress. Upon my bed lay the spotless linen
brought home by Mrs. Blake in the morning. The sight of it rebuked me;
and I had to conquer, with some force, an instinctive reluctance, before
I could compel myself to put on a clean shirt, and snow-white vest, too
recently from the hand of my unpaid washerwoman.
One of the young ladies upon whom I called was more to me than a mere
pleasant acquaintance. My heart had, in fact, been warming towards her
for some time; and I was particularly anxious to find favour in her
eyes. On this evening she was lovelier and more attractive than ever,
and new bonds of affection entwined themselves around my heart.
Judge, then, of the effect produced upon me by the entrance of her
mother--at the very moment when my heart was all a-glow with love, who
said, as she came in--
“Oh, dear! This is a strange world!”
“What new feature have you discovered now, mother?” asked one of her
daughters, smiling.
“No new one, child; but an old one that looks more repulsive than
ever,” was replied. “Poor Mrs. Blake came to see me just now, in great
trouble.”
“What about, mother?” All the young ladies at once manifested unusual
interest.
Tell-tale blushes came instantly to my countenance, upon which the eyes
of the mother turned themselves, as I felt, with a severe scrutiny.
“The old story, in cases like hers,” was answered. “Can’t get her money
when earned, although for daily bread she is dependent on her daily
labour. With no food in the house, or money to buy medicine for her sick
child, she was compelled to seek me to-night, and to humble her spirit,
which is an independent one, so low as to ask bread for her little ones,
and the loan of a pittance with which to get what the doctor has ordered
her feeble sufferer at home.”
“Oh, what a shame!” fell from the lips of Ellen, the one in whom my
heart felt more than a passing interest; and she looked at me earnestly
as she spoke.
“She fully expected,” said the mother, “to get a trifle that was due her
from a young man who boards with Mrs. Corwin; and she went to see him
this evening. But he put her off with some excuse. How strange that
any one should be so thoughtless as to withhold from the poor their
hard-earned pittance! It is but a small sum at best, that the toiling
seamstress or washerwoman can gain by her wearying labour. That, at
least, should be promptly paid. To withhold it an hour is to do, in many
cases, a great wrong.”
For some minutes after this was said, there ensued a dead silence. I
felt that the thoughts of all were turned upon me as the one who had
withheld from poor Mrs. Blake the trifling sum due her for washing. What
my feelings were, it is impossible for me to describe; and difficult for
any one, never himself placed in so unpleasant a position, to imagine.
My relief was great when the conversation flowed on again, and in
another channel; for I then perceived that suspicion did not rest upon
me. You may be sure that Mrs. Blake had her money before ten o’clock on
the next day, and that I never again fell into the error of neglecting,
for a single week, my poor washerwoman.
FORGIVE AND FORGET.
     THERE’S a secret in living, if folks only knew;
     An Alchymy precious, and golden, and true,
     More precious than “gold dust,” though pure and refined,
     For its mint is the heart, and its storehouse the mind;
     Do you guess what I mean--for as true as I live
     That dear little secret’s--forget and forgive!
     When hearts that have loved have grown cold and estranged,
     And looks that beamed fondness are clouded and changed,
     And words hotly spoken and grieved for with tears
     Have broken the trust and the friendship of years--
     Oh! think ‘mid thy pride and thy secret regret,
     The balm for the wound is--forgive and forget!
     Yes! look in thy spirit, for love may return
     And kindle the embers that still feebly burn;
     And let this true whisper breathe high in thy heart,
     ‘Tis better to love than thus suffer apart--
     Let the Past teach the Future more wisely than yet,
     For the friendship that’s true can forgive and forget.
     And now, an adieu! if you list to my lay
     May each in your thoughts bear my motto away,
     ‘Tis a crude, simple ryhme, but its truth may impart
     A joy to the gentle and loving of heart;
     And an end I would claim far more practical yet
     In behalf of the Rhymer--forgive and forget!
OWE NO MAN ANYTHING.
THUS says an Apostle; and if those who are able to “owe no man anything”
 would fully observe this divine obligation, many, very many, whom their
want of punctuality now compels to live in violation of this precept,
would then faithfully and promptly render to every one their just dues.
“What is the matter with you, George?” said Mrs. Allison to her husband,
as he paced the floor of their little sitting-room, with an anxious,
troubled expression of countenance.
“Oh! nothing of much consequence: only a little worry of business,”
 replied Mr. Allison.
“But I know better than that, George. I know it is of consequence; you
are not apt to have such a long face for nothing. Come, tell me what it
is that troubles you. Have I not a right to share your griefs as well as
your joys?”
“Indeed, Ellen, it is nothing but business, I assure you; and as I am
not blessed with the most even temper in the world, it does not take
much you know to upset me: but you heard me speak of that job I was
building for Hillman?”
“Yes. I think you said it was to be five hundred dollars, did you not?”
“I did; and it was to have been cash as soon as done. Well, he took it
out two weeks ago; one week sooner than I promised it. I sent the bill
with it, expecting, of course, he would send me a check for the amount;
but I was disappointed. Having heard nothing from him since, I thought I
would call on him this morning, when, to my surprise, I was told he had
gone travelling with his wife and daughter, and would not be back for
six weeks or two months. I can’t tell you how I felt when I was told
this.”
“He is safe enough for it I suppose, isn’t he, George?”
“Oh, yes; he is supposed to be worth about three hundred thousand. But
what good is that to me? I was looking over my books this afternoon,
and, including this five hundred, there is just fifteen hundred dollars
due me now, that I ought to have, but can’t get it. To a man doing a
large business it would not be much; but to one with my limited means,
it is a good deal. And this is all in the hands of five individuals, any
one of whom could pay immediately, and feel not the least inconvenience
from it.”
“Are you much pressed for money just now, George?”
“I have a note in bank of three hundred, which falls due to-morrow, and
one of two hundred and fifty on Saturday. Twenty-five dollars at least
will be required to pay off my hands; and besides this, our quarter’s
rent is due on Monday, and my shop rent next Wednesday. Then there are
other little bills I wanted to settle, our own wants to be supplied,
&c.”
“Why don’t you call on those persons you spoke of; perhaps they would
pay you?”
“I have sent their bills in, but if I call on them so soon I might
perhaps affront them, and cause them to take their work away; and that
I don’t want to do. However, I think I shall have to do it, let the
consequence be what it may.”
“Perhaps you could borrow what you need, George, for a few days.”
“I suppose I could; but see the inconvenience and trouble it puts me
to. I was so certain of getting Hillman’s money to meet these two notes,
that I failed to make any other provision.”
“That would not have been enough of itself.”
“No, but I have a hundred on hand; the two together would have paid
them, and left enough for my workmen too.”
As early as practicable the next morning Mr. Allison started forth to
raise the amount necessary to carry him safely through the week. He
thought it better to try to collect some of the amounts owing to him
than to borrow. He first called on a wealthy merchant, whose annual
income was something near five thousand.
“Good morning, Mr. Allison,” said he, as that individual entered his
counting-room. “I suppose you want some money.”
“I should like a little, Mr. Chapin, if you please.”
“Well, I intended coming down to see you, but I have been so busy that
I have not been able. That carriage of mine which you did up a few weeks
ago does not suit me altogether.”
“What is the matter with it?”
