IN WHICH IT IS SHOWN THAT THE NAVIGATIOH 
OF THE RIVER IS DIFFICULT AND DANGEROUS. 

Harry was astounded at this information. Bon 
was exhausted, as though he had been running very 
hard ; hesides, he was much agitated — more so than 
the circumstances of the occasion seemed to justify. 
In connection with the threat which his companion 
had uttered that day, these appearances seemed to 
point to a solution of the burning building. He 
readily understood that Ben, in revenge for the indig- 
nity the squire had cast upon him, had set the barn 
on fire, and was now running away by the light of it. 

This was more than he had bargained for. How- 
ever il -natured he felt towards the squhe for his 
proposel to send him to Jacob Wire's, it never oc- 
curred to him to retaliate by committing a crime 
Eiis ideas of Christian charity and of forgiveness 




were but partially developed ; and though he could 
riot feel right towards his powerful enemy, he felt no 
desire to punish him so severely as Ben had done. 

His companion gave him a short answer, and man- 
ifested no disposition to enlarge upon the subject; 
and for several minutes both maintained a profound 
silence. 

The boat, drifting slowly with the current, was 
passing from the pond into the narrow river, and it 
required all Harry's skill to keep her from striking 
the banks on either side. His mind was engrossed 
with the contemplation of the new and startling 
event which had so suddenly presented itself to 
embarrass his future operations. Ben was a criminal 
in the eye of the law, and would be subjected to a 
severe penalty if detected. 

" I shouldn't have thought you would have done 
that," Harry observed, when the silence became pain- 
ful to him. 

" Done what ? " asked Ben, sharply. 

*' Set the barn afire." 

" Who said I set it afire ? " 

" W eil, I can see through a millstone when th^re 
is a hole in it"' 




- t didn't say I set the barn afire." 

'* I know you didn't ; but you said you meant U 
pi") the squire off for what he had done to you." 

" I mean to." 

" Haven't y : a done it already ? " 

" I didn't say I had," answered Ben, who was evi- 
dently debating with himself whether he should admit 
'Tarry to his confidence. 

" But didn't you set the barn afire? " 

" What if I did ? " 

" Why, I should say you run a great risk." 

" I don't care for that." 

" I see the reason, now, why you wouldn't tell mc 
what you was going to do before." 

" We are in for it now, Harry. I meant to pay off 
the squire, and " 

" Then you did set the barn afire ? " 

" I didn't say so ; and, more than that, I don't 
mean to say so. If you can see through a millstone 
why, just open your eyes — that's all " 

" I am sorry you did it, Ben." 

*' No whining, Harry ; be a man." 

" I mean to be a man ; but I don't think there wtf 
any need of burning the barn." 




" I do ; I couldn't leave Redfield without squaring 
accounts with Squire Walker." 

" Where are you going, Ben ? " 

" To Boston, of course." 

" How shall we get there ? " 

" We will go hy the river, as far as we can ; then 
take to the road." 

" But this is George I eman's hoat — isn't it ? " 

" Yes." 

" You hooked it ? " 

" Of course I did ; you don't suppose I should 
mind trifles at such a time as this ! But he can have 
it again, when I have done with it." 

" What was the use of taking the hoat ? " 

" In the first place, don't you think it is easier to 
sail in a boat than to walk ? And in the second 
place, the river runs through the woods for five or 
six miles below Pine Pleasant ; so that no one will 
be likely to see us. We shall get off without being 
found out." 

" But the river is not deep enough. It is full of 
ricks about three miles down." 

"We won't mind them. We can keep her cleai 


of the rocks well enough. When I was down the 
river last spring, yc u couldn't see a single rock above 
water, and we don't draw more than six inches." 

" But that was in the spring, when the water was 
high. I don't believe we can get the boat through." 

"Yes, we can ; at any rate, we can jump ashore 
and tow her down," replied Ben, confidently, though 
his cah-iilations were somewhat disturbed by Harry's 
reasoning. 

" There is another difficulty, Ben," suggesu-ii 
Harry. 

" O, there are a hundred difficulties ; but we 
mustn't mind them." 

" They will miss the boat, and suspect at once who 
aas got it." 

" We shall be out of their reach when they miss it.' 

" I heard George Leman say he was going a fishi- 
ng in her to-morrow." 

" Did you? Then why didn't you say so before?" 
retorted Ben, angrily. 

" Because you didn't tell me what you were going 
to do. How could I ? " 

" Never mind ; it is no use to cry for spilt milk 
We will maKe the best of it." 




" We e in for it now." 

" That we are ; and if you only stick by me, it 
*lA all come out right. If we get. caught, you mu.it 
keep a stiff upper lip." 

*' Never fear me." 

" And, above all, don't blow on me." 

" Of course I won't." 

" Whatever happens, promise that you will stick 
[)v me." 

" I will, Ben." 

' That's a good fellow, Harry. On that, we will 
take a bit of luncheon, and have a good time of it." 

As he spoke, Ben drew out from under the scat in 
(he bow a box filled with bread and cheese. 

" You see we arc provisioned for a cruise, Harry," 
added Ben, as he offered the contents of the box to 
his companion. " Here is enough to last us two of 
hrce days." 

" But you don't mean to keep on the river so Icrig 
is that ? " 

" I mean to stick to the boat as long as the naviga- 
tion will permit," replied Ben, with more energy than 
ae had before manifested, for he was recoveiing frcr* 





;he perturbation with which the crime he had com- 
mitted filled his mind, 

" There is a factory Tillage, with a dam across tk« 
river, six or seven miles below here." 

" I know it ; but perhaps we can get the boat 
round the dam in the night time, and continue ui 
voyage below. Don't you remember that piece in 
the Reader about John Ledyard, — how he went 
down the Connecticut River in a canoe ? " 
" Yes ; and you got your idea from that ? " 
" I did ; and I mean to have a first rate time of it." 
Ben proceeded to describe the anticipated pleasures 
of the river voyage, as he munched his bread and 
cheese ; and Harry listened with a great deal of sat- 
isfaction. Running away was not such a terrible 
thing, after all. It was both business and pleasure, 
and his imagination was much inflated by the bril- 
liant prospect before him. There was something so 
novel and exciting in the affair, that his first experi- 
ence was of the most delightful character. 

He for got the crime his companion had committed. 
and had almost come to regard the burning of the 
squire's barn as a just and proper retrL ution upoa 




him, for conspiring against the rights and privilege! 
of young America. 

My young readers may not know how easy it is 
even for a good hoy to learn to love the companion- 
ship of those who are vicious, and disposed to take 
the road which leads down to moral ruin and death. 
Those lines of Pope, which are familiar to almost 
every school boy, convey a great truth, and a thrilling 
warning to those who first find themselves taking 
pleasure in the society of wicked men, on wicked 
Days : — 

" Vice is a monster of so frightful mien 
As to be hated, needs but to be seen ; 
But seen too oft, familiar with her face, 
"VYe first endure, then pity, then embrace. ' 

Now, I have not represented my hero, at this stage 
of the story, as a very good boy, and it did not re- 
quire much time to familiarize him with the wicked- 
ness which was in Ben's heart, and which he did not 
take any pains to conceal. The transition from en- 
during to pitying, and from that to embracing, was 
sudden and easy, if, indeed, tlere was any miudl* 
passage between the firsl and last stage. 




I am sorry to say that an hour's fellowship witfc 
Ben, under the exciting- cireu.mytan.ces in which we 
find them, had led him to think Ben a very good 
fellow, notwithstanding the crime he had committed. 
I shall do my young reader the justice to believe he 
hopes Harry will be a better boy, and obtain higher 
and nobler views of duty. It must be remembered 
that Harry had never learned to " love God and man " 
on the knee of an affectionate mother. He had long 
ago forgotten the little prayers she had taught him, 
and none were said at the poorhouse. We are sorry 
he was no better ; bjit when we consider under what 
influences he had been brought up, it is not strange 
that he was not a good boy. Above every earthlv 
good, we may be thankful for the blessing of a good 
home, where we have been taught our duty to God, 
-o our fellow-beings, and to ourselves. 

The young navigators talked lightly of the present 
and the future, as the boat floated gently along 
through the gloomy forest. They heard the Redfield 
clock strike twelve, and then one. The excitement 
had begun to die out. Harry yawned, for he missed 
his accustomed sleep, and felt that a few houis' rest 



n Iris bed at the poorhouse was even preferable to 
navigating the river at midnight. Ren gaped several 
times, and the fun was really getting very stale. 

Those " who go down to the sea in ships," or navi- 
gate the river in boats, must keep their eyes open. It 
will never do to slumber at the helm ; and Harry soon 
had a practical demonstration of the truth of the prop- 
osition. He was so sleepy that he could not possibly 
keep his eyes open ; and Ben, not having the care of 
the helm, had actually dropped off, and was bowing 
as j olitely as a French dancing master to his compan- 
ion in the stern. They were a couple of smart sail- 
ors, and needed a little wholesome discipline to teach 
them the duty of those who are on the watch. 

The needed lesson was soon administered ; for just 
as Ben was making one of his lowest bows in hia 
semi-conscious condition, the bow of the boat ran 
upon a concealed rock, which caused her to keel over 
on one side, and very gently pitch the sleeper into 
the river. 

Of course, this catastrophe brought the com* 
mander of the expedition to his senses, and roused 
the helmsman to a sense of his own delinquency; 




though it is clear that, as there were no light houses
on the banks of the river, and the intricacies of the 
channel had never been denned and charted for the 
benefit of the adventurous navigator, no human fore- 
thought could have provided against the accident. 

Harry put the boat about, and assisted Lis dripping 
shipmate on board again. The ducking he had re- 
ceived did not operate very favorably upon Ben's 
temper, and he roundly reproached his companion for 
his carelessness. The steersman replied with becom- 
ing spirit to this groundless charge, telling him he 
had better keep his eyes open the rest of the night. 
Wet and chilly as he was, Ben couldn't help growl- 
ing ; and both evidently realized that the affair was 
not half as romantic as they had adjudged it to be an 
hour or two before. 

" Never mind it, Ben. If we fail once let us try 
again — that's all." 

" Try again ? You want to drown me, don't you," 
snarled Ben. 

Harry assured him he did not, and called his at- 
ten lion to the, sound of dashing waters, which could 
now be plainly heard. They were approaching the 




rocks, and it was certain from the noise that difficult 
navigation was before them. Harry proposed to haul 
up by the river's side, and wait for daylight ; to which 
proposition, Ben, whose ardor was effectually cooled 
by the bath he had received, readily assented. 

Accordingly they made fast the painter to a ttee 
on trie shore, and both ot them disembarked. While 
Harry was gathering up a pile of dead leaves for a 
bed, Ben amused himself by wringing out his wet 
clothes. 

; ' Suppose we make a fire, Harry?" suggested 
Ben ; and it would certainly have been a great luxury 
to one in his damp condition. 

" No ; it will betray us," replied Harry, with 
alarm. 

" Humph ! It is easy enough for you to talk, who 
are warm and dry," growled Ben. " I am going to 
have a fire, any how." 

In vain Harry protested. Ben had some matches 
ia the boat, and in a few minutes a cheerful fire 
blazed in the forest. As the leader of the enterprise 
felt its glowing warmth, his temper was sensibly im- 
pr' ed. and he even had the hardihood to laugh at


his late misfortune. But Harry did not caie jusl 
then whether his companion was pleasant or sour, 
for he had stretched himself on his bed of leaver, and 
was in a fair way to forget the trials and hardships 
of the voyage in the deep sleep which makes it " all 
night ' with a tired boy. 

