come myself."
"You are!" he said, looking at her--and then his eyes went from her to
the fire, and back again to her face. "Then if you faint away, Miss
Faith, and I jump up to take care of you (which I shall certainly do) I
may faint myself--at which stage of the proceedings Dr. Harrison will
have his hands full."
"I shall not faint--before nor after," she said, shaking her head.
"I should not like to count too much upon your unfeeling disposition,"
said Mr. Linden, in whose face different currents of thought seemed to
meet and mingle. "And then you see, my senses may be guilty of as great
a breach of politeness as the warder in a German story I was reading
yesterday."
"What was that?"
"It fell out," said Mr. Linden, "that a lady of surpassing beauty
arrived at a certain castle; and next day, the lord of the castle
brought before her his warder, bound in chains for a great breach of
politeness; he having failed to give his lord notice of the lady's
approach! The warder thus defended himself: he had indeed seen the
lady, but his dazzled eyes mistook her for another sun! So," added Mr.
Linden smiling, "if my eyes should mistake you for a sunbeam or a maple
leaf, I might forget myself, and not keep my patience so perfectly as I
ought under the hands of such a chirurgeon."
"What is going to try your patience, Mr. Linden?--I?"--said Faith, now
indubitably in a puzzle.
"Do you really want to do this for me?" he said in a different tone,
looking at her with that same grave, kind look which she had seen
before.
"I think I can--and I should like to do it, Mr. Linden, if you are
perfectly willing," Faith answered.
"I am willing, since you wish it,--and now you must get the doctor's
leave--or rather I must get it for you; but in the mean time, Miss
Faith, we may go on with some of our studies, if you are at leisure."
Faith went to get the books, but returned without them and with a
disturbed face.
"Mr. Linden, one of the boys wishes to see you."
"I suppose it never was heard that a boy came at the right time," said
Mr. Linden. "Well Miss Faith--I believe I must see him--will you write
another exercise for me? Here is your pen and paper--I will try not to
be hindered long."
Faith mutely took the pen and paper, and went out with a divided mind,
for the boy whom she let in, Cindy being nowhere visible, was Phil
Davids. Phil had thought better of his determination, and wisely
judging that if Mr. Linden wanted to see him he probably would
accomplish the measure some time, concluded the shortest way was to see
him as smoothly as possible. So in he walked and made his bow, grumly
civil, but civil.
Mr. Linden's opening remark, after he had given the boy his hand (which
even he liked to touch) was at least peculiar.
"Phil--do you know what a smart boy you are?"
And the answer was a strictly true, though blundering, "No, sir."
"I don't know how smart you could be, myself," said Mr. Linden, "but
I know you are very smart now. You always make me think of the man who
found a bag of jewels lying in the road and didn't know what they were."
It occurred to Phil's mind that not to know jewels when they were seen
was a doubtful proof of smartness; so he answered with a somewhat
surly, "How, sir?"
"This man," Mr. Linden went on, "instead of having his jewels set in
gold, to wear or to sell, went round the town flinging them at his
neighbour's windows--or his neighbour's cats,--as you do, Phil, with
your very bright powers of head and tongue. Why don't you make a man of
yourself--and use those powers for something worth while?"
"You never see me doin' it, sir!" said Phil, answering the most
interesting part of Mr. Linden's address.
"Don't I?" said Mr. Linden,--"I see and hear a good many things. But
nobody can get on in the world after such a prickly fashion,--why even
a porcupine smooths himself down before he tries to go ahead. If you
were to be a lawyer Phil, you'd fight your clients instead of helping
them fight,--and if you were a farmer, you'd be like the man who burnt
up three stacks of his hay because the fourth got wet."
Phil reddened, though he couldn't help smiling, and was evidently
getting angry.
"That 'ere farmer was a big fool!" he said.
"Yes, we are agreed upon that point," said Mr. Linden,--"I daresay he
would have said so himself next day. Well Phil--this was not what I
wanted to talk to you about to-day--much as I like to see smart boys
make the most of themselves. I want to know exactly what it was that
you heard Reuben Taylor say about Miss Derrick."
Phil's eyes opened unmistakeably.
"I never heerd him say nothing about her!" he said boldly.
"Then why did you say you did?" said Mr. Linden, with the cool face of
one who knows his ground.
"I didn't!" said Phil. "I'm blessed if I did."
"No you are not--" said Mr. Linden gravely,--"people are never blessed
who do not speak truth. And you have shut both doors by which such a
blessing might have come in this case, Phil."
"Who said I ever said so, sir?" Phil asked confidently.
"You told Dr. Harrison, for one," said Mr. Linden.
"I never spoke a word to Dr. Harrison--" Phil began and checked
himself. "I never said anything but the truth, sir!"
"What truth did you say to him?" said Mr. Linden. "I wish you would do
the same for me. The roughest truth, Phil, is pleasanter to ray ears
than the smoothest falsehood."
"I said nothin' but what was truth, sir," said Phil, perplexedly, as
if he felt caught in a snare. "I didn't think you meant that."
"That is precisely what I meant."
"'Twarn't nothing but the truth, sir."
"Well--" said Mr. Linden,--"I never was afraid of the truth yet, and I
don't mean to begin now. You didn't say I had cut your ears off, did
you Phil?"
"I didn't say nothin' about you, sir, good or indifferent."
"That's something," said Mr. Linden with unmoved gravity. "What else
did you say?"
"It was down to Neanticut, sir," said Phil--"I told Reuben Taylor as
how he'd druv her down, Joe Deacon said he had; and Reuben said Joe had
made a mistake. That's the hull of it, sir."
"Who is her?" said Mr. Linden.
"She--Miss Faith Derrick, sir."
Phil was getting very uncomfortably red in the face.
"Well why did you tell Miss Derrick that Reuben didn't drive her
down?--would not she have been likely to know."
"I didn't, sir."
"I thought not. What did you tell her?"
"She knows what I told her!"--said Phil, looking abstractedly at the
corner of the couch on which Mr. Linden lay.--"I don't know as I can
recollect. But that's what Reuben said, sir."
"Well tell me as near as you can recollect--" said Mr. Linden. "And
also just the words you used to Reuben."
Phil took time to reflect.
"I don't want ter," he said.
"No, I see you don't--but I want to hear them," said Mr. Linden very
quietly. "But tell me the truth this time, Phil."
"Folks has a right to speak," said Phil, stating a broad
proposition,--"but they hain't a right to tell all they say!"
"Well?"--said Mr. Linden, waiving that.
"'Twarn't nothin'!" said Phil--"and it 'll just make folks mad--and I
durstn't--"
"Dare not repeat what you have dared to say? how is that, Phil? But my
forgiveness always meets confession half way, as you know," said Mr.
Linden.
"Well," said Phil, "I jest told Reuben he'd druv her down, and Reuben
said Joe was mistaken. It was Joe said it first,"
"And what did you say before Dr. Harrison?"
"I said what Reuben said,"--said Phil feeling poorly.
"And what was that?"--Mr. Linden was as untireable as a minority juror.
"I said Reuben said she warn't what Joe said," Phil got out at last in
a lowered tone.
"And what was that?"
"Well--" said Phil desperately--"Joe said she was--"
Mr. Linden waited. So did Phil.
"This is the house that Jack built," Mr. Linden remarked. "What did Joe
say she was?"
The answer came in articulation pretty well smothered up.
"Joe said she was Mr. Linden's sweetheart."
"O!--" said Mr. Linden, with a tone Phil felt to the tips of his
ears,--"that was it! I really did not know, Phil, that you and Joe took
an interest in such matters. Have you had much experience?"
Phil shuffled and looked exceedingly embarrassed, but words found none.
He had exhausted his stock, of more than words.
"Well!" said Mr. Linden,--"you will find, Phil, that it is generally
safe to study arithmetic before you begin algebra. There's a little
mistake here. Reuben did not drive anybody down to Neanticut--Mrs.
Derrick drove the whole way. That explains his words. As for yours,
Phil--I wish," said Mr. Linden, looking at him gravely, but gently too,
"I wish I knew something you would like very much to have. Can you tell
me?"
If ever in his life Phil Davids mentally stared, (physically, too) he
did it now. 'Something he would like very much to have'? What could Mr.
Linden want to know that for? In his confusion Phil didn't know
himself. To take in Mr. Linden, all over, was all he was competent to.
"Well?" said his teacher with a smile--it was rather a faint one, for
he was tired, but very pleasant still. "What is there, Phil?--I am in
earnest."
"I'm sorry I said it, anyhow!" burst at last from the boy's reluctant
lips. That seemed to be his ultimatum. He could see that his words gave
pleasure, though they were not directly answered.
"I must send you away now," Mr. Linden said, taking his hand again. "I
am not strong enough to talk any more. But Phil--if you will learn to
speak the truth--so that at the end of six months you can truly say, 'I
hate every false way'--I will give you then what you like,--you shall
choose your own reward. I would give anything I have in the world if I
could make you fear to displease God by telling a falsehood, as much as
you fear to displease me by owning it!"
It was as much as Phil could do, to take his teacher's hand, and that
was done more humbly than certainly any previous action of his life.
Speak he could not; but so far as Mr. Linden's influence and authority
were concerned that boy was conquered. Whatever he became in after
times, and whatever his mates found him still,--and they were not
open-mouthed in praise,--for his teacher that boy was a different boy.
On his way out of the house he chanced to pass Faith, and did so
without a sign of recognition, giving her about as wide a berth as if
she had been a ghost. At the door he met Dr. Harrison coming in; but
the doctor perhaps did not recognize him. Once clear, Phil ran for it.
And at the stair-foot the doctor found Faith.
"Dr. Harrison," she said with grave simpleness, "if you will allow me,
I should like to see you dress Mr. Linden's arm. If you go to Quilipeak
there will be nobody to do it,--and I think I can learn. Mother is
afraid, and it would be very disagreeable to her."
"And not to you?" said the doctor.
"Not so disagreeable. I think I can do it," she answered, meeting his
look steadily.
"You must not!" said he. "You were not made for such things. Could do
it! I don't doubt you could do anything. But if I go, I will send Dr.
Limbre in my place. There is no need for you to do disagreeable work.
Now it's pleasant to me!"
"Dr. Limbre I shouldn't like to have come into the house," said Faith.
"And you know he can't leave his own house now--he is sick. I will go
up with you, if you please."
Dr. Harrison could but follow her, as she tripped up the stairs before
him; but there is no reasonable doubt he would have sent her on some
other errand if he could. Faith tapped at the door, and they entered
the room together.
"How do you do?" said Dr. Harrison rather gravely, approaching the
couch.
Now the fact was, that those two previous interviews had been both long
and exciting; and the consequent prostration was greater than usual; so
though Mr. Linden did take down the hand which covered his eyes, and
did meet the doctor's look with his accustomed pleasantness, his words
were few. Indeed he had rather the air of one whose mind has chosen a
good opportunity to ride rampant over the prostrate flesh and blood,
and who has about given up all attempts to hold the bridle. Whether Dr.
Harrison perceived as much, or whether there might be some other
reason, his words were also few. He addressed himself seriously to work.
"Will you permit me to introduce an apprentice?" he said, in a more
commonplace way than was usual for him, as he was removing Mr. Linden's
wrapper from the arm. Faith had come quietly up to the head of the
couch and was standing there.
"Is not that the doctor's prerogative?"
"Hum--" said the doctor doubtfully; but he did not explain himself
further.
Faith had come close to the head of the couch, but stood a little back,
so that Mr. Linden could not see whether she looked like fainting or
not. There were no signs of that, for the lessening of colour in her
cheeks, which was decided, kept company with a very clear and intent
eye. One little caught breath he might hear, when the wounded arm was
first laid bare; but not another. The doctor heard it too, for he
looked up, but Faith was gravely and quietly busy with what she had
come there to see; giving it precisely the same simplicity of attention
that she brought to her physical geography or her French exercise; and
that was entire. She did not shrink; she rather pressed forward and
bent near, to acquaint herself perfectly with what was done; and once
or twice asked a question as to the reason or the use of something. Dr.
Harrison glanced up at her the first time--it might have been with
incipient impatience--or irony,--but if either, it disappeared. He
answered her questions straightforward and sensibly, giving her, and
with admirable precision, exactly the information she desired, and even
more than absolutely that. For everything else, the work went on in
silence. When the doctor however was standing at the table a moment,
preparing his lint or something else, and Faith had followed him there
and stood watching; he said to her over the table in a sotto voce
aside--but with a sharp glance--
"Was the information true, that we received the other night?--under the
lanterns?"
"What a singular question!" said Mr. Linden from his couch.
"Pourquoi?" said the doctor as simply as if the original words had been
addressed to Mr. Linden himself. "Well, it may be a singular question,
for it was singular information. Was it well-founded, Miss Derrick?"
"No--at a venture," said Mr. Linden, with just the sort of air with
which a sick person puts in his word and assumes superior knowledge.
The doctor looked at one and at the other; Mr. Linden's face told him
nothing, any more than his words; Faith, by this time, was covered with
confusion. That at least it might be visible to only one person, she
moved back to her former place.
"Were you behind us?" said the doctor;--"or were you French enough to
come by invisibly?"
"Is that the last new method?" said Mr. Linden. "You have been in Paris
since I was."
"Never got so far as that though, I am sorry to say," said the doctor
coming back to the couch. "But after all, that was very vague
information--it didn't tell one much--only I have a personal interest
in the subject. But I am glad you spoke--the man that can tell the
dream should be able to give the interpretation. What did it mean,
Linden?"
"Behold a man of an enquiring turn of mind!" said Mr. Linden with the
same half listless half amused air. "He asks for truth, and when that
tarries demands interpretation."
"I don't know what sort of a man I behold!" said the doctor, moving his
eyes with a double expression for an instant from Mr. Linden's arm to
his face.
"I should think you were a German student in pursuit of the 'Idea'!"
said Mr. Linden taking a quiet survey of the doctor's face. "Have you
completed the circle, or is there still hope the Idea may seize you?"
"The idea seized me a good while ago," said the doctor, with a most
comical mock confessional look.
"Well then," said Mr. Linden in a sort of confidential tone, "what is
your opinion upon the great German question--whether it is better to be
One and Somewhat, or to be Nought and All?
"You see,"--said the doctor, standing back and suspending
operations,--"everybody can't be One and Somewhat!"
"Then you choose the comprehensive side--" said Mr. Linden. "That is
without doubt the most difficult,--the One and Somewhat is called
egotistical, but to be Nought and All!--one must be--what do you
suppose?"
"A philanthropist, I should suppose!" the doctor answered, with a
change of expression not agreeable. And returning to his work, for
awhile he behaved unusually like other people; not hurrying his work,
but doing it with a grave steady attention to that and nothing
else--answering Faith, and saying no more. Perhaps however he thought
silence might be carried too far; or else had an unsatisfied mood upon
him; for as he was finishing what he had to do, he looked up again to
Faith and remarked,
"What do you think of this for our quiet town, Miss Derrick? Has Mr.
Linden any enemies in Pattaquasset--that you know?"
It was merciless in the doctor; for through all this time she had been
in a state of confusion--as he knew--that made speech undesirable,
though she had spoken. And she didn't answer him now, except by a
quickly withdrawn glance.
"Who do you suppose loves him well enough," pursued the doctor, "to
send a charge of duck shot into him like that?"
A sudden little cry of pain, driven back before it was well begun, was
heard and but just heard, from Faith. The doctor looked up.
"I was afraid this--Are you faint?" he said gently.
"No sir,--" she answered; and she stood still as before, though the
overspread colour which had held its ground for a good while past, had
given way now and fluttered pain fully. But the doctor's words brought
Mr. Linden, for the first time since his accident--to a perfectly erect
position on the couch--with a total disregard of where his arm went, or
what became of its bandages.
"What are you about!"
"I declare, I don't know!" said Dr. Harrison, standing back. "I
thought I was just disposing of you comfortably for the day--but I am
open to conviction!"
The left hand let go its grasp of the couch--taken so suddenly, and for
which the wounded arm took swift vengeance; and Mr. Linden laid himself
down on the cushions again, the colour leaving his cheeks as fast as it
had come.
"What's the matter, Linden?" said the doctor with rather a kind look of
concern. "You have hurt yourself."
Faith left the room.
"I fear I have disarranged some of your work."
The doctor examined and set to rights.
"I'll see how you do this evening. What ailed you to pitch into me like
that, Linden?"
"I think the 'pitching in' came upon me," he answered pleasantly.
"It seems so, indeed. I hope you won't try this kind of thing again. I
am sure you won't to-day."
And so the doctor went. A quarter of an hour or a little more had gone
by, when the light knock came at Mr. Linden's door that he had
certainly learned to know by this time; and Faith came in, bearing a
cup of cocoa. The troubled look had not entirely left her face, nor the
changeful colour; but she was not thinking of herself.
"I knew you were tired, Mr. Linden--Would you like this--or some
grapes--or wine--better?"
The most prominent idea in Mr. Linden's mind just then, was that he had
already had what he did not like; but that had no place in the look
which answered her, as he raised himself a little (and but a little) to
take the cup from her hand.
"Pet would thank you better than I can now, Miss Faith."
She stood looking down at him, with a little sorrowing touch about the
lines of her mouth.
"Do you know how much better two cups of cocoa are than one?" said Mr.
Linden.
"I don't know how you can have two at once, Mr. Linden."
"Then I will bestow one upon you--and wait while you get it."
"I am well--" she said, looking amused through her gravity, and shaking
her head. "And besides, I couldn't take it, Mr. Linden." And to put an
end to that subject, Faith had recourse to the never failing wood fire;
and from thence went round the room finishing what she had failed to do
in the morning; coming back at the point of time to take Mr. Linden's
cup. He looked at her a little as he gave it back.
"You are too tired to go over all those lessons to-day--which do you
like best? will you bring it?"
"I am not tired at all," she said with some flitting colour,--"but
you are, Mr. Linden. Won't you rest--sleep--till after dinner--and
then, if you like, let me come?"
"I will let you come then--and stay now," he said smiling.
"Let me stay and be silent then--or do something that will not tire
you. Please, Mr. Linden!"
"Your line of action lies all within that last bound," he said gently.
"But you may read French if you will--or write it and let me look over
you,--or another geographical chapter. Neither need make me talk much."
The hint about looking over her writing startled Faith amazingly, but
perhaps for that very reason she took it as the delicate expression of
a wish. That would be a trial, but then too it would call for the least
exertion on the part of her teacher. Faith was brave, if she was
fearful, and too really humble to have false shame; and after an
instant's doubt and hesitation, she said, though she felt it to her
fingers' ends,
"My exercise is all ready--it only wants to be copied--but how could
you look over me, Mr. Linden?"
"Could you do such an inconvenient thing as to use that small atlas for
a table? and bring it here by me--I am not quite fit to sit up just
now."
Faith said no more words, but went for her exercise and sat down to
write it, as desired, under an observing and she knew a critical eye.
It was well her business engrossed her very completely; for she was in
an extremely puzzled and disturbed state of mind. Dr. Harrison's words
about the occasion of Mr. Linden's accident, carelessly run on, had at
last unwittingly given her the clue her own innocent spirit might have
waited long for; and grief and pain would have almost overcome her, but
for a conflicting feeling of another kind raised by the preceding
colloquy between the two gentlemen. Faith was in a state of profound
uncertainty, whether Mr. Linden's words had meant anything or nothing.
They were spoken so that they might have meant nothing--but then Phil
Davids had just been with him--what for?--and whatever Mr. Linden's
words might have meant, Faith's knowledge of him made her instinctively
know, through all the talk, that they had been spoken for the sake of
warding off something disagreeable from her--not for himself. She
tried as far as she could to dismiss the question from her
thoughts--she could not decide it--and to go on her modest way just as
if it had not been raised; and she did; but for all that her face was a
study as she sat there writing. For amid all her abstraction in her
work, the thought of the possibility that Mr. Linden might have known
what he was talking about, would send a tingling flush up into her
cheeks; and sometimes again the thoughts of pain that had been at work
would bring upon her lip almost one of those sorrowful curves which are
so lovely and so pure on the lip of a little child--and rarely seen
except there. All this was only by the way; it did not hinder the most
careful attention to what she was about, nor the steadiest working of
her quite unsteady fingers, which she knew were very likely to move
not according to rule.
