and so on. Do you understand me ? " 
 
'' I think I do ; but when are the dog-watches ? " 
" From four to six, and from six to eight in the 
evening. They always strike the bells by twos, 
as you heard just now. But, John, it rains like 
fury." 
'' So it does, but it is a dry place in this cabin." 
" I wish we had a lantern, for it is as dark as a 
pocket in here. It would make it so much pleasanter.
But you must turn in now, or you will not 
be able to stand your watch." 
" I think I will." 
John took off his boots, and placed himself 
under the blanket and comforter of his berth, for 
there were no sheets. He gaped several times, 
and tried to continue the conversation with Paul ; 
but the poor fellow, worn out with the fatigue and 
excitement of the day, was soon fast asleep. Paul 
listened to the sound of his heavy breathing, be- 
tween the splashes of the waves as they broke upon 
the bow of the boat, till he began to feel slee])y 
himself, and then, wrapping the great-coat, which 
he always carried with him, closely around his 
 
body, he went' upon deck to see if there was any 
change in the weather or the position of the 
boat. 
It was clear to him that the wind had been 
hauling round to the eastward, for the Fawn tum- 
bled about as she had done out upon the open 
waters of the bay. As he lay down upon the 
deck to examine the cable, so as to assure him- 
self that it was not chafing the boat, a huge wave 
broke over the bowsprit, and he would have been 
drenched to the skin, if his coat had not been 
water-proof. 
The rain continued to pour down, and Paul re- 
tired to the cuddy again. It was a weary, lonely 
watch, and he was so tired he could hardly keep 
his eyes open. But it seemed to him that the 
violence of the gale was subsiding, and he again 
went upon deck to satisfy himself on this point. 
There was still a heavy sea, but he was satisfied 
that the wind had very sensibly abated. Six bells 
sounded from the ship as he returned to the 
cuddy. 
few moments, he let go the anchor off the beach, 
and lowered the foresail. After making every 
thing secure on board, he hauled the old boat, 
which he had moored there in the morning, along- 
side. John was still asleep ; neither the paying 
out of the cable, nor the noise of Paul's feet, as 
he furled the foresail, had roused him from his 
deep slumbers, and the skipper decided to let him 
finish his night's rest on board. 
Sculling the old boat ashore, he ran up the hill, 
and knocked at the side door of the cottage. 
"Who's there?" asked his mother. 
" Paul." 
The door was opened, and the fond mother 
clasped her son to her heart, while the great tears 
coursed down her furrowed cheeks. 
" I am so glad you have got back ! " exclaimeji 
she ; " I was sure you were drowned. Where is 
John ? He isn't with you, Paul ! O, he is " 
"Fast asleep on board the Fawn, mother." 
" Then he is safe." 
"Yes; safe — yes." 
"You have had a terrible time of it — haven't 
you?" 
" Not very bad, mother ; the wind and tide 
were against us, and we couldn't get up without 
carrying more sail than I thought it was safe to 
carry; so I fan under the lee of an island, and 
anchored." 
" But what did you start back in the night for ? " 
" The wind hauled round to the north-east, and 
blew so that we dragged our anchor, and had to 
make sail to keep off the rocks." 
"And John is safe, you say?" 
 " Perfectly safe. But why are you not in bed, 
mother ? " 
'' I couldn't sleep in such a tempest as this, when 
I knew my boys were on the water." 
" Well, go to bed now, then, for I must go on 
board again and clean my fish." 
" You shall do nothing of the kind ! I will 
warrant you haven't had a wink of sleep all night 
long." 
" Yes ; I slept two or three hours." 
 
" Go right up stairs, and go to bed, then. You 
will kill yourself, working all night, and losing 
your sleep." 
" But John is asleep in the cabin of the Fawn. 
Shall I leave him there ? Suppose the boat should 
go adrift ? " 
" Well, then, go down to the boat, and go to 
bed there. You needn't clean your fish yet." 
Paul decided to adopt this suggestion, and in a 
few moments he was snoring with his brother in 
the little cabin of the boat. 
It was six o'clock when the first officer of the 
Fawn began to show signs of life, and it was fully 
quarter past six before he realized, in the fullest 
sense, that he was still in the land of the living. 
An unpleasant dream -that the gallant craft had been 
dashed in pieces on Rock Island reef, and that 
he, the before mentioned first officer of the schooner 
Fawn, had been thrown upon the rocks, where an 
enormous green lobster, about the size of a full- 
grown elephant, had seized him in one of his huge 
claws, and borne him down among the rock weed 
 
and devil's aprons for his breakfast, happily proved 
to be a mere fantasy of his slumbering faculties. 
John sat upon his berth and congratulated him- 
self upon his escape from the claw of the lobster. 
Then the occurrences of the night, the run off the 
lee shore, and the white capped billows that had 
growled so in the gloom, began to come to his 
recollection, and he realized that they had had a 
tough time of it. But it was all right now, for 
though the rain pattered upon the deck above him, 
the boat did not pitch much. And there was Paul 
fast asleep in the other berth ; of course it was 
all right, or he would not be there. 
'' But where are we ? " thought John. " That's 
the next question. The last thing I remember was, 
that we were driving like mad- over the rough sea. 
Then Paul told me to turn in ; and I did, but I 
could hardly keep in my berth, the boat rolled and 
pitched so. Of course Paul couldn't get up while 
the wind blew so, and he must have anchored 
under some island. I wonder where we are." 
At last John came to the conclusion that he 
 
could find out by simply walking out of the cuddy 
into the standing room. Acting upon this brilliant 
idea, he soon ascertained that the Fawn was at 
anchor near the beach of Bayville. He was some- 
what astonished at the fact, and then paid a very 
high, though inaudible, compliment to the sleep- 
ing accommodations of the Fawn, whereof he was 
first mate. 
He then returned to the cuddy, — he and Paul 
invariably dignified the little place as the cabin, 
— and found that Paul still slumbered. He was 
considerate enough not to wake him, for he knew 
that he had had a hard time of it ; but it oc- 
curred to him that their mother might be desirous 
of knowing whether they were still in the land 
of the living or not, and he decided to go up to 
the house and reveal that important fact. It was 
very affectionate of him to think of his mother, 
after he had been snoring like a trooper all night ; 
but John, in spite of his waywardness, was a kind- 
hearted boy, and he came to the unanimous con- 
clusion — he and John — that it was not right to 
 
let his mother worry any longer about them. 
She would be astonished to see him alone, and 
would immediately make up her mind that Paul 
was drowned ; and he should have the pleasure 
of informing her that his brother still lived, and 
was fast asleep in the cabin of the Fawn, whereof 
he was captain, and he, the speaker, was first mate. 
John, on his arrival at the house, walked into 
the kitchen where Mrs. 'Duncan was getting break- 
fast ; walked in as he who does the ghost in 
Hamlet walks in — with the confident assurance 
that he is about to create a sensation. 
" Well, John, you have got back. Did you 
sleep well, my son?" 
" First rate," growled John. " Why the deuce 
isn't she astonished?" thought he. "She ought 
to be astonished to see me come home after being 
4t- on the briny deep all night." 
" You had a hard time of it — didn't you John ? " 
" Well, rather hard ; I slept like a log all night 
— except about half an hour. You didn't expect 
to see us back — did you ? " 
" I was a good deal worried till Paul came up 
and told me you were safe, and that you were asleep 
in the cabin." 
" 0, ho ! so Paul has been home — has he ? That 
accounts for it. Paul is asleep in the cabin now." 
" Let him sleep — he needs rest," replied Mrs. 
Duncan; and it was after nine o'clock when the 
family breakfasted that morning. 
 
CHAPTER XIV. 
PAUL SCOLDS THE FIEST OFFICER OF THE FAWN. 
After breakfast the young fisliermen cleaned 
their perch and cod, and before dinner had dis- 
posed of the lot. From the proceeds of the sale, 
Paul purchased a small lantern, which was sus- 
pended in the cabin of the Fawn, for the darkness 
of that gloomy night was not soon to be forgotten. 
The next day was clear and pleasant, and the 
bo'at went down as usual, and for more than a fort- 
night, no event worthy of a place in the history 
of Paul's fortunes occurred. The new boat worked 
admirably in every respect, and the boys were as 
proud of her as England has ever been of the Great 
Eastern. During these two weeks Paul had taken 
down three fishing parties, and had given them so 
good satisfaction, that his services in this line 
promised to be in demand. As he received four 
 
dollars a day for her, including the wages of himself 
and the first officer, he always welcomed such jobs, 
and John liked the fun of it even better than fishing, 
especially when there were any ladies in the party, 
for it was very amusing to him to see them in the 
agonies of sea sickness. He took a malicious de- 
light in stowing them away in the berths in the 
cabin ; yet in spite of the fun he made of them, 
John would do all he could to assist them. 
Just before the arrival of the Fawn in the waters 
of Bayville harbor, Paul had been unanimously 
elected a member of the Tenean Boat Club. He 
was very grateful for the honor conferred upon him, 
but his business was such that he could not often 
pull an oar in the boat. The members of the 
club all treated him with a great deal of consider- 
ation, though they were all the sons of rich men; 
and Paul felt that, if he was not their equal in 
vvorldly possessions, he could hold his head up 
with the best of them in the management of a 
boat. 
One day, when the young fisherman called at 
the house of Major Nettle to sell fish, he met 
Thomas in the garden, who unfolded to him a 
magnificent project in which the Teneans — as the 
members of the Boat Club were generally called — 
were about to engage. 
" We think of going on a cruise in the Flya- 
way," said Thomas. 
« Where ? " 
" I don't know- where yet ; but we mean to be 
gone a week or ten days." 
" Who is going with you ? " 
" Captain Littleton, I suppose, though I had 
just as lief he would stay at home." 
" Of course he wouldn't let a lot of boys go oif 
for a week in the yacht, without some one to take 
care of them," said Paul, with a smile. 
" We can take care of ourselves ; we don't want 
any one to take care of us." 
" How many of you are going r " 
" Ten or twelve ; we want you with us." 
" But I can't go." 
'' Yes you can ; why not ? " 
•' I have to attend to my business." 
" You can afford to take a vacation of a week 
or two, I should think." 
Paul shook his head. He was delighted with 
the idea, and would have been very glad to go, 
but he could not think of neglecting his business 
to go away upon a pleasure excursion. 
" You must go, Paul ; the fellows all want you 
to go, and we shall have a first-rate time.". 
'' I have no doubt you will ; and I should be 
very glad to go with you if I could ; but it is of 
no use for me to think of such a thing." 
"It is not fully decided that we are to go yet ; 
but Captain Littleton and my father have con- 
sented to let us have the Flyaway. We shall 
know all about it next week." 
Paul continued his walk, but the project of the 
excursion in the Flyaway haunted his imagination, 
and it required a great deal of self-denial for him 
to forego the anticipated pleasure. He felt that 
the summer season was the harvest time of his 
business, and he could not afford to waste a week 
 
or two in idle play. '' Little by Little," was his 
motto, and lie was not willing that any of those 
'' littles " should slip through his fingers. 
When they "went down in the Fawm the next 
day, he told John about the excursion, and that 
he had been invited to form one of the party. 
" But I can't afford to go," he added. 
" Why not ? It won't cost you any thing." 
'' I shall lose my time, for the Fawn will lie 
idle at her moorings while I' am gone." 
" No, she won't. I will go a fishing in her every 
day." 
" I think not, John." 
" Do you think I can't manage her ? " demanded 
the first officer, indignant that such an aspersion 
should be cast upon his nautical skill. 
" She's too heavy a boat for you to manage 
alone." 
" I will get a couple of fellows to help me ; 
they will be glad enough of the chance." 
" I dare say they will ; but you are not quite 
old enough yet to run the boat yourself," 
 
" What odds does it make how old I am, if I 
only know how to handle her ? Could you work 
her any better if you were a hundred years old ? " 
"But you are reckless, careless, John; you 
know you are." 
'' I don't think I am ; but I will promise to be 
very careful. You may take the foresail off, if 
you please, before you go ; then you will be sure 
I shall not carry too much sail." 
" I don't intend to go ; so it is of no use to 
talk about it." 
'' You are a fool if you don't ; that's all I have 
to say." 
" You have a right to your own opinion, John." 
" I wish I had a chance to go. I would give all 
my old shoes, if I could only be one of the party. 
What a glorious time they will have ! " 
Paul was of precisely the same opinion, but the 
idea of letting John run the Fawn during his absences 
not for a moment to be tolerated. He 
would certainly run her on the rocks, or carry sail 
till the wind took the masts out of her. 
 
As it was a very pleasant day, Paul decided to 
run down below, and try his luck among the cod 
and haddock ; and they went farther out than they 
had ever been before, A fine lot of fish, including 
a mammoth cod, that had required the strength of 
both of them to pull out of the water, rewarded 
their enterprise. 
The wind was very light, and instead of getting 
home before the tide turned, as Paul had calcu- 
lated, they were two miles below Rock Island, when 
the ebb tide set in against them. To add to this 
misfortune, the wind entirely died out, and they 
were forced to come to anchor, to prevent drifting 
down with the tide. With a good wind they 
were only two hours' sail from home ; but, as it 
was, there was a prospect of spending another 
night in the cabin of the Fawn — not a very un- 
pleasant alternative, John thought, especially as 
they had a lantern, and plenty of provisions on 
board. 
The cod and haddock had all been dressed, and 
there was nothing for the boys to do ; so Paul 
 
went into the cabin and stretched himself on his 
berth. He had placed two or three books on 
board for such an emergency as the present, and 
he was soon absorbed in the contents of one of 
them. He did not read longv for a hard day's 
work is not a good preparation for literary labors. 
The book fell from his hand, and to the music of 
the flapping sails he dropped asleep. 
It is a noticeable fact that fishermen can sleep 
twenty- four hours on a stretch. Many years ago, 
we went down a-fishing in one of the pinkey-stern 
schooners, which wpre much more common then 
in the waters of Massachusetts Bay than at the 
present time. The crew consisted of the skipper 
and three men, the former of whom was an old, 
weather-beaten fisherman, who had roughed it on 
the coast from his boyhood. We went down one 
night, intending to fish the next day, and return 
by sunset ; but unfortunately a heavy rain kept us 
at our anchorage off Spectacle Island for twenty-four 
hours. The old skipper got out of his berth and 
ate his breakfast about ten, and after going half way 
 
up the companion ladder, to smell the weather, 
turned in again, and slept till four, when he was 
called to partake of a greasy chowder. As soon 
as he had disposed of a reasonable allowance for 
four hearty men, be tumbled into his berth once 
more, and was not visible again till the next' morn- 
ing. The rest of the crew slept about two thirds 
of the time. They were the sleepiest men we ever 
encountered during their leisure; but even the old 
skipper su4denly joined the "wide-awakes" when 
we reached the fishing grounds. 
Paul had already contracted this fisherman's 
habit, and while the Fawn lay at anchor, he slept 
like a rock. After amusing himself for an hour 
on deck, John went below to take an observation, 
and to announce the prospect of "a breeze from 
the southward," for he had discovered a gentle 
ripple on the water at a distance. ' But when he 
saw that Paul was having his watch below," he 
quickly returned to the standing room, closing the 
cabin doors behind him. 
" There is a capfull of wind," said he to him- 
 
self, " and I will just show the skipper of the Fawn 
that I can handle her as well as he can." 
He waited till the breeze reached her, and then, 
with as little noise as possible, he weighed the 
anchor, and took his place at the helm. 
'' All right. Captain Duncan ; you can finish 
your snooze at your leisure," muttered he, con- 
