The Sunday-school children at the village were going to have a strawberry feast 
over on Church Hill: there was nice 
green grass there, and great trees to give 
shade. And the children were to meet 
just where the brook runs out of the Hollow, and then walk together to the Hill. 
So, when it drew near four o’clock, Debby 
set out to walk to the place of meeting, 
red shoes and all. I really think that 
black ones would have looked better, for 
such a walk ; but Debby wished very 
much to wear the red; and her mother 
consented. They made quite a show in 
the green grass as she went along, Debby 
thought; and she was so busy watching 
for them, as one after the other stepped 
forward, that she actually forgot all about 
the strawberry feast till she came in sight 
of the rest of the children. There was 
Sarah Dasher, and the Singletons, and Tom 
Lane, and many others, — some of the poor 
village children, too, and all the teachers. 
When all had arrived, the teachers began to arrange them two-and-two, that 
they might walk in nice order. First 
went Ellen Singleton and Sarah Dasher, 
and then the two next oldest ; and so on. 
Now, Debby hoped very much that she 
might have one of her particular friends 
to walk with; but, instead of that, Mrs. 
Singleton brought up one of the village 
children for her companion. 
“This is Jane King, Debby,” she said. 
“I want you to walk. with her.” 
So Debby and Jane King walked off 
after the other children, and Debby held 
her head down and peeped at Jane round 
the* edge of her sunbonnet. She wife a 
nice-looking child, with good, plump 
cheeks and brown hair, and quiet, pleasant 
little face. But she was a poor child : that 
was plain. Her dress was clean, but very 
old and faded and patched up, and she had 
no shoes at all ! To be sure, her bare feet 
were as clean as if they had just come out 
of the brook. Debby looked at them. 
They went sturdily plodding on through 
the grass, with Debby’ s red shoes twinkling about alongside of them. 
“How queer it is!” thought Debby. 
“What could make her come to a festival 
with no shoes?” Then, as they walked 
on, suddenly Debby began to think of 
something else: — 
“Who are they whose little feet, 
Pacing life’s dark journey through, 
Now have reach’d that heavenly seat 
They had ever kept in view ?” 
“ Red shoes or no shoes, it doesn’t make 
much difference,” Debby repeated to herself, thinking of her mother’s words. And 
yet it seemed to make a good deal, too. 
“ I wonder which way she’s walking?” 
thought Debby again. “I guess I’ll ask 
her. Jane, do you know how to walk 
well?” 
“I don’t know — I think I don’t know — 
what you mean,” Jane answered, colouring. 
For she had been watching Debby ’s red 
shoes, too, and thought that may -be Debby 
was laughing at her bare feet. 
“Well, which way are you going, then?” 
said Debby. 
“I’m going up to the festival,” said 
Jane, quietly. “ Mrs. Singleton told me to 
come.” 
“Is that all?” said Debby. 
“ Yes,” said Jane, “that’s all. I knew 
I might come if she told me to. I guess 
they've all got shoes but me ; — but I 
couldn’t help that. We’re too poor to wear 
shoes in summer.” 
“Oh, but, ’ ’ said Debby, ‘ ‘ my mother says 
it don’t make much difference.” 
“I think it does make some,” said Jane, 
looking down again at the little red shoes. 
“I think it makes a good deal.” 
“No, it don’t,” said Debby, “if you 
only walk well.” 
Jane looked at her own bare feet this 
time, plodding on as before, and wondered 
what in the world Debby meant. 
“ I can get along fast enough,” she said, 
“but it a’n’t so pretty to look at.” 
“Oh, but I don’t mean that, at all,” 
said Debby. “Why, didn’t you ever hear 
about the little travellers?” 
Jane looked up, and a smile came over 
her face. 
“‘Little Travellers Zionward?  ” she 
said. “Oh, yes, to be sure. I know all 
about that. I mean, I know something.” 
“But what makes you stop and take 
back your words so?” said Debby. “A 
little while ago you said, ‘ I don’t know — 
I think I don’t know;’ and now, again.’' 
“I spoke too fast,” said Jane. “I spoke 
as if I was sure ; and I wasn’t. And just 
now I said I knew all about the little 
travellers; but, oh, I know so little! I 
spoke too fast to speak quite true.” 
Then thought Debby to herself, “ I 
guess that’s what mother meant by walking in the truth. ” “Well, what do you know 
about ’em, Jane?” she said aloud. “ Because I know a good deal, and I can tell 
you.” 
“Do you?” said Jane, putting her hand 
in Debby’s. “Then I wish you would tell 
me. You know, Debby, the Bible says 
we ought to walk even as Jesus walked; 
and sometimes it seems to me as if I walked 
just the other way. Do you ever feel so ? 
Now, if I loved Jesus as he loves me, I 
think my heart would run to him all the 
time.” 
Debby was puzzled in her turn. Here 
was something about little travellers which 
went quite beyond her knowledge. 
“Do you love Jesus?” she said, looking 
out from under her sunbonnet. 
“Oh, yes!” Jane answered: “we all do 
at home. We should be dreadfully poor 
if it wasn’t for that.” 
“Would you?” said Debby, wondering. 
“Oh, yes,” said Jane: “we’ve got no- 
thing else in the whole world.” 
“And you think he loves you?” said 
Debby. 
“Why, I’m sure he does,” said Jane. 
“He wouldn’t have done so much for me 
if he didn’t. That’s what mother said yesterday, when Tim Ryan said he didn’t 
believe any such thing. Mother said, 
‘ Just read the Bible, and you’ll see it, 
Tim .’ v 
“I guess you’re a real little traveller, 
Jane,” said Debby. But why Debby 
sighed as she said it, she herself did not 
know. 
And now they had mounted the hill, 
and there, under the trees, was a long, 
white tent, and under the tent the feast 
was spread. How beautiful the tables 
looked ! — covered first with white cloths, 
and then with ever so many nice things. 
Of course, as it was a strawberry feast, 
there were more strawberries than any 
thing else, — some in dishes, and some in 
little baskets, and some in saucers, all 
ready to be eaten. Then there were dishes 
of cherries, and plates of cake, and flowers 
everywhere in great abundance. There 
was ice-cream, too, in a great pail over in 
one corner. So that Debby said it was 
almost as good as a fair. The teachers 
stood near the tables, and took care that 
all the children were well helped; and 
it was pretty to see the little things sitting 
about on the grass, eating their strawberries. Then they all sat together 
under the trees and sang; and after that, 
when the sun was nearly down, they 
went home. 
You would have been amused to see 
what a fancy Debby and Jane King took 
to each other. 
The first thing Debby said when she 
got home was, — 
“Oh, mother, I had a splendid time! 
And who do yon guess I walked with, up 
to Church Hill?” 
“How can I possibly guess?” said her 
mother, smiling. “Was it Tom Lane?” 
“Oh, no,” said Debby, “it wasn’t Tom; 
but it was somebody almost as good. It 
was areal little traveller, mother.” 
When Jane King got home, the first 
thing was to put her flowers in water; for 
Mrs. Singleton had given her a great bunch 
of roses and white lilies; and then Jane 
stood looking at them with much satisfaction. And no wonder; for they were the 
only pretty things in the room. Such a 
poor little room ! though it was very clean ; 
but with no carpet and no curtains, and 
only an old table and a 'stove and a few 
chairs. 
“Did you have a nice time, child?” I said 
her mother. 
“Oh, a very nice time,” said Jane; 
“and here’s some cake for you, mother 
And I walked with such a nice little girl in 
red shoes. They looked so pretty, mother, 
you can’t think!” 
Her mother looked down at Jane’s little 
bare feet, and said nothing. 
CHAPTER IV. 
It was the next day after the strawberry 
feast, and Debby Delaine and her mother 
sat at work in the front porch. Debby 
thought she was at work; but indeed it 
was only an apron for her doll; and, as 
the doll was very patient and willing to 
wait, there was really no hurry about it. 
So Debby sewed a little, and then she 
laid down the apron and played with the 
eat. And presently puss began to bite 
Debby ’s shoes. Debby watched her. The 
black shoes were on to-day, or, you may 
be sure, Debby would have stopped the 
cat’s sport quick enough. 
“Mother,” she said, suddenly, “I wish 
you would tell me more about the little 
travellers. The next verse says, ‘ who are 
they?'” 
“ Take notice, first,” said her mother, 
“that they who reach that heavenly seat 
have been journeying on towards it peeping 
it in view all the time. They have not been 
turning their backs on the Celestial City, 
so that it should be a surprise and a new 
idea to find themselves there.” 
“What does ‘facing’ mean?” said 
Debby?” 
“In this place it means going along, 
step by step. That is the way people follow Jesus towards heaven, Debby, — step 
by step. And sometimes the steps are 
very little ones; but they are all after 
him.” 
“The hymn says, ‘their little feet,’ ” 
said Debby, looking down at her own 
small, black shoes, on which pussy had laid 
her white paws. 
“ Yes ; their little feet,” said her mother. 
“Oh, how many little feet are even now 
treading those heavenly courts ! And how 
many more are on the way ! And you 
see, Debby, they come from all parts of 
the world : — 
‘I from Greenland’s frozen land 
' I from India’s sultry plain 
'I from Afric’s barren sand ;’ 
‘ I from islands of the main.’ ” 
“ All these far-away places,” said Debby. 
“Yes,” said her mother, “very far 
away from us, and from each other, but 
not from heaven. Heaven is near every 
part of the world to those who follow 
Jesus. And then, when their earthly 
journey is all past, the little travellers 
will all meet together at those heavenly 
gates.” 
“And the gates will let ’em come in,” 
said Debby. “ The hymn says so.” 
 
“Oh, yes,” said her mother, “and the 
Bible says so too: — ‘Open ye the gates, 
that the righteous nation which keepeth 
the truth may enter in.’ And who will 
welcome them, Debby?” 
“The Lord Jesus, first,” said Debby. 
‘There, to welcome, Jesus waits, — 
Gives the crowns his followers win.’ ” 
“Then they will be welcomed and 
crowned by Jesus!” said Mrs. Delaine. 
“Will not that be a reward for a weary 
little traveller?” 
“Will they be weary ?” said Debby. 
“ Some of them will be weary,” her 
mother answered. “ Look at Jane King, 
Debby: don’t you think she sometimes 
gets weary of going barefoot, and of having little to eat, and not much fire in 
the cold weather, and having to work 
hard?” 
“I don’t know,” said Debby. “She 
didn’t look so.” 
“Then, if all that does not trouble her,” 
said Mrs. Delaine, “I can tell you what 
she does get weary of sometimes. Of 
not loving Jesus enough, — of being but 
a poor, unfaithful little traveller, after 
all.” 
“Oh, I guess that’s true,” said Debby. 
‘ ‘ She said something like that. 
“And what does the last verse mean, 
when it says, — 
‘Each the welcome ‘Come’ awaits’? 
What does the Bible tell about that?” 
“ I don’t know, mother,” said Debby. 
“If you turn to the twenty-fifth chapter 
of Matthew,” said her mother, “you will 
find that it tells about a day when the Son 
of Man (that means the Lord Jesus, you 
know, Debby) shall come in his glory. 
When he came to this world before, it 
was in poverty and humiliation; but the 
next time it shall be ‘in his glory, and 
all the holy angels with him. Then 
shall he sit upon the throne of his glory ; 
and before him shall be gathered all 
nations.’ ” 
“That means people from all the different countries,” said Debby. “I had that 
in my geography lesson.” 
“Yes,” said her mother; “it means all 
the people from all the countries: — from 
Greenland, and India, and Africa, and all 
the rest. They shall be all gathered before 
him, ‘and he shall separate them one from 
another, as a shepherd divideth the sheep 
from the goats.’ 
“Now, when men divide the nations, 
Debby, they do it partly by the colour 
of their faces: — the red skins by themselves, and the white, and the black, and 
the copper-coloured. But how will the 
Lord Jesus divide them?” 
“ I don't know,” said Debby. 
“ Think, ’ ’ said her mother. * ‘ What was 
that verse you learned last Sunday?” 
“Oh, I know,” said Debby: — “‘The 
Lord seeth not as man seeth ; for man looketh on the outward appearance; but the 
Lord looketh on the heart.’ Then he’ll 
divide ’em by their hearts : won’t he?” 
“Yes,” said her mother; “for, ‘as a man 
thinketh in his heart, so is he.’ And the 
Lord will know what lives have been spent 
in loving service to him, and what have 
not. 
“And then shall he, the King of kings 
and Lord of lords, say unto them on 
his right hand, ‘Come, ye blessed of my 
Father, inherit the kingdom prepared for 
you from the foundation of the world.’ 
To those on his left hand he shall say, 
 
‘Depart, ye cursed, into everlasting fire, 
prepared for the devil and his angels.’ 
Think how those will feel to whom the 
Lord Jesus in that day shall say, ‘Depart.’ ” 
Debby did not answer, except by a little 
sob that came up in her throat and choked 
back the words. 
“ Do you think Debby Delaine will be 
among the little travellers to whom the 
King shall say ‘ Come?’ ” asked her mother, 
softly. 
“I don’t know,” said Debby, struggling 
with her tears. “I think Jane will, — and 
Tom Lane.” 
“What makes you think so?” said her 
mother. 
“ They’re so good,” said Debby. 
“ What else does the hymn say of the 
little travellers?’ ’ said Mrs. Delaine. “Over 
what are they conquerors?” 
T
“ Over death and sin,” said Debby. 
“Then they were not good to begin 
with?” 
“ No,” said Debby : “I s’pose not.” 
“No,” her mother repeated: “they were 
not good to begin with. Sin struggled in 
their hearts and tried to keep them from 
following Jesus. Then how did they conquer sin ?” 
“ I don’t know, mother,” said Debby. 
Then Mrs. Delaine took the Bible and 
showed Debby these words : — 
“ ‘Who shall separate us from the love 
of Christ? Shall tribulation, or distress, or 
persecution, or famine, or nakedness, or 
peril, or sword? 
“‘Nay, in all these things we are more 
than conquerors through him that loved as. 
“ That is the way, Debby,” her mother 
went on: “ it is only through Jesus, — 
through the power of his blood to wash 
away their sin, — through the power of his 
grace to keep them day by day. The best 
person in the whole world has need to 
pray all his life, ' Hold up my goings in 
thy paths, that my footsteps slip not.’ ” 
“ Then walking well is just following 
Jesus,” said Debby. 
“ Just that,” said her mother. 
Debby sat still, and thought again. 
“Mother,” she said, “don’t you think 
my red shoes might learn to run about and 
do some good to people ?’ ’ 
“I have no doubt of it,” said her 
mother. 
“I don’t think it as easy to follow Jesus 
in ’em as it is in my black ones, though,” 
said Debby; “because I get to thinking 
about ’em, and I forget all about where 
I’m going. But I mean to try.” 
And after that, whenever Debby wore 
the red shoes, she used to repeat to herself, — 
“Red shoes or no shoes, — it doesn’t 
make much difference. Following Jesus 
