reflections of the fast coming stars glittering like so many jewels
on its breast. The glow of evening had almost faded, but there was a
wan, tremulous light from the moon, and a clearness produced by the
reflection of such an expanse of water, which still rendered objects in
his cell quite discernible.

In the terrible denunciations and warnings just uttered, he had been
preaching to himself, striving to bring a force on his own soul by
which he might reduce its interior rebellion to submission; but, alas!
when was ever love cast out by fear? He knew not as yet the only remedy
for such sorrow,--that there is a love celestial and divine, of which
earthly love in its purest form is only the sacramental symbol and
emblem, and that this divine love can by God's power so outflood human
affections as to bear the soul above all earthly idols to its only
immortal rest. This great truth rises like a rock amid stormy seas,
and many is the sailor struggling in salt and bitter waters who cannot
yet believe it is to be found. A few saints like Saint Augustine had
reached it,--but through what buffetings, what anguish!

At this moment, however, there was in the heart of the father one of
those collapses which follow the crisis of some mortal struggle. He
leaned on the window-sill, exhausted and helpless.

Suddenly, a kind of illusion of the senses came over him, such as is
not infrequent to sensitive natures in severe crises of mental anguish.
He thought he heard Agnes singing, as he had sometimes heard her when
he had called in his pastoral ministrations at the little garden and
paused awhile outside that he might hear her finish a favorite hymn,
which, like a shy bird, she sung all the more sweetly for thinking
herself alone.

Quite as if they were sung in his ear, and in her very tones, he heard
the words of Saint Bernard, which we have already introduced to our
reader:--

        "Jesu dulcis memoria,
        Dans vera cordi gaudia:
        Sed super mel et omnia
        Ejus dulcis præsentia.

        "Jesu, spes pœnitentibus,
        Quam pius es petentibus,
        Quam bonus te quærentibus,
        Sed quis invenientibus!"

Soft and sweet and solemn was the illusion, as if some spirit breathed
them with a breath of tenderness over his soul; and he threw himself
with a burst of tears before the crucifix.

"O Jesus, where, then, art Thou? Why must I thus suffer? She is not the
one altogether lovely; it is Thou,--Thou, her Creator and mine. Why,
why cannot I find Thee? Oh, take from my heart all other love but Thine
alone!"

Yet even this very prayer, this very hymn, were blent with the
remembrance of Agnes; for was it not she who first had taught him the
lesson of heavenly love? Was not she the first one who had taught him
to look upward to Jesus other than as an avenging judge? Michel Angelo
has embodied in a fearful painting, which now deforms the Sistine
Chapel, that image of stormy vengeance which a religion debased by
force and fear had substituted for the tender, good shepherd of
earlier Christianity. It was only in the heart of a lowly maiden that
Christ had been made manifest to the eye of the monk, as of old he was
revealed to the world through a virgin. And how could he, then, forget
her, or cease to love her, when every prayer and hymn, every sacred
round of the ladder by which he must climb, was so full of memorials
of her? While crying and panting for the supreme, the divine, the
invisible love, he found his heart still craving the visible one,--the
one so well known, revealing itself to the senses, and bringing with it
the certainty of visible companionship.

As he was thus kneeling and wrestling with himself, a sudden knock
at his door startled him. He had made it a point, never, at any hour
of the day or night, to deny himself to a brother who sought him for
counsel, however disagreeable the person and however unreasonable the
visit. He therefore rose and unbolted the door, and saw Father Johannes
standing with folded arms and downcast head, in an attitude of composed
humility.

"What would you with me, brother?" he asked, calmly.

"My father, I have a wrestling of mind for one of our brethren whose
case I would present to you."

"Come in, my brother," said the Superior. At the same time he lighted
a little iron lamp, of antique form, such as are still in common use
in that region, and seating himself on the board which served for his
couch, made a motion to Father Johannes to be seated also.

The latter sat down, eyeing, as he did so, the whole interior of the
apartment, so far as it was revealed by the glimmer of the taper.

"Well, my son," said Father Francesco, "what is it?"

"I have my doubts of the spiritual safety of Brother Bernard," said
Father Johannes.

"Wherefore?" asked the Superior, briefly.

"Holy father, you are aware of the history of the brother, and of the
worldly affliction that drove him to this blessed profession?"

"I am," replied the Superior, with the same brevity.

"He narrated it to me fully," said Father Johannes. "The maiden he was
betrothed to was married to another in his absence on a long journey,
being craftily made to suppose him dead."

"I tell you I know the circumstances," said the Superior.

"I merely recalled them, because, moved doubtless by your sermon, he
dropped words to me to-night which led me to suppose that this sinful,
earthly love was not yet extirpated from his soul. Of late the woman
was sick and nigh unto death, and sent for him."

"But he did not go?" interposed Father Francesco.

"No, he did not,--grace was given him thus far; but he dropped words
to me to the effect, that in secret he still cherished the love of
this woman; and the awful words your Reverence has been speaking to us
to-night have moved me with fear for the youth's soul, of the which I,
as an elder brother, have had some charge, and I came to consult with
you as to what help there might be for him."

Father Francesco turned away his head a moment and there was a pause;
at last he said, in a tone that seemed like the throb of some deep,
interior anguish,--

"The Lord help him!"

"Amen!" said Father Johannes, taking keen note of the apparent emotion.

"You must have experience in these matters, my father," he added, after
a pause,--"so many hearts have been laid open to you. I would crave to
know of you what you think is the safest and most certain cure for this
love of woman, if once it hath got possession of the heart."

"Death!" said Father Francesco, after a solemn pause.

"I do not understand you," said Father Johannes.

"My son," said Father Francesco, rising up with an air of authority,
"you do not understand,--there is nothing in you by which you should
understand. This unhappy brother hath opened his case to me, and I
have counseled him all I know of prayer and fastings and watchings and
mortifications. Let him persevere in the same; and if all these fail,
the good Lord will send the other in His own time. There is an end to
all things in this life, and that end shall certainly come at last. Bid
him persevere and hope in this. And now, brother," added the Superior,
with dignity, "if you have no other query, time flies and eternity
comes on,--go, watch and pray, and leave me to my prayers, also."

He raised his hand with a gesture of benediction, and Father Johannes,
awed in spite of himself, felt impelled to leave the apartment.

"Is it so, or is it not?" he said. "I cannot tell. He did seem to wince
and turn away his head when I proposed the case; but then he made fight
at last. I cannot tell whether I have got any advantage or not; but
patience! we shall see!"




CHAPTER XVI

ELSIE PUSHES HER SCHEME


The good Father Antonio returned from his conference with the cavalier
with many subjects for grave pondering. This man, as he conjectured,
so far from being an enemy either of Church or State, was in fact in
many respects in the same position with his revered master,--as nearly
so as the position of a layman was likely to resemble that of an
ecclesiastic. His denial of the Visible Church, as represented by the
Pope and cardinals, sprang not from an irreverent, but from a reverent
spirit. To accept them as exponents of Christ and Christianity was to
blaspheme and traduce both, and therefore he only could be counted in
the highest degree Christian who stood most completely opposed to them
in spirit and practice.

His kind and fatherly heart was interested in the brave young nobleman.
He sympathized fully with the situation in which he stood, and he even
wished success to his love; but then how was he to help him with Agnes,
and above all with her old grandmother, without entering on the awful
task of condemning and exposing that sacred authority which all the
Church had so many years been taught to regard as infallibly inspired?
Long had all the truly spiritual members of the Church who gave ear
to the teachings of Savonarola felt that the nearer they followed
Christ the more open was their growing antagonism to the Pope and the
Cardinals; but still they hung back from the responsibility of inviting
the people to an open revolt.

Father Antonio felt his soul deeply stirred with the news of the
excommunication of his saintly master; and he marveled, as he tossed on
his restless bed through the night, how he was to meet the storm. He
might have known, had he been able to look into a crowded assembly in
Florence about this time, when the unterrified monk thus met the news
of his excommunication:--

"There have come decrees from Rome, have there? They call me a son of
perdition. Well, thus may you answer: He to whom you give this name
hath neither favorites nor concubines, but gives himself solely to
preaching Christ. His spiritual sons and daughters, those who listen
to his doctrine, do not pass their time in infamous practices. They
confess, they receive the communion, they live honestly. This man gives
himself up to exalt the Church of Christ: you to destroy it. The time
approaches for opening the secret chamber: we will give but one turn
of the key, and there will come out thence such an infection, such a
stench of this city of Rome, that the odor shall spread through all
Christendom, and all the world shall be sickened."

But Father Antonio was of himself wholly unable to come to such a
courageous result, though capable of following to the death the master
who should do it for him. His was the true artist nature, as unfit to
deal with rough human forces as a bird that flies through the air is
unfitted to a hand-to-hand grapple with the armed forces of the lower
world. There is strength in these artist natures. Curious computations
have been made of the immense muscular power that is brought into
exercise when a swallow skims so smoothly through the blue sky; but
the strength is of a kind unadapted to mundane uses, and needs the
ether for its display. Father Antonio could create the beautiful; he
could warm, could elevate, could comfort; and when a stronger nature
went before him, he could follow with an unquestioning tenderness
of devotion: but he wanted the sharp, downright power of mind that
could cut and cleave its way through the rubbish of the past, when
its institutions, instead of a commodious dwelling, had come to be a
loathsome prison. Besides, the true artist has ever an enchanted island
of his own; and when this world perplexes and wearies him, he can sail
far away and lay his soul down to rest, as Cytherea bore the sleeping
Ascanius far from the din of battle, to sleep on flowers and breathe
the odor of a hundred undying altars to Beauty.

Therefore, after a restless night, the good monk arose in the first
purple of the dawn, and instinctively betook him to a review of his
drawings for the shrine, as a refuge from troubled thought. He took
his sketch of the Madonna and Child into the morning twilight and
began meditating thereon, while the clouds that lined the horizon were
glowing rosy purple and violet with the approaching day.

"See there!" he said to himself, "yonder clouds have exactly the rosy
purple of the cyclamen which my little Agnes loves so much;--yes, I
am resolved that this cloud on which our Mother standeth shall be of
a cyclamen color. And there is that star, like as it looked yesterday
evening, when I mused upon it. Methought I could see our Lady's clear
brow, and the radiance of her face, and I prayed that some little power
might be given to show forth that which transports me."

And as the monk plied his pencil, touching here and there, and
elaborating the outlines of his drawing, he sung,--

        "Ave, Maris Stella,
        Dei mater alma,
        Atque semper virgo,
        Felix cœli porta!

        "Virgo singularis,
        Inter omnes mitis,
        Nos culpis solutos
        Mites fac et castos!

        "Vitam præsta puram,
        Iter para tutum,
        Ut videntes Jesum
        Semper collætemur!"[7]

        [7] Hail, thou Star of Ocean,
            Thou forever virgin,
            Mother of the Lord!
            Blessed gate of Heaven,
            Take our heart's devotion!

            Virgin one and only,
            Meekest 'mid them all,
            From our sins set free,
            Make us pure like thee,
            Freed from passion's thrall!

            Grant that in pure living,
            Through safe paths below,
            Forever seeing Jesus,
            Rejoicing we may go!

As the monk sung, Agnes soon appeared at the door.

"Ah, my little bird, you are there!" he said looking up.

"Yes," said Agnes, coming forward, and looking over his shoulder at his
work.

"Did you find that young sculptor?" she asked.

"That I did,--a brave boy, too, who will row down the coast and dig us
marble from an old heathen temple, which we will baptize into the name
of Christ and his Mother."

"Pietro was always a good boy," said Agnes.

"Stay," said the monk, stepping into his little sleeping room; "he sent
you this lily; see, I have kept it in water all night."

"Poor Pietro, that was good of him!" said Agnes. "I would thank him, if
I could. But, uncle," she added, in a hesitating voice, "did you see
anything of that--other one?"

"That I did, child,--and talked long with him."

"Ah, uncle, is there any hope for him?"

"Yes, there is hope,--great hope. In fact, he has promised to receive
me again, and I have hopes of leading him to the sacrament of
confession, and after that"--

"And then the Pope will forgive him!" said Agnes, joyfully.

The face of the monk suddenly fell; he was silent, and went on
retouching his drawing.

"Do you not think he will?" said Agnes, earnestly. "You said the Church
was ever ready to receive the repentant."

"The True Church will receive him," said the monk, evasively; "yes, my
little one, there is no doubt of it."

"And it is not true that he is captain of a band of robbers in the
mountains?" said Agnes. "May I tell Father Francesco that it is not so?"

"Child, this young man hath suffered a grievous wrong and injustice;
for he is lord of an ancient and noble estate, out of which he hath
been driven by the cruel injustice of a most wicked and abominable man,
the Duke di Valentinos,[8] who hath caused the death of his brothers
and sisters, and ravaged the country around with fire and sword, so
that he hath been driven with his retainers to a fortress in the
mountains."

    [8] Cæsar Borgia was created Duc de Valentinois by Louis XII.
        of France.

"But," said Agnes, with flushed cheeks, "why does not our blessed
Father excommunicate this wicked duke? Surely this knight hath erred;
instead of taking refuge in the mountains, he ought to have fled with
his followers to Rome, where the dear Father of the Church hath a
house for all the oppressed. It must be so lovely to be the father of
all men, and to take in and comfort all those who are distressed and
sorrowful, and to right the wrongs of all that are oppressed, as our
dear Father at Rome doth!"

The monk looked up at Agnes's clear glowing face with a sort of
wondering pity.

"Dear little child," he said, "there is a Jerusalem above which is
mother of us all, and these things are done there.

        'Cœlestis urbs Jerusalem,
        Beata pacis visio,
        Quæ celsa de viventibus
        Saxis ad astra tolleris
        Sponsæque ritu cingeris
        Mille angelorum millibus!'"

The face of the monk glowed as he repeated this ancient hymn of the
Church,[9] as if the remembrance of that general assembly and church of
the first-born gave him comfort in his depression.

    [9] This very ancient hymn is the fountain-head from which
        through various languages have trickled the various hymns
        of the Celestial City such as--

                "Jerusalem, my happy home!"

        and Quarles's--

                "O mother dear, Jerusalem!"

Agnes felt perplexed, and looked earnestly at her uncle as he stooped
over his drawing, and saw that there were deep lines of anxiety on his
usually clear, placid face,--a look as of one who struggles mentally
with some untold trouble.

"Uncle," she said, hesitatingly, "may I tell Father Francesco what you
have been telling me of this young man?"

"No, my little one,--it were not best. In fact, dear child, there be
many things in his case impossible to explain, even to you;--but he is
not so altogether hopeless as you thought; in truth, I have great hopes
of him. I have admonished him to come here no more, but I shall see him
again this evening."

Agnes wondered at the heaviness of her own little heart, as her kind
old uncle spoke of his coming there no more. Awhile ago she dreaded his
visits as a most fearful temptation, and thought perhaps he might come
at any hour; now she was sure he would not, and it was astonishing what
a weight fell upon her.

"Why am I not thankful?" she asked herself. "Why am I not joyful? Why
should I wish to see him again, when I should only he tempted to sinful
thoughts, and when my dear uncle, who can do so much for him, has his
soul in charge? And what is this which is so strange in his case? There
is some mystery, after all,--something, perhaps, which I ought not to
wish to know. Ah, how little can we know of this great wicked world,
and of the reasons which our superiors give for their conduct! It is
