" It seems not, indeed !" interrupted Aleck. 

" She is not ! She is a simple-hearted, affectionate child, 
whose very ignorance of evil makes her confiding and fearless. She has been accustomed to petting and indulgence 
from her infancy, and her sad history, her early orphanage, 
should commend her to the love of every feeling heart the 
protection of every true man." 

" I do not know that she is entitled to a more bountiful 
share of these than is her cousin. She has no recollection 
of her bereavement, and Mrs. Floyd is shamelessly partial 
to her. She has never felt the need of any other mother." 

" We will not introduce Miss Gardner's name in this connection, if you please !" said Robert, haughtily. " If that 
lady has any cause of dissatisfaction to allege against me, I 
hold myself in readiness to hear and answer it when she 
shall bring it forward in person. I will have no go-between 
in this matter !" 

" You wrong her by the insinuation that she would stoop 
to employ a * go-between, were her wrongs ever so great ! 
Aleck schooled himself to reply quietly, but forcibly 


" Wrong her more foully than you do me by applying the 
base title to me ! I am neither her confidant nor champion. 
I deemed it my duty, when you inquired the reason of my 
altered bearing, to utter a fraternal warning. I have done 
so in sincerity, with a single desire for your happiness and 
reputation. From this time henceforth, since you desire 
it, let the subject be untouched by either of us in our daily 
intercourse. It is devoid of charms to me, and, it would 
seem, obnoxious to you." 

" Agreed !" returned Robert, spurring on his horse. " I 
am willing to abide by the results of my actions in this, as 
in every thing else !" 

For the first time in their lives, the brothers separated 
that night with a cold nod and lips locked in stern displeasure ; lay down to rest heart-sore at thought of their 
alienation; yet each smarting under a sense of injustice and 
indignity received from the other ; each stubborn in his own 
opinion, and unrepentant of his own hasty words and ir 
rational anger. 




CHAPTER VII. 

HELEN had her explanation scene with Robert also, as 
he had foreseen ; but it was conducted in a spirit totally 
diverse from the unsatisfactory and intemperate conver 
sation he had held with Aleck. 

. She had had many misgivings since that memorable 
Sabbath night, she frankly avowed ; misgivings excited by 
Lily's agitation and singular language. 

" I have doubted whether, after all, we had not acted un 
wisely in entering into this engagement, Robert ; whether 
you may not have mistaken your feelings for me," she 
said, raising a clear, searching eye to his. " If this is 
so if this marriage will bring sorrow to Lily and yourself, 
I entreat you to tell me the truth now, while there is still 
room for retreat. You shall never be blamed, your character suffer no tarnish from the annulment of our contract. 
If you love her, if you would address her, were you not 
bound by your promise to me, trust me with your secret, 
and all shall be as you wish. I have feared, among other 
things, that you and I were not so well adapted to one 
another as you suppose." 

" I am not worthy of you, Helen, yet I love you, yo 
alone ! The day in which you forbid me to hope for a return of that love, and the gift of your hand, will be to me 
the darkest of my life. I regard Lily as I would you: 
younger sister, if you had one, and I honestly believe that
her affection for me is of a like nature. She is addicted to 



the use of extravagant expressions, as you know, and has as 
little command of her feelings as the merest child. I am her 
elder brother, her counsellor and friend. She would shrink 
at the mention of any nearer relation. So much to exculpate 
her ! As to yourself, " 

He stopped, and a sad, wistful gaze attested the change 
that had come over his fervent spirit. 

Helen sustained the scrutiny without faltering or blush 
ing. 

" What of me ?" she asked. 

" Will you imitate my candor ? Is your love for me the 
same, in quality and degree, that it was when you first 
pledged yourself to become my wife ? I, too, have had my 
fears ; fancies of your growing coldness ; imaginations that 
my society was becoming irksome to you. Helen ! my only 
love ! my almost bride ! if you knew the anguish such 
thoughts bring to a heart that is bound up in you ; that 
cannot live, except in the sunshine of your smile and presence, you would not chide me for being jealous sometimes." 

" Jealous !" Helen's head was uplifted in regal pride. 
" Of whom have you the shadow of a right to be jealous ? 
What room has my conduct afforded for the birth of such a 
passion on your part?" 

" None ! I own with shame that my uneasiness had no 
foundation of that kind. Yet I find myself eying with 
jealous apprehension every man that approaches you, my 
wn brother not excepted. Do not despise me, Helen !" 

She withdrew from the arm he would have cast about her ; 
face was averted; her breath came thick and fast. Suposing that he had offended her, Robert implored her forveness ; declared the complete restoration of his confinee ; engaged that it should never again be interrupted. 

" Only do not take your love from me !" 

" My love !" she repeated, in a strange, far-off tone, as 





if communing with some phantom of the past ; " you do 
not know for how poor a gift you sue !" 

He eagerly asseverated that it was to him the highest of 
earthly prizes ; that it alone could content a heart that had 
never for a moment turned to any other than herself. 

" I have tried you sadly of late, dearest ; have not seemed 
like myself to you, or to any one else," lie continued, penitently. " But I have been on the rack many, many times. 
I blush to confess it ! I do not deserve your esteem or 
affection." 

" There !" With a bright smile she put her hand before 
his lips. "We will have no more self-criminations; no 
more cross-examinations of one another ! no more unavailing 
sighs over the never-to-be-recalled past ! When I plighted 
my faith to you, we said, solemnly c until Death shall part 
us ! I have meant from that hour to this to keep the vow, 
and I must believe you when you assert that you have never 
desired to violate it. A vow is a fearful thing !" She turn 
ed paher and shuddered slightly. " An awful thing ! and 
ours was not a light one, or lightly spoken. Mine shall 
stand until you say to me, of your own accord, I wish to be 
free ! or, as we said that day, the day of our betrothal 
until Death itself part us ! " 

Ere the last word quite left her tongue, the shaded lamp 
upon the table behind them burst with a report that sounded 
terrifically loud in the quiet room, and the inflammable fluid 
that fed the wick flew in lurid jets over the floor, the furniture, their clothing, over every thing within a radius of 
eight or ten feet. The explosion, and the scream Helen 
could not repress, alarmed the whole household were distinctly heard at the negroes dwellings in the yard. In half 
a minute the apartment was filled with a frightened, questioning throng. The fire had caught Helen's dress in several places, which were extinguished by Robert before the 




flame could spread ; the surface of the mahogany stand was 
blistered by the blazing stream ; and there were scattered, 
here and there, scorched and smoking patches upon the car 
pet and wall-paper. 

When Helen recalled her senses with sufficient clearness 
to take note of surrounding objects, several servants were 
upon their knees, picking up bits of broken glass ; Mrs. 
Floyd was sobbing hysterically upon the sofa ; Lily standing 
by, laughing violently ; and the colonel was cuffing Gabriel 
to and fro like a rubber ball, for his carelessness in having 
left the top of the lamp unscrewed when he filled it ; " else, 
how could the fire have touched the camphene ?" 

" Deed, marster, and I screwed it on tight as tight could 
be, sur, fore ever I lighted it, and sot it on de table that, 
cheerful !" blubbered the boy. 

"No amount of care can prevent accidents of this nature, 
colonel !" ventured Robert, in respectful corroboration of 
Gabriel's self-vindication. " Camphene is a dangerous in 
vention, neither a decent servant nor a merciful master. 

" Not another drop shall ever be burned in tin's house 
while I am alive ! I'm determined on that " sobbed Mrs. 
Floyd. " It is hateful stuff, and I've always said so, for all 
it gives a good light !" 

" You will burn it until doomsday, madam, if you live so 
long !" was the civil response of her husband ; and giving 
Gabriel a parting kick, responded to by a dismal howl, he 
recommended all present to go about their business, and 
himself set the example. 

Helen acceded to her aunt's proposition that they should 
adjourn to the parlor the accident had occurred in the 
dining-room but stepped back after she had reached the 
hall, to look for a handkerchief she had lost. Two negro 
women were still searching for fragments of glass under the 
table. 





" De wust sign dat could a happened !" Helen heard one 
mutter to the other. "Death and partin , sure!" 

" Dat's so !" assented her crony. " And it couldn't mean 
nobody but one o dem for wasn't dey a-settin close by it ? 
Ah, well ! poor young things ! if so be " 

The other touched her to be silent, perceiving the young 
lady's presence, and Helen pretended not to have listened 
to their prognostications. Nevertheless, her nerves were 
sadly discomposed, and although devoid of superstitious 
dreads, she could not help thinking of the odd coincidence 
between the servant's prophecy and her own words, inter 
rupted in their utterance by the startling incident. So hard 
was it to shake the impression from her mind, that she related the circumstance to Robert, when he was about leav 
ing her that night. 

His spirits had arisen rapidly since the conversation in 
the former part of the evening ; he had never been more 
tender in manner, more hopeful in picturing their future, 
and his answer to her story was a hearty laugh. 

" You regard this shabby trick of that detestable camphene as an omen, do you ? c Death and parting, sure, as 
Nancy says ? Breaking glass signifies fractured vows and 
what is the significance of the fiery baptism, of which you 
had the largest share ?" 

" A blazing temper, perhaps !" said Helen, saucily. " Take 
care !" 

" Then your uncle is predestined to enact a volcano, and 
not you ! What has gone wrong with him lately ? He has 
not spoken a pleasant word in my hearing for a month and 
more." 

Helen shook her head. " He is angry with you more 
incensed at me, because we will not be puppets in his hands. 
We shall soon be independent of his humors, so we will not 
be miserable about them now." 




" Why do you sigh ? Is the anticipation of liberty so 
dreadful ? For myself, I have not been so buoyant and 
light-hearted in weeks and weeks if I ever was before. I 



had hoped that you felt the same." 

" I am happier ! There is always a sure peace in the consciousness of having done right." 

Whence, then, the large slow drops that followed one an 
other down her cheeks, when she went back to the parlor, 
jifter bidding him " good-by ?" The rest of the family had 
retired long before, and she sat down on the rug and looked 
iit the two chairs standing so close together in front of the 
ire. Whence came the sense of desolation that crept over 
jier, in the recollection that her fate was now doubly sealed ? 
hat no mortal power could prevent the consummation of 
he engagement she had that evening ratified ? Had she 
ecretly expected guiltily hoped for a different sequel to 
he momentous interview ? 

" I have done my duty kept my word to myself and to 
I only told the truth when I reiterated the assurance 
f my attachment. I love him as much, and in the same 
ay, that I did when we were first betrothed. I have 
unted the cost, and I will abide by my decision. After a 
hile I shall conquer this foolish weakness. Then we shall 
e happy together quite happy !" 

And at this comforting assurance she lapsed into an agony 
of weeping. 

Aleck was reading in his chamber when he heard his 
rother gallop into the yard on his return from Colonel 
yd's, and a minute afterwards his running step upon the 
tair, and a knock at the door. 

" Come in !" he said, surprised at the unseasonable visit. 
Robert entered, blithe and glowing, after his swift ride 
the cold. 
" Al ! old boy !" he began, without preliminary, walking 



straight up to his brother, his hand outstretched, " I have 
made all right with her, have told her that I have acted 
like a brute and a villain, and she, like an angel by-the-way, 
she doesn't fall far short of one ! and now I've come to beg 
your pardon for my shameful treatment of your friendly ad 
vice to ask that we may stand once again upon our 
old footing. Quarrelling is a new and unpleasant business 
to us, my dear fellow !" 

"It is!" Aleck wrung the proffered hand. "I thought 
you would understand me better when you came to think 
over the matter. You can never know how dear your hapness is to me, Robin, or the pain this estrangement has cost 
me." 

They sat down, side by side, and talked freely and affec 
tionately one of them happily, until the clock struck three. 

" Never mind the march of Father Time !" said Robert, 
as the other exclaimed at the lateness of the hour. " The 
faster he gallops, the better pleased am I ! We shall not 
have many more such seasons of dissipation either. The hab 
its of a staid Benedict and householder, such as I hope soon 
to be, must be, perforce, diametrically opposed to irregular 
hours, and I fancy that your Gretchen will knit her pretty 
brows at these propensities in her husband. Ah ! Aleck ! 
you have not acted quite fairly with me in that affair. Here 
I have turned out the lining of my heart to you, and you 
have been keeping your most precious secret locked away 
from my brotherly eyes." 

" I do not understand !" answered Aleck, inquiringly. 

" You hypocritical rascal !" Robert collared him, an 
searched his face with his mirthful eyes. " Do you persist in your deceit ? Is Aunt Ruth the only worthy depositar 
for your confidences ? Do you dare to deny that you are 
every whit as deeply in love as I am ? still to keep up the 
flimsy pretence that the improvements going forward, with 





such un-German velocity, at Maple Hill, arc designed for 
your personal delectation and our good aunt's comfort, you 
dutiful dog ?" 

"Soho !" Light beamed over Aleck's puzzled visage. " I 
begin to comprehend ! And you were blessed with a perusal of the private and confidential missive directed to Aunt 
Ruth, and crammed with eulogies upon the little German 
beauty ? You were so verdant as to swallow the hoax I in 
tended as a reward for her monthly epistles upon the dangers to which a marriageable young man is exposed when 
he has no aunt near to guard him from temptation, and the 
passing importance of making a judicious choice of a pardner, as she pronounces it? Gretchen, forsooth ! The jade 
never cared three straws for me, nor I one for her !" 

"I am glad, and sorry too !" replied Robert. "Pleased 
that I am not to have a foreign sister-in-law ; very sorry that 
the high place in your heart is yet vacant. My happiness 
makes me sympathize the more keenly in your poverty in 
this regard. You could love warmly and truly, Aleck ; and 
if you had that summum bonum of earthly blessings, Aunt 
Ruth's well-chosen pardner, would prove yourself a capital husband." 

" Thank you ! If I ever summon courage to try the experiment, I will apply to you for a certificate to that effect," 
Aleck promised, with a laugh, as they separated with an 
other warm clasp of the hand. 

He was off to Maple Hill the next morning ; spent every 
day and nearly every night there, until Christmas. 

Thorough as was the revolution in the appointments of 
the long-disused mansion, it scarcely exceeded that going on 
at Greenfield, or the tumult which prevailed at Belleview. 
Seamstresses plied hot needles ; hot ovens disgorged loads 
of cake and every imaginable species of delicious home-made 
confectionery ; the din of scrubbing, polishing, and hammering, was lively and incessant ; fires burned in every chim 
ney all day, and piled the hearth-stones over night with 
huge beds of live embers ; and two teams of stout oxen found 
abundant occupation in hauling wood to feed the throats of 
the voracious smoking monsters. Mrs. Floyd was too busy 
to heed her husband's " tempers," and nothing can be cited 
that would prove more strongly her absorption in the great 
work she had in hand. 

Christmas eve came. The sun set gloriously behind the 
dark, interminable line of forest bounding the view in all 
directions, and the stars glittered dazzlingly as they were 
kindled in the clear, frosty sky. Every thing gave promise 
of a fair day for the approaching festival. In Helen's cham 
ber was collected a bevy of chattering girls, the bridesmaids, 
busy in the discussion of the important duties before them. 
Of course, all talked at once, and each strove to drown her 
neighbor's voice, yet Virginia Shore contrived to make her 
self heard above the clamor. 

" Isn't it a shame ?" she called in her highest key. " Helen 
declares that she is in sober earnest in refusing to be mar 
ried in that elegant set of pearls Mr. Aleck Lay brought her 
from Europe ! I tell her she had better try at the outset to 
gain the blind side of her husband's relatives, and that his 
brother will have a right to feel offended at the manifest 
slight put upon his gift, which, every one can see, was meant 
for a bridal toilet." 

The cabal agreed that the neglect would be an insult and 
unpardonable, even were the jewels as tasteless and unbe 
