pretentious sisters of the garden. Azaleas and honeysuckles, lilies of
the valley, hyacinths and pomponium lilies, with Scotch roses and white
broom, and others, made superb floral assemblages, out of doors or in;
and Eleanor looked at her work lovingly when it was done.

So went the morning of that day, and Eleanor's ride in the afternoon
was a fit continuation. May was abroad in the bursting leaves as well
as in opening flowers; the breath of Eden seemed to sweep down the
valley of Plassy. Ay, there is a partial return to the lost paradise,
for those whom Christ leads thither, even before we get to the
everlasting hills.

Eleanor this day was the first person addressed in the meeting. It had
never happened so before. But now Mr. Rhys asked her first of all, "How
do you do to-day?"

Eleanor looked up and answered, "Well. And all changed."

"Will you tell us how you mean?"

"It was when you were preaching last night. It all I came to me. I saw
my mistake, when you told about I the love of Christ to sinners. I saw
I had been trying to make myself good."

"And how is it now?"

"Now,"--said Eleanor looking up again with full eyes,--"I will know
nothing but Christ."

The murmur of thanksgiving heard from one or two voices brought her
head down. It had nearly overcome her. But she controlled herself, and
presently went on; though not daring to look again into Mr. Rhys's
face, the expression of whose eyes of gladness was harder to meet than
the spoken thanksgivings.

"I see I have nothing, and am nothing," she said. "I see that Christ is
all, and will do all for me. I wish to be his servant. All is changed.
The very hills are changed. I never saw such colours or such sunlight,
as I have seen as I rode along this afternoon."

"A true judgment," said Mr. Rhys. "It has been often said, that the eye
sees what the eye brings the means of seeing; and the love of Christ
puts a glory upon all nature that far surpasses the glory of the sun.
It is a changed world, for those who know that love for the first time!
Friends, most of us profess to have that knowledge. Do we have it so
that it puts a glory on all the outer world, in the midst of which we
live and walk and attend to our business?"

"It does to me, sir," said the venerable old man whom Eleanor had
noticed;--"it does to me. Praise the Lord!" Instead of any other answer
they broke out singing,--


  "O how happy are they
  Who the Saviour obey,
  And have laid up their treasure above.
  Tongue can never express
  The sweet comfort and peace
  Of a soul in its earliest love."


"The way to keep that joy," said Mr. Rhys returning to Eleanor, "and to
know more of it, is to take every succeeding step in the Christian life
exactly as you took the first one;--in self-renunciation, in entire
dependence. As ye have received Christ Jesus the Lord, so walk ye in
him. It is a simple and humble way, the way along which the heavenly
light shines. Do everything for Christ--do everything in his
strength;--and you will soon know that the secret of the Lord is with
them that fear him. Blessed be his name! He giveth power to the faint,
and to them that have no might he increaseth strength."

It was easy to see that the speaker made a personal application here,
with reference to himself; but after that there was no more said
directly to Eleanor. The subject went round the circle, receiving the
various testimony of the persons there. Eleanor's heart gave quick
sympathy to many utterances, and took home with intent interest the
answering counsels and remarks, which in some instances were framed to
put a guard against self-deception or mistake. One or two of her
neighbours when the exercises were over, came and took her hand, with a
warm simple expression of feeling which made Eleanor's heart hot; and
then she rode home.

"Did you have a pleasant time?" said her aunt.

"Aunt Caxton, I think that room where we meet is the pleasantest place
in the world!"

"What do you think of the chapel at Glanog?"

"I don't know. I believe that is as good or better."

"Are you too tired to go out again?"

"Not at all. Who wants me?"

"Nanny Croghan is very sick. I have been with her all the afternoon;
and Jane is going to sit up with her to-night; but Jane cannot go yet."

"She need not. I will stay there myself. I like it, aunt Caxton."

"Then I will send for you early in the morning."

Nanny Croghan lived a mile or two from the farmhouse. Eleanor walked
there, attended by John with a basket. The place was a narrow dell
between two uprising hills covered with heather; as wild and secluded
as it is possible to imagine. The poor woman who lived there alone was
dying of lingering disease. John delivered the basket, and left Eleanor
alone with her charge and the mountains.

It was not a night like that she had spent by the bedside of her old
nurse's daughter. Nanny was dying fast; and she needed something done
for her constantly. Through all the hours of the darkness Eleanor was
kept on the watch or actively employed, in administering medicine, or
food, or comfort. For when Nanny wanted nothing else, she wanted that.

"Tell me something I can fix my mind onto," she would say. "It seems
slipping away from me, like. And then I gets cold with fear."

Eleanor was new at the business; she had forgotten to bring her Bible
with her, and she could find none in the house; "her sister had been
there," Nanny said, "and had carried it away." Eleanor was obliged to
draw on the slender stores of her memory; and to make the most of
those, she was obliged to explain them to Nanny, and go them over and
over, and pick them to pieces, and make her rest upon each clause and
almost each word of a verse. There were some words that surely Eleanor
became well acquainted with that night. For Nanny could sleep very
little, and when she could not sleep she wanted talking incessantly.
Eleanor urged her to accept the promises and she would have the peace.
"The secret of the Lord is with them that fear him."

"Ay, but I never did fear him, you see,--till a bit agone; and now it's
all fear. I fear furder'n I can see."

"Nanny, Nanny, the blood of Christ will take all that fear away--if
only you will trust in it. He shed it for you--to pay your debts to
justice. There is no condemnation to them which are in him."

Nanny did not know exactly what so big a word as condemnation meant;
Eleanor was obliged to explain it; then what was meant by being "in
Christ." Towards morning Nanny seemed somewhat soothed and fell into a
doze. Eleanor went to the cottage door and softly opened it, to see how
the night went.

The dawn was breaking fair over the hills, the tops of which shewed the
unearthly brightness of coming day. It took Eleanor's eyes and thoughts
right up. O for the night of darkness to pass away from this weary
earth! Down in the valley the shadows lay thicker; how thick they lay
about the poor head just now resting in sleep. How thick they lay but a
day or two ago upon Eleanor herself! Now she looked up. The light was
flushing upon the mountain tops every moment stronger. The dewy scents
of the May morning were filling the air with their nameless and
numberless tokens of rich nature's bounty. The voice of a cataract,
close at hand, made merry down the rocks along with the song of the
blackbird, woodpecker and titmouse. And still, as Eleanor stood there
and looked and listened, the rush and the stir of sweet life grew more
and more; the spring breeze wakened up and floated past her face
bringing the breath of the flowers fresher and nearer; and the hill
tops ever kindled into more and more glow. "It is Spring! and it is
Day!" thought Eleanor,--"and so it is in my heart. The darkness is
gone; the light is like that light,--promising more; my life is full of
sweetness I never knew. Surely this month shall be the month of months
to me for ever. O for this day--O for this morning--to waken over all
the world!"

She stood there, for Nanny still slept, till the sunbeams struck the
hills and crept down the sides of them; and till John and Jane came in
sight round the angle of the road. John had brought the pony to take
Eleanor home; and a few minutes' ride brought her there. Morning
prayers were however done, before Eleanor could refresh herself with
cold water and a change of dress. When she came down to the
sitting-room Mrs. Caxton had stepped out on some business; and in her
place, sitting alone with a book, Eleanor was greatly surprised to see
Mr. Rhys.

He was not at all surprised to see her; rose up and gave her a very
cordial grasp of the hand, and stirred up the wood fire; which, May
morning though it was, the thick walls of the old stone house and the
neighbourhood of the mountains made useful and agreeable. In silence
and with a good deal of skill Mr. Rhys laid the logs together so that a
fresh blaze sprang up; then after a remark upon the morning he went
back to his book. Eleanor sat down, also silent, feeling very much
delighted to see him there, and to think that they would have his
company at breakfast; but not at all inclined, nor indeed competent, to
open a conversation. She looked into the fire and wondered at the turns
that had brought about this meeting; wondered over the past year of her
life; remembered her longing for the "helmet of salvation" which her
acquaintance with Mr. Rhys had begun; and sang for joy in her heart
that now she had it. Yes, it was hers, she believed; a deep rest and
peace had taken place of craving and anxiety, such as even now
disturbed poor dying Nanny. Eleanor felt very happy, in the midst of
all her care for her. The fire burned beautifully.

"I was not aware," said Mr. Rhys looking up from his book, "I was not
aware till last night that you lived with Mrs. Caxton."

Very odd, Eleanor thought; most people would have found out; however
she took it simply.

"I am her niece."

"So I find,--so I am glad to find. I can wish nothing better for any
one, in that kind, than to be connected with Mrs. Caxton."

He sat with his finger between the leaves of his book, and Eleanor
again wondered at the silence; till Mrs. Caxton came in. It was not
very flattering; but Eleanor was not troubled with vanity; she
dismissed it with a thought compounded of good-humour and humility. At
breakfast the talk went on pretty briskly; it was all between the other
two and left her on one side; yet it was good enough to listen to it.
Eleanor was well satisfied. Mr. Rhys was the principal talker; he was
telling Mrs. Caxton of different people and things in the course of his
labours; which constantly gave a reflex gleam of light upon those
labours themselves and upon the labourer. Unconsciously of course, and
merely from the necessity of the case; but it was very interesting to
Eleanor, and probably to Mrs. Caxton; she looked so. At last she turned
to her niece.

"How did you leave Nanny?"

"A little easier towards morning, I think; at least she went to sleep,
which all the night she could not do."

"Nor you neither."

"O that's nothing. I don't mind that at all. It was worth watching, to
see the dawn."

"Was the woman in so much pain?" Mr. Rhys asked.

"No; not bodily; she was uneasy in mind."

"In what way."

"Afraid of what lies before her; seeing dimly, if at all."

"Was she comforted by what you told her?"

"I had very little to tell her," said Eleanor; "I had no Bible; I had
forgotten to take it; and hers was gone. I had to get what I could from
memory, for I did not like to give her anything but the words of the
Bible itself to ground hope upon."

"Yes, but a good warm testimony of personal experience, coming from the
heart, often goes to the heart. I hope you tried that."

Eleanor had not; she was silent. The testimony she had given in the
class-meeting somehow she had been shy of uttering unasked in the ear
of the dying woman. Was that humility--or something else? Again Mr.
Rhys had done for her what he so often did for her and for
others--probed her thoughts.

"It is a good plan," said Mrs. Caxton, "to have a storehouse in one's
memory of such things as may be needed upon occasion; passages of
Scripture and hymns; to be brought out when books are not at hand. I
was made to learn a great deal out of the Bible when I was a girl; and
I have often made a practice of it since; and it always comes into
play."

"I never set myself lessons to get by heart," said Mr. Rhys. "I never
could learn anything in that way. Or perhaps I should say, I never
liked to do it. I never did it."

"What is your art, then?" said Mrs. Caxton, looking curious.

"No art. It is only that when anything impresses itself strongly on my
feelings, the words seem to engrave themselves in my memory. It is an
unconscious and purely natural operation."

Eleanor remembered the multitudinous quoting of the Bible she had at
different times heard from Mr. Rhys; and again wondered mentally. All
that, all those parts of the Bible, he had not set himself to study,
but had felt them into his memory! They had been put in like gold
letters, with a hot iron.

"Where is this woman?" Mr. Rhys went on.

"She lives alone, in the narrow dell that stretches behind Bengarten
Castle--and nearly in a straight line with it, from here. Do not go
there this morning--you want rest, and it is too far for you to walk. I
am going to take you into my garden, to see how my flowers go."

"Won't you take me into your dairy?"

"If you like it," said Mrs. Caxton smiling.

"I like it exceedingly. It is something like a musical box to me, Miss
Powle, to see Mrs. Caxton's cheese-making. It soothes my nerves, the
noiseless order of everything. Do you know that wonderful cheese-house,
where they stand in ranks like yellow millstones? I never can get over
my surprise at going in there. Certainly we, as a nation, are fond of
cheese!"

"You think so because you are not," said Mrs. Caxton. "It is too late
for the dairy to-day. You shall give me help in my garden, where I want
it."

"I understand," says Mr. Rhys. "But it is my business to make flowers
grow in the Lord's garden--wherever I can. I wish I could do more of
that gardening work!"

Eleanor gave a quick glance up at the speaker. His brow rested on his
hand for the moment; she noticed the sharply drawn lines of the face,
the thin cheeks, the complexion, which all witnessed to over-work
already attempted and done. The brow and eyes were marked with lines of
watching and fatigue. It was but a glance, and Eleanor's eyes went down
again; with an additional lesson of unconscious testimony carried deep
home. This man lived as he talked. The good of existence was not one
thing in his lips and another in his practice. Eleanor looked at her
plate with her heart burning. In her old fancy for studying, or at
least reading, hands, she had noticed too in her glance the hand on
which the head rested; and with surprise. It was almost a feminine hand
in make, with long slim fingers; white withal, and beautifully cared
for. Certain refinements were clearly necessary to this man, who was
ready to plunge himself into a country of savages nevertheless, where
all the refinement would be his own. To some natures it would be easier
to part with a hand altogether, than to forego the necessity of having
it clean. This was one. And he was going to give himself up to
Polynesia and its practices. Eleanor eat with the rest of her breakfast
and swallowed with her tea, the remembered words of the apostle--"But
what things were gain to me, those I counted loss for
Christ."--"Neither count I my life dear unto myself, so that I may
finish my course with joy, and the ministry, which I have received of
the Lord Jesus, to be faithful."--Eleanor's heart swelled. Tears were
very near.

After breakfast, a large part of the morning was spent by her aunt and
Mr. Rhys in the garden; as Mrs. Caxton had said; and very busy they
were. Eleanor was not asked to join them, and she did not choose to
volunteer; she watched them from the house. They were very honestly
busy; planting and removing and consulting; in real garden work; yet it
was manifest their minds had also much more in common, in matters of
greater interest; they stood and talked for long intervals when the
flowers were forgotten. They were very near each other, those two,
evidently, in regard and mutual confidence and probably mutual
admiration also. It was very strange Eleanor should never have come to
the knowledge of it till to-day. And yet, why should she? She had never
mentioned the name of Mr. Rhys to her aunt in any of her stories of
Wiglands.

He was away all the afternoon and the evening, and came back again
late; a tired and exhausted man. He said nothing, except to officiate
at family prayers; but Eleanor was delighted that he was to spend the
night at the farm and they would have him at breakfast. Only to see him
and hear him talk to others, only the tones of his voice, brought up to
her everything that was good and strong and pure and happy. He did not
seem inclined to advance at all upon their Wiglands acquaintance. He
made no allusion to it. As far as she was concerned, Eleanor thought
that there was more reserve in his manner towards her than he had
shewed there. No matter. With Mrs. Caxton he was very much at home; and
she could study him at her ease all the better for not talking to him.




CHAPTER II.

WITH THE BASKET.


  "The flush of life may well be seen
  Thrilling back over hills and valleys;
  The cowslip startles in meadows green,
  The buttercup catches the sun in its chalice,
  And there's never a leaf or a blade too mean
  To be some happy creature's palace."


"Mrs. Caxton," said Mr. Rhys the next morning, when half the breakfast
had been passed in silence, "have you such a thing as a microscope in
the house?"

"I am afraid not. Why do you ask?"

"Only, that I have suddenly discovered myself to be very ignorant, in a
department of knowledge where it would be very pleasant as well as
proper to be otherwise. I have been reading a book on some of the forms
of life which are only to be known through the help of glasses; and I
find there is a world there I know nothing about. That book has made a
boy of me."

"How?" said Mrs. Caxton smiling.

"You think I always retain more or less of that character! Well--it has
made me doubly a boy then; in my eagerness to put myself to school, on
the one hand, and my desire to see something new on the other. Miss
Powle, have you ever studied the invisible inhabitants of pools, and
ponds, and sea-weeds?"

"Not at all," said Eleanor.

"You do not know much more than the names, then, of Infusoria,
Rotifera, and Pedunculata, and such things?"

"Not so much as the names--except Infusoria. I hope they are better
than they sound."

"If the accounts are true--Mrs. Caxton, the world that we do not see,
because of the imperfection of our organs, is even far more wonderful
than the world that we do see. Perhaps it seems so, because of the
finiteness of our own powers. But I never had a single thing give me
