like himself; everybody was in armour."

"Half moons of eyes, Capt. Drummond?"

"Yes. He had, or some of them had, two semi-circular walls of eyes--one
looked before and behind and all round to the right, and the other
looked before and behind and all round at the left; and in each wall
were two hundred eyes."

The Captain smiled to himself to see Daisy's face at this statement,
though outwardly he kept perfectly grave. Daisy's own simple orbs were
so full and intent. She looked from him to the fossil.

"But Capt. Drummond----" she began slowly.

"Well, Daisy? After you have done, I shall begin."

"Did you say that this thing lived at the bottom of the sea?"

"Precisely."

"But then how could he get up here?"

"Seems difficult, don't it?" said the Captain. "Well, Daisy, the people
that know, tell us that all the land we have was once at the bottom of
the sea; so these rocks had their turn."

"All the land?" said Daisy. "O that is what the Bible says!"

"The Bible!" said the Captain in his turn. "Pray where, if you please?"

"Why don't you know, Capt. Drummond?--when God said, 'Let the waters be
gathered together into one place, and let the dry land appear.'"

The Captain whistled softly, with an amused face, and stealthily watched
Daisy, whose countenance was full of the most beautiful interest.
Almost lovingly she bent over the trilobite, thinking her own thoughts;
while her friend presently from observing the expression of her face
began to take notice anew of the thin and pale condition of the cheeks,
that had been much healthier a week ago.

"You like to look at armour, Daisy," he said.

She made no answer.

"Are you still in the mind to 'die on the field of battle?'"

He guessed the question would touch her, but curiosity got the better of
sympathy with him. He was not prepared for the wistful, searching look
that Daisy gave him instantly, nor for the indescribable tenderness and
sorrow that mingled in it. As before, she did not answer.

"Forgive me, Daisy," said the Captain involuntarily "You know you told
me you were a soldier."

Daisy's heart was very tender, and she had been living all the morning
in that peculiar nearness to Christ which those know who suffer for him.
She looked at the Captain, and burst into tears.

"You told me you were a soldier--" he repeated, not quite knowing what
to say.

"O Capt. Drummond!" said Daisy weeping,--"I wish you were!"

It stung the Captain. He knew what she meant. But he quietly asked her
why?

"Because then," said Daisy, "you would know Jesus; and I want you to be
happy."

"Why Daisy," said Capt. Drummond, though his conscience smote him,--"you
don't seem to me very happy lately."

"Don't I?" she said. "But I am happy. I only wish everybody else was
happy too."

She presently wiped her eyes and stood up. "Capt. Drummond," said she,
"don't you think we can find another of these things?"

Anything to change the course matters had taken, the Captain thought,
so he gave ready assent; and he and Daisy entered upon a most lively
renewed quest among the rocks that covered all that mountain side. Daisy
was more eager than he; she wanted very much to have a trilobite for her
own keeping; the difficulty was, she did not know how to look for it.
All she could do was to follow her friend and watch all his doings and
direct him to new spots in the mountain that he had not tried. In the
course of this business the Captain did some adventurous climbing; it
would have distressed Daisy if she had not been so intent upon his
object; but as it was she strained her little head back to look at him,
where he picked his way along at a precipitous height above her,
sometimes holding to a bramble or sapling, and sometimes depending on
his own good footing and muscular agility. In this way of progress,
while making good his passage from one place to another, the Captain's
foot in leaping struck upon a loosely poised stone or fragment of rock.
It rolled from under him. A spring saved the Captain, but the huge stone
once set a going continued its way down the hill.

"Daisy--look out!" he shouted.

"Have you got one?" said Daisy, springing forward. She misunderstood his
warning; and her bound brought her exactly under the rolling stone. She
never saw it till it had reached her and knocked her down.

"Hollo, Daisy!" shouted Capt. Drummond,--"is all right?"

He got no answer, listened, shouted again, and then made two jumps from
where he stood to the bottom. Daisy lay on the ground, her little foot
under the stone; her eyes closed, her face paler than ever. Without
stopping to think how heavy the stone was, with a tremendous exertion of
strength the young man pushed it from where it lay and released the
foot; but he was very much afraid damage was done. "It couldn't help
it"--said the Captain to himself as he looked at the great piece of
rock; but the first thing was to get Daisy's eyes open. There was no
spring near that he knew of; he went back to their lunch basket and
brought from it a bottle of claret--all he could find--and with it
wetted Daisy's lips and brow. The claret did perhaps as well as cold
water; for Daisy revived; but as soon as she sat up and began to move,
her words were broken off by a scream of pain.

"What is it, Daisy?" said the Captain. "Your foot?--that confounded
stone!--can't you move it?"

"No,"--said Daisy with a short breath, "I can't move it. Please excuse
me, Capt. Drummond--I couldn't help crying out that minute; it hurt me
so. It doesn't hurt me so much now when I keep still."

The Captain kept still too, wishing very much that he and Daisy and the
trilobites were all back in their places again. How long could they sit
still up there on the mountain? He looked at the sun; he looked at his
watch. It was three o'clock. He looked at Daisy.

"Let me see," said he, "if anything is the matter. Hard to find out,
through this thick boot! How does it feel now?"

"It pains me very much, these two or three minutes."

The Captain looked at Daisy's face again, and then without more ado took
his knife and cut the lacings of the boot. "How is that?" he asked.

"That is a great deal better."

"If it hadn't been, you would have fainted again directly. Let us
see--Daisy, I think I had better cut the boot off. You have sprained the
ankle, or something, and it is swollen."

Daisy said nothing, and the Captain went on very carefully and tenderly
to cut the boot off. It was a very necessary proceeding. The foot was
terribly swollen already. Again the Captain mused, looking from the
child's foot to her face.

"How is the pain now?"

"It aches a good deal."

He saw it was vastly worse than her words made it.

"My little soldier," said he, "how do you suppose I am going to get you
down the hill, to where we left our carriage?"

"I don't know," said Daisy. "You can't carry me."

"What makes you think so?"

"I don't know," said Daisy,--"but I don't think you can." And she was
a little afraid, he saw.

"I will be as careful as I can, and you must be as brave as you can, for
I don't see any other way, Daisy. And I think, the sooner we go the
better; so that this foot may have some cold or hot lotion or
something."

"Wait a minute," said Daisy hastily.

And raising herself up to a sitting position, she bent over her little
head and covered her eyes with her hand. The Captain felt very
strangely. He guessed in a minute what she was about; that in pain and
fear, Daisy was seeking an unseen help, and trusting in it; and in awed
silence the young officer was as still as she, till the little head was
raised.

"Now," she said, "you may take me."

The Captain always had a good respect for Daisy; but he certainly felt
now as if he had the dignity of twenty-five years in his arms. He raised
her as gently as possible from the ground; he knew the changed position
of the foot gave her new pain, for a flush rose to Daisy's brow, but she
said not one word either of suffering or expostulation. Her friend
stepped with her as gently as he could over the rough way; Daisy
supported herself partly by an arm round his neck, and was utterly mute,
till they were passing the place of luncheon; then she broke out,--

"Oh! the trilobite!"

"Never mind the trilobite."

"But are you going to lose it, Capt. Drummond?"

"Not if you want it. I'll come back for it another day--if I break my
furlough."

"I could hold it in my other hand--if I had it."

The Captain thought the bottle of claret might chance to be the most
wanted thing; nevertheless he stopped, stooped, and picked up the
fossil. Daisy grasped it; and they went on their way down the mountain.
It was a very trying way to both of them. The Captain was painfully
anxious to step easily, which among rocks and bushes he could not always
do, especially with a weight in his arms; and Daisy's foot hanging down,
gave her dreadful pain because of the increased rush of blood into it.
Her little lips were firmly set together many a time, to avoid giving
her friend the distress of knowing how much she suffered; and once the
Captain heard a low whisper not meant for his ear but uttered very close
to it,--"O Lord Jesus, help me." It went through and through the
Captain's mind and heart. But he only set his teeth too, and plunged on,
as fast as he could softly, down the rough mountain side. And if ever
anybody was glad, that was he when they reached the wagon.

There was a new difficulty now, for the little vehicle had no place in
which Daisy could remain lying down. The seat was fast; the Captain
could not remove it. He did the best he could. He put Daisy sideways on
the seat, so that the hurt foot could be stretched out and kept in one
position upon it; and he himself stood behind her, holding the reins. In
that way he served as a sort of support for the little head which he
sometimes feared would sink in a swoon; for while she lay on the ground
and he was trying measures with the wagon, the closed eyes and pale
cheeks had given the Captain a good many desperately uneasy thoughts.
Now Daisy sat still, leaning against him, with her eyes open; and he
drove as tenderly as he could. He had a frisky horse to manage, and the
Captain congratulated himself for this occasion at least that he was a
skilled whip. Still the motion of the wagon was very trying to Daisy,
and every jar went through the Captain's foot up to his heart.

"How is it, Daisy?" he asked after they had gone some distance.

"It isn't good, Capt. Drummond," she said softly.

"Bad, isn't it?"

"Rather."

"I have to make this fellow go slowly, you see, or he would shake you
too much. Could you bear to go faster?"

"I'll try."

The Captain tried cautiously. But his question, and possibly Daisy's
answer, were stimulated by the view of the western horizon, over which
clouds were gathering thick and fast. Could they get home in time? that
was the doubt in both minds.

"Capt. Drummond," said Daisy presently, "I can't bear this shaking."

"Must I go slower?"

"If you please."

"Daisy, do you see how the sky bodes yonder? What do you suppose we
shall do if those clouds come up?"

"I don't know," she answered. But she said it with such a quiet tone of
voice, that the Captain wondered anew. He had hoped that her fears might
induce her to bear the pain.

"Daisy, do you think it will come up a storm?"

"I think it will."

"How soon? you know the signs better than I do. How soon will it be
here?"

"It will come soon, I think."

Yet there was no anxiety in Daisy's voice. It was perfectly calm, though
feeble. The Captain held his peace, looked at the clouds, and drove on;
but not as fast as he would have liked. He knew it was a ride of great
suffering to his little charge, for she became exceedingly pale; still
she said nothing, except her soft replies to his questions. The western
clouds rolled up in great volumes of black and grey, rolling and
gathering and spreading at a magnificent rate. The sun was presently hid
behind the fringe of this curtain of blackness; by and by the mountains
were hid beneath a further fringe of rain; a very thick fringe. Between,
the masses of vapour in the sky seemed charging for a tremendous
outburst. It had not come yet when the slow going little wagon passed
through Crum Elbow; but by this time the Captain had seen distant darts
of lightning, and even heard the far-off warning growl of the thunder. A
new idea started up in the Captain's mind; his frisky horse might not
like lightning.

"Daisy," said he, "my poor little Daisy--we cannot get to Melbourne--we
must stop and wait a little somewhere. Is there any house you like
better than another? I had best turn back to the village."

"No, don't,--stop!" cried Daisy, "don't go back, Capt. Drummond; there
is a place nearer. Turn up that road--right round there. It is very
near."

The Captain obeyed, but pulled in the reins presently as he heard a
nearer growl of the coming thunder. "Daisy, where is it? I don't see
anything."

"There it is, Capt. Drummond--that little house."

"That?" said the Captain; but there was no more time now for retreat
or question. He sprang out, threw the reins two or three times over the
gate-post; then executed the very difficult operation of taking Daisy
out of the wagon. He could not do it without hurting her; she fainted on
his shoulder; and it was in this state, white and senseless, that he
carried her into Mrs. Benoit's cottage. The old woman had seen them and
met him at the door. Seeing the state of the case, she immediately and
with great quickness spread a clean covering over a comfortable chintz
couch which stood under the window, and Daisy was laid there from her
friend's arms. Juanita applied water and salts too, deftly; and then
asked the Captain, "What is it, sir?"

"There's a foot hurt here," said the Captain, giving more attention to
the hurt than he had had chance to do before. "Pray heaven it is not
broken! I am afraid it is,--the ankle--or dislocated."

"Then Heaven knows why it is broken," said the old woman quietly. "The
gentleman will go for a doctor, sir?"

"Yes, that must be the first thing," said Capt. Drummond gravely. "Where
shall I find him?"

"Dr. Sandford--the gentleman, knows the road to Mr. St. Leonard's?"

"Yes--the Craigs--I know."

"Dr. Sandford is half way there--where the gentleman remembers a great
brown house in the middle of the cedar trees."

The Captain beat his brain to remember, thought he did, and was starting
away, but turned back to see Daisy's eyes open first; fearing lest she
might be alarmed if he were not by her when she came to herself. There
was a bright flash and near peal of thunder at the moment. Juanita
looked up.

"The gentleman will not fear the storm? There is work here"--touching
the foot.

The Captain remembered that Daisy herself had directed him to the house,
and dashed away again. The clouds were growing blacker every moment. In
the darkening light Juanita bent over Daisy and saw her eyes open.

"Does my little lady know Juanita?"

Daisy sighed, looked round the room, and then seemed to recollect
herself.

"O I am here!" she said. "Where is Capt. Drummond?"

"The gentleman is gone for the doctor, to see to the hurt foot. How is
it now, dear?"

"It hurts me a good deal."

Juanita's first business was to take off the stocking; this could only
be done by cutting it down. When it was removed, a very
sorrowful-looking little foot was seen. Juanita covered it up lightly,
and then turned her attention again to Daisy's pale face.

"What can I give my little lady?"

"I am Daisy Randolph."

"What may I do for Miss Daisy? to give her some comfort."

"Juanita,--I wish you would pray for me again."

"What does Miss Daisy want of the Lord?"

"My foot hurts me very much, and I want to be patient. And, Juanita, I
want to thank him too."

"What for, Miss Daisy?"

"Because--I love him; and he has made me so happy."

"Praise the Lord!" came with a most glad outburst from Juanita's lips;
but then she knelt down, and so uttered her warm petitions for help
needed and so her deep thanksgiving for help rendered, that Daisy was
greatly overcome and poured out her tears as the prayer went on. When it
was ended, Juanita went about her room for a little while, making
certain arrangements that she foresaw would be necessary; then came and
sat down. All this while the storm had been furious; the lightning
hardly ceased, or the thunder, and both were near; but the two inmates
of the little cottage seemed hardly to be conscious what was going on
outside its walls. There was a slight lessening now of the storm's fury.

"Has it gone well with my little lady then, since she gave Juanita the
rose branch?"

This was the new opening of conversation. Daisy hesitated a little what
to answer; not for want of confidence, for there was something about the
fine old woman that had won her completely.

"I don't know"--she said at length, slowly. "It has been very hard to do
right, Juanita."

"But has my little lady kept her Lord's words?"
