pleasure. 
Now, a veil had dropped from her eyes, and she saw 
him in a clearer light. She had thought him earnest and 
absorbed in business ambitious to make his way in the 
world prudent, calculating, strong-willed, and resolute 
to do his part in life efficiently. But, she had not un 
derstood him as he now appeared in her eyes a wor 
shiper of mammon, and a despiser of even beauty, if it 
could not be an offering on this shrine. 
When Lydia Guy took up the day's burden of duties 
again, it felt heavier than before. Her voice did not 
break forth into snatches of song, as her hands 
busied themselves with household cares ; nor did her feet 
bear her with their usual springy tread. A shadow had 
fallen on the distant landscape : she could not see in it 
 
the beauty once so delightful to gaze upon ; its odors 
did not steal in waves of sweetness on her sense it 
had caught a shade of dreariness. Alas, for the young 
heart, Awhen brightness fades from its sunny future ! The 
life of Lydia Guy was opening into a new experience. 
She had, after arousing herself from the depression 
of mind occasioned by her husband's fuller revelation 
of himself, cleared off the breakfast table, and set her 
house in order. An hour or two for needlework came 
in at this part of the day, and Lydia was sitting by her 
little table, when a visitor made her appearance in the 
person of a young married friend. Warm and tender 
was the greeting that passed between them ; for they 
were heart-companions. 
The visitor's name was Lena Hofland. Her husband 
was a young physician, who had just opened an office, 
and like the husband of Lydia had all the world before 
him, in which to sow and reap. The two young men 
were standing in life at about equal advantage, so far as 
worldly goods were concerned. Less than a thousand 
dollars covered tKe full amount of Guy's possessions at 
the time of his marriage ; and Hofland's means exceed 
ed this only by a few hundred of dollars. One differ 
ence existed, which will be regarded as in favor of Guy ; 
he had earned and saved his seven or eight hundred 
dollars, while the twelve hundred on which doctor Hof 
land ventured out into the world, was the remnant of a 
small legacy on which he had depended while studying 
his profession. Guy's was an accummulating, Hofland's 
a diminishing fund. And there was still another differ 
ence Guy had no taste to gratify ; no artificial wants ; 
 
no expensive weaknesses. A silver dollar, in his eye 
was more beautiful than a picture, a vase, or a jewel, or 
any thing desirable only on the score of ornament. He 
cared nothing for music, and the beauty and sweetness 
of nature made no strong appeals to his inner conscious 
ness. But Dr. Hofland had an acute perception of the 
beautiful, and tastes, that, if indulged to their full ex 
tent, would have drawn largely upon the amplest for 
tune. On money he set no value except as a means of 
procuring that which mind and body required in the 
world. Applying the metaphysician's distinction he 
looked at gold subjectively, rather than objectively. 
The young men had been acquainted from boyhood. 
Their parents were neighbors, and they had attended 
school together. One from choice, entered a store, and 
the other, also from choice, became a student of medi 
cine. At this point in their lives there was a divergence 
in feeling as well as in pursuits. Guy did not lack 
mind ; he had as clear and strong an intellect as Hof 
land, and in any profession would have been his peer 
stood above him, perhaps. His choice of a mercantile 
life came from no peculiar fondness or fitness for the pur 
suit, but simply from a money consideration of the case. 
He saw through trade, the surest road to wealth, and 
took that road in consequence. 
So much, briefly, of the two men and their antece 
dents. The reader has already comprehended them. 
They are types of two great classes, to both of which the 
world owes much. They do not seem of much account 
in their day of humble obscurity. Their spheres of life 
are narrow, their places in the world unnoted, their in- 
 
fluence scarcely perceived. Strong men, men of gold, 
men of intellect, if from any cause their eyes happen to fall 
upon them, hold them in light consideration. They 
see not an oak's great promise in the acorn's tender 
shoot, nor dream of the imperial river as they step, 
without a thought of its limpid waters, over the slender 
rivulet. 
The wives of these young men had been early friends, 
also. But their tastes were more nearly accordant. 
Yet Lydia was not so clear-seeing, nor so strong-willed 
as Lena ; else she would never have given her hand to 
Adam Guy. Lena would have penetrated more deep 
ly into his character; ^vould have comprehended his 
quality better and she would have had decision 
enough to turn from him resolutely, when he approach 
ed as a lover. 
A flood of light made radiant the face of Lydia Guy 
as her young friend entered. Their lips met in a heart- 
warm kiss ; their arms went fondly twining about neck 
and waist. Lena held a small bunch of choice flowers 
in her hand. 
" They are for you, dear," she said, after the kisses 
had been given, and words of love exchanged. 
" Oh ! how sweet ! Thank you, Lena ! " and Ly 
dia received the offering, gazing on it with eyes that felt 
and drank in the beauty that held them. 
" The Doctor bought me a lovely bouquet as he pass 
ed through the market this morning, and I have divided 
it for my friend," said Lena. 
" It was so kind in you ! " 
As Lydia said this, she turned her face partly aside. 
 
A thought came in to mar the pleasure of the moment ; 
to steal away the fragrance that was breathing upon 
her lips. Almost involuntarily, her eyes wandered to 
the geranium that stood, yet, upon her work-stand. 
Lena's husband had made her a gift of flowers ; but 
Adam Guy had blamed her for buying a single blossom 
ing plant, with which to beautify her home. 
" They are very sweet," she added, as she com 
menced examining the flowers that made up the cluster 
in her hand. " How the odor of this mignionette takes 
me back along the way of girlhood ; and I see the 
woods and fields again, by the magic of sweet briar and 
myrtle. What a delicate tint is in this rose ! And this 
bud! Oh! is it not exquisite? White, crimson, soft 
fading pink, purple, and golden. What a power there 
is in beauty, Lena ! In color and grace of form united. 
They speak to some inner sense, and that sense responds 
in thrills of pleasure." 
As she ceased, a faint sigh came fluttering through 
her lips. 
" Ah," she continued, " if the useful and the beauti 
ful in life were more closely united. But the hard, 
stern, plodding useful, persistently separates itself from 
the beautiful, or spurns and tramples it under foot." 
" It is for us to unite them," said Lena. " The doc 
tor and I were talking of that very thing this morning." 
" Beauty is costly," remarked Lydia, and we are 
poor." 
There was a shade of depression in her voice. 
" And cheap, also," answered Lena. A flower is 
not costly, and yet, in nature, there is no other form of 
 
such exquisite grace and delicate proportion ; and all 
the riches of color are added ; and all the sweetness of 
perfume. If taste is genuine if our love of beauty 
is, indeed, a pasvsion of the soul then may we find 
perpetual enjoyments, even though our lot in life 
be poor and humble. A true lover of art may en 
joy a statue or a picture far more than the own 
er. Speaking on this very subject, the doctor remarked 
a day or two ago, that the love of possessing works of 
art, was inferior to the love of art, and that therefore, 
the man of true taste, though unblessed by fortune, 
might enter into higher pleasures than those to whom 
wealth brought every desire of the eye. If I look at 
the picture in a rich man's gallery, and carry it away 
in my thought, am I not its owner in the highest sense ? 
Fire cannot destroy it ; misfortune cannot bear it away ; 
no accident can mar its fair proportions. It hangs in 
the gallery of my soul, among other precious things, 
and the outside world has no power over it. It is mine, 
though his ownership cease ; mine, though the paint 
and canvas are borne away to the antipodes." 
" You are growing into a philosopher," said Lydia, 
smiling. 
" Yes, thanks to my good husband. He is helping 
me to get up higher, so to speak ; to breathe in a purer 
mental region ; to see things in their best relations. 
We are poor, you know, but the doctor says, that we 
may be as happy in our poverty, as the rich in their 
riches ; nay happier, for we are free from the tempta 
tions of the rich. The lesson we have to learn, is that 
which teaches a moderation of desire. Wants must be 
 
few, and not too often told. We must cultivate a love 
for the beautiful, rather than a love of possession ; and 
learn to see beauty with an interior vision." 
Ah, how different all this from the uttered sentiment of 
Lydia's husband ! He looked only to possession to 
wealth as the best gift the world had to bestow. Beau 
ty, in comparison to gold, was nothing. He spurned 
it as unlovely ! The contrast, now so strongly pre 
sented, almost saddened the heart of Lydia. 
" You are not so bright as usual," said her friend. 
Lydia smiled, and tried to look happy. But the light 
did not linger sweetly radiant in her countenance. It 
faded out slowly. 
" How is the doctor succeeding ? " asked Lydia, 
changing the subject. 
" As well as might be expected," was the reply. 
" He has been called to one or two good families, and 
if he should be liked, their influence will be of great 
use to him." 
" Will his income be sufficient for your expenses ? " 
inquired Lydia. 
" O dear, no ! So far, his paying practice has not 
been at the rate of three hundred dollars a year." 
" You say ' paying practice ; ' has he any other ? " 
" Yes, and a full share of it among the poor." 
" Ah ! Is that so ? Does he attend the poor for 
nothing ? " 
" There is sickness among the extremely poor, as well 
as among others ; and the physician cannot refuse to 
visit and help the sick because they have no money to 
recompense his services. We happen to have many 
 
very poor people in our neighborhood, and the doctor is 
called in frequently. It is a Christian duty to attend 
them, and one from which he cannot hold back. They 
are God's patients, he says, and he is so largely a debt 
or to God that he must take all opportunities for pay 
ment." 
" They ought to recompense him in something, if it 
were ever so small," said Lydia. 
" How are you to live ? The laborer is always worthy 
of his hire." 
" The Doctor has still five hundred dollars on which 
to draw. This will carry us through a year ; beyond 
that we trust in a good Providence." 
" Not a very encouraging prospect." 
" We push aside discouraging thoughts," was replied. 
" To-day is ours, and we try to get all the happiness 
from to-day that it has in store. This the Doctor calls 
life's true philosophy. I get a little nervous, sometimes ; 
and look into the future in a spirit of doubt. What is 
the result ? Doubt peoples the future with forms of evil, 
and my heart grows faint as I look at them. But, when 
I turn back to the present, I find myself surrounded with 
blessings ; and I lift my heart in thankfulness. ' Only 
to-day is ours, Lena,' my husband will say, when I 
question about the time to come, ' only to-day is ours, to 
work in and enjoy. Let us do our work faithfully, and 
take the enjoyments, and God will see that our to-morrows 
are all right.' It does me good to hear him say this. 
He is such a consistent, right-hearted man, Lydia ! His 
thought is so clear, that I see it always, when expressed, 
as the utterance of truth. It does not come into my 
 
heart to question what he says. But I am only talking 
of what interests me. How is Mr: Guy and what 
are your prospects in the world ? How is life looking 
in the far away future, to which the eyes will turn with 
asking glances ? " 
" My husband is not so easy in mind as yours," replied 
Lydia, " Though his present condition and future pros 
pects look more promising. His salary has been raised 
to twelve hundred dollars, and it will not cost us over 
six or seven hundred to live at the outside. Then he 
confidently expects to receive an interest in the business 
of the firm where he is employed. Give him that posi 
tion, he says, and he will consider his fortune made 
will, to use his favorite expression, ' snap his fingers 
in the world's face.' ' 
" I am glad to know that everything has such an 
encouraging aspect," answered Lena, with genuine 
pleasure. '.' You ought to be very happy." 
Lydia sighed faintly, as her eyes dropped to the ground. 
That fair promise -in the future, did not fill her desires. 
There were intuitions in her soul, that pictured some 
thing more, yet left a trembling fear of disappointment. 
This day was to be memorable in the history of her 
inner life, as one on which her mind had awakened to a 
new consciousness touching her husband's character, and 
its want of harmony with her own. What Lena had 
just said of her husband, was as a foil bringing out to 
clearer perception the opposite characteristics of Adam 
Guy and they were unlovely in her eyes. Not that 
he had all at once revealed himself in his true aspect. Ly 
dia had failed to read the signs aright. They puzzled her 
 
at times ; and she often questioned as to a meaning be 
yond anything dreamed of in her estimate of the man 
to whom she had committed all things that were holiest 
and most sacred. But to-day the veil dropped from her 
eyes. That brief scene with the flowers was a revela 
tion ; and she stood no longer a questioner, or in doubt. 
CHAPTER III. 
YDIA did not feel more peaceful for 
this morning visit from her friend. 
Some things that Lena said, particular 
ly about her husband, remained distinct 
ly in her thoughts. The promise of this 
world was fairer for Adam and herself, 
than it was for Doctor Hofland and his 
wife ; but the promise for happiness 
was on the other side. 
At dinner time, as Adam Guy and his wife sat at 
the table, on which their meal was laid, Lydia referred 
to the call she had received from her friend Lena. 
" Playing the lady," said Adam, sententiously. 
" How ? What do you mean ? " Lydia did not clear 
ly understand her husband. 
" Aping rich and fashionable people," replied Adam, 
" in morning calls, when she ought to be at home attend 
ing to her house, and aiding her husband. She keeps a 
servant, which will cost for hire, board and waste, not 
less than two hundred dollars in the year more, I'll 
warrant you, than the Doctor's practice will yield him 
in that time. Now, I don't call any woman, who is so 
idle and extravagant, a good wife. Instead of helping 
 
her husband to succeed, she will help- to keep his nose 
always on the grindstone. That is not like you, dear." 
This last approving sentence, spoken in a gentler tone 
than he had used in condemning Lena, softened the 
shock of language that was felt as a harsh and unjust 
judgment. 
" It is not as I am doing, Adam," she returned, 
" But, all are not alike in this world, you know." 
" And all do not come out alike. As we sow in 
this world so will we reap, Lydia. Can thrift come 
of idleness, waste, and extravagance ? Never ! The 
Doctor and his wife are beginning wrong, and they 
will come out wrong mark my word for it ! Lena is 
just as able to do the light work of their household, as 
he is to meet the demands of his profession. Does he 
hire a man to make his pills and spread his plasters ? 
I have no patience with women who commit such folly ! 
Gadding about the street, and making morning calls ! 
Pah ! It nauseates me, this pretence of gentility. 
I thought better of Lena. Why, if you were to set 
up to play the lady after this fashion, Lydia, the house 
would soon be too hot to hold us. I wonder at the 
Doctor for submitting to such a state^of things." 
" It is all right in his eyes, I presume," said Lydia. 
" Then they're a couple of blind fools. That's the 
best I can say for them." 
As the young man remarked this, his eyes lighted 
on the bouquet of flowers which Lena had brought for 
her friend, and which had been placed in a glass of water 
on the mantelpiece. 
" Ha ! More flowers ! Where did they come 
from ? " 
 
" Lena gave them to me." The blood crimsoned 
over Lydia's face. 
" Umph ! Bought 'em, no doubt." 
" The Doctor bought them for her, as he went 
through the market this morning." 
" And she gave them away. Upon my word ! she 
valued her husband's gift." 
" She only divided it with me," replied Lydia. " I 
love flowers, and she wished to give me pleasure. It 
was kind and thoughtful in her." 
Adam Guy shook his head, in marked disapproval. 
" And so it was the Doctor who threw his money 
away ? Well, they are a precious pair ! I wonder 
where they expect to come out ? " 
" Right in the end," said Lydia. 
" They will, when arithmetical laws change, and 
subtraction gives the result of addition not before. 
But, the world is full of such people. Just look at it, 
for a moment. The Doctor has only three or four 
hundred dollars to come and go upon, outside of the 
returns from his practice. At the best, his practice 
will not give him over five hundred a year, on an 
average, for the next three years. Very well ; look 
at it, as I say. Look at it. House rent, two hundred ; 
cost of a servant, two hundred more ; table expenses, 
three hundred, at the lowest figure ; clothing and out 
side expenses, two hundred and fifty ; flowers, jewelry, 
pictures, gewgaws and other nonsense, two hundred 
more ; in all, eleven hundred and fifty dollars ! Run 
this through three years, and you have three thousand 
four hundred and fifty dollars. Now, let us see what 
 
the prospect is for meeting so large a sum. There is, 
we will say, four hundred to start with ; and we will 
give six hundred a year for the Doctor's average income 
during the next three years, and that is a liberal esti 
mate. Three times six hundred make eighteen hun 
dred add four hundred, and we have two thousand 
two hundred dollars of means' against an expenditure 
of three thousand four hundred and fifty ! Figures 
don't lie, my dear. At the end of three years the 
Doctor will be twelve hundred and fifty dollars in debt ! 
Think of that!" 
A troubled expression came into the fair young face 
of Lydia Guy, as she sat looking at her husband. She 
understood him perfectly, and saw, for the time, clear 
ly with his arithmetical eyes. The promise was not a 
good one for her young friend. There was misfor 
tune in the world for Lena, and the heart of Lydia was 
touched by it, in saddening anticipation. 
" Debt ! yes debt, that curse of a man's life ! " re 
sumed Guy, almost bitterly, as if he felt the fiend's 
grip on his arm. " They will be overridden by debt, 
as surely as the breath is in them ! Somebody's mon 
ey besides their own will have to go for their waste and 
extravagance. Whose shall it be ? Not mine, I can 
tell them. No, not a dollar of mine ! Adam Guy's 
hard earnings and careful savings shall never go to 
sustain the pride, self-indulgence, and wasteful extrava 
gance of such people. I'll burden nobody, and nobody 
shall burden me. I have the industry, patience, self- 
denial, and persistence needed for accumulation, and 
with it the nerve to keep what I gain. No man shall 
 
