 



EXCURSIONS ON THE LAKE! 




The New akd Splendid Miniatuke Steamer 
WO OID"VILLE 

CAPTAIN LAWEENCE WILEOED, 

With elegant and luxurious accommodations for thirty 
passengers, is now ready to convey pleasure parties 
to any part of the lake. 

Breakfasts, dinners, and suppers, provided on 
board; and the tables will be supplied with the 
best the market affords. 

Apply by letter, or otherwise, to Captain Law* 
rence Wilegkd, Port Rock, N. Y. 



 

By seven o'clock the Woodville was under way for 
Port Rock. Lawry gave the helm to one of the deck 
hands, and went below to make some entries in his 
account book. He had been paid, that day, fifty 
dollars for the boat, and thirty dollars for dinners. 
Mrs. Light had expended twenty-six dollars for pro- 
visions and groceries, but he still had one hundred 
and twenty-eight dollars. It was a large sum of 
money for a boy of fourteen to have, and he counted 
it with a pride and pleasure which made him forget 
the fatigue of his severe labors. 

At half past ten the steamer was moored to her 
wharf at Port Rock. Mr. Sherwood and the ladies 
bade the little captain good night, and went home. 
In half an hour more Lawry was sound asleep in 
his state-room. 



 



CHAPTER XVIII. 

TEN THOUSAND IN GOLD. 

It was fortunate for Lawry that he was able to 
sleep well in the midst of the excitement in which 
he lived ; otherwise his bodily frame must have 
yielded to the pressure to which it was subjected. 
He did not wake till seven the next morning, hav- 
ing thus obtained full eight hours of rest, which 
invigorated his powers, and prepared him for the 
arduous duties of another day. As soon as he turned 
out, he went up to see his mother, and gave her 
a hundred dollars of the money he had earned, re- 
serving the balance for the expenses of the boat. 

At nine Mr. Sherwood and his party came on 
board. It had been his intention to visit Ticonde- 
roga ; but business letters which he found waiting 
his arrival the evening before compelled him to 
change his destination to Burlington. 



 

Just before the party appeared, Ben Wilford had 
been seen lounging about the wharf. He had com- 
plained bitterly to his mother of the treatment he 
had received from Lawry, and did not seem to be 
conscious that he had ever been engaged in a base 
and mean conspiracy against the peace and happi- 
ness of the whole family. Mrs. Wilford had spoken 
plainly to him, which had only increased his irrita- 
tion. The little steamer was a sore trial to him, 
for she was the indication of Lawry' s prosperity. 

Ben had fully persuaded himself into the belief 
that he, and not Lawry, ought to be captain of the 
Woodville. She was a family affair, and he could 
not regard his brother as the actual owner of her. 
He had imagination enough to understand and ap- 
preciate the pleasure of being in command of such 
a fine craft. His conspiracy had signally failed ; in 
his own choice phrase, Mr. Sherwood " carried too 
many guns for him," and it was useless to contend 
a<i,ainst money. 

The envious brother had so far progressed in his 
views as to believe that a subordinate position in 
the Woodville was better than no position at all. 





He had heard of the fine times the parties had on 
board of her, of the splendid dinners, and the in- 
spiring music ; and he was very anxious to have a 
situation in her. He was afraid of Mr. Sherwood, 
and dared not again take his place boldly on board. 
At a favorable moment, when Lawry and the deck 
hands were employed on the after part of the deck, 
he slipped down the plank and into the forecastle, 
concealing himself in the berth of one of the fire- 
men. This trick might insure him a passage with 
the excursion party, if nothing more. 

When the ladies and gentlemen had all arrived, 
the boat left the wharf, and commenced her voyage 
down the lake. After she had gone a couple of 
miles Ben Wilford came out of his hiding-place, 
and proceeded directly to the wheel-house, feeling 
that he had nothing to fear from his kind-hearted 
brother, and hoping to conciliate him before Mr. 
Sherwood discovered that he was on board. He 
entered the open door of the wheel-house as coolly 
as though he belonged there. 

" Ben ! " exclaimed the little captain, when he 
saw him. " I didn't know you were on board." 



 



" I didn't mean you should till I got ready," re- 
plied Een, with a conciliatory smile. 

" I don't know as Mr. Sherwood will like it when , 
he sees you," added Lawry. 

" If you like it, he will." 

"I'm sure I've no objection to your going with 
me." 

" I knew you hadn't." 

" But the steamer belongs to Mr. Sherwood to- 
day." 

" Don't you want some help, Lawry ? Mother 
thinks you are working rather too hard." 

" I don't think I shall hurt myself," answered 
Lawry, laughing ; and he was really pleased to find 
Ben in such good humor. " I don't see that you 
can help me any." 

" I can steer." 

" So can Kounds," replied Lawry, referring to the 
deck hand whom he called to the wheel when he 
left his post. 

" Lawry, you are my brother — ain't you ? " 

" Of course I am." 

" And I am your brother — am I not ? " 







" Without a doubt you are." 

" Then there are two good reasons why we should 
' not quarrel." 

" I'm very sure I don't wish to quarrel, Ben," 
added Lawry, earnestly. 

" And I'm just as sure I don't," continued Ben. 
" This is a splendid little boat, and we might make 
a first-rate thing of it. I still think I ought to be 
captain of her ; but I won't quarrel about that now. 
I'll take any place you have a mind to give me." 

This was certainly very kind and condescending 
on the part of the elder brother, after what had 
occurred ; and Lawry really felt happy in the ex- 
cellent spirit which Ben appeared to manifest. 

" You might give me a chance as mate, if you 
like," added Ben, as he perceived the smile on his 
brother's face. 
."I will speak to Mr. Sherwood about it." 

" What do you want to speak to him for ? Don't 
you own this boat ? " 

" I do ; but he has been very kind to me, and 
I want to take his advice when I can. I wish you 
hadn't got into that scrape the other day." 



 



" What scrape ? " 

" Why, causing the boat to be attached for fa- 
ther's debts." 

" I didn't mean anything by it, Lawry," answered 
Ben, in apologetic tones. " You must acknowledge 
that you provoked me to it." 

" How, Ben ? " 

" I can't get it out of my head that I ought to 
be captain of this boat. I think it would be a 
good deal better for you, Lawry. Just look at it 
one minute ! You are a pilot, and you have to 
leave the wheel to see to everything on board. You 
ought to have nothing to do but to navigate the 
steamer ; while I, as captain, could take the money, 
see to the dinners, and keep the deck and cabins 
in good order." 

" We get along very well," replied Lawry. 

" But it will wear you out in a month. Mother 
is afraid you M'ill kill yourself, running the boat 
night and day." 

" If you were captain I should have to be in the 
wheel-house all the time, just the same. 

" Well, I don't insist on it, Lawry," replied Ben, 


with becoming meekness. " I was only saying what 
would be best for all concerned." 

" I will talk with Mr. Sherwood." 

" Whatever you say, he will agree to. Now, give 
me the wheel, Lawry, and you go and see your 
passengers, 

Ben took hold of the wheel, and the young pilot 
involuntarily released his grasp on the spokes. The 
older brother was certainly in a very amiable frame 
of mind, and it was perfectly proper to encourage 
him ; but there was no more need of a mate than 
there was of another captain. Rounds, as the older 
of the two deck hands, now performed the duties 
of that office. There was no freight to be received 
and discharged, which the mate superintends ; and 
there was nothing for him to do but attend to the 
gang-plank and the mooring lines, and see that the 
decks were washed down when required. 

Lawry was not quite willing to leave the wheel 
in charge of his brother, for he was painfully con- 
scious that he could not always be trusted. Ben 
was not often in so pliable a frame of mind, and 
the little captain could not help suspecting that he 



 



had some object in view which was not apparent, 
for he had twice declared, that if he was not 
captain of the Woodville no one should be. He 
was not prepared to believe that Ben would run the 
boat on the rocks, or set her on fire ; but he deemed 
it prudent to keep his eye on him, and on the 
course of the steamer. 

Ben steered very well, and Lawry left the wheel- 
house. At the door he met Mr. Sherwood, just as 
that gentleman had discovered who was at the helm. 

" How's this, Lawry ? Have you got more help ? " 
asked his friend. 

" I didn't know Ben was on board till we were 
two miles from the wharf I hope you don't ob- 
ject, sir." 

" Certainly not, Lawry. If you are satisfied, I 
have no reason to be otherwise." 

" Ben talks very fair this morning ; and I'm sure 
I don't want to quarrel with him." 

" Of course not." 

" He still thinks he ought to be captain, and 
that it would be better for me ; " and Lawry stated 
his brother's argument. 



 



" That's all very pretty," replied Mr. Sherwood. 
" If you wish to give your brother the command 
of your steamer, it is not for me to interpose any 
objection." 

" But I want to follow your advice." 

" I think you had better let things remain as 
they are, for the present, at least. Do as you 
think best, Lawry. I don't want to influence you." 

This conversation took place near the door of 
the wheel-house, and though the parties had not 
so intended, Ben heard every word of it. 

" Do as you think best, Lawry," continued Mr. 
Sherwood. 

" I want to do what you think is best, sir." 

"You know my opinion. Your brother's habits 
— I am sorry to say it — are not good. I should 
not be willing to trust him. You cannot place 
much confidence in a young man who is in the 
habit of getting drunk. I don't want to hurt your 
feelings, Lawry, but I must be frank with you." 

Ben ground his teeth with rage, as he listened 
to this plain description of himself, and, in accord- 
ance with his usual practice in such cases, vowed 



 

to be revenged upon the man who had tradviced 
him, which was his interpretation of Mr. Sherwood's 
candid statement of the truth. 

" I think you are right, sir," replied Lawry, realiz- 
ing that Ben was not fit for the command of the 
Woodville, even if he was disposed to give it to him. 

"Lawry, I have been compelled to change this 
excursion into a partial business trip. I am going 
to buy the surplus gold of a bank in Burlington, and 
you must leave me there and go on to Port Kent. 
On your return, you can stop for me," continued Mr. 
Sherwood. " What is your engagement for to- 
morrow." 

" At Whitehall, sir." 

" Capital ! You can convey my gold through, so 
that I can take the morning train at Whitehall for 
New York." 

"If we get back to Port Rock by six, we can 
reach Whitehall by twelve." 

" Well, that is sooner than I wish to arrive," added 
Mr. Sherwood, thoughtfully. " I shall have ten thou- 
sand dollars in gold with me, which, at the present 
rate, is worth about twenty-five thousand dollars in 








currency. It would be a great temptation to any 
rogues, who might find out the specie was on board. 
How wotJd it do to start from Port Rock at mid- 
night ? " 
