


don’t expect to — forget you exactly — no.” 
And the wonderful part of it was that Tom had 
to get up and walk down the yard again. 

“ I hope you won’t get hazed,” said Gypsy, 
presently. Tom’s young eyes flashed. 

“ I should like to see them try it, that ’s all ! 
I ’d shoot the first man that touched me. The 
only thing is, father won’t let me have a re- 
volver, which I think is rough on the Trojans.” 

“ Can’t he afford it?” 

“ Oh, I guess so. But he ’s afraid I should 
shoot myself, or something, I don’t know what. 
As if I weren’t old enough to take care of my- 
self! ” 

“ I hope you ’ll have a nice time,” said Gypsy, 
thinking best to change the subject. 

“ Of course I shall ; a regular jolly. I 
haven’t looked forward to college all my life 
for nothing. I mean to get all the fun I can 
out of it.” 

“ How splendid it’ll be ! I wish I could go. 
But then you go to study, you know, father 
says, and mother too.” 



“ Oh, study, yes, of course,” said Tom, care- 
lessly ; “ but I mean to have a good time any- 
way T 

Gypsy looked a little troubled. She knew 
how Tom felt, and she was so sure that she 
should feel exactly the same way if she were in 
his place, that she had not the conscience to 
scold him ; at the same time, she doubted if he 
were quite right about it. She had a dim idea 
that when people went to college “just for 
fun,” they did not come out of it quite as good 
as they went in; a flitting thought of Francis 
Rowe ; a shudder at the bare possibility that her 
brother should ever be like Sarah’s. This may 
have had something to do with her answer; for 
she said, speaking low and earnestly, — 

“ Tom, do you remember my saying, out in 
the boat, that I wished you had something to 
start on?"' 

“ I guess so.” 

“ Well, I do wish just that. I can’t explain, 
— I never can explain things, you know, Tom; 
but I ’ve got an idea there somewhere, now 



really.” This with a curious, piquant look, half 
laughing, half sober. Tom saw the sober part 
of it, and answered accordingly. 

“ I suppose you mean what people call principle, 
only you don’t know what you ’re driving 
at. You don’t think I ’m such a horrible sinner, 
do you, Gypsy? ” 

“ No, Tom, — why, no ! ” 

“Well, I guess I’m about as good as most 
fellows, am I not? ” 

“Better!” said Gypsy, vehemently; “ever 
so much better. Why, I don’t know any other 
boy in Yorkbury half as good as you I ” 

“ Well, then, I guess you needn’t trouble 
about me,” said Tom. Gypsy looked puzzled 
and made no reply. Presently she pulled some- 
thing out of her pocket. 

“ Tom, dear I ” 

Tom looked up and saw a broad blue ribbon 
studded at each end with heavy silver crosses ; 
in the centre a strip of silver card-board on 
which was the one word “Gypsy” sewed in 

Gypsy’s own bright hair. 



“ I don’t know that you ’ll care anything 
about it, but it was all I could make that was 
all my own. I tried a lot of things, and spoilt 
them. That’s my hair, and if you see any little 
frizzled ends, you needn’t look, — such a time 
as I had with them, and they would keep sticking out ! ” 

“That’s prime,’’ said Tom, turning it about 
in his fingers as if he were hunting for a handle 
to take hold by. “ What is it, — a neck-tie? ’’ 

“Neck-tie! Tom Breynton ! Don’t you 
know book-marks when you see them?’’ 

“Oh, a book-mark, is it? Very good. 
Thanks are due. Where shall I put it, in my 
Homer or Latin Prose?’’ 

“It’s for — your Bible,’’ said Gypsy, hesi- 
tating. She wanted to add, “ And if you 
would only please to read it every night, Tom.’’ 
But she did not. Can you guess why, girls? 
Because she could not ask of him what she did 
not do herself? Exactly. I wonder if you 
think she felt just then a little sorry — or 
not ! 



What she did not say, I am inclined to think 
that his mother did ; for after he had gone to his 
room, they had a long talk together, and when 
it was over, and Tom was left to himself, he hid 
his head under the bed-clothes and was still a 
marvellously long time. 

The cold gray light of Monday morning 
woke Gypsy from a dream that President 
Woolsey had expelled Tom from college for not 
reading the Bible. She started up to find that 
it was a quarter-past five, and Tom was already 
up and eating his breakfast. 

How short that breakfast seemed ; how 
strange the early light; how odd the merry 
singing of the birds ! Gypsy wondered if they 
did not know that Tom was going, and what 
they could possibly find to be so happy about. 
Going, really going : it seemed like part of 
her night’s dream; she sat watching Tom’s face, 
his merry lips and faint moustache, his hand- 
some eyes and curling hair, just as one would 
look at a picture that one was going to burn up. 
Half laughing, half crying, she packed up his 



luncheon, and stuffed his pockets with golden 
pears, and jumped on his trunks while he 
strapped them down, and listened to the coach 
rumbling up, and then she ran out into the yard 
and turned her back to everybody. 

“Good-bye, mother. Yes, my money’s all 
right, father. Here, Winnie, give us a kiss, 
sir. Patty, you there? Good-bye to you all. 
I ’ll write as soon as I get there. The small 
trunk, John, in the entry — all right! Now, 
Gypsy, Gypsy! Where is the child?’’ 

Her arms were round his neck, and her head 
was on his shoulder ; she followed him out to 
the gate, kissing and clinging to him, quite de- 
termined not to cry, and making up by the 
means a series of horrible faces. 

“Oh, Tom, what shall I do without you? 
what shall I do ? ” 

“ Shake Winnie and break lamp-chimneys,” 
began Tom, after his usual style, but choked 
and stopped short. 

“I don’t know what a fellow’s going to do 
without Gypsy,” — and giving her a great 


hug, he jumped on the box with John, and 
never looked back. 

Gypsy watched the coach rumble away, grow 
dim in the clouds of dust, grow small, grow 
less, become a speck, vanish utterly. Then she 
went into Tom’s desolate room, bare of its 
familiar pictures, books, and clothes, strange 
and cold for want of the merry eyes, the ringing 
laugh, the eager step that had belonged to it 
and been a part of it since the boy was a baby. 
She locked the door, sat down on a heap of old 
newspapers in the middle of the floor, and did 
what Gypsy very seldom did, — cried as hard 
as she could cry. 


seven o’clock he was sitting in his room 
alone, feeling, to tell the truth, — well, we 
won’t say homesick, but something very much 
like it. His chum was gone out, though that 
was no great loss, for the boy was a com- 
parative stranger to him ; they had seen each 
other for the first time when they came to be 
examined in the summer, and had engaged 
rooms together because it happened to be convenient ; 
Hall took, as every one did, a fancy 
to Tom at first sight, and both being tired out 
with tramping after boarding-places, they had 
met in Elm Street, found just such rooms as 
they wanted, and were glad enough to unite 
their fortunes for the sake of getting them. 

Tom had reached New Haven in the after- 
noon, unpacked his trunks, put away his clothes 
and books, hung his pictures, bargained with 
his landlady for the luxury of a chair with four 
legs (there being none in the room possessed 
of more than two or three), gone to supper at 
his club and come home again ; he had read a 
newspaper and dusted off his table, arranged 
and re-arranged his books, eaten some of his 
mother’s pears, looked his photograph album 
through three times from beginning to end, 
rather wished he could look into the windows at 
home and see what they were all doing, and 
now he was tipped back in his chair, — the 
four-legged one, — against the wall, wishing 
that he knew what to do next, and that it would 
not have such a way of growing dark early. 



For some reason, — whether there could have 
been any homesickness about it or not we will 
not undertake to decide, — the solitude and the 
gathering twilight grew at last intolerable. He 
brought his chair down with a jerk, tossed on 
his cap, and started out for a walk. He strolled 
along past the colleges, and under the elms, 
hanging somewhat yellow and sere now in their 
tossing, netted arches ; tried to look at the 
Sophomores as if he thought them no better 
than himself, did not succeed very well, wished 
he were through Freshman year, and finally, by 
way of something to do, decided to run down 
to the office. Not that there would be anything 
there for him, — of course there was no chance 
of that, though he wished there were, sadly 
enough ; but he would go down just for the fun 
of the thing. So he went, and carelessly ran 
his eye over the list of advertised letters, through 
the A’s and B’s, and was just turning away 
when, lo and behold ! — “ Breynton, Thomas.” 

“Not from home so soon, surely,” thought 
Tom. But it was from home, directed in 


Gypsy’s hand, — and the hand, by the way, 
was very much like Gypsy, sharp and decided, 
and adorned with various little piquant flourishes,
but with a remarkable tendency to run 
over the line and under the line, and everywhere 
but on the line, and not entirely guiltless of blots, 
— to Thomas Breynton, Esq., Freshman, Yale 
College, New Haven, Conn., U. S. A., North 
America, Western Hemisphere.” 

“ The rogue ! ” said Tom, between his teeth, 
as he took it from the hand of the laughing 
clerk; “ I guess she ’ll get her pay for this.” 

Hall met him on the steps as he passed out 
tearing open the envelope in a great hurry. 

“ I say, Breynton, hilloa ! That you ? Come 
over to the Tontine with a fellow.” 

The Tontine was no place for Tom, and he 
knew it. WTether he would have preferred it 
to his lonely room and the dreary gathering twilight,
if it had not been for that letter, I cannot 
say. But at any rate. Hall had this for an 
answer : — 

“ No, thank you. I have something else to 



do. Don’t you wish you had a sister to write 
to you the day you leave, sir?” 

“ Don’t know but I do,” said Hall, looking on 
rather wistfully. Tom walked off radiant. 

The dreary twilight was dreary no longer; 
the dark and lonely rooms seemed all at once 
like home. He lighted his lamp, tipped back 
his chair, and read as fast as most college boys 
read their first letter from home, I fancy : — 

Monday, September the something or other, 

One o’clock P. m., in my room, on the bed. 

Best beloved of Thomases, — Here you ’ve 
been gone only seven hours, and I have so much 
to say I can’t begin to say it and it isn’t of a'ny 
use and I don’t know what I ’ll do when you ’ve 
been gone a week only I ’ve asked father to 
bring me up a ream of paper from the store 
because I know I shall use as much as that 
before you get home. 

Oh, dear ! I haven’t put in a scrap of punctuation 
in that long sentence, only one funny little 
comma, that looks exactly like a pol — polly — 
how do you spell polliwog? — at the beginning; 



and I never could correct it in the world, for I 
shouldn’t have a sign of an idea what belonged 
where. I ’m going to put in a lot ; of semi- 
colons ; along here to ; make up ; 

What do you suppose? — Miss Cardrew asked 
Fanny French to-day what a semicolon was, 
and she said she believed it was a place where 
ministers went to school. Did you ever? I 
laughed till I choked, and was just as red in the 
beet as a face — I mean — well, you change it 
round right yourself; I can’t stop. Then Miss 
Cardrew told me I ’d laughed enough, and that 
made me laugh all the harder, and Delia Guest, 
she went into a coniption, — you know she 
always does when anything happens, anyway, — 
and we had the greatest time you ever knew. 

But, then, this isn’t the beginning, and I meant 
to commence there. I always do jump at things 
so. 

You see, after you ’d gone, I just went into 
your room and — don’t you tell, will you? but I 
did — I cried like a little goose. You’d better 
believe your table looked homesick enough, and 



your closet with nothing but your linen coat 
hanging up. I banged the door to, I got so 
mad looking at it. 

Ow ! look at that blot. I was only just shaking 
my pen round a little to get off some of the 



ink. I never ! if it hasn’t gone all over the bed- 
quilt ! I got up here to write because it ’s easier, 
and then — well, somehow, my chairs are always 
filled up with things. What do you suppose 
mother’ll say? Isn’t it a shame? 

Well, after I tho light I ’d cried enough, you 
know, Winnie ’d been banging at the door so 
long I thought I ’d let him in, and you ought to 
have seen him ! He had on one of your old 
coats that mother gave to Patty to give to her 
cousin’s husband that has the consumption, and 
he ’d corked a moustache that went clear out to 
his ears, and then he had a Mother Goose under 
his arm ; said he was going to be Tom now, and 
have his room, and study Aunt Abbieses (I sup- 
pose he meant Anabasis) ; he didn’t wish to be 
disturbed ; I might go away so he could lock 
the door. 

Well, you see that made me laugh, only it 
would have been just as easy to cry again, and 
mother was wiping her eyes, and father was 
coughing and looking round, and so I went 
out-doors to see if I couldn’t laugh some 


way. It is so horrid not to feel like laughing, 
isn’t it? 

Then Sarah Rowe came over, and she didn’t 
seem to mind it a bit because Francis was gone; 
but then she says he ’s been gone so much, now 
