breakers. He knows what it is."

"Well, if you can get him, he will be a first-rate fellow to have."

"I think I can get him. Here he comes; you keep out of the way, and I
will see how deep the water is."

Monroe went forward to find a student to whom he had been deputed to
speak in the interest of the enterprise leaving Wilton to grapple with
the old lion of mischief, whose teeth, however, seemed to have been worn
out in the cause.

"What's up, Wilton?" demanded the third lieutenant who was now off duty,
and therefore allowed to speak to the crew, though it was a privilege of
which the officers seldom availed themselves.

"Who said anything was up?" asked Wilton.

"You look as though you meant something. What were you and Ike Monroe
talking about just now?" continued Shuffles. "About me, I'll be bound,
for you kept looking at me, as though you meant something."

"What makes you think so? Have you heard anything?" asked Wilton,
fearful that the plot had leaked out.

"Not a word? I only judged by your looks."

"I suppose if anything was up, you wouldn't have anything to do with it
now."

"Most decidedly, I should not. I like my present position too well to
fall out of it. I'm going to be captain next term, if I can fetch it any
way in the world."

"You mean to be a flunky, just like the rest of them. You are not the
same fellow you used to be."

"Yes, I am."

"You are getting too big for your boots."

"You wrong me, Wilton. I'm just as good a fellow as I ever was. I think
I'm the best fellow in the ship, and for that reason I want to be
captain. I'm ahead of Carnes so far on marks this month."

"Well, if you want to be the head flunky, I hope you'll get it. We are
not going ashore to-morrow, they say," added Wilton, changing the topic
to get nearer to the business of the hour.

"So Pelham told me."

"Are you willing to stay on board and study, and do ship's duty, on the
Fourth of July?"

"We are going to celebrate."

"How?"

"I'm sure I don't know."

"We shall celebrate to-morrow just as we do every day--as close
prisoners on board the ship. I, for one, don't like it, and I won't
stand it."

"Won't you?" laughed Shuffles.

"When I say I won't, I mean so."

"O, you do--do you?"

"You better believe I do," added Wilton, shaking his head resolutely.

"What are you going to do?"

"I'm going ashore, by hook or by crook."

"Better not get into any scrape."

"You say that as one of the flunkies."

"Well, you had better not say anything to me, for I shall have to do my
duty as an officer. Don't say anything to me, and then I shall not know
anything about it."

"Humph!" sneered Wilton, not pleased with this non-committal policy.

"I don't want to do anything mean with any of our fellows; so don't say
a word to me. I shall do my duty as an officer, as I promised to do when
I was made third lieutenant."

"Do you mean to say you will stop me, Shuffles, if you see me going?"
demanded Wilton.

"I do mean so; I promised faithfully to do my duty as an officer, and I
shall do it."

"See here, Bob Shuffles; you needn't talk to me in that manner. I knew
the ship's cable from a pint of milk, and you can't come the flunky over
me."

"I'm going to do just as you would do if you were in my place. I won't
hear a word about any of your plans."

"But will you interfere with them?"

"If it is my duty to do so, I shall. I intend to obey orders; and if I
have the deck, I shall keep things straight, whatever happens."

"Lowington don't know you as well as I do."

"No matter if he don't; he shall have no fault to find with me this
term, if I can help it."

"It's no use for me to mince the matter with you, Bob Shuffles. We
understand each other too well for that. Something's up."

Shuffles turned on his heel, and was about to walk away.

"Hold on a minute, Shuffles," continued Wilton. "I won't tell you what's
up, but I'll tell you this; if you interfere with what I do, or with
what the fellows with me do, I'll tell Lowington about the mutiny--I
will, as sure as your name is Bob Shuffles. Do you understand me?"

"Well, I do; and it seems to me that sounds very much like a threat."

"Call it what you like. If you turn traitor to our fellows, you must
stand the racket of it. You are not a saint just yet, and those that
live in glass houses musn't throw stones."

"I believe I haven't played false to any of our fellows. If I don't
choose to get into any scrape with them, I have a right to keep out.
That's all I've got to say."

"But what are you going to do, Shuffles? Our fellows will want to know."

"I'm going to do my duty," replied the third lieutenant as he walked
away, regardless of the efforts of his companion to detain him.

Shuffles was experiencing the truth of the old maxim, that honesty is
the best policy. It is to be regretted that his present devotion to duty
had no higher incentive than mere policy; but it may be hoped of those
who do their duty from low motives, that they may gather inspiration
even from their politic fidelity to obey its behests from higher
motives. The third lieutenant of the Young America intended to keep the
promise he had made in accepting his office, simply because it would pay
best.

Wilton and his confederates had no difficulty in making up the required
number of discontents and malcontents before six o'clock, which was the
time fixed for carrying out the enterprise they had planned. Some of the
recruits joined because they anticipated a good time in the city in
celebrating the Fourth, and others from a mere love of mischief and
excitement. The details of the scheme had been carefully elaborated by
Monroe and Wilton, after the ranks of the conspirators were full. Having
learned a valuable lesson from the daily discipline of the ship, the
mischief was certainly well planned. Each boy was assigned to a
particular position in the boats, and knew on what thwart he was to sit,
and which oar he was to pull.

Wilton and Monroe, as the master spirits of the enterprise were to run
out first on the swinging boom, and slide down the painters, each into
the boat he was to command. The others were to follow in the same way,
descending from the boom, for it was not considered prudent to run the
boats up to the gangway, where some enthusiastic officer might easily
interfere with the plan, which was to depend for its success upon the
celerity of its execution.

When four bells struck, the professors went down to their evening meal,
as usual, and the boatswain piped the port watch to supper, the
starboard watch having taken theirs at three bells, or half past five.
Wilton gave a low whistle, when Shuffles, officer of the deck, was abaft
the mizzenmast, with his back to the runaways who had gathered in the
waist, and were waiting for the signal.

"Be lively, fellows," said the leader of the enterprise, as he sprang
over the rail, and ran out on the boom, followed by Monroe.

The others, in the order in which they had been instructed, did the
same. About half of them were on the boom, when the movement was
reported to the officer of the deck by the midshipman on duty in the
waist. Shuffles rushed forward, now understanding, for the first time,
the intentions of Wilton; and true to the inspiration of fidelity, he
set about defeating the object of "our fellows."

The studding-sail boom, to which the boats were fastened, was supported
by a topping-lift from above, and kept in position, at right angles with
the side of the ship, by guys extending forward and aft.

"Stand by that fore guy!" shouted Shuffles, as he sprang upon the rail.
"Cast off!"

"Lively, fellows!" said Wilton, when he saw that the third lieutenant
intended to swing in the boom to the ship's side.

"Stand by the after guy of the studding-sail boom!" continued Shuffles,
with becoming energy.

Both his orders were promptly obeyed; but seeing that his movement would
be too late, he rushed to the topping-lift, and cast it off, causing the
swinging boom to drop into the water, just as the last boy was about to
slide down into the professors' boat. Of course the luckless fellow went
into the water; but he was promptly picked up by his companions in
mischief.

"If I'm caught, Bob Shuffles, you look out for breakers!" cried Wilton,
as the third lieutenant appeared at the gangway again.

The tide was coming in, and the boats swung so far abaft the boom that
it had fallen clear of them when it dropped into the water. Wilton and
Monroe were prompt to avail themselves of their present success, and the
boys sat in the boats, with their oars up, ready to pull as soon as the
order was given.

"Let fall!" said Wilton; and the eight oars of the professors' barge
dropped into the water, and the rowers placed them in readiness for the
first stroke.

Monroe, in the third cutter, followed the example of his principal, and
was hardly a second behind him.

"Give way!" added Wilton.

"Give way!" repeated Monroe; and the two boats gathered way and darted
off towards the nearest point of the shore.

Thus far the enterprise of "our fellows" was entirely successful, and
Shuffles stood on the gangway, chagrined at the defeat which had
attended his efforts to prevent the escape of the runaways.

"Stand by to clear away the first cutter!" shouted he, suddenly and with
energy, as he made his way to the davits, where the boat indicated was
suspended.

"Cast off the gripes, and man the falls!" he continued when the watch
were collected at the scene of action. "Mr. Kendall, you will inform
the captain what has happened."

Within three minutes, the first cutter was in the water, for the crew
had been frequently exercised in the evolution of lowering boats, and
performed it with remarkable facility for boys. Before the first cutter
touched the water, the captain, the principal, and all the professors,
came on deck.

Mr. Lowington was entirely cool, though everybody else appeared to be
intensely excited. The crew of the first cutter were piped away, and at
the principal's suggestion, the third lieutenant was sent off in the
boat to prevent the landing of the rebellious pupils.

"Up oars! Let fall! Give way!" said Shuffles, in the boat, delivering
his orders in rapid succession; and the first cutter darted off in chase
of the runaways.




CHAPTER VI.

THE FOURTH OF JULY.


The first cutter was manned by her regular crew, who had been trained
with the utmost care to pull together, while Wilton, in the professors'
barge, which was of the same size, had some very indifferent oarsmen.
The runaways had made up their force of such material as they could
obtain, and though all were somewhat accustomed to rowing, they had not
been drilled to work together; they were not the unit of power in
pulling a boat. Shuffles, therefore, had a manifest advantage, and he
was determined to bring back the fugitives.

The second cutter, in charge of Paul Kendall, was cleared away, and,
with Mr. Lowington and Mr. Fluxion on board, left the ship to take part
in the pursuit. The chase promised to be an exciting one, for Wilton and
Monroe were straining every nerve to reach the shore before they were
overtaken. They were making for the nearest land, and having just the
number of hands required to pull the boat, each of them was obliged to
use an oar himself. They had no coxswains, and Wilton, at the bow oar of
the professors' barge, could not see what was ahead, though he kept the
pursuing boats in full view.

The nearest land, not more than half a mile from the ship, was a point
covered with salt marsh, above which was a cove, whose opening was about
ten rods in width. Wilton was making for the point below the cove, but
his calculations were made without judgment or discretion. If he reached
the land, his party would be obliged to walk a mile in order to get
round the cove, on a narrow strip of marsh, where they might be
intercepted. But the fatal defect in his plan of operations was a
failure to consider the depth of water between the ship and the point.
The flow of the tide from the cove, while it kept a clear channel
through the entrance, had formed a bar off the tongue of land on the
seaward side of it, which was bare at half tide, and was now just
covered. Wilton was pulling for this bar, with all the strength of his
crew.

Shuffles was prompt to observe the mistake of his late crony, and just
as prompt to profit by it. The first cutter was gaining rapidly on the
chase; but Shuffles, as she reached the border of the main channel,
ordered his coxswain to keep the boat's head towards the entrance of the
cove.

"We shall never catch them on this tack," said the coxswain of the
cutter, who knew nothing about the bar.

"I think we shall," replied the third lieutenant, confidently.

"We are not going towards the point."

"That's very true, and the professors' barge will not go much farther in
that direction. Pull steady, my lads; don't hurry yourselves. There is
plenty of time."

The coxswain thought his superior officer was taking the matter very
coolly, and knowing of the intimacy which had formerly subsisted between
Shuffles and Wilton, he was ready to conclude that the third lieutenant
was willing to permit the escape of "our fellows." While he was putting
this construction on the conduct of his superior, the professors' barge
"took the ground," and stuck fast.

"They're aground, Mr. Shuffles," said the coxswain.

"There's just where I expected them to be," answered Shuffles, quietly.

"Shall I run towards them?"

"No; keep her as she is. There isn't more than a foot of water anywhere
between them and the point."

The third cutter, being a smaller boat than the professors' barge, did
not touch the bar as soon as her consort; but Monroe saw that his craft
could not land her party on the point at that stage of the tide, and he
ordered his crew first to lay on their oars, and then to back water.
Wilton's boat was aground at the bow, and when he had sent part of his
crew aft, she was easily pushed off the bar. By this delay he had lost
the chance of landing at the point, and his only alternative was to pull
up to the cove; but in doing so, it would be impossible to avoid the
first cutter, which had now secured a position off the mouth of the
little bay.

"Stand by to lay on your oars," said the coxswain of the first cutter,
as directed by the lieutenant in command. "Oars!"

The crew ceased rowing, and laying on their oars, waited the next
movement of the runaways. In the mean time the second cutter was well
away from the ship, and Mr. Lowington, promptly comprehending the
intentions of the third lieutenant, directed the officer in command to
pull towards the boats on the bar, keeping well to seaward, in order to
prevent them from escaping in that direction.

Wilton realized that he was cornered, and hoping that Shuffles would not
be over-zealous in the discharge of his duty, directed his course
towards the opening of the cove. A few strokes brought him within
hailing distance of the first cutter.

"No use, Wilton," said Shuffles, laughing. "You may as well pull for the
ship. It's all up with you."

But the leader of the runaways, instead of heeding this good advice,
attempted to push by astern of the first cutter.

"Stern, all! Give way!" shouted Shuffles, sharply. "Coxswain, stand by
with your stern line!"

It was generally understood that the third lieutenant of the Young
America was a fighting character, and that he could whip any officer or
seaman in the ship, though his prowess had not been practically
demonstrated. Shuffles took the stern line himself, instead of
intrusting the duty to the coxswain. He intended to grapple the bow of
the professors' barge, and make fast to it with the rope; but the cutter
did not gather way enough in season to do this. As she backed, she
fouled the oars of the barge, and Shuffles secured a firm hold of her
stern.

"What are you doing, Bob Shuffles?" demanded Wilton, angry, when he saw
that his late crony was fully in earnest.

The third lieutenant made no reply; but passing his rope through a ring
in the stern of the barge, he made it fast, and then pushed the cutter
off from her. When the line had run out about a fathom, he secured the
end he held in his hand to the after thwart of his own boat. Thus the
first cutter and the barge were lashed together, stern to stern.

"Cast off that rope!" shouted Wilton to the stroke oarsman in the barge.

"Don't you touch it, my lad," interposed Shuffles, when the boy
attempted to obey the order of his leader. "If you attempt it, you will
purchase a sore head."



The third lieutenant had picked up a boat-hook, and stood ready to rap
any of the barge's crew who might attempt to cast off the line by which
the boats were fastened together. No one was disposed to cross the
purposes of so formidable a person as Shuffles, and the stroke oarsman
did not obey the order of Wilton. It would not be safe to do so.

"Now, Wilton, what do you say?" demanded Shuffles, a smile of triumph
playing upon his face, which was very aggravating to the leader of the
runaways. "Will you go back to the ship, or not?"

"No, of course I won't," replied the discomfited chief of the
malcontents.
