in a boyish, enthusiastic fashion, shared his walks, and was 
most happy when he could command his attention for the 
discussions that were the youth's delight. Tessy flitted from 
baby Alice to Isabel Suydam, and occasionally strayed off 
with Leonard Auchester, who appeared to consider himself 
her special cavalier. The boyish element in his nature 
found an outlet in these attentions. But Tessy did not 
develop any flirting propensities. She gravely accepted 
Leonard's escort and devotion, acknowledged flowers or 
little favors with a womanly dignity that would have been 
amusing but for its perfect good faith. There was no undue 
forwardness to distress Mabel ; so she only looked on with 
a quiet smile. 
Lily and Clara were inseparables, and sheltered themselves 
a great deal under Mrs. Auchester's indulgent wing. Fred 
and Ulric were their attendant shadows. Clara appropriated 
her cousin when it suited her fancy, as she did every one 
else. It was more difficult to break away from her, because 
she based her regard and privilege on pure cousinly grounds, 
and took the latter as a right. 
TJlric found that in some indescribable way he had lost 
rather than gained with Lily. Not in regard, for in her fit- 
ful fashion she was more lavish than ever before. Yet it 
satisfied him less than her chary, piquant coolness. Fred's 
attentions could not be at all exclusive, for. Lily's beauty 
and vivacity attracted others to her shrine. Among the 
lingerers at the Mountain House were several unexception- 
able gentlemen, who saw in her freshness the same charm 
that had won Ulric Auchester months before. And this 
new life fed her desire for power and admiration. She 
seemed to ripen with a summer warmth, to dazzle with a 
swift, enchanting grace that stirred the pulses of those she 
came in contact with. Capricious, versatile, haughty, and 
gentle, by turns, no one could be sure of her next mood. 
Her fascination never palled on or satisfied any one. Ulric 
felt the tide too strong for him to breast, and resolved to 
wait and watch patiently until they came to quiet sailing. 
The elders matrons of three degrees kept much to- 
gether. Mabel had visited the mountains shortly after her 
arrival at Rothelan, and was quite content to miss some of 
the rides and walks that the girls enlarged upon so raptu- 
rously. She listened with evident pleasure to all ; indeed, 
her apartment was considered a kind of headquarters, where 
every one went to report. 
And Daisy ? Perhaps it was not surprising that Richard 
should in some degree forget the others. Mabel's fond 
eyes had already detected the secret unconfessed to himself. 
Without exciting the slightest suspicion, she managed to 
give them much of each other's society. To Daisy it was a 
bright, new world, opened by the magic hand of Love. Her 
enjoyment rendered the mountains a fairy Alp, the falls 
a Niagara. The refined enthusiasm that was a part of her
nature, and had met with no vent hitherto, came out now. 
Her eyes deepened and filled with a tender, joyous light, 
the old shadow often disappearing entirely. And Richard 
took a strange delight in wandering alone with her the 
sweet selfishness of ripening love when it longs to garner up 
every smile, every word, and to feel them particularly its 
own. T^hat lovely, enchanting days those were ! He lived 
in a charmed atmosphere. She felt the new life in every 
pulse, yet was too innocent to give it a name. And so it 
happened they often walked or rode happy in silence, save 
where the beauty of Nature in some of its wild groupings 
demanded words from the full soul, steeped in its perfect 
loveliness. They lingered in dusky hollows, where the moist 
odor of the trees gave out its peculiar fragrance, and the 
.unceasing melody of the falling waters brought a dim and 
dreamy satisfaction, as if it was a retrospect of some past 
existence. 
And when they chose to go nearer, to stand behind 
the snowy, rushing mass as it came leaping down into its 
bed of foam for a mere breathing space, and then whirled 
onward, sparkling in the brilliant sunshine, the scene was 
wild and enchanting. The rocky crests were dappled with 
pink and gray, or frost white, save where in some recess it 
changed suddenly to twilight gloom. Here a clump of trees 
stood out boldly in burnished green, or a bit of dead limb 
silvered with the double effect of sun and spray. The 
crested surge danced gayly along, breaking into richer intri- 
cacy, until the whole scene glowed in wondrous beauty. 
Yet what was that to the tender eyes turned full and ear- 
nestly upon him the low voice whose sweetness found its 
way to his heart above the din of the roaring, dashing 
waters ? He liked the timid yet perfect trust with which 
she clung to him, and dared dangers that made her tremble. 
Each day brought a new charm, a more delicious knowledge 
of the pure heart unfolding before him. He shut out the 
past. He wanted to think her true life dated from this 
happy present. 
 
Lily was delighted with the scenery, also, and enjoyed 
many a pleasant ramble. But Mr. Auchester rarely had her 
to himself. Indeed, an intimacy with the boarders at Pine 
Orchard, a resort a few miles distant, soon sprang up, and 
called for daily drives back and forth. 
Clara was not idle, nor did she allow herself to be dis- 
tanced. She made a conquest quite speedily. A Mr. Vin- 
cent grave, gentlemanly, and immensely wealthy, as Fred 
soon learned became singularly attracted to the gay girl. 
Clara laughed over the interviews, and declared she took 
him into training from pure generosity ; yet it must be con- 
fessed that she took unusual pains to entertain him, and that 
he evinced a decided preference for her society. As Lily 
was constantly with her, much of Mabel's oversight was 
necessarily relinquished. 
As I said, Mr. Auchester endeavored to be patient. It 
was a difficult and dangerous struggle. Now and then, 
when Lily rushed daringly into proscribed indulgences, his 
eyes flashed and his voice trembled with suppressed passion. 
She was not wise enough to heed the signs ; while he, aston- 
ished at his own endurance, rather treasured up than for- 
gave, not so much from hardness of will as from the fact that 
she seemed never to think pardon necessary. 
There were many delightful evenings both at the Mountain 
House and Pine Orchard. The last gayety of the season 
culminated/ in a hop at the former place. Special pains 
were taken to make the affair highly agreeable. When 
Tessy gained permission to spend an hour or two in the 
dancing-room, her joy was boundless, though sustained with 
spasmodic assumptions of gravity. 
" And then for home," exclaimed Mr. Auchester. " Truly 
I shall be glad. Who would have thought we should find so 
much dissipation in this quiet place ? " 
" It's almost as good as Saratoga. I'm not sure but that 
I have had more real pleasure," said Clara. 
'It has been charming perfect," responded Lily. "I 
fihall be sorry to return home." 
 
" Is it really your idea of perfect happiness ? " Mr. Au- 
Chester asked, while his eyes forced hers to meet them. 
" Perfect of its kind, certainly." 
" And its kind is very satisfactory, I suppose ? " 
" I should be most ungrateful if it were not, after all the 
trouble that has been taken for my enjoyment," was Lily's 
adroit reply. 
"I think we shall have something different presently," 
Mr. Auchester said, biting his lip. 
" Anything for a variety," laughed the gay girl. 
But when Mr. Auchester asked her to walk with him, she 
pleaded her dress, which must be put in order for the evening, 
and, with one pretence or another, gave him no opportunity 
to see her alone. After dinner the girls indulged in a 
refreshing siesta. Then Lily went down lo the balcony, 
and found Fred and Archie reading. 
"You are too late," Fred exclaimed, mischievously. 
" Mr. Gregory has taken off my august cousin. If you will 
allow me to try, I may perhaps be able to give you as good 
advice." 
" I am in an admirable mood ; so proceed," said Lily, 
archly. 
" Suppose we take a little walk, then, while I collect my 
scattered thoughts, unless you are afraid of offending his 
high mightiness." 
He knew it was just the sort of an insinuation to make 
Lily yield. He was forced to admit to himself that he had 
not won one victory over this charming girl, and it wounded 
his vanity considerably. He was not used to being thwarted 
in this fashion, and it increased his desire. If she would 
only forget every one else just a moment for him ! 
" You seem to stand a good deal in awe of your cousin," 
she said, with an arch gayety that quite took off the point of 
his speech. " And I am ready for the walk. Will you 
eome, Archie ? " 
No. Archie was too deeply interested in his book. 
 
Clara watched them sauntering down the path. " What 
foolish child ! " she said to herself. " She ought to keep her 
freshness for this evening." 
Lily would have been very well satisfied if Archie had ac- 
companied them. She did not intend to go far, but in the 
enjoyment of the walk and their gay conversation she soon 
forgot her prudent resolves. 
Philip and Mr. Auchester returned presently. The latter 
lounged about uneasily until invited into Mrs. Gregory's 
parlor. Clara soon joined them. 
" Where is Lily ? " he asked. 
" I saw her go off with Fred half an hour ago," she 
answered, with a suggestive little smile. 
He generally ignored her attempts at teasing him, but just 
now he felt in anything but a tranquil mood. So they had a 
rather sharp skirmish, ending by his retreat from the field. 
He went immediately in search of Lily, as the best method 
of cooling his temper. The calmness of the past fortnight 
was breaking up like an ice-bound sea. Hard and jagged 
edges of distrust, suspicion, wounded love and pride, clashed 
together in his mind. What did the child mean by giving 
him this burden to carry ? Surely she must love him in a 
weak, easily satisfied manner, not as he loved her. And the 
thought that he was not all to her, stung him with a keen 
pain. 
With eager steps he sought her in familiar haunts, in vain. 
They must have gone some distance, then. The picture that 
persistently rose before him was not a pleasant one for a mau 
in his mental state to linger over. With morbid quickness he 
recalled every incident since that first evening with Fred. 
Had they been honorable rivals, each endeavoring to win 
Lily, he would have regarded his cousin with a certain re- 
spect. But it was the acknowledged trifling that angered 
him now that, in spite of himself, gloomed over his heart, 
and brought a fierce light to his eyes. The luxury of hope, 
the past enjoyment of bliss, and the solemn surety of a 
 
passion strengthening and deepening with every hour of his 
existence, turned into a tempest, and raged wildly through 
his soul. 
Better that the fire had spent itself then, than that he, 
with one of those strong impulses common to self-centred 
men, should have smothered it. He said, with a cold, but 
determined mastery over himself, that he would be calm ; 
and thus his eyes were blinded to the real crisis by the very 
feelings he was attempting to control. 
The westward sun was sending lengthening shadows from 
tree and shrub, when he saw them come in sight, walking 
slowly, Lily apparently in her gayest mood. Some power 
impelled him to step aside and let them pass. Fred was 
carrying a bunch of scarlet salvia. When they paused at 
the steps, he said, 
" Here are your flowers. You will wear some to-night for 
my sake, and I promise to consider myself amply repaid for 
my trouble." 
She flushed a trifle at his glance, and replied, 
"You are the perfection of cavaliers, certainly. I am 
obliged, and also glad to find you so easily recompensed. 
They are lovely." And she held out her hand for the 
bouquet. 
Fred Auchester's first daring impulse was to press the 
dainty fingers to his lips ; but he had learned a little by ex- 
perience. He merely bowed, and held the hand in his some 
seconds longer than was necessary. 
" I am all impatience for to-night ! " he resumed. " The 
last brilliant affair of the season isn't that aufait? And 
a crowd from Pine Orchard to help us make merry. But I 
think I know who will not be eclipsed." 
" Your own self, for instance," returned Lily, laughing. 
" Such an event is not down in the almanac. There ia 
no fear. But we must be late, for I hear the bell. Adieu ! " 
And she glided through the hall. 
" Where have you been, runaway ? " exclaimed Clara. 
'' Ulric went to look for you an hour ago. The young man 
is evidently on the ' rampage.' And, Lily, if he should ever 
become your lord and master, I think you would stand a fair 
chance of being ' brought up by hand.' " 
Lily's eyes sparkled with a light compounded of pride and 
amusement. 
" And those splendid flowers ! " continued Clara. " Can't 
you spare me a stem or two for my adornment ? Where in 
the world did you find them ? " 
" You may have as many as you wish," said Lily, arran- 
ging them in a vase of water. 
"You 'had better hurry!" Mrs. Auchester exclaimed, as 
she entered the girls' apartment. " The supper bell will 
ring soon." 
Lily gathered her shining curls in a net, changed her dress, 
and was presentable by the time the summons reached them. 
In the hall Mr. Auchester rose before her like a phantom, 
and drew her hand through his arm. Fred, coming a moment 
later, bit his lip in vexation. 
" Where have you been ? " Ulric demanded, in a cool, 
stern whisper. 
" Rambling, like the river in the poem, ' at my own sweet 
will,' " she answered, carelessly. " I must take my fill of 
beauty, for our stay draws to its close." 
" I am thankful," was his almost involuntary announce- 
ment. 
" Why ? It is so lovely here ! " and she glanced up with 
the childish abandon that had so often disarmed him. 
" Remember, I have not seen the whole world and all its 
delights. Daisy and I make Niagara, Switzerland, and the 
Alps out of it. I dare say, as I grow older and wiser, I 
shall smile over this enthusiasm ; but now it is everything 
to me." 
" Everything to you ! " he repeated, with a bitter intona- 
tion. But it was lost upon her, for some one appealed to 
her decision in a trifling matter ; and with a suppressed sigb 
 
he held his peace, and listened to the merry badinage. All 
at their end of the table was complete enjoyment. 
Lily might have lingered awhile with Mr. Auchester, but 
she pleaded dressing as an excuse for hastening away. He 
could not speak of the flowers without betraying a closer 
knowledge of their conversation than he cared to reveal just 
now ; so, thinking if he procured some others it would keep 
her from wearing Fred's, he left her the more readily. 
Something in his eyes and voice started a faint suspicion 
in Lily's mind. But she was too careless to heed it. She 
wanted her full liberty this night, and meant, if possible, to 
evade any opportunity for restriction. 
Clara and she commenced the task of adorning with ready 
fingers. And yet, somehow, Lily dallied unconsciously. 
She brushed her shining hair until it was smooth as satin, 
and rolled off coils of golden ringlets. Early in the day 
'she had decided on wearing white ; so there was no discus- 
sion on dress. Daisy and Tessy flitted in and out, the child 
wide-eyed in wondering pleasure. Lily was in a generous 
mood, and nothing annoyed her. 
" The music ! " exclaimed Mrs. Auchester, as the band 
began their discord of tuning up, breaking now and then 
into snatches of inspiriting melody. " Lily, child, how slow 
you are ! Clara is ready." 
" All but my flowers. Lily promised to share her spoils 
with me. I should have had a tnight sufficiently thoughtful 
to send me some sweet token of his regard. Come, divide 
your scarlet glory." 
There was a light tap at the door, which Mrs. Auchester 
answered. 
" Miss Lily ? " It was Ulric's voice. 
" Is to remain invisible full fifteen minutes longer," 
laughed Clara, cautiously peeping out. " What is your 
pleasure, my august cousin ? I will undertake to convey 
any message to her chrysalis state." 
Ulric smiled. " My pleasure and wishes, since I cannot 
see her, are, that you will give her these flowers, with iny 
regards, and ask her to wear them to-night. They are my 
especial favorites. And when may I have the pleasure of 
escorting you both to Fairy-land ? " 
" I'm glad you did not bring a glass slipper, for we want 
to stay until after midnight. These flowers are most exqui- 
site. But some one has been before you." 
" Tell her to wear these," he said, abruptly, turning 
away. 
" I wonder where he found tuberoses ? " Clara said, as she 
handed them to Lily. " Mrs. Kinston was frantic for some, 
and said she had sent everywhere. You'll have to bequeath 
me all the scarlet, now." 
" No, indeed. I must have a little. Twist this through 
my curls will you ? " And taking some of the moss-buds 
from the edge of the bouquet, she substituted the salvia. 
" That improves it," exclaimed Clara. " I don't like so 
much dead white." 
Lily fastened another spray of salvia and a rose-bud in 
her dress at the throat. She did indeed look lovely. The 
beauty of her shoulders was enhanced, not hidden, by the 
dress of India mull, delicate as cambric. Her arms were bare, 
but clasped with Richard's gift, the pearls. The gleam of 
the scarlet flowers heightened the effect ; yet in her secret 
heart she felt a little condemned for wearing them. 
" You are perfect," said Clara. " You will charm every 
one." 
" Even Mr. Vincent ? " 
" Poach on my manor at your peril ! And now make me 
equally beautiful." Clara turned away her face to hide its 
uncomfortable warmth. 
She was robed in a thin, gauzy fabric, whose black back- 
ground sparkled with tiny golden wheat heads, clustered 
about with small, brilliant flowers. Her jewels were rubies, 
and with trailing stems of salvia in her hair, she looked 
bright and radiant. 
 
Then they went to Mabel's room to be admired. They 
all felt the power of Lily's beauty. Daisy kissed her with 
a sudden impulse of affection. 
" You do your family great credit," remarked Richard, 
with a bow of mock politeness. 
Mabel had some charges to give concerning Tessy, who 
was to be allowed a brief glimpse of the gay scene, in com- 
pany with Isabel Suydam. Fred Auchester made his appear- 
ance, announcing that the Pine Orchard party had arrived. 
" And where's my little princess ? " inquired Leonard. 
The "little princess" was as grave and important as if 
she expected to undergo a court presentation. 
Lily stood quite still until the rest had passed, for she saw 
Mr. Auchester waiting in the hall. They fell somewhat 
behind the others, and instead of bestowing a word of com- 
mendation upon her, as was his general custom, he asked, 
rather sharply, though in a low tone, 
" Where did you get those red flowers ? I thought I sent 
you enough to wear." 
" Thanks for yours ; they are lovely. But I liked these, 
and Clara said they improved me greatly." 
" And doubtless some one else will say it." Since you are 
not striving to please me, why should it matter ? " 
She glanced furtively at his face. It was simply impas- 
sible. It was too late for him to look hurt or annoyed. As 
they reached the ball-room just then, she evaded a reply. 
 
CHAPTER XXIX. 
Then go ! the promptings of thy heart obey; 
Despise the voice of reason and good counsel; 
Be quite the woman, swayed by each desire, 
That bridleless impels her to and fro. 
GOETHE'S IPHIGEWTA. 
THE large apartment had been tastefully ornamented with 
evergreens and clusters of bright berries, with here and 
there a knot of brilliant wild flowers. The glamour of lights 
and music, the beautiful dresses that fluttered and settled 
themselves into a changeful, undulating sea, and the radiant 
faces, formed a most enchanting picture. To Daisy, as well 
as Tessy, it did seem veritable Fairy-land. She walked 
around with Richard, half bewildered by the sights and 
sounds. The waves of melody throbbing on the night air 
moved her strangely. The undertone of nearly all music is 
unconsciously sad. So she listened with a yearning heart to 
the violin's clear strain, the French horn blowing out deli- 
ciously tender notes, and the great clang when the heavier 
instruments came in grandly. 
" You like it ? " Richard commented, smiling down into 
the sweet face. 
" O, so much ! " 
He was glad to see her thus happy. Indeed, the scene 
interested him not a little. Yet it seemed a long while since 
