And Hope, unconscious of this, made herself sweeter 
every day. For him, alone. As a little girl, pleasing 
him had been her first duty. Now it grew into some- 
tiring tenderer. I do not know as she understood her- 
self why his approbation was so much to her, why she 
treasured every smile, why she spurred up Joe's latent 
energies to make home more attractive. 

Hope Vennard's nature had that delicate finish, call 
it tact, if you will, though that hardly expresses it, the 
rare faculty of understanding and meeting the moods of 
another. Joe lacked this entirely ! Some things she 
avoided from a sort of dumb terror, like admitting her 
knowledge of Stephen's secret ; but in so many respects 



 

she was deficient in that womanly adaptiveness that 
renders some so charming ! More than once she had 
been made absolutely cross and miserable by its exercise 
in Hope. And through these years she had come to 
perceive that her vague dreams respecting Stephen 
could never be reality. She could see the inharmonious- 
ness of their natures that while his had broadened and 
deepened, while he had grown to be the perfect gentle- 
man, she had taken on few new graces. Hope played 
and sang to him ; when she met with a choice little 
poem, she read it aloud, or, better still, repeated it in 
her rich, enchanting tones, just at twilight, when it was 
most effective. She embroidered slippers, or put his 
initials in the corners of pocket handkerchiefs, with her 
dainty needle, that seemed endowed with magic. If she 
twined a flower in her hair, it drooped in the most 
exquisite manner. Everything she touched grew lovelier 
from the contact. 

And then she was in the first flush of girlhood, Joe 
fading in her" thirties. Yet it must be confessed the 
years improved her, or else Hope's influence. I think 
the young girl, in the lavish generosity of her nature, 
would have endowed Joe with half her beauty, and half 
her gifts, had such a thing been possible. As it was, 
she always brought her out into the best light, when Joe 
was not sullen and ungracious, as she never could be 
long with Hope. 



 

And her eyes at last saw what both were unconscious 
of betraying. There had always been a little dull 
jealousy regarding Hope. Yet Stephen seldom petted 
her as one naturally might a child, and Hope had been 
shy in this one respect, though free enough in all others. 
But the certainty had come gradually upon Joe. first 
that Stephen could never love her, and then that he 
loved another. It roused her to a sort of angry despera- 
tion. How dared Stephen think of the child, when his 
hand was red with the father's blood ! 

For all this time the belief had clung stubbornly to 
Joe that she alone had solved the mystery. I am not 
sure but it rendered her the more persistently tender 
towards him, knowing there was one thing that his new 
life and position could never efface, a deed that brought 
him down to the lowest level. She had received Hope 
the more kindly because she felt Stephen owed her some 
amends, and she was willing to share his burden. But 
that any warmer interest should exist, seemed monstrous 
even to her narrow mind. 

Yet the years had been very pleasant to them all, 
interspersed with an occasional visit to New York, the 
first of which had been the grandest holiday in Joe's life. 
Many quiet little home pleasures had brightened the 
time, for Stephen had truly endeavored to make them 
both happy. He had meant to devote his whole life to 
this object. Every indulgence was lavished upon Hope. 



 

If she had so willed, she might have reigned a queen. 
She was neither imperious nor selfish ; she liked better 
to give than to receive ; and since in so many things she 
must be a recipient, she gave daily of her abundant 
sweetness. 

And so they came around to March to a time that 
was always a little festival. They were rather late at 
breakfast, for Joe had been suffering from a severe cold 
for several days. As Stephen rose from the table he 
said, 

"Hope, run up to my room and bring me a roll of 
drawings lying on my desk. I forgot them." 

Hope was off like a flash, up to the apartment before 
Joe had found the energy to say, 

"Why, you laid them in the book-case last night, 
Stephen, after you finished the model." 

" Did I ? I believe you're right, though ; " and as he 
went to the sitting-room, he called out, "They're down 
here, Hope." 

She met him at the doorway, flushed and smiling. 
He was slowly buttoning his coat. 

" Too bad ! " he began, with a smile. "I'm growing 
old and forgetful." 

"Are you?" There was a sort of merry light in her 
face. 

"Do you know what day it is?" he asked. 

"My birthday." 



 

"And what do you want, girlie? I ought to have 
thought sooner, and given you a party." 

" Next year you may. I shall be a woman grown 
then. So don't be too lavish, for I have a fancy I shall 
live to be a venerable dame, and there's a many birth- 
days from seventeen to seventy." 

" Seventeen ! " he repeated, looking her over. Hard- 
ly medium size, slender and round, with pliant, shapely 
limbs, and the fair face full of softest pencillings. How 
wonderfully beautiful it was ! The tiny veins filling 
with the lightest emotion, making her flush with a 
thought ; the tender, luminous eyes ; and the ripe, full 
mouth inviting caresses with its dainty curves. Oh, if 
she could be his ! He drew a long, long breath. 

" Does it frighten you the prospect of my growing 
old ? You look so grave." 

He placed both arms around her, and, yielding to the 
half-unconscious pressure, her head sunk upon his 
breast. 

"No, it was not that." His voice had a strange, 
strangled sound, and then he paused for many seconds. 

" Something came in my mind just then a subject 
that has troubled me sorely. Help me to decide, 
Hope." 

" If I can." 

" Hope," the voice was tremulous as well as husky, 
now, "suppose one man committed a deadly sin 



 

against another, in one of those evil moments of life when 
temptation was strong, and human nature weak. It 
changed the man's whole course, deprived him of home, 
caused him much suffering ; but if the other repented 
sincerely, humbly, and made all the restitution in his 
power, do you think he could be forgiven?" 

" Why not, Stephen ? " 

" O, you do not understand," and he roused himself. 
" What if it had been you. If some one had wronged 
you bitterly, deprived you of every pleasure and com- 
fort, sent you into the world " 

"An outcast, a beggar, as I was. And Mr. For- 
syth wronged me. No, don't speak. Has he come 
back?" 

That answered Stephen Dane's purpose as an illustra- 
tion. " Well, if he had returned," he went on, hurried- 
ly, " if he made or was willing to make all the repara- 
tion in his power, could you forgive him ? " 

"I could not forget that he had sinned against an- 
other as well. Sometimes one feels the wrongs of 
one's friends more keenly than one's own. And poor 
mamma ! " 

Stephen struck his clenched hand to his forehead. 
The pulses in his temple throbbed with passionate 
anguish. Yes, if she knew all, she would hate him for 
his father's crime. 

" You couldn't forgive him then ? " There was a 



 

despairing entreaty in his tone, something that pleaded 
powerfully, but could not hope. 

"It would be hard, but I should do it at last, because 
it was right. Only I couldn't love him." 

" No ; a man must be wild to expect it. A blind, 
weak fool ! O, Hope, there is just such a man in the 
world, and he cannot feel satisfied with the forgiveness 
he wants the love. His life looks so barren without it ! 
But it is right. God means every sin shall be atoned 
for by its kind. Dear, it is cruel for me to torment 
you." 

His manner moved her strangely. 

"It is Mr. Forsyth," she said. "I forgive him be- 
cause you plead for him, because I " she was about 
to add, " because I love you," in its simplest fashion ; 
and then, with a great rush of feeling, that drowned out 
every other thought, she knew she could never utter the 
words again until he asked for them. The innocence 
of ignorance was gone, and love was almost shamed into 
.guilt by the suddenness of the revelation ; so she stood 
trembling in his arms. 

He mistook her agitation. 

"Xo," he answered, "it is not Mr. Forsyth. I don't 
think he will ever be so far repentant" with a grim, 
hard smile. " It was another man." 

Hope's breath came hard and rapid. Stephen felt it 
against his heart. "Forgive me," he said, softly. 

" No, you have never sinned against me." 



 

"If I had?" 

For answer she raised her face until it met his, and 
kissed him. A vague suspicion entered his mind, but he 
dared not even give it room. Then he put her away 
from him, and walked slowly through the hall, bewil- 
dered. If it was possible to believe ! 

Hope threw herself on the sofa, and buried her head 
deep in the pillow. The burning face, with the temples 
throbbing so wildly from an emotion that was neither 
fear nor expectation, but something quite new and over- 
whelming. She could not think. She only breathed 
until Joe called. 

"Do you know it is almost nine, Hope? What are 
you doing ? " 

Hope ran for her hat and shawl, gathered up her 
books, and was off to school. The wild March blast 
blew in her face, but she never heeded it. The thick 
gray skies lowered about her, yet she was insensible to 
their influence. She could not seem to waken herself 
from the strange spell. 

Joe had the house to herself all day. Ivaty would 
not let her do any work, but settled her on the sofa, and 
tied up her aching head with a napkin dripping with 
aromatic vinegar ; and there Hope found her on her 
return at three in the afternoon. She petted her a little 
while. There was something magnetic in Hope's 
fingers, as well as her smile. And to-day, a wonderful 
lifjht in her face that startled Joe. 



 

" What is the matter ? " she asked, at length. 

" Nothing. I am seventeen, you know. I ought to 
look different." 

" I don't see why," was Joe's pettish rejoinder, think- 
ing of her own lost and unlovely youth. Yet at seven- 
teen she had dreamed. How vain and idle it had 
proved ! 

Stephen, coming in, found Hope kneeling beside his 
cousin, one white, slender hand in Joe's raven hair. 

" There ! " he exclaimed, dropping a box into the 
other. 

She opened it with a child's eager delight. A beauti- 
ful set of pearls. 

" O, you are so good isn't he, Joe? I wanted 
pearls so much ! A thousand thanks ! " 

Then their eyes met, and hers drooped, while a dainty 
hue flitted over her face. 

"I'm sorry you are sick, Joe," she went on, to hide 
her embarrassment. " We ought to have a good gay 
time, for one can never be seventeen again." 

" No ; " and the tears overflowed Joe's eyes. The 
world seemed wide, and weary, and desolate. 

She came out to dinner, though Hope took the head 
of the table. Stephen watched her with a new interest, 
and, like Joe, thought something strangely beguiling 
had taken possession of her. It was not so much in 
what she said as what she did, and even her very 
silence was expressive. 




 

The night closed in with a storm. Joe's headache 
grew worse ; perhaps, too, there was an undefined pain 
in her heart, that could have no name. As if she felt the 
storm, that was to overwhelm her some day, slowly 
coming on, and she must gather up her forces to resist 
it. She cowered pitifully in the dumb anguish of mental 
as well as physical pain, and wanted darkness and soli- 
tude. I do not know that she prayed for any courage 
or strength ; she had no faith just then. 

When Hope could keep her on the sofa no longer, 
she accompanied her to her sleeping-room. Joe sub- 
mitted to the ministrations of the soft fingers, because 
she felt too weak and miserable to resist ; but once in 
bed, she would not allow Hope to remain. 

It seemed so odd for the young girl to spend that 
whole evening with Stephen I They were so rarely 
alone, except for some few stray moments I This very 
distance had made love stronger and keener. 

She took her sewing and went on quietly, now and 
then giving Stephen a furtive glance. lie sat just before 
the grate, they always used the grate in this room ; 
it was his fancy, and now, with his head a little 
bowed, he was peering into the ruddy glare. Hope 
studied the broad shoulders, the clustering chestnut 
curls, the proud, almost massive head. He was so 
good, so strong, that it rested her to look at him. And 
then she thought of their morning's talk. What had it 
meant? All day she had been wondering if it was possi- 



 

ble that Mr. Forsyth had returned. But, then, he 
could have nothing to do with her. 

Stephen turned suddenly, and caught the glance of 
her steadfast eyes. Tney did not even waver, so intent 
was she. 

" A dull birthday, Hope. Next year we must have 
the party." 

" You give me something better than parties every day 
of my life," she said, gravely. w lt has been a long, 
bright holiday since I have known you." 

"Has it? I am glad. I meant it to be." 

She came and stood beside him, moved by some sud- 
den impulse. He glanced searchingly into her face. 
Was this a girlish whim, or did it have a deeper 
meaning ? 

"Stephen," she said, "will you tell me more about 
the man you spoke of this morning ? " 

" Does he interest you ? It has been a perplexing 
question to me, how far he had a right to take for- 
giveness, even." 

" He should take it just as freely as it was extended 
to him. And if he repented truly, he in some sort 
earned the forgiveness." 

" God knows he did. Hope, do you believe forgive- 
ness washes away sin ? " 
