"Insult you again!" I exclaimed, indignantly, for my blood was up at the
idea of a fellow like him putting on such airs. "No decent man could
stay in the room with you, as you were the first night."
"What do you mean by that?"
"You were as drunk as an owl, and made the room smell like a low
groggery."
"I confess that I took a little too much that night," said he, suddenly
changing his front, and apparently relieved to find that this was the
objection to him. "I shall not do it again."
"I shall keep away from you, any how," I added.
"Will you?" he continued, angry again. "That night I lost some valuable
articles from my trunk. No one but my room-mate could have taken them. I
intend to complain to the captain."
"Indeed! I had a similar experience. I had some valuable letters taken
from my valise; and they could have been taken only by my room-mate; but
I found them again, and I am satisfied. When you complain to the
captain, one story will be good till another is told."
Not wishing to talk with him any longer, I walked aft. He followed me,
uttering threats and imprecations, which I did not heed. E. Dunkswell
was a disappointed man. He had undertaken a mission which he was not
competent to perform. He had failed by his own folly. If he had kept
sober he might have retained my papers. He evidently felt his own
weakness, and realized that whiskey had caused him to make a mess of it.
His hostility was excited against me, and during the rest of the voyage
he watched me with an evil eye, and appeared to be waiting for an
opportunity to do something. For my own part, I felt that there was a
heavy discount on E. Dunkswell.
CHAPTER XXIV.
IN WHICH ERNEST LANDS AT CROOKHAVEN, AND PROCEEDS TO LONDON.
WE had a remarkably pleasant and quick passage, and on the eighth day
from New York, while we were at dinner, I heard the captain say to a
lady who sat near him, that we should be off Queenstown the next
morning, at six or seven o'clock. I was sorry that we were to approach
the land by night, for I wanted to see it.
"You can see it if you choose to sit up all night," laughed Mr.
Solomons.
"It will be rather too dark to see anything," I added.
"Not at all; it is about the full of the moon, and it will be as light
as day. You can turn in early, and sleep four or five hours. We shall be
off Crookhaven, where they throw over the despatch bag, about five or
six hours before we stop off Queenstown; that will make it about two in
the morning. If you will retire at eight, it will give you six hours'
sleep; and you can turn in again and finish your nap after you have seen
enough of the shore."
"I think I will do so, sir. What is the despatch bag you speak of?" I
asked.
"The despatches are put into a barrel and thrown overboard off
Crookhaven, where a steamer picks them up. They are taken ashore and
telegraphed to London. The despatches are simply the newspapers, from
which the news agent transmits the important items."
After dinner, when I went on deck, I found the carpenter preparing a
flour barrel for the despatches. A quantity of sand was put in the
bottom to make it stand up straight in the water. A pole was set up in
the barrel, like the mast of a vessel, to the top of which a blue-light
was attached, to be ignited when it was thrown overboard, in order to
enable the despatch steamer to find it readily. In the daytime a red rag
is sometimes attached to it, I was told by the carpenter. The papers
were placed in a water-tight can, and imbedded in the sand in the
barrel.
At sea almost anything creates an excitement, and the preparing the
despatch barrel was witnessed by many persons, among whom I noticed
Dunkswell. I had observed that he listened very attentively to all that
passed between Mr. Solomons and myself at the dinner table. I did not
regard this as very strange, for all on board were deeply interested in
everything which related to the progress of the steamer.
At eight o'clock I turned in, and went to sleep very soon. I had before
made a trade with one of the stewards to call me at two o'clock, and at
this hour he waked me. The night was beautiful; the moon shone brightly
on the silver waters, and the sea was quite smooth. I did not see a
single passenger on the hurricane deck. I made out the outline of some
high hills on the shore, and the glimmer of a couple of distant lights.
Three men were standing ready to throw over the despatch barrel as soon
as the small steamer should appear.
I was a boy then, and had a boy's curiosity to see how everything was
done. The hurricane deck was surrounded by an open railing, on the top
of which I placed myself, where I could see over the stern of the ship.
I was so accustomed to the water, and to high places, that I had no fear
of anything. I put my legs over, and sat facing astern.
"Don't sit there, young man; you'll certainly fall overboard," said the
officer of the deck, who had come aft to see that the barrel was ready
to go over.
"No danger of that," I replied, easily.
"Better get down, and come on board," added a quarter-master.
"I'm an old sailor," I answered, laughing at the caution.
"Steamer on the port bow!" cried some one forward.
"Ready with the barrel!" called the officer.
"All ready, sir!" replied the quarter-master, whose attention was thus
turned away from me.
The barrel was lifted over the rail, near where I sat, and held there
till the order should be given to let it go. The quarter-master had a
match in his hand to light the fireworks. Over on my right I could now
see the little steamer, rising and falling on the long swells of the
placid, moonlit ocean.
"Light up, Murray!" called the officer, when the despatch boat was but a
short distance from the steamer.
The blue-light hissed and flared up when the match was applied, shedding
its livid glare upon the weather-stained faces of the seamen.
"Over with it!" shouted the officer.
It soused into the water, and I leaned forward to observe the splash.
"Stand by the fore-braces!" called the officer; and the seamen rushed
forward to execute the order.
At that moment I heard a step behind me on the deck; but I was too much
absorbed in watching the blue-light on the barrel to heed anything else.
The next instant I found myself spinning through the air, and then
plunging deep down into the bosom of the tranquil sea. I was in my
element now, though it was rather too much element; but I struck out, as
soon as I rose to the surface, for the blue-light. I shouted for help;
but the great steamer seemed to be hard of hearing, and went on her way
as though nothing had happened. I swam as I had never swum before, and
reached the barrel just as the despatch boat stopped her wheels to pick
it up.
"Steamer ahoy!" I shouted
"Who's there?" called a voice from her deck.
"Man overboard!" I replied, puffing from the violence of my exertions.
"Where away?"
"On the barrel."
"I see him!" said one of the hands, as the bow of the boat ran up to the
barrel.
A rope was thrown to me, and I was assisted on board.
"What's the matter? Did you fall overboard from the steamer?" asked a
well-dressed, gentlemanly man, on the deck of the boat.
"Yes, sir; I suppose I did; I don't know exactly how it happened," I
replied, spitting the salt water out of my mouth.
"You are fortunate to fall over just as the despatch boat was
approaching you."
"Probably I shouldn't have fallen overboard if I had not been watching
the barrel so intently."
"What shall we do for you?" asked the gentleman, kindly. "Come into the
cabin, and get your wet clothes off."
The crew of the steamer were busy getting in the barrel, and my new
friend, who was full of sympathy, conducted me to the cabin, where I
divested myself of a portion of my clothing. By this time the despatches
had been secured, and the captain came below. He gave me a flannel shirt
and a pair of trowsers, and sent me to his state-room to put them on. I
was very much alarmed about the safety of the contents of my money-belt;
but, on removing it, I found that the oiled silk, in which the bank
notes and the papers had been enclosed to prevent the perspiration of my
body from injuring them, had protected them in a great measure. A few
drops of water had penetrated through the folds of the silk, but no harm
was done to the documents or the money.
I wrung out the belt and put it on again, after I had wiped myself dry.
Clothing myself in the flannel shirt and pants, both of which were "a
mile too big for me," I returned to the cabin. The captain then carried
all my clothes to the furnace-room to be dried, just as the boat stopped
at Crookhaven to land the despatches.
"I suppose you would like to follow the steamer, young man," said the
gentleman who had been so kind to me.
"Very much, indeed!" I replied, eagerly; for I feared that the accident
would render my mission to England fruitless.
"You are extremely fortunate again," added he. "This steamer is to
proceed to Kinsale with me immediately."
Mr. Carmichael, the gentleman who addressed me, proved to be an agent of
the telegraph company, who had come down to this station to look after
its affairs. His business was finished, and he was in a hurry to reach
London; but it was twenty miles, by a rough and tiresome road, to any
public conveyance, and the steamer had been placed at his disposal. He
told me he should have gone the day before, but the boat was required to
be on the watch for the despatches.
"I hope to reach Kinsale in time for the nine o'clock train to Cork,"
said he. "If we do, you will not be much behind the steamer. Had you any
friends on board?"
"Yes, sir, one gentleman," I replied.
"Of course he will be troubled about you. Perhaps you would like to
telegraph to him."
I was pleased with this suggestion, for I felt that I had one good
friend on board of the ship who would worry about me in the morning,
when my absence was discovered. Knowing that Mr. Solomons intended to
stay at the Washington Hotel in Liverpool, if he had to wait for a
train, and at Morley's in London while in the metropolis, I wrote a
brief despatch, to be forwarded to each, which Mr. Carmichael sent to
the office. The steamer then proceeded on her trip to Kinsale, at three
o'clock.
I was very grateful to Mr. Carmichael and the captain for their kindness
to me, and I did not fail to express my obligations in the strongest
terms. A berth in the cabin was assigned to me, and as the run to
Kinsale would occupy between five and six hours, I turned in to finish
my nap. I was too much excited to sleep, and I could not help thinking
of what had happened to me. I had never done such a thing as to fall
overboard without some help. Though I was not positive, I had a very
strong impression that I had felt something on my back, while watching
the blue-light on the barrel. Whether it had been the swaying of the
signal halyards against me, or the push of a human hand, I was not
certain; but I could not help believing that E. Dunkswell had helped me
to my involuntary bath. I don't know now, but I still believe it.
I had no doubt he had been instructed by Tom Thornton to see Bunyard
before I did. Whether the villain intended to drown me, or only to delay
my arrival in London, I have no means of knowing. Doubtless he intended
to land at Queenstown, and get to London eight or ten hours before the
passengers who proceeded to Liverpool in the steamer. I went to sleep at
last, satisfied that I was again the victim of a conspiracy. But when I
was awakened at half past eight, in Kinsale harbor, I was also satisfied
that the way of the wicked shall not prosper.
My clothes, thoroughly dried, were brought to me, and I dressed myself
in season to land for the train for Cork, where we arrived as soon as
the mails and those of the passengers who landed there. I breakfasted
with Mr. Carmichael at the Royal Victoria, and at twenty minutes of
eleven we took the train for Dublin, where we arrived at half past
three. Though I made diligent search among the passengers, I could not
find E. Dunkswell, and I concluded that he had gone to Liverpool in the
steamer. In the evening I took the train for Kingstown, where I embarked
in the steamer for Holyhead, at which place I again took a train, and at
seven o'clock on Saturday morning was at Morley's, in London, at least
eight hours before my fellow-voyagers could arrive.
After I had breakfasted, I took the Bunyard letter from my money-belt,
and hastened to find Old Jewry.
CHAPTER XXV.
IN WHICH ERNEST VISITS STONY STRATFORD, AND E. DUNKSWELL COMES TO GRIEF.
THOUGH I was in a strange land, and in the midst of the wonders of the
Old World, I had but little curiosity to see the grand sights which
London can present. I had been whirled through Ireland, Wales, and
England to the great metropolis, part of the time by daylight; and
though I had kept my eyes wide open, I realized that my mission was
higher and grander than studying landscapes, and wandering through the
vaulted arches of old cathedrals.
When Mr. Carmichael told me, early in the morning, that I was in
England, the thought that I was in the same country with my mother
thrilled me with delight, which, however, was not unmingled with
apprehension lest I should seek and not find; lest disease and death
had robbed me of her I sought. At the station in Euston Square I had
parted with the telegraph agent, with many thanks for his kindness. I
took his address, hoping that at some future time I might be able to
reciprocate the attention he had bestowed upon me. I may as well say
here that Mr. Carmichael afterwards came to the United States, and that
I helped him to a situation which paid him ten times the salary he had
ever before received, when he was as grateful to me as I had been to
him.
Morley's Hotel is in Trafalgar Square, at one end of the Strand. I had
looked up Old Jewry in the Post-office Directory. The hall porter of the
hotel had given me general directions, and I walked out into the Strand,
and took an omnibus with the word "Bank" painted on it. On the top of
the London omnibus there is a double seat along the middle, on which the
passengers sit facing the buildings on each side of the street. I
occupied one of these places. The Bank of England was my objective
point, for Old Jewry was near it. I passed St. Paul's, whose towering
height and blackened walls I recognized, and entered Cheapside--a name
which sounded quite familiar to me. I descended from my perch when the
omnibus stopped, and after several inquiries found the place I sought.
Old Jewry was nothing but a narrow lane, and I had no difficulty in
finding the number of Mr. Bunyard's office. I followed his name,
repeated on the walls, up three flights of stairs; and by the time I had
reached the third floor, I came to the conclusion that my uncle's agent
was a person of no great consequence. He was fortunately in his room, a
little apartment ten feet square, with no furniture but a desk and two
chairs. Mr. Bunyard was a man of fifty or more. He stopped writing when
I entered, and looked at me.
"Mr. Bunyard?" I asked, as politely as I could, while my heart leaped
with emotion.
"The same," replied he.
I handed him the letter, which he opened at once. He took from it a bill
of exchange, which seemed to light up his face with satisfaction.
"I am very happy to hear from my friend Mr. Thornton. I hope he is quite
well. He does not mention the bearer of this letter," continued the
agent, bestowing an inquiring look upon me.
"He was not aware, when he wrote the letter, that I should be the bearer
of it," I replied, evasively. "My name is Thornton."
"I am happy to meet you, Mr. Thornton," he added.
"How is Mrs. Thornton now?" I inquired, boldly, though my heart almost
sank within me, when I put the question.
He looked at me--appeared to hesitate; but a glance at the letter and
the bill of exchange I had brought apparently reassured him. Doubtless
he concluded, as I supposed he would, that it was all right, since I
came directly from his employer, and was the bearer of a payment to him.
"Mrs. Thornton is quite as well as usual," he replied.
"I wish to see her," I continued, squarely.
"Did your father desire you to see her?" he asked, doubtfully.
"Of course he did," I answered, which was quite true, though my
conscience charged me with deceiving him. "I wish to make an
arrangement with her."
"Indeed?"
"Yes, sir."
"It would be proper that any arrangement with her should be made through
me," he added, cautiously.
"Of course, the actual business will be done through you," I replied,
magnanimously.
"Certainly it should be, for I have served Mr. Thornton very faithfully
for many years in this matter, and at a very reasonable compensation."
"I know that he appreciates your devotion, and is willing to do the
right thing by you," I continued at a venture; and I thought there was
no harm in committing my uncle to a liberal policy.
"I have been paid only one hundred pound a year for my services, and
that only for a brief period. Really I must insist, before you see the
poor lady, that you should explain your business with her."
"My time is short," I replied, rather brusquely. "I wish to know for
what sum, cash down, you will terminate your relations with the lady."
"That will require some consideration," replied he, apparently pleased
with the idea.
"Of course your client in this matter is entirely in your power. He
cannot shake you off, and whatever arrangement is made with the lady
shall be done through you. Now, if you will give me her address, I will
go and see her, and in the mean time you can make up your estimate of
the sum that ought to be paid to you," I said, with the most
business-like air I could assume.
"I will do it," replied he, after some hesitation; and he wrote the
address on a piece of paper.
How eagerly I took it! I felt then that the battle had been fought and
won. On the paper was written: "Mrs. Thornton, Stony Stratford, Bucks.
Inquire for Mrs. Challis." My business with Mr. Bunyard was done, and I
hastened away, though he insisted upon my remaining longer. I think he
was sorry he had given me the address before I left the room.
Being near the banker's, I drew fifty pounds, which was paid without
question.
I went back to Morley's, and ascertained that Stony Stratford was on
the road to Rugby, and that I must leave the train at Wolverton station.
I called a Hansom cab, and reached Euston Square depot just in time for
the train. I will not attempt to describe the emotions which agitated me
as I sped over the country. I was on the point of meeting my mother, and
though the rich panorama of an English landscape was passing before me,
I could think of nothing else. In two hours I reached the Wolverton
station, and there learned that it was four and a half miles to Stony
Stratford. I engaged a team to take me over. My driver inquired till he
found the house of Mrs. Challis. It was a small and mean dwelling, and I
began to feel indignant that my mother was compelled to live in such a
place. My knock, under the influence of this feeling, was a very decided
one.
"Is Mrs. Thornton at home?" I inquired--my utterance almost choked by
agitation--of the woman who came to the door.
"She is, but she don't see any one," replied the woman, sourly, as she
abruptly closed the door in my face.
I rapped again, and my knuckles not proving sufficient, I used my boot.
"You can't see Mrs. Thornton!" snarled the woman, angrily, as she opened
the door a little crack.
"I can and will!" I replied. "Mr. Bunyard sent me."
"O, did he?" she added, opening the door.
"Here's the paper he gave me."
She looked at it, and invited me to enter. My limbs trembled under me as
I walked into the room.
"Mrs. Thornton is out in the garden, but I will call her," said Mrs.
Challis--or I supposed it was she.
"Never mind calling her. I will see her in the garden," I added, going
out of the back door, which was open, without waiting for the woman's
permission.
Walking in the back part of the garden I discovered a lady, thin and
pale, dressed in coarse but neat garments. It was my mother. I could
hardly control myself. My eyes filled with tears as I looked at her.
"Mrs. Thornton?" I asked, tremblingly.
"I am Mrs. Thornton," replied she, gazing curiously at me.
"I suppose you know Amos Thornton?" I continued, not daring to tell her
who I was.
"To my sorrow I do," she replied, shaking her head.
"I have heard that you had a son."
"He is gone--why do you ask?"
"Gone?"
"He is dead," said she, sadly.
"Are you sure?"
"For a long time I would not believe it."
"I think it is a mistake."
Her chest heaved with emotion, and the tears flowed down her pale cheek.
She gazed at me a moment, and then threw her arms around my neck.
"You are my son--I know you are!" sobbed she.
"My mother!" was all I could say; and we wept for many minutes in
silence, closely folded in each other's arms.
When I raised my head, Mrs. Challis was standing by us. She had a
troubled look, as though she feared something had gone wrong.
"What does all this mean?" she asked; but neither of us took any notice
of her.
"I have hoped all the time that you were not dead," said my mother,
smiling through her tears.
"I must return to London immediately, and you must go with me, mother,"
I continued.
"To London!" exclaimed Mrs. Challis. "Indeed she must not go to London!"
"Indeed she must!" I added, as decidedly as though I meant to break
through a stone wall, if need be. "Get ready as quick as you can,
mother, for there is not more than time enough for us to reach the
station."
"I say she cannot go!" interposed Mrs. Challis.
"And I say she can and shall! Get your clothes, mother."
"There is three pound five due for her board," added the landlady.
"Give me the bill, and I will pay it."
My mother seemed to be bewildered, but I led her to the house, and urged
her to prepare for her journey. Mrs. Challis, after I had paid her bill,
continued to object to the departure of her boarder. I told her if she
wished to keep out of trouble, the less she said, the better it would be
for her. My poor mother had been so long a prisoner, that she was
confused by the sudden change in her prospects. I went into her room,
and assisted her in packing her meagre wardrobe. She had put on a
well-worn black silk dress, and an antiquated bonnet lay on the table. I
told her to take only such clothing as she would need immediately, for I
saw that most of her wearing apparel was not worth the transportation.
Having thrust these articles into a carpet-bag, I hurried her out of the
house to the carriage which was waiting for me at the door.
We reached the station in time for the London train. My mother was
excited, and I did not permit her to speak of the past. I kept up a
lively conversation, and did not allow her to think of her wrongs and
her sorrows. On our arrival, we went to Morley's, where I obtained a
room for her. Mr. Solomons had just arrived. He had received the
telegraphic despatch in Liverpool. I hastily told him my story, and what
I had done since my arrival in London.
"My dear boy!" exclaimed he, "you have done wonders. I was sure you were
lost overboard. No one had seen you, or heard anything of you; only the
officers and sailors had warned you not to sit on the rail."
"Where is Dunkswell?" I asked.
"He came to London in the same train I did."
At my request Mr. Solomons accompanied me to the office of Bunyard. When
we entered, Dunkswell was there. Both of them had found out that
"somebody" was smart.
"Young man, you have deceived me!" said Bunyard, savagely.
"The wicked deceiveth himself," I replied, in words better than my own.
"I have called to say that you need give yourself no further trouble in
regard to Mrs. Thornton. I wish to tell you now that she is in London,
and that she is my mother."
