
"I do not expect to forfeit my reputation as such by what I have done.
Mr. Parasyte, the boys are dissatisfied. We are not little children.
We have all reached the years of discretion, and we know the
difference between right and wrong, between justice and injustice."

"Do you intend to read me a lecture?" demanded the principal, angrily.

"No, sir; I had no such intention--only to state the facts."

"But you are arraigning me, the principal of the Parkville Liberal
Institute," added Mr. Parasyte, measuring the judge from head to foot.

"You may call it what you please, sir."

"May I ask what you purpose to do?" continued the principal, in a
sneering tone, not unmingled with timidity.

"Poodles," said the judge, turning to the lank toady, "stand up."

He obeyed; and being now with the majority of the boys, I think he was
mean enough to enjoy the discomfiture of Mr. Parasyte, for there can
be no real respect or true sympathy in the relation of one flunky with
another.

"Are you ready to tell the whole truth?" demanded Vallington.

"I am," replied Poodles.

"Perhaps you will be willing to inform Mr. Parasyte, in the beginning,
whether you do so of your own free will and accord, or not."

"I do so of my own free will and accord."

"Did you perform the examples on the examination paper without any
assistance?"

"I did not."

"How many did you do yourself?"

"None of them."

"Who struck the first blow in the affray on the pier with Thornton?"

"I did," answered Poodles, with a silly leer. "Thornton told the facts
just exactly as they were."

"You may sit down."

Mr. Parasyte wiped his brow again.

"Pearl," continued Vallington.

This culprit, unlike his companion in guilt, looked sheepish and
crestfallen, as he slowly rose from his seat. He was not so base and
low-minded as Poodles, and he felt a genuine shame for the mean
conduct of which he had been guilty.

"Have you anything to say, Pearl?" asked the judge.

"I lent my paper to Poodles, who copied the solutions from it,"
replied Pearl, with his glance fixed upon the floor.

"That's all; you may sit down."

Pearl seated himself; and if a pin had fallen to the floor then, it
might have been heard in the anxious silence that followed. Mr.
Parasyte's chest heaved with emotion. He wanted to storm, and scold,
and threaten, but seemed to be afraid to do so.

"I have nothing more to say at present, Mr. Parasyte. In the name and
in behalf of the students, I have brought the facts to your notice,"
said Vallington, breaking the impressive stillness, as the principal
did not seem disposed to do so.

"After the riotous proceedings of this afternoon, I might have
expected this; but I did not," the principal began. "You appear to
have intimidated Poodles to such an extent that he has entirely
modified and reversed the statements he made this afternoon. He is a
weak-minded boy, and it was not difficult to do so."

This remark roused the ire of Poodles, and it required a sharp
reprimand from the judge to repress his impertinence.

"Pearl is a poor boy, upon whose fears you seem to have successfully
wrought. A confession from either of them, under the circumstances, is
not reliable. I do not countenance this meeting, or these proceedings.
I am not to be intimidated by your action. In regard to what you have
done, I have nothing to say; but I require you to separate, and go at
once to your rooms."

"Will you be kind enough to inform us what you intend to do, Mr.
Parasyte?" said Vallington.

"I am not to be taken to task by my pupils."

"We do not intend to resort to any disorderly proceedings," added the
judge. "Poodles and Pearl, without compulsion, have acknowledged
their errors, and it has been fully proved that Thornton was not to
blame for the affair on the pier. We ask, therefore, that Thornton be
restored to his rank and privileges as a member of the Institute. If
this is not done, at least fifty of us will sign a paper urging our
parents and guardians to take us away from this school."

"I will grant nothing under these circumstances--promise nothing,"
replied the principal, doggedly.

"We are in no haste. We leave the matter for your consideration, Mr.
Parasyte. We will all go to our rooms now."

Vallington left the chair, and walked out of the school-room, followed
in good order by all the students who had taken part in these
irregular proceedings. I was going out with the rest, when Mr.
Parasyte intimated that he had something to say to me, and I remained.
When the boys had all gone, he invited me to accompany him to his
private office--a small apartment, opening from the main hall, near
the front door, in which he received callers, and sat in state when
not employed in the school-room.

There is an old saying that "you must summer and winter" a man before
you know him. Mr. Parasyte was considered a tyrant; not a coarse and
brutal tyrant, but a refined and gentlemanly one, who cows you by his
polite impertinence. He seldom indulged in harsh speech, never in
personal violence--at least no instance of it was known to the
students. He indulged in sneers and polished browbeating. A boy was
never stupid--he lacked common intelligence; never a blockhead--his
perceptions were very dull. His polite epithets were more cutting than
good round invectives would have been.

He had a will of his own; and he was obstinate, mulish, pig-headed. If
he had been surprised into declaring that black was white, then black
would continue to be white, in spite of positive demonstration to the
contrary. He was dogmatic to the last degree; and this is a fault to
which the schoolmaster is peculiarly liable. It required the event of
the day whereof I speak to enable us fully to comprehend Mr. Parasyte.
We had summered him before; now we were to winter him.

What he had said in the school-room indicated that he intended to
regard the confessions of Poodles and Pearl as extorted from them by
intimidation, and that he purposed to persist in persecuting me. I had
no desire to be a martyr; but I did not see how I could help myself.

"Thornton, I see you intend, if possible, to break up the Parkville
Liberal Institute," said he.

"No, sir, I do not. I hadn't anything to do with what took place in
the school-room," I replied.

"You did not seem to be a martyr there," sneered he. "The boys have
made a mistake; so have you. They don't know me; you don't. You got up
a quarrel this afternoon."

"No, sir, I did not."

"Don't contradict me," said he, sharply. "I say you got up a quarrel
this afternoon."

"And I say I did not."

"I am in no humor to trifle with you," said he, opening a desk, and
taking out a cowhide.

I was willing to confess, when I saw that implement, that I had not
known him before. He was about to step down from refined to brutal
tyranny.

"Poodles himself has confessed that he lied," I added, taking no
further notice of the cowhide.

"Confessed!" exclaimed Mr. Parasyte, savagely. "The boys have either
bribed or frightened him into this confession. It will have no effect
upon me."

"I have nothing to say, then," I answered, with dignity. "If you will
look into the case again, and require Poodles to do the examples, you
will see that you, and not the boys, have made a mistake."

"Silence, sir! I don't intend to be addressed in that impudent way by
any student. I have attempted to suppress this rebellion by mild
means; but they have failed. I have been to see your uncle. As I
supposed he would, he has taken a proper view of the case. He does not
wish to have you expelled, and I revoke my sentence; but he desires to
have you reduced to subjection."

My uncle had actually spoken, and taken sides with the tyrant. I was
astonished, but not intimidated.

"I have drawn up a paper for you to sign, which shall be read to the
boys to-morrow morning. There it is."



I glanced at the document. It was an acknowledgment of all Mr.
Parasyte charged me with, and a promise to behave myself properly. I
refused to sign it. The principal rolled up his sleeves, and took the
cowhide in his hand. He looked cool and malignant.

"Then I shall do as your uncle wishes me to do--reduce you to
subjection," said he. "Consider well what you are doing."

"I have considered, sir. If you strike me with that cowhide, I shall
do the best I can to defend myself."

"Do you threaten me?" demanded Mr. Parasyte, stepping towards me with
a jerk.

"No, sir; but I will not submit to a blow, if it costs me my life."

"Won't you? We'll see."

He did see. He struck me. The blow cut my soul. I sprang upon him with
all the tiger in my nature let loose. I kicked, bit, scratched. I
clawed at his throat like a vampire, and, though severely belabored, I
finally wrenched the cowhide from his grasp, and hurled him back so
that he fell full length upon the floor.




CHAPTER IX.

IN WHICH ERNEST STRIKES A HEAVY BLOW, AND WINS ANOTHER VICTORY.


I was astonished at my own prowess, as I stood, with heaving breast,
gazing at the prostrate form of the vanquished tyrant. I was a stout
young fellow, heavy enough and strong enough for a boy of fifteen; but
I did not regard myself as a match for a full-grown man. I suppose the
fury and impetuosity of the onslaught I made had given me the victory
before Mr. Parasyte was able to bring all his power to bear upon me.

I was satisfied with what I had done, and did not care to do any more.
I wished to leave; but the principal had locked the door, and put the
key into his pocket. I glanced at the window, hoping to find a means
of egress in that direction, though it was at least ten feet above the
ground. But ten feet are nothing to a boy of spirit; and I was moving
towards the window, intending to take the leap, when Mr. Parasyte
sprang to his feet, and confronted me again. If ever a man wore the
expression of a demon, the principal of the Parkville Liberal
Institute did at that moment; and it was patent to me that, unless I
could effect my escape, my trials and troubles had but just commenced.

I was more disposed to use strategy than force; for, in spite of the
victory I had won, I was fearful that the tyrant "carried too many
guns" for me. The malignity of his aspect was accompanied by an
expression of pain, as though he had been injured by his fall. This
was in my favor, if I was to be again compelled to break a lance with
him.

"You villain!" gasped Mr. Parasyte, with one hand upon his side. "How
dare you resist?"

"I have no fancy for being cut to pieces with a cowhide," I replied,
as coolly as I could, which, however, was not saying much.

"Your uncle wished me to reduce you to subjection, and to flog you
till you came to your senses."

"I am not very grateful to my uncle for his request; and I have to
say, that I will not be tamely flogged either by you or by him."

"What do you mean to do?" demanded he, apparently astonished to find
me so resolute.

"I mean to resist as long as I am flogged," I replied, twisting the
cowhide I still held in my hand.

Saying this, I jumped upon the window-seat, and unfastened the sash.

"Stop!" said he, moving towards me.

"I know what you mean now; and if you come near me, I will hit you
over the head with the butt-end of this cowhide," I replied, raising
the sash.

"I intend to reduce you to subjection at any hazard," he added.

Without making reply, I attempted to get out of the window in such a
way that I could drop to the ground, or "hang off" with my hands. In
doing this, I laid myself open to the assault of the enemy, who was
prompt in perceiving his advantage, and in availing himself of it.
Seizing me by the collar with both hands, he dragged me back into the
office, and hurled me heavily upon the floor, at the same time
wrenching the cowhide from my grasp. I sprang to my feet with the
celerity of a wounded tiger; but the principal began to beat me with a
zeal corresponding to his malignity.

A heavy round ruler on the desk, which had before attracted my
attention, was available as a weapon, and in the fury of my passion I
grasped it. Without thought or consideration except in my own defence,
I sprang upon the tyrant again, and dealt him several heavy blows with
the implement, until one was planted in such a place on his head that
it knocked him insensible upon the floor. Panting like a hunted deer
from the rage which filled my soul, and from the violence of my
exertions, I gazed upon the work I had done. Mr. Parasyte lay
motionless upon the floor. I took the key from his vest pocket, and
unlocked the door.

In the hall I found several persons, including Mrs. Parasyte, and Mr.
Hardy, one of the assistant teachers. They had been sitting in the
parlor opposite the office, and had heard the noise of the desperate
struggle between the principal and myself.

"What have you done!" exclaimed Mrs. Parasyte, greatly alarmed when
she saw her husband lying senseless upon the floor.

"This is bad business," added Mr. Hardy, as he hastened to the
assistance of the principal.

"Is he dead?" asked the wife, in tremulous tones.

"No--O, no! But he has had a heavy blow on the temple," replied the
teacher.

I assisted Mrs. Parasyte and Mr. Hardy in carrying my foe to his
chamber. I was alarmed myself. I feared that I had done more than I
intended to do. I went for the doctor at the lady's request; but
before my return Mr. Parasyte had come to his senses, and complained
of a severe sickness at his stomach. The physician carefully examined
him, and declared that his patient was not seriously injured. I need
not say that I was greatly relieved by this opinion. I left the room,
intending to depart from the house, though it was now nearly eleven
o'clock at night. Mr. Hardy followed me out into the hall, and wished
to know where I was going.

"Home," I replied.

"I'm afraid you have got into difficulty, Thornton," added he.

"I can't help it if I have. I didn't mean to hurt him so badly; but it
was his own fault."

"How did it happen?"

I told him how it happened; but Mr. Hardy expressed no opinion on the
merits of the case. He knew, as well as I did, that Mr. Parasyte had
been wrong from the beginning; but being in a subordinate position, it
was not proper for him to condemn his principal.

"The boys are in a riotous condition, and it is fortunate they do not
know of this affair. I hope you do not intend to inform them--at least
not to-night," he added.

"No, sir, I do not. I have tried from the first to keep the peace.
Poodles confessed to Mr. Parasyte that he had lied about the affair on
the pier, but he refused to believe him. I am sorry there has been any
trouble; but I couldn't help it."

Mr. Hardy was really troubled; but he could not say anything, and he
did not. He was a poor man, trying to earn the means to study a
profession by teaching, and a word or a look of sympathy to a rebel
like me would have cost him his situation. He was a just and a fair
man, and as such was loved and respected by all the students. Many of
the boys had often wished that he might be the principal of the
academy, instead of Mr. Parasyte, who had established and who still
owned the institution.

There was nothing more to be said or done, and I left the academy for
home. I was sincerely sorry for what had happened. Even a quarrel in
which I had been the victor had no pleasant reflections for me. I
would have submitted to any punishment except the flogging, and borne
the injustice of it without a complaint; but I had been required to
confess that of which I was not guilty, and I could not do that. I
hated a lie of any kind, and I could not tell one to save myself from
the consequences of the tyrant's rage and injustice.

I considered all the events of the day as I walked home, and came to
the conclusion that I was not to blame for the mischief that had been
done. If I had been haughty and disobedient, it was because I had been
treated badly. I certainly did not deserve flogging, and it would have
been impossible for me to submit to it. If I had been guilty, I could
have borne even that.

My uncle had counselled Mr. Parasyte to reduce me to subjection; and
much I marvelled that he had found words to say so much. It was an
evidence of interest in me which he had never before manifested. It
was plain that, in the settlement of the difficulty, I must count upon
the opposition of my uncle, who had already espoused the principal's
side of the quarrel. But I did not make any rash resolves, preferring
to act as my sense of right and justice should dictate when the time
for action came.

As I approached the cottage by the lake, I saw a light in my uncle's
library. My guardian sat up late at night, and rose early in the
morning. He did not sleep well, and he always looked pale and haggard.
He was a misanthrope in the worst sense of the word. He seemed to have
no friends, and to care for no one in the world--not even for himself.
Certainly he had no regard for me.

Of his past history I knew nothing; but I had already concluded that
he had been subjected to some terrible disappointment or injustice. He
appeared to suffer all the time; and if he would have permitted it,
how gladly would I have assuaged his woe by my sympathy! He was cold
and forbidding, and would not permit me to speak a word to him. I had
once tried to make him tell me something about my father and mother;
but, with an expression of angry impatience upon his face, he had
turned and fled in disgust from me.

I longed to know who and what my mother was; but my questions brought
