Caribbee would sail.

On Monday evening, when Dock had been gone three days, Levi had taken
tea at Mr. Watson's, and was reading the daily paper, which the
merchant had brought from Boston.

"That's too bad!" suddenly exclaimed the young skipper, dropping the
paper, and looking at Bessie.

"What's too bad, Levi?" she asked.

"There's to be a yacht race in Portland harbor to-morrow, at eleven
o'clock, to sail for a silver pitcher."

"I do not see anything wicked in that," laughed Bessie.

"Nor I; but it is wicked that I did not know of it before. I am sure
The Starry Flag will beat anything of her size this side of New York;
and I am provoked to think I did not know of this race sooner, for a
silver pitcher would be a very handsome ornament for our cabin."

"Is it too late now?" asked Mr. Watson.

"The race comes off at eleven, to-morrow forenoon, and five yachts have
already entered," answered Levi, glancing at the paper again.

"Well, haven't you time to sail down there before the race?"

"If we sail to-night we have time enough. We can get there in ten hours
with a good breeze; with a stiff one, in six," replied Levi, beginning
to be excited.

"How is the wind now?"

"About west--a six-knot breeze."

"Let us start at once, then. I had as lief sleep on board the yacht as
on shore," said Mr. Watson.

"O, do go!" exclaimed Bessie.

"Do go!" repeated Mr. Watson, laughing. "Do you expect to sail in a
regatta, Bessie?"

"To be sure I do! I must go, father! I have been longing, ever since we
had the yacht, to sail in a real live race."

"But, Bessie, we must make a night run to Portland."

"So much the better! I shall enjoy it above all things. My state-room
on board is just as good as my chamber up stairs, and I like it
better."

"Your aunt Mary is sick, and cannot go with you," suggested her father,
alluding to Mrs. McGilvery.

"But you are going, father," persisted Bessie.

"True, I am; but----"

"Do let me go, father."

"I suppose you must go if you insist upon it."

"I do insist with all my might!" exclaimed Bessie, delighted with the
prospect.

"It will take us a couple of hours to get ready," said Levi, as he
looked at his watch; "but we can get off by ten o'clock. The only
difficulty I can see is, that yachts must be entered on the day before
the race;" and he picked up the newspaper again.

"We must get over that somehow," replied Mr. Watson, who seemed to be
quite as much interested as Levi and his daughter.

"How? With the best breeze we can expect, we can hardly reach Portland
before six in the morning."

"While you are getting the yacht ready, I will ride over to Gloucester,
and telegraph to a friend of mine in Portland, who will have The Starry
Flag entered to-night."

"That will do it splendidly!" exclaimed Bessie, delighted to have the
obstacle removed.

"The cook and steward are on board, but the hands are all at home,"
said Levi. "I will go and find them."

Mr. Watson rang the bell, and ordered the horse and buggy. Bessie went
to her room to prepare for the cruise, and Levi hastened over to Mr.
Mogmore's house, where he found Mat, whom he sent to look up the other
three hands. The young skipper pulled off to the yacht. The water tanks
were examined, and found to contain a week's supply at least. The
steward was sent on shore, with directions to bring off the men, and a
stock of ice and fresh provisions, after he had put the two state-rooms
in order.

By the time Augustus had procured his steak, chops, butter, milk, and
ice, the four hands had assembled at the landing-place, in readiness to
go on board.

"Hurry up, now!" said the steward. "Captain Fairfield is waiting for
us."

"There!" exclaimed Mat Mogmore, "I have forgotten one thing. The
captain told me to see Mr. Gayles, and tell him the yacht was going to
Portland; and I did not think of it till this minute."

"We can't wait for you," replied the steward, impatiently.

"You needn't wait. I will get some one to put me on board. Go ahead!"
And Mat ran up the rocks, and hastened towards Mr. Gayles's house.

But he hurried only a moment, till the darkness concealed his form from
his shipmates. Instead of going up to the town, he returned to the
landing-place as soon as the boat had left. While he stood on the
rocks, the clock struck nine. A few moments later, a boat, containing
one man, pulled up to the Point.

"Is it all right?" asked the person in the boat.

"All right," answered Mat Mogmore, as he stepped into the boat. "We
have no time to lose; Mr. Watson will return soon."

Mat took one of the oars, and they rowed over to the landing-place, in
the rear of Mr. Watson's house. Mat went up to the side door and rang
the bell. He was admitted to the entry, and told the servant he wished
to see Miss Watson. Bessie, who was now all ready, came down stairs
with her travelling bag in her hand.

"Captain Fairfield sent me on shore for you," said Mat.

"Where is my father?" asked Bessie.

"He is on board. He was in a hurry to see the captain, and went on
board with the steward. The yacht is all ready to sail now, as soon as
you go on board."

It was not exactly like Levi to send one of his hands after her; but
the yacht was going off in a hurry, and he must be very busy. It was
strange that her father did not come home before he went on board; but
perhaps he had learned something more about the race, and was in haste
to inform Levi of it. She was only afraid that the trip would be
abandoned. Her mother came to the entry, told her to "wrap up warm," be
careful not to take cold, and then kissed her with an affectionate
adieu. Mat Mogmore led the way down to the boat, and assisted her to a
seat in the stern-sheets.

The night was clear; but it was quite dark, and the darkness on the
water is deeper, and more dense, to a person unaccustomed to the sea,
than on the land. Bessie was not afraid; but after the boat had gone a
few rods from the shore, she had no idea where she was, for the gloom
of night breeds confusion in the mind on the sea.

Bessie did not recognize Mat's companion in the boat; but she supposed
he was one of the crew of the yacht. He did not speak, and she had no
reason to suspect that anything was wrong. Mat Mogmore was well known
to her, and had been long before the yacht was built. He was one of
Levi's hands, and his presence, if she had had any suspicions, would
have been enough to satisfy her.

"How dark it is!" said Bessie to Mat, who pulled the after oar.

"Not very dark, miss," replied Mat. "The stars are out, and we don't
call it very dark when we can see them."

"But I cannot see anything, or tell where I am. I can see the lights in
the town, but I can't make out anything else."

"Because you are not used to it. Can't you see the yacht right ahead of
us?"

"I can see the outline of a vessel, but I couldn't tell whether it was
The Starry Flag or a fishing vessel."

"It's the yacht."

Bessie looked around her, and tried to distinguish the headlands, which
looked like masses of darkness resting beneath the star-lit sky.

"Now you can see the yacht," said Mat, as the boat approached a vessel
which was not unlike the yacht.

"Yes, I see her plain enough now," answered Bessie, taking it for
granted.

"It's a very pleasant night to sail," added Mat, as the boat ran up
alongside the vessel.

"Beautiful!" exclaimed Bessie, as she looked up to the stars.

The boat was brought up to the gangway; the man at the bow oar stepped
out and assisted her on board. Mat Mogmore did not follow her, but
pushed off the boat, and pulled away into the darkness. It still wanted
more than half an hour of the time appointed for the sailing of the
yacht. Mat pulled a short distance from the vessel, and then lay upon
his oars. He waited there fifteen minutes, either to kill the time or
to arrange his plans, and then ran up alongside the yacht.

He had put Bessie on board of the Caribbee!

He was actually in the employ of Dock Vincent.

Mat stepped on the deck of The Starry Flag, whose foresail and mainsail
had been hoisted, and her anchor hove short. The lamps in the cabin and
state-rooms were lighted, and the steward was as busy as a bee, and
delighted at the thought of once more having the beautiful young lady
on board; for it was a joy to serve her, her smile was so sweet, her
voice so pleasant, and her heart so full of kindness.

"Where are you, Mat?" demanded Levi, as the treacherous seaman came on
board.

"My mother has just had a fit, and they say she will not live till
morning," replied Mat, in the most disconsolate of tones. "I shouldn't
have come on board at all if Mr. Watson hadn't sent me with a message
to you."

"What was the message?" asked Levi, tenderly, for he was full of pity
for Mat.

"He told me to tell you that he and Miss Bessie would meet you in
Portland on your arrival. Her mother made such a fuss about her going
off in the night without her aunt, that her father decided to take the
cars, for he heard in Gloucester that an excursion train would come
along about twelve o'clock."

"Very well," said Levi. "I will go on shore with you and see about it.
I hope your mother will get better."

"I hope so. Mr. Watson started right off in the buggy with Bessie."

"Has he gone?"

"Yes, he went right off. He was in a hurry, for he has to drive to
Beverly to catch the train. You won't see him if you go on shore."

"Then I think I will not go; but I will not keep you a moment," added
Levi.

"If you want another hand in my place, I can get Tom Sampson."

"We can get along very well without any more help," replied Levi, as
Mat pushed off.

Levi was vexed that Mrs. Watson's timidity had deprived him of Bessie's
company; but it was like her, and on their trip to the eastward, he had
been obliged to be in port every night to please her. However, he would
receive his passengers on board at Portland the next morning; and, in a
few minutes more, the yacht tripped her anchor, and sailed out of the
bay.




CHAPTER XIX.

THE CARIBBEE.


Bessie Watson stood upon the deck of the Caribbee, and in the darkness
of the night she did not at first discover that the vessel was not The
Starry Flag. She wondered that Levi, with his accustomed devotion, did
not spring to receive her when she came on board; that the steward did
not present his smiling face; and that her ever-anxious father failed
to assure himself that she did not fall overboard in passing from the
boat to the vessel. She was an only daughter, and when she appeared it
was customary to "turn out the guard" and pay all the honors.

To say that Bessie Watson was a pretty girl, is saying very little. She
was a good girl--and this is saying something more, and something
better. Nothing but a true heart and excellent common sense saved her
from being spoiled by the indulgence of her father and mother. Another
devotee was added to those who adored her; but she refused to be
spoiled even by Levi's flattery, if such it could be called; for the
young skipper was as sincere in his admiration of her as of the yacht
he commanded. Bessie did not pout or flout when neither Levi nor her
father appeared to receive her.

The man who had been in the boat with Mat Mogmore was Captain Gauley,
the stranger. After handing Bessie on board, he led the way, in
silence, towards the cabin. There were no lights on deck, and she could
see no difference between the two vessels, even when she had descended
the steps into the cabin; for no light appeared there. The darkness had
been chosen to help the illusion, and Bessie had to feel her way. She
came to the table in the middle of the cabin, and knowing that there
were lockers forming seats below the berths, she groped her way to the
side of the apartment, and seated herself.

"All hands are busy forward in getting under way," said her conductor,
from the steps.

"Where is the steward?" asked Bessie.

"He has been so hurried putting away his stores that he has not been in
the cabin."

"Are you a new hand?" asked Bessie, who did not recognize the voice of
the man.

"I am; I am only going this trip."

"Send the steward, if you please, to light the lamps," added Bessie,
who was reasonable enough to understand that the yacht was going to sea
on short notice, and she did not demand any unnecessary attention under
the circumstances.

"I will send him right down if I can find him."

Captain Gauley went on deck; and Bessie heard a great rattling of
ropes, a swaying of booms, and hasty footsteps above her. She could not
see a thing; but she waited in the gloom for the steward to come and
light the lamps. The noise on deck indicated that all hands were busy,
as the man had said; and even yet she suspected nothing.

Mat Mogmore did not go on shore to see his sick mother. He heard the
order of Captain Fairfield to man the windlass and stand by the head
sails; then he pulled for the Caribbee, to which his boat belonged.
Everything had worked to his entire satisfaction. Levi had been as
credulous as he desired him to be, and The Starry Flag was standing out
of the bay on her way to Portland.

"How is it?" asked Captain Gauley, in a low tone, as Mat came on deck.

"All right; the yacht is under way," replied Mat.

"We must get off at once, then."

"Don't be in a hurry; wait till the Flag has made a couple of miles, so
that Levi won't notice the movements of this vessel. Where is the
girl?"

"In the cabin. It is pitch dark there, and she has not found out where
she is yet," answered Gauley, with a suppressed chuckle, as though the
plan was not only a success, but a capital joke.

The foresail and the mainsail of the Caribbee were hoisted, and her
crew were busy in getting up the anchor. By the time the preparations
were completed, the yacht had disappeared in the darkness and the
distance. The jib was hoisted, and the vessel stood out of the bay in a
direction nearly opposite to that taken by the yacht.

Bessie began to be impatient. The yacht was under way, and still the
steward did not come; still her father, who had nothing to do with
working the vessel, did not make his appearance. Had they forgotten
that she was on board? If they had, it would be the most remarkable
thing that ever occurred. She could not understand it. She knew, as the
vessel was now sailing, that Levi must be at the helm, just at the head
of the stairs, and she decided to go up and speak to him. She could see
the stars through the opening of the companion-way, and she had no
difficulty in finding her way out of the cabin.

"Levi?" said she, as she stepped upon deck.

"He is not here," replied Captain Gauley, who was at the helm.

"Where is he?" asked Bessie; and, without knowing that anything was
wrong, things began to look a little strange to her, or rather to feel
so, for she could not see anything.

"I really don't know where he is, just now," replied the helmsman. "But
he cannot be far off."

"The steward has not lighted the cabin yet," added she.

"The captain told the steward not to do so."

"Did he--why?"

"I think you cannot be accustomed to sailing near the land at night,"
added Captain Gauley.

"I really am not."

"The light would blind the helmsman's eyes so that he could not see the
shore. As soon as we are clear of the Selvages we shall light up."

Bessie was satisfied with this explanation. On board of a Sound steamer
she had observed that the windows in the forward part of the saloon
were covered with thick canvas at night, so that the glare of the light
near the boat should not deepen the gloom beyond it, and thus prevent
the pilot from seeing the land, or other vessels in the distance. But
she was not satisfied with her situation otherwise. The vessel did not
feel like the yacht, and Levi and her father did not appear.

While she stood watching the helmsman, and trying to comprehend the
inexplicable position of affairs, she saw a light in the cabin. She
looked down, and perceived a woman in the act of lighting a lamp.

"Don't light that lamp!" shouted the man at the helm. "It blinds my
eyes so that I can't see to steer."

The woman extinguished the match she was applying to the lamp, and
darkness reigned in the cabin again. Who was the woman? She asked the
helmsman.

"Your father thought you ought to have a female waiter, and he has
obtained one," replied Captain Gauley; but she did not notice the
chuckle with which he spoke.

