thing that pleased me.
"De good Lord, He give me dat happiness," the man answered
gravely.
"And you love Jesus, Darry," I said, feeling that we had
better come to an understanding as soon as possible. His
answer was an energetic 
"Bress de Lord! Do Miss Daisy love Him, den?"
I would have said yes; I did say yes, I believe; but I did not
know how or why, at this question there seemed a coming
together of gladness and pain which took away my breath. My
head dropped on Darry's little window-sill, and my tears
rushed forth, like the head of water behind a broken mill-dam.
Darry was startled and greatly concerned. He wanted to know if
I was not well  if I would send him for "su'thing"  I could
only shake my head and weep. I think Darry was the only
creature at Magnolia before whom I would have so broken down.
But somehow I felt safe with Darry. The tears cleared away
from my voice after a little; and I went on with my inquiries
again. It was a good chance.
"Uncle Darry, does no one else but you read the Bible?"
He looked dark and troubled. "Missie sees  de folks for most
part got no learnin'. Dey no read, sure."
"Do you read the Bible to them, Darry?"
"Miss Daisy knows, dere aint no great time. Dey's in de field
all day, most days, and dey hab no time for to hear."
"But Sundays? " I said.
"Do try,"  he said, looking graver yet. "Me do 'tempt
su'thin'. But missie knows, de Sabbat' be de only day de
people hab, and dey tink mostly of oder tings."
"And there is no church for you all to go to?"
"No, missis; no church."
There was a sad tone in this answer. I did not know how to go
on. I turned to something else.
"Uncle Darry, I don't think your home looks very comfortable."
Darry almost laughed at that. He said it was good enough;
would last very well a little while longer. I insisted that it
was not comfortable. It was cold.
"Sun warm, Miss Daisy. De good Lord, He make His sun warm. And
dere be fires enough."
"But it is very empty," I said. "You want something more in
it, to make it look nice."
"It never empty, Miss Daisy, when de Lord Hisself be here. And
He not leave His chil'n alone. Miss Daisy know dat?"
I stretched forth my little hand and laid it in Darry's great
 black palm. There was an absolute confidence established
between us.
"Uncle Darry"  I said, "I do love him  but sometimes, I want
to see papa! "
And therewith my self-command was almost gone. I stood with
full eyes and quivering lips, my hand still in Darry's, who on
his part was speechless with sympathy.
"De time pass quick, and Miss Daisy see her pa',"  he said at
last.
I did not think the time passed quick. I said so.
"Do little missie ask de Lord for help?" Darry said, his eyes
by this time as watery as mine. "Do Miss Daisy know, it nebber
lonesome where de Lord be? He so good."
I could not stand any more. I pulled away my hand and stood
still, looking out of the window and seeing nothing, till I
could make myself quiet. Then I changed the subject and told
Darry I should like to go and see some of the other houses
again. I know now, I can see, looking back, how my childish
self-control and reserve made some of those impulsive natures
around me regard me with something like worshipful reverence.
I felt it then, without thinking of it or reasoning about it.
From Darry, and from Margaret, and from Mammy Theresa, and
from several others, I had a loving, tender reverence, which
not only felt for me as a sorrowful child, but bowed before me
as something of higher and stronger nature than themselves.
Darry silently attended me now from house to house of the
quarters; introducing and explaining and doing all he could to
make my progress interesting and amusing. Interested I was;
but most certainly not amused. I did not like the look of
things any better than I had done at first. The places were
not "nice;" there was a coarse, uncared-for air of everything
within, although the outside was in such well dressed
condition. No litter on the grass, no, untidiness of walls or
chimneys; and no seeming of comfortable homes when the door
was opened. The village, for it amounted to that, was almost
deserted at that hour; only a few crooning old women on the
sunny side of a wall, and a few half-grown girls, and a
quantity of little children, depending for all the care they
got upon one or the other of these.
"Haven't all these little babies got mothers?" I asked.
"For sure, Miss Daisy  dey's got modders."
"Where are the mothers of all these babies, Darry?" I asked.
"Dey's in de field, Miss Daisy. Home d'rectly."
"Are they working like men, in the fields?" I asked.
"Dey's all at work," said Darry.
"Do they do the same work as the men?"
"All alike, Miss Daisy." Darry's answers were not hearty.
"But don't their little babies want them?" said I, looking at
a group of girls in whose hands were some very little babies
indeed. I think Darry made me no answer.
"But if the men and women both work out," I went on, "papa
must give them a great deal of money; I should think they
would have things more comfortable, Darry. Why don't they have
little carpets, and tables and chairs, and cups and saucers?
Hardly anybody has teacups and saucers. Have you got any,
uncle Darry?"
" 'Spect I'se no good woman to brew de tea for her ole man,"
said Darry; but I thought he looked at me very oddly.
"Couldn't you make it for yourself, uncle Darry?"
"Poor folks don't live just like de rich folks," he answered
quietly, after a minute's pause. "And I don't count fur to
want no good t'ing, missie."
I went on with my observations; my questions I thought I would
not push any further at that time. I grew more and more
dissatisfied, that my father's workpeople should live in no
better style and in no better comfort. Even Molly Skelton had
a furnished and appointed house, compared with these little
bare stone huts; and mothers that would leave their babies for
the sake of more wages must, I thought, be very barbarous
mothers. This was all because, no doubt, of having no church
and no Bible. I grew weary. As we were going up the dell
towards the stables, I suddenly remembered my pony; and I
asked to see him.
Darry was much relieved, I fancy, to have me come back to a
child's sphere of action. He had out the fat little grey pony
and talked it over to me with great zeal. It came into my head
to ask for a saddle.
"Dere be a saddle"  Darry said doubtfully  "Massa Preston he
done got a saddle dis very day. Dunno where massa Preston can
be."
I did not heed this. I begged to have the saddle and be
allowed to try the pony. Now Preston had laid a plan that
nobody but himself should have the pleasure of first mounting
me; but I did not know of this plan. Darry hesitated, I saw,
but he had not the power to refuse me. The saddle was brought
out, put on, and carefully arranged.
"Uncle Darry, I want to get on him  may I ?"
"O' course  Miss Daisy do what she mind to. Him bery good,
only some lazy."
So I was mounted. Preston, Miss Pinshon, the servants'
quarters, the multiplication table, all were forgotten and
lost in a misty distance. I was in the saddle for the first
time, and delight held me by both hands. My first moment on
horseback! If Darry had guessed it he would have been terribly
concerned; but, as it happened, I knew how to take my seat; I
had watched my mother so often mounting her horse that every
detail was familiar to me; and Darry naturally supposed I knew
what I was about after I was in my seat. The reins were a
little confusing; however, the pony walked off lazily with me
to the head of the glen, and I thought he was an improvement
upon the old pony chaise. Finding myself coming out upon the
avenue, which I did not wish, it became necessary to get at
the practical use of my bridle. I was at some pains to do it;
finally I managed to turn the pony's head round, and we walked
back in the same sober style we had come up. Darry stood by
the stables, smiling and watching me; down among the quarters
the children and old people turned out to look after me; I
walked down as far as Darry's house, turned and came back
again. Darry stood ready to help me dismount; but it was too
pleasant. I went on to the avenue. Just as I turned there, I
caught, as it seemed to me, a glimpse of two ladies, coming
towards me from the house. Involuntarily I gave a sharper pull
at the bridle, and I suppose touched the pony's shoulder with
the switch Darry had put into my hand. The touch so woke him
up, that he shook off his laziness and broke into a short
galloping canter to go back to the stables. This was a new
experience. I thought for the first minute that I certainly
should be thrown off; I seemed to have no hold of anything,
and I was tossed up and down on my saddle in a way that boded
a landing on the ground every next time.
I was not timid with animals, whatever might be true of me in
other relations. My first comfort was finding that I did not
fall off; then I took heart, and settled myself in the saddle
more securely, gave myself to the motion, and began to think I
should like it by and by. Nevertheless, for this time I was
willing to stop at the stables; but the pony had only just
found how good it was to be moving, and he went by at full
canter. Down the dell, through the quarters, past the
cottages, till I saw Darry's house ahead of me, and began to
think how I should get round again. At that pace I could not.
Could I stop the fellow? I tried, but there was not much
strength in my arms; one or two pulls did no good, and one or
two pulls more did no good; pony cantered on, and I saw we
were making straight for the river. I knew then I must stop
him; I threw so much good will into the handling of my reins
that, to my joy, the pony paused, let himself be turned about
placidly, and took up his leisurely walk again. But now I was
in a hurry, wanting to be dismounted before anybody should
come; and I was a little triumphant, having kept my seat and
turned my horse. Moreover, the walk was not good after that
stirring canter. I would try it again. But it took a little
earnestness now and more than one touch of my whip before the
pony would mind me. Then he obeyed in good style and we
cantered quietly up to where Darry was waiting. The thing was
done. The pony and I had come to an understanding. I was a
rider from that time, without fear or uncertainty. The first
gentle pull on the bridle was obeyed and I came to a stop in
front of Darry and my cousin Preston.
I have spent a great deal of time to tell of my ride. Yet not
more than its place in my life then deserved. It was my last
half-hour of pleasure for I think many a day. I had cantered
up the slope, all fresh in mind and body, excited and glad
with my achievement and with the pleasure of brisk motion; I
had forgotten everybody and everything disagreeable, or what I
did not forget I disregarded; but just before I stopped I saw
what sent another thrill than that of pleasure tingling
through all my veins. I saw Preston, who had but a moment
before reached the stables, I saw him lift his hand with a
light riding switch he carried, and draw the switch across
Darry's mouth. I shall never forget the coloured man's face,
as he stepped back a pace or two. I understood it afterwards;
I felt it then. There was no resentment; there was no fire of
anger, which I should have expected; there was no manly and no
stolid disregard of what had been done. There was instead a
slight smile, which to this day I cannot bear to recall; it
spoke so much of patient and helpless humiliation; as of one
wincing at the galling of a sore and trying not to show he
winced. Preston took me off my horse, and began to speak. I
turned away from him to Darry, who now held two horses,
Preston having just dismounted; and I thanked him for my
pleasure, throwing into my manner all the studied courtesy I
could. Then I walked up the dell beside Preston, without
looking at him.
Preston scolded. He had prepared a surprise for me, and was
excited by his disappointment at my mounting without him. Of
course I had not known that; and Darry, who was in the secret,
had not known how to refuse me. I gave Preston no answer to
his charges and reproaches. At last I said I was tired and I
wished he would not talk.
"Tired! you are something besides tired," he said.
"I suppose I am," I answered with great deliberation.
He was eager to know what it was; but then we came out upon
the avenue and were met flush by my aunt and Miss Pinshon. My
aunt inquired, and Preston, who was by no means cool yet,
accused me about the doings of the afternoon. I scarcely
heeded one or the other; but I did feel Miss Pinshon's taking
my I hand and leading me home all the rest of the way. It was
not that I wanted to talk to Preston, for I was not ready to
talk to him; but this holding me like a little child was
excessively distasteful to my habit of freedom. My governess
would not loose her clasp when we got to the house; but kept
fast hold and led me up stairs to my own room.
CHAPTER IV.
SEVEN HUNDRED PEOPLE.
"Do you think that was a proper thing to do, Daisy?" my
governess asked when she released me.
"What thing, ma'am?" I asked.
"To tear about alone on that great grey pony."
"Yes, ma'am," I said.
"You think it was proper?" said Miss Pinshon, coolly. "Whom
had you with you?"
"Nobody was riding with me."
"Your cousin was there?"
"No, ma'am."
"Who then?"
"I had Uncle Darry. I was only riding up and down the dell."
"The coachman! And were you riding up and down through the
quarters all the afternoon?"
"No, ma'am."
"What were you doing the rest of the time?"
"I was going about " I hesitated.
"About where?"
"Through the place there."
"The quarters? Well, you think it proper amusement for your
mother's daughter? You are not to make companions of the
servants, Daisy. You are not to go to the quarters without my
permission, and I shall not give it frequently. Now get
yourself ready for tea."
I did feel as if Preston's prophecy were coming true and I in
a way to be gradually petrified; some slow, chill work of that
kind seemed already to be going on. But a little thing soon
stirred all the life there was in me. Miss Pinshon stepped to
the door which led from her room into mine, unlocked it, took
out the key, and put it on her own side of the door. I sprang
forward at that, with a word, I do not know what; and my
governess turned her lustrous, unmoved eyes calmly upon me. I
remember now how deadening their look was, in their very
lustre and moveless calm. I begged, however, for a reversal of
her last proceeding; I wanted my door locked sometimes, I
said.
"You can lock the other door."
"But I want both locked."
"I do not. This door remains open, Daisy. I must come in here
when I please. Now make haste and get ready."
I had no time for anything but to obey. I went down stairs, I
think, like a machine; my body obeying certain laws, while my
mind and spirit were scarcely present. I suppose I behaved
myself as usual; save that I would have nothing to do with
Preston, nor would I receive anything whatever at the table
from his hand. This, however, was known only to him and me. I
said nothing; not the less every word that others said
fastened itself in my memory. I was like a person dreaming.
"You have just tired yourself with mounting that wild thing,
Daisy," said my aunt Gary.
"Wild!" said Preston. "About as wild as a tame sloth."
"I always heard that was very wild indeed," said Miss Pinshon.
"The sloth cannot be tamed, can it?"
"Being stupid already, I suppose not," said Preston.
"Daisy looks pale at any rate," said my aunt.
"A little overdone," said Miss Pinshon. "She wants regular
exercise; but irregular exercise is very trying to any but a
strong person. I think Daisy will be stronger in a few weeks."
"What sort of exercise do you think will be good for her,
ma'am?" Preston said, with an expression out of all keeping
with his words, it was so fierce.
"I shall try different sorts," my governess answered,
composedly. "Exercise of patience is a very good thing, Master
Gary. I think gymnastics will be useful for Daisy, too. I
shall try them."
"That is what I have often said to my sister," said aunt Gary.
"I have no doubt that sort of training would establish Daisy's
strength more than anything in the world. She just wants that,
to develop her and bring out the muscles."
Preston almost groaned; pushed his chair from the table, and I
knew sat watching me. I would give him no opportunity, for my
opportunity I could not have then. I kept quiet till the
ladies moved; I moved with them; and sat all the evening
abstracted in my own meditations, without paying Preston any
attention; feeling indeed very old and grey, as no doubt I
looked. When I was ordered to bed, Miss Pinshon desired I
would hold no conversation with anybody. Whereupon Preston
took my candle and boldly marched out of the room with me.
When we were upstairs, he tried to make me disobey my orders.
He declared I was turning to stone already; he said a great
many hard words against my governess; threatened he would
write to my father; and when he could not prevail to make me
talk, dashed off passionately and left me. I went trembling
into my room. But my refuge there was gone. I had fallen upon
evil times. My door must not be locked, and Miss Pinshon might
come in any minute. I could not pray. I undressed and went to
bed; and lay there, waiting, all things in order, till my
governess looked in. Then the door was closed, and I hear her
steps moving about in her room. I lay and listened. At last
the door was softly set open again; and then after a few
minutes the sound of regular slow breathing proclaimed that
those wide-open black eyes were really closed for the night. I
got up, went to my governess's door and listened. She was
sleeping profoundly. I laid hold of the handle of the door and
drew it towards me; pulled out the key softly, put it in my
own side of the lock and shut the door. And after all I was
afraid to turn the key. The wicked sound of the lock might
enter those sleeping ears. But the door was closed; and I went
to my old place, the open window. It was not my window at
Melbourne, with balmy summer air, and the dewy scent of the
honeysuckle coming up, and the moonlight flooding all the
world beneath me. But neither was it in the regions of the
North. The night was still and mild, if not balmy; and the
stars were brilliant; and the evergreen oaks were masses of
dark shadow all over the lawn. I do not think I saw them at
first; for my look was up to the sky, where the stars shone
down to greet me, and where it was furthest from all the
troubles on the surface of the earth; and with one thought of
the Friend up there, who does not forget the troubles of even
His little children, the barrier in my heart gave way, my
tears gushed forth; my head lay on the windowsill at Magnolia,
more hopelessly than in my childish sorrow it had ever lain at
Melbourne. I kept my sobs quiet; I must; but they were deep,
heart-breaking sobs, for a long time.
Prayer got its chance after a while. I had a great deal to
pray for; it seemed to my child's heart now and then as if it
could hardly bear its troubles. And very much I felt I wanted
patience and wisdom. I thought there was a great deal to do,
even for my little hands; and promise of great hindrance and
opposition. And the only one pleasant thing I could think of
in my new life at Magnolia, was that I might tell of the truth
to those poor people who lived in the negro quarters.
Why I did not make myself immediately ill, with my night's
vigils and sorrow, I cannot tell; unless it were that great
excitement kept off the effects of chill air and damp.
However, the excitement had its own effects; and my eyes were
sadly heavy when they I opened the next morning to look at
Margaret lighting my fire.
"Margaret," I said, "shut Miss Pinshon's door, will you?"
She obeyed, and then turning to look at me, exclaimed that I
was not well.
"Did you say you could not read, Margaret?" was my answer.
"Read"! no, missis, Guess readin' aint no good for servants.
Seems like Miss Daisy aint lookin' peart, this mornin'."
"Would you like to read?"
"Reckon don't care about it, Miss Daisy. Where'd us get books,
most likely?"
I said I would get the books; but Margaret turned to the fire
and made me no answer. I heard her mutter some ejaculation.
"Because, Margaret, don't you know," I said, raising myself on
my elbow, "God would like to have you learn to read, so that
you might know the Bible and come to heaven."
"Reckon folks aint a heap better that knows the Bible," said
the girl. "Pears as if it don't make no difference. Aint
nobody good in this place, 'cept uncle Darry."
In another minute I was out of bed and standing before the
fire, my hand on her shoulder. I told her I wanted her to be
good too, and that Jesus would make her good, if she would let
Him. Margaret gave me a hasty look and then finished her fire
making; but to my great astonishment, a few minutes after, I
saw that the tears were running down the girl's face. It
astonished me so much that I said no more; and Margaret was as
silent; only dressed me with the greatest attention and
tenderness.
"Ye want your breakfast bad, Miss Daisy," she remarked then in
a subdued tone; and I suppose my looks justified her words.
They created some excitement when I went down stairs. My aunt
exclaimed; Miss Pinshon inquired; Preston inveighed, at things
in general. He wanted to get me by myself, I knew; but he had
no chance. Immediately after breakfast Miss Pinshon took
possession of me.
The day was less weary than the day before, only I think
