high-bred. His conversation was sensible, but never brilliant or
animated. In his own household he was calmly despotic; in his county,
respected and unpopular--one of whom nobody dared speak ill, yet whom
nobody had reason to love. There was a single person who believed
herself to be an exception to this rule. This was his sister Mabel. Some
said she worshipped him in default of any other object upon which she
could expend the wealth of her young, ardent heart; others, that
his strong will enforced her homage. The fact of her devotion was
undeniable, and upon his appreciation of this Aunt Rachel built her
expectations of a favorable hearing when she volunteered to prepare the
way for Mr. Chilton’s formal application for the hand of her nephew’s
ward. Between herself and Winston there existed little real liking and
less affinity. She was useful to him, and his tolerance of her society
was courteous, but she understood perfectly that he secretly despised
many of her views and actions, as, indeed, he did those of most women.
Her present mission was undertaken for the love she bore Mabel and her
sister. It was not kind to send the girl to tell her own story. It
was neither kind nor fair to subject their guest to the ordeal of
an unheralded disclosure of his sentiments and aspirations, with the
puissant lord of Ridgeley as sole auditor.

“Fred would never get over the first impression of your brother’s
chilling reserve,” said the self-appointed envoy to Mabel, when she
insisted that her affianced would plead his cause more eloquently than
a third person could. “For, you, must confess, my love, that Winston,
although in most respects a model to other young men, is unapproachable
by strangers.”

As she said “your accounts and so forth,” she looked at the table from
which Mr. Aylett had arisen to set a chair for her. There was a pile of
account-books at the side against the wall, but they were shut, and over
heaped by pamphlets and newspapers; while before the owner’s seat lay
an open portfolio, an unfinished letter within it. Winston wiped his pen
with deliberation, closed the portfolio, snapped to the spring-top of
his inkstand, and finally wheeled his office chair away from the desk to
face his visitor.

“Is it upon business that you wish to speak to me?”

He always disdained circumlocution, prided himself upon the directness
and simplicity of his address. This acted now as a dissuasive to the
sentimental address Mrs. Sutton had meditated as a means of winning
the flinty walls behind which his social affections and sympathies were
supposed to be intrenched. Had her mission been in behalf of any other
cause, she would have drawn off her forces upon some pretext, and
effected an ignominious retreat. Nerved by the thought of Mabel’s
bashfulness and solicitude, and Frederic’s strangerhood, she stood to
her guns.

Winston heard her story, from the not very coherent preamble, to the
warm and unqualified endorsement of Frederic Chilton’s credentials, and
her moved mention of the mutual attachment of the youthful pair, and
never changed his attitude, or manifested any inclination to stay
the narration by question or comment. When she ceased speaking, his
physiognomy denoted no emotion whatever. Yet, Mabel was his nearest
living relative. She had been bequeathed to his care, when only ten
years old, by the will of their dying father, and grown up under his eye
as his child, rather than a sister. And he was hearing, for the first
time, of her desire to quit the home they had shared together from her
birth, for the protection and companionship of another. Mrs. Sutton
thought herself pretty well versed in “Winston’s ways,” but she had
expected to detect a shade of softness in the cold, never-bright eyes
and anticipated another rejoinder than the sentence that stands at the
head of this chapter.

“And so you know nothing of this gentleman beyond what he has told you
of his character and antecedents?” he said--the slender white fingers,
his aunt fancied, looked cruel even in their idleness, lightly linked
together while his elbows rested upon the arms of his chair.

“My dear Winston! what a question! Haven’t I told you that he is my
husband’s namesake and godson! I was at his fathers house a score of
times, at least, in dear Frederic’s life-time. It was a charming place,
and I never saw a more lovely family. I recollect this boy perfectly,
as was very natural, seeing that his name was such a compliment to my
husband. He was a fine, manly little fellow, and the eldest son. The
christening-feast was postponed, for some reason I do not now remember,
until he was two years old. It was a very fine affair. The company was
composed of the very elite of that part of Maryland, and the Bishop
himself baptized the two babies--Frederic, and a younger sister. I know
all about him, you see, instead of nothing!”

“What was the date of this festival?” asked Winston’s unwavering voice.

“Let me see! We had been married seven years that fall. It must have
been in the winter of 18--.”

“Twenty-three years ago!” said Winston, yet more quietly. “Doubtless,
your intimacy with this estimable and distinguished family continued up
to the time of your husband’s death?”

“It did.”

“And afterward?”

Mrs. Button’s color waned, And her voice sank, as the inquisition
proceeded. “Dear Frederic’s” death was not the subject she would have
chosen of her free will to discuss with this man of steel and ice.

“I never visited them again. I could not--”

If she hoped to retain a semblance of composure, she must shift her
ground.

“I returned to my father’s house, which was, as you know, more remote
from the borders of Maryland--”

“You kept up a correspondence, perhaps?” Winston interposed, overlooking
her agitation as irrelevant to the matter under investigation.

“No! For many months I wrote no letters at all, and Mr. Chilton was
never a punctual correspondent. The best of friends are apt to be
dilatory in such respects, as they advance in life.”

“I gather, then, from what you have ADMITTED”--there was no actual
stress upon the word, but it stood obnoxiously apart from the remainder
of the sentence, to Mrs. Sutton’s auriculars--“from what you have
admitted, that for twenty years you have lost sight of this gentleman
and his relatives, and that you might never have remembered the
circumstance of their existence, had he not introduced himself to you at
the Springs this summer.”

“You are mistaken, there!” corrected the widow, eagerly. “Rosa Tazewell
introduced him to Mabel at the first ‘hop’ she--Mabel--attended there.
He is very unassuming. He would never have forced himself upon my
notice. I was struck by his appearance and resemblance to his father,
and inquired of Mabel who he was. The recognition followed as a matter
of course.”

“He was an acquaintance of Miss Tazewell--did you say?”

“Yes--she knew him very well when she was visiting in Philadelphia last
winter.”

“And proffered the introduction to Mabel?” the faintest imaginable
glimmer of sarcastic amusement in his eyes, but none in his accent.

“He requested it, I believe.”

“That is more probable. Excuse my frankness, aunt, when I say that it
would have been more in consonance with the laws controlling the conduct
of really thoroughbred people, had your paragon--I use the term in no
offensive sense--applied to me, instead of to you, for permission to pay
his addresses to my ward. I am willing to ascribe this blunder, however,
to ignorance of the code of polite society, and not to intentional
disrespect, since you represent the gentleman as amiable and
well-meaning. I am, furthermore, willing to examine his certificates
of character and means, with a view to determining what are his
recommendations to my sister’s preference, over and above ball-room
graces and the fact that he is Mr. Sutton’s namesake, and whether
it will be safe and advisable to grant my consent to their marriage.
Whatever is for Mabel’s real welfare shall be done, while I cannot
but wish that her choice had fallen upon some one nearer home The
prosecution of inquiries as to the reputation of one whose residence is
so distant, is a difficult and delicate task.”

“If you will only talk to him for ten minutes he will remove your
scruples,--satisfy you that all is as it should be,” asserted Mrs.
Sutton, more confidently to him than herself.

“I trust it will be as you say--but credulity is not my besetting sin.
I am ready to see the gentleman at any hour you and he may see fit to
appoint.”

“I will send MR. CHILTON to you at once, then.” Mrs. Sutton collected
the scattering remnants of hope and resolution, that she might deal a
parting shot.

“Winston is an AWFUL trial to my temper, although he never loses his
own,” she was wont to soliloquize, in the lack of a confidante to whom
she could expatiate upon his eccentricities and general untowardness.
His marked avoidance of Frederic’s name in this conference savored
to her of insulting meaning. She had rather he had coupled it with
opprobious epithets whenever he referred to him, than spoken of him as
“this” or “that gentleman.” If he took this high and chilly tone, with
Mabel’s wooer, there was no telling what might be the result of the
affair.

“Don’t mind him if he is stiff and uncompromising for a while,” she
enjoined upon Frederic, in apprising him of the seignior’s readiness to
grant him audience, “It is only his way, and he is Mabel’s brother.”

“I will bear the latter hint in mind,” rejoined the young man, with the
gay, affectionate smile he often bestowed upon her. “I don’t believe he
can awe me into resignation of my purpose, or provoke me into dislike of
the rest of the family.”

Mabel was in her aunt’s room, plying her with queries, hard to be
evaded, touching the tenor and consequences of her recent negotiations,
when a servant brought a message from her brother. She was wanted in the
study. The girl turned very white, as she prepared to obey, without an
idea of delay or of refusal.

“O Auntie! what if he should order me to give Frederic up!” she
ejaculated, pausing at the door, in an agony of trepidation. “I never
disobeyed him in my life.”

“He will not do that, dear, never fear! He can find no pretext for
such summary proceedings. And should he oppose your wishes, be firm of
purpose, and do not forsake your affianced husband,” advised the old
lady, solemnly. “There is a duty which takes precedence, in the sight
of Heaven and man, of that you owe your brother. Remember this, and take
courage.”

Mabel’s roses returned in profusion, when, upon entering the arbiter’s
dread presence, she saw Frederic Chilton, standing on the opposite side
of the table from that at which sat her brother at his ease, his white
fingers still idly interlaced, his pale patrician face emotionless as
that of the bust of Apollo upon the top of the bookcase behind him. It
was Frederic who led her to a chair, when she stopped, trembling midway
in the apartment, and his touch upon her arm inspirited her to raise her
regards to Winston’s countenance at the sound of his voice.

“I have sent for you, Mabel, that I may repeat in you hearing the reply
I have returned to Mr. Chilton’s application for my sanction to your
engagement--I should say, perhaps, to your reciprocal attachment. The
betrothal of a minor without the consent, positive or implied, of her
parent or guardian is, as I have just explained to Mr. Chilton, but
an empty name in this State. I have promised, then, not to oppose
your marriage, provided the inquiries I shall institute concerning Mr.
Chilton’s previous life, his character, and his ability to maintain you
in comfort, are answered satisfactorily. He will understand and excuse
my pertinacity upon this point when he reflects upon the value of the
stake involved in this transaction.”

In all their intercourse, Frederic had no more gracious notice
from Mabel’s brother than this semi-apology, delivered with stately
condescension, and a courtly bow in his direction.

It sounded very grand to Mabel, whose fears of opposition or severity
from her Mentor had shaken courage and nerves into pitiable distress.
Frederic could desire nothing more affable than Winston’s smile; no more
abundant encouragement than was afforded by his voluntary pledge. Had
not the thought savored of disloyalty to her lover, she would have
confessed herself disappointed that his reply did not effervesce with
gratitude, that his deportment was distant, his tone constrained.

“I appreciate the last-named consideration, Mr. Aylett, I believe,
thoroughly, as you do. I have already told you that I invite, not
shirk, the investigation you propose. I now repeat my offer of whatever
facility is at my command for carrying this on. No honorable man could
do less. Unless I mistake, you wish now to see your sister alone.”

He bent his head slightly, and without other and especial salutation to
his betrothed, withdrew.

Odd, white dints came and went in Winston’s nostrils--the one and
unerring facial sign of displeasure he ever exhibited, if we except a
certain hardening of eye and contour that chiselled his lineaments into
a yet closer resemblance to marble.

“He is very sensitive and proud, I know,” faltered Mabel, hastily
marking these, and understanding what they portended.

“You need not like him the less on that account, always provided that
the supports of his pride are legitimate and substantial,” answered her
brother, carelessly transferring to his tablets several names from a
sheet of paper upon the table--the addresses of persons to whom Frederic
had referred him for confirmation of his statements regarding his social
and professional standing.

“I hope, for your sake, Mabel,” he pursueds pocketing the memoranda,
“that this affair may be speedily and agreeably adjusted; while I cannot
deny that I deprecate the unseemly haste with which Mrs. Sutton and
her ally have urged it on, in my absence. Had they intended to court
suspicion, they could not have done it more effectually. You could not
have had a more injudicious chaperone to the Springs.”

“Indeed, brother, she was not to blame,” began the generous girl,
forgetting her embarrassment in zealous defence of the aunt she loved.
“It was not she who presented me to Mr. Chilton, and she has never
attempted to bias my decision in any manner.”

“I have heard the history in detail.” Had his breeding been less fine,
he would have yawned in her face. “I know that you are indebted for Mr.
Chilton’s acquaintanceship to Miss Tazewell’s generosity. But in strict
justice, Mrs. Sutton should be held responsible for whatever unhappiness
may arise from the intimacy. You were left by myself in her charge.”

“I do not believe it will end unhappily,” Mabel was moved to reply,
with spirit that became her better than the shyness she had heretofore
displayed, or the submissive demeanor usual with her in tête-à-têtes
with her guardian.

He smiled in calm superiority.

“I have expressed my hope to that effect. Of expectations it will be
time enough to speak when I am better informed upon divers points. I
am not one to take much for granted, am less sanguine than my romantic
aunt, or even than my more practical sister. Assuming, however, that
all is as you would have it, your wish would be, I suppose, for an early
marriage?”

“There has been little said about that,” responded Mabel,
reddening--then rallying to add smilingly--“such an arrangement would
have involved the taking for granted a good many things--your consent
among them.”

Winston passed over the addenda.

“But that little, especially when uttered by Mr. Chilton, trenched upon
the inexpediency of long engagements--did it not?”

Mabel was mute, her eyes downcast.

“I agree with him there, at any rate. You are nineteen years of age; he
twenty-five. Your property is unincumbered, and can be transferred
to your keeping at very short notice. Mr. Chilton represents that his
income from his patrimonial estate, eked out by professional gains, is
sufficient to warrant him in marrying forthwith. I shall see that no
time is lost in making the inquiries upon which depends the progress of
the negotiation. Business calls me North in a week or ten days. I shall
stop a day in Philadelphia, and settle your affair.”

The frightfully business-like manner of disposing of her happiness
appalled the listener into silence. The loss of Frederic; the
destruction of her love-dream; the weary years of lonely wretchedness
that would follow the bereavement, were to him only unimportant
incidentals to her “affair;” weighed in the scale of his impartial
judgment no more than would unconsidered dust. For the first time in the
life to which he had been the guiding-star, she ventured to wonder if
the unswerving rectitude that had elevated him above the level of other
men, in her esteem and affection, were so glorious a thing after all; if
a tempering, not of human frailty, but of charity for the shortcomings,
sympathy for the needs, of ordinary mortals, would not subdue the
effulgence of his talents and virtues into mild lustre, more tolerable
to the optics of fallible beholders.

Unsuspicious, with all his astuteness, of her sacrilegious doubts,
Winston proceeded:

“In the event of your marriage, you would desire, no doubt, that Mrs.
Sutton should take up her abode with you? You would find her useful in
many ways, and she would get on amicably with her husband’s godson.”

“I do not think she expects to go with me,” answered Mabel, staggered by
his coolly confident air. “I certainly have never entertained the
idea. I imagined that she would remain with you, while you needed her
services.”

“That will not be long. I shall be married on the 10th of October.”

“Married! brother!” starting up in amazement. “You are not in earnest!”

“I should not jest upon such a theme,” replied Winston, in grave rebuke.
“My plans are definitely laid. It is not my purpose to keep them secret
a day longer. I meant to communicate them to yourself and Mrs. Sutton
this afternoon, but yours claimed precedence.”

Mabel sat down again, totally confounded, and struggling hard with
her tears. The thought of her brother’s marriage was not in itself
disagreeable. She had often lamented his insensibility to the
attractions of such women as she fancied would add to his happiness, and
grace the high place to which his wife would be exalted. She never
liked to hear him called invulnerable; repelled the hypothesis of
his incurable bachelorhood as derogatory to his heart and head. This
unlooked-for intelligence, had it reached her in a different way, would
have delighted as much as it astonished her. The fear lest her consent
to wed Frederic and leave Ridgeley might be the occasion of discomfort
and sadness to her forsaken brother had shadowed all her visions of
future bliss. She ought to have hailed with unmixed satisfaction the
certainty that he would not miss her sisterly ministrations, or feel the
need of her companionship in that of one nearer and dearer than was
his child-ward. She had striven not to resent even in her own mind, his
cavalier treatment of her lover; had hearkened respectfully and without
demur to his unsympathizing calculations of what was possible and what
feasible in the project of her union with the man of her choice. For how
could he know anything of the palpitations, the anxieties, the raptures
of love, when he was a stranger to the touch of a kindred emotion? He
meant well; he had her welfare in view; unfortunate as was his style of
discussing the means for insuring this--for he loved her dearly, dearly!

She must never question this, although he had dealt the comfortable
persuasion a cruel blow; wounded her in a vital part by withholding
from her the circumstance of his attachment and betrothal until the near
approach of the wedding day rendered continued secrecy inexpedient. No
softening memory of his affianced had inclined him to listen with kindly
warmth to her timid avowals, or Frederic’s manly protestations of their
mutual attachment. He recognized no analogy in the two cases; stood
aloof from them in the flush of his successful love, as if he had never
known the pregnant meaning of the word. Smarting under the sense of
injury to pride and affection, her language, when she could trust her
voice, was a protest that, in Winston’s judgment, ill beseemed her age
and station.

“Why did you not tell me of this earlier, brother? It was unjust and
unkind to keep me in the dark until now.”

“You forget yourself, Mabel. I am not under obligation to account to you
for my actions.”

He said it composedly, as if stating a truth wholly disconnected with
feeling on his part or on hers.

“I have given you the information to which you refer, in season for you
to make ample preparation for my wife’s reception. And, mark me, she
must see no sulkiness, no airs of strangeness or intolerance, because
I have managed a matter that concerns me chiefly, as seemed to me best.
Say the same to Mrs. Sutton, if you please; also that I will submit to
no dictation, and ask no advice.”
