We parted at the corner of the next street, and I went home to supper.
My father had not returned to the house, and I did not expect he would
do so. I was sorry I had not inquired about my mother when he was with
me; but I had no good opportunity, and was confident that I should see
him again. After supper I left the house, and went to the Planters'
Hotel, where I expected to find him; but it was only when he had a
dollar or two that he went there.
"Have you seen Mr. Farringford to-day?" I timidly asked one of the
bar-tenders, who was disengaged.
"He has been here two or three times to-day," replied the man.
"Do you know where he is now?"
"I haven't the least idea. He hangs round Forstellar's, I think."
"Where is that?"
"It is a gambling-house," he added, giving me the street and number.
"What does Mr. Farringford do?" I asked, rather startled at being
directed to a gambling-house.
"Do? Nothing," said the man, contemptuously. "He used to be a runner
for a gambling-house, and followed this business as long as he could
keep sober enough to do it."
"What is a runner?"
"One that ropes in customers to a gambling-saloon," laughed the
bar-tender. "Farringford used to make money enough to pay for his
liquor at it; but lately he keeps so drunk that no one will go with
him. What do you want of him?"
"I wanted to see him."
"Do you know him?"
"I did not know him till yesterday. He knows a man who has some money
that belongs to me," I replied.
But I was thankful that a customer came to prevent him from asking
me any more questions. I was shocked to hear that my father had been
connected with a gambling-house. He evidently did not think that the
business of a "runner" was disreputable, when he assured me that no
one could accuse him of a dishonest or a dishonorable deed. But he
was only the wreck of a man, and it would have been strange indeed
if his moral perception had not been impaired by his long course of
dissipation. I hastened to the place which had been described to me by
the bar-tender. The establishment had a bar-room on the lower floor,
with a private staircase to the apartments above, where games of chance
were played.
I went into the bar-room, and saw well-dressed gentlemen passing
through the private door to the stairs. I looked about the place a
short time. If my father was in the building, he was up stairs, and I
decided to attempt the passage. At the foot of the stairs a man stopped
me, and told me that no boys were allowed in the rooms above. I was
willing to believe that, considering the character of the house, this
was a very wholesome regulation; but I wished to find my father. I
asked the sentinel if Mr. Farringford was up stairs. He did not know;
if he was I couldn't see him. I inquired for Lynch then, but could
obtain no satisfaction. I insisted upon seeing one or both of these men
with so much zeal that the inside sentinel ordered me to leave the
premises. I gently and respectfully remonstrated; but the fellow took
me by the arm, and walked me out into the street. As I had no rights
there, I did not resist.
I was rather indignant at this treatment, though I ought not to
have expected decent conduct on the part of the officials of such
an establishment. I decided not to abandon my purpose, though any
satisfactory result was rather hopeless just then. I planted myself on
the opposite side of the street, and watched the house, taking note of
every one who went in or came out. I meant to stay there till midnight
if necessary, for I judged from the answers of the inside sentinel that
the persons for whom I had inquired were there.
My patience held out till the clock struck eight, when a policeman,
by some strange fatality, happened to pass the place. He was on the
other side of the street, and glanced into the bar-room as he passed.
I determined to walk at his side, and tell him my story, so far as it
related to the loss of my money. I crossed over for the purpose of
joining him, hoping to induce him to enter the gambling-house with me.
As I reached the front of the establishment, two men came out, both
of them making use of rather sharp language. Their voices attracted my
attention.
One of them was Lynch, and the other was Farringford.
"I will not have my steps dogged by such a fellow as you are?"
exclaimed the former, angrily.
"Don't make a noise, Lynch," said Farringford. "If you do, I'll refer
the matter to a policeman, and send for the boy."
"Nonsense! I've told you I know nothing about the boy or his money,"
added Lynch, moving down the street in the direction of the river.
Deeply interested in the discussion, I followed the parties closely
enough to hear every word they spoke. From what Lynch said I learned
that they had already discussed the subject at the gambling-house; and
I judged that the robber had fled in order to escape the importunity of
the other.
"The boy speaks the truth, and if you don't give his money back I will
make St. Louis too warm for your comfort," retorted Farringford,
warmly.
"I don't want to be bored with this matter any more," said Lynch. "If
you will clear out I will give you a dollar to get drunk upon."
"I ask no man to give me anything. That won't do; I want the money for
the boy."
"Why should you bother your head about the boy?"
"He's my boy, and I won't see him wronged by any one."
"Your boy!"
"Yes, my boy! He's my son," persisted Farringford.
"Nonsense! You have lost your wits."
I thought I had lost mine too. I could not believe that Farringford
intended to speak the truth when he said I was his son. He could not
possibly have known that I was his son. But my heart leaped up into
my throat when it flashed upon my mind that my father had opened the
bureau drawer in my room, where I had placed the locket and the little
clothes I had worn when I was picked up on the Missouri River. Yet this
was not probable, for I had locked the drawer, and put the key in a
safe place. I was more inclined to think that Farringford called me
his son in order to explain his interest in my affairs. I followed the
two men to the levee, where they suddenly halted near a street lamp. I
dodged out of their sight, and kept walking back and forth near them;
but, as I was a boy, they did not seem to notice me, or at least to
consider my presence of any importance.
"I am willing to get rid of you, Farringford, at any reasonable price,"
said Lynch. "I will not be dogged another foot farther."
"Then give me back the ninety-seven dollars and a half you stole from
my boy," added Farringford.
"Don't say that thing again to me. I will give you five dollars if you
will bore me no more."
"No; I want the whole."
"Once for all, then, will you clear out, or not?"
"Once for all, I will not till you give up the money you stole from my
boy."
"Then take the consequences," said Lynch, as he sprang upon the
tottling Farringford.
My blood boiled then, and leaping upon Lynch, I bore him to the ground.
He released his hold upon my father when he felt my grasp upon him.
"Police!" I shouted, as I lay upon my victim.
He struggled to shake me off; but I held on, for I knew that I must
keep the advantage or lose my man.
  CHAPTER XIII.
  IN WHICH PHIL HAS ANOTHER MISHAP, AND IS TAKEN TO A POLICE STATION.
I had measured the form and estimated the muscle of Lynch before I
paid my respects to him. He had threatened me when I met him on the
preceding day, and I came to the conclusion that, after passing through
one Indian campaign, I should not run away from such a puny fellow as
he was. As a boy I was strong, as a man he was weak, and having him
under me I had all the advantage. He struggled but a moment, and then
changed his tone.
"Don't make a row, Phil," said he, panting under the exhaustion of his
efforts.
"You do know me, then," I replied, puffing not less than he.
"I do. Let me up, Phil, and I will give you your money."
"I don't think I shall take your word again," I added, with a candor
becoming the exciting occasion.
"Let me up, Phil; there will be a crowd around us in a moment."
"No matter; I won't let you up till you give me some security for your
good behavior."
"Better let him up as quick as possible," interposed Mr. Farringford.
"There are some men coming down the street."
"I will hold on to him till he makes it safe for me to let him go," I
replied.
"Put your hand into my breast pocket, and take out my pocket-book. It
contains over two hundred dollars," said Lynch.
I followed his directions; but I was not satisfied in regard to the
contents of the pocket-book. It might be stuffed with brown paper for
aught I knew, for I had read about some of the tricks of swindlers in
great cities, in the newspapers, since I came to St. Louis.
"Take it, Mr. Farringford, and see what is in it," I added, handing it
to my father.
"Let me up, Phil," pleaded Lynch.
"Not yet, Mr. Lynchpinne."
"If you are not satisfied, take the purse out of my side pocket. It
contains fifty or sixty dollars in gold."
I took the purse from his pocket, and it was heavy enough to be filled
with gold.
"Now let me up, Phil. Don't get up a row here."
I was not quite satisfied that we had a sufficient security for the
money I had lost, and I wished my father to examine the purse after he
had reported on the contents of the pocket-book.
"What's the row?" demanded a couple of men coming out of the street by
which we had reached our present position.
"Let me up, Phil," said Lynch, in a low tone.
"Let him up," said my father, in a tone so earnest that I could not
disregard it.
Lynch sprang to his feet, and began to brush the dirt from his clothes.
"What's the trouble?" repeated the two strangers.
"No trouble," replied Lynch. "Come, we will go up to Forstellar's and
settle the matter."
Without waiting to have the matter discussed, Lynch started at a
rapid pace, and my father and I followed him. The two strangers, who
manifested a strong interest in the proceedings, again demanded an
explanation; and as they received none, they came up the street after
us.
"I'm not going to any gambling-house to settle the matter," said I,
placing myself at the side of Lynch.
"Where will you go?" demanded he, impatiently.
"Come to my boarding-house."
"No; I am not going to be led into any trap."
"There is no trap about it. You will see no one but a woman."
"I don't care about going to a private house."
"And I don't care about going to a gambling-saloon."
"You have all my money. Do you mean to keep the whole of it?"
"If I should it would be serving you right; but I don't intend to take
any more than belongs to me. Will you go to the Planters' Hotel?" I
asked.
"Why not go to Forstellar's? It is nearer, and I am in a hurry."
"I won't go into such a place if I can help it."
"You need not go up stairs--only into the bar-room."
"No; I won't go where you can call in the aid of your friends."
"Very well; I will go to the Planters' Hotel," he replied.
As we were walking up the street we passed a policeman. I had come
to feel a peculiar interest in this class of men; and from the fact
that I had met two of them in the same evening, I concluded that the
traditions stored up against them were false. It is not quite possible
for a police officer to be everywhere at the same instant; and, as
there are a thousand places within his beat where he cannot be, to the
one where he is, the chances are altogether against his being always
where he happens to be wanted. I say that, having seen two policemen in
the same evening, I felt a renewed respect and regard for the order,
and I naturally looked behind me as I passed the second one, in order
to obtain a good view of the man.
I was not exactly pleased to notice that the two men who had followed
us from Front Street stopped him, or rather induced him to join them;
and the three followed us. I had no doubt the inquisitive strangers
made our little party the subject of a familiar conversation with the
policeman, as they walked up the street. However, I did not feel much
concerned about the circumstance; for, having been brought up beyond
the practicable reach of the law, I had no suspicion that I had done
anything wrong; and a new mishap was necessary in order to convince me
of the error of taking the law into my own hands.
I mentioned the fact to Lynch that a policeman was following us. He did
not take the matter so coolly as I did, and I am not sure he did not
regret that he had taken the trouble to relieve me of my shot-bag. I
was very well pleased with myself, and thought I had managed my case
remarkably well. I had full security for the money I had lost, and
ten minutes in the hotel would enable me to recover possession of my
funds. The next day was Saturday, and I intended to purchase some new
clothes, so that I could go to Sunday school, to church, and to the
prayer-meeting on the evening of the holy day. All these things were
new to me, and the anticipation of them was very pleasant. I meant,
with my money, to put my wardrobe in a condition that would satisfy
Mrs. Greenough, who had promised to go with me to the Sunday school,
and to all the meetings.
  [Illustration: PHIL GETS LYNCH AT A DISADVANTAGE. Page 147.]
"Come, hurry up," said Lynch, while I was passing these pleasant
reflections through my mind. "That policeman will make trouble for us."
"I'm not afraid of him."
"But I am," replied my companion, sharply. "If you get me into a
scrape, it will go harder with you than with me."
I did not see how that could be, but I was willing to meet the views
of Lynch as long as no treachery was apparent in his conduct. If he
wished to leave us, he could do so, for we had all his money. We
reached the Planters' Hotel, closely followed by the policeman and the
two strangers. When we were about to enter the bar-room, the officer
stepped in front of us, and stopped our further progress.
"I learn that an assault was committed, under suspicious circumstances,
near the levee," said the officer. "I should like to know about it."
"I was robbed of my purse and pocket-book," replied Lynch, promptly.
"Who did it?" demanded the officer, with energy.
"This man and this boy," answered Lynch.
"It is no such thing!" I protested, startled at the charge of my
unprincipled companion.
"But that young fellow was holding him down," interposed one of the
strangers. "He let him up just as Gray and I came out of Plum Street."
"That's so," added Lynch, in the tone and manner of a martyr. "They
took from me all my money, and were going to take my watch when they
were interrupted."
"It is a false and groundless accusation," said Mr. Farringford,
vehemently.
"Ah, Farringford, are you in the scrape?" exclaimed Mr. Gray.
"I am not in the scrape. There is no scrape," replied my father, very
much agitated, for he probably realized better than I did the nature of
our proceedings.
"I will conduct you all to the police office, and we will look into the
matter," said the official, as he took me upon one arm, and my father
upon the other.
Lynch walked with the two gentlemen, one of whom, it appeared, was
connected with the Metropolitan Police Department, which explained
his interest in the affair. I heard him telling his story to them,
and I had no doubt they were greatly edified by it. We arrived at the
station, and were presented to a sergeant of police, who imposed upon
himself the task of investigating the affair. Mr. Gray stated that he
had found me holding Lynch upon the ground, while Farringford was
looking into a pocket-book under the street lamp.
"What have you to say?" said the sergeant to Lynch.
"I was going across the levee to a steamboat, when this man and boy
sprang upon me and knocked me down before I knew what they were about,"
replied Lynch. "They took from me my pocket-book, which contains over
two hundred dollars, and my purse, with fifty or sixty dollars in it,
mostly in gold."
"Do you know either of these parties?" asked the sergeant.
"I know Farringford--everybody knows him," replied Lynch. "I don't know
the boy."
"I am sorry to see that Farringford has been reduced to anything of
this sort," added Mr. Gray, glancing at the trembling inebriate.
"Gentlemen, I am willing to wait till this transaction can be
investigated for the vindication of my character," replied Farringford,
straightening himself up as much as his tottering limbs would permit.
"Give me your name, if you please," said the sergeant to Lynch.
"My name is Lynch."
"Full name, if you please."
"Samuel Lynch."
"Alias Leonidas Lynchpinne," I added; "the name he called himself by
when I first saw him."
"Your business, if you please?" continued the official, as he wrote
down the name.
"I have no regular business at the present time."
"That's so!" exclaimed Farringford. "His business is very irregular. In
other words, he is a blackleg, at Forstellar's or on the river."
"No matter what he is; you can't knock him down and rob him in the
streets of St. Louis," said the sergeant. "Have you either the
pocket-book or the purse, Farringford?"
"I have the pocket-book," replied my father, producing it.
"Did you take this from Mr. Lynch?" asked the officer, as the
pocket-book was handed to him.
"I did not."
"His son did," said Lynch, with a sneer.
"What do you mean by his son?" demanded Mr. Gray, with a smile.
"He told me the boy was his son."
"When did he tell you so?" asked the sergeant, quietly.
"After he had knocked me down," replied Lynch, wincing under the
question, which was evidently put for a purpose.
"Then you talked over their relationship while the boy held you on the
ground?" suggested Mr. Gray.
"No; Farringford only called the boy his son."
"What did he say to him?"
"He called him his son, and told him to hold me fast."
"Before he took your pocket-book from you?"
"No; afterwards, while he was looking to see what was in it."
"This is not the way robberies are usually committed," added the
sergeant. "I never heard of one robber holding a man down while the
other looked to see what the pocket-book contained."
"Did Farringford call you his son?" asked Mr. Gray, turning to me.
"Yes, sir, he did; but not while I held Lynch down. It was while we
were in Plum Street," I replied.
"What trick were you engaged in?" demanded Mr. Gray, rather sternly.
"Why did he call you his son?"
"I am his son. He is my father," I answered.
Farringford looked at me with an expression of disapproval, as if to
reproach me for the falsehood he believed I had uttered.
  CHAPTER XIV.
  IN WHICH PHIL RECOVERS HIS MONEY.
"You don't mean to say that Farringford here, whom everybody in St.
Louis knows, is your father--do you?" continued Mr. Gray, apparently
amazed at the absurdity of the proposition, while his friend and the
sergeant laughed heartily.
"That is precisely what I mean to say," I replied, in the most
determined tone.
Farringford shook his head, and was apparently sorry that I had turned
out to be such an abominable liar.
"What is your name?" inquired the sergeant.
"Philip Farringford."
I had taken especial pains not to give my full name to my father when
he questioned me, and he doubtless supposed that I had invented the
name for the occasion. He looked at me, and shook his head. Very
likely, by this time, he was willing to believe I had deceived him, and
that I had lost no money, for if I could lie about one thing I could
about another.
"Do you justify this young man in calling you his father, Farringford?"
said Mr. Gray.
"I am sorry to say I cannot. Gentlemen, I have endeavored to act in
good faith," replied my father. "I have always found that the truth
would serve me better than falsehood."
"Did you call him your son?"
"I did, but used the expression as a kind of harmless fib to carry my
purpose with this Lynch, who had robbed the boy of nearly a hundred
dollars."
"It is false!" exclaimed Lynch.
"Keep cool, if you please, sir," interposed the sergeant. "We have
heard your story, and now we will hear the other side."
"Philip may have deceived me, but I believed that he had been robbed,
and I did the best I could to get his money back, after he had pointed
out to me the man who took it from him. Certainly he is not my son.
I never saw him till yesterday; and I am sorry he has thought it
necessary to repeat my fib, or falsehood, if you please," continued
Farringford.
"Nevertheless, I hope I shall be able to prove in due time that he is
my father," I added.
"But, my lad, everybody knows that Farringford has no children," said
Mr. Gray.
"Never mind that now. I want to know whether any robbery has been
committed," interposed the sergeant, impatiently.
"Let the boy tell his own story," replied Mr. Gray.
"Here is Lynch's purse," I began, handing it to the sergeant.
"Then you did take these things from him?"
"I did; but he told me to put my hand in his pocket and take out the
pocket-book and the purse."
"Very probable!" sneered Lynch.
"It's all true," said Farringford.
"Well, go on, young man."
"I was coming down the Missouri River in the steamer Fawn--"
"She arrived last Tuesday morning," interposed Mr. Lamar, the gentleman
with Mr. Gray.
"Yes, sir. I was with Mr. Gracewood and his family."
"What Gracewood?"
"Henry."
"Is he a brother of Robert Gracewood of Glencoe?"
"I don't know. He had a brother in St. Louis," said Mr. Lamar, who was
an elderly gentleman, and appeared to know everybody and everything.
"He bought a place at Glencoe a year ago."
"His wife's brother was a Mr. Sparkley."
"It's the same man. But he separated from his wife years ago, cleared
out, and has not been heard from since."
I explained that the family had been reunited, and were on their way
to St. Louis. I had endeavored to find Mr. Gracewood's brother, but
without success, in order to inform him of what had occurred up the
river. The fact that he had moved from the city explained why I had not
found his name in the Directory. I continued my story, with frequent
interruptions, much to the disgust of the sergeant, who was interested
only in the criminal aspect of the case. I told how Lynch had robbed
me at Leavenworth, how I had identified him in St. Louis, and followed
him and Farringford from Forstellar's to Front Street.
"Every word of that story is true so far as it relates to me," said
Farringford.
"I watched Lynch and Farringford, the former trying to get rid of the
