Gilliat Yes, that must be it. What a strange resemblance !" 
glancing at the portrait. 
Kirke Gilliat said no more. His mother had been a queen 
among women, too early lost for him. If this Victor Hurst 
possessed half her nobleness ! 
He rose and tottered to the door. If, when the choice had 
been his to have a son who would love and honor him in 
his old age, a son of whom he could be proud . The old 
 
curse coming home. The mill grinding slowly but " exceed 
ing small." 
In her stately, elegant room lay Beatrice Gilliat. The shock 
of her son's death had been severe, not cutting her off suddenly, 
as Trewartha feared, but sapping the springs of life. She was 
nearly helpless now. The sharp terror had sent the blood 
in masses to her brain, slowly dulling every faculty, sight, 
hearing, speech, and at intervals thought. 
But in some moments there came pangs of fierce agony. A 
vision of Hugh Gilliat, and her pitiless watching, her aims and 
plans and patience. She had gained her wish, been Kirke 
Gilliat 's wife, and mistress of Rothermel. 
And here at middle age, with her beauty hardly impaired, 
she was dying by inches. Other women lived to a happy old 
age, saw their sons and daughters growing up around them, 
and had grandchildren to prattle at their knee. Other women 
were loved and caressed, but save for a brief year's infatuation 
there had been little of this in her life. And now Kirke 
Gilliat brooded over his dead son continually, she saw the 
far, awesome light in his eyes when he looked at her. Had 
she come between him and some cherished hope ? 
Well for her that she was never to know. He would be 
kind, attentive, solicitous to the very last ; but in the depths of 
his heart there would be a corner where her beauty and im 
perious grace had never penetrated. After all, had she not 
reaped as she had sown ? For to the world's end the old law 
will hold good the purple bloom of thistle will not turn into 
the purple bloom and fragrance of grapes. 
CHAPTER XXVIII. 
EVENTFUL as the winter was at Cragness, it appeared to 
pass very quietly. A mild, rather open season, leaving but 
a few weeks in which the click of hammers and picks, and the 
rumble of blasting might not be heard at the quarry. Every 
thing worked favorably, and Victor found that he should 
finish his contract in a much shorter time than he antici 
pated-. 
The trial had come and gone. The one positive link was 
supplied by the confession of the now abject Jarvis, who, 
like the coward he was, begged piteously for his life. The 
fatal shot had been meant for Victor Hurst. How it had 
gone so wide of its mark could only be accounted for by the 
fact of the man being grossly intoxicated. 
" I cannot wonder that father's soul was so moved against 
intemperance," Victor said, solemnly. "It has been the cause 
of this misfortune from first to last." 
So the verdict was manslaughter. Mr. Milnor tried to keep 
Eustace Gilliat's story as far in the background as possible. 
Then the excitement died away, and there was no change save 
that Victor had gained warm, appreciative friends. 
There was no need of stolen, secret work. A room in 
the little cottage was arranged for Victor's use his mother 
would have it so. She filled one window with flowers, and 
Trewartha brought some choice pictures. Mr. Milnor dropped 
in and watched the young man at his self-taught labor, guided 
by the finer impulses of soul and brain. Paul had a corner 
where he sat and played on his violin and worshipped his 
young friend. Drifting farther apart in purpose, they were still 
 
brought nearer together by the tie of a peculiar and romantic 
friendship. 
Victor used to carry his father thither and place him on the 
wide lounge with the cushions all about. Day by day he grew 
weaker, gentler. He loved to listen to the weird, impassioned 
melody evoked by Paul, and to watch Victor's strong white 
fingers as some thought slowly budded and blossomed beneath 
them. 
Trewartha was a welcome guest to all, as well as Janet Mc- 
Rae, who often lingered, studying the group, and especially 
the young man, so strong in himself that he could disdain her 
gifts. 
"I don't know why I should care so much for him, Tre 
wartha," she would exclaim, almost angrily. "I cannot say 
that he is ungrateful, either ; but there is something about 
him that is hard to understand." 
Trewartha thought so, as well. It was not merely the pride 
of being a self-made man, nor a shallow disdain of the assist 
ance wealth could give. An underlying motive that time only 
could fathom and he had no better advice than the patience 
he used to recommend daily to himself. 
There was one who never came ; but perhaps she was the 
more in Victor's thoughts. He worked at this particular bit of 
marble only when he was alone. Now and then Trewartha 
would spy some improvement an added grace, a fine touch. 
Sylvia Redmond had gone from her father's grave to St. 
Albans. At first her mother received her ungraciously ; but 
the child's voice was tenderer than that of the nurse, her touch 
more gentle, her patience of a rarer quality. Not until arrange 
ments were made for closing the house would she consent to 
be removed, and then Rachel Braisted insisted upon it. 
Sylvia took her post beside the querulous invalid, a weak, 
restless, dissatisfied woman, whose trials had been sorer, whose 
misfortunes had been greater, and whose nerves were more 
finely sensitive than those of any other human being. Full of 
 
petty tyrannies and exactions, quick to remark and distort the 
least change of voice or manner, and brooding continually 
over her own pains and woes, Sylvia had no light task to 
soothe or comfort. The frivolous mind possessed no resources 
within itself, now that worldly gayeties were at an end. These 
grave, gentle women, full of almsgiving and good deeds, were 
exceedingly tiresome to her, and the world outside found little 
to charm in the faded, weak-souled being. Doctor Trewartha 
alone was welcome, and even then, if he talked a moment too 
long with Sylvia, the grace of the visit was dimmed. 
What Sylvia endured, the God who gave her courage and 
patience alone knew. She grew thin and worn, and deep 
shadows settled under the eyes that had once held a child's 
glad, eager hope. 
Two or three times through the course of the winter Tre 
wartha had persuaded her into a brief drive, but she would 
call nowhere. 
" Have you ceased to care for your old friends?" he asked 
one day. "You positively shun Mrs. McRae and Ruth." 
" It is best that I should keep to my duty only," in her sad, 
quiet voice. 
"But if your physical strength should get exhausted too 
soon ?" with a look of intense anxiety. 
"It will not. Do not feel troubled about me, dear 
friend." 
She listened when he spoke of Victor, but asked no ques 
tions. It seemed quite impossible to rouse her to any warm, 
human interest ; and Trewartha had a wild fear that her 
mother's death would snap the frail chords that bound her to 
earth. 
The blow was mercifully sudden. Mrs. Redmond would 
hear nothing of death, and seemed to shrink from it with a 
peculiar horror. It was well, therefore, that the closing pang 
should be brief. 
They laid her beside her husband one dull, lowering Feb- 
 
ruary cKv, as if in keeping with the shady part of her life, now 
gone up to be judged of God. 
Sylvia was unnaturally grave and composed, and rode back 
with her cousins. But Trewartha followed her to the sitting- 
room before she could divest herself of her wrappings. 
"I am to be master, now," and an under-current of power 
that she had no strength to resist floated in with the words 
from his strong, tender tone. "You need a change, or I will 
not answer for your life." 
' ' Does it matter much ?" in her weary manner. 
"I think it does. Miss Rachel, you will trust me, I know." 
He carried her down to his own light wagon that stood at 
the gate, and wrapped her well with the robes. Then touch 
ing the coal-black horses, they were off like the wind. Sylvia 
was forced to gasp for breath ; and the exertion brought a tint 
of color to her pale lips, though the white face looked very 
wan and tired. 
He paused at length at Cragness. She would fain have 
resisted, but he lifted her out, led her up the broad steps with 
his strong arm around her, the small feet barely touching 
the ground. 
"Friend Janet," he exclaimed, "here is a work and a 
duty to bring this bit of marble back to the rosy flesh and 
blood we found here a year ago. " 
Only a year ! Sylvia shivered. It seemed ten at least. 
Ruth came over, her slow-moving eyes full of tender pity, 
and began to unfasten the wraps as if Sylvia had been a 
baby. 
' ' You will care for her tenderly.'' 
If he had asked Ruth Gamier to walk to the mouth of a 
fiery, burning crater, she would have obeyed. 
"Child, there has been many a sad hour in the year," and 
Janet McRae drew her down to the ample lap, and pressed hei 
to the beating heart still firm and strong; "but, please God, 
there will be sunshine again." 
 
"Never for me," the aching heart cried inwardly. 
The change did not come a moment too soon. For a 
week Sylvia wavered, lying on the sofa most of the time, 
brightening only through Trewartha's visits. 
Ruth watched them with a peculiar fascination. Why had 
she felt so much more satisfied and at ease when she heard 
that Sylvia was to marry Eustace Gilliat ? What pain was this 
running through her pulses like a bit of fie ry, jagged light 
ning ? 
And as Sylvia gained she began to lose. For presently a 
gleam of health shone in the eyes, and the hollow cheeks 
began to round to their olden -contour. The little hands no 
longer shook like a stray leaf in the autumn blast, but had a 
firm, warm clasp of their own. And hers were always cold 
now, save for these fitful flashes. 
She tried to think how it would be. Especially one day, 
when Doctor Trewartha took them both over to the Cedars to 
lunch. She sat at the head of the table after a little demur, but 
it was to Sylvia he talked, and Sylvia who gave back sweet, 
dainty, answering smiles. What was it that made women loved 
so easily, that thrust the less fortunate ones aside? 
Sylvia ran over the house and exhumed mines of treasures, 
questioned, teased, thereby giving out glimpses of her olden 
self. Was it because she was tired that she should pause 
presently before the wide grate, and slip into a great cushioned 
chair, where Trewartha found her, with her eyes shut but not 
asleep, the firelight crowning her drooping head ? 
The fitful March day had vibrated from gusts to sunshine. 
Now a flurry of snow thickened the air and made a kind of 
hoar twilight. 
Trewartha went in search of Ruth, who was standing alone 
by the great basin of lilies, herself as white as they, save the 
crown of dusky hair. 
"Come," he said. 
She turned with a sharp pain. Would they not let her have 
 
a moment in which she could escape from the vivid picture of 
their love and happiness? And then she shook her head. 
" Go to Sylvia," she cried, with sudden heat and emphasis. 
"Sylvia is resting, curled up in a great chair like a kitten. 
Will you come and look at her ?" 
He reached over for her hand. It was cold and passive, and 
the lips trembled. 
" I will not disturb her," she said. "Go yourself." 
He laughed low and provokingly, reading what she thought 
so securely hidden. 
"Why are your hands so cold? And why are you pale 
and grave? Has the winter taken away your warmth and 
bloom ?" 
"You hurt me!" as his clasp tightened. "I came here 
to be alone, to think " 
"And of what avail is the endless thinking? Does it 
bring you any nearer the great truth ? Why do you not open 
the eyes of your soul, of your spirit ?" 
"Because I was born blind !" passionately. 
" No, you were not. No woman ever is until she makes 
some black, wilful blindness for herself. Look up at me, Ruth. 
Can you read any secret in my face ?" 
A faint color stirred in ,hers and the lips trembled. Then 
some power stronger than herself shook her very soul and 
forced her to speak over a great pang. 
"I think you love Sylvia Redmond ?" 
"Yes, I love her ;" and he smiled in his peculiar, wayward 
fashion. " I love her as one loves a child. I should like to be 
her father, Ruth, and have a right to order all her pretty ways ; 
to chide when she was too grave, as she often is now ; to have 
a brave young lover come, whose sjnile would bring roses to 
her cheeks ; to give her a wedding-breakfast in this old hall, 
and to keep her still, to see her children playing around my 
knees, and to kiss their soft, warm faces. Yet it may never 
happen." 
 
Her eyes opened wide with an intent, startled light. 
' ' And you read nothing else ?" 
" Let me go," she cried, as a quick pain pierced her very 
soul. 
' ' Why ? Am I so distasteful ? Ruth, you are jealous of 
Sylvia." 
"I jealous !" in a hard, hollow, incredulous tone, the lines 
about the mouth growing rrgid, and the eyes downcast. 
"Yes. Child, are you blind? Can you not see that I love 
you, you?' 
"No, I will not come between. She is sweet and fond. She 
loves you," with a strange, pathetic cry that moved his whole 
soul. 
"So, the lesson is all to learn. Janet McRae taught you as 
much as one woman can teach another : the rest is a man's 
province. Listen, Ruth, I am twice your age. In the hot, 
impatient days of youth, I had one mad passion-dream that 
burned to ashes before the woman lay cold in her grave. Yet 
if she had been true if she had loved me ! Will you dare to 
bridge over that broken path ? I am wiser, more patient, yet 
the boy's folly is not all gone. My soul obeys the universal 
law, but forgive if it demands the best. The night Mrs. 
McRae brought Victor Hurst home, I knew that I loved you. 
Have I not waited long enough ?" 
"Oh," she said, abashed and distressed, "I have no right ; 
for she " 
" Yes ; I knew her plans. I said, if this woman can love 
another, I will stand back. He is younger, fresher, and it is 
my friend's wish. But you could not " 
" No, I could not ;" with a shiver. "And I think he never 
loved me. If I am slow and grave and passionless " 
' ' My darling, hearts respond only to the touch which rouses 
them. There is much yet to learn. May I be your teacher?" 
She raised her eyes slowly and he read assent 
Sylvia came to find them long afterward. 
 
"It is growing dusk," she said. " I fell asleep there by the 
fire and had a delicious rest. But we must go home." 
Ruth stooped and kissed Sylvia with sudden fervor. 
Once at Cragness, he sent his horses to the stable. While 
the girls went to smoolhe their ruffled plumes, he sought Mrs. 
McRae. 
' ' Frank Trewartha, I have a scolding ready for you. Does 
lunch at the Cedars last all day?" and she glanced sharply at 
him. 
"Mother Janet, be merciful to your son, who henceforward 
will do his best to please you, and who entreats you for Ruth. 
Bid him God speed, for he only holds the key of her soul. It 
is not what you planned." 
" No. My plans are fine failures," in a tone of asperity that 
showed she still felt a pang of disappointment. "I have 
trained human bodies, but shall never meddle with a human 
soul again. Go your way. Love and marry. I am a lonely 
old woman, with no birdling in the nest." 
But she smiled that night when she saw them together, while 
her heart yearned over Sylvia. 
March softened into showery April, and May laughed at them 
both with her bosom full of blossoms. The old story of life 
and death and change went on, and brought to Victor Hurst 
the freedom that he had once so coveted. For John Hurst fell 
asleep calmly, trusting in the God whom he had served in his 
honest, earnest way, according to the light vouchsafed. What 
life is exempt from mistakes and failures ? Well for us that 
God gathers up the fragments and shapes them anew in the 
likeness of Himself and His glorified Son. 
A sweet, tranquil death. Anah Hurst would always remem 
ber it. Not one pang did she care to have taken back not one 
of the many trials. 
One night, late in May, Victor found Sylvia in the old 
churchyard and walked home with her. Both were strangely 
silent at first. She was thinking of what she had heard that 
 
day. The quarry contract was completed, and another had 
been offered. But Janet McRae had gone down to the cottage 
and said her say to Victor Hurst and his mother, command 
ing them to think the matter well over before they answered 
her. 
"He will not consent," she declared to Trewartha; "I 
saw it in his eyes. Something that we shall never know holds 
him. But I can do no more, no more. If I must sit alone 
at last by my fireside, so let it be. If the work of my whole 
life crumbles to ashes, I cannot help nor hinder. Why should 
I have been led to love the lad so well only to know a more 
bitter desolation at the last ? Is it some punishment for my 
pride and vain-glory ?" 
This was fresh in Sylvia's mind. Her own passionate grief 
she scarcely remembered. She had never dared to love as 
Ruth, and other happier women, and yet she knew well that 
this man held all the rose-color of her otherwise neutral-tinted 
life. She had known so much sorrow, so little real joy. 
And yet now she pitied Mrs. McRae profoundly. The lone 
liness appeared tenfold more painful to her. Why could he 
not consent and stay ? 
Here was the great house looming before them. He 
might be master of it with a word. Yet, if he were a wanderer, 
an exile, a criminal even, her heart would always yearn toward 
him. 
They came to the gate. "Will you not walk in?" she asked, 
in a half-hesitating, half-entreating way. 
" I think not. It is best not ;" as if to assure himself. 
" You have decided to go away ?" 
Something in her soft tone stirred him strangely, an uncom 
plaining pathos, a lingering regret. Would she care ? 
"If I went I should be soon forgotten. Yes, it is best." 
"No, you would not be forgotten ;" in an assured tone, that 
moved him again. Why did he feel so weak and uncertain 
here with her ? 
 
"I suppose, being a man, the prospect is templing. And to 
work one's way up to greatness, to win honor and fame " 
" I used to think a great deal of that," quietly. "I was am 
bitious. I wanted to do something above the common level, 
to win a position equal to " 
He paused. Eustace Gilliat in his grave, or the little girl 
by his side ? for both had roused his ambition. 
' ' As you will. " There was a sad despair in her tone. 
" I have come to look differently at life. A man may carve 
his soul into a statue, or write it through the measure of some 
glowing poem, yet he is not a better man because the world 
recognizes the fact and praises him. When we think of this 
little life, with its silver clasp of four score and ten years, and the 
greater one stretching out beyond, where God judges, and not 
the narrow vision of man, one needs to have something more 
than leaves the well-ripened grain. God may require our 
brother's soul at our hands." 
"Yes. The work with the higher, spiritual significance." 
"So I have learned to think of others as well as myself. I 
do not want all pure personal aims." 
"Think of her !" Sylvia exclaimed, with a choking throb in 
her throat. " And the duties here " 
He turned, glancing abstractedly to the pale gleam where the 
young moon was coming up. Were there any duties here for 
him ? Was it not rather a chimera of these women's brains ? 
If the great law and power that he had called fate all his life 
was not working so strong and positive against him 
Between his eyes and the yellow glow yonder he saw Sylvia 
Redmond's face. The child-woman that he should always 
love, who in the long years to come would grow slowly into 
angelic ideality. From Trewartha he had heard the particulars 
of her brief engagement, and perhaps understood better than 
the Doctor himself how she had drifted into it. Her own pure 
self-denying life had begun with tenderest truth and courage at 
her dying father's bedside, and he freely pardoned the mistakes 
 
of the past, holding no grudge against any moment of weak 
ness. Had he any part and lot in her life, as she had in his ? 
Would he not owe her some explanation, as well as Mrs. Mc- 
Rae, for the great wrench of final separation ? 
He came nearer, he took her cold, limp hand that began to 
tremble in his touch, sending fiery thrills through his veins. 
Yes, he loved her, loved her ! Was she so far distant as to be 
quite unapproachable ? 
"Miss Redmond Sylvia my duty here has been exagger 
