" Open it " ; and the doctor smiled. 
There was a card on which was written, " To my 
darling Kathie. E. C." 
" Uncle Eobert. Oh ! ?: And then for a moment 
Kathie could do nothing but look. The loveliest 
watch imaginable, the case richly engraved, and 
bits of enamelled leaves that seemed set with 
 
diamonds, while attached was a very handsome 
chain. 
"You knew about this," Kathie said, glancing up 
at the doctor, with a bright smile. 
"Yes, it was left in my charge." 
Kathie's face was one glow of delight, good to 
behold. She could hardly eat her breakfast, so full 
of pleasure was every nerve and every breath. 
" I must go up stairs with you," the doctor said, 
" or I am afraid you will set Miss Conover wild ; and 
I can't have my patient tampered with." 
So they went together, Kathie hopping up two 
steps at a time ; but the doctor held her hand 
tightly, and would not let her get much in advance. 
" Your business comes afterward, being of less 
importance," he began, gravely nodding his head to 
Kathie, as he helped himself to a chair and greeted 
his patient cordially. 
" Why, here is quite a pulse instead of the mere 
thread I 've had to hunt for the last fourteen days," 
he said, in surprise. " Have you been getting up an 
excitement ? " 
" I really do feel better," Aunt Euth returned. " I 
ate quite a breakfast." 
" Oh, you 'll be frisking about with the best of them 
next year this time, hanging up your stocking and all 
that nonsense ! I dare say we shall have you dan- 
cing a jig." 
Kathie laughed at this, it seemed so very amus- 
ing. 
" Yes, there is a decided improvement. I think 
you are well enough to hear about my Christ- 
mas ! 
He told the most comical story imaginable, in 
which Kathie scarcely recognized herself, but his 
hearer enjoyed it immensely. 
Here there was an interruption. Mrs. Havens, 
Kathie's old friend, who had been away on a visit 
and but just returned, sent to know if Kathie would 
not like to go to church with her. The children were 
to sing some beautiful carols. 
Kathie looked undecided, and raised her eyes to 
Aunt Euth. 
" Of course you will," said the doctor. " You 
want a sniff of fresh air, and by that time your 
auntie will desire a quiet rest. Go and keep Christ- 
mas - - I need not add with a happy heart, for you 
always have that." 
Then lie gave a few directions to Miss Conover 
and left them together. Kathie displayed her beau- 
tiful gift. 
" 'T is just what I have been wishing for, Aunt 
Euth, but Uncle Eobert was always doing so many 
kind things that it seemed ungrateful to ask for any 
other gift. my little darling, you 're just good 
enough to kiss for dear Uncle Eobert's sake." 
" It is very lovely, and I am so glad to see you 
enjoy it thoroughly." 
" And, Aunt Euth, you think - - you feel sure that 
Uncle Eobert will always love us ? " 
She knelt down by the bed and buried her face 
close to Aunt Euth's cheek. It seemed treason to 
doubt any one so kind. Somehow she wished Ada 
had not mentioned the surmise. 
" My darling, yes. God has sent us one of the 
dearest and kindest of friends. While he lives, we 
shall not lack for tender care." 
Yes, it was selfish and wicked to grudge him any 
happiness, and if he wanted to marry Miss Jessie 
they would all rejoice over it. Not another troubled 
thought could she admit. He would always love 
them, and that was sufficient. With that Kathie's 
 
burden fell away, and it was just as if she entered 
in at the gate Beautiful. 
She th on ff lit so as she sat in church with Mrs. 
t^_y 
Havens listening to the joyous carols. A throng of 
happy children raising their sweet young voices in. 
glorious hymns of rejoicing, and the great organ 
tones swelling out strains that were inspiration. 
Kathie's heart was full, moved to the uttermost. It 
seemed to her that there was not room for another 
throb of satisfaction. 
Mrs. Havens would fain have taken Kathie home 
with her, but the child could not leave Aunt Ruth 
so long on this of all days. She found her comfort- 
able and in cheerful spirits, and it did seem as if she 
were really getting well. 
Several medical friends of the doctor were in to 
dinner, and Kathie saw no more of him until eight 
in the evening, though she had been happy enough. 
Then he called her down and tucked her in the 
sleigh beside Mrs. Markham, and they drove off to 
Mr. Meredith's. 
The lights in the drawing-room were so bright that 
it looked as if they might be having a party. And a 
party sure enough it proved. The. room was quite 
full, some of the neighbors having been invited in, 
as well as the relatives, and one whom she hardly 
expected to see, - - Mr. Edward Meredith. 
He clasped both hands and wished her merry 
Christmas a dozen times. The evening before he 
had been at Cedarwood. 
" They missed you very much, you may be sure " ; 
he said. " Those little Gardiner girls were over, and 
one or two others, - - and Charlie Darrell " 
" And Miss Jessie, of course ? " 
"Yes." At that Mr. Meredith looked rather 
peculiar, and a warm flush suffused Kathie's face. 
He had guessed the truth as well as Ada. 
" Tell me about the tree. What did Freddy have, 
and how did he enjoy it ? ' 
" Oh, the child went nearly crazy. It was a com- 
plete surprise to him, for he had no idea how a 
Christmas-tree looked. But he wanted to hang up 
his stocking all the same." 
That made Kathie laugh. 
" Uncle Edward," said Ada, " here are the children 
clamoring for Kathie. She has spoiled them by so 
much attention, and they can't understand that a 
drawing-room isn't a nursery. Kathie, how do you 
do ? Have you had any Christmas yet ? ' : 
 
"This"; and Kathie displayed her watch. 
" Oh, how lovely ! Why, it 's handsomer than 
mine." 
" Want to see ! " said Florence, pushing her curly 
head between the two dresses. 
" You haven't kissed me," exclaimed George. 
" A good, sweet Christmas kiss ! ' 
" And me ! ' : said Master Willie, eagerly. 
" What a nuisance ! " and Ada gave her head a 
toss. " Don't let them have your watch, Kathie ; 
they 'll break it to fragments." 
She held it for them to admire. They climbed 
over her and kissed her to their hearts' content. 
" And we 're going to have a real Santa Glaus ! " 
announced George. 
" Will he come down the chimney ? " was Kathie's 
merry question as she looked at them with laughing 
eyes. 
" He 'd get a little burned," said Florence, with 
a wise shake of the head. 
"A good deal, I guess, and all black. Do Santa 
Clauses come down the chimney Kathie ? " asked 
Willie, rather perplexed. 
" So people say ! " 
" Did you ever see Mm ? " 
" Oh, I used to hang up my stocking and go to 
bed." 
" Children ! " exclaimed their mother. " Mary, 
don't let them annoy Miss Kathie." 
" Here is a Santa Glaus/' said Ada, looking back 
from a group of very fashionably attired little 
girls. 
The children held their breath and opened their 
eager eyes. Mary raised Florence in her arms. 
The folding doors between the drawing-room and 
library opened slowly. There was the tree, its wide- 
spread arms glittering with burning tapers and tiny 
brilliantly colored balls that swung tremulously in 
the heated air. After they had partly taken in this, 
the younger ones uttered an exclamation of sur- 
prise and delight, for there was a veritable Santa 
Glaus. 
A comical personage, enormously stout, and wrapped 
in furs from head to foot, with a fur cap upon his 
head. His cheeks were puffy and red as the reddest 
apple, his nose was a little hooked one way, and his 
pointed chin turned up so that the two nearly met. 
He had the broadest grin on his countenance, and 
 
altogether he was a funny-looking object, to say noth- 
ing of the great pack slung upon his back. 
The children gave a shout of glee. Willie wanted 
to run and speak to him, and thought Mary very 
cruel because she restrained him. 
Santa Claus rang a little bell, and began to make 
a speech. He was travelling around, he said, to 
find good children. He had some gifts in his bag for 
them, but all those who had been naughty during the 
year had better go to bed, he thought. 
"I VP. been good," said Willie, boldly. 
" And I 've been good," echoed Florence. 
George laughed, but said nothing. Several of the 
little ones around looked quite sober. 
Santa Claus put down his pack. 
He worked and tugged at the straps, puffing and 
blowing, and they came apart at length with such an 
impetus that he almost sprawled on the floor, at which 
nearly every one laughed. Then he fumbled about, 
and at last drew forth a package. Here he had to 
stop and search his pockets for an enormous pair of 
green spectacles before he could read the name. 
George was first. He went up boldly, and bore off 
his gift in triumph. Then Willie WA? summoned 
who advanced rather cautiously. Two or three others, 
then Kathie Alston's name was called. She colored 
rather vividly, and went up with some shyness. 
" Open it," said George, " I 'll let you see mine." 
There were half a dozen papers at least, then a 
dainty velvet case. Inside a brooch, ear-rings, and 
sleeve-buttons of white onyx, very handsomely set. 
Two initials were on a card, " A. M." She glanced 
up at Mrs. Markham with a grateful smile. Ada 
came to inspect. 
" They are very pretty," she said, " only there are 
so many imitations of onyx." 
That did not spoil the pleasure for Kathie, however. 
There were a great many funny things in that 
wonderful pack of Santa Glaus. The children laughed, 
and so did the grown people. Dogs that would bark, 
cats that would mew, a comical little man who always 
would turn a somersault before he could settle him- 
self, and numberless oddities. And when he could 
find no more he turned it inside out and shook it, 
and then he came to the tree. 
There were numerous gifts for the elders here. 
Kathie was more than surprised to find herself 
remembered by  many friends. Mrs. Havens had 
 
sent a beautiful glove-box containing half a dozen 
pairs of gloves in different colors ; Mrs. Meredith, 
some pretty handkerchiefs with her initials embroi- 
dered in the corner ; from Mr. Edward Meredith a 
necklace and cross ; from Dr. Markham a set of books 
bound very handsomely, and, best of all, a dear re- 
membrance from mamma, that had come from the 
Christmas-tree ao Cedarwood. 
" Where is your uncle ? " asked Kathie of Ada 
presently. In the excitement and confusion she had 
but just missed him. 
Ada laughed and looked mysterious. 
" Oh ! " said Kathie, and then she smiled at the 
Santa Glaus, who was making a final speech aud bow- 
ing himself away. 
How odd that she had not suspected it, for it did 
not seem to. her that any one else could have been 
quite as amusing. 
Then all the children thronged round the tree.. 
The candies were crunched, the fruit divided, every- 
body laughed and talked, and declared that it had 
been most delightful. Kathie could only clasp the 
hands that were so fondly extended to her, and smile 
her thanks, for her heart was full. 
The younger children were dismissed to the nur- 
sery, as it was long past their bedtime. A few of 
the smaller visitors went home, and the rest had 
quite an amusing hour to themselves. Kathie was 
perfectly radiant with happiness. 
* The prettiest child here," said Dr. Markham, 
with pardonable pride, " and the best behaved. She 
acts like a little girl, not a fine lady, who must turn 
up her nose at everything. George's daughter is 
being spoiled as fast as possible. I wonder if her 
mother thinks such airs and affectations becoming ? 
Kathie will make a lovely woman, but Ada will be 
simply insufferable ! " 
There was more than one who admired Kathie. 
Ada was fairly jealous of the attention bestowed upon 
her. 
But Dr. Markham declared at last that they 
were steady old people, and not much used to dis- 
sipation, so they must travel off home. Kathie was 
quite bewildered with the hosts of kisses and fond 
good-bys. 
" I have ever so much more to tell you, so I shall 
come round," said Mr. Meredith to Kathie as they 
stood in the hall. 
 
" I shall shut Kathie in a band-box/' growled 
Dr. Markham. " I will not have the young men run- 
ning after her ! " 
" He is very cruel ! " said Uncle Edward, with a 
comical sigh. " If he bolts the doors I shall drop 
down the chimney." 
"The loveliest time in the world," whispered 
Kathie surreptitiously to Aunt Kuth. " It will take 
you all day to-morrow to look at my presents. I 
don't believe I could have been any happier at Cedar- 
wood, and I wonder why everybody is so kind and 
sweet to me. To be loved is the very best thing of 
all, dear Aunt Ruth." 
CHAPTER XII. 
CRUMBS OF COMFORT. 
AUNT EUTH really had begun to improve, there 
could be no mistake in the fact. Her appetite was 
better, her spirits more buoyant, and she was gaining 
strength ; indeed, she seemed much more like her olden 
self, hopeful and smiling. Dr. Markham was very 
much encouraged, and Kathie was brimful of delight. 
She had written home a very glowing account of 
her Christmas, and she felt so grateful for the two 
remembrances from those she loved best, mamma and 
Uncle Robert. She held her watch quite in awe, 
and was almost afraid to wind it, or even to wear it. 
On the first day of the new year Dr. Markham 
allowed Aunt Euth to try sitting up again in the re- 
clining-chair. It did not tire her as much as before. 
" I expect that we shall soon hear of your running 
away," he exclaimed, laughingly. 
Kathie came and sat by her, and held her hand in 
tender, wistful love. 
 
"I feel like giving thanks every moment/' she 
said. " It 's so delightful to think of your getting 
well." 
" Yes, my darling " ; and a thoughtful shade crossed 
Aunt Euth's face. 
" I was almost afraid " began Kathie ; but she 
stopped in a little awe, for there is always something 
solemn in the thought of death. 
Aunt Ruth's fingers tightened in their clasp. 
" I have been near to the brink of the dark river," 
she said, slowly. " I was weak, and full of repin- 
ings." 
" Why, Aunt Ruth ! " exclaimed Kathie, in surprise. 
" We all thought you very patient. T never heard 
you utter a complaint. But it seems to me that it 
would be hard to die now, when we are all so 
happy." 
" And that was the lesson I had to learn. I be- 
lieve I was not quite satisfied or resigned until the 
dawn of Christmas. When I gave up my will, God 
showed me his, which was better than my weak 
fears." 
" But did you really think that you would die ? ' 
" My dear child, I have had some dreary weeks 
lying here. . But for your tender care and bright, 
hopeful face, it seemed sometimes as if my slender 
hold on life must have ended. I can never tell you 
all the comfort you have been to me." 
Kathie guessed now why Dr. Markham had been 
so anxious to have her stay. Perhaps he had consid- 
ered Aunt Euth in a critical condition. 
" I don't know," she said, with a perplexed expres- 
sion, " how any one can be quite satisfied to die. Does 
God mean that we shall be glad to leave those we 
love and everything sweet and dear ? ' 
" He means us to be resigned to his will, and to 
try to be happy in it. When we were very poor and 
had few enjoyments he sent Uncle Robert to us. I 
suppose if I had been very ill before that, I should 
have felt quite satisfied to die, for I seemed only a 
burden in my helplessness." 
" Aunt Euth, it was so nice to have you then ! " 
* *j 
interrupted Kathie, eagerly. " Yet I want you just 
as much now and all the time." 
The invalid smiled. 
" Tell me what you thought of then, Kathie said, 
presently. 
" My darling, lying there in a hopeless mood, for I 
 
seemed to lose every day, I felt that death was not 
only possible, but near. And it appeared hard to die 
just when we had come to comfort and happiness. 
Then the second operation discouraged me a good 
deal. I am afraid I grew quite rebellious. I dreaded 
to be left alone even for a few days, so you see I was 
selfish." 
" But you did not speak of it. You were willing 
that I should go home." 
" Yes, I made myself so. I put a curb upon my 
tongue and kept silent, like the Psalmist, even from 
good words, for I did not want to have you stay 
against your will. And then your generosity taught 
me a lesson. I committed my ways into the Lord, 
and resolved to trust in him, to take life or death 
and be content. During the intervals, when I could 
not sleep, I prayed for resignation ; and though I can 
never tell quite how it was, as the morning dawned 
I felt satisfied that he would do what was best." 
" And God answered all our prayers," Kathie said, 
with sweet seriousness. " I know mamma and Uncle 
Eobert thought of it at home." 
' So you see, my love, we have to learn lessons 
over constantly, for we never get them perfect." 
 
Kathie was quiet and thoughtful for many mo- 
ments, then she said, in a low tone, "Aunt Euth, 
I have had a lesson to learn also." 
" What was it ? " with a sweet smile. 
" Being generous." 
"I fancied you made a great sacrifice in staying 
with me." 
" Oh, it wasn't that, Aunt Euth " ; and Kathie 
colored. " It did seem a little hard at first ; but 
after Dr. Markham thought it would be better for 
me to remain, I became quite content about it. I 
could see that you really did need me ; and when 
