Having thus confessed her sins, she glanced at 
Lottie Thorne in a most deprecating manner. Some 
one put an arm around her neck. It was Mary 
Cox, and the next instant she had kissed Kathie’s 
burning cheeks. 
“ You are the sweetest and loveliest girl in the 
whole room,” she exclaimed, in her warm, extravagant 
fashion. “ I ’d give a kingdom if my hair curled 
like yours.” For Mary’s hair was black and straight 
as an Indian’s. 
Kathie took refuge beside Mary, who was always 
talking and laughing. Then she ventured to look 
round at the other girls. Lottie wore a lavender and 
white checked silk, trimmed with pretty pendent 
gimp. Sophie Dorrance had on her regular party 
dress, — pink tarlatan, ruffled, — and there seemed a 
perfect sea of bright, shimmering things. 
They were all a trifle awkward at first. Miss 
Jessie came down and started some play. They 
stood in a ring with her in the centre. She said, 
“ Muldi Mustapha does so in the palace at Ispahan,’ 
and put one arm in motion ; then another ; afterward 
one foot ; and then every head was nodded, and they 
all looked funny enough. Whenever a new thing 
was said, she repeated the whole sentence, and the 
catch in it was when she said merely “ and so,” 
without the rest. Presently she uttered “ and so.” 
Up and down went every head hut hers, and then 
there was a general laugh. 
“ Everybody will have to go in the ring,” ex- 
claimed Charlie. 
“ I ’ll try it again,” she said, good-naturedly ; “ hut 
this time you must he sharp.” 
They all thought they would he, hut half, at least, 
were caught. Of course there was another shout. 
There was a great deal of fun over it. Kathie 
forgot all about her dress, and began to he very 
happy. They played until nearly every one had 
been caught, then Miss Jessie went to the piano, and 
two of the hoys sang a comic song. After that they 
were fairly in motion. They had a game of pawns 
until they collected a pile of forfeits, when they went 
to work to redeem them. The first belonged to Dick 
Grayson, and it was held over Kathies head. Dick 
 
was to “ stand in the well.” He called upon Kathie 
to help him out, and then she called Charlie. So 
they went on, enjoying their fun amazingly, — pillow 
and key, still quaker, consequences, and lots of laugh- 
able games. Indeed, there were two forfeits still re- 
maining when they were summoned to supper. 
Kathie had been everybody’s favorite. She was 
kissed for the prettiest numberless times, called out 
for all the plays, and in constant demand. Lottie 
thought it was her elegant dress, and began to envy 
her ; but the truth lay in Kathie’s being so thoroughly 
sweet and ready to please. She quite forgot about 
herself, and those who are always trying to make 
others happy are generally happy themselves. 
Charlie took her out to supper. Dick Grayson 
made an imaginary attack upon him, and threatened 
to carry her off to some corner. Miss Jessie was at 
the head of the table, and Cousin Emily at the lower 
end. Very prettily arranged it was, with vases of 
flowers, and dishes of apples piled into pyramids, the 
little interstices filled with motto-papers ; cakes, 
candies, and cream for the lighter part, and sand- 
wiches for those who had played themselves hungry. 
There were Mr. and Mrs. Darrell and grandma, smiling 
at the children’s merriment. What a delightful 
time they were having ! Kathie laughed until it 
seemed as if she could hardly stand up. Everybody 
was so very good-natured and enjoyable. 
After supper Miss Jessie went to the piano, and 
the children had several quadrilles. It was twelve 
o’clock before any one thought about it ; then a 
number of the children were sent for, and the rest 
began to prepare for departure. The large family 
carriage was put in requisition, and quite a host 
taken the first time, but Charlie begged Kob and 
Kathie to wait. 
“Have you enjoyed yourself?” Miss Jessie asked, 
glancing into her smiling face. 
“O, so much ! Miss Jessie, I think it ’s such a 
nice thing to be rich. You can make so many 
people happy.” 
Kathie was so earnest that she could not help 
being equally frank. 
“ And it is nice to be able to enjoy pleasure. 
Nothing satisfies a person so well as to know that 
his or her efforts have been appreciated.” 
“ Then you ought to have a good deal of satisfac- 
tion,” said Kob, with a bright smile, “ for I don’t 
think there ever was such a splendid party, and 
there hasn’t a single accident happened. It ’s been 
jolly all the way through ” ; then Rob blushed a little, 
and ended rather bashfully with, “ I ’m only a boy, 
Miss Jessie.” 
“ And I ’m used to boys’ compliments, though 
Charlie is not very lavish in that respect.” 
“ I don’t believe boys ever are,” said Charlie. 
“ They leave that for girls,” suggested Rob. 
“ How about that, Kathie ? ” asked Miss Jessie. 
“ I guess boys do not always say what they feel, 
but girls like to have everything nice and pleasant, 
and — ” Kathie made a long pause, coloring deeply. 
“ Express their gratification more freely,” said 
Miss Jessie, coming to her assistance. 
The carriage returned, and Kathie went for her 
wraps. “ I ’ve had such a lovely, lovely time,” she 
said again. “ I hope every one has been just as 
happy.” 
“ You have a large heart, Kathie. I am sure you 
deserve a great deal of good fortune. I hope you 
will get it some day.” 
“ We ought to send Fred some candies,” Charlie 
said, as Kathie and his sister came down stairs. 
 
Kathie had been thinking of this, but did not know 
exactly how to bring it about. 
" I ’ll do up a parcel ” ; and in a few moments 
Miss Jessie had it ready, — to be given to Freddy 
with her love. 
“ And tell your Aunt Ruth that I ’m coming the 
first pleasant day to take her out driving,” she con- 
tinued. 
Kathie thanked her with her bright eyes and 
sweetest smile. 
There were several in the carriage beside Rob and 
Kathie, and they talked of the party till one by one 
was dropped out, and last of all the Alston children. 
Mamma was sitting up and Aunt Ruth lying on 
the lounge. The one little lamp turned low looked 
oddly enough after the brilliance of the evening. 
“ And so Cinderella comes back to her chimney- 
corner,” she said, gayly, kissing them both. “ Dear 
godmother, I never was so happy in my life. But 
first I felt too grand in my dress. I had to forget 
about that.” 
“ I ’m so glad you had it ! ” exclaimed Rob. “ I 
saw ever so many of the girls staring at it. I guess 
Lottie Thorne was surprised enough. She thinks 
herself so grand ! ” 
 
" But she was real sweet to me,” said Katliie. 
“ Sweet ! I ’d like to know what there was to 
make her sour, unless she felt so because your dress 
was the handsomest. Mother, Kathie was the pret- 
tiest girl there, and up in all the plays. It was just 
royal ! I wish some one else would give a party. 
And now I ’m off for bed. Good night.” Rob 
made a very tremendous bow, nearly standing on 
his head. 
The next morning Freddy was delighted with his 
share of the feast. Kathie told him all she could 
remember, — how they had a menagerie, and every one 
could see just whatever animal he or she called for. 
“ But they didn’t have real lions and elephants, 
— did they ? ” asked Fred, with big eyes. 
“ It was a looking-glass in another room, and you 
were taken in there and shown yourself. So if you 
asked to see a monkey, as several of them did, it was 
rather funny.” 
“ What did you ask for, Rob ? ” 
“ Oh, I was let into the joke. Charlie and I were 
the porters, and kept the doors.” 
Then Kathie told about the other plays and all the 
amusing things that occurred. 
 
" Tlie Darrells are not a bit proud,’ Rob said, in 
a pleased and satisfied tone ; “ they never show off 
anything as if they thought it was so much better 
than what you had at home. You would surely be 
surprised.” 
“ A very foolish and ill-bred thing for any one to 
do,’ said Mrs. Alston. 
“ Lottie Thorne ’s always at it. Last night she 
had to tell half a dozen times at least what her 
mother had, making it out a little better than Mrs. 
Darrell’s.” 
“ But Lottie is real pleasant,” said Kathie, anxious 
to give her all her due. 
“ When you let her have her own way and listen 
to all her stories. Mother, I sometimes think Kathie 
hasn’t a bit of spirit. Lottie plagues her and makes 
fun of her, and is real hateful, and then Kathie helps 
her out of the drag.” 
“ I should say Kathie had just the right kind of 
spirit,” Mrs. Alston replied. 
“ But she ’s always sorry when she has been 
cross.” 
“ So she says ; but I don’t believe it is true sor- 
row. She does the same thing right over again. 
 
And I hate people who brag and make such a fuss 
over their own things. Miss Jessie does n’t.” 
“ Miss Jessie is a lady, and that one can be, rich 
or poor,” Aunt Ruth said. 
Miss Jessie fulfilled her promise a few days after 
this. The keen March winds had dried up the roads 
so that it was very good travelling. Aunt Ruth 
had a long, pleasant ride. . It seemed quite like 
old times. 
And then one day she called upon a little busi- 
ness, when a sudden shower came up, and she had to 
take off her hat and wait awhile. 
“ Mamma,” Kathie said, in a whisper, “ couldn’t 
we ask Miss Jessie to stay to tea ? We have a nice 
cake and some cold meat, and we could fix the table 
real prettily; and when Rob comes home he will 
be so pleased.” 
Rob was off playing, as usual ; yet since his sick- 
ness he had made quite an improvement in many 
things. To his mother this was deeply gratifying. 
But Kathie was a comfort to her daily and hourly. 
“ Why, yes,” she said, slowly ; then added, with 
a smile, “You don’t feel troubled about the old 
carpet now ? ” 
 
“Miss Jessie doesn’t mind; and when we give 
the best we can — ” 
“ Those who love us accept the offering just as 
it is given.” 
So Katliie invited Miss Jessie. She smiled a 
little, and said, “ That is hardly worth while ; the 
shower will be over presently.” 
“ But I ’d like to have you so very much.” 
“ Would you ? ” 
The pleading eyes were most eloquent. 
“ Very well,” Miss Jessie said, with a sweet smile. 
Katliie left her to talk to Aunt Ruth a few mo- 
ments while she went to mamma. 
“ If you would like to make some biscuits, Katliie, 
they will bake very quickly,” Mrs. Alston said. 
Katliie was delighted. Now and then she made 
biscuits and cake, and always had excellent luck. 
There was a. small storeroom off of the kitchen, 
where they could work when the weather was not 
too cold. Katliie tied on a large apron, prepared all 
her materials, and in a short time had a panful of 
nice round biscuits that raised up like pound-cake. 
Then she helped her mother set the table. She 
couldn’t but feel secretly glad that they had pretty 
 
China, and silver forks, and some nice napkins. Mrs. 
Alston had not thought it necessary to give up all 
the refinements of life simply because they had met 
with a reverse of fortune. She had endeavored to so 
train her children that they would behave properly 
in any society, and had been most particular that 
they should not be awkward or ill-bred at the table. 
“Now, Kathie, you may go back to the parlor,” her 
mother said. “ I ’ve just put the tea to draw, and 
Eob will be in soon.” 
Miss Jessie had been entertaining Freddy as well 
as Aunt Kuth. Indeed, now she had him on her lap, 
telling him how the horse once ran away with her. 
“ But wasn’t you afraid ?” asked Fred. “ I should 
think girls would always be.” 
Miss Jessie laughed merrily at this. 
“Not very much. We had a long straight road 
before us, and Hero wasn’t vicious. Now we have 
a horse that no one but papa drives, and his name is 
Firefly.” 
“ Oh,” exclaimed Fred, “ one day Charlie and I 
were horses, and we rode Kathie home on Charlie’s 
nice sled. My name was Firefly. I hope Santa 
Claus will bring me a sled next Christmas.” 
 
“ What did he bring you last Christmas ? ” 
“ O, nothing much. Mamma said lie was very 
poor, but I think he went to your house first and 
left that pretty sled. And I wanted a drum, but he 
didn’t even leave that.” 
“ He must have had your place down last, then ; I 
hope he will do better next time, and not wait until 
his bag is empty. What did you have, Katliie ? ” 
“ A book of fairy-stories, and I like them so 
much.” 
“ They aren’t real true stories,” explained Fred. 
“But, Miss Jessie, some of them can be made true, 
and it is delightful to think of all the pleasant things 
in the world, if you can’t have them.” 
“ That is the true secret of enjoyment, Katliie, and 
you are fortunate to have learned it so soon. You can 
enjoy a great deal that belongs to another person 
almost as well as if it were yours, if you only have 
a happy, contented mind. Failing in that, no amount 
of pleasure or wealth will satisfy a person.” 
“ And the best of all is to be happy and to make 
others so,” Katliie said, thoughtfully. 
“ Have you been trying the last ? ” Miss Jessie 
asked, with a smile. 
 
“ Kathie is our little fairy,” Aunt Buth said, pass- 
ing her arm around the child’s neck. 
“ Then you turned the stories to some account ? ” 
“ Oh Miss Jessie, I can’t do much, but I thought 
I ’d try some little things ” ; and Kathie colored. 
“ That word try is like a magic wand. It has 
assisted me a good many times. You always look so 
bright and cheerful that one would guess you had 
access to the fairy fountain.” 
Bob had come in, washed his face and brushed his 
hair, and now opened the parlor door. Supper was 
ready also, and he invited them out after he had 
spoken to Miss Jessie. 
They had a gay, social time. The party was 
talked over, and presently it came out about Kathie’s 
dress, that had happened just like a fairy-story. 
They were not afraid of Miss Jessie, but felt per- 
fectly at ease with her. She appeared to enjoy the 
surprise very much. 
Bob was sorry that Charlie was not present having 
a good visit with them. It still kept raining, and 
Miss Jessie thought that she had better go home 
before it grew any darker. Kathie proposed that she 
should put on mamma’s waterproof, and Bob took 
the large umbrella. 
 
“ I ’ve had such a nice time,” she said, in her soft, 
pleasant tone, “and I shall come again real soon 
But remember that you three children are to spend a 
Saturday with Charlie, and have a good long drive.” 
Fred was in ecstasies. Rob escorted Miss Jessie 
in a most gallant fashion, cpiite delighted with the 
honor. Kathie helped her mother wash the tea- 
dishes, and then she sat down in the corner in her 
little rocker. 
“ What makes you so quiet ? ” her mother asked, 
presently. 
“ Was I, mamma ? I was only thinking what a 
pleasant visit it had been, and how sweet Miss Jessie 
is. And it seems to me that I don’t mind being- 
poor half as much as I did a month ago. Some of 
the girls always make a great time over what they 
have at home, and talk of their new clothes. It 
makes me feel as if they considered it quite a benefit 
to me; but Miss Jessie never does anything of the 
kind. I believe she would have been just as sweet 
if I had worn my scarlet dress to the party. And 
she is always so good, so much like Aunt Ruth.” 
Aunt Ruth smiled to hear herself thus praised. 
“Miss Jessie is a Christian lady,” Mrs. Alston 
replied. “ She tries to follow the Golden Rule.” 
 
“ I ’d like to be just such a young lady. Of 
course I ’ll never be rich, but I can do a good 
many things for you and Aunt Euth and the boys. 
I want to be a comfort, so that you ’ll always be 
glad you had a little girl called Kathie.” 
“ My darling, I give thanks every day of my life ” ; 
and her mother kissed her fondly. “ I am truly 
pleased to have you satisfied with your station and 
your life, and to see you endeavor to look on the 
bright side of everything. If you cultivate this 
spirit, your life will be a round of enjoyment, even 
though toilsome. You are my bright little fairy.” 
No, the fairies didn’t all live in palaces. 
 
CHAPTEE X. 
kathie’s prince. 
One bright May afternoon Katliie was playing 
with two school friends, Lucy and Annie Gardiner. 
Mrs. Alston preferred that she should run out of 
doors as much as possible, and she had given her 
permission to stop on the way home from school, and 
spend an hour with her companions. They were out 
on the green in front of Lucy’s house, playing “ tag,” 
and running like frolicsome kittens. 
A gentleman walked slowly by them, but they 
were so engrossed that they hardly noticed him. By 
and by he halted and took a step backward, pausing 
near Katliie. “ Can you tell me where Mrs. Alston 
lives ? ” he asked. 
Katliie opened her eyes quite wide, then, remem- 
bering that it was not polite to stare, said, 
pleasantly, “ Oh yes, only it isn’t a very straight way 
from here. I ’ll show you.” 
“ You can’t go home, Katliie,” exclaimed Annie, 
 
with apprehension. “ You haven’t been here half 
an hour yet.” 
“I ’ll just run to the corner and back”; so she 
turned to the stranger, who was a little in advance. 
“There are several little houses just alike, — Cot- 
tage Pow, it ’s called. You go down this street two 
blocks, then you turn to the right and keep on until 
you come to an old stone house, and from there you 
can see them. The third one is — ” mamma’s, she 
was going to say, but she felt a little strange and 
substituted — “ Mrs. Alston’s.” 
“ Thank you ; I guess I ’ll find it. Is this Mrs. 
Alston a widow ? ” 
“ Yes,” Katliie replied, wonderingly, and then she 
watched him as he turned the corner. A kind of 
foreign-looking gentleman, very dark, and with a great 
beard ; but now that she thought of it, it almost 
seemed as if she had seen him somewhere before. 
“ Katliie ! ” called Lucy. “ Don’t let him kidnap 
