wondered at the profusion of forks by her own plate, and almost thought
the waiter must have made a mistake; but she saw Norton was as well
supplied. The lights, and the flowers, and the fruit in the centre of
the table, and the gay silks and laces around it, and all the
appointments of the elegant room, almost bewildered Matilda. Yet she
thought it was very pleasant too, and extremely pretty; and discovered
that eating dinner was a great deal more of a pleasure when the eyes
could be so gratified at the same time with the taste. However, soup
was soup, she found, to a hungry little girl.

"Pink," said Norton, after he had swallowed his soup,--"where do you
think we will go first?" Norton had got a seat beside her and spoke in
a confidential whisper.

"I am going with your mother to-morrow," Matilda returned in an
answering whisper. "So she said."

"That won't tire you out," said Norton. "After she goes, or before she
goes, you and I will go. Where first?"

"You and I alone?" said Matilda softly.

"Alone!"

"Norton," said Matilda very softly, "I think I want to go first of all
to the shoemaker's."

Norton had nearly burst out into a laugh, but he crammed his napkin
against his face.

"You dear Pink!" he said; "that isn't anywhere. That's business. I mean
pleasure. You see, next week I shall begin to go to school, and my time
will be pretty nicely taken up, except Saturday. We have got three days
before next week. And you have got to see everything."

"But Norton, I do not know what there is to see."

"That's true. You don't, to be sure. Well Pink, there's the Park; but
we must have a good day for that; to-day is so cold it would bite our
noses. We can go every afternoon, if it's good. Then there is the
Museum; and there is a famous Menagerie just now."

"Oh Norton!"--said Matilda.

"Well?"

"Do you mean a Menagerie with lions? and an elephant?"

"Lions, and splendid tigers, David says; and an elephant, and a
hippopotamus; and ever so many other creatures besides. All of them
splendid, David says."

"I did not use that word," David remarked from the other side of the
table.

"All right," said Norton. "It is my word. Then, Pink, we'll pay our
respects to the lions and tigers the first thing. After the shoe"--

"Hush, Norton," said Matilda. "You forget yourself."

Norton laughed, pleased; for Matilda's little head had taken its
independent set upon her shoulders, and it shewed him that she was
feeling at ease, and not shy and strange, as he had feared she might.
In truth the lions and tigers had drawn Matilda out of herself. And now
she was able to enjoy roast beef and plum pudding and ice cream as well
as anybody, and perhaps more; for to her they were an unusual
combination of luxuries. Now and then she glanced at the other people
around the table. Mrs. Lloyd always seemed to her like a queen; the
head of the house; and the head of such a house was as good as a queen.
Judith looked like a young lady who took, and could take, a great many
liberties in it. David, like a grave, reserved boy who never wanted to
take one. Mrs. Bartholomew seemed a luxurious fine lady; Matilda's
impression was that she cared not much for anybody or anything except
herself and her children. And how rich they all must be! Not Mrs. Lloyd
alone; but all these. Their dress shewed it, and their talk, and their
air still more. It was the air of people who wanted nothing they could
not have, and did not know what it meant to want anything long. Mrs.
Lloyd was drinking one sort of wine, Mrs. Bartholomew another, and Mrs.
Laval another; one had a little clear wineglass, another a yellow
bowl-like goblet, much larger; the third had a larger still. Every
place was provided with the three glasses, Matilda saw. Just as her
observations had got thus far, she was startled to see Norton sign the
servant and hold his claret glass to be filled.

Matilda's thoughts went into a whirl immediately. She had not seen
Norton take wine at home; it brought trooping round her, by contrast,
the recollections of Shadywalk, the Sunday school room, the meetings of
the Commission, and Mr. Richmond, and talk about temperance, and her
pledge to do all she could to help the cause of temperance. Now, here
was a field. Yes, and there was David Bartholomew on the other side of
the table, he also was just filling his glass. But what could Matilda
do here? Would these boys listen to her? And yet, she had promised to
do all she could for the cause of temperance. She could certainly do
something, in the way of trying at least. She must. To try, is in
everybody's power. But now she found as she thought about it, that it
would be very difficult even to try. It is inconceivable how unwilling
she felt to say one word to Norton on the subject; and as for
David!--Well, she need not think of David at present; he was a
stranger. If she could get Norton to listen-- But she could not get
Norton to listen, she was sure; and what was the use of making a fuss
and being laughed at just for nothing? Only, she had promised.

The working of these thoughts pretty well spoiled Matilda's ice cream.
There was a trembling of other thoughts, too, around these, that were
also rather unwelcome. But she could not think them out then. The
company had left the table and gathered in another room, and there a
great deal of talk and discussion of many things went on, including
winter plans for the children and home arrangements, in which Matilda
was interested. Shopping, also, and what stuffs and what colours were
most in favour, and fashions of making and wearing. Matilda had
certainly been used to hear talk on such subjects in the days of her
mother's life-time, when the like points were eagerly debated between
her and her older children. But then it was always with questions.
What is fashionable; and What can we manage to get? Now and here,
that questioning was replaced by calm knowledge and certainty and the
power to do as they pleased. So the subject became doubly interesting.
The two boys had gone off together; and the two girls, mixing with the
group of their elders, listened and formed their own opinions, of each
other at least. For every now and then, the black eyes and the brown
eyes met; glances inquiring, determining, but almost as nearly
repellent as anything else. So passed the evening; and Matilda was very
glad when it was time to go to bed.

Mrs. Laval went with her to her pretty room, and saw with motherly care
that all was in order and everything there which ought to be there. The
room was warm, though no fire was to be seen; the gas was lit; and
complete luxury filled every corner and met every want, even of the
eye. And after a fond good night, Matilda was left to herself. She was
in a very confused state of mind. It was a strange place; she half
wished they were back in Shadywalk; but with that were mixed floating
visions of shopping and her filled wardrobe, visions of driving in the
Park with Norton, fancies of untold wonderful things to be seen in this
new great city, with its streets and its shops and its rich and its
poor people. No, she could not forego the seeing of these; she was glad
to be in New York; were there not the Menagerie and Stewart's awaiting
her to-morrow? But what sort of a life she was to live here, and how
far it would be possible for her to be like the Matilda Englefield of
Shadywalk why, she was not to be Matilda Englefield at all, but
Laval. Could that be the same? Slowly, while she thought all this,
Matilda opened her little trunk and took out her nightdress and her
comb and brush, and her Bible; and then, the habit was as fixed as the
other habit of going to bed, she opened her Bible, brought a pretty
little table that was in the room, put it under the gas light, and
knelt down to read and pray. She opened anywhere, and read without very
well understanding what she read; the thoughts of lions and tigers, and
green poplin, and red cashmere, making a strange web with the lines of
Bible thought, over which her eye travelled. Till her eyes came to a
word so plain, so clear, and touching her so nearly, that she all at
once as it were woke up out of her maze.

"Who mind earthly things."

What is that? Must one not mind earthly things? Then she went back to
the beginning of the sentence, to see better what it meant.

"For many walk, of whom I have told you often, and now tell you even
weeping, that they are the enemies of the cross of Christ: whose end is
destruction, whose God is their belly, and whose glory is in their
shame, who mind earthly things."

Must one not mind earthly things? thought Matilda. How can one help
minding them? How can I help it? All the people in this house mind
nothing else. Neither did they all at home, when mother was alive, mind
anything else. Mr. Richmond does.--

She went back now to the beginning of the chapter and read it anew. It
was easier to read than to think. The chapter was the third of
Philippians. She did not know who wrote it; she did not exactly
understand a good part of it; nevertheless one thing was clear, a heart
set on something not earthly, and minding nothing that interfered with
or did not help that. So much was clear; and also that the chapter
spoke of certain people not moved by a like spirit, as enemies of the
cross of Christ. It was the hardest reading, Matilda thought, she had
ever done in her Bible. If this is what it is to be a Christian, it was
easier to be a Christian when she was darning lace for Mrs. Candy and
roasting coffee beans in her kitchen for Maria. But she did not wish to
be back there. Some way could be found, surely, of being a Christian
and keeping her pretty room and having her wardrobe filled. And here
Matilda became so sleepy, the fatigue and excitement of this long day
settling down upon her now that the day was over, that she could
neither think nor read any more. She was obliged to go to bed.




CHAPTER VI.


The second of December rose keen and clear, like the first; but inside
Matilda's room there was a state of pleasant summer temperature; she
could hardly understand that it was cold enough outside to make the
pretty frosting on her window panes which hindered the view. She
dressed in royal comfort, and in a delightful stir of expectation and
hope. It was really New York; and she was going to Stewart's to-day.
The cold would not bite her as it used to do in Shadywalk, for they
would be in a carriage.

When she was dressed she contrived to clear a loophole in her frosted
window, and looked out. The sun shone on a long, clean, handsome
street, lined with houses that looked as if all New York were made of
money. Brick and stone fronts rose to stately heights, as far as her
eye could see; windows were filled with beautiful large panes of glass,
like her own window, and lace and drapery behind them testified to the
inside adorning and beautifying. There could not be any one living in
all that street who was not rich; nothing but plenty and ease could
possibly be behind such house-fronts. Then Matilda saw an omnibus going
down the street; but her breath dimmed her look-out place and she had
to give it up for that time. It was her hour for reading and praying.
Matilda was a little inclined to shrink from it, fearing lest she might
come upon some other passage that would give her trouble. She thought,
for this morning, she would turn to a familiar chapter, which she had
read many a time, and where she had never found anything to confuse
her. She began the fifth of Matthew. But she had read only fifteen
verses, and she came to this.

"Let your light so shine before men, that they may see your good works,
and glorify your Father which is in heaven."

If a ray of the very sunshine, pointed and tipped with fire like a
spear, so that it could prick her, had come in through the frosting on
the window pane and smote upon Matilda's face, she would not more
keenly have felt the touch. It had never touched her before, that
verse, with anything but rose leaf softness; now it pricked. Why? The
little girl was troubled; and leaning her elbows on the table and her
head in her hands, she began to think. And then she began to pray. "Let
your light shine." The light must burn if it was to shine; that was one
thing; and she must let no screen come between the light and those who
should see it. Fear must not come there, nor shame, to hide or cover
the light. And the light itself must be bright. Nobody would see a dim
shining. By and by, as she pondered and prayed, with her head in her
hands, this word and last night's word joined themselves together; and
she began to see, that "minding earthly things" would act to hide the
light first, and then to put it out. So far she got; but the battle was
only set in array; it was not fought nor gained, when she was called
down to breakfast.

The rest of the family were all seated at the table before the two boys
came in.

"Pink," Norton burst forth, as soon as he had said good morning, "we
must get there at feeding time!"

"Here you are!"--said David waggishly; and Matilda looking up, saw
Judith's black eyes all on fire and a flash of the same fun in her
brother's face. Those proud eyes could sparkle, then. Her look passed
to Norton. But he was as cool as usual.

"Mamma," he said, "I am going to take Pink this morning to the
Menagerie."

"You had better wait till she has something to wear, Norton."

"When will that be, ma'am? It won't take long will it?"

"I do not know."

"Mamma, Pink does not care, and I do not care. She has never seen a
live lion in her life; and it will not make any difference with the
lions. I guess she will keep warm. I want to be there at twelve
o'clock; or I want to be there before. They feed the animals at twelve
o'clock, and they're all alive."

"We feed the animals here at one o'clock," said his grandmother. "I
hope you will remember that."

"Do you want to go, Matilda?" Mrs. Laval asked.

"She has never seen a lion," repeated Norton.

"Somebody else has never seen a monkey," said Judith.

"That is somebody who don't live in the house with Judy Bartholomew,"
Norton returned.

"We don't want to see a bear, either," said Miss Judy pouting.

"Well, remember and be at home for luncheon," said Mrs. Laval. "I want
Matilda after that."

The breakfast went on now delightfully. Matilda sometimes lifted her
eyes to look at her opposite neighbours; they had a fascination for
her. Judith was such a sprite of mischief, to judge from her looks; and
David was so utterly unlike Norton. Norton was always acute and frank,
outspoken when he had a mind, fearless and careless at all times.
Fearless David might be, but not careless, unless his face belied him;
he did not look as if it were often his pleasure to be outspoken, or to
shew what he was thinking of. And that was the oddest of all, that he
did not seem lighthearted. Matilda fancied he was proud; she was sure
that he was reserved. In the family gatherings he was seen but not
heard; and she thought he did not care much for what was going on.
Nothing escaped Judy's ears or eyes; and nothing was serious with her
which she could turn into fun. Her eyes gave a funny snap now and then
when they met Matilda's eyes across the table, as if she had her own
thoughts about Matilda and knew half of Matilda's thoughts about her.
Matilda hoped she would not take it into her head to go to the
Menagerie.

"Norton, I believe I'll go too," said Judith the next minute.

"Where?" said Norton.

"To the Menagerie. Where should I go?"

"All right," said Norton. "But if you are going to do me the honour to
go with me, you must wait till I have brought Matilda back. I can't
take care of both of you."

"I don't want you to take care of me," said Judy.

"I know that. But I am going to take care of Matilda."

"Why cannot you take care of both of them?" his grandmother asked,
interrupting Judith.

"Make Judith tell first why she wants to go, grandmamma. She has been
lots of times."

"Grandmamma," said Judy with her eyes snapping, "I want to see a new
sort of wild animal, just come, and to see how it will look at the
tigers."

They all laughed, but Mrs. Laval put her arm round Matilda and stooped
down and kissed her.

"Judith is a wild animal herself, isn't she, dear? She is a sort of
little wild-cat. But she has soft paws; they don't scratch."

Matilda was not quite so sure of this. However, when they left the
table Judith set about gaining her point in earnest; but Norton was not
to be won over. He was going with Matilda alone, he said, the first
time; and so he did.

It was all enjoyment then, as soon as Matilda and Norton left the house
together. Matilda was in a new world. Her eyes were busy making
observations everywhere.

"How beautiful the houses are, Norton," she said, when they had gone a
block or two. "There are not many poor people in New York, are there?"

"Well, occasionally you see one," said Norton.

"I don't see anything that looks like one. Norton, why do they have the
middle of the street covered with those round stones? They make such a
racket when the carts and carriages go over them. It is very
disagreeable."

"Is it?" said Norton. "You won't hear it after you have been here a
little while."

"Not hear it? But why do they have it so, Norton?"

"Why Pink, just think of the dust we should have, and the mud, if it
was all like Shadywalk, and these thousands of wheels cutting into it
all the time."

Matilda was silenced. One difference brings on another, she was
learning to find out. But now Norton hailed a street car and they got
into it. The warmth of the car was very pleasant after the keen wind in
the streets. And here also the people who filled it, though most of
them certainly not rich people, and many very far from that, yet looked
to a certain degree comfortable. But just as Norton and Matilda got
out, and were about to enter the building, where an enormous painted
canvass with a large brown lion upon it told that the Menagerie was to
be seen, Matilda stopped short. A little ragged boy, about as old as
herself, offered her a handful of black round-headed pins. What did he
mean? Matilda looked at him, and at the pins.

"Come on," cried Norton. "What is that?--No, we don't want any of your
goods just now; at least I don't. Come in, Pink. You need not stop to
speak to everybody that stops to speak to you."

"What did he want, Norton? that boy."

"Wanted to sell hairpins. Didn't you see?"

Matilda cast a look back at the sideway, where the boy was trying
another passenger for custom; but Norton drew her on, and the boy was
forgotten in some extraordinary noises she heard; she had heard them as
soon as she entered the door; strange, mingled noises, going up and
down a scale of somewhat powerful, unearthly notes. She asked Norton
what they were?

"The lions, Pink," said Norton, with intense satisfaction. "The lions,
and the rest of the company. Come--here they are."

And having paid his fee, he pushed open a swinging baize door, and they
entered a very long room or gallery, where the sounds became to be sure
very unmistakable. They almost terrified Matilda. So wildly were
mingled growls and cries and low roarings, all in one restless,
confused murmur. The next minute she all but forgot the noise. She was
looking at two superb Bengal tigers, a male and a female, in one large
cage. They were truly superb. Large and lithe, magnificent in port and
action, beautiful in the colour and marking of their smooth hides. But
restless? That is no word strong enough to fit the ceaseless impatient
movement with which the male tiger went from one corner of his iron
cage to the other corner, and back again; changing constantly only to
renew the change. One bound in his native jungle would have carried him
over many times the space, which now he paced eagerly or angrily with a
few confined steps. The tigress meanwhile knew his mood and her wisdom
so well that she took care never to be in his way; and as the cage was
