and — so  far as appeared to others — possibly 
worthless vagabond, he also got a new and instruc- 
tive effect upon the faces which, in his real character, 
he knew so well by their looks of neighborly greet- 
ing; and it is his belief that the first hospitable 
prompting of the human heart is to shut the door in 
the eyes of homeless strangers who present them- 
selves after eleven o'clock. By that time the ser- 
vants are all abed, and the gentleman of the house 
answers the bell, and looks out with a loath and be- 
wildered face, which gradually changes to one of 
suspicion, and of wonder as to what those fellows 
can possibly want of him, till at last the prevailing 
expression is one of contrite desire to atone for the 
first reluctance by any sort of service. The con- 
tributor professes to have observed these changing 
phases in the visages of those whom he that night 
called from their dreams, or arrested in the act of 
going to bed; and he drew the conclusion — very 
proper for his imaginable connection with the garrot- 
ing and other adventurous brotherhoods — that the 
most flattering moment for knocking on the head 
people who answer a late ring at night is either in 
their first selfish bewilderment, or their final self- 
abandonment to their better impulses. It does not 
seem to have occurred to him that he would himself 
have been a much more favorable subject for the 
predatory arts that any of his neighbors, if his ship- 
mate, the unknown companion of his researches for 
Mr. Hapford, had been at all so minded. But the 
faith of the gaunt giant upon which he reposed was  
good, and the contributor continued to wander about 
with him in*perfect safety. Not a soul among those 
they asked had ever heard of a Mr. Hapford, — fer 
less of a Julia Tinker Hving with him. But they all 
listened to the contributor's explanation with interest 
and eventual sympathy ; and in truth, — briefly told, 
with a word now and then thrown in by Jonathan 
Tinker, who kept at the bottom of the steps, showing 
like a gloomy spectre in the night, or, in his gro- 
tesque length and gauntness, like the other's shadow 
cast there by the lamphght, — it was a story which 
could hardly fail to awaken pity. 
At last, after ringing several bells where there 
were no lights, in the mere wantonness of good-will, 
and going away before they could be answered (it 
would be entertaining to know what dreams they 
caused the sleepers within), there seemed to be 
nothing for it but to give up the search till morning,, 
and go to the main street and wait for the last horse- 
car to the city. 
There, seated upon the curbstone, Jonathan 
Tinker, being plied with a few leading questions, 
told in hints and scraps the story of his hard life, 
which was at present that of a second mate, and had 
been that of a cabin-boy and of a seaman before the 
mast. The second mate's place he held to be the 
hardest aboard ship. You got only a few dollars 
more than the men, and you did not rank with the 
officers ; you took your meals alone, and in every- 
thing you belonged by yourself. The men did not 
respect you, and sometimes the captain abused you 
awfully before the passengers. The hardest captain 
that Jonathan Tinker ever sailed with was Captain 
Gooding of the Cape. It had got to be so that no 
man would ship second mate under Captain Good- 
ing ; and Jonathan Tinker was with him only one 
voyage. When he had been home awhile, he saw 
an advertisement for a second mate, and he went 
round to the owners'. They }iad kept it secret who 
the captain was ; but there was Captain Gooding in 
the owners' office. " Why, here's the man, now, 
that I want for a second mate," said he, when Jona- 
than Tinker entered ; " he knows me." — " Captain 
Gooding, I know you 'most too well to want to sail 
under you," answered Jonathan. " I might go if I 
hadn't been with you one voyage too many already." 
" And then the men ! " said Jonathan, " the men 
coming aboard drunk, and having to be pounded 
sober! And the hardest of the fight falls on the 
second mate ! Why, there isn't an inch of me 
that hasn't been cut over or smashed into a jell. 
I've had three ribs broken ; I've got a scar from a 
knife on my cheek; and I've been stabbed bad 
enough, half a dozen times, to lay me up." 
Here he gave a sort of desperate laugh, as if the 
notion of so much misery and such various mutila- 
tion were too grotesque not to be amusing. " Well, 
what can you do ? " he went on. " If you don't 
strike, the men think you're afraid of them ; and so 
you have to begin hard and go on hard. I always 
 
tell a man, ' Now, my man, I always begin with a 
man the way I mean to keep on. You do your duty 
and you're all right. But if you don't ' — Well, 
the men ain't Americans any more, — Dutch, Span- 
iards, Chinese, Portuguee, — and it ain't like abusing 
a white man." 
Jonathan Tinker was plainly part of the horrible 
tyranny which we all know exists on shipboard ; and 
his hstener respected him the more that, though he 
had heart enough to be ashamed of it, he was too 
honest not to own it. 
Why did he still follow the sea? Because he did 
not know what else to do. When he was younger, 
he used to love it, but now he hated it. Yet there 
was not a prettier life in the world if you got to be 
captain. He used to hope for that once, but not 
now ; though he thought he could navigate a ship. 
Only let him get his family together again, and he 
would — yes, he would — try to do something ashore. 
No car had yet come in sight, and so the con- 
tributor suggested that they should walk to the car- 
office, and look in the "Directory," which is kept 
there, for the name of Hapford, in search of whom it 
had already been arranged that they should renew 
their acquaintance on the morrow. Jonathan Tinker, 
when they had reached the office, heard with con- 
stitutional phlegm that the name of the Hapford, 
for whom he inquired was not in the " Directory." 
" Never mind," said the other ; " come round to my 
house in the morning. We'll find him yet." So they 
parted with a shake of the hand, the second mate say- 
 
ing that he believed he should go down to the vessel 
and sleep aboard, — if he could sleep, — and murmur- 
ing at the last moment the hope of returning the 
compliment, while the other walked homeward, weary 
as to the flesh, but, in spite of his sympathy for Jona- 
than Tinker, very elate in spirit. The truth is, — 
and however disgraceftd to human nature, let the 
truth still be told, — he had recurred to his primal 
satisfaction in the man as calamity capable of being 
used for such and such literary ends, and, while he 
pitied him, rejoiced in him as an episode of real life 
quite as striking and complete as anything in fiction. 
It was literature made to his hand. Nothing could 
be better, he mused ; and once, more he passed the 
details of the story in review, and beheld all those 
pictures which the poor fellow's artless words had so 
vividly conjured up : he saw him leaping ashore in 
the gray summer dawn as soon as the ship hauled 
into the dock, and making his way, with his vague 
sea-legs unaccustomed to the pavements, up through 
the silent and empty city streets ; he imagined the 
tumult of fear and hope which the sight of the man's 
home must have caused in him, and the benumbing 
shock of finding it blind and deaf to all his appeals ; 
he saw him sitting down upon what had been his 
own threshold, and waiting in a sort of bewildered 
patience till the neighbors should be awake, while 
the noises of the streets gradually arose, and the 
wheels began to rattle over the stones, and the milk- 
man and the ice-man came and went, and the wait- 
ing figure began to be stared at, and to challenge the 
 
curiosity of the passing policeman ; he fancied the 
opening of the neighbor's door, and the slow, cold 
understanding of the case ; the manner, whatever it 
was, in which the sailor was told that one year be- 
fore his wife had died, with her babe, and that his 
children were scattered, none knew where. As the 
contributor dwelt pityingly upon these things, but at 
the same time estimated their aesthetic value one by 
one, he drew near the head of his street, and found 
himself a few paces behind a boy slouching onward 
through the night, to whom he called out, adventur- 
ously, and with no real hope of information, — 
" Do you happen to know anybody on this street 
by the name of Hapford?" 
" Why no, not in this town," said the boy; but 
he added that there was a street of the same name 
in a neighboring suburb, and that there was a" Hap- 
ford living on it. 
" By Jove I " thought the contributor, " this is 
more like literature than ever ; " and he hardly 
knew whether to be more provoked at his own stu- 
pidity in not thinking of a street of the same name in 
the next village, or delighted at the element of fatal- 
ity which the fact introduced into the story ; for 
Tinker, according to his own account, must have 
landed from the cars a few rods from the very door 
he was -seeking, and so walked fai'ther and farther 
from it every moment. He thought the case so 
curious, that he laid it briefly before the boy, who, 
however he might have been inwardly affected, was 
sufficiently true to the national traditions not tc 
make the smallest conceivable outward sign of con- 
cern in it. 
At home, however, the contributor related his 
adventures and the story of Tinker's life, adding the 
fact that he had just found out where Mr. Hapford 
lived. " It was the only touch wanting," said he ; 
" the whole thing is now perfect." 
" It's too perfect," was answered from a sad enthu- 
siasm. " Don't speak of it ! I can't take it in." 
" But the question is," said the contributor, peni- 
tently taking himself to task for forgetting the hero 
of these excellent misfortunes in his delight at their 
perfection, " how am I to sleep to-night, thinking of 
that poor soul's suspense and uncertainty ? Never 
mind, — I'll be up early, and run over and make 
sure that it is Tinker's Hapford, before he gets out 
here," and have a pleasant surprise for him. Would 
it not be a justifiable coup de thSdtre to fetch his 
daughter here, and let her answer his ring at the 
door when he comes in the morning ? " 
This plan was discouraged. " No, no ; let them 
meet in their own way. Just take him to Hapford's 
house and leave him." 
" Very well. But he's too good a character to 
lose sight of. He's got to come back here and tell 
us what he intends to do." 
The birds, next morning, not having had the sec- 
ond mate on their minds either as an unhappy man 
or a most fortunate episode, but having slept long 
and soundly, were singing in a very sprightly way 
in the way-side trees; and the sweetness of thefa 
 
notes made the contributor's heart light as he 
climbed the hill and rang at Mr. Hapford's door. 
The door was opened by a young girl of fifteen or 
sixteen, whom lie knew at a glance for the second 
mate's daughter, but of whom, for form's sake, he 
asked if there were a girl named Julia Tinker living 
there."  
" My name's Julia Tinker," answered the maid, 
who had rather a disappointing face. 
" Well," said the contributor, " your father's got 
back from his Hong-Kong voyage." 
" Hong-Kong voyage ? " echoed the girl, with a 
stare of helpless inquiry, but no other visible emo- 
tion. 
" Yes. He had never heard of yoyr mother's 
death. He came home yesterday morning, and was 
looking for you all day." 
Julia Tinker remained open-mouthed but mute ; 
and the other was puzzled at the want of feeling 
shown, which he could not account for even as a na- 
tional trait. " Perhaps there's some mistake," he 
said. 
" There must be," answered Julia : " my father 
hasn't been to sea for a good many years. My 
father," she added, with a diffidence indescribably 
mingled with a sense of distinction, — " my father's 
in State's Prison. What kind of looking man was 
this ? " 
The contributor mechanically described him. 
Julia Tinker broke into a loud, hoarse laugh. 
" Yes, it 's him, sure enough." And then, as if the 
joke were too good to keep : " Miss Hapford, Miss 
Hapford, father's got out. Do come here ! " she 
called into a back room. 
When Mrs. Hapford appeared, Julia fell back, 
and, having deftly caught a fly on the door-post, 
occupied herself in plucking it to pieces, while she 
listened to the conversation of the others. 
" It 's all true enough," said Mrs. Hapford, when 
the writer had recounted the moving story of Jona- 
than Tinker, " so far as the death of his wife and 
baby goes. But he hasin't been to sea for a good 
many years, and he must have just come out of 
State's Prison, where he was put for bigamy. 
There's always two sides to a story, 'you know ; but 
they say it broke his first wife's heart, and she died. 
His friends don't want him to find his children, and 
this girl especially." 
" He's found his children in the city," said the 
contributor, gloomily, being at a loss what to do or 
say, in view of the wreck of his romance. 
" O, he's found 'em has he ? " cried Juha, with 
heightened amusement. " Then he'll have me next, 
if I don't pack and go." 
" I'm very, very sorry," said the contributor, se- 
cretly resolved never to do another good deed, no 
matter how temptingly the opportunity presented 
itself. "But you may depend he won't find out 
from me where you are. Of course I had no earthly 
reason for supposing his story was not true." 
" Of course," said kind-hearted Mrs. Hapford; 
mingling a drop of honey with the gaJl in the con- 
tributor's soul, " you only did your duty." 
 
And indeed, as lie turned away lie did not fee 
altogether witliout compensation. However Jona- 
than Tinker had fallen in his esteem as a man, he 
had even risen as literature. The episode which 
had appeared so perfect in its pathetic phases did not 
seem less finished as a farce ; and this person, to 
whom all things of every-day life presented them- 
selves in periods more or less rounded, and capable 
of use as facts or illustrations, could not but rejoice 
in these new incidents, as dramatically fashioned as 
the rest. It occurred to him that, wrought into a 
story, even better use might be made of the facts 
now than before, for they had developed questions 
of character and of human nature which could not 
fiiil to interest. The more he pondered upon his 
acquaintance with Jonathan Tinker, the more fasci- 
nating the erring mariner became, in his complex 
truth and falsehood, his delicately blending shades of 
artifice and naivete. He must, it was felt, have be- 
lieved to a certain point in his own inventions : nay, 
starting with that groundwork of truth, — the feet 
that his wife was really dead, and that he had not 
seen his family for two years, — why should he not 
place implicit faith in all the fictions reared upon it ? 
It was probable that he felt a real sorrow for her 
loss, and that he found a fantastic consolation in de- 
picting the circumstances of her death so that they 
should look like his inevitable misfortunes rather 
than his faults. He might well have repented his 
offense during those two years of prison ; and why 
should he not now cast their dreariness and shame 
 
out of his memory, and replace them with the free- 
dom and adventure of a two years' voyage to China, 
— so probahle, in all respects, that the fact should 
appear an impossible nightmare? In the experi- 
ences of his life he had abundant material to furnish 
forth the facts of such a voyage, and in the weari- 
ness arid lassitude that should follow a day's walking 
equally after a two years' voyage and two years' 
imprisonment, he had as much physical proof in 
favor of one hypothesis as the other. It was doubt- 
less true, also, as he said, that he had gone to his 
house at dawn, and sat down on the threshold of his 
ruined home ; and perhaps he felt the desire he had 
expressed to see his daughter, with a purpose of be- 
ginning life anew ; and it may have cost him a veri- 
table pang when he found that his little ones did not 
know him. All the sentiments of the situation were 
such as might persuade a lively fancy of the truth 
of its own inventions ; and as he heard these contin- 
ually repeated_by the contributor in their search for 
Mr. Hapford, they must have acquired an objective 
force and repute scarcely to be resisted. At the 
same time, there were touches of nature throughout 
Jonathan Tinker's narrative which could not fail to 
take the faith of another. The contributor, in re- 
viewing it, thought it particularly charming that his 
mariner had not overdrawn himself,, or attempted to 
paint his character otherwise than as it probably was ; 
that he had shown his ideas and practices of life to 
be those of a second mate, nor more nor less, with- 
out the gloss of regret or the pretenses to refine- 
 
ment that might be pleasing to the supposed philan- 
thropist with whom he had fallen in. Captain 
Gooding was of course a true portrait; and there 
was nothing in Jonathan Tinker's statement of the 
relations of a second mate to his superiors and his 
inferiors which did not agree perfectly with what the 
contributor had just read in " Two Years before the 
Mast," — a book which had possibly cast its glamour 
upon the adventure. He admired also the just and 
perfectly characteristic air of grief in the bereaved 
husband and father, — those occasional escapes from 
the sense of loss into a brief hilarity and forgetful- 
ness, and those relapses into the hovering gloom, 
which every one has observed in this poor, crazy 
human nature when oppressed by sorrow, and which 
it would have been hard to simidate. But, above 
all, he exulted in that supreme stroke of the imagi- 
nation given by the second mate when, at parting, 
he said he believed he would go down and sleep on 
board the vessel. In view of this, the State's 
Prison theory almost appeared a malign and foolish 
scandal. 
Yet even if this theory were correct, was the 
second mate wholly answerable for beginning his 
life again with the imposture he had practiced ? 
The contributor had either so fallen in love with the 
literary advantages of his forlorn deceiver that he 
would see no moral obliquity in him, or he had 
touched a subtler verity at last in pondering the 
affair. It seemed now no longer a farce, but had a 
pathos which, though very different from that of its 
first aspect, was hardly less tragical. Knowing with 
what coldness, or, at the best, uncandor,' he (repre- 
senting Society in its attitude toward convicted Er- 
ror) would have met the fact had it been owned to 
him at first, he had not virtue enough to condemn 
the illusory stranger, who must have been helpless to 
make at once evident any repentance he felt or good 
purpose he cherished. Was it not one of the saddest 
consequences of the man's past, — a dark necessity 
of misdoing, — that, even with the best will in the 
world to retrieve himself, his first endeavor must 
involve a wrong? Might he not, indeed, be con- 
sidered a martyr, in some sort, to his own admirable 
impulses ? I can see clearly enough where the con- 
tributor was astray in this reasoning, but I can also 
understand how one accustomed to value realities 
only as they resembled fables should be won with 
such pensive sophistry ; and I can certainly sympa- 
thize with his feeling that the mariner's failure to 
reappear according to appointment added its final 
and most agreeable charm to the whole afiair, and 
completed the mystery from which the man emerged 
