fingers in the air. 

She got up presently and walked with the 
fancy in circles about the little kitchen. It 
seemed to perplex her that she always came back 
to her starting-point. 





" I thought I was going to get out," she said, 
stretching out her arms. 

" Don't ! " said Sip, uneasily, covering her eyes. 
Catty looked so ugly when she took fancies ! 
She never could bear them ; begged her to come 
back again and put her head upon her knee. 

" But where shall I stop ? " persisted Catty. " I 
can't go round and go round. Who will stop me, 
Sip .? " 

" Never mind," said Sip. " There, there ! " 
All the stone house was full of the boom of 
the river. The two girls sat down again, it 
seemed, in the heart of it. Sip took Catty's 
hands. She was glad to have her at home 
to-night. She kissed her finger-tips and her 
cropped, coarse hair. 

" Last night," said Catty, suddenly, " I stayed at 
home." 

" So you did, dear." 

" And another night, besides." 

" Many other nights," said Sip, encouragingly. 

Did that make Sip happy ? Catty asked. 

Very, very happy. 

For love's sake.

For love's sake, dear. 





" I 'll stay at home to-morrow night," Catty 
nodded sharply, — "I 'll stay at home to-morrow 
night, for love's sake." 

In the middle of the night, Sip, with a sense of 
disturbance or alarm, waked suddenly. The little 
closet bedroom was dark and close. A great 
shadow in the kitchen wrapped her pictured 
dreamer, and his long, unresting dream. It was 
so dark, that she could fairly touch, she thought, 
the solemn sound that filled the house. It took 
waves like the very flood itself If she put her 
hand out over the edge of the bed, she felt an 
actual chill from it. There seemed to be nothing 
but that noise in all the world. 

Except Catty, sitting up straight in bed, awake 
and talkative. 

" What is it .' " asked Sip, sitting up too. 

In the dead dark, Catty put out her hands. In 
the dead dark Sip answered them. 

" Sip," said Catty, " who was it ? " 

" Who was what, dear ? " 

" Who was it that made this ? " touching her 
ears. 

" Him that made this awful noise," said Sip. 

" And this ? " brushing her eyes. 





" Him that made this awful dark," said Sip. 

"And this ? " She put her fingers to her mute, 
rough lips. 

" Him that learned the wind to cry at nights," 
said Sip. 

" Did he do it for love's sake .? " asked Catty. 
" I can't find out. Did he do it for love's sake, 
Sip ? " 

" For — love's — sake ? " said Sip, slowly. " I 
suppose he did. I pray to Heaven that he did. 
When I 'm on my knees, I know he did." 

" If it was for love's sake," said Catty, " I 'll 
go to sleep again." 

So the evening and the morning were the fifth 
day of the great freshets at Five Falls. 

Catty woke early and helped Sip to get break- 
fast. She was very happy, though the coffee 
burned, and laughed discordantly when Sip made 
griddle-cakes for her of the Indian meal. Sip 
could not eat her own griddle-cakes for pleasure 
at this. She walked up and down the room with 
her hands behind her, kissing Catty's finger-tips 
and her ragged hair. 

The Pompeian statues came to the face of the 
day ; the crowds upon the river-brinks formed 





again, thickened, doubled ; the bright-armed
malachite and umber leaped again dizzily down the 
dams. 

Still the pulse of the river rose. The county 
bridge shrunk and shivered in fits to it. The 
river had the appearance of having an attack of 
fever and ague. 

The timber alarm, in the wearing on of the 
day, waxed and grew. 

Five thousand feet of timber, in the upper 
floods, had broken loose, and were on their way 
down stream. 

Ten thousand feet. 

Twenty. 

Five hundred thousand. 

A million feet of logs, in the upper floods, had 
broken their chains, and would be at Five Falls 
before night. 

Catty was sitting alone in the stone house, in 
the slope of the afternoon. She had been out 
with Sip, half the day, " to see the flood " ; lifting 
her listening face against the spray,, with pathetic 
pleasure ; holding out her hands sometimes, they 
said, as if to measure the sweep of the sounding 
water ; nodding to herself about it, with her dull 
laugh. 





Sip would be back at dusk. Catty had promised,
coming home a Httle tired, to sit still and 
wait for her ; would not venture out again among 
the crowd ; would go to sleep perhaps ; would be 
a good girl, at any rate ; stroked Sip's face a little 
as she went away. Sip kissed her, and, when she 
had shut the door, came back and kissed her 
again. A little shopping up town, and an errand 
at Miss Kelso's, and perhaps another look at the 
flood, would not delay her very long ; and Catty 
had kept her promises lately. Sip bade her good 
by with a light heart, and shut the door again. 

Catty sat still for a while after the door was 
shut. Then she slept awhile. Afterwards she 
sat still for a while again. She got up and 
walked about the kitchen. She sat down on the 
kitchen floor. She nodded and talked to herself 
Sip might have been gone an hour ; she might have 
been gone a week ; Catty did not feel sure which ; 
she lost her hold of time when she sat alone ; she 
put her fingers down on the floor and counted 
them, guessing at how long Sip had been away. 

Her fingers, when she put them on the floor, 
splashed into something cold. 

Had the water-pail tipped over .? If it had, it 





must have been very full. Catty discovered that 
she was sitting in a puddle of water ; that 
water gurgled over her feet ; that water rippled 
about the legs of the stove ; that a gentle bub- 
ble of water filled the room. 

She crawled, dripping, up, and made her way 
to the door. As she opened it, she let in a swash 
-about her ankles. 

She spattered across the entry to find the Irish 
woman who rented the other tenement ; she had 
gone, like the rest of the world, to see the flood, 
it seemed ; Catty received no answer to her
uncouth calls ; she was alone in the house. 

This disturbed her. She felt puzzled about 
the water ; alarmed, because she could neither see 
nor hear the reason of it ; annoyed at the cold 
crawling that it made about her ankles, and 
anxious for Sip to come and explain it. 

She went to the front door and opened that. 
A rush, like a tiny tide, met her. She stooped 
and put her hand out, over the step. It dipped 
into a pool of rising water. 

Catty shrank back and shut the door. The 
noise like wheels was plain to her. It waited for 
her outside of that door. It struck like claws 





upon her locked ears. It frightened her. She 
would not for the world open the door to it. She 
drew the bolt hard, in a childish fright, and sat 
down again in the slow gurgle on the kitchen 
floor. 

Suddenly it occurred to her that she might go 
and find Sip. But Sip would not be in the noise. 
Where would she be .'' 

Catty pushed herself along on the floor,
pushing out of the way of the water as she reflected. 
That was how another thing occurred to her. 

The farther that she pushed herself the thinner 
the gurgle grew. In the closet bedroom it was 
scarcely wet. 

At this side of the house she lost, or thought 
she lost, the noise. It must be at this side of the 
house that she should find Sip. Sip had often 
lost her out of the closet bedroom. She remem- 
bered, with a laugh, how many times she had 
climbed out of that little cupboard window after 
Sip was asleep. She felt her way to it eagerly. 
It was shut and buttoned. She pushed it, 
slamming, back, climbed to the high sill, and let
herself drop. 

Catty might have remained in the closet bed- 





room, had she but known it, high and dry. The 
stone house received a thorough soaking, but not 
a dangerous one. The water sucked in for a 
while at the locked front door, played drearily 
about the empty kitchen, mopped the entry floor, 
set the Irish woman's bread-pan and coal-hod 
afloat, and dawdled away again down the steps ; 
the result, it seemed, of a savage and transient 
shiver on the part of that fitful invalid, the river. 

The county bridge, in fact, was as good as 
gone. The transient shiver in the lower floods 
had been caused by the sinking of a pier. 

It had been a fine sight. Masses of men, women, 
and children hung, chained like galley-slaves, to 
either bank, intent and expectant on it. Foot 
and horse forsook the bridge. Police guarded it. 

A red sunset sprang up and stared at it. An 
avalanche of dead-white spray chewed the 
malachite and umber. Curious, lurid colors bounded 
up where they sank, and bruised and beat
themselves against the fallen and the falling piers. 

The gorgeous peril of the tinted water, and the 
gorgeous safety of the tinted sky, struck against 
each other fancifully. There seemed a rescue in 
the one for the ruin of the other. One was sure 





that the drowned colors held up their arms again, 
secure, inviolate, kindled, living, in the great 
resurrection of the watching heavens. 

It must have been not far from the moment 
when Catty dropped from the cupboard window, 
that, on the beautiful madness of the river, up 
where the baby souls of the cascades had 
transmigrated into camels, a long, low, brown streak 
appeared. 

It appeared at first sight to lie quite still. At 
second sight, it undulated heavily, like a huge 
boa. At the third, it coiled and plunged. 

" The logs ! The logs ! The logs are here ! " 

The cry ran round the banks. Maverick Hayle 
sat down on a stone and looked at his new mill 
stupidly. Passers cleared the railway crossing. 
People ran about and shouted. They climbed 
rocks and trees to look. The guards on the 
bridge disappeared. The smooth outlines of the 
boa grew jagged. The timber leaped and tan- 
gled in sweeping down. All through its wounded 
arches, the heavy bridge creaked and cried. 

The people on the banks cried too, from sheer 
excitement. 

" The logs, the logs, the logs ! The bridge ! " 





" Look on the bridge ! Look there ! Good 
God ! How did she get there ? On the bridge ! 
Woman on the bridge ! " 

Past the frightened guards, past the occupied 
eyes of a thousand people, on the bridge, over 
the bridge, not twelve feet from the sunken piers, 
stood a girl with low forehead, and dropping lip, 
and long, outstretching hands. 

" Catty ! Catty ! O Catty, Catty, Catty ! " 

The uncouth name rang with a terrible cry. 
It cleft the crowd like a knife. They parted 
before it, here and there and everywhere, letting a 
ghastly girl plunge through. 

"O Catty, Catty, Catty! For love's sake, 
stop ! For dear love's sake ! " 

It was too late for dear love to touch her. Its 
piteous call she could not hear. Its wrung face 
she could not see. Her poor, puzzled lips moved 
as if to argue with it, but made no sound. 

Type of the world from which she sprang, — 
the world of exhausted and corrupted body, of 
exhausted and corrupted brain, of exhausted and 
corrupted soul, the world of the laboring poor as 
man has made it, and as Christ has died for it, 
of a world deaf, dumb, blind, doomed, stepping 





confidently to its own destruction before our eyes, 
— Catty stood for a moment still, a little 
perplexed, it seemed, feeling about her patiently in 
the spray-sown, lighted air. 

One beck of a human hand would save her ; 
but she could not see it. One cry would turn 
her ; but her ears were sealed. 

Still, in the great dream of dying, as in the 
long dream of life, this miserable creature listened 
for what she never heard, and spoke that which 
no man understood. 

" She 's making signs to me," groaned Sip ; 
" she 's making signs to call my name ! " 

Then Perley Kelso put both arms about her. 
Then the solid shore staggered suddenly. Then 
a ragged shadow loomed across the dam. Then 
there was a shock, and thunder. 

Then some one covered her eyes, close. 
