Ada drove. She was beginning to feel much inter- 
ested in the amusement. 
" How good of your uncle to take Fred Lauriston 
out ! I believe you are the most generous people 
that I ever knew. You don't think Mr. Lauriston 
really ill, do you ? ' 
" Uncle Kobert believes that it is only the result 
of overwork. He has been taking care of himself in 
college, teaching and doing whatever he could. He 
gave up his vacation entirely last summer." 
" Why does not his sister help him ? Isn't she an 
heiress ? ' 
" Will be " ; and Kathie smiled thoughtfully. 
"She only has a small amount every year until 
she is twenty-one, and the rest she cannot touch." 
" Why does she wish to go on studying or paint- 
ing then, if she will have enough by and by ? ' 
" She likes it. And Mrs. Wilder thought she had 
a good deal of genius. So does Mr. Langdon. She 
means to be an artist sometime." 
" And I suppose you will be something or oth- 
er " said Ada, with a touch of secret dissatisfaction. 
" No, I do not believe I shall have a bit of genius 
 
of any kind," Kathie answered, with thorough content 
in her voice. " I shall just be commonplace, but I 
mean to be the nicest commonplace there is " ; and 
the dimpled lips broke into a sweet smile. 
They drove along slowly and in silence. After a 
long while Ada spoke again. " I wonder if I could 
ever do anything with my voice. It has changed 
some, you see, and Mr. Langdon said last night that, 
when properly trained, a contralto voice was the 
richest of all. But a musical education would cost 
a good deal, and there it is again." Ada's eyes rilled 
with tears, though Kathie tried to comfort her. 
CHAPTEK IX. 
FIRST THE LEAVES. 
WHEN Ada heard the bell the following morning, 
she roused herself with less effort than she supposed 
would be necessary. It rang at half past six, and 
gave an hour before breakfast-time. She heard Ka- 
thie trip softly down stairs, and then made for herself 
a simple toilet, without the elaborate braids and puffs. 
To her great surprise she found she had full fifteen 
minutes left. This she spent in picking up her stray 
ribbons, slippers, and sundry parts of dresses, making 
the room quite tidy. Then she spread the sheets 
over a chair in the morning sunshine, as she had 
noticed Kathie always did. 
Freddy was trudging up stairs to put away some 
lost playthings. 
" Why, you look as sweet - - as a rose ! " he ex- 
claimed, with the utmost deliberation. 
"Thank you for the compliment," she returned, 
 
laughingly. Somehow she did feel unusually fresh 
and bright. 
They all had a pleasant word of welcome. Kathie 
pushed her small bouquet over to Ada's plate. 
" I should have made another if I had guessed you 
were coming," she said, with cordial sweetness. 
How cool and neat and pretty everything looked ! 
There were no noisy children to pull the cloth about 
and clatter their forks and plates. And yet their 
children use to behave nicely when they had a 
nursery by themselves. What was the reason that 
everything went wrong now ? Ada felt at the mo- 
ment as if she would fain stay away from home 
forever. 
Kathie wanted to cut fresh flowers for the house, 
so Ada went out in the garden with her. What a 
lovely profusion of everything ! They filled a great 
basket, and you could not miss them. 
Ada entered the spacious clean kitchen. There did 
not seem the usual steamy smell of cooking, and very 
few articles were littered around. Hannah was by 
the sink-table washing dishes, and presented a strik- 
ing contrast to their frowzy-headed Bridgets. 
Kathie washed the vases and refilled them, and 
made two or three loose pyramids in glass dishes. 
 
" What are you going to do with these ? ' ; asked 
Ada, when everything had been replenished. 
" Send them over to Mrs. Maybin. Mamma is 
going presently." 
" All those beautiful flowers ! ' Ada exclaimed, 
involuntarily. 
" Flowers are like the man who was ' counted 
mad, ' returned Kathie, laughingly. " ' The more 
he gave away, the more he had,' you know. 
Hannah, did you make this wine-jelly ? " 
" No, miss ; your mamma did it. And the cus- 
tard will soon be done." 
" So there is nothing left for me then. Ada, will 
you help carry the flowers through ? ' 
Kathie dusted the parlor ; the library and dining- 
room had been put in order before breakfast. Then 
the two girls went up stairs. 
Ada tried spreading up her bed. It was quite an 
art, after all, not to have the covering askew, and the 
pillows straight. On the whole, she felt rather proud 
of her exploit. 
" Oh ! " Kathie exclaimed, in surprise. 
" You did not suppose that I could do anything of 
the kind, did vou ? And I am not at all tired. Why. 
I begin to feel as if I might get entirely well. Only 
it seems so different here." 
"Everybody has to help, in order to make their 
lives different from what they have been," Kathie 
said, with sweet gravity. " Nothing in this world 
seems to happen of itself. But you came here to 
recruit, so you must not begin too hard." 
" I am sure that was not tiresome. And it is not 
nine yet. Are we going out this morning ? " 
" I don't know. There are so rnanv budgets that 
Uncle Eobert will have to drive mamma over to Mrs. 
Maybin's. And O, he has brought Emma and Fred 
home with him ! " 
Sure enough. Emma looking like a princess in her 
simple white pique dress, and her hat finished with 
black lace and a cluster of rosebuds. 
She, too, remarked Ada's improvement. They sat 
on the shady porch and sewed, while Fred, with his 
face among the greenery, talked to them. Mr. Lang- 
don came in, and, after a music practice, they had a 
cosey lunch. 
" We will take the cool of the afternoon for our 
drive," Kathie said. " You were up so early that you 
had better lie down and have a little rest." 
 
Ada did begin to feel tired. She was so little used 
to any exertion, that, in spite of the enjoyment, it 
exhausted her. Yet, somehow, she was not sleepy, 
and her brain kept in a whirl and tangle of thought. 
For the first time in her life she had a consciousness 
of something truly better than had hitherto filled up 
her months and years. How happy and satisfied 
most of these people appeared ! They did not dis- 
dain the trifling every-day round, but brought to 
every hour's work some joy and pleasure. Their 
toils did not make them coarse, nor common, nor 
ignorant. Emma Lauriston would be none the less 
a lady anywhere because she helped her grandmother 
in their simple housework. And no one despised 
Kathie for her quaint household knowledge. 
But was there not something back of it all,- -a grace 
or earnestness or humility that she did not possess, 
an underlying motive higher than any that had ever 
ruled her or the little world in which she had dwelt 
until recently ? And if there was more than she had 
been educated to believe, if one's duty was more to 
one's neighbor and less to one's self, if it was the 
giving out that brought sweetest delight, and not 
the perpetual self-aggrandizement- And there she 
seemed lost in her mental wanderings. 
 
On the whole, perhaps it was well for the success 
of Kathie's experiment that Jane Maybin had been 
compelled to leave her post for a while. There were 
necessarily more demands upon Kathie, and though 
Ada would hardly have considered a servant's com- 
fort and convenience, it did appear selfish to be 
waited upon continually by her friend. It was her 
first lesson in helping herself, as well as in thinking 
for others. It was less difficult, because there were 
so few demands upon her time. Dressing was not 
made the grand end and aim of existence here ; yet 
no one, not even the most ordinary of Kathie's ac- 
quaintances, displayed any positive neglect. And 
Ada could not help admitting to herself that there 
was as much good-breeding here, if they had not all 
the touches of city elegance. 
Fred and Emma fell into the habit of being almost 
constant visitors. It was so pleasant over here with 
the large lawn and shady nooks, Uncle Eobert, and 
Mrs. Alston's sweet motherly ways. All big boys 
seemed nearer to her for Eob's sake. They talked 
over the gay summer of the boat-club and the races, 
played chess, backgammon, and croquet, and had 
amateur concerts. Charlie Darrell and Dick went 
 
away for a fortnight, but Mr. Langdon promised to 
come twice as often to fill their places. 
Then there were some delightful readings, in which 
the gentlemen took turns, or the whole party tried 
their best at Shakespeare. Emma and Ada went 
over their French and Italian with Mr. Langdon for 
tutor. Ada began to regret her utter waste of the 
past year when she saw how much she had lost. 
There was something still left to life, even if the 
riches had taken wings. 
"Here is a note from Middle ville," said Uncle 
Eobert one morning. " Why, we have almost lost 
sight of Sarah." 
Kathie broke the seal. Quite a lengthy epistle 
indeed. Sarah had been away, making a visit at 
her grandmother's, and, most wonderful to relate, 
actually had a situation in a school offered to her. 
" Grandmother thought my going to school such 
folly," she wrote, " and insisted that father was throw- 
ing away his money, and I wasting my time ; but was 
n't she surprised when this happened ? It was an 
assistant's position, with a salary of three hundred 
dollars a year, and grandmother offered to give me my 
board for what I could do nights and mornings, and 
would have felt really proud if I had taken it. In- 
deed, she could not help telling all the neighbors and 
making a great time. But father said I was too 
young, and that he could not spare me ; but I know 
he was pleased at my being asked. So I have nd 
fear about finding a situation when I do want one." 
Kathie read this aloud. " Wasn't it delightful 
and encouraging?' she said, enjoying it as much as 
if some good fortune had happened to herself. " For 
Sarah has tried her utmost, and there were many 
discouragements . ' ' 
" She has proved herself a brave, persevering girl," 
replied Mrs. Alston. 
There was much beside this. Sarah was extremely 
anxious to see Kathie, and begged her to come up 
and spend a day. She had so many things to tell 
her and to ask her about. 
" Why do you not go ? " asked Ada. " I will cheer- 
fully relinquish my right in you one day at least." 
" Will you ? " and she smiled. 
" I will promise to take very good care of Ada," 
said Mrs. Alston. 
Jane was coming back the next week. Her moth- 
er was recovering, and had gone away for a few days 
 
change of air. Jane had remained to keep house 
and look after the children, and the knowledge she 
had acquired under Mrs. Alston's guidance stood her 
in good stead. For Mrs. Alston had not considered 
the duties all on one side, but was helping to train 
this young girl rightly, that she might occupy a 
useful sphere. 
They were quite relieved to have the household go 
on in its olden fashion. Yet Ada felt that she had 
learned a serviceable lesson. She no longer scattered 
her garments and small belongings broadcast. It was 
possible to be of use to one's self. 
" If you would not mind, I think I ought to go to 
Sarah for a day," Kathie confessed, after some consid- 
eration. " I wish you and Uncle Robert would drive 
up in the afternoon for me. The Strongs are not even 
stylish country people, but they are good-hearted and 
generous." 
Ada had heard a good deal of the story by frag- 
ments when it had scarcely interested her. The idea 
of taking up an ignorant, uncouth girl, to whom Ka- 
thie owed no sort of duty or affection, had appeared 
rather ridiculous to her. And yet what fruit it had 
borne ! She felt how much she had changed when 
 
she could tolerate the grace of this with something 
more than complacency. There was a better purpose 
to life than mere selfish aims for one's own enjoy- 
ment. " I will come, with pleasure," she made answer. 
They started quite early, and took Fred Lauriston 
along for the drive. He was beginning to improve 
rapidly now. Mrs. Strong made them come in and 
have a nice dish of berries and some cake, for she 
was sure they must be hungry. They were all thor- 
oughly delighted to see Kathie. 
Sarah was changing and maturing very rapidly. 
She had learned how to care for herself without 
running into the foolish extreme of vanity. She 
had grown much taller, which made her look less 
stout, and her abundant hair was smooth and neatly 
arranged. A good, strong, truthful, honest-hearted 
woman she would make, inspiring others with her 
faith and earnestness, and doing her whole duty in 
whatever state of life she might be called, making 
her influence felt the more because her work would 
always speak for her. 
It seemed so odd to Kathie that a few pleasant 
words and a little civility should have led to so great 
a result. 
 
" I don't know," she said, as Sarah was talking over 
the old time when they had first met. " It might all 
have come about without any help from me. I am 
sure you had all the necessary qualities. I did not 
give you those " ; and she smiled. 
" But I never could have put them together myself. 
I used to be full of hungry wants, but I never knew 
quite what they were. And now, when I meet with 
other people who are no more able to find the way 
out alone than I was, I see just what they need. If 
I could help somebody else ' : 
It was the true seed. Not the blossoming and 
bearing of fruit for one's own self, but the putting 
of something pleasant into a neighbor's garden. 
" I am sure you do and will," Kathie returned, 
warmly. "There is generally some work or deed 
right within our reach." 
" And that I have learned from you " ; with her 
bright smile. " I wonder if people do not often make 
mistakes, looking so far off for something to do." 
There was all the visit to be told over, and the 
plans for the future. 
" I have fully resolved to teach, for a while at 
least," Sarah declared, with a touch of girlish pride. 
 
" After this year I shall be capable of taking a school, 
and mother will not need me at home, since there are 
so many more to grow up." 
Would Ada call this another case of working where 
there was no need ? Kathie smiled to herself. 
" Father is afraid that I shall forget all my house- 
keeping," Sarah went on, laughingly, " but I believe 
I like it better than I used to. There are so many 
more meanings to all the common every-day things 
when you get so that you can understand them. And 
though it would seem delightful to have all the beau- 
tiful surroundings and luxuries, and leisure to im- 
prove and enjoy them, perhaps our lives would not 
be quite so useful." 
" And when we have found out the great purposes 
of our lives we can be content to do, as well as to 
enjoy," Kathie returned, with sweet seriousness. 
Cousin Nelly and her little boy were still at the 
Strongs, sheltered by the kindly hearts that did not 
look upon their deed as any specialty charitable work, 
and gave generously of the best they had. Willie 
would never miss a father's home or tender care, and 
what Mrs. Gilbert gave her country would be made 
up to her as far as human love could do it. 
 
Ada meanwhile had a rather quiet day. Most 
of the morning she spent at her music, but after 
lunch she sat on the shady balcony with Mrs. Al- 
ston, reading and thinking while the latter sewed. 
Now and then she glanced up at the pleasant, gra- 
cious woman, whose serene face showed no marks of 
care or trouble. And yet there must have been many 
weary years to her life. How could she have over- 
lived everything so entirely ? 
Mrs. Alston glanced up presently, and caught the 
perplexed look. " My dear," she said, " I believe I 
have been quite forgetful of Kathie's injunction to 
entertain you." 
Ada colored a trifle. 
" I am sure I ought not to be a burden on every 
one," she answered. "I ought to be sufficient for 
myself occasionally." 
" It is a grand lesson to learn " ; and the smile was 
very sweet and motherly. 
" I am afraid I have not learned many of the grand 
lessons," she said, with a humility quite new to her. 
" It is not too late." 
Something in the tone invited confidence. When 
she and Kathie came to the undercurrents there al- 
 
ways seemed to be a feeling of shame holding her 
back, since she had been the one to rule and patron- 
ize. And in this respect she felt more real freedom 
with Mrs. Alston, or at least as if it was possible to 
go to her for advice. 
" I wish I knew what to do," she went on, blush- 
ing and hesitating. 
" In what respect ? ' 
" To keep myself from going back to the listless, 
lonesome life of ever so long. It seems so easy to 
have interest and entertainment here ; but when I get 
home again ' 
"And that is the place of all others where one's 
interest should centre." 
"But there does not seem anything for me to do 
or enjoy. I can have none of the things that I like 
best. Our servants are careless, and there are so 
few friends ' 
"My dear young friend," said Mrs. Alston, filling 
the pause, " let me offer you a suggestion here. I 
have been through with the same experience, and 
made some sad mistakes, though I was much older 
than you. I think we are unjust to our friends when 
we take it for granted that the only liking they have 
for us is on account of our wealth. If you were rich, 
and any young girl in your circle should lose her 
fortune, would you banish her at once ? " 
Ada was silent. A year ago she would have done 
so without any remorse, but she felt now how unjust 
it would have been. 
"I think there are some noble and loyal people in 
the world, who cannot be turned about by the glitter 
of gold, though I grant that many do forsake us. 
But this is what I meant more particularly. When 
Mr. Alston died, and reverses overtook me, I too be- 
lieved that my friends would not care for me. I am 
afraid I was rather cold to their proffered sympathy. 
I took no pains to keep their regard. To be sure, 
I had my children and a great many cares, which in 
some degree excused me; but I have learned since 
that I made my path more desolate than I had any 
real need of, and wounded my friends beside." 
" But no one has cared for me," said Ada, despond- 
" No one ? Are you quite sure ? '' 
