be at home?"

"I expect to get off next year," said Dick, "to Yale. But I shall be
dreadfully homesick at first."

"So should I," responded Charlie; "but Rob is such a jolly,
happy-go-lucky fellow."

"Has he been in any scrapes yet, Miss Kathie?"

"Not that I have heard," said Kathie, laughing.

A group around the piano were clamoring for Kathie to play. She had
promised them some carols.

Dick and Charlie joined. A happy time they had, singing everything they
knew. Kathie had become a very fair musician already.

While the little ones were hunting up their wraps, Kathie lingered a
moment beside Charlie.

"How is Miss Jessie to-night?" she asked.

"Quite well." Then, looking into her eyes, "You have heard--"

"About Mr. Meredith? yes."

"It is too bad,--isn't it? And he has had a substitute in the war. I
think he ought to have come back."

Kathie was silent. How much duty did a man or a woman owe to these great
life questions? And was there not something grander and finer in this
last act of heroism than many people were capable of? If she could have
chosen for him, like Charlie, she would have desired his return; but if
every wife and every mother felt so about their soldiers?

She kissed Ethel with a peculiar sympathy when she bade her good night.
Mr. Morrison was well and satisfied with the new life,--liked it,
indeed.

For the next fortnight it seemed to Kathie that nothing
happened,--school life and home life, and she a little pendulum
vibrating between the two, waiting for some hour to strike.

She answered Sarah's letter, and promised that she and her uncle would
drive up when there came a pleasant Saturday with the roads in
comfortable order.

There had been quite an accession to the school on the first of January.
Mrs. Wilder had twenty-one pupils now. Mr. Lawrence came in to give them
lessons in music, French, and penmanship. Kathie felt quite small, there
were so many young ladies.

Several new families had moved into Brookside the preceding summer, and
the Alstons' acquaintance had slowly widened among the better class.
Kathie remembered how grand she had once considered Miss Jessie, and now
she was really beyond that herself.

At twelve the girls had fifteen minutes' intermission. Sometimes they
took a little run through the long covered walk, but oftener gathered
around the stove or visited at one another's desks. There was always a
vein of school-girlish gossip on dress, or amusements, or parties, or
perhaps the books they were reading. This generally took in the circle
just above Kathie, yet she used occasionally to listen, and it always
brought a thought of Ada to her mind.

She sat puzzling over some French verbs one rainy day, while Emma
brought out her cathedral that she was doing in India-ink. The talk from
the group before them floated to their hearing. It was styles and
trimming, velvet and laces that were "real," and gloves with two
buttons.

Emma glanced up with an odd smile. Kathie, seeing it, smiled too.

"Let us take a turn in the walk," Emma said.

She was so much taller that she put her arm around Kathie with an odd,
elder-sisterly feeling.

"They seem never to get tired of it," she began. "I wonder if there
isn't something better to this life than the clothes one wears?"

"Yes," Kathie answered, in a slow, clear tone, though she shrank a
little from giving her opinion. She had a shy desire to escape these
small responsibilities, yet the consciousness of "bearing witness"
always brought her back.

"What is it?"

The blunt question startled her, and a faint color stole into her face.

"I watch you sometimes when I suppose you are not dreaming of it. We
have been sitting here together for three months, we were at the
Fair,--and there is something different about you from what I find in
most girls. I wonder if it is your taste or your nature."

"We are none of us alike," said Kathie, with a peculiar half-smile.

"It is not that specific difference which we all have. You appear to be
thinking of others, you never answer crossly, you often give up your own
ease and comfort, and there is a little light in your eyes as if
something out of your soul was shining through them. And all this talk
about dressing and what one is going to do by and by never touches you
at all. I suppose you could have everything you want! Lottie Thorne says
your uncle idolizes you, and--he is rich, I know."

"I have all that is necessary, and many luxuries," Kathie answered,
slowly.

"But what makes you--what keeps you in such a heaven of content? O, I
can't explain what I mean! I wonder if you have religion, Kathie
Alston."

Do her best, Kathie could not keep the tears out of her eyes. What was
there to cry about? But somehow she felt so strange and shy, and full of
tender pain.

"I think we ought all to try," she answered, with a sweet seriousness in
her voice. "Even if we cannot take but one step--"

"I wish I knew what it was!"

Kathie's heart was in her throat. She only understood part of the steps
herself. How could she direct another? So they took two or three turns
in silence, then the bell rang.

"There! I had so much to say, and maybe I shall never feel in the mood
again. About dress, too. Some of it troubles me sadly."

She stooped suddenly and kissed Kathie on the forehead, gave her hand a
sudden, earnest pressure, and then was her olden grave self.

And Kathie wondered a little if she had not shirked a duty! It seemed
now as if it would be very easy to say, "I have enlisted in that greater
army of the Lord, and will do what service I can." Why had it been so
hard a moment ago? Had she been challenged at the outpost and found
without a countersign?




CHAPTER VII.

A VISIT.


"DO you think we could go to Middleville to-day?" Kathie asked, one
bright Saturday morning.

It was a sharp, keen winter's day, but the roads had been worn tolerably
smooth with the sleighing, and it was by far too cold for alternate
freezing and thawing; but the sky was of a clear, steely blue, and the
sun as brilliant as a midwinter's sun could be.

"If you did not mind the cold. What is your opinion, Dora?"--turning to
Mrs. Alston.

"I suppose you could stand it if you were wrapped up good and warm."

"Would you take the buggy?" asked Aunt Ruth.

"O yes!" answered Kathie, eagerly; "I cannot bear to be shut up in a
close prison, as if I was being taken off somewhere for my misdeeds."

"It will be a good deal colder."

Uncle Robert laughed as he met Kathie's mirthful eyes.

"I shall not freeze, auntie. I like the sensation of this strong, fresh
wind blowing square into my face; it takes the cobwebs out of my
brains."

So the ponies had orders, and pricked up their ears as if they were
rather interested in trying the bracing wind as well.

Kathie bundled herself up quite to mamma's liking. She slipped a little
parcel under the seat,--two books that she had read time and again, and
which she fancied might interest Sarah, and a few other little matters,
the giving of which depended upon circumstances.

They said good by, and were off. "Up in the mountains" was always spoken
of rather sneeringly by the Brookside community. They really were not
mountains, but a succession of rough, rocky hills, where the vegetation
was neither lovely nor abundant. Several different species of cedar,
scrubby oaks, and stunted hemlocks, were the principal variety, with a
matted growth of underbrush; and as there were many finer "woods" around
Brookside, these were seldom haunted by pleasure-lovers or
wonder-seekers.

The dwellers therein were of the oldest-fashioned kind. You could
always tell them when they came to shop at Brookside by their queer
bonnets and out-of-date garments, as well as by the wonderful contrast
of colors. But the small settlements enjoyed their own manner of living
and their own social pleasures as thoroughly as their more refined
neighbors.

For quite a stretch the road was level and good, then the ascent began,
the houses were wider apart, and with an air of indifference as to paint
and repairs, while fences seemed to be vainly trying to hold each other
up.

The ponies were fresh and frisky, and did not mind the tug. Kathie was
silent for the most part, her brain in a kind of floating confusion, not
at all unpleasant, but rather restful.

"Now, which is the back road, I wonder?" said Uncle Robert, slowly,
checking the horses a trifle.

Both roads were exceedingly dreary-looking, but they decided to take the
one farther north, and before they had gone a quarter of a mile they met
a team, driven by a young lad.

"Is this Middleville?" asked Uncle Robert.

"Yes."

"Which is the back road?"

"Keep straight along. You're right."

"Where does Mr. Jotham Strong live?"

"Over there in that yaller house," the boy answered, nodding his head.

The place began to take on quite a village look. There was a brown,
weather-beaten meeting-house, a small country store, and houses
scattered around at intervals. Some were quite tidy-looking, but the
most had a kind of dilapidated air.

Mr. Strong's was large and roomy on the ground-floor, as numerous
additions had been made on three sides of the building. There was a
door-yard in front, where in summer they must have an abundance of
roses, and two wide flower-beds down the path. Such signs went to
Kathie's heart at once.

Uncle Robert sprang out and knocked at the door. The hard-featured face
that Kathie remembered so well in connection with the purple bonnet
peered through the kitchen window.

The child would have laughed at the commotion inside, if she could have
seen it,--how Sary Ann dragged the floating ends of her hair into a
knot, caught up a towel and wiped her face, making it redder than
before, jerked down her sleeves, which, having neither hooks nor
buttons, hung round her wrists.

She stared as she opened the door to a strange man, but glanced past him
to the carriage.

"I have brought Miss Kathie Alston up to see you," Mr. Conover
announced, in his warm, cheerful voice, for he recognized Sarah from
Kathie's graphic description.

"O my! and I'm all in a heap; but I'm so glad!" and she ran out to the
wagon, but stopped at the gate with a sudden sensation of bashfulness,
and a wonder if she ought not to have said something more to the
gentleman.

"How do you do, Sarah?" Kathie's voice was like the softest of silver
bells pealing on the frosty air.

"O, I'm so glad! I didn't hardly believe you'd come. I looked last
Sat'day. Your letter was so nice. I'm glad you liked the lichen. Jim and
me hunted over hundreds of 'em, and found the very biggest. Do get out
and come in the house; you must be perished! Is that the uncle you wrote
about in your letter?"

"Yes." Uncle Robert had come down the path by this time. "My uncle, Mr.
Conover," Kathie said, gracefully, "and Miss Sarah Strong."

Sarah made a dash at her hair again as if she was afraid of its tumbling
down, and courtesied to Uncle Robert so in the style of a country
school-girl that he smiled inwardly. "O, coax her to get out!" she
exclaimed, appealingly. "I've got a fire all ready to light in the best
room, and I want you to see my pictures,"--with a very long emphasis on
the last syllable. "Mother 'xpects you to stay to dinner, and my
Sat'day's work is 'most done. Come in,--do."

By this time Mrs. Strong had made herself tidy and appeared at the hall
door.

"Come in," she exclaimed, cordially,--"come in. Sary Ann, show the
gentleman how to drive right down to the barn. Jim's there thrashin' and
he'll see to the hosses!"

Kathie was handed out. Sarah turned the horses to face the path to the
barn.

"Down there," she said. "Steve, come here!"

Steve, thirteen or thereabout, sheepishly obeyed, and took the rest of
his sister's order in silence.

"Don't you go," said Mrs. Strong to Mr. Conover. "There's boys enough to
the barn, and they know all about hosses. Come in an' get warm. You must
be about froze! I'm right glad to see you, child."

Kathie introduced Uncle Robert again. They were marshalled into a large,
uncarpeted kitchen, full of youngsters, with a great red-hot stove in
their midst.

"Get out of the way, childern! Sary Ann, run light the fire in the
parlor while they're gettin' warm."

"It is not worth while to take that trouble," returned Uncle Robert. "We
came up for a call, but judged it best to take the pleasantest part of
such a cold day. So do not let us interfere with your usual
arrangements."

"You ain't a goin' to stir a step until after dinner. Sary'll be awful
disapp'inted. We've plenty of everything, and you won't put us out a
bit. We've been looking for you, like, ever sence Sary Ann had her
letter. Take off your things, child! Ain't your feet half froze?"

"O no."

There was no resisting, however. Mrs. Strong talked and worked, tumbled
over the children, picked them up and set them on chairs, bidding them
keep out of the way, insisted that Kathie should sit beside the roasting
stove, and presently Sarah returned. She had brushed her hair into a
more respectable shape, and tied a most unnecessary scarlet ribbon in
it, seeing that the hair was of a sandy reddish color.

But her clean calico dress certainly did improve her. Yet as she entered
the room she was seized with a fit of awkward bashfulness.

"I believe I will go out and look at the ponies," remarked Mr. Conover.

"Mind they're put out. You're not going to stir a step till you've had
your dinner. Marthy, you peel them taters; quick now." This to a rather
pretty girl of ten, who had been writing with a pin on the steamed
window-pane.

"Come in the other room," said Sarah to Kathie.

The child followed. It was not very warm yet, but there was a great
crackling, blazing fire upon the hearth, which was a delightful picture
in itself.

Sarah stood and viewed her guest wonderingly. The long golden curls, the
clear, fine complexion, the neat-fitting dress, the small white hands,
and the dainty kid boots, were all marvels to her.

"You're very rich," she said, presently, in a peculiar manner, as if she
could almost find it in her heart to envy Kathie and grow discontented
with herself. Kathie's fine sense and tact detected it.

She stretched out her hand and took Sarah's,--a little rough, but soft
and plump. "My uncle is," she answered; "he is very good to us children.
My father died when I was a tiny little girl."

"Did he?" Sarah knelt down, and began to wind the silken curls over her
finger. "But you are so--so different. You don't have to work,--do you?"

"A little," and Kathie smiled.

"What! a lady like you? Don't you keep servants? For Jim said the place
was like a palace!"

"We keep one servant only, and a gardener. Mamma thinks it right that
every one should learn to be useful."

"But if I was rich I wouldn't do a thing! I actually wouldn't."

"I am afraid you would soon get tired of idleness."

"O, I'd have books, and read, and paint pictures, and a pianny--"

"Piano," corrected Kathie, gravely, as if she had been a teacher with
her class.

Sarah turned scarlet, then gave a little embarrassed laugh. "I never can
get the words all right. They do plague me so; but I haven't been to
school for two years. Mother wanted me home, for Martha was so little.
That's why I'd like to be a lady, and know just what was right to do and
say. I thought you was so elegant that night!"

"There are a great many 'ladies,' as you call them, much poorer than
you; and some rich people who are coarse and ignorant."

"There ain't only two or three men in Middleville any richer than
father. He owns sights of land and timber, but he thinks that if you can
read and write and cipher a little it is enough. I don't suppose I could
ever be as nice as you are, though,"--with a sadness in her tone and a
longing in her eyes.

"In what respect?" Kathie smiled encouragingly.

"Well--to talk as you do. I thought that night at the Fair that it was
just like a story-book or music. I know I'm always makin' mistakes."

"Then you must try to be careful. Does not your teacher correct you?"

"Well, I am learning a little; but it seems to be such hard work. How
did you do it?"

"I have always been sent to school, and then my mother has taken a good
deal of pains with me. It seems unfortunate that people should fall into
such careless habits of pronouncing, and oftentimes of spelling."

"Was my letter all right?" Sarah asked, with quick apprehension. "I
