enough to invite me to take a part in the amputation of my own nose!
Did you ever hear anything so absurd?"

"Perhaps I should be better able to judge if I were informed in regard
to the nature of the conspiracy," suggested Cantwell, as he readjusted
his eye-glasses.

"I shall be happy to inform you. They intend to apply to the principal
to have the tenure of office in the ship changed," replied Scott, in a
very impressive manner, as though he were revealing a startling fact.

"The tenure of office!" repeated Cantwell, with a puzzled look.

"Yes. Beckwith was kind enough to explain to me what it meant. I dare
say you know, without any explanation, Mr. Cantwell."

"Of course I know the meaning of the phrase, but I don't understand its
application to the affairs of the squadron."

"Then you will excuse me for telling you." And Scott explained in
full the nature of the proposed changes. "This is a plan, you will
perceive, to cut me off."

"Indeed!"

"I have been a good boy, and learned my lessons this month; and, under
the present regulation, I should be the captain of the ship next month.
I think that is clear enough."

Cantwell arranged his glasses again, and looked earnestly into the face
of the joker; but he was as serious as though he had been at a funeral.

"I was not aware that you stood so high on the record," added the
fourth master, more puzzled than before.

"Of course you are aware that you stand very high yourself," said Scott.

"I know that I have not had a single imperfect lesson, or been marked
down on any exercise."

"Just so. Then the highest office lies between you and me," replied
Scott, rubbing his chin. "The conspiracy is against us. If you should
get in ahead of me, I never have any hard feelings. I am willing to
abide by the regulations, and take whatever place belongs to me, even
if it should be that of captain or first lieutenant. I never complain
of my lot when there is fair play."

"And so the students are trying to have the highest officers chosen by
ballot," mused Cantwell.

"That's so; and it's a plot against you and me--a conspiracy against
our rights; and we must oppose it with all our might."

"It seems to me a very strange movement, just before the first of the
month."

"You are right; and we must go to work. The conspirators have had it
all their own way so far. We can make it lively for them.--Well,
Laybold, what is it?" said Scott, as the student addressed approached
them.

"I am sent to notify you both of a meeting of all the students of
the squadron, at that flat rock on the top of the island," said the
messenger. "The fellows are going to appoint a committee to wait on
the principal, and ask for a change in the manner of giving out the
offices."

"We shall be there to vindicate our rights, and protest against this
conspiracy. How do you stand, Laybold?"

"I don't care much about it, any way," replied the messenger, glancing
at Cantwell.

"Then go against the change. This thing is got up to keep me from being
captain next month."

"You!" shouted Laybold. "You won't even be captain of a top! You won't
come within fifty of the cabin."

"So you say. But the highest office lies between Cantwell and me."

"That may be; but it's a long way from your side of the house," replied
Laybold, as the party moved towards the highest part of the island.

Cantwell was vexed and troubled, and he could not decide what course to
pursue.




CHAPTER II.

AN EXCITED MEETING OF OFFICERS AND SEAMEN.


Scott was one of the most popular students in the squadron. And it is
a lamentable fact, that mere "jokers" obtain a power and influence in
society which is denied to persons of infinitely greater dignity and
higher character. As Laybold declared, Scott had no personal interest
in the question under agitation, for, though he was a good seaman,
his scholarship was not above mediocrity. He lacked industry and
application; and it was not probable that he would ever win even the
lowest rank on the quarter-deck. But he had initiated what he regarded
as a stupendous joke, and he was determined to carry it through. While
the students were gathering at the flat rock, he electioneered against
the De Forrest plan, as it soon came to be called. He declared over and
over again, to the intense amusement of the seamen, that the plan was a
conspiracy against his individual rights, and was intended to prevent
him from being captain the next month. Before the meeting at the rock
was called to order he had rallied quite a respectable party under his
banner.

Every officer and every seaman of the fleet was present at the
meeting. The captain and the other officers sitting with the principal
had been summoned to the gathering; and those who were most interested
in the success of the effort were confident that the measure would be
adopted with little if any opposition. The meeting was called to order
by Lieutenant Ryder, the oldest officer of the squadron.

"The first business of this meeting is the choice of a chairman," said
Ryder, taking position on the flat rock, around which the students had
collected. "Please to nominate."

As in assemblages of older people, the arrangements had been "cut
and dried" beforehand, and Beckwith had been appointed by the "ring"
to nominate De Forrest as chairman; but Scott, more intent upon
carrying out his joke than anything else, had stationed himself close
to the rock, and disturbed the arrangements of the ring.

"Cantwell!" shouted he, at the top of his lungs, before Beckwith, who
certainly was not a dexterous representative of the ring, could open
his mouth.

"Cantwell!" repeated Laybold.

"Cantwell!" cried a dozen others, almost choking with laughter.

"I nominate Lieutenant De Forrest as chairman of this meeting," said
the tardy Beckwith.

"Lieutenant De Forrest is nominated," continued the chairman, anxious
to only carry out the programme which had been arranged by the officers.

"Mr. Chairman, I respectfully suggest that you are a little deaf in one
eye. Mr. Cantwell was nominated first."

"Cantwell! Cantwell!" shouted the supporters of Scott.

Ryder was perplexed. Common fairness required him to put the question
first upon the name of Cantwell; but he hesitated to do so. It seemed
absurd to make the student whom they desired to throw out of the line
of promotion the chairman of a meeting called for that purpose. While
he was in doubt, the opposition shouted, indulging in hideous yells,
cat-calls, and other demonstrations. It was fun to them.

"Lieutenant De Forrest has been nominated for chairman," repeated
Ryder, when there was a lull in the confusion.

"Mr. Chairman, we go in for a fair thing," said Scott, in a loud but
good-natured tone. "Mr. Cantwell was nominated first."

"Mr. Chairman, I don't know of any rule which requires the presiding
officer to put any name first," interposed Beckwith. "If the meeting is
not satisfied with the one named by the chairman, it can be voted down."

"But it looks more like a fair thing if the chairman puts the first
name mentioned," replied Scott. "If the meeting don't like it, it
can be voted down. If this thing is all cut and dried, I don't want
anything to do with it; and I invite all the fellows that are not in
the ring to step out and hold another meeting, where we can have fair
play."

"Another meeting!" shouted at least twenty seamen, who, with many
others, seemed to regard the affair as a capital joke because it was
under the leadership of Scott, rather than because they could see the
point of it.

"No, no!" responded the officers. "Put Cantwell's name, Ryder."

"Mr. Cantwell is nominated," said the chairman; and the jokers were
delighted when they found they had carried their point; but Ryder
paused, and looked uneasily at the members of the ring.

"Vote for him," said Norwood. "Make him chairman, and that will take
the wind out of his sails. In the chair he can't oppose the plan, and
we can tell the principal, when we go to him, that Cantwell presided
over the meeting."

"Question!" shouted the officers.

"If it is your pleasure that Mr. Cantwell serve you as chairman of this
meeting, you will manifest it by saying, 'Ay.'"

"Ay!" yelled nearly the whole crowd.

"Those opposed, 'No,'" continued the chairman.

"No!" replied a few, who did not understand the tactics of the ring.

"It is a vote," said Ryder, "and Mr. Cantwell is elected chairman of
this meeting."

"I move you that a committee of two, consisting of Lieutenant De
Forrest and Mr. Beckwith, be appointed to conduct him to the chair,"
shouted Scott.

"You hear the motion of Mr. Scott; those in favor will say, 'Ay;' those
opposed, 'No.' It is a vote," said the temporary chairman, disgusted
with the proceedings.

De Forrest and Beckwith conducted the obnoxious fourth master to
the chair, which was the flat rock. As Cantwell mounted the natural
rostrum, the jokers applauded lustily, and the ring felt that the
proceedings were already turned into a farce. Of course Cantwell
was more astonished than any one else to find his merits so highly
appreciated.

"Gentlemen, I thank you most heartily for the honor, unsought and
unexpected on my part, which you have conferred upon me," said he,
removing his cap. "I shall endeavor to preside impartially over the
deliberations of this meeting. The chair awaits any motion."

"Mr. Chairman," said De Forrest, who, after his defeat, had been
delegated by the officers to present the business to the meeting.

"Lieutenant De Forrest," replied Cantwell.

The originator of the plan for changing the "tenure of office" made
quite a lengthy speech, in which he set forth the advantages to be
derived from the adoption of the new method of filling the offices of
the highest grade. Of course he carefully abstained from any allusion
to the real objection to the present system, and would have done
so even if Cantwell had not been chosen chairman. His statement of
the plan was certainly a very clear one, and the subject was fully
understood by every student.

"And now, Mr. Chairman, having fully explained the plan, which has been
approved by a large number of the officers and seamen of the squadron,"
continued De Forrest, "I move that a committee of three be raised,
to wait on the principal, and request him to make this change in the
manner of filling the office of commodore of the squadron, and of
captain, first, second, third, and fourth lieutenant of each vessel."

"Mr. Chairman," said Beckwith, who had been selected to second the
motion, "I rise--"

"No, you don't," interposed Scott; "you haven't got up yet."

"I rise--"

"You were up before," persisted Scott; and a round of applause followed
the interruption.

"Mr. Chairman, I second the motion," said Beckwith, who, however, was
unable to make the little speech he had arranged in his mind favoring
the proposed change, for the laugh and the applause which followed
Scott's sally had sadly disconcerted him.

The chairman stated the motion, and the question upon its adoption was
fairly before the meeting. Several of the officers spoke in favor of
it, and even the commodore, the captain, and the first lieutenant gave
it the weight of their powerful influence. Two of the "short jackets"
also briefly addressed the meeting in favor of the plan; and thus far
the agitators had it all their own way.

"Question!" called some of the ring.

"Mr. Chairman!" shouted Scott, in a tone loud enough to be heard at
the farther side of the island, where the adults of the squadron were
enjoying the quiet beauty of the scene.

"Mr. Scott," replied the chairman, recognizing and bowing to the joker.

"Question! question!" shouted some of the officers, who were inclined
to retaliate upon the joker by using his own tactics.

"Mr. Scott has the floor," interposed the chairman.

"Thank you, Mr. Chairman; but I'm not to be floored so easily. Every
fellow that knows me knows that I go in for fair play."

"That's so," cried the crowd of his supporters, with a round of
applause.

"And what I give to others I ask for myself," continued Scott. "I'm
a modest fellow." (Tumultuous applause.) "I'm a modest fellow, Mr.
Chairman, and it gores my soul to feel compelled to speak of my own
merit; but this whole thing is a conspiracy against my rights."
("Hear, hear.") "I have belonged to the ship about a year; I haven't
the purser's books in my trousers' pocket, and can't say to a day how
long, but about a year. I have faithfully discharged every duty, and
even done a great many things that were not required of me. I have
eaten my grub with untiring fidelity, except when I was seasick at
the beginning." (Applause.) "I have slept my eight hours out of the
twenty-four with exemplary diligence and punctuality; and even done
more than this, when the emergency seemed to require it, without
grumbling." (Applause.) "I have kept my watch below without flinching."
(Applause.) "I have worn my pea-jacket in cold and heavy weather
without deeming it a hardship." (Applause.) "I have never objected to
going on shore to see a city, or to take a tramp in the country, or
to go 'on a time' of any sort." (Applause.) "Indeed, I have always
been willing to make myself as comfortable as the circumstances would
permit. And I have tried to use every fellow about right, the officers
as well as the seamen. I have helped the fellows spend their money,
when they needed my assistance" (applause), "for I don't like to be
selfish about these things. When a fellow had any cake, fruit, or
other good thing, I have taken hold like a man, and helped him eat it."
("That's so," shouted several.) "I have always been willing to let
any fellow get my lessons for me, or do my share in holy-stoning the
deck. When any petty officer, having a soft thing in the way of duty,
such as coxswain of a boat, on a long pull, was sick, I have always
been willing to take his place, and not charge him anything, either."
(Applause.) "It's my nature to be unselfish; and I would do as much for
the captain, or any other officer, as for a seaman."

"Mr. Chairman, I rise to a point of order," interposed Beckwith.

"Will the gentleman state his point?"

"That the gentleman is not speaking to the question," snapped the first
master, who was determined, if possible, to get even with Scott.

"The speaker stated in the beginning that the proposed measure, and
the action of this meeting in connection therewith, were a conspiracy
against his rights; and the chair decides that he is in order," said
the chairman, with dignity.

"But, sir, must we listen to his biography?" demanded Beckwith.

"Mr. Chairman, it is as painful for me to rehearse my own virtues
before this large audience as it is for him to hear me; and the
sacrifice which I make in doing so ought to be appreciated by the
gentleman on the other side." (Applause.)

"I appeal from the decision of the chair," said Beckwith.

"First Master Beckwith appeals from the decision of the chair,"
continued Cantwell, who proceeded to state the point at issue, and,
taking advantage of the privilege of his position, gave his reasons at
length for ruling that Scott was in order.

Most of the seamen of the ship and of the consorts enjoyed the fun,
and wished Scott to go on. When the question of order was put, a large
majority sustained the decision of the chair. Cantwell began to feel
that he had a host of friends, and that the plot of the officers would
be defeated.

"Mr. Scott has the floor, and may proceed with his remarks," said he,
when the vote was declared.

"I trust I have shown conclusively that I am a good fellow," continued
Scott. (Hearty applause.) "Now, to apply what I had said when I was so
ungenerously interrupted, if I am a good fellow, I deserve to be the
captain, or at least one of the lieutenants, of the ship" (rapturous
applause), "provided I get a greater number of merit marks than any
other fellow; of course I don't expect to wink the marks out of
sight. Not long since I made a little excursion through Sweden with
some friends of mine, without exactly running away. The fact was,
we couldn't find the ship, though we searched diligently for her."
(Applause, and cries of "Finkel.") "I hear 'Finkel.' Finkel was there,
and had a finger in the pie. Now, no one can tell how many merits I
got for that excursion, and for my struggles to find the ship; nor how
many I got for the glass of finkel I drank, which, I grant, deranged my
ideas. Then I was caught asleep on the anchor watch, and neither you
nor I know how many merit marks I had for that. We are not permitted to
examine the record books of the instructors, and therefore we cannot
know how high we are marked for any recitation or exercise; but, Mr.
Chairman, I got high this month" (violent applause), "and therefore
I ought to have a high office. At any rate, Mr. Chairman, the highest
office lies between you and me; and I think all present, who have
considered the matter, will agree that it belongs to one of us" ("Hear,
hear"), "and my modesty does not permit me to indicate which one. And
now, Mr. Chairman, within three days of the end of the month, when the
prize of a noble ambition is almost within my grasp, comes this cruel
conspiracy to rob me of reward!"

Scott was trying to imitate Forrest, or some other great tragic actor
whom he had seen, in the last clause of his speech, and the students
were convulsed with laughter at his deep tones and wild gestures. He
continued a few moments longer in the same strain, being frequently
interrupted by applause and other demonstrations.

"And now, Mr. Chairman, I have done. If my shipmates will thus sting me
to death when I am almost at the pinnacle of a noble ambition, I can
only yield, as the noble Caesar did when he declared that Brutus ate
two slapjacks for his breakfast. I shall fall, not by my own fault,
but, like Caesar, by the madness of ambitious office-seekers. But I
shall fall free from the taint of dishonor--scot-free."

The orator wiped his brow with his coat sleeve, having left his
handkerchief in the pocket of his pea-jacket, while the applause of the
seamen rang through the island groves and over the silent sea.

De Forrest was angry when he saw that the proceedings of the meeting
were turned into a farce, and he made haste to reply to Scott's
effective speech. The only point he made was, that the last speaker
had no expectation of obtaining the lowest cabin office, or even of
being the coxswain of the fourth cutter, and therefore his argument was
simply ridiculous.

