went: 
 
" It 's all coming out as I told em. There 's no 
good in rum-selling, and somebody 's always getting 
hurt. Poor Tom ! Sorry for him. Wonder what 
it 's all about ?" 
" Nabbed in a cock-pit and sent down below," was 
said to him in an undertone. 
"Oh ho! That 's it! Poor boy! Knew he 'd 
come to grief sooner or later. Hadn 't any chance ! 
In a cock-pit ! Oh dear ! Sorry ! sorry !" 
Jacobs did not lower his voice, and all this was 
heard by every one in the bar-room. Lloyd 's face 
grew almost livid with anger and shame. 
" Nabbed in a cock-pit! Well, well! Doesn 't 
that beat all ? Tom Lloyd 's son nabbed in a cock 
pit !" droned on the old man, talking partly to him 
self. " I told him long ago he 'd better look after his 
boy. I saw where he was going. But nobody 
minds what I say. Well, well ! The chickens are 
coming home to roost They always do." 
Lloyd was in no condition to bear such probing 
as this. It maddened him. I cannot record here 
the shocking oaths that broke from him as he sprang 
suddenly across the room and struck Jacobs a heavy 
blow. The weak old man fell from his chair stunned 
and half insensible. 
" You 'll pay for that !" said a journeyman printer, 
who sprang forward and caught Lloyd as he was 
lifting his foot in his blind fury to kick the fallen 
man. Another, less able to control himself, struck 
him squarely in the face, cutting his cheek to the 
 
bone. I sprang forward to the side of Lloyd, but 
saw in an instant that all were against him, and that 
we would have no chance in a fight. There was a 
pause long enough to let the blood cool down from 
its fever heat, but a bitter, incensed, angry feeling 
remained. 
Jacobs was lifted from the floor and placed on a 
chair. He was evidently hurt, but it was impossible 
to tell how badly. 
Language was hardly strong enough to express 
the indignation felt by many of those who were 
present. Lloyd 's act was denounced as cruel and 
cowardly, and I think there was not a man who 
looked in his cut and bleeding face who did not say 
in his heart, " Good for him !" or, " Served him 
right !" He got out of the way as soon as he could, 
as well to have his hurt attended to as to escape from 
the little crowd of men, who were not over choice 
of their language. 
Jacobs soon came to himself, and to the many 
questions asked as to how he felt said he was all 
right, except a queer singing in his head, that hurt 
when he moved it. He was not inclined to talk, but 
sat in a dull kind of way, as if drowsy. 
"He 'd better be taken home," said one. "I'm 
afraid he 's hurt more than we think." 
" Where do you live, Jacobs ?" asked another. 
" Live ?" inquired Jacobs, rousing himself. 
" Yes ; where do you live ?" 
" Don 't live anywhere now," he replied, with a 
 
strange, sad humor in his voice. " Pitched me out 
last night." 
" Where did you sleep ?" 
" Oh, I crept into the press-room round here, and 
they let me cuddle down in a corner. The boards 
weren t very soft." 
One and another now began to go out, and it was 
not long before I was almost alone with the old man, 
who still sat very quiet and inclined to sleep. I felt 
uneasy about him. Lloyd was up stairs washing the 
blood from his face and cooling off. He had acted 
like a fool and a madman. But day by day for a 
long time he had been losing control of himself, 
and was constantly doing and saying things that 
kept me nervously anxious all the while. 
CHAPTER XX. 
JACOBS had fallen asleep, and Lloyd was still up 
stairs. I stood leaning on the bar-railing, with a 
feeling of worry at my heart, when a man whom I 
knew to be a constable came in and inquired for 
Lloyd. 
" What do you want with him ?" I asked. 
" He must come round to the alderman s." 
" For what ?" 
"Arrested for assault and battery, and maybe 
worse. Two men came and swore to the case, and 
the alderman 's given me the summons." 
" Where did it all happen ?" I asked, feigning ig 
norance. 
" Tisn 't any use shamming," the constable an 
swered, with a slight laugh. " It all happened here, 
as you know. Tom Lloyd lost his head he 's apt 
to do that of late and pitched into a customer rather 
severely a poor old toper who had no chance with 
him. They swore that the man was badly hurt, and 
that the injuries might prove fatal. They re waiting 
round at the office, and say they re going to see the 
thing through. Where 's Lloyd ?" 
" About the place somewhere. I suppose the 
alderman will take me ? How much is the bail ?" 
 
 
" Oh, not more than a thousand dollars." 
"Very well. Wait a moment, and I 'll go after 
Lloyd." 
I found him all cut down, sitting with his elbows 
on his knees and his head between his hands. As 
he looked up on my coming into the room where he 
sat, I saw an ugly scar two inches long on his right 
cheek, out of which blood still oozed. 
" A pretty mess you 've made of it !" I could not 
help saying, for I was angry with him for bringing 
all this trouble about. 
His reply was an impatient oath, to which I re 
turned, 
" You 've got yourself into an elegant fix ! There 's 
a constable after you." 
"What?" and he started up. 
"You 'll have to go round to an alderman 's and 
give bail for your appearance in court," said I. 
"For what?" 
" For assault and battery on old Jacobs. The 
constable 's waiting for you." 
An expression of blank amazement came into his 
face: 
"It 's impossible; I can t go. See what a figure 
I cut !" and he looked into a glass at the great red 
and purple scar on his cheek. 
" Can t be helped," I returned. " So come along, 
and get the thing done as quickly as possible. I 'll 
go round with you and stand bail. The constable is 
waiting." 
 
There was no escape. He had to go to the alder 
man 's and give the required bail. As we came 
back, and drew near " The Retreat," I noticed a 
quiet-looking man with a grave, pleasant face stand 
ing near the door. He was about going in as we 
came up, but held back for a moment as he saw us 
turn to enter, letting us pass in, and then following. 
He stood for a little while near the door, his bright 
gray eyes ranging about as if in search of some one. 
Jacobs was still sitting in the chair where we had 
placed him, but now awake, silent and serious. The 
man on seeing him stepped quickly across the room, 
and laying a hand firmly on the old pressman 's 
shoulder, said in a kind but earnest voice, " It 's not 
too late yet, Jacobs." 
And as he spoke he took a card from his pocket 
and held it in his fingers. 
" Tisn 't any use, Charley ;" and the old man 
shook his head. There was a mournful undertone 
in his voice that I had never before heard. " I'm 
past cure," he added, his head dropping forward in 
a helpless kind of way. " I'm in the street now, 
Charley. Pitched me out last night, bag and bag 
gage ; though as to the baggage," he added, a slight 
touch of the old humor in his voice, " that didn 't 
count for much." 
" Yes ; I heard about it a little while ago," an 
swered the man, " and I said, * Now 's his last chance. 
He 's got to the end of the lane and must turn back 
or die. I guess you 'll turn back, my friend. 
 
There 's good stuff in you yet. The best pressman 
in the city is wanted. They want him in Harvey 
street, and down in Sixth street, and over in Sansom 
street. There are half a dozen places waiting for 
him. And then we want him. He 's been long 
enough a standing monument of the evil of intem 
perance, and now we want him as a monument of 
what the TEMPERANCE BLESSING can do. I want 
you to help me, friend Jacobs. And God wants you. 
He has sent me to offer you another chance. Here ! 
sign this pledge, and all will be well." 
" Tisn 't any use, Charley," he answered, but in a 
voice that betrayed a rising hope. "I'm too low 
down. Couldn 't stand up square to anything. God 
help me !" 
And the old man broke down. 
" That 's just it," was returned in a voice of tender 
encouragement. " God will help you, and no other 
can. I heard about you a little while ago, and God 
put it into my heart to come right round here. I 
was going somewhere else, and tried to think I must 
go, but something said to me, No, no ! Old Andy 
Jacobs is on his last legs, and if he isn 't saved now, 
it 's all over with him ! So, you see, I'm here as one 
sent to you from God. Don 't be afraid to trust him. 
Sign this pledge, and that 's stopping, you know 
stopping stock still and planting your feet down. 
I 'll keep by you, and if you feel weak, you shall 
lean on me. Then you 'll turn about and go the 
other way, and I 'll stand by and help you along 
 
until you can walk by yourself. I know all about 
it. I know what 's to be done." 
" If you think it any use, Charley " Jacobs looked 
up into the face of the man wistfully. 
" Of use ! I 've seen many of them come up out 
of deeper pits than the one into which you have 
fallen, Andy Jacobs, and their feet are now on solid 
rock! Here!" and he laid the card down upon 
a table and handed Jacobs a pencil ; " write your 
name just there." 
" What does it say?" asked the old man. 
" I 'll read it ;" and the pledge was read aloud in 
our bar-room. Here is a copy of a similar pledge 
now before me : 
TEMPERANCE BLESSING || 
do solemnly promise to abstain from the use or sale of all Spirituous or Malt 
Liquors, Wine or Cider, and that I will not provide them as an article of entertain 
ment ; neither will I offer them to my associates, or provide them for persons in 
my employ. I also pledge myself that I will, under all suitable circumstances, 
discountenance their use as a beverage, 
GOD BEING MY HELPER. 
Dated this. day of 187 
Jacobs took the pencil and with a shaking hand 
wrote his name on the card. A breathless silence 
fell on the room. Lloyd and I and all that were 
present were too deeply impressed by the scene to 
 
utter a light or disapproving word. I do not know 
that I ever felt more solemn in my life. I was glad 
for the degraded old man that there was hope of his 
being held back even for a little while, but I had no 
faith in any permanent reformation. 
" The best day 's work you have done for a long 
time," said the man, cheerfully. " And now let me 
give you a certificate, and if you are ever tempted to 
take a glass, or a friend no, an enemy asks you 
to drink, look at it and say No ! " 
He then filled up the blank of another card and 
handed it to Jacobs. I give a copy of that also : 
"PERSEVERANCE, FORTITUDE AND FIDELITY." 
THIS is TO CERTIFY, 
That MR. ANDREW JACOBS 
Signed the PLEDGE of the Temperance Blessing 
On June 10, 18 . 
Attest: CHARLES HERITAGE. 
Then he took the old man, and said, 
" Come." 
" I haven t any place to go to, Charley," replied 
Jacobs, rising slowly and heavily, and putting one 
hand to his head as if it pained him. 
I noticed this movement of his hand, and glanced 
at Lloyd, who must have noticed it also, for a look 
of uneasiness passed across his face. There was no 
knowing what might come of the blow Jacobs had 
received. 
 
" I 'll find you a place," was answered in an assur 
ing voice. " It 's all right now. So come along." 
And they went out together. 
"And that 's brother Heritage! God bless him!" 
fell from the lips of a man who stood leaning on the 
bar-railing. 
" The man of the Temperance Blessing ? " re 
marked another. 
" Yes ; the man who in less than four years has 
got over three thousand persons to sign his Tem 
perance Blessing pledge." 
" He won t make much out of old Jacobs," growled 
Lloyd. " No such good luck for us." 
" He 's managed a great deal worse cases than that," 
said the other. 
" Don 't believe it," growled back Lloyd. 
" I happen to know," was answered. " Some of 
you remember Phil Oldham ? Well, he got so low 
at last that he was sent to the almshouse. He 
would have died of cold and starvation in the street 
if the guardians of the poor hadn 't taken care of him. 
A year ago last spring he came out of his winter 
quarters over the Schuylkill and tried to keep sober, 
but it wasn 't a week before he was down in the 
gutter again. He couldn 't stand alone, and there 
was no one to help and encourage him in the right 
way, so he fell, in spite of his good resolutions." 
A number of men had come in to drink during 
the past fifteen or twenty minutes, and they were all 
more or less interested in what had occurred and in 
the conversation which was growing out of it. 
Most of them knew Jacobs very well. They now 
gathered in a close group about the man who was 
speaking. Among them were two or three hard 
drinkers men who had become slaves to appetite, 
who were almost helpless in the morning until a 
dram steadied their nerves. Wilson the bookbinder 
was one of these. He was going to ruin fast. 
The man went on : 
" I had a long talk with Phil Oldham yesterday 
or, I should say, rather, Philip Oldham, for that 's 
the way it reads on the sign over his door. I never 
saw brother Heritage, as some of them call him, 
until just now, and I said * God bless him ! for Philip 
Oldham 's sake. I got the whole story, and it al 
most made me cry sometimes. There 's nothing 
just like it in any book I ever read." 
"What story?" asked one. 
" Phil Oldham 's story," he replied. 
" Has he reformed ?" 
" I should think so. Has a nice little store full 
of goods," was answered. 
" Tell us about him, won t you ? Reformed ! 
That is news ! Why, I remember Phil as the 
hardest case going." 
" It isn 't a short story," said the man, " but it 
didn 't seem long to me in the telling." 
"Let 's have it!" "Fire away!" came from one 
and another. 
" Gentlemen," called Lloyd, who didn 't like the 
 
course things were taking, and who wanted to get in 
some interruption, and so prevent, if possible, further 
talk in that direction. 
The company turned to him. 
" Take a drink all round, gentlemen, and then have 
the story." 
A few came toward the bar, but the man who had 
been speaking said, in a clear, decided voice, 
" You can t have the drinks and the story too. 
It 's only a flank movement to get me out of the way. 
I 've seen it done a hundred times. So if you re 
going to drink all round, I'm off." 
" Stop, stop !" cried two or three. " Let 's have 
the story." 
" All right ; we 'll have that first. The drinks will 
keep," was added, and the company closed about the 
man again. 
" Not if I know myself," said Lloyd, angrily, as 
he set back the decanters he had placed on the bar. 
" Now or never !" 
CHAPTER XXI. 
THE tide was setting against us, and I yielded 
passively, as I had learned to do on such occa 
sions. Lloyd fretted and fumed and swore fruitless 
ly. Let me recall as accurately as possible the true 
story told in our bar-room that morning. I grew in 
terested in it in spite of myself, and did not wonder 
that many were touched or deeply moved by the 
narrative. The man resumed : 
I'm going to tell you Phil Oldham 's story just as 
he told it to me. You may think it 's Phil himself 
talking. This is what he said : 
" I was dead beat at last clear down. My poor 
wife, who stuck to me while there was any hope, had 
left me and gone to her friends. My children were 
scattered about here and there. I was a helpless 
vagabond, with only one distinct consciousness, and 
that an ever-present, irrepressible desire for liquor. To 
get that I was ready to stoop to anything to beg, to 
sponge on others, even to steal had the opportunity 
come in my way, but not to work, for I had lost 
that control of head and hand which work requires. 
" My days, as I look back to them now, were 
passed as in a suffering, uneasy, troubled dream, 
with only one thing palpable and clear an intense, 
unsatisfied craving for strong drink. I had no home. 
I could not pay for lodgings, and there was no one 
who cared enough for me to see that I had a place 
in which to lay my miserable body. If I fell asleep 
in a saloon, I was rudely shaken up and turned out 
of doors, often with some cruel trick played off upon 
me. No one cared for me no one seemed even to 
pity me. All men turned away from me with dis 
gust. And yet, somehow, I managed to get, by so 
liciting one and another, by false pretences or down 
right lying, a few pennies every day with which to 
buy liquor. Food I got by begging when I felt 
hungry, but hunger didn 't trouble me so much, a 
little satisfied that it was drink, drink, drink, that I 
craved with an appetite nothing could appease. I 
slept at night as I could, creeping in here and there, 
often finding myself in the station-house when morn 
ing broke. 
" Last winter a year I was picked up in the street 
half dead with cold and sent to the almshouse, 
where I stayed until spring. When I came out, I 
tried feebly to get on my feet again, but I had no 
employment, no home, no one to care for me. I was 
walking along the street wondering what was to be 
come of me, and in my poor way trying to hold on 
to good resolution, when I met an old acquaintance. 
" Hallo, Phil ! Is this you ? he said, with rough 
familiarity, grasping my hand. I thought you were 
dead long ago ; and he eyed me all over. Rather 
seedy-looking," he added. 
 
" ( Yes, I replied. It 's rough with me. When a 
poor devil gets going down hill, there isn 't much 
chance for him. 
" Come, let 's have a drink, he said ; I know 
you re dry. 
"There was a tavern just opposite. He moved in 
that direction as he spoke, and I went with him as 
passively as a boat towed by a steamer when the en 
