with the melodeon. There are depths in music 
which the melodeon, even when it is called a 
cabinet organ, with a colored boy at the bellows, 
cannot sound. The melodeon was not, originally, 
designed for the Gothic worship. We determined 
to have an organ, and we speculated whether, by 
erecting it in the apse, we could not fill up that 



 



elegant portion of the church, and compel the 
preacher's voice to leave it, and go out over the 
pews. It would of course do something to efface 
the main beauty of a Gothic church ; but some 
thing must be done, and we began a series of 
experiments to test the probable effects of putting 
the organ and choir behind the minister. We 
moved the desk to the very front of the platform, 
and erected behind it a high, square board screen, 
like a section of tight fence round the fair-grounds. 
This did help matters. The minister spoke with 
more ease, and we could hear him better. If the 
screen had been intended to stay there, we should 
have agitated the subject of painting it. But this 
was only an experiment. 

Our next move was to shove the screen back 
and mount the volunteer singers, melocleon and 
all, upon the platform, some twenty of them 
crowded together behind the minister. The 
effect was beautiful. It seemed as if we had 
taken care to select the finest-looking people in 
the congregation, much to the injury of the 
congregation, of course, as seen from the plat 
form. There are few congregations that can 



 



stand this sort of culling, though ours can en 
dure it as well as any ; yet it devolves upon those 
of us who remain the responsibility of looking as 
well as we can. The experiment was a success, 
so far as appearances went, but when the screen 
went back, the minister's voice went back with it. 
We could not hear him very well, though we 
could hear the choir as plain as day. We have 
thought of remedying this last defect by putting 
the high screen in front of the singers, and close 
to the minister, as it was before. This would make 
the singers invisible, " though lost to sight, to 
memory dear," what is sometimes called an 
" angel choir," when the singers (and the melo- 
deon) are concealed, with the most subdued 
and religious effect. It is often so in cathedrals. 
This plan would have another advantage. The 
singers on the platform, all handsome and well 
dressed, distract our attention from the minister, 
and what he is saying. We cannot help looking 
at them, studying all the faces and all the dresses. 
If one of them sits up very straight, he is a rebuke to us ; if he " lops " over, we wonder why 
he doesn't sit up ; if his hair is white, we wonder 
whether it is age or family peculiaritv ; if he 




 



yawns, we want to yawn ; if he takes up a hymn- 
book, we wonder if he is uninterested in the 
sermon ; we look at the bonnets, and query if 
that is the latest spring style, or whether we are 
to look for another ; if he shaves close, we wonder 
why he doesn't let his beard grow ; if he has long 
whiskers, we wonder why he doesn't trim 'em ; if 
she sighs, we feel sorry ; if she smiles, we would 
like to know what it is about. And, then, sup 
pose any of the singers should ever want to eat 
fennel, or peppermints, or Brown's troches, and 
pass them round ! Suppose the singers, more or 
less of them, should sneeze ! Suppose one or two 
of them, as the handsomest people sometimes will, 
should go to sleep ! In short, the singers there 
take away all our attention from the minister, and 
would do so if they were the homeliest people in 
the world. We must try something else. 

It is needless to explain that a Gothic religious 
life is not an idle one. 





ERHAPS the clothes question is ex- 
hausted, philosophically. I cannot but 
regret that the Poet of the Breakfast- 
Table, who appears to have an uncontrolla 
ble penchant for saying the things you would like 
to say yourself, has alluded to the anachro 
nism of "Sir Coeur de Lion Plantagenet in the 
mutton-chop whiskers and the plain gray suit." 
A great many scribblers have felt the disadvan 
tage of writing after Montaigne ; and it is impos 
sible to tell how much originality in others Dr. 
Holmes has destroyed in this country. In whist 
there are some men you always prefer to have on 
your left hand, and I take it that this intuitive 
essayist, who is so alert to seize the few remain- 



 

ing unappropriated ideas and analogies in the 
world, is one of them. 

No doubt if the Plantagenets of this day were 
required to dress in a suit of chain-armor and 
wear iron pots on their heads, they would be as 
ridiculous as most tragedy actors on the stage. 
The pit which recognizes Snooks in his tin 
breastplate and helmet laughs at him, and Snooks 
himself feels like a sheep ; and when the great 
tragedian comes on, shining in mail, dragging a 
two-handed sword, and mouths the grandiloquence 
which poets have put into the speech of heroes, 
the dress-circle requires all its good-breeding and 
its feigned love of the traditionary drama not to 
titter. 

If this sort of acting, which is supposed to 
have come down to us from the Elizabethan age, 
and which culminated in the school of the Keans, 
Kembles, and Siddonses, ever had any fidelity 
to life, it must have been in a society as artifi 
cial as the prose of Sir Philip Sidney. That 
anybody ever believed in it is difficult to think, 
especially when we read what privileges the 
fine beaux and gallants of the town took behind 



 

the scenes and on the stage in the golden days 
of the drama. When a part of the audience sat 
on the stage, and gentlemen lounged or reeled 
across it in the midst of a play, to speak to 
acquaintances in the audience, the illusion could 
not have been very strong. 

Now and then a genius, like Rachel as Hora- 
tia, or Hackett as Falstafif, may actually seem to 
be the character assumed by virtue of a trans 
forming imagination, but I suppose the fact to 
be that getting into a costume, absurdly anti 
quated and remote from all the habits and asso 
ciations of the actor, largely accounts for the 
incongruity and ridiculousness of most of our 
modern acting. Whether what is called the 
"legitimate drama" ever was legitimate we do not 
know, but the advocates of it appear to think 
that the theatre was some time cast in a mould, 
once for all, and is good for all times and peo 
ples, like the propositions of Euclid. To our 
eyes the legitimate drama of to-day is the one 
in which the day is reflected, both in costume 
and speech, and which touches the affections, 
the passions, the humor, of the present time. 



 

The brilliant success of the few good plays that 
have been written out of the rich life which we 
now live the most varied, fruitful, and dra 
matically suggestive ought to rid us forever 
of the buskin-fustian, except as a pantomimic or 
spectacular curiosity. 

We have no objection to Julius Caesar or Rich 
ard III. stalking about in impossible clothes, and 
stepping four feet at a stride, if they want to, but 
let them not claim to be more " legitimate " than 
" Ours " or " Rip Van Winkle." There will prob 
ably be some orator for years and years to come, 
at every Fourth of July, who will go on asking, 
Where is Thebes ? but he does not care any 
thing about it, and he does not really expect an 
answer. I have sometimes wished I knew the 
exact site of Thebes, so that I could rise y 'the 
audience, and stop that question, at any rate. 
It is legitimate, but it is tiresome. 

If we went to the bottom of this subject, I 
think we should find that the putting upon actors' 
clothes to which they are unaccustomed makes 
them act and talk artificially, and often in a man 
ner intolerable. / An actor who has not the habits 



 

or instincts of a gentleman cannot be made to 
appear like one on the stage by dress ;I he only 
caricatures and discredits what he tries to repre 
sent ; and the unaccustomed clothes and situa 
tion make him much more unnatural and insuf 
ferable than he would otherwise be. Dressed 
appropriately for parts for which he is fitted, he 
will act well enough, probably. What I mean is, 
that the clothes inappropriate to the man make 
the incongruity of him and his part more appar 
ent. Vulgarity is never so conspicuous as in 
fine apparel, on or off the stage, and never so 
self-conscious. Shall we have, then, no refined 
characters on the stage ? Yes ; but let them be 
taken by men and women of taste and refine 
ment, and let us have done with this masquerad 
ing in false raiment, ancient and modern, which 
makes nearly every stage a travesty of nature 
and the whole theatre a painful pretension. We 
do not expect the modern theatre to be a place 
of instruction (that business is now turned over 
to the telegraphic operator, who is making a 
new language), but it may give amusement in 
stead of torture, and do a little in satirizing folly 



 

and kindling love of home and country by the 
way. 

This is a sort of summary of what we all said, 
and no one in particular is responsible for it ; 
and in this it is like public opinion. The Par 
son, however, whose only experience of the thea 
tre was the endurance of an oratorio once, was 
very cordial in his denunciation of the stage 
altogether. 

MANDEVILLE. Yet, acting itself is delightful ; 
nothing so entertains us as mimicry, the person- 
ation of character. We enjoy it in private. I 
confess that I am always pleased with the Par 
son in the character of grumbler. He would be 
an immense success on the stage. I don't know 
but the theatre will have to go back into the 
hands of the priests, who once controlled it. 

THE PARSON. Scoffer ! 

MANDEVILLE. I can imagine how enjoyable 
the stage might be, cleared of all its traditionary 
nonsense, stilted language, stilted behavior, all 
the rubbish of false sentiment, false dress, and 
the manners of times that were both artificial 
and immoral, and filled with living characters, 



 

who speak the thought of to-day, with the wit 
and culture that are current to-day. I Ve seen 
private theatricals, where all the performers were 
persons of cultivation, that 

OUR NEXT DOOR. So have I. For some 
thing particularly cheerful, commend me to ama 
teur theatricals. I have passed some melancholy 
hours at them. 

MANDEVILLE. That 's because the performers 
acted the worn stage plays, and attempted to do 
them in the manner they had seen on the stage. 
It is not always so. 

THE FIRE -TENDER. I suppose Mandeville 
would say that acting has got into a mannerism 
which is well described as stagey ; and is sup 
posed to be natural to the stage, just as half the 
modern poets write in a recognized form of lit 
erary manufacture, without the least impulse from 
within, and not with the purpose of saying any 
thing, but of turning out a piece of literary work. 
That 's the reason we have so much poetry that 
impresses one like sets of faultless cabinet-furni 
ture made by machinery. 

THE PARSON. But you needn't talk of nature 



 

or naturalness in acting or in anything. I tell 
you nature is poor stuff. It can't go alone. 
Amateur acting they get it up at church socia 
bles nowadays is apt to be as near nature as a 
school-boy's declamation. Acting is the Devil's 
art. 

THE MISTRESS. Do you object to such inno  
cent amusement ? 

MANDEVILLE. What the Parson objects to is, 
that he isn't amused. 

THE PARSON. What 's the use of objecting ? 
It 's the fashion of the day to amuse people into 
the kingdom of heaven. 

HERBERT. The Parson has got us off the 
track. My notion about the stage is, that it keeps 
along pretty evenly with the rest of the world ; 
the stage is usually quite up to the level of the 
audience. Assumed dress on the stage, since 
you were speaking of that, makes people no 
more constrained and self-conscious than it 
does off the stage. 

THE MISTRESS. What sarcasm is coming 
now? 

HERBERT. Well, you may laugh, but the 



 

world hasn't got used to good clothes yet. 
The majority do not wear them with ease. 
People who only put on their best on rare and 
stated occasions step into an artificial feeling. 

OUR NEXT DOOR. I wonder if that 's the 
reason the Parson finds it so difficult to get 
hold of his congregation. 

HERBERT. I don't know how else to account 
for the formality and vapidity of a set " party," 
where all the guests are clothed in a manner to 
which they are unaccustomed, dressed into a 
condition of vivid self-consciousness. The same 
people, who know each other perfectly well, 
will enjoy themselves together without restraint 
in their ordinary apparel. But nothing can be 
more artificial than the behavior of people to 
gether who rarely " dress up." It seems impos 
sible to make the conversation as fine as the 
clothes, and so it dies in a kind of inane helpless 
ness. Especially is this true in the country, 
where people have not obtained the mastery of 
their clothes that those who live in the city have. 
It is really absurd, at this stage of our civiliza 
tion, that we should be so affected by such an 



 

insignificant accident as dress. Perhaps Mande- 
ville can tell us whether this clothes panic pre 
vails in the older societies. 

THE PARSON. Don't. We 've heard it ; about 
its being one of the Englishman's thirty-nine 
articles that he never shall sit down to dinner 
without a dress-coat, and all that. 

THE MISTRESS. I wish, for my part, that 
everybody who has time to eat a dinner would 
dress for that, the principal event of the day, and 
do respectful and leisurely justice to it. 

THE YOUNG LADY. It has always seemed sin 
gular to me that men who work so hard to build 
elegant houses, and have good dinners, should 
take so little leisure to enjoy either. 

MANDEVILLE. If the Parson will permit me, I 
should say that the chief clothes question abroad 
just now is, how to get any ; and it is the same 
with the dinners. 
