facing their nearing desolation, without a plaint or an audible
sigh. Below stairs, all was silent as the grave. Patsey, with an
indefinable idea that the house should be set in order for the
coming of the grim guest, had dusted the furniture, set back the
chairs in straight rows against the walls in parlor and dining-room,
and closed all the blinds on the lower floor; made her kitchen neat
as Miss Eunice could have wished; then seated herself upon the upper
step of the side porch, her arms wrapped in her clean apron.
Jessie's orders were positive that no one besides the doctors should
be admitted, and as the servant's lookout commanded the front gate,
she intercepted the many callers who flocked to the Parsonage, at
the swift rumor of the pastor's extreme illness.

"We will keep him to ourselves while he stays with us!" the younger
sister had answered the other's fear lest this proceeding should
give offence to "the people." "He has belonged to them for thirty
years. At the last, we may surely claim him!"

"But they love him dearly!" expostulated Eunice. "He is their
spiritual father and guide."

"He is our all!" was the curt reply, and Eunice forbore to argue
further.

In the midst of her grief, she was slightly afraid of Jessie. The
wide eyes that were caverns of gloom; the tuneless accents that
never shook or varied, cowed her into quiet and obedience.

There was little to be done. The sick man slept--if it were
sleep--except when aroused to take medicine or food. At these
periods, he recognized his children, and spoke coherently, although
briefly. His kind heart and gentle breeding were with him to the
end. His utterances were of thankfulness for the services they
rendered, and love for those who bent over him, that not a word
should be lost of that they felt, at each awakening, might be the
last sentence they should ever hear from him.

He spoke once intelligibly and calmly of the nearing separation.

"I am going fast!" he said to Eunice, who was lifting his head upon
her arm that she might adjust the pillow. "The Father is very good.
The 'precious blood' avails--even for me--for me! I go empty-handed,
but rich--for there is the 'unspeakable gift!'" Closing his eyes he
murmured softly to himself.

Eunice bowed her ear, and held her breath to catch the words.

"'The token was an arrow, with the point sharpened by love, let
easily into the heart!' GOD is good--very good!"

It had been the testimony of his whole life.

"Jessie, dear! my little girl! you are wearing yourself out for me!"
he said, at another time. "I wish Roy were here! But HIS will be
done! HE knows my darling's needs--her temptations--her trials. Like
as a Father pitieth his children, dear! And it is true! Recollect
that I told you so, this--and when--and how!"

She was to recollect it in the Father's good time. Now the words
meant little, after she had heard the dying parent's wish for Roy's
return. She said something in her own heart that was like a
thanksgiving that her father was spared the one pang which the
coming of the man he would have her marry, would bring,--that the
sea rolled between them.

"We shall be cared for, Papa!" she replied, quietly.

"I know! The promise is sure," and he slept again, like a child at
even-time upon the mother's breast.

"The 'great peace' is his!" said Eunice, in pious gratitude.

Jessie was mute.

So the afternoon went by, and the shortening twilight of Autumn drew
on apace. The shutters of the southern windows were unclosed to
admit the air which evening had not made raw. The fleecy clouds were
packed in a cumulose mass upon the horizon, and this began to rise
in portentous majesty, as the sun set behind it. Dun, while day
lasted, with ragged, brassy edges, it darkened and thickened as
Jessie watched it from her seat at the bed-head, into a banner of
blackness absorbing the light from the rest of the heavens, and
blotting out the earth from her sight. The silence was breathless.
Not an insect chirped or leaf rustled. Even the pine boughs were
motionless. The mill wheel was still; the roar of the waterfall was
the only sound abroad under the inky sky. The sisters could no
longer see each other, but all the waning light in the room seemed
concentred upon the pallid face between them. The effect of the pale
radiance and the brooding quiet about them was weird--unearthly.
Eunice could bear it no longer.

"I will bring the night-lamp!" she said, rising.

She had hardly reached the foot of the staircase, when Jessie heard
the garden-gate shut, and steps upon the gravel-walk leading to the
kitchen; next, a stifled scream from Patsey, and a low, manly voice
in rebuke or reassurance. Listening, as for her life, the deadly
cold of hands and feet creeping up to her heart, she caught a faint
exclamation from Eunice; then, the cautious tread of feet in the
hall to the parlor-door, which was shut behind those who went in;
after which all was quiet again.

For one moment, the darkness was Egyptian, and the night more
freezing than winter. The watcher struggled to arise, to raise her
hands to her madly throbbing head, but a dull paralysis was upon her
limbs. It was not more than three minutes, but it seemed an hour,
before will asserted its sway so far as to call back the blood in a
tingling rush to the heart and extremities. Her trial was at hand.
This--the coup de grace of the appointed torture--was not to be
spared her, and she awaited it dumbly. But for the moveless face
upon the pillow beside her, she must have rushed away to hide
herself in thicket or cave--perhaps in the river-bed from which she
had been rescued so lately. That she could not leave. Her father
slept on, the pale, unearthly glimmering abiding still upon the
broad brow and noble features. He was beyond the reach of earthly
solicitude--the swimming and buffeting, the toil and anxiety, were
forever overpast; his feet already touched the solid ground. He was
very far off from her--bruised, struggling, condemned to endure the
consequences of her own and another's wrong-doing.

A weary season of sickness and dread elapsed ere Eunice entered with
the lamp. She put it down upon a stand in a distant corner, came
around to Jessie's side, and stooped to listen to her father's
breathing before she spoke.

Her voice was husky and uneven, and there was the shine of fresh
tears upon her cheeks.

"There is some one down stairs who wishes to see you, dear," she
said, laying her hand upon her sister's, to support her in case she
should be overcome by the great joy in store for her. "Some one you
will be glad and thankful to meet again!"

"Is it Roy Fordham?" asked the hard voice, while Jessie did not
start or stir.

Eunice saw that her prefatory measures were thrown away.

"It is! He sailed a fortnight earlier than he expected; arrived in
America but yesterday. Dear sister! our Heavenly Father has sent him
to us in our sorest need. He is waiting, love!"

"Then let him come up. I shall not leave this room."




CHAPTER XVI.


Every object in the dimly lighted chamber seemed, to Jessie's
strained eyes, to stand out with painful distinctness, as her
long-absent lover entered. Most clearly of all, she saw his familiar
figure; noticed even the full beard and gray travelling-suit, while
he crossed the floor toward her. She arose, mechanically, and went
forward a step to meet his fleet, noiseless advance.

"My own one! my precious darling!"

He had her in his arms before she could resist, if she had meant to
do so. There were tears in his eyes and voice as he kissed her, and
he held her closely, warmly, as a mother would a suffering child.

She undid his embrace with fingers strong and chill as steel.

"My father is very ill!" she faltered, and retreated to his pillow.

Disturbed by the movement and sound of his name, Mr. Kirke awoke.
The recess in which his bed stood was in partial shadow, but his
gaze rested at once upon Roy, and he tried to lift his head.

"Is that the doctor?"

Jessie replied:

"No, Papa! It is Mr. Fordham."

Instead of welcoming him, the sick man looked heavenward, and his
lips moved in prayer. Only the daughter who had crept nearest to
him, interpreted the burden of his thanksgiving.

"LORD! now lettest THOU THY servant depart in peace!"

When he moved, it was in an effort to hold out his arms to the
returned voyager.

"Roy! dear, dear son!"

Roy took the emaciated hands in his, with one answering word.

"Father!"

"Leave us for a little while, my children!" said the dying voice.
"We have much to say to one another, and the time is short!"

He was obeyed; Eunice going to her room, to weep and pray in mingled
gratitude and sorrow; Jessie flying down the stairs into the hall,
thence out into the garden.

The sky was one expanse of cloud by this time. The wind moaned
fitfully in the tree-tops; brought down showers of dry leaves into
her face and upon her uncovered head. They whispered drearily to her
as they hurtled by and crackled under her feet, and each thicket had
its sigh of desolation. She heard and felt all--her soul in unison
with the night and its voices of woe. She had fled from her
father's presence, feeling like one accursed, forsaken by GOD and
man. The return for which the dying saint's praise had gone up to
heaven, was the event she had anticipated with shame and terror that
made her long to bury herself in the wilderness or the grave, to
escape the sight of him whom she had deceived. To him, her father
was now bequeathing her--his dearest earthly treasure. Would Roy let
him, indeed, depart in peace, or would his stern sense of
truthfulness and honor impel him to a revelation of her perfidy?
True, he had taken her in his arms and kissed her, but she had
received this as his farewell, not his salutation;--seen in it the
resistless overflow of the old-time fondness at sight of her and her
affliction. Better--a thousand times better--that he had not come
until the eyes that had lighted into gladness at sight of him were
sealed in death, than to plant thorns in the painless pillow of the
death-bed by relating how she had betrayed the trust of her
betrothed, and disappointed her father's hopes.

If she could have warned him! If she had had the presence of mind to
make some sign of caution before she left them together!

Would Roy--"the man of granite"--have mercy? or must her father's
last words to her be reproof and not blessing? regret and not
thankfulness?

Up and down! up and down! she trod the long alley, looking at the
faintly illuminated windows of that upper chamber; wringing her
hands in her dry-eyed agony, longing yet fearing to hear the summons
that should end her suspense.

It came at length! Roy's step upon the piazza, and his call,
guarded that it should not reach the sick-room, but audible to her
as would be the trump of doom.

"Jessie! where are you?"

She went toward him without hesitation. Women have gone to the hall
of sentence and to the block in the same way. He met her, guided by
her rustling tread among the leaves.

"This should not be!" he said. "You will be ill next!"

He led her into the house, and to the parlor where there were
lights.

She was not surprised that he did not let her pause until they
reached the deep window--where she had not sat, for months, until
that morning after the doctor left her. She had not expected a
violent outbreak of anger or recrimination; had felt that, even in
becoming her accuser, he could not cease to be a gentleman.

Orrin had told her, more than once or thrice, that his kinsman
was just to calm severity. He would grant her a chance of
self-exculpation; would judge her out of her own mouth; make her
rehearse to him the story of her falsehood upon the spot where she
had plighted her vow of eternal constancy. And she would meet it
all--say it all, save the name of her tempter--that she was pledged
not to reveal--if he would but let her go back the sooner to her
father--the father who was dying upstairs!

"Don't think me cruel, dear, or ungenerous," began Roy, when he had
seated her, and himself at her side.

Had her wretchedness moved him to leniency?

He continued: "But this is no season for useless delays and mistaken
reserve. Our dear father is passing away from us. I met the doctor
on my way to you this evening. He thinks that he may leave us very,
very soon. One moment, dearest, and you shall go to him"--for she
had started up. "He has made a dying request of us--of you and
me--the fulfilment of which depends upon you. I say nothing of the
eager happiness with which I have given my consent to the
proposal--only of the comfort you can shed upon his last moments by
marrying me in his sight within the next hour."

"No! no! no!" She slid from her seat to her knees, and hid her
face, crouching to the floor in horror and humiliation. "I cannot!
It would be a sin! a fearful sin!"

Roy would have raised her, but she shrank away from him.

"Anything but that! Ask me anything but that!" she repeated.

"It is not I who ask it, dear. Our father has decided what shall be
the time and place of our marriage. It is not selfish--much less is
it sinful in us to yield to his wish--his last earthly desire. It
has been his prayer from the commencement of his illness that he
might live to join our hands; give you into my keeping before you
should close his eyes. Surely, knowing this, we may not fear to
repeat in his hearing the vows we made long ago in this, our
betrothal nook."

The simple, sad sincerity of his appeal sounded like pitiless will
in the ears of the distracted girl, but she could not gainsay his
reasoning. The decision was then thrown upon her! Hers was the power
to cast a ray of light upon the even-time of the life which had been
to her a constant benefaction, or to cloud it with disappointment.

"It is not selfish in us to yield to his wish!"

The words stung like venomed sarcasm. Not selfish to accept the fate
against which her nature--physical and spiritual--had lashed itself
into revolt for weary months past! Not selfish to bind upon her neck
the yoke of the scorned and unloving wife!

The last thought moved her to action. She dragged herself to her
feet, still rejecting his aid, and, for the first time since their
meeting, looked into his face.

"Did you get my last letter? that in which I asked you to release me
from this engagement?"

"Yes."

He would have drawn nearer as he said it, but she kept him off--less
by her gesture than with her eyes--so unlike the sweet wells at
which he used to drink his fill of love!

"And knowing all, it is still your wish to marry me! Think well
before you answer. This bond is for life, remember! and life is
long! Oh, how long to the miserable!"

"This is my answer." Before she could avoid him, he had gathered her
in his arms, had pressed the reluctant head to his bosom. "We have
been wedded almost a year and a half already, my Jessie. I am
claiming my wife, not my betrothed. Did you imagine that I could be
frightened from my hope and my purpose by that morbid little note,
written by a half-sick, over-sensitive woman? Recollect! you left
the decision to me! If, instead of this, you had ordered me to stay
away forever, I should have come to you all the same; have taken you
to the old resting-place and kissed away the gloomy fancies that had
tempted you to banish me. I know your heart better than you do
yourself--and it is mine! The LORD do so to me, and more also, if
aught but death part you and me!

"Now, beloved, what shall I say to our father? The minutes are
precious."

"It shall be as you and he desire. I will tell him this myself,"
replied Jessie, calming all at once into mournful composure Roy
deemed altogether natural in the circumstances.

"One word more!" detaining her. "I met Dr. Baxter this evening at
the station, on his way to pay you a visit, promised, he said, ever
since last winter. Stopping at the hotel while the stage set down
other passengers, we heard of your father's illness, and our dear
old friend, with characteristic delicacy, would not present
himself--a stranger--to your sister, in the circumstances. He
remained at the hotel until I should bring further intelligence. Am
I right in supposing that it is your wish, as well as mine, that he
should perform the ceremony which is to make us one in name, as we
have long been one in heart? If so, I will go for him without
delay."

"Do what you like--whatever is best," she answered, hurriedly. "By
all means, bring Dr. Baxter here! My father will like to see him."

"His arrival just now is providential," said Roy, walking upstairs
at her side, his arm still supporting her. "There is light, even
from the earthward side, upon this dark river, love!"

He beckoned Eunice from the sick-room as Jessie went in, exchanged
half-a-dozen sentences with her relative to his plans, and ran down
the steps lightly and swiftly. He had ordered Mr. Kirke's horse to
be harnessed to his buggy before he sought Jessie, and Eunice heard
him drive off in the direction of the village by the time she
returned to her post.

The sisters awaited him and the clergyman where they had sat all
day, the one at the right hand, the other at the left hand, of their
father. Eunice ventured to suggest to her companion the expediency
of making some change in her dress before the ceremony.

"I thought perhaps you would like to be married in white," she said,
timidly. "I am almost sure Roy would prefer this."

"I have not time to dress. I have left him too long already,"
returned Jessie, pointing to her father.

She tried to keep her promise of apprising him of her acquiescence
in his will, but was partly baffled by his increasing drowsiness! He
spoke, it is true, when she told him that she had heard from Mr.
Fordham of his request, and determined to grant it, but it was not
clear that he quite understood her.

"Good child!" he said, with closed eyes. "GOD bless you both!"

Did "both" mean his daughters or the two who were to be wedded
presently? She could not bring herself to ask.

Mr. Kirke lapsed into slumber or stupor, and the room was silent
again save for his irregular breathing, showing that his
semi-insensibility varied in character from that of the day. Once,
Jessie got up with the remark that it was time to renew the
mustard-poultices that stimulated the curdling veins into action,
and the pair did the office deftly and mutely. Eunice saw her
