" Sure, he's crosser than two sticks when the 
fire is kindlin'. He doesn't want sup nor bite; 
and if he did, it's little he'd get from me." 
So mamma judged that it was best to pay no 
further attention to him. He did not even come 
down at noon ; and then Stuart found that his 
door was locked. 
Quite late in the afternoon I was hurrying 
through the hall, when he opened his door sud- 
denly. His hair was tumbled, his cheeks scarlet, 
and his eyes wild and staring. 
"For God's sake, get me a drink of water!" 
he cried, hoarsely. 
I took it up to him, and knocked; but there 
was no answer. I made some ado opening the 
door, and walked in rather timidly. He was 
laughing and talking incoherently but clutched 
at the pitcher of water and drank great, desperate 
swallows. Then he sank back on the bed 
exhausted. 
I ran to mamma in affright. 
"Louis Duncan is sick and out of his mind! ' 
I cried. "O, mamma, I am sorry they came. 
We shall have our hands full of trouble." 
She went to the room with me. He did not 
appear to know either of us, and we could not 
rouse him to any . coherency. 
"It is a fever. The doctor must be sent for 
immediately. Tell Nelly to go. And, Rose, we 
must arrange the other room, and take him over 
there, since it may be a long illness. Well, we 
must have patience. God knows what is for the 
best." 
I soon had everything in order. Papa coming 
in, he partly led and partly carried Louis to the 
best room. Mamma bathed his head and put 
some draughts on his wrists and his feet. Now 
he lay quietly, with his eyes half open, breath- 
ing heavily. 
Dr. Hawley called just before supper. 
"A bad case," he said, gravely, "a bad case! 
Why, the fellow is worn to skin and bone al- 
ready, and looks as if he had had the jaundice 
for the last month. But we will do our best. 
He may be stronger than he appears/' 
Stuart felt pretty sober that evening. 
"I suppose I ought not to have stirred him 
up so this morning," he said. "But it is such 
fun ! And it was all about a trifle. I used his 
hair-brush ; and he is as particular as any old 
maid. Then I tormented him a little, and he 
seized the brush and gave me a box on the ear, 
which I won't take from any one without a 
row. I am not a baby. And it was awful 
mean of him ! And so we clinched. But he 
has been in a dreadful temper for the last month. 
He was mad because Stephen wouldn't let him 
go to Lake George with a lot of fellows." 
" It was fortunate that he did not," returned 
mamma. " And, Stuart, I hope, in the weeks 
to come, you will learn vour duty towards him. 
God has not given you this tie for you to disregard
so utterly." 
Stuart looked at her with wondering eyes, 
but made no answer. 
"Our first experience with boys seems to be 
rather trying," said Fanny, as we were going to 
bed that night. "I hope and pray that he may 
not die- -and in our house ! ' 
I thought of what Stephen had asked of me. 
CHAPTER V. 
An awesome quiet settled over the house. 
I did not remember a time when any 
 Mirer one had ever been very sick. The children 
gathered in groups, and spoke in whispers, and 
for a day or two Stuart appeared almost con- 
science-stricken. But his natural flow of spirits 
could not be repressed. Yet his laugh jarred 
on my nerves. We were used to caring so 
much for each other's welfare and comfort, and 
sympathizing with sorrows or trivial illnesses, that 
his carelessness seemed to us as something quite 
dreadful. Yet he was so pleasant and good- 
natured, so ready to do anything that was asked 
of him, though he never appeared to think that 
he might volunteer any little service. 
" We must make some allowance for them," 
mamma said, in her kindly fashion. " Remember 
that they have had no mother. Much of their 
 
lives has been spent at school ; and their uncle 
was a cold and rather arrogant man, papa 
thinks. So they have had no chance to acquire 
the graces of home life." 
When the tidings became noised abroad 
through the village, we were quite besieged. 
Mamma threw up the fortifications at the hall 
door. The old women, who were curious, or 
anxious, or even kindly-hearted in their officious 
way, heard all of the story there, or in the sit- 
. ting-room, that it was necessary for them to 
know. Aunt Letty Perkins was not last nor 
least. 
"Was it true, as she had understood, that 
these two young men came to study with Mr. 
Endicott ? She heard they were going in college, 
or something or other. She hoped he would 
get well paid for his trouble young college 
chaps were always pretty wild. There was no 
great loss without some small gain ; and if this 
young fellow was sick, he couldn't be kitin* 
round the village into all sorts of mischief." 
" No, to be sure not," returned mamma, with 
a smile at this sort of comfort. 
" But what are you to do ? You have your 
hands full already, with such a houseful of 
 
children ! I allers say that Mis' Enclicott's the 
most wonderful woman I know. I should think 
you'd a been worn out long ago ; and here you 
haven't scarcely a wrinkle in your face ! ' 
"I do not know why people should wrinkle 
up their faces when they have a number of 
healthy, happy children about them. Why, they 
keep you young, Mrs. Perkins. It takes you 
back to your own childhood continually." 
"I hope you're a going to get paid for all 
this." 
"I do not believe the Duncans will become 
chargeable to the parish, since they have for- 
tunes of their own," said mamma, rather dryly. 
" Rich, now? Well, that's good! Though 
rich men's sons are exposed to sights of temp- 
tations. No one knows!" and Aunt Letty shook 
her head solemnly. 
"I fancy there will not be many here at 
Wachusett." 
"Mean to keep them' the whole year?" 
"'No; only through vacation." 
"They have gardeens, I s'pose?' 
" Mr. Endicott is their sole guardian now, 
with the exception of an elder brother, who acts 
for them." 
"CM" 
 
Then Aunt Letty fidgeted about. 
"If you should want some one to help do 
the nussin', I could take my knitting and sit 
up stairs. I haven't much of anything to do, 
and F<1 as lief." 
"No," said mamma. "I am much obliged. 
Mrs. "Whitcomb is coming over this evening." 
So Aunt Letty had to go away without see- 
ing the patient. But she had considerable news 
to sow broadcast, which comforted her. 
For the first two days I spent all my time in 
the sick room, while papa remained, at night. 
The violent paroxysms were not very long at a 
time, and for the rest he only tumbled about 
and wanted a drink every few moments. Then 
Mrs. Whitcomb arrived, and I was partly re- 
leased. 
By Saturday Dr. Hawley had nearly given 
up the faintest hope. Every one knew who 
was meant when the prayer for the sick was 
used on Sunday. Something in papa's voice 
touched me in a peculiar manner. In the great 
calm of earth and sky, it seemed so strange that 
any life should cro out into utter nothingness! 
Why, the smallest insects were on the wing, 
and birds and bees went humming and soaring, 
 
with no anxious cares, just brim full of glad 
free life. 
If we had been less engrossed, we should 
haye felt quite elated over Fanny's successful 
examination ; but, as it was, we were glad to 
have her at home, without thinking much about 
it. So the days passed until the quivering life 
seemed to hang by a mere thread. 
"If he can go through the next twelve 
hours!" said Dr. Hawley, in a low tone. "But 
there seems so little strength to him. I can't 
realize that he has ever been such a ros} T , rol- 
licking boy as that Stuart ; and yet I do not 
see why he should not have been. "Well, we 
have done our best, Mrs. Whitcomb, and the 
good parson has prayed ; so we must leave all 
the rest in God's hands. Don't let him sleep 
more than an hour at a time, and then give 
him a teaspoonful of this, out of the glass 
remember." 
I didn't want to go to bed. I crept up to 
the room, and Mrs. Whitcomb, and the other 
strange, uncertain presence, standing by the 
window and watching the great stars and the 
little flecks of silver cloud threading their way 
in and out like dainty ladies. I was so afraid 
of death, too ! and yet I wanted to stay. I thought 
of Stephen's perplexity concerning his brothers^ 
and did not wonder at it now. I was sorry 
that I had been so ungracious that night ; but 
I had made all the amends I could. And I 
prayed softly for the sick boy, that he might 
live to a better and less selfish life, that he 
might see and know the great things there are 
for men to do in the world. 
Twelve. The old eight-day clock in the hall 
told it off in a solemn way, and went on tick- 
ing " forever, never," and Mrs. Whitcomb breath- 
ed in her chair as if she were asleep ; but in a 
moment she rose and gave the medicine. 
"You had better lie down here on the couch, 
Rose. Here is a pillow." 
"No; I am not sleepy." And crossing my 
arms on the window sill, I rested my chin on 
them, and watched the stars again. 
One, two, three ; and the summer night be- 
gan to show signs of drowsiness. The stars 
grew dimmer, and there was a peculiar grayish 
duskiness in the heavens. Then a faint stirring in 
the east, a melting of the gray into rose and gold 
a piping of birds in the leafy trees, and a 
strange tremulousness in all the air. I turned 
 
away from the window and glanced at the pal* 
lid face, put rny fingers on the thin wrist. Had 
the resurrection of the morning reached him ? 
" O, Mrs. Whitcomb," I exclaimed, "his pulse 
is stronger ! I believe he will live. I am so 
thankful!" 
"Now run to bed, dear. You have had your 
way, and sat up all night." 
I did fall asleep, and never woke until the 
breakfast bell rang. Dr. Hawley came in bright 
and early, and the verdict was favorable. 
"Now you must feed him on beef tea, and 
I'll feed him on iron," he said to Mrs. Whit- 
comb. "We will run a race to see which can 
get the most fat on his bones. Goodness knows 
there's need enough of it. He seems to have 
put into practice some one's suggestion, to take 
off his flesh and sit in his bones a space. Cool, 
for this hot weather." 
"I suppose we can venture to be a little jolly 
now," Stuart said, that afternoon, as we were 
all on the porch. "We have been going about 
this whole week like a funeral procession." 
"There might have been one very easily," 
I replied, with as much sternness as I could 
put in my voice. 
" But when you are through the woods, what 
is the use of frightening yourself with the dark- 
ness and the ' bug-a-boos ' ? Isn't that what you 
tell children ? I never really believed that he 
was going to die. It is only your good peo- 
ple" 
Then there is not much fear "of you,' I Said 
Fan. 
" Thank Goodness, no. I mean to have a 
deal of fun out of life yet. Just wait until I 
can get my hands into the money. There will 
be larks then, I can tell you. Meanwhile, may 
we not dissipate harmlessly on croquet ? ' 
" I think not," was my answer. " Your brother 
is very weak and nervous ; and I have some- 
times found the click of the balls hard to bear 
myself." 
" Hang it ! I wish he was in England with 
Stephen. He is always putting on airs of some 
kind. Before I'd be such a Molly-fuss-budget 
I VI go off and hang myself, and leave my money 
to the nearest of kin." 
" O, Stuart," I exclaimed, "you are per- 
fectly" 
''There, don't preach to me, you small midget] 
I hate girls' preaching. It's hard enough to 
have it on Sundays. Can a leopard change his 
spots? Yes, he can go off to another spot. So 
I'll go. Adieu, little grandmother." 
He caught his hat, and walked down the gar- 
den path as if whistling for a wager. 
" There, you have made him angry," declared 
Fan. 
"I cannot help it. He doesn't seem to care 
for anything. O ! ' 
I was after him in a minute, for there he had 
Tabby by the nape of the neck, holding her up 
high to see her draw up her feet and curl her 
tail between her legs like a dog. 
"Put her down!" I cried, authoritatively. 
He held me off with one arm. 
"Why, she likes it," he said. "Look! what 
an angelic smile illumines her countenance ! ' 
" Mia-o-o-ow ! ' was kitty's answer, in a pro- 
longed wail ; but she managed to twist herself 
out of his grasp, and bounded off. 
" You are a cruel, hateful boy " ! I exclaimed, 
angrily. 
But he only laughed, and went on his way 
whistling. Fan glanced up from her embroidery- 
"It is tit for tat' she said, laughingly; 
"preaching and practice." 
 
I was quiet for some minutes. 
"Do I preach much, Fan?' I asked, rather 
soberly. 
"Not very much. But it may be as danger- 
ous a habit as scolding, if one gets confirmed in 
it. And I suppose it isn't entertaining to boys." 
"But what are you to do when they are just 
as bad as they can be ? ' 
"Bear it with Christian fortitude and resigna- 
tion. I am not sure but it will be good for us 
to have something that takes us out of the one 
groove, and shows us that the world is wider 
than the little space just around us." 
There was much truth in that, to be sure. 
" You see we have had everything pretty much 
one way ; and now w r e have come to a change 
in the current. I rather like the stir and freshen- 
ing up." 
"But if Tabby was yours ' 
" You remember the old lady whose idea of 
heaven was to ' sit in a clean checked apron, 
and sing psalms ; ' and I think yours must be to 
sit here on the porch, in a clean white dress, 
and nurse that sleek Maltese cat." 
"O, Fan, how can you be so irreverent?' 
I heard the faint tinkle of a bell; so I ran 
up stairs. Mrs. Whitcomb asked me to sit there 
while she went out for a walk. I took up 
some crocheting, and, as I worked, watched the 
wind blowing about the high tree-tops, and 
making picturesque backgrounds of the blue 
sky. Then a wood robin came and sang his 
sweet song almost in my ear. 
The sick youth stirred and opened his eyes 
wide. How strange and sunken they looked ! 
"Where am I?" 
I started at the question, and collected my 
wandering senses. 
"At the rectory. At Mr. Endicott's." 
"O! Have I been sick? How long since 
I can't seem to remember ' 
"It is almost a fortnight since you were taken 
ill. But you are out of all danger , and have 
only to get well." 
"I suppose I have been a great deal of 
trouble. Did I talk much?' And he glanced 
sharply at me. 
"No; that is, it was not of much account." 
"Where is Stuart?" 
" Out somewhere." 
"May I have a drink?" 
I gave him that. 
"And you have been taking care of me all 
the time ? " 
 
" Not all. Mamma and Mrs. Whitcomb have 
done the most of it." 
"Was I near dying? 
"We thought so, at one time," I answered, 
rather slowly, not feeling quite sure that the 
admission was right. 
"It wouldn't have been much loss. Both 
Stephen and Stuart would have been glad, no 
doubt, or, at least, relieved. Don't look so 
horror-stricken. ' ' 
"I think you are unjust to both your broth- 
ers," I said. "But perhaps it is best not to 
talk any more. You are still weak." 
He turned his face over on the pillow, and 
was silent until mamma came in and spoke in 
her cheerful fashion. 
"You have all been very kind, t much kinder 
than I deserve. How long will it take me to 
get well?" 
"That depends a good deal upon yourself," 
returned mamma. "When you feel like it, you 
may begin to sit up. And you must keep as 
cheerful as possible. Are you not hungry ? : 
He thought he was presently ; but he made a 
wry face over the beef tea. 
"Can't I have something besides this?' he 
asked. "I am so tired of it!' 
"Then you may take it hereafter as medicine, 
and we will find a new article of diet. I am 
glad that you are sufficiently improved to desire 
a change. I will see what I can find for you." 
She was as good as her word ; and Mrs. Whit- 
comb brought him up the cunningest tea in the 
old-fashioned china, and a fresh nosegay of spice 
pinks lying beside his plate. 
" O, how delightful they are ! I am very 
much obliged," he said, gratefully. 
That evening Kate Fairlie and her brother Dick 
came over to call upon us. 
"I heard your invalid was out of danger, or 
I should not have ventured," she began, after 
