
Don Ippolito's countenance fell, and a dull 
shame displaced the exultation that had glowed in 
it. His head sunk on his breast, and he made no 
attempt at reply, so that it was again Mr. Ferris 
who spoke. u You see, I don 't really know any 
thing more of the matter than you do, and I don 't 
undertake to say whether your invention is disabled 
by the possibility I suggest or not. haven 't you 
any acquaintances among the military, to whom 
you could show your model?" 

" No," answered Don Ippolito, coldly, " I don 't 
consort with the military. Besides, what would be 
thought of a priest," he asked with a bitter stress 
on the word, " who exhibited such an invention as 
that to an officer of our paternal government ? " 



 

 I suppose it would certainly surprise the lieu 
tenant-governor somewhat," said Mr. Ferris with a 
laugh. "  A y I ask," lie pursued after an inter 
val, u whether you have occupied yourself with 
other inventions ? " 

tw I have attempted a great many," replied Don 
Ippolito in a tone of dejection. 

" Are they all of this warlike temper? " pursued 
the consul. 

" No," said Don Ippolito, blushing a little, 
" they are nearly all of peaceful intention. It was 
the wish to produce something of utility which set 
me about this cannon. Those good friends of mine 
who have done me the honor of looking at my at 
tempts had blamed me for the uselessness of my 
inventions ; they allowed that they were ingenious, 
but they said that even if they could be put in op 
eration, they would not be what the world cared for. 
Perhaps they were right. I know very little of the 
world," concluded the priest, sadly. He had risen 
to go, yet seemed not quite able to do so ; there was 
no more to say, but if he had come to the consul 
with high hopes, it might well have unnerved him 
to have all end so blankly. He drew a long, sibi 
lant breath between his shut teeth, nodded to him 
self thrice, and turning to Mr. Ferris with a melan 
choly bow, said, u Signor Console, I thank you 
infinitely for your kindness, I beg your pardon for 
the disturbance, and I take my leave." 

fc * I am sorry," said Mr. Ferris. " Let us see 


each other again. In regard to the inventions, 
well, you must have patience." He dropped into 
some proverbial phrases which the obliging Latin 
tongues supply so abundantly for the races who 
must often talk when they do not feel like thinking, 
and he gave a start when Don Ippolito replied in 
English, " Yes, but hope deferred maketh the heart 
sick." 

It was not that it was so uncommon to have 
Italians innocently come out with their whole slen 
der stock of English to him, for the sake of practice, 
as they told him ; but there were peculiarities in 
Don Ippolito's accent for which he could not ac 
count. " What," he exclaimed, " do you know 
English ? " 

" I have studied it a little, by my myself," 
answered Don Ippolito, pleased to have his Eng 
lish recognized, and then lapsing into the safety of 
Italian, he added, " And I had also the help of an 
English ecclesiastic who sojourned some months in 
Venice, last year, for his health, and who used to 
read with me and teach me the pronunciation. He 
was from Dublin, this ecclesiastic." 

" Oh ! " said Mr. Ferris, with relief, " I see ; " 
and he perceived that what had puzzled him in Don 
Ippolito's English was a fine brogue superimposed 
upon his Italian accent. 

" For some time I have had this idea of going to 
America, and I. thought that the first thing to do 
was to equip myself with the language." 



 

" Um ! " said Mr. Ferris, " that was practical, at 
any rate," and he mused awhile. By and by he 
continued, more kindly than he had yet spoken, " I 
wish I could ask you to sit down again ; but I have 
an engagement which I must make haste to keep. 
Are you going out through the campo ? Pray wait 
a minute, and I will walk with you." 

Mr. Ferris went into another room, through the 
open door of which Don Ippolito saw the parapher 
nalia of a painter's studio : an easel with a half- 
finished picture on it ; a chair with a palette and 
brushes, and crushed and twisted tubes of colors ; a 
lay figure in one corner ; on the walls scraps of 
stamped leather, rags of tapestry, desultory sketches 
on paper. 

Mr. Ferris came out again, brushing his hat. 

" The Signer Console amuses himself with paint 
ing, I see," said Don Ippolito courteously. 

Not at all," replied Mr. Ferris, putting on his 
gloves ; " I am a painter by profession, and I amuse 
myself with consuling ; ? and as so open a matter 
needed no explanation, he said no more about it. 
Nor is it quite necessary to tell how, as he was one 

Since these words of Mr. Ferris were first printed, I have been told 
that a more eminent painter, namely Rubens, made very much the same 
reply to very much the same remark, when Spanish Ambassador in 
England. "The Ambassador of His Catholic Majesty, I see, amuses 
himself by painting sometimes," said a visitor who found him at his 
easel. "I amuse myself by playing the ambassador sometimes." an 
swered Rubens. In spite of the similarity of the speeches, I let that of 
Mr. Ferris stand, for I am satisfied that he did not know how unhand 
somely Rubens had taken the words out of his mouth. 



 

day painting in New York, it occurred to him to 
make use of a Congressional friend, and ask for 
some Italian consulate, he did not care which. That 
of Venice happened to be vacant : the income was 
a few hundred dollars ; as no one else wanted it, 
no question was made of Mr. Ferris's fitness for 
the post, and he presently found himself possessed 
of a commission requesting the Emperor of Austria 
to permit him to enjoy and exercise the office of 
consul of the ports of the Lombardo- Venetian king 
dom, to which the President of the United States 
appointed him from a special trust in his abilities 
and integrity. He proceeded at once to his post 
of duty, called upon the ship's chandler with whom 
they had been left, for the consular archives, and 
began to paint some Venetian subjects. 

He and Don Ippolito quitted the Consulate to 
gether, leaving Marina to digest with her noonday 
porridge the wonder that he should be walking 
amicably forth with a priest. The same spectacle 
was presented to the gaze of the campo, where they 
paused in friendly converse, and were seen to part 
with many politenesses by the doctors of the neigh 
borhood, lounging away their leisure, as the Vene 
tian fashion is, at the local pharmacy. 

The apothecary craned forward over his counter, 
and peered through the open door. " What is that 
blessed Consul of America doing with a priest? " 

" The Consul of America with a priest ? " de 
manded a grave old man, a physician with a beauti- 



ful silvery beard, and a most reverend and senatorial 
presence, but one of the worst tongues in Venice. 
" Oh ! " he added, with a laugh, after scrutiny of 
the two through his glasses, " it's that crack-brain 
Don Ippolito Rondinelli. He isn 't  priest enough 
to hurt the consul. Perhaps he's been selling him 
a perpetual motion for the use of his government, 
which needs something of the kind just now. Or 
maybe he's been posing to him for a picture. He 
would make a very pretty Joseph, give him Poti- 
phar's wife in the background," said the doctor, who 
if not maligned would have needed much more to 
make a Joseph of him. 



II. 



MR. FERRIS took his way through the devious 
footways where the shadow was chill, and through 
the broad campos where the sun was tenderly warm, 
and the towers of the church rose against the speck- 
less azure of the vernal heaven. As he went along, 
he frowned in a helpless perplexity with the case 
of Don Ippolito, whom he had begun by doubting 
for a spy with some incomprehensible motive, and 
had ended by pitying with a certain degree of 
amusement and a deep sense of the futility of his 
compassion. He presently began to think of him 
with a little disgust, as people commonly think of 
one whom they pity and yet cannot help, and he 
made haste to cast off the hopeless burden. He 
shrugged his shoulders, struck his stick on the 
smooth paving-stones, and let his eyes rove up and 
down the fronts of the houses, for the sake of the 
pretty faces that glanced out of the casements. 
He was a young man, and it was spring, and this 
was Venice. He made himself joyfully part of the 
city and the season ; he was glad of the narrowness 
of the streets, of the good-humored jostling and 
pushing ; he crouched into an arched doorway to 
let a water-carrier pass with her copper buckets 


dripping at the end of the yoke balanced on her 
shoulder, and he returned her smiles and excuses 
with others as broad and gay ; he brushed by the 
swelling hoops of ladies, and stooped before the 
unwieldy burdens of porters, who as they staggered 
throuo-h the crowd with a thrust here and a shove 

there forgave themselves, laughing, with " We are 
in Venice, signori ; " and he stood aside for the files 
of soldiers clanking heavily over the pavement, their 
muskets kindling to a blaze in the sunlit campos and 
quenched again in the damp shadows of the calles. 
His ear was taken by the vibrant jargoning of 
the boatmen as they pushed their craft under the 
bridges he crossed, and the keen notes of the cana 
ries and the songs of the golden-billed blackbirds 
whose cages hung at lattices far overhead. Heaps 
of oranges, topped by the fairest cut in halves, 
gave their color, a!- frequent intervals, to the dusky 
corners and recesses and the long-drawn cry of the 
venders, " Oranges of Palermo ! " rose above the 
clatter of feet and the clamor of other voices. At 
a little shop where butter and eggs and milk 
abounded, together with early flowers of various 
sorts, he bought a bunch of hyacinths, blue and 
white and yellow, and he presently stood smelling 
these while he waited in the hotel parlor for the 
ladies to whom he had sent his card. He turned at 
the sound of drifting drapery, and could not forbear 
placing the hyacinths in the hand of Miss Florida 
Vervain, who had come into the room to receive 
him. 



 

She was a girl of about seventeen years, who 
looked older ; she was tall rather than short, and 
rather full, though it could not be said that she 
erred in point of solidity. In the attitudes of shy 
hauteur into which she constantly fell, there was a 
touch of defiant awkwardness which had a certain 
fascination. She was blonde, with a throat and 
hands of milky whiteness ; there was a suggestion 
of freckles on her regular face, where a quick color 
came and went, though her cheeks were habitually 
somewhat pale ; her eyes were very blue under 
their level brows, and the lashes were even lighter 
in color than the masses of her fair gold hair ; the 
edges of the lids were touched with the faintest red. 
The late Colonel Vervain of the United States 
army, whose complexion his daughter had inher 
ited, was an officer whom it would not have been 
peaceable to cross in any purpose or pleasure, and 
Miss Vervain seemed sometimes a little burdened, 
by the passionate nature which he had left her to 
gether with the tropical name he had bestowed in 
honor of the State where he had fought the Semi- 
noles in his youth, and where he chanced still to be 
stationed when she was born ; she had the air of 
being embarrassed in presence of herself, and of 
having an anxious watch upon her impulses. I do 
not know how otherwise to describe the effort of 
proud, helpless femininity, which would have struck 
the close observer in Miss Vervain. 

" Delicious ! " she said, in a deep voice, which 
conveyed something of this anxiety in its guarded 
tones, and yet was not wanting in a kind of frank 
ness. u Did you mean them for me, Mr. Ferris ? " 

" I didn 't, but I do," answered Mr. Ferris. " I 
bought them in ignorance, but I understand now 
what they were meant for by nature ; " and in fact 
the hyacinths, with their smooth textures and their 
pure colors, harmonized well with Miss Vervain, as 
she bent her face over them and inhaled their full, 
rich perfume. 

" I will put them in water," she said, " if you'll
excuse me a moment. Mother AVI'll be down di 
rectly." 

Before she could return, her mother rustled into 
the parlor. 

Mrs. Vervain was gracefully, fragilely unlike her 
daughter. She entered with a gentle and gliding 
step, peering n ear-sigh tedly about through her 
glasses, and laughing triumphantly when she had 
determined Mr. Ferris's exact position, where he 
stood with a smile shaping his full brown beard 
and glancing from his hazel eyes. She was dressed 
in perfect taste with reference to her matronly 
years, and the lingering evidences of her widow 
hood, and she had an unaffected naturalness of 
manner which even at her age of forty-eight could 
not be called less than charming. She spoke in a 
trusting, caressing tone, to which no man at least 
could respond unkindly. 

" So very good of you, to take all this trouble, 



 

Mr. Ferris," she said, giving him a friendly hand, 
" and I suppose you are letting us encroach upon 
very valuable time. I'm quite ashamed to take it. 
But isn t it a heavenly day? What /call a per 
fect day, just right every way; none of those dis 
agreeable extremes. It's so unpleasant to have it 
too hot, for instance. I'm the greatest person for 
moderation, Mr. Ferris, and I carry the principle 
into everything ; but I do think the breakfasts at 
these Italian hotels are too light altogether. I 
like our American breakfasts, don 't you ? I Ve 
been telling Florida I can 't stand it; we really 
must make some arrangement. To be sure, you 
ought n t to think of such a thing as eating, in a 
place like Venice, all poetry ; but a sound mind in 
a sound body, I say. We re perfectly wild over 
it. don 't you think it's a place that grows upon 
you very much, Mr. Ferris ? All those associations, 
it does seem too much ; and the gondolas every 
where. But I'm always afraid the gondoliers 
cheat us ; and in the stores I never feel safe a mo 
ment not a moment. I do think the Venetians 
are lacking in truthfulness, a little. I don 't be 
lieve they understand our American fairdealing 
and sincerity. I shouldn t want to do them injus 
tice, but I really think they take advantages in 
bargaining. Now such a thing even as corals. 
Florida is extremely fond of them, and we bought 
a set yesterday in the Piazza, and I know we paid 
too much for "them. Florida," said Mrs. Vervain, 



 

for her daughter had reentered the room, and stood 
with some shawls and wraps upon her arm, pa 
tiently waiting for the conclusion of the elder lady's 
speech, " I wish you would bring down that set of 
corals. I d like Mr. Ferris to give an unbiased 
opinion. I'm sure we were cheated." 

" I don 't know anything about corals, Mrs. Ver 
vain," interposed Mr. Ferris. 

" Well, but you ought to see this set for the 
beauty of the color ; they re really exquisite. I'm 
sure it will gratify your artistic taste." 

Miss Vervain hesitated with a look of desire to 
obey, and of doubt whether to force the pleasure 
upon Mr. Ferris. " won 't it do another time, 
mother?" she asked faintly; "the gondola is 
waiting for us." 

Mrs. Vervain gave a frailish start from the chair, 
into which she had sank. " Oh, do let us be off 
at once, then," she said ; and when they stood on 
the landing-stairs of the hotel : " What gloomy 
.things these gondolas are ! " she added, while the 
gondolier with one foot on the gunwale of the boat 
received the ladies shawls, and then crooked his 
arm for them to rest a hand on in stepping aboard ; 
" I wonder they don 't paint them some cheerful 
color." 

" Blue, or pink, Mrs. Vervain ? " asked Mr. 
Ferris. " I knew you were coming to that ques 
tion ; they all do. But we needn 't have the top 
on at all, if it depresses your spirits. We shall In- 
just warm enough in the open sunlight." 
