* ‘ That boat was the Cyclone — last trip she ever 
made — she sunk, that very trip; captain was Tom 
Ballou, the most immortal liar that ever I struck. He 
couldn’t ever seem to tell the truth, in any kind of 
weather. Why, he would make you fairly shudder. 
He was the most scandalous liar! I left him, finally; 

I couldn’t stand it. The proverb says, I like master* 
like man ’ ; and if you stay with that kind of a man, 
you’ll come under suspicion by and by, just as sure as 
you live. He paid first-class wages ; but said I,  What’s 
wages when your reputation’s in danger?’ So I let 

the wages go, and froze to my reputation. And I’ve 
never regretted it. Reputation’s worth everything, 
ain’t it? That’s the way I look at it. He had more 
selfish organs than any seven men in the world — all 
packed in the stern-sheets of his skull, of course, 
where they belonged. They weighed down the back 
of his head so that it made his nose tilt up in the air. 
People thought it was vanity, but it wasn’t, it was 
malice. If you only saw his foot, you’d take him to 
be nineteen feet high, but he wasn’t; it was because 
his foot was out of drawing. He was intended to be 
nineteen feet high, no doubt, if his foot was made 
first, but he didn’t get there; he was only five feet 
ten. That’s what he was, and that’s what he is. You 
take the lies out of him, and he’ll shrink to the size of 
your hat; you take the malice out of him, and he’ll 
disappear. That Cyclone was a rattler to go, and the 
sweetest thing to steer that ever walked the waters. 
Set her amidships, in a big river, and just let her go ; 
it was all you had to do. She would hold herself on a 
star all night, if you let her alone. You couldn’t ever 
feel her rudder. It wasn’t any more labor to steer her 
than it is to count the Republican vote in a South 
Carolina election. One morning, just at daybreak, the 
last trip she ever made, they took her rudder aboard 
to mend it; I didn’t know anything about it; I backed 
her out from the woodyard and went a-weaving down 
the river all serene. When I had gone about twenty- 
three miles, and made four horribly crooked cross- 
ings ” 

” Without any rudder?” 

“ Yes — old Captain Tom appeared on the roof and 
began to find fault with me for running such a dark 
night ” 

“ Such a dark night f Why, you said ” 

''Never mind what I said — ’twas as dark as Egypt 

now , though pretty soon the moon began to rise, 
and 

“You mean the sun — because you started out just 
at break of — look here ! Was this before you quitted 
the captain on account of his lying, or " 

“ It was before — oh, a long time before. And as 
I was saying, he — — ' ' 

'' But was this the trip she sunk, or was 99 

"Oh, no! months afterward. And so the old man, 
he " 

“Then she made two last trips, because you 
said " 

He stepped back from the wheel, swabbing away his 
perspiration, and said : 

“Here!” (calling me byname) “ you take her and 
lie a while — you're handier at it than I am: Trying 
to play yourself for a stranger and an innocent! 
Why, I knew you before you had spoken seven words ; 
and I made up my mind to find out what was your 
little game. It was to draw me out . Well, I let you, 
didn't I? Now take the wheel and finish the watch; 
and next time play fair, and you won't have to work 
your passage." 

Thus ended the fictitious-name business. And not 
six hours out from St. Louis! but I had gained a 
privilege, anyway, for I had been itching to get my 
hands on the wheel, from the beginning. I seemed to 
have forgotten the river, but I hadn’t forgotten how to 
steer a steamboat, nor how to enjoy it, either. 



CHAPTER XXV. 


FROM CAIRO TO HICKMAN 

T HE scenery from St. Louis to Cairo — two hun- 
dred miles — is varied and beautiful. The hills 
were clothed in the fresh foliage of spring now, and 
were a gracious and worthy setting for the broad river 
flowing between. Our trip began auspiciously, with a 
perfect day, as to breeze and sunshine, and our boat threw 
the miles out behind her with satisfactory dispatch. 

We found a railway intruding at Chester, 111. ; 
Chester has also a penitentiary now, and is otherwise 
inarching on. At Grand Tower, too, there was a rail- 
way; and another at Cape Girardeau. The former 
town gets its name from a huge, squat pillar of rock, 
which stands up out of the water on the Missouri side 
of the river — a piece of nature’s fanciful handiwork — 
and is one of the most picturesque features of the 
scenery of that region. For nearer or remoter neigh- 
bors, the Tower has the Devil’s Bake-oven — so called, 
perhaps, because it does not powerfully resemble any- 
body else’s bake-oven; and the Devil’s Tea-table — 
this latter a great smooth-surfaced mass of rock, with 
diminishing wine-glass stem, perched some fifty or 
sixty feet above the river, beside a beflowered and 
garlanded precipice, and sufficiently like a tea-table to 
answer for anybody, Devil or Christian. Away down 
the river we have the Devil’s Elbow and the Devil’s 


Race-course, and lots of other property of his which I 
cannot now call to mind. 

The town of Grand Tower was evidently a busier 
place than it had been in old times, but it seemed to 
need some repairs here and there, and a new coat of 
whitewash all over. Still, it was pleasant to me to see 
the old coat once more. “Uncle” Mumford, our 
second officer, said the place had been suffering from 
high water and consequently was not looking its best 
now. But he said it was not strange that it didn't 
waste whitewash on itself, for more lime was made 
there, and of a better quality, than anywhere in the 
West; and added, “On a dairy farm you never can 
get any milk for your coffee, nor any sugar for it on a 
sugar plantation ; and it is against sense to go to a 
lime town to hunt for whitewash.’ ’ In my own ex- 
perience I knew the first two items to be true: and 
also that people who sell candy don’t care for candy; 
therefore there was plausibility in Uncle MumforcLs 
final observation that “people who make lime run 
more to religion than whitewash.” Uncle Mumford 
said, further, that Grand Tower was a great coaling 
center and a prospering place. 

Cape Girardeau is situated on a hillside, and makes 
a handsome appearance. There is a great Jesuit 
school for boys at the foot of the town by the river. 
Uncle Mumford said it had as high a reputation for 
thoroughness as any similar institution in Missouri. 
There was another college higher up on an airy sum- 
mit — a bright new edifice, picturesquely and peculiarly 
towered and pinnacled — a sort of gigantic casters, 
with the cruets all complete. Uncle Mumford said 
that Cape Girardeau was the Athens of Missouri, and 
contained several colleges besides those already men- 
tioned; and all of them on a religious basis of one 
kind or another. He directed my attention to what he 

called the “ strong and pervasive religious look of the 
town,” but I could not see that it looked more religious 
than the other hill towns with the same slope and built 
of the same kind of bricks. Partialities often make 
people see more than really exists. 

Uncle Mumford has been thirty years a mate on the 
river. He is a man of practical sense and a level 
head; has observed; has had much experience of one 
sort and another; has opinions; has, also, just a per- 
ceptible dash of poetry in his composition, an easy 
gift of speech, a thick growl in his voice, and an oath 
or two where he can get at them when the exigencies 
of his office require a spiritual lift. He is a mate of 

the blessed old-time kind ; and goes gravely d ing 

around, when there is work to the fore, in a way to 
mellow the ex-steamboatman’s heart with sweet, soft 
longings for the vanished days that shall come no 

more. “ Git up, there, you ! Going to be 

all day? Why d’n’t you say you was petrified in your 
hind legs, before you shipped?** 

He is a steady man with his crew; kind and just, 
but firm; so they like him, and stay with him. He is 
still in the slouchy garb of the old generation of mates ; 
but next trip the Anchor Line will have him in uni- 
form — a natty blue naval uniform, with brass buttons, 
along with all the officers of the line — and then he 
will be a totally different style of scenery from what he 
is now. 

Uniforms on the Mississippi ! It beats all the other 
changes put together, for surprise. Still, there is 
another surprise — that it was not made fifty years 
ago* It is so manifestly sensible that it might have 
been thought of earlier, one would suppose. During 
fifty years, out there, the innocent passenger in need 
of help and information has been mistaking the mate 
for the cook, and the captain for the barber — and 

being roughly entertained for it, too. But his troubles 
are ended now. And the greatly improved aspect of 
the boat’s staff is another advantage achieved by the 
dress-reform period. 

Steered down the bend below Cape Girardeau. 
They used to call it “ Steersman's Bend ”; plain sail- 
ing and plenty of water in it, always ; about the only 
place in the Upper River that a new cub was allowed to 
take a boat through, in low water. 

Thebes, at the head of the Grand Chain, and Com- 
merce at the foot of it, were towns easily remember- 
able, as they had not undergone conspicuous altera- 
tion. Nor the Chain, either — in the nature of things; 
for it is a chain of sunken rocks admirably arranged to 
capture and kill steamboats on bad nights. A good 
many steamboat corpses lie buried there, out of sight; 
among the rest my first friend, the Paul Jones ; she 
knocked her bottom out, and went down like a pot, so 
the historian told me — Uncle Mumford. He said she 
had a gray mare aboard, and a preacher. To me, this 
sufficiently accounted for the disaster; as it did, of 
course, to Mumford, who added : 

'' But there are many ignorant people who would 
scoff at such a matter, and call it superstition. But 
you will always notice that they are people who have 
never traveled with a gray mare and a preacher. I 
went down the river in such company. We grounded 
at Bloody Island; we grounded at Hanging Dog; we 
grounded just below this same Commerce; we jolted 
Beaver Dam Rock ; we hit one of the worst breaks in 
the ‘Graveyard' behind Goose Island; we had a 
roustabout killed in a fight ; we burst a boiler ; broke 
a shaft ; collapsed a flue ; and went into Cairo with 
nine feet of water in the hold — may have been more, 
may have been less. I remember it as if it were 
yesterday. The men lost their heads with terror. 



They painted the mare blue, in sight of town, and 
threw the preacher overboard, or we should not have 
arrived at all. The preacher was fished out and saved. 
He acknowledged, himself, that he had been to blame. 
I remember it all, as if it were yesterday.’ * 

That this combination — of preacher and gray mare 

— should breed calamity seems strange, and at first 
glance unbelievable; but the fact is fortified by so 
much unassailable proof that to doubt is to dishonor 
reason. I myself remember a case where a captain 
was warned by numerous friends against taking a gray 
mare and a preacher with him, but persisted in his 
purpose in spite of all that could be said; and the 
same day — it may have been the next, and some say 
it was, though I think it was the same day — he got 
drunk and fell down the hatchway and was borne to 
his home a corpse. This is literally true. 

No vestige of Hat Island is left now; every shred of 
it is washed away. I do not even remember what part 
of the river it used to be in, except that it was between 
St. Louis and Cairo somewhere. It was a bad region 

— all around and about Hat Island, in early days. A 
farmer, who lived on the Illinois shore there, said that 
twenty-nine steamboats had left their bones strung 
along within sight from his house. Between St. Louis 
and Cairo the steamboat wrecks average one to the 
mile — two hundred wrecks, altogether. 

I could recognize big changes from Commerce down. 
Beaver Dam Rock was out in the middle of the river 
now, and throwing a prodigious “break” ; it used to 
be. close to the shore, and boats went down outside of 
it. A big island that used to be away out in mid-river 
has retired to the Missouri shore, and boats do not go 
near it any more. The island called Jacket Pattern is 
whittled down to a wedge now, and is booked for early 
destruction. Goose Island is all gone but a little dab. 
the size of a steamboat. The perilous 4 Graveyard,” 
among whose numberless wrecks we used to pick our 
way so slowly and gingerly, is far away from the 
channel now, and a terror to nobody. One of the 
islands formerly called the Two Sisters is gone en- 
tirely ; the other, which used to lie close to the Illinois 
shore, is now on the Missouri side, a mile away; it is 
joined solidly to the shore, and it takes a sharp eye to 
see where the seam is — but it is Illinois ground yet, 
and the people who live on it have to ferry themselves 
over and work the Illinois roads and pay Illinois taxes: 
singular state of things ! 

Near the mouth of the river several islands were 
missing — washed away. Cairo was still there — easily 
visible across the long, flat point upon whose further 
verge it stands; but we had to steam a long way 
around to get to it. Night fell as we were going out 
of the " Upper River ” and meeting the floods of the 
Ohio. We dashed along without anxiety; for the 
hidden rock which used to lie right in the way has 
moved up stream a long distance out of the channel ; 
or rather, about one county has gone into the river 
from the Missouri point, and the Cairo point has 
"made down ” and added to its long tongue of terri- 
tory correspondingly. The Mississippi is a just and 
equitable river; it never tumbles one man’s farm over- 
board without building a new farm just like it for that 
man’s neighbor. This keeps down hard feelings. 

Going into Cairo, we came near killing a steamboat 
which paid no attention to our whistle and then tried 
to cross our bows. By doing some strong backing, 
we saved him; which was a great loss, for he would 
have made good literature. 

Cairo is a brisk town now; and is substantially 
built, and has a city look about it which is in noticeable 
contrast to its former estate, as per Mr. Dickens’ 
portrait of it. However, it was already building with 
bricks when I had seen it last — which was when 
Colonel (now General) Grant was drilling his first 
command there. Uncle Mumford says the libraries 
and Sunday-schools have done a good work in Cairo, 
as well as the brick masons. Cairo has a heavy rail- 
road and river trade, and her situation at the junction 
of the two great rivers is so advantageous that she 
cannot well help prospering. 

When I turned out in the morning, we had passed 
Columbus, Ky., and were approaching Hickman, a 
pretty town perched on a handsome hill. Hickman is 
in a rich tobacco region, and formerly enjoyed a great 
and lucrative trade in that staple, collecting it there in 
her warehouses from a large area of country and ship- 
ping it by boat; but Uncle Mumford says she built a 
railway to facilitate this commerce a little more, and he 
thinks it facilitated it the wrong way — took the bulk 
of the trade out of her hands by “ collaring it along 
the line without gathering it at her doors.’  



CHAPTER XXVI. 


UNDER FIRE 

TALK began to run upon the war now, for we were 
getting down into the upper edge of the former 
battle-stretch by this time. Columbus was just behind 
us, so there was a good deal said about the famous 
battle of Belmont. Several of the boat’s officers had 
seen active service in the Mississippi war-fleet. I 
gathered that they found themselves sadly out of their 
element in that kind of business at first, but afterward 
got accustomed to it, reconciled to it, and more or less 
at home in it. One of our pilots had his first war ex- 
perience in the Belmont fight, as a pilot on a boat in 
the Confederate service. I had often had a curiosity 
to know how a green hand might feel, in his maiden 
battle, perched all solitary and alone on high in a pilot- 
house, a target for Tom, Dick, and Harry, and nobody 
at his elbow to shame him from showing the white 
feather when matters grew hot and perilous around him ; 
so to me his story was valuable — it filled a gap for me 
which all histories had left till that time empty. 

He said : 

“ It was the 7th of November. The fight began at 
seven in the morning. I was on the jR. H. W. Hill . 
Took over a load of troops from Columbus. Came 
back, and took over a battery of artillery. My partner 

said he was going to see the fight ; wanted me to go 
along. I said, No, I wasn't anxious, I would look at 
it from the pilot-house. He said I was a coward, and 
left. 

“ That fight was an awful sight. General Cheatham 
made his men strip their coats off and .throw them in a 

pile, and said, ‘ Now follow me to our victory ! ’ 

I heard him say that from the pilot-house ; and then he 
galloped in, at the head of his troops. Old General 
