"Well, I've been up at Eva's," she said to her sister, as she looked
in on returning, "and really it was well I went in. That Mary of hers
is getting careless and negligent, just as all old servants do, and I
just went over the whole house, and had a plain talk with Mary. She
flew up about it, and was impertinent, of course; but I put her down,
and I talked plainly to Eva about the way she's beginning with her
servants. She's just like you, Nellie, slack and good-natured, and
needs somebody to keep her up. I told her the way she is beginning--of
petting Mary, and fussing up her room with carpet and pictures, and
everything, just like any other--wouldn't work. Servants must be kept
in their places."

Now, Mrs. Van Arsdel had a spirit of her own; and the off-hand,
matter-of-fact manner in which her sister was accustomed to speak
of her as no manager touched a vital point. What housekeeper likes
to have her capacity to guide a house assailed? Is not that the
spot where her glory dwells, if she has any? And it is all the more
provoking when such charges are thrown out in perfect good nature, not
as designed to offend, but thrown in par parenthèse, as something
everybody would acknowledge, and too evident to require discussion.
While proceeding in the main part of a discourse Mrs. Wouvermans was
quite in the habit of these frank side disclosures of her opinion of
her sister's management, and for the most part they were submitted to
in acquiescent silence, rather than to provoke a controversy; but to
be called "slack" to her face without protest or rejoinder was more
than she could bear; so Mrs. Van Arsdel spoke up with spirit:

"Maria, you are always talking as if I don't know how to manage
servants. All I know is that you are always changing, and I keep mine
years and years."

"That's because you let them have their own way," said her sister.
"You can keep servants if you don't follow them up, and insist on it
that they shall do their duty. Let them run all over you and live like
mistresses, and you can keep them. For my part, I like to change--new
brooms always sweep clean."

"Well, it's a different thing, Maria--you with your small family, and
mine with so many. I'd rather bear anything than change."

"Oh, well, yes; I suppose there's no help for it, Nellie. Of course I
wasn't blaming you, so don't fire up about it. I know you can't make
yourself over," said Aunt Maria. This was the tone with which she
usually settled discussions with those who differed from her on modes
and measures. After all, they could not be like her, so where was the
use of talking?

Aunt Maria also had the advantage in all such encounters of a
confessed reputation as an excellent manager. Her house was always
elegant, always in order. She herself was gifted with a head for
details that never failed to keep in mind the smallest item, and a
wiry, compact constitution that never knew fatigue. She held the
keys of everything in her house, and always turned every key at the
right moment. She knew the precise weight, quantity, and quality of
everything she had in possession, where it was and what it might be
used for; and, as she said, could go to anything in her house without
a candle in the darkest night. If her servants did not love, they
feared her, and had such a sense of her ever vigilant inspection
that they never even tried to evade her. For the least shadow of
disobedience she was ready to send them away at a moment's warning,
and then go to the intelligence office and enter her name for another,
and come home, put on apron and gloves, and manfully and thoroughly
sustain the department till they came.

Mrs. Wouvermans, therefore, was celebrated and lauded by all her
acquaintances as a perfect housekeeper, and this added sanction and
terror to her pronunciamentos when she walked the rounds as a police
inspector in the houses of her relations.

It is rather amusing to a general looker-on in this odd world
of ours to contrast the serene, cheerful good faith with which
these constitutionally active individuals go about criticising,
and suggesting, and directing right and left, with the dismay and
confusion of mind they leave behind them wherever they operate.

They are often what the world calls well-meaning people, animated
by a most benevolent spirit, and have no more intention of giving
offense than a nettle has of stinging. A large, vigorous, well-growing
nettle has no consciousness of the stings it leaves in the delicate
hands that have been in contact with it; it has simply acted out
its innocent and respectable nature as a nettle. But a nettle armed
with the power of locomotion on an ambulatory tour, is something the
results of which may be fearful to contemplate.

So, after the departure of Aunt Maria our little housekeeper, Eva,
was left in a state of considerable nervousness and anxiety,
feeling that she had been weighed in the balance of perfection and
found wofully wanting. She was conscious, to begin with, that her
characteristic virtues as a housekeeper, if she had any, were not
entirely in the style of her good relative. She was not by nature
statistical, nor given to accounts and figures. She was not sharp and
keen in bargains; she was, she felt in her inmost, trembling soul, a
poor little mollusk, without a bit of a shell, hiding in a cowardly
way under a rock and ready at any time to be eaten up by big fishes.
She had felt so happy in her unlimited trust in Mary, who knew more
than she did about housekeeping--but she had been convicted by her
aunt's cross-questions of having resigned the very signet ring and
scepter of her house into her hands. Did she let Mary go all over the
house? Did she put away the washing? Did Eva allow her to open her
drawers? Didn't she count her towels and sheets every week, and also
her tea-spoons, and keep every drawer and cupboard locked? She ought
to. To all these inquiries Eva had no satisfactory response, and began
to doubt within herself whether she had begun aright. With sensitive,
conscientious people there is always a residuum of self-distrust after
discussions of the nature we have indicated, however vigorously and
skillfully they may have defended their courses at the time.

Eva went over and over in her own mind her self-justifications--she
told herself that she and her aunt were essentially different people,
incapable of understanding each other sympathetically or acting in
each other's ways, and that the well-meant, positive dicta of her
relative were to be let go for what they were worth, and no more.

[Illustration: TALKING IT OVER.

"Come now, Puss, out with it. Why that anxious brow? What domestic
catastrophe?"--p. 73.]

Still she looked eagerly and anxiously for the return of her husband,
that she might reinforce herself by talking it over with him. Hers was
a nature so transparent that, before he had been five minutes in
the house, he felt that something had gone wrong; but, the dinner-bell
ringing, he retired at once to make his toilet, and did not open the
subject till they were fairly seated at table.

"Well, come now, Puss--out with it! Why that anxious brow? What
domestic catastrophe? Anything gone wrong with the ivies?"

"Oh, no; the ivies are all right, growing beautifully--it isn't that--"

"Well, then, what is it? It seems there is something."

"Oh, nothing, Harry; only Aunt Maria has been spending the day here."

Eva said this with such a perplexed and woful face that Harry leaned
back in his chair and laughed.

"What a blessing it is to have relations," he said; "but I thought,
Eva, that you had made up your mind not to care for anything Aunt
Maria says?"

"Well, she has been all over the house, surveying and reviewing as if
she owned us, and she has lectured Mary and got her into hysterics,
and talked to me till I am almost bewildered--wondering at everything
we mean to do, and wanting us to take her ways and not ours."

"My dearest child, why need you care? Take it as a rain-storm, when
you've been caught out without your umbrella. That's all. Or why can't
you simply and firmly tell her that she must not go over your house or
direct your servants?"

"Well, you see, that would never do. She would feel so injured and
abused. I've only just made up and brought things to going smoothly,
and got her pacified about our marriage. There would be another fuss
if I should talk that way. Aunt Maria always considered me her girl,
and maintains that she is a sort of special guardian to me, and I
think it very disagreeable to quarrel with your relations, and get on
unpleasant terms with them."

"Well, I shall speak to her, Eva, pretty decidedly, if you don't."

"Oh, don't, don't, Harry! She'd never forgive you. No. Let me manage
her. I have been managing her all day to keep the peace, to keep her
satisfied and pleased; to let her advise me to her heart's content,
about things where I can take advice. Aunt Maria is a capital judge of
linens and cottons, and all sorts of household stuffs, and can tell
to a certainty just how much of a thing you'd want, and the price
you ought to pay, and the exact place to get it; and I have been
contriving to get her opinion on a dozen points where I mean to take
it; and I think she has left, on the whole, highly satisfied with her
visit, though in the main I didn't give in to her a bit about our
plans."

"Then why so tragic and tired-looking?"

"Oh, well, after all, when Aunt Maria talks, she says a great many
things that have such a degree of sense in them that it worries me.
Now, there's a good deal of sense in what she said about trusting too
much to servants, and being too indulgent. I know mamma's girls used
to get spoiled so that they would be perfect tyrants. And yet I cannot
for the life of me like Aunt Maria's hard, ungracious way of living
with servants, as if they were machines."

"Ah, well, Eva, it's always so. Hard, worldly people always have
a good deal of what looks like practical sense on their side, and
kindness and unselfishness certainly have their weak points; there's
no doubt of that. The Sermon on the Mount is open to a great deal of
good hard worldly criticism, and so is every attempt to live up to it
practically; but, never mind. We all know that the generous way is the
strong way, and the best way, in the long run."

"And then you know, Harry, I haven't the least talent for being hard
and sharp," said Eva, "and so I may as well take the advantages of my
sort of nature."

"Certainly you may; people never succeed out of their own line."

"Then there's another trouble. I'm afraid Aunt Maria is going to
interfere with Alice, as she tried to do with me. She said that
everybody was talking about her intimacy with Jim, and that if I
didn't speak to Alice she must."

"Confound that woman," said Harry; "she's an unmitigated old fool!
She's as bad as a runaway steam engine; somebody ought to seize and
lock her up."

"Come, sir, keep a civil tongue about my relations," said Eva,
laughing.

"Well, I must let off a little to you, just to lower steam to the
limits of Christian moderation."

"Alice isn't as fond of Aunt Maria as I am, and has a high spirit of
her own, and I'm afraid it will make a terrible scene if Aunt Maria
attacks her, so I suppose I must talk to her myself; but what do you
think of Jim, Harry? Is there anything in it, on his part?"

"How can I say? you know just as much as I do and no more, and you are
a better judge of human nature than I am."

"Well, would you like it to have Alice take Jim--supposing there were
anything."

"Why, yes, very well, if she wants him."

"But Jim is such a volatile creature--would you want to trust him?"

"He is constant in his affections, which is the main thing. I'm sure
his conduct when your father failed showed that; and a sensible,
dignified woman like Alice might make a man of him."

"It's odd," said Eva, "that Alice, who is so prudent, and has such a
high sense of propriety, seems so very indulgent to Jim. None of his
escapades seem to offend her."

"It's the doctrine of counterparts," said Harry; "the steady sensible
nature admires the brilliancy and variety of the volatile one."

"For my part," said Eva, "I can't conceive of Jim's saying anything
in serious earnest. The very idea of his being sentimental seems
funny--and how can anybody be in love without being sentimental?"

"There are diversities of operation," said Harry. "Jim must make love
in his own way, and it will probably be an original one."

"But, really now, do you know," persisted Eva, "I think Alice might
be mated with a man of much higher class than Jim. He is amiable, and
bright, and funny, and agreeable. Yet I don't deny but Alice might do
better."

"So she might, but the perversity of fate is that the superior man
isn't around and Jim is; and, ten to one, if the superior man were
in the field, Alice would be perverse enough to choose Jim. And, after
all, you must confess, give Jim Fellows a fortune of a million or two,
a place in Newport, and another on the North River, and even you would
call it a brilliant match, and think it a fortunate thing for Alice."

"Oh, dear me, Harry, that's the truth, to be sure. Am I so worldly?"

"No; but ideal heroes are not plentiful, and there are few gems that
don't need rich setting. The first questions as to a man are, is
he safe, has he no bad habits, is he kind and affectionate in his
disposition and capable of constant affection? and, secondly, does
the woman feel that sort of love that makes her prefer him even to men
that are quite superior? Now, whether Alice feels in that way toward
Jim is what remains to be seen. I'm sure I can't tell. Neither can I
tell whether Jim has any serious intentions in regard to her. If they
were only let alone, and not watched and interfered with, I've no
doubt the thing would adjust itself in the natural course of things.

"But see here, I must be going to my club, and, now I think of it,
I've brought some Paris letters from the girls for you, to pass the
evening with."

"You have? Letters from Ida and Caroline? You naughty creature, why
didn't you give them to me before?"

"Well, your grave face when I first came in put everything else out of
my head; and then came on all this talk: but it's just as well, you'll
have them to read while I'm gone."

"Don't stay late, Harry."

"No; you may be sure I've no temptation. I'd much rather be here with
you watching our own back-log. But then I shall see several fellows
about articles for the magazine, and get all the late news, and, in
short, take an observation of our latitude and longitude; so, au
revoir!"




CHAPTER VII.

LETTERS AND AIR-CASTLES.


After Harry went out, Eva arranged the fire, dropped the curtains
over the window, drew up an easy chair into a warm corner under
the gas-light, and began looking over the outside of her Parisian
letters with that sort of luxurious enjoyment of delay with which one
examines the post-marks and direction of letters that are valued as
a great acquisition. There was one from her sister Ida and one from
Harry's cousin Caroline. Ida's was opened first. It was dated from
a boarding-house in the Rue de Clichy, giving a sort of journalised
view of their studies, their medical instructors, their walks and
duties in the hospital, all told with an evident and vigorous sense of
enjoyment. Eva felt throughout what a strong, cheerful, self-sustained
being her sister was, and how fit it was that a person so sufficient
to herself, so equable, so healthfully balanced and poised in all her
mental and physical conformation, should have undertaken the pioneer
work of opening a new profession for women. "I never could do as she
does, in the world," was her mental comment, "but I am thankful that
she can." And then she cut the envelope of Caroline's letter.

To a certain extent there were the same details in it--Caroline was
evidently associated in the same studies, the same plans, but there
was missing in the letter the professional enthusiasm, the firmness,
the self-poise, and calm clearness. There were more bursts of feeling
on the pictures in the Louvre than on scientific discoveries; more
sensibility to the various æsthetic wonders which Paris opens to
an uninitiated guest than to the treasures of anatomy and surgery.
With the letter were sent two or three poems, contributions to the
Magazine--poems full of color and life, of a subdued fire, but with
that undertone of sadness which is so common in all female poets. A
portion of the letter may explain this:

"You were right, my dear Eva, in saying, in our last interview, that
it did not seem to you that I had the kind of character that was
adapted to the profession I have chosen. I don't think I have. I am
more certain of it from comparing myself from day to day with Ida,
who certainly is born and made for it, if ever a woman was. My choice
of it has been simply and only for the reason that I must choose
something as a means of self-support, and more than that, as a refuge
from morbid distresses of mind which made the still monotony of my New
England country life intolerable to me. This course presented itself
to me as something feasible. I thought it, too, a good and worthy
career--one in which one might do one's share of good for the world.
But, Eva, I can feel that there is one essential difference between
Ida and myself: she is peculiarly self-sustained and sufficient to
herself, and I am just the reverse. I am full of vague unrest; I
am chased by seasons of high excitement, alternating with deadly
languor. Ida has hard work to know what to do with me. You were right
in supposing, as you intimate in your letter, that a certain common
friend has something to do with this unrest, but you cannot, unless
you know my whole history, know how much. There was a time when he
and I were all the world to each other--when shall I ever forget that
time! I was but seventeen; a young girl, so ignorant of life! I never
had seen one like him; he was a whole new revelation to me; he woke
up everything there was in me, never to go to sleep again; and then to
think of having all this tide and current of feeling checked--frozen.
My father overwhelmed him with accusations; every baseness was laid
to his charge. I was woman enough to have stood for him against the
world if he had come to me. I would have left all and gone to the ends
of the earth with him if he had asked me, but he did not. There was
only one farewell, self-accusing letter, and even that fell into my
father's hands and never came to me till after his death. For years I
thought myself wantonly trifled with by a man of whose attentions I
ought to be ashamed. I was indignant at myself for the love that might
have been my glory, for it is my solemn belief that if we had been let
alone he would have been saved all those wretched falls, those blind
struggles that have marred a life whose purpose is yet so noble.

"When the fates brought us together again in New York, I saw at a
glance that whatever may have been the proud, morbid conscientiousness
that dictated his long silence, he loved me still;--a woman knows that
by an unmistakable instinct. She can feel the reality through all
disguises. I know that man loves me, and yet he does not now in word
or deed make the least profession beyond the boundaries of friendship.
He is my friend; with entire devotion he is willing to spend and be
spent for me--but he will accept nothing from me. I, who would give my
life to him willingly--I must do nothing for him!

"Well, it's no use writing. You see now that I am a very unworthy
disciple of your sister. She is so calm and philosophical that I
cannot tell her all this; but you, dear little Eva, you know the
heart of woman, and you have a magic key which unlocks everybody's
heart in confidence to you. I seem to see you, in fancy, with good
Cousin Harry, sitting cosily in your chimney-corner; your ivies and
nasturtiums growing round your sunny windows, and an everlasting
summer in your pretty parlors, while the December winds whistle
without. Such a life as you two lead, such a home as your home, is
worth a thousand 'careers' that dazzle ambition. Send us more letters,
journals, of all your pretty, lovely home life, and let me warm myself
in the glow of your fireside.

     Your Cousin,

          CARRY."

       *       *       *       *       *

Eva finished this letter, and then folding it up sat with it in her
lap, gazing into the fire, and pondering its contents. If the truth
must be told, she was revolving in her young, busy brain a scheme for
restoring Caroline to her lover, and setting them up comfortably at
housekeeping on a contiguous street, where she had seen a house to
let. In five minutes she had gone through the whole programme--seen
the bride at the altar, engaged the house, bought the furniture, and
had before her a vision of parlors, of snuggeries and cosy nooks,
