and right. There was no one who appeared in any way 
interested in their progress. At Mrs. Dawson's, they 
took the precaution to send the driver around several 
squares while they were making their arrangements. 
Mrs. Walsingham ran lightly up to Dora's room 
 
The door was partly open. Dora lay, reclining on the 
bed, but roused at the step. 
" You see I could not stay away," the mother cried 
with smiling eagerness. 
* ' And you saw him — my enemy ? " 
" Yes. Mr. Eastman can settle that business. But, 
Dora, you belong to us, and we have come to take you 
home. I am a foolish old woman and cannot bear you 
out of my sight." 
Would she be glad to go? Dora Tremaine's heart 
was full of contradictory, emotions. She should be 
more than thankful to feel safe, once again, but the 
step seemed to take her away from the lingering chance 
of Mr. Tremaine searching for her. But he had not ; 
— ah ! he would not. 
" Yes," she said, rising. 
u Just take a few necessary articles. We can come 
up, any time, you know. We shall not lose sight of 
your good friend Catherine." 
" I owe her so much ; " Dora said, gratefully. 
Her preparations were soon made. Together, they 
descended the stairs. 
"It seems so strange to go away from you, Cathe- 
rine," and Dora took the toil-hardened hand tenderly 
in her own. i ' How good you were to me, when I needed 
refuge and comfort. I do not know how I could have 
lived through that dreary time, but for your tender 
affections." 
''God watches over us all, Miss Dora, and finds a 
way out to the light, that we do not see, at first. And 
I hope there will be plenty of sunshine to comfort you." 
Stacy assisted her into the carnage. He was a little 
shy, but unmistakably friendly. 
Catherine lingered on the porch, after the last sound 
had died away, taking long breaths of the summer air. 
What a curious, complicated affair it has been, to be 
sure ! Dora had fainted in her arms, on this very 
threshold. Jasper Cameron had stood here, swinging 
his cane in insolent defiance. Every one had come, 
save Mr. Tremaine. Lives had crossed and re-crossed, 
but he had held aloof. Would it be so, until it was to 
late? 
There was something between this husband and wife, 
higher and finer, than mere civil law took cognizance 
of. A truth of the inmost soul, fidelity above that of 
simple deed, the spirit, as well as the letter. 
" But he might forgive," she cried, raising her eyes 
to heaven. The mistake of her youth should not be 
allowed to mar all her sweet life. God help them 
both." 
How lonesome the house seemed ! Mark had gone 
out of town, and was to wait, until eight o'clock, for 
some money. For the first time Catherine felt a 
tremulousness speeding along her nerves. The events 
of the past six weeks had shaken them, somewhat. 
She prepared her supper and then sat down to wait, 
without lighting the lamp. It was growing quite 
dusky, when she was started by a loud, important 
knock. 
At the same moment she heard Mark entering the 
kitchen door. That gave her courage to face anything. 
CHAPTER XXIV. 
UNMASKED. 
|HE street lamp, opposite, sent over a long, dim 
ray, but it was sufficient to outline Jasper 
Cameron's jaunty figure. There was a car- 
riage in waiting, also, and her heart gave a great leap 
of thankfulness that Dora was no longer her guest. 
u Ah — good evening," bowing politely, and taking 
a step within the hall, although Catherine stood in the 
way of his further entrance. "Will you ask my wife 
to grant me an interview of five minutes ? I have a 
most remarkable communication to lay before her, some 
business that is very urgent." 
"You cannot see Mrs. Dora Tremaine," said Cath- 
erine, stiffly. 
" My good woman, this is no time for trifling," he 
continued, with half insolent ease and authority. " If 
you desire your friend's comfort and advancement, you 
will take my message to her, at once. Five minutes' 
conversation, at which I even desire you to be present." 
A grim, tantalizing sense of humor brought a smile 
to Catherine's face* 
"Mrs. Tremaine has gone away," she said in a cold- 
quiet tone. 
If a thunderbolt had shivered the ground at Jasper 
Cameron's feet, he could not have been more astounded. 
Catherine's persistency, in calling her Mrs. Tremaine 
pointed his suspicion. Had the man summoned up 
courage to come, and, with a few words, set the matter 
right between them? His face grew livid with rage, 
and his eyes seemed literally balls of flame. Or, staj r , 
they might be only trying to deceive him. He caught 
the woman roughly by the arm. 
" If this is some infamous lie, concocted to keep me 
from my lawful wife, let me tell j-ou that you are 
standing in her light, very muck indeed. I have news 
for which she will be everlastingly grateful to me. 
Confess, miserable woman, where is she hidden? For, 
surety, Mr. Tremaine would not take her home, know- 
ing that she is not his lawful wife. Tell me the truth, 
instantly. If money is any object to you — " 
" Not your money," and she drew back with scorn. 
" She has not gone to Mr. Tremaine." 
" Where then?" 
" I cannot tell you just where. She did not say." 
"O, it is hardly likely your dear friend would be so 
ungrateful, as to leave 3011 in the same sudden and 
mysterious manner, in which she leaves her husbands," 
he said, sneeringly. u Perhaps I have been a fool to 
trust to her word, but she assured me, so solemnly, that 
she would not leave you without informing me. 
Come, do not trifle with me. I can restore Dora to 
friends and — and fortune, my good woman, your obsti- 
nacy would ruin all." 
Catherine was growing a little tired of the wordy 
warfare. It was time for her crowning stroke. 
"She has gone to friends, Mr. Cameron, her mother 
and brother took her awaj\ As for her fortune — that 
was at the bottom of your villainous schemes. In 
prosecuting your selfish plans, you would have destroyed 
her health and happiness. Thank God, she is out of 
your reach. Your power is at an end." 
The man's rage was frightful for a moment. How 
had they found her? 
" Will you go out of the house ? " said Catherine. If 
I had known half the truth in the beginning, j'ou never 
should have crossed the threshold." 
"You will both repent this day's work ;" he cried, 
hoarse with passion. I have rights — " 
The door was closed in his face. He had been out- 
witted, after all, lost the great stake for which he had 
striven so desperately. Every where this girl had 
slipped out of his grasp. Mrs. Denver had led him 
astray in the beginning. But for that, he never would 
have staid away for years. If he only had been on 
the spot, at that period, to claim Dora, immediately ! 
But the contest was hardly over. He could venture 
upon an step, now. Dora Trcmaine's name should 
ring from one end of the city to the other, as the heroine 
of a romantic scandal, or they should make it worth 
his while to be silent. 
Mrs. Walsingham had, no doubt, taken Dora to a 
hotel. Why not go there, and have a grand dene ne- 
ment? He was desperate enough to dare anything. 
They had, doubtless, learned all the facts from Colby. 
lie ground his teeth in impotent rage. He had not 
the slightest hold on the law} r er, he knew that well. 
Why had he not made him sign some paper, commit 
himself in a tangible manner? If he told the story, 
now, Colby would deny any dishonorable thought. He 
had position and friends, while Jasper Cameron was — 
unknown, to say the least. No, he could not punish 
this treacherous, plausible sneak, who would sail in, 
under fair colors and have his reward. 
There was but one move left. He must make the 
Walsinghams come to some kind of terms. So he 
directed his steps to their abode, and, to his surprise, 
found himself invited to the private parlor without any 
delay. He entered it with his jaunty swagger, but was 
rather disconcerted to see two gentlemen beside his 
hostess. 
Mrs. Walsingham rose, with a face in which gravity
was struggling hard, to subdue natural triumph. Jas- 
per Cameron experienced a little sinking in his hastily- 
formed plans, heart, he would have said. 
"lam thankful, that you were minded to drop in, 
to-nigh t," she began, with a suspicious suavity. "We 
were just speaking of you. My son, Mr. Walsingham, 
and my lawyer, Mr. Eastman." 
Both gentlemen rose, and bowed. 
Cameron gave a gasp, while his eye darkened, and 
his brow flushed, slightly. It promised a hard fight. 
Who would take the initiative ? 
Mr. Eastman moved his chair, a trifle, to face his 
antagonist, more directly. 
"Mr. Cameron," he began, "Mrs. Walsingham in- 
forms me, that you have some important papers in 
your hands. We wish to arrive at a settled decision 
concerning them." 
"They are important — to my wife, at least," with 
a peculiar emphasis. " My anxiety for her, brought 
me here, to-night. I went to make my accustomed call 
upon her, intending to explain this singular complica- 
tion, but found she had left her humble abode. The 
woman was insolence, itself; but I dragged from her 
the fact, that Mrs. Cameron was safe under her mother's 
protection. ,, 
"As she is," returned Mi's. Walsingham, quietly. 
"She is my wife, and I demand her. I love her. I 
am not only willing, but desirous to take her, and pro- 
vide for her support. She cannot deny that I have of- 
fered this repeatedly " 
"Mr. Cameron, arguing this matter on a basis of 
Action, is hardly wise," began Mr. Eastman. "Let us 
get to the simple truth. You married the young girl, 
known then, as Dora Denver. It looks as if there had 
been some collusion, between you and your aunt; 
doubtless yon knew, even then, that she was heir to a 
fortune. You left her in a passion — » w 
"It was agreed upon, that we should separate. I 
was going awaj r , and she was a*s anxious for the mar- 
riage, as I could possibly be ! " interrupted Cameron , 
with passionate warmth. 
"Admit all this," was the imperturbable answer. 
"You left her, for years, without any sign from your- 
self. The vessel being wrecked, it was the more im- 
perative, that you should make some effort to have her 
informed of your safety* She heard of your death, and 
years afterward, married Ralph Tremaine, in all good 
faith—" 
"But she took good care, not to tell him of this little 
episode," sneered Cameron. 
" She married him in good faith, believing you dead. 
She has ceased to care for you, and holds you, now, in 
the utmost aversion. Mr. Cameron, I will tell you, 
that your claim, in a court of law, would virtually 
amount to nothing. Your conduct, since your return, 
has led her both to fear and despise you. These years 
of silence and absence, are strongly against you. A 
man does not usually desert a pretty, young wife, whom 
he professes to love." 
"I am not answerable for failing letters. I wrote, 
that is sufficient," was the sullen answer. 
" Here is a fact, that seems to disprove that, Mr. 
Cameron. Your aunt knew of your wife's abode, as 
the reputed niece of Gilbert Verner. If you had been 
so very anxious, you could have applied to her. I tell 
you, in all honesty, that your case argued at its best, 
would move neither judge nor juror. A woman may 
make an unfortunate marriage, but she is not altogether 
in her husband's power." 
"Then you do not deny that I am her husband?" 
and Cameron showed his white teeth through a bitter 
smile. 
"We shall not pretend to do that ;" and the lawyer 
smiled blandly. "But the commonest separation that 
the law will allow, must prove a blessing to her." 
"She shall not have it," he hissed. "I am her 
lawful husband, and my claim shall not be set aside by 
any villainous fraud ! I knpw j'ou are all legued to- 
gether, that poverty stands no chance against wealth—" 
" Spare jour extravagant rhetoric, Mr. Cameron. 
It was your own proposal that Mrs. Walsingham should 
purchase the freedom of this beloved wife, from her de- 
voted husband." 
Jasper Cameron could have ground them all to atoms. 
His face grew frightfully white with passion, and yet 
he was well nigh helpless. 
"At least, you shall pay me well for the papers!" 
he hissed. "You cannot establish her claim without 
them!" 
"I am not so sure of that. Mrs. Walsingham can 
prove a good deal, her daughter, Dora, remembers tlK 
rest. Those who knew her, as Mrs. Denver's child, 
could indentify her, doubtless. These papers are not 
worth any exorbitant sum. Indeed, there is good rea- 
son to believe they were stolen — " 
"Have a care! have a care!" shouted Cameron. 
" You may find that money cannot always blind justice. 
I shall appeal to the law of the land, and call upon you 
to prove this base insult." 
" As you like," and the lawyer bowed. 
" And, now, Jasper Cameron, if you will leave the 
city and make no fbrther disturbance, I am empowered 
by Mrs. Walsingham, to offer you the sum of one thou- 
sand dollars, for traveling expenses. As for the papers, 
they are of no value to you, but still, the absence of them 
will not interfere, materiality, with our cause." 
"And you propose to purchase my silence with that 
paltry sum !" Jasper Cameron exclaimed, casting a look 
of tragic scorn upon the group. 
"Your silence is worth but little to us, Mr. Cameron. 
The world will judge, when it hears the whole story." 
" If I had won the fortune, you would have found me 
more generous ; " was the lofty rejoinder. 
"Possibly ; " in a doubtful tone. " Your generosity 
will be best shown, now, by your leaving the city. You 
have heard, from the woman you fraudulently claim as 
your wife, that she had neither respect nor regard for you. 
I tell you, in her behalf, that nothing will ever induce 
her to see you again." 
" Dora will never know how I have loved her ! Tre- 
maine has never made one effort to see her, and accepted 
the decision, at once. Let her make an attempt to go 
back to him, and she will rouse the passion of an 
Othello. Be warned !" 
"Dora can be content with a mother's love;" said 
Mrs. Walsingham, triumphantly. u She has suffered 
enough, at the hands of both husbands." 
" And I tell you, plainly, Jasper Cameron, that, if you 
invoke the law, you may find yourself in its clutches. 
If you choose to send the papers you can direct them to 
me, if not — " 
" I shall not choose ! " was the angry reply. 
Mrs. Walsingham sprang up eagerly, but a gesture 
from the lawyer kept her silent. 
"Then, I believe our business is at an end. Attempt 
to molest Mrs. Walsingham and her daughter, at your 
peril!" 
With that, Mr. Eastman bowed him out, but, in pass- 
ing, he held up the check. Jasper Cameron could not 
resist, and no latent sense of shame held him back. 
Angry discomfiture there was, and, if he could have 
hurled maledictions at them, they would have been 
overwhelmed. But he was never blind to a tangible 
advantage, though he took the note as if conferring a 
favor. 
The door closed behind him. Eastman laughed, a 
little. 
" I think you may safely say you are rid of him. 
In a week's time he will offer me the papers for five 
hundred dollars, and come to any terms we choose to 
make. The insolent, swaggering braggart." 
" I hope it may be so," said Stacy. 
The two men had some business, yet, to discuss, so 
Mrs. Walsingham went directly to her daughter. After 
repeating somewhat of the conversation, they resigned 
themselves to a tender confidence about . the future. 
To Dora's weary heart, a home and a mother seemed 
like a little foretaste of heaven, 
" And you think Stacy will feel quite satisfied?" 
Dora asked, rather apprehenstvety. 
" My child, never give this a thought. Stacy has a 
most generous heart. How many times we have 
bewailed your loss ! Never hint to him, that it might 
be a sacrifice. He would share his last dollar with you, 
gladly. But, my darling, I hope to see you restored to 
a more perfect happiness than any we can give." 
Dora colored yjndei her mother's sharp scrutiny. 
She had relinquished all hope of happiness, in such a 
postive and final jnanner, that Mr. Tremaiue seemed 
like a person quite out of her sphere. 
u Mr. Eastman is very confident that the matter can 
be settled, without much difficulty," Mrs. Walsingham 
pursued. "And Stacy will spare no expense, to save 
you from the clutch of that villain ! " 
" Mamma," Dora said, a little wearily, " I shall be 
glad and thankful for freedom. But that is all. I 
have deceived Mr. Tremaine — and, in his surprise and 
disappointment, he has ceased to esteem and love me. 
He has said, by his deeds, that we could be nothing to 
each other." 
' But he did not know — " 
"Yes, he understood nearly all. And there are 
some things, mamma, that I should be slow to forgive. 
I will not be thrust upon him ! I went to him, once, 
and he almost spurned me. So, let that rest. You will 
have me always, if you care for me — so pity me a 
little. And he said — if there had been a child — he 
would have taken it. Since I have found you, I feel how 
terrible it would be to give up a little child whom I loved 
— that was my very own." 
" Hush, dear, do not excite yourself. It shall all be 
as yon wish. And, since it is midnight, we had better 
bring this happy, but fatiguing day to a close. You 
must try to rest a little." 
" I shall rest here in your dear arms. Mamma, is 
there any fear of being too happy?" 
" No, my darling." 
And, strange to say, Dora, who had passed so many 
wakeful nights, fell into a tranquil slumber, while her 
mother sat watching her. These ministrations had in 
them a touch of the tender love to which she had 
grown accustomed, under widely different circumstances. 
And it was hardly strange that she should dream of 
the old love, dream of it in so coniforting a manner, 
indeed, that she woke refreshed. Was the past bej-ond 
resurrection ? 
Yet, she did not know how subtle the enemy was 
with whom she had to deal. By dawn, another cruel 
thought had entered Jasper Cameron's soul. He could 
still stab Dora. She might possess her fortune, but 
she should not enioy it with the man she loved. As 
soon as business men were astir, he sauntered down to 
Mr. Tremaine's office, and heard, to his great satisfac- 
tion, that the gentleman was to sail that day for 
Europe. He had not come down from Woodlea, yet, 
but would be in shortly. Would he wait for Mr. Tre- 
maine, or leave some word ? 
He sauntered in and seated himself nonchalantly. 
Fortune had certainly favored him here. Tremaine's 
grief had become unendurable, and all the while, on the 
other side, there was a loving woman ready to fly to his 
arms , at a word . At that, Jasper Cameron laughed softl}-. 
Ralph Tremaine entered, presently, glancing up with 
a perceptible paleness and shiver when he saw his visitor. 
"I can scarcely hope to be welcome," Cameron began, 
in his blandest tone, " but a sense of honor impelled 
me to come. As soon as we decided, we thought it best 
that you should be informed of our resolve. Dora" — 
Tremaine experienced an intense desire to fell his 
enemy to the floor, at a blow. Cameron saw his anguish 
and gloated at it. 
