course of justice in New York. He was, however, fertile in expedients,
and thought of the next best thing.

"Mebbe I walked in my sleep," he admitted.

"Did you ever walk in your sleep?" asked the deacon, hastily.

"Lots of times," said Sam.

"It is rather strange you should go to the closet in your sleep," said
Mrs. Hopkins, suspiciously. "I suppose, if you'd found it, you'd have
eaten it in your sleep."

"Likely I should," said Sam. "I was dreamin' of the pie. You know how
to make pie, Mrs. Hopkins; I never tasted so good before."

Mrs. Hopkins was not a soft woman, but she was proud of her cooking,
and accessible to flattery on that subject. Sam could not have
defended himself better.

"That may be," she said, "about your walking in your sleep; but once
is enough. Hereafter I'll lock your door on the outside. I can't be
waked up every night, nor I can't have my plates broken."

"S'pose the house should catch fire," suggested Sam, who didn't fancy
being locked up in his room.

"If it does, I'll come and let you out. The house is safer when you're
safe in bed."

"My wife is right, Samuel," said the deacon, recovering his dignity
now that his fears were removed. "You must be locked in after
to-night."

Sam did not reply. On the whole, he felt glad to get off so well,
after alarming the house so seriously.

"Do you mean to stay downstairs all night, Deacon Hopkins?" demanded
his wife, with uncalled-for asperity. "If so, I shall leave you to
yourself."

"I'm ready to go up when you are," said her husband. "I thought you
mightn't feel like stayin' down here alone."

"Much protection you'd be in time of danger, Mr. Hopkins,--you that
locked the door on your wife, because you was afraid!"

"I wasn't thinkin'," stammered the deacon.

"Probably not," said his wife, in an incredulous tone. "Now go up.
It's high time we were all in bed again."

Sam was not called at as early an hour as the deacon intended. The
worthy man, in consequence of his slumbers being interrupted,
overslept himself, and it was seven o'clock when he called Sam.

"Get up, Samuel," he said; "it's dreadful late, and you must be spry,
or you won't catch up with the work."

Work, however, was not prominent in Sam's mind, as his answer showed.

"Is breakfast ready?" he asked, rubbing his eyes.

"It's most ready. Get right up, for it's time to go to work."

"I 'spose we'll have breakfast first," said Sam.

"If it's ready."

Under these circumstances, Sam did not hurry. He did not care to work
before breakfast, nor, for that matter, afterwards, if he could help
it. So he made a leisurely, though not an elaborate toilet, and did
not come down till Mrs. Hopkins called sharply up the attic stairs,
"Come down, you Sam!"

"All right, ma'am, I'm comin'," said Sam, who judged rightly that
breakfast was ready.

"We shan't often let you sleep so late," said Mrs. Hopkins, who sat
behind the waiter. "We were broken of our rest through your cutting up
last night, and so we overslept ourselves."

"It's pretty early," said Sam.

"We'd ought to have been at work in the field an hour ago," said the
deacon.

At the table Sam found work that suited him better.

"You've got a good appetite," said Mrs. Hopkins, as Sam took the
seventh slice of bread.

"I most generally have," said Sam, with his mouth full.

"That's encouraging, I'm sure," said Mrs. Hopkins, drily.

There was no pie on the table, as Sam noticed, to his regret. However,
he was pretty full when he rose from the table.

"Now, Samuel, you may come along with me," said the deacon, putting on
his hat.

Sam followed him out to the barn, where, in one corner, were kept the
hoes, rakes, and other farming implements in use.

"Here's a hoe for you," said the deacon.

"What are we going to do?" asked Sam.

"The potatoes need hoeing. Did you ever hoe potatoes?"

"No."

"You'll l'arn. It aint hard."

The field was some, little distance from the house,--a two-acre lot
wholly devoted to potatoes.

"I guess we'll begin at the further corner," said the deacon. "Come
along."

When they had reached the part of the field specified, the deacon
stopped.

"Now," said he, "just see how I do it;" and he carefully hoed around
one of the hills.

"There, you see it's easy."

"I guess I can do it. Are you goin to stay here?"

"No, I've got to go to the village, to the blacksmith's. I'll be back
in about two hours. Jest hoe right along that row, and then come back
again on the next. Do you understand?"

"Yes," said Sam.

"I want you to work as spry as you can, so's to make up for lost
time."

"What time do you have dinner?" asked our hero.

"You aint hungry so quick, be you?"

"No, but I shall be bimeby. I thought I'd like to know when to quit
work, and go to dinner."

"I'll be back before that. You needn't worry about that."

The deacon turned, and directed his steps homeward.

As long as he was in sight Sam worked with tolerable speed. But when
the tall and stooping figure had disappeared from view he rested, and
looked around him.

"It'll be a sight of work to hoe all them potatoes," he said to
himself. "I wonder if the old man expects me to do the whole. It'll be
a tough job."

Sam leisurely hoed another hill.

"It's gettin' hot," he said. "Why don't they have trees to give shade?
Then it would be more comfortable."

He hoed another hill, taking a little longer time.

"I guess there must be a million hills," he reflected, looking around
him thoughtfully. "It'll take me from now till next winter to hoe 'em
all."

At the rate Sam was working, his calculation of the time it would take
him was not far out probably.

He finished another hill.

Just then a cat, out on a morning walk, chanced to pass through the
field a few rods away. Now Sam could never see a cat without wanting
to chase it,--a fact which would have led the cat, had she been aware
of it, to give him a wide berth. But, unluckily, Sam saw her.

"Scat!" he exclaimed, and, grasping his hoe, he ran after puss.

The cat took alarm, and, climbing the wall which separated the
potato-field from the next, sped over it in terror. Sam followed with
whoops and yells, which served to accelerate her speed. Occasionally
he picked up a stone, and threw at her, and once he threw the hoe in
the excitement of his chase. But four legs proved more than a match
for two, and finally he was obliged to give it up, but not till he had
run more than quarter of a mile. He sat down to rest on a rock, and
soon another boy came up, with a fishing-pole over his shoulder.

"What are you doing, Sam?" he asked.

"I've been chasin' a cat," said Sam.

"Didn't catch her, did you?"

"No, hang it."

"Where'd you get that hoe?"

"I'm to work for Deacon Hopkins. He's took me. Where are you goin?"

"A-fishing."

"I wish I could go."

"So do I. I'd like company."

"Where are you goin to fish?"

"In a brook close by, down at the bottom of this field."

"I'll go and look on a minute or two. I guess there isn't any hurry
about them potatoes."

The minute or two lengthened to an hour and a half, when Sam roused
himself from his idle mood, and shouldering his hoe started for the
field where he had been set to work.

It was full time. The deacon was there before him, surveying with
angry look the half-dozen hills, which were all that his young
assistant had thus far hoed.

"Now there'll be a fuss," thought Sam, and he was not far out in that
calculation.




CHAPTER VI.

SAM'S SUDDEN SICKNESS.

"Where have you been, you young scamp?" demanded the deacon,
wrathfully.

"I just went away a minute or two," said Sam, abashed.

"A minute or two!" ejaculated the deacon.

"It may have been more," said Sam. "You see I aint got no watch to
tell time by."

"How comes it that you have only got through six hills all the
morning?" said the deacon, sternly.

"Well, you see, a cat came along--" Sam began to explain.

"What if she did?" interrupted the deacon. "She didn't stop your work,
did she?"

"Why, I thought I'd chase her out of the field."

"What for?"

"I thought she might scratch up some of the potatoes," said Sam, a
brilliant excuse dawning upon him.

"How long did it take you to chase her out of the field, where she
wasn't doing any harm?"

"I was afraid she'd come back, so I chased her a good ways."

"Did you catch her?"

"No, but I drove her away. I guess she won't come round here again,"
said Sam, in the tone of one who had performed a virtuous action.

"Did you come right back?"

"I sat down to rest. You see I was pretty tired with running so
fast."

"If you didn't run any faster than you have worked, a snail would
catch you in half a minute," said the old man, with justifiable
sarcasm. "Samuel, your excuse is good for nothing. I must punish
you."

Sam stood on his guard, prepared to run if the deacon should make
hostile demonstrations. But his guardian was not a man of violence,
and did not propose to inflict blows. He had another punishment in
view suited to Sam's particular case.

"I'll go right to work," said Sam, seeing that no violence was
intended, and hoping to escape the punishment threatened, whatever it
might be.

"You'd better," said the deacon.

Our hero (I am afraid he has not manifested any heroic qualities as
yet) went to work with remarkable energy, to the imminent danger of
the potato-tops, which he came near uprooting in several instances.

"Is this fast enough?" he asked.

"It'll do. I'll take the next row, and we'll work along together. Take
care,--I don't want the potatoes dug up."

They kept it up for an hour or more, Sam working more steadily,
probably, than he had ever done before in his life. He began to think
it was no joke, as he walked from hill to hill, keeping up with the
deacon's steady progress.

"There aint much fun about this," he thought. "I don't like workin' on
a farm. It's awful tiresome."

"What's the use of hoein' potatoes?" he asked, after a while. "Won't
they grow just as well without it?"

"No," said the deacon.

"I don't see why not."

"They need to have the earth loosened around them, and heaped up where
it's fallen away."

"It's a lot of trouble," said Sam.

"We must all work," said the deacon, sententiously.

"I wish potatoes growed on trees like apples," said Sam. "They
wouldn't be no trouble then."

"You mustn't question the Almighty's doin's, Samuel," said the deacon,
seriously. "Whatever he does is right."

"I was only wonderin', that was all," said Sam.

"Human wisdom is prone to err," said the old man, indulging in a scrap
of proverbial philosophy.

"What does that mean?" thought Sam, carelessly hitting the deacon's
foot with his descending hoe. Unfortunately, the deacon had corns on
that foot, and the blow cost him a sharp twinge.

"You careless blockhead!" he shrieked, raising the injured foot from
the ground, while a spasm of anguish contracted his features. "Did you
take my foot for a potato-hill?"

"Did I hurt you?" asked Sam, innocently.

"You hurt me like thunder," gasped the deacon, using, in his
excitement, words which in calmer moments he would have avoided.

"I didn't think it was your foot," said Sam.

"I hope you'll be more careful next time; you most killed me."

"I will," said Sam.

"I wonder if it isn't time for dinner," he began to think presently,
but, under the circumstances, thought it best not to refer to the
matter. But at last the welcome sound of the dinner-bell was heard, as
it was vigorously rung at the back door by Mrs. Hopkins.

"That's for dinner, Samuel," said the deacon. "We will go to the
house."

"All right!" said Sam, with alacrity, throwing down the hoe in the
furrow.

"Pick up that hoe, and carry it with you," said the deacon.

"Then we won't work here any more to-day!" said Sam, brightening up.

"Yes, we will; but it's no way to leave the hoe in the fields. Some
cat might come along and steal it," he added, with unwonted sarcasm.

Sam laughed as he thought of the idea of a cat stealing a hoe, and the
deacon smiled at his own joke.

Dinner was on the table. It was the fashion there to put all on at
once, and Sam, to his great satisfaction, saw on one side a pie like
that which had tempted him the night before. The deacon saw his look,
and it suggested a fitting punishment. But the time was not yet.

Sam did ample justice to the first course of meat and potatoes. When
that was despatched, Mrs. Hopkins began to cut the pie.

The deacon cleared his throat.

"Samuel is to have no pie, Martha," he said.

His wife thought it was for his misdeeds of the night before, and so
did Sam.

"I couldn't help walkin' in my sleep," he said, with a blank look of
disappointment.

"It aint that," said the deacon.

"What is it, then?" asked his wife.

"Samuel ran away from his work this mornin', and was gone nigh on to
two hours," said her husband.

"You are quite right, Deacon Hopkins," said his wife, emphatically.
"He don't deserve any dinner at all."

