upon their persons established their identity beyond a doubt.
Early next morning a telegram was brought into a pretty dressing-room,
where the sunshine, peering through the vine-leaves about the window,
made dancing shadows on the floor, laughed, and leaped, and flashed
in reflection from the water in a China bath, set in the middle of
the chamber. In this splashed and crowed two baby-boys, one held by
the mother, the other by the grandmother, and between these knelt two
younger women—all four in delighted worship of the tiny cherubs. There
was a breathless hush as the youngest of the party sprang up to seize
the envelope, and tore it open.
“Collision!” said the missive. “Frederick Corwin killed instantly.
Philip Hiller badly injured. Both will be sent on in next train.”
In this ghastly shape came disaster to the long-exempt household.
Life and the world had dealt so benignly and bountifully with them
heretofore, that they had insensibly learned to look upon their
possession of health, love, and happiness as assured for years and
years to come. Emma’s marriage had removed her from them but a couple
of blocks, and all concurred in the opinion that this was a charming
variety upon their former estate.
“How did we ever get along without Fred’s and Emma’s house to run
into? It is as good as having two homes,” the girls often said among
themselves.
When the twins came—bouncing, healthy boys—the excitement and joy in
one house equalled that in the other. It seemed now, indeed, that
they could ask nothing more of Heaven; that the brimming cup of bliss
was mantled all over with rose-leaves. And when “Papa and Fred” were
obliged to be absent from their homes for a week, in attendance upon
the doings of a court a hundred miles away, Emma and her babes were
transferred with much ceremony and rejoicing to her mother’s care;
given up to the petting and admiration of the doating aunties without
reservation, beyond Fred’s earnest entreaty that they would not kiss
the boys away to skeletons before he returned, and a threat to have
them protected by copper sheathing from the fate of St. Peter’s brazen
toe.
Dear Fred! the merry, handsome, stalwart brother; their only one,—who
was never to jest with them again; never again to hold wife and
babes in his embrace. Imogen and Blanche mourned for him only less
passionately than did she who had proudly and gladly borne his name.
Poor wife! she was denied the satisfaction of hearing that her name
had been the last in his thoughts and speech; that the loyal heart
had never beat more lovingly for her than in its latest throbbings;
for weeks passed before Mr. Hiller could speak at all, and then the
disjointed utterances of the palsied tongue told nothing beyond the
terrible fact that the brain had sustained serious, it might be
irreparable, damage. A paralytic cripple he would remain until the day
of his death, although this half-life might be prolonged for years,
pronounced the best medical authorities in the land, summoned without
regard to distance or expense, by the agonized wife.
Stricken, smitten of GOD, and afflicted, the four women sat them down
together in the mother’s room, a month after the double bereavement,
and took mournful but deliberate counsel together. Their affairs were
not at a desperate pass, as they already knew. There was the house in
which they lived, free of mortgage, which would bring at least thirty
thousand dollars in the market; ten thousand dollars in bank stocks and
other securities—solid, paying investments, and five thousand dollars’
worth of real estate—chiefly unimproved lots in a growing part of the
city, that might be very valuable in time, if they could be held and
the taxes paid. Fred had invested four thousand dollars in the latter
kind of property, and his life was insured for ten thousand more. If
Emma were to sell everything—furniture, lots and all—she would have
just seventeen thousand dollars with which to support herself, to rear
and educate her boys. By living upon the interest of the life-insurance
fund, and paying taxes on the real-estate for some years, she might
double the little fortune bequeathed to her, without reserve, by her
husband’s will.
“I shall not touch a cent of it, if I can help it,” she said, in sad
decision. “It shall be the father’s provision for his sons. They will
need it all, in order to educate themselves as he would have wished.
For the present I shall work for them and myself. You foresaw this
years ago, mother. I thank GOD, and thank you, that you prepared us to
meet it!”
“Amen!” said her sisters fervently. “Dark as is the day—so much darker
than we ever dreamed it would be,” added Imogen, tearfully, yet trying
to smile, “we have much to be thankful for. We are strong; we know how
to work; and there are papa and the babies, darling Fred’s sons, to
work for.”
“Papa and the babies!” Even the fond wife did not resent the
classification. The hale gentleman whose half-century of honest,
temperate life had not bowed his head or dimmed his eye; the sage,
shrewd man of business, than whom none were more respected by his
fellow-citizens, was a tremulous, timid child, who wept if his meals
were delayed one minute, or his wife, his faithful, tender nurse, were
out of his sight for an hour.
“Utterly incapable of attending to the simplest matters connected with
his business!” cried open-eyed Everybody, hovering, harpy-like, about
the human wreck. “Why, he couldn’t count one hundred to save his life.
Of course, they will get a certificate of lunacy from the court, and
sell the house, lots, and whatever they can realize anything upon; put
all they have together, and live as prudently as possible. The girls
ought to marry before long. They are pretty and popular, in spite of
their little eccentricities. It isn’t to be expected that they will
make brilliant matches now, of course; but they must bring down their
ambition to a reasonable level. Beggars mustn’t be choosers. It is
unfortunate that poor Mrs. Corwin has those two children. But they may
not live. Twins are more likely to die than other babies. And, if they
should be taken, she’ll be likely to pick up another husband. Her
little property would be a consideration to some men.”
Even the true friends of the sorely-tried family wished sincerely and
aloud that “each of the dear girls had a husband to take care of her;”
recommended them warmly to the compassionate and favorable notice of
their bachelor acquaintances, and devised pious plans of matchmaking
for their relief from the inconveniences of their altered circumstances.
“The worst part of it all was that poor Emma was encumbered with the
children, who would be more and more expensive every year, and that
poor, dear Mr. Hiller would be a helpless imbecile all his life. And
what a mistake in them to refuse to treat him as such, and have him
examined by a commission who would give his family the right to dispose
of his property!”
If the Ruler of the intellects and lives of men had hearkened to these
benevolent economists, the crippled man and the brace of “unfortunate”
infants would have been taken speedily and comfortably out of this
present evil world.
“Thank heaven for the babies!” uttered Blanche, throwing her arms about
Emma’s waist. “You darling sister! I bless you for them every hour.
What should we have done through all these last fearful weeks without
them—and you? Touch their weeny teenty patrimony! Indeed you shall not!
And more than that, we’ll make it a big one by the time they are ready
to enter college.”
The mother, as chief counsellor, had her plan ready for their
consideration. The house—a large double one—was still to be occupied
by them. The front parlor was to be used for the millinery department,
and put entirely under Blanche’s care. In the back, Imogen would hold
sway; and a smaller apartment in the rear of the hall should be the
fitting and trying-on chamber. The library across the hall, adjoining
the dining-room, was to be the family parlor. In every other part of
the house things were to remain unchanged.
“Who deserves to live more comfortably and luxuriously, to rest in soft
chairs and sleep upon elastic mattresses, to have generous food served
elegantly to tempt the appetite and strengthen the body, than she who
purchases all these with her own toil?” said the strange logician whose
daughters were too used to her “queer notions” to be startled by them.
“I do not say that you will make money fast, or at once. I do contend
that, saving rent, bookkeeper’s and saleswoman’s wages, as you will do,
you ought to be able to clear your business and personal expenses the
first year—if nothing more.”
“If the customers come,” suggested Emma.
Mrs. Hiller nodded confidently. “They will come! In the beginning, out
of curiosity and the love of novelty. It will depend upon your skill
whether they continue their custom.”
All previous sensations respecting the Hillers—their odd fancies and
daring talk and levelling theories; Emma’s marriage and the birth
of her twins; the tragical death of her husband and Mr. Hiller’s
deplorable condition—faded into the realms of forgottenness before
that excited by the appearance in all the leading papers, the following
month, of an advertisement to the effect that the “Misses Hiller would
open on Tuesday, the 15th instant, at their father’s residence on Lofty
Avenue, a first-class millinery and dressmaking establishment, and
pledged themselves to use their best efforts to give satisfaction to
their customers.”
The sudden intrusion of a bee-moth into a well-regulated, honey-lined
hive might create such commotion among the inhabitants thereof as
prevailed in the “best circles” of the city when the Incredible was,
at length, developed by means of printer’s ink and paper, into the
Certain. The Hiller philosophy had wrought its legitimate fruits, said
the wise ones. Such sympathy with the lower classes, and familiarity
with their modes of thought and personal history, amounting to
fanatical imitation of their language and habits and mercenary views of
life; such bold scoffing at the ethics and usages of SOCIETY (this in
capitals half an inch long, if you please, Mr. Printer!) could have but
one sequel, and that a catastrophe.
“Be it so!” enunciated resigned Everybody, in the calm of sinless
despair. “Since the Hiller girls prefer to sink to the level of mere
working women; to fly in the face of Providence that would, if they
were more reasonable and less sentimental, endow them with property
to the amount of at least fifty thousand dollars—sixty thousand, if
poor Mrs. Corwin’s be included, with the certain prospect of fifteen
thousand more at poor Mr. Hiller’s death—if they prefer, instead of
taking the goods thus offered them and living like ladies in the
sphere to which they were born, faithful to the principles that
control refined SOCIETY—to delve and plan and accumulate, let them be
recognized forthwith as laborers—nothing more, and nothing less! We,
the loyal leaguers of SOCIETY, true to the traditions of our class and
age, cannot more effectually and dignifiedly exclude them from our
sacred circle than by patronizing and paying them as dressmakers
and milliners. They have exquisite taste. That we, being candid even
where our enemies are concerned, will admit. They have also, tact and
energy, and association with US in the past has given them just ideas
of our style and needs. While we do not budge an inch from our belief
and precept that they should have starved genteelly; lived on bread
and tea, dyed and turned and otherwise rejuvenated their friends’
cast-off dresses; shivered over pinched-in grates in winter and
sponged upon obliging acquaintances in summer—sooner than thus degrade
themselves and betray their caste for the sake of pampering their
flesh with the delicacies of the markets, and their pride by indulging
in purple and fine linen, in damask and cut-glass, in Brussels and
satin—we”—concluded breathless Everybody, “accept the situation as they
have set it before us.”
“But it is suicidal!” actually sobbed the well-wishers of the
recalcitrant trio. “They will never marry well now!”
“Tuesday the 15th inst.” arrived—sharp but clear November weather,
and the desecrated Hiller mansion wore its most cheerful aspect. In
the back parlor the decks had been cleared for action, as Imogen
phrased it, by removing the piano, a large sofa, and an inlaid stand
or two. Imogen’s sewing machine and chair were by the side window.
Before the embayed recess at the end of the room was a long, rather
narrow table of singular construction, the plan being her own. The
top was covered with enamelled leather, with morocco pouches at each
corner, rather larger than the pockets of a billiard-table, and deep
drawers underneath. A tape-measure and a case of scissors lay upon
this. The pictures on the walls; the carpets; the rich hangings of the
windows; the lounging-chairs set invitingly about, the easel, with its
collection of fine engravings in one corner, a chiffonier loaded with
attractive articles of virtu, and a few fresh, attractive books—even
the stand of flowers in the bay-window were the same that had so often
challenged the admiration of Mrs. Hiller’s guests, as giving her
parlors “such an air of home-like elegance.”
In Blanche’s realm there had been more and material alterations. In
the niches on each side of the mantel were tall, shallow cases, with
sliding glass doors. These were made of black walnut, and bright
silver-plated knobs and pegs set in the back. Beneath the doors were
drawers with handles of the same metal. An attractive array of bonnets
and hats hung in one case; of caps, and headdresses and wreaths,
bouquets, sprays of flowers in the other, these last apparently
springing from a box filled with moss set in the bottom. Opposite the
mock conservatory was a show-case, being a walnut table handsomely
carved, with a glass box on top containing ribbons arranged with a
nice regard to harmony and contrasts of colors and shades. This also
had drawers beneath with silver knobs. At one of the front windows
stood Blanche’s chair and wicker-work stand. Hanging-baskets of living
flowers swung between the curtains; a mocking-bird’s cage in the arch
dividing the rooms.
Emma was walking slowly up and down the length of the two apartments,
ready to retire, at the approach of customers, to her desk in the
fitting-room. Her sisters had insisted upon her right to seclude
herself from general observation.
“We don’t mind being made a show of! In fact, we rather like it!” the
irrepressible Blanche was saying. “But they sha’n’t come to stare at,
and whisper about you, Queenie!”
Her eyes sparkled; her cheeks were red as the French poppies in the
glass case near by. Every crimp in her blonde hair seemed to stir in
the breeze of excitement that swept and swayed her merry spirit. She
flitted about from Imogen’s dominion to her own, altering, admiring,
exclaiming, like a restless humming-bird.
“I am sorry for you, too,” she ran on, “for I anticipate great fun
during the next few weeks. All the calls to-day that are not prompted
by curiosity, more or less ill-natured, will be of condolence. Don’t I
know how our dear friends will pull out eye-glass and handkerchief in
the same tug. ‘You poor, dear girls!’ Mrs. Smith will sniff. (No matter
what happens to you, whether you lose a front tooth, or your fortune,
or your life, your best wishers will call you ‘poor dear!‘) ‘Now do
you think—honestly, now, you know—that it was really necessary for
Philip Hiller’s daughters to take this unprecedented step?’”
“Miss Allfriend will kiss us all around, and drop a tear on each of
our noses, with—‘My dear children! it makes my heart bleed! And
how does mamma stand it?’ And Mrs. Williams will trot in, eye-glass
up—‘Bless me! bless me! I thought I should drop when I read it in
the papers! Such a shock! You can’t really conceive! Bromide and red
lavender all night, my dears! I assure you!’”
“Hold your saucy tongue!” laughed Imogen, in spite of herself, and even
Emma smiled at the spirited mimicry.
Blanche rattled away faster than ever. “I am going to be prim and
proper when they begin to come! One and all will criticise our
appointments as ‘shockingly extravagant;’ declare that ‘the like was
never seen before in store or work-room—quite out of keeping, you
know!’ and prophesy swift ruin if we keep on as we have begun. And we
won’t hint that we paid for everything, our very own selves, with the
money papa has forced upon us for the work we have done in the last
four years. It’s none of their business! nor that we have some left, to
repair losses, should we have any!”
“Dear papa! all we can do won’t bring back health and reason to him!”
sighed Emma. “Or life to”—
Her eyes filled suddenly, and she would have hastened from the room,
but Imogen caught her in her arms.
“For their sakes—those who loved and believed in us—and for the
babies; we will acquit ourselves bravely, sister. There are times when
work that we must do—systematic and sustained effort for others, is
GOD’S best cure for soul-morbidness. I know!”
The others exchanged a silent look over the bright head bowed on Emma’s
shoulder—a glance of blended pity and indignation. Then, Blanche pulled
back the glass door of her flower-case with needless rattle, and busied
herself with a pendant of glossy ivy.
“Another year I will devise some such plan as this for showing off my
feathers—something like an aviary—see if I don’t!”
Not one of the three ever referred, in so many words, to the fact
that handsome, accomplished Harding Walford had not entered the house
in more than a month; that his visits had slackened perceptibly in
frequency and length since it became generally known that Mr. Hiller
would never recover. He had been Imogen’s most devoted attendant for
almost a year. Her family had not doubted what would be her answer to
the declaration they saw was pending. The world reported that he had
broken a positive engagement, and ran no risk in so doing, since she
had neither father nor brother to defend her rights. But there was not,
on this account, meted out to him a formidable share of censure. He
was “the best judge of his own affairs.” He was not rich. Had he been,
he might still, with reason, hesitate to take a step that would entail
upon him such a weight of responsibility as would a connection with the
no longer prosperous Hillers, even had not Imogen’s eccentric conduct
of late, in banding with her sisters “to undermine the distinctions
of SOCIETY,” been ample excuse for his defection. He was wise in his
generation, and the applause showered upon him who doeth good unto
himself, was his due. SOCIETY always pays this sort of debt.
Only—Imogen had believed in him; and the shivering of her trust beyond
the hope of repair, was very hard to bear. So much more cruel than
the thought of being the target of gossip’s shafts, that the latter
rattled unheeded against her armor of proud rectitude that day, and
ever afterward. Desertion had stung its worst when the man she loved
had looked for the last time, with love-full eyes, into hers.
Customers did come; singly, in twos and threes, and, a little past
midday, when they had discussed the Hillers’ affairs comfortably
over their luncheon-tables, in droves. They gathered in the spacious
rooms, as Mrs. Hiller had predicted, not so much to buy or order, as
to criticise and wonder. The most comic part of the exhibition to
fun-loving, dauntless Blanche was that so many were disconcerted at
finding that they were not singular in their curiosity and the resolve
to gratify it. Hardly second to this was the ludicrous uncertainty on
the part of most of the visitors as to the proper line of conduct to
be pursued in greeting the gentlewomen so abruptly transformed into
trades-people whom they were here to scrutinize. That the cordial yet
respectful familiarity of equals was not to be thought of, now, was
the dominant impression with the majority. Yet few were so indurated
in worldliness, or so barefaced in the display of it as to attempt to
treat their late social compeers exactly as they would “quite common
persons.” The result was a combination of stiffness and patronage
totally at variance with the carriage of well-bred ease, flavored with
hauteur, they adjudged to be “the thing in the circumstances.”
The proprietors of the elegant apartments were mistresses of
themselves and the position from the beginning. With a single eye to
business, they adroitly evaded all allusion to the novelty of the
scene; received the compliments to their establishments and their
wares with smiling composure; showed the stock and took orders with
professional dexterity, and entirely ignored glances and veiled hints
of commiseration.
“Have you no assistants?” queried more than one.
“At present, none,” Imogen returned, quietly. “Should our business
require it, we shall procure help, keeping everything, of course, under
our own personal supervision.”
“It is not an untried field to us, you know,” subjoined Blanche, in her
blithest tone. “Much practice has taught us swiftness and the artistic
sleight of hand that distinguishes the work of the modiste from that
of the amateur.”
The rooms were quite full when a plain but handsome carriage stopped at
the door. A lady alighted with her arms full of bundles, followed by
two slender girls of eighteen and twenty, each with a parcel, although
the footman stood idly by, holding the door.
“Just like her!” murmured a spectator inside the front window, peeping
through the lace curtains. “She prides herself on her want of what she
calls false shame, and on being able to wait on herself.”
A hum ran from the tattler through the little assembly. Blanche, who
was showing a box of feathers to a customer, feigned not to hear
it; dared not to steal a look at her sister, although she longed to
know how she comported herself in view of the approaching ordeal.
She was the only one present whose eyes were not directed instantly
toward the young dressmaker as she advanced a few steps to meet the
new arrivals. Foremost in the group was the mistress of the carriage,
a stately figure, richly attired, who wore her own gray hair folded
smoothly above a pair of black brows and searching, usually severe
eyes. They softened and shone at sight of the form in deep mourning,
awaiting her pleasure, perhaps reading through the guise of lady-like
self-possession the secret trouble that fluttered heart and pulse,
while the trained features served the resolute will faithfully.
“My dear child!” she said, impulsively, holding fast to her parcels,
but bending to kiss the cheek which flushed high under the salute.
Her daughters pressed forward to bestow caresses as affectionate upon
“dear Imogen,” the family having recently returned from abroad. Their
mother allowed them no time for inquiries or condolence.
“I am very, very glad to see you looking so well and bright!” she
pursued, in a breezy, cheerful tone, neither shrill nor loud, but one
that could make itself heard whenever and by whomsoever she willed.
“I didn’t mean that my first call should be one of business, but I
suppose you wouldn’t admit me upon any other plea, in business hours.
But there’s the great Huntley wedding, week after next, you know, and
the girls haven’t enough finery to warrant their appearance there—just
from Paris, too! So we have come to cast ourselves upon your generosity
and beg you, for the sake of old times and present friendship, to make
us presentable. Unless you are too severely taxed already by the
importunate friends of whom I see so many present. How is the dear
father to-day? You must let me see him and mamma before I leave—and
Emma and the babies! You mustn’t exclude us from the other parts of
the house because you have taken to practicalities in sober, serious
earnest. We would rebel outright, and en masse—after having been
welcomed, during so many years, to the pleasantest home in the city!”
Imogen had led the way into the other parlor while the lady talked, and
was now undoing the wrappings of the three silk dresses, and opening
boxes of rare, fine lace on the long table. Her back was to the groups
of attentive listeners to the foregoing monologue, and the keen eyes
beside her saw her fingers shake, the long, brown lashes fall quickly
to hide the unshed tears.
“You are very good!” said a gentle, grateful voice. “But I felt sure
you would be!”
“My love!” A strong and not small hand—ungloved—a superb diamond
solitaire, in itself a fortune, flashing on it as the guard to a
worn wedding-ring—covered the chill, uncertain fingers, busy with
paper and twine. Imogen felt the warmth and thrill of the pressure
to her very heart. “If you ever dare to say another word like that,
I’ll never forgive you! Trimmings, style, everything—we leave to you,
Imogen, my dear!” she continued, aloud. “If you can make my girls
half as distingué as you are yourself in full dress, or home-dress
either, for that matter, I shall be satisfied. I always told you you
were a genius in your profession—creative, not merely imitative
genius. It was a shame that you did not give others the benefit of it
before now. It is refreshing to one who has cultivated any taste for
the æsthetic, to look about your rooms. I have lively hopes that dress
may be understood and studied as one of the fine arts among us in
time. You will be known in this generation and region, at least, as a
benefactress. We go into another room to be measured, did you say?”
She swept her daughters before her into the fitting-room, and a buzz
and rustle succeeded the silence her entrance had caused.
In Blanche’s hearing no one could comment openly upon what had passed.
But there were significant whispers and wondering looks, and by the
time the gossips reached the street, much and prolonged discussion with
