inexpressibly sad from such young lips. 'But I am not going to live 
in that prison in 40th street and with that jailer Charteris any 
more!'

'Josephine, you could change all that. There is no prisonand no 
jailerfor any woman of whom it is true: "The heart of her 
husband doth safely trust in her." '

'It wouldn't be very safe for Charteris to trust me,' said Josephine, 
with a hard, metallic laugh. 'I never was to be trusted. I know what 
you have come for, Hazel, and I know who has brought you; it's 
Annabella; but it's no use. You may give up the job. I know all you 
want to say, and I'm not going to have you say it; and you have 
said it, besides. Look here. A marriage isn't a real marriage when 
people don't care for each other. Do you think a woman is bound 
by a few words said over her by a man in a black silk gown? by an 
incantation, like the savages? It would make me downright wicked 
to go on living with John Charteris; you ought to want to save me 
from that. I am always a great deal bettermore religiouswhen 
I am happy, than when I am miserable. It always rouses up all 
there is bad in me, to try to make me do something I don't want to 
do. I can't imagine how you get along with Dane Rollo; but that is 
you affair; this is mine. Where is Annabella?'

Before Hazel could stop her, she had flown across the hall to the 
room on the other side, whence she fetched back her sister. The 
conversation was not renewed. In ignorance of what fruit the 
interview might have borne, or what its results might be, 
Annabella dared not touch the matter; and Josephine gave her no 
chance. She kept up a rattling fire of nonsense, until the two ladies 
were forced to leave her.

The day was darkening fast now towards the early evening. Fine 
snow was falling thick, and the wind came in gusts. There was no 
time to be lost in getting home. Yet Annabella paused at the very 
coach door and looked at Hazel. 'Have you done anything?' she 
asked anxiously.

At the instant a gentleman ran against them with an umbrella, and 
lifting the same suddenly to make his excuses, a very familiar 
figure was revealed to them. Stuart Nightingale himself. A flash of 
disagreeable expression crossed his face for that one second of 
surprise, then he had regained his usual manner.

'Quel plaisir!' he cried, bowing low. 'Two such ladies, in the snow, 
here! at Fort Washington! The charms of the surprise is manifold. 
What has procured it? mercy, or vanity? One or the other it must 
be. A sick friend?or a French mantua-maker? But you are never 
going to drive back to New York in this awful storm?'

Annabella drew herself up and made no answer. Wych Hazel 
looked at the snow.

'Good evening,' she said. 'The storm is not much.'

They were to have more of it, however, than she had bargained for. 
Stuart's remonstrances were not listened to; the ladies entered their 
carriage and drove off. But their driver, who was not Mrs. 
Powder's servant, had improved his leisure time during their stay 
in the house by making visits to a neighbouring drinking saloon; 
and now, confused by the mingled efforts of wind and brandy, 
took the road north instead of south from the village. To spare her 
sister, and indeed herself, Annabella had taken a hackney coach, 
and this was what came of it. The ladies were thinking of 
something else and did not see what their charioteer was doing. 
Annabella broke at last a silence which had prevailed for some 
time.

'What did she say?'

'Said she didn't care.'

'She would not listen to you!'

'Not this time.'

'Then there is no chance,' cried Annabella in despair. 'They will 
make all their arrangements now. Stuart is going to sail the week 
after next, I know.'

'I wish I could get speech of him!' said Wych Hazel, knitting her 
brows in the darkness.

This too was to fall to her lot in an unexpected manner and 
measure. It might have been three quarters of an hour, or more, 
from the time of their meeting that gentleman in front of Mrs. 
Rhodes's cottage, when Stuart happened to be in the street again 
and crossing the main road at the corner where the carriage had 
turned the wrong way. The storm had now grown to be furious; 
wind and snow driving so across the street that to hold his 
umbrella was no longer possible. As with difficulty he closed it, a 
carriage stopped immediately before him, the door opened, and 
two ladies sprang out into the storm. He had nearly run against 
them again, before he saw that they were the same ladies. And they 
saw him.

'O Mr. Nightingale!' cried the foremost, forgetting everything in 
distress,'do help us. We've got a drunken coachman.'

'Miss Powder!But how are you here yet?'

'O he took us ever so far on the way to Albany before we found it 
out. He's quite stupid. What shall we do?'

A few steps in the snow, taken with extreme difficulty, brought 
them to the shelter of a village hotel. Here the matter was debated. 
Stuart advised their spending the night quietly where they were. 
But Annabella would not listen to this. "Her mother," "her 
mother"she urged; "her mother would be frightened to death." 
Write, Stuart suggested. Miss Powder did not believe any 
messenger would go. Stuart offered to be the messenger himself. 
Annabella refused, obstinately. I think she did not put enough faith 
in him even for that. She would have a carriage and proceed on her 
journey forthwith. Annabella shewed herself determined, and 
Hazel did not oppose her decisions, nor have much to say in the 
matter generally.

So a carriage was got ready; it was necessary to offer a huge fee to 
tempt any man out that night, but however that was arranged; and 
in half an hour the ladies were able to set forth again on their 
interrupted journey. But one circumstance neither of them had 
counted upon. Mr. Nightingale, after putting them into the carriage 
and giving directions to the driver, coolly stepped in himself and 
took the opposite seat.

'Mr. Nightingale!' said Miss Powder'you are not going?'

'Certainly I am. You two ladies cannot be allowed to take such a 
journey alone. I should expect Gov. Powder never to speak to me 
again, and coffee and pistols with Rollo would be too good for me. 
To say nothing of the punishment of my own conscience.'

The drive from that point was extremely silent, and never to be 
forgotten by at least two of the party. The violence of the storm 
was quite enough to justify the third in intruding himself upon 
their company, though I am afraid nobody thanked him for it. 
Wind and snow and darkness made any progress difficult, and any 
but very slow progress out of the question. The horses crept along 
the road, which they were not infrequently left to find by 
themselves; the snow whirled and beat now against one window 
and now upon the other with a fury and a rush which were 
somewhat appalling. Still the horses struggled on, though all the 
light there was abroad came from the glimmer of the snow itself, 
unless when a gleam shot out into the night from the window of 
some house. They did keep on their way, but it was doubtful at 
times if they could. Within the carriage conversation was limited 
to remarks about the weather and the cold, and did not flourish at 
that, though the cold did. To keep warm became impossible.

It was a great relief at last to feel pavement under the wheels, 
which they could do in the broad places where wind had swept the 
street bare; and gaslights looked very kindly, flaring along the line 
of way. They could see the storm then! How it raged and drove 
through the streets, driving everybody to the shelter of a house that 
had a house to go to; and those who had none were slunk away 
into other hiding places. The wind and the snow had cleared the 
deserted streets; an occasional carriage was rarely met.

'Set me down first, please,' said Annabella, pressing Wych Hazel's 
hand to mark her meaning. 'My mother must be in distressand it 
is just as near going that way.'

Stuart laughed a little, but he did not speak his thoughts which 
went to the possible anxiety of some other people. With some 
difficulty he hailed the coachman and gave the order, and presently 
Miss Powder was deposited at her own door. Stuart gave the next 
order and jumped in again.

Now what should Wych Hazel do? During that minute, while she 
watched the two figures standing in the driving storm before Mrs. 
Powder's door, she had taken a comprehensive view of the 
situation, and made up her mind.

'Sit there, please,' she said, motioning the incomer to his former 
place on the front seat. 'I want to talk business.' Since leaving Fort 
Washington she had hardly opened her lips; but now the well-
remembered voice came out clear and sweet and with a ring of 
grave dignity.

'Am I to suppose you do not think me worthy to talk business 
alongside of you?' said Stuart lightly, and obeying.

Wych Hazel left that question to answer itself. She was silent a 
minute, her hands holding each other fast.

'Mr. Nightingale,' she said, 'you once asked me if I liked to hear 
the truth told about myself. Do you?'

'From you!anything,' he answered gallantly. 'Your voice never 
speaks harsh judgmentsthough I am afraid the truth about 
myself would be less than flattering. What is it, Mrs. Rollo? I am 
curious. It is said, no man knows himself.'

'I have been told,' said Wych Hazeland she hesitated, and then 
went on again with quick utterance,how intensely disagreeable it 
all was to her!'I have been told this afternoon, that a year ago 
you wanted my fortune. Stop!I do not care two straws whether 
you did or not!But I wished to say, that upon certain conditions 
you can have part of it now. Think before you refuse, Mr. 
Nightingale. No one will ever offer you so much againin 
exchange for so little.'

A pause.

'I am at a loss,' he began in a changed voice, 'how any one can 
have induced you to believe' And there he stopped. But Wych 
Hazel gave him no help. She sat looking out into the night, the 
gaslights flaring in from time to time upon her face. Had she 
grown fairer than ever?

'Everything is said about everybody,' he said haughtily after a 
little. 'I do not know why I should fare better than others. The truth 
about anybody is never public report. It is assumed in the case of 
every woman who has a fortune, that the man who seeks her, 
wants it. The gentleman who has had the honour of Miss 
Kennedy's choice has certainly not escaped the imputation, 
however he may deserve it no more than I.'

'That is not business,' she said in quiet tones. 'If you please, we will 
discuss nothing else.'

'I am not so happy as to know of any business between us,' he said 
in the same haughty manner,'great as the honour and pleasure 
would be.'

'It will save time,' said Wych Hazel, 'to waste none in 
preliminaries. I want to buy up your present bad undertakingand 
the price is for you to name.'And she looked out again into the 
white darkness, and wondered if this was to be her first night 
adventure wherein Mr. Rollo did not appear to take her home.

'Pardon me, I am very much at a loss to know what you mean. 
Only, through the confusion, I seem to perceive that Mrs. Rollo 
has lost the kind opinion which Miss Kennedy used to have of me.'

He heard a soft exclamation of impatienceextremely like 'Miss 
Kennedy!'Then came deliberate words again.

'Mrs. Charteris,' she said, 'has no money of her own. I offer you 
what you will to let her alone. To break with her utterly. Do you 
understand? I believe if you pledged me your word to that, you 
would keep it.'

'Thank you!' he said in the same tone. 'May I venture to ask, how 
you can possibly suppose that I have anything to "break" with any 
other woman, after you have broken with me?'

The words were beneath notice. Wych hazel went on as if she had 
not heard them.

'And if you will come to a decision soon,now, while I am 
here,I shall be very glad.'

'Mrs. Rollo supposes that everything can be done with money!' 
Stuart said scornfully. 'It is a not unnatural delusion with those 
who have an unusual supply.'

'No,' said Wych Hazel in the same calm way; 'I do not suppose 
that. I know better. But with nothing in the other scale, money and 
honour have their weight.'

'Mrs. Rollo probably has for the moment forgotten that she is not 
still Miss Kennedy. She will forgive me the remark.'

'I have not forgotten that either. If I had, I should not be here 
talking to Mr. Nightingale.'

'Why not?' said he quickly.

'The fact is enough. I am dealing only with facts to-night. Business 
facts.' And Wych Hazel leaned back and was silent; listening to the 
dull roll of the wheels, and the sharper swirl of snow and hail 
against the windows. A few minutes of silence allowed these to be 
heard. Then the carriage stopped.

'You know,' said Wych Hazel suddenly, 'there are two names at 
stake. What do you decide, Mr. Nightingale?'

The carriage door opened; he had no time to reply.


CHAPTER XXXII.

SUPPER.


It was not exactly a cheery evening in Hazel's deserted rooms. 
Rollo had the entertainment of Prim and Mrs. Coles upon his 
hands, and was besides all the time busied in baffling her efforts to 
find out whether he was anxious, whether he knew where Wych 
Hazel had gone, whether he was aware of what kept her, and 
whether he did not think something ought to be done. This sort of 
exercise grows wearisome in time; and Rollo finally gave it up and 
fled. He put on coat and hat and repaired to the great entrance of 
the hotel, which seemed to him just then if not a point of rest, yet 
to be nearest to that point. Here he had a view of the storm, which 
he studied at leisure in the intervals of watching everything on 
wheels that went by. He knew who it was, when Hazel's carriage 
drew up at last, and was by the side if it before it had fairly 
stopped.

He opened the door and took Hazel out, and led her into the house, 
without paying attention to anything but her. He took her up stairs 
to her own room, which he reached without going through the 
parlour where Mrs. Coles and Prim were. There he threw off his 
own snow-covered wrappings and then hers, that he might wrap 
her in his arms. He did not say what he had been feeling, but his 
manner of great gladness left Hazel to infer several things. And for 
a minute or two she was passive, shewing a pale, tired face. But 
then there swept over her such a sense of what she had, and of 
what she had escaped, that she could only lay her head down on 
his shoulder and be still; a shiver running over her as she 
remembered other souls adrift.

'Have you dined, in the snow, anywhere?' were Rollo's first 
coherent words. He was not given to talking sentiment. At the 
same time he was gathering Hazel's cold hands into his.

'I could not help it, Olaf!' Hazel broke out. 'I have been whirled 
about like a brown snow-flake.'

'And come home frozen.' He rang the bell for Phoebe, admonished 
her to be quick, and went back to the drawing room. When Hazel a 
few minutes later followed him, she found a servant bringing in 
supper. Primrose gave her a welcome kiss, but the other lady 
exclaimed,eyes and senses on the alert,

'Well, my dear! we have been uneasy about you.'

'Nobody ever needabout me,' said Wych Hazel. 'Unless there is 
something afoot more serious than a snow-storm.'

'It's a wild storm, isn't it?'

'Rather wild. You know, wild things are in my line, Mrs. Coles.'

'Not now, my dear, I hope. You have not come far in the snow, 
surely?'

'A little way seems far in such a drive, don't you know it, 
Prudentia?' remarked Rollo. And he took Wych Hazel out of the 
chair where she had placed herself and transferred her to a softer 
one.

'But Dane,' Mrs. Coles continued, with her own very peculiar 
mixture of raillery and insinuation,'aren't you curious? or do you 
know all already?'

'I know all I want to know at present, thank you.'

'Does he always let you do just what you like, Hazel?'

'What I like?' Hazel repeated dreamily, lifting her eyes to the 
person in question: a swift, secret glance of allegiance which to-
night came to him very often. Then she laughed and coloured a 
little. 'I hardly know,' she said. 'My "like" and his "let" are mixed 
up in inextricable confusion.'

'My dear!' said Mrs. Coles in mock reprehension, but smiling. 
'What an admission!'

And I think an inner voice of wisdom admonished her to let the 
matter rest and say no more; but Mrs. Coles was in a sort of malign 
fascination at the picture before her. Hazel was in her easy chair; 
Dane had brought up a little low stand before her, and sitting 
between her and the supper table he was taking care of both; but 
the care bestowed at his left hand was something the like of which 
was strange to see. The late Mr. Coles had never introduced his 
wife to anything of the kind; indeed he had been one of the men 
who rather expect that their wives shall wait upon them. It was not 
Dane was neglecting other people, or that he was making any 
parade whatever; on the contrary, he was fully attentive to every 
want of everybody, and of Hazel he was only taking care; yet it 
was a sort of care and given in a manner that put miles and miles 
between her and all other women. I suppose Mrs. Coles felt herself 
somehow out in the cold, for it was certainly with a little spice of 
irritation that she opened her lips the next time she spoke.

'But Dane,' with an uneasy little laugh, 'I really think you are to 
blame, to allow this little ladyso very young a lady as she isto 
run about alone at night in this way. I have really been anxious. I 
thought you would be a better guardian, when you had the keys 
once safe.'

'Will you have some salad, Prudentia?'

'Salad?O no, my dear! I think it is very unwholesome.'

'Take some ice.'

A turn, or at least a check, was given to the conversation. Mrs. 
Coles could not refuse the ice. Primrose would eat no supper, and 
was evidently longing to get her sister away. Rollo cut for Hazel a 
slice of game.

'But Dane,' said Mrs. Coles presently, 'don't you think it is very 
imprudent to eat such heavy things late at night? Coffee and salad, 
and game? This ice is delicious.'

'So is the salad,' said Dane. 'Will you have a bit of the pheasant, 
