She rose from her chair, but her friend talked so fast that she could
not at once leave her. I knew how anxious she was to know the final
answer of the great banking-house to which I had alluded. Upon that
depended the voyage to Europe. As soon as she could decently do so, she
tore herself away from her companion, and sat down on the sofa at my
side.

“Are you going, Paley, or not?” she asked, with breathless eagerness.

In answer to this inquiry I inadvertently pulled out the receipt for
the passage money, which constituted the ticket. I did not at the
moment think that it ran in favor of “Charles Gaspiller,” for I was not
quite ready to tell her that I had changed my name.

“What is this, Paley?” she asked, blankly. “I don’t understand it.”

“Don’t you, my dear? Why, it is our ticket for a passage in the steamer
to Liverpool,” I replied, cheerfully.

“This? ‘Received of Charles Gas-pill-er!’” said she, reading just what
the letters of my new name spelled.

How stupid I was! Why had I not told her in so many words, that we were
to go, instead of doing the thing in this sensational way?

“Precisely so; that is the French for Glasswood,” I replied, laughing
as gaily as my confusion would permit. “I don’t want Frenchmen in Paris
to call me Bois de Verre, which means wood made of glass, or anything
of that sort. The name is Gas-pee-ay, and not Gas-pill-er.”

“But how does it happen that the receipt is given to you under this
name?”

“Because I don’t want to be called Glasswood in Europe. But, my dear,
we have no time to spare now, and we shall have ten days of idleness
as soon as the steamer sails. So we must not stop to discuss this
matter at the present time. We must be on board at half-past twelve,
and it is after eleven now,” I continued, with sufficient excitement in
my manner to change the current of her thoughts.

“Then we are really going!” exclaimed she, opening her bright eyes.

“Certainly we are; and going immediately.”

“Why, I wanted to go shopping in New York, if we were really going.”

“Shopping! That’s absurd! Ladies never go shopping in New York, when
they are on their way to Paris.”

“But I must write a letter to mother.”

“Certainly; you have time to do that while I speak for a carriage and
pay the bill.”

I procured note paper and envelopes for her, and went down to settle my
account at the office. The polite book-keeper asked me to indicate the
name on the register. I told him I had not written it. I had wound my
handkerchief around my right hand, which I held up to him, and declared
that I was unable to use a pen. He was kind enough to offer to render
me the service himself.

“C. Gaspiller,” I added, when he was ready to write.

“What is it, sir?”

“C. Gaspiller.”

He wrote “C. Caspeare,” and I was entirely satisfied.

“Three dollars, Mr. Caspeare,” said he; and I gave him the amount,
though it was one dollar more than the regular charge.

I was confident that I was leaving no trace of myself here. A carriage
was ordered for me, and my trunks were loaded. I went up for Lilian,
and found that she had finished her letter. She gave it to me to be
stamped and mailed. I took a stamp from my porte-monnaie, carefully
adjusted it upon the envelope, and put the letter in my pocket. Of
course I was not stupid enough to mail it, since it would betray my
secret to those who could not see the necessity of keeping it.

“This is very sudden, Paley,” said Lilian, as the carriage drove off.

“Sudden? Why, I told you this was the way it would have to be done, if
it was done at all,” I replied.

“I know you did. Won’t dear ma be astonished when she reads my letter?”

“Probably she will be,” I answered; but I thought she would be
astonished, long before she read it.

I confess that my conscience reproached me when I thought of the letter
in my pocket, and of the deception towards my wife, of which I was
guilty. Her father, mother and sisters would wonder, and be permitted
to wonder, for weeks if not for months, that they did not hear from
her. It was cruel for me to deceive Lilian, and to subject her family
to all the anxiety to which I thus doomed them, but I believed that it
was a stern necessity, and I silenced the upbraidings of the inward
monitor. With thirty thousand dollars of stolen money in my pocket,
it may be supposed that I did not trouble myself much upon such an
insignificant matter as the peace of my wife’s friends.

We went on board of the steamer and I found our state-room. Being one
of the last engaged, it was not the best on board, though it was a very
comfortable one. Lilian was delighted with it, and declared that she
should be as happy as a queen in it. I was afraid she was mistaken. She
had never traveled any except on our bridal tour, and I expected she
would be sea-sick all the way. But now she was excited by the prospect
before her, and by the busy scene which surrounded us. The steamer was
crowded with those who were going, and with their friends who had come
to see them off. There was no one to say adieu to Lilian or to me.

If, of the multitude on the wharf, there was any one who felt an
interest in me, it could only be a detective. I was a fugitive, and I
felt like one. While Lilian was full of life and animated by the scene,
I could not help feeling depressed. I was bidding farewell to my native
land, perhaps forever. It might never be safe for me to return. I could
not get rid of a certain sense of insecurity. It seemed to me, after
I saw the men casting off the huge hawsers that held the ship to the
pier, that those infernal detectives must come on board and hurry me
back to a prison cell in the city from which I had fled.

Any flurry in the crowd, the arrival of a belated passenger, gave me
a pang of anxiety which I cannot describe. It was only when the huge
steamer was clear of the dock, and the great wheels began to turn, that
I dared to breathe in a natural manner. Even then I was thrown into
a fresh agony, when a steam-tug came out to us to put the mails on
board. I was sure, until it was alongside, that it had been specially
chartered by the detectives to arrest me. I was determined to jump
overboard and perish in the waves, in sight of my wife, rather than be
borne back to a long term of imprisonment in a dungeon. It was better
to die than confront my friends in Boston.

I asked one of the officers what the tug was, as she came alongside,
that I need not be tempted to do a deed for which there was no real
necessity. He assured me it contained only the mails, and I breathed
easier; but I was not entirely satisfied that the officers had not
availed themselves of this last opportunity to arrest their victim,
until the tug had cast off, and the steamer started on her long voyage.
I was safe then. My throbbing heart returned to its natural pulsations.

But I could not forget the ruin and disgrace which would soon cover my
name and fame in Boston. I could not shut out from my view the horror
of my mother when she learned that I was a fugitive from justice, and
that I had mocked her fondest hopes. I was miserable for the time,
and Lilian rallied me upon my gloomy appearance. There was a remedy
which I had tried before for this mental suffering. Leaving my wife
for a moment, I went down to the steward’s room, and drank a glass of
whiskey. I found that lunch was on the table, and I conducted Lilian to
the saloon. I ordered a bottle of sherry, and a few glasses of this,
in addition to what I had already taken, soon gave my reproaches of
conscience to the winds for the time.

I do not intend to describe our voyage. It was an unusually pleasant
one, and Lilian suffered but very little from sea-sickness. In a few
days, as the distance from my native land increased, I felt tolerably
secure from the consequences of my crime; but I found it impossible to
get rid of the thought of my mother and other friends at home. Even
whiskey and wine soon failed to stupefy me unless I partook of them in
inordinate quantities. Lilian told me I drank too much, and begged me
not to do so any more. She was so gentle and so tender that I could not
refuse, for I had not acquired a decided appetite for the intoxicating
cup. I only drank it for the solace it afforded me, and I was fully
convinced that the severe headaches and the disordered stomach which
troubled me were the effects of this excess. I would gladly refrain,
but there was “no peace for the wicked.”

I will not attempt to describe my sufferings, though I appeared
cheerful and happy to my wife. I could not wholly conceal them from
her, and she worried me with her questions, anxious to know what ailed
me. We arrived at Liverpool and hastened on to London, for I wished to
cash my bill before it was possible for anything to go wrong. I had
no trouble in doing so. My signature had already reached the bankers,
having come out in the same steamer with me. With the gold which I
had brought, I had four thousand five hundred pounds. To prevent
any trace being had of me, I went to another banker and purchased a
circular letter of credit for a thousand pounds, investing the rest in
securities which paid me about five per cent.

We spent a month in London, seeing the sights, and Lilian was as happy
as a woman could be. I had satisfied her that the change of name was
purely a matter of convenience, and she soon became accustomed to it.
She wrote letters to her mother and other friends, and gave them to me
to be mailed. I lighted my cigar with them. We had rooms at Morley’s,
but we saw no one, knew no one in the house, except the servants. One
day, after dinner, I went out to obtain some tickets to visit Windsor
castle, leaving Lilian in the room. When I came back I found her in
terrible excitement. She had a Boston newspaper in her hand, which the
landlord, as a special favor, had sent up to our apartments.

“O Charles—Paley!” said she; and I saw that she had been weeping.
“What does this mean?”

“What, my dear?” I asked, appalled at the tempest which was rising.

“This paper says there is a rumor of a defalcation in the Forty-Ninth
National Bank, and that the paying teller has disappeared. Were not you
the paying teller, Paley?”

She suddenly ceased to call me Charles, as I had instructed her to
do. Evidently she knew more than I wished her to know. I took the
newspaper. It was dated about a week after our departure from Boston.
The paragraph said it was rumored that there was a heavy defalcation in
the Forty-Ninth. The paying teller had been missing for a week. That
was all. It was merely an item which some industrious reporter had
picked up; and the particulars had not yet been published. Doubtless
the detectives were looking for me.

With tears in her eyes Lilian again demanded an explanation of the
paragraph. What could I say?




CHAPTER XXIII.

MY CONFESSION.


I HAD apparently deceived my wife as far as it was possible for me to
do so. If I told her the truth, would she not spurn me, cast me out
and despise me? How could she do less? She was innocent, she was true,
she was beautiful; and I was afraid of her. Many and many a time had I
cursed my folly and wickedness in departing, even for a moment, from
the straight path of rectitude. I wondered that I had been able to
delude myself into the belief that taking even a few hundred dollars
for a brief period was not a crime.

Be warned, O young man, against the first wrong step. While you cheat
others, you are the greatest dupe yourself.

In the excitement of seeing the wonders of London I had found some
relief from the goadings of conscience, and from the terrors of the
future. Almost every day I met some Americans, seeing the sights which
attracted strangers. I avoided them, for I feared that I should
be recognized by some one from Boston. Lilian desired to see these
Americans, but I was obliged to lead her away from them. I was not only
an exile from home, but I felt like a leper among my own countrymen.

I was now to face a genuine trial, not a fear, but a reality. After
reading the paragraph in the newspaper, my wife had evidently measured
my conduct by the suspicions she entertained. By this time she was
satisfied that I had not resorted to so much concealment in leaving
Boston for the reasons I had alleged. My course was inconsistent from
beginning to end. I could easily imagine what had passed through her
mind since she read that paragraph.

Possibly I might succeed in lulling her suspicions for the time. I
might even argue her out of them. She was innocence and simplicity,
like her father, rather than her mother, and would try to believe what
I told her. But what was the use to attempt to deceive her any longer?
The truth would soon dawn upon her. Yet I had not the courage to be
candid with her.

“Why don’t you tell me about it, Paley?” repeated she, anxiously, as I
turned over the newspaper.

“What shall I tell you, Lilian?”

“Tell me that you are not a defaulter.”

“Well, I’m not, then,” I replied, with a smile, which I am sure was a
very grim one.

She looked at me, and I saw her eyes fill with tears after she had
gazed at me in silence for a moment. I think that my tone and my looks
belied my speech, and without heeding the value of the words I used,
they conveyed to her the impression that I was guilty.

“Why do you cry, Lilian?” I asked, moved by her tears.

“I don’t know. I can’t help it. I feel just as though something was
going wrong,” she replied, covering her face with her handkerchief.

“Why, what do you mean, Lilian?”

“Every thing looks very strange to me.”

“What looks strange?”

“That we should have left so suddenly; that I could not even tell dear
ma where we were going; that you were in such a hurry to reach your new
place in Paris, though we have stopped a whole month in London. What is
the reason I have no letters from home?”

“Because none have come, I suppose. I have not received any,” I
answered, struggling to be funny.

“Paley, you told me, if you left for Paris, that you should write to
the bank officers, and resign your situation. You did not do so. This
paper says you have been missing for a week, and there is a suspicion
that your accounts are not all right. Tell me the worst, Paley. I will
try to bear it,” she continued, wiping away the tears which filled her
eyes.

I was tempted to do so. She had been worrying for weeks about her
letters, and she would continue to do so as long as we remained in
Europe. No letters would come; none could come. Her parents and her
sisters were as anxious about her as she was about them. I could never
make peace on the plan which I had laid out at home. My wife would
become more and more unhappy, and after the facts of my defalcation had
been fully published, I should be still more in dread of meeting some
American who would recognize me. As a teller in the bank I was well
known to many of the wealthiest men of Boston. Under existing treaties,
I could be arrested in most of the European nations, and sent back to
the scene of my crime. There was no place of safety for me. I could not
flee from the wrath to come.

“What do you suspect, Lilian?” I inquired.

“I should not suspect anything, if this paper did not say that your
accounts were supposed to be wrong. I don’t know any thing about
such things, but this paragraph set me to thinking how strange your
movements were when you left Boston. I wish I could believe it is all
right. Why don’t you go to your place in Paris? We had to leave home at
twenty-four hours’ notice, because there must be no delay.”

“We are going next week.”

“But you have laid your plans to travel in Europe for the next year, at
least.”

What was the use for me to attempt to explain? It was worse than folly.
I had told Lilian so many stories, without regard to their consistency,
that she knew not what to believe. I was disgusted with myself.

“I don’t see where you got so much money, either, Paley,” she added.

“Do you think I stole it?” I asked, somewhat severely.

“I’m afraid you did,” she answered, with a shudder.

“You are?”

“When I think of it, I am really afraid you did. Here we are in London
under an assumed name. All your papers call you Charles Gaspiller. You
told me you had over thirty thousand dollars too.”

“I should have had more if I had not lost any,” I replied, in rather a
surly tone.

“Tell me the whole truth, Paley. Let me know the worst. If my husband
is a—”

“A what?”

“A defaulter, a thief. Let me know it,” said she, with a burst of agony.

“A thief!” I exclaimed, springing to my feet.

“Don’t be angry, Paley.”

“When my wife calls me a thief, we have been together long enough,” I
added, sternly.

I took my hat, and rushed out of the room. I was angry, but my wrath
was of only a moment’s duration. I went out into the Strand, and walked
at a furious pace till I reached the American Agency. I wished to know
the worst. If I had been published as a defaulter in Boston, I was no
longer safe in London. I wished to see a file of Boston papers. I had
not thought of looking at them before, because I desired to banish my
native land from my mind.

I turned the folios till I came to the one which Lilian had seen. I
read the paragraph again. It was very vague. It did not say that the
missing teller was a defaulter; it only hinted at something of the
kind, for the inference always is, when a bank officer disappears,
that his cash is short. I turned over the sheet to find something more
about the matter. There was nothing else about me or the bank; but as I
examined the paper, my eyes rested for a moment on the list of deaths.

“In Springhaven, 15th inst., Miss Rachel Glasswood, 67 years.”

My aunt had passed away on the very day that I sailed from New York!
How I cursed myself again and again! If I had not fled I should
certainly have been able to pay my debt to the bank in a short time,
for I was confident she had left me enough for this. I had banished
myself from home for nothing. I had suffered tortures which no innocent
man can understand or conceive of, and years of misery were still
before me. I had made up my mind long before, that honesty was the best
policy; and I even had a glimmering conception of something higher than
this. I was sure I should have been happier with poverty and hard labor
for my lot, if I could only have been honest.

How I envied Tom Flynn! His piety, which I had derided, seemed to me
now to be the sum total of earthly joy. I do not believe in cant of
any kind, but if ever a man was convicted of sin, I was, though I had
not yet the courage to attempt to retrace my steps. My wife virtually
called me a thief. It was only the truth; I deserved the epithet, and
more than that.

I turned to the next paper. There was nothing about me or the bank in
it, and I continued my search till, in a subsequent issue, I found
another paragraph. The writer was happy to assure the public that the
bank would not lose a dollar by the missing teller. I was surprised
at this announcement, for I was indebted to the bank in the sum of
thirty-eight thousand dollars. I could not understand it. I turned to
the stock lists in the several papers. The shares in the Forty-Ninth
had been affected by the first paragraph, but the quotations showed
that they had been restored by the information contained in the second.

