snub captains and lord it over everything dead and 
alive in a steamboat. I presently climbed up on 
the bench ; I did not think it was safe to go to 
sleep while this lunatic was on watch. 

However, I must have gone to sleep in the course 
of time, because the next thing I was aware of was 

the fact that day was breaking, Mr. W gone, and 

Mr. B at the wheel again. So it was four o'clock 

and all well — but me; I felt like a skinful of dry 
bones and all of them trying to ache at once. 

Mr. B asked me what I had stayed up there for. 

I confessed that it was to do Mr. W a benevo- 
lence ; tell him where he was. It took five minutes 
for the entire prepostero sness of the thing to filter 

into Mr. B 's system, and then I judge it filled 

him nearly up to the chin; because he paid me a 
compliment — and not much of one either. He 
said, — 

" Well, taking you by-and-large, you do seenr to 
be more different kinds of an ass than any creature 
I ever saw before. What did you suppose he want- 
ed to know for ?" 

I said I thought it might be a convenience to him. 

" Convenience ! Dash ! Didn't I tell you that a 
man's got to know the river in the night the same 
as he'd know his own front hall ? " 

" Well, I can follow the front hall in the dark if 
I know it is the front hall ; but suppose you set me 
down in the middle of it in the dark and not tell 
me which hall it is ; how am  to know ? " 

" Well you've got to, on the river I " 

" All right. Then I'm glad I never said anything 
to Mr. W ." 

" I should say so. Why, he'd have slammed you 
through the window and utterly ruined a hundred 
dollars' worth of window-sash and stuff." 

I was glad this damage had been saved, for it 
would have made me unpopular with the owners. 
They always hated anybody who had the name of 
being careless, and injuring things. 

I went to work, now, to learn the shape of the 
river ; and of all the eluding and ungraspable ob- 
jects that ever I tried to get mind or hands on, that 
was the chief I would fasten my eyes upon a sharp 
wooded point that projected far into the river some 
li 's ahead of me, and go to laboriously photographing 
its shape upon my brain ; and just as I was be- 
ginning to succeed to my satisfaction, we would 
draw up toward it and the exasperating thing would 
begin to melt away and fold back into the bank ! 
If there had been a conspicuous dead tree standing 
upon the very point of the cape, I would find that 
tree inconspicuously merged into the general forest, 
and occupying the middle of a straight shore, when 
I got abreast of it. No prominent hill would stick 
to its shape long enough for me to make up my mind 
what its form really was, but it was as dissolving 
and changeful as if it had been a mountain of butter 
in the hottest corner of the tropics. Nothing ever 
had the same shape when I was coming down stream 
that it had borne when I went up. I mentioned 

these little difficulties to Mr. B . He said, — 

" That's the very main virtue of the thing. If 
the shapes didn't change every three seconds they 
wouldn't be of any use. Take this place where we 
are now, for instance. As long as that hill over 
yonder is only one hill, I can boom right along the 
way I'm going, but the moment it splits at the top 
and forms a V, I know I've got to scratch to star- 
board in a hurry, or I'll bang this boat's brains out 
asfainst a rock: and then the moment one of the 
prongs of the V swings behind the other, I've got to 
waltz to larboard again, or I'll have a misunder- 
standing with a snag that would snatch the keelson 
out of this steamboat as neatly as if it were a silver 
in your hand. If that hill didn't change its shape 


on bad nights there would bean awful steamboa\) 
grave-yard around here inside of a jear." 

It was plain that I had got to learn the shape of 
the river in all the different ways that could be 
thought of, — upside down, wrong end first, inside 
out, fore-and-aft, and " thortships," — and then know 
what to do on gray nights when it had'nt any shape 
at all. So I set about it. In the coui-se of time I 
began to get the best of this knotty lesson, and 
my self-complacency moved to the front once more. 

Mr. B was all fixed, and ready to start it to the 

rear again. He opened on me after this fashion : — 

"How much water did we have in the middle 
crossing at Hole-in-the-Wall, trip before last ? " 

I considered this an outrage. I said : 

" Every trip, down and up, the leadsmen are sing- 
ing through that tangled place for three quarters of 
an hour on a stretch. How do you reckon I can 
remember such a mess as that ? " 

" My boy, you've got to remember it. You've got 
to remember the exact spot and the exact marks the 
boat lay in when we had the shoalest water, in 
every one of the two thousand shoal places between 
St. Louis and New Orleans ; and you musn't get the 
shoal soundings and marks of one trip mixed up 
with the shoal soundings and marks of another, 
either, for they're not often twice alike. You must 
keep them separate." 

When I came to myself again, I said, — 

" When I get so that I can do that, I'll be able to 


raise the dead, and then I won't have to pilot a steam- 
boat in order to make a living. I want to retire 
from this business. I want a slush-bucket and a 
brush ; I'm only fit for a roustabout. I haven't got 
brains enough to be a pilot ; and if I had I wouldn't 
liave stxcngth enough to carry them around, unless 
I went on crutches." 

" Now drop that ! When I say I'll learn* a man 
the river I mean it. And you can depend on it I'll 
learn him or kill him." 

There was no use in arguing with a person like 
this. I promptly put such a strain on my memory 
that by and by even the shoal water and the countless 
crossing marks began to stay with me. But the result 
V as just the same. I never could more than get one 
knotty thing learned before another presented itself. 
Now I had often seen pilots gazing at the water and 
pretending to read it as if it were a book ; but it 
was a book that told me nothing. A time came at 

last, however, when Mr, B seemed to think me 

far enough advanced to bear a lesson on water-read- 
ing. So he began : — 

" Do you see that long slanting line on the face £ 
the water ? Now that's a reef. Moreover, it's a bluff 
reef. There is a solid sand-bar under it that is nearly 
as straight up and down as the side of a house. 
There is plenty of water close up to it, but mighty 
little on top of it. If you were to hit it you would 
knock the boat's brains out. Do you see w're the 
line fringes out at the upper end and begins to fade 
away ? " 

" Yes, sir." 

" Well, that is a low place ; that is the head of the 
reef You can climb over there, and not hurt any- 
thing. Cross over, now, and follow along close under 
the reef — easy water there — not much current." 

I followed the reef along till I approached the 
fringed end. Then Mr. B said, — 

" Now get I'eady. Wait till I give the word. 
She won't want to mount the reef; a boat hates 
shoal water. Stand by — wait — wait — keep her well 
in hand. Now cramp her down ! Snatch her! snatch 
her ! " 

He seized the other side of the wheel and helped 
to spin it around until it was hard down, and then 
we held it so. The boat resisted and refused to 
answer for a while, and she next came surging to 
starboard, mounted the reef, and sent a long, angry 
ridge of water foaming away from her bows. 

" Now watch her ; watch her like a cat, or she 'll 
get away from you. When she fights strong and 
the tiller slips a little, in a jerky, greasy sort of 
way, let up on her a trifle ; it is the way she tejls 
you at night that the water is too shoal ; but keep 
edging her up, little by little toward the point. 
You are well up on the bar, now ; there is a bar 
under every point, because the water that comes 
down around it forms an eddy and allows the sedi- 
ment to sink. Do you see those fine lines on the 
face of the water that branch out like the ribs of a 
fan ? Well, those are little reefs ; you want to 
just miss the ends of them, but ryn them pretty 
close. Now look out — look out ! Don't you crowd 
that slick, greasy-looking place ; there am't nine 
feet there ; she won't stand it. She begins to 
smell it ; look sharp, I tell you ! Oh blazes, there 
you go ! Stop the starboard wheel ! Quick ! Ship 
up to back ! Set her back ! " 

The engine bells jingled and the engines ans- 
wered promptly, shooting white colu*.. ns of steam 
far aloft out of the scape pipes, but it was too late. 
The boat had " smelt " the bar in good earnest ; 
the foamy ridges that radiated from her bows sud- 
denly disappeared, a great dead swell came rolling 
forward and swept ahead of her, she careened far 
over to larboard, and went tearing away toward 
the other shore as if she were about scared to 
death. We were a good mile from where we ought 
to have been, when we finally got the upper hand 
of her again. 

During the afternoon watch the next day, Mr. 

B asked me if I knew how to run the next few 

miles. I said ; — 

" Go inside the first snag above the point, out- 
side the next one, start out from the lower end of 
Higgins's wood-yard, make a square crossing 
and"— 

" That's all right. I 'll be back before you close 
ap on the next point " 



But he wasn't. He was still below when I 
rounded it and entered upon a piece of river which 
I had some misgivings about. I did not know 
that he was hiding behind a chimney to see how I 
would perform. I went gayly along, getting 
prouder and prouder, for he had never left the boat 
in my sole charge such a length of time before. I 
even got to "setting" her and letting the wheel go, 
entirely, while I vain-gloriously turned my back 
inspected the stern marks and hummed a tune, a 
sort of easy indifference which I had prodigiously 

admired in B and other great pilots. Once I 

inspected rather long, and when I faced to the 
front again my heart flew into my mouth so sud- 
denly that if I hadn't clapped my teeth together I 
would have lost it. One of those frightful bluff 
reefs was stretching its deadly length right across 
our bows : My head was gone in a moment ; I did 
not know which end I stood on ; I gasped and 
could not get my breath ; I spun the wheel down 
with such rapidity that it wove itself together like 
a spider's web ; the boat answered and turned 
square away from the reef, but the reef followed 
her ! I fled, and still it followed — still it kept 
right across my bows ! I never looked to see 
where I was going, I only fled. The awful crash 
was imminent — why didn't that villain come ! If 
I committed the crime of ringing a bell, I might 
get thrown overboard. But better that than kill 
the boat. So in blind desperation I started such a 
rattling " shivaree " clown below as never had 
astounded an engineer in this world before, I fancy. 
Amidst the frenzy of the bells the engines began to 
back and fill in a furious way, and my reason for- 
sook its throne — we were about to crash into the 
woods on the other side of the river. Just then 

Mr. B stepped calmly into view on the huricane 

deck. My soul went out to him in gratitude. My 
distress vanished ; I would have felt safe on the 

brink of Niagara, with Mr. B on the hurricane 

deck. He blandly and sweetly took his tooth-pick 
out of his mouth between his fingers, as if it were 
a cigar, — we were just in the act of climbing an 
overhanging big tree, and the passengers were 
scudding astern like rats, — and lifted up these com- 
mands to me ever so gently : — 

" Stop the starboard. Stop the larboard. Set 
her back on both." 

The boat hesitated, halted, pressed her nose 
among the boughs a critical instant, then reluctant- 
ly began to back away. 

" Stop the larboard. Come ahead on it. Stop 
the starboard. Come ahead on it. Point her for 
the bar." 

I sailed away as serenely as a summer's morn 
ing. Mr. B came in and said, with mock sim- 
plicity,— 

" When" you have a hail, my boy, you ought to 
tap the big bell three timee before you land, so that 
the enginsers can get ready." 


I blushed under the sarcasm, and said I hadn't 
had any hail. 

" Ah ! Then it was for wood,. I suppose. The 
officer of the watch will tell you when he wants to 
wood up." 

I went on consuming, and said I wasn't after 
wood. 

" Indeed ? Why, what could you want over here 
in the bend, then ? Did you ever know of a boat 
following a bend up-stream at this stage of the 
river ? " 

"No, sir, — and  wasn't trying to follow it. I 
was getting away from a bluff reef 

" No, it wasn't a bluff reef ; there isn't one 
within three miles of where you were." 

" But I saw it. It was as bluff as that one 
yonder." 

" Just about. Run over it ! '' 

" Do you give it as an order ? " 

" Yes. Run over it ! " 

" If I don't, I wish I may die." 

" All right ; I am taking the responsibility." 

I was just as anxious to kill the boat, now, as I 
had been to save her before. I impressed my 
orders upon my memory, to be used at the inquest, 
and made a straight break for the reef. As it dis- 
appeared under our bows I held my breath ; but 
we slid over it like oil. 

" Now don't you see the difference ? It wasn't 
anything but a wind reef. The wind does that." 



" So I see. But it is exactly like a bluff reef. 
How am I ever going to tell them apart ? " 

'' I can't tell you. It is an instinct. By and by 
you will just naturally know one from the other, 
but you never will be able to explain why or how 
you know them apart." 

It turned out to be tnie. The face of the water, 
in time became a wonderful book — a book that was 
a dead language to the uneducated passenger, but 
which told its mind to me without reserve, deliver- 
ing its most cherished secrets as clearly as if it ut- 
tered them with a voice. And it was not a book 
to be read once and thrown aside, for it had a new 
story to tell every day. Throughout the long 
twelve hundred miles there was never a page that 
was void of interest, never one that you could leave 
unread without loss, never one that you would 
want to skip, thinking you could find higher en- 
joyment in some other thing. There never was so 
wonderful a book written by man; never one 
whose interest was so absorbing, so unflagging, so 
sparklingly renewed with every re-perusal. The 
passenger who could not read it was charmed with 
a peculiar sort of faint dimple on its surface (on the 
rare occasions when he did not overlook it alto- 
gether) ; but to the pilot that was an italicized 
passage ; indeed, it was more than that, it was a 
legend of the largest capitals with a string of shout- 
ing exclamation points at the end of it ; for it meant 
that a wreck or a rock was buried there that could 


