
"You have left your paper," said Ben.

"I have read it through," was the reply. "I don't care to take it."

Ben took it up, and found it to be a daily paper which his father had
been accustomed to take for years. It gave him a start, as he saw the
familiar page, and he felt a qualm of homesickness. The neat house in
which he had lived since he was born, his mother's gentle face, rose up
before him, compared with his present friendless condition, and the
tears rose to his eyes. But he was in a public restaurant, and his pride
came to the rescue. He pressed back the tears, and resumed his knife and
fork.

When he had finished his dinner, he took up the paper once more, reading
here and there. At last his eye rested on the following advertisement:--

  "My son, Benjamin Brandon, having run away from home without any good
  reason, I hereby caution the public against trusting him on my
  account; but will pay the sum of one dollar and necessary expenses to
  any person who will return him to me. He is ten years old, well grown
  for his age, has dark eyes and a dark complexion. He was dressed in a
  gray-mixed suit, and had on a blue cap when he left home.

  "JAMES BRANDON."

Ben's face flushed when he read this advertisement. It was written by
his father, he knew well enough, and he judged from the language that it
was written in anger. One dollar was offered for his restoration.

Ben felt somehow humiliated at the smallness of the sum, and at the
thought that this advertisement would be read by his friends and
school-companions. The softer thoughts, which but just now came to him,
were banished, and he determined, whatever hardships awaited him, to
remain in New York, and support himself as he had begun to do. But,
embittered as he felt against his father, he felt a pang when he thought
of his mother. He knew how anxious she would feel about him, and he
wished he might be able to write her privately that he was well, and
doing well. But he was afraid the letter would get into his father's
hands, and reveal his whereabouts; then the police might be set on his
track, and he might be forced home to endure the humiliation of a severe
punishment, and the jeers of his companions, who would never let him
hear the last of his abortive attempt.

At last a way occurred to him. He would write a letter, and place it in
the hands of some one going to Philadelphia, to be posted in the latter
city. This would give no clue to his present home, and would answer the
purpose of relieving his mother's anxiety.

Late in the afternoon, Ben went into a stationery store on Nassau
Street.

"Will you give me a sheet of paper, and an envelope?" he asked,
depositing two cents on the counter.

The articles called for were handed him.

"Can I write a letter here?" inquired Ben.

"You can go round to that desk," said the clerk; "you will find pen and
ink there."

Ben, with some difficulty, composed and wrote the following letter, for
it was the first he had ever had occasion to write:--

  "DEAR MOTHER,--I hope you will not feel very bad because I have left
  home. Father punished me for what I did not do, and after that I was
  not willing to stay; but I wish I could see you. Don't feel anxious
  about me, for I am getting along very well, and earning my own living.
  I cannot tell you where I am, for father might find out, and I do not
  want to come back, especially after that advertisement. I don't think
  my going will make much difference to father, as he has only offered
  one dollar reward for me. You need not show this letter to him. I
  send you my love, and I also send my love to Mary, though she used to
  tease me sometimes. And now I must bid you good-by.

                                            "From your affectionate son,

                                                                 "BEN."

After completing this letter Ben put it in the envelope, and directed it
to

                                  "MRS. RUTH BRANDON,

                                           "Cedarville,

                                                   "Pennsylvania."

It may be explained that the Mary referred to was an elder sister, ten
years older than Ben, against whom he felt somewhat aggrieved, on
account of his sister's having interfered with him more than he thought
she had any right to do. She and Ben were the only children.

If I were to express my opinion of this letter of Ben's, I should say
that it was wanting in proper feeling for the mother who had always been
kind and gentle to him, and whose heart, he must have known, would be
deeply grieved by his running away from home. But Ben's besetting sin
was pride, mingled with obstinacy, and pride prevailed over his love
for his mother. If he could have known of the bitter tears which his
mother was even now shedding over her lost boy, I think he would have
found it difficult to maintain his resolution.

When the letter was written, Ben went across to the post-office, and
bought a three-cent stamp, which he placed on the envelope. Then,
learning that there was an evening train for Philadelphia, he went down
to the Cortlandt Street Ferry, and watched till he saw a gentleman, who
had the air of a traveller. Ben stepped up to him and inquired, "Are you
going to Philadelphia, sir?"

"Yes, my lad," was the answer; "are you going there also?"

"No, sir."

"I thought you might want somebody to take charge of you. Is there
anything I can do for you?"

"Yes, sir. If you would be so kind as to post this letter in
Philadelphia."

"I will do so; but why don't you post it in New York? It will go just as
well."

"The person who wrote it," said Ben, "doesn't want to have it known
where it came from."

"Very well, give it to me, and I will see that it is properly mailed."

The gentleman took the letter, and Ben felt glad that it was written. He
thought it would relieve his mother's anxiety.

As he was standing on the pier, a gentleman having a carpet-bag in one
hand, and a bundle of books in the other, accosted him.

"Can you direct me to the Astor House, boy?"

"Yes, sir," said Ben.

Then, with a sudden thought, he added, "Shall I carry your carpet-bag,
sir?"

"On the whole I think you may," said the gentleman. "Or stay, I think
you may take this parcel of books."

"I can carry both, sir."

"No matter about that. I will carry the bag, and you shall be my guide."

Ben had not yet had time to get very well acquainted with the city; but
the Astor House, which is situated nearly opposite the lower end of the
City Hall Park, he had passed a dozen times, and knew the way to it
very well. He was glad that the gentleman wished to go there, and not to
one of the up-town hotels, of which he knew nothing. He went straight up
Cortlandt Street to Broadway, and then turning north, soon arrived at
the massive structure, which, for over thirty years, has welcomed
travellers from all parts of the world.

"This is the Astor House, sir," said Ben.

"I remember it now," said the gentleman; "but it is ten years since I
have been in New York, and I did not feel quite certain of finding my
way. Do you live in New York?"

"Yes, sir."

"You may give me the package now. How much shall I pay you for your
services?"

"Whatever you please, sir," said Ben.

"Will that answer?" and the traveller placed twenty-five cents in the
hands of our young hero.

"Yes, sir," said Ben, in a tone of satisfaction. "Thank you."

The traveller entered the hotel, and Ben remained outside,
congratulating himself upon his good luck.

"That's an easy way to earn twenty five cents," he thought. "It didn't
take me more than fifteen minutes to come up from the ferry, and I
should have to sell twenty-five papers to make so much."

This sum, added to what he had made during the day by selling papers,
and including what he had on hand originally, made one dollar and thirty
cents. But out of this he had spent twenty-five cents for dinner, and
for his letter, including postage, five cents. Thus his expenses had
been thirty cents, which, being deducted, left him just one dollar. Out
of this, however, it would be necessary to buy some supper, and pay for
his lodging and breakfast at the Newsboys' Home. Fifteen cents, however,
would do for the first, while the regular charge for the second would be
but twelve cents. Ben estimated, therefore, that he would have
seventy-three cents to start on next day. He felt that this was a
satisfactory state of finances, and considered whether he could not
afford to spend a little more for supper. However, not feeling very
hungry, he concluded not to do so.

The next morning he bought papers as usual and sold them. But it seemed
considerably harder work, for the money, than carrying bundles.
However, Ben foresaw that in order to become a "baggage-smasher" (for
this is the technical term by which the boys and men are known, who wait
around the ferries and railway depots for a chance to carry baggage,
though I have preferred to use the term luggage boy), it would be
necessary to know more about localities in the city than he did at
present. Accordingly he devoted the intervals of time between the
selling of papers, to seeking out and ascertaining the locality of the
principal hotels and streets in the city.

In the course of a fortnight he had obtained a very fair knowledge of
the city. He now commenced waiting at the ferries and depots, though he
did not immediately give up entirely the newspaper trade. But at length
he gave it up altogether, and became a "baggage-smasher," by profession,
or, as he is styled in the title of this book, a luggage boy.

Thus commences a new page in his history.




CHAPTER XII.

BEN'S HOME IN PHILADELPHIA.


Though the story of "Ben, the Luggage Boy," professes to treat of life
in the city streets, I must devote a single chapter to a very different
place. I must carry the reader to Ben's home in Pennsylvania, and show
what effect his running away had upon the family circle.

There was a neat two-story house standing on the principal street in
Cedarville, with a pleasant lawn in front, through which, from the gate,
a gravelled walk ran to the front door. Mr. Brandon, as I have already
said, was a coal-dealer, and in very comfortable circumstances; so that
Ben had never known what it was to want anything which he really needed.
He was a man of great firmness, and at times severity, and more than
once Ben had felt aggrieved by his treatment of him. Mrs. Brandon was
quite different from her husband, being gentle and kind, and it was to
her that Ben always went for sympathy, in any trouble or difficulty,
whether at home or at school.

Mrs. Brandon was sitting at the window with her work in her hand; but it
had fallen listlessly in her lap, and on her face was a look of painful
preoccupation. Opposite her sat her daughter Mary, Ben's only sister,
already referred to.

"Don't worry so, mother," said Mary; "you will make yourself sick."

"I cannot help it, Mary," said Mrs. Brandon. "I can't help worrying
about Ben. He has been gone a week now, and Heaven knows what he has
suffered. He may be dead."

"No, mother," said Mary, who had more of her father's strength than her
mother's gentleness. "He is not dead, you may depend upon that."

"But he had no money, that I know of. How could he live?"

"Ben can take care of himself better than most boys of his age."

"But think of a boy of ten going out in the world by himself!"

"There are many boys of ten who have to do it, mother."

"What could the poor boy do?"

"He might suffer a little; but if he does, he will the sooner come
home."

"I wish he might," said Mrs. Brandon, with a sigh. "I think your father
does very wrong not to go after him."

"He wouldn't know where to go. Besides, he has advertised."

"I hope Ben will not see the advertisement. Poor boy! he would feel hurt
to think that we cared so little for him as to offer only one dollar for
his return."

"He will know you had nothing to do with the advertisement, mother; you
may be sure of that."

"Yes, he knows me too well for that. I would give all I have to have him
back."

"I want him back too," said Mary. "He is my only brother, and of course
I love him; but I don't think it will do him any harm to suffer a little
as a punishment for going away."

"You were always hard upon the poor boy, Mary," said Mrs. Brandon.

"No, I am not hard; but I see his faults, and I want him to correct
them. It is you who have been too indulgent."

"If I have been, it is because you and your father have been too much
the other way."

There was a brief pause, then Mrs. Brandon said, "Can you think of any
place, Mary, where Ben would be likely to go?"

"Yes, I suppose he went to Philadelphia. When a boy runs away from home,
he naturally goes to the nearest city."

"I have a great mind to go up to-morrow."

"What good would it do, mother?"

"I might meet him in the street."

"There is not much chance of that. I shouldn't wonder if by this time he
had gone to sea."

"Gone to sea!" repeated Mrs. Brandon, turning pale. "What makes you
think so? Did he ever speak of such a thing to you?"

"Yes, he once threatened to run away to sea, when I did something that
did not suit him."

"Oh, I hope not. I have heard that boys are treated very badly on board
ship. Besides, he might get drowned."

"I am not sure whether a good sea-voyage might not be the best thing for
him," said strong-minded Mary.

"But suppose he should be ill-treated?"

"It might take the pride out of him, and make him a better boy."

"I never get much satisfaction from you, Mary. I don't see how you can
be so harsh."

"I see we are not likely to agree, mother. But there is a boy coming up
the walk with a letter in his hand."

"It may be from Ben," said his mother, rising hastily, and going to the
door.

The boy was William Gordon, a school-mate of Ben's, whose disappearance,
long before this time, had been reported throughout the village.

"I was passing the post-office, Mrs. Brandon," he said, "when the
postmaster called from the window, and asked me to bring you this
letter. I think it is from Ben. The handwriting looks like his."

"Oh, thank you, William," said Mrs. Brandon, joyfully. "Give it to me
quick."

She tore it open and read the letter, which is given at length in the
last chapter.

"Is it from Ben?" asked William.

"Yes."

"Is he in Philadelphia? I noticed it was mailed there."

"Yes--no--he says he cannot tell us where he is."

"I think he must be in Philadelphia, or the letter would not be mailed
there."

"Come in, William. I must go and tell Mary."

"No, thank you, Mrs. Brandon. I am on an errand for my mother. I hope
Ben is well?"

"Yes, he says so."

Mrs. Brandon went in, and showed the letter to her daughter.

"There, I told you, mother, you need not be alarmed. He says he is
earning his living."

"But it seems so hard for a boy of ten to have to work for his living.
What can he do?"

"Oh, there are various things he can do. He might sell papers, for
instance."

"I think I shall go to Philadelphia to-morrow, Mary."

"It won't be of any use, you may depend, mother. He is not in
Philadelphia."

"But this letter is posted there."

"That is a proof to me that he is not there. He says he don't want to
come back."

Shortly after, Mr. Brandon entered the house.

"We have had a letter from Ben, father," said Mary.

"Show it to me," he said, briefly.

He read the letter, and handed it back without a word.

"What are you going to do about it, Mr. Brandon?" asked his wife.

"What is there to be done?" he asked.

"I think I had better go up to Philadelphia to-morrow."

"What for?"
