the general way. Only you don’t kill the women. You shut up the women,
but you don’t kill them. They’re always beautiful and rich, and awfully
scared. You take their watches and things, but you always take your hat
off and talk polite. They ain’t anybody as polite as robbers--you’ll see
that in any book. Well, the women get to loving you, and after they’ve
been in the cave a week or two weeks they stop crying and after that
you couldn’t get them to leave. If you drove them out they’d turn right
around and come back. It’s so in all the books.”

“Why, it’s real bully, Tom. I believe it’s better’n to be a pirate.”

“Yes, it’s better in some ways, because it’s close to home and circuses
and all that.”

By this time everything was ready and the boys entered the hole, Tom in
the lead. They toiled their way to the farther end of the tunnel, then
made their spliced kite-strings fast and moved on. A few steps brought
them to the spring, and Tom felt a shudder quiver all through him.
He showed Huck the fragment of candle-wick perched on a lump of clay
against the wall, and described how he and Becky had watched the flame
struggle and expire.

The boys began to quiet down to whispers, now, for the stillness and
gloom of the place oppressed their spirits. They went on, and presently
entered and followed Tom’s other corridor until they reached the
“jumping-off place.” The candles revealed the fact that it was not
really a precipice, but only a steep clay hill twenty or thirty feet
high. Tom whispered:

“Now I’ll show you something, Huck.”

He held his candle aloft and said:

“Look as far around the corner as you can. Do you see that? There--on the
big rock over yonder--done with candle-smoke.”

“Tom, it’s a  cross !”

“ Now  where’s your Number Two? ‘ under the cross,’ hey? Right yonder’s
where I saw Injun Joe poke up his candle, Huck!”

Huck stared at the mystic sign awhile, and then said with a shaky voice:

“Tom, less git out of here!”

“What! and leave the treasure?”

“Yes--leave it. Injun Joe’s ghost is round about there, certain.”

“No it ain’t, Huck, no it ain’t. It would ha’nt the place where he
died--away out at the mouth of the cave--five mile from here.”

“No, Tom, it wouldn’t. It would hang round the money. I know the ways of
ghosts, and so do you.”

Tom began to fear that Huck was right. Mis-givings gathered in his mind.
But presently an idea occurred to him--

“Lookyhere, Huck, what fools we’re making of ourselves! Injun Joe’s
ghost ain’t a going to come around where there’s a cross!”

The point was well taken. It had its effect.

“Tom, I didn’t think of that. But that’s so. It’s luck for us, that
cross is. I reckon we’ll climb down there and have a hunt for that box.”

Tom went first, cutting rude steps in the clay hill as he descended.
Huck followed. Four avenues opened out of the small cavern which the
great rock stood in. The boys examined three of them with no result.
They found a small recess in the one nearest the base of the rock, with
a pallet of blankets spread down in it; also an old suspender, some
bacon rind, and the well-gnawed bones of two or three fowls. But there
was no moneybox. The lads searched and researched this place, but in
vain. Tom said:

“He said  under  the cross. Well, this comes nearest to being under the
cross. It can’t be under the rock itself, because that sets solid on the
ground.”

They searched everywhere once more, and then sat down discouraged. Huck
could suggest nothing. By-and-by Tom said:

“Lookyhere, Huck, there’s footprints and some candle-grease on the clay
about one side of this rock, but not on the other sides. Now, what’s
that for? I bet you the money  is  under the rock. I’m going to dig in
the clay.”

“That ain’t no bad notion, Tom!” said Huck with animation.

Tom’s “real Barlow” was out at once, and he had not dug four inches
before he struck wood.

“Hey, Huck!--you hear that?”

Huck began to dig and scratch now. Some boards were soon uncovered and
removed. They had concealed a natural chasm which led under the rock.
Tom got into this and held his candle as far under the rock as he
could, but said he could not see to the end of the rift. He proposed
to explore. He stooped and passed under; the narrow way descended
gradually. He followed its winding course, first to the right, then to
the left, Huck at his heels. Tom turned a short curve, by-and-by, and
exclaimed:

“My goodness, Huck, lookyhere!”

It was the treasure-box, sure enough, occupying a snug little cavern,
along with an empty powder-keg, a couple of guns in leather cases, two
or three pairs of old moccasins, a leather belt, and some other rubbish
well soaked with the water-drip.

“Got it at last!” said Huck, ploughing among the tarnished coins with
his hand. “My, but we’re rich, Tom!”

“Huck, I always reckoned we’d get it. It’s just too good to believe, but
we  have  got it, sure! Say--let’s not fool around here. Let’s snake it
out. Lemme see if I can lift the box.”

It weighed about fifty pounds. Tom could lift it, after an awkward
fashion, but could not carry it conveniently.

“I thought so,” he said; “ They  carried it like it was heavy, that day
at the ha’nted house. I noticed that. I reckon I was right to think of
fetching the little bags along.”

The money was soon in the bags and the boys took it up to the cross
rock.

“Now less fetch the guns and things,” said Huck.

“No, Huck--leave them there. They’re just the tricks to have when we
go to robbing. We’ll keep them there all the time, and we’ll hold our
orgies there, too. It’s an awful snug place for orgies.”

“What orgies?”

“I dono. But robbers always have orgies, and of course we’ve got to
have them, too. Come along, Huck, we’ve been in here a long time. It’s
getting late, I reckon. I’m hungry, too. We’ll eat and smoke when we get
to the skiff.”

They presently emerged into the clump of sumach bushes, looked warily
out, found the coast clear, and were soon lunching and smoking in the
skiff. As the sun dipped toward the horizon they pushed out and got
under way. Tom skimmed up the shore through the long twilight, chatting
cheerily with Huck, and landed shortly after dark.

“Now, Huck,” said Tom, “we’ll hide the money in the loft of the widow’s
woodshed, and I’ll come up in the morning and we’ll count it and divide,
and then we’ll hunt up a place out in the woods for it where it will be
safe. Just you lay quiet here and watch the stuff till I run and hook
Benny Taylor’s little wagon; I won’t be gone a minute.”

He disappeared, and presently returned with the wagon, put the two small
sacks into it, threw some old rags on top of them, and started off,
dragging his cargo behind him. When the boys reached the Welshman’s
house, they stopped to rest. Just as they were about to move on, the
Welshman stepped out and said:

“Hallo, who’s that?”

“Huck and Tom Sawyer.”

“Good! Come along with me, boys, you are keeping everybody waiting.
Here--hurry up, trot ahead--I’ll haul the wagon for you. Why, it’s not as
light as it might be. Got bricks in it?--or old metal?”

“Old metal,” said Tom.

“I judged so; the boys in this town will take more trouble and fool away
more time hunting up six bits’ worth of old iron to sell to the foundry
than they would to make twice the money at regular work. But that’s
human nature--hurry along, hurry along!”

The boys wanted to know what the hurry was about.

“Never mind; you’ll see, when we get to the Widow Douglas’.”

Huck said with some apprehension--for he was long used to being falsely
accused:

“Mr. Jones, we haven’t been doing nothing.”

The Welshman laughed.

“Well, I don’t know, Huck, my boy. I don’t know about that. Ain’t you
and the widow good friends?”

“Yes. Well, she’s ben good friends to me, anyway.”

“All right, then. What do you want to be afraid for?”

This question was not entirely answered in Huck’s slow mind before he
found himself pushed, along with Tom, into Mrs. Douglas’ drawing-room.
Mr. Jones left the wagon near the door and followed.

The place was grandly lighted, and everybody that was of any consequence
in the village was there. The Thatchers were there, the Harpers, the
Rogerses, Aunt Polly, Sid, Mary, the minister, the editor, and a great
many more, and all dressed in their best. The widow received the boys
as heartily as any one could well receive two such looking beings. They
were covered with clay and candle-grease. Aunt Polly blushed crimson
with humiliation, and frowned and shook her head at Tom. Nobody suffered
half as much as the two boys did, however. Mr. Jones said:

“Tom wasn’t at home, yet, so I gave him up; but I stumbled on him and
Huck right at my door, and so I just brought them along in a hurry.”

“And you did just right,” said the widow. “Come with me, boys.”

She took them to a bedchamber and said:

“Now wash and dress yourselves. Here are two new suits of
clothes--shirts, socks, everything complete. They’re Huck’s--no, no
thanks, Huck--Mr. Jones bought one and I the other. But they’ll fit both
of you. Get into them. We’ll wait--come down when you are slicked up
enough.”

Then she left.




CHAPTER XXXIV

HUCK said: “Tom, we can slope, if we can find a rope. The window ain’t
high from the ground.”

“Shucks! what do you want to slope for?”

“Well, I ain’t used to that kind of a crowd. I can’t stand it. I ain’t
going down there, Tom.”

“Oh, bother! It ain’t anything. I don’t mind it a bit. I’ll take care of
you.”

Sid appeared.

“Tom,” said he, “auntie has been waiting for you all the afternoon. Mary
got your Sunday clothes ready, and everybody’s been fretting about you.
Say--ain’t this grease and clay, on your clothes?”

“Now, Mr. Siddy, you jist ‘tend to your own business. What’s all this
blowout about, anyway?”

“It’s one of the widow’s parties that she’s always having. This time
it’s for the Welshman and his sons, on account of that scrape they
helped her out of the other night. And say--I can tell you something, if
you want to know.”

“Well, what?”

“Why, old Mr. Jones is going to try to spring something on the people
here tonight, but I overheard him tell auntie today about it, as a
secret, but I reckon it’s not much of a secret now. Everybody knows--the
widow, too, for all she tries to let on she don’t. Mr. Jones was bound
Huck should be here--couldn’t get along with his grand secret without
Huck, you know!”

“Secret about what, Sid?”

“About Huck tracking the robbers to the widow’s. I reckon Mr. Jones was
going to make a grand time over his surprise, but I bet you it will drop
pretty flat.”

Sid chuckled in a very contented and satisfied way.

“Sid, was it you that told?”

“Oh, never mind who it was.  Somebody  told--that’s enough.”

“Sid, there’s only one person in this town mean enough to do that, and
that’s you. If you had been in Huck’s place you’d ‘a’ sneaked down the
hill and never told anybody on the robbers. You can’t do any but mean
things, and you can’t bear to see anybody praised for doing good ones.
There--no thanks, as the widow says”--and Tom cuffed Sid’s ears and helped
him to the door with several kicks. “Now go and tell auntie if you
dare--and tomorrow you’ll catch it!”

Some minutes later the widow’s guests were at the supper-table, and a
dozen children were propped up at little side-tables in the same room,
after the fashion of that country and that day. At the proper time Mr.
Jones made his little speech, in which he thanked the widow for the
honor she was doing himself and his sons, but said that there was
another person whose modesty--

And so forth and so on. He sprung his secret about Huck’s share in
the adventure in the finest dramatic manner he was master of, but the
surprise it occasioned was largely counterfeit and not as clamorous and
effusive as it might have been under happier circumstances. However,
the widow made a pretty fair show of astonishment, and heaped so many
compliments and so much gratitude upon Huck that he almost forgot
the nearly intolerable discomfort of his new clothes in the entirely
intolerable discomfort of being set up as a target for everybody’s gaze
and everybody’s laudations.

The widow said she meant to give Huck a home under her roof and have him
educated; and that when she could spare the money she would start him in
business in a modest way. Tom’s chance was come. He said:

“Huck don’t need it. Huck’s rich.”

Nothing but a heavy strain upon the good manners of the company kept
back the due and proper complimentary laugh at this pleasant joke. But
the silence was a little awkward. Tom broke it:

“Huck’s got money. Maybe you don’t believe it, but he’s got lots of it.
Oh, you needn’t smile--I reckon I can show you. You just wait a minute.”

Tom ran out of doors. The company looked at each other with a perplexed
interest--and inquiringly at Huck, who was tongue-tied.

“Sid, what ails Tom?” said Aunt Polly. “He--well, there ain’t ever any
making of that boy out. I never--”

Tom entered, struggling with the weight of his sacks, and Aunt Polly
did not finish her sentence. Tom poured the mass of yellow coin upon the
table and said:

“There--what did I tell you? Half of it’s Huck’s and half of it’s mine!”

The spectacle took the general breath away. All gazed, nobody spoke for
a moment. Then there was a unanimous call for an explanation. Tom said
he could furnish it, and he did. The tale was long, but brimful of
interest. There was scarcely an interruption from any one to break the
charm of its flow. When he had finished, Mr. Jones said:

“I thought I had fixed up a little surprise for this occasion, but it
don’t amount to anything now. This one makes it sing mighty small, I’m
willing to allow.”

The money was counted. The sum amounted to a little over twelve thousand
dollars. It was more than any one present had ever seen at one time
before, though several persons were there who were worth considerably
more than that in property.




CHAPTER XXXV

THE reader may rest satisfied that Tom’s and Huck’s windfall made a
mighty stir in the poor little village of St. Petersburg. So vast a
sum, all in actual cash, seemed next to incredible. It was talked
about, gloated over, glorified, until the reason of many of the citizens
tottered under the strain of the unhealthy excitement. Every “haunted”
 house in St. Petersburg and the neighboring villages was dissected,
plank by plank, and its foundations dug up and ransacked for hidden
treasure--and not by boys, but men--pretty grave, unromantic men, too,
some of them. Wherever Tom and Huck appeared they were courted, admired,
stared at. The boys were not able to remember that their remarks had
possessed weight before; but now their sayings were treasured and
repeated; everything they did seemed somehow to be regarded as
remarkable; they had evidently lost the power of doing and saying
commonplace things; moreover, their past history was raked up and
discovered to bear marks of conspicuous originality. The village paper
published biographical sketches of the boys.

The Widow Douglas put Huck’s money out at six per cent., and Judge
Thatcher did the same with Tom’s at Aunt Polly’s request. Each lad had
an income, now, that was simply prodigious--a dollar for every weekday in
the year and half of the Sundays. It was just what the minister got--no,
it was what he was promised--he generally couldn’t collect it. A dollar
and a quarter a week would board, lodge, and school a boy in those old
simple days--and clothe him and wash him, too, for that matter.

Judge Thatcher had conceived a great opinion of Tom. He said that no
commonplace boy would ever have got his daughter out of the cave. When
Becky told her father, in strict confidence, how Tom had taken her
whipping at school, the Judge was visibly moved; and when she pleaded
grace for the mighty lie which Tom had told in order to shift that
whipping from her shoulders to his own, the Judge said with a fine
outburst that it was a noble, a generous, a magnanimous lie--a lie that
was worthy to hold up its head and march down through history breast to
breast with George Washington’s lauded Truth about the hatchet! Becky
thought her father had never looked so tall and so superb as when he
walked the floor and stamped his foot and said that. She went straight
off and told Tom about it.

Judge Thatcher hoped to see Tom a great lawyer or a great soldier some
day. He said he meant to look to it that Tom should be admitted to the
National Military Academy and afterward trained in the best law school
in the country, in order that he might be ready for either career or
both.

Huck Finn’s wealth and the fact that he was now under the Widow Douglas’
protection introduced him into society--no, dragged him into it, hurled
him into it--and his sufferings were almost more than he could bear. The
widow’s servants kept him clean and neat, combed and brushed, and they
bedded him nightly in unsympathetic sheets that had not one little spot
or stain which he could press to his heart and know for a friend. He had
to eat with a knife and fork; he had to use napkin, cup, and plate;
he had to learn his book, he had to go to church; he had to talk so
properly that speech was become insipid in his mouth; whithersoever he
turned, the bars and shackles of civilization shut him in and bound him
hand and foot.

He bravely bore his miseries three weeks, and then one day turned up
missing. For forty-eight hours the widow hunted for him everywhere in
great distress. The public were profoundly concerned; they searched high
and low, they dragged the river for his body. Early the third morning
