we can let her alone." 
Mr. Van Alstyne would fain have effected a familiar 
entree at the cottage ; but the Fates forbade. Then he 
grew irritated, and started off suddenly ; but among one 
of the earliest marriages in the autumn was his and Mrs. 
Sherrard's. How she managed was a mystery. What the 
world did not know, was, that he had nearly run through 
with his fortune ; and the fascinating widow was both rich 
and prodigal. 
Ah, Daisy Endicott ! all the after-years did avenge you 
grandly. 
Mrs. Sherrard and the Paynes following so soon 
in the wake of Mr. Van Alstyne 's defection, the Mallorys 
changed their minds, and decided to stay. There came 
to be a very pleasant going back and forth. Mrs. Mai- 
lory was delightful on further acquaintance. She had 
been everywhere, and seen so many notable people, 
kings, queens, great generals, several remarkable artists 
and authors, and had so many charming reminiscences 
to relate, that her days were really red-letter days. 
Her husband had been abroad on several governmental 
appointments, though Eugene was but fourteen when he 
died. She added to the quartet of old ladies a won 
derful grace and interest ; and Mr. Mallory soon made 
himself a favorite. Yet they could not be blind. Some 
day papa would have to say, " And this one also." 
But no one spoke or jested. It seemed an almost holy 
thing that this young girl should go so simply forward to 
her fate, neither dreading, expecting, nor desiring, until 
 
the day came when her eyes should be opened with love's 
own rosy, beneficent touch. No glare of ball-rooms, no 
heat and flush of dancing, rivalry, a'nd excitement, no crowd 
of society -people, anxious to tear off the garment of sim 
plicity, and make her as worldly-wise as themselves, and 
dim the puritj^ of face and heart ; little family conven 
tions rather, a whole group gathered out on the porch, or 
under the trees ; Bessie playing with a baby, or doing a 
bit of bright fancy-work, which was her passion. Some 
where near her lingered Mr. Mallory. She fell into a 
fashion of referring to him, of asking him questions, 
sending him on trifling errands that would not take him 
out of sight, and thanking him with such a bewitching 
grace. She was piquant and flashing, rather than shy ; 
but with her it was the bravery of entire innocence, rather 
than any approach to boldness. Her admiration of Mr. 
Mallory was very outspoken just as she admired her 
father or Dr. Kinnard. 
" If I were a French woman, Mr. Endicott," said Mrs. 
Mallory one day, ' ' I should ask your daughter for my 
son. In some things, we might study our neighbors to an 
advantage. Their children have not altogether outgrown 
filial affection or reverence ; and certainly, the first part 
of courtship doss not need secrecy and affectation, as if 
it was a thing to be thrust out of sight He has met many 
women ; but so far I have been his most intimate friend. 
He is quite worthy of your daughter, and that is saying a 
great deal ; for I have seen no person until now that I 
coveted for him. You need not fear aught but the most 
motherly welcome for her." 
" She is so young ! " faltered the father, with a secret 
pang at seeing his household-nest thus despoiled of its 
treasures. 
" Mr. Endicott, I was sixteen when I married " (and 
in her more earnest tones there was a not unmusical 
sharpness, like a sweet-toned bell wildly shaken, that 
 
somehow thrilled j'ou), "and my husband died a little 
more than twelve years ago. All that time was not a 
day too long. I would not give up one hour's remem 
brance now, for a mint of gold. If my son makes as 
good a husband" and a tear trembled in the lustrous 
eye. 
" Yes, yes," said Mr. Endicott hurriedly, clasping the 
soft, dimpled hand. 
"And now the rest they can settle for themselves," 
she made answer with a smile. 
There came to be a sweet and gracious rival^ among 
these old ladies, a bringing-out of what was best and 
kindliest, just as they wore their pretty laces, fine quaint 
lawns, with suggestions of other summers in them, and 
their rich, soft silks. And Nelly could not see her 
family grandmother fall behind. A touch added here 
to-day, and there to-morrow, softening and refining ; an 
act of tender respect or graceful deference that roused 
the very springs of her nature, though the}* had been 
quite choked with the debris of other years. She used to 
go to ride with Bertie with a glad, proud air, as if she 
discerned the grace in her grandson, and appreciated it. 
Dr. Kinnard and "Winthrop Ogden were added to the 
party presently ; and there followed a fortnight of whole 
some, delightful enjoyment, a fresh, live moaning in 
every thing for them, from the mountain-tops at noon, 
to the suppers in the twilight ; from the splendor of a 
sunset to the bits and fragments of c very-day life. 
"I seem to realize more and more how we are giving 
up our places to others," Miss Churchill said to Mrs. 
Endicott. " We bring out the old-fashioned carnations 
that were the great things of our day ; and the new gene 
ration cultivate them into largeness and richness, though 
they can't make them much sweeter," \yth her grand 
smile. "But it is all right. If we had not labored, 
they might have no carnations to improve upon." 
"And so my pretty Queen Bess has been captured in 
my absence," said Dr. Kinnard to his wife in a rather 
disconsolate tone. " And she is to ' shine down ' all yon 
girls, even Mrs. Fan. Stephen Duncan was speaking of 
them. There is almost no end to Mrs. Mallory's wealth. 
She was one of the Livingstons, and inherited two or 
three fortunes in her own right. Now, if Bess had been 
tricked out in silks and diamonds, and gone to Newport 
or Saratoga " 
" Are you quite sure? " exclaimed Nelly, aghast at so 
overwhelming a prospect. "Why, we never thought 
I wonder that some of the girls at the hotel didn't prefer 
him to Mr. Van Alstyue, whom they all seemed so 
bewitched about." 
Nelly had kept that brief episode to confess personally, 
rather than trust it to a letter. But her husband had no 
fears now : " his heart safely trusted her." 
"Young women may not alwa}*s know;" and he 
shrugged his broad ' shoulders with a touch of humor. 
" But, if Boss had not liked him, twice that money would 
not have tempted her. I lay the flattering unction to 
my soul, that my money did not tempt you," with a 
funny little laugh. 
" Nelly," he said later, " I cannot understand the mar 
vellous change you have worked in mother. She is so 
much softer and kinder and more gracious ; and you 
make her look such a pretty old lady, I declare, I am 
very proud of her." 
"i think she softens herself by loving," Nelly an 
swered simply. 
And then they began to talk about going home. There 
were last walks and rides, going about to say good-by to 
every thing as Bessie phrased it. 
" Mamma," she said, as they sat on the porch one 
starlight night, when there was no moon, and the babies 
were all gathered inside, "mamma, I've been so 
happy all summer ! I have so many pictures treasured 
up, I sometimes wish I had a genius, like you or Fan. 
But after all," with her brightly-flavored laugh, "that 
could only take in a few ; and my memoiy is a bstter 
portfolio. I don't suppose I shall ever see any Alps or 
any Rhine, or streams of Wye or Severn, or even banks 
and braes of Doon ; but I am quite content and glad and 
strong, to go back home, and take up the little things, 
and talk over all these great things. And, if I never 
have another grand holiday in all my life, I think I shall 
be satisfied." 
Eugene Mallory sat on the step below, and listened, 
planning in his heart. And, when the dream became too 
sweet, he rose suddenly, and said, the thing farthest 
from his present thought, 
"Are you not cold, Queenie? The nights are begin 
ning to grow chilly. Let me get your shawl. There ! 
and now I must go. It is a long ride over to the hotel ; 
and mother will sit up waiting. Good-night, Mrs. 
Endicott." 
Bessie walked down to the gate with him, a lithe, 
graceful girl, with sunshine in her face, her hair, her 
heart. Some time she would ripen into a gracious and 
lovely woman, with that better charm than mere physical 
beauty. She seemed to him like a rosy, cheerful dawn, 
or a bright, warm spring day. How would he dare bring 
her any nearer, into his very life? It was so delicious, 
pausing here on the charmed threshold of manhood's 
sweet mystery. 
But it came of itself, a few days after, a word, a look, 
a tremulous tone, a sudden scarlet flush, and drooping of 
eyes, on her part, and a brave, sweet gladness on his, 
that spoke in every feature as lie took her to his heart. 
Lovers ! Yesterday they were friends, just touching the 
rims of each other's boundaries ; and to-day it was so 
bewilderingly different. The joy almost dazed one. 
She could have lived without it before she had it ; but 
now to give it up would be a pang bitterer than death. 
" My dear," said Mrs. Mallory, when they began to 
talk about it a little, " I want you to take me for a 
mother in deed and in truth. Eugene is all I have in 
this world ; and I see no reason why a mother should be 
shut out of her son's life when she is old. He has had 
the best and richest of hers, much more than she can 
ever have of his. I know there is a strong prejudice 
against mothers-in-law ; and young people are said to be 
better off by themselves, as if their greatest joy should 
narrow their life and Sj'inpathies at once. You can spare 
me a little out of these bright, young days ; and I shall 
try to give it back in mother-love. I cannot be parted 
from him." 
" No," Bessie said wondering! } r , looking into the eager 
face, with its pink cheeks, and proud yet beseeching 
63-68, " no : why should it be? Why shouldn't we both 
love him? As if anybody could have too much." 
" Thank you, my dear ; " and there was a little huski- 
ness in the ringing, musical voice. " You will be none 
the loser." 
Mr. Endicott asked them, in his simply hospitable 
manner, to spend a few days at the rectory ; and they 
came. Rose put the guest-chamber in order, just as she 
had for her own lover, long ago, it seemed, when he was 
a stranger. And Fan insisted that Nelly should come 
to West Side with her husband, and spend Sunday, to 
hear Louis Duncan preach. 
So they were all together again, children and children's 
children, except the one " who was not," the smiling, 
angelic baby, who had lived out his folded, rose-leaf life, 
and left behind a rare fragrance that would never die 
quite out of their hearts. 
But the little mother looked so piteous with her great 
asking, sorrowing eyes, and her empty arms, that seemed 
 
to go out into void space caressingly, as if she hoped to 
find him again ; her absent, listening expression, as if she 
was waiting for him to speak from somewhere. There 
was a black ribbon around the neck of her white dress, 
and another in her leghorn hat. Step&en did not like her 
to wear mourning : so she put off all but these small signs. 
An odd, unworldly life they had led in that homely 
rectory during the past two months. Business had taken 
Stephen away now and then. Louis had thrown him 
self heart and soul into the work, with the enthusiasm 
of a poetic nature which the lad had always possessed ; 
though, in earlier years, it had only cropped out in irrita 
tions that rasped him to the core, heart-burnings, anger, 
and jealousy. But he had found his place and his work. 
An idealist he would always be, clothing, or longing to 
clothe, every thing with his exquisite perception of beauty 
and fitness, to find the hidden types and meanings, to go 
up on glorified mounts, to see behind the .cloud and pillar 
of fire, the kind of man of whom, in olden times, 
devotees were made, who saw Christ as if in a vision. 
A sense of spiritual exaltation shone in every feature. 
lie was delicate looking, though not unhealthy, and 
with a glow of mystic worship in his eyes, a reverence 
in every movement, a sweetness and persuasiveness that 
was almost womanlj', yet not weak. His sermons indi 
cated much thought, refinement, and culture ; yet they 
had the pith of the old teaching, and never lost sight of 
the great truth in all the flow of poetic imagery. 
Remembering the wayward boy, Mr. Endicott gave 
thanks anew ; first-fruits of which he would never need 
to be ashamed, surely. 
" Between Stephen and Louis, Rose seems a very 
child," said Nelly to the doctor as they were walking 
home from church in the silvery glow of the September 
evening, with the air full of delicious, ripening odors. 
u Why, it seems to me as if Fan and I were ages older ; 
or is it because we are so much taller ? Poor girl ! she 
is the only one that has had a lasting sorrow thus far." 
"I wish she had not taken it to Louis ;" and there 
was a kind of dissatisfaction in her husband's tone. 
" "Why-, it is perfectly natural. He is a clergyman, and 
they always were unusual friends. He thinks she saved 
him once ; and she did. Barton, I won't have you even 
fancj'ing ' ' 
She stopped because she hardly knew what he did 
fane}*, and there was a jealous warmth in her tone. The 
one who thought any harm of Rose must answer to her 
quick and sharp. 
"My darling, I am not imagining anything in the 
absolute ^nse of wrong. Stephen stands and looks at 
her in great awe, and then steps aside ; and she turns to 
his brother, because he is, as jou say, a clergyman. 
But no person or thing has any right to come between 
husband and wife no sympathy, any more than love." 
" I will not have you judging her hardly," and Nelly's 
voice trembled. 
"She is lovely and sweet; and she is an Endicott: 
can I say any thing greater?" with an abrupt but 
tender pressure. " But I have had a wider experience 
than any of you ; and marriage seems to me a kind of 
promised land. It is promised, and you set out for it ; 
but with some there is forty years in the wilderness,- and 
they only behold it afar off, never quite entering in. A 
day or a month doesn't comprise it all ; a kiss and a 
little caressing is not all the manna : it is the giving and 
receiving on both sides ; and what is given has no right 
to be handed over to another ; neither has one any right 
to withhold. It is the empty place out of which the 
little child has gone ; and some day she will come to see 
that only a husband's love can fill it. Yet it is so natural 
for a woman to crave the finest there is in sympathy." 
"But Louis is so good; and if you could know all 
 
there was between them in the past. I think two 
brothers never loved one another as those two Duncans 
do now." 
Dr. Kinnard Was silent for a few moments, and then 
changed the talk to some other subject. It was a subtle 
under-current that he saw with the practised eye of a 
thoughtful physician. Might it not right itself, especially 
if another child should come to draw them together? 
For happiness is not a settled and unchanging truth. 
What satisfied yesterday may be as but crumbs to 
morrow. 
The addition of the Mallorys to the household attracted 
and diverted attention. Mrs. Mallory was as charmingly 
at home as if she had been coming back to some earlier 
haunt. She possessed the fine grace of thorough breed 
ing, that would never lead any one to wonder if things 
were good enough. You forgot what you proffered ; or, 
rather, she so 'glorified it to you, that straightway it be 
came of the best. She flitted in and out ; she was ex 
quisitely motherly to these young men, who paid her the 
purest respect. Even now, had she so willed, she could 
have drawn an enchanted circle around her equal to that 
of some of the famous old Frenchwomen. 
Bessie was in a glow and radiance. The blood rippled 
vividly through her fair skin ; tremulous lights and shad 
ows fluttered in her eyes ; and her voice had a musical 
fulness, as if it came from an overflowing soul. She was 
oddly shy, now, having lost her friend, and hardly daring 
to accept his attentions in the new light of a lover. But 
with his mother there was no timidity. 
She was j'oung, and they would not hurry matters. 
" You see," explained Mrs. Mallory, " I am a believ 
er in pleasant courtships. It is a season in our young 
lives that nothing ever blights. It has no cares like 
marriage, and, in its happy ignorance, sees nothing save 
endless islands of delight all along the sunshiny shore. 
 
It is a great thing to believe in the perfection of bliss 
even for a year or two ; " and her rippling laugh seemed 
to frame in her sentences. 
" And now, ' gude wife,' we must go home," declared 
Dr. Kinnard. " I feel as if I had been on a fresh 
honeymoon, and may do something ridiculous presently, 
since love-making is all the rage." 
" It has been a wedding-journey," returned Nelly 
with tender gravity. " I seem to be having delightful 
holidays here and there, and only a little of the sober 
work." 
"Ah, you think so!" And he remembered jvhat 
would have been a grievous burthen to some women. 
CHAPTER XIX. 
" Blind and hardened they 
Who hope for peace amid the storms of care ; 
Who covet power they know not how to use, 
And sigh for pleasures they refuse tO'give." 
PKOMETHEUS 
THE Kinnards were at home again, though it was 
some time before they dropped into their olden groove ; 
there was so much to see and hear, so many old friends 
dropping in to welcome them back ! 
The church had gone on beautifully. It was to be 
built of gray stone, and they had been very fortunate in 
securing some that had been cut under another contract ; 
so that the walls, they hoped, would all be up before cold 
weather. It was to be Gothic, with a clerestory and a 
tower, a ver} r decided ornament to the town. 
Then Miss Grove and Maud returned home, both im 
mensely consequential. Nelly had witnessed nothing 
like it the whole summer. 
"Dr. Kinnard," Miss Grove said the next morning, 
at the breakfast- table, " I desire to see you privately at 
your earliest convenience." 
" Very well, come in the office presently," was the 
undaunted answer. 
Maud looked consciously elated. " What a haughty, 
disagreeable girl!" thought Nelly. "Will airy one 
blame me for it, I wonder ? ' ' 
The conference was quite lengtlry. Maud meanwhile 
was entertaining her stepmother with a description of 
 
Saratoga, quite as if she had taken pity on her benighted 
seclusion. 
" Come, Maud," exclaimed her aunt, sweeping through 
the hall. 
The doctor beckoned to his wife, who went in, when 
he closed the door carefully. 
"Wonders will never cease," he began, then gave a 
hearty laugh, thrusting both hands into his pockets. 
" Then it is nothing bad? " And Nelly looked amused. 
"Some one has been found brave enough to bell the 
cat : that was our old idea, was it not ? ' ' and his eyes 
twinkled mirthfull}*. 
"What do you mean?" was her surprised question, 
for she could not believe the thought that flashed into her 
mind. 
" That the whole world has gone marriage mad. 
Auut Adelaide has succumbed to the destiny of women- 
kind." 
Nelly's face was one ripple of astonishment. 
" She would never have entertained such an idea, but 
for my misbehavior. She would have been content to 
devote her life to me and the children, and made an hon 
orable and happy home : I believe those were her very 
words. But since this place never can be a home to her 
again ; since she has been continually thwarted in her 
endeavors to do her duty by the children, and estranged 
from them ; since she has been made to feel that she was 
not welcome (and that vexed me, Nelly," interposed 
the doctor with a frown) , " there was no other course 
left. The long and the short of it is, that she has 
accepted one Mr. Garland, and has been in New York 
superintending her wedding outfit. Early in October she 
is to become Mrs. Garland." 
" But who is he? " was Nelly's inquiry. 
" A stock-broker. I do hope Adelaide's vanity and 
