wanting to chromo The Old Girl ? No, no ; it 
isn't quite so bad as that ! " 
Cummings, in a burst : " They did want to 
chromo it. But it 's sold. They Ve got you two 
hundred dollars for it." Bartlett lays down his 
 
brush, palette, and mahl-stick, dusts his fingers, 
puts them in his pockets, and comes and stands 
before Cummings, on whom, seated, he bends a 
curious look. 
Bartlett : " And do you mean to tell me, you 
hardened atheist, that you don't believe in the doc- 
trine of future punishments ? What are they going 
to do with you in the next world ? And that pic- 
ture dealer ? And me ? Two hund It 's an 
outrage ! It 's The picture wasn't worth fifty, 
by a stretch of the most charitable imagination ! 
Two hundred d Why, Cummings, I 'll paint no 
end of Old Girls, First and Last Gray Hairs 
I 'll flood the market ! Two Good Lord ! " 
Bartlett goes back to his easel, and silently re- 
sumes his work. After a while : " Who 's been 
offered up ? " 
Cummings : " What ? " 
Bartlett : " Who 's the victim ? My patron ? 
The noble and discriminating and munificent pur- 
chaser of The Old Girl?" 
Cummings : " Oh ! Mrs. Bellingham. She 's 
going to send it out to her daughter in Omaha." 
 
Bartlett: " Ah ! Mrs. Blake wishes to found an 
art-museum with that curiosity out there ? Sorry 
for the Omaha-has." Cummings makes a gesture 
of impatience. " Well, well ; I won't then, old 
fellow ! I 'm truly obliged to you. I accept my 
good fortune with compunction, but with all the 
gratitude imaginable. I say, Cummings ! " 
Cummings: "Well?" 
Bartlett : " What do you think of my taking to 
high art, mountains twelve hundred feet above 
the sea, like this portrait of Porikwasset?" 
Cummings: "I 've always told you that you had 
only to give yourself scope, attempt something 
worthy of your powers" 
Bartlett: "Ah, I thought so. Then you be- 
lieve that a good big canvas and a good big sub- 
ject would be the making of me? Well, I 've 
come round to that idea myself. I used to think 
that if there was any greatness in me, I could get 
it into a small picture, like Meissonier or Corot. 
But I can't. I must have room, like the Yellow- 
stone and Yo-Semite fellows. Don't you think 
Miss Wyatt is looking wonderfully improved?" 
Cummings : " Wonderfully ! And how beautiful 
she is ! She looked lovely that first day, in spite 
of her ghostliness ; but now" 
JBartlett: "Yes; & phantom of delight is" good 
enough . in its way, but a well woman is the pret- 
tiest, after all. Miss Wyatt sketches, I think I 
told you." 
Cummings: " Yes, you mentioned it." 
Bartlett: " Of course. Otherwise, I couldn't 
possibly have thought of her while I was at work 
on a great picture like this. She sketches " 
Bartlett puts his nose almost on the canvas in the 
process of bestowing a delicate touch " she 
sketches about as badly as any woman I ever saw, 
and that 's saying a good deal. But she looks un- 
commonly well while she 's at it. The fact is, Cum- 
mings," Bartlett retires some feet from the can- 
vas and squints at it, "this very picture which 
you approve of so highly is Miss Wyatt's. I 
couldn't attempt anything of the size of Ponk- 
wasset ! But she allows me to paint at it a little 
when she 's away." Bartlett steals a look of joy at 
his friend's vexation, and then continues seri- 
 
ously : " I 've been having a curious time, Cum- 
mings." The other remains silent. "Don't you 
want to ask me about it ? " 
Cummings: "I don't know that I do!' 
Bartlett : " Why, my dear old fellow, you' re 
hurt ! It was a silly joke, and I honestly ask your 
pardon." He lays down his brush and palette, and 
leaves the easel. " Cummings, I don't know what 
to do. I 'm in a perfect deuce of a state. I 'm hit 
awfully hard; and I don't know what to do 
about it. I wish I had gone at once the first 
day. But I had to stay, I had to stay." He 
turns and walks away from Cummings, whose eyes 
follow him in pardon and sympathy. 
Cummings : " Do you really mean it, Bartlett ? 
I didn't dream of such a thing. I thought you 
were still brooding over that affair with Miss Har- 
lan." 
Bartlett: " Oh, child's play ! A prehistoric illu- 
sion ! A solar myth ! The thing never was." He 
rejects the obsolete superstition with a wave of his 
left hand. " I 'm in love with this girl, and I feel 
like a sneak and a brute about it. At the very 
 
best it would be preposterous. Who am I, a poor 
devil of a painter, the particular pet of Poverty, to 
think of a young lady whose family and position 
could command her the best ? But putting that aside, 
putting that insuperable obstacle lightly aside, as 
a mere trifle, the thing remains an atrocity. It 's 
enormously indelicate to think of loving a woman 
who would never have looked twice at me if I 
hadn't resembled an infernal scoundrel who tried 
to break her heart ; and I 've nothing else to com- 
mend me. I Ve the perfect certainty that she 
doesn't and can't care anything for me in myself; 
and it grinds me into the dust to realize on what 
terms she tolerates me. I could carry it off as a 
joke, at first ; but when it became serious, I had to 
look it in the face; and that's what it amounts to, 
and if you know of any more hopeless and humili- 
ating tangle, I don't." Bartlett, who has ap- 
proached his friend during this speech, walks away 
again; and there is an interval of silence. 
Oummings, at last, musingly : " You in love with 
Miss Wyatt? I can't imagine it!" 
Bartlett, fiercely : "You can't imagine it? What's 
 
 
the reason you can't imagine it? Don't be offen- 
sive, Cummings ! " He stops in his walk and lowers 
upon his friend. "Why shouldn't I be in love 
with Miss Wyatt?" 
Cummings : " Oh, nothing. Only you were say- 
ing" 
Bartlett: "I was saying! Don't tell me what I
was saying. Say something yourself." 
Cummings: "Really, Bartlett, you can't expect 
me to stand this sort of thing. You 're preposter- 
ous." 
Bartlett: "I know it! But don't blame me. I 
beg your pardon. Is it because of the circumstan- 
ces that you can't imagine my being in love with 
her?" 
Cummings: "Oh, no; I wasn't thinking of the 
circumstances; but it seemed so out of character 
, for you" 
Bartlett, impatiently : " Oh, love 's always out 
of character, just as it 's always out of reason. I 
admit freely that I 'm an ass. And then?" 
Cummings : " Well, then, I don't believe you 
have any more reason to be in despair than you 
 
have to be in love. If she tolerates you, as you 
say, it can't be because you look like the man who 
jilted her." 
Bartlett : "Ah ! But if she still loves him? " 
Gummings : " You don't know that. That strikes 
me as a craze of jealousy. What makes you think 
she tolerates you for that reason or no-reason ? " 
Bartlett: "What makes me think it? From the 
very first she interpreted me by what she knew of 
him. She expected me to be this and not to be 
that; to have one habit and not another; and I 
could see that every time the fact was different, it 
was a miserable disappointment to her, a sort of 
shock. Every little difference between me and that 
other rascal gave her a start ; and whenever I 
looked up I found her wistful eyes on me as if they 
were trying to puzzle me out ; they used to follow 
me round the room like the eyes of a family por- 
trait. You wouldn't have liked it yourself, Cum- 
mings. For the first three weeks I simply existed 
on false pretenses, involuntary false pretenses, at 
that. I wanted to explode ; I wanted to roar out, 
'If you think I'm at all like that abandoned scoun- 
 
drel of yours ID anything but looks, I'm not!' But 
I was bound by everything that was decent, to hold 
my tongue, and let my soul be rasped out of me in 
silence and apparent unconsciousness. That was 
your fault. If you hadn't told me all about the 
thing I could have done something outrageous and 
stopped it. But I was tied hand and foot by what 
I knew. I had to let it go on." 
Oummings: "I'm very sorry, Bartlett, but" 
Barllett: "Oh, I dare say you wouldn't have 
done it if you hadn't had a wild ass of the desert 
to deal with. Well, the old people got used to 
some little individuality in me, by and by, and be- 
yond a suppressed whoop or two from the mother 
when I came suddenly into the room, they didn't 
do anything to annoy me directly. But they were 
anxious every minute for the effect on her ; and 
it worried me as much to have them watching her 
as to have her watching me. Of course I knew 
that she talked this confounded resemblance over 
with her mother every time I left them, and avoided 
talking it over with the father." 
Cummings : " But you say the trouble 's over 
now." 
Not at all Like. Ill 
Bartlett: "Oh over! No, it isn't over. When 
she's with me a while she comes to see that I am 
not a mere doppelganger. She respites me to that 
extent. But I have still some small rags of self- 
esteem dangling about me; and now suppose I 
should presume to set up for somebody on my own 
account; the first hint of my caring for her as I 
do, if she could conceive of anything so atrocious, 
would tear open all the old sorrows. Ah! I can't 
think of it. Besides, I tell you, it isn't all over. 
It 's only not so bad as it was. She 's subject to 
relapses, when it 's much worse than ever. Why " 
Bartlett stands facing his friend, with a half- 
whimsical, half-desperate smile, as if about to illus- 
trate his point, when Constance and her mother 
enter the parlor. 
II. 
CONSTANCE, MRS. WYATT, BARTLETT, and CUM- 
MINGS. 
Constance, with a quick, violent arrest, "Ah! 
Oh!" 
Mrs. Wyatt: "Constance, Constance, darling! 
What ? H the matter ? " 
Constance: " Oh, nothing nothing." She 
laughs, nervously. " I thought there was nobody 
here; and it startled me. How do you do, 
Mr. Cummings?" She goes quickly up to that 
gentleman, and gives him her hand. " Don't you 
think it wonderful to find such a day as this, 
up here, at this time of year?" She struggles 
to control the panting breath in which she speaks. 
Gumming s : "Yes, I supposed I had come quite 
too late for anything of the sort. You must make 
haste with your Ponkwasset, Miss Wyatt, or you'll 
have to paint him with his winter cap on." 
 
Constance : " Ah, yes ! My picture. Mr. Bart- 
lett has been telling you." Her eyes have already 
wandered away from Cummings, and they now 
dwell, with a furtive light of reparation and im- 
ploring upon Bartlett's disheartened patience : 
" Good morning.'  It is a delicately tentative salu- 
tation, in a low voice, still fluttered by her nervous 
agitation. 
Bartlett, in dull despair : " Good morning." 
Constance : " How is the light on the mountain 
this morning ? " She drifts deprecatingly up to the 
picture, near which Bartlett has stolidly kept his 
place. 
 Bartlett, in apathetic inattention : " Oh, very 
well, very well, indeed, thank you." 
Constance, after a hesitating glance at him : 
" Did you like what I had done on it yesterday ? " 
Bartlett, very much as before : " Oh, yes ; why 
not ? " 
Constance, with meek subtlety : " I was afraid I 
had vexed you by it." She bends an appealing 
glance upon him, to which Bartlett remains im- 
pervious, and she drops her eyes with a faint sigh. 
 
Then she lifts them again : " I was afraid I had 
made the distance too blue." 
Bartlett : " Oh, no ; not at all." 
Constance : " Do you think I had better try to 
finish it?" 
Bartlett: "Oh, certainly. Why not? If it 
amuses you! " 
Constance, perplexedly : " Of course." Then 
with a sad significance : " But I know I am trying 
your patience too far. You have been so kind, so 
good, I can't forgive myself for annoying you." 
Bartlett : " It doesn't annoy me. I 'm very glad 
to be useful to you." 
Constance, demurely : " I didn't mean painting ; 
I meant screaming." She lifts her eyes to Bart- 
lett's face, with a pathetic, inquiring attempt at 
lightness, the slightest imaginable experimental 
archness in her self-reproach, which dies out as 
Bartlett frowns and bites the corner of his mus- 
tache in unresponsive silence. " I ought to be well 
enough now to stop it ; I 'm quite well enough to 
be ashamed of it." She breaks off a miserable 
little laugh. 
Bartlett, with cold indifference : " There 's no 
reason why you should stop it if it amuses you." 
She looks at him in surprise at this rudeness. " Do 
you wish to try your hand at Ponkwasset this 
morning ? " 
Constance, with a flash of resentment : " No ; 
thanks." Then with a lapse into her morbid self- 
abasement : " I shall not touch it again. Mam- 
ma!" 
Mrs. Wyatt: "Yes, Constance." Mrs. Wyatt 
and Cummings, both intent on Bartlett and Con- 
stance, have been heroically feigning a polite in- 
terest in each other, from which pretense they 
now eagerly release themselves. 
Constance : " Oh nothing. I can get it of 
Mary. I won't trouble you." She goes toward 
the door. 
Mrs. Wyatt : " Mary isn't up from her breakfast, 
yet. If you want anything, let me go with you, 
dear." She turns to follow Constance. u Good 
morning, Mr. Cummings ; we shall see you at din- 
ner. Good morning," with an inquiring glance 
at Bartlett. Constance slightly inclines towards 
 
the two gentlemen without looking at them, in 
going out with her mother ; and Cummings moves 
away to the piano, and affects to examine the 
sheet-music scattered over it. Bartlett remains in 
his place near the easel. 
III. 
BARTLETT and CUMMINGS. 
Bartlett, harshly, after a certain silence which 
his friend is apparently resolved not to break : 
" Sail in, Cummings ! " 
Gummings : " Oh, I Ve got nothing to say." 
Bartlett: "Yes, you have. You think I'm a 
greater fool and a greater brute than you ever 
supposed in your most sanguine moments. Well, 
I am ! What then ? " 
Gummings, turning about from the music at 
which he has been pretending to look, and facing 
Bartlett, with a slight shrug : " If you choose to 
characterize your own behavior in that way, I shall 
not dispute you at any rate." 
Bartlett : " Go on ! " 
Gummings: "Go on? You saw yourself, I 
suppose, how she hung upon every syllable you 
spoke, every look, every gesture ? " 
 
Bartlctt: "Yes, I saw it." 
Cummings : " You saw how completely crushed 
she was by your tone and manner. You 're not 
blind. Upon my word, Bartlett, if I didn't know 
what a good, kind-hearted fellow you are, I should 
say you were the greatest ruffian alive." 
Bartlett) with a groan : " Go on ! That 's some- 
thing like." 
Cummings : " I couldn't hear what was going 
on I 'll own I tried but I could see ; and to 
see the delicate amende she was trying to offer 
you, in such a way that it should not seem an 
amende, a perfect study of a woman's gra- 
cious, unconscious art, and then to see your sour 
refusal of it all, it made me sick." 
Bartlett with a desperate clutch at his face, like 
a man oppressed with some stifling vapor : " Yes, 
yes ! I saw it all, too ! And if it had been for me, 
I would have given anything for such happiness. 
Oh, gracious powers ! How dear she is ! I would 
rather have suffered any anguish than give her 
pain, and yet I gave her pain ! I knew how it 
entered her heart : I felt it in my own. But 
what could I do ? If I am to be myself, if I am 
not to steal the tenderness meant for another 
man, the love she shows to me because I 'in like 
somebody else, I must play the brute. But have a 
little mercy on me. At least, I 'm a baited brute. 
I don't know which way to turn, I don't know 
what to do. She 's so dear to me, so dear in 
every tone of her voice, every look of her eyes, 
every aspiration or desire of her transparent soul, 
that it seems to me my whole being is nothing but 
a thought of her. I loved her helplessness, her 
pallor, her sorrow ; judge how I adore her return 
to something like life ! Oh, you blame me ! You 
simplify this infernal perplexity of mine and label 
it brutality, and scold me for it. Great heaven ! 
And yet you saw, you heard how she entered this 
room. In that instant the old illusion was back 
on her, and I was nothing. All that I had been 
striving and longing to be to her, and hoping and 
despairing to seem, was swept out of existence ; I 
was reduced to a body without a soul, to a shadow, 
a counterfeit! You think I resented it? Poor 
girl, I pitied her so ; and my own heart all the 
 
time like lead in my breast, a dull lump of ache! 
I swear, I wonder I don't go mad. I suppose 
why, I suppose I am insane. No man in his senses 
was ever bedeviled by such a maniacal hallucina- 
tion. Look here, Cummings: tell me that this 
damnable coil isn't simply a matter of my own 
fancy. It'll be some little relief to know that it's 
real. 
Cummings: "It's real enough, my dear fellow. 
And it is a trial, more than I could have be- 
lieved such a fantastic thing could be." 
Bartlett: " Trial? Ordeal by fire! Torment! I 
can't stand it any longer." 
Cumminys, musingly : " She is beautiful, isn't 
she, with that faint dawn of red in her cheeks, 
not a color, but a colored light like the light that 
hangs round a rose-tree's boughs in the early 
spring! And what a magnificent movement, what 
a stately grace ! The girl must have been a god- 
dess!" 
Bartlett: "And now she's a saint for sweet- 
ness and patience! You think she 's had nothing 
