would take their places as I called them. At least, if Octo attempted
to get before Novem in going through the bars (I have heard people
speak of a "pair of bars" when there were six or eight of them), or
into the stable, the matter of precedence was settled then and there,
and once settled there was no dispute about it afterwards. Novem either
put her horns into Octo's ribs, and Octo shambled to one side, or else
the two locked horns and tried the game of push and gore until one
gave up. Nothing is stricter than the etiquette of a party of cows.
There is nothing in royal courts equal to it; rank is exactly settled,
and the same individuals always have the precedence. You know that at
Windsor Castle, if the Royal Three-Ply Silver Stick should happen to
get in front of the Most Royal Double-and-Twisted Golden Rod, when the
court is going in to dinner, something so dreadful would happen that we
don't dare to think of it. It is certain that the soup would get cold
while the Golden Rod was pitching the Silver Stick out of the castle
window into the moat, and perhaps the island of Great Britain itself
would split in two. But the people are very careful that it never
shall happen, so we shall probably never know what the effect would
be. Among cows, as I say, the question is settled in short order, and
in a different manner from what it sometimes is in other society. It
is said that in other society there is sometimes a great scramble for
the first place, for the leadership as it is called, and that women,
and men too, fight for what is called position; and in order to be
first they will injure their neighbors by telling stories about them
and by backbiting, which is the meanest kind of biting there is, not
excepting the bite of fleas. But in cow society there is nothing of
this detraction in order to get the first place at the crib, or the
farther stall in the stable. If the question arises, the cows turn in,
horns and all, and settle it with one square fight, and that ends it. I
have often admired this trait in cows.
Besides Latin, I used to try to teach the cows a little poetry, and
it is a very good plan. It does not benefit the cows much, but it is
excellent exercise for a boy farmer. I used to commit to memory as many
short poems as I could find (the cows liked to listen to Thanatopsis
about as well as anything), and repeat them when I went to the pasture,
and as I drove the cows home through the sweet ferns and down the rocky
slopes. It improves a boy's elocution a great deal more than driving
oxen.
It is a fact, also, that if a boy repeats Thanatopsis while he is
milking, that operation acquires a certain dignity.
II
THE BOY AS A FARMER
Boys in general would be very good farmers if the current notions
about farming were not so very different from those they entertain.
What passes for laziness is very often an unwillingness to farm in a
particular way. For instance, some morning in early summer John is told
to catch the sorrel mare, harness her into the spring wagon, and put
in the buffalo and the best whip, for father is obliged to drive over
to the "Corners, to see a man" about some cattle, or talk with the
road commissioner, or go to the store for the "women folks," and to
attend to other important business; and very likely he will not be back
till sundown. It must be very pressing business, for the old gentleman
drives off in this way somewhere almost every pleasant day, and appears
to have a great deal on his mind.
Meantime, he tells John that he can play ball after he has done up the
chores. As if the chores could ever be "done up" on a farm. He is first
to clean out the horse-stable; then to take a bill-hook and cut down
the thistles and weeds from the fence-corners in the home mowing-lot
and along the road towards the village; to dig up the docks round the
garden patch; to weed out the beet-bed; to hoe the early potatoes; to
rake the sticks and leaves out of the front yard; in short, there is
work enough laid out for John to keep him busy, it seems to him, till
he comes of age; and at half an hour to sundown he is to go for the
cows, and, mind he don't run 'em!
"Yes, sir," says John, "is that all?"
"Well, if you get through in good season, you might pick over those
potatoes in the cellar: they are sprouting; they ain't fit to eat."
John is obliged to his father, for if there is any sort of chore more
cheerful to a boy than another, on a pleasant day, it is rubbing the
sprouts off potatoes in a dark cellar. And the old gentleman mounts
his wagon and drives away down the enticing road, with the dog
bounding along beside the wagon, and refusing to come back at John's
call. John half wishes he were the dog. The dog knows the part of
farming that suits him. He likes to run along the road and see all
the dogs and other people, and he likes best of all to lie on the
store steps at the Corners—while his master's horse is dozing at
the post and his master is talking politics in the store—with the
other dogs of his acquaintance, snapping at mutually annoying flies
and indulging in that delightful dog gossip which is expressed by a
wag of the tail and a sniff of the nose. Nobody knows how many dogs'
characters are destroyed in this gossip; or how a dog may be able to
insinuate suspicion by a wag of the tail as a man can by a shrug of the
shoulders, or sniff a slander as a man can suggest one by raising his
eyebrows.
John looks after the old gentleman driving off in state, with the
odorous buffalo-robe and the new whip, and he thinks that is the sort
of farming he would like to do. And he cries after his departing
parent,—
"Say, father, can't I go over to the farther pasture and salt the
cattle?" John knows that he could spend half a day very pleasantly in
going over to that pasture, looking for bird's-nests and shying at red
squirrels on the way, and who knows but he might "see" a sucker in the
meadow brook, and perhaps get a "jab" at him with a sharp stick. He
knows a hole where there is a whopper; and one of his plans in life
is to go some day and snare him, and bring him home in triumph. It
therefore is strongly impressed upon his mind that the cattle want
salting. But his father, without turning his head, replies,—
"No, they don't need salting any more'n you do!" And the old equipage
goes rattling down the road, and John whistles his disappointment. When
I was a boy on a farm, and I suppose it is so now, cattle were never
salted half enough.
John goes to his chores, and gets through the stable as soon as he can,
for that must be done; but when it comes to the outdoor work, that
rather drags. There are so many things to distract the attention,—a
chipmunk in the fence, a bird on a near tree, and a hen-hawk circling
high in the air over the barn-yard. John loses a little time in stoning
the chipmunk, which rather likes the sport, and in watching the bird
to find where its nest is; and he convinces himself that he ought to
watch the hawk, lest it pounce upon the chickens, and, therefore,
with an easy conscience, he spends fifteen minutes in hallooing to
that distant bird, and follows it away out of sight over the woods,
and then wishes it would come back again. And then a carriage with
two horses, and a trunk on behind, goes along the road; and there is
a girl in the carriage who looks out at John, who is suddenly aware
that his trousers are patched on each knee and in two places behind;
and he wonders if she is rich, and whose name is on the trunk, and how
much the horses cost, and whether that nice-looking man is the girl's
father, and if that boy on the seat with the driver is her brother, and
if he has to do chores; and as the gay sight disappears John falls to
thinking about the great world beyond the farm, of cities, and people
who are always dressed up, and a great many other things of which he
has a very dim notion. And then a boy, whom John knows, rides by in
a wagon with his father, and the boy makes a face at John, and John
returns the greeting with a twist of his own visage and some symbolic
gestures. All these things take time. The work of cutting down the
big weeds gets on slowly, although it is not very disagreeable, or
would not be if it were play. John imagines that yonder big thistle is
some whiskered villain, of whom he has read in a fairy book, and he
advances on him with "Die, ruffian!" and slashes off his head with the
bill-hook; or he charges upon the rows of mullein-stalks as if they
were rebels in regimental ranks, and hews them down without mercy.
What fun it might be if there were only another boy there to help. But
even war, single-handed, gets to be tiresome. It is dinner-time before
John finishes the weeds, and it is cow-time before John has made much
impression on the garden.
This garden John has no fondness for. He would rather hoe corn all day
than work in it. Father seems to think that it is easy work that John
can do, because it is near the house! John's continual plan in this
life is to go fishing. When there comes a rainy day, he attempts to
carry it out. But ten chances to one his father has different views.
As it rains so that work cannot be done outdoors, it is a good time to
work in the garden. He can run into the house during the heavy showers.
John accordingly detests the garden; and the only time he works briskly
in it is when he has a stent set, to do so much weeding before the
Fourth of July. If he is spry he can make an extra holiday the Fourth
and the day after. Two days of gunpowder and ballplaying! When I was
a boy, I supposed there was some connection between such and such an
amount of work done on the farm and our national freedom. I doubted
if there could be any Fourth of July if my stent was not done. I, at
least, worked for my Independence.
III
THE DELIGHTS OF FARMING
There are so many bright spots in the life of a farm-boy, that I
sometimes think I should like to live the life over again; I should
almost be willing to be a girl if it were not for the chores. There
is a great comfort to a boy in the amount of work he can get rid of
doing. It is sometimes astonishing how slow he can go on an errand, he
who leads the school in a race. The world is new and interesting to
him, and there is so much to take his attention off, when he is sent
to do anything. Perhaps he couldn't explain, himself, why, when he is
sent to the neighbor's after yeast, he stops to stone the frogs; he
is not exactly cruel, but he wants to see if he can hit 'em. No other
living thing can go so slow as a boy sent on an errand. His legs seem
to be lead, unless he happens to espy a woodchuck in an adjoining
lot, when he gives chase to it like a deer; and it is a curious fact
about boys, that two will be a great deal slower in doing anything than
one, and that the more you have to help on a piece of work the less
is accomplished. Boys have a great power of helping each other to do
nothing; and they are so innocent about it, and unconscious. "I went as
quick as ever I could," says the boy: his father asks him why he didn't
stay all night, when he has been absent three hours on a ten-minute
errand. The sarcasm has no effect on the boy.
Going after the cows was a serious thing in my day. I had to climb a
hill, which was covered with wild strawberries in the season. Could any
boy pass by those ripe berries? And then in the fragrant hill pasture
there were beds of wintergreen with red berries, tufts of columbine,
roots of sassafras to be dug, and dozens of things good to eat or to
smell, that I could not resist. It sometimes even lay in my way to
climb a tree to look for a crow's nest, or to swing in the top, and
to try if I could see the steeple of the village church. It became
very important sometimes for me to see that steeple; and in the midst
of my investigations the tin horn would blow a great blast from the
farm-house, which would send a cold chill down my back in the hottest
days. I knew what it meant. It had a frightfully impatient quaver in
it, not at all like the sweet note that called us to dinner from the
hayfield. It said, "Why on earth doesn't that boy come home? It is
almost dark, and the cows ain't milked!" And that was the time the cows
had to start into a brisk pace and make up for lost time. I wonder if
any boy ever drove the cows home late, who did not say that the cows
were at the very farther end of the pasture, and that "Old Brindle" was
hidden in the woods, and he couldn't find her for ever so long! The
brindle cow is the boy's scapegoat, many a time.
No other boy knows how to appreciate a holiday as the farm-boy does;
and his best ones are of a peculiar kind. Going fishing is of course
one sort. The excitement of rigging up the tackle, digging the bait,
and the anticipation of great luck,—these are pure pleasures, enjoyed
because they are rare. Boys who can go a-fishing any time care but
little for it. Tramping all day through bush and brier, fighting flies
and mosquitoes, and branches that tangle the line, and snags that break
the hook, and returning home late and hungry, with wet feet and a
string of speckled trout on a willow twig, and having the family crowd
out at the kitchen door to look at 'em, and say, "Pretty well done for
you, bub; did you catch that big one yourself?"—this is also pure
happiness, the like of which the boy will never have again, not if he
comes to be selectman and deacon and to "keep store."
But the holidays I recall with delight were the two days in spring and
fall, when we went to the distant pasture-land, in a neighboring town,
may be, to drive thither the young cattle and colts, and to bring them
back again. It was a wild and rocky upland where our great pasture
was, many miles from home, the road to it running by a brawling river,
and up a dashing brookside among great hills. What a day's adventure
it was! It was like a journey to Europe. The night before, I could
scarcely sleep for thinking of it, and there was no trouble about
getting me up at sunrise that morning. The breakfast was eaten, the
luncheon was packed in a large basket, with bottles of root beer and
a jug of switchel, which packing I superintended with the greatest
interest; and then the cattle were to be collected for the march,
and the horses hitched up. Did I shirk any duty? Was I slow? I think
not. I was willing to run my legs off after the frisky steers, who
seemed to have an idea they were going on a lark, and frolicked about,
dashing into all gates, and through all bars except the right ones;
and how cheerfully I did yell at them; it was a glorious chance to
"holler," and I have never since heard any public speaker on the stump
or at camp-meeting who could make more noise. I have often thought
it fortunate that the amount of noise in a boy does not increase in
proportion to his size; if it did the world could not contain it.
The whole day was full of excitement and of freedom. We were away from
the farm, which to a boy is one of the best parts of farming; we saw
other farms and other people at work; I had the pleasure of marching
along, and swinging my whip, past boys whom I knew, who were picking
up stones. Every turn of the road, every bend and rapid of the river,
the great boulders by the wayside, the watering-troughs, the giant pine
that had been struck by lightning, the mysterious covered bridge over
the river where it was most swift and rocky and foamy, the chance eagle
in the blue sky, the sense of going somewhere,—why, as I recall all
these things I feel that even the Prince Imperial, as he used to dash
on horseback through the Bois de Boulogne, with fifty mounted hussars
clattering at his heels, and crowds of people cheering, could not have
been as happy as was I, a boy in short jacket and shorter pantaloons,
trudging in the dust that day behind the steers and colts, cracking my
black-stock whip.
I wish the journey would never end; but at last, by noon, we reach
the pastures and turn in the herd; and, after making the tour of
the lots to make sure there are no breaks in the fences, we take our
luncheon from the wagon and eat it under the trees by the spring.
This is the supreme moment of the day. This is the way to live; this
is like the Swiss Family Robinson, and all the rest of my delightful
acquaintances in romance. Baked beans, rye-and-indian bread (moist,
remember), doughnuts and cheese, pie, and root beer. What richness!
You may live to dine at Delmonico's, or, if those Frenchmen do not eat
each other up, at Philippe's, in the Rue Montorgueil in Paris, where
the dear old Thackeray used to eat as good a dinner as anybody; but you
will get there neither doughnuts, nor pie, nor root beer, nor anything
so good as that luncheon at noon in the old pasture, high among the
Massachusetts hills! Nor will you ever, if you live to be the oldest
boy in the world, have any holiday equal to the one I have described.
But I always regretted that I did not take along a fish-line, just to
"throw in" the brook we passed. I know there were trout there.
IV
NO FARMING WITHOUT A BOY
Say what you will about the general usefulness of boys, it is my
impression that a farm without a boy would very soon come to grief.
What the boy does is the life of the farm. He is the factotum, always
in demand, always expected to do the thousand indispensable things that
nobody else will do. Upon him fall all the odds and ends, the most
difficult things. After everybody else is through, he has to finish up.
His work is like a woman's,—perpetual waiting on others. Everybody
knows how much easier it is to eat a good dinner than it is to wash the
dishes afterwards. Consider what a boy on a farm is required to do;
things that must be done, or life would actually stop.
It is understood, in the first place, that he is to do all the errands,
to go to the store, to the post-office, and to carry all sorts of
messages. If he had as many legs as a centipede, they would tire before
night. His two short limbs seem to him entirely inadequate to the task.
He would like to have as many legs as a wheel has spokes, and rotate
about in the same way. This he sometimes tries to do; and people who
have seen him "turning cart-wheels" along the side of the road have
supposed that he was amusing himself, and idling his time; he was only
trying to invent a new mode of locomotion, so that he could economize
his legs and do his errands with greater dispatch. He practices
standing on his head, in order to accustom himself to any position.
Leap-frog is one of his methods of getting over the ground quickly. He
would willingly go an errand any distance if he could leap-frog it with
a few other boys. He has a natural genius for combining pleasure with
business. This is the reason why, when he is sent to the spring for a
pitcher of water, and the family are waiting at the dinner-table, he is
absent so long; for he stops to poke the frog that sits on the stone,
or, if there is a penstock, to put his hand over the spout and squirt
the water a little while. He is the one who spreads the grass when the
men have cut it; he mows it away in the barn; he rides the horse to
cultivate the corn, up and down the hot, weary rows; he picks up the
potatoes when they are dug; he drives the cows night and morning; he
brings wood and water and splits kindling; he gets up the horse and
puts out the horse; whether he is in the house or out of it, there is
always something for him to do. Just before school in winter he shovels
paths; in summer he turns the grindstone. He knows where there are lots
of wintergreen and sweet flag root, but instead of going for them he is
to stay indoors and pare apples and stone raisins and pound something
in a mortar. And yet, with his mind full of schemes of what he would
like to do, and his hands full of occupations, he is an idle boy who
has nothing to busy himself with but school and chores! He would gladly
do all the work if somebody else would do the chores, he thinks, and
yet I doubt if any boy ever amounted to anything in the world, or was
of much use as a man, who did not enjoy the advantages of a liberal
education in the way of chores.
A boy on a farm is nothing without his pets; at least a dog, and
probably rabbits, chickens, ducks, and guinea hens. A guinea hen
suits a boy. It is entirely useless, and makes a more disagreeable
noise than a Chinese gong. I once domesticated a young fox which a
neighbor had caught. It is a mistake to suppose the fox cannot be
tamed. Jacko was a very clever little animal, and behaved, in all
respects, with propriety. He kept Sunday as well as any day, and all
the ten commandments that he could understand. He was a very graceful
playfellow, and seemed to have an affection for me. He lived in a
woodpile, in the dooryard, and when I lay down at the entrance to his
house and called him, he would come out and sit on his tail and lick
my face just like a grown person. I taught him a great many tricks and
all the virtues. That year I had a large number of hens, and Jacko went
about among them with the most perfect indifference, never looking on
them to lust after them, as I could see, and never touching an egg or
a feather. So excellent was his reputation that I would have trusted
him in the hen-roost in the dark without counting the hens. In short,
he was domesticated, and I was fond of him and very proud of him,
exhibiting him to all our visitors as an example of what affectionate
treatment would do in subduing the brute instincts. I preferred him
to my dog, whom I had, with much patience, taught to go up a long
hill alone and surround the cows, and drive them home from the remote
pasture. He liked the fun of it at first, but by and by he seemed to
get the notion that it was a "chore," and when I whistled for him to
go for the cows, he would turn tail and run the other way, and the
more I whistled and threw stones at him the faster he would run. His
name was Turk, and I should have sold him if he had not been the kind
of dog that nobody will buy. I suppose he was not a cow-dog, but what
they call a sheep-dog. At least, when he got big enough, he used to
get into the pasture and chase the sheep to death. That was the way
he got into trouble, and lost his valuable life. A dog is of great use
on a farm, and that is the reason a boy likes him. He is good to bite
peddlers and small children, and run out and yelp at wagons that pass
by, and to howl all night when the moon shines. And yet, if I were a
boy again, the first thing I would have should be a dog; for dogs are
great companions, and as active and spry as a boy at doing nothing.
They are also good to bark at woodchuck holes.
A good dog will bark at a woodchuck hole long after the animal has
retired to a remote part of his residence, and escaped by another hole.
This deceives the woodchuck. Some of the most delightful hours of my
life have been spent in hiding and watching the hole where the dog
was not. What an exquisite thrill ran through my frame when the timid
nose appeared, was withdrawn, poked out again, and finally followed
by the entire animal, who looked cautiously about, and then hopped
away to feed on the clover. At that moment I rushed in, occupied
the "home base," yelled to Turk and then danced with delight at the
combat between the spunky woodchuck and the dog. They were about the
same size, but science and civilization won the day. I did not reflect
then that it would have been more in the interest of civilization if
the woodchuck had killed the dog. I do not know why it is that boys
so like to hunt and kill animals; but the excuse that I gave in this
case for the murder was, that the woodchuck ate the clover and trod it
down; and, in fact, was a woodchuck. It was not till long after that
I learned with surprise that he is a rodent mammal, of the species
Arctomys monax, is called at the West a ground-hog, and is eaten by
people of color with great relish.
But I have forgotten my beautiful fox. Jacko continued to deport
himself well until the young chickens came; he was actually cured of
the fox vice of chicken-stealing. He used to go with me about the
coops, pricking up his ears in an intelligent manner, and with a
demure eye and the most virtuous droop of the tail. Charming fox!
If he had held out a little while longer, I should have put him into
a Sunday-school book. But I began to miss chickens. They disappeared
mysteriously in the night. I would not suspect Jacko at first, for he
looked so honest, and in the daytime he seemed to be as much interested
in the chickens as I was. But one morning, when I went to call him,
I found feathers at the entrance of his hole,—chicken feathers. He
couldn't deny it. He was a thief. His fox nature had come out under
severe temptation. And he died an unnatural death. He had a thousand
virtues and one crime. But that crime struck at the foundation of
society. He deceived and stole; he was a liar and a thief, and no
pretty ways could hide the fact. His intelligent, bright face couldn't
save him. If he had been honest, he might have grown up to be a large,
ornamental fox.
V
THE BOY'S SUNDAY
Sunday in the New England hill towns used to begin Saturday night
at sundown; and the sun is lost to sight behind the hills there
before it has set by the almanac. I remember that we used to go by
the almanac Saturday night and by the visible disappearance Sunday
night. On Saturday night we very slowly yielded to the influences of
the holy time, which were settling down upon us, and submitted to
the ablutions which were as inevitable as Sunday; but when the sun
(and it never moved so slow) slid behind the hills Sunday night, the
effect upon the watching boy was like a shock from a galvanic battery;
something flashed through all his limbs and set them in motion, and
no "play" ever seemed so sweet to him as that between sundown and
dark Sunday night. This, however, was on the supposition that he
had conscientiously kept Sunday, and had not gone in swimming and
got drowned. This keeping of Saturday night instead of Sunday night
we did not very well understand; but it seemed, on the whole, a good
thing that we should rest Saturday night when we were tired, and play
Sunday night when we were rested. I supposed, however, that it was
an arrangement made to suit the big boys who wanted to go "courting"
Sunday night. Certainly they were not to be blamed, for Sunday was the
