 

likewise are spiritual. What made us men ou 
earth ? Our flesh and blood ? Mere dead matter? Far from it. We were men, because we 
were spiritually organized, and, in the human 
form, made after the likeness and in the image of 
God. Does the laying aside of the natural body 
make us less men less human ? No ! And can 
we be men, without having bodily form and 
senses ?" 

As he spoke, there approached one whom I 
had known in the world, and who had departed 
thence a year before. She had many questions to 
ask about friends she had left behind, all of which 
I answered. As she left me, after a time, I 
turned to the one with whom I had spoken, and 
said to him 

" How is this ? In the other life this person 
had a beautiful body ; but now she is deformed 
and repulsive." 

" It is because her aifections are evil, and not 
good," replied my companion. " In this world, 

all are seen according to their quality. Good affections 
give beautiful forms, and evil affections 
repulsive forms." 

My thoughts instantly turned toward one who, 
while living in the world, had a sickly and de 
formed body, but who had a pure and loving spi 
rit, and whose chief delight appeared to be to do 
good ; and, as I thought of her, I saw her ap 
proaching. She drew near, and joined the com 
pany. Oh, what a change ! The bent body was 
straight and graceful, and the severe angles of her 
suffering countenance had given place to a surpassing beauty. My heart was touched with ad 
miring wonder, as I looked upon her. 

Another whom I had known appeared. He 
was a man who, while living in the world, had 
been covetous, but who loved a good reputa 
tion, and, therefore, concealed his real character 
under assumed forms of benevolence and liberality. While in the natural body he was fair in 
person, but now there was a hideousness about 
his countenance, that made me turn from him with 
a shudder; and I understood the quality of his life 



 

from the form and expression of his person and 
face, as clearly as if " Covetousness" had been 
written upon his forehead. 

" This man was of goodly appearance in the 
world," said I, turning to my companion. 

" His seen body was fair to look upon," was 
replied ; " but his evil affections were daily and 
slowly destroying, in the unseen body, every trace 
of beauty. Come with me, and I will show you 
some of those who have become so changed from 
the human form, through evil lives, as to appear 
more like beasts than men." 

My companion took me to a valley, before con 
cealed from view by a dense forest, through which 
led a winding path. In this valley were companies of men and women, engaged in various pursuits that seemed to occupy their earnest attention. 

" Look from this point," said my companion, 
as we gained a little eminence, "and you will see 
them in their true forms." 

I looked for a moment, and then turned away, 
sick with the sight. 



 

" What did you see ?" asked my companion. 

"Men and women so changed as to appear 
more like evil and filthy beasts, than forms of 
human intelligence." 

"As you saw them, so are they. While in the 
natural body, many of them had beautiful forms, 
for which they were loved and admired. But, in 
their life in the world, they marred the form and 
features of their spiritual bodies by evil and 
beastly affections. One had the cunning of the 
fox; another the cruelty of the wolf; and another 
the filthy sensuality of the swine. All this was 
hid from the natural sight it was the unseen. 
But the veil of flesh is removed, and what was 
unseen has become the seen. They are now be 
fore you in the forms that correspond to their true 
affections. 

" Oh, if men knew this !" I exclaimed. 

"Return and give utterance to the truth. 
Publish what your eyes have seen and your ears 
heard." 

" But they will not believe," said I. 



 

" Tell it, nevertheless." 

At this moment, I saw approaching one whom 
I had once loved with a deep affection, and whose 
loss I had mourned with unavailing sorrow. She 
had observed me, and was hurrying forward. As 
she came near, I perceived that she was no longer 
beautiful as before. Every fair feature was dis 
torted, and there was an expression of evil in her 
countenance, that shocked me like an electric current. Oh, she was hideous! I turned to flee; 
but she threw her arms around me, and uttered 
words of endearment ; and her voice, instead of 
being flute-like in its tones, croaked like the voice 
of a raven. In fear and sorrow I awoke. 

Long did I lie pondering the strange vision. 
" Dreams are, for the most part, fantastic," said 
I ; " but they often come in similitudes of truth. 
There is truth veiled here ; I feel it, I know it. 
An evil life must distort the features of our inner 
man, and change them from beauty to deformity. 
We know that the soul receives impressions, and 
retains them. Warp the soul in childhood, 



 

and it ever after retains the unpleasing form, 
which is ever manifesting itself by means of the 
outer body. If we could see, by a spiritual vision, this soul or inner body itself, we would see 
the distortion as plainly as we perceive an un 
sightly crook in a favorite tree." 

And if all this be so, and who will make bold 
to deny it? each one of us is, day after day, 
either marring and deforming the unseen body, 
or rendering it more beautiful. Every evil and 
selfish affection, every unholy passion, every in 
dulgence in wrong feelings or actions, deforms 
the spirit; while every good and generous emotion, and every act that springs from a purified 
and all-embracing love of our neighbor, is render 
ing it more and more beautiful, and, if continued 
to the end of life, the unseen body, when it rises 
into the light of the spiritual world, will appear 
lovely as the form of an angel. 

Reader, lay this up in your heart, and ponder 
well the words of the stranger. They are not 
idle sounds, like tones from the passing wind. 





II. 

OUR CHANGING STATES. 

HE weather is not more variable than our 
states of mind. To-day the atmosphere is se 
rene, the sky unclouded ; to-morrow, an unquiet 
thrill runs pulsing through all the air, and our 
heavens are overcast. We are shadowed and 
troubled. 

These changes in our mental condition result 
often from unapparent causes ; and often from disturbances 
of so light a character, that we look 
back at them in wonder, and question with our 
selves whether something more serious, which we 
vainly endeavor to recall, does not exist. It is 
only an appearance that the primary cause of 
these sudden, and almost uncontrollable changes, 
comes from without, jarring us from our tranquil 
self-possession. The elements of disquietude are 



 

all within, though the touch by which they are 
awakened, may reach us from the outside. If 
there was nothing within to be disturbed, the 
hand of discord might feel about our heart-strings 
in vain. The light step of a child will shake the 
uncertain bog ; but the stamp of a giant moves 
not the solid earth. 

Our states of mind are always affected by those 
with whom we come in contact. We cannot pass 
an hour, or even the tenth part of an hour, with 
any one, and not experience some change in our 
feelings. Sometimes the change is pleasant, 
sometimes disagreeable. A visitor drops in. 
We happen to be feeling dull. Something hae 
gone wrong we are under a cloud. But, sun 
shine comes in with our visitor, and at the very 
sound of his voice, the heart beats strong again. 
His conversation soothes us into tranquil peace, 
or lifts our thought into the world of pure ideas, 
beyond life 's petty discords. He leaves us, and 
our mind is calmer for the day. Again we are 
in a peaceful state. Not a cloud flecks the sky. 



 

To live is enjoyment. An acquaintance calls, 
and almost immediately an uneasy motion is felt. 
His sphere touches us unpleasantly, and we are 
instinctively on our guard. In less than ten minutes we feel a sense of disquietude. Evil and 
disturbing elements become active. Every word 
he utters comes as a challenge to some bad pas 
sion, or hurts some tender spot. He probes our 
sore places with the cool precision of a surgeon, 
and goes away, at length, leaving us miserable for 
the day. 

As there is no gratuitous evil, the class of 
which this last-mentioned individual is a representative, has, no doubt, its use no credit to the 
class, of course. It must needs be that offences 
come ; but woe to him by whom they come. All 
disturbing elements that exist in our minds are 
evil elements, and as really hurtful to the spirit as 
morbific things are to the body; and it is just as 
important that we be advised of their existence, 
as of corresponding things in the lower plane of 
animal life. But, while quiescent, their existence 



 

is not perceived. Stealthily their evil work may 
be going on. Like spiders in dark corners and 
shut chambers, these evil things are silently cast 
ing fibre after fibre, and loop after loop, around 
our souls, until threads of gossamer are spun into 
bonds no strength of ours, may sunder. It is well 
for us, then, that some hand open a window occasionally, and let in the light upon these dark cor 
ners and shut chambers, disturbing the spiders at 
their work. There will be, of course, a sudden 
stir, a shaking along the filmy lines, a sense of 
bondage as the spirit rises to an easy movement. 
From repose and self-enjoyment from false security, there will be an awakening into painful 
disquietude. We are offended, perhaps, because 
of this meddling with our individual life. We 
blame the officious hand that flung open a shut 
window we call him a disturber of our peace 
who frightened the spiders at their evil work, and 
made us aware of their presence. And he may 
have intended to disturb us, not that he might 
help us to cast out these evil things, but that he 



 

might enjoy our pain and humiliation. But, let 
us remember, that if there be no unclean, no vile 
and hurtful things, in our minds, the opening of 
a window, and flashing in of light, cannot touch 
our tranquil states. If the chambers of our souls 
are always swept and garnished, sunbeams can 
only reveal order and beauty. 

And so, if miserable for the day, after such a 
visitation, good must follow with those who 
aspire after good with those who, once made 
conscious of disease, turn to the great Physician. 
We may not be able to think well of him who dis 
covered to us how weak, vain, selfish or mean- 
spirited we were, because he only sought to 
wound and humiliate. Nay, we will hold our 
selves guarded at the next interview, lest he reveal to us other spider-filled corners, and humble 
us in his presence again. 

Salutary as the influence of these disturbers of 
our peace may be, through the revelations they 
give us of ourselves, they only help us to disco 
ver evil, which they scent as the crow scents car- 



rion. They are not physicians ; have no oint 
ment for the sores they uncover; no balm for the 
wounds made in sharp thrusts into our tender 
sides. They hurt us, and then go on their way 
rejoicing that they left us in pain. With us, if 
we are indeed of those who are striving to ascend 
to the higher regions of spiritual life, where the 
sky is clear, and the air serene, they leave, in 
their departure, the difficult but essential duty of 
forgiveness. Let us see to it that our hurt in the 
contact is less than was intended ; nay, that good 
come, where evil was designed. 

Of that other class to which we have referred, 
the individuals come to us as angels come, search 
ing for good. They are those who say to evil, be 
far from me. In their company the bad in us 
hides itself still farther away, or skulks to the 
dim exteriors of our conscious life, shorn for the 
time of strength. All that is generous and no 
ble ; all that is self-denying ; all that gives us 
sympathy with our fellow-man; all that invests 
goodness with beauty, is made alive and active in 



 

our souls. They come to us in light they come 
to us in love making truth clearer, and affection 
warmer. The peace that dwells with them, per 
vading their atmosphere like the odorous sphere 
surrounding a flower, and penetrating to our life, 
is no slumbrous calm. The sun is shining; the air 
is clear and vital ; good seeds in the ground have 
sprung up in thrifty stalks, and the harvest nods 
hopefully in the swelling grain. And we feel, 
while with them, our own earth drinking the sun, 
and thank God for the signs of fruitfulness in our 
souls. All is not a barren waste, as we some 
times feared. They have made us more in love 
with goodness ; strengthened our better purposes ; 
taught us lessons of forgiveness, and shown us how 
to walk with him, who, when upon earth, went 
about doing good. Blessings on all such! Theii 
lives are in heaven. In the Golden Age, angels 
walked with men ; not in natural bodies, but in 
bodies of spiritual substance, made visible to the 

spiritual eyes of celestial men, living in primal 

innocence. Sin closed the inner senses, and 
though 

" Myriads of spiritual beings walk the earth unseen, 
Whether we sleep or wake," 

our darkened vision perceives them not. And 
yet, in God 's inercy, angels still walk and talk 
with us, leading our thoughts upward, and these 
are they of whom we have just spoken. Their 
lives are in heaven ; but they dwell in natural bo 
dies, and talk with us face to face. Blessings on 
them, we repeat. 

Our changes of state are all dependent on 
things within us. Disturbing influences may 
come from without ; but, if there is nothing to 
disturb, the pressure is vain. The wind that 
lashes the sea into fury, sweeps scarcely heeded 
over the level earth. What a lesson in this ! 
what a revelation ! Every touch from the out 
side meets some response within, or dies unheeded. 
If to an evil allurement an evil desire starts up, 
what will you say? That the allurement created 



 

the desire? Not so. The magnet revealed the 
iron. The evil was there. And so of any and 
all responses made by the soul. Thus, our 
changes of state are our instructors. They show 
us the quality of our lives ; admonish us of hid 
den diseases ; and encourage us by revelations of 
progress in the right way, or triumphs in the 
good fight. 






III. 

THE SWEET FOUNTAIN. 

