they ? But la ! the post office is queer ; that's what I always 
said. Everybody gits into it ; and ef you're there, o' course 
you can't help knowin' things.' 
' You weren't in the post office ! ' said Mrs. Starling. 
'It was none oiyour business.' 
' Warn't I ? ' said Miss Collins. ' Don't you mind better'n that, Mis' Starling ? I mind you comin', and I mind 
givin' you your letters too ; I mind some 'ticlar big ones, 
that had stamps enough on to set up a shop. La, 'tain't no 
harm. Miss Gunn, she used to feel a sort o' sameness 
about allays takin' in and givin' out, and then she'd come 
into the kitchen and make cake mebbe, and send me to 
 
tend the letters and the folks. And then it was as good as 
a play to me. Don't you never git tired o' trottin' a mile 
in a bushel, Mis' Starlin' ? So I was jest a tellin' Diany ' 
' Where's the minister ? ' 
' Most likely he's where she is up stairs. He won't 
let nobody else do a hand's turn for her. He takes up 
every cup of tea, and he spreads every bit of bread and butter ; and he tastes the broths ; you'd think he was anythin' 
in the world but a minister ; he tastes the broth, and he 
calls for the salt and pepper, and he stirs and he tastes ; 
and then you never see a man make such a fuss, leastways 
I never did he'll have a white napkin and spread over a 
tray, and the cup on it, and saucer too, for he won't have 
the cup 'thout the saucer, and then carry it off. Was your 
husband like that, Mis' Starling ? he was a minister, I've 
heerd tell.' 
Mrs. Starling turned short about without answering and 
went up stairs. 
She found the minister there, as Miss Collins had 
opined she would ; but she paid little attention to him. He 
was just drawing the curtains over a window where the sun- 
light came in too glaringly. As he had done this, and 
turned, he was a spectator of the meeting between mother 
and child. It was peculiar. Mrs. Starling advanced to 
the foot of the bed, carr.e no nearer, but stood there looking down at her daughter. And Diana's eyes fastened on 
hers with a look of calm, cold intelligence. It was intense 
enough, yet there was no passion in it ; I suppose there 
was too much despair ; however, it was as I said, keen and 
intent, and it held Mrs. Starling's eyes, like a vice. Those 
Mr. Masters could not see ; the lady's back was towards 
him ; but he saw how Diana's eyes pinioned her and how 
strangely still Mrs. Starling stood. 
 
' What's the matter with you ? ' she said harshly at last. 
' You ought to know,' said Diana, not moving her eyes. 
' I ain't a conjuror,' Mrs. Starling returned with a sort 
of snort. ' What makes you look at me like that ? ' 
Diana gave a short sharp laugh. ' How can you look 
at me ? ' she said. ' I know all about it, mother. 
Mrs. Starling with a sudden determination went round 
to the head of the bed and put out her hand to feel Diana's pulse. Dian-a shrank away from her. 
' Keep off ! ' she cried. ' Basil, Basil, don't let her 
touch me.' 
' She is out of her head,' said Mrs. Starling, turning to 
her son-in-Law, and speaking half loud. ' I had better stay 
and sit up with her.' 
' No,' cried Diana. ' I don't want you. Basil, don't 
let her stay. Basil, Basil ! ' 
The cry was urgent and pitiful. Her husband came 
near, arranged the pillows, for she had started half up ; and 
putting her gently back upon them, said in his calm tones, 
' Be quiet, Di ; you command here. Mrs. Starling, shall 
we go down stairs ? ' 
Mrs. Starling this time complied without making any 
objection ; but as she reached the bottom she gave vent to 
her opinion. 
' You are spoiling her ! ' 
' Really I should like to have the chance.' 
' What do you mean by that ? ' 
' Just the words. I should like to spoil Di. She has 
never had much of that sort of bad influence.' 
' That sounds very weak, to me,' said Mrs. Starling. 
' To whom should a man show himself weak, if not 
toward his wife ? ' said Basil carelessly. 
' Your wife will not thank you for it.' 
' I will endeavour to retain her respect,' said Basil in 
the same way; which aggravated Mrs. Starling, beyond 
bounds. Something about him always did try her temper, 
she said to herself. 
' Diana is going to have a fever,' she spoke abruptly. 
' I am afraid of it.' 
What's brought it on ? ' 
' I came home two evenings ago and found her on the 
bed.' 
' You don't want me, you say. Who do you expect is 
going to sit up with her and take care of her ? ' 
' I will try what I can do, for the present.' 
' You can't manage that and your out-door work too.' 
' I will manage that ' said Basil significantly. 
' And let your parish work go ? Well, I always thought 
a minister was bound to attend to his people.' 
' Yes. Isn't my wife more one of my people than any- 
body else ? Will you stay and take a cup of tea, Mrs. 
Starling?' 
' No ; if you don't want me, I am going. What will you 
do if Diana gets delirious ? I think she's out of her head 
now.' 
' I'll attend to her,' said Basil composedly. 
Half suspecting a double meaning in his words, Mrs. Starling took short leave, and drove off. Not quite easy in her 
mind, if the truth be told, and glad to be out of all patience 
with the minister. Yes, if she had known how things would 
turn if she had known, perhaps, she would not have 
thrown that first letter into the fire ; which had drawn her on 
to throw the second in, and the third. Could any son-in-law, 
could Evan Knowlton at least, have been more untoward for 
her wishes than the one she had got ? More unmanageable 
he could not have been ; nor more likely to be spooney 
 
about Diana. And now what if Diana really should have 
a fever? People talk out in delirium. Well the min- 
ister would keep his own counsel ; she did not care, she 
said. But all the same, she did care ; and she would fain 
have been the only one to receive Diana's revelations, if 
she could have managed it. And by what devil's conjuration had the truth come to be revealed, when only the fire 
and she knew anything about it. Mrs. Starling chewed the 
cud of no sweet fancy on her road home. 
CHAPTER XXVII. 
DIANA did become ill. A few days of such brain work 
as she had endured that first twenty-four hours, were too 
much even for her perfect organization. She fell into a low 
fever which at times threatened to become violent, yet never did. She was delirious, often ; and Basil heard quite 
enough of her unconscious revelations to put him in full 
possession of the situation. In different portions, Diana 
went over the whole ground. He knew sometimes that she 
was walking with Evan, taking leave of him ; perhaps taking 
counsel with him, and forming plans for life ; then wondering at his silence, speculating about ways and distances, 
tracing his letters out of the post office into the wrong 
hand. And when she was upon that strain, Diana would 
break out into a cry of " O, mother, mother, mother ! " 
repeating the word with an accent of such plaintive despair 
that it tore the heart of the one who heard it. 
There was only one. As long as this state of things 
lasted, Basil gave himself up to the single task of watching 
and nursing his wife. And amid the many varieties of 
heart-suffering which people know in this world, that which 
he tasted these weeks was one of refined bitterness. He 
came to know just how things were and just how they had 
been all along. He knew what Diana's patient or reticent 
calm covered. He heard sometimes her fond meanings 
 
over another name ; sometimes her passionate outcries t 
the owner of that name to come and deliver her; sometimes, she revealed that too, even the repulsion with which 
she regarded himself. ' Oh, not this man ! ' she said one 
night, when he had been sitting by her and hoping that she 
was more quiet. ' Oh, not this man ! It was a mistake. It 
was all a mistake. People ought to take better care at 
the post office. Tell Evan I didn't know ; but I'll come to 
him now just as soon as I can.' 
Another time she burst out more violently. ' Don't kiss 
me ! ' she exclaimed. ' Don't touch me. I wont bear it. Never 
again. I belong to somebody else, don't you know ? You 
have no business to be here.' Basil was not near her, indeed she would not have recognized him if he had been ; 
he was sitting by the fire at a distance ; but he knew 
whom she was addressing in her mournful ravings ; and 
his heart and courage almost gave way. It was very 
bitter ; and many an hour of those nights the minister 
spent on his knees at the bed's foot, seeking for strength 
and wisdom, seeking to keep his heart from being 
quite broken, striving to know what to do. Should he do 
as she said, and never kiss her again ? Should he behave 
to her in the future as a mere stranger ? What was best 
for him and for her ? Basil would have done that unflinchingly, though it had led him to the stake, if he could know 
what the best was. But he did not quite give up all hope, 
desperate as the case looked ; his own strong cheerful nature and his faith in God kept him up. And he resolutely 
concluded that it would not be the best way nor the hopefulest, for him and Diana, bound to each other as they 
were, to try to live as strangers. The bond could not be 
broken ; it had better be acknowledged by them both. But 
if Basil could have broken it and set her free, he would 
 
have done it at any cost to himself. So, week after week, 
he kept his post as nurse at Diana's side. He was a capital nurse. Untireable as a man, and tender as a woman ; 
quick as a woman too to read signs and answer unspoken 
wishes ; thoughtful as many women are not ; patient with 
an unending patience. Diana was herself at times and recognized all this. And by degrees, as the slow days wore 
away, her disorder wore away too or wore itself out, and she 
came back to her normal condition in all except strength. 
That was very failing, even after the fever was gone. And 
still Basil kept his post. He began now, it is true, to attend 
to some pressing outside duties, for which in the weeks just 
past he had provided a substitute ; but morning, noon and 
night he was at Diana's side. No hand but his own might 
ever carry to her the meals which his own hand had no inconsiderable share in preparing. He knew how to serve an 
invalid's breakfast with a refinement of care which Diana herself, before that would not have known how to give another ; 
though she appreciated it and took her lesson. Then nobody could so nicely and deftly prop up pillows and cushions so as to make her rest comfortably for the taking of 
the meal ; no one had such skilful strength to enable a 
weak person to change his position. For all other things, 
Diana saw no difference in him ; nothing told her that she 
had betrayed herself, and she betrayed herself no more. 
Dull and listless she might be ; that was natural enough in 
her weak state of convalescence ; and Diana had never been 
demonstrative towards her husband ; it was no new thing 
that she was not demonstrative now. Neither did he betray that he knew all she was trying, poor child, to hide 
from him. He was just as usual. Only, in Diana's present helpless condition he had opportunity to shew tenderness and care in a thousand services which in her well 
 
days she would have dispensed with. And he did it, as I 
said, with the strength of a man and the delicacy of a woman. He let nobody else do anything for her. 
Did he guess how gladly she would have escaped from 
all his ministrations ? did he knew what they were to Diana ? 
Probably not ; for with all his fineness of perception he 
was yet a man ; and I suppose, reverse the conditions, there 
never was a man yet who would object to have one woman 
wait upon him, because he loved another. Yet Basil did 
know partly and partly guess ; and he went patiently on in 
the way he had marked out for himself, upheld by principle 
and by a great tenacity of purpose which was part of his 
character. Nevertheless those were days of pain, great 
and terrible even for him ; what they were to Diana he 
could but partially divine. As health slowly came back, 
and she looked at herself and her life again with eyes unveiled by disease, with the pitiless clearness of sound reason, Diana wished she could die. She knew she could not ; 
she could come no nearer to it than a passing thought ; her 
pulses were retaking their sweet regularity ; her nerves 
were strung again, fine and true ; only muscular strength 
seemed to tarry. Lying there on her bed and looking out 
over the snow-covered fields, for it was mid-winter by this 
time, Diana sometimes felt a terrible impulse to fly to Evan ; 
as if she could wait only till she had the power to move 
The feeling was wild, impetuous ; it came like a hurricane 
wind, sweeping everything before it. And then Diana would 
feel her chains, and writhe, knowing that she could not and 
would not break them. But how ever was life to be en- 
dured ? life with this other man ? And how dreadful it was 
that he was so good, and so good to her. Yes, it would be 
easier if he did not care for her so well, far easier ; easier 
even if he were not himself so good. The power of his 
 
goodness fettered Diana ; it was a spell upon her. Yes, 
and she wanted to be good too ; she would not forfeit 
heaven because she had lost earth, no, and not to gain 
earth back again. But how was she to live ? And what 
if she should be unable always to hide her feeling, and Basil 
should come to know it ; how would he live ? What if she 
had said strange things in her days and nights of illness ? 
They were all like a confused misty landscape to her noth- 
ing taking shape ; she could not tell how it might have 
been. Restless and weary she was going over all these and 
a thousand other things one day, as she did every day, when 
Basil came in. He brought a tray in his hand. He set it 
down, and came to the bedside. 
' Is it supper-time already ? ' she asked. 
' Are you hungry ? ' 
' I ought not to be hungry. I don't think I am. 
' Why ought you not to be hungry ? ' 
'I am doing nothing, lying here.' 
' I find that is what the people say who are doing too 
much. Extremes meet, as usual.' 
He lifted Diana up and piled pillows and cushions 
at her back till she was well supported. Nobody could do 
this so well as Basil. Then he brought the tray and arranged it before her. There was a bit of cold partridge, 
and toast ; and Basil filled Diana's cup from a little teapot 
he had set by the fire. The last degree of nicety was 
observable in all these preparations. Diana eat her supper. She must live, and she must eat, and she could not 
help being hungry ; though she wondered at herself that 
she could be so unnatural. 
' Where could you get this bird ' she asked at length, to 
break the silence which grew painful. 
' I caught it.' 
 
' Caught it ? You I Shot it, do you mean ? ' 
' No. I had not time to go after it with a gun. But I
set snares.' 
' I never knew partridges were so good,' said Diana, 
though something in her tone said, unconsciously to her, 
that she cared not what was good or bad. 
' You did not use your advantages. That often hap- 
pens.' 
' I had not the advantage of being able to get par- 
tridges,' said Diana languidly. 
' The woods are full of them.' 
' Don't you think it is a pity to catch them ? ' 
' For you ? ' said Basil. He was removing her empty 
plate, and putting before her another with an orange upon 
it, so accurately prepared that it stirred her admiration. 
' Oranges ! ' cried Diana. ' How did you learn to do 
everything, Basil ? ' 
' Don't be too curious,' said he. As he spoke, he softly 
put back of her ear a stray lock of the beautiful brown 
hair, which fell behind her like a cloud of wavy brightness. 
Even from that touch she inwardly shrank ; outwardly she 
was impassive enough. 
'Basil, 'said Diana suddenly, ' didn't I talk foolishly 
sometimes ? when I was sick I mean.' 
' Don't you ever do it when you are well ? ' 
'Do I?' 
' What do you think ? ' said he laughing, albeit his 
heart was not merry at the moment, but Diana's question 
was naive. 
' i did not think I was in the habit of talking foolishly.' 
' Your thoughts are true and just, as usual. It is so 
far from being in your habit, that it is hardly in your 
power,' he said tenderly. ' 
 
Diana eat her orange, for she was very fond of the 
fruit, and it gave occupation to hands and eyes while Basil 
was standing by. She did not like his evasion of her 
question, and pondered how she could bring it up again, 
between wish and fear. Before she was ready to speak 
the chance was gone. As Basil took away her plate he 
remarked that he had to go down to see old Mrs. Barstow ; 
and arranging her pillows anew, he stooped down and 
kissed her. 
Left alone, Diana sat still propped up in bed and 
stared into the fire, which grew brighter as the light without waned. How she rebelled against that kiss. ' No, he 
has no right to me ! ' she cried in her passionate thoughts ; 
' he has no right to me ! I am Evan's ; every bit of me is 
Evan's, and nobody's else. O how eame I to marry this 
man ! and what shall I do ? I wonder if I shall go mad ? 
for I am riot going to die. But how is it possible that I 
can live so ? ' 
She was slow in regaining strength. Yet little by little 
it came back, like a monarch entering a country that has 
rebelled against him. By and by she was able to sit up. 
Her husband had a luxurious easy chair sent from Boston 
for her and placed in her room ; and one evening, it was 
in February now, Diana got up and put herself in it. She 
had never known such a luxurious piece of furniture in her 
life ; she was dressed in a warm wrapper also provided by 
her husband and which seemed to her of extravagant 
daintiness ; and she sank into the depths of the one and 
the folds of the other with a helpless feeling of Basil's 
power over her, symbolized and emphasized by these 
things. Presently came Basil himself, again bringing her 
supper. He placed a small table by her side and set the 
tray there ; put the teapot down by the fire  and taking a 
 
view of his wife, gave a slight smile at the picture. He 
might well, having so good a conscience as this man had. 
Diana was one of those magnificent women who look well 
always and anywhere ; with a kitchen apron on and hands 
in flour, or in the disabille of careless undress ; but as her 
husband saw her then she was lovely in an exquisite degree. 
She was wrapped in a quilted dressing gown of soft grey 
stuff, with a warm shawl about her shoulders ; her beautiful abundant hair, which she had been too weak of hand 
and of heart too to dress elaborately, lay piled about her 
head in loose bright wavy masses, much more picturesque 
than Diana would have known how to make them by 
design. I think there is apt too to be about such women a 
natural grace of motion or of repose ; it was her case. To 
think of herself or the appearance she might at any time 
be making, was foreign to Diana ; the noble grace of unconsciousness, united to her perfectness of build, made 
her always faultless in action or attitude. If she moved or 
if she sat, it might have been a duchess, for the beautiful 
unconscious ease with which she did it. Nature's high 
breeding; there is such a thing; and there is such an 
effect of it, when the constitution of mind and body are 
alike noble. 
Basil poured out her cup of tea, and divided her quail 
and then sat down. It was hard for her to bear. 
' You are too good to me,' said Diana humbly. 
' I should like to see you prove that.' 
' I am not sure but you are too good to everybody.' 
' Why ? how can one be too good ? ' 
' You won't get paid for it.' 
' I think I shall,' said Basil ; in a quiet confident way 
he had, which was provoking if you were arguing with him. 
But Diana was not arguing with him. 
 
' Basil, I can never pay you,' she said with a voice that 
faltered a little. 
' You are sure of that in your own mind ? ' 
' Very sure ! ' 
' I am a man of a hopeful turn of nature. Shall I 
divide that joint for you ? ' 
' My hands cannot manage a quail ! ' said Diana yielding 
her knife and fork to him. 'What can make me so weak?' 
' You have had fever.' 
' But I have no fever now, and I do not seem to get 
my strength back.' 
' After the unnatural tension, Nature takes her re- 
venge.' 
' It is very hard on you ! ' 
' What ? ' 
Diana did not answer. She had spoken that last word 
with almost a break in her voice ; she gave her attention 
now diligently to picking the quail bones. But when her 
supper was done, and the tray delivered over to Miss Collins, Basil did not as sometimes he did, go away and leave 
her ; but sat down again and trimmed the fire. Diana lay 
back in her chai^looking at him. 
' Basil,' she said at last after a long silence, ' do you 
think mistakes, I mean, life-mistakes, can ever be mended 
in this world ? ' 
' You must define what you mean by mistakes,' he said 
without looking at her. ' There are no mistakes, love, but 
those which we make by our own fault.' 
' O but yes there are, Basil ! ' 
' Not what I mean by mistakes.' 
' Then what do you call them ? When people's lives 
are all spoiled bv something they have- had nothing to do 
with by death, or sickness, or accident, or misfortune.' 
 
' I call it,' said Basil slowly and still without looking at 
her, ' I call it, when it touches me or you, or other of the 
Lord's children, God's good hand.' 
' O no, Basil ! people's wickedness cannot be his hand.' 
' People's wickedness is their own. And other evil I 
believe is wrought by the prince of this world. But God 
will use people's wickedness and even Satan's mischief, to 
his children's best good ; and so it becomes, in so far, his 
blessed hand. Don't you know he has promised, " There 
shall no evil happen to the just ? " And that " all things 
