of happy love, or any delicious vision seen in the dis- 
tance. It struck a chill to my soul, prepared me instantly 
for what was coming. 
“ Christabel,” why is it that people always give you 
j"Our full name in the instant of trouble, anger, or pain? — 
“ Christabel, I was a coward, and worse, to utter those 
endearing words, and yet I love you, love you as I 
have no right to love any woman, save the one to whom 
my word is plighted. Yet what makes the right and 
wrong, the honor and the dishonor? I have tried not 
only to guard myself, but to guard you, as any tender 
brother might have done. I have lingered within sight of 
you, watched you when others were around, and said, 
‘ Thus far, and no farther ; ’ and now all my mortal weak- 
ness has found a voice. O Christabel ! can it ever be for- 
given, this sin against you? ’’ 
I put out my hand blindly. Since he had not deceived 
me wilfully, since he must suffer, might we not as well 
have the fellowship in our anguish ? 
“ My little darling ! A man ought to take you to his 
heart, and make paths for your poor tired feet, carry you 
over rough ways. Shall I do it? ” 
He seemed to ask the question as much of himself as 
of me. Should I, could I, go to happiness treading over 
another woman’s heart? 
 
“ No, no ! I cried, with a pang that seemed to wrench 
my very soul apart. 
“You despise me ! any good woman would.” 
“ I am not a good woman, then. I do not despise, nor 
hate, hardly blame. I see now how you have tried ; but 
it is hard — to give up all in a moment.” 
“ Let me tell you my story, and you shall be the judge. 
If you think honor binds me, and must be obeyed at any 
cost, I will bow my head humbly, and take up the frag- 
ments. If not, nothing shall induce me to sacrifice two 
souls.” 
He was deathly pale ; but his firm lips and resolute eyes 
indicated much mental strength. 
“ Tell me,” I said huskily. “ I must hear all now.” 
“ Miss Adelaide Adams and I have been neighbors 
alway's. She and my next sister are just of an age. We 
went to the same academy in our native town, studied 
together, graduated ; and then I left home for Harvard. 
Two years later I brought a friend home with me, Walter 
Heywood, some three or four years my senior. My sister 
was engaged at this time : the elder one was very well 
married. Miss Adams is rather tall and fine-looking, 
with a distinguished presence, and decidedly intellectual 
Tvithout being an original genius, but is very highly 
accomplished. I always liked her very much. 
“ Well, she and my friend Heywood became engaged. 
It was a bitter disappointment to my mother, who in her 
heart had chosen her for me. They were very happy. 
He had one of those bright, joyous, hopeful tempera- 
ments, while she was rather grave, more of the woman 
than the girl. He went to California to establish a 
branch house : he belonged to a large and rich mercan- 
tile firm. In a year or two he was to return for the mar- 
riage. The time was appointed, not the da}-, but the 
month. Heywood was taken ill with a fever, and died in 
ten days. It was an awful stroke to her, a shock to us all. 
“ Her father died shortly after. She let out her place, 
and came to make her home with my mother, though she 
had brothers married, and a very nice Income of her own. 
I went back and forth. I do not think I can recall all the 
steps of gradual regard ; but, when I came to Northwood, 
we had been engaged something over a year.’’ 
“ And she loves you! ” I cried. How could a woman 
help loving him, when she felt she had the right? “ And 
she loved the other too,” I added, after a moment’s pause. 
“ She loved Heywood — yes; I think she did truly. 
She loves my mother and me ; and she is quite an exclu- 
sive woman in her tenderest regards. Well, I came to 
Northwood to settle myself, as my uncle desired. I met 
you and your sister, and you were delightful young girls. 
Christabel, do you remember the night I rode up in the 
cars, when that Mr. Miller was with you? He loved you, 
I saw at once. I cannot tell you how I was interested. 
You seemed so delicate, dainty, and refined, and he was so 
different ! ‘ Can she love him ? can she many him ? ’ I 
kept asking myself, and have her whole life marred and 
blurred, either lowered to his ways, or else worn out in 
a few years in the vain struggle to lift him up? ” 
“ But he is going to marry Miss Taylor,” I cried. 
You see women can love him.” 
“Miss Tajdor is — well, stylish, accomplished, but not 
refined. She will laugh at his blunders ; then she is 
strong enough to mould him a little to her way of think- 
ing. She will not be in an agony of mortification over 
him, such as your sensitive soul would experience. 
“•You and your sister were so bright with the glow of 
youth and pleasure. I did not dream of any danger. 
Honestly I did not think there was any thing in my sedate, 
rather elderly manner that would attract a young girl 
strongly. I would be a brother to you, standing off when 
other pleasures were offered, coming a little nearer when I 
was needed. I liked you very much. There were times 
 
when I wanted to establish the right of a brotherly friend- 
ship ; then I was afraid there might be danger in the very 
ease and security it would afford. God knows I did not 
realize until this very night what you had become to me. 
I did not know what a rapturous thing love might ’ ’ — 
His voice, that had been so strong and passionless all 
through the confession, wavered now. He had taken my 
arm, and we were walking on and on ; but I felt the nerves 
quiver, even his step grew hesitating. He loved me ! ah, 
no after-pang could quite shut out that blissful, if not 
blessed knowledge. But love did not always mean hap- 
piness. 
“ I have said to myself many times, ‘ If I were free, I 
would compel this little girl to marry nae. I would woo 
her so ardently, tempt her with such delightsome visions 
of the future, that she could not resist. I would make 
her life one long, bright excursion ; ’ for you know on 
excursions people stop, and build fires somewhere at the 
wood’s edge, boil the kettle, and spread a table, bringing 
out of hampers and baskets the choice bits they have 
packed away for this hour. It is not all idleness. And 
now, whether it is right in God’s sight to let this pure, 
sweet dream be thrust aside, or bear with a broken 
promise ? I think you could love me when nothing stood 
between. So far, I have refrained from any word, any 
act. I have never even kissed your sweet red hps, though 
sometimes I have been tempted almost beyond endurance, 
and have had to struggle hard with the giant of desire.” 
“ She is rich,” I said quietly. 
“Yes. Do you suppose that would weigh a moment 
with me, little girl? ” 
My heart gave a great thrill. 
“ But she loves you. Hers is not merely a cold, pas- 
sive, friendly regard.” 
“ I will be honest. I think she does love me. If it 
were merely an engagement of convenience or worldly 
interest, I should not hesitate a moment. mother is 
very fond of her ; and Chrissie — can you explain this to 
nie ? — I seem to love her just as well to-night as I ever 
did ; but oh ! my love for you appears like heaven itself. 
What shall I do ? ” 
“ If you told her ” — 
“ She would relinquish me at once. She and my 
mother would live on there together.’’ 
A pang seemed to rend my very soul as I saw the 
picture in a blinding flash, like lightning. His mother 
would alway's look upon me as an interloper, a marplot : 
there would be none of that precious love and s}Tupathy 
that had hallowed mamma’s life. 
“ Chrissie, I had no right to say one word until I told 
you this. Weak I may be, disloyal perhaps, but not de- 
ceitful. And now, think for me, help me. I want you.’" 
“ Oh ! ” I cried with a great gasp, “ let me consider a 
little, a day or two — I am so bewildered ! ” 
“ Perhaps we had both better think it over. I have 
said heretofore that all such promises were sacred, to be 
kept at any cost ; yet I feel now that I would not like a 
woman to marry me from a sense of duty, while her heart 
was another’s. But it is such a solemn matter.” 
I turned around to wallt back. Oh, if I could die just 
there at his feet, if he could take me up and kiss my cold 
lips, cross my limp white hands, and bury me without 
another soul to look at me ! 
“ Have I killed you, crushed you, my poor stricken 
lamb? ” and his cry pierced me. 
I wonder what our lives would have been, if I had 
turned then and there, following out a wild impulse, and 
accepted him as my lover. Is not duty a relative thing ? 
Is not conscience swayed a good deal by conflicting emo- 
tions ? Do we not think until we are confused and mor- 
bid? 
We reached home, and said a quiet good-night on the 
 
little porch. It was Wednesday now ; next Monday even- 
ing we would settle it for weal or woe. 
I did not take my trouble to mother. I felt, sweet and 
s}Tnpathizing as she was, that she might condemn him : I 
held him guiltless. A sad mistake — was it 'that? Did 
God mean that we should come to this blessed nearness 
and sympathy, see all these things in each other, and 
then wrench out the vision? Would it make a tree 
stronger thus to tear out its best branches? He had 
never acted dishonorably lover-like. Should I then be 
ashamed of loving? 
One sentence ran through my mind : “ As ye mete out, 
it shall be meted unto you again.” If I took this woman’s 
lover from her, would a swift judgment interpose some 
time, and snatch away the thing I most desired ? 
CHAPTER XI. 
“ Are you good men and true ? ” 
Much Ado about Nothing. 
I WENT to school the next morning with a strange feel- 
ing. I seemed to have lived so long already ; and yet 
stretching out before me were years and years of school- 
teaching. These girls would grow up and marry, and 
their children might be in my class. I was so tired, so 
puzzled with the tangle, so afraid to stretch out my hand 
and take what might be forbidden fruit. How could I 
tell? 
Thursday, Friday, Saturday, with its morning of 
sweeping and dusting, and little helpful things. Father 
came home, and began to plan about his journey. Uncle 
Robert thought it such an excellent idea ! Two or three 
young friends dropped in with their girlish gossip of new 
gowns, beaux, engagements. It seemed to me that I must 
be two distinct persons ; that, after this, I should always 
live two lives, — the one that was, the other that might 
have been. I think now it was curious that I should 
take giving up Horace Sargent so for granted. 
It would be better for him to marry her, — this large, 
gracious, intellectual woman, with her position and her 
wealth, and his mother’s love. It would be a long while 
before I could help him climb any such heights. There 
would be my own family, poor, and in trouble maybe ; 
and I should want to share somewhat with them, bring my 
burthen to him, ask his kindly attention. 
 
Then it would flash over me like an electric thrill, that 
if I could only see her and judge ; if I could go to her, 
and say honestly and frankly, “I love this man too: 
let us compare our affection, and then decide who shall 
give him up.” It was absurd, of course. No two human 
beings ever would do so. 
Do you say it should have been whichever he loved the 
better? On her side was all the old friendship, the thorough 
knowledge of her character, the desire of his mother, 
so many things that were sure : on mine, the newness, the 
half fear he might be dazzled with something that was 
not pure gold. I could understand him as well as myself. 
And the dread of beginning life, and love, dishonored by 
a broken promise ! 
If he had been of the impulsive kind, and settled it all 
before that eventful Monday evening, and told me then 
and there that I must marry him, since he had given up 
every thing for me, I should have done it unhesitatingly. 
It may be that I secretly wished he would. A younger 
man might have ; a less scrupulous one would. 
I kept some children in after school. I wondered if 
this tense strain was beginning to tell on my temper. 
Theo was bright and well to-night, and hurried around 
with supper. Father and mother went put afterward to 
make a few calls. I walked quietly up stairs and lighted 
the gas, took out some pretty wool crocheting I was so 
fond of. The door-bell rang. 
Oh that awful, choking, constricted sensation ! My 
hands grew cold, my limbs numb. 
Theo’s gay laugh, and a voice that was not Horace 
Sargent’s. I had a reprieve. 
Eight o’clock. Long after, — it seemed an hour ; but 
it was only fifteen minutes, — the bell rang again. 
This time Theo comes flying up stairs. 
“ Chris, Mr. Sargent is here, and wants you to put on 
youi' hat and take a walk. He will not come in. And 
Mr. Ross is down stairs.” 
“ Yes,” I say calmly, rising, and putting away my 
work. 
Why should I stop to tie a pretty ribbon around my 
throat, and take out my fleecy white Shetland shawl? 
There is no moon ; and, in this matter of life and death, 
will he see ? 
I go down slowly. I put my hand in the one out- 
stretched. It is cold : so is mine. Then he draws me 
out. I shut the door, and we are walking up the street. 
Presently we begin in calm, dispassionate voices. We 
have both, it seems, thought so much of honor, of truth, 
of beginning life rightly, of making no wilful blot or mar 
that may rise up in after-years a grim ghost to haunt us. 
Yet he feels more than inchned to give up all for love’s 
sake. I tremble and thrill, I am so near happiness ; and 
yet I put it away reverently, as one buries the dead. 
“ Oh, I can’t, Chrissie ! ” he cries, “ I can’t ! ” Then, 
in the next breath, “ But you are right.” 
Right. It is a magical word. No man shall tell me in 
after-years that I tempted him to wrong. 
Yet I think now, after all these years, that one way 
was as right as the other. 
It is all over presently. Have I turned into stone, that 
I have no more feeling about it ? 
“ Take me home,” I say wearily. 
He is talking of some future time when we may be 
friends again. Why, we could be friends now, to-morrow, 
any time. We have tried ; and we can neither of us step 
over this wide river, named duty, that the world or pro- 
priety settles for us. 
We open the gate, step up on the little porch. His arm 
is around me then. 
“ Oh, my brave, sweet darling! ” he cries in a trans- 
port of love and grief, “kiss me just once. Heaven 
knows there can be no sin in it. It is like kissing the 
dead.” 
 
Do dead lips ever have in them such rapture ? Shall I 
clasp my arm around his neck, and tell him that I cannot 
give him up ? 
“ Good-by, my sweet, sweet little love." 
I go through the hall. Dick and Dell are having a dis- 
pute about a problem in algebra, that I decide. Then moth- 
er and father come in. The parlor-door is shut : so Theo is 
still engaged. I go up stairs, thinking how many old-maid 
school-teachers there are, and wonder if each has had her 
love-dream. I even laugh a little hysterically. 
I hurry into bed, and am safely sheltered by the pillow, 
when Theo comes flying up, two steps at a bound, and 
pants breathlessly. 
“ The queerest, queerest thing, Chris ! I have had an 
offer of marriage.” 
“ Not from Mr. Ross ! " 
“ Of course not. He was in the parlor ; but the offer 
came down the chimney, or through the keyhole. Well, 
we are both too astonished to tell the truth.” 
“It is odd," I say. “I didn’t fancy him a marrying 
man.” 
“ Nor I. I thought I had come across a nice, fatherly 
friend. I found him so good to stop off Fred ! And I 
haven’t treated him the least bit like a lover. I’ve gone 
where I liked, and — yes, flirted, to show him that I wasn’t 
in earnest. He asked me, in a sort of formal way, to keep 
company. I really could not think at first what he was 
driving at ; and then it all came out.” 
“ What have you done, — not engaged yourself? ” 
“ Ah, bah ! no. What do I want of a husband? Chris, 
it would be positively ridiculous, unless he were a million- 
naire. And yet, when I was over the first surprise, and 
had had my laugh, like the Irishman, I did feel very 
sorry. He seemed to love me so ! O Chris ! why do 
they ? I’m such a foolish, flighty little thing, never going 
into sentiment and all that, but spring out all the funny 
incidents in this queer world, and laughing at them. I
do not beheve I have a bit of love for any one outside of 
the family. Why, I have never even had a girl-friend. 
Girls seem a little afraid of my moral and instructive 
comments.” 
“ But they do like you. Remember last summer.” 
“Oh! those were women, — most of them. Real old 
women and little children think I’m enchanting.” 
“ And now this has come to an end.” 
“Well, not exactly,” says Theo gravely. “He pro- 
poses to be considered in the light of a friend by all of us : 
especially now that papa is likely to be away, he thinks 
he might prove useful to us. And he gave me two letters 
of recommendation for papa. Why, it’s quite like Mr. 
Beguillan over again. And he is so gentlemanly I yet 
there is something curious about him.” 
“ I thought you attracted him from the very first.” 
“Did you?” and Theo seems to go ofl* in a brown 
study. “I wonder why he doesn’t like Miss Hudson. 
Report says she would be ready enough to marry.” 
“We all seem to be like the Scotch lassie: those we 
would have don’t want us, and those we want won’t have 
us.” 
“ I don’t know. I have not wanted any one very much 
as yet,” in an indifferent tone. 
With that she comes to bed. 
The last of that week, papa went away. 
“Three months,” said the doctor: “don’t venture 
home a day sooner.” 
We laid our plans. We would be so very, very eco- 
nomical. All the cleaning should be done by degrees and 
on Saturday ; so that we would not need to hire any one. 
Every garment that could be made over should do duty 
again. We would give up desserts, except on Sundays, or 
when there were visitors. 
I was glad to be so busy. That Mr. Sargent should 
stay away a week was nothing. • No one observed it. 
 
Two notes had come from papa. He had made a little 
halt at Niagara, another at Chicago. When we next heard 
from him, he would be at uncle’s. 
When we did hear, the news was sad enough. Uncle 
James had died very suddenly, of apoplexy, the day before 
father reached his house. He was stout and rosy, and 
had been out horseback-riding, after a hearty dinner. So 
the house was one of mourning. 
He remained a fortnight with them, and then came back, 
little improved. Uncle James was a very rich man, doubt- 
less ; but his affairs were in great confusion. There were 
two daughters by the first mamage, one of whom was 
married herself ; and, by the second, five, — enough to take 
all the money 
“I suppose he was happy, and enjoyed all the bustle 
and planning and journeying about,” said father. “He 
had never been ill a week in his life. It seems as if he 
ought to have lived to reap the fruit of his labors, and had 
a hale old age, with his sons and daughters growing up 
around him.” 
Father had hoped that there might be some business- 
opening at the West, or, perhaps, within uncle James’s 
knowledge ; so that he could try living in an entirely new 
place. That vision came to a sudden end. 
He kept so weak all the time. He said he felt as if he 
should never be rested again. 
Then he and mother went to Medford for a fortnight, 
and he decided to stay. 
Miss Newby and Miss Wilbur called one evening. In 
the course of the conversation Mr. Sargent happened to 
be mentioned. He had gone to his old home in Central 
New York to spend a few weeks. 
“ It is said — I heard it from some of his connections 
— that he has a lady-love there. I suppose we will hear 
of a Mrs. Sargent presently.” 
“I hope she will be as charming as he is,” I made 
