dinner on land, after a sea-voyage, is, under any 
circumstances, a delightful occasion, and there 
was something particularly agreeable in the circumstances in which our young Englishmen found 
themselves. They were extremely good-natured 





young men ; they were more observant than they 
appeared; in a sort of inarticulate, accidentally 
dissimulative fashion, they were highly appreciative. This was, perhaps, especially the case with 
the eider, who was also, as I have said, the man of 
talent. They sat down at a little table, which was 
a very different affair from the great clattering 
seesaw in the saloon of the steamer. The wide 
doors and windows of the restaurant stood open, 
beneath large awnings, to a wide pavement, 
where there were other plants hi tubs, and rows 
of spreading trees, and beyond which there was 
a large shady square, without any palings, and 
with marble-paved walks. And above the vivid 
verdure rose other faades of white marble and 
of pale chocolate-colored stone, squaring them 
selves against the deep blue sky. Here, outside, 
in the light and the shade and the heat, there 
was a great tinkling of the bells of innumerable 
street cars, and a constant strolling and shuffling 
and rustling of many pedestrians, a large proportion of whom were young women in Pompa 
dour-looking dresses. Within, the place was cool 
and vaguely lighted, with the plash of water, the 
odor of flowers, and the flitting of French waiters, as I have said, upon soundless carpets. 

"It 's rather like Paris, you know," said the 
younger of our two travellers. 



  

" It 's like Paris only more so," bis companion 
rejoined. 

"I suppose it 's the French waiters," said the 
first speaker. "Why don 't they have French 
waiters in London ?" 

"Fancy a French waiter at a club," said his 
friend. 

The young Englishman stared a little, as if he 
could not fancy it. " In Paris I'm very apt to 
dine at a place where there 's an English waiter. 
Don 't you know what s-his-name s, close to the 
thingumbob ? They always set an English waiter at me. I suppose they think I can 't speak 
French." 

" Well, you can t." And the elder of the young 
Englishmen unfolded his napkin. 

His companion took no notice whatever of this 
declaration. " I say," he resumed, in a moment, 
I suppose we must learn to speak American. I 
suppose we must take lessons." 

" I can 't understand them," said the clever man. 

" What the deuce is he saying ?" asked his com 
rade, appealing from the French waiter. 

"lie is recommending some soft-shell crabs," 
said the clever man. 

And so, in desultory observation of the idiosyncrasies of the new society in which they found 
themselves, the young Englishmen proceeded to 
dine going in largely, as the phrase is, for cool 
ing draughts and dishes, of which their attendant 
offered them a very long list. After dinner they 
went out and slowly walked about the neighbor 
ing streets. The early dusk of waning summer 
was coming on, but the heat was still very great. 
The pavements were hot even to the stout boot 
soles of the British travellers, and the trees along 
the curb-stone emitted strange exotic odors. The 
young men wandered through the adjoining square 
that queer place without palings, and with mar 
ble walks arranged in black and white lozenges. 
There were a great many benches, crowded with 
shabby-looking people, and the travellers remark 
ed, very justly, that it was not much like Belgrave 
Square. On one side was an enormous hotel, lift 
ing up into the hot darkness an immense array of 
open, brightly lighted windows. At the base of 
this populous structure was an eternal jangle of 
horse-cars, and all round it, in the upper dusk, was 
a sinister hum of mosquitoes. The ground-floor 
of the hotel seemed to be a huge transparent cage, 
flinging a wide glare of gas-light into the street, of 
which it formed a sort of public adjunct, absorbing 
and emitting the passers-by promiscuously. The 
young Englishmen went in with every one else, 
from curiosity, and saw a couple of hundred men 
sitting on divans along a great marble-paved 
corridor,with their legs stretched out, together with 
several dozen more standing in a queue, as at the 
ticket office of a railway station, before a brilliant 
ly illuminated counter of vast extent. These lat 
ter persons, who carried portmanteaus in their 
hands, had a dejected, exhausted look ; their garments were not very fresh, and they seemed to be 
rendering some mysterious tribute to a magnificent 
young man with a waxed mustache, and a shirt 
front adorned with diamond buttons, who every 
now and then dropped an absent glance over their 
multitudinous patience. They were American citizens doing homage to a hotel clerk. 

" I'm glad he didn 't tell us to go there," said 
one of our Englishmen, alluding to their friend 
on the steamer, who had told them so many things. 
They walked up the Fifth Avenue, where, for in 
stance, he had told them that all the first families 
lived. But the first families were out of town, 
and our young travellers had only the satisfaction 
of seeing some of the second or perhaps even the 
third taking the evening air upon balconies and 
high nights of door-steps, in the streets which radiate from the more ornamental thoroughfare. 
They went a little way down one of these side 
streets, and they saw young ladies in. white dress 
es charming-looking persons seated in grace 
ful attitudes on the chocolate-colored steps. In 



one or two places these young ladies were conversing across the street with other young ladies 
seated in similar postures and costumes in front 
of the opposite houses, and in the warm night air 
their colloquial tones sounded strange in the ears 
of the young Englishmen. One of our friends, 
nevertheless the younger one intimated that he 
felt a disposition to interrupt a few of these soft 
familiarities ; but his companion observed, perti 
nently enough, that he had better be careful. 
" We must not begin with making mistakes," said 
his companion. 

" But he told us, you know he told us," urged 
the young man, alluding again to the friend on 
the steamer. 

" Never mind what he told us !" answered his 
comrade, who, if he had greater talents, was also 
apparently more of a moralist. 

By bed-time in their impatience to taste of a 
terrestrial couch again our sea-farers went to bed 
early it was still insufferably hot, and the buzz 
of the mosquitoes at the open windows might have 
passed for an audible crepitation of the temperature. " We can 't stand this, you know," the young 
Englishmen said to each other ; and they tossed 
about all night more boisterously than they had 
tossed upon the Atlantic billows. On the morrow, 
their first thought was that they would re-embark 



  

this day for England ; and then it occurred to 
them that they might find an asylum nearer at 
hand. The cave of JEolus became their ideal of 
comfort, and they wondered where the Americans 
went when they wished to cool off. They had 
not the least idea, and they determined to apply 
for information to Mr. J. L. Westgate. This was 
the name inscribed in a bold hand on the back of 
a letter carefully preserved in the pocket-book of 
our junior traveller. Beneath the address, in the 
left-hand corner of the envelope, were the words, 
"Introducing Lord Lambeth and Percy Beau 
mont, Esq." The letter had been given to the 
two Englishmen by a good friend of theirs in London, who had been in America two years previous 
ly, and had singled out Mr. J. L. Westgate from 
the many friends he had left there as the consignee, as it were, of his compatriots. " He is a 
capital fellow," the Englishman in London had 
said, "and he has got an awfully pretty wife. 
He 's tremendously hospitable he will do every 
thing in the world for you ; and as he knows every 
one over there, it is quite needless I should give 
you any other introduction. He will make you 
see every one ; trust to him for putting you into 
circulation. He has got a tremendously pretty 
wife." It was natural that in the hour of tribulation Lord Lambeth and Mr. Percy Beaumont 





should have bethought themselves of a gentleman 
whose attractions had been thus vividly depicted ; 
all the more so that he lived in the Fifth Avenue, 
and that the Fifth Avenue, as they had ascertained the night before, was contiguous to their hotel. 
"Ten to one he'll be out of town," said Percy 
Beaumont ; " but we can at least find out where 
he has gone, and we can immediately start in pur 
suit. He can 't possibly have gone to a hotter 
place, you know." 

" Oh, there 's only one hotter place," said Lord 
Lambeth, " and I hope he hasn't gone there." 

They strolled along the shady side of the street 
to the number indicated upon the precious letter. 
The house presented an imposing chocolate-color 
ed expanse, relieved by facings and window cor 
nices of florid sculpture, and by a couple of dusty 
rose-trees which clambered over the balconies and 
the portico. This last-mentioned feature was approached by a monumental flight of steps. 

"Kather better than a London house," said 
Lord Lambeth, looking down from this altitude, 
after they had rung the bell. 

"It depends upon what London house you 
mean," replied his companion. "You have a 
tremendous chance to get wet between the house 
door and your carriage." 

"Well," said Lord Lambeth, glancing at the 
burning heavens, "I guess it doesn 't rain so 
much here ?" 

The door was opened by a long negro in a white 
jacket, who grinned familiarly when Lord Lambeth asked for Mr. Westgate. 

" He ain't at home, Sah ; he 's down town at his 
office." 

"Oh, at his office?" said the visitors. "And 
when will he be at home V" 

"Well, Sah, when he goes out dis way in de 
mo ning, he ain't liable to come home all day." 

This was discouraging ; but the address of Mr. 
Westgate 's office was freely imparted by the intelligent black, and was taken down by Percy 
Beaumont in his pocket-book. The two gentle 
men then returned, languidly, to their hotel, and 
sent for a hackney-coach, and in this commodious vehicle they rolled comfortably down town. 
They measured the whole length of Broadway, 
again, and found it a path of fire ; and then, deflecting to the left, they were deposited by their 
conductor before a fresh, light, ornamental structure, ten stories high, in a street crowded with 
keen-faced, light-limbed young men, who were 
running about very quickly, and stopping each 
other eagerly at corners and in doorways. Passing into this brilliant building, they were intro 
duced by one of the keen-faced young men. he 
was a charming fellow, in wonderful cream-color 
ed garments and a bat with a blue ribbon, who 
had evidently perceived them to be aliens and 
helpless to a very snug hydraulic elevator, in 
which they took their place with many other per 
sons, and which, shooting upward in its vertical 
socket, presently projected them into the seventh 
horizontal compartment of the edifice. Here, after brief delay, they found themselves face to face 
with the friend of their friend in London. His 
office was composed of several different rooms, 
and they waited very silently in one of them aft 
er they had sent in their letter and their cards. 
The letter was not one which it would take Mr. 
Westgate very long to read, but he came out to 
speak to them more instantly than they could 
have expected ; he had evidently jumped up from 
his work. He was a tall, lean personage, and was 
dressed all in fresh white linen ; he had a thin, 
sharp, familiar face, with an expression that was 
at one and the same time sociable and business 
like, a quick, intelligent eye, and a large brown 
mustache, which concealed his mouth and made 
his chin, beneath it, look small. Lord Lambeth 
thought he looked tremendously clever. 

" How do you do, Lord Lambeth how do you 
do, Sir ?" he said, holding the open letter in his 
hand. " I'm very glad to see you ; I hope you 're 
very well. You had better come in here ; I think 
it 's cooler," and he led the way into another room, 
where there were law books and papers, and win 
dows wide open beneath striped awning. Just 
opposite one of the windows, on a line with his 
eyes, Lord Lambeth observed the weather-vane 
of a church steeple. The uproar of the street 
sounded infinitely far below, and Lord Lambeth 
felt very high in the air. "I say it 's cooler," 
pursued their host, " but every thing is relative. 
How do you stand the heat ?" 

" I can 't say we like it," said Lord Lambeth ; 
" but Beaumont likes it better than I." 

" Well, it won 't last," Mr. Westgate very cheer 
fully declared ; " nothing unpleasant lasts over 
here. It was very hot when Captain Littledale 
was here ; he did nothing but drink sherry-cobblers. He expresses some doubt in his letter 
whether I will remember him as if I didn 't 
remember making six sherry-cobblers for him 
one day in about twenty minutes. I hope you 
left him well, two years having elapsed since 
then. " 

" Oh yes, he 's all right," said Lord Lambeth. 

" I am always very glad to see your country 
men," Mr. Westgate pursued. "I thought it 
would be time some of you should be coming 
along. A friend of mine was saying to me only 





a day or two ago, " It 's time for the water-melons 
and the Englishmen. " 

" The Englishmen and the water-melons just 
now are about the same thing," Percy Beaumont 
observed, wiping his dripping forehead. 

" Ah, well, we'll put you on ice, as we do the 
melons. You must go down to Newport." 

" We'll go any where," said Lord Lambeth. 

" Yes, you want to go to Newport ; that 's what 
you want to do," Mr. Westgate affirmed. " But 
let 's see when did you get here ?" 

" Only yesterday," said Percy Beaumont. 

" Ah, yes, by the Russia. Where are you staying?" 



"At the Hanover, I think they call it." 

"Pretty comfortable?" inquired Mr. Westgate. 

" It seems a capital place, but I can 't say we 
like the gnats," said Lord Lambeth. 

Mr. Westgate stared and laughed. " Oh no, 
of course you don 't like the gnats. We shall expect you to like a good many things over here, 
but we sha n't insist upon your liking the gnats ; 
though certainly you'll admit that, as gnats, they 
are fine, eh? But you oughtn't to remain in 
the city." 

" So we think," said Lord Lambeth. " If you 
would kindly suggest something " 

" Suggest something, my dear Sir ?" and Mr. 
Westgate looked at him, narrowing his eyelids. 
" Open your mouth and shut your eyes ! Leave 
it to me, and I'll put you through. It 's a matter 
of national pride with me that all Englishmen 
should have a good time ; and as I have had 
considerable practice, I have learned to minister 
to their wants. I find they generally want the 
right thing. So just please to consider your 
selves my property ; and if any one should try to 
appropriate you, please to say, Hands off; too 
late for the market. But let 's see," continued 
the American, in his slow, humorous voice, with 
a distinctness of utterance which appeared to his 
visitors to be part of a humorous intention a 
strangely leisurely, speculative voice for a man 
evidently so busy and, as they felt, so professional " let 's see ; are you going to make something 
of a stay, Lord Lambeth ?" 

"Oh dear no," said the young Englishman; 
"my cousin was coming over on some business, 
so I just came across, at an hour 's notice, for the 
lark." 

" Is it your first visit to the United States ?" 

" Oh dear yes." 

"I was obliged to come on some business," 
said Percy Beaumont, " and I brought Lambeth 
along." 


" And you have been here before, Sir ?" 

" Never never." - 

" I thought, from your referring to business " 
said Mr. Westgate. 

" Oh, you see I'm by way of being a barrister," 
Percy Beaumont answered. " I know some people that think of bringing a suit against one of 
your railways, and they asked me to come over 
