
BAKED MUTTON CHOPS.

3 lbs. of mutton chops; 5 fine potatoes; 1 onion; 1 kidney; 1 pint of
oyster-liquor; pepper, salt, and parsley; 1 tablespoonful of butter.

Lay one-third of the chops—rid of all the fat and skin—in a
baking-dish; cover with potatoes and onions, sliced very thin; sprinkle
with salt and pepper. Put on another layer of chops, more potatoes
and onions, then the sliced kidney. Cover with potatoes; season; put
in the rest of the chops; cover with onion and potatoes. Pour in the
oyster-liquor and melted butter, with parsley, pepper, and salt. Cover
very closely, and bake in a moderate oven three hours. Turn out upon a
heated flat dish.


MACARONI PUDDING.

Break half a pound of macaroni into short pieces, and boil twenty
minutes in hot, salted water. Drain; add two tablespoonfuls of grated
cheese, the minced remains of yesterday’s game, or some other cold
meat, a little chopped ham, and four beaten eggs. Mix all well, wetting
with a little soup-stock—adding, finally, a cup of milk, in which has
been stirred a pinch of soda. Pour into a greased mould, and boil one
hour. Turn out, and serve with a gravy made of cold gravy left from
yesterday, mixed with a little hot stock, strained, thickened, and
boiled for one minute.


WINTER SQUASH.

Pare, cut up, and cook soft in boiling water, a little salt. Drain;
mash smooth, pressing out all the water; work in butter, pepper, and
salt, and mound in a deep dish.


COLD SLAW.

Shred a firm cabbage, and pour over it a dressing made in these
proportions: One teaspoonful of sugar, half as much salt, pepper, and
made mustard, rubbed smooth in two tablespoonfuls of oil, and then
beaten up very gradually with five tablespoonfuls of vinegar, and a
teaspoonful Colgate’s essence of celery.


CRACKER AND JAM PUDDING.

3 eggs; ½ cup cracker-crumbs; ½ cup sugar; i tablespoonful of butter; 1
cup of milk; ½ lemon—juice and grated peel; 3 tablespoonfuls of jam.

Heat milk and crumbs together until scalding. Turn out to cool, while
you rub butter and sugar to a cream—adding the lemon. Stir in the
beaten yolks, the soaked cracker and milk—at last, the whites. Butter
a bake-dish; put the jam at the bottom; fill up with the mixture, and
bake, covered, half an hour; then brown. Eat cold, with sifted sugar on
top. Or, if you like, you can put a méringue over it before taking
from the oven.


  Second Week.      Sunday.
  ——
  “That Soup” Again.
  Roast Turkey, Garnished with Sausages.     Mashed Turnips.
  Canned Corn Pudding.      Sweet Potatoes.
  Cranberry Sauce.
  ——
  Orange Snow and Snowdrift Cake.
  Hot Coffee.
  ——


“THAT SOUP” AGAIN.

Remove every particle of fat from the top of your stock. Take out what
is needed for to-day, and heat to boiling—slowly.


ROAST TURKEY, GARNISHED WITH SAUSAGES.

Wash out the turkey carefully. Stuff as usual, adding a little cooked
sausage to the dressing. (Salt the giblets, and keep for to-morrow.)
Lay the turkey in the dripping-pan, pour a great cupful of boiling
water over it, and roast about ten minutes per pound—slowly for
the first hour. Baste faithfully and often, dredging with flour, and
basting with butter at the last. Dish the turkey, laying boiled
sausages around it. Pour the fat from the gravy; thicken with browned
flour; salt, and pepper. Boil once, and serve in a boat.


MASHED TURNIPS.

Pare, quarter, and cook tender in boiling water, a little salt. Mash
and press in a heated colander; work in butter, pepper, and salt; heap
smoothly in a deep dish, and put “dabs” of pepper on top.


CANNED CORN PUDDING.

Drain, and chop the corn fine, add a tablespoonful of melted butter,
four beaten eggs; a large cup of milk, with an even teaspoonful of
corn-starch stirred in it, with salt and pepper to taste. Bake,
covered, in a greased pudding-dish one hour; then brown quickly.


SWEET POTATOES.

See Sunday of First Week in December.


CRANBERRY SAUCE.

Cook a quart of cranberries with a very little water, slowly, in a
porcelain or tinned saucepan. Stir often, and when they are broken all
to pieces, and thick as marmalade, take off, sweeten liberally, and rub
through a colander. Wet a mould, and put them in to form.


ORANGE SNOW AND SNOWDRIFT CAKE.

4 large sweet oranges, juice of all, and grated peel of one; juice and
half the grated peel of 1 lemon; 1 package of gelatine soaked in 1 cup
of cold water; whites of 4 eggs, whipped stiff; 1 large cup of powdered
sugar; 2 cups of boiling water.

Mix the juice and peel of the fruit with the soaked gelatine, add the
sugar, stir well, and leave them for one hour. Pour on boiling water,
and stir until clear. Strain, and press through a coarse cloth. When
cold, and beginning to congeal, whip a spoonful at a time into the
frothed whites. Put into a wet mould. Do this of course on Saturday.

      

For Snowdrift Cake, please refer to BREAKFAST, LUNCHEON AND TEA, page
340.



  Second Week.      Monday.
  ——
  Brown Giblet Soup.
  Minced Turkey and Eggs.      Baked Tomatoes.
  Stewed Potatoes.      Raw Celery.
  ——
  Plain Rice Pudding.
  A “Comfortable Cup of Tea.”
  ——


BROWN GIBLET SOUP.

Cut each giblet into three pieces, and put on to boil in stock made of
the remnant of your mock turtle soup, diluted with water and strained.
Simmer all together one hour.

Chop the gizzard fine, pound the liver. Make what is called technically
a roux, by putting two tablespoonfuls of butter into a saucepan,
and when it bubbles, stirring in a teaspoonful of browned flour, and
continuing to stir until they are well mixed and smooth. Add, spoonful
by spoonful, half a cup of boiling soup, then the pounded liver; the
gizzard, juice of half a lemon, and half a glass of brown sherry. Stir
all this into the soup, and boil up once. Have in the tureen the yolks
of four hard-boiled eggs, each quartered with a keen knife, and pour
the soup upon them.


MINCED TURKEY AND EGGS.

Cut all the meat from the skeleton of the turkey. Put the bones,
sinews, skin, and stuffing into a pot with three quarts of cold water.
Set at the back of the range and let it simmer down to two quarts.
Season, and set away in your stock-pot.

Divide the meat intended for to-day into inch long pieces, tearing
rather than cutting it. Heat the skimmed gravy; add as much drawn
butter; two beaten eggs; pepper and salt; put in the minced turkey;
set back over the fire, and stir until very hot. Cover the bottom of
a pudding-dish with fine crumbs; pour in the mixture; strew crumbs on
top, and bake to a light brown in a quick oven. Serve in the bake-dish.


BAKED TOMATOES.

Please see Thursday of last week—the First Week in December. Add the
surplus juice to your turkey-bone “stock.”


STEWED POTATOES.

Pare and cut into small squares. Lay in cold water half an hour; cook
tender in hot water, a little salt. When done—or nearly—pour this off,
add a cup of cold milk, and when this begins to simmer, a tablespoonful
of butter rolled in flour, pepper, salt, and a little minced parsley.
Boil gently one minute, and pour into a deep dish.


CELERY.

Wash, scrape, and cut off the green leaves. Arrange the best stalks
in a celery-glass. Put two or three green pieces into to-morrow’s
soup-stock while boiling; and if you have time cut up the rest into
short bits, and put in a jar or wide-mouthed bottle of vinegar to keep
for salad-dressing.


A PLAIN RICE PUDDING.

1 large cup of rice; 2 quarts of milk; 8 tablespoonfuls of sugar; 1
teaspoonful of salt; 1 great spoonful of butter, melted; nutmeg and
cinnamon to taste.

Soak the rice two hours in a pint of the milk. Add, then, the rest of
the milk and the other ingredients. Bake, covered, two hours; brown,
and eat cold.



  Second Week.      Tuesday.
  ——
  Simple White Soup.
  Stewed Fillet of Veal.      Spinach.
  Boiled Beans.      Mashed Potatoes.
  ——
  Queen’s Toast.
  ——


SIMPLE WHITE SOUP.

Take the fat from the top of your turkey soup-stock; strain, rubbing
the dressing through the colander. Simmer one hour, with half a sliced
onion and four tablespoonfuls of soaked rice in it, or until the
rice is soft. Be careful that it does not scorch. Strain through the
soup-sieve into the tureen, add pepper and salt, if needed—finally a
cup of hot milk in which has been stirred and cooked for one minute two
beaten eggs.


STEWED FILLET OF VEAL.

Lard the fillet on top with strips of fat salt pork; lay a few slices
of corned ham in the bottom of a saucepan; on these the veal; cover
with sliced ham; season with pepper, salt, and a pinch of mace; pour
in a cup of yesterday’s soup, weakened with water. Cover closely and
stew two hours, turning the meat at the end of the first hour; take up
and keep the meat hot over boiling water; add some browned flour and a
tablespoonful of soaked gelatine to the gravy when you have strained
it, boil fast and hard until it is thick, and of a glassy brown. Pour
on the veal, set in the oven, the larded side upward, and shut the door
for a few minutes to “glaze” it. Garnish with light and dark green
celery-tops. Lay the ham about it.


SPINACH.

Boil in plenty of hot salted water, for twenty-five minutes. Drain,
chop very fine, put back in the saucepan with a teaspoonful of sugar,
a little pepper, salt, and mace, and a few spoonfuls of milk or cream.
Beat and toss until it is like a thick green custard, and pour out upon
slices of fried bread.


BOILED BEANS.

Soak all night. In the morning, put on in cold water, and cook gently
until soft. Drain, pepper and salt, and pour over them, when dished, a
little good drawn butter.


MASHED POTATOES.

Prepare as usual—without browning.


QUEEN’S TOAST.

Cut thick slices of stale baker’s bread into rounds with a cake-cutter
and fry to a nice brown in hot lard. Dip each slice into boiling water
to remove the grease; sprinkle with a mixture of powdered sugar and
cinnamon, and pile one upon the other. Serve a sauce made of powdered
sugar, dissolved in the strained juice of a lemon and thinned with a
glass of wine. Put a very little upon each round. Butter sauces are too
rich for queen’s toast.


  Second Week.      Wednesday.
  ——
  Beef Gravy Soup.
  Cannelon of Veal, Oysters, and Sweetbreads.
  Potatoes Sautés.
  Succotash.      Cranberry Sauce.
  ——
  Impromptu Plum Pudding.
  ——


BEEF GRAVY SOUP.

4 lbs. of coarse lean beef; 3 lbs. of bones; 2 sliced onions; 2
turnips; 2 carrots; bunch of sweet herbs; 3 stalks of celery; pepper
and salt; 1 tablespoonful corn-starch, wet up in cold water; 5 quarts
of water.

Cut the beef in small strips and fry to a good brown, in plenty of
dripping. Take out the meat and lightly fry the bones. Remove these
and put with the meat into the soup-pot. Now fry in the same fat the
sliced onions; add these, when brown, to the meat and bones, and pour
on them the five quarts of water. Cook slowly one hour; take off the
scum, and put in the sliced carrots, turnips, the celery and herbs.
Boil gently four hours. Strain; pick out the meat and bones, and put,
well-seasoned, into the stock-jar. Pulp the vegetables into the soup;
season; pour all but two quarts into the stock-jar, and set aside. Cool
that left out for to-day, skim and re-heat; add the corn-starch, boil
up and serve.


CANNELON OF VEAL, OYSTERS, AND SWEETBREADS.

Chop the remains of your stewed fillet; boil, blanch, and cool two
sweetbreads, and mince very fine. Chop, also, twelve oysters. Mix all
these together with a cup of fine bread-crumbs; add plenty of seasoning
and two beaten eggs. Work to a paste; flour your hands and make into a
roll seven or eight inches long, and three or four inches in diameter.
Envelope this in a crust of good pie-paste, closing the open ends
with rounds of paste. Lay in a floured baking-pan, the joined edges
downward, and bake in a steady oven. Just before taking it up glaze
with butter.


POTATOES SAUTÉS.

Boil and slice while hot. Put into a frying-pan with a large spoonful
of butter, pepper, salt, and powdered parsley. Stir constantly until
very hot, and dish. They must not be at all brown or even dry. Serve
very hot.


SUCCOTASH.

Empty a can of succotash into a saucepan; cover with boiling water, a
little salt, and cook half an hour. Turn off the water; pour in a cup
of milk, and when this boils, stir in a tablespoonful of butter rolled
in flour; season with pepper and salt; boil once, and dish.


CRANBERRY SAUCE.

If you have none ready made, prepare according to receipt given for
Sunday of this week. It is well to make a good supply at a time, since
it keeps well in cold weather.


IMPROMPTU PLUM PUDDING.

2 cups of made mince-meat—“Atmore’s” is very good; 1½ cups prepared
flour; 6 beaten eggs.

Whip the yolks and stir (with additional sugar, if needed,) into the
mince-meat. Beat hard for two or three minutes. Put in whisked whites
and the flour alternately. Butter a large mould; put in the mixture,
leaving room for the swelling of the pudding, and boil, without the
intermission of a moment, for five hours. Turn out upon a hot dish;
pour brandy over it, and light just as it goes into the dining-room.
Eat with rich sauce.



  Second Week.      Thursday.
  ——
  Tomato Soup.
  Glazed Ham.      Potato Puff.
  Chopped Cabbage, with Sauce.      Celery Salad.
  ——
  Corn-Starch Cup-Cake.
  Chocolate.
  ——


TOMATO SOUP.

Skim the fat from your soup-stock, and put it, meat bones and all,
over the fire with a can of tomatoes. Simmer one hour and strain,
rubbing the tomatoes through the colander. Season to taste; return
to the fire, and when it boils, put in a lump of sugar, and a
tablespoonful of butter cut up in half as much flour. Boil up once.


GLAZED HAM.

Put into cold water about ten o’clock on Wednesday night, and let it
soak until the fire is made next morning. Put on then in plenty of cold
water, and cook eighteen or twenty minutes per pound. Set out of doors
when done, in a large, shallow pan, and cover with the pot-liquor.
You should have made, meanwhile, the “glaze,” by boiling down a cup
of yesterday’s soup, with an equal quantity of strained pot-liquor,
until the result was a thick brown broth. Add a tablespoonful of soaked
gelatine, and set the mixture in boiling water. When the ham is nearly,
or quite cold, skim carefully; wash all over with the glaze, and set in
the oven to harden. If not quite thick enough, apply a second coat when
the first is dry. Twist frilled paper about the shank.

