
at their third approach to the cabin gangway, she 
withdrew her hand from his arm and said, stiffly, 
" I think I will go down.' But she did not go at 
once. She lingered, and after a certain hesitation 
she said, without looking at him, " I didn 't ex- 
press what I wanted to, about Mr. Hicks, and — 
what you did. It is what I thought you would do." 
" Thanks," said Staniford, with sincere humility. 
He understood how she had had this in her mind, 
and how she would not withhold justice from him 
because he had fallen in her esteem ; how rather 
she would be the more resolute to do him justice 
for that reason. 



XIX. 

He could see that she avoided being alone with 
him the next day, but he took it for a sign of re- 
lenting, perhaps helpless relenting, that she was in 
her usual place on deck in the evening. He went 
to her, and, " I see that you haven 't forgiven me," 
he said. 

" Forgiven you ? " she echoed. 

" Yes," he said, " for letting that lady ask me 
to drive with her." 

" I never said " — she began. 

" Oh, no ! But I knew it, all the same. It was 
not such a very wicked thing, as those things go. 
But I liked your not liking it. Will you let me 
say something to you ? " 

" Yes," she answered, rather breathlessly. 

" You must think it 's rather an odd thing to say, 
as I ask leave. It is ; and I hardly know how to 
say it. I want to tell you that I 've made bold to 
depend a great deal upon your good opinion for 
my peace of mind, of late, and that I can't well do 
without it now." 

She stole the quickest of her bird-like glances at 
him, but did not speak ; and though she seemed, 
to his anxious fancy, poising for flight, she re- 



 

mained, and merely looked away, like the bird that 
will not or cannot fly. 

" You don't resent my making you my outer con- 
science, do you, and my knowing that you 're not 
quite pleased with me ?" 

She looked down and away with one of those 
turns of the head, so precious when one who be- 
holds them is young, and caught at the fringe of 
her shawl. " I have no right," she began. 

" Oh, I give you the right ! " he cried, with 
passionate urgence. " You have the right. Judge 
me ! " She only looked more grave, and he hurried 
on. " It was no great harm of her to ask me ; 
that 's common enough ; but it was harm of me to 
go if I didn 't quite respect her, — if I thought 
her silly, and was willing to be amused with her. 
One hasn 't any right to do that. I saw this when 
I saw you." She still hung her head, and looked 
away. " I want you to tell me something," he 
pursued. " Do you remember once — the second 
time we talked together — that you said Dunham 
was in earnest, and you wouldn 't answer when I 
asked you about myself? Do you remember ? " 

" Yes," said the girl. 

" I didn 't care, then. I care very much now. 
Y r ou don't think me — you think I can be in ear- 
nest when I will, don't you ? And that I can re- 
gret — that I really wish " — He took the hand 
that played with the shawl-fringe, but she softly 
drew it away. 



 

u Ah, I see!" he said. " You can't believe in 
me. You don't believe that I can be a good man 

— like Dunham ! " 

She answered in the same breathless murmur, 
" I think you are good." Her averted face drooped 
lower. 

"I will tell you all about it, some day ! " be cried, 
with joyful vehemence. " Will you let me ? " 

"Yes," she answered, with the swift expulsion 
of breath that sometimes comes with tears. She 
rose quickly and turned away. He did not try to 
keep her from leaving him. His heart beat tumult- 
uously ; his brain seemed in a whirl. It all meant 
nothing, or it meant everything. 

" What is the matter with Miss Blood?" asked 
Dunham, who joined him at this moment. " I just 
spoke to her at the foot of the gangway stairs, and 
she wouldn't answer me." 

" Oh, I don't know about Miss Blood — I don't 
know what's the matter," said Staniford. " Look 
here, Dunham ; I want to talk with you — I want 
to tell you something — I want you to advise me 

— I — There 's only one thing that can explain 
it, that can excuse it. There 's only one thing that 
can justify all that I 've done and said, and that 
can not only justify it, but can make it sacredly 
and eternally right, — right for her and right for 
me. Yes, it 's reason for all, and for a thousand 
times more. It makes it fair for me to have let 
her see that I thought her beautiful and charming, 



 

that I delighted to be with her, that I — Dunham," 
cried Stamford, " I 'm in love ! " 

Dunham started at the burst in which these rav- 
ings ended. " Stamford," he faltered, with grave 
regret, "I hope not ! " 

u You hope not ? You — you — What do you 
mean ? How else can I free myself from the self- 
reproach of having trifled with her, of " — 

Dunham shook his head compassionately. " You 
can't do it that way. Your only safety is to fight 
it to the death, — to run from it." 

" But if I don't choose to fight it ? " shouted 
Staniford, — "if I don't choose to run from it ? If 
I" — 

" For Heaven's sake, hush ! The whole ship 
will hear you, and you oughtn 't to breathe it in 
the desert. I saw how it was going ! I dreaded 
it ; I knew it ; and I longed to speak. I 'm to 
blame for not speaking ! " 

"I should like to know what would have author- 
ized you to speak ? " demanded Staniford, haugh- 
tily. 

" Only my regard for you; only what urges me 
to speak now ! You must fight it, Staniford, whether 
you choose or not. Think of yourself, — think of 
her ! Think — you have always been my ideal of 
honor and truth and loyalty — think of her hus- 
band"— 

" Her husband ! " gasped Staniford. " Whose 
husband ? What the deuce — who the deuce — 
are you talking about, Dunham ? " 




" Mrs. Rivers." 

" Mrs. Rivers ? That flimsy, feather-headed, 
empty-hearted — eyes-maker! That frivolous, ri- 
diculous — Pah! And did you think that I was 
talking of her ? Did you think I was in love with 
her?'  

" Why," stammered Dunham, "I supposed — I 
thought — At Messina, you know " — 

" Oh ! " Stamford walked the deck's length 
away. " Well, Dunham," he said, as he came 
back, " you've spoilt a pretty scene with your rot 
about Mrs. Rivers. I was going to be romantic ! 
But perhaps I 'd better say in ordinary newspaper 
English that I 've just found out that I'm in love 
with Miss Blood." 

" With her ! " cried Dunham, springing at his 
hand. 

" Oh, come now ! Don't you be romantic, after 
knocking my chance." 

" Why, but Staniford ! " said Dunham, wringing 
his hand with a lover's joy in another's love and his 
relief that it was not Mrs. Rivers. "I never should 
have dreamt of such a thing ! " 

" Why ? " asked Staniford, shortly. 

" Oh, the way you talked at first, you know, 
and" — 

" I suppose even people who get married have 
something to take back about each other," said 
Staniford, rather sheepishly. " However," he added, 
with an impulse of frankness, " I don't know that I 




should have dreamt of it myself, and I don't blame 
you. But it 's a fact, nevertheless." 

" Why, of course. It 's splendid ! Certainly. 
It 's magnificent ! " There was undoubtedly a 
qualification, a reservation, in Dunham's tone. He 
might have thought it right to bring the inequali- 
ties of the affair to Stamford's mind. With all his 
effusive kindliness of heart and manner, he had a 
keen sense of social fitness, a nice feeling for con- 
vention. But a man does not easily suggest to 
another that the girl with whom he has just de- 
clared himself in love is his inferior. What Dun- 
ham finally did say was: " It jumps with all your 
ideas — all your old talk about not caring to marry 
a society girl " — 

" Society might be very glad of such a girl ! " 
said Staniford, stiffly. 

" Yes, yes, certainly ; but I mean " — 

" Oh, I know what you mean. It 's all right," 
said Staniford. " But it isn't a question of marry- 
ing yet. I can't be sure she understood me, — I 've 
been so long understanding myself. And yet, she 
must, she must ! She must believe it by this time, 
or else that I 'm the most infamous scoundrel alive. 
When I think how I have sought her out, and fol- 
lowed her up, and asked her judgment, and hung 
upon her words, I feel that I oughtn 't to lose a 
moment in being explicit. I don't care for myself; 
she can take me or leave me, as she likes ; but if 
she doesn 't understand, she mustn 't be left in sus- 




pense as to my meaning." He seemed to be speak- 
ing to Dunham, but he was really thinking aloud, 
and Dunham waited for some sort of question be- 
fore he spoke. " But it 's a great satisfaction to 
have had it out with myself. I haven 't got to 
pretend any more that I hang about her, and look 
at her, and go mooning round after her, for this 
no-reason and that; I 've got the best reason in the 
world for playing the fool, — I 'm in love ! " He 
drew a long, deep breath. " It simplifies matters 
immensely to have reached the point of acknowl- 
edging that. Why, Dunham, those four days at 
Messina almost killed me ! They settled it. When 
that woman was in full fascination it made me 
gasp. I choked for a breath of fresh air; for a 
taste of spring-water; for — Lurella ! " It was a 
long time since Staniford had used this name, and 
the sound of it made him laugh. " It 's droll — 
but I always think of her as Lurella; I wish it 
was her name ! Why, it was like heaven to see her 
face when I got back to the ship. After we met 
her that day at Messina, Mrs. Rivers tried her best 
to get out of me who it was, and where I met her. 
But I flatter myself that I was equal to that emer- 
gency." 

Dunham said nothing, at once. Then, " Stani- 
ford," he faltered, " she got it out of me." 

"Did you tell her who Lu — who Miss Blood 
was?" 

" Yes." 



 

" And how I happened to be acquainted with 
her ? " 

" Yes." 

" And that we were going on to Trieste with 
her?" 

" She had it out of me before I knew," said 
Dunham. " I didn 't realize what she was after ; 
and I didn 't realize how peculiar the situation 
might seem " — 

" I see nothing peculiar in the situation," inter- 
rupted Stamford, haughtily. Then he laughed con- 
sciously. " Or, yes, I do ; of course I do ! You 
must know her to appreciate it, though." He 
mused a while before he added : " No wonder Mrs. 
Rivers was determined to come aboard ! I wish 
we had let her, — confound her ! She 'll think 
I was ashamed of it. There 's nothing to be 
ashamed of! By Heaven, I should like to hear any 
one " — Stamford broke off, and laughed, and then 
bit his lip, smiling. Suddenly he burst out again, 
frowning : " I won't view it in that light. I refuse 
to consider it from that point of view. As far as 
I 'm concerned, it 's as regular as anything else in 
life. It 's the same to me as if she were in her 
own house, and I had come there to tell her that 
she has my future in her hand. She 's such a lady 
by instinct that she 's made it all a triumph, and 
I thank God that I haven 't done or said anything 
to mar it. Even that beast of a Hicks didn 't ; it 's 
no merit. I 've made love to her, — I own it ; of 

 



 

course I have, because I was in love with her ; and 
my fault has been that I haven 't made love to her 
openly, but have gone on fancying that I was 
studying her character, or some rubbish of that 
sort. But the fault is easily repaired. " He turned 
about, as if he were going to look for Lydia at 
once, and ask her to be his wife. But he halted 
abruptly, and sat down. " No ; that won't do," he 
said. " That won't do at all." He remained 
thinking, and Dunham, unwilling to interrupt his 
reverie, moved a few paces off. " Dunham, don't 
go. I want your advice. Perhaps I don't see it 
in the right light." 

" How is it you see it, my dear fellow ? " asked 
Dunham. 

" I don't know whether I 've a right to be ex- 
plicit with her, here. It seems like taking an ad- 
vantage. In a few days she will be with her 
friends " — 

" You must wait," said Dunham, decisively. 
" You can't speak to her before she is in their care ; 
it wouldn 't be the thing. You 're quite right 
about that." 

" No, it wouldn 't be the thing," groaned Stam- 
ford. " But how is it all to go on till then ?" he 
demanded desperately. 

" Why, just as it has before," answered Dunham, 
with easy confidence. 

" But is that fair to her ? " 

" Why not ? You mean to say to her at the 



 

right time all that a man can. Till that time 
comes I haven 't the least doubt she understands 
you." 

" Do you think so?" asked Stamford, simply. 
He had suddenly grown very subject and meek to 
Dunham. 

" Yes," said the other, with the superiority of a 
betrothed lover; " women are very quick about 
those things." 

" I suppose you 're right," sighed Staniford, with 
nothing of his wonted arrogant pretension in re- 
gard to women's moods and minds, " I suppose 
you 're right. And you would go on just as be- 
fore?" 

