
Catherine stared she was bewildered. " I don't 
understand you," she said ; " he doesn't know me." 

" Oh yes, he does ; more than you think. I have 
told him all about you." 

" Oh, Aunt Penniman !" murmured Catherine, as 
if this had been a breach of trust. " He is a perfect 
stranger we don't know him." There was infinite 
modesty in the poor girl's " we." 

Aunt Penniman, however, took no account of it ; 
she spoke even with a touch of acrimony. "My 
dear Catherine, you know very well that you ad- 
mire him." 





" Oh, Aunt Penniman !" Catherine could only 
murmur again. It might very well be that she 
admired him though this did not seem to her a 
thing to talk about. But that this brilliant stran- 
ger this sudden apparition, who had barely heard 
the sound of her voice took that sort of interest 
in her that was expressed by the romantic phrase of 
which Mrs. Penniman had just made use this could 
only be a figment of the restless brain of Aunt La- 
vinia, whom every one knew to be a woman of pow- 
erful imagination. 



YI. 

MRS. PENNIMAN even took for granted at times 
that other people had as much imagination as her- 
self ; so that when, half an hour later, her brother 
came in, she addressed him quite on this principle. 

" He has just been here, Austin ; it's such a pity 
you missed him." 

"Whom in the world have I missed?" asked the 
Doctor. 

" Mr. Morris Townsend ; he has made us such a 
delightful visit." 

" And who in the world is Mr. Morris Townsend ?" 

" Aunt Penniman means the gentleman the gen- 
tleman whose name I couldn't remember," said Cath- 
erine. 

" The gentleman at Elizabeth's party who was so 
struck with Catherine," Mrs. Penniman added. 

" Oh, his name is Morris Townsend, is it ? And 
did he come here to propose to you ?" 





" Oh, father !" murmured the girl for an answer, 
turning away to the window, where the dusk had 
deepened to darkness. 

" I hope he won't do that without your permis- 
sion," said Mrs. Penniman, very graciously. 

" After all, my dear, he seems to have yours," her 
brother answered. 

Lavinia simpered, as if this might not be quite 
enough, arid Catherine, with her forehead touching 
the window-panes, listened to this exchange of epi- 
grams as reservedly as if they had not each been a 
pin-prick in her own destiny. 

"The next time he comes," the Doctor added, 
"you had better call me. He might like to see 
me." 

Morris Townsend came again some five days after- 
ward ; but Doctor Sloper was not called, as he was 
absent from home at the time. Catherine was with 
her aunt when the young man's name was brought 
in, and Mrs. Penniman, effacing herself and protest- 
ing, made a great point of her niece's going into the 
drawing-room alone. 

" This time it's for you for you only," she said. 
" Before, when he talked to me, it was only prelim- 
inary it was to gain my confidence. Literally, my 
dear, I should not have the courage to show myself 
to-day." 

And this was perfectly true. Mrs. Penniman was 
not a brave woman, and Morris Townsend had struck 
her as a young man of great force of character, and 
of remarkable powers of satire a keen, resolute, 
brilliant nature, with which one must exercise a 
great deal of tact. She said to herself that he was 





" imperious," and she liked the word and the idea. 
She was not the least jealous of her niece, and she 
had been perfectly happy with Mr. Penniman, but 
in the bottom of her heart she permitted herself the 
observation, " That's the sort of husband I should 
have had !" He was certainly much more imperi- 
ous she ended by calling it imperial than Mr. 
Penniman. 

So Catherine saw Mr. Townsend alone, and her 
aunt did not come in even at the end of the visit. 
The visit was a long one ; he sat there, in the front 
parlor, in the biggest arm-chair, for more than an 
hour. He seemed more at home this time more 
familiar ; lounging a little in the chair, slapping a 
cushion "that was near him with his stick, and look- 
ing round the room a good deal, and at the objects 
it contained, as well as at Catherine; whom, how- 
ever, he also contemplated freely. There was a 
smile of respectful devotion in his handsome eyes 
which seemed to Catherine almost solemnly beauti- 
ful ; it made her think of a young knight in a poem. 
His talk, however, was not particularly knightly ; it 
was light and easy and friendly ; it took a practical 
turn, and he asked a number of questions about her- 
self what were her tastes if she liked this and that 
what were her habits. He said to her, with his 
charming smile, " Tell me about yourself ; give me 
a little sketch." Catherine had very little to tell, 
and she had no talent for sketching ; but before he 
went she had confided to him that she had a secret 
passion for the theatre, which had been but scantily 
gratified, and a taste for operatic music that of Bel- 
lini and Donizetti, in especial (it must be remembered, 





in extenuation of this primitive young woman, that 
she held these opinions in an age of general dark- 
ness) which she rarely had an occasion to hear, ex- 
cept on the hand-organ. She confessed that she was 
not particularly fond of literature. Morris Towns- 
end agreed with her that books were tiresome 
things ; only, as he said, you had to read a good 
many before you found it out. He had been to 
places that people had written books about, and they 
were not a bit like the descriptions. To see for your- 
self that was the great thing ; he always tried to see 
for himself. He had seen all the principal actors- 
he had been to all the best theatres in London and 
Paris. But the actors were always like the authors 
they always exaggerated. He liked everything to 
be natural. Suddenly he stopped, looking at Cath- 
erine with his smile. 

" That's what I like you for ; you are so natural. 
Excuse me," he added ; " you see I am natural my- 
self." 

And before she had time to think whether she 
excused him or not which afterward, at leisure, she 
became conscious that she did he began to talk 
about music, and to say that it was his greatest pleas- 
ure in life. He had heard all the great singers in 
Paris and London Pasta and Rubin i and Lablache 
and when you had done that, you could say that 
you knew what singing was. 

" I sing a little myself," he said ; " some day I 
will show you. Not to-day, but some other time." 

And then he got up to go. He had omitted, by 
accident, to say that he would sing to her if she 
would play to him. He thought of this after he 





got into the street; but he might have spared his 
compunction, for Catherine had not noticed the lapse. 
She was thinking only that " some other time " had 
a delightful sound ; it seemed to spread itself over 
the future. 

This was all the more reason, however, though 
she was ashamed and uncomfortable, why she should 
tell her father that Mr. Morris Townsend had called 
again. She announced the fact abruptly, almost 
violently, as soon as the Doctor came into the 
house ; and having done so it was her duty she 
took measures to leave the room. But she could 
not leave it fast enough; her father stopped her 
just as she reached the door. 

" Well, my dear, did he propose to you to-day ?" 
the Doctor asked. 

This was just what she had been afraid he would 
say ; and yet she had no answer ready. Of course 
she would have liked to take it as a joke as her 
father must have meant it ; and yet she would have 
liked also, in denying it, to be a little positive, a lit- 
tle sharp, so that he would perhaps not ask the ques- 
tion again. She didn't like it it made her unhap- 
py. But Catherine could never be sharp ; and for 
a moment she only stood, with her hand on the door- 
knob, looking at her satiric parent, and giving a 
little laugh. 

"Decidedly," said the Doctor to himself, "my 
daughter is not brilliant !" 

But he had no sooner made this reflection than 
Catherine found something ; she had decided, on the 
whole, to take the thing as a joke. 

" Perhaps he will do it the next time," she ex- 





claimed, with a repetition of her laugh ; and she 
quickly got out of the room. 

The Doctor stood staring; he wondered whether 
his daughter were serious. Catherine went straight 
to her own room, and by the time she reached it 
she bethought herself that there was something else 
something better she might have said. She al- 
most wished, now, that her father would ask his 
question again, so that she might reply, " Oh yes, 
Mr. Morris Townsend proposed to me, and I refused 
him." 

The Doctor, however, began to put his questions 
elsewhere ; it naturally having occurred to him that 
he ought to inform himself properly about this 
handsome young man, who had formed the habit of 
running in and out of his house. He addressed 
himself to the elder of his sisters, Mrs. Almond 
not going to her for the purpose ; there was no such 
hurry as that ; but having made a note of the mat- 
ter for the first opportunity. The Doctor was never 
eager, never impatient or nervous; but he made 
notes of everything, and he regularly consulted his 
notes. Among them the information he obtained 
from Mrs. Almond about Morris Townsend took its 
place. 

" Lavinia has already been to ask me," she said. 
" Lavinia is most excited ; I don't understand it. 
It's not, after all, Lavinia that the young man is 
supposed to have designs upon. She is very pecul- 
iar." 

" Ah, my dear," the Doctor replied, " she has not 
lived with me these twelve years without my finding 
it out." 





" She has got such an artificial mind," said Mrs. 
Almond, who always enjoyed an opportunity to dis- 
cuss Lavinia's peculiarities with her brother. " She 
didn't want me to tell you that she had asked me 
about Mr. Townsend ; but I told her I would. She 
always wants to conceal everything." 

"And yet at moments no one blurts things out 
with such crudity. She is like a revolving light- 
house pitch darkness alternating with a dazzling 
brilliancy ! But what did you tell her ?" the Doctor 
asked. 

"What I tell you that I know very little of 
him." 

"Lavinia must have been disappointed at that," 
said the Doctor; "she would prefer him to have 
been guilty of some romantic crime. However, we 
must make the best of people. They tell me our 
gentleman is the cousin of the little boy to whom 
you are about to intrust the future of your little 
girl." 

"Arthur is not a little boy ; he is a very old man ; 
you and I will never be so old ! He is a distant 
relation of Lavinia's protege. The name is the same, 
but I am given to understand that there are Towns- 
ends and Townsends. So Arthur's mother tells me ; 
she talked about 'branches' younger branches, 
elder branches, inferior branches as if it were a 
royal house. Arthur, it appears, is of the reigning 
line, but poor Lavinia's young man is not. Beyond 
this, Arthur's mother knows very little about him ; 
she has only a vague story that he has been 'wild.' 
But I know his sister a little, and she is a very nice 
woman. Her name is Mrs. Montgomery ; she is a 





widow, with a little property and five children. She 
lives in the Second Avenue." 

" What does Mrs. Montgomery say about him ?" 

" That he has talents by which he might distin- 
guish himself." 

"Only he is lazy, eh?" 

" She doesn't say so." 

"That's family pride," said the Doctor. "What 
is his profession ?" 

" He hasn't got any ; he is looking for something. 
I believe he was once in the Navy." 

" Once ? What is his age ?" 

" I suppose he is upward of thirty. He must have 
gone into the Navy very young. I think Arthur 
told me that he inherited a small property- which 
was perhaps the cause of his leaving the Navy and 
that he spent it all in a few years. He travelled all 
over the world, lived abroad, amused himself. I be- 
lieve it was a kind of system, a theory he had. He 
has lately come back to America with the intention, 
as he tells Arthur, of beginning life in earnest." 

" Is he in earnest about Catherine, then ?" 

"I don't see why you should be incredulous," said 
Mrs. Almond. " It seems to me that you have never 
done Catherine justice. You must remember that 
she has the prospect of thirty thousand a year." 

The Doctor looked at his sister a moment, and 
then, with lightest touch of bitterness, " You at least 
appreciate her," he said. 

Mrs. Almond blushed. 

"I don't mean that is her only merit; I simply 
mean that it is a great one. A great many young 
men think so ; and you appear to me never to have 



been properly aware of that. You have always had 
a little way of alluding to her as an un marriageable 
girl." 

"My allusions are as kind as yours, Elizabeth," 
said the Doctor, frankly. " How many suitors has 
Catherine had, with all her expectations how much 
attention has she ever received? Catherine is not 
unmarriageable, but she is absolutely unattractive. 
What other reason is there for Lavinia being so 
charmed with the idea that there is a lover in the 
house ? There has never been one before, and La- 
vinia, with her sensitive, sympathetic nature, is not 
used to the idea. It affects her imagination. I must 
do the young men of New York the justice to say 
that they strike me as very disinterested. They 
prefer pretty girls lively girls girls like your own. 
Catherine is neither pretty nor lively." 

" Catherine does very well ; she has a style of her 
own which is more than my poor Marian has, who 
has no style at all," said Mrs. Almond. " The reason 
Catherine has received so little attention, is that she 
seems to all the young men to be older than them- 
selves. She is so large, and she dresses so richly. 
They are rather afraid of her, I think ; she looks as 
if she had been married already, and you know they 
don't like married women. And if our young men 
appear disinterested," the Doctor's wiser sister went 
on, " it is because they marry, as a general thing, so 
