innocent, don't you know as much as that ? " 
"It's a ship; and this is a big one. It is lying 
out in the Delaware." 
"Then why is it called a man of war?" said 
Dolly. 
"Because it is a war ship. Won't it be fun! 
just think ! the guns, and the officers, and the 
midshipmen ! " 
"What are midshipmen?" 
" I don't know ! " cried another. " They are 
somebodies that are always on a man of war; and 
they are young too. Baby officers, I suppose." 
"They are officers," said the first speaker. 
" No, they're not. They are learning to be officers. They're at school, and their school is a man 
of war; and their teachers are the captain, and 
the lieutenants, and so on." 
"And what are their lessons about?" said Dolly. 
"I don't know. they are learning to be officers, you know. Eeally they are boys at school." 
"Some of them are old enough," remarked another. 
"Learning what, Eudora?" said Dolly. 
"How do I know, chicken? I've never been a 
midshipman myself. You can ask them if you 
like, when we go on board. For we are going 
on board, girls ! Hurrah ! We shall drive over to 
the Navy Yard, and there we shall get into boats, 
and then we shall row, I mean be rowed, out 
into the stream to the ship. It's a big frigate, the 
'Achilles'; and Mrs. Delancy knows the captain; 
and she says it's a good chance and she will not 
have us lose it. Hurrah, girls! this is prime." 
"What's & frigate?" was Dolly's next question. 
"Dolly Copley, you are ridiculous; you want 
to understand every thing." 
"Don't you?" 
" No ! I guess I don't. I am tired enough with 
trying to understand a little. I'll let alone what 
I can. You'll know what a frigate is, when you 
have been on board of her." 
"But I think I should enjoy it a great deal 
more, if I knew beforehand," said Dolly. 
"You had best study a ship's dictionary. I am 
going to study what I shall wear." 
 
"That you cannot tell yet," Christina remarked. 
" You do not know what sort of a day next Saturday, I mean, Saturday week, will be. It may be 
cold, or " 
" It mayn't be hot," said the other. " It will be 
cold, cold enough. It's November. You can wear 
your prettiest winter things, young ladies." 
A little while after, the group had broken up, 
and Dolly sought out one of the teachers and 
begged to know where she could find a "ship's 
dictionary"? 
" A ship dictionary ? My dear, there is no such 
thing. What do you want to find out?" 
"One of the girls said I could find out about 
ships in a ship's dictionary. We are going to see 
a man of war next week." 
"Oh, and you want to study up the subject? 
It is a Marine Dictionary you are in quest of. 
Come to the library." 
The library was always open to the girls for 
study purposes. The teacher was good-natured, 
and got out a big, brown square volume, and put 
it in Dolly's hand. Dolly had been followed by 
Christina; and now the two sat down together 
in a window recess on the floor, with the book 
before them. Dolly began at the beginning, and 
aloud. 
" ' Aback ' " 
" That is nothing we want," remarked Christina. 
" yes, I think it is. It is ' the situation of the 
sails when their surfaces are flatted against the 
 
masts by the force of the wind.' I do not understand, though. 'The sails are said to be "taken 
aback' I have heard mother say that. What 
could she mean? I have heard her say she was 
taken aback." 
" I have heard people say that too," said Christina; "often. I never knew what they meant. 
Something disagreeable, I think." 
"Well you see," said Dolly, reading further, 
"it 'pushes the ship astern' what's that? 'See 
'Backing.  I suppose it means pushing it back. 
But I don't understand ! " the little girl added 
with a sigh. 
" well ! we don't care about all that," said 
Dolly's companion. "Go on to something else. 
Find out about the midshipmen." 
" What about the midshipmen ? " 
"Nothing, only I would like to know what 
they are. Madeleine said they were young officers; very young; not older than some of us." 
" Then why do you want to know about them ? " 
said Dolly. " We have nothing to do with young 
officers. We don't know any of them." 
" But we might," suggested Christina. " We 
shall see them, if we go on board the ship." 
"I don't care about seeing them," said Dolly. 
" Young officers are young men, I suppose. I understand them; what I don't know about, is the 
ship. Let us go on in this book, and see what we 
come to. 'Abaft the hinder part of a ship ' " 
"0 Dolly," cried Christina, "we have not time 
 
to go through everything in this way. You have 
not turned over one leaf yet Do get on a little." 
" It is good it's a holiday," said Dolly, turning 
the leaf. "We have plenty of time. I like this 
book. 'Aboard, the inside of a ship.' So when 
we go into the ship, we go aboard. That's it." 
"Go on," urged Christina. "Here's 'Admiral.'" 
" ' An officer of first rank and command in the 
fleet.' There is a great deal here about the admiral. I don't believe we shall see him. We'll 
look a little further." 
Dolly presently was caught by the word "Anchor" and lost herself in the study of the paragraphs following, and the plate accompanying; 
after which she declared that she understood how 
a ship could be held by its anchor. Urged to go 
on again, she turned over more leaves, but got lost 
in the study of "boats" ; then of "cannon" ; then 
of the "captain" 's office and duties; finally paused 
at the plate and description of a ship's deck. 
" It's just the deck of a ship ! " said Christina impatiently. " You will see it when we go on board 
the 'Achilles.'" 
" I want to understand it." 
" You can't." 
"Are those guns?" said Dolly, pointing to a row 
of pieces delineated along the side of the deck. 
" Must be guns." 
" Well, I should like to go on board of a ship 
very much," said Dolly. " There are twelve guns 
on that side. If there are the same on this side, 
 
that would make twenty-four. What do they 
want so many for, Christina, on one ship ? " 
" Why, to fight with, of course. To fire at other 
ships." 
" But what do they want of so many ? They 
would not want to fire twelve at once. I should 
think one would be enough." 
* Perhaps it wouldn't. Go on, Dolly, do ! let us 
get to something else." 
It was difficult to get Dolly on. She was held 
fast again by the description of a naval engagement; then fell to studying the directions for the 
"exercise" of the guns; then was interested in 
some plates giving various orders of the line of 
battle. At last in due course they came to the 
word "Midshipman" which was read, or the article 
under it, by both girls. 
" ' A naval cadet ' " repeated Christina. 
" And a cadet must be four years at sea, before 
he can become a lieutenant; and two years midshipman besides. I should think they would be 
tired of it." 
"But if they are going to be sailors all their 
lives, it's no use for them to get tired of it," said 
Christina. 
" They come on shore sometimes, don't they ? " 
"I suppose so. yes, they have houses, I know, 
and wives and children. I shouldn't like to be the 
wife of a sailor ! " 
" Somebody must, I suppose," said Dolly. " But 
I shouldn't like to have my home my principal 
 
home, I mean on the sea; if I was a man. They 
must like it, I suppose." 
Dolly went on reading. 
" The midshipmen have plenty to do, Christina. 
They have to learn how to do everything a com- 
mon sailor does; all the work of the ship; and then 
they must learn astronomy, and geometry, and 
navigation and mechanics. Hydrostatics, too; oh 
dear, I don't know what that is. I can look it out, 
I suppose. The midshipmen must be very busy, 
Christina, and at hard work too." 
Christina's interest in the Marine Dictionary 
was exhausted. She went off; but Dolly pored 
over its pages still, endeavouring to take in details 
about vessels, and ropes, and sails, and winds, until 
her head was in a fog. She recurred to the book 
however on the next opportunity; and from time 
to time, as her lessons permitted, gave her time 
and attention to this seemingly very unnecessary 
subject. How much she really learned, is doubtful; yet as little things do touch and link them- 
selves with great things, it may be that the old 
Marine Dictionary in Mrs. Delancy's library played 
a not insignificant part in the fortunes of Dolly 
Copley. As we shall see. She studied, till a ship 
became a romance to her; till rigging and spars 
and decks and guns were like the furniture of a 
new and strange life, which hardly belonged to 
the earth, being upon the sea; and the men who 
lived that life, and especially the men who ruled 
in it, grew to be invested with characteristics of 
 
power and skill and energy which gave them fabulous interest in Dolly's eyes. 
At home there had been a little scruple about 
letting Dolly join the party. She had had a cold, 
and was rather delicate at all times. The scruples 
however gave way before the child's earnest wish; 
and as Saturday of the particular week turned out 
mild and quiet, no hindrance was put in the way 
of the expedition. 
CHAPTER IV. 
THE "ACHILLES." 
IT was a very special delectation which the school 
were to enjoy to-day. The girls thought it 
always " fun," of course, to quit lessons and go to 
see anything; "even factories," as one of the girls 
expressed it, to Dolly's untold astonishment; for 
it seemed to her that to be allowed to look into the 
mystery of manufactures must be the next thing 
to taking part personally in a fairy tale. However, to-day it was not a question of manufactures, 
but of a finished and furnished big ship, and not 
only finished and furnished, but manned. " This 
is something lively," Eudora opined. And she was 
quite right. 
The day was a quiet day in November, with 
just a spice of frost in it ; the air itself was lively, 
quick and quickening. The party were driven to 
the Navy Yard in carriages, and there received 
very politely by the officers, some of whom knew 
Mrs. Delancy and lent themselves with much 
kindness to the undertaking. The girls were 
more or less excited with pleasure and anticipation; but to Dolly the Navy Yard seemed to be 
already touching the borders of that mysterious 
and fascinating sea life in which her fancy had 
lately been roaming. So when the girls were all 
carefully bestowed in stout little row boats to go 
out to the ship, Dolly's foot it was which stepped 
upon enchanted boards, and her eye that saw an 
enchanted world around her. What a field was 
this rippling water, crisped with the light breeze, 
and gurgling under the boat's smooth sweep 
ahead ! How the oars rose and fell, all together, 
as if moved by only one hand. Was this a part 
of the order and discipline of which she had read 
lately, as belonging to this strange world? Probably ; for now and then a command was issued to 
the oarsmen, curt and sharp; and obeyed, Dolly 
saw, although she did not know what the command meant. Yes, she was in an enchanted 
sphere ; and she looked at the " Achilles " as they 
drew nearer, with profoundest admiration. Its 
great hulk grew large upon her view, with an 
absolute haze of romance and mystery hang- 
ing about its decks and rigging. It was a large 
ship, finely equipped, according to the fashion of 
naval armament which was prevalent in those 
days; she was a fine frigate; and the port holes 
of her guns looked in threatening ranks along 
the sides of the vessel. Still and majestic she lay 
upon the quiet river; a very wonderful floating 
home indeed, and unlike- all else she had ever 
known, to Dolly's apprehension. How she and 
 
the rest were ever to get on board was an insoluble problem to her, as to most of them; and 
the chair that was presently lowered along the 
ship's side to receive them, seemed a very 'precarious sort of means of transport. However, the 
getting aboard was safely accomplished; one by 
one they were hoisted up; and Dolly's feet stood 
upon the great main deck. And the first view 
was perfectly satisfactory, and even went far beyond her imaginings. She found herself standing 
under a mixed confusion of masts and spars and 
sails, marvellous to behold, which yet she also 
saw was no confusion at all, but complicated and 
systematic order. How much those midshipmen 
must have to learn, though, if they were to know 
the names and uses and handling of every spar 
and every rope and each sail among them ! as 
Dolly knew they must. Her eye came back to 
the deck. What order there too ; what neatness ; 
why it was beautiful ; and the uniforms here and 
there, and the sailors' hats and jackets, filled up 
the picture to her heart's desire. Dolly breathed 
a full breath of satisfaction. 
The Captain of the " Achilles " made his appearance ; Captain Barbour. He was a thick-set, grizzly 
haired man, rather short ; not handsome at all ; and 
yet with an air of authority unmistakeable clothing him like a garment of power and dignity. 
Plainly this man's word was law, and the girls 
stood in awe of him. He was known to Mrs. 
Delancy; and now she went on to present formally all her young people to him. The captain 
returned the courtesy by calling up and introducing to her and them some of his officers; and 
then they went to a review of the ship. 
It took a long while. Between Mrs. Delancy 
and Captain Barbour a lively conversation was 
carried on ; Dolly thought he was explaining 
things to the lady that she did not understand; 
but though it might be the case now and then, 
I think the talk moved mainly upon less technical 
matters. Dolly could not get near enough to hear 
what it was, at any rate. The young lieutenants, 
too, were taken up with playing the host to the 
older young ladies of the party. If they received instruction also by the way, Dolly could not tell ; the 
laughing hardly looked like it. She and the other 
young ones at any rate followed humbly at the 
tail of everything, and just came up to a clear view 
of some detail when the others were moving away. 
There was nobody to help Dolly understand any- 
thing; nevertheless, she wandered in a fairy vision 
of wonderland. Into the cabins, down to the fore- 
castle, down to the gun deck. What could equal 
the black strangeness of that view ! and what could 
it all mean ? Dolly wished for her Uncle Edward, 
or some one, to answer a thousand questions. She 
had been reading about the guns; she looked curiously now at the realities, of which she had studied the pictures ; recognized here a detail and there 
a detail, but remaining hugely ignorant of the 
whole and of the bearing of the several parts upon 
 
each other. Yet she did not know how time flew; 
she did not know that she was getting tired ; from 
one strange thing to another she followed her 
leaders about; very much alone indeed, for even 
the other girls of her own age were staring at a 
different class of objects, and could hardly be said 
to see what she saw, much less were ready to ask 
what she wanted to ask. Dolly went round in a 
confused dream. 
At last the party had gone everywhere that such 
a party could go; Captain Barbour had spared 
them the lower gun deck. They came back to 
the captain's cabin, where a very pleasant lunch 
was served to the ladies. It was served, that is, 
to those who could get it; to those who were near 
enough and old enough to put in a claim by right 
of appearance. Dolly and one or two more who 
were undeniably little girls stood a bad chance, 
hanging about on the outskirts of the crowd, for 
the cabin would not take them all in ; and hearing a 
distant sound of clinking glass and silver and words 
of refreshment. It was all they seemed likely to 
get; and when a kindly elderly officer had taken 
pity on the child and given Dolly a biscuit, she 
concluded to resign the rest of the unattainable 
luncheon and make the most of her other opportunities while she had them. Eating the biscuit, 
which she was very glad of, she wandered off by 
herself, along the deck; looking again carefully at 
all she saw; for her eyes were greedy of seeing. 
Sails, what strange shapes; and how close rolled 
 
up some of them were ! Hopes, what a multitude; and cables. Coils of them on deck; and if 
she looked up, an endless tracery of lines seen 
against the blue sky. There was a sailor going 
up something like a rope ladder; going up and up; 
how could he ? and how far could he go ? Dolly 
almost grew dizzy gazing at him. 
"What are you looking after, little one?" a voice 
near her asked. An unceremonious address, certainly ; frankly put ; but the voice was not unkindly 
Or uncivil, and Dolly was not sensitive on the point 
of personal dignity. She brought her eyes down 
for a moment far enough to see the shimmer of 
gold lace on a midshipman's cap, and answered, 
" I am looking at that man. He's going up and 
up, to the top of everything ! I should think his 
head would turn." 
"Yours will, if you look after him with your 
head in that position." 
Dolly let her eyes come now to the speaker's 
face. One of the young midshipmen it was, standing near her, with his arms folded and leaning 
upon something which served as a support to 
them, and looking down at Dolly. For standing 
so and leaning over, he was still a good deal taller 
than she. Further, Dolly observed a pair of level 
brows, beneath them a pair of wise-looking, cognisance-taking blue eyes, an expression of steady 
calm, betokening either an even temperament or 
an habitual power of self-control; and just now in 
the eyes and the mouth there was the play almost 
 
of a smile, somewhat merry, wholly kindly. It took 
Dolly's confidence entirely and at once. 
"You don't think you would like to be a sailor?" 
he went on. 
"Is it pleasant?" said Dolly, retorting the question earnestly and doubtfully. 
The smile broke a little more on the other's face. 
" How do you like the ship ? " he asked. 
" I do not know," said Dolly glancing along the 
deck. " I think it is a strange place to live." 
"Why?" 
"And I don't understand the use of it," Dolly 
went on with a really puzzled face. 
" The use of what ? " 
" The use of the whole thing. I know what ships 
are good for, of course; other ships; but what is 
the use of such a ship as this ? " 
" To take care of the other ships." 
"How?" 
" Have you been below ? Did you see the gun 
decks?" 
" I was in a place where there were a great many 
guns but I could not understand, and there was 
nobody to tell me things." 
" Would you like to go down there again ? " 
"0 yes!" said Dolly. "They will be a good 
while at lunch yet. O thank you ! I should like 
so much to go." 
The young midshipman took her hand ; perhaps- 
he had a little sister at home and the action was 
pleasant and familiar; it seemed to be both; and 
 
led her down the way that took them to the upper 
gun deck. 
" How comes it you are not taking lunch too ? " 
he asked by the way. 
"0 there are too many of them," said Dolly 
contentedly. " I don't care. I had a biscuit." 
" You don't care for your lunch ? " 
