footmarks across an open space, and then lost them on the 
brink of a dark pool. If Carl had kept on, he must have 
crossed this pool; but how? On the sharp cypress-knees 
standing sullenly in the claret-colored water ? He went all 
around the open space again, seeking for footmarks else 
where ; but no, they ended at the edge of the pool. Cutting 
a long stick, he made his way across by its aid, stepping from 
knee-point to knee-point. On the other side he renewed his 
search for the trail, and after some labor found it, and went 
on again. 

He toiled forward slowly in this way a long time, his course 
changing often ; Carl's advance seemed to have been aimless. 
Then, suddenly, the footprints ceased. There was not an 
other one visible anywhere, though he searched in all direc 
tions again and again. He looked at his watch ; it was mid 
night. He hallooed ; no reply. What could have become of 
the lad ? He now began to feel his own fatigue ; after the long 
day of toil in the hot sun, these hours of laboring over the 
ground in a bent position, examining it inch by inch, brought 
on pains in his shoulders and back. Planting the torch he was 
carrying in the soft soil of a little knoll, he placed another one 
near it, and sat down between the two flames to rest for a 
minute or two, pouring out for himself a little brandy in the 
bottom of the cup belonging to his flask. He kept strict 
watch as he did this. Venomous things, large and small, 
filled the vines above, and might drop at any moment upon 
him. But he had quick eyes and ears, and no intention of 
dying in the South Devil ; so, while he watched keenly, he took 





the time to swallow the brandy. After a moment or two he 
was startled by a weak human voice saying, with faint deci 
sion, " That's brandy ! " 

" I should say it was," called Deal, springing to his feet. 
" Where are you, then ? * 

" Here." 

The rescuer followed the sound, ^nd, after one or two 
errors, came upon the body of his brother lying on a dank 
mat of water-leaves and ground-vines at the edge of a pool. 
In the red light of the torch he looked as though he was dead ; 
his eyes only were alive. 

" Brandy," he said again, faintly, as Deal appeared. 

After he had swallowed a small quantity of the stimulant, 
he revived with unexpected swiftness. 

" I have been shouting for you not fifty feet away," said 
Deal ; " how is it that you did not hear ? " Then in the same 
breath, in a soft undertone, he added, " Ah-h-h-h ! " and with 
out stirring a hair's breadth from where he stood, or making 
an unnecessary motion, he slowly drew forth his pistol, took 
careful aim, and fired. He was behind his brother, who lay 
with closed eyes, not noticing the action. 

" What have you killed ? " asked Carl languidly. " I 've 
seen nothing but birds ; and the most beautiful ones, too." 

" A moccasin, that's all," said Deal, kicking the dead crea 
ture into the pool. He did not add that the snake was coiled 
for a spring. " Let us get back to the little knoll where I was, 
Carl ; it's drier there." 

" I don't think I can walk, old man. I fell from the vines 
up there, and something's the matter with my ankles." 

" Well, I can carry you that distance," said Deal. " Put 
your arms around my neck, and raise yourself as I lift you 
so." 

The burning flambeau on the knoll served as a guide, and, 
after one or two pauses, owing to the treacherous footing, the 
elder brother succeeded in carrying the other thither. He 
then took off the light woolen coat he had put on before entering 
the swamp, spread it over the driest part of the little 
knoll, and laid Carl upon it. 

" If you can not walk," he said, " we shall have to wait 
here until daylight. I could not carry you and the torch also ; 
and the footing is bad there are twenty pools to cross, or go 
around. Fortunately, we have light-wood enough to burn all 
night." 

He lit fresh torches and arranged them at the four corners 
of their little knoll ; then he began to pace slowly to and fro, 
like a picket walking his beat. 

" What were you doing up among those vines ? " he asked. 
He knew that it would be better for them both if they could 
keep themselves awake ; those who fell asleep in the night air 
of South Devil generally awoke the next morning in another 
world. 

" I climbed up a ladder of vines to gather some of the 
great red blossoms swinging in the air ; and, once up, I went 
along on the mat to see what I could find. It's beautiful 
there fairy-land. You can't see anything down below, but 
above the long moss hangs in fine, silvery lines like spray from 
ever so high up, and mixed with it air-plants, sheafs, and bells 
of scarlet and cream-colored blossoms. I sat there a long 
time looking, and I suppose I must have dozed ; for I don't 
know when I fell." 

" You did not hear me shout ? " 

"No. The first consciousness I had was the odor of 
brandy." 

" The odor reached you, and the sound did not ; that is 
one of the tricks of such air as this ! You must have climbed 
up, I suppose, at the place where I lost the trail. What time 
did you come in ? " 

" I don't know," murmured Carl drowsily. 

" Look here ! you must keep awake ! " 

" I can t," answered the other. 

Deal shook him, but could not rouse him even to anger. 
He only opened his blue eyes and looked reproachfully at his 




brother, but as though he was a long distance off. Then Deal 
lifted him up, uncorked the flask, and put it to his lips. 

" Drink ! " he said, loudly and sternly ; and mechanically 
Carl obeyed. Once or twice his head moved aside, as if refusing more ; but Deal again said, " Drink ! " and without 
pity made the sleeper swallow every drop the flask contained. 
Then he laid him down upon the coat again, and covered his 
face and head with his own broad-brimmed palmetto hat, 
Carl's hat having been lost. He had done all he could 
changed the lethargy of the South Devil into the sleep of 
drunkenness, the last named at least a human slumber. He 
was now left to keep the watch alone. 

During the first half hour a dozen red and green things, 
of the centipede and scorpion kind, stupefied by the glare of 
the torches, fell from the trees; and he dispatched them. 
Next, enormous grayish-white spiders, in color exactly like 
the bark, moved slowly one furred leg into view, and then an 
other, on the trunks of the cypresses near by, gradually com 
ing wholly into the light creatures covering a circumference 
as large as that of a plate. At length the cypresses all 
around the knoll were covered with them ; and they all seemed 
to be watching him. He was not watching the spiders, how 
ever; he cared very little for the spiders. His eyes were 
upon the ground all the time, moving along the borders of his 
little knoll-fort. It was bounded on two sides by pools, in 
whose dark depths he knew moccasins were awake, watching 
the light, too, with whatever of curiosity belongs to a snake's 
cold brain. His torches aroused them ; and yet darkness would 
have been worse. In the light he could at least see them, if 
they glided forth and tried to ascend the brilliant knoll. After 
a while they began to rise to the surface ; he could distinguish 
portions of their bodies in waving lines, moving noiselessly 
hither and thither, appearing and disappearing suddenly, until 
the pools around seemed alive with them. There was not a 
sound; the soaked forest stood motionless. The absolute 
stillness made the quick gliding motions of the moccasins 



even more horrible. Yet Deal had no instinctive dread of 
snakes. The terrible " coach-whip," the deadly and gro 
tesque spread-adder, the rattlesnake of the barrens, and these 
great moccasins of the pools were endowed with no imagi 
nary horrors in his eyes. He accepted them as nature made 
them, and not as man's fancy painted them ; it was only their 
poison-fangs he feared. 

" If the sea-crab could sting, how hideous we should 
think him ! If the lobster had a deadly venom, how devilish 
his shape would seem to us ! " he said. 

But now no imagination was required to make the moc 
casins terrible. His revolver carried six balls ; and he had 
already used one of them. Four hours must pass before 
dawn ; there could be no unnecessary shooting. The crea 
tures might even come out and move along the edge of his 
knoll ; only when they showed an intention of coming up the 
slope must their gliding life be ended. The moccasin is not a 
timorous or quick-nerved snake ; in a place like the South 
Devil, when a human foot or boat approaches, generally he 
does not stir. His great body, sometimes over six feet in 
length, and thick and fat in the middle, lies on a log or at the 
edge of a pool, seemingly too lazy to move. But none the 
less, when roused, is his coil sudden and his long spring sure ; 
his venom is deadly. After a time one of the creatures did 
come out and glide along the edge of the knoll. He went 
back into the water ; but a second came out on the other 
side. During the night Deal killed three ; he was an excel 
lent marksman, and picked them off easily as they crossed 
his dead-line. 

" Fortunately they come one by one," he said to himself. 
" If there was any concert of action among them, I couldn't 
hold the place a minute." 

As the last hour began, the long hour before dawn, he felt 
the swamp lethargy stealing into his own brain ; he saw the 
trees and torches doubled. He walked to and fro more quickly, 
and sang to keep himself awake. He knew only a few old- 





fashioned songs, and the South Devil heard that night, prob 
ably for the first time in its tropical life, the ancient Northern 
strains of " Gayly the Troubadour touched his Guitar." Deal 
was no troubadour, and he had no guitar. But he sang on 
bravely, touching that stringed instrument, vocally at least, 
and bringing himself "home from the war" over and over 
again, until at last faint dawn penetrated from above down to 
the knoll where the four torches were burning. They were 
the last torches, and Deal was going through his sixtieth 
rehearsal of the " Troubadour " ; but, instead of " Lady-love, 
lady-lo-o-o-ve," whom he apostrophized, a large moccasin 
rose from the pool, as if in answer. She might have been the 
queen of the moccasins, and beautiful to moccasin eyes; 
but to Deal she was simply the largest and most hideous of 
all the snake-visions of the night. He gave her his fifth ball, 
full in her mistaken brain ; and, if she had admired him (or 
the "Troubadour "), she paid for it with her life. 

This was the last. Daylight appeared. The watchman 
put out his torches and roused the sleeper. " Carl ! Carl ! 
It's daylight. Let us get out of this confounded crawling 
hole, and have a breath of fresh air." 

Carl stirred, and opened his eyes ; they were heavy and 
dull. His brother lifted him, told him to hold on tightly, and 
started with his burden toward home. The snakes had dis 
appeared, the gray spiders had vanished ; he could see his 
way now, and he followed his own trail, which he had taken 
care to make distinct when he came in the night before. 
But, loaded down as he was, and obliged to rest frequently, 
and also to go around all the pools, hours passed before he 
reached the last cypresses and came out on the old causeway 
across the sugar-waste. 

It was Christmas morning ; the thermometer stood at 
eighty-eight. 

Carl slept off his enforced drunkenness in his hammock. 
Mark, having bandaged his brother's strained ankles, threw 
himself upon his rude couch, and fell into a heavy slumber 



also. He slept until sunset ; then he rose, plunged his head 
into a tub of the limpid, pure, but never cold water of Flori 
da , drawn from his shallow well, and went out to the chimney 
to see about dinner. The chimney was doing finely : a fiery 
plume of sparks waved from its white top, a red bed of coals 
glowed below. Scip moved about with as much equanimity 
as though he had a row of kitchen-tables upon which to ar 
range his pans and dishes, instead of ruined blocks of stone, 
under the open sky. The dinner was good. Carl, awake at 
last, was carried out to the table to enjoy it, and then brought 
back to his chair in front of the house to smoke his evening 
pipe. 

" I must make you a pair of crutches," said Deal. 

" One will do ; my right ankle is not much hurt, I think." 

The fall, the air of the swamp, and the inward drenching 
of brandy had left Carl looking much as usual ; the tenacious 
disease that held him swallowed the lesser ills. But for the 
time, at least, his wandering footsteps were staid. 

" I suppose there is no use in my asking, Carl, why you 
went in there ? " said Deal, after a while. 

" No, there isn t. I'm haunted that's all." 

" But what is it that haunts you ? " 

" Sounds. You couldn't understand, though, if I was to 
talk all night." 

" Perhaps I could ; perhaps I can understand more than 
you imagine. I'll tell you a story presently ; but first yq.u 
must explain to me, at least as well as you can, what it is that 
attracts you in South Devil." 

" Oh well," said Carl, with a long, impatient sigh, closing 
his eyes wearily. " I am a musician, you know, a musician 
manqu ; a musician who can't play. Something's the mat 
ter ; I hear music, but can not bring it out. And I know so 
well what it ought to be, ought to be and isn t, that I 've broken 
my violin in pieces a dozen times in my rages about it. Now, 
other fellows in orchestras, who don't know, get along very 
well. But I couMn t. I 've thought at times that, although I 





can not sound what I hear with my own hands, perhaps I 
could write it out so that other men could sound it. The 
idea has never come to anything definite yet that is, what 
you would call definite ; but it haunts me persistently, and 
now it has got into that swamp. The wish," here Carl laid 
down his great pipe, and pressed his hand eagerly upon his 
brother's knee " the wish that haunts me drives me is to 
write out the beautiful music of the South Devil, the sounds 
one hears in there " 

" But there are no sounds." 

" No sounds ? You must be deaf ! The air fairly reeks 
with sounds, with harmonies. But there I told you you 
couldn't understand." He leaned back against the wall again, 
and took up the great pipe, which looked as though it must 
consume whatever small store of strength remained to him. 

" Is it what is called an opera you want to write, like like 
the Creation, for instance ? " asked Deal. The " Creation " 
was the only long piece of music he had ever heard. 

Carl groaned. " Oh, don't talk of it ! " he said ; then add 
ed, irritably, " It's a song, that's all the song of a Southern 
swamp." 

" Call it by it's real name, Devil," said the elder brother, 
grimly. 

" I would, if I was rich enough to have a picture painted 
the Spirit of the Swamp a beautiful woman, falsely called 
a devil by cowards, dark, languorous, mystical, sleeping among 
the vines I saw up there, with the great red blossoms drop 
ping around her." 

" And the great mottled snakes coiling over her? " 

" I didn't see any snakes." 

"Well," said Mark, refilling his pipe, "now I'm going to 
tell you my story. W T hen I met you on that windy pier at 
Exton, and proposed that you should come down here with 
me, I was coming myself, in any case, wasn't I ? And why ? 
I wanted to get to a place where I could be warm warm, 
hot, baked ; warm through and through ; warm all the time. 




I wanted to get to a place where the very ground was warm. 
And now I'll tell you why." 

He rose from his seat, laid down his pipe, and, extending 
his hand, spoke for about fifteen minutes without pause. 
Then he turned, went back hastily to the old chimney, where 
red coals still lingered, and sat down close to the glow, leaving 
Carl wonder-struck in his tilted chair. The elder man leaned 
over the fire and held his hands close to the coals; Carl 
watched him. It was nine o clock, and the thermometer 
marked eighty. 

For nearly a month after Christmas, life on the old planta 
tion went on without event or disaster. Carl, with his crutch 
and cane, could not walk far; his fancy now was to limp 
through the east orange-aisle to the place of tombs, and sit 
there for hours, playing softly, what might be called crooning, 
on his violin. The place of tombs was a small, circular space 
surrounded by wild orange-trees in a close, even row, like a 
hedge ; here were four tombs, massive, oblong blocks of the 
white conglomerate of the coast, too coarse-grained to hold 
inscription or mark of any kind. Who the old Spaniards were 
whose bones lay beneath, and what names they bore in the 
flesh, no one knew ; all record was lost. Outside in the wild 
thicket was a tomb still more ancient, and of different con 
struction : four slabs of stone, uncovered, about three feet 
high, rudely but firmly placed, as though inclosing a coffin. 
In the earth between these low walls grew a venerable cedar ; 
but, old as it was, it must have been planted by chance or by 
hand after the human body beneath had been laid in its place. 

" Why do you come here ? " said Deal, pausing and look 
ing into the place of tombs, one morning, on his way to the 
orange-grove. " There are plenty of pleasanter spots about." 

" No ; I like this better," answered Carl, without stopping 
the low chant of his violin. " Besides, they like it too." 

"Who?" 

" The old fellows down below. The chap outside there, 
