back to his office ; to-day he had taken a chair before 
the stove. But he had mechanically put his hat on, 
and he wore it pushed off his forehead as he tilted 
his chair back on its hind legs, and braced himself 
against the hearth of the stove with his feet. 

A man is master in his own house generally 
through the exercise of a certain degree of brutality, 
but Squire Gaylord maintained his predominance by 
an enlightened absenteeism. No man living always 
at home was ever so little under his own roof. While 
he was in more active business life, he had kept an 
office in the heart of the village, where he spent all 
his days, and a great part of every night ; but after 
he had become rich enough to risk whatever loss of 
business the change might involve, he bought this 
large old square house on the border of the village, 
and thenceforth made  his home in the little detached 
office. 

If Mrs. Gaylord had dimly imagined that she 
should see something more of him, having him so near 



 

at hand, she really saw less : there was no weather, 
by day or night, in which he could not go to his office, 
now. He went no more than his wife into the village 
society ; she might have been glad now and then of a 
little glimpse of the world, but she never said so, and 
her social life had ceased, like her religious life. Their 
house was richly furnished according to the local 
taste of the time ; the parlor had a Brussels carpet, 
and heavy chairs of mahogany and hair- cloth; Marcia 
had a piano there, and since she had come home from 
school they had made company, as Mrs. Gaylord 
called it, two or three times for her ; but they had 
held aloof from the festivity, the Squire in his office, 
and Mrs. Gaylord in the family room where they now 
sat in unwonted companionship. 

" Well, Mr. Gaylord," said his wife, " I don 't know 
as you can say but what Marcia 's suited well 
enough." 

This was the first allusion they had made to the 
subject, but she let it take the argumentative form of 
her cogitations. 

" M-yes," sighed the Squire, in long, nasal assent, 
" most too well, if anything." He rasped first one 
unshaven cheek and then the other, with his thin, 
quivering hand. 

" He 's smart enough," said Mrs. Gaylord, as be 
fore. 

" M-yes, most too smart," replied her husband, a 
little more quickly than before. " He 's smart enough, 
even if she was n t, to see from the start that she was 
crazy to have him, and that isn 't the best way to 
begin life for a married couple, if I 'm a judge." 

" It would killed her if she hadn 't got him. I could 
see t was wearin on her every day, more and more. 
She used to fairly jump, every knock she d hear at 
the door ; and I know sometimes, when she was afraid 
he wan 't coming, she used to go out, in hopes t she 



 

sli d meet him : I don 't suppose she allowed to herself 
that she did it for that Marcia 's proud." 

" M-yes," said the Squire, " she 's proud. And 
when a proud girl makes a fool of herself ahout a 
fellow, it 's a matter of life and death with her. She 
can 't help herself. She lets go everything." 

" I declare," Mrs. Gaylord went on, " it worked me 
up considerable to have her come in some those times, 
and see by her face t she d seen him with some the 
other girls. She used to look so ! And then I d hear 
her up in her room, cryin and cryin . I shouldn 't 
cared so much, if Marcia d been like any other girl, 
kind of flirty, like, about it. But she wa n t. She 
was just bowed down before her idol." 

A final assent came from the Squire, as if wrung 
out of his heart, and he rose from his chair, and then 
sat down again. Marcia was his child, and he loved 
her with his whole soul. " M-well ! " he deeply 
sighed, " all that part 's over, anyway," but he tingled 
in an anguish of sympathy witli what she had suffered. 
" You see, Miranda, how she looked at me when she 
first came in with him, so proud and independ 
ent, poor girl ! and yet as if she was afraid I might nt 
like it ? " 

" Yes, I see it." 

He pulled his hat far down over his cavernous eyes, 
and worked his thin, rusty old jaws. 

" I hope t she 'll  be able to school herself, so 's t not 
show out her feelings so much," said Mrs. Gaylord. 

" I wish she could school herself so as to not have 
em so much ; but I guess she 'll  have em, and I 
guess she 'll  show em out." They were both silent ; 
after a while he added, throwing at the stove a minute 
fragment of the cane he had pulled off the seat of his 
chair : " Miranda, I 've expected something of this 
sort a good while, and I 've thought over what Bart- 
ley had better do." 



 

Mrs. Gaylord stooped forward and picked up the 
bit of wood which her husband had thrown down ; 
her vigilance was rewarded by finding a thread on the 
oil-cloth near where it lay ; she whipped this round 
her finger, and her husband continued : " He d better 
give up his paper and go into the law. He 's done 
well in the paper, and he 's a smart writer ; but edit 
ing a newspaper aint any work for a man. It 's all 
well enough as long as he 's single, but when he 's got 
a wife to look after, he d better get down to work. 
My business is in just such a shape now that I could 
hand it over to him in a lump ; but come to wait a 
year or two longer, and this young man and that one 'll  
eat into it, and it won 't be the same thing at all. 
I shall want Bartley to push right along, and get ad 
mitted at once. He can do it, fast enough. He 's 
bright enough," added the old man, with a certain 
grimness. "M-well!" he broke out, with a quick 
sigh, after a moment of musing ; " it hasn 't happened 
at any very bad time. I was just thinking, this 
morning, that I should like to have my whole time, 
pretty soon, to look after my property. I shan 't  want 
Bartley to do that for me. I 'll  give him a good start in 
money and in business ; but I 'll  look after my prop 
erty myself. I 'll  speak to him, the first chance I get." 

A light step sounded on the stairs, and Marcia 
burst into the room, ready for her drive. "I wanted 
to get a good warm before I started," she explained, 
stooping before the stove, and supporting herself with 
one hand on her father 's knee. There had been no 
formal congratulations upon her engagement from 
either of her parents ; but this was not requisite, and 
would have been a little affected ; they were perhaps 
now ashamed to mention it outright before her alone. 
The Squire, however, went so far" as to put his hand 
over the hand she had laid upon his knee, and to 
smooth it twice or thrice. 



 

" You going to ride after that sorrel colt of Bart- 
ley 's ? " he asked. 

" Of course ! " she answered, with playful pertness. 
" I guess Bartley can manage the sorrel colt ! He 's 
never had any trouble yet." 

" He 's always been able to give his whole mind to 
him before," said the Squire. He gave Marcia 's hand 
a significant squeeze, and let it go. 

She would not confess her consciousness of his 
meaning at once. She looked up at the clock, and 
then turned and pulled her father 's watch out of his 
waistcoat pocket, and compared the time. "Why, 
you 're both fast ! " 

" Perhaps Bartley 's slow," said the Squire ; and 
having gone as far as he intended in this direction, 
he permitted himself a low chuckle. 

The sleigh-bells jingled without, and she sprang 
lightly to her feet. " I guess you don 't think Bart 
ley 's slow," she exclaimed, and hung over her father 
long enough to rub her lips against his bristly cheek. 
" By, mother," she said, over her shoulder, and went 
out of the room. She let her muff hang as far down 
in front of her as her arms would reach, in a stylish 
way, and moved with a little rhythmical tilt, as if to 
some inner music. Even in her furs she was elegantly 
slender in shape. 

The old people remained silent and motionless till 
the clash of the bells died away. Then the Squire 
rose, and went to the wood-shed beyond the kitchen, 
whence he reappeared with an armful of wood. His 
wife started at the sight. " Mr. Gaylord, what be you 
doin ? " 

" Oh, I 'm going to make em up a little fire in the 
parlor stove. I guess they won 't want us round a 
great deal, when they come back." 

Mrs. Gaylord said, " Well, I never did ! " When 
her husband returned from the parlor, she added, " I 



 

suppose some folks d say it was rather of a strange 
way of spendin the Sabbath." 

" It 's a very good way of spending the Sabbath. 
You don 't suppose that any of the people in church 
are half as happy, do you ? Why, old Jonathan Ed 
wards himself used to allow all proper opportunity 
for the young fellows that come to see his girls, and 
a room and fire, if needed. His Life says so." 

" I guess he didn 't allow it on the Sabbath," 're 
torted Mrs. Gaylord. 

" Well, the Life don 't say," chuckled the Squire. 
" Why, Miranda, I do it for Marcia ! There 's never 
but one first day to an engagement. You know that 
as well as T do." In saying this, Squire Gaylord gave 
way to his repressed emotion in an extravagance. 
He suddenly stooped over and kissed his wife ; but 
he spared her confusion by going out to his office at 
once, where he stayed the whole afternoon. 

Bartley and Marcia took the " Long Drive," as it 
was called, at Equity. The road plunged into the 
darkly wooded gulch beyond the house, and then 
struck away eastward, crossing loop after loop of the 
river on the covered bridges, where the neighbors, 
who had broken it out with their ox-teams in the 
open, had thickly bedded it in snow. In the valleys 
and sheltered spots it remained free, and so wide that 
encountering teams could easily pass each other ; but 
where it climbed a hill, or crossed a treeless level, it 
was narrowed to a single track, with turn-outs at es 
tablished points, where the drivers of the sleighs 
waited to be sure that the stretch beyond was clear 
before going forward. In the country, the winter 
which held the village in such close siege was an 
occupation under which Nature seemed to cower help 
less, and men made a desperate and ineffectual 
struggle. The houses, banked up with snow almost 
to the sills of the windows that looked out, blind with 



 

frost, upon the lifeless world, were dwarfed in the 
drifts, and seemed to founder in a white sea blotched 
with strange bluish shadows under the slanting sun. 
Where they fronted close upon the road, it was evi 
dent that the fight with the snow was kept up un 
relentingly ; spaces were shovelled out, and paths were 
kept open to the middle of the highway, and to the 
barn ; but where they were somewhat removed, there 
was no visible trace of the conflict, and no sign of life 
except the faint, wreathed lines of smoke wavering- 
upward from the chimneys. 

In the hollows through which the road passed, the 
lower boughs of the pines and hemlocks were weighed 
down with the snow-fall till they lay half submerged 
in the drifts ; but wherever the wind could strike 
them, they swung free of this load and met in low, 
flat arches above the track. The river betrayed itself 
only when the swift current of a ripple broke through 
the white surface in long, irregular, grayish blurs. It 
was all wild and lonesome, but to the girl alone in it 
with her lover, the solitude was sweet, and she did 
not wish to speak even to him. His hands were both 
busy with the reins, but it was agreed between them 
that she might lock hers through his arm. Cowering 
close to him under the robes, she laid her head on his 
shoulder and looked out over the flying landscape in 
measureless content, and smiled, with filling eyes, 
when he bent over, and warmed his cold red cheek 
on the top of her fur cap. 

The moments of bliss that silence a woman rouse 
a man to make sure of his rapture. "How do you 
like it, Marsh ? " he asked, trying at one of these times 
to peer round into her face. " Are you afraid ? " 

" No, only of getting back too soon. " 

He made the shivering echoes answer with his 
delight in this, and chirruped to the colt, who pushed 
forward at a wilder speed, flinging his hoofs out 



 

before him with the straight thrust of the born trotter, 
and seeming to overtake them as they flew. " I 
should like this ride to last forever ! " 

" Forever ! " she repeated. " That would do for a 
beginning. " 

" Marsh ! What a girl you are ! I never supposed 
you would be so free to let a fellow know how much 
you cared for him." 

"Neither did I," she answered dreamily. "But 
now now the only trouble is that I don 't know 
how to let him know." She gave his arm to which 
she clung a little convulsive clutch, and pressed her 
head harder upon his shoulder. 

"Well, that 's pretty much my complaint, too," said 
Bartley, " though I couldn 't have expressed it so well." 

" Oh, you express ! " she murmured, with the pride 
in him which implied that there were no thoughts 
worth expressing to which he could not give a monu 
mental utterance. Her adoration flattered his self- 
love to the same passionate intensity, and to some 
thing like the generous complexion of her worship. 

" Marcia," he answered, " I am going to try to be 
all you expect of me. And I hope I shall never do 
anything unworthy of your ideal." 

She could only press his arm again in speechless 
joy, but she said to herself that she should always 
remember these words. 

The wind had been rising ever since they started, 
but they had not noticed it till now, when the woods 
began to thin away on either side, and he stopped 
before striking out over one of the naked stretches 
of the plain, a white waste swept by the blasts 
that sucked down through a gorge of the mountain, 
and flattened the snow-drifts as the tornado flattens 
the waves. Across this expanse ran the road, its stiff 
lines obliterated here and there, in the slight depres 
sions, and showing dark along the rest of the track. 



 

It was a good half-mile to the next body of woods, 
and midway there was one of those sidings where a 
sleigh approaching from the other quarter must turn 
out and yield the right of way. Bartley stopped his 
colt, and scanned the road. 

" Anybody coming ? " asked Marcia. 

" No, I don 't see any one. But if there 's any one 
in the woods yonder, they d better wait till I get 
across. No horse in Equity can beat this colt to the 
turn-out." 

" Oh, well, look carefully, Bartley. If we met 
any one beyond the turn-out, I don 't know what I 
should do," pleaded the girl. 

" I don 't know what they would do," said Bartley. 
" But it 's their lookout now, if they come. Wrap 
your face up well, or put your head under the robe. 
I 've got to hold my breath the next half-mile." He 
loosed the reins, and sped the colt out of the shel 
ter where he had halted. The wind struck them like 
an edge of steel, and, catching the powdery snow that 
their horse 's hoofs beat up, sent it spinning and swirl 
ing far along the glistening levels on their lee. They 
felt the thrill of the go as if they were in some light 
boat leaping over a swift current. Marcia disdained 
to cover her face, if he must confront the wind, but 
after a few gasps she was glad to bend forward, and 
bury it in the long hair of the bearskin robe. When 
she lifted it, they were already past the siding, and 
she saw a cutter dashing toward them from the 
cover of the woods. " Bartley ! " she screamed, " the 
sleigh ! " 

" Yes," he shouted. " Some fool ! There 's going to 
be trouble here," he added, checking his horse as he 
could. " They don 't seem to know how to manage 
It 's a couple of women ! Hold on ! hold on ! " he 
called. " Don 't try to turn out ! I 'll  turn out ! " 
