do you mean?”
“She didn’t wish to go that day when she was caught in the storm. But I
insisted; I forced her to go.” She stood panting with the intensity of
the feeling which had impelled her utterance.
“What do you mean by forcing her to go?”
“I don’t know. I--I--persuaded her.”
Dr. Mulbridge smiled, as if he perceived her intention not to tell him
something she wished to tell him. He looked down into his hat, which he
carried in his hand.
“Did you believe the storm was coming?”
“No!”
“And you did n’t make it come?”
“Of course not!”
He looked at her and laughed.
“Oh, you don’t at all understand!” she cried.
“I’m not a doctor of divinity,” he said. “Good morning.”
“Wait, wait!” she implored, “I’m afraid--I don’t know--Perhaps my being
near her is injurious to her; perhaps I ought to let some one else nurse
her. I wished to ask you this”--She stopped breathlessly.
“I don’t think you have done her any harm as yet,” he answered lightly.
“However,” he said, after a moment’s consideration, “why don’t you take
a holiday? Some of the other ladies might look after her a while.”
“Do you really think,” she palpitated, “that I might? Do you think I
ought? I’m afraid I ought n’t”--
“Not if your devotion is hurtful to her?” he asked. “Send some one else
to her for a while. Any one can take care of her for a few hours.”
“I couldn’t leave her--feeling as I do about her.”
“I don’t know how you feel about her,” said Dr. Mulbridge. “But you
can’t go on at this rate. I shall want your help by and by, and Mrs.
Maynard doesn’t need you now. Don’t go back to her.”
“But if she should get worse while I am away”--
“You think your staying and feeling bad would make her better? Don’t
go back,” he repeated; and he went out to his ugly rawboned horse, and,
mounting his shabby wagon, rattled away. She lingered, indescribably
put to shame by the brutal common sense which she could not impeach, but
which she still felt was no measure of the case. It was true that she
had not told him everything, and she could not complain that he had
mocked her appeal for sympathy if she had trifled with him by a partial
confession. But she indignantly denied to herself that she had wished to
appeal to him for sympathy.
She wandered out on the piazza, which she found empty, and stood gazing
at the sea in a revery of passionate humiliation. She was in that mood,
familiar to us all, when we long to be consoled and even flattered for
having been silly. In a woman this mood is near to tears; at a touch of
kindness the tears come, and momentous questions are decided. What was
perhaps uppermost in the girl’s heart was a detestation of the man to
whom she had seemed a simpleton; her thoughts pursued him, and divined
the contempt with which he must be thinking of her and her pretensions.
She heard steps on the sand, and Libby came round the corner of the
house from the stable.
VII.
Libby’s friends had broken up their camp on the beach, and had gone to
a lake in the heart of the woods for the fishing. He had taken a room at
the Long Beach House, but he spent most of his time at Jocelyn’s, where
he kept his mare for use in going upon errands for Mrs. Maynard. Grace
saw him constantly, and he was always doing little things for her with
a divination of her unexpressed desires which women find too rarely in
men. He brought her flowers, which, after refusing them for Mrs. Maynard
the first time, she accepted for herself. He sometimes brought her
books, the light sort which form the sentimental currency of young
people, and she lent them round among the other ladies, who were
insatiable of them. She took a pleasure in these attentions, as if they
had been for some one else. In this alien sense she liked to be followed
up with a chair to the point where she wished to sit; to have her hat
fetched, or her shawl; to drop her work or her handkerchief, secure that
it would be picked up for her.
It all interested her, and it was a relief from the circumstances that
would have forbidden her to recognize it as gallantry, even if her own
mind had not been so far from all thought of that. His kindness followed
often upon some application of hers for his advice or help, for she had
fallen into the habit of going to him with difficulties. He had a prompt
common sense that made him very useful in emergencies, and a sympathy
or an insight that was quick in suggestions and expedients. Perhaps
she overrated other qualities of his in her admiration of the practical
readiness which kept his amiability from seeming weak. But the practical
had so often been the unattainable with her that it was not strange she
should overrate it, and that she should rest upon it in him with a trust
that included all he chose to do in her behalf.
“What is the matter, Mr. Libby?” she asked, as he came toward her.
“Is anything the matter?” he demanded in turn.
“Yes; you are looking downcast,” she cried reproachfully.
“I didn’t know that I mustn’t look downcast. I did n’t suppose it would
be very polite, under the circumstances, to go round looking as bobbish
as I feel.”
“It’s the best thing you could possibly do. But you’re not feeling very
bobbish now.” A woman respects the word a man uses, not because she
would have chosen it, but because she thinks that he has an exact
intention in it, which could not be reconveyed in a more feminine
phrase. In this way slang arises. “Is n’t it time for Mr. Maynard to be
here?”
“Yes,” he answered. Then, “How did you know I was thinking of that?”
“I did n’t. I only happened to think it was time. What are you keeping
back, Mr. Libby?” she pursued tremulously.
“Nothing, upon my honor. I almost wish there were something to keep
back. But there is n’t anything. There have n’t been any accidents
reported. And I should n’t keep anything back from you.”
“Why?”
“Because you would be equal to it, whatever it was.”
“I don’t see why you say that.” She weakly found comfort in the praise
which she might once have resented as patronage.
“I don’t see why I should n’t,” he retorted:
“Because I am not fit to be trusted at all.”
“Do you mean”--
“Oh, I haven’t the strength, to mean anything,” she said. “But I thank
you, thank you very much,” she added. She turned her head away.
“Confound Maynard!” cried the young man. “I don’t see why he does n’t
come. He must have started four days ago. He ought to have’ had sense
enough to telegraph when he did start. I did n’t tell his partner to
ask him. You can’t think of everything. I’ve been trying to find out
something. I’m going over to Leyden, now, to try to wake up somebody in
Cheyenne who knows Maynard.” He looked ruefully at Grace, who listened
with anxious unintelligence. “You’re getting worn out, Miss Breen,” he
said. “I wish I could ask you to go with me to Leyden. It would do you
good. But my mare’s fallen lame; I’ve just been to see her. Is there
anything I can do for you over there?”
“Why, how are you going?” she asked.
“In my boat,” he answered consciously.
“The same boat?”
“Yes. I’ve had her put to rights. She was n’t much damaged.”
She was silent a moment, while he stood looking down at her in the chair
into which she had sunk. “Does it take you long?”
“Oh, no. It’s shorter than it is by land. I shall have the tide with me
both ways. I can make the run there and back in a couple of hours.”
“Two hours?”
“Yes.”
A sudden impulse, unreasoned and unreasonable, in which there seemed
hope of some such atonement, or expiation, as the same ascetic nature
would once have found in fasting or the scourge, prevailed with her. She
rose. “Mr. Libby,” she panted, “if you will let me, I should like to go
with you in your boat. Do you think it will be rough?”
“No, it’s a light breeze; just right. You need n’t be afraid.”
“I’m not afraid. I should not care if it were rough! I should not care
if it stormed! I hope it--I will ask mother to stay with Mrs. Maynard.”
Mrs. Breen had not been pleased to have her daughter in charge of Mrs.
Maynard’s case, but she had not liked her giving it up. She had said
more than once that she had no faith in Dr. Mulbridge. She willingly
consented to Grace’s prayer, and went down into Mrs. Maynard’s room, and
insinuated misgivings in which the sick woman found so much reason that
they began for the first time to recognize each other’s good qualities.
They decided that the treatment was not sufficiently active, and that
she should either have something that would be more loosening to the
cough, or some application--like mustard plasters--to her feet, so as to
take away that stuffed feeling about the head.
At that hour of the afternoon, when most of the ladies were lying down
in their rooms, Grace met no one on the beach but Miss Gleason and Mrs.
Alger, who rose from their beds of sand under the cliff at her passage
with Mr. Libby to his dory.
“Don’t you want to go to Leyden?” he asked jocosely over his shoulder.
“You don’t mean to say you’re going?” Miss Gleason demanded of Grace.
“Yes, certainly. Why not?”
“Well, you are brave!”
She shut her novel upon her thumb, that she might have nothing to do but
admire Grace’s courage, as the girl walked away.
“It will do her good, poor thing,” said the elder woman. “She looks
wretchedly.”
“I can understand just why she does it,” murmured Miss Gleason in
adoring rapture.
“I hope she does it for pleasure,” said Mrs. Alger.
“It is n’t that,” returned Miss Gleason mysteriously.
“At any rate, Mr. Libby seemed pleased.”
“Oh, she would never marry HIM!” said Miss Gleason.
The other laughed, and at that moment Grace also laughed. The strong
current of her purpose, the sense of escape from the bitter servitude of
the past week, and the wild hope of final expiation through the chances
she was tempting gave her a buoyancy long unfelt. She laughed in gayety
of heart as she helped the young man draw his dory down the sand, and
then took her place at one end while he gave it the last push and then
leaped in at the other. He pulled out to where the boat lay tilting at
anchor, and held the dory alongside by the gunwale that she might step
aboard. But after rising she faltered, looking intently at the boat as
if she missed something there.
“I thought you had a man to sail your boat”
“I had. But I let him go last week. Perhaps I ought to have told
you,” he said, looking up at her aslant. “Are you afraid to trust my
seamanship? Adams was a mere form. He behaved like a fool that day.”
“Oh, I’m not afraid,” said Grace. She stepped from the dory into the
boat, and he flung out the dory’s anchor and followed. The sail went up
with a pleasant clucking of the tackle, and the light wind filled it.
Libby made the sheet fast, and, sitting down in the stern on the other
side, took the tiller and headed the boat toward the town that shimmered
in the distance. The water hissed at the bow, and seethed and sparkled
from the stern; the land breeze that bent their sail blew cool upon her
cheek and freshened it with a tinge of color.
“This will do you good,” he said, looking into hers with his kind, gay
eyes.
The color in her cheeks deepened a little. “Oh, I am better than I look.
I did n’t come for”--
“For medicinal purposes. Well, I am glad of it. We’ve a good hour
between us and news or no news from Maynard, and I should like to think
we were out for pleasure. You don’t object?”
“No. You can even smoke, if that will heighten the illusion.”
“It will make it reality. But you don’t mean it?”
“Yes; why not?”
“I don’t know. But I could n’t have dreamt of smoking in your presence.
And we take the liberty to dream very strange things.”
“Yes,” she said, “it’s shocking what things we do dream of people. But
am I so forbidding?” she asked, a little sadly.
“Not now,” said Libby. He got out a pouch of tobacco and some cigarette
papers, and putting the tiller under his arm, he made himself a
cigarette.
“You seem interested,” he said, as he lifted his eyes from his work, on
which he found her intent, and struck his fusee.
“I was admiring your skill,” she answered.
“Do you think it was worth a voyage to South America?”
“I shouldn’t have thought the voyage was necessary.”
“Oh, perhaps you think you can do it,” he said, handing her the tobacco
and papers. She took them and made a cigarette. “It took me a whole
day to learn to make bad ones, and this, is beautiful. But I will never
smoke it. I will keep this always.”
“You had better smoke it, if you want more,” she said.
“Will you make some more? I can’t smoke the first one!”
“Then smoke the last,” she said, offering him the things back.
“No, go on. I’ll smoke it.”
She lent herself to the idle humor of the time, and went on making
cigarettes till there were no more papers. From time to time she looked
up from this labor, and scanned the beautiful bay, which they had almost
wholly to themselves. They passed a collier lagging in the deep channel,
and signalling for a pilot to take her up to the town. A yacht, trim and
swift, cut across their course; the ladies on board waved a salutation
with their handkerchiefs, and Libby responded.
“Do you know them?” asked Grace.
“No!” he laughed. “But ladies like to take these liberties at a safe
distance.”
“Yes, that’s a specimen of woman’s daring,” she said, with a
self-scornful curl of the lip, which presently softened into a wistful
smile. “How lovely it all is!” she sighed.
“Yes, there’s nothing better in all the world than a sail. It is all the
world while it lasts. A boat’s like your own fireside for snugness.”
A dreamier light came into her eye, which wandered, with a turn of the
head giving him the tender curve of her cheek, over the levels of the
bay, roughened everywhere by the breeze, but yellowish green in the
channels and dark with the thick growth of eel-grass in the shallows;
then she lifted her face to the pale blue heavens in an effort that
slanted towards him the soft round of her chin, and showed her full
throat.
“This is the kind of afternoon,” she said, still looking at the sky,
“that you think will never end.”
“I wish it would n’t,” he answered.
She lowered her eyes to his, and asked: “Do you have times when you are
sorry that you ever tried to do anything--when it seems foolish to have
tried?”
“I have the other kind of times,--when I wish that I had tried to do
something.”
“Oh yes, I have those, too. It’s wholesome to be ashamed of not having
tried to do anything; but to be ashamed of having tried--it’s like
death. There seems no recovery from that.”
He did not take advantage of her confession, or try to tempt her to
further confidence; and women like men who have this wisdom, or this
instinctive generosity, and trust them further.
“And the worst of it is that you can’t go back and be like those that
have never tried at all. If you could, that would be some consolation
for having failed. There is nothing left of you but your mistake.”
“Well,” he said, “some people are not even mistakes. I suppose that
almost any sort of success looks a good deal like failure from the
inside. It must be a poor creature that comes up to his own mark. The
best way is not to have any mark, and then you’re in no danger of not
coming up to it.” He laughed, but she smiled sadly.
“You don’t believe in thinking about yourself,” she said.
“Oh, I try a little introspection, now and then. But I soon get through:
there isn’t much of me to think about.”
“No, don’t talk in that way,” she pleaded, and she was very charming
in her earnestness: it was there that her charm lay. “I want you to be
serious with me, and tell me--tell me how men feel when.”--
A sudden splashing startled her, and looking round she saw a multitude
of curious, great-eyed, black heads, something like the heads of boys,
and something like the heads of dogs, thrusting from the water, and
flashing under it again at sight of them with a swish that sent the
spray into the air. She sprang to her feet. “Oh, look at those things!
Look at them! Look at them!” She laid vehement hands upon the young man,
and pushed him in the direction in which she wished him to look, at some
risk of pushing him overboard, while he laughed at her ecstasy.
“They’re seals. The bay’s full of them. Did you never see them on the
reef at Jocelyn’s?”
“I never saw them before!” she cried. “How wonderful they are! Oh!” she
shouted; as one of them glanced sadly at her over its shoulder, and then
vanished with a whirl of the head. “The Beatrice Cenci attitude!”
“They ‘re always trying that,” said Libby. “Look yonder.” He pointed to
a bank of mud which the tide had not yet covered, and where a herd of
seals lay basking in the sun. They started at his voice, and wriggling
and twisting and bumping themselves over the earth to the water’s edge,
they plunged in. “Their walk isn’t so graceful as their swim. Would
you like one for a pet, Miss Breen? That’s all they ‘re good for since
kerosene came in. They can’t compete with that, and they’re not the kind
that wear the cloaks.”
She was standing with her hand pressed hard upon his shoulder.
“Did they ever kill them?”
“They used to take that precaution.”
“With those eyes? It was murder!” She withdrew her hand and sat down.
“Well, they only catch them, now. I tried it myself once. I set out at
low tide, about ten o’clock, one night, and got between the water
and the biggest seal on the bank. We fought it out on that line till
daylight.”
“And did you get it?” she demanded, absurdly interested.
“No, it got me. The tide came in, and the seal beat.”
“I am glad of that.”
“Thank you.”
“What did you want with it?”
“I don’t think I wanted it at all. At any rate, that’s what I always
said. I shall have to ask you to sit on this side,” he added, loosening
the sheet and preparing to shift the sail. “The wind has backed round a
little more to the south, and it’s getting lighter.”
“If it’s going down we shall be late,” she said, with an intimation of
apprehension.
“We shall be at Leyden on time. If the wind falls then, I can get a
horse at the stable and have you driven back.”
“Well.”
He kept scanning the sky. Then, “Did you ever hear them whistle for a
wind?” he asked.
“No. What is it like?”
“When Adams does it, it’s like this.” He put on a furtive look,
and glanced once or twice at her askance. “Well!” he said with the
reproduction of a strong nasal, “of course I don’t believe there’s
anything in it. Of course it’s all foolishness. Now you must urge me a
little,” he added, in his own manner.
“Oh, by all means go on, Mr. Adams,” she cried, with a laugh.
He rolled his head again to one side sheepishly.
“Well, I don’t presume it DOES have anything to do with the wind--well,
I don’t PRESUME it does.” He was silent long enough to whet an imagined
expectation; then he set his face towards the sky, and began a soft,
low, coaxing sibilation between his teeth. “S-s-s-s; s-s-s-s-s-s! Well,
it don’t stand to reason it can bring the wind--S-s-s-s-s-s-s; s-s-s-s.
Why, of course it ‘s all foolishness. S-s-s-s.” He continued to emit
these sibilants, interspersing them with Adams’s protests. Suddenly the
sail pulled the loose sheet taut and the boat leaped forward over the
water.
“Wonderful!” cried the girl.
“That’s what I said to Adams, or words to that effect. But I thought we
should get it from the look of the sky before I proposed to whistle for
it. Now, then,” he continued, “I will be serious, if you like.”
“Serious?”
“Yes. Didn’t you ask me to be serious just before those seals
interrupted you?”
“Oh!” she exclaimed, coloring a little. “I don’t think we can go back
to that, now.” He did not insist, and she said presently, “I thought the
sailors had a superstition about ships that are lucky and unlucky. But
you’ve kept your boat.”
“I kept her for luck: the lightning never strikes twice in the same
place. And I never saw a boat that behaved so well.”
“Do you call it behaving well to tip over?”
“She behaved well before that. She didn’t tip over outside the reef”
“It certainly goes very smoothly,” said the girl. She had in vain
recurred to the tragic motive of her coming; she could not revive it;
there had been nothing like expiation in this eventless voyage; it had
been a pleasure and no penance. She abandoned herself with a weak luxury
to the respite from suffering and anxiety; she made herself the good
comrade of the young man whom perhaps she even tempted to flatter her
farther and farther out of the dreariness in which she had dwelt; and if
any woful current of feeling swept beneath, she would not fathom it,
but resolutely floated, as one may at such times, on the surface. They
laughed together and jested; they talked in the gay idleness of such
rare moods.
They passed a yacht at anchor, and a young fellow in a white duck cap,
leaning over the rail, saluted Libby with the significant gravity which
one young man uses towards another whom he sees in a sail-boat with a
pretty girl.
She laughed at this. “Do you know your friend?” she asked.
“Yes. This time I do?”
“He fancies you are taking some young lady a sail. What would he say if
you were to stop and introduce me to him as Dr. Breen?”
“Oh, he knows who you are. It’s Johnson.”
“The one whose clothes you came over in, that morning?”
“Yes. I suppose you laughed at me.”
“I liked your having the courage to do it. But how does he know me?”
“I--I described you. He’s rather an old friend.” This also amused her.
“I should like to hear how you described me.”
“I will tell you sometime. It was an elaborate description. I could n’t
get through with it now before we landed.”
The old town had come out of the haze of the distance,--a straggling
village of weather-beaten wood and weather-beaten white paint,
picturesque, but no longer a vision of gray stone and pale marble. A
coal-yard, and a brick locomotive house, and rambling railroad sheds
stretched along the water-front. They found their way easily enough
through the sparse shipping to the steps at the end of the wooden pier,
where Libby dropped the sail and made his boat fast.
A little pleasant giddiness, as if the lightness of her heart had
mounted to her head, made her glad of his arm up these steps and up the
wharf; and she kept it as they climbed the sloping elm-shaded village
street to the main thoroughfare, with its brick sidewalks, its shops and
awnings, and its cheerful stir and traffic.
The telegraph office fronted the head of the street which they had
ascended. “You can sit here in the apothecary’s till I come down,” he
said.
“Do you think that will be professionally appropriate? I am only a nurse
now.”
“No, I wasn’t thinking of that. But I saw a chair in there. And we can
make a pretense of wanting some soda. It is the proper thing to treat
young ladies to soda when one brings them in from the country.”
“It does have that appearance,” she assented, with a smile. She kept
him waiting with what would have looked like coquettish hesitation in
another, while she glanced at the windows overhead, pierced by a skein
of converging wires. “Suppose I go up with you?”
“I should like that better,” he said; and she followed him lightly up
the stairs that led to the telegraph office. A young man stood at the
machine with a cigar in his mouth, and his eyes intent upon the ribbon
of paper unreeling itself before him.
“Just hold on,” he said to Libby, without turning his head. “I’ve got
something here for you.” He read: “Despatch received yesterday. Coming
right through. George Maynard.”
“Good!” cried Libby.
“Dated Council Bluffs. Want it written out?”
