but yesterday that he walked out of it for the last time; and nothing was 
changed in the appearance of Mr. Southwode himself. Just as he came three 
years ago, he came now. 
Mrs. Busby was alone in her drawing room, and advanced to meet him with 
outstretched hand and an expression of great welcome. She had not changed 
either, unless for the better. Her visiter recognized, as he had often 
done before, the expression of sense and character in her face, the quiet 
suavity of her manner, the many indications that here was what is called 
a fine woman. About the goodness of this fine woman he was not so sure; 
but he paid her a tribute of involuntary respect for her abilities, her 
cleverness, and her good manners. 
"Mr. Southwode! I am delighted to see you!" she exclaimed as she advanced 
to meet him, cordially, and yet with quiet dignity; not too cordial. "You 
have been a stranger to New York a great while." 
"Yes," he said. "Much longer than I anticipated." 
"I thought we should hardly ever see you here again." 
"Why not?" he asked with a smile. 
"Want of sufficient attraction. You know, we are apt to think here that 
Englishmen, if they are well placed in their own country, do not want 
anything of other countries. They are on the very height of civilization, 
and of everything else. They have enough. And certainly, America cannot 
offer them much." 
"America is a large field for work,"--Mr. Southwode observed. 
"Ah yes; but what country is not? I dare say you find enough to do on the 
other side. Do you not?" 
"I have no difficulty on that score," Mr. Southwode confessed; "on either 
side of the Atlantic." 
"We were very glad to hear of the successful termination of your 
lawsuit," Mrs. Busby went on. "I may congratulate you, may I not? I know 
you do not set an over value on the goods of fortune; but at the same 
time, it always seems to me that the possessor of great means has a great 
advantage. It is true, wealth is a flood in which many people's heads and 
hearts are submerged; but that would never be your case, I judge." 
"I would rather be drowned in some other medium," he allowed. 
"Well, we heard right? The decisions were in your favour, and 
triumphantly?" 
"They were in my favour, and unconditionally. I did not feel that there 
was much to triumph about, or can be, in a family lawsuit." 
"No; they are very sad things. I am very glad you are out of them, and so 
well out of them." 
"Thank you. How are my young friends in the family?" 
"The girls? Quite well, thank you, They are unluckily neither of them at 
home." 
"Not at home! I am sorry for that. How has my child developed?" he  
asked with a slight smile. 
"She has grown into a young woman," Mrs. Busby answered, with one of 
those utterly imperceptible, yet thoroughly perceived, changes of manner 
which speak of a mental check received or a mental protest made. It was 
not a change of manner either; nothing so tangible; I cannot tell what it 
was in her expression that Mr. Southwode instantly saw and felt, and that 
put him upon his guard and upon his mettle at once. Mrs. Busby had drawn 
her shawl closer round her; that was all the outward gesture. She always 
wore a shawl. In winter it was thick and in summer it was gossamer; but 
one way or another a shawl seemed essential to Mrs. Busby's well-being. 
What Mr. Southwode gathered from her words was a covert rebuke and 
rebuff. He was informed that Rotha was grown up. 
"It is hard to realize that," he said lightly. "It seems but the other 
day that I left her; and since then, nothing else has changed!" 
"She has changed," said Mrs. Busby drily. 
"May I ask, how?--besides the physical difference, which to be sure was 
to be looked for?" 
"I do not know that there is any other particular change." 
"That would disappoint me," said Mr. Southwode. "I hoped to find a good 
deal of mental growth and improvement as the fruit of these three years. 
She has been at school all the time?" 
"Yes." 
"What is her school record?" 
"Very fairly good," said Mrs. Busby, turning her eyes now upon the young 
man, whom for the last few minutes they had avoided. "I did not know you 
were so much interested in Rotha, Mr. Southwode." 
"She was my charge, you are aware. Her mother left her to my care." 
"Until she was placed in mine," said Mrs. Busby with dignity. "I hope you 
believe that I am able to take good care of her?" 
"I should be very sorry to doubt that, and no one who knows Mrs. Busby 
could question it for a moment. But a charge is a charge, you know. To 
resign it or delegate it is not optional. I regard myself as Rotha's 
guardian always, and it was as her guardian that I entrusted her to you." 
Mrs. Busby did not answer this, and did not change a muscle in face or 
figure. 
"And so," Mr. Southwode went on, smiling,--he was amused, and he 
appreciated Mrs. Busby,--"it is as her guardian that I am asking an 
account of her now." 
"I have given it," said Mrs. Busby; and she moved her lips as if they 
were dry, which however her utterance was not. It was pleasant. 
"The young ladies can hardly be expected home early, I suppose?" said Mr. 
Southwode, looking at his watch.
"Hardly"--returned Mrs. Busby in the same way. 
"When can I see Rotha to-morrow?" 
"To-morrow," said Mrs. Busby, speaking leisurely, "you will hardly see 
her. She is not at home. I said that before, but you understood me to 
speak of the evening merely." 
"Where is she then? I can go to her." 
"No, you cannot," said Mrs. Busby half smiling, but it was not a smile 
Mr. Southwode liked. "She is at a friend's house in the country." 
"Not in New York! How long do you expect her to be absent?"
"That I cannot possibly tell. It depends on circumstances that I do not 
know." 
Mr. Southwode pondered. "Will you favour me with her address?" he asked, 
taking out his notebook. 
"It is not worth the while," said the lady quietly. "She is at a 
considerable distance from New York, too far for you to go to her; and 
she may be home any day. It depends, as I said, on what I do not now 
know." 
"And may be delayed yet for some time, then?" 
"Possibly." 
"Will you give me her address, Mrs. Busby." 
Mr. Southwode's pencil was ready, but instead of giving him something to 
do with it, Mrs. Busby rang the bell. Pencil and notebook waited. 
"Lesbia, go up to my dressing room and bring me a little green book with 
a clasp lying on my table there." 
A few minutes of silence and waiting; then Lesbia returned with the 
announcement, "There aint no sort o' little book there, Mis' Busby. 
There's a heap o' big ones, but they aint green." 
"Go again and look in the left hand drawer." 
Lesbia came again. "Aint nothin' there but papers." 
"That will do. Mr. Southwode, I have not my address book, and without 
that I cannot give you what you want. The name of the post-office town is 
very peculiar, and I always forget it. But I can write to Rotha to-morrow 
and summon her, if you think it necessary." 
"Would that be an inexpedient measure?" 
"You must judge. I have not thought best to do it; but if it is necessary 
I can do it now." 
"I will not give you so much trouble. If you will allow me, I will come 
again to morrow evening, and get the address." 
"To-morrow evening!" said the lady slowly. "I am very sorry, I have an 
engagement; I shall not be at home to-morrow evening." 
Why did it not occur to Mrs. Busby to say that she would leave the 
address for him, if he would call for it? Mr. Southwode quietly put up 
his pencil, and remarked that another time would do; and passed on easily 
to make inquiries about what New York had been doing since he went away? 
Mrs. Busby told him of certain buildings and plans for buildings here and 
there, and then suddenly asked, 
"When did you come, Mr. Southwode?" 
"I landed to-day." 
"To-day! Rotha would be very much flattered if she knew how prompt you 
have been to seek her out." 
It was said with a manner meant to be smoothly insinuating, but which 
somehow had missed the smoothness. Mrs. Busby for that moment had lost 
the hold she usually kept of herself. 
"Rotha would expect no less of me," Mr. Southwode answered calmly. 
"Then you and she must have been great friends before you went away? 
greater then I knew." 
"Did Rotha not credit me with so much?" he asked with a smile, which 
covered a sharp observation of the lady, examining him. 
"To tell you the truth," said Mrs. Busby, with a manner which was 
intended to be gracious, "I did not encourage her. Knowing what 
gentlemen, and young gentlemen, generally are, I thought it unlikely that 
you would much remember Rotha amid the pressure of your business in 
England, and very likely that things might turn out so that she would 
never see you again. I expected every day to hear that you were married; 
and of course that would have been an end of your interest in her." 
"Why do you think so, may I ask?" 
"Why? Every woman knows," said Mrs. Busby in amused fashion. 
"I will not marry till I find a woman that does not know," said Mr. 
Southwode shaking his head. 
"Now that is unreasonable, Mr. Southwode." 
"I do not think so. Prove it." 
"I cannot prove it to a man. I have only a woman's knowledge, of what he 
does not understand. And besides, Mr. Southwode, it is quite right and 
proper that it should be so. A man shall leave his father and mother and 
cleave to his wife; and if his father and mother, surely everybody else." 
"As I am not married, the case does not come under consideration," said 
the gentleman carelessly. And after a pause he went on--"I have written 
several letters to Rotha during the time of my absence, and addressed 
them to your care. Did you receive them safe?" 
"I received several--I do not at this moment recollect just how many." 
"Do you know why they were never answered?" 
"I suppose I do," said Mrs. Busby composedly. "Rotha has been exceedingly 
engrossed with her studies." 
"She had vacations?" 
"O certainly. She had vacations." 
"Then can you tell me, Mrs. Busby, why Rotha never wrote to me?" 
"I am afraid I cannot tell you," the lady answered slowly, looking into 
the fire. 
"Do you think Rotha has forgotten me?" 
"It is not like her, I should say, to forget. I never hear her mention 
you. But then, I see her little except in the vacations, and not always 
then; she was often carried off from me." 
"By whom, may I ask?" 
"O by her school teacher." 
"And that was--? Pardon me, but it concerns me to know all about Rotha I 
can." 
"I am not sure if I am justified in telling you." 
"Why not?" 
"I think," said Mrs. Busby with an appearance of candour, "my 
guardianship is the proper one for her. How can you be her guardian, 
while she lives in my house, Mr. Southwode? Or how can you be her 
guardian out of it?" 
"I promised her mother," he said. "How a promise shall be fulfilled, may 
admit of question; but not whether it shall be fulfilled." 
"I know of but one way," Mrs. Busby went on, eyeing him now intently. "If 
you tell me you are intending to take that way,--then I have no more to 
say, of course. But I know of but one way in which it can be done." 
Mr. Southwode laughed a little, a low, soft laugh, that in him always 
meant amusement. "I did not promise that to her mother," he said, "and  
I cannot promise it to you. It might be convenient, but I do not 
contemplate it." 
"Then, Mr. Southwode, I feel it my duty to request that you fulfil your 
promise by acting through me." 
It was well enough said; it was not without some ground of reason. If he 
could have felt sure of Mrs. Busby, it might have received, partially at 
least, his concurrence. But he was as far as possible from feeling sure 
of Mrs. Busby; and rather gave her credit for playing a clever mask. Upon 
a little pause which followed the last words, there came a ring at the 
door and the entrance of the young lady of the house. Antoinette was 
grown up excessively pretty, and was dressed to set off her prettiness. 
Her mother might be pardoned for viewing her with secret pride and 
exultation, if not for the thrill of jealous fear which accompanied the 
proud joy. That anybody should stand in this beauty's way! 
"Mr. Southwode!" exclaimed the young lady. "It is Mr. Southwode come 
back. Why, Mr. Southwode, what has kept you so long? We heard you were 
coming five months ago. Why didn't you come then?" 
Mrs. Busby wished her daughter had not said that. 
"There were reasons--not interesting enough to occupy your ear with 
them." 
"'Occupy my ear'!" repeated the girl. "That is something new. Mamma, 
isn't that deliciously polite! Well, what made you stay away so long, Mr. 
Southwode? I like to have my ear occupied." 
"Should not people stay where they belong?" 
"And do you belong in England?" 
"I suppose, in a measure, I may say I do." 
"You talk foolishly, Antoinette," her mother put in. "Don't you know that 
Mr. Southwode's home is in England?" 
"People can change their homes, mamma. Then, you are not going to stay 
long, Mr. Southwode?" 
"I do not know how long. That is an undecided point." 
"And what have you come over for now?" 
"Antoinette!" said her mother again. "I do not know if you can excuse 
her, Mr. Southwode; she is entirely too out-spoken. That is a question 
you have nothing to do with, Nettie." 
"Why not, mamma? He has come for something; and if it is business, or 
travelling, or hunting, I would like to know." 
"Hunting, at this time of year!" said Mrs. Busby. 
"I might say it is business," said Mr. Southwode. "In one part of my 
business, perhaps you can help me." 
Antoinette pricked up her ears delightedly, and eagerly asked how? and 
what? 
"I made it part of my business to inquire about a little girl that I left 
three years ago under your mother's care." 
"Rotha!" exclaimed Antoinette; and a cloudy shadow of displeasure and 
suspicion forthwith fell over her face; not tinder such good control as 
her mother's. "A little girl! She was not so very little." 
"What sort of a girl has she turned out to be?" 
"Not little now, I can tell you. She is a great deal bigger than I am. So 
you came to see about Rotha?" 
"What can you tell me about her?" 
"What do you want to know?" 
"Nothing but the truth," said Mr. Southwode gravely. 
"But the truth about what? Rotha is just what she used to be." 
"Not changed except in inches?" 
"Inches! Feet!--" said Antoinette. "We don't think about inches when we 
look at her. I don't know about anything else. If you want an account of 
her studies you must ask somebody at school." 
"Her teacher was yours?" 
"O yes. Lately, you know, we were both in the upper class; and of course 
we were together in Mrs. Mowbray's lessons; but then in other things we 
were apart." 
"How was that?" 
"Studied different things," said Antoinette shortly. "Had different 
masters. I can't tell you about Rotha's lessons, if you want to know 
that." She was pulling off her gloves as she spoke, and tugged at them 
with an appearance of vexation, which might be due to their excellent fit 
and consequent difficulty of removal. 
"Has she proved herself a pleasant inmate of the family?" 
"She has been rather an inmate of Mrs. Mowbray's family," said 
Antoinette. "Mrs. Mowbray has swallowed her up and carried her off from 
us. We don't see much of her." 
"Antoinette," said her mother here, "Mr. Southwode wants to know Rotha's 
address; and I cannot give him the name of the place. Can you help me 
recollect it?" 
"Never knew it, mamma. I didn't know the place had a name. I can't 
recollect what I never heard." 
"There must be a post-office," Mr. Southwode remarked. 
"Must there? O I suppose there must, somewhere; but I don't know it." 
"Lesbia could not find my address book," Mrs. Busby added. 
"It is a matter of no consequence," Mr. Southwode rejoined. And he 
presently after took his leave. A moment's silence followed his 
departure. 
"There was no need to tell him you did not know the post-office town," 
said Mrs. Busby. "That was as much as to say, you never write." 
"What should I write for?" returned Antoinette defiantly. "Mamma! was 
that all he came for? to ask about Rotha?" 
"All that he came here for," said Mrs. Busby, with lines in her brow and 
a compressed mouth. "I wish you had not told him where Rotha went to 
school, either." 
"Why?" 
"Just as well not to say it." 
"But what harm? He could ask, if he wanted to know; and then you would 
have to tell. What does he want her address for?" 
"I don't know; but I can manage that, well enough. He knows nothing about 
Tanfield." 
"Mamma! I wish Rotha had never come to us!" cried Antoinette with tears 
in her eyes. 
"Don't be foolish, Antoinette. Mr. Southwode will be here again in a day 
or two; and then leave things to me." 
Mr. Southwode meantime walked slowly and thoughtfully to the corner of 
the street. By that time his manner changed; and he hailed a horse car 
and sprang into it like a man who was suffering from no indecision in 
either his views or purposes. Oddly enough, the very name which 
Antoinette had comforted herself with thinking he did not know, had 
suddenly occurred to him, together with a long-ago proposition of Mrs. 
Busby to her sister in the latter's time of need. He had pretty well made 
up his mind. 
Half an hour later Mr. Southwode was announced to Mrs. Mowbray. 
Mrs. Mowbray recollected him; she never forgot anybody, or failed to 
catalogue anybody rightly in the vast collections and stores of her 
memory. She received Mr. Southwode therefore with the gracious courtesy 
and dignity which was habitual with her, and with the full measure also 
of her usual reserve and quick observation. 
After a few commonplaces respecting his absence and his return, Mr. 
Southwode begged to ask if Mrs. Busby's niece, Miss Carpenter, were in 
her house or school? 
"Miss Carpenter is not with me," Mrs. Mowbray answered guardedly. 
"But she has been with you, if I understand aright?" 
"She has been with me until lately." 
"Are you informed that she will not return?" 
"By no means! I am expecting to see her or hear from her every day. O by 
no means. Miss Carpenter ought to remain with me several years yet. I 
shall be much disappointed if she do not. It is one great mistake of 
parents now-a-days, that they do not give me time enough. The first two 
or three years can but lay a foundation, on which to build afterwards." 
"May I ask, if the foundation has been successfully laid in Miss 
Carpenter's case? I am interested to know; because Mrs. Carpenter when 
she died left her child to my care; and I hold myself responsible for 
what concerns her." 
Mrs. Mowbray hesitated slightly. "Where was Mrs. Busby?" she asked then. 
"Here; but there was no intercourse between the sisters." 
"Was it not by her mother's wish that Miss Carpenter was placed with her 
aunt?" 
"No. I acted on no authority but my own." 
"What sort of a woman was Mrs. Carpenter?" 
"A very admirable woman. A sweet, sound, noble nature, with a great deal 
of quiet strength." 
"Is her daughter like her?" 
"Not in the least. I do not mean that she lacks some of her mother's good 
qualities; but they are developed differently, and with a wholly 
different background of temperament." 
"Was there a feud between the sisters, or anything like it?" 
Mr. Southwode hesitated. "I know the story," he said. "Mrs. Carpenter 
never complained; but I think another woman would, in her place." 
"Will you allow me to ask, how she came to entrust her child to you?" 
"I was the only friend at hand. And now," Mr. Southwode went on smiling, 
"may I be permitted to ask another question or two? When have you heard 
from Miss Carpenter?" 
"Not a word all summer. In the spring my school was broken up, on account 
of sickness in the house; I sent Rotha home to her aunt; and since then I 
have heard nothing from her. Not a word." 
"You do not know then of course where she is?" 
"With her aunt, I suppose, of course. Is she not with Mrs. Busby?" 
"She is making a visit somewhere, Mrs. Busby tells me." And he hesitated. 
"Has Rotha's home been happy with her aunt?" 
"That is a question I never ask. Rotha does not complain." 
"I need not ask whether her abode has been happy here," said the 
gentleman smiling again; "but, has she been a satisfactory member of your 
school?" 
"Perfectly so! Of my school and family." 
"You are satisfied with her studies, her progress in them, I mean?" 
"Perfectly. I never taught any one with more pleasure or better results." 
"I am very glad to hear that," said Mr. Southwode. And he took his leave. 
The very next train for Tanfield carried him northward. 
CHAPTER XXVIII. 
DISCOVERIES. 
The next day, which was the 24th of October, passed as other days of less 
significance had done. At dinner Mrs. Purcell complained of Rotha's 
failure of appetite. Rotha had been down-hearted all the morning. Seven 
days more, and November would begin! 
"You don't eat worth a red cent!" said Mrs. Purcell. "Aint that a good 
pot pie?" 
"Excellent! The queen of England couldn't have a better." 
"If she hasn't a better appetite she won't be queen long. Why don't ye 
eat?" 
"Sometimes I can't, Prissy." 
"What ails you?" 
"Nothing. I get thinking; that's all." 
"Joe," said his wife, "what's Mis' Busby doin'?" 
"Couldn't say." 
"Where is she? Why don't she come after Miss Rotha?" 
"I s'pose she's busy with her own affairs. If she' had consulted me, I 
could ha' told you more." 
"If she ever consults you, I hope you'll give her some good advice. She 
wants it bad!"  
"I guess I will," said Mr. Purcell, lounging out. "If I don't, you kin." 
Rotha wished to escape further remark or enquiry, and went out too. She 
would divert herself with gathering a great bunch of the fall flowers and 
dress some dishes. She often refreshed herself and refined the tea-table 
with a nosegay dressed in the middle of it, especially as it seemed to 
give not less pleasure to her entertainers than to her. She went now 
slowly down the gravelled drive, filling her hands as she went with 
asters, chrysanthemums, late honeysuckles, and bits of green from box and 
cedar and feathery larches. She went slowly, thinking hard all the way, 
and feeling very blue indeed. She saw no opening out of her troubles, and 
she strongly suspected that her aunt meant there should be none. What was 
to become of her? True, it flashed into her mind, "The Lord is my 
Shepherd";--but the sheep was taking it into her head to think for 
herself, and could not see that the path she was following would end in 
anything but disaster and famishing. If she could but get out of this 
path----
Ah, silly sheep! 
Rotha found herself at the gate leading into the high road; the gate by 
which she had been admitted so many months ago, and which she had never 
