 



LV. 

HE had told her, the first evening she ever spent at' Garden- 
court, that if she should live to suffer enough she might some 
day see the ghost with which the old house was duly provided. 
She apparently had fulfilled the necessary condition ; for the 
next morning, in the cold, faint dawn, she knew that a spirit 
was standing by her bed. She had lain down without undress- 
ing, for it was her belief that Ralph would not outlast the night. 
She had no inclination to sleep; she was waiting,' and such 
waiting was wakeful. But she closed her eyes ; she believed 
that as the night wore on she should hear a knock at her door. 
She heard no knock, but at the time the darkness began vaguely 
to grow grey, she started up from her pillow as abruptly as if she 
had received a summons. It seemed to her for an instant that 
Ralph was standing there a dim, hovering figure in the dimness 
of the room. She stared a moment ; she saw his white face 
his kind eyes ; then she saw there was nothing. She was not 
afraid ; she was only sure. She went out of her room, and in 
her certainty passed through dark corridors and down a flight of 
oaken steps that shone in the vague light of a hall-window. 
Outside of Ralph's door she stopped a moment, listening ; but 
she seemed to hear only the hush that filled it. She opened the 
door with a hand as gentle as if she were lifting a veil from the 
face of the dead, and saw Mrs. Touchett sitting motionless and 
upright beside the couch of her son, with one of his hands in 
her own. The doctor was on the other side, with poor Ralph's 
further wrist resting in his professional fingers. The nurse was 
at the foot, between them. Mrs. Touchett took no notice of 
Isabel, but the doctor looked at her very hard ; then he gently 
placed Ralph's hand in a proper position, close beside him. The 
nurse looked at her very hard too, and no one said a word ; but 
Isabel only looked at what she had come to see. It was fairer 
than Ralph had ever been in life, and there was a strange resem- 
blance to the face of his father, which, six years before, she had 
seen lying on the same pillow. She went to her aunt and put 
her arm round her ; and Mrs. Touchett, who as a general thing 
neither invited nor enjoyed caresses, submitted for a moment to 
this one, rising, as it were, to take it. But she was stiff and 
dry-eyed ; her acute white face was terrible. 

" Poor Aunt Lydia," Isabel murmured. 



 

" Go and thank God you have no child," said Mrs. Touchett, 
disengaging herself. 

Three days after this a considerable number of people found 
time, in the height of the London " season," to take a morning 
train down to a quiet station in Berkshire and spend half-an- 
hour in a small grey church, which stood within an easy walk. 
It was in the green burial-place of this edifice that Mrs. Touchett 
consigned her son to earth. She stood herself at the edge of the 
grave, and Isabel stood beside her ; the sexton himself had not 
a more practical interest in the scene than Mrs. Touchett. It 
was a solemn occasion, but it was not a disagreeable one ; there 
was a certain geniality in the appearance of things. The weather 
had changed to fair ; the day, one of the last of the treacherous 
May- time, was warm and windless, and the air had the bright- 
ness of the hawthorn and the blackbird. If it was sad to think of 
poor Touchett, it was not too sad, since death, for him, had had 
no violence. He had been dying so long ; he was so ready ; 
everything had been so expected and prepared. There were 
tears in Isabel's eyes, but they were not tears that blinded. She 
looked through them at the beauty of the day, the splendour of 
nature, the sweetness of the old English churchyard, the bowed 
heads of good friends. Lord Warburton was there, and a group 
of gentlemen unknown to Isabel, several of whom, as she after- 
wards learned, were connected with the bank; and there were 
others whom she knew. Miss Stackpole was among the first, 
with honest Mr. Bantling beside her; and Caspar Goodwood, 
lifting his head higher than the rest bowing it rather less. 
During much of the time Isabel was conscious of Mr. Goodwood's 
gaze ; he looked at her somewhat harder than he usually looked 
in public, while the others had fixed their eyes upon the church- 
yard turf. But she never let him see that she saw him ; she 
thought of him only to wonder that he was still in England. 
She found that she had taken for granted that after accompanying 
Ealph to Gardencourt he had gone away ; she remembered that 
it was not a country that pleased him. He was there, however, 
very distinctly there ; and something in his attitude seemed to 
say that he was there with a complex intention. She would not 
meet his eyes, though there was doubtless sympathy in them ; 
he made her rather uneasy. With the dispersal of the little 
group he disappeared, and the only person who came to speak 
to her though several spoke to Mrs. Touchett was Henrietta 
Stackpole. Henrietta had been crying. 

Ralph had said to Isabel that he hoped she would remain t 
Gardencourt, and she made no immediate motion to leave the 



 

place. She said to herself that it was but common charity tc 
stay a little with her aunt. It was fortunate she had so good a 
formula ; otherwise she might have been greatly in want of one. 
Her errand was over ; she had done what she left her husband 
for. She had a husband in a foreign city, counting the hours of 
her absence ; in such a case one needed an excellent motive. 
He was not one of the best husbands ; but that didn't alter the 
case. Certain obligations were involved in the very fact of 
marriage, and were quite independent of the quantity of enjoy- 
ment extracted| from it. Isabel thought of her husband as little 
as might be ; t>ut now that she was at a distance, beyond its 
spell, she thought with a kind of spiritual shudder of Rome. 
There was a deadly sadness in the thought, and she drew back 
into the deepest shade of Gardencourt. She lived from day to 
day, postponing, closing her eyes, trying not to think. She 
knew she must decide, but she decided nothing ; her coming 
itself had not been a decision. On that occasion she had simply 
started. Osmond gave no sound, and now evidently he would 
give none ; he would leave it all to her. From Pansy she heard 
nothing, but that was very simple ; her father had told her not 
to write. 

Mrs. Touchett accepted Isabel's' company, but offered her no 
assistance ; she appeared to be absorbed in considering, without 
enthusiasm, but with perfect lucidity, the new conveniences of 
her own situation. Mrs. Touchett was not an optimist, but 
even from painful occurrences she managed to extract a certain 
satisfaction. This consisted in the reflection that, after all, such 
things happened to other people and not to herself. Death was 
disagreeable, but in this case it was her son's death, not her 
own ; she had never nattered herself that her own would be 
disagreeable to any one but Mrs. Touchett. She was better off 
than poor Ralph, who had left all the commodities of life behind 
him, and indeed all the security ; for the worst of dying was, to 
Mrs, Touchett's mind, that it exposed one to be taken advantage 
of. For herself, she was on the spot ; there was nothing so good 
as that. She made known to Isabel very punctually it was 
the evening her son was buried several of Ralph's testamentary 
arrangements. He had told her everything, had consulted her 
about everything. He left her no money ; of course she had no 
need of money. He left her the furniture of Gardencourt, 
exclusive of the pictures and books, and the use of the place for 
a year; after which it was to be sold. The money produced 
by the sale was to constitute an endowment for a hospital for 



 

poor persons suffering from the malady of which he died ; and 
of tins portion of the will Lord Warburton was appointed 
executor. The rest of his property, which was to be withdrawn 
from the bank, was disposed of in various bequests, several of 
them to those cousins in Vermont to whom his father had 
already been so bountiful. Then there were a number of small 
legacies. 

" Some of them are extremely peculiar," said Mrs. Touch ett ; 
" he has left considerable sums to persons I never heard of. He 
gave me a list, and I asked then who some of them were, and he 
told me they were people who at various times had seemed to 
like him. Apparently he thought you didn't like him, for he 
has not left you a penny. It was his opinion that you were 
handsomely treated by his father, which I am bound to say I 
think you were though I don't mean that I ever heard him 
complain of it. The pictures are to be dispersed ; he has dis- 
tributed them about, one by one, as little keepsakes. The most 
valuable of the collection goes to Lord Warburton. And what 
do you think he has done with his library ? It sounds like a 
practical joke. He has left it to your friend Miss Stackpole 
( in recognition of her services to literature.' Does he mean her 
following him up from Rome ? Was that a service to literature ? 
It contains a great many rare and valuable books, and as she 
can't carry it about the world in her trunk, he recommends her 
to sell it at auction. She will sell it of course at Christie's, and 
with the proceeds she will set up a newspaper. Will that be a 
service to literature ? " 

This question Isabel forbore to answer, as it exceeded the 
little interrogatory to which she had deemed it necessary to 
submit on her arrival. Besides, she had never been less inter- 
ested in literature than to-day, as she found when she occasion- 
ally took down from the shelf one of the rare and valuable 
volumes of which Mrs. Touchett had spoken. She was quite 
unable to read ; her attention had never been so little at her 
command. One afternoon, in the library, about a week after the 
ceremony in the churchyard, she was trying to fix it a little ; but 
her eyes often wandered from the book in her hand to the open 
window, which looked down the long avenue. It was in this 
way that she saw a modest vehicle approach the door, and per- 
ceived Lord Warburton sitting, in rather an uncomfortable 
attitude, in a corner of it. He had always had a high standard 
of courtesy, and it was therefore not remarkable, under the 
circumstances, that he should have taken the trouble to come 



 

down from London to call upon Mrs. Touchett. It was of 
course Mrs. Touchett that he had come to see, and not Mrs. 
Osmond ; and to prove to herself the validity of this theory, 
Isabel presently stepped out of the house and wandered away 
into the park. Since her arrival at Gardencourt she had been 
but little out of doors, the weather being unfavourable for visit- 
ing the grounds. This evening, however, was fine, and at first 
it struck her as a happy thought to have come out. The theory 
I have just mentioned was plausible enough, but it brought her 
little rest, and if you had seen her pacing about, you would have 
said she had a bad conscience. She was not pacified when at 
the end of a quarter of an hour, finding herself in view of the 
house, she saw Mrs. Touchett emerge from the portico, accom- 
panied by her visitor. Her aunt had evidently proposed to Lord 
Warburton that they should come in search of her. She was 
in no humour for visitors, and if she had had time she would 
have drawn back, behind one of the great trees. But she saw 
that she had been seen and that nothing was left her but to 
advance. As the lawn at Gardencourt was a vast expanse, this 
took some time ; during which she observed that, as he walked 
beside his hostess, Lord Warburton kept his hands rather stiffly 
behind him and his eyes upon the ground. Both persons appar- 
ently were silent ; but Mrs. Touchett's thin little glance, as she 
directed it toward Isabel, had even at a distance an expression. 
It seemed to say, with cutting sharpness, " Here is the eminently 
amenable nobleman whom you might have married !" When 
Lord Warburton lifted his own eyes, however, that was not 
what they said They only said, " This is rather awkward, you 
know, and I depend upon you to help me." He was very grave, 
very proper, and for the first time since Isabel had known him, 
he greeted her without a smile. Even in his days of distress he 
had always begun with a smile. He looked extremely self- 
conscious. 

" Lord Warburton has been so good as to come out to see me," 
said Mrs. Touchett. " He tells me he didn't know you were 
still here. I know he's an old friend of yours, and as I was 
told you were not in the house, I brought him out to see for 
himself." 

" Oh, I saw there was a good train at 6.40, that would get me 
back in time for dinner," Mrs. Touchett's companion explained, 
rather irrelevantly. " I am so glad to find you have not gone." 

" I am not here for long, you know," Isabel said, with a 
certain eagerness. 




" I suppose not ; but I hope it's for some weeks. You came 
to England sooner than a than you thought   " 

" Yes, I came very suddenly." 

Mrs. Touchett turned away, as if she were looking at the 
condition of the grounds, which indeed was not what it should 
be ; while Lord Warburton hesitated a little.- Isabel fancied he 
had been on the point of asking about her husband rather con- 
fusedly and then had checked himself. He continued immiti- 
gably grave, either because he thought it becoming in a place 
over which death had just passed, or for more personal reasons. 
If he Was conscious of personal reasons, it was very fortunate 
that he had the cover of the former motive ; he could make the 
most of that. Isabel thought of all this. It was not that his 
face was sad, for that was another matter ; but it was strangely 
inexpressive. 

" My sisters would have been so glad to come if they had 
known you were still here if they had thought you would see 
them," Lord Warburton went on. " Do kindly let them see you 
before you leave England." 

" It would give me great pleasure ; I have such a friendly 
recollection of them." 

" I don't know whether you would come to Lockleigh for a 
day or two ? You know there is always that old promise." And 
his lordship blushed a little as he made this suggestion, which 
gave his face a somewhat more familiar air. " Perhaps I'm not 
right in saying that just now ; of course you are not thinking of 
visiting. But I meant what would hardly be a visit. My sisters 
are to be at Lockleigh at Whitsuntide for three days ; and if 
you could come then as you say you are not to be very long in 
England I would see that there should be literally no one 
else." 

Isabel wondered whether not even the young lady he was 
to marry would be there with her mamma ; but she did not 
express this idea. " Thank you extremely," she contented 
herself with saying ; " I'm afraid I hardly know about Whit- 
suntide." 

" But I have your promise haven't I  for some other 
time." 

Tki-e was an interrogation in this ; but Isabel let it pass. 
She looked at her interlocutor a moment, and the result of her 
observation was that as had happened before she felt sorry 
for him. "Take care you don't miss your train," she said. 
And then she added, " I wish you every happiness." 


He blushed again, more than before, and he looked at his 
watch. 

" Ah yes, 6.40 ; I haven't much time, but I have a fly at the 
door. Thank you very much." It was not apparent whether 
the thanks applied to her having reminded him of his train, or 
to the more sentimental remark. " Good-bye, Mrs. Osmond ; 
good-bye." He shook hands with her, without meeting her eye, 
and then he turned to Mrs. Touchett, who had wandered back 
to them. With her his parting was equally brief ; and in a 
moment the two ladies saw him move with long steps across 
the lawn. 

" Are you very sure he is to be married ? " Isabel asked of 
her aunt. 

" I can't be surer than he ; but he seems sure. I congratulated 
him, and he accepted it." 

" Ah," said Isabel, " I give it up ! " while her aunt returned 
to the house and to those avocations which the visitor had 
interrupted. 

She gave it up, but she still thought of it thought of it 
while she strolled again under the great oaks whose shadows were 
long upon the acres of turf. At the end of a few minutes she 
found herself near a rustic bench, which, a moment after she had 
looked at it, struck her as an object recognised. It was not 
simply that she had seen it before, nor even that she had sat 
upon it; it was that in this spot something important had hap- 
pened to her- -that the place had an air of association. Then 
she remembered that she had been sitting there six years before, 
when a servant brought her from the house the letter in which 
Caspar Goodwood informed her that he had followed her to 
Europe ; and that when she had read that letter she looked up to 
hear Lord Warburton announcing that he should like to marry 
her. It was indeed an historical, an interesting, bench; she 
stood and looked at it as if it might have something to say to her. 
She would not sit down on it now she felt rather afraid of it. 
She only stood before it, and while she stood, -the past came 
back to her in one of those rushing waves of emotion by which 
people of sensibility are visited at odd hours. The effect of this 
agitation was a sudden sense of being very tired, under the influ- 
ence of which she overcame her scruples and sank into the 
rustic seat. I have said that she was restless and unable to 
occupy herself ; and whether or no, if you had seen her there, 
you would have admired the justice of the former epithet, you 
would at least have allowed that at this moment she was the 



 

image of a victim of idleness. Her attitude had a singular 
absence of purpose ; her hands, hanging at her sides, lost 'them- 
selves in the folds of her black dress ; her eyes gazed vaguely 
before her. There was nothing to recall her to the house, the 
two ladies, in -their seclusion, dined early and had tea at an 
indefinite hour. How long she had sat in this position she could 
not have told you ; but the twilight had grown thick when she 
became aware that she was not alone. She quickly straightened 
herself, glancing about, and then saw what had become of her 
solitude. She was sharing it with Caspar Goodwood, who stood 
looking at her, a few feet off, and whose footfall, on the unreson- 
ant turf, as he came near, she had not heard. It occurred to her, 
in the midst of this, that it was just so Lord Warburton had 
surprised her of old. 

She instantly rose, and as soon as Goodwood saw that he was 
seen he started forward. She had had time only to rise, when 
with a motion that looked like violence, but felt like she knew 
not what he grasped her by the wrist and made her sink again 
into the seat. She closed her eyes ; he had not hurt her,- it was 
only a touch that she had obeyed. But there was something in 
his face that she wished not to see. That was the way he had 
looked at her the other day in the churchyard ; only to-day it 
was worse. He said nothing at first ; she only felt him close to 
her. It almost seemed to her that nq one had ever been so close 
to her as that. All this, however, took but a moment, at the 
end of which she had disengaged her wrist, turning her eyes 
upon her visitant. 

" You have frightened me," she said. 

" I didn't mean to," he answered, " but if I did a little, no 
matter. I came from London a wbile ago by the train, but I 
couldn't come here directly. There was a man at the station who 
got ahead of me. He took a fly that was there, and I heard him 
give the order to drive here. I don't know who he was, but I 
didn't want to come with him ; I wanted to see you alone. So 
I have been waiting and walking about. I have walked all 
over, and I wgs just coming to the house when I saw you here. 
There was a keeper, or some one, who met me ; but that was all 
right, because I had made his acquaintance when I came here 
with your cousin. Is that gentleman gone  are you really 
alone ? I want to speak to you." Goodwood spoke very fast; 
