
" Let me go ! " demanded the man. 

" Not an inch ! To lame yourself for life, and 
help nobody ! You never "can get up there. Sit 
back ! Take the reins ! Drive on for help ! There 
must be men at dinner behind that barn. Do as 
I bid you ! Do as I ask you&gt; please." 



 

He obeyed her ; lie cursed his helplessness, but 
he obeyed. She was already out of his sight, be 
hind the saw-mill. The next instant, as he drove, 
lashing the pony, he saw her run swiftly out upon 
the chained logs above the dam. lie closed his 
eyes. She poised herself like a chamois. He saw 
her sink upon her knees, had she slipped ? His 
breath came fast and feeble. The road darkened 
before him, and the forest whirled. 

. Am I going to do such a lady-like thing as to 
faint ? " thought the sick man. He fixed his eyes 
fiercely upon the blue reins, they seemed to 
remain knotted in his fingers ; he had a vision of 
the flying road, of the sudden sun, of dashing down 
upon a group of men, of seeing figures dart, of 
cry answering to cry ; and his next precise impres 
sion was that he had been sitting in the bottom of 
that phaeton, with his head on the cushions, longer 
than he supposed. He was alone, by the barn she 
spoke of. All the men were gone. He gathered 
his soul together, and drove back as he had come. 

A cluster of men hung on the bank above the 
dam. A motionless figure lay on the ground in 
the centre of the group. For an instant Yorke 
could see nothing distinctly. 

" Turn him over ! " rang out a clear, sweet,
imperious voice. " No, not so. So. This way. 
There ! Now, here, Jenley ! You help me. 



 

" All right, Doctor ! " said an unseen man.
Silence followed. Yorke bowed his face upon his 
crutch, with a confused idea of saying his prayers. 
All he could think of was the Apostles Creed and 
Fairy Lilian. The trickle of the fall fell cheer 
fully over the dam. 

" Tompkins, you here ! " came the word of com 
mand, in that calm, refined voice. " Work at his 
feet, as I bade you. Keep the arms, Jenley. Tear 
the shirt, don't wait. Harder, Smith ! Get 
more blankets from the house, bed-quilts, any 
thing. And flannel cloths, all you can muster. 
Be quiet. Work more steadily. Don't get 
excited. I want even motions, so." 

Fifteen minutes passed. One of the men spoke 
in a lone tone : 

" He don't budge, Doctor." 

She made no answer. They worked on silently. 
Yorke looked at his watch. Twenty-two min 
utes. 

" Ma.ke that chest movement just as I told you, 
Jenley ! patiently. Have courage. Give me 
the flannel, Smith. No. Rub upwards, not down ; 
I told you twice. Harder. Here, I 'll show you." 

Twenty-six minutes. Half an hour. The lum 
bermen began to mutter. Yorke could hear their 
faint gutteral protest. 



 

" You can't resusentite a dead man, Doctor." 

" He 's dead, that 's gospel sure, deader  
Judas." 

" A critter 's legs don't hang that way if he 's 
livin ." 

" You hain't seen so many drownded lumbermen 
as we have, young lady." 

" My arms ache," said one big fellow earnestly. 
" I 've rubbed a long spell. Give him up, Doc 
tor?" 

" Give him up ? No!" came down the ringing 
cry. 

Yorke quivered with the pride he felt in her. 
He leaned over his watch, as if it held the arrested 
heart-beats of the human life for which the brave 
girl fought. 

Thirty-five minutes. Forty. Forty-one two 
three. Forty-four minutes. 

A low, awed whisper began to rustle through 
the group. Some of the men dropped on their 
knees. One ran towards the house. She seemed 
to call him back, to utter some rapid order ; he 
started off again. As he ran past the phaeton he 
called to Yorke, 

" G-or a mighty she 's fetched him ! " 

This man did not return. 
. Yorke was sitting in a picturesque heap, with 



 

his crutches, wondering where was the precise 
point at which a newly-acquired tendency to faint 
ceased to be physiology and became psychology, 
and how long he should maintain himself at that 
cre- li able juncture in philosophical experience, 
when he felt her hand upon his own. 

" Drink this," she said laconically. He looked 
up, and saw that she had coffee in her hand ; he 
swallowed it obediently. 

" We have got him into the house," she said, 
speaking rapidly. " Everything goes well. I know 
this has hurt you. But I don't want to take you 
home yet. I have a reason. Can you eat, if I 
desire it very much ? " 

" I can try," said Yorke, smiling at her tone ; 
she really pleaded. 

" Then I will sit here with you, and we will 
have luncheon together. You need your dinner. 
You will be good for nothing with an empty 
stomach. There ! It will gratify me if you will eat 
half this bread." 

She got into the phaeton and sat beside him, 
leaning back, and watching him with a gentle
eagerness which he would have dared to call tender 
if he had not remembered that it was profes 
sional. " I will eat it all," said Yorke. 

She made a pretense of sharing the slice with 



 

him, but he could see that she was keenly excited. 
"Now," she said, when the bread and coffee were 
gone, " are you better ? Are you strong enough 
to hear what I want of you ? " 

" Try me, and see." 

" They are together there," she pointed to 
the poor girl 's house, " those two, who ought to 
be together for all their lives. He is the man." 

" The drowned man ? " cried Yorke. She 
nodded fiercely. 

" I want you to come up there with me. I want 
you for a witness. I may fail in the thing, but 
it 's got to be tried. I can't have any of those 
fellows there, and there 's nobody at home but a 
young step-mother, who won't come near us. Are 
you able to do this ? " 

Yorke replied by silently taking the reins. He, 
too, felt excited and strong. They drove up the 
steep, short hill, and close to the poor place. At 
the gate stood a wagon, containing an elderly and 
gentlemanly but very impatient person. A few 
men were hanging about the door-steps. The doctor 
helped her patient out, and he followed her 
into the house, asking no questions. 

They went into a low, clean room on the ground 
floor. A man was there upon a lounge, swathed 
in blankets ; he was ghastly white. A girl hung 



 

over him : she uttered low, inarticulate cries ; she 
rained her tears upon his face, his hands, nay, 
her kisses on his great, coarse feet, as if he were 
her saviour. The doctor shut the door softly, and 
Yorke stood uncovered beside her. The girl no 
ticed them no more than if they had been spirits. 

" Why, Molly ! " said the fellow weakly. 
" Why, Molly ! I hain't done so well by you that 
you should kiss me now. I don't deserve it," 
he added, after a moment 's thought. 

" Molly," said the doctor, coming forward with 
her nervous step, " leave Jim to me a minute. I 
want to talk to him." 

Molly gathered herself together, a miserable 
little effort, shame and love and tears, and 
obeyed. She was a pretty girl, with blonde hair. 

" Deserve it ? " said Doctor Zay, in a changed 
manner, as soon as the girl was gone. " Deserve 
it ? You have behaved to her like a coward and 
.a sneak. She is behaving like a woman. She 
loves him, I suppose," added the doctor, in an un 
dertone. " That is the way with these women. 
Now, then, Jim Paisley ! I have just this to say 
to you. You are able to sit up. Let me see you 
do it." 

The resuscitated man struggled to an obtuse an 
gle against the pillows. 




 

" Very good. I wish you could stand up, but 
that will do. I want you to marry Molly. I will 
call her back." 

" But, Doctor " began Jim. 

"No shilly-shallying," returned the doctor 
sharply. " Not a word. Let me see it done be 
fore I leave the house. I sent Henry for the min 
ister the first breath you drew, out there on the 
shore, before I sent for the brandy, before you 
gasped twice. He is sitting at the gate this min 
ute, with a borrowed horse, too, that he 's in a 
hurry to get back to a man who is mowing. Don't 
waste any more of our time. It 's too precious for 
you. Come ! " 

" But Doctor, how can I be married, done up in 
blankets like a mummy. It 's so ridiculous ! " 
pleaded Jim. " I 'd have liked my best close on." 

" Paisley ! " said the doctor, towering and superb, 
" did I work over you fourteen minutes after 
every man in Sherman would have given you up 
for dead ? Fourteen minutes longer than is laid 
down by Hering, too, if I remember," she added, 
turning to Yorke. 

" Well, Doctor, I 's pose you did." 

" Did I bring back the soul to your senseless, 
sinful body, after it had gone God knows where, 
but where you 'll never go again till you go to 
stay?" 



 

" That 's a fact, Doctor. Yes, marm." 

" I 've got some rights in your life, have I, 
Jim ? " 

" Yes, marm. I don't deny you brought me 
to." 

" Do you suppose you were worth touching, ex 
cept that you had it in your miserable power to 
right a poor wronged girl? Come ! Do you? " 

" No, marm." 

" If you don't marry Molly before I leave this 
house, every lumberman in Sherman may throw 
you into the mill-pond, and some of them will. 
I 'll stand by and see them do it. I won't lift a 
finger for you." 

" You're hard on a fellow," complained Jim. 
" I hain't said I wouldn't . I only said I 'd rather 
wait and get my best close. I vum, when I come 
to, and Good Lord ! did you see her, Doctor ? 
I hain't done right by her, that 's a fact. I told 
her so." 

" Well, well ! " said Doctor Zay, softening. 
She went at once to call the girl, who lay crouched 
like a spaniel outside the door, upon the bare en 
try floor. " Come here, Molly," she said, with 
ineffable gentleness. " Jim wants to be married." 

Molly stood still. The color slowly crept over 
her delicate neck. 



 

" He hain't asked me himself," she said. Jim 
held out his hand to her. 

" The doctor thought I wasn't  fit to ask you, 
Molly. She ain't far out, either." 

The girl advanced slowly, looking at him searchingly. 
Then, with a certain dignity, she gave the 
man one hand, and said, 

" Very well, Doctor." 

The minister came, talking about his borrowed 
horse. He was worried and hurried. 

" Where is your certificate of intention to mar 
ry?" he asked shortly; "we require five days 
notice of intention in our State." 

" The marriage will be legal," replied Dr. Zay, 
promptly. " I 've had occasion to look into that. 
Whatever formalities are necessary, I will attend 
to myself. I will pay your fine, if you are called 
to account for this." 

" It is a large fine," said the minister, slowly. 

" I will be responsible for it," persisted the Doc 
tor. " I must see the thing done now. Something 
might go wrong with the case yet. The man is 
very weak." 

The old minister yielded his point after a little 
feeble protest ; he wanted to get back to his mow 
ing. 

Yorke and the physician witnessed the marriage. 



 

And the young stepmother, out in the front yard, 
gossiped with the lumbermen through it all. 

Doctor Zay took her patient home immediately 
when the painful scene was over. He was greatly 
exhausted. She sent him at once to bed, left mi 
nute orders for his care, and went off on her after 
noon rounds. 

In the evening she came to him again. She sat 
some time. She was anxious, gentle, half depre 
cating. She gave her professional tenderness a 
beautiful freedom. He felt her sympathy like a 
sparkling tonic. She atoned for what she had 
cost him by a divine hour. 

She did not mention the poor girl. But Yorke 
thought of the caryatid lifting marble arms to hold 
the Temple " high above our heads." 



VIII. 

THE patient continued for several days clearly 
worse for the episode of Molly and Jim. The 
physician was penitently assiduous in her attentions. 
As soon as he was better they cooled off 
quietly, but so obviously that Mrs. Butterwell 
turned her soft eyes, not without sympathy, upon 
her invalid lodger. 

" She 's like a candle, knows her mould, and 
gets into it, and no fuss. Some folks are like ice 
cream ; can't freeze without churning. Doctor 's 
always just so with patients. I wouldn't notice 
