and with her knowledge of plants and rocks. At that 
season the wild flowers had mostly departed, but a few 
of them lingered, and Mary never failed to espy them in 
their outlying corners. They interested her greatly ; she 
was charmed when they were old friends, and charmed 
even more when they were new. She displayed a very 
light foot in going in quest of them, and had soon covered 
the front seat of the carriage with a tangle of strange 
vegetation. Rowland, of course, was alert in her service, 
and he gathered for her several botanical specimens, which 
at first seemed inaccessible. One of these indeed had at 
first appeared easier of capture than his attempt attested, 
and he had paused a moment at the base of the little 
peak on which it grew, measuring the risk of farther 
pursuit. Suddenly as he stood there he remembered 
Roderick 's defiance of danger and of Christina Light, 
at the Coliseum, and he was seized with a strong desire 
to test the courage of his own companion. She had 
just scrambled up a grassy slope near him, and had seen 
that the flower was out of reach. As he prepared to 
approach it she called to him eagerly to stop ; the thing 
was impossible ! Poor Rowland, whose passion had been 
terribly underfed, enjoyed immensely the thought of 
having her care for three minutes what should become 
of him. He was the least brutal of men, but for a 
moment he was perfectly indifferent to her suffering. 

" I can get the flower," he called to her. " Will you 
trust me?" 

" I don 't want it ; I would rather not have it ! " she 
cried. 

"Will you trust me?" he repeated, looking at her. 




She looked at him, and then at the flower ; he 
wondered whether she would shriek and swoon as Chris 
tina had done. "I wish it were something better!" 
she said, simply ; and then stood watching him while he 
began to clamber. Rowland was not a trained acrobat, 
and his enterprise was difficult ; but he kept his wits 
about him, made the most of narrow footholds and 
coigns of vantage, and at last secured his prize. He 
managed to stick it into his button-hole, and then he 
contrived to descend. There was more than one chance 
for an ugly fall, but he evaded them all. It was doubt 
less not gracefully done, but it was done, and that was 
all he had proposed to himself. He was red in the face 
when he offered Mary the flower, and she was visibly 
pale. She had watched him without moving. All this 
had passed without the knowledge of Mrs. Hudson, who 
was dozing beneath the hood of the carriage. Mary 's 
eyes did not perhaps display that ardent admiratior 
which was formerly conferred by the queen of beauty at 
a tournament ; but they expressed something in which 
Rowland found his reward. "Why did you do that? * 
she asked, gravely. 

He hesitated. He felt that it was physically possible 
to say, " Because I love you ! " but it was not morally 
possible. He lowered his pitch and answered simply, 
" Because I wanted to do something for you." 

" Suppose you had fallen?" 

" I believed I should not fall. And you believed it, I 
think." 

"I believed nothing. I simply trusted you, as you 
asked me." 

" Quod erat demonstrandum /" cried Rowland. "I 
think you know Latin." 

When our four friends were established in what I have 
called their grassy valley, there was a good deal of scrambling over slopes both grassy and stony, a good deal of 
flower-plucking on narrow ledges, a great many long 



 

walks, and, thanks to the tonic mountain air, not a little 
exhilaration. Mrs. Hudson was obliged to intermit her 
suspicions of the deleterious atmosphere of the Old World, 
and to acknowledge the superior purity of the breezes of 
Engelthal. She was certainly more placid than she had 
been in Italy ; having always lived in the country, she 
had missed in Rome and Florence that social solitude, 
mitigated by bushes and rock, which is so dear to the 
true New England temperament. The little unpainted 
inn at Engelthal, with its plank partitions, its milk-pans 
standing in the sun, its "help," in the form of angular 
young women of the country-side, reminded her of places 
of summer sojourn in her native land ; and the beautiful 
historic chambers of the Villa Pandolfini passed from her 
memory without a regret, and without having in the least 
modified her ideal of a satisfactory habitation. Roderick 
had changed his sky, but he had not changed his mind ; 
his humour was still that of which he had given Rowland 
a glimpse in that sharp outbreak on the Lake of Como. 
He kept his despair to himself, and he went doggedly 
about the ordinary business of life ; but it was easy to see 
that his spirit was mortally heavy, and that he lived and 
moved and talked simply from the force of habit. In 
that sad half-hour among the Italian olives there had 
been such a fierce sincerity in his tone that Rowland began 
to abdicate the critical attitude. He began to feel that 
it was perfectly idle to appeal to his comrade 's will ; there 
was no will left ; its place was a mocking vacancy. This 
view of the case indeed was occasionally contravened by 
certain indications on Roderick 's part of the surviving 
faculty of resistance to disagreeable obligation : one might 
still have said, if one had been disposed to be didactic at 
any hazard, that there was a method in his madness, that 
his moral energy had its sleeping and its waking hours, 
and that in an attractive cause it was capable of rising 
with the dawn. But, on the other hand, pleasure in this 
case was quite at one with effort j evidently the greatest 




bliss in life for Roderick would have been an inspiration. 
And then it was impossible not to feel tenderly to a 
despair which had so ceased to be aggressive not to 
forgive much apathy to a temper which had turned its 
rough side inward. Roderick said frankly that Switzer 
land made him less miserable than Italy, and the Alps 
seemed less to mock at his idle hands than the Apennines. 
He indulged in long rambles, generally alone, and was 
very fond of climbing into dizzy places where no sound 
could overtake him, and there, flinging himself on the 
never-trodden moss, of pulling his hat over his eyes and 
lounging away the hours in perfect immobility. Row 
land sometimes walked with him ; though Roderick never 
invited him he seemed properly grateful for his society. 
Rowland now made it a rule to treat him as a perfectly 
sane man, to assume that all things were well with him, 
and never to allude to the prosperity he had parted with 
or to the work he was not doing. He would have still 
said, had you questioned him, that Roderick 's condition 
was only a lugubrious interlude. It might last yet for 
many a weary hour ; but it was a long lane that had no 
turning. Rowland 's interest in Mary 's relations with her 
cousin was still a very lively one, and perplexed as he 
was on all sides he found nothing penetrable here. After 
their arrival at Engelthal, Roderick appeared to care for 
the young girl 's society rather more than he had done 
hitherto, and of this revival of ardour Rowland could not 
fail to make a note. They sat together and strolled 
together, and she often read aloud to him. One day on 
their coming to lunch, after he had been lying half the 
morning at her feet, in the shadow of a rock, Rowland 
asked him what she had been reading. 

"I don 't know," Roderick said, "I don 't heed 
the sense." Mary heard this, and Rowland looked 
at her. She looked at Roderick sharply, and with 
a little blush. "I listen to Mary," Roderick con 
tinued, "for the sake of her voice. It 's stupefyingly 



 

sweet !" At this Mary 's blush deepened, and she 
looked away. 

Rowland, in Florence, as we know, had suffered his 
imagination to wander in the direction of certain con 
jectures which the reader may deem unflattering to her 
constancy. He had asked himself whether her faith in 
Roderick had not languished, and that demand of hers 
which had brought about his own departure for Switzer 
land had seemed almost equivalent to a confession that 
she needed his help to be constant. Rowland was 
essentially a modest man, and he did not risk the supposition that Maiy had contrasted him with Roderick to 
his own advantage ; but he had a certain consciousness 
of duty resolutely done which allowed itself to fancy at 
moments that it might be not unnaturally rewarded by 
the bestowal of such stray grains of enthusiasm as had 
crumbled away from her estimate of his companion. If 
some day she had declared in a sudden burst of passion 
that she was completely disillusioned, and that she gave 
up her recreant lover, Rowland 's expectation would have 
gone half-way to meet her. And certainly, if her passion 
had taken this course, no generous critic would utterly 
condemn her. She had been neglected, ignored, forsaken, 
treated with a contempt which no girl of a fine temper 
could endure. There were girls, indeed, whose fineness, 
like that of Burd Helen in the ballad, lay in clinging to 
the man of their love through thick and thin, and in bowing their head to all hard usage. This attitude had often 
an exquisite beauty of its own, but Rowland thought that 
he had solid reason to believe it never could be Mary 
Garland 's. She was not a passive creature ; she was not 
soft and meek, and grateful for chance bounties. With 
all her reserve of manner she was proud and eager ; she 
asked much and she wanted what she asked ; she be 
lieved in fine things, and she never could long persuade 
herself that fine things missed were as beautiful as fine 
things achieved. Once Rowland passed an angry day. 



 

He had dreamed it was the most unsubstantial of dreams 
that she had given him the right to believe that she 
looked to him to transmute her discontent. And yet, 
here she was, throwing herself back into Roderick 's arms 
at his lightest overture, and betraying his own half fear 
ful, half shameful hopes ! Rowland declared to himself 
that his position was detestable, and that all the philosophy he could bring to bear upon it would make it 
neither honourable nor comfortable. He would go away 
and make an end of it. He did not go away ; he simply 
took a long walk, stayed away from the inn all day, and 
on his return found Mary sitting out in the moonlight 
with Roderick. 

Rowland, communing with himself during the restless 
ramble in question, had determined that he would at last 
cease to observe, to heed, or to care for, what these two 
young persons might do or might not do together. 
Nevertheless some three days afterwards, the opportunity 
presenting itself, he deliberately broached the subject 
with Roderick. He knew this was inconsistent and 
faint-hearted ; it was an indulgence to the fingers that 
itched to handle forbidden fruit. But he said to himself 
that it was really more logical to return to the question 
than to drop it, for they had formerly discussed these 
mysteries very sharply. Was it not perfectly reasonable 
that he should wish to know the sequel of the situation 
which Roderick had then delineated ? Roderick had 
made him promises, and it was to be expected that he 
should wish to ascertain how the promises had been 
kept. Rowland could not say to himself that if the 
promises had been extorted for Maiy 's sake, his present 
attention to them was equally disinterested ; and so he 
had to admit that he was indeed faint-hearted. He 
may perhaps be deemed too rigid a casuist, but I have 
repeated more than once that he was solidly burdened 
with a conscience. 

" I imagine," he said to Roderick, " that you are not 



 

sorry at present to have allowed yourself to be dissuaded 
from putting an end to your affair with your cousin. " 

Roderick eyed him with the vague and absent look 
which had lately become habitual to his face, and repeated 
"Dissuaded?" 

" Don 't you remember that in Rome you wished to 
break off your engagement, and that I urged you to hold 
to it, though it seemed to hang by so slender a thread ? 
I wished you to see what would come of it. If I am not 
mistaken you are now reconciled to it." 

"Oh yes," said Roderick, "I remember what you 
said ; you made it a kind of personal favour to yourself 
that I should remain faithful. I consented, but afterwards, when I thought of it, your attitude greatly amused 
me. Had it ever been seen before? a man asking 
another man to gratify him by not suspending his atten 
tions to a pretty girl !" 

"It was as selfish as anything else," said Rowland. 
"One man puts his selfishness into one thing, and one 
into another. It would have been a great bore to me to 
see your cousin in low spirits." 

" But you liked her you admired her, eh? So you 
intimated." 

" I admire her extremely." 

" It was your originality, then to do you justice you 
have a great deal of a certain sort to wish her happiness 
secured in just that fashion. Many a man would have 
liked better himself to make the woman he admired 
happy, and would have welcomed her low spirits as an 
opening for sympathy. You were very incongruous 
about it." 

" So be it !" said Rowland. "The question is, Are 
you not glad I was incongruous ? Are you not finding 
that you do care for your cousin, after all ? " 

" I don 't pretend to say. When she arrived in Rome 
I found I didn 't care for her, and I honestly proposed 
that we should have no humbug about it. If you, on the 



 

contrary, thought there was something to be gained by 
having a little humbug I was willing to try it ! I don 't 
see that the situation is really changed. Mary is all that 
she ever was more than all. But I don 't care for her ! 
I don 't care for anything, and I don 't find myself inspired 
to make an exception in her favour. The only difference 
is that I don 't care now whether I care for her or not. 
Of course marrying such a useless lout as I am is out of 
the question for any woman, and I should pay Mary a 
poor compliment to assume that she is in a hurry to 
celebrate our nuptials." 

"Oh, you ll do you re in love !" said Rowland, not 
very logically. It must be confessed at any cost that this 
assertion was made for the sole purpose of hearing Roderick deny it. 

But it quite failed of its aim. Roderick gave a liberal 
shrug of his shoulders, and an irresponsible toss of his 
head. " Call it what you please ! I am past caring for 
the names of things. " 

Rowland had not only been illogical, he had also been 
slightly disingenuous. He did not believe that his companion was in love ; he had argued the false to learn the 
true. The truth was that Roderick was again in some 
degree under a charm, and that he found a healing virtue 
in the company of a woman of tact. He had said shortly 
before that her voice was sweet to his ear ; and this was 
a happy sign. If her voice was sweet it was probably 
that her glance was not amiss, that her touch had a quiet 
magic, and that her whole personal presence had learned 
the art of not being irritating. So Rowland reasoned, 
and invested Mary Garland with the subtlest merits. 

It was true that she herself helped him little to definite 
conclusions, and that he remained in puzzled doubt as to 
whether these happy touches were still a matter of the 
heart or had become simply a matter of the conscience. 
He watched for signs that she took a pleasure in Rode 
rick 's favour again ; but it seemed to him that she was on 



 

her guard against interpreting it too largely. It was now 
her turn he fancied that he sometimes gathered from cer 
tain nameless indications of glance and tone and gesture 
it was now her turn to be indifferent, to care for other 
things. Again and again Rowland asked himself what 
these things were that she might be supposed to care for, 
to the injury of ideal constancy ; and again, having 
designated them, he divided them into two portions. 
One was that larger experience in general which had 
come to her with her arrival in Europe ; the vague sense, 
borne in upon her imagination, that there were more 
things one might do with one 's life than youth and ignorance and Northampton had dreamt of; the revision of 
old pledges in the light of new emotions. The other was 
the experience in especial of Rowland 's what ? Here 
Rowland always paused, in perfect sincerity, to measure 
afresh his possible claim to the young girl 's regard. 
What might he call it ? It had been more than civility, 
and yet it had been less than devotion. It had spoken 
of a desire to serve, but it had said nothing of a hope of 
reward. Nevertheless Rowland 's fancy hovered about 
the idea that it was recompensable, and his reflections 
ended in a reverie which perhaps did not define it, but 
at least on each occasion added a little to its volume. 
Since Mary had asked him as a sort of favour to herself 
to come with them to Switzerland, he thought it possible 
she might let him know whether he seemed to have done 
her a service. The days passed without her doing so, 
and at last Rowland walked away to an isolated eminence 
some five miles from the inn and murmured to the silent 
rocks that she was ungrateful. Listening nature appeared 
not to contradict him, so that on the morrow he asked 
the young girl with a touch of melancholy malice whether 
it struck her that his deflection from his other plan had 
been attended with brilliant results. 

" Why, we are delighted that you are with us !" she 
answered. 



 

He was anything but satisfied with this ; it seemed to 
imply that she had forgotten that she had formally asked 
him to come. He reminded her of her request, and re 
called the place and time. "That evening on the 
terrace, late, after Mrs. Hudson had gone to bed, and 
Roderick being absent. " 

She perfectly remembered, but the memory seemed to 
trouble her. -"I am afraid your kindness has been a 
great charge upon you," she said. "You wanted very 
much to do something else." 
