thrust lightly aside, but endure with patience, realizing 
that it is an obligation of their own choosing, or their own 
haste and unwisdom. Then the ease with which these ties 
are sundered seems to offer a premium on thoughtlessness, 
and does weaken the sense of responsibility." 

" It is a bitter lesson. I fancy Robert will feel it more 
keenly as time goes on. But you thought he accepted it 
bravely," as if she could not bear to have him so 
severely blamed. 

" Yes, I think he displayed a great deal of courage and 
true manliness in his course, even to keeping the secret. 
He might have come to us then with his burden, and I 
shall always respect him that he bore it in silence as long 
as it was possible. The true test now is his living out of 
this, the kind of man he makes under this discipline. He 
has always been thoughtless as to consequences ; the pres- 
ent want has dominated him. He will have time now to 
ponder over the impatience of youth." 

" But, Robert, if she " 

" Hush, Dora, we must not allow ourselves to think of 




that," he answered solemnly. " With God alone belong 
the issues of life and death. It is the now that we are in, 
the present, and our work is to do the duty of the 
present." 

She did not make any immediate answer ; but after a 
considerable silence, said in a low, awed tone, " There 
Is one thing that I shall feel thankful for always, that she 
did not openly disgrace her child. A misfortune can be 
borne with dignity, but a scandal is never entirely over- 
lived." 

Robert Alston had saved his mother this bitter sorrow. 

They spent several pleasant days in going about the 
city that Mrs. Alston had not seen in years. Uncle 
Robert managed to make quite friends with Bertha, but 
at the last they took the little thing away in the evening, 
asleep, to spare the sad scene of a violent parting. Mrs. 
Fleming was deeply moved at separation from the little 
one who had become so like her very own. 

Their first day and evening were exceedingly trying. 
Bertha could be amused for a brief while ; then her sense 
of loss and strangeness would overwhelm her. Uncle 
Robert proved an admirable nurse, and before the jour- 
ney's end Mrs. Alston's heart had gone out to the little 
one, who displayed so many reminders of her father. She 
was large of her age and brimming with vitality, piquant 
rather than beautiful, and so little like her mother that it 
was a positive relief. 

They were watching for the travellers at Aunt Ruth's. 
Kathie saw the coach stop and ran down. 

" Oh ! " she cried with eager delight, l * is it really Rob's 
baby ? How pretty ! O mamma, how wonderfully like 
Rob ! Why, she hardly looks like a girl." 

Bertha was growing accustomed to strange faces. 
Something in Kathie's glad voice attracted her, and she 
stretched out her hands at once. 

" O you sweet little darling ! " 





" Republics are ungrateful," declared Uncle Robert, 
with an air of injured dignity. 

Kathie took her up to Aunt Ruth's room, and stood her 
on the floor while she was unfastening her cap and cloak. 
Bertha glanced around surprised, then startled, and 
stretched out her small hands with unforgotten longing. 

" I want my own mamma ! " in a pitiful, quivering tone 
that went to each heart. 

" O baby, we will all try to be your mamma." And she 
kissed her with tender fervor. 

Bertha leaned her head on Kathie's shoulder and gave a 
few sobs. They were fast friends then. 

It made a great diversion in the house, and baby soon 
settled to two prime favorites, Kathie and Uncle Robert. 
In a few days she recovered her wonted equilibrium, and 
proved herself a bright little mischief. Rob studied her 
with a curious feeling of awe, and secretly confessed to 
Kathie that he could not make her seem his, but he was 
deeply grateful to his mother for the love she gave her. 
In fact, the advent of the baby made Rob more of a hero 
than ever with the boys, He had a pathetic history, an 
unusual misfortune, and even at this early stage he felt his 
uncle's wisdom had proved invaluable. 

Among the baby's many gifts and graces Kathie discov- 
ered one quite charming. Her laugh was like the ripple 
of softly shaken bells, but she had a quick ear and unus- 
ual voice, and could sing the melody of her little cradle 
songs in a remarkable manner. 

Bruce, too, was much interested in the little creature. 

" I find I have a powerful rival," he said to Kathie one 
day, quite in the old tone. 

A quick color came to her cheek. Bruce had accepted 
the state of affairs quietly. He had even congratulated 
Charlie in one of their pleasant talks, but to Kathie he 
made no reference to the tie between them. 

" Mamma thinks she must take her home ; she is getting 




rather spoiled, but to me she grows lovelier every day. I 
shall hate to give her up." 

''Give her up?" 

" Yes. Mamma and Uncle Robert will return the last 
of this week." 

''And you " His heart seemed to throb up in his 
throat, and he felt the flush in his face, but he could not 
quite ask the question. 

" Don't }x>u care to have me stay?" she inquired, with 
girlish frankness and honesty. 

"Oh, you must know, only I may be keeping you 
from some greater pleasure ! " 

" No, it could not be a greater pleasure if it was a com- 
fort to you." 

" It is." Then he tried to think that her staying would 
give her more of Charlie's society. 

" Dr. Markham thought I had better, on Aunt Ruth's 
account. You see he does not consider me of paramount 
importance to you," laughing brightly. " But I shall hate 
to give up Bertie/ 

And Bertie proved almost inconsolable again, going 
back to the longing for her " own mamma." 

"The little thing has a most affectionate memory," said 
Uncle Robert, as he comforted her. 

There was quite a stir at Brookside at the advent of 
Robert Alston's baby, and much sympathy with the unfor- 
tunate marriage. 

" My dear Mrs. Alston," Mrs. Adams said one morning, 
during a call, " I think one has need to feel more anx- 
iously on the subject of sons' marriages than of daughters'. 
The girls can be counselled and restrained, and their own 
desire to do well helps a little. I used to feel so anxious 
about Maurice, and if ever I saw a designing girl laying 
out her charms to entrap him I was in a fever. I can 
never be thankful enough that he found the flower of all in 
our own little place, for Emma does make the loveliest of 





wives. And, though I have no children of my very own, T 
can understand from Maurice and Georgie how anxious 
one mayfeel." 

Mrs. Collamore, too, proffered a delicate sympathy. To 
Mrs. Alston, Fay ; s presence brought a great pang of self- 
condemnation. She had coveted her. She had brought 
her into intimate contact with her son, and showed her in 
many tender ways that she would be welcome to the 
mother's heart, as well as the son's. What if she had 
learned to care, allowed herself to dream ? True, she could 
remember no overt act or attention on Robert's part. 
They had all been young people, having a good time 
together, and oh, how devoutly grateful she felt that Rob's 
sense of honor and manliness had restrained him from 
foolish freedoms he would be ashamed to remember, from 
any dangerous intimacy that would call a blush to this fair 
young cheek. Yet, if it could have been ! Ah, did other 
mothers often covet sweet, lovely girls and find the wrong 
ones in their places ? 

" How very much the baby is like its father? " Fay said 
at length. She. had been studying it; Miss Bertie, by 
some rare condescension, coming to sit on her knee. She 
did not make friends with everybody, or in a hasty man- 
ner, with some notable exceptions, and evinced quite a lit- 
tle discrimination. 

"Yes," Mrs. Alston answered, with a smile; " and I 
find a few traits of disposition, though she has Kathie's 
sunny nature " 

'I suppose she will almost be a second Kathie to Mr. 
Conover." 

Then they talked a little about Louise and her pretty 
home, and Eugene's prospects now that his father had 
taken him into business. 

"You must come over often," Mrs. Alston said, hold- 
ing Fay's hand at parting. She could make no difference 
now, retrace no steps, only guard the future. " I shall miss 





Kathie very much, but I suppose I must learn to do with- 
out her some time." 

" O Mrs. Alston, there is no such happy time as when 
our children are grown into companionship and we have 
them around us ! " exclaimed Mrs. Collamore. " Only," 
with a sigh, " it is so brief." 

Fay Collamore walked home beside her mother, answer- 
ing trifling observations. It was a late October day, and 
the strips of wood over beyond the lake were all aflame 
with autumn splendors : scarlet, brown, gold, and the mas- 
sive green of the firs and spruce. There a long arm of 
Virginia creeper flung out a defiant banner that the sunset 
only would dare match. Barberries were hung with coral 
bells ; sumachs were in the glory of brown and crimson, 
and the deep wine tints ; while golden-rod was turning 
pale and grayish bronze. There were purple asters and 
late cardinal flowers with sentinel spikes, courageous, dar- 
ing. How beautiful it all was ! To-morrow she must get 
Mrs. Langdon and go for a walk. Presently this splendor 
would fade, the trees would be bare and brown, the little 
shrubs shrivelled up, the grass dry, and the wind blowing 
dismally. AVinter always came, everywhere, in every 
life, an echo seemed to add to her thought. 

It was rather chilly in doors, and a cheerful fire was 
burning in the grate. 

" How blue and cold you look, Fay ! " her mother said. 
" Sit down here and get good and warm, while I look after 
the dinner." 

She dropped into a low rocker and shivered with some- 
thing more vital than cold. For a long while she did not 
think at all ; there was only a formless, slow-moving con- 
sciousness, a vague pain that she would not let come to light. 
Some  might have been" had gone out of the world for 
her, something she must grope after or long for, a part of 
herself set aside to be passed by quickly and quietty" as one 
passes a little child one must not take up. lest the small 





hands might be too soon outstretched. They had been so 
happy, she had been so happy since their first coming to 
Brookside, two summers ago. The neighbors proved so 
generous with their friendly living, Mr. Conover among 
the very first. And Robert Alston, with all his new col- 
lege honors and his bright, fascinating ways, his vigor, and 
joy, and gayety; Kathie's return, and the lovely ball, 
and all the rich friendship in which the year had sped 
away, bringing him again, curiously changed, she had 
noted, but with a depth, and tone, and gentleness, a touch 
of some subtle experience. 

This was what it had been. An unfortunate but per- 
haps not altogether an unhappy marriage She had made 
a terrible mistake. She had come so near a thing not in- 
tended for her that its glory, all wrongly translated, had 
illumined her for a brief space, lulled her into a sweet, 
happy content. She must gather it up and put it quite 
out of her life, this half-joy she had watched so tenderly. 
It was not meant for her then, it never had been, never 
would be. She must not even recall any day that had 
been the happier for the something akin to hope, the glad- 
ness to meet him, the remembrance of a graceful little 
turn or a flower, or a walk when he and she fell a little 
behind the others. 

She was thankful as only a pure, right-minded woman 
can be that there were no stings in memory placed there by 
his thoughtless enjoyment. No word, no look but of 
friendliness, j r et she knew if such a thing could have been, 
she of all the girls would have had it for her very own. 
The mother's preference and her own leaning had made a 
sad mistake. If she could go away somewhere, if he were 
to be always absent ; but they must meet all along the 
years to come. The sorrow had given the mother her son 
again, and made between them a wide gulf, over which 
she must walk now and then, sure footed, clear eyed, and 
unflinchingly. She could not stay away without giving 





pain to the mother, without betraying her own mistake ; it 
must all go on just as before, that was the hard side of 
it. Eugene, in his hurt, had wanted to. linger about, to 
watch, to gather some little gleam of hope, but with her it 
was quite different, from nature as well as necessity. How 
strange they four should have come so near, just to miss 
and wound ! She could not understand the tangle. 
Eugene had given up to a stony despair when his loss be- 
came certainty, and yet he was growing out of it, over it, 
coming to a man's fortitude and sense. Some other sweet 
heart would cure his wound in days to come ; and for her ? 

There was a cure, but not that way. She should never 
want that, she said with an indignant protest. She must 
gather up her self-command and go straight onward, living 
out of it in the daily duties, taking earnest hold of the 
" next," the work set her to do by a greater will than her 
own. She must make no confused lines or tangled paths ; 
she must 'not linger near the flame for her garments to 
even have the faint scent of the burning, and yet she must 
stand in the light. 

They talked of the matter a little at the tea-table. 

" It is a shame for a young life like that to be thrown 
away," declared Mr. Collamore. "The girl may live 
years ; insane people often do. And he seems such a fine 
fellow ! Fortunately, he has the best and noblest man in the 
world for his uncle. They are all delightful people." 

" She may live years," Fay Collamore said to herself 
under her breath ; " and in all that time it will be a sin for 
a woman to think of him in any way but that of the 
merest friendship." 



CHAPTER XXII. 

KATHIE missed her " little darling " greatly. The baby 
had been such a source of amusement, and the night after 
it was gone she felt almost homesick for them all. But 
she had to rouse herself and do double duty, as Aunt 
Ruth had a slight touch of fever. 

In spite of the doctor's efforts the abscess had formed. 
There had been days and nights of constant and excruciat- 
ing pain, relieved occasionally by morphine when the 
sleeplessness went beyond bounds. Bruce bore it bravely 
and with very little complaint. The silent heroism touched 
Kathie almost to tears, and was not without its effect upon 
Rob. Sometimes he would start in the night, hearing a 
soft sound, half groan, half sigh, and rising, use his best 
efforts to alleviate it. Or he would read half the night, 
until Bruce bade him close the book. 

" You are such a dear, generous feUow, Rob ; but you 
must not forget the work of to-morrow." 

"Why, you see I thrive on it," Rob would exclaim 
laughingly. " I have actually grown fat under the regi- 
men." 

And so he had. Regular living and duties not very 
onerous, social life and enjoyment, and the horrible 
burden he had borne so long rolled away ; safe without 
any further questioning of duty or harassing secrecy ; his 
old, blithe buoyancy returned. The ringing laugh of the 
boy, toned and mellowed a little, was good to hear. The 
gleam of merry mischief in his eye was so exactly like the 
baby's, that Kathie could not but smile at it. 




She, too, had her hands full ; but they would only let her 
do day duty. And even then Dr. Markham took her out 
for an hour's airing, or she ran around to Jessie's, and had 
a romp with Robin and Marjorie. During the most trying 
hours General Mackenzie remained with his son, who 
bore his suffering with much patience and fortitude, and a 
courage that fascinated Kathie. It did seem at times as 
if he could easily let himself drop out of life. 

