Corey seemed inattentive to this consideration. 
" Whom did you think of asking ? " His mother 
repeated the names. " Yes, that would do," he 
said, with a vague dissatisfaction. 

" I won't have it at all, if you don't wish, Tom." 



 

" Oh yes, have it ; perhaps you ought. Yes, I 
dare say it 's right. What did you mean by a family 
dinner seeming significant ? " 

His mother hesitated. When it came to that, she 
did not like to recognise in his presence the anxieties 
that had troubled her. But "I don't know," she 
said, since she must. "I shouldn't want to give 
that young girl, or her mother, the idea that we 
wished to make more of the acquaintance than 
than you did, Tom." 

He looked at her aosent-mindedly, as if he did 
not take her meaning. But he said, "Oh yes, of 
course," and Mrs. Corey, in the uncertainty in which 
she seemed destined to remain concerning this affair, 
went off and wrote her invitation to Mrs. Lapham. 
Later in the evening, when they again found them 
selves alone, her son said, " I don't think I under 
stood you, mother, in regard to the Laphams. I 
think I do now. I certainly don't wish you to make 
more of the acquaintance than I have done. It 
wouldn't be right; it might be very unfortunate. 
Don't give the dinner !" 

" It 's too late now, my son," said Mrs. Corey. 
"I sent my note to Mrs. Lapham an hour ago." 
Her courage rose at the trouble which showed in 
Corey's face. "But don't be annoyed by it, Tom. 
It isn't a family dinner, you know, and everything 
can be managed without embarrassment. If we 
take up the affair at this point, you will seem to 
have been merely acting for us ; and they can't 
possibly understand anything more." 




" Well, well ! Let it go ! I dare say it 's all right. 
At any rate, it can't be helped now." 

" I don't wish to help it, Tom," said Mrs. Corey, 
with a cheerfulness which the thought of the Laphams 
had never brought her before. " I am sure it is 
quite fit and proper, and we can make them have a 
very pleasant time. They are good, inoffensive 
people, and we owe it to ourselves not to be afraid 
to show that we have felt their kindness to us, and 
his appreciation of you." 

"Well," consented Corey. The trouble that his 
mother had suddenly cast off was in his tone ; but 
she was not sorry. It was quite time that he should 
think seriously of his attitude toward these people if 
he had not thought of it before, but, according to 
his father's theory, had been merely dangling. 

It was a view of her son's character that could 
hardly have pleased her in different circumstances, 
yet it was now unquestionably a consolation if not 
wholly a pleasure. If she considered the Laphams 
at all, it was with the resignation which we feel at 
the evils of others, even when they have not brought 
them on themselves. 

Mrs. Lapham, for her part, had spent the hours 
between Mrs. Corey's visit and her husband 's coming 
home from business in reaching the same conclusion 
with regard to Corey ; and her spirits were at the 
lowest when they sat down to supper. Irene was 
downcast with her ; Penelope was purposely gay ; and 
the Colonel was beginning, after his first plate of the 
boiled ham, which, bristling with cloves, rounded 



 

its bulk on a wide platter before him, to take note 
of the surrounding mood, when the door-bell jingled 
peremptorily, and the girl left waiting on the table 
to go and answer it. She returned at once with a 
note for Mrs. Lapham, which she read, and then, 
after a helpless survey of her family, read again. 

"Why, what is it, mamma?" asked Irene, while 
the Colonel, who had taken up his carving-knife for 
another attack on the ham, held it drawn half across 
it. 

" Why, I don't know what it does mean," answered 
Mrs. Lapham tremulously, and she let the girl take 
the note from her. 

Irene ran it over, and then turned to the name at 
the end with a joyful cry and a flush that burned 
to the top of her forehead. Then she began to read 
it once more. 

The Colonel dropped his knife and frowned im 
patiently, and Mrs. Lapham said, " You read it out 
loud, if you know what to make of it, Irene." But 
Irene, with a nervous scream of protest, handed it 
to her father, who performed the office. 

" DEAR MRS. LAPHAM : 

" Will you and General Lapham " 

"I didn't know I was a general," grumbled 
Lapham. " I guess I shall have to be looking up 
my back pay. Who is it writes this, anyway ? " he 
asked, turning the letter over for the signature. 

" Oh, never mind. Read it through ! " cried his 
wife, with a kindling glance of triumph at Penelope, 
and he resumed 



 

" and your daughters give us the pleasure of your 
company at dinner on Thursday, the 28th, at half- 
past six. 

" Yours sincerely, 

"ANNAB. COREY." 

The brief invitation had been spread over two 
pages, and the Colonel had difficulties with the 
signature which he did not instantly surmount. 
When he had made out the name and pronounced 
it, he looked across at his wife for an explanation. 

"I don't know what it all means," she said, 
shaking her head and speaking with a pleased 
flutter. " She was here this afternoon, and I should 
have said she had come to see how bad she could 
make us feel. I declare I never felt so put down in 
my life by anybody." 

" Why, what, did she do ? What did she say ? " 
Lapham was ready, in his dense pride, to resent any 
affront to his blood, but doubtful, with the evidence 
of this invitation to the contrary, if any affront had 
been offered. Mrs. Lapham tried to tell him, but 
there was really nothing tangible ; and when she 
came to put it into words, she could not make out 
a case. Her husband listened to her excited at 
tempt, and then he said, with judicial superiority, 
" I guess nobody 's been trying to make you feel bad, 
Persis. What would she go right home and invite 
you to dinner for, if she 'd acted the way you say ? " 

In this view it did seem improbable, and Mrs. 
Lapham was shaken. She could only say, " Pene 
lope felt just the way I did about it" 



 

Lapliam looked at the girl, who said, " Oh, I can't 
prove it ! I begin to think it never happened. I 
guess it didn't." 

" Humph ! " said her father, and he sat frowning 
thoughtfully a while ignoring her mocking irony, or 
choosing to take her seriously. "You can't really 
put your finger on anything," he said to his wife, 
" and it ain't likely there is anything. Anyway, 
she 's done the proper thiiig by you now." 

Mrs. Lapham faltered between her lingering re 
sentment and the appeals of her flattered anity. 
She looked from Penelope's impassive face to the 
eager eyes of Irene. " Well just as you say, Silas. 
I don't know as she ivas so very bad. I guess may 
be she was embarrassed some " 

" That 's what I told you, mamma, from the start," 
interrupted Irene. " Didn't I tell you she didn't 
mean anything by it ? It 's just the way she acted 
at Baie St. Paul, when she got well enough to realise 
what you 'd done for her ! " 

Penelope broke into a laugh. " Is that her way 
of showing her gratitude ? I 'm sorry I didn't un 
derstand that before." 

Irene made no effort to reply. She merely looked 
from her mother to her father with a grieved face 
for their protection, and Lapham said, " When we 've 
done supper, you answer her, Persis. Say we'll 
come." 

" With one exception," said Penelope. 

" What do you mean ? " demanded her father, 
with a mouth full of ham. 



 

"Oh, nothing of importance. Merely that I'm 
not going." 

Lapham gave himself time to swallow his morsel, 
and his rising wrath went down with it. " I guess 
you 'll change your mind when the time comes," he 
said. " Anyway, Persis, you say we 'll all come, and 
then, if Penelope don't want to go, you can excuse 
her after we get there. That 's the best way." 

None of them, apparently, saw any reason why 
the affair should not be left in this way, or had a 
sense of the awful and binding nature of a dinner 
engagement. If she believed that Penelope would 
not finally change her mind and go, no doubt Mrs. 
Lapham thought that Mrs. Corey would easily excuse 
her absence. She did not find it so simple a matter 
to accept the invitation. Mrs. Corey had said "Dear 
Mrs. Lapham," but Mrs. Lapham had her doubts 
whether it would not be a servile imitation to say 
" Dear Mrs. Corey " in return ; and she was tor 
mented as to the proper phrasing throughout and 
the precise temperature which she should impart to 
her politeness. She wrote an unpractised, unchar 
acteristic round hand, the same in which she used to 
set the children's copies at school, and she subscribed 
herself, after some hesitation between her husband's 
given name and her own, "Yours truly, Mrs. S. 
Lapham." 

Penelope had gone to her room, without waiting to 
be asked to advise or criticise ; but Irene had decided 
upon the paper, and on the whole, Mrs. Lapham 's 
note made a very decent appearance on the page. 



 

When the furnace-man came, the Colonel sent him 
out to post it in the box at the corner of the square. 
He had determined not to say anything more about 
the matter before the girls, not choosing to let them 
see that he was elated ; he tried to give the effect of 
its being an everyday sort of thing, abruptly closing 
the discussion with his order to Mrs. Lapham to 
accept ; but he had remained swelling behind his 
newspaper during her prolonged struggle with her 
note, and he could no longer hide his elation when 
Irene followed her sister upstairs. 

" Well, Pers," he demanded, " what do you say 
now ? " 

Mrs. Lapham had been sobered into something of 
her former misgiving by her difficulties with her 
note. " Well, I don't know what to say. I declare, 
I'm all mixed up about it, and I don't know as 
we 've begun as we can carry out in promising to go. 
I presume," she sighed, " that we can all send some 
excuse at the last moment, if we don't want to go." 

" I guess we can carry out, and I guess we shan't 
want to send any excuse," bragged the Colonel. 
" If we 're ever going to be anybody at all, we 've 
got to go and see how it 's done. I presume we Ve 
got to give some sort of party when we get into the 
new house, and this gives the chance to ask 'em back 
again. You can't complain now but what they 've 
made the advances, Persis ? " 

" No," said Mrs. Lapham lifelessly ; " I wonder 
why they wanted to do it. Oh, I suppose it 's all 
right," she added in deprecation of the anger with 



 

her humility which she saw rising in her husband's 
face ; " but if it 's all going to be as much trouble as 
that letter, I ; d rather be whipped. I don't know 
what I 'm going to wear ; or the girls either. I do 
wonder I 've heard that people go to dinner in low- 
necks. Do you suppose it's the custom ?" 

" How should I know ? " demanded the Colonel. 
" I guess you Ve got clothes enough. Any rate, you 
needn't fret about it. You just go round to White's 
or Jordan & Marsh's, and ask for a dinner dress. 
I guess that 'll settle it ; they 'll know. Get some 
of them imported dresses. I see 'em in the window 
every time I pass ; lots of 'em," 

" Oh, it ain't the dress ! " said Mrs. Lapham. " I 
don't suppose but what we could get along with that; 
and I want to do the best we can for the children ; 
but I don't know what we 're going to talk about to 
those people when we get there. We haven't got 
anything in common with them. Oh, I don't say 
they 're any better," she again made haste to say in 
arrest of her husband's resentment. "I don't be 
lieve they are ; and I don't see why they should be. 
And there ain't anybody has got a better right to 
hold up their head than you have, Silas. You've 
got plenty of money, and you 've made every cent 
of it.* 

" I guess I shouldn't amounted to much without 
you, Persis," interposed Lapham, moved to this 
justice by her praise. 

"Oh, don't talk about me!" protested the wife. 
" Now that you 've made it all right about Kogers, 



 

there ain't a thing in this world against yon. But 
still, for all that, I can see and I can feel it when I 
can't see it that we 're different from those people. 
They 're well-meaning enough, and they 'd excuse it, 
I presume, but we're too old to learn to be like 
them." 

" The children ain't," said Lapham shrewdly. 

"No, the children ain't," admitted his wife, "and 
that 's the only thing that reconciles me to it." 

" You see how pleased Irene looked when I read 
it?" 

" Yes, she was pleased." 

"And I guess Penelope 'll think better of it before 
the time comes." 

" Oh yes, we do it for them. But whether we 're 
doing the best thing for 'em, goodness knows. I'm 
not saying anything against him. Irene 'll be a lucky 
girl to get him, if she wants him. But there ! I 'd 
ten times rather she was going to marry such a 
fellow as you were, Si, that had to make every inch 
of his own way, and she had to help him. It's in 
her ! " 

Lapham laughed aloud for pleasure in his wife's 
fondness; but neither of them wished that he should 
respond directly to it. " I guess, if it wan't for me, 
he wouldn't have a much easier time. But don't 
you fret ! It 's all coming out right. That dinner 
ain't a thing for you to be uneasy about. It 'll pass 
off perfectly easy and natural." 

Lapham did not keep his courageous mind quite 
to the end of the week that followed. It was his 



 

theory not to let Corey see that he was set up about 
the invitation, and when the young man said politely 
that his mother was glad they were able to come, 
Lapham was very short with him. He said yes, he 
believed that Mrs. Lapham and the girls were going. 
Afterward he was afraid Corey might not under 
stand that he was coming too ; but he did not know 
how to approach the subject again, and Corey did 
not, so he let it pass. It worried him to see all the 
preparation that his wife and Irene were making, 
and he tried to laugh at them for it ; and it worried 
him to find that Penelope was making no preparation 
at all for herself, but only helping the others. He 
asked her what should she do if she changed her 
mind at the last moment and concluded to go, and 
she said she guessed she should not change her 
mind, but if she did, she would go to White's with 
him and get him to choose her an imported dress, 
he seemed to like them so much. He was too proud 
