bring this to pass. Pour the yeast into glass fruit-jars with close
covers, or stone-jars fitted with corks, or common bottles, tying
the corks down with twine. Keep in a cool, dark place, and do not
open except to draw off the quantity needed for a baking. In the
refrigerator it will keep good for a month. Shake up the bottle before
pouring out what you want into a cup.

The creamy, foamy product thus obtained is quite another thing from
the dark, bitter stuff pedled from one kitchen door to another as
brewer’s or baker’s yeast, unfit for use unless strained, and then too
frequently “unprofitable” because “stale” and “flat.”


THE FIRST LOAF.

    One quart and a cupful of sifted flour (a half pint cup)

    One even teaspoonful dry salt.

    Two full cups of blood-warm water.

    Five tablespoonfuls of yeast (good ones).

Sift the flour and salt together into a wooden or stoneware bowl. Make
a hole in the middle and pour in the yeast, then a cupful of the water.
With clean hands begin to work down the flour into the liquid, and
as it stiffens add the rest of the water. When the dough is all wet
dust your fingers with dry flour, and rub off the paste into the bowl.
Scrape the sides of this, dust your fingers again, and make all the
dough into a lump or ball. Dredge your pastry or bread-board well with
flour, put the dough upon it and sift flour lightly over it. Ask your
mother or some experienced person whether or not it is of the right
consistency. There is so much difference in various brands of flour
that only practice can teach one when the dough is just right. Do not
get it too stiff. Add flour very cautiously even should it stick to
your fingers. Knead the bread for fifteen minutes—not so fast as to
tire yourself out of breath, but steadily and hard, working it away
from you all the time, turning the ball over and around so as to reach
every part of the mass. It should leave the board without stickiness
at the end of this time, be smooth, firm, and elastic. Strike it hard
with a tight fist, and if the dent thus made fills up at once, you have
kneaded it sufficiently.

Sprinkle your bread-bowl with flour, put the dough in the bottom, sift
flour lightly over the top, cover with a clean thick cloth and set,
in cold weather, in a moderately warm place, in summer, out of the
draught, but away from the fire and sun. It should be light in four
hours in warm weather, in six in winter. If you wish to have it for
breakfast, set at bedtime, and get up early to work it over for the
second rising.

This must not be done until the dough has swollen immensely, and
cracked over the top like “crazed” china. Flour the board and knead as
before, now for ten minutes. Grease two “brick” or round bread-pans
well with sweet lard or butter, make out the dough in two oblong or
round loaves, and pat these down in the pans to fit the corners. Prick
the tops with a sharp fork, cover with a clean cloth, and let them
stand for an hour before putting them into the oven.

The oven must be steady, but not too hot. You should be able to hold
your bare arm in it while you count twenty regularly. Should the bread
rise very fast at first, lay stout paper over the top to prevent it
from browning before the heart is done. Do not allow the stove or range
to be filled with fresh coal or wood while your bread is in the oven,
or it will be “slack-baked.” Should you need to increase the heat, put
in a stick or two of wood to get up a brisk blaze. Do not open the oven
for ten or twelve minutes after the bread goes in, and very seldom
afterward. A peep should suffice to see how it is getting on. If the
loaf rises higher at the back or at one side than in front or on the
other side, turn the tin quickly, and do not jar it, or it will “fall”
into heavy streaks. If the oven is right, your loaves should be done in
about thirty-five minutes.

Set the loaves up on the edge of one end, leaning against the wall or
an upright board, that the air may dry the bottom, throw a dry cloth
over them and leave them to cool. When quite cold wrap in a clean thick
cloth and keep in a tin box or stone crock.

In this, as in other first attempts, let me warn you against being
disheartened by failure, partial or total. It would be far more strange
were you to accomplish perfection in one, or in half a dozen lessons,
than if your early efforts should be only moderately successful.

See that your yeast is lively and not sour, the flour good and dry,
then follow directions implicitly, and I think I can engage that the
result will not mortify you.




2

BREAD SPONGE AND BREAKFAST BREADS.


BREAD raised with what is known to bakers as a “sponge,” requires more
time and a trifle more work than the simpler form for which I have just
already given directions. But it keeps fresh longer, is softer and more
nutritious, and a second-rate brand of flour thus treated produces a
better loaf than when mixed up with yeast and water only. Sponge-making
is, therefore, an important if not an essential accomplishment in a
cook, be she novice or veteran.


Bread Sponge.


    Three potatoes of fair size, peeled and boiled mealy.

    Five tablespoonfuls of yeast.

    One tablespoonful of white sugar.

    One tablespoonful of butter.

    Three cups of lukewarm water in which the potatoes were
      boiled—strained through a coarse cloth.

    One heaping cup of sifted flour.

Put the potatoes into a large bowl or tray and mash them to powder with
a potato beetle, or a wooden spoon. While still hot, mix in the sugar
and butter, beating all to a lumpless cream.

Add a few spoonfuls at a time, the potato-water alternately with the
flour by the handful, beating the batter smooth as you go on until
all of the liquid and flour has gone in. Beat hard one minute before
pouring in the yeast. In hot weather, it is well to stir into the
yeast a bit of soda no larger than a grain of corn already wet up in a
teaspoonful of boiling water.

Now whip up the batter with a wooden spoon for another minute, and the
sponge is made.

Throw a cloth over the bowl and set by for five or six hours to rise.
If you intend to bake in the forenoon, make the sponge at bedtime. If
in the afternoon, early in the morning.

When the sponge is light sift a quart and a cup of flour into a bowl or
tray with two teaspoonfuls of salt. Into a hollow, like a crater in the
middle of the flour, empty your sponge-bowl, and work the flour down
into it. Wash out the bowl with a little lukewarm water and add this to
the dough. If it should prove too soft, work in, cautiously, a little
more flour. If too stiff, warm water, a spoonful at a time until you
can handle the paste easily. The danger is in getting it too stiff.

Now, knead and set for risings first and second, as you have already
been instructed. This sponge will be found especially useful in making


Graham Bread.

    One quart of Graham flour, one cup of white flour.

    One half cup of Indian meal.

    One half cup of molasses.

    Two teaspoonfuls of salt.

    Soda, the size of a pea.

    Half the quantity of sponge given in preceding receipt.

    Warm water for rinsing bowl—about half a cup.

Put the brown or Graham flour unsifted into the bread-bowl. Sift
into it white flour, meal and salt, and stir up well while dry. Into
the “crater” dug out in the middle, pour the sponge, warm water, the
molasses, and soda dissolved in hot water. Knead as you would white
bread, and set aside for the rising. It will not swell so fast as the
white, so give yourself more time for making it.

When light, knead well and long; make into two loaves, then put into
well-greased pans and leave for an hour, or until it becomes more than
twice the original size of the dough.

Take care that it does not burn in baking. The molasses renders it
liable to scorching. The oven must be steady, but not so hot as for
white bread, nor will the Graham bread be done quite so soon as that
made of bolted flour. Turn the pans once while baking, moving them as
gently as possible. If rudely shaken or jarred, there will be heavy
streaks in the loaves.

Graham bread is wholesome and sweet, and ought to be eaten frequently
in every family, particularly by young people whose bones and teeth are
in forming.

The phosphates which the process of “bolting” removes to a large extent
from white flour, go directly to the manufacture of bone, and these
also tend to nourish and strengthen the brain.


Tea-Rolls.

After mixing your bread in the morning either with sponge or with
yeast, divide the kneaded dough into two portions. Mould one into a
round ball, and set aside for a loaf as already directed. Make a hole
in the middle of the other batch and pour into it a tablespoonful of
butter, just melted, but not hot. Close the dough over it, dust your
hands and kneading-board with flour and work in the shortening until
the dough is elastic and ceases to be sticky. Put it into a floured
bowl, cover with a cloth and set away out of draught and undue heat,
for three hours. Knead it again, then, and wait upon its rising for
another three hours. The dough should be as soft as can be handled.

When it is light for the second time flour your board, rubbing in the
flour and blowing lightly away what does not adhere to the surface.
Toss the lump dough upon it and knead thoroughly for five minutes.
Flour a rolling-pin and roll the dough into a sheet not more than half
an inch thick. Cut this into round cakes with a biscuit-cutter or a
sharp-edged tumbler and fold, not quite in the middle, in the form of
turnovers, pinching the corners of the fold pretty hard to hinder the
flap of dough from flying up as the rising proceeds. Rub the bottom and
sides of a baking-pan with sweet lard or butter. Do this with a bit of
clean soft rag or tissue-paper, visiting every corner of the pan, but
not leaving thick layers and streaks of grease after it. Arrange the
rolls in regular rows in the pan about a quarter of an inch apart.

Cover with a cloth and set nearer the fire than you dared trust the
dough, and let them rise for an hour. Peep under the cloth two or three
times to see whether they rise evenly, and turn the pan around once
that all may be equally exposed to the heat.

When the time is up and the rolls are puffy and promising, set them in
a pretty quick oven and bake half an hour, turning the pan once in this
time, and covering with clean—never printed—paper, should they brown
too fast. Break the rolls apart from one another and eat warm. They are
also good cold, and if the directions be followed implicitly, very good
always.


Graham Rolls

Are made by treating the dough mixed for Graham bread as above and
following the foregoing receipt in every section, but allowing more
time for rising and baking. They are even better when cold than hot.


Breakfast Biscuit.

    Two cups of fresh milk slightly warmed.

    One quart and a cup of flour sifted.

    Five tablespoonfuls of yeast.

    One even tablespoonful of white sugar.

    One even teaspoonful of salt.

    Bit of soda as large as a pea, dissolved in hot water.

    One tablespoonful of butter, just melted, not hot.

    Yolk of one egg beaten light.

Sift the flour, salt and sugar into a bowl, hollow the heap in the
centre and pour in the milk, working down the flour into the liquid
with a spoon or your hands until it is thoroughly melted. Into a second
hollow pour the yeast and knead thoroughly for fifteen minutes. Wrap
bowl and biscuit in a thick cloth and set to rise where it will neither
become chilled nor sour over night. (Study the temperature in different
parts of the kitchen and kitchen closets to the end of finding the best
places for raising dough and sponge.)

Do all this at bedtime. Early in the morning turn out the dough upon
a floured board, work it for a minute into manageable shape; drill
several finger-holes in it and fill them with the melted butter, the
dissolved soda and the beaten yolk of egg. Pinch the dough hard to stop
the mouths of these cavities, and knead for ten minutes, carefully at
first, lest the liquids should be wasted, and more boldly when they are
absorbed by the paste. Roll out into a sheet half an inch thick with a
floured rolling-pin; cut into round cakes, set these closely together
in a well-greased pan; prick each with a fork and let them rise near
the fire for half an hour, covered with a light cloth.

Bake from twenty to twenty-five minutes in a quick oven, turning the
pan around once, quickly and lightly. Break apart from one another and
pile on a plate, throwing a clean doily or a small napkin over them.
Break open at table. Hot rolls and muffins should never be cut.

One word with regard to getting up early in order to give dough a
chance for the second rising. It is not a wholesome practice for any
woman—least of all a young girl to be out of bed two hours before she
eats her breakfast. Studying upon an empty stomach provokes dyspepsia
and injures the eyes. Active exercise in like circumstances tempts
debility and disease. Yet our bread and rolls must be looked after
at the proper time. Have yourself called on biscuit mornings an hour
earlier than usual. Rise, wash face and hands, rinse the mouth out and
brush back the hair. Put on stockings and slippers, such underclothing
as may be needed to prevent cold, a wrapper and the kitchen apron.
Cover your hair entirely with a handkerchief or sweeping cap. Before
beginning operations down-stairs eat a half-slice of dry bread or a
biscuit. You will not relish it, but take it all the same to appease
the empty, discontented stomach. Having made out your rolls and tucked
them up snugly for the final rise, return to your chamber for a
comfortable bath and toilet. When habited for the day in all except the
outer gown, collar, etc., slip on the wrapper again and run down to
put the biscuits in the oven. Unless it is too hot, they will get no
harm while you finish dressing in ten minutes, just in season to turn
the pan.

From the beginning of your apprenticeship in housewifery, learn how to
“dovetail” your duties neatly into one another. A wise accommodation of
parts and angles, and compactness in the adjustment of “must-be-dones”
are better than mere personal strength in the accomplishment of such
tasks as fall to women to perform. Master these, and do not let them
master you. Weave the little duties in and under and among what seem
to be the greater. While your bread is taking a three hours’ rise, you
are free in body and mind for other things. The grand secret of keeping
house well and without worry, lies in the art of packing and fitting
different kinds of work and in picking up the minutes. Other things
besides rising dough get on quite as well without your standing by to
watch them.




3

BREAKFAST BREADS.


UNDER this head may be classed muffins, griddle-cakes, crumpets, corn
bread, Sally Lunn, quick biscuits, and a dozen other varieties of warm
bread suitable for breakfast and tea. They furnish a very pleasant
variety in the daily bill of fare, and are extremely popular.

Nor are they unwholesome if properly made and cooked, and eaten by well
people. To weak and impaired digestive organs all kinds of warm bread
are hurtful.


English Muffins.

    One quart of sifted flour.

    Two cups of lukewarm water.

    Half a cup of yeast.

    One tablespoonful of butter melted, but not hot. One
      teaspoonful of salt sifted with the flour.

Sift the flour and salt into a bowl, make a hole in the middle and pour
in yeast and warm water. Stir down the flour gradually into the liquid,
and when all is in, beat hard with a wooden spoon. Should the mixture
be too stiff for this, add a little more water. It should be about half
as thick as bread-dough. Beat for five minutes and set aside to rise,
with a cloth thrown over the bowl, in a moderately warm corner.

Early in the morning stir the melted butter into the dough, beat hard
for two minutes, and leave for half an hour in the covered bowl in a
warm place—such as on a stool near the fire—turning it several times.

Grease muffin-rings well with sweet lard, arrange them upon a greased
griddle set over the fire and already warmed (not really hot), fill
about half-way to the top with batter, and bake quickly. When the dough
fills the rings and begins to look firm on the top, slip a knife under
one and peep at the under side. If it is delicately browned, turn the
rings over with a spatula or cake-turner. This must be done quickly and
dexterously, so as not to spill the batter.

When quite done, wrap a thick cloth about your fingers, take up the
muffin-rings one by one; pass a sharp knife around the inside of each,
to loosen the muffin, and shake it out upon a hot plate. Pile them up
neatly and cover with a clean napkin. These muffins must be broken, not
cut open, and buttered while hot.

The English split, toast and butter cold muffins.


Crumpets.

    Two cups of lukewarm milk.

    Two thirds of a cup of lukewarm water.

    One quart of sifted flour.

    One tablespoonful of white sugar.

    Half a teaspoonful of salt.

    Two tablespoonfuls of melted butter.

    Half a cupful of yeast.

    Soda the size of a pea, dissolved in a teaspoonful of
      boiling water.

Mix milk, yeast, water, sugar and salted flour as directed in former
receipt. Beat hard, and set to rise over night. In the morning work in
the butter and soda, beat up for one whole minute until the mixture is
light throughout, and half-fill greased patty-pans with it. Set these
in a baking-pan, cover with a cloth, and let them stand in a warm place
fifteen minutes before putting them into a steady oven. They should be
done in from twelve to fifteen minutes if the oven is right. If they
brown too fast, cover them with paper.
