Yes ; we sort of kept track of each other. You 
see, though she never'd had a very good time there, 
Ridgeway was her native town, and she would have 
been glad to see a dog that came from there. And I 
could give her some insight behind the scenes, that no- 
body ever gets out of books. Well, I can't tell you 
what a queer training that girl has had. Says her 
mother to me, ' My daughter is going to be a scholar.' 
She calculated the time her money was going to hold 
out, and found there would be just about enough to 
put Victoria through. So they took two rooms, got 
their own meals, and carried out the programme just 
as she made it. She wouldn't let the girl go to a pub- 
lic school, she wouldn't send her to boarding-school ; 
"but they had masters and masters, and they've read 
together ever since Victoria could talk plain. Kate 
Leary taught her most of her stage business, and 
they've spent a mine of money on Fixter." 
' Where is the mother now ? " 

' She died, a year ago. I knew she was failing, but 
I hadn't any idea it was so serious till a little while 
before she died. It was a cancer. When she found 
there was no help for it she told Victoria, and they 
talked it over and made up their minds what must be 
done after she was gone, as if it was well, a trip across 
the water. Victoria behaved like a woman of fifty, 
after it, and kept right on with her studying. Now, 
do you know, I don't believe her mother would have 
done just as she did, if she'd been into society any. 
They just shut themselves up, and lost track of the 
wickedness in the world. Or, rather, I guess they 
never knew whether 'twas wicked or not, coming from 
Ridgeway here. Now you and I would see it wouldn't 
do for a girl like her to live alone in lodgings ; but she 
almost snapped my head off when I advised her to 
board, or get an elderly woman to stay with her." 

: You surprise me, Rose. This is America, man, 
and women are supporting themselves and living alone, 
scores of them." 

Yes, I know all that, but you see I know Victoria, 
too. She's been brought up with extravagant ideas of 
the calling. I really believe the girl thinks she ought 
to thank the Lord every day, for letting her go on the 
stage, if she starves there. Now you know, to keep 
on carrying her head just as high as she does now, she 
hadn't ought to run the risk of suspicion, any where. 
That's why I wish she could be fenced in, so that even 
you young swells could see she is as much of a lady as 
your sisters. You didn't think much of her acting, 
now, did you ? " 



' Well, I shouldn't go so far as to condemn her. 
She has possibilities, but so have dozens of people. It 
all depends on how they pan out. But her physique 
is splendid and so is her voice. I can't explain what 
I think she lacks. It seems to be that she doesn't 
move you. She isn't magnetic." 

That's what I tell myself," nodded Rose, approv- 
ingly. ' I should like to introduce you to her. Come 
round any night and I will." 

It was not long before Oswald found his way behind 
the scenes, but he delayed it until the curtain went 
down, and then looked in vain for Rose. Victoria 
went past him to her dressing-room, coming out pres- 
ently with her cloak on. Rose appeared suddenly, 
performed the introduction, and hurried off with his 
hat under his arm to give some directions. 

'' Mr. Rose says you have come to criticise me," 
said Victoria, looking at him frankly, as far from bold- 
ness as embarrassment. " Please do it." 

' I don't want to," closing his eyes a little to scan 
her, and speaking with a coolness that was half im- 
pertinence. 

' But I wish you would," she said, earnestly, throwing 
a piece of lace over her head which she might 
easily have done from a coquettish impulse. Her hair 
proved to be blonde, and was very bright through the 
black meshes. But this was not even an artistic suggestion. 
She was afraid of taking cold. "I don't 
mean to care for criticism usually. I'm not even read- 
ing the newspapers, because I always thought their 
critics hadn't much notion of art, and perhaps their 
little opinions would paralyze me as much as if they 

were greater. Mr. Rose says you are more of a dra- 
matic critic than all the newspaper men put together. 
Tell me how I affect an audience." 

"You will certainly have to ask the newspapers ; 
that is, for your effect on the majority of people," said 
Oswald, rather cruelly, watching her, "for you don't 
move me at all." 

" Really ?" said the girl, looking at him with the 
utmost gravity and intentness. : 'Oh, I'm so sorry ! I 
don't believe I am conceited, but I'm surprised, 
too." 

' It wasn't a gallant speech, but I thought you wanted 
the truth. Why, your eyes are actually wet ? How 
rude I must have been, and how sensitive you are ! ' 

" No, not very, but I am anxious," she said, not 
minding her eyes in the least. ' I feel doubtful 
whether I'm going to be a success, and though I ex- 
pect to work hard for years and years, I want to set 
Mr. Rose's mind at ease now. He's been very good to 
me, and has expectations of my deserving it. Can you 
tell me what I lack ? " 

' No, not without thought. I think you do some 
things admirably ; a good many stiffly. I should like 
to talk with you and ask your reasons for some points. 
If you would let me call to see you, with Rose, we 
might understand each other better." 

' Yes, please do," she said, with frank pleasure. ' I 
shall be glad to see you. And perhaps you'll bear me 
out against him in some ideas he sets down to my 
ignorance. Good-night." She nodded and smiled, and 
was half way down the steps before he could follow 
her. When he came out at the stage-door her carriage 



 

was just driving away. Oswald was amused. He was 
used to various styles of Bohemian the girl who accepted 
an invitation to supper from a stranger, and 
drank her champagne like a man ; the one so severely 
proper as to need a chaperon on all occasions, except 
that of fainting in her lover's arms on the stage ; and 
the genuine lady but he had never seen such a mixture 
of self-possession and childishness as this. The simple 
straightforwardness with which she assumed that he 
knew something which would help her, and therefore 
depended on him to impart it, touched his self-love. 
It tempered the admiration he could not help feeling 
for her beauty by a half-patronizing flavor which added 
to his kindliness. Elizabeth was waiting for him at 
home. She had not known how long he would be 
gone ; there had been a dinner at the club, and drop- 
ping into the theater was an after impulse. He was 
running up stairs when she opened the library door 
and called him With a sudden thought of her, he 
wanted to see her. It was a great addition to his 
present pleasure not to have thought of her all the 
afternoon. She looked a little tired, but her face 
brightened too quickly for him to guess she had wor- 
ried about his delay. 

'Are you glad ? " holding her at arm's length, and 
waiting for a smile. " And you've had a supper brought 
in here. I smell it. Elizabeth, if your forethought 
goes as far as that, you'll be the comfort of my declin- 
ing years." Elizabeth tried in vain to bring her face 
down to a demure seriousness. 

' Come in. Perhaps I can find you a crust, at least. 
Now, lie down there, and have the crimson pillows. 





I know you like this better than a chair. Now, you're 
not to say a word, but watch and see what I do." 

Oswald had a genius for accepting petting. He sank 
back on the sofa, with a sigh of delight, and looked 
hungrily at the table. It was a tiny table, covered with 
a clolh, and bearing delicious bread and butter, with 
a picturesque salad. Elizabeth took a napkin and 
lifted a small pot of chocolate from beside the grate. 

'It was made half an hour ago," she said, pouring a 
cup. ' I thought you would be home then, if you 
were at the theater. But it's hot, Oswald ; so you wont 
mind?" 

' It's delicious," said Oswald, sipping and adding 
sugar till it was a nectar of sweetness. 'Elsie," as she 
drew up the table so that he need not leave his lounging 
position, even to use his fork, ' you know exactly how 
to make me comfortable." 

His wife laughed happily, sitting down on a hassock 
near him with her own cup. It was enough pay for 
this whole evening's anticipation of his comfort to see 
him pleased with the result. 

' I've been talking to your wonder of an actress," he 
said, throwing his head back on the pillows, while she 
filled his cup again. ' Rose introduced me." 

' You have ? Tell me about her. How I wish I 
could see her, too ! But no, I shouldn't know what to 
say." 

' There really isn't any thing to tell," beginning a 
second deliberate raid on the sugar-bowl. ' Except 
that she's a beautiful creature and doesn't need much 
making up. She has a combination of features you 
seldom see in an American woman, full, very red lips, 



 

white teeth and a clear complexion, added to a fine pro- 
file. She walks like an Indian. I should say that 
what you would remark first in her, is her splendid 
physical health." 

" What did she say to you ? ' 

" Asked me to criticise her, which there wasn't time 
to do. Elsie, it's no end of comfort to find you here 
when I come in." 

Elizabeth brought her hassock closer and put her lips 
to his hand. ' Are you sure I shall make you happy ? ' 

: Yes, on the whole, very sure," said Oswald, lightly. 
' You haven't an obtrusive way about you ; consequent- 
ly, you please me. If you insisted on a frantic interest 
in every breath and coming and going of mine, we 
might get tired of each other. But you philosophically 
don't." 

Elizabeth was not conscious of having deserved 
praise of just this nature. She had felt vaguely disturbed 
in his absence, and now longed to draw nearer, to be 
soothed and indulged, but his very tone good-naturedly 
warned her to wait for an invitation. 





CHAPTER XIX. 



IT was somewhat confusing to Elizabeth not to have 
become, with marriage, a busier woman. She 
found her husband's household in running order, as it 
had been for the past five years, and could suggest 
no improvements. Being a woman of good sense, 
she did not attempt innovations for the purpose of 
claiming her rights, but .remained aloof from the field, 
penetrated with a sense of awe at Ward's generalship. 
Ward was the head of the establishment, an English 
man-servant, with the inherited tendencies of generations 
of service. American air had, as it unfortunately 
has a way of doing, given him a deep regard for his 
own personal importance, but that never became offensive. 
Ward had too nice a sense of the fitness of 
things to spoil a good servant, even if that servant 
chanced to be himself. 

Life hurried its action with Oswald. His love for 
his wife had been an absorbing emotion. It had not 
yet spent itself, but he had reached a point where her 
presence in the room did not rouse him to mental 
ecstasy. 

One night, Jack Perham came in, and, after a pleas- 
ant hour, went into the library with Oswald, to smoke. 
Thereupon Philip grew sleepy, and possibly a little 
cross, at not having been invited to witness that manly 
pastime, and grumbled up to his own room at ten. 



 

Elizabeth made herself somnolently comfortable in 
a chair by the fire and settled down to thought. That 
was made up, nowadays, of two threads a tender longing 
for her mother's comfort and rather an humble 
recognition of her own happiness. Soon she was only 
conscious that, healthfully tired after a long drive in 
the wind, she was sinking into a delicious doze. An 
hour after, she waked to wonder dreamily if she could 
have been asleep, and if her husband would be in 
soon, changed her position, and slept again. When she 
waked for the second time, the clock was striking nine 
ten it could not possibly be twelve ! But the strokes 
declared it, and she sat up hastily, winking sleep away. 
There was an eerie sense that she must be alone in 
the house, and, though by no means given to trouble- 
some fears, she crossed the hall quickly and pushed 
open the library door. Oswald sat by the table read- 
ing, with that peculiarly alert, concentrated look which 
sometimes indicates the person intellectually alive at 
midnight as he never is before sunset. He held him- 
self erect, as if too intently fixed on a train of thought 
to lounge at his ease. Jack had sunk forward, his 
head on the table, a deplorable caricature of his usual 
presence, and, unmerciful witness, a half -filled wine 
glass stood close to the helpless right hand. Elizabeth 
sickened at her first glance, though she would not con- 
fess to herself how well she understood. Oswald 
looked up : perhaps her glance drew him. 

c You there, Elizabeth ? I'm sorry you waited up," 
he said, slightly annoyed. A pale, frightened woman 
breaking in on his train of thought was an unexpected 
apparition. ; ' I shall be up-stairs, presently. Don't 



 

wait for me." He rose and put down his book, running 
his hand through his hair and glancing at Jack 
incidentally. But Elizabeth did not go. 

' What is it ? Is he ," she asked, in a whisper of 

suppressed excitement. 

"I'm afraid he is," said her husband, carelessly, 
touching the bell and looking at his watch in the second 
of waiting for the sleepy servant. ' Get a carriage and 
take Mr. Perham home. You know the number 19. 
Now come, Elizabeth." With a polite decision she 
could not resist, he led her to the stairs and went up with 
her. She was only alive to a sense of sudden and awful 
calamity. Drunkenness was one of the vices, and not 
among those most tolerated in Stratford. The few 
people addicted to it were sweepingly, and therefore 
Pharisaically, condemned to a social region below 
notice. This had happened in her husband's pres- 
ence. Consequently there must be some way of ex- 
plaining it. She sat down, leaning her arms on the 
table, without a thought for her white, shocked face, 
visible in the glass. 

"Oswald, come here, please," she called, unable to 
wait longer for having her mind set at rest. " How 
did it happen ? " 

' What ? Jack, do you mean ? Why, he's fond of 
wine and he took too much, that's all." 

' Was he ever so before with you ? ' 

' Scores of times. What have I to do with his drink- 
ing?" 

" Oh, it is dreadful ! " 

' Elizabeth, don't do that. Don't fall into extreme, 
vulgar notions. Nothing annoys me more." 



 

And nothing baffles like that sense of having at 
heart a principle which, in the mind of another, represents 
nothing more serious than a whim. Elizabeth 
began taking down her hair, without a word. For the 
first time, she put her husband far enough away to 
judge him by her own standards. But, in the morning, 
few things seemed of more importance than making 
sure there was not the slightest shadow of difference 
between them. 

" I am sorry if you thought I interfered last night," 
she said, touching his hand penitently, as they were 
going down to breakfast. " I didn't mean to ; but it 
seemed so wrong." 

It was a proud humility ; her erect young conscience 
would not yield a jot of protest against the deed, 
though, in sweet loyalty, she repented of judgment. 

" All right, dear," said Oswald, carelessly, putting 
discussion by to kiss her hand. " Don't let us make 
each other uncomfortable. That's morality enough for 
the present." 

And as Elizabeth said no more, the question was 
dropped. Nevertheless, little consideration as he 
allowed himself to give it, her evident opinion left a 
bad taste in his mouth. It roused no uneasiness of 
