"No," said the colonel sighing again; "if I go 
I must sell. My means will not allow me to do 
otherwise." 

" I will buy it of you, if you wish to sell." 

"You! What would you do with the property?" 

"Keep it for you, against a time when you may 
wish to buy it back. But indeed it would come 
very conveniently for me. I should like to have it, 
for my own purposes. I will give you its utmost 
value." 

The colonel pondered, not glad perhaps to have 
difficulties cleared out of his way. Mr. Dallas 
waited, too keen to press his point unduly. 

" I should have to go and reconnoitre," the for 
mer said presently. " I must not give up one home 
till I have another ready. I never thought to leave 
Seaforth ! Where do you say this place is that Mrs. 
Dallas recommends? " 

" In New York. The school is said to be particularly good and thorough, and conducted by an English lady; which would be a recommendation to 
me, as I suppose it is to you." 

" I should have to find a house in the neighbour 
hood," said the colonel musing. 

Mr. Dallas said no more, and waited. 

" I must go and see what I can find," the colonel 





repeated. " Perhaps Mrs. Dallas will be so good 
as to give me the address of the school in question." 

Mrs. Dallas did more than that. She gave letters 
to friends and addresses of more than one school 
teacher: and the end was, Col. Gainsborough set 
off on a search. The search was successful. He 
was satisfied with the testimonials he received respecting one of the institutions and respecting its 
head; he was directed by some of Mr. Dallas's business friends to various houses that might suit him for 
a residence; and among them made his choice, and 
even made his bargain, and came home with the 
business settled. 

Esther had spent the days of his absence in a 
a very doubtful mood, not knowing whether to be 
glad or sorry, to hope or to fear. Seaforth was the 
only home she had ever known; she did not like 
the thought of leaving it; but, she knew by this 
time as well as Mr. Dallas knew that she needed 
more advantages of education than Seaforth could 
give her. On the whole she hoped. 

The colonel was absent several days. There was 
no telegraphing in those times, and so the day of 
his return could not be notified ; but when a week 
had passed, Esther began to look for him. It was the 
first time he had ever been away from her, and so 
of course it was the first coming home. Esther 
felt it deserved some sort of celebration. The stage 
arrived towards evening, she knew. 

" I think maybe he will be here to-night, Barker," 



 

she said. " What is there we could have for supper, that papa likes particularly ? " 

" Indeed, Miss Esther, the colonel favours nothing 
more than another as I know. His toast and tea, 
that is all he cares for nights, mostly." 

"Toast and tea! " said Esther disparagingly. 

" It's the most he cares for, as I know," the house 
keeper repeated. " There's them quails Mr. Dallas 
sent over; they's nice and fat, and to be sure quails 
had ought to be eaten immediate; I can roast two 
or three of em, if you're pleased to order it; but the 
colonel, it's my opinion he won't care what you have. 
The gentlemen learns it so in the army, I'm thinkin . 
The colonel never did give himself no care about 
what he had for dinner, nor for no other time." 

Esther knew that; however,sheorderedthe quails; 
and watched eagerly for her father. He came too, 
that same evening. But the quail hardly got their 
deserts, nor Esther neither, for that matter. The 
colonel seemed to be uriregardful of the one as 
much as of the other. He gave his child a sufficiently 
kind greeting indeed, when he first came in; but 
then he took his usual seat on the sofa, without his 
usual book, and sat as if lost in thought. Tea was 
served immediately, and I suppose the colonel had 
had a thin dinner, for he consumed a quail and a 
half; yet satisfactory as this was in itself, Esther 
could not see that her father knew what he was 
eating. And after tea he still neglected his book, 
and sat brooding, with his head leaning on his hand. 
He had not said one word to his daughter concerning the success or non-success of his mission ; and 
eager as she was, it was not in accordance with the 
way she had been brought up that she should question him. She asked him nothing, further than 
about his own health and condition, and the length 
and character of his journey ; which questions were 
shortly disposed of; and then the colonel sat there 
with his head in his hand, doing nothing that he 
was wont to do. Esther feared something was 
troubling him, and could not bear to leave him to 
himself. She came near softly, and very softly let 
her finger tips touch her father's brow and temples 
and stroke back the hair from them. She ventured 
no more. 

Perhaps Col. Gainsborough could not bear so 
much. Perhaps he was reminded of the only other 
fingers which had had a right since his boyhood 
to touch him so. Yet he would not repel the gentle hand, and to avoid doing that he did another 
very uncommon thing; he drew Esther down into 
his arms and put her on his knee, leaning his head 
against her shoulder. It was exceeding pleasant 
to the girl, as a touch of sympathy and confidence; 
however, for that night the confidence went no 
farther; the colonel said nothing at all. He was 
in truth overcome with the sadness of leaving his 
home and his habits and the place of his wife's 
grave. As he reentered Seaforth and entered his 
house, this sadness had come over him; he could 
not shake it off; indeed he did not try ; he gave him 
self up to it, and forgot Esther, or rather forgot 



 

what he owed her. And Esther, who had done 
what she could, sat still on her father's knee, till 
she was weary and wished he would release her. 
Yet perhaps, she thought, it was a pleasure to him 
to have her there, and she would not move or speak. 
So they remained until it was past Esthers bed 
time. 

" I think I will go now, papa," she said. " It is 
getting late." 

lie kissed her and let her go. 

But next morning the colonel was himself again; 
himself as if he had never been away, only he had 
his news to tell; and he told it in orderly business 
fashion. 

"I have taken a house, Esther," he said; "and 
now I wish to get moved as soon as possible. You 
must tell Barker, and help her." 

" Certainly, papa. Whereabouts is the house 
you have taken ? " 

" On York Island. It is about a mile out of 
the city on the bank of the river; a very pretty 
situation." 

" Which river, papa ? " 

"The Hudson." 

" And am I to go to school ? " 

" Of course. That is the purpose of the move 
ment. You are to enter Miss Fairbairn's school, 
in New York. It is the best there, by all I can 
gather." 

"Thank you, papa. Then it is not near our 
new house ? " 





" No. You will have to drive there and back. 
I have made arrangements for that." 

" Won't that cost a good deal, papa ? " 

" Not so much as to live in the city would cost. 
And we are accustomed to the country ; it will be 
pleasanter." 

" much pleasanter ! What will be done with 
this house, papa ? " 

" Mr. Dallas takes it, and the place, off my 
hands." 

Esther did not like that ; why, she could not possibly have told. For to be sure, what could be 
better ? 

"Will he buy it?" 

"Yes, he buys it." 

Again a little pause. Then " What will become 
of the furniture and everything, papa?" 

"That must be packed to go. The house I 
have taken is empty. We shall want all we have 
got." 

Esther's eye went round the room. Everything 
to be packed ! She stood like a young general, 
surveying her battlefield. 

"Then, papa, you never mean to come back to 
Seaforth again ? " 

The colonel sighed. "Yes, when I die, Esther. 
I wish my bones to be laid here." 

He said no more. Having made his communications, he took up his book ; his manner evidently 
saying to Esther that in what came next he had 
no particular share. But could it be that he 



 

was leaving it all to her inexperience ? Was it to 
be her work, and depend on her wisdom ? 

" Papa, you said we were to move soon; do you 
wish me to arrange with Barker about it ? " 

"Yes, my dear, yes; tell her, and arrange with 
her. I wish to make the change as early as possible, before the weather becomes unfavourable; 
arid I wish you to get to school immediately. It 
cannot be too soon, tell Barker." 

So he was going to leave it all to her! On 
ordinary occasions he was wont to consider Esther 
a child still ; now it was convenient to suppose her 
a woman. He did not put it so to himself; it is 
some men's way. Esther went slowly to the kitchen, 
and informed Barker of what was before her. 

"An it's mor'n the middle of October" was the 
housekeeper's comment. 

"That's very good time," said Esther. 
"You're right, Miss Esther, and so it is, if we 
was all ready this minute. All aint done when 
you are moved, Miss Esther; there's the other house 
to settle; and it'll take a good bit o work before 
we get so far as to that." 

" Papa wants us to be as quick as we can." 
" We'll be as quick as two pair o hands is able 
for, I'll warrant; but that aint as if we was a dozen. 
There's every iridivviddle thing to put up, Miss Esther, from our chairs to our beds; and books, and 
china, and all. I'll go at the china fust of all, and 
to-day." 

" And what can I do, Barker ? " 





" I don know, Miss Esther. You haint no experience; and experience is somethin you can't buy 
in the shops even if there was any shops here to 
speak of. But Christopher and me, we'll manage 
it, I'll warrant. The colonel's quite right. This 
aint no place for you no longer. We'll see and 
get moved as quick as we can, Miss Esther." 

Without experience, however, it was found that 
Esther's share of the next weeks of work was a 
very important one. She packed up the clothes, 
and the books; and she did it "real uncommon," 
the housekeeper said ; but that was the least part. 
She kept her father comfortable, letting none of 
the confusion and as little as possible of the dust 
come into the room where he was. She stood in 
the gap when Barker was in the thick of some job, 
and herself prepared her father's soup or got his 
tea. Thoughtful, quiet, diligent, her head, young 
as it was, proved often a very useful help to Bar 
ker's experience; and something about her smooth 
composure was a stay to the tired nerves of her 
subordinates. Though Christopher Bounder really 
had no nerves; yet he felt the influence I speak of. 

"Aint our Miss Esther growed to be a stunner, 
though ! " he remarked more than once. 

" I'm sure I don't rightly know what you mean, 
Christopher," his sister answered! 

" Well, I tell you she's an uncommon handsome 
young lady, Sarah. An she has the real way with 
her; the real thing, she has." 

" What do you mean by that ? " 



 

" I'll wager a cucumber you can tell," said Chris 
topher, shutting up his eyes slyly. " There aint no 
flesh and blood round in these parts like that; no 
more ii a cabbage aint like a camellia. An that 
don't tell it.- She's that dainty and sweet as a 
camellia never was not as ever I see; and she 
has that fine, soft way with her, that is like the 
touch of a feather, and yet aint soft neither if you 
come to go agin it. I tell you what, Sarah, that 
shews blood, that does," concluded Christopher 
with a competent air. " Our young lady, she's the 
real thing. You and me, now, we couldn't be like 
that if we was to die for it. That's blood, that is." 

" I don't know," said the housekeeper. " She is 
sweet, uncommon ; and she is gentle enough, and 
she has a will of her own, too ; but I don't know 
she didn't use for to be just so." 

" Cause she's growiri up to years," said the gardener. " La, Sally, folks is like vegetables, uncommon; you must let em drop their rough leaves, 
before you can see what they're goin to be." 

" There warn't never no rough leaves nor rough 
anything, about Miss Esther. I can't say as I 
knows what you mean, Christopher." 

" A woman needn't to know everything," responded her brother with superiority; "and the 
natural world to be sure aint your department, 
Sarah. You're good for a great deal where you be." 



CHAPTER XVIII. 

A NEIGHBOUR. 

packing and sending off of boxes was ended 
 at last; and the bare, empty, echoing, forlorn 
house seemed of itself to eject its inhabitants. When 
it came to that, everybody was ready to go. Mrs. 
Barker lamented that she could not go on before 
the rest of the family, to prepare the place a bit for 
them ; but that was impossible ; they must all go 
together. 

It was the middle of November when at last the 
family made their flitting. They had no dear 
friends to leave, and nothing particular to regret, 
except that one low mound in the churchyard ; yet 
Esther felt sober as they drove away. The only 
tangible reason for this on which her thoughts 
could fix, was the fact that she was going away 
from the place where Pitt Dallas was at home, and 
to which he would come when he returned from 
England. She would then be afar off. Yet there 
would be nothing to hinder his coming to see them 
in their new home; so the feeling did not seem well 
justified. Besides that, Esther also had a somewhat 



 

vague sense that she was leaving the domain of 
childhood and entering upon the work and sphere 
of a woman. She was just going to school ! But 
perhaps the time of confusion she had been passing through might have revealed to her that she 
had already a woman's life-work on her hands. 
And the confusion was not over, and the work only 
begun. She had perhaps a dim sense of this. How 
ever she was young; and the soberness was certainly mixed with gladness. For was she not go 
ing to school, and so, on the way to do something 
of the work Pitt was doing, in mental furnishing 
and improvement ? I think, gladness had the upper 
hand. 

It took two days of stage travelling to get them 
to their destination. They were days full of interest and novelty for Esther; eager anticipation and 
hope; but the end of the second day found her well 
tired. Indeed it was the case with them all. Mrs. 
Barker had lamented that she and Christopher were 
not allowed to go oif some time before " the family," 
