
"Yes," said Sybil. "I am so glad you asked him to dinner. I do not think
he is very clever, but he talks easily, and says funny things."

"I suppose he has come over to marry his cousin--has not he?" inquired
Mrs. Wyndham.

"No," replied Sybil, "he is not going to marry Joe Thorn," she answered
absently; for she was thinking of something, and her tone indicated such
absolute certainty in the matter that Mrs. Wyndham looked quickly at her.

"Well, you seem quite certain about it, any way," she said.

"I? Oh--well, yes. I think it is extremely unlikely that he will marry
her."

"I almost wish I had offered to take him to the party to-night," said Mrs.
Wyndham, evidently unsatisfied. "However, as he is coming to-morrow, that
will do quite as well. Sybil, dear, you look tired. Why don't you go and
lie down before dinner?"

"Oh, because--I am not tired, really. I am always pale, you know."

"Well, I am tired to death myself, my dear, and as there is no one here I
will say I am not at home, and rest till dinner."

Mrs. Wyndham had been as much startled as any one by news of the senator's
death that morning, and though she always professed to agree with her
husband she was delighted at the prospect of John Harrington's election.
She had been a good friend to him, and he to her, for years, and she cared
much more for his success than for the turn of events. She had met him in
the street that afternoon, and they had perambulated the pavement of
Beacon Street for more than an hour in the discussion of the future. John
had also told her that he was now certain that Vancouver was the writer of
the offensive articles that had so long puzzled him; at all events that
the especial one which had appeared the morning after the skating-party
was undoubtedly from his pen. Mrs. Wyndham, who had long suspected as
much, was very angry when she found that her suspicions had been so just,
and she proposed to deal summarily with Vancouver. John, however, begged
her to temporize, and she promised to be prudent.

"By the way," she said to Sybil, as she was about to leave the room, "it
was a special providence that you did not marry Vancouver. He has turned
out badly."

Sybil started slightly and looked up. Her experience with Pocock Vancouver
was a thing she rarely referred to. She had undoubtedly given him great
encouragement, and had then mercilessly refused him, to the great surprise
of every one. But as that had occurred a year and a half ago, it was quite
natural that she should treat him like any one else, now, just as though
nothing had happened. She looked up at Mrs. Wyndham in some surprise.

"What has he done?" she asked.

"You know how he always talks about John Harrington?"

"He always says he respects him immensely."

"Very well. It is he who has been writing those scurrilous articles that
we have talked about so much."

"How disgraceful!" exclaimed Sybil. "How perfectly detestable! Are you
quite sure?"

"There is not the least doubt about it. John Harrington told me himself."

"Oh, then of course it is true," said Sybil. "How dreadful!"

"Harrington takes it in the calmest way, as though he had expected it all
his life. He says they were never friends, and that Vancouver has a
perfect right to his political opinions. I never saw anybody so cool in my
life."

"What a splendid fellow he is!" exclaimed Sybil. "There is something lion-like about him. He would forgive an enemy a thousand times a day, and say
the man who injured him had a perfect right to his opinions."

"Why gracious goodness, Sybil, how you talk!" cried Mrs. Wyndham; "you are
not in love with the man yourself, are you, my dear?"

"I?" asked Sybil. Then she laughed. "No, indeed! I would not marry him if
he asked me."

"Why not?"

"Oh, I would never marry a celebrity like that. He is splendid, and noble,
and honest; but everything in him is devoted to his career. There is no
room for a woman at all."

"I think the amount of solid knowledge about men that you dear, sweet,
lovely, beautiful, innocent little girls possess is something just too
perfectly amazing!" said Mrs. Wyndham, slowly, and with great emphasis.

"If we do," said Sybil, "it is not surprising. I am sure I do not wonder
at girls knowing a great deal about the world. Everything is discussed
before them, and marriage and men are the usual topics of conversation.
The wonder is that girls still make so many mistakes in their choice,
after listening to the combined experience of all the married women of
their acquaintance for several years. It shows that no one is infallible."

"What a funny girl you are, Sybil!" exclaimed Mrs. Wyndham. "I think you
turn the tables on me altogether."

"Yes? Well, I have experiences of my own now," said Sybil, leaning back
against an enormous cushion.

Mrs. Wyndham came and sat upon the arm of the easy-chair, and put one arm
round Sybil's neck and kissed her.

"Sybil, dear," she said affectionately, and then stopped.

They sat in silence for some time, looking at the great logs burning in
the deep fire-place.

"Sybil, dear," Mrs. Wyndham began again, presently, "why did you refuse
Vancouver? You do not mind telling me, do you?"

"Why do you ask?" said Sybil. "It makes no difference now."

"No, perhaps not. Only I always thought it strange. He must have done
something you did not like, of course."

"Yes, that was it. He did something I did not like. Mr. Harrington would
have said he had a perfect right to do as he pleased. But I could not
marry him after that."

"Was it anything so very bad?" asked Mrs. Wyndham, affectionately,
smoothing Sybil's thick fair hair.

"It was not as deep as a well, nor as broad as a house," said Sybil, with
a faint, scornful laugh; "but it was enough. It would do."

"I wish you would tell me, dear," persisted Mrs. Wyndham. "I have a
particular reason for wanting to know."

"Well, I would not have told before this other affair came out," said
Sybil. "I would not marry him because he tried to find out from poor
mamma's man of business whether we were rich. And the day after he got the
information that I was rich enough to suit him, he proposed. But mamma
knew all about what had gone on and told me, and so I refused him. She
said I was wrong, and would not have told me if she had known it would
make any difference. And now you say I was right. I am sure I was; it was
only a fancy I had for him, because he was so clever and well-bred.
Besides, he is much too old."

"He is old enough to be your father, my dear," said Mrs. Wyndham; "but I
think you were a little hard on him. Almost any man would do the same. We
here in Boston, of course, always know about each other. It was a little
mean of him, no doubt, but it was not a mortal crime."

"I think it was low," said Sybil, decisively. "To think of a man as rich
as that caring for a paltry twenty or thirty thousand a year."

"I know, my dear," said Mrs. Wyndham, "it is mean; but they all do it, and
life is uncertain, and so is business I suppose, and twenty or thirty
thousand a year does make a difference to most people, I expect."

Mrs. Wyndham looked at the fire reflectively, as though not absolutely
certain of the truth of the proposition. Sam Wyndham was commonly reputed
to be worth a dozen millions or so. He would have been very well off even
in New York, and in Boston he was rich.

"It would make a great difference to me," said Sybil, laughing, "for it is
all I have in the world. But I am glad I refused Vancouver on that ground,
all the same. If it had not been for that I should have married him--just
imagine!"

"Yes, just imagine!" exclaimed Mrs. Wyndham. "And to have had him turn out
such an abominable blackguard!"

"There is no mistaking what you think of him now, at all events," said
Sybil.

"No, my dear. And now we have talked so long that it is time to dress for
dinner."

How Mrs. Wyndham went to the party and met Joe Thorn has already been
told. It was no wonder that Mrs. Sam treated Vancouver so coldly, and she
repulsed him again more than once during the evening. When Joe was gone,
John Harrington went up to her.

"I came very late," he said, "and at first I could not find you, and then
I had to say something to Miss Thorn. But I wanted to see you especially."

"Give me your arm," said Mrs. Wyndham, "and we will go into the
conservatory. I have something especial to say to you, too." Once out of
the thick of the party, they sat down. "I have discovered something more
about our amiable friend," she continued. "It is a side-light on his
character--something he did a year and a half ago. Do you remember his
flirtation with Sybil Brandon at Saratoga and then at Newport?"

"Yes, I was in Newport most of the summer."

"You don't know why she refused him, though. It's perfectly rich!" Mrs.
Sam laughed dryly.

"No; I only know she did, and every one seemed very much astonished,"
answered John.  "She refused him because he had been trying to find out
how much she was worth. It speaks volumes for the characters of both of
them, does it not?"

"Yes, indeed," said John. "What a Jew that man is! He is as rich as
Croesus."

"Oh, well, as I told her, most men would do it."

"I suppose so," John answered, laughing a little. "A man the other night
told me he was going to make inquiries concerning the fortunes of his
beloved one. He said he had no idea of buying a pig in a poke. That was
graceful, was it not?"

Mrs. Wyndham laughed aloud. "He was honest, at all events. By the bye, do
you know you have a fanatic admirer in Sybil Brandon?"

"No, really? I like her very much, too: and I am very glad if she likes
me."

"She said she would not marry you if you asked her, though," said Mrs.
Sam, laughing again. "You see you must not flatter yourself too much."

"I do not. I should not think of asking her to marry me. Did she give any
especial reason why she would inevitably refuse me?"

"Yes, indeed; she said you were lion-like, and, oh, the most delightful
things! But she said she would not marry you if you asked her, because you
are a celebrity and devoted to your career, so that there is no room for a
woman in your life. Is that true?"

"I am not so sure," said John, thoughtfully. "Perhaps she is right in the
way she means. I never thought much about it."




CHAPTER XII.



The idea Joe had formed about Vancouver was just, in the main, and she was
not far wrong in disliking him and thinking him dangerous. Nevertheless
John Harrington understood the man better. Vancouver was so constituted
that his fine intellect and quick perception were unsupported by any
strong principle of individuality. He was not capable of hatred--he could
only be spiteful; he could not love, he could only give a woman what he
could spare of himself. He would at all times rather avoid an open
encounter, but he rarely neglected an opportunity of dealing a thrust at
any one he disliked, when he could do so safely. He was the very opposite
of John, who never said of any one what he would not say to themselves,
and granted to every man the broadest right of judgment and freedom of
opinion. Nevertheless there was not enough real strength in anything
Vancouver felt to make him very dangerous as an opponent, nor valuable as
a friend. Had it not been for the important position he had attained by
his clever subtlety in affairs, and by the assistance of great railroad
magnates who found in him a character and intelligence precisely suited to
their ends, Pocock Vancouver would have been a neutral figure in the
world, lacking both the enterprise to create an idea and the courage to
follow it out. It was most characteristic of his inherent smallness, that
in spite of his wealth and the very large operations that must be
constantly occupying his thoughts, he could demean himself to write
anonymous articles in a daily paper, in the hope of injuring a man he
disliked.

It is true that his feeling against Harrington was as strong as anything
in his nature. He detested John's strength because he had once made him a
confidence and John had done him a favor. He disliked him also because he
knew that wherever they chanced to be together John received an amount of
consideration and even of respect which he himself could not obtain with
all his money and all his cleverness. His mind, too, delighted in detail
and revolted against John's sweeping generalities. For these several
reasons Vancouver had taken great delight in writing and printing sundry
vicious criticisms upon John in the absolute certainty of not being found
out. The editor of the paper did not know Vancouver's name, for the
articles came through the post with a modest request that they might be
inserted if they were of any use; and they were generally so pungent and
to the point that the editor was glad to get them, especially as no
remuneration was demanded.

As for the confidence Vancouver had once made to John, it was another
instance of his littleness. At the time when Vancouver was anxious to
marry Sybil Brandon, John Harrington was very intimate at the house, and
was, in Vancouver's opinion, a dangerous rival; at all events he felt that
the contest was not an agreeable one, nor altogether to his own advantage.
Accordingly he tried every means to clear the coast, as he expressed it;
but although John probably had no intention of marrying Sybil, and Sybil
certainly had never thought of marrying John, the latter was fond of her
society, and of her mother's, and came to the cottage on the Newport cliff
with a regularity that drove Vancouver to the verge of despair. Pocock at
last could bear it no longer and asked John to dinner. Over a bottle of
Pommery Sec he confided his passion, and hinted that John was the obstacle
to his wooing. Harrington raised his eyebrows, smiled, wished Vancouver
all success, and left Newport the next day. If Vancouver had not disgusted
Sybil by his inquiries concerning her fortune, he would have married her,
and his feelings towards John would have been different. But to know that
Harrington had done him the favor of going away, knowing that he was about
to offer himself to Miss Brandon, and then to have failed in his suit was
more than the vanity of Mr. Pocock Vancouver could bear with any sort of
calmness, and the consequence was that he disliked John as much as he
disliked anybody or anything in the world. There is no resentment like the
resentment of wounded vanity, nor any self-reproach like that of a man who
has shown his weakness.

When Mrs. Wyndham told John the story of Vancouver's failure he could have
told her the rest, had he chosen, and she would certainly have been very
much amused. But John was not a man to betray a confidence, even that of a
man who had injured him, and so he merely laughed and kept his own
counsel. He would have scorned to speak to Vancouver about the articles,
or to make any change in his manner towards him. As he had said to
Josephine, he had expected nothing from the man, and now he was not
disappointed.

Meanwhile Vancouver, who was weakly but frequently susceptible to the
charms of woman, had made up his mind that if Josephine had enough pin-money she would make him an admirable wife, and he accordingly began to
make love to her in his own fashion, as has been seen. A day or two
earlier Joe would have laughed at him, and it would perhaps have amused
her to hear what he had to say, as it amuses most young women to listen to
pretty speeches. But Joe was between two fires, so to speak; she was under
the two influences that were strongest with her. She loved John Harrington
with all her heart, and she hated Vancouver with all her strength. It is
true that her hatred was the only acknowledged passion, for her maidenly
nature was not able yet to comprehend her love; and the mere thought that
she cared for a man who did not care for her brought the hot blush to her
cheek. But the love was in her heart all the same, strong and enduring, so
that Vancouver found the fortress doubly guarded.

He could not entirely explain to himself her conduct at the party. She had
always seemed rather willing to accept his attentions and to listen to his
conversation, but on this particular evening, just when he wished to make
a most favorable impression, she had treated him with surprising coldness.
There was a supreme superiority in the way she had at first declined his
services, and had then told him he might be permitted to get her a glass
of water. The subsequent satisfaction of having ousted Mr. Bonamy
Biggielow, the little poet, from his position at her side was small
enough, and was more than counterbalanced and destroyed by her returning
to her chaperon at the first soft-tongued insinuation of a desire to
flirt, which Vancouver ventured to speak. Moreover, when Harrington almost
pushed him aside and sat down by Josephine, Vancouver could bear it no
longer, but turned on his heel and went away, with black thoughts in his
heart. It seemed as though John was to be always in his way.

It would be hard to say what he would have felt had he known that
Josephine Thorn, John Harrington, and Mrs. Sam Wyndham all knew of his
journalistic doings. And yet it was nearly certain that no one of the
three would ever speak to him on the subject. Joe would not, because she
knew John would not like it; John himself despised the whole business too
much to condescend to reproach Vancouver; and, finally, Mrs. Wyndham was
too much a woman of the world to be willing to cause a scandal when it
could possibly be avoided. She liked Vancouver too, and regretted what he
had done. Her liking only extended to his conversation and agreeable
manners, for she was beginning to despise his character; but he had so
long been an habitué about the house that she could not make up her
mind to turn him out. But for all that, she could not help being cold to
him at first.

John himself was too busy with important matters to bestow much thought on
Vancouver or his doings. His day had been spent in interviews and letter-writing; fifty people had been to see him at his rooms, and he had
dispatched more than that number of letters. At five o'clock he had
slipped out with the intention of dining at his club before any one else
was there, but he had met Mrs. Wyndham in the street, and had spent his
dinner-hour with her. At half-past six he had another appointment in his
rooms, and it was not till nearly eleven that he was able to get away and
look in upon the party, when he met Joe. For a week this kind of life
would probably last, and then all would be over, in one way or another,
but meanwhile the excitement was intense.

On the next day Ronald came to see Joe before ten o'clock. The time hung
heavily on his hands, and he found it impossible to occupy himself with
his troubles. There were moments when the first impression of
disappointment returned upon him very strongly, but he was conscious of a
curious duplicity about his feelings, and he knew well enough in his
inmost heart that he was only evoking a fictitious regret out of respect
for what he thought he ought to feel.

"Tell me all about the people here, Joe," said he, sitting down beside her
almost as though nothing had happened. "Who is Mrs. Wyndham, to begin
with?"

"Mrs. Wyndham--she is Sam Wyndham's wife. Just that," said Joe.

"And Sam Wyndham?"

"Oh--he is one of the prevalent profession. He is a millionaire. In fact
he is one of the real ones."

"When do they get to be real?" asked Ronald.

"Oh, when they have more than ten millions. The other ones do not count
much. It is much more the thing to be poor, unless you have ten millions."

"That is something in my favor, at all events," said Ronald.

"Very much. You have been to see Mrs. Wyndham, then?"

"Oh yes, I went yesterday, and she has asked me to dinner to-night. It is
awfully good of her, I must say."

"You will like her very much, and Sybil Brandon too," said Joe. "Sybil is
an adorable creature."

"She is most decidedly good-looking, certainly. There is no doubt about
it." Ronald pulled his delicate moustache a little. "Though she is quite
different style from you, Joe," he added presently, as though he had
