battles and vanquished nine self-styled kings ; but he 
never, on any occasion, detected a conspiracy, nor de- 
stroyed a revolution before it had broken out openly. 
He was often, therefore, at the mercy of Atossa and 
frequently found himself baffled by her power of 
concealing a subtle lie under the letter of truth, and 
by her supreme indifference and coldness of manner 
under the most trying circumstances. In his simple 
judgment it was absolutely impossible for any one to 
lie directly without betraying some hesitation, and 
each time he endeavoured to place Atossa in some 
difficult position, when she must, he thought, inevi- 
tably betray herself, he was met by her inexplicable 
calm ; which he was forced to attribute to the fact 
that she was in the right — no matter how the evi- 
dence might be against her. 

The king decided that he had made a mistake in 
the present instance and that Phraortes was innocent 
of any idea of revolution. He could not conceive 
how such a man should be capable of executing a 
daring stroke of policy. He determined to let him 

go.

" You ought to be well satisfied with the result of 
these accounts," he said, staring hard at Atossa. 
" You see you know more of your affairs, and sooner, 
than you could have known if you had sent your 
letter. Let this fellow go, and tell him to send his 



 

accounts regularly in future, or he will have the 
pains of riding hither in haste to deliver them. 
Thou mayest go now and take thy rest," he added, 
rising and pushing the willing Phraortes before him 
out of the room. 

" Thou hast done well. I am satisfied with thee, 
Phraortes," said Atossa coldly. 

Once more the beautiful queen was left alone, and 
once more she looked at herself in the silver mirror, 
somewhat more critically than before. It seemed to 
her as she gazed and turned first one side of her face 
to the light and then the other, that she was a shade 
paler than usual. The change would have been imperceptible to any one else, but she noticed it with 
a little frown of disapproval. But presently she 
snioothed her brow and smiled happily to herself. 
She had sustained a terrible danger successfully. 

She had hoped to have been able to warn Phraortes 
how to act; but, partly because the meeting had 
taken place so soon after his arrival, and partly 
because she had employed a portion of that brief 
interval with Zoroaster and in the scene she had 
suddenly invented and acted, she had been obliged 
to meet her chief agent w^ithout a moment's prepa- 
ration, and she knew enough of his cowardly char- 
acter to fear lest he should betray her and throw 
himself upon the king's mercy as a reward for the 
information he could give. But the crucial moment 
had passed successfully and there was nothing more 
to fear. Atossa threw herself upon the couch where 
the king had sat, and abandoned herself to the delicious contemplation of the pain she must have given 



 

in showing herself to Nehushta in Zoroaster's arms. 
She was sure that as the princess could not have seen 
Zoroaster's face, she must have thought that it was 
he who was embracing the queen. She must have 
suffered horribly, if she really loved him.







CHAPTER XII. 

When Darius left the queen, he gave over the 
miserable Phraortes to the guards, to be cared for, 
and bent his stejDS towards the gardens. It was yet 
early, but he wished to be alone, and he supposed 
that Nehushta w^ould come there before noon, as was 
her wont. Meanwhile, he wished to be free of the 
court and of the queen. Slowly he entered the mar- 
ble gate and walked up the long walk of roses, pluck- 
ing a leaf now and then, and twisting it in his lingers, 
scenting the fresh blossoms with an almost boyish 
gladness, and breathing in all the sweet warmth of 
the summer morning. He had made a mistake, and 
he was glad to be away, where he could calmly reflect 
upon the reason of his being deceived. 

He wandered on until he came to the marble pavilion, and would have gone on to stray farther into the 
gardens, but that he caught sight of a woman's mantle upon the floor as he passed by the open doorway. 
He went up the few steps and entered. 

Nehushta lay upon the marble pavement at her full 
length, her arms extended above her head. Her face 
was ghastly pale and her parted lips were white. She 
looked as one dead. Her white linen tiara had almost 
fallen from her heavy hair, and the long black locks 
streamed upon the stone in thick confusion. Her 
fingers were tightly clenched, and on her face was 



 

such an expression of agony, as Darius had never 
dreamed of, nor seen in those dead in battle. 

The king started back in horror as he caught sight 
of the prostrate figure. lie thought she was dead — 
murdered, perhaps — until, as he gazed, he saw a faint 
movement of breathing. Then he sprang forward, 
and kneeled, and raised her head upon his knee, and 
chafed her temples and her hands. He could reach 
the little fountain as he knelt, and he gathered some 
water in his palm and sprinkled it upon her face. 

At last she opened her eyes — then closed them 
wearily again — then opened them once more in quick 
astonishment, and recognised the king. She would 
have made an effort to rise, but he checked her, and 
she let her head sink back upon his knee. Still he 
chafed her temples with his broad, brown hand, and 
gazed with anxious tenderness into her eyes, that 
looked at him for a moment, and then wandered and 
then looked again. 

" What is this ? " she asked, vacantly, at last. 

" I know not," answered the king. " I found you 
here — lying upon the floor. Are you hurt?" he 
asked tenderly. 

"Hurt? No — yes, I am hurt — hurt even to 
death," she added suddenly. " Oh, Darius, I would 
I could tell you! Are you really my friend?" 

She raised herself without his help and sat up. 
The hot blood rushed back to her cheeks and her 
eyes regained their light. 

" Can you doubt that I am your friend, your best 
friend ? " asked the king. 

Nehushta rose to her feet and paced the little hall 



 

in great emotion. Her hands played nervously with 
the golden tassels of her mantle, her head-dress had 
fallen quite back upon her shoulders, and the masses 
of her hair were let loose. From time to time she 
glanced at the king, who eyed her anxiously as he 
stood beside the fountain. 

Presently she stopped before him, and very gravely 
fixed her eyes on him. 

" I will tell you something," she said, beginning in 
low tones. " I will tell you this — I cannot tell you 
all. I have been horribly deceived, betrayed, made a 
sport of. I cannot tell you how — you will believe 
me, will you not? This man I loved — I love him 
not — has cast me off as an old garment, as a thing 
of no price — as a shoe that is worn out and that is 
not fit for his feet to tread upon. I love him not — 
I hate him — oh, I love him not at all ! " 

Darius's face grew dark and his teeth ground hard 
together, but he stood still, awaiting what she should 
say. But Nehushta ceased, and suddenly she began 
again to walk up and down, putting her hand to her 
temples, as though in pain. Once more she paused, 
and, in her great emotion laid her two hands upon 
the shoulder of the king, who trembled at her touch, 
as though a strong man had struck him. 

'' You said you loved me, once," said Nehushta, in 
short, nervous tones, almost under her breath. " Do 
you love me still ? " 

" Is it so long since I told you I loved you ? " asked 
Darius, with a shade of bitterness. "Ah! do not 
tempt me — do not stir my sickness. Love you? 
Yea — as the earth loves the sun — as man never 



 

loved woman. Love you ? Ay ! I love you, and I 
am the most miserable of men." He shook from head 
to foot with strong emotion, and the stern lines of 
his face darkened as he went on speaking. " Yet, 
though I love you so, I cannot harm him, — for my 
great oath's sake I cannot — yet for you, almost I 
could. Ah Nehushta, Nehushta ! " he cried passionately, '' tempt me not ! Ask me not this, for you 
can almost make a liar of the Great King if you 
will I " 

"I tempt you not," answered the princess. "I 
will not that you harm a hair of his head. He is 
not worthy that you should lift the least of your 

fingers to slay him. But this I tell you " she 

hesitated. The king in his violent excitement, as 
though foreseeing what she would say, seized her 
hands and held them tightly while he gazed into her 
eyes. 

" Darius," she said, almost hurriedly, " if you love 
me, and if you desire it, I will be your wife." 

A wild light broke from the king's eyes. He 
dropped her hands and stepped backwards from her, 
staring hard. Then, with a quick motion, he turned 
and threw himself upon the marble seat that ran 
around the hall, and buried his face and sobbed 
aloud. 

Nehushta seemed to regain some of her calmness, 
when once she had said the fatal words. She went 
and knelt beside him and smoothed his brow and wild, 
rough hair. The great tears stained his dark cheek. 
He raised himself and looked at her and put one arm 
about her neck. 



 

" Nehushta," lie whispered, " is it true ? " 

She bowed her head silently. Darius drew her 
towards him and laid her cheek upon his breast. His 
face bent down to hers, most tenderly, as though he 
would have kissed her. But suddenly he drew back, 
and turned his eyes away. 

" No," he said, as though he had regained the 
mastery over himself. " It is too much to ask — that 
I might kiss you! It is too much — too much — that 
you give me. I am not worthy that you should be 
my wife. Nay ! " he cried, as she would not let him 
rise from his seat. " Nay, let me go, it is not right — 
it is not worthy — I must not see you any more. Oh, 
you have tempted me till I am too weak " 

" Darius, you are the noblest of men, the best and 
bravest." Then with a sudden impulse it seemed to 
Nehushta that she really loved him. The majestic 
strength of Zoroaster seemed cold and meaningless 
beside the fervour of the brave young king, striving 
so hard to do right under the sorest temptation, striving to leave her free, even against her will. For the 
moment she loved him, as such women do, with a 
passionate impulse. She put her arms about him and 
drew him down to her. 

" Darius, it is truth — I never loved you, but I love 
you now, for, of all living men, you have the bravest 
heart." She pressed a kiss hotly upon his forehead 
and her head sank upon his shoulder. For one 
moment the king trembled, and then, as though all 
resistance were gone from him, his arms went round 
her, locking with hers that held him, and he kissed 
her passionately. 




When Zoroaster awoke from his long sleep it was 
night. He had dreamed evil dreams, and he woke 
with a sense of some great disaster impending. He 
heard unwonted sounds in the hall outside his chamber, and he sprang to his feet and called one of the 
soldiers of his guard. 

" What is happening ? " asked Zoroaster quickly. 

"The Great King, who lives for ever, has taken a 
new wife to-day," answered the soldier, standing 
erect, but eyeing Zoroaster somewhat curiously. Zo- 
roaster's heart sank within him. 

" What ? Who is she ? " he asked, coming nearer 
to the man. 

" The new queen is Nehushta — the Hebrew prin- 
cess," answered the spearman. " There is a great 
banquet, and a feast for the guard, and much food 
and wine for the slaves " 

" It is well," answered Zoroaster. " Go thou, and 
feast with the rest." 

The man saluted, and left the room. Zoroaster 
remained standing alone, his teeth chattering to- 
gether and his strong limbs shaking beneath him. 
But he abandoned himself to no frenzy of grief, nor 
weeping; one seeing him would have said he was 
sick of a fever. His blue eyes stared hard at the 
lamp-light and his face was white, but he did not so 
much as utter an exclamation, nor give one groan. 
He went and sat down upon a chair and folded his 
hands together, as though waiting for some evento 
But nothing happened; no one came to disturb him 
in his solitude, though he could hear the tramping 
feet and the unceasing talk of the slaves and soldiers 



 

without. In the vast palace, where thousands dwelt, 
where all were feasting or talking of the coming ban- 
quet, Zoroaster was utterly alone. 

At last he rose, slowly, as though with an effort, 
and paced twice from one end of the room to the other. 
Upon a low shelf on one side, his garments were 
folded together, while his burnished cuirass and helmet and other arms which he had not worn upon his 
rapid journey to Ecbatana, hung upon nails in the 
wall above. He looked at all these things and turned 
the clothes over piece by piece, till he had found 
a great dark mantle and a black hood such as was 
worn in Media. These he put on, and beneath the 
cloak he girded a broad, sharp knife about him. 
Then wrapping himself closely round with the dark- 
coloured stuff and di-awing the hood over his eyes, he 
lifted the curtain of his door and went out, without 
casting a look behind him. 

In the crowd of slaves he passed unnoticed ; for 
the hall was but dimly lighted by a few torches, and 
every one's attention was upon the doings of the day 
and the coming feast. 

Zoroaster soon gathered from the words he heard 
spoken, that the banquet had not yet begun, and he 
hastened to the columned porch through which the 
royal party must pass on the way to the great hall 
which formed the centre of the main building. Files 
of spearmen, in their bronze breastplates and scarlet 
and blue mantles, lined the way, which was strewn 
with yellow sand and myrtle leaves and roses. At 
every pillar stood a huge bronze candlestick, in which 
a torch of wax and fir-gum burned, and flared, and 



 

sent up a cloud of half pungent, half aromatic smoke. 
Throngs of slaves and soldiers pressed close behind 
the lines of spearmen, elbowing each other with loud 
jests and surly complaints, to get a better place, a 
sea of moving, shouting, gesticulating humanity. 
Zoroaster's great height and broad shoulders enabled 
him easily to push to the front, and he stood there, 
disguised and unknown, peering between the heads of 
two of his own soldiers to obtain the first view of the 
procession as it came down the broad staircase at the 
end of the porch. 

Suddenly the blast of deep-toned trumpets was 
heard in the distance, and silence fell upon the great 
multitude. With a rhythmic sway of warlike tone 
the clangour rose and fell, and rose again as the 
trumpeters came out upon the great staircase and 
began to descend. After them came other musicians, 
whose softer instruments began to be heard in har- 
mony with the resounding bass of the horns, and 
then, behind them, came singers, whose strong, high 
voices completed the full burst of music that went 
before the king. 

With measured tread the procession advanced. 
There were neither priests, nor sacrificers, nor any 
connected with any kind of temple ; but after the 
singers came two hundred noble children clad in 
white, bearing long garlands of flowers that trailed 
upon the ground, so that many of the blossoms were 
torn off and strewed the sand. 

But Zoroaster looked neither on the singers, nor 
