dominoes filling the shop windows and dangling 
from the doors. A devil in red and a clown in 
white crossed the way in front of him from an in- 
tersecting street; several children in pretty mas- 
querading dresses flashed in and out among the 
crowd. He hurried to the Lung' Arno, and reached 
the palace where Mrs. Bowen lived, with these holi- 
day sights fresh in his mind. Imogene turned to meet 
him at the door of the apartment, running from the 
window where she had left Effie Bowen still gazing. 

"We saw you, coming,'' she said gaily, without 
waiting to exchange formal greetings. " We didn't 
know at first but it might be somebody else dis- 
guised as you. We 've been watching the maskers 
go by. Isn't it exciting ? " 

"Awfully," said Colville, going to the window 
with her, and putting his arm on EfSe's shoulder, 
where she knelt in a chair looking out. "What 
have you seen ? " 



 

"OJt, only two Spanish students with mandolins," 
said Imogene ; " but you can see they 're beginning 
to come." 

" They 'II stop now," murmured Effie, with gentle 
disappointment ; " it 's commencing to rain." 

" Oh, too bad ! " wailed the young girl. But just 
then two mediaeval men-at-arms came in sight, carry- 
ing umbrellas. "Isn't that too delicious? Um- 
brellas and chain-armour ! " 

" You can't expect them to let their chain-armour 
get rusty," said Colville. " You ought to have been 
with me — minstrels in scale-armour, Florentines of 
Savonarola's times, nuns, clowns, demons, fairies — 
no end to them." 

" It 's very well saying we ought to have been 
with you ; but we can't go anywhere alone." 

" I didn't say alone," said Colville. " Don't you 
think Mrs. Bowen would trust you with me to see 
these Carnival beginnings ? " He had not meant at 
all to do anything of this kind, but that had not 
prevented his doing it. 

" How do we know, when she hasn't been asked ?" 
said Imogene, with a touch of burlesque dolor, such 
as makes a dignified girl enchanting, when she per- 
mits it to herself. She took Effie's hand in hers, the 
child having faced round from the window, and 
stood smoothing it, with her lovely head patheti- 
cally tilted on one side. 

" What haven't I been asked yet ? " demanded 
Mrs. Bowen, coming lightly toward them from a 
door at the side of the salon. She gave her hand 



 

to Colville with the prettiest grace, and a cordiality 
that brought a flush to her cheek. There had really- 
been nothing between them but a little unreasoned 
coolness, if it were even so much as that ; say 
rather a dryness, aggravated by time and absence, 
and now, as friends do, after a thing of that kind, 
they were suddenly glad to be good to each other. 

"Why, you haven't been asked how you have 
been this long time,'' said Colville. 

"I have been wanting to tell you for a whole 
week," returned Mrs. Bowen, seating the rest and 
taking a chair for herself. " Where have you 
been ? " 

" Oh, shut up in my cell at Hotel d'Atene, writing 
a short history of the Florentine people for Miss 
Effie." 

" Effie, take Mr. Colville's hat," said her mother. 
" We 're going to make you stay to lunch," she ex- 
plained to him. 

" Is that so ? " he asked, with an effect of polite 
curiosity. 

"Yes." Imogene softly clapped her hands, un- 
seen by Mrs. Bowen, for Colville's instruction that 
all was going well. If it delights women to pet an 
undangerous friend of our sex, to use him like one 
of themselves, there are no words to paint the soft 
and flattered content with which his spirit purrs 
under their caresses. "You must have nearly 
finished the history,'' added Mrs. Bowen. 

"Well, I could have finished it," said Colville, 
" if I had only begun it. You see, writing a short 



 

history of the Florentine people is such quick work 
that you have to be careful how you actually put 
pen to paper, or you're through with it before 
you've had any fun out of it." 

"I think Effie will like to read that kind of 
history," said her mother. 

The child hung her head, and would not look at 
Colville ; she was still shy with him ; his absence 
must have seemed longer to a child, of course. 

At lunch they talked of the Carnival sights that 
had begun to appear. He told of his call upon Mr. 
Waters, and of the old minister's purpose to see all 
he could of the Carnival in order to judge intelli- 
gently of Savonarola's opposition to it. 

"Mr. Waters is a very good man,'' said Mrs. 
Bowen, with the air of not meaning to approve him 
quite, nor yet to let any notion of his be made fun 
of in her presence. " But for my part I wish there 
were not going to be any Carnival ; the city will be 
in such an uproar for the next two weeks.'' 

" Mrs. Bowen ! " cried Imogene reproach- 
iuUy ; Effie looked at her mother in apparent anxiety 
lest she should be meaning to put forth an unques- 
tionable power and stop the Carnival. 

" The last Carnival, I thought there was never 
going to be any end to it ; I was so glad when Lent 
came." 

" Glad when Lent came ! " breathed Imogene, in 

astonishment ; but she ventured upon nothing more 

insubordinate, and Colville admired to see this 

spirited girl as subject to Mrs. Bowen as her own 

I 



 

child. There is no reason why one woman should 
establish another woman over her, but nearly all 
women do it in one sort or another, from love of a 
voluntary submission, or from a fear of their own 
ignorance, if they are younger and more inexperi- 
enced than their lieges. Neither the one passion 
nor the other seems to reduce them to a like 
passivity as regards their husbands. They must 
apparently have a fetish of their own sex. Colville 
could see that Imogene obeyed Mrs. Bowen not only 
as Si'proUgde but as a devotee. 

" Oh, I suppose ymi, will have to go through it 
all," said Mrs. Bowen, in reward of the girl's ac- 
quiescence. 

" You 're rather out of the way of it up here," 
said Colville. " You had better let me go about 
with the young ladies — if you can trust them to the 
care of an old fellow like me." 

" Oh, I don't think you 're so very old, at all 
times," replied Mrs. Bowen, with a peculiar look, 
whether indulgent or reproachful he could not quite 
make out. 

But he replied, boldly, in his turn : " I have cer- 
tainly my moments of being young still ; I don't 
deny it. There's always a danger of their occur- 
rence." 

"•I was thinking,'' said Mrs. Bowen, with a grace- 
ful effect of not listening, " that you would let me 
go too. It would be quite like old times." 

" Only too much honour and pleasure," returned 
Colville, " if you will leave out the old times. I 'm 



 

not particular about having them along." Mrs. 
Bowen joined in laughing at the joke, which they 
had to themselves. " I was only consulting an ex- 
plicit abhorrence of yours iu not asking you to go at 
first," he explained. 

" Oh yes ; I understand that." 

The excellence of the whole arrangement seemed 
to grow upon Mrs. Bowen. " Of course," she said, 
" Imogene ought to see all she can of the Carnival. 
She may not have another chance, and perhaps if 
she had, he wouldn't consent." 

" I 'll engage to get his consent," said the girl. 
" What I was afraid of was that I couldn't get yours, 
Mrs. Bowen." 

"Am I so severe as that?" asked Mrs. Bowen 
softly. 

" Quite,'' replied Imogene. 

" Perhaps," thought Colville, " it isn't always 
silent submission." 

For no very good reason that any one could give, 
the Carnival that year was not a brilliant one. 
Colville's party seemed to be always meeting the 
same maskers on the street, and the maskers did not 
greatly increase in numbers. There were a few 
more of them after nightfall, but they were then a 
little more bacchanal, and he felt it was better that 
the ladies had gone home by that time. In the 
pursuit of the tempered pleasure of looking up 
the maskers he was able to make the reflection that 
their fantastic and vivid dresses sympathised in a 
striking way with the architecture of the city, and 



 

gave him an effect of Florence which he could not 
otherwise have had. There came by and by a little 
attempt at a cm'so in Via Cerratani and Via Torna- 
buoni. There were some masks in carriages, and 
from one they actually threw plaster confetti ; half a 
dozen bare-legged boys ran before and beat one 
another with bladders. Some people, but not many, 
watched the show from the windows, and the foot- 
ways were crowded. 

Having proposed that they should see the Carni- 
val together, Colville had made himself responsible 
for it to the Bowen household. Imogene said, 
" Well is this the famous Carnival of Florence ? " 

" It certainly doesn't compare with the Carnival 
last year," said Mrs. Bowen. 

"Your reproach is just, Mrs.-Bowen," he acknow- 
ledged. " I 've managed it badly. But you know 
I 've been out of practice a great while there in Des 
Vaches." 

"Oh, poor Mr. Colville!" cried Imogene. "He 
isn't altogether to blame." 

" I don't know," said Mrs. Bowen, humouring the 
joke in her turn. " It seems to me that if he had 
consulted us a little earlier, he might have done 
better." 

He drove home with the ladies, and Mrs. Bowen 

made him stay to tea. As if she felt that he needed 

to be consoled for the failure of his Carnival, she 

was especially indulgent with him. She played to 

' him on the piano some of the songs that were in 

* fashion when they were in Florence together before. 



 

Imogene had never heard them ; she had heard her 
mother speak of them. One or two of them were 
negro songs, such as very pretty young ladies used 
to sing without harm to themselves or offence to 
others ; hut Imogene decided that they were rather 
rowdy. " Dear me, Mrs. Bowen ! Did you sing 
such songs ? You wouldn't let Effie ! " 

" No, I wouldn't let Effie. The times are changed. 
I wouldn't let Effie go to the theatre alone with a 
young gentleman." 

" The times are changed for the worse," Colville 
began. " What harm ever came to a young man 
from a young lady's going alone to the theatre with 
him ? " 

He stayed till the candles were brought in, and 
then went away only because, as he said, they had 
not asked him to stay to dinner. 

He came nearly every day, upon one pretext or 
another, and he met them oftener than that at the 
teas and on the days of other ladies in Florence ; 
for he was finding the busy idleness of the life very 
pleasant, and he went everywhere. He formed the 
habit of carrying flowers to the Palazzo Pinti, ex- 
cusing himself on the ground that they were so 
cheap and so abundant as to be impersonal. He 
brought violets to Effie and roses to Imogene;* to 
Mrs. Bowen he always brought a bunch of the huge 
purple anemones which grow so abundantly all 
winter long about Florence. " I wonder why purple 
anemones ? " he asked her one day in presenting 
them to her. 



 

" Oh, it is quite time I should be wearing purple," 
she said gently. 

"Ah, Mrs. Bowen \" he reproached her. "Why 
do I bring purple violets to Miss EflEie ? " 

" You must ask EfBe ! " said Mrs. Bowen, with a 
laugh. 

After that he stayed away forty-eight hours, and 
then appeared with a bunch of the red anemones, as 
large as tulips, which light up the meadow grass 
when it begins to stir from its torpor in the spring. 
" They grew on purpose to set me right with 
you," he said, "and I saw them when I was in 
the country." 

It was a little triumph for him, which she cele- 
brated by putting them in a vase on her table, and 
telling people who exclaimed over them that they 
were some Mr. Colville gathered in the country. 
He enjoyed his privileges at her house with the 
futureless satisfaction of a man. He liked to go 
about with the Bowens ; he was seen with the ladies 
driving and walking, in most of their promenades. 
He directed their visits to the churches and the gal- 
leries ; he was fond of strolling about with Effie's 
daintily-gloved little hand in his. He took her to 
Giocosa's and treated her to ices ; he let her choose 
from the confectioner's prettiest caprices in candy ; 
he was allowed to bring the child presents in his 
pockets. Perhaps he was not as conscientious as he 
might have been in his behaviour with the little 
girl. He did what he could to spoil her, or at least 
to relax the severity of the training she had re- 



 

ceived; he liked to see the struggle that went on 
in the mother's mind against this, and then the 
other struggle with which she overcame her opposi- 
tion to it. The worst he did was to teach EfBe 
some picturesque Western phrases, which she used 
with innocent effectiveness; she committed the 
crimes against convention which he taught her 
with all the conventional elegance of her training. 
The most that he ever gained for her were some 
concessions in going out in weather that her 
mother thought unfit, or sitting up for half-hours 
after her hed-time. He ordered hooks for her from 
Goodban's, and it was Colville now, and not the Eev. 
Mr. Morton, who read poetry aloud to the ladies on 
afternoons when Mrs. Bowen gave orders that she 
and Miss Graham should be denied to all other 
comers. 

It was an intimacy ; and society in Florence is not 
blind, and especially it is not dumb. The old lady 
who had celebrated Mrs. Bowen to him the first 
night at Palazzo Pinti led a life of active questions 
as to what was the supreme attraction to Colville 
there) and she referred her doubt to every friend 
with whom she drank tea. She philosophised the 
situation very scientifically, and if not very conclu- 
sively, how few are the absolute conclusions of 
science upon any point ! 
