with their gaze upon the heavens and their feet rooted to the earth,
and seemed like sentient creatures who knew why this was as it was.

I, walking with my eyes upon them, feet unguarded, and fancy following
a cloud of rose-colour that hung fashioned in the outline of a mighty
wing above me, caught my foot in a gnarled old hickory root and fell
heavily.  When I tried to rise I found that I was considerably hurt.

I was a well, vigorous man, not accustomed to pain, which took a
vigorous form with me; and I was mortified to find myself quite faint,
too much so even to disturb myself over the situation, or to wonder who
would be likely to institute a searching-party for me,--a stranger, but
an hour since, registered at the hotel.

With that ease which I condemned so hotly in my patients I abandoned
myself to the physical pang, got back somehow against the hickory, and
closed my eyes; devoid even of curiosity as to the consequences of the
accident; only "attentive to my sensations," as a great writer of my
day put it.  I had often quoted him to nervous people whom I considered
as exaggerating their sufferings; I did not recall the quotation at
that moment.

"Oh! you are hurt!" a low voice said.

I was a bit fastidious in voices at that time of my life.  To say that
this was the sweetest I had ever heard would not express what I mean.
It was the dearest I had ever heard.  From that first moment,--before
I saw her face,--drowned as I was in that wave of mean physical agony,
given over utterly to myself, I knew, and to myself I said: "It is the
dearest voice in all this world."

A woman on the further side of the trout-brook stood uncertain,
pitifully regarding me.  She was not a girl,--quite a woman; ripe, and
self-possessed in bearing.  She had a beautiful head, and bright dark
hair; her head was bare, and her straw mountain-hat hung across one arm
by the strings.  She had been bathing her face in the water, which was
of a pink tint like the wing above it.  As she stood there, she seemed
to be shut in and guarded by, dripping with, that rose-colour,--to
inhale it, to exhale it, to be a part of it, to be it.  She looked
like a blossom of the live and wonderful evening.

"You are seriously hurt," she repeated.  "I must get to you.  Have
patience; I will find a way.  I will help you."

The bridge was at some distance from us, and the little stream was
brawling and strong.

"But it is not deep," she said.  "Do not feel any concern.  It will do
me no harm."  As she spoke, she swung herself lightly over into the
brook, stepping from stone to stone, till these came to an abrupt end
in the current.  There for an instant poised, but one could not say
uncertain, she hung shining before me--for her dress was white, and it
took and took and took the rose-colour as if she were a white rose,
blushing.  She then plunged directly into the water, which was
knee-deep at least, and waded straight across to me.

As she climbed the bank, her thick wet dress clinging to her lovely
limbs, and her hands outstretched as if in hurrying pity, I closed my
eyes again before her.  I thought, as I did so, how much exquisite
pleasure was like perfect pain.

She climbed the bank and stooped from her tall height to look at me;
knelt upon the moss, and touched me impersonally, like the spirit that
she seemed.

"You are very wet!" I cried.  "The water is cold.  I know these
mountain brooks.  You will be chilled through.  Pray get home and send
me--somebody."

"Where are you hurt?" she answered, with a little authoritative wave of
the hand, as if she waved my words away.  She had firm, fine hands.

"I have injured the patella--I mean the knee-pan," I replied.  She
smiled indulgently.  She did not take the trouble to tell me that my
lesson in elementary anatomy was at all superfluous.  But when I saw
her smile I said:--

"That was unconscious cerebration."

"Why, of course," she answered, nodding pleasantly.

"Go home," I urged.  "Go and get yourself out of these wet things.  No
lady can bear it; it will injure you."  She lifted her head,--I thought
she carried it like a Greek,--and regarded me with her wide, grave
eyes.  I met hers firmly, and for a moment we considered each other.

"It is plain that you are a doctor," she said lightly, with a second
smile.  "I presume you never see a well woman; at least--believe you
see one now.  I shall mind this wetting no more than if I were a trout
or a gray squirrel.  I am perfectly able to give you whatever help you
require.  And by your leave, I shall not go home and get into a dry
dress until I see you properly cared for.  Now!  Can you step?  Or
shall I get a waggon, and a farm-hand?  I think we could back a horse
down almost to this spot.  But it would take time.  So?--Will you try
it?  Gently.  Slowly.  Don't let me hurt you, or blunder.  I see that
you are in great pain.  Don't be afraid to lean on me.  I am quite
strong.  I am able.  If you can crawl a few steps"--

Steps!  I would have crawled a few miles.  For she put her sweet arms
about me as simply and nobly as if I had been a wounded child; and with
such strength of the flesh and unconsciousness of the spirit as I had
never beheld in any woman, she did indeed support me out of the forest
in such wise that my poor pain of the body became a great and glorified
fact, for the joy of soul that I had because of her.

It had begun to be easy, in my day, to make a mock at many dear and
delicate beliefs; not those alone which pertain to the life eternal,
but those belonging to the life below.  The one followed from the
other, perhaps.  That which we have been accustomed to call love was an
angel whose wings had been bruised by our unbelieving clutch.  It was
not the fashion to love greatly.  One of the leading scientists of my
time and of my profession had written: "There is nothing particularly
holy about love."  So far as I had given thought to the subject, I had,
perhaps, agreed with him.  It is easy for a physician to agree to
anything which emphasizes the visible, and erases the invisible fact.
If there were any one form of the universal delusion more than all
others "gone out" in the days of which I speak, it was the dear,
old-fashioned delirium called loving at first sight.  I was never
exactly a scoffer; but I had mocked at this fable as other men of my
sort mock,--a subject for prophylactics, like measles or scarlet fever;
and when you said that, you had said the whole.  Be it, then, recorded,
be it admitted, without let or hindrance, that I, Esmerald Thorne,
physician and surgeon, forty-five years old, and of sane mind, did love
that one woman, and her only, and her always, from the moment that my
unworthy eyes first looked into her own, as she knelt before me on the
moss beside the mountain brook,--from that moment to this hour.




CHAPTER II.

Thus half in perfect poetry, part in simplest prose, opened the first
canto of that long song which has made music in me; which has made
music of me, since that happy night.  Of the countless words which we
have exchanged together in times succeeding, these, the few of our
first meeting are carved upon my brain as salutations are carved in
stone above the doorways of mansions.  He that has loved as I did, may
say why this should be so, if he can.  I cannot.  Time and storm beat
against these inscriptions, and give them other colouring,--the tints
of years and weather; but while the house lasts and the rock holds the
salutation lives.  In most other matters, the force of recurring
experience weakens association.  He who loves cherishes the first words
of the beloved as he cherishes her last.

The situation was simple enough: an injured man and a lovely woman,
guests of the same summer hotel; a slow recovery; a leisurely sweet
acquaintance; the light that never was on hill or shore; and so the
charm was wrought.  My accident held me a prisoner for six weeks.  But
my love put me in chains in six minutes.

Her name was Helen; like hers of old

  "Who fired the topmost towers of Ilium."

I liked the stately name of her, for she was of full
womanhood,--thirty-three years old; the age at which the French
connoisseur said that a charming woman charmed the most.

Upon the evening before we parted, I ventured--for we sat at the
sheltered end of the piazza, away from the patterers and chatterers, a
little by ourselves--to ask her a brave question.  I had learned that
one might ask her anything; she had originality; she was not of the
feminine pattern; she had no paltriness nor pettiness in her thoughts;
she looked out, as men do, upon a subject; not down, as women are
wont.  She was a woman with whom a man could converse.  He need not
adapt himself and conceal himself, and play the part of a gallant at
real matters which were above gallantry.  He could confide in her.  Now
it was new to me to consider that I could confide in any person.  In my
calling, one becomes such a receptacle of human confidence,--one soaks
up other people's lives till one becomes a great sponge, absorptive and
absorbing for ever, as sponges should.  Who notices when the useful
thing gets too full?  That is what it is there for.  Pour on--scalding
hot, or freezing cold, or pure or foul--pour away.  If one day it
refuses to absorb any more, and lies limp and valueless--why, the
Doctor has broken down; or the Doctor is dead.  Who ever thought
anything could happen to the Doctor?  One thing in the natural
history of the sponge is apt to be overlooked.  When the process of
absorption reaches a certain point, let the true hand touch the wearied
thing, and grasp it in the right way, and lo! back rushes the instinct
of confidence, out, not in.

Something of this sort had happened to me.  The novelty of real
acquaintance with a woman who did not need me had an effect upon me
which perhaps few outside of my profession can understand.  This woman
truly needed nothing of me.  She had not so much as a toothache or a
sore throat.  If she had cares or troubles they were her own.  She
leaned upon me no more than the sunrise did upon the mountain.  She was
as radiant, as healthful, as vivid, and as calm; she surrounded me, she
overflowed me like the colour of the air.  Nay, beyond this it was I
who had need; it was she who ministered.  It was I who suffered the
whims and longings of weakness,--the thousand little cravings of the
sick for the well.  It was I who learned to know that I had never known
the meaning of what is called "diversion."  I learned to suspect that I
had yet to learn the true place of sympathy in therapeutics.  I
learned, in short, some serious professional lessons which were the
simplest human ones.

But the question that I spoke of was on this wise.  It did not indeed
wear the form, but she gave it the hospitality, of a question.

"I wish I knew," I said, "why you have not married.  I wish you thought
me worthy to know."

"The whole world might know," she answered, with her sweet
straightforward look.

"And I, then, as the most unworthy part of it?"  For my heart sank at
the terms upon which I was admitted to the answer.

"I have never seen any man whom I wished to marry.  I have no other
reason."

"Nor I," I said, "a woman"--  And there I paused.  Yes, precisely
there, where I had not meant to; for she gave me a large, grave look,
upon which I could no more have intruded than I could have touched her.

This was in September.  The year had made the longest circuit of my
life before I gathered the courage to finish that sentence, broken by
the weight of a delicate look; before I dared to say to her:--

"Nor I a woman--until now."

I hope I was what we call "above" the petty masculine instinct which
values a woman who is hard to win chiefly for that circumstance.
Perhaps I was not as I thought myself.  But it seemed to me that the
anguish of wooing in doubt overcame all paltry sense of pleasure in
pursuit of my delight.  My thoughts of her moved like slow travellers
up the sides of a mountain of snow.  That other feeling would have been
a descent to me.  So wholly did she rule my soul--how could I stoop to
care the more for hers, because she was beyond my reach?

Be this as it may, beyond my reach for yet another year she did remain.
Gently as she inclined toward me, to love she made no haste.  The force
of my feeling was so great at times, it seemed incredible that hers did
not rush to meet me like part of the game incoming wave broken by a
coast island and joining--seemingly two, but in reality one--upon the
shoreward side.  For the first time in my life, in that rising tide of
my great love, I truly knew humility.  My unworthiness of her was more
present with me even than my longing for her.  If I could have scourged
my soul clear of all unfitness for her as our Saviour was said to have
scourged the tradesmen out of the Temple, I should have counted myself
blessed, even though I never won her; though I beat out my last hope of
her with the very blows which I inflicted upon myself.

In the vibrations of my strong emotion it used to surprise me that my
will was such a cripple against the sensibilities of that delicate
creature.  I was a man of as much will as was naturally good for me;
and my training had made it abnormal like a prize-fighter's bicepital
muscle.  People of my profession need some counter-irritant, which they
seldom get, to the habit of command.  To be the ultimate control for a
clientèle of a thousand people, to enforce the personal opinion in
every matter from a broken constitution to a broken heart, deprives a
man of the usual human challenges to an athletic will.  In his case, if
ever, motion follows least resistance.  His will-power grows by a
species of pommelling; not by the higher tactics of wrestling.

But I, who gave the fiat on which life or death hung poised as
unhesitatingly as I controlled the fluctuations of an influenza; and I,
to whom the pliability of the feminine will had long since become an
accepted and somewhat elemental fact, like the nature of milk-toast; I,
Dr. Thorne, who had the habit of success, who expected to make his
point, who was accustomed to receive obedience, who fought death or
hysteria, an opposing school or a tricky patient, with equal fidelity,
as one who pursues the avocation of life,--I stood, conquered before
this slender woman whose eyes, like the sword of flame, turned this way
and that, guarding the barred gates of the only Eden I had ever chosen
to enter.

In short, for the first time in my life I found myself a suppliant; and
I found myself thus and there for the sake of a feeling.

It was not for science' sake, it was not for the sake of personal fame,
or for the glory of an idea, or for the promulgation of a discovery.  I
had not been overcome upon the intellectual side of my nature.  I had
been conquered by an emotion.  I had been beaten by a thing for which,
all my life, I had been prescribing as confidently as I would for a
sprain.  Medical men will understand me, and some others may, when I
say that I experienced surprise to come face to face at last, and in
this unanswerable personal way, with an invisible, intangible power of
the soul and of the body, which could not be treated as "a symptom."

I loved her.  That was enough, and beyond.  I loved her.  That was the
beginning and end.  I loved her.  I found nothing in the Materia Medica
that could cure the fact.  I loved her.  Science gave me no explanation
of the phenomenon.  I did not love her scientifically.  I loved her
terribly.

I was a man of middle age, and had called myself a scientist and
philosopher.  I had thought, if ever, to love soberly and
philosophically.  Instead of that I loved as poets sing, as artists
paint, as the statues look, as the great romances read, as ideals
teach,--as the young love.

As the young do?  Nay.  What young creature ever loved like that?


  They know not love who sip it at the spring.
  Youth is a fragile child that plays at love,
  Tosses a shell, and trims a little sail,
  Mimics the passion of the gathered years,
  And is a loiterer on the shallow bank
  Of the great flood that we have waited for.


I do not think of any other thing which a man cannot do better at
forty, than at twenty.  Why, then, should he not the better love?

My lady had a stately soul; but she gave it sweet graciousness and
little womanly appeals and curves, that were to my heart as the touch
of her hand was to my pulse.  I was so happy in her presence that I
could not believe I had ever been sad; and I longed so for her in
absence that I could scarcely believe I had become happy.  She was to
my thoughts as the light is to the crystal.  She came into my life as
the miracles came to the unbelieving.  She moved through my days and
through my dreams, as the rose-cloud moved upon the mountain sky.  She
floated between me and my sick.  She hovered above me and my dying.
She was a mist between me and my books.  Once when I took the knife for
a dangerous operation, the steel blade caught a sunbeam and flashed;
and I looked at the flash--it seemed to contain a new world--and I
thought: "She is my own.  I am a happy man!"  But I was sorry for my
patient.  I was not rough with him.  And the operation succeeded.

What is to be said?  I loved her.  Love is like faith.  He who has it
understands before you speak.  But to him who has it not, it cannot be
explained.

A year from the time of my most blessed accident beside the
trout-brook,--in one year and two months from that day, upon a warm and
wonderful September afternoon, my lady and I were married, and I
brought her from her mother's house to the mountain village where first
we saw each other.  There we spent the first week of our happiness.  It
was as near to Eden as we could find.  The village was left almost to
its own rare resources; the summer tourists were well-nigh gone; the
peaceful roads gave no stare of intrusion to our joy.  The hills looked
down upon us and made us feel how high love was.  The forest inclosed
us, and made us understand that love was large.  The holiness of beauty
was the hostess of our delight.  Oh, I had won her!  She was my wife.
She was my own.  She loved me.

If I cherished her as my own soul, what could I give her back, who had
given herself to me?

I said, "I will make you the happiest woman who was ever beloved by man
upon this earth."

"But you have," she whispered, lifting her dear face.  "It is worth
being alive for, if it came to an end to-morrow."

"Love has no end," I cried.  "Happiness is life.  It cannot die.  It
has an immortal soul.  If ever I make you sad, if I am untender to
you,--may God strike me"--

"Hush," she cried, clinging to me, and closing my lips with a kiss for
which I would have died; "Hush, love! hush!"




CHAPTER III.

It ought to be said, at this point in my story, that I had never been
what would be called an even-tempered man.  Truth to tell, I was a
spoiled boy.  My mother was a saint, but she was a soft-hearted one.
My father was a scholar.  Like many another boy of decided
individuality, I came up anyhow.  Nobody managed me.  At an early age
my profession made it my duty to manage everybody else.  I had a
nervous temperament to start on; neither my training nor my occupation
had poised it.  I do not think I was malicious nor even ill-natured.
As men go, I was perhaps a kind man.  The thing which I am trying to
say is, that I was an irritable one.

As I look back upon the whole subject I can see, from my present point
of view, that this irritability had seldom struck me as a personal
disadvantage.  I do not think it usually makes that impression upon
temperaments similarly vitiated.  As nearly as I can remember, I
thought of myself rather as the possessor of an eccentricity, than as
the victim of a vice.  My father was an overworked college
professor,--a quick-tempered man; my mother,--so he told me with
streaming tears, upon the day that he buried her,--my mother never
spoke one irritated word to him in all her life: he had chafed and she
had soothed, he had slashed and she had healed, from the beginning to
the end of their days together.  A boy imitates for so many years
before he reflects, that the liberty to say what one felt like saying
appeared to me a mere identification of sex long before it occurred to
me that mine might not be the only sex endowed by nature with this form
of expression.  I regarded it as one regards a beard, or a
waistcoat,--simple signs of the variation of species.

My mother--Heaven rest her sweet soul--did not, that I recall,
obviously oppose me in this view.  After the time of the first
moustache she obeyed her son, as she had obeyed her husband.

As has been already said, the profession to which I fell heir failed to
recommend to me a different personal attitude toward the will of
others.  My sick people were my pawns upon the chess-board of life.  I
played my game with humane intentions, not wholly, I believe, with
selfish ones.  But I suffered the military dangers of character,
without the military apologies for them.  He whose duty to God and men
requires him to command all with whom he comes in contact should pray
