whom she specified, and she praised several others to him, though she
did not praise them for the same things that he did. One of them was a
girl to whom Alice had taken a great fancy, such as often buds into a
romantic passion between women; she was very gentle and mild, and she
had none of that strength of will which she admired in Alice. One night
there was a sleighing party to a hotel in the suburbs, where they had
dancing and then supper. After the supper they danced “Little Sally
Waters” for a finale, instead of the Virginia Reel, and Alice would not
go on the floor with Dan; she said she disliked that dance; but she
told him to dance with Miss Langham. It became a gale of fun, and in the
height of it Dan slipped and fell with his partner. They laughed it off,
with the rest, but after a while the girl began to cry; she had received
a painful bruise. All the way home, while the others laughed and sang
and chattered, Dan was troubled about this poor girl; his anxiety became
a joke with the whole sleighful of people.
When he parted with Alice at her door, he said, “I’m afraid I hurt Miss
Langham; I feel awfully about it.”
“Yes; there’s no doubt of that. Good night!”
She left him to go off to his lodging, hot and tingling with indignation
at her injustice. But kindlier thoughts came to him before he slept, and
he fell asleep with a smile of tenderness for her on his lips. He could
see how he was wrong to go out with any one else when Alice said
she disliked the dance; he ought not to have taken advantage of her
generosity in appointing him a partner; it was trying for her to see him
make that ludicrous tumble, of course; and perhaps he had overdone the
attentive sympathy on the way home. It flattered him that she could not
help showing her jealousy--that is flattering, at first; and Dan
was able to go and confess all but this to Alice. She received his
submission magnanimously, and said that she was glad it had happened,
because his saying this showed that now they understood each other
perfectly. Then she fixed her eyes on his, and said, “I’ve just been
round to see Lilly, and she’s as well as ever; it was only a nervous
shock.”
Whether Mavering was really indifferent to Miss Langham’s condition,
or whether the education of his perceptions had gone so far that he
consciously ignored her, he answered, “That was splendid of you, Alice.”
“No,” she said; “it’s you that are splendid; and you always are. Oh, I
wonder if I can ever be worthy of you!”
Their mutual forgiveness was very sweet to them, and they went on
praising each other. Alice suddenly broke away from this weakening
exchange of worship, and said, with that air of coming to business which
he lad learned to recognise and dread a little, “Dan, don’t you think I
ought to write to your mother?”
“Write to my mother?”
“Why, you have written to her. You wrote as soon as you got back, and
she answered you.”
“Yes; but write regularly?--Show that I think of her all the time?
When I really think I’m going to take you from her, I seem so cruel and
heartless!”
“Oh, I don’t look at it in that light, Alice.”
“Don’t joke! And when I think that we’re going away to leave her, for
several years, perhaps, as soon as we’re married, I can’t make it seem
right. I know how she depends upon your being near her, and seeing
her every now and then; and to go off to Europe for years, perhaps--Of
course you can be of use to your father there; but do you think it’s
right toward your mother? I want you to think.”
Dan thought, but his thinking was mainly to the effect that he did not
know what she was driving at. Had she got any inkling of that plan of
his mother’s for them to come and stay a year or two at the Falls after
their marriage? He always expected to be able to reconcile that plan
with the Pasmer plan of going at once; to his optimism the two were not
really incompatible; but he did not wish them prematurely confronted in
Alice’s mind. Was this her way of letting him know that she knew what
his mother wished, and that she was willing to make the sacrifice? Or
was it just some vague longing to please him by a show of affection
toward his family, an unmeditated impulse of reparation? He had an
impulse himself to be frank with Alice, to take her at her word, and to
allow that he did not like the notion of going abroad. This was Dan’s
notion of being frank; he could still reserve the fact that he had given
his mother a tacit promise to bring Alice home to live, but he postponed
even this. He said: “Oh, I guess that’ll be all right, Alice. At
any rate, there’s no need to think about it yet awhile. That can be
arranged.”
“Yes,” said Alice; “but don’t you think I’d better get into the habit of
writing regularly to your mother now, so that there needn’t be any break
when we go abroad?” He could see now that she had no idea of giving that
plan up, and he was glad that he had not said anything. “I think,” she
continued, “that I shall write to her once a week, and give her a full
account of our life from day to day; it’ll be more like a diary; and
then, when we get over there, I can keep it up without any effort, and
she won’t feel so much that you’ve gone.”
She seemed to refer the plan to him, and he said it was capital. In
fact, he did like the notion of a diary; that sort of historical view
would involve less danger of precipitating a discussion of the two
schemes of life for the future. “It’s awfully kind of you, Alice, to
propose such a thing, and you mustn’t make it a burden. Any sort of
little sketchy record will do; mother can read between the lines, you
know.”
“It won’t be a burden,” said the girl tenderly. “I shall seem to be
doing it for your mother, but I know I shall be doing it for you. I do
everything for you. Do you think it’s right?”
“Oh; it must be,” said Dan, laughing. “It’s so pleasant.”
“Oh,” said the girl gloomily; “that’s what makes me doubt it.”
XLII.
Eunice Mavering acknowledged Alice’s first letter. She said that her
mother read it aloud to them all, and had been delighted with the good
account she gave of Dan, and fascinated with all the story of their
daily doings and sayings. She wished Eunice to tell Alice how fully she
appreciated her thoughtfulness of a sick old woman, and that she was
going to write herself and thank her. But Eunice added that Alice must
not be surprised if her mother was not very prompt in this, and she sent
messages from all the family, affectionate for Alice, and polite for her
father and mother.
Alice showed Dan the letter, and he seemed to find nothing noticeable in
it. “She says your mother will write later,” Alice suggested.
“Yes. You ought to feel very much complimented by that. Mother’s
autographs are pretty uncommon,” he said, smiling.
“Why, doesn’t she write? Can’t she? Does it tire her?” asked Alice.
“Oh yes, she can write, but she hates to. She gets Eunice or Minnie to
write usually.”
“Dan,” cried Alice intensely, “why didn’t you tell me?”
“Why, I thought you knew it,” he explained easily. “She likes to read,
and likes to talk, but it bores her to write. I don’t suppose I get more
than two or three pencil scratches from her in the course of a year. She
makes the girls write. But you needn’t mind her not writing. You may be
sure she’s glad of your letters.”
“It makes me seem very presumptuous to be writing to her when there’s no
chance of her answering,” Alice grieved. “It’s as if I had passed over
your sisters’ heads. I ought to have written to them.”
“Oh, well, you can do that now,” said Dan soothingly.
“No. No, I can’t do it now. It would be ridiculous.” She was silent, and
presently she asked, “Is there anything else about your mother that I
ought to know?” She looked at him with a sort of impending discipline in
her eyes which he had learned to dread; it meant such a long course of
things, such a very great variety of atonement and expiation for him,
that he could not bring himself to confront it steadily.
His heart gave a feeble leap; he would have gladly told her all that was
in it, and he meant to do so at the right time, but this did not seem
the moment. “I can’t say that there is,” he answered coldly.
In that need of consecrating her happiness which Alice felt, she went a
great deal to church in those days. Sometimes she felt the need almost
of defence against her happiness, and a vague apprehension mixed with
it. Could it be right to let it claim her whole being, as it seemed
to do? Than was the question which she once asked Dan, and it made him
laugh, and catch her to him in a rapture that served for the time, and
then left her to more morbid doubts. Evidently he could not follow her
in them; he could not even imagine them; and while he was with her
they seemed to have no verity or value. But she talked them over very
hypothetically and impersonally with Miss Cotton, in whose sympathy they
resumed all their import, and gained something more. In the idealisation
which the girl underwent in this atmosphere all her thoughts and
purposes had a significance which she would not of herself, perhaps,
have attached to them. They discussed them and analysed them with a
satisfaction in the result which could not be represented without
an effect of caricature. They measured Alice’s romance together, and
evolved from it a sublimation of responsibility, of duty, of devotion,
which Alice found it impossible to submit to Dan when he came with his
simple-hearted, single-minded purpose of getting Mrs. Pasmer out of the
room, and sitting down with his arm around Alice’s waist. When he had
accomplished this it seemed sufficient in itself, and she had to think,
to struggle to recall things beyond it, above it. He could not be made
to see at such times how their lives could be more in unison than
they were. When she proposed doing something for him which he knew
was disagreeable to her, he would not let her; and when she hinted
at anything she wished him to do for her because she knew it was
disagreeable to him, he consented so promptly, so joyously, that she
perceived he could not have given the least thought to it.
She felt every day that they were alien in their tastes and aims; their
pleasures were not the same, and though it was sweet, though it was
charming, to have him give up so willingly all his preferences, she
felt, without knowing that the time must come when this could not be so,
that it was all wrong.
“But these very differences, these antagonisms, if you wish to call them
so,” suggested Miss Cotton, in talking Alice’s misgivings over with her,
“aren’t they just what will draw you together more and more? Isn’t
it what attracted you to each other? The very fact that you are such
perfect counterparts--”
“Yes,” the girl assented, “that’s what we’re taught to believe.” She
meant by the novels, to which we all trust our instruction in such
matters, and her doubt doubly rankled after she had put it to silence.
She kept on writing to Dan’s mother, though more and more perfunctorily;
and now Eunice and now Minnie Mavering acknowledged her letters. She
knew that they must think she was silly, but having entered by Dan’s
connivance upon her folly, she was too proud to abandon it.
At last, after she had ceased to expect it, came a letter from his
mother, not a brief note, but a letter which the invalid had evidently
tasked herself to make long and full, in recognition of Alice’s kindness
in writing to her so much. The girl opened it, and, after a verifying
glance at the signature, began to read it with a thrill of tender
triumph, and the fond prevision of the greater pleasure of reading it
again with Dan.
But after reading it once through, she did not wait for him before
reading it again and again. She did this with bewilderment, intershot
with flashes of conviction, and then doubts of this conviction. When she
could misunderstand no longer, she rose quietly and folded the letter,
and put it carefully back into its envelope and into her writing desk,
where she sat down and wrote, in her clearest and firmest hand, this
note to Mavering--
“I wish to see you immediately.
“ALICE PASMER.”
XLIII
Dan had learned, with a lover’s keenness, to read Alice’s moods in the
most colourless wording of her notes. She was rather apt to write him
notes, taking back or reaffirming the effect of something that had just
passed between them. Her note were tempered to varying degrees of heat
and cold, so fine that no one else would have felt the difference, but
sensible to him in their subtlest intention.
Perhaps a mere witness of the fact would have been alarmed by a note
which began without an address, except that on the envelope, and ended
its peremptory brevity with the writer’s name signed in full. Dan read
calamity in it, and he had all the more trouble to pull himself together
to meet it because he had parted with unusual tenderness from Alice
the night before, after an evening in which it seemed to him that their
ideals had been completely reconciled.
The note came, as her notes were apt to come, while Dan was at
breakfast, which he was rather luxurious about for so young a man, and
he felt formlessly glad afterward that he had drunk his first cup of
coffee before he opened it, for it chilled the second cup, and seemed to
take all character out of the omelet.
He obeyed it, wondering what the doom menaced in it might be, but
knowing that it was doom, and leaving his breakfast half-finished, with
a dull sense of the tragedy of doing so.
He would have liked to ask for Mrs. Pasmer first, and interpose a moment
of her cheerful unreality between himself and his interview with Alice,
but he decided that he had better not do this, and they met at once,
with the width of the room between them. Her look was one that made it
impassable to the simple impulse he usually had to take her in his arms
and kiss her. But as she stood holding out a letter to him, with the
apparent intention that he should come and take it, he traversed the
intervening space and took it.
“Why, it’s from mother!” he said joyously, with a glance at the
handwriting.
“Will you please explain it?” said Alice, and Dan began to read it.
It began with a good many excuses for not having written before, and
went on with a pretty expression of interest in Alice’s letters and
gratitude for them; Mrs. Mavering assured the girl that she could not
imagine what a pleasure they had been to her. She promised herself
that they should be great friends, and she said that she looked forward
eagerly to the time, now drawing near, when Dan should bring her home to
them. She said she knew Alice would find it dull at the Falls except for
him, but they would all do their best, and she would find the place
very different from what she had seen it in the winter. Alice could make
believe that she was there just for the summer, and Mrs. Mavering hoped
that before the summer was gone she would be so sorry for a sick old
woman that she would not even wish to go with it. This part of the
letter, which gave Dan away so hopelessly, as he felt, was phrased so
touchingly, that he looked up from it with moist eyes to the hard cold
judgment in the eyes of Alice.
“Will you please explain it?” she repeated.
He tried to temporise. “Explain what?”
Alice was prompt to say, “Had you promised your mother to take me home
to live?”
Dan did not answer.
“You promised my mother to go abroad. What else have you promised?” He
continued silent, and she added, “You are a faithless man.” They were
the words of Romola, in the romance, to Tito; she had often admired
them; and they seemed to her equally the measure of Dan’s offence.
“Alice--”
“Here are your letters and remembrances, Mr. Mavering.” Dan mechanically
received the packet she had been holding behind her; with a perverse
freak of intelligence he observed that, though much larger now, it was
tied up with the same ribbon which had fastened it when Alice returned
his letters and gifts before. “Good-bye. I wish you every happiness
consistent with your nature.”
She bowed coldly, and was about to leave him, as she had planned; but
she had not arranged that he should be standing in front of the door,
and he was there, with no apparent intention of moving.
“Will you allow me to pass?” she was forced to ask, however, haughtily.
“No!” he retorted, with a violence that surprised him. “I will not let
you pass till you have listened to me--till you tell me why you treat me
so. I won’t stand it--I’ve had enough of this kind of thing.”
It surprised Alice too a little, and after a moment’s hesitation she
said, “I will listen to you,” so much more gently than she had spoken
before that Dan relaxed his imperative tone, and began to laugh. “But,”
 she added, and her face clouded again, “it will be of no use. My mind is
made up this time. Why should we talk?”
“Why, because mine isn’t,” said Dan. “What is the matter, Alice? Do you
think I would force you, or even ask you, to go home with me to
live unless you were entirely willing? It could only be a temporary
arrangement anyway.”
“That isn’t the question,” she retorted. “The question is whether you’ve
promised your mother one thing and me another.”
“Well, I don’t know about promising,” said Dan, laughing a little more
uneasily, but still laughing. “As nearly as I can remember, I wasn’t
consulted about the matter. Your mother proposed one thing, and my
mother proposed another.”
“And you agreed to both. That is quite enough--quite characteristic!”
Dan flushed, and stopped laughing. “I don’t know what you mean by
characteristic. The thing didn’t have to be decided at once, and I
didn’t suppose it would be difficult for either side to give way, if it
was judged best. I was sure my mother wouldn’t insist.”
“It seems very easy for your family to make sacrifices that are not
likely to be required of them.”
“You mustn’t criticise my mother!” cried Dan.
“I have not criticised her. You insinuate that we would be too selfish
to give up, if it were for the best.”
“I do nothing of the kind, and unless you are determined to quarrel with
me you wouldn’t say so.”
“I don’t wish a quarrel; none is necessary,” said Alice coldly.
“You accuse me of being treacherous--”
“I didn’t say treacherous!”
“Faithless, then. It’s a mere quibble about words. I want you to take
that back.”
“I can’t take it back; it’s the truth. Aren’t you faithless, if you let
us go on thinking that you’re going to Europe, and let your mother think
that we’re coming home to live after we’re married?”
“No! I’m simply leaving the question open!”
“Yes,” said the girl--sadly, “you like to leave questions open. That’s
your way.”
“Well, I suppose I do till it’s necessary to decide them. It saves the
needless effusion of talk,” said Dan, with a laugh; and then, as people
do in a quarrel, he went back to his angry mood, and said “Besides, I
supposed you would be glad of the chance to make some sacrifice for me.
You’re always asking for it.”
“Thank you, Mr. Mavering,” said Alice, “for reminding me of it; nothing
is sacred to you, it seems. I can’t say that you have ever sought any
opportunities of self-sacrifice.”
“I wasn’t allowed time to do so; they were always presented.”
“Thank you again, Mr. Mavering. All this is quite a revelation. I’m glad
to know how you really felt about things that you seemed so eager for.”
“Alice, you know that I would do anything for you!” cried Dan, rueing
his precipitate words.
“Yes; that’s what you’ve repeatedly told me. I used to believe it.”
“And I always believed what you said. You said at the picnic that day
that you thought I would like to live at Ponkwasset Falls if my business
was there--”
“That is not the point!”
“And now you quarrel with me because my mother wishes me to do so.”
Alice merely said: “I don’t know why I stand here allowing you to
intimidate me in my father’s house. I demand that you shall stand aside
and let me pass.”
“I’ll not oblige you to leave the room,” said Dan. “I will go. But if I
go, you will understand that I don’t come back.”
“I hope that,” said the girl.
“Very well. Good morning, Miss Pasmer.”
She inclined her head slightly in acknowledgment of his bow, and he
whirled out of the room and down the dim narrow passageway into the arms
of Mrs. Pasmer, who had resisted as long as she could her curiosity to
know what the angry voices of himself and Alice meant.
“O Mr. Mavering, is it you?” she buzzed; and she flung aside one
pretence for another in adding, “Couldn’t Alice make you stay to
breakfast?”
Dan felt a rush of tenderness in his heart at the sound of the kind,
humbugging little voice. “No, thank you, Mrs. Pasmer, I couldn’t stay,
thank you. I--I thank you very much. I--good-bye, Mrs. Pasmer.” He wrung
her hand, and found his way out of the apartment door, leaving her to
clear up the mystery of his flight and his broken words as she could.
“Alice,” she said, as she entered the room, where the girl had remained,
“what have you been doing now?”
“Oh, nothing,” she said, with a remnant of her scorn for Dan qualifying
her tone and manner to her mother. “I’ve dismissed Mr. Mavering.”
“Then you want him to come to lunch?” asked her mother. “I should advise
him to refuse.”
“I don’t think he’d accept,” said Alice. Then, as Mrs. Pasmer stood
in the door, preventing her egress, as Dan had done before, she asked
meekly “Will you let me pass, mamma? My head aches.”
Mrs. Pasmer, whose easy triumphs in so many difficult circumstances kept
her nearly always in good temper, let herself go, at these words, in
vexation very uncommon with her. “Indeed I shall not!” she retorted.
“And you will please sit down here and tell me what you mean by
dismissing Mr. Mavering. I’m tired of your whims and caprices.”
“I can’t talk,” began the girl stubbornly.
“Yes, I think you can,” said her mother. “At any rate, I can. Now what
is it all?”
“Perhaps this letter, will explain,” said Alice, continuing to dignify
her enforced submission with a tone of unabated hauteur; and she gave
her mother Mrs. Mavering’s letter, which Dan had mechanically restored
to her.
Mrs. Pasmer read it, not only without indignation, but apparently
without displeasure. But, she understood perfectly what the trouble was,
when she looked up and asked, cheerfully, “Well?”
“Well!” repeated Alice, with a frown of astonishment. “Don’t you see
that he’s promised us one thing and her another, and that he’s false to
both?”
“I don’t know,” said Mrs. Pasmer, recovering her good-humour in view of
a situation that she felt herself able to cope with. “Of course he has
to temporise, to manage a little. She’s an invalid, and of course she’s
very exacting. He has to humour her. How do you know he has promised
her? He hasn’t promised us.”
“Hasn’t promised us?” Alice gasped.
“No. He’s simply fallen in with what we’ve said. It’s because he’s
so sweet and yielding, and can’t bear to refuse. I can understand it
perfectly.”
“Then if he hasn’t promised us, he’s deceived us all the more
shamefully, for he’s made us think he had.”
“He hasn’t me,” said Mrs. Pasmer, smiling at the stormy virtue in her
daughter’s face. “And what if you should go home awhile with him--for
the summer, say? It couldn’t last longer, much; and it wouldn’t hurt us
to wait. I suppose he hoped for something of that kind.”
“Oh, it isn’t that,” groaned the girl, in a kind of bewilderment. “I
could have gone there with him joyfully, and lived all my days, if he’d
only been frank with me.”
“Oh no, you couldn’t,” said her mother, with cosy security. “When it
comes to it, you don’t like giving up any more than other people. It’s
very hard for you to give up; he sees that--he knows it, and he doesn’t
really like to ask any sort of sacrifice from you. He’s afraid of you.”
“Don’t I know that?” demanded Alice desolately: “I’ve known it from the
first, and I’ve felt it all the time. It’s all a mistake, and has been.
We never could understand each other. We’re too different.”
“That needn’t prevent you understanding him. It needn’t prevent you from
seeing how really kind and good he is--how faithful and constant he is.”
“Oh, you say that--you praise him--because you like him.”
“Of course I do. And can’t you?”
“No. The least grain of deceit--of temporising, you call it--spoils
everything. It’s over,” said the girl, rising, with a sigh, from the
chair she had dropped into. “We’re best apart; we could only have been
wretched and wicked together.”
“What did you say to him, Alice?” asked her mother, unshaken by her
rhetoric.
“I told him he was a faithless person.”
