
“Well, if she is capable of making that reflection she is capable of
making this further one,” I went on: “that I must have a particular
reason for not doing as others do, in spite of the interest she
offers--for not leaving her alone.” Miss Tita looked as if she failed to
grasp this rather complicated proposition; so I continued, “If you have
not told her what I said to you the other night may she not at least
have guessed it?”

“I don’t know; she is very suspicious.”

“But she has not been made so by indiscreet curiosity, by persecution?”

“No, no; it isn’t that,” said Miss Tita, turning on me a somewhat
troubled face. “I don’t know how to say it: it’s on account of
something--ages ago, before I was born--in her life.”

“Something? What sort of thing?” I asked as if I myself could have no
idea.

“Oh, she has never told me,” Miss Tita answered; and I was sure she was
speaking the truth.

Her extreme limpidity was almost provoking, and I felt for the moment
that she would have been more satisfactory if she had been less
ingenuous. “Do you suppose it’s something to which Jeffrey Aspern’s
letters and papers--I mean the things in her possession--have
reference?”

“I daresay it is!” my companion exclaimed as if this were a very happy
suggestion. “I have never looked at any of those things.”

“None of them? Then how do you know what they are?”

“I don’t,” said Miss Tita placidly. “I have never had them in my hands.
But I have seen them when she has had them out.”

“Does she have them out often?”

“Not now, but she used to. She is very fond of them.”

“In spite of their being compromising?”

“Compromising?” Miss Tita repeated as if she was ignorant of the meaning
of the word. I felt almost as one who corrupts the innocence of youth.

“I mean their containing painful memories.”

“Oh, I don’t think they are painful.”

“You mean you don’t think they affect her reputation?”

At this a singular look came into the face of Miss Bordereau’s niece--a
kind of confession of helplessness, an appeal to me to deal fairly,
generously with her. I had brought her to the Piazza, placed her among
charming influences, paid her an attention she appreciated, and now I
seemed to let her perceive that all this had been a bribe--a bribe to
make her turn in some way against her aunt. She was of a yielding nature
and capable of doing almost anything to please a person who was kind to
her; but the greatest kindness of all would be not to presume too much
on this. It was strange enough, as I afterward thought, that she had
not the least air of resenting my want of consideration for her aunt’s
character, which would have been in the worst possible taste if anything
less vital (from my point of view) had been at stake. I don’t think she
really measured it. “Do you mean that she did something bad?” she asked
in a moment.

“Heaven forbid I should say so, and it’s none of my business. Besides,
if she did,” I added, laughing, “it was in other ages, in another world.
But why should she not destroy her papers?”

“Oh, she loves them too much.”

“Even now, when she may be near her end?”

“Perhaps when she’s sure of that she will.”

“Well, Miss Tita,” I said, “it’s just what I should like you to
prevent.”

“How can I prevent it?”

“Couldn’t you get them away from her?”

“And give them to you?”

This put the case very crudely, though I am sure there was no irony in
her intention. “Oh, I mean that you might let me see them and look them
over. It isn’t for myself; there is no personal avidity in my desire.
It is simply that they would be of such immense interest to the public,
such immeasurable importance as a contribution to Jeffrey Aspern’s
history.”

She listened to me in her usual manner, as if my speech were full of
reference to things she had never heard of, and I felt particularly like
the reporter of a newspaper who forces his way into a house of mourning.
This was especially the case when after a moment she said. “There was
a gentleman who some time ago wrote to her in very much those words. He
also wanted her papers.”

“And did she answer him?” I asked, rather ashamed of myself for not
having her rectitude.

“Only when he had written two or three times. He made her very angry.”

“And what did she say?”

“She said he was a devil,” Miss Tita replied simply.

“She used that expression in her letter?”

“Oh, no; she said it to me. She made me write to him.”

“And what did you say?”

“I told him there were no papers at all.”

“Ah, poor gentleman!” I exclaimed.

“I knew there were, but I wrote what she bade me.”

“Of course you had to do that. But I hope I shall not pass for a devil.”

“It will depend upon what you ask me to do for you,” said Miss Tita,
smiling.

“Oh, if there is a chance of YOUR thinking so my affair is in a bad way!
I shan’t ask you to steal for me, nor even to fib--for you can’t fib,
unless on paper. But the principal thing is this--to prevent her from
destroying the papers.”

“Why, I have no control of her,” said Miss Tita. “It’s she who controls
me.”

“But she doesn’t control her own arms and legs, does she? The way she
would naturally destroy her letters would be to burn them. Now she can’t
burn them without fire, and she can’t get fire unless you give it to
her.”

“I have always done everything she has asked,” my companion rejoined.
“Besides, there’s Olimpia.”

I was on the point of saying that Olimpia was probably corruptible, but
I thought it best not to sound that note. So I simply inquired if that
faithful domestic could not be managed.

“Everyone can be managed by my aunt,” said Miss Tita. And then she
observed that her holiday was over; she must go home.

I laid my hand on her arm, across the table, to stay her a moment. “What
I want of you is a general promise to help me.”

“Oh, how can I--how can I?” she asked, wondering and troubled. She was
half-surprised, half-frightened at my wishing to make her play an active
part.

“This is the main thing: to watch her carefully and warn me in time,
before she commits that horrible sacrilege.”

“I can’t watch her when she makes me go out.”

“That’s very true.”

“And when you do, too.”

“Mercy on us; do you think she will have done anything tonight?”

“I don’t know; she is very cunning.”

“Are you trying to frighten me?” I asked.

I felt this inquiry sufficiently answered when my companion murmured in
a musing, almost envious way, “Oh, but she loves them--she loves them!”

This reflection, repeated with such emphasis, gave me great comfort; but
to obtain more of that balm I said, “If she shouldn’t intend to destroy
the objects we speak of before her death she will probably have made
some disposition by will.”

“By will?”

“Hasn’t she made a will for your benefit?”

“Why, she has so little to leave. That’s why she likes money,” said Miss
Tita.

“Might I ask, since we are really talking things over, what you and she
live on?”

“On some money that comes from America, from a lawyer. He sends it every
quarter. It isn’t much!”

“And won’t she have disposed of that?”

My companion hesitated--I saw she was blushing. “I believe it’s mine,”
 she said; and the look and tone which accompanied these words betrayed
so the absence of the habit of thinking of herself that I almost thought
her charming. The next instant she added, “But she had a lawyer once,
ever so long ago. And some people came and signed something.”

“They were probably witnesses. And you were not asked to sign? Well
then,” I argued rapidly and hopefully, “it is because you are the
legatee; she has left all her documents to you!”

“If she has it’s with very strict conditions,” Miss Tita responded,
rising quickly, while the movement gave the words a little character
of decision. They seemed to imply that the bequest would be accompanied
with a command that the articles bequeathed should remain concealed from
every inquisitive eye and that I was very much mistaken if I thought she
was the person to depart from an injunction so solemn.

“Oh, of course you will have to abide by the terms,” I said; and
she uttered nothing to mitigate the severity of this conclusion.
Nonetheless, later, just before we disembarked at her own door, on
our return, which had taken place almost in silence, she said to
me abruptly, “I will do what I can to help you.” I was grateful for
this--it was very well so far as it went; but it did not keep me from
remembering that night in a worried waking hour that I now had her
word for it to reinforce my own impression that the old woman was very
cunning.




VII


The fear of what this side of her character might have led her to do
made me nervous for days afterward. I waited for an intimation from
Miss Tita; I almost figured to myself that it was her duty to keep me
informed, to let me know definitely whether or no Miss Bordereau had
sacrificed her treasures. But as she gave no sign I lost patience and
determined to judge so far as was possible with my own senses. I sent
late one afternoon to ask if I might pay the ladies a visit, and
my servant came back with surprising news. Miss Bordereau could be
approached without the least difficulty; she had been moved out into
the sala and was sitting by the window that overlooked the garden. I
descended and found this picture correct; the old lady had been wheeled
forth into the world and had a certain air, which came mainly perhaps
from some brighter element in her dress, of being prepared again to have
converse with it. It had not yet, however, begun to flock about her;
she was perfectly alone and, though the door leading to her own quarters
stood open, I had at first no glimpse of Miss Tita. The window at which
she sat had the afternoon shade and, one of the shutters having been
pushed back, she could see the pleasant garden, where the summer sun had
by this time dried up too many of the plants--she could see the yellow
light and the long shadows.

“Have you come to tell me that you will take the rooms for six months
more?” she asked as I approached her, startling me by something coarse
in her cupidity almost as much as if she had not already given me a
specimen of it. Juliana’s desire to make our acquaintance lucrative had
been, as I have sufficiently indicated, a false note in my image of the
woman who had inspired a great poet with immortal lines; but I may say
here definitely that I recognized after all that it behooved me to make
a large allowance for her. It was I who had kindled the unholy flame; it
was I who had put into her head that she had the means of making
money. She appeared never to have thought of that; she had been living
wastefully for years, in a house five times too big for her, on a
footing that I could explain only by the presumption that, excessive as
it was, the space she enjoyed cost her next to nothing and that small
as were her revenues they left her, for Venice, an appreciable margin. I
had descended on her one day and taught her to calculate, and my
almost extravagant comedy on the subject of the garden had presented me
irresistibly in the light of a victim. Like all persons who achieve the
miracle of changing their point of view when they are old she had been
intensely converted; she had seized my hint with a desperate, tremulous
clutch.

I invited myself to go and get one of the chairs that stood, at a
distance, against the wall (she had given herself no concern as to
whether I should sit or stand); and while I placed it near her I
began, gaily, “Oh, dear madam, what an imagination you have, what an
intellectual sweep! I am a poor devil of a man of letters who lives
from day to day. How can I take palaces by the year? My existence is
precarious. I don’t know whether six months hence I shall have bread to
put in my mouth. I have treated myself for once; it has been an immense
luxury. But when it comes to going on--!”

“Are your rooms too dear? If they are you can have more for the same
money,” Juliana responded. “We can arrange, we can combinare, as they
say here.”

“Well yes, since you ask me, they are too dear,” I said. “Evidently you
suppose me richer than I am.”

She looked at me in her barricaded way. “If you write books don’t you
sell them?”

“Do you mean don’t people buy them? A little--not so much as I could
wish. Writing books, unless one be a great genius--and even then!--is
the last road to fortune. I think there is no more money to be made by
literature.”

“Perhaps you don’t choose good subjects. What do you write about?” Miss
Bordereau inquired.

“About the books of other people. I’m a critic, an historian, in a small
way.” I wondered what she was coming to.

“And what other people, now?”

“Oh, better ones than myself: the great writers mainly--the great
philosophers and poets of the past; those who are dead and gone and
can’t speak for themselves.”

“And what do you say about them?”

“I say they sometimes attached themselves to very clever women!” I
answered, laughing. I spoke with great deliberation, but as my words
fell upon the air they struck me as imprudent. However, I risked them
and I was not sorry, for perhaps after all the old woman would be
willing to treat. It seemed to be tolerably obvious that she knew my
secret: why therefore drag the matter out? But she did not take what I
had said as a confession; she only asked:

“Do you think it’s right to rake up the past?”

“I don’t know that I know what you mean by raking it up; but how can we
get at it unless we dig a little? The present has such a rough way of
treading it down.”

“Oh, I like the past, but I don’t like critics,” the old woman declared
with her fine tranquility.

“Neither do I, but I like their discoveries.”

“Aren’t they mostly lies?”

“The lies are what they sometimes discover,” I said, smiling at the
quiet impertinence of this. “They often lay bare the truth.”

“The truth is God’s, it isn’t man’s; we had better leave it alone. Who
can judge of it--who can say?”

“We are terribly in the dark, I know,” I admitted; “but if we give up
trying what becomes of all the fine things? What becomes of the work I
just mentioned, that of the great philosophers and poets? It is all vain
words if there is nothing to measure it by.”

“You talk as if you were a tailor,” said Miss Bordereau whimsically; and
then she added quickly, in a different manner, “This house is very fine;
the proportions are magnificent. Today I wanted to look at this place
again. I made them bring me out here. When your man came, just now, to
learn if I would see you, I was on the point of sending for you, to
ask if you didn’t mean to go on. I wanted to judge what I’m letting you
have. This sala is very grand,” she pursued, like an auctioneer, moving
a little, as I guessed, her invisible eyes. “I don’t believe you often
have lived in such a house, eh?”

“I can’t often afford to!” I said.

“Well then, how much will you give for six months?”

I was on the point of exclaiming--and the air of excruciation in my face
would have denoted a moral face--“Don’t, Juliana; for HIS sake, don’t!”
 But I controlled myself and asked less passionately: “Why should I
remain so long as that?”

“I thought you liked it,” said Miss Bordereau with her shriveled
dignity.

“So I thought I should.”

For a moment she said nothing more, and I left my own words to suggest
to her what they might. I half-expected her to say, coldly enough, that
if I had been disappointed we need not continue the discussion, and
this in spite of the fact that I believed her now to have in her
mind (however it had come there) what would have told her that my
disappointment was natural. But to my extreme surprise she ended by
observing: “If you don’t think we have treated you well enough perhaps
we can discover some way of treating you better.” This speech was
somehow so incongruous that it made me laugh again, and I excused myself
by saying that she talked as if I were a sulky boy, pouting in the
corner, to be “brought round.” I had not a grain of complaint to
make; and could anything have exceeded Miss Tita’s graciousness in
accompanying me a few nights before to the Piazza? At this the old woman
went on: “Well, you brought it on yourself!” And then in a different
tone, “She is a very nice girl.” I assented cordially to this
proposition, and she expressed the hope that I did so not merely to be
obliging, but that I really liked her. Meanwhile I wondered still more
what Miss Bordereau was coming to. “Except for me, today,” she said,
“she has not a relation in the world.” Did she by describing her niece
as amiable and unencumbered wish to represent her as a parti?

It was perfectly true that I could not afford to go on with my rooms at
a fancy price and that I had already devoted to my undertaking almost
all the hard cash I had set apart for it. My patience and my time were
by no means exhausted, but I should be able to draw upon them only on a
more usual Venetian basis. I was willing to pay the venerable woman
with whom my pecuniary dealings were such a discord twice as much as any
other padrona di casa would have asked, but I was not willing to pay her
twenty times as much. I told her so plainly, and my plainness appeared
to have some success, for she exclaimed, “Very good; you have done what
I asked--you have made an offer!”

“Yes, but not for half a year. Only by the month.”

“Oh, I must think of that then.” She seemed disappointed that I would
not tie myself to a period, and I guessed that she wished both to secure
