magnificent outline of her face was ennobled by her pain, 
the lids closed over her dark eyes, and the beautiful lips set 
themselves sternly together, as though resolved that no 
syllable should pass them which could hurt him, even 
though they could not formulate the words he would have 
given his soul to hear. 

Giovanni knelt beside her, and gazed into her face. He 
knew she had not fainted, and he was almost glad that for a 
moment he could not see her eyes. Tenderly, timidly, he 
put out his hand and laid it on her clasped fingers, then drew 
it back again very quickly, as though suddenly remembering 
that the action might pain her. Her heavy hair was plaited 
into a thick black coil that fell upon the arm of the couch. 
He bent lower and pressed his lips upon the silken tress, noise 
lessly, fearing to disturb her, fearing lest she should even 
notice it. He had lost all his pride and strength and 
dominating power of character and he felt himself unworthy 
to touch her. 

But he was too strong a man to continue long in such a 
state. Before Corona opened her eyes, he had risen to his 
feet and stood at some distance from her, resting his arm 
upon the chimney-piece, watching her still, but with an 
expression which showed that a change had taken place in 
him, and that his resolute will had once more asserted itself. 

' Corona ! ' he said at last, in a voice that was almost calm. 

Without changing her position she looked up at him. 
She had been conscious that he had left her side, and she 
experienced a physical sensation of relief. 

' Corona,' he repeated, when he saw that she heard him, 
' I do not complain. It is all my fault and my doing. Only, 
let it not be hate, dear. I will not touch you, I will not 
molest you. I will pray that you may love me again. I 
will try and do such things as may make you love me as 
you did once. Forgive me, if my kisses hurt you. I did 
not know they would, but I have seen it. I am not a brute. 
If I were, you would put something of the human into my 
heart. It shall never happen again, that I forget. Our life 
must begin again. The old Giovanni was your husband, and 




is dead. It is for me to win another love from you. Shall 
it be so, dear ? Is it not to be all different even to my 
very name ? ' 

' All, all different,' repeated Corona in a low voice. ' Oh, 
how could I be so unkind ! How could I show you what I 
felt ? ' 

Suddenly, and without the least warning, she sprang to 
her feet and made two steps towards him. The impulse 
was there, but the reality was gone. Her arms were stretched 
out, and there was a look of supreme anguish in her eyes. 
She stopped short, then turned away once more, and as she 
sank upon the couch, burying her face in the cushions, the 
long restrained tears broke forth, and she sobbed as though 
her heart must break. 

Giovanni wished that his own suffering could find such 
an outlet, but there was no such relief possible for his hardy 
masculine nature. He could nob bear the sight of her grief, 
and yet he knew that he could not comfort her, that to lay 
his hand upon her forehead would only add a new sting to 
the galling wound. He turned his face away and leaned 
against the heavy chimney-piece, longing to shut out the 
sound of her sobs from his ears, submitting to a torture that 
might well have expiated a greater misdeed than his. The 
time was past when he could feel that an unbroken chain of 
evidence had justified him in doubting and accusing Corona. 
He knew the woman he had injured better now than he had 
known her then, for he understood the whole depth and 
breadth of the love he had so ruthlessly destroyed. It was 
incredible to him, now, that he should ever have mistrusted 
a creature so noble, so infinitely grander than himself. 
Every tear she shed fell like molten fire upon his heart, every 
sob that echoed through the quiet room was a reproach that 
racked his heart-strings and penetrated to the secret depths 
of his souL He could neither undo what he had done nor 
soothe the pain inflicted by his actions. He could only stand 
there, and submit patiently to the suffering of his expiation. 

The passionate outburst subsided at last, and Corona lay 
pale and silent upon her cushions. She knew what he felt, 
and pitied him more than herselt 





' It is foolish of me to cry,' she said presently. ' It 
cannot help you.' 

' Help me ? ' exclaimed Giovanni, turning suddenly. ' It 
is not I, it is you. I would have died to save you those 
tears.' 

' I know it would not I give my life to spare you this ? 
And I will. Come and sit beside me. Take my hand. 
Kiss me be your own self. It is not true that your kisses 
hurt me it shall not be true ' 

' You do not mean it, dear,' replied Giovanni, sadly. i I 
know how true it is.' 

' It shall not be true. Am I a devil to hurt you so ? 
Was it all your fault ? Was I not wrong too ? Indeed 

' No, my beloved. There is nothing wrong in you. If 
you do not love me ' 

' I do. I will, in spite of myself.' 

' You mean it, darling I know. You are good enough, 
even for that. But you cannot. It must be all my doing, 
now.' 

' I must,' cried Corona, passionately. ' Unless I love you, 
I shall die. I was wrong, too, you shall let me say it 
Was I not mad to do the things I did? What man would 
not have suspected ? Would a man be a man at all, if he 
did not watch the woman he loves ? Would love be love 
without jealousy when there seems to be cause for it ? 
Should I have married you, had I thought that you would 
be so careless as to let me do such things without interfering ? 
Was it not my fault when I came back that night and would 
not tell you what had happened ? Was it not madness to ask 
you to trust me, instead of telling you all ? And yet,' she 
turned her face away, ' and yet, it hurt me so ! ' 

' You shall not blame yourself, Corona. It was all my 
fault.' 

' Come and sit here, beside me. There take my hand- 
Does it tremble ? Do I draw it away ? Am I not glad 
that it should rest in yours ? Look at me am I not glad ? 
Giovanni dear husband true love ! Look into my eyes. 
Do you not see that I love you ? Why do you shake your 
head and tremble ? It is true, I tell you.' 



Suddenly the forced smile faded from her face, the 
artificial expression she tried so pathetically to make real, 
disappeared, and gave place to a look of horror and fear. 
She drew back her hand and turned desperately away. 

' I am lying, lying and to you ! ' she moaned. ' Oh 
God ! have mercy, for I am the most miserable woman in 
the world ! ' 

Giovanni sat still, resting his chin upon his hand and 
staring at the fire. His hopes had risen for a moment, and 
had fallen again, if possible more completely than before. 
Every line of his strongly-marked face betrayed the despair 
that overwhelmed him. And yet he was no longer weak, 
as he had been the first time. He was wondering at the 
hidden depths of Corona's nature which had so suddenly 
become visible. He comprehended the magnitude of a 
passion which in being extinguished could leave such 
emotions behind, and he saw with awful distinctness the 
beauty of what he had lost and the depth of the abyss by 
which he was separated from it. Only a woman who had 
loved to distraction could make such desperate efforts to 
revive an affection that was dead ; only a woman capable of 
the most lofty devotion could sink her pride and her own 
agony, in the attempt to make the man she had loved forgive 
himself. He could have borne her reproaches more easily 
than the sight of her anguish, but she would not reproach 
him. He could have borne her hatred almost better than 
such unselfish forgiveness, and yet she had forgiven him. 
For the first time in his life he wished that he might die 
he, who loved life so dearly. Perhaps it would be 
easier for her to see him dead at her feet than to feel 
that he must always be near her and that she could not 
love him. 

' It is of no use, dear,' he said, at last. ' I was right. 
The old Giovanni is dead. We must begin our life again. 
Will you let me try ? Will you let me do my best to live 
for you and to raise up a new love in your heart ? ' 

' Can you ? Can we go back to the old times when we 
first met ? Can you ? Can I ? ' 

' If you will ' 





' If I will I Is there anything I would not do to gain 
that?' 

' Our lives may become so different from what they now 
are, as to make it more easy,' said Giovanni. 'Do you 
realise how everything will be changed when we have given 
up this house ? Perhaps it is better that it should be so, 
after all.' 

' Yes far better. Oh, I am so sorry for you ! ' 

' Who pities, may yet love,' he said in low tones. 
Corona did not make any answer, but for many minutes 

lay watching the dancing flames. Giovanni knew that it 
would be wiser to say nothing more which could recall the 
past, and when he spoke again it was to ask her opinion 
once more concerning the best course to pursue in regard to 
the property. 

' I still think,' answered Corona, ' that you had better do 
nothing for the present. You will soon know what San 
Giacinto means to do. You may be sure that if he has any 
rights he will not forget to press them. If it, comes to the 
worst and you are quite sure that he is the man you that 
is to say, your father can give up everything without a 
suit. It is useless to undertake the consequences of a mis 
fortune which may never occur. It would be reckless to 
resign your inheritance without a struggle, when San Giacinto, 
if he is an honest man, would insist upon the case being 
tried in law.' 

' That is true. I will take your advice. I am so much 
disturbed about other things that I am inclined to go to all 
extremes at once. Will you dine with us this evening ? ' 

'I think not Give me one more day. I shall be 
stronger to-morrow.' 

' I have tired you,' exclaimed Giovanni in a tone of self- 
reproach. Corona did not answer the remark, but held out 
her hand with a gentle smile. 

' Good-night, dear,' she said. 

An almost imperceptible expression of pain passed quickly- 
over Giovanni's face as he touched her fingers with his lips. 
Then he left the room without speaking again. 

In some respects he was glad that he had induced Corona 





to express herself. He had no illusions left, for he knew the 
worst and understood that if his wife was ever to love him 
again there must he a new wooing. It is not necessary to 
dwell upon what he felt, for in the course of the conversation 
he had not heen ahle to conceal his feelings. Disappointment 
had come upon him very suddenly, and might have been 
followed by terrible consequences, had he not foreseen, as in a 
dream of the future, a possibility of winning back Corona's love. 
The position in which they stood with regard to each other 
was only possible because they were exceptional people and 
had both loved so well that they were willing to do anything 
rather than forego the hope of loving again. Another man 
would have found it hard to own himself wholly in the 
wrong ; a woman less generous would have either pretended 
successfully that she still loved, or would not have acknow 
ledged that she suffered so keenly in finding her affection 
dead. Perhaps, too, if there had been less frankness there 
might have been less difficulty in reviving the old passion, 
for love has strange ways of hiding himself, ^nd sometimes 
shows himself in ways even more unexpected. 

A profound student of human nature would have seen 
that a mere return to the habit of pleasant intercourse could 
not suffice to forge afresh such a bond as had been broken, 
where two such persons were concerned. Something more 
was necessary. It was indispensable that some new force 
should come into play, to soften Corona's strong nature and 
to show Giovanni in his true light. Unfortunately for them 
such a happy conclusion was scarcely to be expected. Even 
if the question of the Saracinesca property were decided 
against them, an issue which, at such a time, was far from 
certain, they would still be rich. Poverty might have drawn 
them together again, but they could not be financially ruined. 
Corona would have all her own fortune, while Giovanni was 
more than well provided for by what his mother had left 
him. The blow would tell far more heavily upon Giovanni's 
pride than upon his worldly wealth, severe as the loss must 
be in respect of the latter. It is impossible to say whether 
Corona might not have suffered as much as Giovanni himself, 
had the prospect of such a catastrophe presented itself a few 



254 , 

weeks earlier. At present it affected her very little. The 
very name of Saracinesca was disagreeable to her hearing, 
and the house she lived in had lost all its old charm for her. 
She would willingly have left Rome to travel for a year or 
two rather than continue to inhabit a place so full of painful 
recollections ; she would gladly have seen another name 
upon the cards she left at her friends' houses even the once 
detested name of Astrardente. When she had married 
Giovanni she had not been conscious that she became richer 
than before.' When one had everything, what difference 
could a few millions more bring into life ? It was almost a 
pity that they could not become poor and be obliged to bear 
together the struggles and privations of poverty. 



CHAPTER XYII 

SAN GIACINTO and Flavia were married on Saturday the 
thirtieth of J^ovember, thereby avoiding the necessity of 
paying a fee for being united during Advent, much to the 
satisfaction of Prince Montevarchi. The wedding was a 
brilliant affair, and if the old prince's hospitality left some 
thing to be desired, the display of liveries, coaches and 
family silver was altogether worthy of so auspicious an 
occasion. Everybody was asked, and almost everybody 
went, from the Saracinesca to Anastase Gouache, from 
Valdarno to Arnoldo Meschini. Even Spicca was there, as 
melancholy as usual, but evidently interested in the pro 
ceedings. He chanced to find himself next to Gouache in 
the crowd. 

' I did not expect to see you here,' he remarked. 

' I have been preserved from a variety of dangers in order 
to assist at the ceremony,' answered the Zouave, with a laugh. 
' At one time I thought it more likely that I should be the 
person of importance at a funeral.' 

' So did I. However, it could not be helped.' Spicca 
did not smile. 

' You seem to regret it,' observed Gouache, who knew hie 
companion's eccentric nature. 




' Only on general principles. For the rest, I am de 
lighted to see you. Come and breakfast with me when this 
affair is over. We will drink to the happiness of two 
people who will certainly be very unhappy before long.' 

' Ourselves ? ' 

' No. The bride and bridegroom. " Ye, who enter, leave 
all hope behind ! " How can people be so foolish as to 
enter into an engagement from which there is no issue ? The 
fools are not all dead yet.' 

' I am one of them,' replied Gouache. 

'You will probably have your wish. Providence has 
evidently preserved you from sudden death in order to 
destroy you by lingering torture. Is the wedding day 
fixed ? ' 

' I wish it were.' 

' And the bride ? ' 

'How can I telH' 

' Do you mean to say that, as an opinion, you would 
rather be married than not ? The only excuse for the folly 
of marrying is the still greater folly of loving a woman 
enough to marry her. Of course, a man who is capable 
of that, is capable of anything. Here comes the bride with 
her father. Think of being tied to her until a merciful death 
part you. Think of being son-in-law to that old man, until 
heaven shall be pleased to remove him. Think of calling 
that stout English lady, mother-in-law, until she is at last 
overtaken by apoplexy. Think of calling all those relations 
brothers and sisters, Ascanio, Onorato, Andrea, Isabella, 
Bianca, Faustina ! It is a day's work to learn their names and 
titles. She wears a veil to hide her satisfaction a wreath 
of orange flowers, artificial, too, made of paper and paste and 
wire, symbols of innocence, of course, pliable and easily 
patched together. She looks down, lest the priest should see 
that her eyes are laughing. Her father is whispering words of 
comfort and encouragement into her ear. " Mind your ex 
pression," he is saying, no doubt " you must not look as 
though you were being sacrificed, nor as though you were too 
glad to be married, for everybody is watching you. Do not 
eay, I will, too loudly nor inaudibly either, and remember that 





you are my daughter." Very good advice. Now she kneels 
down and he crosses to the other side. She bends her head 
very low. She is looking under her elbow to see the folds 
of her train. You see she moves her heel to make the 
