Father, mother, honour, were gone at one blow. Not the 
mother he had learned to dream of as a boy, when some faint 
memory of her fair face Avas still with him ; not the tender and 
gentle mother who, if she had lived, would have been dearest on 
earth to him, and whose untimely death had lent her something 
heavenly and brightly mysterious ; not the mother of whom his 
father had often told him, who from her place of peace looked 
down, perhaps, and smiled when he did well, or was pained when 
he did wrong ; not the mother who, in his sleep, seemed to walk 
beside him when he was a child, robed in white, holding him by 
the hand and pointing heavenwards, like the picture of the 
Guardian Angel so common in his native country; not that 
mother who was to him the embodiment of all that was pure and 
lovely, and saintly and kind; not that sweet mother who for 
nearly forty years had held her secret place in the strange 
labyrinths of the lonely student's heart, to whose angelic figure he 
had often turned for consolation when weary with the aimlessness 
of deep study that led to nothing, or when satiated with all the 
useless, pleasureless pleasure which money could give and which 
there was no one to forbid. That dear image was gone, but she 
was not the mother he had lost. She who had borne him was 
lying near him now, under that very roof. She had cast him off, 
him and his father, to spend all those years when he had thought 
her dead, with another man, worst shame of all, with the brother 
of her husband. And she had borne another son, she had given a 
brother to her first-born, whom the world called noble and rich, 
who in truth was penniless and nameless as any beggar in the 



 

street. She had heaped dishonour upon father and son, and she 
had borne in dishonour a second son and shamed the spotless life 
of a second father. And this woman, this wretch, this creature 
for whom no speakable name could be found, was his own mother, 
and was henceforth to stand in the place of her whose mere 
memory had been half divine. Her vile life, forfeited for her 
crimes as shamefully as though she had died by the defaming 
hands of the common hangman, her hideous existence was thrust 
before him in all its abomination, as the source of his own, in the 
stead of all that had seemed most holy and chaste and worthy of 
his reverence. Was not her blood in his veins ? Must not her 
evil nature of necessity show itself sooner or later in his own ? 
Better the ounce weight of a finger upon that little bar of steel, to 
press which was to go beyond the risk of human infamy, beyond 
the possibility of reproducing in his own life the merest shadow of 
the sins that had darkened hers to the end. Better to cross at 
once that bridge whose passage is never choked because all who 
go over move ever in the same way, and none pause whose path 
has led them to its hither side. Better to leap at once and take 
his secret out of human keeping. 

He would not have believed the horror if he had learned it from 
living man. But the message came from those who had sealed its 
truth with the dark red seal ; it came from two men who had not 
been mistaken, of whom either, suspecting a mistake, would have 
slain the other for the mere accusation ; old men not carried away 
by a fleeting resemblance, by the breath of a word half understood, 
by suspicion of a glance only half seen ; stern, bold men too stern 
to relent, but far too brave to be moved suddenly to senseless wrath 
against an innocent woman; proud men, both, who would have 
denied to each other the possibility of their common shame, so long 
as denial was humanly possible. 

There could be no doubt, no shadow of a hope. Greif von 
Greifenstein was brother to Rex, and both were fatherless and 
motherless on the same clay. Why live on, beneath the weight of 
memories which no time could efface and no future happiness 
soften ? Had he any obligations to mankind, had he any pride of 
half-fulfilled hopes, of half-satisfied ambition ? What had his life 
been ? A nameless one, though of the two he alone could claim a 
name, if all were known. What had he done with it 3 He had 
attempted to explore the sources of life and the first origin of all 
those strange states which life brings with it. He had spent years 
in patient study, and again for months he had experimented upon 
his own incomprehensible sensations, by alternately procuring him- 



 

self every pleasure and amusement which money could command, 
and then seeking the contrast of solitary asceticism. His iron 
constitution of body had survived all, but his bright intelligence 
had wearied of the struggle, bruising its keen edge against the 
rocky barriers of the eternal and the unknown. Wiser than his 
fellows, he knew that he was no wiser than before ; stronger than 
they, he knew the weakness of all strength ; brave as the bravest, 
bravery seemed to him but a clumsy exhibition of vanity at best, 
and altogether contemptible from the moment it began to seek 
occasions for showing itself. He could have understood playing 
the coward for sake of examining the sensation, and would 
have laughed at his own vanity, when it led him to redeem his 
character the next moment by some act of reckless daring. What 
was it all, but an amazing show of puppets, an astounding dance 
of lay-figures, animated by strings of which the ends opposite from 
men were lost in infinite distance? To dance, or not to dance, 
was all the choice men had, and rather than play a part in such a 
show as fell to his lot, it seemed better to break the strings and 
let the miserable marionette fall into the black hole behind the 
stage. 

The possibility of adding a fourth link to the chain of death 
arrested Rex's frenzy. Since it was so easy to die, the escape from 
an earthly hell was always at hand. If, then, he lived, it must 
be of his own free will, and it did not beseem a man to do with 
such an ill grace what he did from his choice. Either he must 
end the matter decently and quietly at once, or, choosing not to 
end it, he must gather his strength and resume the direction of his 
existence. No other conclusion was possible. His secret was his 
own, and none need know it. All was over, and the disclosure 
of the truth could not help justice, any more than its concealment 
could injure any one. On the contrary, to tell what he knew 
would be to ruin Greif. 

At the thought of Greif, Rex grew calm, and sat upright on the 
couch, supporting himself with his hands and gazing absently at 
the opposite wall. He had something left to live for, since Greif 
was his brother Greif, who was at this very moment weeping 
over the body of her who was mother to both, looking for the last 
time upon that face which doubtless recalled to him the same 
tender memories Rex himself had cherished so long and so faith- 
fully. A strong desire to see her took hold of him. The mistaken 
veneration of a lifetime was gone in a moment and Rex experienced 
the necessity of putting in its place the truth, however horrible it 
might be. But, unknown to him, a touch of tenderness remained 



 

in the bottom of his heart. Sinful, ruined, dead by the hands of 
the men she had foully wronged, she had nevertheless been his 
mother. He said to himself that he would see her, in order that 
the last impression might finally wipe out all those that had been 
sweet before it ; but in spite of every circumstance of shame that 
had attended her death, and in spite of his own reasoning, what 
drew him to her was in reality the strength of what he believed to 
be wholly eradicated and torn from him, the unconscious longing 
to see once more the face of her who had borne him, and whose 
image had been with him since he was a little child. 

To see her, and then what then ? The future was a blank, of 
which the monotony was broken only by the figure of Greif. The 
idea of devoting himself to his brother, and of expending all his 
strength and intelligence in the attempt to make him outlive the 
dreadful memory of this day, presented itself to Rex's mind. He 
smiled faintly, for the thought was unlike most of his thoughts. He 
did not remember to have ever before entertained a similar project. 
He had sacrificed his inclinations many times in the pursuit of 
knowledge, and even occasionally out of good nature, but he had 
never set himself the task of systematically benefiting another 
man. And yet, he knew well enough that Greif would need 
support and help and comfort, and that there would be none at 
hand to offer all these, save Rex himself. 

He rose from his seat and paced the room, his hands behind 
him, his eyes bent down. His face still bore the marks of his 
sudden and terrible suffering, but the perfectly balanced powers of 
his mind were already beginning to assert themselves. The habit 
of scepticism, that is, of systematic inquiry into all that befell him, 
was too strong to remain long in abeyance, and the equilibrium of 
the mental forces, cultivated to excess by his method of study, was 
too stable in nature to be long disturbed, even by the greatest 
calamity. To-day he saw the necessity of applying his intelligence 
to the alleviation of Greifs sorrow and to the preservation of 
Greif s existence, endangered by such a blow. In a few weeks at 
the latest, his own sufferings would acquire an objective interest, 
and would become so many data for study in the great case of all 
humanity. Rex could never have been a hero. He could never 
have detached his own individuality from its place in his map of 
mankind, so as to believe himself different from all other men, as 
heroes must believe themselves. He felt that the balance lay 
between his own life and death, and that he could turn the scale 
at his own choice ; he could never have made himself forget life in 
the hope of victory, nor death in the fear of failure. Incapable of 





any transcendental belief whatsoever, his intelligence had deified 
free-agency, while his unacknowledged suspicion of a directing power 
asserted itself in his theories concerning nature's fatalism. He 
supposed that the machinery of the universe produced inevitable 
phases in the lives of individuals and of nations ; he knew that in 
all that had happened to him he had been free to exercise his 
choice between two alternatives. Such a choice was now before 
him, and for the first time in his life he determined to devote 
himself to the welfare of another. 



CHAPTER XV 

AN hour later Rex was supporting Greif as he returned from the 
state bedchamber to his own room. Strong and determined to be 
calm as the young man was, the sight had been too much for him, 
and it was clear that unless he could obtain sleep his nerves must 
break down under the strain they suffered. He reeled in his walk 
like a man half asleep, his bright eyes were glassy and fixed, his 
relaxed fingers were incapable of grasping Rex's arm, and the latter 
held him upright upon his feet and almost carried him along the 
dim corridors. 

Rex also had seen, but when he had once been face to face 
with that which had irresistibly drawn him to the room, he had 
felt no desire to look again. The drawn, white features of the 
dead lady recalled nothing to his mind out of the sweetness of the 
past, while their fixed expression of pain intensified the horror of 
the present until it grew unbearable. He had stayed long in the 
other chamber, where his father lay, and as he gazed upon the 
stern dark face his wrath rose, swelling tumultuously in his breast, 
as the tide of the sea, ebbing away as he thought of what was 
beyond and as he realised that all vengeance had been accomplished, 
and all justice done, so that no one remained alive against whom 
he could feel anger, no one upon whom his hand could fall. They 
had taken the law into their own hands and had executed its 
extreme sentence upon her who had wronged them, and they had 
expiated their deed in their own bodies. Never was tragedy so 
swift, so desperate and so complete. 

And now the morning sun was high in the heavens, mocking 
the solemn darkness of men's hearts with his fierce brightness, 
shining upon the ancient walls of Greifenstein as coldly and 
clearly through the keen winter air as he had shone yesterday 
and as he would shine to-morrow. From eave and stringcourse 
and dripstone of the old castle the melting patches of dazzling 



 

snow sent down mimic showers of diamond drops, and the 
moisture thawed from them made dark stains upon the grey 
masonry. A redbreast skipped about the furrows made in the 
white carpet by the carriage wheels, paused, turned his tiny 
impertinent head, and glanced up at the ramparts with a squint, as 
though to tell the time of day by the sun and the shadows of the 
projecting eaves. From the paved court of the stables, where all 
had been hurry and confusion on the previous night, came the 
occasional noise of an impatient hoof stamping upon the stones, 
the even sound of brushes on smooth coats as the men leisurely 
groomed the horses, the tinkling of curb- chains polished and 
rubbed together by idle lads who were in no hurry, and occasionally 
the echo of a voice, instantly subdued to an undertone as the 
speaker remembered that this day was not to be like other days. 
At the door of the servants' hall the two comfortable policemen 
in their dark uniforms and shining buttons sunned their fair 
beards as they smoked their morning pipes, exchanging a remark 
in a low voice about once in five minutes, and never without 
previously looking round to see whether any one was listening 
to them, but chiefly occupied in watching an underkeeper who 
was feeding the big hounds in a sunny corner of the inner 
court. 

Nature, in her pitiless irony, seemed more than usually mirthful 
on that clear morning. It was such a day as old Greifenstein 
who lay upstairs, dead beside his dead wife, would have chosen 
to tramp far into the forest, with his gun on his shoulder and his 
dogs at his heels. It was such a day as would have made poor 
Clara's lot seem easier, softening her tortured conscience in a 
thaw of passing satisfaction, pleasant while it lasted, transitory as 
the gleam of light and warmth in the dismal winter of the Black 
Forest. The forest itself alone was unchanged. The trees looked 
blacker than ever against the blue sky and under the violent light. 
Around the vast amphitheatre of the hills they stood motionless in 
their even rows, like a great assembly of dark- robed judges, 
judging the dead who lay in their midst, inquisitors whom no 
brightness could brighten, and in whose sombre countenances no 
smile was reflected from the glorious sky and dazzling light. 
Silent, grand, funereal, they stood in their places as they had 
stood a hundred years ago, before those lives began which had 
now suddenly gone out, as they would stand when those other 
lives were extinguished which now were young. 

Neither Greif nor Rex were seen again that day. In the 
course of time the representatives of the law arrived, did their 



 

office, and were regaled with a collation by the butler, during 
which they sat upon the chairs which last night had been occupied 
by those whose end they had come to ascertain. The case was 
very plain and their duties were simple. They went away and 
took the two policemen with them. Frau von Sigmundskron 
moved noiselessly about the house, giving the necessary directions 
when there were any to be given, occasionally sitting down in a 
quiet corner to read a few pages of a devotional book she had 
found. More than once she went to the different rooms where 
Greif and Rex had withdrawn, to see whether she could be of any 
use. Greif was always in the same place, leaning back in a great 
easy-chair, pale and exhausted with grief, but evidently master of 
himself. At last she found him asleep, and she drew a long 
breath of relief, for she knew that the chief danger was past. 
When she went to Rex she found him reading, and he did not relin- 
quish his occupation during the whole day, so far as she could 
ascertain. Whether he understood what he read, or not, was 
more than she could determine. The volume contained a part of 
Goethe's works, and when she glanced at the page she saw that 
the student had selected the second part of Wilhelm Meister for 
his reading. He always looked up quietly when she entered, 
thanked her, and said that he needed nothing. 

Frau von Sigmundskron could not rest. The sense of re- 
sponsibility which she felt might alone have sufficed to sustain 
her energy, but her mind was disturbed by a matter even weightier 
in her eyes. The tremendous difficulties of the future presented 
themselves very clearly to her mental view, and she knew that 
before long they would not be mere shadows of things to come, 
but actual problems with which she must grapple, and upon the 
solution of which she must concentrate all her strength. To- 
morrow, or the next day at the latest, the earth would close for 
ever over what remained of those poor beings whose departure 
from life had saddened her own and made it seem so hard to 
understand. But when the three were buried, she could no 
longer remain at Greifenstein. There would be no reason for 
prolonging her stay, even had she wished to do so, and indeed 
her wishes would lead her homewards as soon as her duties were all 
fulfilled. She had never before been separated even for a day from 
her child, and though she was strong and sensible in mind and 
knew that Hilda was safe with old Berbel, she was conscious that 
it was painful to be away from her. She would therefore return 
to Sigmundskron. From that moment her trouble would begin. 
It was not conceivable that Greif should go away without seeing 



 

Hilda, and yet there were many reasons why it would be better 
that the two should not meet. 

She had foreseen the struggle during the hours of the night, 
but it had not then appeared so formidable as now. She had 
then thought more of Greif, and it had not seemed impossible to 
tell him frankly what she felt. As she reflected upon what must 
be done, she saw that Hilda was the principal figure in the 
situation, and she realised that Hilda's happiness was infinitely 
more dear, to her than anything else in the world. She hesitated, 
and for some time she told herself that the marriage must take 
place, come what might. 

To her, all that had happened since the previous evening was 
shrouded in an impenetrable mystery. Her imagination failed 
utterly to account for the desperate doings of which the horrible 
result was before her. She could have understood that the two 
brothers might have quarrelled on meeting after so many years, and 
that in a moment of reckless anger they should have shot each other. 
Clara might have perished in the struggle, while endeavouring to 
part them. But there was a dreadful appearance of deliberate 
intention in the whole tragedy which made such a hypothesis 
untenable. That Clara had been intentionally murdered, she 
could not doubt. Greifenstein might have slain her in a fit of 
passion and might have taken his own life afterwards, but this 
could not account for Rieseneck's suicide. She could have 
believed that for some unknown reason Eieseneck had killed his 
brother and Clara, and after disposing their bodies as they were 
found, had shot himself. But the examination proved the con- 
trary. It was plainly evident that both men had died in their 
chairs by the weapons found in their own hands. Eieseneck had 
written to his son, but Greifenstein had not, or, at least, if he 
had written anything it had not been discovered. Rex alone 
could know the secret, therefore, if it had been revealed at all. 
She was ignorant that in Germany, when a suicide has been 
committed, the law has a right to see whatever letters were last 
written by the deceased. The stamped letter, addressed to Rex, 
had attracted her attention, and she had taken it from the table 
with the intention of posting it the next day, not meaning to 
conceal it, but, on the contrary, to send it without delay to its 
destination. The legal gentlemen, courteous to the good lady, 
had not pressed her with any questions, taking it for granted that 
if she had found any letter or any clue to an explanation she 
would naturally offer it at once. And so it chanced that Rex 
alone could know the truth if any one knew it. That he had 



 

been terribly moved by what he had read, she had seen for herself, 
but whether the letter had contained a full explanation of the 
circumstances, it was not possible to judge. If so, it was more than 
probable, she thought, that Rex would show it to Greif in due 
time, and that when the first shock was over the contents would 
be communicated to herself. The question was whether this 
would happen before Greif saw Hilda. In spite of her natural 
repugnance to such a plan, she almost resolved to ask Rex directly 
whether what he had received threw any light upon the situation. 
If she could know why those three persons were dead she could 
better guide her course in the future. 

If Greifenstein had been a murderer, as well as a suicide, his 
son could not have Hilda for his wife. It was Greif s misfortune, 
and the baroness gave him all the pity she could spare from her 
own child, but the point could not be yielded. She closed her 
eyes and tried to think it over. She thought of Hilda, married and 
