
Miss Woodburn and Fulkerson came in from the 
other room. " What ! You 're not going, Beaton ? " 

" Yes ; I 'm going to a reception. I stopped in on 
my way." 

" To kill time," Alma explained. 

"Well," said Fulkerson gallantly, "this is the 
last place I should like to do it. But I guess I'd 
better be going too. It has sometimes occurred to 
me that there is such a thing as staying too late. 
But with Brother Beaton, here, just starting in for 
an evening's amusement, it does seem a little early 
yet. Can't you urge me to stay, somebody ? " 

The two girls laughed, and Miss Woodburn said, 
"Mr. Beaton is such a butterfly of fashion! Ah 
wish ylh was on mah way to a pawty. Ah feel 
quahto envious." 

"But he didn't say it to viaJ:e you," Alma ex- 
plained with meek softness. 

" Well, we can't all be swells. Where is your 
party, anyway, Beaton ? " asked Fulkerson. " How 
do you manage to get your invitations to those 
things ? I suppose a fellow has to keep hinting 
round pretty lively, heigh ? " 

Beaton took these mockeries serenely, and shook 
hands with Miss Woodburn, with the effect of 
having already shaken hands with Alma. She stood 
with hers clasped behind her. 



V. 



Beaton "went away  with tlic smile on his face 
which he had kept in listening to Fulkorson, and 
carried it -with him to the reception. He believed 
that Alma "was vexed "with him for more personal 
reasons than she had implied ; it flattered him that 
she should have resented -what he told her of the 
Dryfooses. She had scolded him in their behalf 
apparently; but really because he had made her 
jealous by his interest, of whatever kind, in some 
one else. "What followed, had followed naturally. 
Unless she had been quite a simjjleton she could not 
have met his provisional love-making on any other 
terms ; and the reason "why Beaton chiefly liked 
Alma Lcighton was that slic "was not a simpleton. 
Even up in the country, "when she was overawed by 
his acquaintance, at first, she "was not very deeply 
overawed, and at times she was not overawed at all. 
At such times she astonished him by taking his most 
solemn histi ionics with fli])pant incredulity, and even 
burlesquing them. But he could see, all the same, 
that he had caught her fancy, and he admired the 
skill with which she punished his neglect whcn they 
met ill New York. lie had really come very near 



 

forgetting the Leightons ; the intangible obligations 
of mutual kindness which hold some men so fast, 
hung loosely upon him ; it would not have hurt him 
to break from them altogether ; but when he recog- 
nised them at last, he found that it strengthened 
them indefinitely to have Alma ignore them so com- 
pletely. If she had been sentimental, or softly 
reproachful, that would have been the end ; he could 
not have stood it ; he would have had to drop her. 
But when she met him on his own ground, and 
obliged him to be sentimental, the game was in her 
hands. Beaton laughed, now, when ho thought of 
that, and he said to himself that the girl had grown 
immensely since she had come to Xew York ; nothing 
seemed to have been lost upon her ; she must have 
kept her eyes uncommonly wide open. He noticed 
that especially in their talks over her work ; she liad 
profited by everything she had seen and heard ; she 
had all of Wetmore's ideas pat ; it amused Beaton 
to see how she seized every useful word that he 
dropped, too, and turned him to technical account 
whenever she could. He liked that ; she had a great 
deal of talent ; there was no question of that ; if she 
were a man there could be no question of her future. 
He began to construct a future for her ; it included 
provision for himself too ; it was a common future, 
in which their lives and work were united. 

He was full of the glow of its prosperity when he 
met Margaret Yauce at the reception. 

The house was one where people might chat a 
long time together without publicly committing 


 

themselves to their interest in each other except such 
as grew out of each other's ideas. Miss Vance "was 
there because she united in her catholic sympathies 
or amhitions the objects of the fashionable people 
and of the aesthetic people who met there on common 
ground. It was almost the only house in New York 
where this happened often, and it did not happen 
very often there. It was a literary house, primarily, 
with artistic qv.alifications, and the frequenters of it 
were mostly authors and artists ; "wetmore, who 
was always t:}ing to fit everything with a phrase, 
said it was the imfrequenters who were fashionable. 
There was groat case there, and simplicity ; and if 
there was not di.stinction, it was not for want of 
distinguished people, but because there seems to be 
some solvent in New York life that reduces all men 
to a common level, that touches everybody with its 
potent magic and brings to the surface the deeply 
underlying nobody. The effect for some tempera- 
ments, for consciousness, for egotism, is admirable ; 
for curiosity, for hero-worship, it is rather baffling. 
It is the spirit of the street transferred to the draw- 
ing-room ; indiscriminating, levelling, but doubtless 
finally wholesome, and witnessing the immensity 
of the place, if not consenting to the grandeur of 
reputations or presences. 

Beaton now denied that this house represented a 
salon at all, in the old sense ; and he held that the 
salon was impossible, even undesirable, with us, 
when Miss Vance sighed for it. At any rate, he 
said that this turmoil of coming and going, this 



 

bubble and babble, this cackling and hissing of con- 
versation was not the expression of any such civilisa- 
tion as had created the salon. Here, he owned, were 
the elements of intellectual delightfulness, but he 
said their assemblage in such quantity alone denied 
the salon ; there was too much of a good thing. 
The French word implied a long evening of general 
talk among the guests, crowned with a little chicken 
at supper, ending at cock-crow. Here was tea, with 
milk or with lemon — baths of it — and claret cup for 
the hardier spirits throughout the evening. It was 
very nice, very pleasant, but it was not the little 
chicken — not the salon. In fact, he affirmed, the 
salon descended from above, out of the great world, 
and included the esthetic world in it. But our 
great world — the rich people, were stupid, with no 
wish to be otherwise ; they were not even curious 
about authors and artists. Beaton fancied himself 
speaking impartially, and so he allowed himself to 
speak bitterly ; he said that in no other city in the 
world, except Vienna, perhaps, were such people so 
little a part of society. 

"It isn't altogether the rich people's fault," said 
Margaret; and she spoke impartiallj-, too. "I 
don't believe that the literary men and the artists 
would like a salon that descended to them. Madame 
GeofTrin, you know, was very plebeian ; her husband 
was a business man of some sort." 

"He would have been a howling swell in New 
York," said Beaton, still impartially. 

wetmore came up to their corner, with a scroll 



 

of bread and butter in one hand and a cup of tea in 
the other. Large and fat, and clean shaven, he 
looked like a monk in evening dress. 

"Wo were talking about salons," said Margaret. 

" Why don't you open a saloon yourself ? " asked 
Wetmore, breathing thickly from the anxiety of 
getting through the crowd without spilling his tea. 

" Like poor Lady Barberina Lemon ? " said the 
girl, with a laugh. " What a good story ! That 
idea of a woman who couldn't be interested in any 
of the arts because she was socially and traditionally 
the material of them ! We can never reach that 
height of nonchalance in this country" 

" Not if we tried seriously  " suggested the painter. 
" I 've an idea that if the Americans ever gave their 
minds to that sort of thing, they could take the 
palm — or the cake, as Beaton here would say — just 
as they do in everything else. When we do have 
an aristocracy, it will be an aristocracy that will go 
ahead of anything the world has ever seen. Why 
don't somebody make a beginning, and go in openl}' 
for an ancestry, and a lower middle class, and an 
hereditary legislature, and all the rest ? We 've got 
liveries, and crests, and palaces, and caste feeling. 
We 're all right as far as we 've gone, and we 've got 
the money to go any length." 

" Like your natural-gas man, Mr. Beaton," said tiie 
girl, with a smiling glance round at him. 

" Ah ! " said Wetmore, stirring his tea, " has 
Beaton got a natural-gas man ? " 

"My natural-gas man," said Beaton, ignoring 



 

"Wetmore's question, "doesn't know how to live in 
his palace yet, and I doubt if he has any caste feeling. 
I fancy his family believe themselves victims of it. 
They say — one of the young ladies does — that she 
never saw such an unsociable place as New York ; 
nobody calls." 

" That 's good ! " said Wetmorc. " I suppose 
they 're all ready for company too : good cook, furni- 
ture, servants, carriages ? " 

" Galore," said Beaton. 

" Well, that 's too bad. There 's a chance for you, 
Miss Vance. Doesn't your pliilanthropy embrace the 
socially destitute as well as the financially ? Just 
think of a family like that, without a friend, in a 
great city ! I should think common charity had a 
duty there — not to mention the uncommon." 

He distinguished that kind as Margaret's by a 
glance of ironical deference. She had a repute for 
good works which was out of proportion to the 
works, as it always is, but she was really active in 
that way, under the vague obligation, which we now 
all feel, to be helpful. She was of the church which 
seems to have found a reversion to the imposing 
ritual of the past the way back to the early ideals of 
Christian brotherhood. 

"Oh, they seem to have Mr. Beaton," Margaret 
answered, and Beaton felt obscurely flattered by her 
reference to his patronage of the Dryfooses. 

He explained to Wetmore, " They have me because 
they partly own me. Dryfoos is Fulkerson's financial 
backer in Every Other JFcek." 



 

"Is tliat sol Well, that's interesting too. Aren't 
you rather astonished, Miss Vance, to see what a 
pretty thing Beaton is malcing of that magazine of 
his ? " 

"Oh," said Margaret, ''it's so very nice, every 
way ; it makes you feel as if you did have a countiy, 
after all. It 's as chic— that detestable little word I — 
as those new French books." 

" Beaton modelled it on them. But you mustn't 
suppose he does everything about Every Other JFeeJ: ; 
ho 'd like you to. Beaton, you haven't come up to 
that cover of your first number, since. That was the 
design of one of my pupils. Miss Vance — a little girl 
that Beaton discovered down in New Hampshire last 
summer." 

" Oh yes. And have you great liopes of her, Mr, 
Wetmore ? " 

" She seems to have more love of it and knack for 
it than any one of her sex I 've seen yet. It really 
looks like a case of art for art's sake, at times. But 
you can't tell. They 're liable to get married at any 
moment, you know. Look here, Beaton, when your 
natural-gas man gets to the ])icture-buying stage in 
his development, just remember your old friends, 
will you ? You know, Miss Vance, those new fellows 
have their regular stages. They never know what 
to do with their money, but they find out that 
people buy pictures, at one point. They shut your 
things up in their houses where nobody comes ; and 
after a while they overeat themselves — they don't 
know what else to do— and die of apoplexy, and 



 

leave your pictures to a gallery, and then they see 
 the  light. It 's slow, but it 's pretty sure. Well, I 
see Beaton isn't going to move on, as he ought to do ; 
and so I must. He always teas an unconventional 
creature." 

Wetmore went away, but Beaton remained, and 
he outstayed several other people who came up to 
speak to JMiss Vance. She was interested in every- 
body, and she liked the talk of these clever literary, 
artistic, clerical, even theatrical people, and she liked 
the sort of court with which they recognised her 
fashion as well as her cleverness ; it was A'ery 
pleasant to be treated intellectually as if she were 
one of themselves, and socially as if she was not 
habitually the same, but a sort of guest in Bohemia, 
a distinguished stranger. If it was Arcadia rather 
Ihan Bohemia, still she felt her quality of distin- 
guished stranger. The flattery of it touched her 
fancy, and not her vanity ; she had very little vanity. 
Beaton's devotion made the same sort of ajjpeal ; it 
was not so much that she liked him as she liked 
being the object of his admiration. She was a girl 
of genuine sympathies, intellectual rather than 
sentimental. In fact she was an intellectual person, 
whom equalities of the heart saved from being dis- 
agreeable, as they saved her on the other hand from 
being worldld'' or cruel in her fashionableness. She 
had read a great many books, and had ideas about 
them, cpiite courageous and original ideas; she knew 
about pictures — she had been in Wetmore 's class; 
she was fond of music; she was willing to under- 




stand even politics ; in Boston she might have been 
agnostic, but in New York she vas sincerely religious; 
she "was very accomplished, and pcrhai)S it was her 
goodness that prevented her feeling -what "was not 
best in Beaton. 

" Do you think," she said, after the retreat of one 
of the comers and goers left her alone with him 
again, " that those young ladies "would like mc to 
call on them ] " 

"Those young ladies?" Beaton echoed. "Miss 
Leighton and " 

'' No ; I have been there vith my aunt's cards 
already." 

"Oh yes," said Beaton, as if he had kno"wn of it; 
lie admired the pluck and pride with which Alma 
had refrained from ever mentioning the fact to him, 
and had kept her mother from mentioning it, which 
must have been difficult. 

" I mean the Miss Dryfooses. It seems really 
barbarous, if nobody goes near them. We do all 
kinds of things, and help all kinds of people in some 
ways, but we let strangers remain strangers unless 
they know how to make their way among us." 

" The Dryfooses certainly wouldn't know how to 
make their way among you," said Beaton, with a 
sort of dreamy absence in his tone. 

Miss Vance went on, speaking out the process of 
reasoning in her mind, rather than any conclusions 
she had reached. "We defend ourselves by trying 
to believe that they must have friends of their own, 
or that they would think us i)atronising, and 



 

wouldn't like being made the objects of social 
charity ; but they needn't really suppose anything of 
the kind." 

" I don't imagine they would," said Beaton. " I 
think they 'd be only too happy to have you come. 
But you wouldn't know what to do with each other, 
indeed, Miss Yance." 

"Perhaps we shall like each other," said the girl 
bravely, " and then we shall know. "What church 
are they oil" 

