had been another dance at Romney the night before, besides the one at
the negro quarters.

Eve was puzzled. She had thought her so unimaginative and quiet; "a
passionless, practical little creature, cool and unimpulsive, whose
miniature beauty led poor Jack astray, and made him believe that she had
a soul!" This had been her estimate. She was alone with the baby; she
took him to the window and looked at him earnestly. The little man
smiled back at her, playing with the crape of her dress. No, there was
nothing of Cicely here; the blue eyes, golden hair, and frank smile--all
were his father over again.

"We'll make that Mr. Morrison come back, baby; and then you and I will
go away together," she whispered, stroking his curls.

"Meh Kiss'm," said Jack. It was as near as he could come to "Merry
Christmas."

"Before another Christmas I'll get you away from her forever!"
murmured the aunt, passionately.




V.


"Out rowing? If you are doing it to entertain me--" said Eve.

"I should never think of that; there's only one thing here that
entertains you, and that's baby," Cicely answered. She spoke without
insistence; her eyes had their absent-minded expression.

"Cicely, give him to me," Eve began. She must put her wish into words
some time. "If I could only make you feel how much I long for it! I will
devote my life to him; and it will be a pleasure to me, a charity,
because I am so alone in the world. You are not alone; you have other
ties. Listen, Cicely, I will make any arrangement you like; you shall
always have the first authority, but let me have him to live with me;
let me take him away when I go. I will even acknowledge everything you
have said: my brother was much older than you were; it's natural that
those months with him should seem to you now but an episode--something
that happened at the beginning of your life, but which need not go on to
its close."

"I was young," said Cicely, musingly.

"Young to marry--yes."

"No; I mean young to have everything ended."

"But that is what I am telling you, it must not be ended; Mr. Morrison
must come back to you."

"He may," answered Cicely, looking at her companion for a moment with
almost a solemn expression.

"Then give baby to me now, and let me go away--before he comes."

Cicely glanced off over the water; they were standing on the low bank
above the Sound. "He could not go north now, in the middle of the
winter," she answered, after a moment.

"In the early spring, then?"

"I don't know; perhaps."

Eve's heart gave a bound. She was going to gain her point.

Having been brought up by a man, she had learned to do without the
explanations, the details, which are dear to most feminine minds; so all
she said was, "That's agreed, then." She was so happy that a bright
flush rose in her cheeks, and her smile, as she spoke these last few
words, was very sweet; those lips, which Miss Sabrina had thought so
sullen, had other expressions.

Cicely looked at her. "You may marry too."

Eve laughed. "There is no danger. To show you, to make you feel as
secure as I do, I will tell you that there have been one or two--friends
of Jack's over there. Apparently I am not made of inflammable material."

"When you are sullen--perhaps not. But when you are as you are now?"

"I shall always be sullen to that sort of thing. But we needn't be
troubled; there won't be an army! To begin with, I am twenty-eight; and
to end with, every one will know that I have willed my property to baby;
and that makes an immense difference."

"How does it make a difference?"

"In opportunities for marrying, if not also--as I really believe--for
falling in love."

"I don't see what difference it makes."

"True, you do not," Eve replied; "you are the most extraordinary people
in the world, you Southerners; I have been here nearly a month, and I am
still constantly struck by it--you never think of money at all. And the
strangest point is, that although you never think of it, you don't in
the least know how to get on without it; you cannot improve anything,
you can only endure."

"If you will tell Dilsey to get baby ready, I will see to the boat,"
answered Cicely. She was never interested in general questions.

Presently they were afloat. They were in a large row-boat, with Pomp,
Plato, Uncle Abram, and a field hand at the oars; Cicely steered; Eve
and little Jack were the passengers. The home-island was four miles
long, washed by the ocean on one side, the Sound on the other; on the
north, Singleton Island lay very near; but on the south there was a
broad opening, the next island being six miles distant. Here stood
Jupiter Light; this channel was a sea-entrance not only to the line of
Sounds, but also to towns far inland, for here opened on the west a
great river-mouth, through which flowed to the sea a broad, slow stream
coming from the cotton country. They were all good sailors, as they had
need to be for such excursions, the Sounds being often rough. The bright
winter air, too, was sharp; but Eve was strong, and did not mind it, and
the ladies of Romney, like true Southerners, never believed that it was
really cold, cold as it is at the North. The voyages in the row-boat had
been many; they had helped to fill the days, and the sisters-in-law had
had not much else with which to fill them; they had remained as widely
apart as in the beginning, Eve absorbed in her own plans, Cicely in her
own indifference. Little Jack was always of the party, as his presence
made dialogue easy. They had floated many times through the salt marshes
between the rattling reeds, they had landed upon other islands, whose
fields, like those of Romney, had once been fertile, but which now
showed submerged expanses behind the broken dikes, with here and there
an abandoned rice-mill. Sometimes they went inland up the river, rowing
slowly against the current; sometimes, when it was calm, they went out
to sea. To-day they crossed to the other side of the Sound.

"What a long house Romney is!" said Eve, looking back. She did not add,
"And if you drop anything on the floor at one end it shakes the other."

"Yes, it's large," Cicely answered. She perceived no fault in it.

"And the name; you know there's a Romney in Kent?"

"Is there?"

"And your post-office, too; when I think of your Warwick, with its one
wooden house, those spectral white sand-hills, the wind, and the tall
light-house, and then when I recall the English Warwick, with its small,
closely built streets, and the great castle looking down into the river
Avon, I wonder if the first-comers here didn't feel lost sometimes. All
the rivers in central England, put together, would be drowned out of
sight in that great yellow stream of yours over there."

But Cicely's imagination took no flight towards the first-comers, nor
towards the English rivers; and, in another moment, Eve's had come
hastily homeward, for little Jack coughed. "He is taking cold!" she
exclaimed. "Let us go back."

"It's a splendid day; he will take no cold," Cicely answered. "But we
will go back if you wish." She watched Eve fold a shawl round the little
boy. "You ought to have a child of your own, Eve," she said, with her
odd little laugh.

"And you ought never to have had one," Eve responded.

As they drew near the landing, they perceived Miss Sabrina on the bank.
"She has on her bonnet! Where can she be going?" said Cicely. "Oh, I
know; she will ask you to row to Singleton Island, to return Mrs.
Singleton's call."

"But Jack looks so pale--"

"You're too funny, Eve! How do you suppose we have taken care of him all
this time--before you came?" Eve's tone was often abrupt, but Cicely's
was never that; the worst you could say of it was that its sweetness was
sometimes mocking.

When they reached the landing, Miss Sabrina proposed her visit; "that
is, if you care to go, my dear. Dilsey told me that she saw you coming
back, so I put on my bonnet on the chance."

"Eve is going," remarked Cicely, stepping from the boat; "she wants to
see Rupert, he is such a sweet little boy."

Dilsey took Jack, and presently Miss Sabrina and her guest were floating
northward. Eve longed to put her triumph into words: "The baby is mine!
In the spring I am to have him." But she refrained. "When does your
spring begin?" she asked. "In February?"

"In March, rather," answered Miss Sabrina. "Before that it is dangerous
to make changes; I myself have never been one to put on thin dresses
with the pinguiculas."

"What are pinguiculas?--Birds?"

"They are flowers," responded Miss Sabrina, mildly.

"It will be six weeks, then; to-day is the fifteenth."

"Six weeks to what?"

"To March; to spring."

"I don't know that it begins on the very first day," remarked Miss
Sabrina.

"Mine shall!" thought Eve.

Romney was near the northern end of the home-island; the voyage,
therefore, was a short one. The chimneys of Singleton House came into
view; but the boat passed on, still going northward. "Isn't that the
house?" Eve asked.

"Yes, but the landing is farther on; we always go to the landing, and
then walk back through the avenue."

But when the facade appeared at the end of the neglected road--a walk of
fifteen minutes--there seemed to Eve hardly occasion for so much
ceremony; the old mansion was in a worse condition than Romney; it
sidled and leaned, and one of its wings was a roofless ruin, with the
planking of the floor half tilted up, half fallen into the cellar. Miss
Sabrina betrayed no perception of the effect of this upon a stranger;
she crossed the veranda with her lady-like step, and said to a solemn
little negro boy who was standing in the doorway: "Is Mrs. Singleton at
home this evening, Boliver? Can she see us?--Miss Bruce and Miss
Abercrombie."

An old negro woman came round the corner of the house, and, cuffing the
boy for standing there, ushered the visitors into a room on the right
of the broad hall. The afternoon had grown colder, but the doors and
windows all stood open; a negro girl, who bore a strong resemblance to
Powlyne, entered, and chased out a chicken who was prowling about over
the matted floor; then she knelt down, with her long thin black legs
stretched out behind, and tried to light a fire on the hearth. But the
wind was evidently in the wrong direction for the requirements of that
chimney; white smoke puffed into the room in clouds.

"Let us go out on the veranda," suggested Eve, half choked.

"Oh, but surely--When they have ushered us in here?" responded Miss
Sabrina, remonstratingly, though she too was nearly strangled. "It will
blow away in a few minutes, I assure you."

Much of it still remained when Mrs. Singleton entered. She paid no more
attention to it than Miss Sabrina had done; she welcomed her guests
warmly, kissing Eve on both cheeks, although she had never seen her
before. "I have been so much interested in hearing that you are from
England, Miss Bruce," she said, taking a seat beside her. "We always
think of England as our old home; I reckon you will see much down here
to remind you of it."

Eve looked about her--at the puffing smoke, at the wandering chicken,
who still peered through one of the windows. "I am not English," she
said.

"But you have lived there so long; ever since you were a child; surely
it is the same thing," interposed Miss Sabrina. A faint color rose in
her cheeks for a moment. Eve perceived that she preferred to present an
English rather than a Northern guest.

"We are all English, if you come to that," said Mrs. Singleton,
confidently. She was small, white-haired, with a sweet face, and a sweet
voice that drawled a little.

"Eve is much interested in our nig-roes," pursued Miss Sabrina; "you
know to her they are a novelty."

"Ah dear, yes, our poor, poor people! When I think of them, Miss Bruce,
scattered and astray, with no one to advise them, it makes my heart
bleed. For they must be suffering in so many ways; take the one instance
of the poor women in their confinements; we used to go to them, and be
with them to cheer their time of trial. But now, separated from us, from
our care and oversight, what can they do? If the people who have been
so rash in freeing them had only thought of even that one thing! But I
suppose they did not think of it, and naturally, because the
abolitionist societies, we are told, were composed principally of old
maids."

Eve laughed. "Why can't they have nurses, as other people do?"

"You don't mean regular monthly nurses, of course?"

"Why not?--if they can afford to pay for them. They might club together
to supply them."

"Oh, I don't think that would be at all appropriate, really. And Eve
does not mean it, I assure you," said Miss Sabrina, coming to the
rescue; "her views are perfectly reasonable, dear Mrs. Singleton; you
would be surprised."

"You would indeed!" Eve thought.

But they talked no more of the nig-roes.

"How is Miss Hillsborough?" Miss Sabrina asked.

"Right well, I am glad to say. My dear Aunt Peggy, Miss Bruce; and what
she is to me I can hardly tell you! You know I am something of a
talker"--here Mrs. Singleton laughed softly. "And we are so much alone
here now, that, were it not for Aunt Peggy, I should fairly have to talk
to the chickens!" (One at least would be ready, Eve thought.) "Don't you
know that there are ever so many little things each day that we want to
say to somebody?" Mrs. Singleton went on. "Thinking them is not
enough. And these dear people, like Aunt Peggy, who sit still and
listen;--it isn't what they answer that's of consequence; in fact they
seldom say much; it's just the chance they give us of putting our own
thought into words and seeing how it looks. It does make such a
difference."

"You are fortunate," Eve answered. "And then you have your little boy,
too; Cicely has told me about him--Rupert; she says he is a dear little
fellow."

"Dear heart!" exclaimed Miss Sabrina, distressed. "Cicely is
sometimes--yes--"

But Mrs. Singleton laughed merrily. "I will show him to you presently,"
she said.

"Mr. Singleton is so extraordinarily agreeable!" said Miss Sabrina, with
unwonted animation.

"Oh yes, he is wonderful; and he is a statesman too, a second Patrick
Henry. But then as regards the little things of each day, you know, we
don't go to our husbands with those."

"What do you do, then?--I mean with the husbands," Eve asked.

"I think we admire them," answered Mrs. Singleton, simply.

Lucasta, the negro girl, now appeared with a tray. "Pray take some
Madeira," said their hostess, filling the tiny glasses. "And plum-cake."

Eve declined. But Miss Sabrina accepted both refreshments, and Mrs.
Singleton bore her company. The wine was unspeakably bad, it would have
been difficult to say what had entered into its composition; but Madeira
had formed part of the old-time hospitality of the house, and something
that was sold under that name (at a small country store on the mainland
opposite) was still kept in the cut-glass decanter, to be served upon
occasion.

Presently a very tall, very portly, and very handsome old man (he well
merited three verys) came in, leaning on a cane. "Miss Bruce--little
Rupert; our dear little boy," said Mrs. Singleton, introducing him. She
had intended to laugh, but she forgot it; she gazed at him admiringly.

The master of the house put aside his cane, and looked about for a
chair. As he stood there, helpless for an instant, he seemed gigantic.

Eve laughed.

Miss Sabrina murmured, "Pleasantry, dear Mr. Singleton;--our foolish
pleasantry."

After the old gentleman had found his chair and seated himself, and had
drawn a breath or two, he gave a broad slow smile. "Nanny, are you in
the habit of introducing me to your young lady friends as your dear
little Rupert?--your little Rupe?"

"Rupe? Never!" answered Mrs. Singleton, indignantly.

"Only our foolish pleasantry," sighed Miss Sabrina, apologetically.

"It was Cicely," Eve explained.

"If it was Cicely, it was perfect," the lame colossus answered,
gallantly. "Cicely is heavenly. Upon my word, she is the most engaging
young person I have ever seen in my life."

He then ate some plum-cake, and paid Eve compliments even more handsome
than these.

After a while he imparted the news; he had been down to the landing to
meet the afternoon steamer, which brought tidings from the outside
world. "Melton is dead," he said. "You know whom I mean? Melton, the
great stockbroker; one of the richest men living, I suppose."

"Oh! where is his soul now?" said Mrs. Singleton. Her emotion was
real, her sweet face grew pallid.

"Why, I have never heard that he was a bad man, especially," remarked
Eve, surprised.

"He was sure to be--making all that money; it could not be otherwise.
Oh, what is his agony at this very moment!"

But Rupert did not sympathize with this mournfulness; when three ladies
were present, conversation should be light, poetical. "Miss Bruce," he
said, turning towards Eve--he was so broad that that in itself made a
landscape--"have you ever noticed the appropriateness of 'County Guy' to
this neighborhood of ours?"

"No," Eve answered. But the words brought her father to her mind with a
rush: how often, when she was a child, had he beguiled a dull walk with
a chant, half song, half declamation:

    "Oh, County Guy, the hour is nigh,
      The sun has left the lea."

She looked at her host, but she did not hear him; a mist gathered in her
eyes.

    "'Oh, County Guy, the hour is nigh,'"

