protestation of her manner, he bade her good-night.

It is one of the charms of our lovely climate that the temperature can
fall twenty degrees in as many minutes. When Roland entered the Dunellen
house he left spring in the street; when he came out again there was
snow. Across the way a lamp flickered, beneath it a man was standing,
from beyond came a faint noise of passing wheels, but the chance of
rescue by cab or hansom was too remote for anyone but a foreigner to
entertain. Roland had omitted to provide himself with any protection
against a storm, yet that omission affected him but little. He had too
many things to think of to be anxious about his hat; and, his hands in
his pocket, his head lowered, he descended the steps, prepared to let
the snow do its worst.

As he reached the pavement the man at the lamp-post crossed the street.

"Mistrial," he called, for Roland was hurrying on--"Mistrial, I want a
word with you."

In a moment he was at his side, and simultaneously Roland recognized the
cousin. He was buttoned up in a loose coat faced with fur, and over his
head he held an umbrella. He seemed a little out of breath.

"If," he began at once, "if I hear that you ever presume to so much as
speak to Miss Dunellen again, I will break every bone in your body."

The voice in which he made this threat was gruff and aggressive. As he
delivered it, he closed his umbrella and swung it like a club.

"A nous deux, maintenant," mused Roland.

"And not only that--if you ever dare to enter that house again I will
expose you."

"Oh, will you, though?" answered Roland. The tone he assumed was
affectedly civil. "Well now, my fat friend, let me tell you this: I
intend to enter that house, as you call it, to-morrow at precisely five
o'clock. Let me pick you up on the way, and we can go together."

"Roland Mistrial, as sure as there is a God in heaven I will have you in
the Tombs."

"See here, put up your umbrella. You are not in a condition to expose
yourself--let alone anyone else. You are daft, Thorold--that is what is
the matter with you. If you persist in chattering Tombs at me in a
snow-storm I will answer Bloomingdale to you. You frightened me once, I
admit; but I am ten years older now, and ten years less easily scared.
Besides, what drivel you talk! You haven't that much to go on."

As Roland spoke his accent changed from affected suavity to open scorn.
"Now stop your bluster," he continued, "and listen to me. Because you
happen to find me in there, you think I have intentions on the
heiress--"

"It's a lie! She--"

"There, don't be abusive. I know you want her for yourself, and I hope
you get her. But please don't think that I mean to stand in your way."

"I should say not."

"In the first place, I went there on business."

"What business, I would like to know?"

"So you shall. I took some papers for Mr. Dunellen to examine--papers
relative to my father's estate. To-morrow I return to learn his opinion.
Next week I go abroad again. When I leave I promise you shall find your
cousin still heart-whole and fancy-free."

As Roland delivered this little stab he paused a moment to note the
effect. But apparently it had passed unnoticed--Thorold seemingly was
engrossed in the statements that preceded it. The scowl was still on his
face, but it was a scowl into which perplexity had entered, and which in
entering had modified the aggressiveness that had first been there. At
the moment his eyes wandered, and Roland, who was watching him, felt
that he had scored a point.

"You say you are going abroad?" he said, at last.

"Yes; I have to join my wife."

At this announcement Thorold looked up at him and then down at the
umbrella. Presently, with an abrupt gesture, he unfurled it and raised
it above his head. As he did so, Roland smiled. For that night at least
the danger had gone. Of the morrow, however, he was unassured.

"Suppose we walk along," he said, encouragingly; and before Thorold knew
it, he was sharing that umbrella with his foe. "Yes," he continued, "my
poor father left his affairs in a muddle, but Mr. Dunellen says he
thinks he can straighten them out. You can understand that if any
inkling of this thing were to reach him he would return the papers at
once. You can understand that, can't you? After all, you must know that
I have suffered."

"Suffered!" Thorold cried. "What's that to me? It made my mother
insane."

"God knows I nearly lost my reason too. I can understand how you feel
toward me: it is only what I deserve. Yet though you cannot forget, at
least it can do you no good to rake this matter up."

"It is because of--" and for a second the cousin halted in his speech.

"Voilà!" mused Roland. "Je te vois venir."

"However, if you are going abroad--"

"Most certainly I am. I never expect to see Miss Dunellen again."

"In that case I will say nothing."

They had reached Fifth Avenue, and for a moment both loitered on the
curb. Thorold seemed to have something to add, but he must have had
difficulty in expressing it, for he nodded as though to reiterate the
promise.

"I can rely upon you then, can I?" Roland asked.

"Keep out of my way, sir, and I will try, as I have tried, to forget."

A 'bus was passing, he hailed it, and disappeared.

Roland watched the conveyance, and shook the snow-flakes from his coat.
"Try, and be damned," he muttered. "I haven't done with you yet."

The disdain of a revenge at hand is accounted the uniquest possible
vengeance. And it is quite possible that had Roland's monetary affairs
been in a better condition, on a sound and solid basis, let us say, he
would willingly have put that paradox into action. But on leaving Tuxedo
he happened to be extremely hungry--hungry, first and foremost, for the
possession of that wealth which in this admirably conducted country of
ours lifts a man above the law, and, an adroit combination of
scoundrelism and incompetence aiding, sometimes lands him high among the
executives of state. By political ambition, however, it is only just to
say he was uninspired. In certain assemblies he had taken the trouble to
assert that our government is one at which Abyssinia might sneer, but
the rôle of reformer was not one which he had any inclination to
attempt. Several of his progenitors figured, and prominently too, in
abridgments of history; and, if posterity were not satisfied with that,
he had a very clear idea as to what posterity might do. In so far as he
was personally concerned, the prominence alluded to was a thing which he
accepted as a matter of course: it was an integral part of himself; he
would have missed it as he would have missed a leg or the point of his
nose; but otherwise it left his pulse unstirred. No, his hunger was not
for preferment or place. It was for the ten million which the Hon. Paul
Dunellen had gathered together, and which the laws of gravitation would
prevent him from carrying away when he died. That was the nature of
Roland Mistrial's hunger, and as incidental thereto was the thirst to
adjust an outstanding account.

Whatever the nature of that account may have been, in a more ordinary
case it might have become outlawed through sheer lapse of time. But
during that lapse of time Roland had been in exile because of it; and
though even now he might have been willing to let it drift back into the
past where it belonged, yet when the representative of it not only
loomed between him and the millions, but was even attempting to gather
them in for himself, the possibility of retaliation was too complete to
suffer disdain. The injury, it is true, was one of his own doing. But,
curiously enough, when a man injures another the more wanton that injury
is the less it incites to repentance. In certain dispositions it becomes
a source of malignant hate. Deserve a man's gratitude, and he may
forgive you; but let him do you a wrong, and you have an enemy for life.
Such is the human heart--or such at least was Roland Mistrial's.

And now, as the conveyance rumbled off into the night, he shook the
snow-flakes from his coat.

"Try, and be damned," he repeated; "I haven't done with you yet."




IV.


To the New Yorker March is the vilest month of all the year. In the
South it is usually serene. Mrs. Metuchen, who gave herself the airs of
an invalid, and who possessed the invalid's dislike of vile weather, was
aware of this; and while the first false promises of February were being
protested she succeeded in persuading Miss Dunellen to accompany her out
of snow-drifts into the sun. It was Aiken that she chose as refuge; and
when the two ladies arrived there they felt satisfied that their choice
had been a proper one--a satisfaction which they did not share alone,
for a few days after their arrival Roland Mistrial arrived there too.

During the intervening weeks he had seemed idle; but it is the thinker's
characteristic to appear unoccupied when he is most busily engaged, and
Roland, outwardly inactive, had in reality made the most of his time.

On the morning succeeding the encounter with Thorold something kept
coming and whispering that he had undertaken a task which was beyond his
strength. To many of us night is apt to be more confident than are the
earlier hours of the day, and the courage which Roland had exhibited
spent itself and went. It is hard to feel the flutter of a bird beneath
one's fingers, and, just when the fingers tighten, to discover that the
bird is no longer there. Such a thing is disappointing, and the
peculiarity of a disappointment consists in this--the victim of it is
apt to question the validity of his own intuitions. Thus far--up to the
looming of Thorold--everything had been in Roland's favor. Without
appreciable effort he had achieved the impossible. In three days he had
run an heiress to earth, gained her father's liking, captivated her
chaperon, and, at the moment when the air was sentient with success,
the highway on which he strode became suddenly tortuous and obscure. Do
what he might he could not discern so much as a sign-post; and as in
perplexity he twirled his thumbs, little by little he understood that he
must either turn back and hunt another quarry, or stand where he was and
wait. Another step on that narrowing road and he might tumble into a
gully. Did he keep his word with Thorold he felt sure that Thorold would
keep his word with him. But did he break it, and Thorold learn he had
done so, several consequences were certain to ensue, and among them he
could hear from where he stood the bang with which Mr. Dunellen's door
would close. The only plank which drifted his way threatened to break
into bits. He needed no one to tell him that Justine was not a girl to
receive him or anyone else in the dark; and even fortune favoring, if in
chance meetings he were able to fan her spark of interest for him into
flame, those chance meetings would be mentioned by her to whomsoever
they might concern. No, that plank was rotten; and yet in considering
it, and in considering too the possibilities to which, were it a trifle
stronger, it might serve as bridge, he passed that morning, a number of
subsequent mornings. A month elapsed, and still he eyed that plank.

Meanwhile he had seen Miss Dunellen but once. She happened to be driving
up the Avenue, but he had passed her unobserved. Then the weather became
abominable, and he knew it was useless to look for her in the Park; and
once he had visited her father's office and learned again, what he
already knew, that in regard to the lost estate, eternity aiding,
something might be recovered, but that the chances were vague as was it.
And so February came and found his hunger unappeased. The alternate
course which had suggested itself came back, and he determined to turn
and hunt another quarry. During his sojourn abroad he had generally
managed a team of three. There was the gerundive, as he termed the
hindmost--the woman he was about to leave; there was another into whose
graces he had entered; and there was a third in training for future use.
This custom he had found most serviceable. Whatever might happen in less
regulated establishments, his stable was full. And that custom, which
had stood him in good stead abroad, had nothing in it to prevent
adoption here. Indeed, he told himself it was because of his negligence
in that particular that he found himself where he was. Instead of
centring his attention on Miss Dunellen, it would have been far better
to wander in and out of the glittering precincts of Fifth Avenue, and
see what else he could find. After all, there was nothing like being
properly provisioned. If one comestible ran short, there should be
another to take its place. Moreover, if, as Jones had intimated, there
were heiresses enough for export purposes, there must surely be enough
to supply the home demand.

The alternate course alluded to he had therefore determined to adopt,
when an incident occurred which materially altered his plans. One
particularly detestable morning he read in public print that Mrs.
Metuchen and Miss Dunellen were numbered among the visitors to South
Carolina, and thereupon he proceeded to pack his valise. A few days
later he was in Aiken, and on the forenoon of the third day succeeding
his arrival, as he strolled down the verandah of the Mountain Glen
Hotel, he felt at peace with the world and with himself.

It was a superb morning, half summer, half spring. In the distance a
forest stretched indefinitely and lost itself in the haze of the horizon
beyond. The sky was tenderly blue, and, beneath, a lawn green as the
baize on a roulette-table was circled by a bright-red road. He had
breakfasted infamously on food that might have been cooked by a butcher
to whom breakfast is an odious thing. Yet its iniquity he accepted as a
matter of course. He knew, as we all do, that for bad food, bad service,
and for futility of complaint our country hotels are unrivalled, even in
Spain. He was there not to enjoy himself, still less for the pleasures a
blue ribbon can cause: he was there to fan into flame the interest which
Miss Dunellen had exhibited; and as he strolled down the verandah, a
crop under his arm, his trousers strapped, he had no intention of
quarrelling with the fare. Quite a number of people were basking in the
sunlight, and, as he passed, some of them turned and looked; for at
Aiken men that have more than one lung are in demand, and, when Roland
registered his historic name, to the unattached females a little flutter
of anticipation came.

But Roland was not in search of flirtations: he moved by one group into
another until he reached a corner of the verandah in which Mrs.
Metuchen and Miss Dunellen sat. Merely by the expression on the faces of
those whom he greeted it was patent to the others that the trio were on
familiar terms; and when presently he accompanied Miss Dunellen off the
verandah, aided her to mount a horse that waited there, mounted another
himself, and cantered off with the girl, the unattached females declared
that the twain must be engaged. In that they were in error. As yet
Roland had not said a word to the charge he might not have said to the
matron. Both of these ladies had been surprised when he reached Aiken,
and both had been pleased as well. In that surprise, in that pleasure,
Roland had actively collaborated; and taking on himself to answer before
it was framed the question which his advent naturally prompted, he
stated that in journeying from Savannah to Asheville he had stopped over
at Aiken as at a halfway house, and that, too, without an idea of
encountering anyone whom he knew. Thereafter for several days he managed
to make himself indispensable to the matron, companionable to her
charge; but now, on this particular morning, as he rattled down the red
road, the courage which had deserted him returned; and a few hours
later, when before a mirror in his bedroom he stood arranging his
cravat, he caught a reflection of Hyperion, son-in-law of Croesus.




V.


In a fortnight that reflection was framed with a promise. Justine had
put her hand in his. The threads by which he succeeded in binding her to
him are needless to describe. He understood that prime secret in the art
of coercing affection which consists in making one's self desired. He
was never inopportune. Moreover, he saw that Justine, accustomed to the
devotion of other men, accepted such devotion as a matter of course; in
consequence he took another tack, and bullied her--a treatment which was
new to her, and, being new, attractive. He found fault with her openly,
criticised the manner in which she sat her horse, contradicted her
whenever the opportunity came, and jeered--civilly, it is true, but the
jeer was there and all the sharper because it was blunted--at any
enthusiasm she chanced to express. And then, when she expected it
least, he would be enthusiastic himself, and enthusiastic over nothing
at all--some mythical deed canned in history, the beauty of a child, or
the flush of the arbutus which they gathered on their rides. To others
whom he encountered in her presence he showed himself so
self-abnegatory, so readily pleased, sweet-tempered, and indulgent, so
studious even of their susceptibilities and appreciative of what they
liked and what they did not, that in comparing his manner to her and his
manner to them the girl grew vexed, and one evening she told him so.

They happened to be sitting alone in a corner of the verandah. From
within came the rhythm of a waltz; some dance was in progress,
affectioned by the few; Mrs. Metuchen was discussing family trees with a
party of Philadelphians; the air was sweet with the scent of pines and
of jasmines; just above and beyond, a star was circumflexed by the moon.

"I am sorry if I have offended," he made answer to her complaint. "Do
you mind if I smoke?" Without waiting for her consent he drew out a
cigarette and lighted it. "I have not intended to," he added. "To-morrow
I will go."

"But why? You like it here. You told me so to-day."

With a fillip of forefinger and thumb Roland tossed the cigarette out
into the road. "Because I admire you," he answered curtly.

"I am glad of that."

The reproof, if reproof there were, was not in her speech, but in her
voice. She spoke as one does whose due is conceded only after an effort.
And for a while both were mute.

"Come, children, it is time to go to bed." Mrs. Metuchen in her
fantastic fashion was hailing them from the door. Already the waltz had
ceased, and as Mrs. Metuchen spoke, Justine rose from her seat.

"Good-night, Don Quichotte," the old lady added; and as the girl
approached she continued in an audible undertone, "I call him Don
Quichotte because he looks like the Chevalier Bayard."

"Good-night, Mrs. Metuchen, and the pleasantest of dreams." But the
matron, with a wave of her glove, had disappeared, and Justine returned.

"At least you will not go until the afternoon?"

"Since you wish it, I will not."

She had stretched out her hand, but Roland, affecting not to notice it,
raised his hat and turned away. Presently, and although, in spite of
many a vice, he was little given to drink, he found himself at the bar
superintending the blending of gin, of lemon-peel, and of soda; and as
he swallowed it and put the goblet down he seemed so satisfied that the
barkeeper, with the affectionate familiarity of his class, nodded and
smiled.

"It takes a Remsen Cooler to do the trick, don't it?" he said.

And Roland, assenting remotely, left the bar and sought his room.

The next morning, as through different groups he sought for matron and
for maid, he had a crop under his arm and in his hand a paper.

"I have been settling my bill," he announced.

"But are you going?" exclaimed Mrs. Metuchen.

"I can hardly take up a permanent residence here, can I?" he replied.

"Oh, Justine," the old lady cried, and clutched the girl by the arm,
"persuade him not to." And fixing him with her glittering eyes, she
added, "If you go, sir, you leave an Aiken void."

The jest passed him unnoticed. He felt that something had been said
which called for applause, for Mrs. Metuchen was laughing immoderately.
But his eyes were in Justine's as were hers in his.

"You will ride, will you not? I see you have your habit on." And with
that, Justine assenting, he led her down the steps and aided her to the
saddle.

There are numberless tentative things in life, and among them an amble
through green, deserted lanes, where only birds and flowers are, has
witcheries of its own. However perturbed the spirit may have been, there
is that in the glow of the morning and the gait of a horse that can make
it wholly serene. The traveller from Sicily will, if you let him, tell
of hours so fair that even the bandits are coerced. Man cannot always be
centred in self; and when to the influence of nature is added the
