well.

In all her long and useful life, Lizzie never forgot that Daisy Day, for
it seemed as if she were born anew, and like a butterfly had left the
dark chrysalis all behind her then.  It was the first page of the
beautiful book just opening before the eyes of her little mind,--a
lovely page, illustrated with flowers, kind faces, sunshine, and happy
hopes.  The new life was so full, so free, she soon fell into her place
and enjoyed it all.  People worked there so heartily, so helpfully, it
was no wonder things went as if by magic, and the poor little creatures
who came in so afflicted went out in some years independent people,
ready to help themselves and often to benefit others.

There is no need to tell all Lizzie learned and enjoyed that summer, nor
how proud her mother was when she heard her read in the curious books,
making eyes of the little fingers that felt their way along so fast;
when she saw the neat stitches she set, the pretty clay things she
modelled, the tidy way she washed dishes, swept, and dusted, and helped
keep her room in order. But the poor woman’s heart was too full for
words when she heard the child sing,--not as before, in the dreary room,
sad, soft lullabies to Billy, but beautiful, gay songs, with flutes and
violins to lift and carry the little voice along on waves of music.

Lizzie really had a great gift; but she was never happier than when they
all sang together, or when she sat quietly listening to the band as they
practised for the autumn concert.  She was to have a part in it; and the
thought that she could help to earn money for the Kindergarten made the
shy child bold and glad to do her part.  Many people knew her now, for
she was very pretty, with the healthful roses in her cheeks, curly
yellow hair, and great blue eyes that seemed to see.  Her mates and
teachers were proud of her, for though she was not as quick as some of
the pupils, her sweet temper, grateful heart, and friendly little ways
made her very dear to all, aside from the musical talent she possessed.

Every one was busy over the fair and the concert; and fingers flew,
tongues chattered, feet trotted, and hearts beat fast with hope and fear
as the time drew near, for all were eager to secure a home for the poor
children still waiting in darkness.  It was a charity which appealed to
all hearts when it was known; but in this busy world of ours, people
have so many cares of their own that they are apt to forget the wants of
others unless something brings these needs very clearly before their
eyes.  Much money was needed, and many ways had been tried to add to the
growing fund, that all might be well done.

"We wish to interest children in this charity for children, so that they
may gladly give a part of their abundance to these poor little souls who
have nothing.  I think Lizzie will sing some of the pennies out of their
pockets, which would otherwise go for bonbons.  Let us try; so make her
neat and pretty, and we ’ll have a special song for her."

Mr. Constantine said this; and Miss Grace carried out his wish so well
that when the time came, the little prima donna did her part better even
than they had hoped.

The sun shone splendidly on the opening day of the fair, and cars and
carriages came rolling out from the city, full of friendly people with
plump purses and the sympathetic interest we all take in such things
when we take time to see, admire, and reproach ourselves that we do so
little for them.

There were many children; and when they had bought the pretty handiwork
of the blind needle-women, eaten cake and ices, wondered at the strange
maps and books, twirled the big globe in the hall, and tried to
understand how so many blind people could be so busy and so happy, they
all were seated at last to hear the music, full of expectation, for "the
pretty little girl was going to sing."

It was a charming concert, and every one enjoyed it, though many eyes
grew dim as they wandered from the tall youths blowing the horns so
sweetly to the small ones chirping away like so many sparrows, for the
blind faces made the sight pathetic, and such music touched the hearts
as no other music can.

"Now she’s coming!" whispered the eager children, as a little girl
climbed up the steps and stood before them, waiting to begin.

A slender little creature in a blue gown, with sunshine falling on her
pretty hair, a pleading look in the soft eyes that had no sign of
blindness but their steadfastness, and a smile on the lips that trembled
at first, for Lizzie’s heart beat fast, and only the thought, "I ’m
helping the poor little ones," gave her courage for her task.

But when the flutes and violins began to play like a whispering wind,
she forgot the crowd before her, and lifting up her face, sang in clear
sweet tones.

    THE BLIND LARK’S SONG.

    We are sitting in the shadow
      Of a long and lonely night,
    Waiting till some gentle angel
      Comes to lead us to the light;
    For we know there is a magic
      That can give eyes to the blind.
    Oh, well-filled hands, be generous!
      Oh, pitying hearts, be kind!

    Help stumbling feet that wander
      To find the upward way;
    Teach hands that now lie idle
      The joys of work and play.
    Let pity, love, and patience
      Our tender teachers be,
    That though the eyes be blinded,
      The little souls may see.

    Your world is large and beautiful,
      Our prison dim and small;
    We stand and wait, imploring,
      "Is there not room for all?
    Give us our children’s garden,
      Where we may safely bloom,
    Forgetting in God’s sunshine
      Our lot of grief and gloom."

    A little voice comes singing;
      Oh, listen to its song!
    A little child is pleading
      For those who suffer wrong.
    Grant them the patient magic
      That gives eyes to the blind!
    Oh, well-filled hands, be generous!
      Oh, pitying hearts, be kind!


It was a very simple little song, but it proved wonderfully effective,
for Lizzie was so carried away by her own feeling that as she sang the
last lines she stretched out her hands imploringly, and two great tears
rolled down her cheeks.  For a minute many hands were too busy fumbling
for handkerchiefs to clap, but the children were quick to answer that
gesture and those tears; and one impetuous little lad tossed a small
purse containing his last ten cents at Lizzie’s feet, the first
contribution won by her innocent appeal.  Then there was great applause,
and many of the flowers just bought were thrown to the little lark, who
was obliged to come back and sing again and again, smiling brightly as
she dropped pretty courtesies, and sang song after song with all the
added sweetness of a grateful heart.

Hidden behind the organ, Miss Grace and Mr. Constantine shook hands
joyfully, for this was the sort of interest they wanted, and they knew
that while the children clapped and threw flowers, the wet-eyed mothers
were thinking self-reproachfully, "I must help this lovely charity," and
the stout old gentlemen who pounded with their canes were resolving to
go home and write some generous checks, which would be money invested in
God’s savings-bank.

It was a very happy time for all, and made strangers friends in the
sweet way which teaches heart to speak to heart.  When the concert was
over, Lizzie felt many hands press hers and leave something there, many
childish lips kiss her own, with promises to "help about the
Kindergarten," and her ears were full of kind voices thanking and
praising her for doing her part so well.  Still later, when all were
gone, she proudly put the rolls of bills into Mr. Constantine’s hand,
and throwing her arms about Miss Grace’s neck, said, trembling with
earnestness, "I ’m not a burden any more, and I can truly help!  How can
I ever thank you both for making me so happy?"

One can fancy what their answer was and how Lizzie helped; for long
after the Kindergarten was filled with pale little flowers blooming
slowly as she had done, the Blind Lark went on singing pennies out of
pockets, and sweetly reminding people not to forget this noble charity.












                                   V.

                          MUSIC AND MACARONI.


Among the pretty villages that lie along the wonderful Cornice road
which runs from Nice to Genoa, none was more beautiful than Valrose.  It
deserved its name, for it was indeed a "valley of roses."  The little
town with its old church nestled among the olive and orange trees that
clothed the hillside, sloping up to purple mountains towering behind.
Lower down stretched the vineyards; and the valley was a bed of flowers
all the year round.  There were acres of violets, verbenas, mignonette,
and every sweet-scented blossom that grows, while hedges of roses, and
alleys of lemon-trees with their white stars made the air heavy with
perfume. Across the plain, one saw the blue sea rolling to meet the
bluer sky, sending fresh airs and soft rains to keep Valrose green and
beautiful even through the summer heat.  Only one ugly thing marred the
lovely landscape, and that was the factory, with its tall chimneys, its
red walls, and ceaseless bustle.  But old ilex-trees tried to conceal
its ugliness; the smoke curled gracefully from its chimney-tops; and the
brown men talked in their musical language as they ran about the busy
courtyard, or did strange things below in the still-room.  Handsome
black-eyed girls sang at the open windows at their pretty work, and
delicious odors filled the place; for here the flowers that bloomed
outside were changed to all kinds of delicate perfumes to scent the hair
of great ladies and the handkerchiefs of dainty gentlemen all the world
over.

The poor roses, violets, mignonette, orange-flowers, and their sisters,
were brought here in great baskets to yield up their sweet souls in hot
rooms where, fires burned and great vats boiled; then they were sent up
to be imprisoned in pretty flasks of all imaginable shapes and colors by
the girls, who put gilded labels on them, packed them in delicate boxes,
and sent them away to comfort the sick, please the rich, and put money
in the pockets of the merchants.

Many children were employed in the light work of weeding beds, gathering
flowers, and running errands; among these none were busier, happier, or
more beloved than Florentino and his sister Stella.  They were orphans,
but they lived with old Mariuccia in her little stone house near the
church, contented with the small wages they earned, though their clothes
were poor, their food salad, macaroni, rye bread, and thin wine, with
now and then a taste of meat when Stella’s lover or some richer friend
gave them a treat on gala days.

They worked hard, and had their dreams of what they would do when they
had saved up a little store; Stella would marry her Beppo and settle in
a home of her own; but Tino was more ambitious, for he possessed a sweet
boyish voice and sang so well in the choir, at the merrymakings, and
about his work, that he was called the "little nightingale," and much
praised and petted, not only by his mates, but by the good priest who
taught him music, and the travellers who often came to the factory and
were not allowed to go till Tino had sung to them.

All this made the lad vain; and he hoped one day to go away as Baptista
had gone, who now sang in a fine church at Genoa and sent home gold
napoleons to his old parents.  How this was to come about Tino had not
the least idea, but he cheered his work with all manner of wild plans,
and sang his best at Mass, hoping some stranger would hear, and take him
away as Signor Pulci had taken big Tista, whose voice was not half so
wonderful as his own, all had said.  No one came, however, and Tino at
thirteen was still at work in the valley,--a happy little lad, singing
all day long as he carried his fragrant loads to and fro, ate his dinner
of bread and beans fried in oil, with a crust, under the ilex-trees, and
slept like a dormouse at night on his clean straw in the loft at
Mariuccia’s, with the moon for his candle and the summer warmth for his
coverlet.

One day in September, as he stood winnowing mignonette seed in a quiet
corner of the vast garden, he was thinking deeply over his hopes and
plans, and practising the last chant Father Angelo had taught him, while
he shook and held the sieve high, to let the wind blow away the dead
husks, leaving the brown seeds behind.

Suddenly, as he ended his lesson with a clear high note that seemed to
rise and die softly away like the voice of an angel in the air, the
sound of applause startled him; and turning, he saw a gentleman sitting
on the rude bench behind him,--a well-dressed, handsome, smiling
gentleman, who clapped his white hands and nodded and said gayly,
"Bravo, my boy, that was well done!  You have a wonderful voice; sing
again."

But Tino was too abashed for the moment, and could only stand and stare
at the stranger, a pretty picture of boyish confusion, pleasure, and
shyness.

"Come, tell me all about it, my friend.  Who taught you so well?  Why
are you here, and not where you should be, learning to use this fine
pipe of yours, and make fame and money by it?" said the gentleman, still
smiling as he leaned easily in his seat and swung his gloves.

Tino’s heart began to beat fast as he thought, "Perhaps my chance has
come at last!  I must make the most of it."  So taking courage, he told
his little story; and when he ended, the stranger gave a nod, saying,--

"Yes, you are the ’little nightingale’ they spoke of up at the inn.  I
came to find you. Now sing me something gay, some of your folk-songs.
That sort will suit you best."

Anxious to make the most of his chance, Tino took courage and sang away
as easily as a bird on a bough, pouring out one after another the
barcaroles, serenades, ballads, and drinking-songs he had learned from
the people about him.

The gentleman listened, laughed, and applauded as if well pleased, and
when Tino stopped to take breath, he gave another nod more decided than
the first, and said with his engaging smile,--

"You are indeed a wonder, and quite wasted here.  If I had you I
should make a man of you, and put money in your pocket as fast as you
opened your mouth."

Tino’s eyes sparkled at the word "money," for sweet as was the praise,
the idea of having full pockets bewitched him, and he asked eagerly,
"How, signor?"

"Well," answered the gentleman, idly tapping his nose with a rose-bud
which he had pulled as he came along, "I should take you to my hotel at
Nice; wash, brush, and trim you up a little; put you into a velvet suit
with a lace collar, silk stockings, and buckled shoes; teach you music,
feed you well, and when I thought you fit carry you with me to the
salons of the great people, where I give concerts.  There you would
sing these gay songs of yours, and be petted, praised, and pelted with
bonbons, francs, and kisses perhaps,--for you are a pretty lad and these
fine ladies and idle gentlemen are always ready to welcome a new
favorite.  Would you fancy that sort of life better than this? You can
have it if you like."

Tino’s black eyes shone; the color deepened in his brown cheeks; and he
showed all his white teeth as he laughed and exclaimed with a gesture of
delight,--

"Mio Dio! but I would, signor!  I ’m tired of this work; I long to
sing, to see the world, to be my own master, and let Stella and the old
woman know that I am big enough to have my own way.  Do you really mean
it?  When can I go?  I’m ready now, only I had better run and put on my
holiday suit and get my guitar."

"Good! there ’s a lad of spirit.  I like that well.  A guitar too?
Bravo, my little troubadour, we shall make a sensation in the
drawing-rooms, and fill our pockets shortly.  But there is no haste, and
it would be well to ask these friends of yours, or there might be
trouble.  I don’t steal nightingales, I buy them; and I will give the
old woman, whoever she may be, more than you would earn in a month.
See, I too am a singer, and this I made at Genoa in a week."  As he
spoke, Signor Mario pulled a well-filled purse from one pocket, a
handful of gold and silver coin from the other, and chinked them before
the boy’s admiring eyes.

"Let us go!" cried Tino, flinging down the sieve as if done with work
forever.  "Stella is at home to-day; come at once to Mariuccia,--it is
not far; and when they hear these fine plans, they will be glad to let
me go, I am sure."

Away he went across the field of flowers, through the courtyard, up the
steep street, straight into the kitchen where his pretty sister sat
eating artichokes and bread while the old woman twirled her distaff in
the sun.  Both were used to strangers, for the cottage was a picturesque
place, half hidden like a bird’s nest in vines and fig-trees, with a gay
little plot of flowers before it; travellers often came to taste
Mariuccia’s honey, for her bees fared well, and their combs were running
over with the sweetness of violets and roses, put up in dainty little
waxen boxes made by better workmen than any found at the factory.

The two women listened respectfully while Signor Mario told his plan in
his delightfully gracious way; and Stella was much impressed by the
splendor of the prospect before her brother.  But the wise old woman
shook her head, and declared decidedly that the boy was too young to
leave home yet.  Father Angelo was teaching him well; he was safe and
happy where he was; and there he should remain, for she had sworn by all
the saints to his dying mother that she would guard him as the apple of
her eye till he was old enough to take care of himself.

In vain Mario shook his purse before her eyes, Stella pleaded, and Tino
stormed; the faithful old soul would not give up, much as she needed
money, loved Stella, and hated to cross the boy who was in truth "the
apple of her eye" and the darling of her heart.  There was a lively
scene in the little room, for every one talked at once, gesticulated
wildly, and grew much excited in the discussion; but nothing came of it,
and Signor Mario departed wrathfully, leaving Mariuccia looking as stern
as fate with her distaff, Stella in tears, and Tino in such a rage he
could only dash up to the loft and throw himself on his rude bed, there
to kick and sob and tear his hair, and wish there might be ten thousand
earthquakes to swallow that cruel old woman up in the twinkling of an
eye.

Stella came to beg him to be comforted and eat his supper, but he drew
the wooden bolt and would not let her in, saying sternly,--

"I never will come down till Mariuccia says I may go; I will starve
first.  I am not a child to be so treated.  Go away, and let me alone; I
hate you both!"

Poor Stella retired, heart-broken, and when all her entreaties failed to
change their guardian’s decision, she went to consult Father Angelo.  He
agreed with the old woman that it was best to keep the boy safe at home,
as they knew nothing of the strange gentleman nor what might befall Tino
if he left the shelter of his own humble home and friends.

Much disappointed, Stella went to pray devoutly in the church, and then,
meeting her Beppo, soon forgot all about the poor little lad who had
sobbed himself to sleep upon his straw.

The house was quiet when he awoke; no lights shone from any neighbor’s
windows; and all was still except the nightingales singing in the
valley.  The moon was up; and her friendly face looked in at the little
window so brightly that the boy felt comforted, and lay staring at the
soft light while his mind worked busily. Some evil spirit, some naughty
Puck bent on mischief must have been abroad that night, for into Tino’s
head there suddenly popped a splendid idea; at least he thought it so,
and in his rebellious state found it all the more tempting because
danger and disobedience and defiance all had a part in it.

Why not run away?  Signor Mario was not to leave till next morning.
Tino could easily slip out early and join the kind gentleman beyond the
town.  This would show the women that he, Tino, had a will of his own
and was not to be treated like a child any more.  It would give them a
good fright, make a fine stir in the place, and add to his glory when he
returned with plenty of money to display himself in the velvet suit and
silk stockings,--a famous fellow who knew what he was about and did not
mean to be insulted, or tied to an old woman’s apron-string forever.

The longer he thought the more delightful the idea became, and he
resolved to carry it out, for the fine tales he had heard made him more
discontented than ever with his present simple, care-free life.  Up he
got, and by the light of the moon took from the old chest his best suit.
Moving very softly, he put on the breeches and jacket of rough blue
