had been turning over the music at the piano, and 
chafing iiiwardly at the whole affair. At the table 
Colonel Woodburn was placed on Dryfoos's right, 
and March on his left. March sat on Fulkerson's 
right, with Lindau next him ; and the young men 
occupied the other seats. 
" Put you next to March, Mr. Lindau," said Ful- 
kerson, " so yoii can begin to put Apollinaris in his 
champagne-glass at the right moment ; you know his 
little weaknoss of old; sorry to say it 's grown on him." 
  
March laughed witli kindly acquiescence in Ful- 
korson's wish to start the gaiety, and Lindau patted 
him on the shoulder. " I know hiss veakness. If 
he liges a class of vine, it iss begause his loaf ingludes 
efen hiss enemy, as Shakespeare galled it." 
" Ah, but Shakespeare couldn't have been thinking 
of champagne," said Kendricks. 
"I suppose, sir," Colonel Woodburn interposed 
with lofty courtesy, " champagne could hardly have 
been known in his day." 
" I suppose not, colonel," returned the younger 
man deferentially. " He seemed to think that sack 
and sugar might be a fault; but he didn't mention 
champagne." 
" Perhaps he felt there was no question about 
that," suggested Beaton, who then felt that he had 
not done himself justice in the sally. 
" I wonder just when champagne did come in," 
said March. 
" I know when it ought to come in," said Fulker- 
son. " Before the soup ! " 
They all laughed, and gave themselves the air of 
drinking champagne out of tumblers every day, as 
men like to do. Dryfoos listened uneasily ; he did 
not quite understand the allusions, though he knew 
w:hat Shakespeare was, well enough ; Conrad's face 
expressed a gentle deprecation of joking on .such a 
subject, but he said nothing. 
The talk ran on briskly through the dinner. The 
young men tossed the ball back and forth ; they 
made some wild shots, but they kept it going, and 
they laughed when thoy were liit. The wine loosed 
Colonel Woodburn's tongue ; he became very com- 
panionable with the young fellows ; with the feeling 
that a literary dinner ought to have a didactic scope, 
he praised Scott and Addison as the only authors fit 
to form the minds of gentlemen. 
Kendricks agreed with him, but wished to add the 
name of Flaubert as a master of style. " Style, you 
know," he added, " is the man." 
"Very true, sir; you are quite right, sir," the 
colonel assented ; he wondered who Flaubert was. 
Beaton praised Baudelaire and Maupassant; he 
said these were the masters. He recited some lurid 
verses from Baudelaire ; Lindau pronounced them a 
disgrace to human nature, and gaA'c a passage from 
Victor Hugo on Louis Napoleon, with his heavy 
German accent, and then he quoted Schiller. " Ach, 
boat that iss peaudifool ! Not zo ? " he demanded 
of March. 
" Yes, beautiful ; but, of course, you know I think 
there 's nobody like Heine ! " 
Lindau threw back his great old head and laughed, 
showing a want of teeth under his moustache. He 
put his hand on March's back. " This poy — he wass 
a poy den — wass so gracy to pekin reading Heine that 
he gommence with the tictionary bevore he knows 
any crammar, and ve bick it out vort by vort togeder. " 
" He was a pretty cay poy in tliose days, heigh, 
Lindau ? " asked Fulkerson, burlesquing the old 
man's accent, with an impudent wink that made 
Lindau himself laugh. " Back in the dark ages, I 
moan, there in Indianapolis. Just how long ago did 
you old codgers meet there, anyway ? " Fulkerson 
saw the restiveness in Dryfoos's eye at the purely 
literary course the talk had taken ; he had intended 
it to lead up that way to business, to Uvery Other 
JFeeJc ; but he saw that it was leaving Dryfoos too 
far out, and he wished to get it on the personal 
ground, where everybody is at home. 
" Ledt me zee," mused Lindau. " Wass it in 
fifty -nine or zixty, Passil ? Idt wass a year or dwo 
pefore the war proke oudt, anyway." 
" Those were exciting times," said Dryfoos, making 
his first entry into the general talk. " I went down 
to Indianapolis with the first company from our 
place, and I saw the red-shirts pouring in every- 
where. They had a song — 
" Oh, never mind the we.ither, but git over double trouble, 
For -we're bound for the land of Canaan." 
The fellows locked arms and went singin' it up and 
down four or five abreast in the moonlight ; crowded 
everybody else off the sidewalk." 
" I rememper, I rememper," said Lindau, nodding 
his head slowly up and down. "A coodt many off 
them nefer gome pack from that landt of Ganaan, 
Mr. Dryfoos ] " 
"You're right, Mr. Lindau. But I reckon it was 
worth it — the country we 've got now. Here, young 
man ! " He caught the arm of the waiter who was 
going round with the champagne bottle. "Fill up 
Mr. Lindau's glass, there. I want to drink the 
  
health of those old times with him. Here 's to your 
empty sleeve, Mr, Lindaii. God bless it ! No 
offence to you, Colonel Woodburn," said Dryfoos, 
turning to him before he drank. 
" Not at all, sir, not at all," said tlic colonel. " I 
 will drink with you, if you will permit me." 
" We '\\ all drink — standing," cried Fulkercon. 
" Help March to get up, somebody ! Fill high the 
bowl with Samian A])ollinaris for Coonrod ! Now, 
then, hurrah for Lindau ! " 
They cheered, and hammered on the table with 
the butts of their knife-handles. Lindau remained 
seated. The tears came into his eyes ; he said, " I 
thank you, chendlemen," and hiccoughed, 
'I'd 'a' went into the war myself," said Drj-foos, 
" but I was raisin' a family of young children, and I 
didn't see how I could leave my farm. But I helped 
to fdl up the quota at every call, and when the 
volunteering stopped I went round with the sub- 
scription paper myself ; and we offered as good 
bounties as any in the State. My substitute was 
killed in one of the last skirmishes — in fact, after 
Lee's surrender — and I 've took care of his family, 
more or less, ever since." 
" By the way, March," said Fulkerson, " wliat sort 
of an idea would it be to have a good war-story — 
might be a serial — in the magazine ? The war has 
never fully panned out in fiction yet. It was used 
a good deal just after it was over, and then it was 
dropped. I think it's time to take it up again. I 
believe it would be a card," 
  
It was running in March's mind that Dryfoos had 
an old rankling shame in his heart for not having 
gone into the war, and that he had often made that 
explanation of his course without having ever been 
satisfied with it. He felt sorry for him ; the fact 
seemed pathetic ; it suggested a dormant nobleness 
in the man. 
Beaton was saying to Fulkerson, " You might get 
a series of sketches by substitutes; the substitutes 
haven't been much heard from in the war literature. 
How would ' The Autobiography of a Substitute ' 
do ? You might follow him up to the moment he 
was killed in the other man's place, and inquire 
whether he had any right to the feelings of a hero 
when he was only hired in the i)lace of one. Might 
call it ' The Career of a Deputy Hero.'" 
" I fancy," said March, " that there was a great 
deal of mixed motive in the men who went into the 
war as well as in those who kept out of it. We 
canonised all that died or suffered in it, but some of 
them must have been self-seeking and low-minded, 
like men in other vocations." He found himself 
saying this in Dryfoos's behalf ; the old man looked 
at him gratefully at first, he thought, and then sus- 
piciously. 
Lindau turned his head toward him and said : 
" You are righdt, Passil ; you are righdt. I haf 
zecn on the fieldt of pattle the voarst eggsipitions 
of human paseness — chelousy, fanit}', ecodistic bridte. 
I haf zeen men in the face off death itself gofferncd 
by raotifes as low as — as pusiness motifes." 
  
"Well," said Fulkerson, "it would be a grand 
thing for Every Other JFeelc if we could get some of 
those ideas worked up into a scries. It would make 
a lot of talk." 
Colonel Woodburn ignored him in saying, "I 
think, Major Lindau " 
"High brifate ; prefet gorporal," the old mon in- 
terrujited, in rejection of the title. 
Kendricks laughed and said, with a glance of 
appreciation at Lindau, " Brevet corporal is good." 
Colonel Woodburn frowned a little, and passed 
over the joke. " I think Mr. Lindau is right. Such 
exhibitions were common to both sides, though if 
you gentlemen will pardon me for saying so, I think 
they were less frequent on ours. We were fighting 
more immediately for existence ; we were fewer than 
you were, and we knew it ; avc felt more intensely 
that if each were not for all, then none was for any." 
The colonel's words made their impression. Dry- 
foos said with authority, "That is so." 
" Colonel Woodburn," Fulkerson called out, " if 
you 'll work up those ideas into a short paper — say 
three thousand words — I 'll engage to make March 
take it," 
The colonel went on without replying : " But Mr. 
Lindau is right in characterising some of the motives 
that led men to the cannon's mouth as no higher 
than business motives, and his comparison is the 
most forcible that he could have used. I was very 
much struck by it." 
The hobby was out, the colonel was in the saddle 
with SO firm a seat that no effort sufficed to dislodire 
him. The dinner went on from course to course 
witli barbaric profusion, and from time to time Ful- 
kerson tried to bring the talk back to Enrij Oilier 
IFcek. But pcrliaps because that was only the 
ostensible and not the real object of the dinner, 
which was to bring a number of men together 
under Dryfoos's roof, and make them the wit- 
nesses of his splendour, make them feel the power 
of his wealth, Fulkerson's attem})ts failed. The 
colonel showed how commercialism was the poison 
at the heart of our national life ; how we began as a 
simple, agricultural people, avIio had fled to these 
shores with the instinct, divinely implanted, of build- 
ing a State such as the sun never shone upon before ; 
how we had conquered the wilderness and the 
savage ; how we had flung off, in our struggle with 
the mother-country, the trammels of tradition and 
precedent, and had settled down, a free nation, to 
the practice of the arts of peace ; how the spirit of 
commercialism had stolen insidiously upon us, and 
the infernal impulse of competition had embroiled 
us in a perpetual warfarc of interests, developing 
the worst passions of our nature, and teaching us to 
trick and betray and destroy one another in the 
strife for money, till now that impulse had exhausted 
itself, and we found competition gone and the whole 
economic problem in the hands of monopolies — the 
Standard Oil Company, the Sugar Trust, the 
Rubber Trust, and what not. And now what was 
the next thing ? Affairs could not remain as they 
were ; it was impossible ; and what was the next 
thing ? 
The company listened for the main part silently. 
Dryfoos tried to grasp the idea of commercialism as 
the colonel seemed to hold it ; he conceived of it as 
something like the dry-goods business on a vast 
scale, and he know he had never been in that. He 
did not like to hear competition called infernal ; he 
had ahvays supposed it was something sacred ; but 
he approved of what Colonel Woodburn said of the 
(Standard Oil Company ; it was all true ; the Stan- 
dard Oil had squeezed Dryfoos once, and made him 
sell it a lot of oil-wells by putting down the price of 
oil so low in that region that he lost money on every 
barrel he pumped. 
All the rest listened silently, except Lindau ; at 
every point the colonel made against the present 
condition of things he said more and more fiercely, 
" You are riglidt, you are righdt." His eyes glowed, 
his hand played with his knife-hilt. when the 
colonel demanded, " And what is the next thing ] " 
he tlirew himself forward, and repeated, " Yes, sir ! 
What is the next thing ? " 
" Xatural gas, by thunder ! '"' shouted Fulkerson. 
One of the waiters had profited by Lindau's 
posture to lean over him and put down in the 
middle of the table a structure in white sugar. It 
expressed Frescobaldi's conception of a derrick, and 
a touch of nature had been added in the flame of 
brandy, wliich burned luridly up from a small pit in 
the centre of the base, and represented the gas in 
  
combustion as it issued from the ground. Fulkerson 
burst into a roar of laughter "with the words that 
recognised Frcscobaldi's personal tribute to Dryfoos. 
Everybody rose and peered over at the thing, while 
he explained the work of sinking a gas-well, as he 
had already explained it to Frescobaldi. In the 
midst of his lecture he caught sight of the caterer 
himself, where he stood in the pantry doorway, 
smiling with an artist's anxiety for the efTcct of his 
masterpiece. 
" Come in, come in, Frescobaldi ! We want to 
congratulate you," Fulkerson called to him. " Here, 
gentlemen ! Here 's Frcscobaldi's health." 
They all drank ; and Frescobaldi, smiling bril- 
liantly and rubbing his hands as he bowed right 
and left, permitted himself to say to Dryfoos, " You 
are please ; no ? You like ? " 
"First-rate, first-rate!" said the old man; but 
when the Italian had bowed himself out and his 
guests had sunk into their seats again, he said dryly 
to Fulkerson, " I reckon they didn't have to torpedo 
that well, or the derrick wouldn't look quite so nice 
and clean." 
" Yes," Fulkerson answered, " and that ain't quite 
the style — that little wiggly- waggly blue flame — 
that the gas acts when you touch off a good vein of 
it. This might do for weak-gas ; " and he went on 
to explain : " Thoy call it weak-gas when they tap 
it two or three hundred feet down ; and anybody 
can sink a well in his backyard and get enough gas 
to light and heat his house. I remember one fellow 
that had it blazing up from a pipe througli a flower- 
bed, just like a jet of water from a fountain. My, 
my, my ! You fel — you gentlemen — ought to go 
out and see that country, all of you. Wish we 
could torpedo this well, Mr. Dryfoos, and let 'em 
see how it works ! Mind that one you torpedoed 
for me ] You know, when they sink a well," he 
went on to the company, " they can't always most 
generally sometimes tell whether they 're goin' to 
get gas or oil or salt-water. Why, when they 
first began to bore for salt-water out on the 
Kanawha, back about the beginning of the century, 
they used to get gas now and then, and then they 
considered it a failure ; they called a gas-well a 
Mower, and give it up in disgust ; the time wasn't 
lipe for gas yet. Now they bore away sometimes 
till they get half-way to China, and don't seem to 
strike anything worth speaking of. Then they put 
a dynamite torpedo do\•n in the well and explode 
it. They have a little bar of iron that they call a 
Go-devil, and they just drop it down on the business 
end of the torpedo, and then stand from under, if 
you please ! You hear a noise, and in about half a 
minute you begin to see one, and it begins to rain oil 
and mud and salt-water and rocks and pitchforks 
and adoptive citizens ; and when it clears up the 
derrick 's painted — got a coat on that 'll wear in any 
climate. That 's what our honoured host meant. 
Generally get some visiting lad}", when there 's one 
round, to drop the Go-devil. Cut that day we had 
to put up with Conrad here. They offered to let 
]   
mc drop it, but I declined. I told 'cm I hadn't 
much practice Arith Go-devils in the news})apcr 
syndicate business, and I wasn't very  well myself, 
anyway. Astonishing," Fulkcrson continued, with 
the air of relieving his explanation by an anecdote, 
" how reckless they get using dynamite when 
they 're torpedoing wells. We stopped at one place 
where a fellow was handling the cartridges pretty 
freely, and Mr. Dryfoos happened to caution him a 
little, and that ass came up with one of 'cm in his 
hand, and began to pound it on the buggy-wheel to 
show us how safe it was. I turned green, I was so 
scared ; but Mr. Dryfoos kept his colour, and kind 
of coaxed the fellow till he cpiit. You could see he 
was the fool kind, that if you tried to stop him he 'd 
keep on hammering that cartridge, just to sIioav that 
it wouldn't explode, till he blew you into Kingdom 
Come. "When we got him to go away, Mr. Dryfoos 
drove up to liis foreman. ' Pay Shency off, and 
discharge him on the spot,' says he. ' He 's too safe 
a man to have round ; he knows too much about 
dynamite.' I never saw anybody so cool." 
Dryfoos modestly dropped his head under Fulker- 
son's flattery and, without lifting it, turned liis eyes 
toward Colonel "Woodburn, "I had all sorts of 
men to deal with in developing my property out 
there, but I had very little trouble with them, gene- 
rally speaking." 
" Ah, ah! you foundt the labouring-man reasonable 
— dractable — tocile ? " Lindau put in. 
" Yes, generally speaking," Dryfoos answered. 
  
" They mostly knew which side of their bread was 
buttered. I did have one little difficulty at one 
time. It hajpened to be when Mr. Fulkersou 
was out there. Some of the men tried to form a 
union " 
" No, no ! " cried Fulkerson. " Let tm tell that ! 
I know you wouldn't do yourself justice, Mr. Dry- 
foos, and I want 'em to know how a strike can be 
managed, if you take it in time. You see, some of 
those fellows got a notion that there ought to be a 
union among the working-men to keep up wages, and 
dictate to the employers, and Mr. Dryfoos's foreman 
was the ringleader in the business. They under- 
stood pretty well that as soon as he found it out 
that foreman would walk the plank, and so they 
watchcd out till they thought they had Mr. Dry- 
foos just where they wanted him — everything on 
the keen jump, and every man worth his weight 
in diamonds — and then they come to him, and 
told him to sign a promise to keep that foreman 
to the end of the season, or till he was through 
with the work on the Dryfoos and Hendry Addi- 
tion, under penalty of having them all knock off. 
Mr. Dryfoos smelt a mice, but he couldn't tell where 
the mice was ; he saw that they did have him, and 
he signed, of course. There wasn't anything really 
against the fellow, anyway ; he was a first-rate man, 
and he did his duty every time ; only he 'd got some 
of those ideas into his head, and they turned it. Mr. 
Dryfoos signed, and then he laid low." 
March saw Lindau listening with a mounting intensity,
and lieard him murmur in German, " Shame- 
ful ! shameful!" 
Fulkerson went on : " Well, it wasn't long before 
they began to show their hand, hut Mr. Dryfoos 
kept dark. He agreed to everything ; there never 
was such an obliging capitalist before ; there wasn't 
a thing they asked of him that he didn't do, with 
the greatest of pleasure, and all went merry as a 
marriage-bell till one morning a whole gang of fresh 
men marched into the Dryfoos and Hendry Addition, 
under the escort of a dozen Pinkertons with repeating 
riiles at half-cock, and about fifty felloM's found them- 
