interested in Miriam Rooth. 

" No, no that she's stupid, really. If she is, she'll be the 
first." 

" Ah. you may judge for yourself," Nash rejoined, " if you'll 
come to-morrow afternoon to Madame Carrd, Rue de Constan- 
tinople, a I 'entresol." 

" Madame Carre ? Why, I've already a note from her I 
found it this morning on my return to Paris asking me to 
look in at five o'clock and listen to a,jeune Anglaise." 

" That's my arrangement I obtained the favoui'. The 
ladies want an opinion, and dear old Carre has consented to 
see them and to give one. Gladys will recite something and 
the venerable artist will pass judgment." 

Sherringham remembered that he had his note in his pocket. 





and he took it out and looked it over. ' ' She wishes to make 
her a little audience she says she'll do better with that and 
she asks me because I'm English. I shall make a point of 
going." 

" And bring Dormer if you can : the audience will be better. 
Will you come, Dormer ] " Mr. Nash continued, appealing to 
his friend, -" will you come with me to see an old French 
actress and to hear an English amateur recite? " 

Nick looked round from his talk with his mother and Grace. 
" I'll go anywhere with you, so that, as I've told you, I may 
not lose sight of you, may keep hold of you." 

"Poor Mr. Nash, why is he so useful?" Lady Agnes 
demanded with a laugh. 

" He steadies me, mother." 

" Oh, I wish you'd take me, Peter," Biddy broke out, 
wistfully, to her cousin. 

" To spend an hour with an old French actress ? Do you 
want to go upon the stage  ? " the young man inquired. 

" No, but I want to see something, to know something." 

" Madame Carre is wonderful in her way, but she is hardly 
company for a little English girl." 

" I'm not little, I'm only too big ; and she goes, the person 
you speak of." 

" For a professional purpose, and with her good mother," 
smiled Gabriel Nash. " I think Lady Agnes would hardly 
venture 

" Oh, I've seen her good mother! " said Biddy, as if she 
had an impression of what the worth of that protection 
might be. 

"Yes, but you haven't heard her. It's then that you 
measure her." 

Biddy was wistful still. " Is it the famous Honorine Carre, 
the great celebrity ? " 

" Honorine in person : the incomparable, the perfect ! " said 
Peter Sherringham. " The first artist of our time, taking her 
altogether. She and I are old pals ; she has been so good as 
to come and ' say ' things, as she does sometimes still dans le 
monde as no one else does, in my rooms." 

" Make her come, then ; we can go tJiere ! " 

" One of these days ! " 

" And the young lady Miriam, Edith, Gladys make her 
come too." 

Sherringham looked at Nash, and the latter exclaimed : 
" Oh, you'll have no difficulty ; she'll jump at it ! " 




" Very good ; I'll give a little artistic tea, with Julia, too, 
of course. And you must come, Mr. Nash." This gentleman 
promised, with an inclination, and Peter continued : "But if, 
as you say, you're not for helping the young lady, how came 
you to arrange this interview with the great model? '' 

" Precisely to stop her. The great model will find her 
very bad. Her judgments, as you probably know, are 
Rhadamanthine." 

" Poor girl ! " said Biddy. " I think you're cruel." 

" Never mind ; I'll look after them," said Sherringham. 

" And how can Madame Carre judge, if the girl recites 
English ? " 

"She's so intelligent that she could judge if she recited 
Chinese," Peter declared. 

" That's true, but thejeune Anglaise recites also in French," 
said Gabriel Nash. 

" Then she isn't stupid' 

'' And in Italian, and in several more tongues, for aught I 
know." 

Sherringham was visibly interested. " Very good ; we'll put 
her through them all." 

" She must be most clever," Biddy went on, yearningly. 

" She has spent her life on the Continent ; she has wandered 
about with her mother ; she has picked up things." 

" And is she a lady? " Biddy asked. 

" Oh, tremendous ! The great ones of the earth on the 
mother's side. On the father's, on the other hand, I imagine, 
only a Jew stockbroker in the city." 

" Then they're rich or ought to be," Sherringham 
suggested. 

" Ought to be ah, there's the bitterness! The stockbroker 
had too short a go he was carried off in his flower. However, 
he left his wife a certain property, which she appears to have 
muddled away, not having the safeguard of being herself a 
Hebrew. This is what she lived upon till to-day this and 
another resource. Her husband, as she has often told me, 
had the artistic temperament ; that's common, as you know, 
among ces messieurs. He made the most of his little oppor- 
tunities and collected various pictures, tapestries, enamels, 
porcelains and similar gewgaws. He parted with them also, I 
gather, at a profit ; in short, he carried on a neat little 
business as a brocanteur. It was nipped in the bud, but Mrs. 
Booth was left with a certain number of , these articles in her 
hands ; indeed they must have constituted the most palpable 





part of her heritage. She was not a woman of business ; she 
turned them, no doubt, to indifferent account ; but she sold 
them piece by piece, and they kept her going while her 
daughter grew up. It was to this precarious traffic, conducted 
with extraordinary mystery and delicacy, that, five years ago, 
iii Florence, I was indebted for my acquaintance with her. In 
those days I used to collect Heaven help me ! I used to 
pick up rubbish which I could ill afford. It was a little 
phase we have our little phases, haven't we ? " asked Gabriel 
Nash, with childlike trust "and I have come out on the 
other side. Mrs. Booth had an old green pot, and I heard of 
her old green pot. To hear of it was to long for it, so that I 
went to see it, under cover of night. I bought it, and a couple 
of years ago I overturned it and smashed it. It was the last 
of the little phase. It was not, however, as you have seen, 
the last of Mrs. Rooth. I saw her afterwards in London, and 
I met her a year or two ago in Venice. She appears to be a 
great wanderer. She had other old pots, of other colours 
red, yellow, black, or blue she could produce them of any 
complexion you liked. I don't know whether she carried 
them about with her or whether she had little secret stores 
in the principal cities of Europe. To-day, at any rate, they 
seem all gone. On the other hand she has her daughter, who 
has grown up and who is a precious vase of another kind 
less fragile, I hope, than the rest. May she not be overturned 
and smashed ! " 

Peter Sherringham and Biddy Dormer listened with atten- 
tion to this history, and the girl testified to the interest with 
which she had followed it by saying, when Mr. Nash had 
ceased speaking : "A Jewish stockbroker, a dealer in curi- 
osities : what an odd person to marry for a person who was 
well born ! I dare say he was a German." 

" His name must have been simply Roth, and the poor 
lady, to smarten it up, has put in another o," Sherringham 
ingeniously suggested. 

" You are both very clever," said Gabriel Nash, " and 
Rudolf Roth, as I happen to know, was indeed the designation 
of Maud Vavasour's papa. But, as far as the question of 
derogation goes, one might as well drown as starve, for what 
connection is not a misalliance when one happens to have the 
cumbersome, the unaccommodating honour of being a Neville- 
Nugent of Castle Nugent ? Such was the high lineage of 
Maud's mamma. I seem to have heard it mentioned that 
Rudolf Roth was very versatile and, like most of his species, 





not unacquainted with the practice of music. He had been 
employed to teach the harmonium to Miss Neville -Nugent and 
she had profited by his lessons. If his daughter is like him 
and she is not like her mother he was darkly and dangerously 
handsome. So I venture rapidly to reconstruct the situation." 

A silence, for the moment, had fallen upon Lady Agnes and 
her other two children, so that Mr. Nash, with his universal 
urbanity, practically adJressed these last remarks to them as 
well as to his other auditors. Lady Agnes looked as if she 
wondered whom he was talking about, and having caught the 
name of a noble residence she inquired 

" Castle Nugent where is that? " 

"It's a domain of immeasurable extent and almost in- 
conceivable splendour, but I fear it isn't to be found in any 
prosaic earthly geography ! " Lady Agnes rested her eyes on 
the tablecloth, as if she were not sure a liberty had not been 
taken with her, and while Mr. Nash continued to abound in 
descriptive suppositions " It must be on the banks of the 
Manzanares or the Guadalquivir " Peter Sherringham, whose 
imagination appeared to have been strongly kindled by the 
sketch of Miriam Rooth, challenging him sociably, reminded 
him that he had a short time before assigned a low place to 
the dramatic art and had not yet answered his question as 
to whether he believed in the theatre. This gave Nash an 
opportunity to go on : 

" I don't know that I understand your question ; there are 
different ways of taking it. Do I think it's important ? Is 
that what you mean? Important, certainly, to managers and 
stage-carpenters who want to make money, to ladies and 
gentlemen who want to produce themselves in public by 
lime-light, and to other ladies and gentlemen who are bored 
and stupid arid don't know what to do with their evening. 
It's a commercial and social convenience which may be in- 
finitely worked. But important artistically, intellectually? 
How can it be so poor, so limited a form ? " 

" Dear me, it strikes me as so rich, so various ! Do you 
think it's poor and limited, Nick?" Sherringham added, 
appealing to his kinsman. 

" I think whatever Nash thinks. I have no opinion to-day 
but his." 

This answer of Nick Dormer's drew the eyes of his mother 
and sisters to him, and caused his friend to exclaim that he 
was not used to such responsibilities, so few people had ever 
tested his presence of mind by agreeing with him. 





"Oh, I used to be of your way of feeling," Nash said to 
Sherringham. " I understand you perfectly. It's a phase 
like another. I've been through it fai ete comme $a." 

" And you went, then, very often to the Theatre Franjais, 
and it was there I saw you. I place you now." 

" I'm afraid I noticed none of the other spectators," Nash 
explained. " I had no attention but for the great Carre 
she was still on the stage. Judge of my infatuation, and how 
I can allow for yours, when I tell you that I sought her 
acquaintance, that I couldn't rest till I had told her that I 
hung upon her lips." 

" That's just what  told her," returned Sherringham. 

'" She was very kind to me.' She said, ' Vans me rendez des 
forces.  " 

" That's just what she said to me ! " 

"And we have remained very good friends." 
. " So have we ! " laughed Sherringham. " And such perfect 
art as hers : do you mean to say you don't consider that 
important such a rare dramatic intelligence?" 

" I'm afraid you read the feuilletons. You catch their 
phrases," Gabriel Nash blandly rejoined. "Dramatic intelli- 
gence is never rare ; nothing is more common." 

" Then why have we so many bad actors ] " 

" Have we? I thought they were mostly good ; succeeding 
more easily and more completely in that business than in 
anything else. What could they do those people, generally 
if they didn't do that ? And reflect that that enables them 
to succeed ! Of course, always, there are numbers of people 
on the stage who are no actors at all, for it's even easier to 
our poor humanity to be ineffectively stupid and vulgar than 
to bring down the house." 

" It's not easy, by what I can see, to produce, completely, 
any artistic effect," Sherringham declared ; " and those that 
the actor produces are among the most moving that we know. 
You'll not persuade me that to watch such an actress as 
Madame Carre was not an education of the taste, an enlarge- 
ment of one's knowledge." 

" She did what she could, poor woman, but in what be- 
littling, coarsening conditions ! She had to interpret a 
character in a play, and a character in a play (not to say the 
whole piece I speak more particularly of modern pieces) is 
such a wretchedly small peg to hang anything on ! The 
dramatist shows us so little, is so hampered by his audience, 
is restricted to so poor an analysis." 





"I know the complaint. It's all the fashion now. The 
raffines despise the theatre," said Peter Sherringham, in the 
manner of a man abreast with the culture of his age and not 
to be captured by a surprise. " Gonnu, connu ! " 

" It will be known better yet, won't it? when the essentially 
brutal nature of the modern audience is still more perceived, 
when it has been properly analyzed : the omnium gatherum of 
the population of a big commercial city, at the hour of the 
day when their taste is at its lowest, flocking out of hideous 
hotels and restaurants, gorged with food, stultified with buying 
and selling and with all the other sordid speculations of the 
day, squeezed together in a sweltering mass, disappointed in 
their seats, timing the author, timing the actor, wishing to 
get their money back on the spot, before eleven o'clock. 
Fancy putting the exquisite before such a tribunal as that ! 
There's not even a question of it. The dramatist wouldn't if 
he could, and in nine cases out of ten he couldn't if he would. 
He has to make the basest concessions. One of his principal 
canons is that he must enable his spectators to catch the 
suburban trains, which stop at 11.30. What would you think 
of any other artist the painter or the novelist whose 
governing forces should bo the dinner and the suburban 
trains? The old dramatists didn't defer to them (not so 
much, at least), and that's why they are less and less actable. 
If they are touched the large fellows it's only to be muti- 
lated and trivialized. Besides, they had a simpler civilization 
to represent societies in which the life of man was in action, 
in passion, in immediate and violent expression. Those things 
could be put upon the playhouse boards with comparatively 
little sacrifice of their completeness and their truth. To-day 
we are so infinitely more reflective and complicated and diffuse 
that it makes all the difference. What can you do with a 
character, with an idea, with a feeling, between dinner and 
the suburban trains? You can give a gross, rough sketch of 
them, but how little you touch them, how bald you leave 
them ! What crudity compared with what the novelist does ! " 

" Do you. write novels, Mr. Nash ] " Peter demanded. 

" No, but I read them when they are extraoi-dinarily good, 
and I don't go to plays. I read Balzac, for instance I en- 
counter the magnificent portrait of Valerie Marneffe, in ' La 
Cousine Bette.' " 

" And you contrast it with the poverty of Emile Augier's 
Seraphine in ' Les Lionues Pauvres ' ? I was awaiting you 
there. That's the cheval de bataille of you fellows." 





" What an extraordinary discussion ! What dreadful 
authors ! " Lady Agnes murmured to her son. But he was 
listening so attentively to the other young men that he made 
no response, and Peter Sherringham went on : 

" I have seen Madame Carre in parts, in the modern re- 
pertory, which she has made as vivid to me, caused to abide as 
ineffaceably in my memory, as Valerie Marneffe. She is the 
Balzac, as one may say, of actresses." 

"The miniaturist, as it were, of whitewashers ! " Nash 
rejoined, laughing. 

It might have been guessed that Sherringham was irritated, 
but the other disputant was so good-humoured that he abun- 
dantly recognized his own obligation to appear so. 

" You would be magnanimous if you thought the young 
lady you have introduced to our old friend would be im- 
portant." 

" She might be much more so than she ever will be." 

Lady Agnes got up, to terminate the scene, and even to 
signify that enough had been said about people and questions 
