when almost fainting under the vertical rays of the sun 
was now our most dreaded enemy. The sand, whirled 



 

about by the wind, sometimes wholly impeded c it pro- 
gress ; we- could not even see each other in the thick 
cloud of it that enveloped us. 

So the days passed on amid the severest sufferings, for 
a month ; Sidi Hamet provided for us as well as he could 
tinder the circumstances, but his brother Seid was continu- 
ally threatening and maltreating us; the two brothers 
were ceaselessly disputing about us, and their quarrels 
increased as we approached nearer the Morocco boundary. 
One day as I and my companions were wandering on, faint 
and exhausted, only kept alive by a dim spark of hope in 
our hearts, Seid suddenly commanded us to stand still; 
Sidi Hamet, who was riding on a few steps before us, 
noticed it and commanded us to proceed ; then Seid seized 
upon Horace and one other of our company, decl ared that 
they were his property, and that he was going to sell them 
to an Arab who had been travelling with us for several 
days. Then Sidi Hamet's anger was kindled; be sprang 
from his camel, rushed upon his brother and freed my two 
companions. Like lions the two brothers now fell upon 
each other, wrestling furiously, they attempted to throw 
each other upon the ground. As this did not succeed they 
seized their guns, retired a few paces apart in angry haste, 
and took aim ; the least pressure of the trigger and both 
would have fallen ; we stood dumb with horror. 

" God in heaven !" I cried, " have mercy upon us and 
upon these brothers, that they may not commit murder !" 

At the same moment I heard two shots, and thought 
they must both have fallen, but I soon saw that Sidi 
Hamet, having quickly irecovered his mastery of himself 



 

had fired both barrels into the air, while, baring bis breast, 
he advanced towards his brother with a firm step, and said 
touchingly : 

" I am now unarmed ; shoot if you wish to slake your , 
anger in your benefactor's blood ; your brother's heart does 
not tremble before your ball." 

Seid, overcome by this unexpected turn of afiairs, laid 
aside his gun, and both brothers seated themselves upon 
the groimd to decide the dispute in words. But they 
could not agree, for Seid would not relinquish his clain* 
upon Horace. 

" You shall not separate the. son from the father," cried 
Sidi at last, angrily. " I have sworn it !" 

" Then I will destroy him !" shouted Seid ; raging, hft 
sprang up, seized Horace by the throat, and hurled him 
with such force upon the ground, that he lay like one 
dead. Overpowered by the most heart-rending anguish, I 
sank down beside him; he soon recovered himself, and 
though severely bruised, did not appear to have sustained 
any fiirther injury. Seid's anger was somewhat appeased, 
and they postponed the decision of the dispute to a more 
fitting time 

We now continued our journey with all the expedition 
possible, and although we were continually ill-treated by 
Seid, and once very nearly fell into the hands of seme 
Arabs through his means, we at last reached Mogadore in 
safety, where we were ransomed by the English consul, a 
very humane man, supplied with every thing needful, and 
Bent to Gibraltar, whence we goon returned to our home 
is an American vessel. 



 

After I had seen and embraced my family, I hastened 
to "Washington, the seat of government, and took the 
necessary steps for freeing my unfortunate companions, 
whom I had left in the desert. They were all found, and 
nir«(omfld, after enduring the most incredible hardships. 



In the great Gallery, at Paris, there hangs a finished 
picture, by Gencault, one of the most famous of modem 
artiste, which no one can contemplate without horror and 
deep emotion ; it represents the shipwreck of the French 
fngate, " Medusa," which was wrecked on the AMcan 
coaat in the year 1816. The artist has not drawn upon 
his fancy for the details of hia masterpiece, but has adhe- 
red strictly to the truth of the following narrative, which 
we have heard from one of the survivors of the ship- 
wrecked crew. 

On the 17th of June, 1816, the frigate « Medusa," of 
forty-four guns, bound for Senegal, and having on board 
the governor of the French possessions in that place, and 
four hundred men, mostly soldiers, set sail with four other 
vessels from a French port, and after a prosperous voyage 
came in sight of the promonotory of Bogadore and the low 
coast of the desert of Sahara. The captain, Chaumaneys, 
one of those distinguished individuals who owe their posts 
rather to the influence of their friends and relatives than 
to any superior knowledge or merit of their Own, joked 
with the passengers, and amused himself with the sailors, 
while an ignorant officer, who had gained his confidence, 
governed the vessel in his place, and regarded the coast 



that they were approaching with indifference, although it 
is one of the most dangerous on the face of the earth. 

Some better informed officers on board, looked on with 
dissatisfaction, and at last distinctly declared that they 
should either run upon the coast, or be wrecked upon the 
sand bank of Arguin, so dreaded by all mariners, but 
they were laughed at for their fears. 

During the night the ship that sailed nearest in our 
company, made us repeated signs to be careful; but so 
great was the negligence of our watch that they did not 
heed them, and even when the light hanging at the mast- 
head went out, it was not lighted again. The following 
morning the better managed vessel had vanished. A 
young ensign who had hitherto attentively observed the 
course of the frigate, now declared repeatedly that we were 
already upon the shoals, but the conceited under-officer 
refused to listen to the young man who pretended to be 
wiser than he. In the meantime the color of the water 
changed ; thick bushes and green plants were seen floating 
along fiide, and the waves seemed to be mixed with sand. 
The lead that they threw out at last, at first shewed only 
eighteen, and soon after only sixteen fathoms ; the captain, 
who was at last made aware of these suspicious circumstan- 
ces, gave orders to crowd sail and to turn and face the 
wind ; but, unfortunately, it was too late, for while the 
vessel was turning, the rudder struck; it was soon pushed 
off, but a second and third shock followed and the vessel 
remained sticking fast. 

Although it was high tide, the lead showed only seven- 
teen feet of water ; universal dismay pervaded the whola 



vessel, and terror was exhibited in the strangest way. 
here were fear-distorted countenances ; there, faces deadly 
pale, but calm; some stood motionless as if turned to 
stone ; others lay upon the deck without power to move. 
Aroused from the first numbing fear, many broke out into 
a shriek of despair ; others cursed aloud those whose igno- 
rance had caused the misfortune ; only a- few were compo- 
sed, and among these, two women, the wife and daughter 
of the governor, particularly distinguished themselves. 

All exertions to get the vessel afloat were vain, ag the 
captain had neither self-possession nor knowledge, and the 
crew, convinced of his want of capacity, were in no hurry 
to obey his contradictory orders. On the 5th of July, 
after we had lost a whole day in ineffectual exertions, as 
night drew near, dark clouds appeared, and a stiff breeze 
arose, which grew more and more violent, and raised huge 
waves ; the vessel labored fearfully, and we expected its 
destruction eVery minute. In the night it was wrecked 
and the keel split into two parts. The rudder broke off 
and only hung in the chains, where, tossed to and fro by 
the waves, it struck against the stem of the vessel and 
shattered the floor of the cabin so that the water had free 
access to the hold. 

At daybreak the water in the hold was already from 
eight to nine feet deep, and it was determined to leave the 
vessel, and to think only of the preservation of those on 
board. But as it was impossible for the six boats that we 
possessed to hold four hundred people, they constructed, by 
the advice of the governor, an immense raft out of the 
masts, poles of the sails, and other pieces of the wreck 



 

It was to be loaded with two hundred men and provisioni, 
and then the boats were to take it in tow, and draw it to 
land, where a caravan might be formed which could pro- 
ceed to the French possessions at the mouth of the Sene- 
gal. The plan was wisely conceived, and might have had 
the most fortunate consequences, but, as we shall see, it 
was not carried into execution. 

The raft was completed the same day. Two great   
masts formed the two long sides, other masts in the mid- 
dle gave firmness to the whole, and small pieces of wood 
connected the layer; in front two poles were so arranged 
as to make a pointed end, and the whole was bound 
together by strong cables. But as the raft was scarcely 
sixty feet long, and only about twenty broad, it was 
impossible that it should hold two hundred people, still 
less the necessary provisions. 

They had, with praiseworthy foresight, made a list of 
the people and provisions destined for each boat, and for 
the raft; but as no one thought of obeying orders, the 
embarkation was conducted in the most disorderly manner, 
each endeavoring to rescue himself in the surest way. 
The provisions, too, were dispensed in the most incon- 
siderate fashion ; the raft was provided with wine and 
meal in abundance, but no meat or other provisions of any 
kind ; a bag of biscuits, that was thrown down at last, fell 
into the sea and was so drenched with salt water that the 
contents were a perfect dough. 

Towards evening the sign for getting on board was 
given, but scarcely had fifty men descended to the raft 
when it sunk almost two feet; they immediately threw 



 

the meal casks overboard, and retained only six casks of 
wine and two of water. When the whole crew were on 
board it sank again about three feet, so that those in the 
back and front part of it stood up to their hips in water, 
and were so crowded together that no one could move a 
step. No one had thought of a mast, and the sail that was 
thrown down to us, as we pushed off, was entirely useless, 
as we had no rope to hoist it with. There were a hundred 
and fifty people huddled together upon the raft, and among 
them about a hundred and twenty soldiers, who were 
armed only with swords, as from fear of a mutiny, none 
but the officers had been allowed to carry fire-arms. The 
boats were crowded full, and yet seventeen people remained 
behind on the wreck, eithef because they would not trust 
themselves to the frail, over-loaded skiff, that pushed off 
last, or because they were too much intoxicated to think 
of their safety. 

At first we sailed along in the most orderly manner; the 
boats took the raft in tow, and the commanding officers in 
them swore not tb forsake us, but if no rescue were possi- 
ble, to die with us. The coast was about fifteen leagues 
distant, and was seen from the boats before sunset; From 
this moment those in them appeared to consider only their 
own safety ; one after another they dropped the rope that 
bound us to them, and finally even the last boat, which 
contained the governor, followed this cruel and shameiuj 
example. 



 



II. 



We were now left entirely to ourcelves, and our condi- 
ticxa upon the bare raft, with neither masts, sails, nor 
raiider, was indeed a desperate one. But the officers soon 
recovered themselves, and succeeded in inspiring the sol- 
diers and sailors with some self-coi-fidence ; one of the 
latter had in his possession a little po'jket compass, which 
we hailed with delight as a dear friend, but our joy did not 
laat long, for the compass was carelessly dropt into the sea 
and lost. Our greatest distress now arose from the want 
of food, as no one had eaten any thing since our departure 
from the vessel ; some wine was therefore poured over the 
salt-soaked biscuits, and this was divided among all the 
nen, who, somewhat strengthened by this refreshment, 
jxerted themselves to erect the half of a bowsprit for a 
mast, and provide it with a sail, for which purpose they 
used the fragments of the ropes by which we had been 
towed along, which still hung to the raft. The sail caught 
the wind very well when it came from behind, but in order 
to approach the land we were obliged to take it from the 
side, so that our raft was tipped up fearfully, one side 
fcinking into the water, while the other was elevated 
above it. 

In the mob of soldiers there burned a fierce desire for 
revenge upon the boats that had left us in the lurch, and 
cotild we have come up with any of them, a Ijloody scene 
wouW have ensued. The day faded -quietly away, and we 
entei tained the hope of reaching the coast in a few days 
at least. In the "evening we joined in prayer, and even the 




rough men, who had been filled with thoughts of revenge 
only a short time before, learned to pray in this hour of 
need. After prayer each experienced new faith, we all 
felt our courage increased, and found consolation with 
Him who is ever present and ready to befriend the unfor- 
tunate. 

We could not yet relinquish the belief that the boats 
would row quickly to shore, disembark their crews, and 
then turn back to relieve their unfortunate companions 
whom they had left upon the raft. In this hope we saw 
the day depart. After sunset the wind rose, and set the 
waves in motion ; the raft was thrown hither and thither ; 
the soldiers, unaccustomed to the sea, were thrown about 
by every wave, and cried out fearfully, so that the sailors 
fastened various ropes to the raft, to which the soldiers 
clung, and some even lashed themselves down. At mid- 
night the wind grew fiercer, huge waves rolled over us and 
threw the men upon each other. Their shrieks mingled 
with the roar of the sea which now tossed the raft on high 
and then hurled it down to the depths. Some shrieked 
aloud ; some prayed, and others made vows, which they 
were to fulfil after their rescue ; all prepared for death, 
took i';ave of each other, and called upon God for mercy. 

Towards morning the wind subsided somewhat, and the 
sea became more quiet ; but a horrible spectacle was pre- 
sented to our eyes Several unfortunate men had slipped 
into the holes in the raft, and being unable to extricate 
themselves, had miserably perished ; othen? had been lost 
in the sea; in all, twenty people were missing. Although 
each was occup ied with his own saleiy in this druadlul sit- 



 

uation, an instance of filial love drew tears from ail eyea. 
Two young men extricated an old man from under the feel 
of the others and then recognized him for their father. 
At first they thought him dead, and their grief was expres- 
sed in the most heart-rending cries ; but they soon found 
that he yet breathed, and we used every means that were 
in our power, to restore him ; he soon came to himself, to 
the unspeakable joy of his sons, who clung to him and 
covered his neck with kisses. 

While this scene was enacting, two ship boys and a 
baker calmly took leave of their companions, and commit- 
ted suicide by jumping into the sea, boldly as it might 
seem, but in reality it was a cowardly and despairing act, 
or perhaps the result of the insanity that had already 
begun to appear among these wretched men. Some imagined that they saw land ; others, that vessels were coming 
to our relief, and at any of these imaginary discoveries they 
would burst out Into shouts of joy. 

The second day that we passed upon the raft was perfectly clear, and the friendly aspect of the heavens inspired 
us with fresh courage ; most of us were firmly convinced 
that the boats would soon appear. But when the evening 
came and the comfortless night followed, all seemed 
crianged. Not only did all hope vanish, but the spirit of 
rebellion reigned instead ; no one would obey orders and 
cur former prudence was turned to despair. Dark clouds 
agam veiled the heavens and the wind increased so that the 
Bea raged and foamed more fearfully than on the foregoing' 
night. Huge waves rolled over us, throwing us into heaps 
upon one another; fortunately, we had the wind on our 



 

backs so that the force of the sea was somewhat broken by 
the swiftness of our course ; still the waves beat upon us 
from before and behind, and carried off some men spite of 
all their exertions in clinging to the masts that composed 
the raft; all gathered together in the middle of our vessel, 
as that was the point of least danger, and crowded so 
closely that several were stifled. As the raft continually 
turned its broadside to the wind, it stood almost upright, 
so that in order to keep the balance, one was often obliged 
to rush towards the side that was high in the air, spite of 
the foaming waves. 

In this extremity the rage of the soldiers awoke again, 
and as they considered themselves lost, they determined to 
enjoy their last moments and to drink their fill. They 
threw themselves upoil the wine casks, cut great holes in 
them, and filled their tin cups, which had been given to 
them on board of the frigate, as often as they pleased with 
the contents, utterly disregarding all the commands of their 
officers. When the wine had increased their fury and they 
were thoroughly intoxicated, they formed a plan of destroying the raft and .thus releasing themselves and their 
companions from their misery. Scarcely was the plan 
formed when they hastened to carry it into execution. 
One of them, by birth an Asiatic, a gigantic fellow with 
short curling hair and a brqad flat nose, who had already 
