in conference with the commodore when the change was made.

Whether the escaped prisoner had gone to the captain's cabin for a
special purpose, or had simply followed the most convenient way that was
opened to him in his flight, it was plain enough to Christy that, at the
present time, he had an object before him. He had practically taken
possession of the cabin, and had already overawed the steward. The
commander could not see his way to do anything to improve the situation.
He had no weapon about him but his sword, and he was satisfied that the
intruder was provided with one or more revolvers, as indicated by the
appearance of the side pockets of his blue coat.

Whatever had been said about the imprudence and even recklessness of
the young lieutenant, he was really a prudent and even cautious officer.
He realized that any movement on his part would draw the fire of the
insolent intruder, and he saw that strategy was far preferable to
open violence, since the latter was likely to end only in killing or
disabling him. If he could visit his stateroom and obtain his pair of
navy revolvers, or even the smaller ones in one of the drawers of his
desk, it would improve the chances in his favor. It was evident that he
would not be permitted to do this, and he did not attempt it.

"Dave is a wise man," said the commander, after he had given a few
moments to the consideration of the situation.

"Dave is a sensible man, and I trust I shall find you his equal in that
respect, Captain Passford," replied the intruder, still seated in his
chair at the supper-table.

"I claim to be reasonably sensible," answered Christy. "As you have done
me the honor to visit me in my cabin, Captain Flanger, it is reasonable
to suppose you have some object in view, for I do not regard it as a
merely friendly call."

Though the young officer was prudent and discreet, he did not lose his
self-possession, and he smiled as though he had been simply the host in
the dining-room of the mansion at Bonnydale. There was a certain humor
about the intruder which would have pleased him under other
circumstances.

"Quite right, captain!" exclaimed the visitor. "I have an object in
view, and both my inclination and my duty are urging me to carry it
out. How your boat happened to capture the Magnolia is beyond my
comprehension up to the present moment, though I think the principal
reason was the lack of a sufficiently osseous vertebra on the part of
your worthy uncle, Colonel Passford. Then the officer in charge of the
cutter did not do what I expected him to do. Instead of falling back
when he and one of his crew were wounded, as he ought to have done, and
using the heavy revolvers with which his men were armed, he did not
delay a moment, but smashed into the sloop, and jerked his men on board
of her, cutlass in one hand and revolver in the other; and that brought
me to the end of my rope. I could not do anything more."

"I am sorry that you are dissatisfied with my third lieutenant's mode
of operations," replied Christy, laughing, though his mirth was of the
graveyard order. "But Mr. Pennant is a new officer, and that was the
first active duty he had been called upon to perform. Very likely he
will suit you better next time."

Christy yawned, or pretended to do so, and in the act he rose from the
table. Captain Flanger was silent as he did so, and watched the captain
with the eye of a lynx, as the latter placed himself behind the chair he
had occupied. He was in position to make a movement of some kind, and
the intruder deliberately drew from his right-hand coat pocket a heavy
revolver. Holding this in his hand, he drew another from the left-hand
pocket, and threw it on the table.

"I don't wish to be rude with a gentleman as polite as yourself, Captain
Passford; but you interrupted my remarks by rising from your chair,"
said Captain Flanger, with the revolver still poised in his hand, while
he dropped the other with the handcuff upon it at his side.

"Excuse me for interrupting you, Captain Flanger; but I have eaten a
hearty supper, encouraged by your friendly presence, and I was sleepy,
for my rest was broken last night, and I wanted simply to stretch
myself," replied Christy, yawning and stretching himself again.

"All right, captain; it is not necessary for me to say a single word,"
added the intruder, as he made a slight demonstration with the weapon
in his right hand, which was not lost upon the commander. "With your
permission, I will proceed with my remarks."

"Certainly, captain; go on."

"My first misfortune was in being made a prisoner. My second and most
annoying mishap was the capture of the Floridian," continued Captain
Flanger. "It was my intention to fit her out as a privateer, with the
proceeds of the sale of her cargo of cotton, for she is a good vessel,
and as fast as the Bronx, as you call her."

"Then I was very fortunate in capturing her," added Christy with a
smile.

"Perhaps not, for I intend to replace her with the Bronx."

The commander was amazed at the impudence of the intruder.




CHAPTER XXIV

A CRITICAL SITUATION IN THE CABIN


Christy looked at his cool and impudent visitor, whose declaration
was to the effect that he intended to take possession of the Bronx in
compensation for the loss of the Floridian. It looked as though he
intended to capture the gunboat now fully officered, and manned by
forty-six seaman; and so far as the commander could judge, he intended
to do it single-handed.

The lieutenant's first thought, after he realized the intention of the
intruder, was that he was insane, for no man in his senses would think
of accomplishing such a mad enterprise. His second idea was that he had
mistaken the declaration of Captain Flanger, though he had certainly
said that he meant to replace the Floridian with the Bronx, and the
statement could hardly mean anything else.

Christy was forced to admit to himself that the bold intruder had full
possession of the captain's cabin of the steamer, and that he had the
advantage of him in being armed; that any decided opposition on his part
would result in his being killed or wounded. It was not prudent for him
to do anything, and at the present stage of the proceedings he could do
nothing but temporize with his resolute foe.

"I beg your pardon, Captain Flanger; but do I understand that you
intend, single-handed and alone, to capture the Bronx?" asked the
commander, with a smile of incredulity on his face.

"Well, Captain Passford, if you fail to comprehend my purpose, it
is the fault of your understanding, and not of my plain and explicit
declaration, for I assuredly said that I intended to replace the
Floridian with the Teaser, or the Bronx as you have named her, though
she will not be called by any such nut-cracking name after I get her,"
replied the daring privateersman, as blandly and pleasantly as though he
were planning a picnic.

"Of course you see no difficulties in the way of such an undertaking as
you propose," added Christy.

"There may be difficulties; but I think they can be overcome. I purpose
to act through you, my friend, as my resources are rather limited at the
present moment. In other words, I propose that you shall issue certain
orders which I intend to dictate," Captain Flanger proceeded, as coolly
as though he had been in his own cabin instead of that of his companion.

"You mean to dictate your orders to me," repeated the commander.

"Precisely so; and you will readily see that I am not exactly in a
position to act in any other manner, as I cannot go back on deck and
deliver them in person, for your officers would be prejudiced against
me, and might be disposed to rebel against my authority."

"Not improbable," added Christy. "You propose that I shall go on deck,
and give your orders, acting as your proxy."

"Hardly, my dear friend, for I fear that on deck you would give way to
your own individual prejudices against me, and do something that would
jeopard my interest in the premises. With your approbation, I should
prefer to resort to a method that prevails in the army, though not to
any considerable extent in the navy. More clearly, I will invite you to
send your orders on deck in writing, over your own signature."

"You think that method would suit you better than the usual one of
delivering orders verbally," said Christy, laughing as much at the
coolness as at the impudence of his companion.

"It will not only suit me better, but you cannot fail to see that it is
the only practicable way for me to operate with my present very limited
resources. If I had a dozen good men and true,--not such dunderheads as
your officer captured in the Magnolia,--I should be able to proceed in a
more orderly and regular manner. In that case, I should issue my orders
in person, and not compel you to act as my intermediary."

"I understand you perfectly now; but as you have not, fortunately for
me, and unfortunately for yourself, the dozen men at hand, I am to hold
the fiddle while you play upon it, as I have seen a couple of negro
minstrels do it."

"An excellent simile, Captain Passford, and I could not have invented a
better myself," returned the privateersman. "I think we understand each
other perfectly, and therefore it is not necessary to use up any more
time in explanations. You are too intelligent a person to fail to
comprehend my plan. As an epitome of the whole scene, I may add that I
propose to do what my friend Galvinne undertook with that cousin of
yours: I intend to take the Bronx into Pensacola Bay, and have her used
in the service of the righteous cause in which the people of the South
are engaged," continued Captain Flanger, as though he believed in all he
was saying.

"I suppose it is the righteousness of the cause in particular that calls
forth your admiration," chuckled Christy.

"Precisely so; in this cause, though I drink whiskey, chew, and smoke,
and never swear except when I am excited, I am a religious man," said
the intruder, laughing.

"I suppose you were religiously inclined when you were engaged in the
business of smuggling," added the commander.

"I cannot say that I was; the cause of the South is religion itself, and
I am there every time. Who told you that I had been engaged in
smuggling?"

"It dropped from some of the men that were captured in the sloop."

"It could have dropped only from Mike Bornhoff, for he is the only one
who knew anything about it. He is my property, and when we are fairly
in Pensacola Bay I shall seize him up to the grating, and give him
thirty-nine for opening his mouth when he ought to have kept it closed.
Where is he now, for I did not find him among the prisoners?"

"He has enlisted as a seaman, and seems to be a good one. By the way,
where did you learn that my cousin attempted to take the Bronx into
Pensacola Bay?" asked Christy curiously, though he was using up the time
he could not yet improve.

"It was not your cousin at all who attempted to take the vessel into
Pensacola Bay; it was Galvinne, for Corny only acted as a figure-head,
as I intend to use you. Galvinne was a prisoner by my side on board of
the flag-ship, and told me all about it when he was releasing my right
hand from the bracelet," replied Captain Flanger.

"Then I am to do duty as a figure-head, am I?" laughed Christy.

"Precisely; and you are a better-looking one than your cousin. But
excuse me for changing the subject of the conversation, for I am losing
time. I see by the telltale over our heads that the Bronx is headed to
the south-west, which is doubtless the course you were ordered to take
by the commodore."

"The telltale is honest, and tells no lies," replied Christy.

"Where are you bound, Captain Passford?" asked Flanger, in a careless
and indifferent manner, as he looked about the cabin.

"I don't know."

"Sealed orders?"

"You must draw your own inferences, Captain Flanger."

"It won't take a six-mule team to draw that one," added the
privateersman, rather sourly for the first time. "Of course I understood
that it would not be advisable for the commodore to let it be known
exactly where the steamer is bound, and that you have sealed orders.
I shall have to trouble you, Captain Passford, to produce the envelope."

As he spoke Captain Flanger toyed with the revolver in his right hand
as if he intended that the weapon should produce its proper impression
on the mind, and especially upon the nerves, of the commander, who
had continued to walk up and down in front of the table at which his
dangerous associate was seated, occasionally pausing when a point was
made on either side.

"Of course you cannot expect me to betray the confidence of the
commodore; that would not be kind or friendly on your part, Captain
Flanger, for you can see that this is a delicate matter," said Christy,
halting in front of the table.

"It may be delicate; I admit that it is so for you: but as my plans may
depend somewhat upon a knowledge of your instructions, I really feel
compelled to insist upon this point, Captain Passford," replied the
intruder as blandly as ever. "But we are living just now in a state of
war, and it is quite impossible to act with as much delicacy us one
might desire."

"I am sorry that you feel constrained to act in this indelicate manner;
but I cannot, on my honor and conscience, violate my orders, and I must
respectfully decline to produce the envelope," replied Christy, feeling
that he had come to a crisis in the affair.

"You decline to give me your sealed orders? Do I correctly understand
you, Captain Passford?" demanded the privateersman with a frown upon his
brow.

"Undoubtedly you do. I decline to give you my sealed orders. What then?"
replied the commander, who began to feel a certain sense of shame
because he had temporized so long with the bold pirate, for he regarded
him as such.

"What then?" repeated the intruder. "Why, you will reduce me to the
disagreeable necessity of blowing out your brains, if you have any,
as I should judge that you had not, after your refusal to accede to my
request in the face of the death that awaits you."

"I beg your pardon, Captain Flanger, but do you really purpose to blow
out the brains of your figure-head?" asked Christy, as coolly as though
no such threat had been suggested to him.

About this time Dave, who had taken care to keep in the front of the
table as he had been ordered to do, seized upon his feather duster, and
began to dust the divan on the starboard side of the cabin. Flanger was
so much occupied with the commander at that moment, that he was not
disposed to take his eye off him for an instant; for certainly the
situation had become critical, and he paid no attention to the steward.
Dave was a sort of a feather-duster fiend, and he used the article a
great deal of his time, apparently as much from habit as from
cleanliness.

"I should be extremely sorry to put a ball through your head, Captain
Passford, not only because it would disfigure a handsome face, but
because you may be of great use to me," replied the pirate.

"And because, in your present enterprise as you have outlined it, you
cannot get along without me," said Christy.

"In fact, you are more than half right. The sealed orders are not
absolutely necessary to me just now, and I shall not insist upon the
production of them for the present. Now, if you will seat yourself at
the table opposite me, I will dictate an order to you, which you will
oblige me by reducing to writing, and then by signing your name to it as
commander," continued Flanger, still toying with the heavy revolver.

Christy's curiosity was excited: he thought the order would throw some
further light on the plan of the pirate; and he seated himself. Captain
Flanger proceeded to dictate to him an order to the officer of the deck,
to the effect that his sealed orders directed him to cut out a rebel
privateer under the guns of Fort McRae; ordering him to head the Bronx
to the north-west for this purpose, and instructing him to call him as
soon as he made out the shore, Christy wrote it, and the pirate told him
to sign it.

"You must excuse me, Captain Flanger, but I object to signing such an
order," replied Christy, as he rose from his chair.

"Sign it, or you are a dead man!" exclaimed Flanger fiercely.

"Be it so; death before dishonor," replied the commander firmly.

At this moment Dave had worked himself in behind the pirate; and, with a
well-directed blow with the feather duster on the head of Flanger, he
brought him to the floor.

  [Illustration: Flanger in the Captain's Cabin.--Page 281.]




CHAPTER XXV

THE DESTRUCTION OF A PROMINENT FACIAL MEMBER


The cabin steward had two feather dusters, one of which was very large,
and the other of medium size. He had used the big one so industriously
that very little was left of the feathers except the bare quills that
were inserted in a cylinder of hard wood, too heavy for the use of a
delicate female, though Dave had wielded it till it was in better
condition to be thrown overboard than to be used on the panels and
furniture of the cabin.

Captain Flanger was at the critical point in his operations, and he
was too busy with the commander to give any attention to the negro, whom
he regarded with the contempt begotten of his Southern education. Dave
was intelligent enough to understand the situation accurately, and he
realized that it was rapidly becoming critical. He knew that Christy was
unarmed, and that the whole attention of the pirate was concentrated
upon him, so that he could do nothing to help himself.

He knew also that if he attempted to leave the cabin to procure
assistance, Flanger would shoot him with as little remorse as he would
kill a coon in the woods. Watching his opportunity without trying to get
behind the intruder till the decisive moment came, he sprang into the
position he had selected in advance, and brought down the heavy head of
the feather duster upon the temple of the privateersman.

Probably it was the shock quite as much as the force of the blow that
brought down the steward's victim. But it was a heavy stroke, for the
wood of the feather duster was split into many pieces, and the stumps of
the feathers were scattered all over the table. The onslaught could not
fail to be very confusing to the ideas of the intruder, and he seemed to
be tangled up in the arm-chair in which he had been seated.

Captain Flanger was a man of stalwart proportions, and Christy realized
that he was no match for him in a hand to hand encounter, even with the
aid of the steward, for the ruffian would not fail to use his revolvers.

Dave was not satisfied with what he had done, and as his foe went over
in the chair, he sprang upon him, and tried to wrest the pistol from his
hand, and a struggle on the floor was begun, the result of which could
not be foreseen. Christy took in the situation at a glance, and while
the steward and his victim were rolling and writhing on the floor, he
darted into his stateroom, the door of which had been open all the time,
and took his heavy revolvers from the drawer where he kept them, charged
for immediate use.

When he rushed back to the cabin, Flanger had got the better of his
foe, and had risen to his feet, with his grasp upon the throat of the
steward. Then he hurled him from him with a vigorous movement with his
left hand, while he raised the right with the evident intention of
shooting him. The commander saw the imminent peril of Dave; he took a
hasty aim and fired before the intruder had time to do so. He was a good
shot with the navy revolver, for he had taken lessons and practised a
good deal with the weapon.

He had aimed at the head of Flanger, and he saw that he had hit him, for
his face was instantly covered with blood. He did not think it necessary
to fire a second shot, but he was careful not to let the opportunity
